Vol. X. No. 12. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal 








UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF USTEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FOR M OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly ■ $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

ACENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

ivgs 2Stot:r,:e street, - - LvLOLt , x , x*,e.a_i_.. 



WEDDING CARDS. 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS, 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 

MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
I ml C HEMICAL APPARATUS. 

S Tull $tock don$tar|tly oq ftai^d, Imported 
©frerft tl|e heading ^Ikpufadturti^ 
of t^e Worid. 

AX INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



PROGRAMME COVERS. 232 ST - st. 



THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleur}' St., MONTREAL. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 



******'“■» »»»--- - 

photographers 

J, * * * *-* irTrrTTsrrm 

Ji ew Scale of Trices this year 
for Siuderiis. 

1 7 BLEURY STREET. 



t 



MEBICJIE U'ORHS, HOOKS IS Kit /.V JUT COURSE, 
SCMEJWE TEXT BOOKS, 

THK WIRIOUS # HEOI.OOICJiL, BOOKS. 

Full assortment iu stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices, 

STUDENTS' NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 
■^“i'BEST VALUE LIST TOWlsTi-*- 

StyJogravhic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Taira.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. X.] 



McGill college, Montreal, may hth, isst. 



[No. 12. 



(thilicrsitn (iinettc. 

^ 6 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Pice-President. 

.1. F. Mack ie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

Ciis. W. Hoard, Med. ’8S. 

AV. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’SS. 

1!. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Edit or -in -Chief . 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc 
Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science’s?. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 

always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editois, P. 0- 
Box 1290. 



CONTENTS: 



PAGE. 



Editorials 

Poetry 

Contributions 
McGill News - 
Societies 
Personals 

Between the Lectures 
College World 
Correspondence - 



1 7-158 
158 

- 158-162 
162-169 
- 169-170 

170 

170 
170- 171 

171 



Subscribers who are in need of back numbeis 
of the Gazette, to complete this year’s issue, will 
be furnished with them if they will communicate 
with Mr. Mackie, Secretary Board of Directors, 
P. O. Box 1290. Give numbers wanted and F. U. 

address. 



'Editorials. 



ADIEU ! 

Another scholastic year is ended, and with it ter 
minate the duties of the present hoard ot Editors o 
this journal. We have discharged our duties to the 
best' of our ability under the circumstances; and 
though conscious of many defects in the Gazette and 
in its management, we yet hope that wo have done 



something towards placing the paper in a position of 
influence. Events, for the past three or four years, 
have proved that its influence is even now consider- 
able ; we wish for those who shall succeed us much 
pleasure in their work, and satisfaction when it is 
done. 



RESULT OF TI1E ELECTION. 

The contest for Representative Fellow in the 
faculty of law has resulted, as we anticipated, in the 
return of Prof. Hutchinson. The newly- elected 
Representative polled more than two-thirds of the 
votes cast. The Gazette congratulates the graduates 
upon the Avise choice they have made in this matter. 



1886 - 7 . 

The year 188G-7 has been a successful, and, in 
some respects, an eventful one at McGill. All the 
classes have been large, and notwithstanding the 
grumbling of the most impatient ot our friends, there 
are evidences of vigor and new life, which bode well 
for the future. 

There is little doubt but that the influence of Mc- 
Gill is extending with wonderful speed. As she is 
becoming possessed of the means, so she is taking 
upon herself new burdens, and, as it appears, is de- 
termined that no enquirer after knowledge in any of 
the thousand forms in which the need of it presents 
itself in this new country, shall seek her assistance 
and guidance in vain. McGill is keeping abreast 
with that spirit of enterprise, which is pre-eminently 
the characteristic of our people, and is, we believe, 
doing more than any other institution in the Domi- 
nion towards uniting the people of the different pro- 
vinces in a common pride in Canada as a whole. 

The deserved high estimation in which her medical 
school is held all over the continent, draws students 
from all the Provinces, and gives her the opportunity 
of exerting her influence over the whole country. 
And now, since the munificent donation ot Sir George 
Stephen and Sir Donald Smith will place hospital 
accommodation in this city, unsurpassed on the con- 
tinent, McGill bids fair to become the most noted 
medical school in North America. 

We regret that we are unable to chronicle any 
rrreat improvement in the I acuity ot Law, unless it 



158 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887 



be that all the professors have been made D.C.L.’s 
without respect to class, creed, or, we were going to 
say, attainments. This probably will add to the dig- 
nity of the school, if not to its usefulness. The Gra- 
duates’ Society has probably given up their agitation 
of last year as a hopeless undertaking. When it 
comes to a contention between the Bar of this Pro- 
vince and McGill, we hold that McGill is in the right. 
We have always claimed, and we claim still, that the 
McGill Law Faculty is as good as any other in this 
Province. But surely that is a low standard! How 
would such a comparison suit Sir Wm. Dawson, if 
applied to the Medical, the Arts, or the Science 
Faculty? Had the University done its duty hereto- 
fore with reference to this Faculty, she would be in 
a better position to-day to fight the cause of Protestant 
education in this Province. 

I he youthful Faculty of Applied Science is grow- 
ing rapidly. We understand that a suitable building 
for its work is likely to be soon erected. Mr. Jeffrey 
Borland's donation of $4,000 to this Faculty is a 
bright example to our young graduates. 

So much for the success of the past year : it has 
been eventful in that McGill has taken the initiative 
in the struggle against the aggressive spirit which 
characterizes the acts of the majority upon certain 
questions, and this year has begun a struggle, of < 
which the end is not yet. 



the poet. 

The .poet is an evolution. Mark 

His early efforts, how they sob and sigh ! 

Lite is a burden, even the sun is dark, 

He only wants, swan-like, to sing and die. 

His tender soul feels every petty smart 
Born of his robust fellows’ thoughtless sneers. 

From gay society he steals apart 
to rhyme of grief and loneliness and tears 

His sweetheart leaves him, wearied of his sighs, 

. t0 w |?° lc ! ves Ibis fair earth well. 

And then lie wails in limping elegies 

lnat she was “ fair as heaven, false as hell.” 

Ah ! “ throng, and “ SneerS ’” What WOuld the rh >’ Iuin « 
Weak-minded, long of hair and wild of mien 

earth * en hundred thousand strong, 

Have done for rhymes had you two never been ? 

The early period many never pass. 

but hfe-long mumble in a maudlin woe 
^ hearts, of all flesh being grass 

And this great world only a fleeting show. 

True poets soon escape the primal stage, 

Tin f&m ’ hL c hm £ in *> s i Jon surmount the mist, 
the vantage of maturer age 

iney see the world by sunshine warmly kissed. 

They learn that all who would be truly great 
Mix with the stormy world, nor shirk their part • 

But take the tnals all are given by fate, P 

And set them to sweet music by their art. 

He only is a poet who can find 
in sorrow happiness, in darkness light. 

Love everywhere and lead his fellow-kind 
B> flowery paths towards life’s sunny height. 

The poet who sings failure all can spare : 

Bu t he who sings of victory, and fires 
Men s hesitating souls, until they dare, 

And daring do ; him all the world desires. 

Montreal. 

Arthur Whir. 



(Contributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. XI. 



“ That tocsin of the soul — 
The dinner bell ” — Byron. 



Grief teaches us many tilings, among them the 
value of happiness. The death of Lulu did not make 
me a misanthrope, though it did make my smiles 
graver. I have recognized that time is only a shift- 
lug point in eternity, and that some day we shall 
meet again. Here I have my papers and my books, 
and a little Lulu, for Avhich latter I am indebted to 
Clooney and Edith, and I am quite content to wait. 
Clooney got over his sister’s death, I will not say 
easily, but, in time. In his life it was an incident, 
iu mine a catastrophe. For a time he was quieter 
than usual, then he entered almost feverishly into 
excitement, forming acquaintances at college and else- 
where, which he found it convenient in after-life to 
drop. 

I did not return to the city until late in November, 
hut when I did so, I took up my old quarters with 
Clooney. I have described many phases of College 
life, hut, so far, have omitted one most important 
oue — the dinner. I will devote this last chapter to 
this subject, not because anything remarkable occurred 
that year for all dinners are much the same — hut 
because it is interesting as showing that College din- 
ners are not traps of Satan, as a maiden aunt of mine 
once remarked. Like other occurrences in life, din- 
ners oiler opportunities for good and had, and it 
depends on one’s self whether or not they are misused. 
Well, this that I am about to describe, did not take 
place until after the Christmas holidays, and it did 
take place in a hotel not a thousand miles from the 
liver, namely, the Richelieu. It was a dreary tramp 
down there, and, for many, a difficult tramp hack; i.i 
fact, a tew of us stopped at various stations on the 
way up, to interview certain irascible men in blue, 
who ottered free lodgings for the night. 

( looney had inveigled me into attending, and, as 
an old graduate, the thought of a dinner with the 
hoys thrilled me as a blare of bugles thrills an old 
wai-horse. There were four or five of us in the 
paity that set out for the hotel, and we arrived iu 
sa ety. Clooney was president of his year uoav, and 
^ ea< ^ °* the table. At either hand sat 
the delegates from other Colleges, and as the Y.M.C.A. 
iat not began its good work in those degenerate days, 
we who wished it had wine from the word go. I get 
even more amusement at a dinner in watching my 
neighbours than in eating. It is amusing to see the 
old hand, who intends making a night of it, breathe 
muse in His drinks, much as one starts a horse oft 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



159 



slowly if we are going far, and intend to push his 
pace. And it is laughable to note how the novice 
takes everything that is offered him, pouring beer on 
claret, brandy on cider, and champagne on port, until 
almost before he has tasted the liquors, he is unable 
to drink them. Yet, it seems to me, on reflection, 
that I have never yet, at a dinner, seen a man help- 
less or quarrelsome, and I have attended more dinners 
than I should like to say. It is after the dinner only 
that the wild ones pass the limits. 

Knowing that Clooney would be occupied with his 
guests, I got an invitation for Charley, so that I 
would have, at least, one bosom friend near me. 
Cutler happened to be a delegate from Medicine, and, 
spurning etiquette, sat beside me. 

At the beginning of every dinner there is always a 
period of constraint, which, however, wears off to- 
wards the end of the fourth or fifth course. Waist- 
coats and hearts expand in the same ratio, as a scien- 
tific friend of mine remarked recently. We soon 
passed the stage of constraint, and after we had been 
smoking our cigars — some of' us for the first and last 
time — for a few moments, Clooney, resplendent in a 
dress suit, arose, tossed back his hair, and gave us the 
opening speech. A good dinner disarms criticism, 
and we did not criticise Clooney. He had the usual 
terms — “ Meet on this occasion,” “Future will bring 
forth,” “ Our dear Alma Mater ,” and concluded with 
the strikingly novel expression, “ Hoping that my 
brief speech will not have tired you, I will now re- 
sume my seat.” He did so amid cheers. Clooney 
was not an orator in his young days. He might have 
said, in the words of the immortal Shakespeare, as 
used by Percy Brown, “ I am no orator, as Brutus is,” 
but he covered his confusion by a sip of coffee or a 
puff at his cigar whenever language deserted him. 
Of course, “ The Queen” was toasted. She has been 
drunk now for fifty years at nearly every table where 
the English language is spoken, and may she live to 
be drunk for many more years. The sentence is 
ambiguous, and I am tempted to joko upon it, but 
loyalty forbids me. 

Toast was drunk quickly upon toast, until a few 
enthusiastic persons were very much in the condition 
of the toasts. Music and songs formed interludes, 
with now and then a dance. It was late in the even- 
ing when Cutler rose to speak on behalf of Medicine, 
and he had not wasted his time. Charley and I 
propped him up, and he began to elocutionize : 

“ Gentlemen,” he said, “ I was coming home from 
the hospital one morning. I was tired, and a police- 
man wanted to help me home. I told him ‘ Gosier 
mischief.’ He wouldn’t go. I yelled for McGill, 
and four Arts students came round the corner. I 
didn’t ask them if they had been at the hospital, too. 
I just said ‘Arts for ever,’ and sat down, while they 
ran the policeman about four blocks. I never see an 
Arts man now but what I say ‘Arts for ever.’ I 
would do anything for an Arts man. I would dissect 
him, oh ! so carefully. I’d be glad to saw off his leg 
for nothing, and if he had a big head I would reduce 
the swelling tenderly — and I have had great experi- 
ence in that line, gentlemen. And law, what would 
we do without law 1 We faculties form a mutual aid 



society. If a poor, helpless Arts man gets into a row, 
we Medicals treat his wounds, and the lawyers carry 
him victoriously through the courts.” 

The cheers that greeted this speech sent the fumes 
of wine rapidly to Cutler’s head. He staggered, and 
his voice got less controllable. 

“ Ladies and gemmen,” he continued, amid laugh- 
ter, “ policeman’s natural foe of students, policeman’s 
justice, lawyer’s foe of justice — love law students. 
Lawyers like the bar — come and have a drink, 
lawyer.” He stretched out his hand, with an empty 
beer bottle in it, towards the law representative, and 
then gracefully slipped into his chair and under the 
table, from which predicament he was drawn amid 
laughter. 

We were served by male waiters, but the female 
servants of the hotel had been looking at us from the 
kitchen for some time back. Charley, remembering 
a trick done at sea-side resorts, and who was quite 
at home among the students, sent a whisper round 
the table, which was greeted by a smile wherever it 
was received. In a few moments he rose, waved a 
wine glass in the air, and cried out, “ Choose your 
partners for a waltz.” A musical genius struck up a 
lively tune, and a rush was made for the kitchen. 
The girls tied with screams and laughter, but the 
modern Sabines returned in a few moments each with 
a blushing partner, and for a quarter of an hour 
dancing went on, and very pretty it looked. At the 
end of this time the girls vanished mysteriously, and 
the boys resumed their seats and the speeches went 
on. Clooney and Charley and myself had had part- 
ners, and found our French very useful in whispering 
airy nothings. 

The dinner was over at about two o’clock, but the 
night of adventure was not finished : far from it. 

Charley and I undertook to see Cutler home, and 
Clooney joined us with another delegate, whose over- 
flowing heart had got the mastery of his head. Neither 
of the delegates would go into a carriage. They in- 
sisted on seeing us home on foot. 

Just after we started, Cutler leaned up against a 
lamp-post, tilted his hat on the back of his head and 
began to lecture Charley. “ Smithson,” he said, 
“ you’re a good flow, deuced good flow, an’ I’m 
sorry to see you taking to drink. What’ll your ma 
say when she sees me bring you home 1” 

“ That I’m in rum company,” whispered Charley to 
me. 

“ Once knew a flow” continued Cutler, “ who took 
to drink. He began with cider. Never drink cider, 
it gives you gastric neuralgia. He went on, an’ on, 
an’ on, an’ one day he drank a pint of coal oil, and lit 
his pipe. He’s dead now.” 

We got Cutler away from that lamp-post, and arm- 
in-arm with Snooks, the other delegate. Charley, 
Clooney, and I were besido and behind them. Snooks 
was a poet whose verses went to fatten the waste-paper 
basket of the McGill Gazette. He was in a senti- 
mental mood, and pointing to a distant lamp, he wailed 
to Cutler : “ Ah ! Cutler, see yon steady star shine 
out through the cold beauty of the midnight sky. I 
gaze at it, and vanishes all doubt that I shall live to 
reach it by-and-by. Yet comes the morn, and o’er yon 



160 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



humping hill the sun shall creep amid a web of light, 
and all the birds shall wake that now are still, and my 
loved star shall be eclipsed quite.” 

“ Cutler replied, “ How jolly, lets’h see the sun 

rise.” 

Clooney groaned, and we all exerted our best en- 
deavours to prevent such a foolish escapade, but in 
vain. Snooks acquiesed at once, and five men went 
tramping up McTavish street at three in the morning 
to see the sun rise. Remember it was midwinter, that 
we were. in dress suits, wearing overcoats, of course, 
and that the night was dark, and you can imagine the 
scene as we floundered through several feet ol snow, 
up to the mountain top. We got there shivering, and 
stood looking eastward waiting patiently for the sun 
to make connection or for the delegates to sober up. 

They sobered up before the sun rose, and we dragged 
them home. The dinner had been a grand success. 

It was one of those mild April days, when Nature 
is putting on her finery again, when Clooney graduated 
Of course, his mother was present, and as certainly 
was Miss Edith. We had all been invited to the 
Mayflowers’ in the evening. There was no one else, 
and we danced, sang, and played cards to our heart’s 
content, while Charley was, as usual, the soul of our 
fun. 

Old Mr. Mayflower, who had appeared in my story 
only on the eventful night of the burglary, had not 
been told of Clooney’s engagement to Edith, and I do 
not think he guessed it, as, like other fathers, the fact 
that his daughter had reached a marriageable age only 
came home to him as he paid her bill for dresses, and 
grumbled a little because, like the dresses, they had 
become longer. It was about eleven o’clock, and 
Charley had taken himself off’. Clooney was leaning 
over the back of Edith’s chair, watching her at her 
game, and I saw him whisper in her ear. She blushed, 
and looked up into his eyes. Mr. Mayflower was her 
partner. Whatever Clooney said it made her revoke, 
and her father looked up sharply just in time to see 
Clooney stoop down and kiss Edith. 

The old gentleman got very red in the face, and 
sprang to his feet, upsetting the table and scattering 
the cards in every direction. 

“ Well, young man, what does this mean ; kissing 
my daughter before my very eyes ? How dare you, 
sir ?” and he took off his spectacles and began polish- 
ing them with trembling hand. Clooney, who had 
slipped his arm around Edith’s waist when the table 
upset, answered nothing ; and his face paled. 

‘‘ What do you mean, sir 1 ?” reiterated Mr. May- 
flower. “ Have you no more respect for her or us than 
that !” 

Clooney started as though struck, and his head 
drooped a bit; but only for an instant. Then he 
said : 

\ ou wrong me, sir. I do not deserve her love 
but she has given it to me, and I— I want her.” 

Iam not recording high-flown language, such as one 
meets in novels only the truth. I have no doubt that 
had Clooney told me what he intended saying under 
the circumstances, it would have been hi"h-flown 
enough to suit the best novel ever written but he 
did not tell me, and I had to take what he did say. 



The old gentleman stood speechless. Then he 
turned feebly towards his wife, with an appealing 
glance, and rubbed his spectacles. The two ladies 
were smiling with an air expressive of “ We knew it 
all the time,” and poor Mr. Mayflower found himself 
driven in a corner. 

He turned to the two central figures again, and ad- 
dressed his daughter : 

“ Well, Edith, do you want to desert you father in 
his old age, for the first handsome fellow you meet?” 

Edith broke down and flung herself into her father’s 
arms, “No, no, papa. Can’t I love you, too ?” 

“ Yes,” answered her father, “ that is it. We come 
second now. Well, well, young man, its only our 
lot. We old folks bring up children and they desert 
us in the end.” 

There was a few moments of silence. Then he 
added thoughtfully : “ It seems to me that I took 
some one’s darling away also, so l suppose it’s only 
just. Is not that so, Edith ?” This was to his wife. 

With this philosophic remark he put Edith back in 
Clooney’s arms, and added: “ You have ruined our 
game, Edith. Next time you want a husband don’t 
let it be when I’ve seven trumps.” 

A little later Clooney and Edith were seated on the 
bow window, with the moonlight pouring in upon 
them. Clooney had his parchment with him, as he had 
come directly from college to the Mayflowers. They 
unfolded it, and while he spread it out upon his knees 
she leaned upon his shoulder, and laughing, read the 
sonorous Latin words, which even if not pronounced 
strictly according to quantity, were full of something 
that made the dead tongue seem dead no longer. 
Her lover’s medal was in one hand, and she looked in 
turn upon it and the parchment, and shyly at him. 

Thus I left them, reading between the musty lines 
the old, old story, building castles of happiness, with 
the moon looking down as interestedly as though it 
had not seen millions of such sights, and read millions 
of such thoughts as theirs. 

Thus I left them, hand in hand, preparing for the 
studies of life and for the examiner whose name is 
Death. And I went back to my books, a lonely man, 
and yet quietly happy. 

— THE end. — 



ABOUT WIT AND HUMOR. 

“ Whose wit, in the combat, as gentle as bright, 

Ne'er carried a heart-stain away on its blade.” 

— Moore. 

The wit and humour that abound in college journals 
are, for the most part, of a commendable and genuine 
character. College life, it is needless to say, is fertile, 
in comparison with business or professional life, in 
the ludicrous ; and many of the witticisms that ap- 
pear are the reports of table-talk, or of the happy 
retorts of a professor to a jesting student. Not a few 
humorous verses, also bright and rollicking, have 
come from college pens. Some of the best parodies 
ever published have also made their first appearance 
in college journals, and many of them have both a 
literary and an historic interest. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



161 



1887.] 



The following lines (describing the vexation of a 
gentleman who finds, in the midst of a dance, that 
his hose are swinging from their moorings) are full of 
pawky humour : — 

“ And while lie dances in vivacious glee, 

He feels his stockings loosening from his knee ; 

The slippery silk, in mind-ben nmbiug rounds, 
Descends in folds at all his nimble bounds. 

* * * * * sfs 

Thy partner wonders at the change. No more 
She sees thee bound clastic from the floor ; 

No more she sees thine easy, graceful air — 

Each step is measured with exactest care.” 

This much by way of preface. I have said enough 
to show that I have no desire to be especially prudish 
or straight-laced. I am willing to allow a wide lati- 
tude, as Hood says — 

“ I dote upon a jest, within the limits of becoming mirth,” 

but my object is to protest against a divergence into 
slang or otherwise objectionable language. With 
Roscommon let us hold — 

“ Immodest words admit of no defence, 

For want of decency is want of sense.” 

Wit and humour have been submitted to frequent 
analysis, but perhaps the most perfect verdict was 
rendered by Alexander Pope : — 

“ True wit is nature to advantage dress’d, 

What oft was thought, but ne’er so well express’d.” 

It is to be observed that surprise is an essential 
ingredient in the sensation both of wit and humour. 
The likeness and unlikeness must be equally unex- 
pected. There must be a likeness in things appar- 
ently unlike, and an incongruity in things apparently 
like. This is the characteristic of that which has 
been termed — wrongly, I think — the lowest kind of 
wit — the pun. A mere play upon words is stupid ; 
there must be a meaning in a pun, or it is worthless. 
It may convey a clever thought, as well as a toying 
with words. Thus it is related of Dr. Parr, that when 
some pun-hater remarked that “ punning was the 
lowest kind of wit,” the doctor replied, sharply, “ and, 
therefore, the foundation of all wit.” Genuine pun- 
ning, however, is not a mere playing upon words; 
something more than that is needed ; there must be a 
control of ideas also, or it does not amount to wit. 
No better illustration could be found than these lines 
from that incomparable punning song, “Lieutenant 
Luff,” by Thomas Hood : — 

“ Said he, * Let others faucy slops, 

And talk in praise of tea ; 

But I am no Bohc- mian, 

So do not like Bohea. 

If wine’s a passion, so is tea — 

Though in another shape ; 

What matter whether man is killed 
By canister or grape.' ” 

The pleasure given by a pun is in precise propor- 
tion to the contrast between the ideas unexpectedly 
brought together by an accidental similarity of sound. 
I will cite a few instances. One of the best, perhaps, 
is that which Punch attributed to Sir Charles Napier, 



who was reported to have announced his great Indian 
conquest in a single Latin word — “ Peccavi,” which, 
in English, means “ I have sinned (Scinde).” 

Douglas Jerrold wittily said of the Secretary to the 
bankrupt British Bank, who opened the business of 
the day with prayer in the place of his peculations, 
that. he very appropriately commenced with “let us 
prey.” Hood, probably the best punster in our lan- 
guage, says that the phrase, “ the republic of letters,” 
was hit upon to intimate that, taking the whole lot of 
authors together, they had not got a sovereign among 
them. Admiral Duncan’s address to the officers who 
came on board his ship for instructions previous to 
the engagement with the Dutch Admiral de Winter, 
was an apt pun: — “Gentlemen, you see a severe 
Winter approaching. I have only to advise you to 
keep up a good fire” Very good, too, is the Cockney 
epitaph on a cook — “ Peace to his hashes.” 

“ What do you think of the new sewing-machine 1” 
enquired a gentleman of his friend. “Oh!” he 
answered, “ I think it a capital make-shift.” A lady 
said to Doctor Johnson — “Do you really believe, 
doctor, that the dead walk after death?” “ Madam,” 
said the doctor, “ I have no doubt about it ; I heard 
the ‘ Dead March in Saul.’ ” Tom Moore, in his 
diary, records thus — “ Took tea at Villamel’s. In 
talking of the organs in the phrenological system, 
Poole said he supposed a drunkard had a barrel 
organ.” 

These are specimens of wit, of various excellence, 
but all very far, indeed, from deserving the condem- 
nation habitually passed on punning and punsters by 
those who have not the art to make them. 

It is worth noting that some of our most genuine 
wits have been punsters. Sydney Smith was an 
inveterate punster, so was Theodore Hook, so was 
Douglas Jerrold. The pun is, indeed, one of the 
shapes which wit and humour take, and I should 
question the wit or the humour of any man who 
could not either make a pun himself, or relish it when 
made by others. I mean, of course, a true pun, hav- 
ing a contrast of ideas, and not a mere senseless play 
upon sounds and letters. 

Intimately connected with the humorous is that 
which we call the absurd. All humour is not absurd, 
nor is all absurdity humorous ; nevertheless, they 
touch each other so nearly that it is difficult to draw 
the line between them. We smile, and we cannot 
help smiling, where an effect is sought to be produced 
either wholly inefficient, or immensely greater than 
is necessary for the object. We war over the misad- 
venture of Sancho Panzo, who, tumbling into a pit 
which he thought of fearful depth, hung a whole 
night by a beam in constant fear of being dashed to 
pieces, his feet being all the while within two inches 
of the ground. 

The three tailors of Tooley street, who commenced 
a petition to Parliament with — “ We, the people of 
England,” is a rich instance of this sort of absurdity. 
There is a capital Spanish proverb of extensive appli- 
cation, which illustrates this kind of humour — “ The 
Pasha’s horses went to be shod, and the beetle put 
out his foot.” What an apt satire on impudent self- 
importance ! 



162 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



But the sense of the ludicrous arises also from the 
difference between what we see and what our notion 
is of propriety and fitness. We laugh at manners 
and customs broadly differing from our own, and this 
tendency is precisely proportioned to our ignorance. 
Persons wholly uneducated, who have never seen nor 
heard of foreign ways, laugh heartily at dress, gestures, 
motions, which, to the better taught, present no ap- 
pearance of oddity, much less provoke laughter. As 
our familiarity with the world enlarges, these differ- 
ences cease to surprise us We forget, when we laugh 
at the doings of other nations, that our manners and 
customs appear as absurd and ridiculous to them as 
do theirs to us. 

Let us analyse a few witticisms : — Louis XIV. 
being much annoyed by the pertinacity of a general 
officer at a levee, said, so that he might be heard, 
“ That gentleman is the most troublesome officer in 
the whole army.” “Yes,” said the officer, with a 
smile, “your Majesty’s enemies have said the same 
thing more than once.” This was true wit. Where 
did it lie? In the surpise produced by the double 
meaning of the answer, and the strict applicability of 
both meanings, though apparently so different. 

Voltaire, speaking of the effects of epithets in 
weakening style, remarked that the adjectives were 
the greatest enemies of the substantives, though they 
agreed in gender, number, and case. Here, again, is 
a witticism, a surprise occasioned by an unexpected 
relationship where none was anticipated. 

In one of Addison’s plays an undertaker thus 

rebukes one of the mourners at a funeral “ You 

rascal ! I have been raising your wages for these two 
years upon condition that you should appear more 
sorrowful, and the higher wages you receive the hap- 
pier you look.” This is wit for the same reason. 

Some one jocularly remarked to the Marquis Well- 
esley that, in his arrangement of the Ministry, “ his 
brother, the Duke, had thrown him overboard.” 

“ Yes,” said the Marquis, “ but I trust I have strength 
enough to swim to the other side.” 

Surprise is an ingredient in the witticisms which 
James and Horace Smith have preserved in their 
dictionary, which was to give the meaning of things 
as well as words. Thus they define — 

Age — The only secret a woman keeps. 

Abuse — Unwelcome truths. 

Abstinence — Getting rid of one surfeit to make 
room for another. 

Accommodation — Obliging a friend in order to 
serve ourselves. 

Calf — A young John Bull. 

Heterodoxy — Another man’s doxy, whereas ortho- 
doxy is your own. 

Punch defines flattery to be “ the milk of human 
kindness turned to butter.” 

Douglas Jerrold, when asked what mind was 
answered, “No matter.” “Well,” says the other’ 

“ what is matter, then ?” « Oh,” said Jerrold, « never 
mind.” 

A good woman called on Dr. Abernethy, one dav, 
in great trouble, and complained that her son had 
swallowed a penny. “ Pray, madam,” said the doctor, 



“was it a counterfeit?” “No, sir, certainly not.” 
“ Then it will pass, of course,” responded the facetious 
physician. 

What more witty thing was ever said than Jerrold’s 
definition of “Dogmatism,” as “ Puppy-ism grown 
big ? ” 

Most of us remember the admirable definition of a 
“ Spoon ” — a cold thing that touches a lady’s lip with- 
out kissing it — matched with “a muff” — a soft thing 
that holds a lady’s hands without squeezing them. 

Quevedo. 



AVE ET VALE. 

Eagles, ravens and tree3 attain antiquity ; but human beings never. 
We have not time to grow old. We do not live long enough. “To 
look around us and to die,” as Alexander Pope expresses it, is our 
utmost achievement. “ What shadows we are! What shadows we 
pursue!” exclaimed Edward Burke. "Ave et Vale!” is our coven- 
ant of life. Revolving these sad thoughts, I attempted to give ut- 
terance to them in verse, and thus spake my melancholy muse in 
her own rude, untutored strain 

Hail ! and Farewell! Such is the fleet condition 
Of earthly intercourse; we meet to part. 

Joy perisheth in rapture of fruition. 

Alas, my heart ! 

The flowers we gather wither in the grasping ; 

On Beauty’s cheek no fadeless lilies dwell ; 

The hand we clasp grows throbless in the clasping, 
llail ! and Farewell ! 

Hail ! and Farewell! The smile of welcome beameth 
Brief as effulgent upon lover’s lips. 

In hope exultant, Youth but little dreameth 
Of Hope’s eclipse. 

Nor cares to think that Time, who looks so radiant, 

Is disenchanting Fancy’s magic spell, 

To dust dissolving all her fairy pageant. 

Hail ! and Farewell !” 

Hail ! and tarewell! ’Tis thus each short-lived pleasure 
rades from our vision like a phantom wan, 

We turn to gaze upon our new-found treasure. 

And lo ! ’tis gone ! 



Mid the delights that we most keenly covet, 
Mill are we startled by fond Memory’s knell, 
Ave ! et Yale ! Oh t my Heart’s Beloved, 
Hail ! and Farewell ! 



T. Mythorne. 



JHcSill News. 



UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

The Annual University Dinner, under the auspices 
of the graduates’ Society of McGill University, Avhich 
was held at the Windsor Hotel on Saturday evening, 
was a most successful affair. The tables were laid in 
the caf 6, and the service, as is usual at the Windsor, 
was excellent. 1 he president of the society, Mr. Arch. 

occupied the chair, and on his right sat 
Sir VV llliam Dawson, Mr. George Hague, Mr. W. H. 
Kerr, Q.C., Rev. Principal MacVicar, Rev. Prof. 
Ooussirat and Rev. Principal Henderson, and on his 
left Principal Grant, of Queen’s University, Kingston; 
Rev. James Barclay, Mr. John Kennedy, Mr. J. R, 
Dougall, Prof. Alex. Johnson, Mr. W. C. McDonald, 
and Prof. H. T. Bovey. Mr. N. W. Trenholme oc- 
cupied the vice-chair. 

During dinner an orchestra performed a choice 
programme of music. After dinner, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1G3 



1887.] 



The Chairman rose to propose the first toast, 

THE QUEEN, 

and, in doing so, he said that if any of them could 
warm the hearts and inspire noble thoughts and 
words it should be that of the head of our mighty 
Empire. This jubilee year, at all events, it would 
be deemed improper if they were to allow the toast 
of the Queen to pass without more than a formal word. 
The heart of our people throughout our wide realm is 
being stirred by manifestations of love and loyalty to 
one of the best sovereigns the world has ever seen. 
One reason why we should cherish the name and sov- 
ereignty of our Queen as a valuable element in the 
national life of the people is that it forms the germ of 
a living union among many of the finest peoples of 
the world. The love of liberty has long been the 
boast of our people. There is a famous passage 
in Montesquieu’s Esprit des Lois, written a century 
and a half ago, in which he says : “ II y a dans 
le monde une nation qui a pour objet direct de sa con- 
stitution la liberte politique.” The nation meant in 
this instance was our own, and he believed the world 
would acknowledge that the object of our constitution, 
the freedom of the people, has been greatly advanced 
during the long and prosperous reign of Queen 
Victoria. After referring to the valuable work done 
by the ancient Greeks in upholding the cause of free- 
dom, and of civilization, he concluded : “ Our people 
have the constitutional idea implanted in their minds, 
and proud as they are of the exalted virtues that 
distinguish the present possessor of the throne, they 
value the office chiefly as the link that binds all 
parts of the nation together and unite them under 
a common flag. Still the existence of such sov- 
ereignty is but the germ of a more complete form of 
national unity. And this is the idea that is kept in 
the foreground by the Queen in desiring the celebra- 
tion of her jubilee to take the form of a permanent 
Imperial institute, to gather together the products of 
all parts of her domain. Long live the Queen then, 
and may her declining years see this link strengthen 
and develop into perfect unity of national life 
and aspiration. May she see the preservation of 
the perpetual unity of her people recognized as the 
worthiest object of ambition of every patriotic man in 
her realms. The days of tyranny are past, the days 
of unity are at hand ; and may the Queen of the British 
people have the happiness of knowing that her in- 
fluence for all that is good, right, noble and true 
bears its legitimate fruit in the promotion of that love 
for one another in the hearts of her people that is the 
surest foundation of a throne and of an empire 

“ Broad based upon the people’s will,” 

“ And compassed by the inviolate sea.” 

The toast was received with the greatest enthusiasm, 
the company singing the national anthem. 

THE JUBILEE POEM. 

The Chairman said that it had been intended at 
this stage of the proceedings to have the jubilee poem 
read, but, unfortunately, the judges did not make any 
award, as would be seen from the following report 

The judges of the jubilee poems, written in competition for 



the prize of fifty dollars offered by the Graduates* Society of 
McGill University, regret that, in their opinion, not one oi the 
competitions submitted to them attains such excellence as to 
make it worthy of the premium. 

At the same time they desire to state that they regard the 
poems numbered 18 (“ Mark Lovell *’) and 1 (“ I’ll Try My 
Fortune Like the Rest *’) as distinctly superior to the others. 
The former of these, while it displays poetic grace and skill in 
selection of epithet, lacks originality and creative power ; the 
latter, although of considerable merit, is cast in a form which 
is hardly suitable to the occasion. 

The judges have also selected poems 37 (“ Ernst ist das 
Leben ”), 61 (“ Ontario ”) and 31 (“ Vivat Regina ”) as deserv- 
ing mention. 

The number of poems submitted was seventy-seven. 

R. W. Norman, 

Samuel E. Dawson, 
Ciias. E. Moyse. 

To the president McGill University Graduates* Society, 
Montreal. 

It had been, he said, a matter of very considerable 
regret to the committee of the society that they would 
be, under the terms under which the prize was offered, 
unable to award the prize. The award was only to be 
made in case the judges reported that some one of the 
poems submitted was deserving of receiving the prize, 
and consequently, although they regretted it, no other 
course was left open to them. 

THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL. 

The Chairman then proposed this toast, which was 
very wairnly received, the company singing “ For 
He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” 

the university. 

The Chairman, in proposing this toast, said that he 
must first acknowledge the courtesy with which the 
resolution of the graduates’ meeting, touching repre- 
sentation on the Board of Governors, was received. If 
unable to comply with their wishes to the fullest extent 
the governors did so in part, and in their reply showed 
a kindly consideration for the suggestions made. But 
he would not be doing his duty to his fellow graduates 
if he did not express in the most earnest manner the 
deep interest they have taken in this question, and the 
conviction most of them share that they should have 
larger and fuller representation on the governing 
board. They believe that the prosperity of the univer- 
sity depends largely upon its being kept in close 
sympathy with the body of graduates, that nothing 
could conduce more to the advancement of its work 
than the hearty co-operation of the graduates in their 
several spheres of life in endeavoring to further its 
interests, and that the co-operation would be much 
more actively afforded if they were given a more 
distinct and recognized voice in its government. While, 
therefore, they cannot but praise the large-hearted way 
in which the affairs of the Alma Mater have been con- 
ducted in the past, they at the same time sincerely 
trust that the claims of the graduates to larger repre- 
sentation than they now possess should not be dis- 
regarded or long delayed. But he could not pass 
from a reference to representation without noticing 
the rumour, which he trusted may prove well founded, 
that it is contemplated by the authorities at Quebec 
to give universities representation in the Legis- 
lature. This would be at once a great advantage 



164 



UN I VEIISITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



to higher education in the province and to the Legis- 
lature itself, for surely representatives sent by such 
bodies would add a lustre to the chamber in which 
they sat. The proposal seemed to be to give one 
member to the two English Universities, McGill and 
Bishop’s. This might perhaps be but the first step to- 
wards making them one, which we might soon see 
carried out in other particulars. But this also suggests 
that if such an amalgamation takes place, and if we 
can ofler them the boon of legislative representation, 
this might be an inducement to others of our neigh- 
bors to join hands with us, and some of us looked 
with longing eyes to the powerful university in 
Eastern Ontario, and wished that Queen’s, whose 
principal was their honored guest, might also consider 
the advisability of uniting with us. This would be a 
more even division of the English constituency than 
if K ingston were to unite with the West, and it would 
also merge two theological institutions into one and 
economise much labor and money. If this could be 
brought about, and he hoped it was not altogether 
visionary, the central part of Canada would then have 
two, and only two, great universities, Toronto and 
McGill, and they would speedily become the Oxford 
and Cambridge of our country. He believed, he 
continued, that the graduates could be relied upon 
to support the university in claiming that for ad- 
mission to the study of the learned professions the 
B.A. degree granted by recognized universities in our 
own and other British countries should be accepted as 
sufficient qualification. If there are other educational 
bodies of as high a standard of teaching, let them 
M'ply for, and if there is no other good reason against 
it, they will obtain the power of granting university 
degrees. Further, for those who do not take a univer- 
sity course, the academies and high schools under the 
control of the Protestant section of the Council of 
Public Instruction should be placed upon the same 
looting as the corresponding institutions under the 
control of the Roman Catholic section. The subjects 
for examination should be chosen solely from those 
taught with equal prominence in both, or else separ- 
ate literary examinations should be held for the two 
classes of the population. The Protestant schools must 
not be forced to conform their curriculum to the stand- 
ard adopted by the Roman Catholic, and should not 
be placed at any disadvantage in maintaining their 
own. For admission to practice, however, they did 
not ask that the simple law degree be held sufficient 
Certain qualifications of attendance at a law office to 
gain practical acquaintance with routine would well 
be required. And the Bar will, of course, retain the 
right of examining candidates. But it is one thing to 
examine and another to dictate to a university how it 
shall impart its teaching, or how many lectures to give 
before granting the degree. Nor can it be toler- 
ated that the law degree of our university be treated 
as inferior to that of any other university that chose 
to teach by the multitude of its “ lessons,” and 
while the resources of the university have been wisely 
and, though some of the law graduates think hardly as 
fair a share of liberality has been extended to the law 
department as its importance demands, the time had 
come at all events when, unless some active efforts are 



put forth, the very existence of this branch of our 
educational system will be seriously imperilled. He 
wanted to see the Law faculty fully up to the other 
faculties. We have much to be proud of in our 
system of law in this province. He did not believe 
its equal was to be found elsewhere on this con- 
tinent, and if we had a well equipped law faculty, 
the exceptional advantages we have for the study of 
the most admirable system of law known to the civil- 
ized world, the Roman law as a basis, in the French 
civil law as its most logical adaptation, and the M r ell 
tried criminal law of the free British constitution, 
should attract to our academic halls students not only 
from all the districts of the province, but from the 
other provinces of the Dominion. A few brilliant 
men, and he did not hesitate to say men such as some 
of those who lecture at present, with time to devote 
themselves heart and soul to the work, might extend 
the reputation of the school to every place that comes 
under the influence of the commercial metropolis. 
But as it was manifest that even this would de- 
mand a supply of funds, he must appeal to bene- 
factors of the university to grant this generous 
assistance. He would give them “ The University.” 
Principal Sir William Dawson, upon rising to re- 
spond, was received with prolonged cheers. After 
the ovation had subsided, Sir William said he need 
not say anything in praise of the old lady (McGill) ; 
every boy in the country knew her as the wisest 
and best woman in the world. Every man who 
has a wife thinks she is the best specimen of 
womankind in the world — he would commend this 
statement to those who have not been married — and 
they had the same feeling towards the university. He 
had himself been told that the university was both 
his wife and family, considering how much he had to 
do for them. He would, however, like to have 
an hour and a half in which to lecture upon all 
the points brought out in the Chairman’s speech, 
but he would have to content himself with a 
very hasty treatment of them indeed. In the first 
place, they have always rejoiced to have graduates 
of the university placed upon the governing board, 
but they must remember that it was an understanding, 
not a right. Ihe governing board of the university 
was strictly an academic body, constituting the Royal 
institution, and it was intended to be in the first in- 
stance a representative body, not representing grad- 
uates of the university, but representing the people of 
the province as a whole, especially the friends of ed- 
ucation. It was also bound to include the different 
religious denominations in the province of Quebec, 
and that has always been understood as meaning that 
the board ought to be a body consisting of the most 
influential men of the different denominations. This, 
he considered, was a wise provision, as it made the 
university, while Protestant, non-denominational, not 
in the negative, but in the positive sense of represent- 
mg all denominations. In this McGill occupied 
a position different to any other in the Dominion. 
ti Aus ( ralian universities came nearest to it. 
then it had a Royal charter— the oldest in the 
ominion of the most comprehensive character and 
one which retains in the Queen its visitorial manage- 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1G5 



1887.] 



ment in sucli a way that professor or governor cannot 
be appointed without having the warrant of the Queen 
through her representative in this country, and on the 
other hand it has a private endowment. And it was 
thoroughly Protestant— not like the man whose one 
religion was to love the Queen and hate the Pope — 
but in the sense of being tolerant and being progres- 
sive. It was also theological, one-half of the 
graduates in arts sent out to-day having a theo- 
logical education, so that they were doing more than 
any university for the training of the Christian min- 
istry. It was cosmopolitan as well, having graduates 
trom German, French, English, Irish, Scotch and 
American universities, men who, trained under these 
different systems, brough to bear upon McGill the 
education of these different systems, and thus we had 
in the management and course of study, relative to 
the circumstances of the university and the organic 
growth represented, something better suited to this 
country than any system that could be devised. 
And many of these special features have been 
introduced in the American and in some English 
universities. And while they were in a minority 
in this province McGill attracted students from 
every part of the British Dominion, and at this 
moment the majority were from other parts 
of the country and from the United States as 
well. The graduates ought to be proud to belong 
to a university of that kind. Referring to the 
pressure being brought to bear upon them, he 
said that Mr. Lynch (who had introduced a bill in the 
Legislature), Mr. Robidoux, Mr. Lareau, all graduates 
of the university, would assist them in the matter and 
good would come out of it. The two objects they had 
in view was first, to have the recognition in this pro- 
vince of their B.A. degree, which no country in the 
world refused, and secondly, to be placed on equal 
terms with the French system. The two systems 
were quite different, and what they wanted was 
that a man who had been trained in a particular 
university shall have his examination based upon the 
principles of the college in which he had been trained. 
This would do justice to all parties. If the 
university was worth anything then the B. A. 
degree should be worth something. No injustice 
would be done to the non-graduate in this connection 
as he could go directly to the Board of Examiners. It 
was not only the case with the Bar, but the other pro- 
fessions had the same. But he hoped these difficulties 
would now soon be surmounted. Mark Twain 
once said that he would sacrifice all his wife’s 
relations for the good of his country, and while the 
universities nearest to McGill were not the daughters 
of one mother, they might sacrifice them if there were 
any necessity for doing so in the interests of self- 
preservation, but they did not feel that way 
at all. But Bishop’s college was an Episcopa- 
lian institution and Queen’s a Presbyterian one, 
and a non-denominational institution like McGill 
should include all the others. Both himself and 
Principal Grant came from the province beside 
the sea, and while he hoped Ontario would not 
repudiate Queen’s and its principal, if such a thing 
did happen they might agitate the union of Eastern 



Ontario and the great province of Quebec, and with 
the union of Queen’s and McGill they would be a 
most happy family. 

SISTER UNIVERSITIES. 

Mr. R. C. Smith, in proposing the toast of 
“ The Sister Universities,” said that there might be 
agreeable rivalries of bodies workiug towards the 
same end, and while we had not an Oxford-Cam- 
bridge boat race, there was no reason why we 
should not have one on Craig street were it not for 
the unfortunate suggestion to build a river wall. 
Speaking seriously, however, he would say that 
McGill took a deep interest in the welfare of sister 
universities. With regard to the examination 
for admission to the study of the professions, he 
was perfectly conscious of the disadvantages which 
this system imposed upon the students, but the ques- 
tion appeared to him to assume a higher significance 
as symbolizing the duality of race and sentiment. Any 
legislation which sought to define the course and to 
restrict the free expansion of higher education was ab- 
solutely inimical to the interests of the people and 
against national development. He for one did not 
take the pessimistic view of the relations of the two 
races ; on the contrary they had too many friends to 
entertain any such view, but it was of course perfectly 
elementary that the amity and goodwill towards 
which they looked must be upon a basis of mutual 
respect and conservatism of rights. Upon this 
basis there was no reason why we should not progress 
together to a very high destiny. In conclusion, 
he would say they had present with them a very 
distinguished representative of that university to- 
wards which McGill’s revered principal had made 
such marked advances a few moments before. Queen’s 
and its Principal occupied a position of which even 
McGill men were proud, a manly independence to- 
wards the Governments of Ontario and Canada, which 
gained for it the warmest esteem and respect. 

PRINCIPAL GRANT, 

who, on rising, received an ovation, responded. He 
said he felt that there were many points of likeness 
between Queen’s and McGill which fitted him for 
presenting the cordial regards of Queen’s to her 
sister McGill. They both had principals from 
the same county of Pictou, and not bad principals 
either. The one, a theologian, was accused of 
dabbling in politics, and the other, a distin- 
guished man of science, was sometimes accused of 
being a theologian, but he did not think much of a 
man who was not somewhat of a politician and a theo- 
logian. He could not be a patriot if he is not a poli- 
tician, and he could not be many degrees above the 
brute if he was not a theologian. Both uni- 
versities were also self-governing and could look 
at things not from a denominational or a party or 
political standpoint, but from the national point 
of view. Then both universities had admitted 
women, and in this respect Queen’s claimed not 
only priority, but thoroughness, having admitted 
women not only in arts, but in medicine, and 
not only to the class room but to the dining table. 



106 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1887 



Roth universities were also built of good solid 
limestone, and 1* believed that at this very mo- 
ment, like little Oliver — he did not mean the Premier 
of Ontario — they were both asking for more, and they 
would, he though, very likely get it. There 
were, however, some things on which he thought 
Queen’s had the advantage, judging by the remarks 
of some of the speakers. Sir William, he said, must 
have had in his mind the Scriptural injunction, 
“ When they persecute you in one city flee ye to an- 
other.” If they persecuted them in Montreal they 
might flee to Kingston, and should they do so they 
would be received with open arms. Protestants and 
Catholics were heartily welcome there, and were given 
every privilege with not a single drawback. He 
alluded to the fact that in a subscription list in 
aid of Queen’s, which was started in Kingston 
on the previous day by thirteen gentlemen, four Pres- 
byterians, three Episcopalians, three Methodists, two 
( 'ongregationalists, one Baptist, and one Roman Cath- 
olic were represented. The amount was $26,000, and 
the smallest subscripton $1,000. If such treat- 
ment as that would not draw them he did not 
know what would, because he was addressing 
himself to the commercial mind. Referring to 
what he termed the craze for consolidation, he 
advised the people who concerned themselves 
about this matter to begin by consolidating their own 
churches. Let them consolidate two sister churches 
and then they might talk of consolidating two uni- 
versities, 200 miles apart. If the universities are 
good we cannot have too many, and if bad we cannot 
have too few. The sterility of education in France 
was said to be owing to the Napoleonic policy of abol- 
isliing the provincial universities and merging them 
all into the University of Paris. They might, he 
thought, very well be left to the great laws that must 
determine the number, and that in the end the "ood 
only would survive. Why, only the other day a°bill 
was introduced in the British Parliament which had 
a permissive clause to abolish little St. Andrew’s uni- 
versity, and a howl of anguish and indignation went 
up fiom the Scotch people, and the permissive clause 
was struck out. In Holland, Belgium and Switzerland 
there were at least four universities to every one in 
Canada. Queen’s, he continued, owed its existence 
to Quebec as well as Ontario people. It was the Pres- 
byterian church that started it, because it was a pro- 
test against denominationalism, and because thev 
could not get the province of Ontario to liberalize its 
university, and Kingston was selected as a good in- 
termediate point for the two provinces. He himself 
was on the board of the Trafalgar institute, and two 
of ^ ueen s lay trustees were resident in Montreal 

:* lc \: l r y ir% \t i iappy to c ° me 

m. And while the Presbyterian Church started 
it, Queen s was now non-denominational, and ad- 
mitted Catholics as well as Protestants. Alluding 
to what had been said regarding the examinations fo!- 
admission to the professions, he said that a church 
had a light to guard its own portals and to hold ex- 
aminations and to see that every man teaching under 
its sanction should be acceptable to it, and every pro- 
fession had a right to guard its own portals. Univer- 



sities, lie continued, were called sister because they 
were sprung from one root and had one work to do, 
and also because of their national work. In this con- 
nection he might say that we could never get a high 
spirited people to remain permanently in a colonial 
position, and either Imperial Federation, Indepen- 
dence or some other similar question must be consid- 
ered sooner or later, and he ventured to say that with- 
in the next decade we would have to face the greatest 
questions that we have yet had to face. We should, 
he said, discuss them from two points — first from a 
Canada first point of view, and secondly, we should 
fully persuade ourselves that we are not a mere for- 
tuitous formation of provinces, but a country, young, 
no doubt, with the troubles of youth before us, but 
possessed of the material to make a great nation. 
Those opposed to the Irish people and who con- 
demned them had to admit that Ireland was a 
nation, and much more was this Canada of ours a 
nation, and we must remember that we sink or swim 
together. We are all one body, and we must look 
for the common interests of that body. 

At this point the chairman announced that tele- 
grams had been received from Hon. Thos. White, 
Hon. J. S. T) Thompson, Hon. W. W. Lynch, and 
Mr. J. S. Hall, jr , M.P.P., expressing their regret at 
their inability to be present, owing to pressure of par- 
liamentary duties. 

THE DOMINION. 



Mr. C. J. Doherty, Q.C., proposed this toast in a 
happy speech, in the course of which he remarked 
that we might be said to be a young country on the 
threshold of her perfect womanhood, and standing 
ready to make the choice of her destiny. Many 
careers presented themselves to us — Imperial federa- 
tion, annexation and independence — or, perhaps, the 
choice might be to remain under the maternal wing a 
little longer. Whatever that choice might be, he felt 
satisfied that a brilliant future lies before her — mon 
pays mes amours. 

Mr. Y . J. White then favored the company with 
a song, which was much appreciated. 

Mr. Y . H. Kerr, Q.C., in responding, said that in 
the olden times patriotism was a recognized virtue, 
but he was afraid that in this day it had dis«appeared 
entirely and that in its place was what might be called 
party spirit. If this were the case, it was greatly to 
be deplored. In a country such as this, split up into 
numerous provinces, burdened with innumerable 
governments and weighed down with a number of 
officials which feed upon the body politic, it became 

v- y nieu consider whether such a state 
ot things should exist and whether we should submit 
to this being continued ad infinitum. Y T e had to 
contend with innumerable difficulties in this province 
on account of the mixed population. The English 
•speaking population were less powerful than those 
2} fbp otlier race ; in fact we found that a man of 
nglish blood is at a disadvantage in this country 
and that this is the only possession of the British 
ciovn in which a man with British blood in his veins 
labors at a disadvantage. To remedy this state of 
a lairs we must sink these miserable conditions and 



1887 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1G7 



determine upon being blended into one nation. As 
provinces, he continued, we can never do anything; 
as a Dominion we xuav do somethin". The future is 

o 

unknown, and yet it is easy to foresee that if we 
persist in wasting our strength upon petty strifes we 
shall never acquire that position amongst the nations 
of the world to which we beleive we are entitled. We 
must, therefore, weld the people of Canada into one 
whole. These distinctions of race must disappear, 
and we may be certain that nature has so ordered it 
that the inhabitants of one country under one rule 
must constitute really one people. It is true we form 
a heterogenous whole at the present moment, but 
other nations have been the same, and yet have be- 
come welded together in one harmonious whole. 
Several panaceas have been prescribed. Imperial 
Federation, which is one, was, he believed, one of the 
most utopian projects that was ever brought forward. 
IIow can we possibly have Imperial Federation when 
we have Ireland endeavoring to break the bonds 
which have held it for eighty years 1 Can you recon- 
cile the different races and the different nations, the 
Hindoos, the Australians, the New Zealanders, the 
Canadians — and dare all the burdens of Imperial 
government ? Are we ready to go into all Britain’s 
quarrels on the continents of Europe or Asia 1 Are 
we ready to bear our share of the burdens 1 Surely 
not. We have to depend upon ourselves. The shap- 
ing of our destiny is in our own hands. It is abso- 
lutely necessary that our young men should bestow 
consideration upon this subject. They should on all 
occasions cultivate a national spirit, endeavor to do 
away with the miserable system of party politics 
which now disfigures our country, secure the admin- 
istration of laws and secure the liberties of the 
people, and they would then be fitted to enter into 
the ranks of the natives of the world — a happy and 
contented people. 

The proceedings terminated with the national 
anthem. 



THE SCIENCE DINNER. 

The undergraduates of the faculty of applied science 
tendered the graduates a dinner, at the Windsor, on 
Saturday evening, 30th April. Mr. W. Hopkins pre- 
sided, and a very enjoyable evening was spent. 

The Chairman proposed the toast to “ The Queen,” 
loyally honoured by the strains of the “National 
Anthem.” “ Billy ” Hamilton proposed “ Alma 
Mater,” which was drunk with enthusiasm. Mr. 
Rinfret followed with a song, and Mr. McNutt with 
“ The Health of the Class of ’87.” Messrs. Carlyle 
and McCarthy responded in a few well-cliosen re- 
marks. Mr. McCarthy made a few humorous remarks, 
and Mr. Carlyle contributed a song, followed by Mr. 
Hopkins giving the toast to “The Sister faculties. 
Messrs. Walsh and Nichols (arts), and Mr. Dickie 

(law), responded. # 

A telegram was read from Mr. Livingstone, oo, 
expressing his congratulations to the new graduates. 
The toast°to “The Medalists” elicited replies from 
Messrs. Carlyle and Walsh. Mr. McCarthy, also, 
ever on the alert for a joke, thanked his fellow- 



students for thus honouring him by drinking his 
health. A song from Mr. McNutt was followed by 
the other usual toasts, proposed by Messrs. Ball, 
Ferrier, Forneret, and Rinfret. 

Early in the evening a delegation from the gradu- 
ates’ annual dinner, among whom was Mr. J. H. Bur- 
land, B.A.Sc., came on the scene, and enjoyed the 
evening with the boys. 

Proceedings were brought to a close precisely at 
1 2 o’clock by bouncing Mr. Burland. 

An arrangement was made among the students to 
keep track of each other by frequent correspondence, 
and Mr. Ferrier was appointed secretary. 



LAW CONVOCATION. 

The annual meeting of Convocation, for conferring 
degrees in the Faculty of Law, was held on Saturday 
afternoon, the 9th of April. 

The following is a list of the prizes, honours, and 
standing : — 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

PRIZES HONORS ANT) STANDING. 

First rank honors and Elizabeth Torrance gold medal list — 
Roderick Livingstone, Murchison. 

First rank honors and second prize for general proficiency — 
Henri A. Beauregard. 

First rank honors and prize in International Law — Hector 
Buie. 

Second rank honors— William H. Burroughs. 

Prize for best thesis — Jos. B. B. Lamarche. 

Passed the special examinations required for graduation in 
order of merit — Roderick L. Murchison, Dundee, Quebec ; 
Henri A. Beauregard, St. Hyacinthe ; William H. Burroughs, 
Hector Buie, Joseph Bricot dit Lamarche, of Montreal. 

STANDING IN THE SEVERAL CLASSES. 

International Law (Professor Kerr) — 1st, Buie ; 2nd, Murchi- 
son. 

Roman Law (Professor Trenholme) -1st, Murchison ; 2nd, 
Buie. 

Criminal Law (Professor Archibald)— 1st, Beauregard ; 2nd, 
Murchison. 

Legal History (Professor Lareau) — 1st, Murchison ; 2nd, 
Buie and Beauregard, equal. 

Civil Procedure (Professor Hutchison) — 1st, Murchison ; 2nd, 
Beauregard. 

Civil Law (Professor Robidoux) — 1st, Murchison and Beaure- 
gard, equal ; 2nd, Buie. 

Commercial Law (Professor Davidson) —1st, Murchison ; 2nd, 
Beauregard and Buie, equal. 

SECOND YEAR. 

First rank honors and first prize for general proficiency — 
John M. Ferguson. 

First rank honors and second prize for general proficiency — 
Robert A. Duntou. 

Second rank honors— Henry Fry. 

Passed the sessional examination in order of merit — John M. 
Ferguson, St. Anicet, Quebec ; Robert A. Dunton, Henry Fry, 
Hamburg Budden, B.A., John F. Reddy, Archibald W. Craigie, 
Montreal. 

STANDING IN THE SEVERAL CLASSES. 

International Law — 1st, Biulden and Dunton, equal ; 2nd, 
Ferguson. 

Roman Law — 1st, Ferguson and Dunton, equal ; 2nd, Fry. 

Criminal Law — 1st, Dunton and Ferguson, equal ; 2nd, Fry. 

Legal History — 1st, Ferguson ; 2nd, Duntou. 

Civil Procedure (Professor Hutchison)— 1st, Ferguson ; 2nd, 
Dunton. 

Civil Law — 1st, Fry ; 2nd, Ferguson. 

Commercial Law — 1st, Ferguson ; 2nd, Reddy. 



168 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1887 . 



FIRST YEAR. 

First rank honors and first prize — R. H. Clerk. 

First rank honors and second prize — Francis Topp 
Passed the sessional examinations — R. H. Clerk, Francis 
Topp, Charles A. Barnard, G. P. England, and E. Tellier, 
Montreal. 



B.A. honors in modern languages— Hugh M. Patton, second 
rank honors. 

Special certificates— Robert Johnson, Lansdowne gold medal ; 
Samuel R. Brown, Archibald McArthur. 

Neil Stewart prize in Hebrew— M. McLennan. 

THIRD YEAR. 



STANDING IN THE SEVERAL CLASSES. 

Roman Law— 1st, Clerk ; 2nd, Topp. 

Criminal Law— 1st, Clerk ; 2nd, Topp. 

Legal History —1st, Clerk and England, equal ; 2nd, Topp. 
Civil Procedure — 1st, Barnard and Clerk, equal ; 2nd, Topp. 
Civil Law — 1st, Clerk ; 2nd, Barnard and Topp, equal. 
Commercial Law — 1st, Clerk and Topp, equal ; 2nd, Bar- 
nard. 

The valedictory was delivered by Mr. H. Buie, and 
Prof. Trenholme addressed the graduating class. 



ARTS AND SCIENCE CONVOCATION. 

The annual convocation for conferring degrees in 
arts and applied science took place on Saturday last. 
At 2.30 P.M. the minutes of last convocation were read 
in the library, and it was announced that Mr. Hutchin- 
son had been elected Representative Fellow in law, 
Dr. Craik in medicine, Mr. Dougall in arts and Mr. 
Skaife in science. 

The following is the standing of students in the 
di tie rent classes in Arts : 



PRIZE AND HONOR LIST *. 

Passed for degree of B.A., in honors — First rank— Wellington 
A. Cameron, W. Leslie, Clay, Charles W. Colby, Alexander R 
Johnson, John A. Nicholson, W. M. Rochester, James B. 
Walsh Second rank— Robert B. Henderson, James Naismith, 
Hugh M. Patton. 

Ordinary in order of merit, McGill college— Class 1. — Robert 
Johnson, Samuel R. Brown, Archibald McArthur. Class II. — 
M. McLennan, J. F. Langton. Charles B. Kingston, John P. 
Gerrie, and William Sanders (equal), Wm. A. Nichols. Class 
III. — Murdoch J. McLeod, Charles W. Whyte, Andrew P. 
Solandt, Walter Russel, Nicholas A. F. Bourne. Aeger — Alfred 
P. Murray, first class standing. 

Morrin college — Class 1, Archibald Laurie ; C lass 11, Edmund 

S. Rivard. 



PASSED THE INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION. 

McGill college— Class I.— William D Gibson, Alice M. Wil- 
son, William E. Deeks, Maude M. Squire. Class II.— Helen 
R. Y. Reid, William Rodgers J. J. Stevenson, Walter L. 
Jamieson. Class III — William H. Garth, James Robertson, 
Harry V. Truidl, l Jonald B Holden, Mary H. Henderson, Robert 

T. Mackenzie, F. S. Meighen, Thomas N. Walsh. 

Morrin college— Class I.— Edith J. Sloane. Class II.— John 
Parker. Euphemia McLeod, George H. Smith, James M. White- 
law, John J. Lamont. Class III. — Adam Robertson. 

St. Francis college— Class III.— F. W. Reed, John Parker. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 



B. A. honors in mathematics and natural philosophy— A1 x- 
ander K. Johnson, first rank honors and Anne JVlolson gold 
medal. & 



B.A. oiiors in classics- William M. R Chester, first rani 
honors and Chapman gold medal. 

B.A. honors in natural science- James B. Walsh, first rani 
honors and Logan gold medal 

B.A. honors in mental and moral philosophy— W. Leslie Clay 
first rank honors and Prince of Wales gold medal ; Wdliimtoi 
A. Cameron, first rank honors; Robert B. Henderson, second mnl 
honors ; James P. Naismith, second rank honors. 

BA. .^rsinEngbsh language, literature and history - 
Charies W Colby, first rank honors and Shakespeare gold medal 
John A. Nicholson, first rank honors and special prize. 



Wm. James Giles — First rank honors in natural science, first 
rank general standing, prize in zoology. John L. Day - First 
rank honors and prize in classics, first rank general standing, 
prize in French. James E. Le Rossignol — First rank honors 
and prize in natural science, first rank general standing. Charles 
F. Martin — First rank honors and prize in English language, 
literature and history; prize in German. Hilton Pedley— First 
rank honors and prize in mental and moral philosophy. Norman 
Lindsay— First rank honors and prize in mental and moral 
philosophy. C. A. Cam]. bell— Second rank honors in natural 
science. Andrew C. Bryan — Second rank honors in English 
language, literature and history. Alfred P. Bryson — Second 
rank honors in mental and moral philosophy. Frederic W. 
MacaTum — First rank general standing. John A. Morison - 
First rank general standing. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations of the Third Year. — Giles, 
Macallum ; Cros< and Day, equal ; Ritchie, Campbell, Hunter, 
Martin, McFee, Le Rossignol, McPhail, Simpson, Morison, 
Howitt, Bryan, Lindsay, Evans, Pedley, Masse, Naismith ; 
Mason and Palmer, equal ; Murray, Bryson, Duke, Murphy, 
(Acgrn.) 

SECOND YEAR. 

William I). Gibson (Morrisburg High school)— first rank 
general standing ; prize in logic ; prize in German. William E. 
Deeks (Morrisburg High school) — first rank general standing ; 
prize in Hebrew ; prize in botany. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations of the Second year. — Gibson, 
Wilson, Deeks, Squire, Reid, Rodgers, Stevenson, Jamieson (W. 

L. ) Girth, Robertson, Truell, Holden, Henderson, Mackenzie, 
Meighen, Walsh. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Henry M. Tory, (Guysboro’ academy, N.S.)— First rank 
honors and prize in mathematics, first rank general standing, 
prize in chemistry. Robert McDougall, (Huntingdon academy, 
P«Q.) —First rank honors and prize in mathematics, first rank 
general standing, prize in Latin, prize in Greek, pr ze in chem- 
istry. Arthur J. Corcoran, Waterloo academy, P.Q.) — Firs* rank 
general standing, prize in French. Albert G. Nicholls, (High 
school, Montreal.) — First rank general standing, prize in ancient 
history. James Daley, (Uxbridge High school, Out.)— First 
rank in general standing, prize in English, prize in German. 

Passed the Sessional Examination of the First Year. — 
Williams, McDougall, Abbott, Corcorau, Nichols, Daley, S. B 
Scott, Tory, Robertson, Sutherland, A. R. Hall, P. Davidson, 
Mack, Reed, J. T. Botterell, R. S. Hall Colclough, Trenholme, 

M. Macfarlane, E liot, Kinghorne, H. 1. Botterell, Cameron, Tol- 
mie, McDuffee ; Fry andC. F. Davidson, equal ; Berwick, Hun- 
ter, Walsh, Patou, Ross, Ault, Mathewson, Finch, McGregor. 

At the examination in September, 188*', the following scholar 
ships and exhibitions were awarded : — 

Scholarships — Tenable for two years — Third year — Classical 
and Modern Language Scholai ships — John L. Day ; A. Bryan. 

1 bird year — Natural Science Scholarship — J. E. Le Rossignol. 

Exhibition — Tenable for one year— Third year — Natural 
Science Exhibition— W. J. Giles. Second year— Wm. Deeks 
( Morrisburg High school, 0 ) First year — R. McDougall (Hun- 
tingdon academy, P.Q ); A. G. Nicholls (High school, Montreal); 
A. A. Robertson, (High school, Montreal) ; T. B. Reed (High 
school, Montreal) ; E. C. Trenholme (High school, Montreal) ; 
K M. Fry (High school, Montreal). 

Messrs. Paul T. Lafleur B.A. and Manassah A. 
Parent, B.A., were granted M.A. in course. Messrs. 
Robert Ells, M.A., Edward H. Krans, M.A., Charles 
Chapman, M.A. and Wm. J. Shaw, M.A., were granted 
L.L.D. in course. 

Lev. Wm. J. Smyth, B.A. of Queen’s, was admitted 

ad eundem gradum . 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



169 



1887.] 



llie arts valedictory was read by Mr. Robt. Johnson ; 
it was a well written paper and was delivered in good 
style. 

1 lie following is the standing of students in the 
different classes in science: — 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

AN illiam Arthur Carlyle —British association gold medal, cer- 
tificates ot merit in materials and designing ; first rank honors 
in natural science. Robert Edward Palmer — British association 
exhibition ; certificates of merit in theory of structures, design- 
ing, steam and materials. Walter Frederic Ferrier — Lansdowne 
silver medal and first rank honors in natural science, $25 prize 
for summer report ; certificate of merit hi designing Raoul 
Rin fret— Certificates of merit in practical astronomy and geodesy. 

Civil engineering (ordinary course) — In order of merit — Robert 
Edward Palmer, Victor Frederick William Forneret, John i law 
Ball, Daniel Taylor, James Marmaduke McCarthy. 

C ivil engineering (course of topographical survey) — Raoul Rin- 
fret. 

Mining engineering (advanced course)— Win. Arthur Carlyle. 

.Mining engineering (ordinary course — Walter Frederick Per- 
rier. 

Bachelor of applied science proceeding to the degree of master 
of engineering in course — William Johnston Sproule. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Edgar Sydney, M. Lovelace, prizes in mathematics, Mathema- 
tical physics and surveying; Mark Willard Hopkins prize in 
mathematics ; Arthur Lenox Drummond, prizes in theory of 
structures, dynamics and geometry of machinery, descriptive 
geometry, practical construction and materials ; Robert Forrest 
Ogilvv, prizes in mechanical work and descriptive geometry ; 
Charles Green, prize in geology ; Charles Herbert Macnutt, 
prizes in expel imental physics and mining. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations— Civil engineering (ad- 
vanced course), in order of merit— -Edgar Sydney, M. Lovelace, 
Mark Willard Hopkins. 

( ’ivil engineering (ordinary course) — Alfred Joseph Tremblay. 

Mechanical engineering (advanced course) — Arthur Lenox 
Drummond. 

Mechanical engineering (ordinary course), in order of merit — 
Robert Forest Ogilvy, Arthur Edward Childs, Aubrey George 
Eneas 

Mining engineering (ordinary course), in order of merit — 
Charles Herbeit Macnutt, Charles Green, Francis Xavf r A. 
Roy. 

Practical chemistry (ordinary course), in order of merit — 
William Joseph Hamilton, Charles Lauglin Walters. 

SECOND YFAR. 

Richard Lea — Prizes in mathematics, mathematical physics, 
zoology, experimental physics and materials. George Morse 
Edwards — Burland prize in chemistry, ($25 ;) prizes in chemis- 
try, botany and German. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATION '. 

Civil engineering in order of merit— Richard Lea, Murdy 
John McLennan, Malcolm C. McFarlane, Peter Lawrence Nais- 
mitli, John Holden Antliff, Joseph Tetu Bertrand, George Kyle 
Addie. 

Mechanical engineering— James Preston Tuplin. 

Practical chemistry, in order of merit — Geo. Morse Edwards, 
Milton N. Hersey, Andrew Young. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Percy Norton Evans, prize in chemistry and German ; Ed- 
ward Earnest Stewart Mattice, prize in English, French and 
mathematic-. 

The science valedictory was read by Mr. W. A. 
Carlyle. It was a good, practical paper, free from bun- 
combe, and delivered in a vigorous and pleasing style. 

Dr. Johnson addressed the graduates in Arts, and 
Prof. Bovey those in Science. The former took for 



his text the controversy between the professional 
councils and the universities, putting the case for Mc- 
Gill in a clear and concise form. Prof. Bovey spoke 
of the needs of his faculty of additional means to pro- 
secute its work, and announced that Mr. Jeffrey H. 
Burland, B. Ap. Sc., had offered a testing machine, to 
cost $4000, to the faculty. This announcement was 
received with great applause. 

All the professors in the faculty of law were granted 
tlie degree of D. C. L. 

The proceedings passed off quietly. Some of the 
uudergrads. tried a little fun at the back of the hall ; 
there was nothing boisterous iu it, and some wit, but 
Sir William didn’t like it; he told them so, and they 
subsided upon seeing a consultation in progress be- 
tween the renowed Cook and his wily confrere of the 
Arts building. 

Those of the final men resident in the Presbyterian 
College tendered the rest of their classmates a reunion 
on the eve of convocation. 

Prof. McLeod, on hearing at convocation of there 
being no dinner for '87, wanted to have them attached, 
pro visional ly, to the Grads. ; unfortunately, the time 
was too short, and the necessary order could not be 
obtained. 

The junior years in arts have departed from the 
old custom of giving a dinner to the graduating class ; 
may they have no dinner when they come to graduate ! 
Seriously, however, it is to he hoped that their ex- 
ample will not he followed by future junior years. 



Societies. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

The annual meeting of the Graduates’ Society was 
held last evening in the University Club, University 
street. Mr. A. McGoun, president, occupied the chair. 

The chairman explained that as Mr. W. Skaife was 
absent, the treasurer’s report could not be submitted. 
The annual report was then read. It showed that 
among other tilings the sub-committee appointed to 
consider changes in constitution with a view to effect- 
ing a union with other university societies had not 
made any progress. The principal-ship fund had only 
amounted to $100. The library of McGill had been 
opened at night, hut few availed themselves of the 
convenience. Mr. E. B. Greenshields, B. A., suggested 
by the society, was named as a governor of McGill. 
The only nomination for representative fellowship was 
that of Mr. Skaife, faculty of applied science. The 
society had decided to offer a prize of $50 for the best 
poem on the Queen’s Jubilee, to be read at the annual 
dinner, and seventy-seven poems were secured. 

It was resolved to close the library at night, as it 
entailed expense on the society without adequate result. 

The report was unanimously adopted. 

The chairman announced that the report of the 
judges on public poems would he read at the banquet 
to night. Out of the number received the judges did 
not see fit to recommend one for the prize. Still he 
thought they would do well to select one of the five 



170 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



recognized as above mediocrity. He thought the 
publication of the best poem would be remunerative, 
as a newspaper had ottered a high price for them for 
publication in its Jubilee number. 

Mr. G. \\ Stephens said the prize should not be 
given or the poems published, because they did not 
rise to a standard of excellence creditable to the poet 
or the society. 

It was moved by Mr. Elliot that the prize be awarded 
to poem No. 18. 

Dr. Mills said the society should be careful regard- 
ing the publication of a poem, as this was a standard 
literary society. 

Mr. John R. Dougall remarked that if the laureate’s 
latest poem were among the seventy-seven it might 
not be among the first five. 

The motion of Mr. Elliot was lost, and the motion 
of Mr. Doherty, that the poem be not read or published, 
was adopted on division. 

It is understood that the poems judged as best are 
those with mottoes “ Mark Lovell,” “ I’ll try my for- 
tune like the rest,” “ Ontario,” “ Vivat Regina.” 

The following officers were then elected for the 
ensuing year: President, Dr. Stewart; Vice-Presi- 

dents, Dr. Gardner, Mr. Alex. Robertson and Mr. 
Selkirk Cross; Secretary, Mr. Alex. Falconer; 
Resident Councillors, Mr. McGoun, Mr. Dixon, Mr. 
Sproule, Mr. Doherty, Mr. McLeod, Dr. Mills. 



Personals. 



J. G. Jolly, B.C.L. ’85, is now practising law in 
Pendleton, Oregon, U.S. 

W. H. Turner, B.A. ’84, and an ex-editor of the 
Gazette, has left the Star, Montreal, and has a posi- 
tion on the Journal, New York. 



Between the Lectures. 



DISILLUSION. 

Said a silver-slim dude, with an emphasis rude, 

Of a damsel ahead whom he swiftly pursued, 

44 Now this rain will I use 
As a clever excuse 

To share her umbrella and capture her mood. 

41 For the style of her dress and her trimmings express 
She’s a maiden of taste and of fashion, I guess ; 

If it isn't quite grace 
In her motions I trace, 

There is strength, which is better, I’m bound to confess.” 

44 Now,” he said , 44 will I make a dashing old break ; 

Clear the track ! Now I hope she wont give me the shake.” 
Then he sprang to her side— 

44 Great Heaven !” he cried. 

44 Excuse me,” he stammered , 44 I’ve made a mistake.” 

Cried the maiden , 44 Whooroo ! What’s the mather wid you ? 
Come av ye loike, there be shelter for two ; 

I am taking a jaunt 
To the corner beyant, 

To get a few murphies to put in the shtew.” 

Texas Siftings . 



Irate Old Gentleman. — “ Mary, what was that noise 
I heard in the kitchen ? ” 

Mary. — “ Faith ! an’ little oi know, unlis yez heard 
Mike’s countenance dhrop whin oi refused him a kiss 
at partin’. 



A Boston marble cutter advertizes “ weeping 
angels ” from $45 to $100, according to age and wings. 
A full fledged angel is worth, according to him, from 
$90 to $200, and “ the recording angel with book ” 
from $200 to $360. Surely this is the acme of adver- 
tizing. 

“ What wuz de tex’ dis mornin’, Mister Johnson? 
I wuz too late.” 

“It wuz about de meracles, Brother Snow. Whar 
de Lor’ fed seven people on five t’ousand baskets of 
fish.” 

“ I don’t see any meracle about dat.” 

“ Oil, de meracle am, dey all didn’t bust.” 



IT WAS A GOOD SERMON. 

Jane : Please, sir, there’s a man here who wants 

The Minister: Now, Jane, you know I can’t be 
bothered with visitors. 

“ He says he is poor, and if you will only ” 

“ Send him away, Jane, at once, I declare it is very 
annoying. While writing this sermon on charity I’ve 
been interrupted three times. 



College 'ttlorlb. 



Boston has a gymnasium exclusively for the use of 
women. It has six bowling-alleys, a tennis-court, a 
gymnasium-hall, a running track of twenty laps to the 
mile, hot and cold water baths, etc. It was projected 
by Miss Mary Allan, who has for years been a devotee 
of physical culture. It is well patronized. 

Female students are pretty numerous in Paris. Most 
of them are Russians, generally very poor, so they 
club together in small sets — many of them have bro- 
thers or husbands with them who are students also — 
and put their resources into a common fund. One 
room is used as a dormitory, another as a study, etc., 
and a single cook does for all. 

The oldest college at Oxford is University, which 
is said to have been founded by Alfred the Great in 
the j r ear 872, but this connection is wholly legendary. 
The first historical endowment of the college dates 
from 1249, when William of Durham, said to have 
been rector of Wearmouth and Archdeacon of Durham, 
bequeathed a sum of money for the maintenance of ten 
or more masters. The oldest college at Cambridge is 
St. Peter’s or Peterhouse. It was founded by Hugh 
de Balsham, Bishop of Ely, for a master, fourteen fel- 
lows, two Bible-clerks, and eight poor scholars, in 1257. 

Seeing daily, as I do, says Dr. Lucy M. Hall, in 
Popular Science Monthly, young women in college in 
lar better health than young women in society, or living 
in pampered idleness at home ; seeing them healthier 
as seniors than they wei’e as freshmen ; knowing that 
my records tell me that they average a smaller number 
of excuses because of illness than do those of the men’s 
colleges with which I am able to compare data, and 
knowing from statistical evidence that woman college 
graduates enjoy a sum total of twenty per cent, better 



1887. J 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



171 



health than the average woman, how can I conclude 
otherwise than that college-work, per se, is not injuri- 
ous to health, nor incompatible with the best good of 
the sex and the race. 

Ex-President Andrew D. White, of Cornell Univer- 
sity, has presented his large and valuable collection 
ot historical books and manuscripts to that institution. 
It is the fruit of many years’ labor, and is said to have 
cost him over one hundred thousand dollars. A cor- 
respondent at Ithaca says : “The library is especially 
rich in historical sources and original material, such 
as manuscripts, contemporary pamphlets, newspapers 
and collections of documents. Remarkable are the 
collections upon French, German, English and Amer- 
ican history, upon the Middle Ages, the Jesuits and 
the Inquisition, the early history of natural sciences 
and of political economy. Unrivalled in America are 
those upon the French Revolution, that upon the 
Reformation and upon the history of torture. That 
upon withcraft is, perhaps, unequalled in the world. 
The library includes many beautiful illuminated medue- 
val manuscripts, a great number of impressions from 
the presses of nearly all the early printers, and many 
rare modern manuscripts and annotated works. Its 
rich collection upon art is especially full upon architec- 
ture and upon Ihe history of caricature. In Ameri- 
can history a large collection of pamphlets bearing 
upon the history of slavery and of the Civil AVar is 
the most notable feature. The periodicals on the 
French Revolution include complete sets of the rare 
and famous journals of Robespierre, Mirabeau, Marat 
and Hubert. The manuscripts of the same period in- 
clude autograph documents of Louis XVI., Charles X., 
Napoleon, Talleyrand and Robespierre.” 



£orre$pon6ence. 



COLLEGE LIFE AT McGILL. 

To the Editors University Gazette. 

Among all the colleges and universities of note, we 
believe none can boast of a life so prosy, unexciting 
and devoid of snap and go, as student life at McGill. 
In the Autumn months there is some interest and 
animation exhibited, as foot-ball and the athletic games 
bring us more together, ambitious to do well ourselves 
or to give others the needed practice, but even here it 
is like pulling teeth to get a large enough number 
enthusiastic over this part of our student life. 

It will be noticed that nearly all those who have 
enjoyed a college career, look back to those days as 
the brightest and happiest of all ; as the days when 
there were few cares or anxieties, and the blood leaped 
through the veins, warmed up by the kindly feelings 
of congenial friendship and bon camraderie. We be- 
lieve that when we first don the college toga we should 
do so with the determination that we will be loyal to 
our college, observant of her customs and institutions, 
and zealous to make the days of study pleasant and 
cheerful. 



But with a great many of our men, this interest and 
spirit in college life seems to be entirely wanting, as 
they come, cram in as much learning as their capacities 
will admit, then go, and if they had spent ten years at 
the college, no one would hardly know that they had 
seen old McGill at all, so calm had been their stay. 

In the Arts course are many students from the 
theological colleges, of whom but very few exhibit any 
interest whatever in their Alma Mater. Within their 
own college walls they are as a rule jolly good fellows, 
but when it comes to taking part in anything at McGill, 
the demands of their own colleges are so important, 
that they will barely support any outside project. 
Among these men, are some who enter heartily into 
everything, being seen regularly on the field, eager 
in the college sports, and zealous to help on any plan 
that offers to enliven and stir up our college life, as 
long as it is reasonable and proper. Such men win 
the hearty good-will and esteem of all their fellow- 
students, who see that they can mingle with the rest 
in all good spirit, while they prepare themselves to 
teach the truths of Christianity. 

We hear complaints of the poor support of our 
Literary Society — every one is so busy that books can- 
not be left out of sight for one minute. When the 
annual dinner is proposed, many hold up their hands 
in holy horror at this “ institution of wickedness, etc,” 
instea'd of going, and endeavouring by their influence 
and presence, to eradicate some of the evils that may 
accompany this gathering. While speaking of dinners, 
we are sorry to see that our time-honored custom of 
dining the graduating class is to be abandoned by 
our Arts men, tho’ the Science men are preparing to 
give their graduating class a pleasant send-off, as of 
yore. There may be objections to this dinner, but 
they can be easily removed. 

What is to become of us if all the old traditions and 
customs of our college are to be abolished, and none 
substituted? Are we to come, turn book-worms and 
then make our exit armed with the long anticipated 
sheep skin, without even indulging in a laugh 1 If 
we close our books for a moment and ask who have 
taken the best courses and won the most honors in the 
strife of the college arena, we will see that in nearly 
every case, these men have not drudged all the time at 
their books, but have been the most energetic men, 
being imbued with a true college spirit. 

We believe our after-life is greatly influenced by 
the few years spent at college, and if we do our duty 
there, while having a good warm heart for all our fel- 
fow students, each trying to make college hours brighter 
and happier for the other, when the sterner strug- 
gles have begun, we will be better fitted than those 
who shut themselves up and have not the slightest con- 
cern for others, who are confreres in the pursuit of 
knowledge. 

Do not let our college become but a “ book-mill,” 
but let every student wake up and try to enthuse more 
life into our every day life, removing the odium that 
is arising that the college at McGill is too slow and 
pokey for even one of the quietest of students. 



Montreal, April 27tii, 1887. 



X. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE HVHOIDIEIRTT 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue f MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens. Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 



A SPECIALTY. 

NOVELTY IRON WORKS *♦ 



40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



CTSTZES A.T 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

Established 18 , HP. 



D. B. A, MACBEAN, M.D.. Proprietor, 



CRIDIFORD & ROBERTSON, 

ENGINEERS AND MILLWRIGHTS, 

25 Bleury Street, MONTREAL. 

— MANUFACTURERS OF— 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YACHTS and ENGINES. 



Chemist, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock. 

pe aa. gru.a,X2L3a.teed.. 

33. GHa.A.E’TOiT cSs SON’S, 

252 St. James Street. 

S. J. BRISSETTE JOS. COURTOIS. 



ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE, 

SAVES ONE-FOURTH OF FUEL. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

"W HITE’S LANE, 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER CO. 

Capital Paid-up - - $100,000.00 

Directors: D. H. Henderson, Norman Henderson. 

Chas. II. Walters. 

Saw Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM ST. 

Branch Yard: 130 ST. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL. 

Manufacturers and General Dealers in every Des- 
cription of Lumber and Timber. 



Engineers ®u§ MaeftJnists, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Piped Makers, Piped Boy Manufacturers, 

<*B00K BINDERS and PRINTERS. *■ 

« »- 

L A** ial attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

Designed and Built to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




CORNER OF McGILL AND NOTRE DAME STS., 



Has the most beautiful Lines of 

Spring Ready-Made Clothing ever Manufactured in Canada, 

Manufactured under Special Supervision. 

SPRING SUITS ! ! SPRING OVERCOATS ! ! 



Latest Cuts, All Shades, All Grades. 



vTTTST OPENED 15 OA SIES OF P3IA.TS 

Direct f rom London, Eng-. 



SPECIAL RATES 
BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES i MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor. of Craig St. 

ffinc Confectionery, 

R oNBQNS and f - HOCOLATES 
“ JOYCES ” 

PHILIPS SQUARE, MONTBKAL. 

STAINING FLUIDS “f Mounting; Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CH APM AN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



TO STUDENTS. 




ARTISTICALLY 

•^Engraved and Printed,*- 

— IN — 

RELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 

Tee Burland Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 
MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

-A.ID'SrOC-A-'X’E s , 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL 
J. N, Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

AOVOCATES, 

157 ST. STREET, 



ZPA-LIMIIEIR/S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

Si‘u,slies', CoiiilF, $tfo$>£, 

Tcrfimieiy, ki\ol Toilet 
Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

Macmaster, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan. 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L. 

Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL. Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

.A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T-A-IvIES ST, 

(near the court house,) 

MOUTBEAIi. 





THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 



t£ngr t eiYiny ^ printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Crests, programmes, 
Monograms, &c., See. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 




BICYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, Ac. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 



Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, <fcc. 




53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

eJEWELiiiEi^Y § Fancy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (or Timing) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

A large assortment of SILVER WARE , CLOCKS , BRONZES , ana 
FANCY GOODS, suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations . 



Hairdressing and Shaving ii the Latest Style, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



OUT-DOOR G A IVIES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

also 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



% 






























# 










1 












. 
























\ 




























' 















































































UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 ds 3Q7 St. Street, Montreal. 



Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



(I elebruted 



ER ■ EATERS 



-AND— 




t 





HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR- 



Goal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 



— . St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, ! 



MILLS RT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 

Brown Paper, 

Grey Paper, 

Straw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Oarpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, I 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes at 'XKT eigplxts ^ZHacLe to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



m ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBresole* Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS of 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 

WORKS AT 

>, U J, CORNWALL, ONT 

CA.P1TJL1j, - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, ( Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superfinlshed. 

Applj at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 




297 ST. JAMES ST. # 
MONTREAL. 
Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

might and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T EAMS FURNISHED TO PARTIES GOING TO THE COUNTRY. Telephone NO. 738. 

SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES nnd PROVISIONS arc to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grooer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

173 St James Street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



QUEEN'S BLOCK," 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St. 

Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

Importers anfr pfmmfatium$ r Jjgente, 

821 Craig Street, 821 

MONTREAL. 

IE. .A.. GERTH, 

IMPORTER OF 

CiaiLKS ^ 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KIIEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

'Tx-y St\a.dLen.ts 2 v£i 2 s:t-u.re- 
Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE GENUINE 

COOK’S Fbienid 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GliEV jNUN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, 

Vent Linings, 

Flue Covers, 



Roman Cement, 

Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, 
Whiting, 

Plaster Paris, 
Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHI1TA CL-A.T, eSce., cScc. 



Fire Bricks, 
Fire Clay, 



M anu fa cl ur ers of 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO.. 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 



BESSEMEK STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 

I 

TELEPHONE No, 580, 

: Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

; 21, 21i & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. Sf. Catherine St, 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
_ All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 



Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. • 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inh&lers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 



Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 




C. ASHFOBD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

-A. IT ID 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

IBY WEISS & SON-], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books prooured to order from England & the United States 

816 MD 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

HQNTBEAL. 



Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
j application. 

GOODS CALLFD FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 

i FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARUE and 
! WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to whi'h 
] I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Silk Httdr, Hats 

PROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

"W. HYC. SAMUEL, 

I H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St . 

| -H{c PHOTOGRAPHY Hh- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For -'ll kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



