Vol. XI 



No. 12 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal, 









UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c.. 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



1|0BERTS0N, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. STI^EET, 

MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Aivocates, Barristers, Comssioiers, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St, James St,, Montreal, 

MACWlliSTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR & NIcLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c.. 
175 St, James St,, Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.G. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. 



R. 8. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St, James St,, Montreal, 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



OKUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McGIBBON & MAJOR, 

.A-d-TTOcates, Barristers, etc., 

^ STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Booheller, Publislier, Importer k Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. J.A.lv£ES ST., 

(near the'court-house,) 

MONTREAL, 



MtisBiilic laturials, Baatlaies, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Ftariainlliil t Diigiisiii Ckpsli, 

U & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages. Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, , ^ 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Sali^lated, 

Cotton wool. Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucal^toL 

Gauze, iodoform. 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, W^ite on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 

HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

il aii Collfip Teit Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST, cr J^lJvdlES ST. 




MKniC^JL W'ORKS^ BOOKS USBIM MJV ^RT VOVRSB^ 
SCMBJVCB TIE XT BOOKSj 
THE J^^RIOVS THEOLOBMC^E BOOKS. 

Full Assortient in Stoct'and Supplieil at Ml Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS. 

Scribbling Books. &c., &c., 



-s-BEST VA.X.ITJJB Iiy TOW 3 V 



Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

333 St. Jaimes Street, 

^XjSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

VoL. XI.] McGlLL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 5th, 1888. [No. 12. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chief. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Asst. Editor-in-C'hief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

A. P. SOLANDT, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, ’88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions exjiressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 139-140 

Poetry 140-141 

Contributions 141-152 

McGill News 152-158 

Personals 158 

Between the Lectures 158 

Correspondence 158-159 



Ebitorials. 



Even were it not customary, it would be necessary 
in view of the position which the Gazette has 
taken during the past year upon many important 
University questions, to review briefly the year’s work. 

We are satisfied to be judged as to our aims and 
motives by later years and unprejudiced minds. We 
are conscious of many defects and of not a few mis- 
takes ; but we assume no mock humility, we are as- 
sured on all hands of the confidence and support of 
the great bulk of the students and the best friends of 
McGill, and in this assurance we can afford to disre- 



gard the sneers of prejudiced minds, even though they 
be in high places. 

Our agitation in favour of improvement in the Law 
school has already begun to have its effect ; quite a 
respectable space was devoted to this faculty in the 
last annual report, whereas in former years its veiy ex- 
istence was ignored ; lectures in Municipal Law, first 
suggested in the Gazette, are now a part of the course ; 
we hear of an effort being made to secure better lec- 
ture rooms. 

At the Law and Science Convocation Sir William 
Dawson devoted a considerable portion of his address 
to law; and, though some of his sentences, to put it 
mildly, could scarcely be considered complimentary 
to this journal, yet we are not disposed to quarrel 
with him on that head; it is a question whether his 
references to us were in good taste at that time ; but 
the great point is, we have succeeded in awakening a 
certain amount of interest. The Law Faculty has been 
unfortunate this year in not being represented on our 
staff ; any one listening to the law valedictory would, 
probably, come to the conclusion that the Gazette 
was not in touch with students. We presume the 
Valedictorian spoke for the four men who graduated 
with him, but he certainly had little sympathy from 
the larger number of Science graduates, which fact 
would have been impressed upon him had he witnessed 
their dinner at the Windsor a few hours later. In 
this connection, it is not out of place to remark that a 
year ago the law Valedictorian advocated many of 
the very changes that the Gazette has since that 
time been so persistently urging, and the late Dean 
Kerr, who addressed the graduating class, opened by 
saying that the Valedictorian had said much that it 
had been his intention to say. 

We have said little during the year about the other 
faculties, because little was to be said. They are ad- 
mittedly in good condition ; we consider it to be our 
place to draw attention to any evils which may exist 
rather than to flatter what may be good, and which we 
have a right to expect to be so. It is remarkable, how- 
ever, how our professors fume and fret under criti- 
cism ; they do not take very kindly to opposition ; the 
late Mr. Mathew Arnold’s strictures upon this fail- 
ing of Americans should be carefully read by them. 
There is a ludicrous side to all this which only the 
editors see ; while the college paper is not worth giv- 



140 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



ing advice to, is not recognized, is treated with scant 
courtesy, yet it is sufficiently important to be scolded, 
on even state occasions, and no doubt to be read in 
secrecy and alone ! 

A great source of strength to us this year has been 
the accession of a corresponding editor from the Don- 
alda department. We hope next year that some means 
will be devised to give this department more control 
over the matter sent in for publication. The last year’s 
work has, we think, shown the necessity for this ; the 
board, as now constituted, has no very exact means of 
arriving at the actual sentiments pervading the stu- 
dents in that department, upon questions of very grave 
importance, and should not have the power in itself to 
reject or insert matter of its own will. 

As to the financial condition of the paper, it is in 
the highest degree satisfactory ; the value of our shares 
has increased fifty per cent, within the past two years, 
so that those who shall take our places will have ab- 
solutely no difficulties, from a monetary point of view. 
Bespeaking for the editors of 1888-9, the same gener- 
ous support which has been extended to us, we close 
Volume XI. of the University Gazette. 



NOTARIAL STUDENTS. 

In this Province of Quebec the profession of the 
Notary is one of the most honourable, most respon- 
sible, and most highly regarded. The place and 
functions of the notary, as distinguished from those 
of the lawyer, are clear and well-defined. It is in 
the interest not only of legal business, but of every 
branch of mercantile and social life, that the notarial 
profession should be educated in their particular 
sphere of law. 

It is probably in acknowledgment of these facts 
that McGill has, in her Law Faculty, what is called a 
Notarial Course. She recognizes that they have needs 
which the ordinary law course does not supply. This 
recognition, however, consists in name only, and not 
in fact. The calendar publishes the name of a lec- 
turer in the notarial course who never puts in an 
appearance in the lecture-room, and who never de- 
livers a lecture. Notarial students are forced, in 
order to obtain their degree, to take up the ordinary 
branches which the lawyer studies. There is not one 
reference made, throughout the whole course, to the 
special work of the notary. 

It is, no doubt, no disadvantage to a notary to have 
a knowledge of all branches of law j but the abso- 
lutely needful should be his first care. It is absurd 
to compel notarial students to cram up criminal law, 
and give them little help upon the first book of the 
Civil Code ; ur to force them to read up Roman Law 



while they get no instruction or direction on the 
principles underlying notarial forms. 

This year the Law Faculty graduated five men, of 
whom three are to be notaries ; not one word, through- 
out the course, specially to this majority of the class ; 
not one word in the lectures specially directed to 
them ; not one word of recognition at Convocation. 
This state of affairs must cease. 



THAT INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE. 

The Investigating Committee has not yet reported 
to the Graduates’ Society. We trust their report will 
be full, ample, and candid ; their powers are very ex- 
tended, and apparently both those who opposed and 
those who favoured the appointment of the committee 
do not wish technicalities to prevent a complete state- 
ment of the whole question. There must be no pains 
spared to arrive at all possible information, and to 
that end it is the duty of the committee to call before 
them all those whose names have been mentioned to 
them, and who are resident in the city. 



ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE FELLOWS. 

This election has resulted in the return of all those 
holding office for the expiring term. As our readers 
know, there was no contest except in Science, Mr. J . 
Fraser Torrance opposed Mr. Jeffrey H. Burland ; the 
latter was elected by a majority of 120 in a total 
vote of 190. Mr. Burland polled, besides, a majority 
of the Science votes. 



Poetry. 



IF YOU SHOULD DIE. 

If you should die, who have absorbed my soul. 

And, nestling where it dwelt, its loss conceal. 

Whose virtue is the shrine at which I kneel, 

Whose praises are my labor’s utmost goal, 

If you should pass away, nor more control 
The thoughts I think, the joys and griefs I feel. 

Then would the fountains of my life congeal. 

Death be a friend whose kind touch makes me whole. 

’Twas your eyes taught me sight ; your ears, to hear ; 

Your tongue, soft speech ; your grace and goodness, God ; 

Your trust, my weakness ; and if you should die, 

Then were I nothing but a soulless clod. 

Dumb, blind and deaf, barren of laugh and tear. 

Half doubting if there ruled a God on high. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



The Graduates’ and University Literary Societies 
held their joint dinner at the Windsor on Monday 
evening, the 30th April. Dr. Stewart, President of 
the Graduates’ Society, presided. Principal Ander- 
son, McGill’s new LL.D., was present, and delivered 
a stirring address in favour of the co-education of the 
sexes. 



iSSS.] UNIVEESiTY GAZETTE. ui 



MY FLOWERS. 

From me to thee 
As a friendly token.’’ 

She gave some flowers to mo. 

With these few words spoken. 

The blossoms are faded 
And fallen to mold, 

But the speech, as she made it» 

Endureth like gold. 

From thee to me I 
Oh ! thou generous maiden. 

Those flowers have bloomed for thee 
With affection laden. 

Though dead is each rosy 
Leaf and each white. 

Yet the ghost of the posy 
Shall never know blight. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



itontributions. 



A COUNTRY BOY. 
["Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil "V. Erius. 



CHAPTER X. 



“ No one is so accursed by fate, 

No one so utterly desolate 

But some heart, though unknown, 

Eesponds unto his own.” 



People do not change rapidly, so it would he 
absurd to say that Peter returned to Montreal a 
changed man. But there is no doubt that new 
thoughts had been put into his mind, and for the 
first time he entertained humility as a guest. Con- 
trary to the expectations of Charley and others, he 
made no effort to see Edith, but settled down dog- 
gedly to work. The approaching year was that of 
his graduation, and he labored to make himself a 
record that he could carry away with him. He met 
Charley several times, but there was a too apparent 
constraint betw'een them to make the meetings pleas- 
ant. Self was still predominant, and he chafed at 
the thoughts that assailed him. For Lizzie his heart 
had infinite pity, but in this case pity was not akin 
to love. Edith had whatever of his heart he could 
spare from himself. 

The news of Bolton’s death was a blow to him, 
although he knew that the fatal hour could not have 
been far distant, after such an injury as Bolton had 
received. Peter did not blame himself for the death 
of his old foe, yet he now hesitated to approach 
Edith more than he had done before. At the same 
time there was a secret and intense desire in his heart 
that the meeting might be brought about by chance, 
and he be enabled to defend himself from any accu- 
sations that might have been made against him ; for, 
of course, he took it for granted that Edith had been 
kept informed of all his movements. 

His wish was destined to be granted. He had 
been made resident physician in one of the hospitals ; 
and, besides attending to such cases of accidents as 



came in by chance, he devoted much of his time to 
the care of those patients who were suffering from 
illness in the wards. 

He was in the sick wards one day when one of the 
nurses informed him that a lady had called to inquire 
about the condition of her maid, who lay ill in the 
hospital. 

Peter descended to the reception-room which con- 
tained but one visitor, whose back was towards him. 
It was a long time since he and Edith had met, but 
the man is no lover who cannot recognize his sweet- 
heart by the slope of her shoulders. 

He stood still, and the blood left his face. Then 
it returned and dazed him. Yet his brain grew clear, 
and the whole possibility of the meeting — the possi- 
bility for good or for evil — flashed across him. In 
an instant he weighed his chances and made his 
decision. 

“You sent for me?” he asked. 

Edith turned suddenly. She was older now, but 
the same brown eyes, broad brow, and coral lips faced 
him, and forced upon him the bitter conviction that 
his life’s happiness lay within the compass of her 
arms. Away from the sight of her, in the loneliness 
of his room, he had thought he knew what it meant 
to lose her, but now that he was with her, he knew 
that he had never experienced half the pain there 
would be to see her and yet not have her. 

“ You wished to see me ? ” Peter asked again, his 
voice falling to almost a whisper. 

“No,” answered Edith, slowly ; “I wished to see 
the resident physician.” 

“ I am he, Edith,” he said. 

She started at the name. 

“ You must not call me that,” she said. 

“Edith,” he repeated, slowly; “I will call you 
Edith as long as I live. Why should you wish me 
to call you anything else ? ” 

“ Because you are not an honorable man,” she re- 
plied, bitterly ; “ because you have already broken 
one heart, and would gladly break another.” 

“ I love you,” was Peter’s answer, “ and would 
have broken the heart of every other woman on earth 
to win you.” 

“ You were dishonorable towards me.” 

“ I was not,” returned Peter. “ I told you all at 
Ste. Rose — of my love for you, and my dead love for 
her ; and you understood me, and — and you let me 
hope.” 

“And if I did?” said Edith, pantingly. “Do 
you think me a stone, that my heart could not 
be won by what seemed nobility? You made me 
love you ; yes, I loved you ! — I was younger then. 
Back, sir ! your arms shall never touch me ! I 
tell you this, that you may taste the bitterness that I 
have known. I despise you ! I will never know 
you again ! 

Peter had started forward at her first avowal of 
love, but she had thrust him back. Now, he stood 
looking down upon her as she crouched among the 
cushions of the shabby sofa, her form trembling with 
the intensity of her feelings. 

Peter advanced a few steps, and stood beside 
her. 



142 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



“ Edith,” he said, “ is there no forgiveness in your 
soul f Can no change in me, no sacrifice, no proba- 
tion, obtain mercy for us both ? 

Edith rose, with her hand to her heart, and replied, 
brokenly — 

“ Nothing can excuse you. The thought of that 
miserable girl suffering through you, and the know- 
ledge of your selfish, cowardly, ignoble soul, will 
haunt me for ever. Leave me, if you have a spark 
of honor. Leave me; for the sight of you makes me 
hate and despise myself for having loved you ! ” 

Peter winced beneath her scorn. But he saw that 
she loved him, and determined on a great venture. 
He advanced a step, and took her in his arms. 

“ You are mine,” he said, “ and I will keep you in 
spite of yourself ! ” 

For a few moments she lay in his embrace, quietly, 
and he kissed her. But the kiss changed her. With 
a shudder she woke from the seeming trance, and 
slipped from his arms, her eyes blazing with anger. 

“ Coward ! ” she said. “ True to your character to 
the last, you take advantage of a woman’s heart, even 
of the heart of her you claim to love ! Oh ! I could 
strike you dead, only that I should be then like 
you — a murderer!" 

Peter was cowed, and actually trembled before the 
girl who, not deigning to notice him again, left 
the room and sought her carriage. He was filled 
with a terrible sense of what he had lost, and turned 
mechanically away to the drug-room. Here the 
laudanum bottle met his eye, and he took it down. 
His face was pale and his eyes sparkling. He handled 
the bottle lovingly, and pouring some of the fluid into 
a glass, held it up to the light. 

“ Poison,” he whispered — “ death ! no, this is 
death I live ; and life is the death that lurks in 
every drop of this. Ah ! my pretty Edith, I could 
tear your heart with this, if I but drank it. Proud 
heart, that will not stoop to the man it loves ! ” 

He raised the glass to his lips, when a strong hand 
detained his wrist, and he set the glass down again. 

“ That is laudanum. Dr. Simson,” said the nurse. ' 

“Is it?” he replied; “I was wondering if it was. 
It is careless to leave it out like this.” 

Yes, was the reply. “I came to tell you, doctor, 
that there is a new case in the accident ward. You 
are wanted at once.” 

Peter left the room, followed by the nurse, who 
locked the door and pocketed the key. 

The first use to which Mr. Forbes put his new for- 
tune was to purchase the old homestead of the Tiltons, 
and he lemoved Lizzie and hei" mother thence soon 
after the burial of Bolton and old Mr. Tilton. 

Lizzie entered the old house with a strangely tumul- 
tuous heart. The old mossy well recalled those for- 
ever departed days of first love, with its perfect truth 
and ideality. The rooms were full of ghostly voices 
of her former joys, and her greatest and smallest 
griefs came back to her. There was the corner in 
which she had sobbed all one summer afternoon away 
because her dolly had fallen into the well, and was 
fished up limp and colorless. There were more griefs 
than that connected with the well now, and yet she 
did not sob so much. 



The shadow of death still hung over the ill-fated 
family. Mrs. Tilton, who had lived chiefly for her 
husband’s sake, now drooped. Her death took place 
a year afterwards, and was quiet and painless. It had 
been so long expected, that Lizzie’s grief, while deep 
and sincere, was not poignant, and did but make the 
girl’s face graver and her smile sweeter. She was a 
woman now, by right of love, of years, and of 
troubles, and her heart was sympathetic and self- 
reliant. 

After the death of Mrs. Tilton, Mr. Forbes was 
faced by a dire necessity. Every day, instead of 
growing older, he felt himself becoming younger in 
feeling, and he saw that for Lizzie and him to remain 
now under one roof would create talk among their 
coarser fellows. Perhaps he deceived himself, and 
could have constituted himself her guardian without 
comment. It may have been the wily influence of 
the master passion that made him think he was too 
young still. If so, Lizzie must have been deluded by 
the same deceiver, for it was scarcely a week after her 
mother’s death when she quietly prepared to remove 
from the old home once more. 

A schoolmaster is not much use if he cannot cir- 
cumvent a woman. Mr. Forbes noticed her actions, 
and before she could speak he told her he was going 
up to the city for some time, and wanted her to re- 
main in charge of the house in his absence. She 
could have Granny Smith stay with her if she 
liked. 

What could Lizzie do but accede to Mr. Forbes’ 
wishes ? Her heart clung to the old house with 
double tenderness now that it was all that was left 
her of her earlier life. So Mr. Forbes went away, 
and Lizzie took charge, with Granny Smith as lieu- 
tenant. 

Mr. Forbes was bad tempered all the time of his 
absence. Even Dusk and Dawn could not enliven 
him. Poor Dusk ! her efforts may have been sham, 
but Dawn’s certainly were not. Mr. James took his 
old friend in hand, but could get nothing out of 
him. 

“ I cannot understand Forbes,” he said one day to 
Edith ; nothing seems to please him now. He’s not 
nearly so sweet tempered as he was.” 

“ Do you know, father, I think he is in love ? ” 

“I never was tW way. Dusk.” 

“ You won, father. Loss may make a woman 
sweet tempered, but it spoils the temper of most 
men.” 

The words were very grave, and her father bent 
down and kissed his daughter’s brow. 

“ You brave, true-hearted dear,” was all he said ; 
and they understood one another. 

“ But Mr. Forbes, papa, whom can he love ? ” 

Mr. James mused a few moments. 

“It is no one he has met in town,” he said at last. 

“ It must be some country girl. 1 have it ! — at least, 

I think I have. That fellow Simson had a sweetheart 
—the girl he deserted — and Mr. Forbes was terribly 
incensed over it. Could he be in love with her ? ” 

They could not decide that, but the more Mr. James 
thought the matter over, the more convinced he was 
that Lizzie was the cause oi Mr. Forbes’ new develop- 



1888.] tJNiVEKSITY GAZETTE. 143 



ment of petulance. Ho resolved to follow up the 
clue, and see what would result. 

“ Forbes,” he said — after he had decoyed his friend 
into his library — “ have you heard anything of Sim- 
son lately 1 ” 

“ No,” gruffly responded the schoolmaster. 

“ By-the-bye, what became of the girl he jilted 1 ” 
asked Mr. James. 

“ She’s at home, still,” replied Mr. Forbes. 

“ Not married yeti” 

“No !” 

“ How’s that 1 Surely she’s a worthy girl 1 You 
should get her a fine young fellow to console her.” 

Mr Forbes sprang to his feet. 

“Young fellow!” he said, scornfully. “Has a 
girl no aim in life but to be won by the first young 
fellow that whistles at herl Do you think she has 
any reason for loving a young fellow?” 

“Well, then,” said Mr. James — hiding a smile by 
stroking his face — “ let us say an old fellow. Will 
that suit you better?” 

Mr. Forbes’ face flushed. He looked at Mr. James 
earnestly, and meeting the laughing eyes of his friend, 
dropped his own in some confusion. 

“ Ho, ho ! ” laughed Mr. James. “ I have caught 
you at last, have I ! ‘Didn’t know the girl,’ you told 
me, and here I find everything settled between you. 
Well, bring your wife here, and if Simson was too 
proud to recognize her, we will not be.” 

“But I haven’t won her!” exclaimed Mr. Forbes. 
“ I’m too old to tr// even.” 

“Look here, Forbes, when it didn’t matter much, 
I let you rant about your patriarchal age. Now, tell 
me honestly, how old are you ? ” 

“ Thirty-nine.” 

“ And the girl ? ” 

“ I don’t know ; I should say twenty-four.” 

“ H’m.” 

Mr. James did not like the difference in the ages. 
But he stretched a point for his old friend. 

“ Well,” he said, “ she’s old enough to be her own 
judge. Go and ask her, and if she refuse you why you 
are not the first unfortunate, nor will you be the last.” 
“ Do you think me too old to marry ? ” asked Mr. 
Forbes, eagerly. “ Would a woman be throwing her- 
self away in taking me ? ” 

“Not a bit,” said Mr. James, heartily. “ She has 
had her romance” — (“ Tut, tut,” said Mr. Forbes) — 
“ and knows what she is doing.” 

“ I’ll ask her,” said Mr. Forbes, “ and if she take 
me. I’ll never forget your kindness.” 

Mr. Forbes went back to Prankville, and took up 
his residence in the old house again, with Granny 
Smith to play propriety. In spite of his bold de- 
claration to Mr. James, he hesitated to declare himself. 
He realized that Lizzie was, to a certain extent, de- 
jjendent upon him, and could not bring himself to 
take advantage of her dependency, and, as he thought, 
buy her. 

He went away again, and again returned, when he 
was met by Granny Smith with no very good show of 
kindness. 

A day or two after his second arrival, the old lady 
came curtcsying into his study. 



“Well, Granny,” he said, “what can I do for 
you ? ” 

“ I’m thinkin’ of leavin’, Mr. Forbes,” she said.” 

“ But you can’t do that ! ” he exclaimed, aghast. 
“ Lizzie wants you here. You cannot leave her 
alone.” 

“ Why can’t I ? ” she said. 

Mr. Forbes was silent. He did not feel equal to 
explaining. 

“ Why can’t I ? ” she repeated. “ Isn’t there one 
here who can take better care of her than an old 
woman like me ? ” 

“ What do you mean, woman ? ” 

“ What do I mean ? I mean that you’re treating 
the poor girl like a brute, and I won’t stay to see it. 
She’s dying for a smile from your lips, and you steal 
away from her as if she was the plague.” 

Mr. Forbes rose ; he always did when excited. 

“ Hush ! hush ! ” he said. 

“ I’ll not hush,” said Granny. “ When you went 
away first she was like a moulting bird, and never 
sung a note. Then you came back, and the house 
was full of her songs. You went away again, and 
the same thing happened. She drooped like a 
parched flower. And now you are back — hark ! there 
she is singing again. But there’s sorrow in that song, 
too, and it breaks my old heart to hear it ; for I love 
the girl.” 

Mr. Forbes stepped forward, and took the old 
dame’s hands in his. 

“ You are sure of this ? ” he asked, tremblingly. 

“ Ay,” she said, “ I am.” 

He parted the white hair and kissed the withered 
brow. 

“ Then, Granny,” he said, “ there will be no more 
sorrow in her song through me, for I have loved the 
lass for years.” 

His courting was simple. It always is simple when 
the lover knows the prize is already his. He feared 
a little, and took occasion to tell her of his love in 
song. It was a bright autumn day, and the three 
were sitting on the broad verandah. Mr. Forbes had 
his violin with him, and turning to Lizzie, he 
said — 

“ Would you like me to sing you a song, 
Lizzie ? ” 

“ One of your own ? ” she enquired. 

“Yes.” 

“ Please.” 

It was a simple song — not a poem by a great 
master — yet, with the music wedded to it, sweet and 
touching. 

“ I have given it no name,” he said, as he prepared 
to sing. “You may do that for me afterwards.” 

Granny settled herself well back in the shadow — 
old women smell a love-scene very far off — and he 
began to sing : — 

“ She’s a young thing and a sweet thing. 

Like a spray of Christmas holly ; 

She’s a dear thing and a neat thing, 

And 1 love her — is it folly ? 

Yet she fears me, and I tremble. 

Like a leaf, when she is nigh. 

1’ell me, why does love dissemble ? — 

Tell me, dearest, why ? 



144 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



She’s so meny and so kiudl)% 

And so gentle to all others ; 

Why does love still act so blindly ? 

Tell me why Ins fire he smothers ? 

Wherefore do I dwell in sorrow, 

When joy hovers ever nigh ? 

Wherefore do I fear the morrow ? — 

Tell me, dearest, why ? 

I’m unworthy — that’s no answer. 

Else to all men she’s forbidden ; 

Love’s a very necromancer — 

Finding worth where most ’tis hidden. 

If she love me, she will dower me. 

With the worth the Fates deny ; 

Wherefore, then, should fear o’erpower me ? — 

Tell me, deare.st, Avhy ? 

I will hide my love no longer ; 

I will all my heart discover ; 

I will say, my soul grew stronger 
From tlie day it learnt to love her ; 

Say my life is in her keeping ; 

Say I wait for her reply — 

Darling, you are laughing, weeping — 

Tell me, dearest, why ? ” 

Lizzie had begun by listening eagerly, as the rich 
notes came, but as the song proceeded she leaned her 
head upon her arm, and sorrowful thoughts flooded her 
heart. She identified herself with the song naturally 
and without pride. She saw herself the sweet young 
thing, but young in one sense no longer. She remem- 
bered how she had dowered Peter with all the worth 
the fates denied him, and while he was no longer in her 
heart, there was still a tender spot for the old passion. 
Then she heard the last verse — “ I will hide my love 
no longer ” — and felt Mr. Forbes’ burning eyes upon 
her. 

He laid the violin aside, and bent down to Lizzie. 

“ You are weeping, Lizzie,” he said. “ Is there 
any need to tell me why ? ” 

Granny rose from her retreat in the corner, and 
glided into the house. Her woman’s heart was still 
warm, and she left the lovers to themselves. 

The next visit of Mr. Forbes to town was with 
Lizzie, who was taken charge of by Mr. James, whose 
daughters assisted her in choosing her trouseau. 

Mr. Forbes was in anything but bad humor during 
this visit. 

Edith showed a feverish desire to give Lizzie 
pleasure, and insisted upon being one of the brides- 
maids. 

The marriage took place in the country, and the 
stately town beauty, in her perfect attire, completely 
dazzled the inhabitants of Prankville. It got whis- 
pered about — strange things are often whispered — 
that the magnificent stranger was interested in Lizzie 
through Peter, and that she was anxious to get the 
old sweetheart married to ease her conscience. 

Peter himself nursed this opinion, for on the 
morning of Lizzie’s marriage to Mr. Forbes, he wrote 
to Edith, pleading for forgiveness now. He begged 
another interview, which she granted him, and at 
which he pleaded passionately to be taken back to 
her heart. 

“ I did not wrong her, after all ! ” he cried. “ She 
has married another. We could never have been 
meant for one another. Why will you torture both 



of us for a sin now entirely wiped away? Pity your- 
self, if you will not pity me ! ” 

“The righting of the sin was through God, Peter,” 
replied Edith, “ and does not lessen your responsi- 
bility. Your soul is no better, and you would act 
the same again to-day with me, even me, if the fancy 
took you. You were born for self, and self will rule 
you always.” 

“ If I should prove myself,” still Peter pleaded. 
“ If I could convince you how bitterly I repent my 
selfishness ; if I could make myself worthy of you, 
will you forgive me ? ” 

Edith shook her head. 

“ Who can rebuild the spider’s web 1 ” she said, 
“ or put the dew-drop back upon the lily’s leaf 1 ” 



CHAPTER XI. 



“ Time cannot sever, nor space keep long apart. 

Those whom Love’s sleepless yearning would draw near ; 

Fate bends unto the indomitable heart 
And firm fixt will.” ****** 

— Roberts, 

Five years have made some change in Prankville, 
which is now a manufacturing town of some import- 
ance, but the people are little changed. Here and 
there only is a familiar face missing and a new one 
seen. The school-house in the dell had had a new 
master for some years, it is true, but if we stroll up 
the road once more we shall soon see that the old 
teacher has settled down into a still better situation. 

The old farm-house is unchanged, and its trim 
fields slope downwards to the river, as green as of 
yore. The cattle are standing in the water, as if they 
had never come out of it since Peter Simson saw them 
as he went to meet his sweetheart ten years before. 
The girl that stands by the well, however, is not 
Lizzie. She is scarcely big enough to peep over the 
box into the dark waters beneath, and she has a 
greater fancy for buttercups and dandelions than 
Lizzie ever showed while we knew her. And yet she 
looks like Lizzie, whereupon we may conclude that 
she is Lizzie’s child. We may come to the same con- 
clusion with respect to a pair of sturdy-legged boys 
who are tumbling in the sand with a huge dog, to the 
dusty delight of all parties concerned. 

The dog stops in the midst of his play and cocks 
up his ears, which the boys immediately seize and 
pull down. He ignores them and stares down the 
road, and they turn their eyes in the same direction. 
There is a wild scream and howl that brings Lizzie 
to the door, but only in time to see eight feet, of 
which the dog has the half, scampering down the 
road, with another pair woefully in the rear, and 
flashing in a way that Lizzie junior wouldn’t think 
of letting them do if she had ten years more over her 
pretty head. 

“ It’s father,” said Lizzie, and she waited for Mr. 
Forbes to approach. His progress was difficult for a 
time, as he had a youngster clinging to each leg, and 
Lizzie junior had just run plump into him as the 
easiest way of stopping her flying feet. But he was 
not far from home, and was very soon there. 



1888.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



145 



“ Well,” said Lizzie, “ have you any news? ” 

“ Yes,” he replied, “ the disease is unchecked, in 
spite of all their efforts.” 

“ And how is he ? ” 

“ Still working on. The city is full of his name, 
and the poor people think him a god.” 

“ He has atoned, has he not ? ” 

Mr. Forbes was silent. Then he said — 

“ Yes, he is a noble fellow now. He has won his 
character by suffering, and I will not bear him malice. 
Besides, dear, his conduct gave me you.” 

“ What of her? ” asked Lizzie. 

“ Still the same — proud, unyielding, yet suffering. 
She has watched his career for years ; has seen the 
change in him ; knows that he is no longer the selfish 
Peter of old ; yet cannot bring herself to reward 
him.” 

“ Poor thing,” said Lizzie, “ I can understand her.” 
Before returning to the plague-stricken quarters of 
the city, it will be well to see what changes have 
taken place on Sherbrooke street during the past five 
years. One change is at once apparent. Alice is 
not to be seen there so much as formerly, though she 
does drop in once in a while when the cares of her 
own household are not weighing heavily upon her. 
Although she used to consider herself fated to be a 
maiden lady all her life, she has turned out even 
better fitted for the position of wife and mother, she 
now occupies. Peter unconsciously altered her life, 
as he did that of Edith, but in this case for good, not 
evil. He it was who had introduced Harry Small to 
the James’, and Harry and Alice had been drawn to 
one another almost at once. When Charley broke 
with Peter he did not break with Harry, and the 
natural conclusion of the visits of the latter to see 
Alice, was to take her away altogether. Harry, it 
will be remembered, was the companion of Peter and 
Charley at Bow Lake. But Charley was also gone 
from the house, and it is currently reported that Mr. 
Hartley is as well off in the company of Mr. and Mrs. 
James, junior, as he was when Bertha was his sole 
companion in the modest house in which he lives. 

Thus, of the young membeis of the James’ family, 
she alone, whom all had thought would have been 
the first to go — she was so bright and attractive — was 
left. 

Edith was not one of those to let her life sour 
through any disappointment. Sorrow had simply 
stirred up the fertile soil of her heart, and sympathy, 
devotion, and love flourished stronger than ever be- 
fore. When the small-pox attacked the city it was 
all her parents could do to prevent her from devoting 
herself to nurse work. She was one of the leading 
spirits in the committees for relief, and in that con- 
nection heard much of her former lover that gave her 

joy- 

The small-pox, brought from Chicago by a Pullman 
car porter, had found, in certain quarters of the city, 
rich soil upon which to thrive. Hearses rolled along 
the streets all day long, and the yellow signs put upon 
houses wherever was the disease, were in some locali- 
ties as plentiful as house-to-let placards in April. 
Business suffered, the rich classes fled the place, and 
those whom, through duty or fearlessness, remained, 



were vaccinated or revaccinated, and often carried 
little sachets of camphor or other supposed disinfec- 
tants, in case they should pass an infected person. 

In one of the vilest quarters of the city, amid filthy 
tenement houses, facing upon lanes, filled with garb- 
age that reeked in the sultry summer air, the small- 
pox had made sad havoc. Every day saw a victim 
carried away, and would have seen more, but for the 
sleepless efforts of a physician who had devoted his 
energies to the assistance of the poor at this crisis. 
He had his reward in every blessing poured upon his 
head by his patients or their anxious friends, and in 
his heart he had a greater reward — the reward that 
she who had despised him, and who despised him 
still, would know of his doings, and give him credit 
for his sacrifice. 

Peter and Edith had never met since the time she 
granted him an interview and declined his love. The 
change in him, which had begun at the time of Bol- 
ton’s injury, had continued. He never abandoned 
hope — few men need do so when the woman they 
love loves them — and had set himself persistently to 
atone for his previous life of selfishness. In the soli- 
tude that was constantly about his heart he made the 
atonement of suffering, and by his deeds, wherever 
practicable, he atoned also. At first he worked mer dy 
from the selfish desire to win Edith. But his con- 
stant contact with sorrow and pain slowly worked out 
this unworthy leven, and he began to seek to fit him- 
self for her, rather than merely to win her. 

And thus it is we find him risking his life every 
day amid the plague. 

It was early morning when he left the tenements 
to snatch a few hours’ sleep. He was known now, 
and received respectful salutations wherever he went. 
As he was turning the corner, he had an encounter 
that made even him shudder. A loathsome creature, 
just risen from a bed of sickness, and still tottering 
from weakness, crossed his path and vanished down 
one of the side streets. 

A few moments afterwards he heard a shriek, and, 
thinking at once something had happened the poor 
thing, he turned back and went quickly down the 
alley she had entered. There was a throng on the 
sidewalk that seemed more afraid than otherwise, and 
had drawn away from two women. Peter approached, 
and recognized in one of the women the sick person 
who had recently passed him. She was angry, and 
talking loudly to the other — 

“ What brings you here in your finery,” she cried, 
“to spy on us? Do you want to gloat over such as I, 
with your pretty face ? Look you, if I but kiss you 
I would put these marks upon you, and what would 
your fine lover say then ? ” 

The other drew back a step before the infuriated 
wretch, and said — 

“ I came here to care for one who is sick. I cannot 
think that you could be so wicked as to harm me.” 

“ Ho ! ho ! ” laughed the hag. “ Wicked ! There 
is no wickedness on earth ; it is in heaven ! What 
had I done, my lady, more than you, to deserve this ? 
Why are my children in the cemetery, and not yours ? 
Come, I will give you a sweet kiss, whose mark you 
will carry on your lips for ever ! ” 



146 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



The half-frantic woman seized the other by both 
arms, and would have kissed her had not Peter 
thrown her back. 

“ You hag,” he said, “ is this my thanks for saving 
your miserable life 1 ” 

He turned to the other. 

“You !” he exclaimed; “you ! ” 

“Yes,” replied Edith, “it is I.” 

“ Oh ! Edith, what brought you here 1 Why do 
you risk your life like this 1 ” 

“ I have the same right as you have to do so.” 

“I am a doctor, and my duty is here to be done, 

but you are a woman ” 

“ Give me your arm,” she said, “ and lead me out 
of here. I am faint.” 

Peter did so, and they escaped from the wondering 
crowd. 

It is not easy to tell which was the more affected. 
Peter’s superhuman efforts had almost exhausted his 
wonderful strength, while Edith’s recent encounter 
had unnerved her. 

She looked up into his face and said — 

“You are ill. You are killing yourself with 
work.” 

“ No,” he replied sadly ; “ I would die if I did not 
work. There are more woes within a heart than 
without it.” 

Then he added — 

“ But what brought you there 1 You must promise 
me never to expose yourself again to such dangers.” 

“ I heard you were ill,” she said, simply. 

The blood surged into Peter’s cheeks. 

“ You came for my sake? ” he faltered. 

“ Why not ? I know it is through me you are 
where you are, and what more could I do than see 
that you wanted for nothing in your illness 1 ” 
“Edith!” 

“ You are not ill, so I will leave you. But you 
will send to me if the worst happens 1 ” 

“ Edith 1 can I hope you have forgiven me ? ” he 
cried. 

But she was gone. 

He turned to seek his lodgings, when he met the 
woman who had attacked Edith. 

“ You here ? ” he said. How dared you follow 
us 1 ” 

She sank upon her knees in the roadway. 

“ I came for pardon,” she wailed. “ You were so 
good to me, doctor. How could I know it was the 
lady who loves you 1 ” 

He caught at the words. 

“ The lady who loves me ! ” he repeated, bitterly ; 
“ there is no love for me there.” 

The woman understood him, and replied — 

“ She worships the ground you tread. I saw her 
blench when your hand touched me. She was more 
afraid of your falling sick than for herself.” 

“ Go ! ” said Peter, “ I forgive you, unless some- 
thing happens her. If it does,” he said, hoarsely, “ I 
will strangle you 1 ” 

The plague continued unabated for some weeks 
more, and Peter grew more and more fatigued. Yet 
he gloried in his sufferings, and the blessings of the 
poor were to him so many more stepping-stones to 



Edith’s favor. He did not meet her again, but every 
morning sent a bunch of roses to her house, knowing 
she would understand from them that he was well. 

She did so understand the gift, and while no one 
else in the house knew whence the roses came, she 
knew, and kissed them many times when, in the 
secrecy of her room, she threw off the pride that had 
so long ruled her. 

At last her father asked her whence the roses came. 
In that house there had never been a secret, and she 
told him. 

“ My child,” he said, “ you do not hear of him as 
much as I. He has been doing noble work, and I 
am again growing proud of him.” 

“ But, father, that stain ? ” 

“ My daughter,” Mr. James replied, “ I do not wish 
to influence you ; but every brave warrior has his 
scar, and every shield its dint.” 

One morning the roses did not come. Edith was 
vei’y anxious, but did not make up her mind what to 
do. The next morning was the same, and the last 
roses she had received fell to pieces in her hand as 
she moved them to put fresh water in the vase. She 
was not superstitious, but her nerves were so unstrung 
that she could not refrain from crying out. 

Idleness was bitter to her, and she sought her father 
and asked him to make enquiries about Peter. He 
did so, and returned with the information that Peter 
was, indeed, ill. 

“I am going to him,” she said. 

“You cannot,” her father replied. “I will not 
permit you to risk your life like this.” 

Edith smiled. 

- “ I am going,” was all she said, and her father saw 
that she was in earnest. 

“ Then I am going also,” was his reply, and the 
two set off together. 

They had been preceded, however, first, by the 
poor people among whom Peter had lived so long ; 
and, secondly, by trained nurses from the hospital, 
sent to him by his confreres. 

He was unconscious. His malady was not the ter- 
rible disease itself, but typhoid fever. He was to be 
moved that morning to the hospital, for the doctors 
had declared his recovery in that district well-nigh 
impossible. 

Edith at once took quiet command, and her father 
acted as a passive lieutentant. She ordered the im- 
mediate removal of Peter to her father’s house, which 
most delicate work was safely performed without 
allowing him to catch cold, and she and her mother, 
assisted by the nurses, took charge of him. For 
many days he hovered between life and death, and 
for many days the house was surrounded by the scum 
of the city, who read the little bulletins it was neces- 
sary to post up, and wept or laughed as these were 
hopeful or not. Then it was, with Death’s arm inter- 
posed between her lover and herself, with the bless- 
ings of the poor falling upon his head, that Edith felt 
the strength of love, and was vanquished. 

On the night of the turn of his illness, the poor 
people formed a guard about the house, and permitted 
no carriage to pass at a rapid pace, nor would they 
permit the slightest disturbance. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



147 



At last the turn came, and Edith, sitting at the 
window, could hear the glad cries of the poor people 
whom he had befriended. 

Peter’s first enquiry was — “ Where am 11 " and 
being told, he made no further remark, but passed 
into a quiet sleep. For two or three days he slept 
much, and ate what food was allowed him, with a 
good appetite. The nurses, who had watched him 
in his delirium, when he had been constantly calling 
upon Edith, were surprised that he did not ask for 
her, who now no longer hovered about his bed. The 
reason was not so far to seek. For the first time he 
had realized his utter unworthiness, and feared to 
meet her. 

Mr. James had visited him early in the period of 
his convalescence, and cheered him with kindly 
words. At last he found confidence to ask of Edith, 
and her father sent her to him. There was little said 
on either side, and nothing of love ; but she often 
repeated her visits, until, finally, when the nurses 
left him well enough to be up, she was his almost 
constant companion. 

It was a great day when he was able to go down 
stairs, and yet it was a solemn day for him ; for he 
began to realize that he could not much longer tres- 
pass upon the hospitality of his host. He had re- 
signed all hope of winning Edith now, but when the 
day of his departure came, and he sought her to say 
farewell, he found her crying. 

He looked down at her, and once more a great 
hope thrilled him. 

“ Crying, Edith 1 " he said. “ What sorrow can 
touch you here 1 ” 

“ It is nothing,” she said. “ I am tired and weak, 
that is all.” 

She rose, and gave him her hand, with face 
averted. 

“ Good-bye,” she said. 

“ Good-bye,” Edith.” 

He turned to go, and she sank down sobbing 
among the pillows of the sofa. He hesitated, and 
then swiftly approaching her drew her hands from 
her face. 

“ I cannot go, Edith, until I know your grief. Can 
it be that you are sorry to have me go 1 ” 

She did not reply, and her eyes fell before his. 

“ Edith ! ” he cried ; “ Edith ! answer me ! I 
would never have spoken love to you again, but 
I cannot — I dare not — leave you with this hope in 
my heart. Am I at last forgiven 1 ” 

Ari d this time she did not say him nay. 

THE END. 



WOMAN’S HIGHER EDUCATION IN RELA- 
TION TO HER FUNCTIONS IN SOCIAL 
AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 



That knowledge is power to man, has been admitted 
by all civilized races in all ages of the world’s history, 
but to the 19th century belongs the honor of having 
recognized it is power to woman also. On a subject 
already so fully discussed and of so many sided a 



character, it is difficult to offer any new thoughts, but 
from the standpoint of one who has felt the benefits 
of a higher course of study, I may be able, at least, to 
attest the truth of much advanced in its favor. 

3|c ^ 

The rapid sketch we have taken of the relative pO' 
sition of woman in the East and West to-day, has 
sufficed to show how degrading is the effect of igiio- 
rance upon social and domestic life. It has been said, 
the state of a nation’s civilization is truly indicated 
by the position of its women, and experience every- 
where teaches us that ignorance is too often the hand- 
maid of vice, and, where ignorance is found, there we 
find also a proportionate degree of moi’al degradation. 
It was Christianity that first taught the doctrine of 
individual responsibility, and to its teaching woman 
owes her present exalted place. With the progress of 
Christianity, therefore, we see a gradual improvement 
in the position accorded to woman, till to-day, in civ- 
ilized Europe and America, we find her placed on an 
equal footing with man, with all those spheres of use- 
fulness open to her, in which, for so many centuries, 
he has held undisputed sway. And why should it not 
be so? When the realm of knowledge is so vast 
that the longest and busiest life is all too short to 
compass it, why should the means of satisfying these 
innate cravings of our nature be denied to one-half 
the human race, being reserved as a right to the other 
half alone. 

This brings us to the sphere of our subject proper, 
which deals more particularly with the influence of 
woman’s higher education on social and domestic life 
in our own country. Let us see what advance has 
been made in our own city to keep abreast of the age 
in this great movement. But a few years ago, the 
highest education open to women here was that given 
in our public or private schools, the former afiording 
only an elementary training ; the latter offering a 
somewhat more advanced course, but too often giving 
what is commonly called a fashionable education, 
sadly lacking in that systematic thoroughness so essen- 
tial to a truly useful education. About ten years ago, 
a high school for girls was opened, to give a training 
similar to that provided for young men preparing to 
enter the University. This was thought a great step 
in advance, and its advisability was gravely questioned 
by many, but its unqualified success has shown these 
doubts were wholly unfounded. Within the last four 
years, a still more progressive step has been taken, 
and Montreal has thrown open to women the doors of 
its University also. The success attending this move- 
ment has been thus far most satisfactory, and no doubt 
the privileges thus extended to women will prove a 
lasting benefit here as they have elsewhere in Europe, 
and more especially in the United States. 

Men’s actions always tend to the accomplishment 
of some end or purpose desired by the agent who per- 
forms them, and on the character of this end depends 
the morality of all our actions. We can conceive no 
condition more sad and hopeless than that of the man 
or woman whose life is lived without an aim, and 
whose talents are wasted to no purpose. As some aim 
is essential to life in its truest sense, let us look for a 



148 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



little at the life of the average girl on leaving school, 
to see what aims and possibilities lie open to her, and 
what pursuits claim most of her time and attention. 
Having completed the course of study laid down in 
any of our public or private schools, she graduates, 
generally about the age of sixteen or eighteen. Her 
parents, pleased with her success, now begin to wonder 
what is to be done with her next. She herself is happy 
at the prospect of freedom from the restraint and dull 
routine of school life, and fondly tells her friends she 
is going to “ come out,” next season, as her education 
is finished. Her education is finished ! Who ever 
heard this phrase applied to a boy ? No, it is not ap- 
plicable to him ; his education need not finish with 
his school-boy days, for before him is the University, 
and a long course of professional study, if he choose 
to avail himself of it. Of his sister, however, it has 
been in the past but too true, for, until quite recently, 
nothing beyond a high school education was open to 
her, unless she wished to prepare herself to enter the 
teaching profession. Her school days ended, society 
claims her attention, and her mornings are spent pre- 
paring for the pleasures of the evening, or resting 
after those of the evening before ; her afternoons, in 
a round of fashionable calls and afternoon teas. She 
may chance to have musical or artistic talent; if so, 
she devotes some time to its cultivation, but too often 
the means at her disposal are quite insufficient to 
allow her to cultivate it to any extent, for, in this 
country, a thorough artistic training is, as yet, the 
luxury of the few In household affairs, all responsi- 
bility devolves upon her mother, while to her are en- 
trusted only those trivial duties that require no men- 
tal effort to perform, and leave no scope for the exer- 
cise of those higher powers, in the development of 
which alone is found the truest happiness. The 
novelty worn off, society soon loses its charm, and, 
after a few seasons, even its most favored votaries be- 
gin to feel the irksomeness of that round of social 
gaiety, which has then become a wearisome monotony. 
In addition to this, there is an overpowering mental 
and physical exhaustion, arising from the strain of 
late hours and constant excitement, from which few 
constitutions can escape unimpaired. 

Can we wonder, — a life thus devoted to the pleasure 
of the moment, and filled with no high aim for self- 
improvement or the good of others, should bring with 
it nothing but discontent and bitterest disappoint- 
ment ? Society has been perverted from its true ob- 
ject, and is made an end to be sought after, instead of 
merely a means to recruit our energies, in the struggle 
towards a higher end. I do not mean to say a life such 
as I have pictured is the only alternative to a life of 
study and intellectual culture, but I do say, a life thus 
wholly given to pleasure, with no definite aim or re- 
sponsibility, can never satisfy the higher cravings of 
our nature, or give free play to our higher intellectual 
powers. The mind is left to prey upon itself, and 
denied the stimulus of healthy occupation, it soon 
sinks into hopeless melancholy. That lives such as 
these are not rare, the experience of each of us will 
show. Who has not known bright, intelligent girls, 
whose youth and talents should make them the sun- 
shine of the households to which they belong, instead 



of this, sunk in morbid discontent ? Dissatisfied with 
themselves and others, they become not only sources 
of misery to themselves, but casting a gloom over all 
with whom they come in contact. W ould not higher 
education have a most beneficial influence on the life 
we have just sketched? Its failure is due to its ntter 
aimlessness, and to a mistaken conception of what life 
really means. For these evils, there is no surer remedy 
than a judicious course of study, such as is laid down 
in any of our colleges. It not only affords a definite 
aim for a few years at least, but gives a truer view of 
life, and fills the mind with higher aud nobler aspira- 
tions. Just as our bodily organs are weakened by 
disease, so, too, our mental faculties, if denied their 
proper exercise, become dwarfed and weakened, if not 
wholly destroyed. 

Education must not be looked upon as a system by 
which the mind is stored with an accumulation of 
facts ; this is a grossly false conception of it. True 
education is a training of the intellect, by which it is 
rendered better able to meet the difficulties and solve 
the problems of everyday life, because made familiar 
with the laws of its own working. The mind of the 
school-girl is too immature to receive the full benefit 
of such a training, and its higher power of generaliza- 
tion is not sufficiently developed to grasp those great 
principles which form the basis of all knowledge, and 
which are so necessary to guide us in after life. When, 
therefore, girls are forced to enter life but half equip- 
ped for its duties, it is little wonder so many allow 
themselves to be conquered by circumstances, instead 
of bravely rising above them. Every one admits we 
learn much by experience, but, if a sure teacher, it is 
also a slow one, and the narrow range of individual 
experience is far too limited to meet the demands of 
a busy life, so that we require to enlarge it by access 
to books, which are the storehouses of the accumulated 
experience of all ages. 

An erroneous opinion is now prevalent that higher 
education will unfit a woman for social and domestic 
duties, or, at least, will render these distasteful to her. 
This is a most mistaken notion, for all knowledge, if 
properly used, must prove an influence for good in any 
sphere of life. A glance at the list of subjects taken 
up in any collegiate course, will convince us they can 
be made most helpful in the sphere of home life, and 
are capable of adding a new charm to every house- 
hold duty. The study of chemistry should give new 
interest to the Art of Cookery, and a knowledge of 
Hygiene and Domestic Economy should make a wo- 
man better able to look after the sanitary affairs of her 
house, and more competent to manage, to the best ad- 
vantage, the income at her disposal. Science and 
Philosophy unfold before the student a new world of 
wonders, or, at least, present the old world under an 
entirely new aspect. A knowledge of Botany and 
Zoology must add greatly to our interest in the ob- 
jective world around us, and revealing, as they do, 
how complex is the structure of even the minutest 
organism, and how beautiful its adaptability to the 
use for which it was designed, they teach us we should 
never despise even the humblest things of life, whose 
usefulness may have failed, perhaps, to overcome our 
contempt for their insignificance. Mental and moral 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



149 



Philosophy reveal to us that world of subjective phe- 
nomena, which is the counterpart of the objective 
world without us, making known to us the laws which 
govern our mental life, and teaching us those great 
moral principles, upon which alone we cau build up 
a truly noble character. 

Discontent is the greatest enemy to human happi- 
ness, hut give a woman a mind well stored with useful 
knowledge, and she is no longer dependent on exter- 
nal circumstances for her happiness, but has within 
herself a source alike of pleasure and profit. Such a 
woman never feels the sphere of home life too cramped, 
for her mind is not confined within its limits, but car- 
ries her above and beyond those petty cares and wor- 
ries which rob life of so much of its brightness, and 
fill with misery so many homes. Life after all, and 
especially home life, is made up of little things, and 
on a true estimate of these, depends our own happiness 
and the happiness of those who come within the range 
of our influence. If those little things, which add 
so much to the comforts of home, be overlooked or 
neglected, and the little crosses be unduly magnified, 
much of the sweetness of life is lost. Moral science 
will teach us we should despise no duty, however tri- 
vial, if only it be helpful to ourselves or others ; for, 
it is not the duties we perform which degrade us, but 
we who ennoble them, by the spirit in which we per- 
form them. Knowledge should tend to make us more 
humble, as in presence of the vastness of the universe, 
we cannot but feel our own insignificance ; but yet, 
it should keep us from the folly of self-abasement, be- 
cause it reveals to us man’s great superiority over the 
rest of creation, and the great respon.«ibility resting 
upon him in consequence of this. 

We cannot over-estimate the influence of a refined 
and cultured woman in every sphere of life, and es- 
pecially in all the relations of domestic life, as daughter, 
sister, wife, or mother. She is fitted to become the 
pleasant and profitable companion of her husband, or 
her sons, and thus she retains that hold upon them 
which has too often been lost by ignorance or idle 
frivolity. It is too common to-day to find young 
men, flushed with pride in their newly acquired know- 
ledge, .stooping to apologize for their mother or sisters, 
as not intellectually equal to themselves, and looking 
down upon them as incapable of entering into, or 
understanding, the pursuits in which they themselves 
delight. While the spirit which prompts such base 
conduct calls forth our severest censure, we cannot 
overlook the fact, that it leads to grave results, young 
men being thus led to seek, elsewhere, that sympathy 
and congenial companionship which they find want- 
ing in their home life. Educate our women, therefore, 
that men may find in them their equals, if not their 
superiors, and then we shall no longer hear complaints 
of the weakness of home influence ; for home, then 
])resided over by women of culture and refinement, 
will become, as it should be, the most delightful and 
attractive of places. 

Turning now to Society, we find there a wide field 
for reform, which can be etfected by woman only, for 
her hand holds the social sceptre. Conversation seems 
about to become a lost art, and its place is very often 
supplied by what is little better than idle chatter. Many 



of our amusements also lack the healthy tone which 
intellectual culture is calculated to give. When wo- 
man’s higher education has become general, men’s 
education will receive a new stimulus, and young men 
will then eagerly grasp the advantages, which now 
they often set aside unappreciated, lest, indeed, their 
sisters put them to shame by their superior mental at- 
tainments. In studying the characters of the men and 
women we meet, we cannot fail to notice how easily 
women are disturbed by little trifles, which men pass 
over unmoved. The reason of this is not far to seek, 
for men are always occupied with things of greater 
moment, while women, shut out from all the higher 
interests of mankind, are kept within a sphere made 
up wholly of little things, which, under such circum- 
stances, are apt to assume undue importance. 

Before closing, it may be well to say a word on the 
much-controverted question of rvoman’s higher educa- 
tion in its relation to health. This is not properly 
speaking a part of our subject, but the connection of 
mind and body is so intimate, the health of the one is 
impossible without the health of the other, and the 
health of both is the great essential to happiness in 
any sphere of life — social or domestic. In this con- 
nection, however, I will only say, that psychologists 
admit purely mental work is in no way prejudicial to 
bodily health ; on the contrary, healthy activity of 
mind is most beneficial, but it is the phenomenon of 
worry, which so often accompanies close study, that 
ruins the health of so many students. This, however, 
should be no argument against education, for, we know, 
many persons are naturally predisposed to Avorry, and 
will not be free from it in any pursuit in life, imagin- 
ary difficulties giving rise to it quite as often as real 
ones, and indeed in proper mental activity the victim 
is more likely to overcome this unfortunate disposition 
than in any less absorbing pursuit. 

The benefits of woman’s higher education have al 
ready been proved beyond question by the large num- 
ber of educated women Avho now make their influence 
felt in every department of life. It remains for those 
who noAV enjoy the advantages McGill is offering to 
women, to prove their appreciation of them by using 
well the privileges extended to them there, and show- 
ing, as others have already done, that knowledge in 
the hand of Avoman is indeed a poAver for good to her- 
self and others. 

D. McFee. 



OUR MARITIME POET. 



I. 

The rector of Westcock, Ncav BrunsAvick, was Avork- 
ing in the parsonage garden one hot summer day in 
the year 1864, looking up every once in a while to 
Avatch the movements of a four-year old child who was 
playing about the same garden, or to admire the scene 
that lay spread out before him. 

It Avas a scene Avell \\mrth admiration. The rectory 
stood — I use the past tense, for the house was unfor- 
tunately destroyed by fire sometime afterAvards — on a 
hillside, its solid, quaint, parti- coloured brick walls 



150 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



flecked with the shadows of the trees that clustered 
about the house. Around it on every side the fields 
lay shimmering in the heat, and beyond to the south 
and east sparkled the waters of Cumberland Basin and 
the sea, rimmed with the dim shores of Nova Scotia. 
Between the fields and the sea extended broad 
marshes — 

“ Shorn of the labouring grass, bulwarked well 
from the sea, 

Fenced on its seaward border with long clay 
dikes from the turbid 
Surge and flow of the tides, vexing the 
Westmoreland shores.” 

But to a father’s eye a child is a still fairer work of 
God, and the rector’s glances turned oftener to the 
little fellow than to the sea. The lad was running 
from flower to flower, peering into their chalices and 
asking eager questions to which, if his father did not 
reply, himself framed quaint answers. By and by, the 
rector became absorbed in his work, and the boy’s 
mind turned in another direction. He lagged in his 
play and approaching his father, watched him at his 
work. His look became wistful, and then with a sud- 
den start he ran towards the rector, saying : 

“Papa, what was that voice that spoke to me just 
now?” 

“ No one spoke to you, Charley,” was the reply. 

“ Yes, papa, somebody did speak to me; right in 
my ear. He said ‘ What a selfish boy that Charley 
Roberts is, to let his poor papa work so liard, and not 
help him.’” 

The child whose imagination was so vivid as to 
make the voice of conscience seem audible, and whose I 
sympathies were already those of the poet, was Charles ! 
George Douglas Roberts, son of the Rev. G. Good- I 
ridge Roberts, rector of Sackville and Dorchester, New I 
Brunswick. I 

The boy, like Robert Burns, was born under a Jan- 
uary sky, the exact date of his birth being January 
10th, 1860. He Avas not born in the parsonage just 
described, but in the rectory of Douglas, a parish only 
separated from Fredericton by the river St. John, in 
AAdiich, hoAvever, he spent only nine months, as his 
lather removed to the Westcock parsonage in Sep- 
tember of the same year. During the first thirteen, 
and most impressionable, years of his life, Charles 
Robert lived at Westcock, and it is easy to trace in 
his A'erses the influence of his surroundings there, as 
for example in the “Tantramar Revisited.” 

In a kindly letter, in reply to an inquiry of mine, 
his father writes me that “ Even at this early age he 
Avas a reader of many books, and indeed the greater 
part of his education, until I removed to Fredericton 
as rector in 1873, Avas obtained simply by following a 
course of reading under my direction.” 

The instructor, however, Avas himself no ordinary 
man. He Avas the eldest son of George Roberts, Ph 
p Avho had been head master of Fredericton Collegiate 
bchool and Professor of Classics in the Universiry of 
New Brunswick, and was but one in a lon^ line of 
ancestors ol our poet, conspicuous for learniu'^ The 
poet’s mother — and poets generally oAve more^to their 
inothers than even to their fathers— Avas the daughter 
of the late Judge Bliss, of Fredericton, of a loyalist 



family and connected with the American philosopher, 
Emerson. Up to 1873 young Roberts had only re- 
ceived three months’ schooling, and only such informal 
instruction as his father’s time permitted. As the 
rector had the duties of a large parish to attend to, this 
instruction was irregular, and could never have been 
very great. It took the direction chiefly of Classics 
and French, the former of which, at least, has borne 
good fruit in his poems. 

Either the boy was very bright or the father a thor- 
ough master of the science of teaching, or, perhaps, 
both suppositions are true, for on going to Frederic- 
ton, the boy Avas competent at once to enter the Col- 
legiate School of that toAvn. Two years later he won 
the Douglas Medal, as head boy of the school. He 
then went to the University at Noav Brunswick, tak- 
ing a classical scholarship with honours in Greek and 
Latin in 1877, the Alumni gold medal for Latin prose 
I essay next year, and graduated in 1879 Avith honours 
I in classics, metaphysics, and ethics, getting the ap- 
pointment of Head Master of Chatham, N.B., Gram- 
mar School in the same year. 

Poets marry young, as a rule, or not at all. Roberts 
was one of the fortunate poets. He sung in “ A Bal- 
lad of Three Mistresses.” 

‘ ‘ Fill high to its quivering brim 

The crimson chalice, and see 
The warmth and Avhiteness of limb 
Light draped luxuriously ; 

Hark ! the voice love-shaken for thee. 

My heart — and thou liest ere long 
In the close capti\dty 
Of Avine, and Avoman, and song.” 

And, though it should not be taken that a poet’s love 
songs are personal affairs, we may not unnaturally ex- 
pect him to folloAv Avith a “ Ballad of a Bride,” Avhich 
be does : — 



“ Bring orange-blossoms fairly tAvined, 

Fair-plaited Avreaths to' Avreathe her hair, 
SAveet-smelling garlands meet to bind 

Her broAvs, and be outglistened there ; 
Bring radiant blooms and jeAvels rare. 

Against the happy bridal day ; — 

A sound of parting fills the air : 

Harken a little to my lay.” 



ximixiagc lu lAiary isaoei Jbenety, daughter of 
George E. Fenety, Queen’s printer, of Fredericton, 
took place on December 29th, 1880, the same year in 
which his first volume, “Orion and other Poems,” ap- 
peared. ^ 

A j^ear afterwards he took his degree of M. A. from 
his in the following year Avas ap- 

pointed Head Master of the York Street School, 
Fredericton. He retained this position only three 
months when he touched Fame’s shield Avith the 
LJf literary lists as 

things his own way, and it is not stran-e that 
he and his editor disagreed on various mattei's'! Our 

months"''““' four 

Returning to Noav BrunsAvick he continued his lit- 
erary labours, and in 1885 Avas Avorthily called to the 



tJNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



151 



1888.] 



post of Professor of iArodorn Literature iu King’s Col- 
lege, Windsor, Nova Scotia, with which he Is still 
connected. Prosessor Roberts is, evidently, a hard 
worker. He is president of the Haliburton Society, 
and connected with societies too numerous to mention. 
His lectures are looked forward to by Nova Scotians, 
and his recent contribution to the N. Y. Canadian 
Club essays is well-known. 

Of his pleasures I can say but little. His verses 
breathe love of Nature, and in “Birch and Paddle” he 
has evidently given us his soul. He is an enthusiastic 
fisher. His home life I would not, if I could, profane 
with prying eyes. Let “ In Notre Dame ” answer for 
him. He has three children. 



II. 

It scarcely required the assurance of his father to 
convince me that Professor Roberts possesses the art 
of wielding the brush, as well as the pen. He carries 
his palette into his study and lays on his colors in 
his verse with a lavish hand. He seems to have a 
preference for striking combinations, but his shading 
is no less delicate or suitable, and his colors harmonize 
with the sense, where harmony is needed. As ex- 
amples of this, I may refer the reader to several of 
his sonnets : — “ Rain ” is a study in gray ; “ The 
Potato Harvest ” a study in sombre tints, such as gray 
and brown, relieved by an amber sky ; “ Before the 
Breath of Storm” is a study in blue and gold ; “ To 
Fredericton in May Time,” and also “ In September,” 
are studies in green and yellow. 

The Canadian flag that Professor Roberts (like 
many another confident in the future of our beloved 
land) anxiously awaits, will be a maple leaf on “ blood 
red folds.” Perhaps no poem of his is so full of color 
as Actaeon. The woman of Platsea works “ In purple 
on the himation’s saffron fold.” He speaks of “ apples 
summer flushed,” the “ strange red hungry eyes” of 
Actaeon’s dogs, “ scarlet pomegranates,” “ a yellow 
sanded pool,” “ brown about the further bank from 
scarlet berried ash trees,” of maids who “ uplifted 
white arras to grasp the berried ash,” thus contrasting 
the flesh tint with the ruddier berries. 

In describing the dawn, he writes : — 

“ Men of Eleusis look toward north at dawn 
To see the long white fleeces upward roll, 

Smitten aslant with saffron, fade like smoke, 

And leave the gray -green dripping glens all bare.” 

In the “ Tantramar Revisited,” where he describes 
the scenery made dear and familiar to him in boy- 
hood, he has such lines as “ When past the dikes the 
red flood glides,” “ Up the green plains of Tantramar,” 
“ The strip of red clay at the water’s lip.” “ In the 
Afternoon” contains such couplets as “ Of blue vetch 
and convolvulus and matted roses glorious, and In 
sudden long pale lines that flee up the deep breast of 
this green sea.” 

With him Tempe is “Threaded with amber oi 
brooks, mirrored in azure of pools, while by Peneus 
the “ sward breaks into saffron and blue. 

In the comparatively short poem, “ Out of Pompei 
we have “ a dreary gleam of white light,” “ white 



sparkles” of the waves, “ dark vault ” of night, “ the 
red mount” of Vesuvius, and the woman lies on 
“ scarlet stuffs” with a ‘‘white arm” hanging over the 
water, while she wears “ yellow sandals.” 

I will not multiply illustrations of Professor 
Roberts’ love of color, but I cannot leave this subject 
without quoting two verses from “ Off Pelorus,” the 
first, noteworthy for its richness of stated color, and 
the second, for its suggestiveness of color. The open- 
ing verse runs as follows : — 

“ Crimson swims the sunset over far Pelorus, 

Burning crimson tops its frowning crest of pine, 

Purple sleeps the shore and floats the wave before us 

Eachwhere from the oar-stroke eddying warm like wine.” 

The fifth stanza is — 

“ Idly took we thought, for still our eyes betray us. 

Lo, the white-limbed maids, with love-soft eyes aglow. 

Gleaming bosoms bare, loosed hair, sweet hands to slay us. 
Warm lips wild with song, and softer throats than snow ! ” 

In this stanza every tint in the human body, of 
limb, lip, hair, and eye, is suggested, as well as the 
softer tones of throat and bosom. 

Professor Roberts is one of the few who 

“ Deem not the framing of a deathless lay, 

The pastime of a drowsy summer day.” 

He has seen the necessity of “ labor timae et mora,” 
as my kind friend, Mr. John Reade, advises, and his 
verses are consequently a delight to the educated 
reader, through the thorough marriage of sound and 
sense. 

Professor Koberts owes much to his study, not 
merely of the classics, but of contemporary poets. If 
I mistake not, he has been a deep student of Swin- 
burne, as well as of Tennyson and Longfellow. We 
are too apt, however, to call every one who essays the 
Hexameter, a disciple of Longfellow, and I am of 
opinion that Professor Roberts’ debt to our greatest 
American poet is not very great. His style is more 
luxurious than Longfellow’s. Tennyson is plainly 
seen in portions of Professor Roberts’ blank verse. 
The closing lines of “ Actaeon ” are sweet echoes of 
Tennyson, and might have been inserted in the Idylls 
of the King without the joint being visible. The 
wind 

“ Stirred 

The branches down the valley ; then blew off 
To eastward toward the long gray straits, and died 
Into the dark, beyond the utmost verge.” 

“Waist-deep in dusty-blossomed grass” is dis- 
tinctly Tennysonian. Compare with this Tennyson’s 
“ Brook ” : — 

“ And even while she spoke, I saw where James 
Made toward us like a wader in the surf. 

Beyond the brook, waist-deep in meadow-sweet.” 

Swinburne, I should say, has been Professor Roberts’ 
supreme master. In oue case he mimics what, I con- 
fess, seems to be an unpardonably bad rhyme. He 
says in “ Out of Pompei ” — 

“ On heaped-up leopard skins she crouched 
Asleep, and soft skins covered her. 

And scarlet stuff's where she was couched 
Sodden with sea water.” 



152 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888, 



Ignoring the rhyming of couched and crouched, I 
must say I do not like the accentuation of the final 
syllable in water. Take, now, Swinburne in “ May 
Janet ” — 

“ Her father’s drawn her by both hands, 

He’s rent her gown from her, 

He’s ta’en the smock round her body, 

Cast in the sea water.” 

Another Swinburnism is the use of the past-parti- 
ciple “ blown.” In “ Orion ” the brown panicles of 
beach grass wear “ garlands of blown foam.” Swin- 
burne has “ like blown wind ” and “ blown cloud ” 
The poem, “ The flight,” is distinctly due to Swin- 
burne’s mystical influence. 

Professor Roberts is a truly maritime poet. His 
metaphors and similes are largely of the sea, and he 
introduces the peculiarities of his own coast into even 
his classical themes. In “ Orion ” we recognize it — 

“ Down to the wave’s wet limits, scattering off 
Across the red sand level stunted tufts 
Of yellow beach grass, whose brown panicles 
Wore garlands of blown foam.” 

In “ Memnon ” we have “ red unstable sand 
wreaths,” and in “ Acteon” — 

“Fair the shining tracts of sea ; 

Green solitudes, and broad, low-lying plains 
Made brown with frequent labor of men’s hands. 

And salt, blue, fruitless waters.” 

The red color is characteristic of his boyish home. 

I had intended giving a few illustrations of the 
charming word-painting of Professor Roberts, but 
lack of space forbids it. It must be left for the 
reader of his poems to discover for himself such lines 
as 

“ Through arched windows sluicing gold 
In sloping moted rows.” 

and 

“ In sunbeam fretted dusk 

Thro’ populous golden glooms.” 

I cannot close, however, without paying a tribute 
to the intensely national feeling of Professor Roberts, 
shown in the “ Ode for the Canadian Confederacy,” 
the “Collect for Dominion Day,” and “Canada,” 
while yet admiring him for his breadth of views, 
which permits him to seek his poetry even beyond 
the limits of our time and country. 

Arthur Weir. 



3¥lciBiU 3^eui$. 



Would the gentleman who took, by mistake, a 
B.C.L. hood, with a pink border, in place of his own, 
which was red, from the first alcove in the Science 
side of the library, at the Arts Convocation, please 
communicate with Mr. Hope, University Club, and 
receive his own in return. 

His Excellency the Governor-General has been 
pleased to present to the University, life-size portraits 
of himself and Lady Lansdowne, by Notman. These 
portraits have been placed, for the present, in the 
library of the University. 



The graduating class in Science held their dinner 
at the Windsor on Saturday evening, the 28th April. 
It was one of the most enjoyable of the many “ good 
times” for which the boys in this faculty are famous. 
The University Gazette had received a slight casti- 
gation at Convocation, but its detractors found little 
sympathy among the Science grads., and the Editor- 
in-chief, who happened in during the dinner, was 
bounced, and called on for a speech. 

The only societies which have reported to us regu- 
larly during the past year are those in connection with 
the Ladies’ department. The Gazette is somewhat 
to blame in not making better provision for reports 
from the Undergraduates’ Literary Society, which, we 
understand, is in a good condition and doing a good 
work. The University Literary meetings are, as a 
matter of fact, not worth reporting. The Graduates’ 
Society has held several important meetings this year, 
at one of which the petitons, printed in another column 
of this issue, were adopted. 

The Peter Redpath Museum has received a second 
small collection from the committee of the Egypt Ex- 
ploration Fund. It consists of objects from Nank- 
vates, and a few from Tel-el Yehoudich, the supposed 
site of the Jewish city founded in Egypt in the time 
of Ptolemy Philometor by the High Priest Onias, 
when expelled from Jerusalem by the persecution of 
Antiochus Epiphanes. 

These objects, as well as those formerly presented, 
and the collections made by Sir William Daw.son in 
Egypt, are open to the inspection of any one inter- 
ested in Egyptian antiquities or in the useful work of 
the Egypt Exploration Fund. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



At the adjourned meeting of the Ladies’ Lawn 
Tennis Club, on Wednesday, April 3rd, the follow- 
ing officers were elected : — 



President. - - - 

Sec. Treasurer. - 
Ass’t Sec. Treasurer. 

Committee. - - - 



Miss J. Botterell. 
“ M. Evans. 

“ M. Finley. 

( “ H. Reid. 

I “ B. Evans. 



The closing meeting of the Theo Dora Society, was 
held on Thursday, April 26th. Owing to the press 
of work during examinations, no essays had been pre- 
pared, but several of the members read appropriate 
selections. Lady Dawson was present, and expressed 
her kind interest in the Society, regretting that she 
had been unable to attend more of the meetings. It 
was decided to send the contents of the Theo Dora 
Mission Box, over seven dollars, to the China Inland 
Mission. 



On the day following Convocation, the President 
and Committee of the Delta Sigma gave an “ At 
Home,” at the residence of the former, 38 St. Faraille 
Street. Invitations were sent to the professors and 
their families, also to a few outsiders interested in 
educational work. The programme opened with an 
essay on “The Higher Education of Women,” by 
Miss McLea. This was well received. A debate 



1888.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



153 



followed, upon a subject quite appropriate to May, the 
month of household changes, viz : “ Resolved, that co- 
operative housekeeping will be for the world’s advan- 
tage in the future.” Miss Hunter, the leader on the 
affirmative, explained the plan upon which co-operative 
housekeeping was based. She was answered by Miss 
Murray, who pointed out many disadvantages likely 
to arise from such a system. Miss Reid then dealt 
with the subject from a financial standpoint, and Miss 
Derick closed the debate on the negative, with some 
well-put arguments. An address by Rev. Dr. Murray, 
entitled “Vassar College,” brought the proceedings 
to a close, and after a vote of thanks to Dr. Murray, 
the guests partook of five o’clock tea. 

Unfortunately, as the daily papers tell us, “ the 
press was rigidly excluded ” from the Lady Graduates’ 
Supper, so as yet no authorized account has appeared 
in print. Shortly after eight o’clock on Convocation 
night, McGill’s first daughters assembled at 57 Union 
Avenue, Avhither they had been kindly invited by 
Miss Reid, ’89, Arts. The supper table did not groan 
under the weight of good things. Had this been an 
ordinary occasion it would certainly have done so, but 
what table would have dared to groan under the cir- 
cumstances ? Did not the smiling faces of so many 
feminine B. A’s. fully compensate for any personal 
inconvenience it might experience ? A message arrived 
from the Graduates’ Dinner at the Windsor, signed 
by the Directors of the University Gazette, expres- 
sing a wish that the lady graduates might have a “jolly 
good time” that night, and every success in the future. 
The message boy was regaled with oranges, to curb his 
impatience while a suitable reply was prepared. A 
number of toasts were proposed, and drank in lemon- 
ade. Among them may be mentioned : “ Our Hostess,” 
“ The Professors,” “ McGill,” “ The University 
Gazette,” “ The Regulation Toasts.” These were re- 
plied to by the ladies, and their speeches are deserving 
of commendation, inasmuch as they were short and to 
the point. Miss Murphy, secretary of the graduating 
class, was requested to continue her office and keep 
the addresses of the graduates, who will write to her 
once a year. The supper broke up at eleven. It will 
ever be remembered with pleasure, as the first affair of 
its kind in this city, albeit we cannot help feeling a 
little sorrowful when we reflect that possibly it is the 
last social gathering of the class of ’88. 

It is good that the old effulgence of the University 
should be sustained in the Faculty of Arts by the 
lustre of Day and Martin. 



EXAMINATIONS. 

FACULTY OF ARTS. 



PASSED FOR THE DEGREE OF B.A., IN HONOURS. 
(Alphabetically arranged.) 

Fir.st Rank. —Evans, C. Blanche B.; Giles, William J. ; Hun- 
ter, Georgina ; LeRossiguol, James E. ; Martin, Charles F. ; 
McFee, Donalda ; Pedley, Hilton ; Ritchie, Octavia G. 

Second Rank.— Lindsay, Norman. 



ORDINARY. 

(In order of merit.) 

McGill College. 

75% and upward. — Macallum, Frederick W., with special 
certificate ; Biyan, Andrew C., with special certificate ; Mason, 
Horace E. C.; Naismith, Peter L.; Masse, Arthur E.; Howitt, 
William, MacPhail, John A. 

Class II. — Cross, Eliza C. ; Palmer, Jane V. ; Larkin, Fred- 
erick H. 

Class III. — Murray, Alice ; Murphy, Martha; Biyson, Alfred 
P. ; Thurlow, Harold M. ; England, George P. ; Sweeny, 
George R. 

Aeger. — Morison, John A. 



BACHELORS OF ARTS PROCEEDING TO THE DEGREE OF 
M.A., IN COURSE. 

MacFee, Kutusoff, N. B.A. ; MacFarlane, James, B.A. ; 
Thompson, G. J., B.A. 

ADMITTED TO THE DEGREE OF LL.D., “Honoris Causd.” 

Heneker, R. W., D. C. L. — Chancellor of the University, 
Bishop’s College, Lennoxville. 

Anderson, Alexander. — Principal of Prince of Wales’ College, 
Charlottetown, P. E. I. 

Fream, William, B. S. C. (London.) — Principal of Natural 
History. The Royal Agricultural College, Liecester, England. 

PASSED THE INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION. 

McGill College. 

Class I. — Daley, James T. ; Williams, Annie ; Derick, Carrie 
M. ; Nicholls, Albert G. ; McDougall, Robert ; Abbott, Maude 
E. ; Fraser, Daniel J. ; Sutherland, Andrew A. 

Class II. — Scott, Sarah B. ; Mack, Silas W. ; Botterell, H. 
Inez R. ; Colclough, William T. ; Davidson, Peers ; Botterell, 
Jeanie T. ; Tolmie, Alexander ; Hall, Alexander R. ; Elliott, 
James A. ; McGregor, A,, Tory, H. ; Richardson, P. L. 

Class III. — Matthewson, George H. ; MacFarlane, Mira ; 
McDuffee, Lewis P. ; Hall, Richard S. ; Walsh, Alexander W.; 
Kinghoru, Hugh M. ; Trenholme, Edward C. ; Cameron, J. 
Alexander ; Fry, Frederick M. ; Ross, Joseph J. ; Finch, C. W. 



Morrin College. 

Class I — Brodie, Charles E. 

Class II. — Hunter, Alexander. 

Class III. — Anderson, Duncan P. ; Craig, Hugh; DesBrisay, 
Charles ; McCullough, Robert. 



St. Francis College. 

Class I. — None. 

Class II. — Farnsworth, R. H. 

Class III.— Elliott, E. A.; Jones, Arthur; Reid, W. D. ; 
Dresser, J. 



FACULTY OF ARTS. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 

B. A . Honours in Classics. 

Day, John L. — First Rank Honours and Chapman Gold 
Medal. 

B.A. Honours in Natural Science. 

Le Rossignol, James E. — First Rank Honours and Logan 
Gold Medal ; Giles, William J. — First Rank Honours ; Evans, 
C. Blanche B. — First Rank Honours; Ritchie, Octavia G. — 
First Rank Honours. 

B. A. Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy. 

Pedley, Hilton. — First Rank Honours and Prince of Wales 
Gold Medal ; McFee, Donalda. — First Rank Honours ; Lindsay, 
Norman. — Second Rank Honours. 



154 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



B. A. Honoicrs in English Language^ Literature 
and History, 

Hunter, Georgina. - First Rank Honours and Shakespeare 
Gold Medal ; Martin, Charles F. — First Rank Honours. 

Special Certificates. 

Macallum, Frederick W. ; Bryan, Andrew C. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Decks, William E. — First Rank Honours in Natural Science ; 
First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Zoology ; Gibson, 
William D.— First Rank Honours in Classics and Prize ; Prize 
in English ; Tniell, Harry V. — First Rank Honours in Mental 
and Moral Philosophy and Prize ; Robertson, James H. --First 
Rank Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy ; Stevenson, 
James H. — First Rank General Standing ; Prize in English. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Wilson ; Reid and Squire, equal ; Gibson, Decks, Stevenson, 
Truell, Robertson, Rogers, Garth and Meighen ; McKenzie; 
Holden and Walsh, equal ; Jamieson, McCusker, Read. 

SECOND YEAR. 



Early English Text Society's PrizCy Martin, Charles F. 
Fourth Year Student. 



At the Examinations in September, 1887, the fol- 
lowing Scholarships and Exhibitions were awarded : — 

SCHOLARSHIPS — TENABLE FOR TWO YEARS. 

Third Year. Classical and Modern Language Scholar- 
ships — ^Truell, H. V., JDeeks, W. E. 

Third Year. — Natural Science Scholarship. —*Gihsow^ W. D. 

EXHIBITIONS — tenable FOR ONE YEAR. 

Fourth Year. — *The Exhibition of $125 yearly aw^arded in 
1886 for Natural Science to Giles, W. J., 
was continued for another year for distin- 
guished progress in Third Year Studies. 

Second Year. — *McDougall, Robert, (Huntingdon Academy, 
P. Q.) ; *Robertson, A. A. (High School, 
Montreal) ; tNicholls, A. G. (High School, 
Montreal). 

First Year. — * McGregor, J. M. (High School, Montreal) ; 

* LeRossignol, W. J. (High School, Montreal). 



Tory, H. M. (Guysboro’ Academy, N.S.) First Rank Honours 
in Mathematics and Prize ; Hall, Alexander R. (Gananoque 
High School), Second Rank Honours in Mathematics and 
Prize ; Daley, .lames, (Uxbridge High School), First Bank 
General Standing ; Prize in English, Prize in German ; Nicholls, 
Albert G. (High School, Montreal), First Rank General Stand- 
ing ; McDougall, Robert, (Huntingdon Academy, P. Q.) Fimt 
Rank General Standing; Prize in French; Fraser, Daniel J. 
(Prince of Wales College, Charlottetown, P. E. I.) First Rank 
General Standing ; Prize in Logic ; Sutherland, Hugh C. 
(Private Tuition ), First Rank General Standing ; Prize in 
Hebrew ; Robertson, Andrew A. (High School, Montreal), 
First Rank General Standing ; Mack, Silas W. (Stanstead 
W^esleyan College, P. Q.) Prize in Botany ; Colclough, William 
F. (Middleton (jrainmar School, England), Prize in Classics; 
Davidson, Peers, (High School, Montreal), Prize in English. 

PASSED the sessional EXAMINATIONS. 

Daly, Williams, Derick, McDougall, Abbott, Fraser, Sutherland, 
Robertson, Scott, Mack, Botterell (H. 1. R.), Colclough, David- 
son, Botterell (J. T.), Tolmie, Hall (A. R.), Elliott, McGregor, 
Tory, Richardson, Matthewson, Macfarlane, McDuffee, Hall 
(R. S.), Walsh, Kinghorn, Trenholme, Cameron, Fry, Ross, 
Finch (C. W). 

FIRST YEAR. 

McMillan, James (Private Tuition), Second Rank Honours 
in Mathematics and Prize; McGregor, John M. (High School, 
Montreal), Second Rank Honours in Mathematics and Prize ; 
First Rank General Standing, Prize in French, Prize in German ; 
LeRossignol, W’alter J. (High School, Montreal), First Rank 
General Standing, Prize in Classics, Prize in French, Prize in 
C'hemistiy ; Gunn, William T. (High School. Montreal), 
First Rank General Standing; Warne, James F. (Stanstead 
Wesleyan College, P. Q.) First Rank General Standing, Prize 
in English; Harris, William, (Collegiate Institute, St. Cath- 
arines, Ont ) Prize in Hebrew. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

LeRossignol, McGregor, Gunn, Warne (J. F.), Ellenwood, 
Reeves, Oliver, Mooney, Dobson, Hall ; Harris and Mewhort, 
equal ; Robinson, McAlpine, Flinn, Finley, Warne (W. A.), 
Mattice, Smith, McMillan (H.), McMillan (J ), Young, Tees, 
Russell, Cole, Walsh, Cooper, Colquhoun, Allen, Baillie, Hipp, 
Moffatt, McDougall, Moore (L.), Whyte. 



SPECIAL COURSE FOR WOMEN (Donalda Endowment)§ 

PRIZES AND STANDING, GRADUATING CLASS. 

B. A. Honours in Natural Science. 

Evans, C. Blanche B. — First Rank Honours in Natural 
Science. 

Ritchie, Octavia G. — Fimt Rank Honours in Natural Science. 

B. A. Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy. 
McFee, Donalda. — First Rank Honours. 



B. A. Honours in English Language^ Literature 
and History. 

Hunter, Georgina. — First Rank Honours and Shakespeare 
Gold Medal. 



THIRD YEAR. 



Wilson, Alice Maude. First Rank Honours in Mental and 
Moral Philosophy and Prize ; First Rank General Standing ; 
Prize in Zoology ; Prize in French 

Reid, Helen R. Y. — First Rank Honours in Modern Lan- 
guages ; First Rank General Standing ; Prize in German ; Prize 
for Collection of Plants. 

Squire, Maude M. — First Rank Honours in Natural Science ; 
First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Classics. 

Passed the Sessional Examination of the Third Year. — Wil- 
son ; Reid and Squire, equal. 

Passed in Certain Classes as Partial or Occasional Stu^ 
dents . — Johnson (H.), Kennedy (M. L.), Kirk. 



SECOND YEAR. 

Derick, Carrie M. — (Normal School, Montreal.) — First Rank 
General Standing ; Prize in Botany. 

Abbott, Maude E. — (Misses Symmers’ and Smith’s School, 
Montreal.) — First Rank General Standing; Prize in Classics; 
Prize in Logic. 

Williams, Annie.— (Girls’ High School. Montreal).— First 
Rank General Standing ; Prize in Latin ; Prize in English ; Prize 
in German. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations of the Second Year . — 
Derick, Abbott, Williams, Scott, Botterell (I.R.), Botterell (J.T.). 
Macfarlane. ^ 



Professor's Prize for Collection of Fossils^ LeRossignol J. 
E — Fourth Year Student 

Professor s Prize for Collection of Insectsy Giles W. J. — 
Fourth Y^ear Student. 

Neil Stewart Prize in HebreWy Macallum F. W. — Fourth 
Year Student. 



♦Value of Scholarship or Exhibition, $125 yearly; founded, W. 
C. MacDonald, Esq. 

tValue, $125 yearly ; donor, George Hague, Esq. 
tValue, $120 yearb^ ; founder, Charles Alexander, Esq. 

§The prizes in this department are from income of Hannah Wil- 
lard Lyman Memorial Fund. 



1888.] 



tJNIVEKSTTY GAZETTE 



155 



Passed in Certain Classes as Partial or Occasional Stu- 
dents. — Kennedy (M. L.), Kruse, Vipond. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Mooney, Caroline J.— (Girls’ High School, Montreal.) — Prize 
in Chemistry ; Prize in (German. 

Mattice, Brenda L. —(Girls’ High School, Montreal.) — Prize 
in English. 

Passed in the Sessional Examinations in the First Year . — 
Mooney, Hall, Mewhort, Robinson, Moffatt, Finley, ^lattice. 
Smith, McMillan, Baillie. 

Passed in Certain Classes as Partial or Occasional Stu- 
dents. — Beard, Evans, Kruse, Michaels, Murray (E.), Waud (E. 
M.), Stevenson. 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

The following gentlemen, in number, have passed 
their Primary Examination, which comprised the 
following subjects : Anatomy, Practical Anatomy, 
Chemistry, Practical Chemistry, Physiology, Histology 
and Botany : — 

Addy, G. A. B., St, John, N.B. ; Aylen, W. W., Aylmer, Q. ; 
Bissett, C. P., River Bourgeois, N.S. ; Bowes, E. J., Ottawa, 
Out. ; Broderick, E. J., Fredericton, N.B. ; Burritt, C. H., 

B. A., Mitchell, Unt. ; Clark, J. W., Tatamagouche, N.S. ; 
Clune, P. J., Warkworth, Out. ; Coleman, A. H., Belleville, 
Ont. ; Corbin, F. G., Bedford, N.S. ; Curtis, I. B., Hartland, 
N.B. ; Evans, D. J., Montreal, Que. ; Ellis, T. H., Pembroke, 
Ont. ; Essen, A. C., Halifax, N.S. ; Esson, F. G., Halifax, N.S. ; 
Haldimand, A. W., Montreal, Que. ; Hamilton, H. D., Mont- 
real, Que. ; Hayes, J., B.A., Nelson, N.B. ; Inksetter, W. E., 
Copetown, Ont. ; Irwin, W. T., Pembroke, Ont. ; Jento, C. P., 
Brockville, Ont. ; Kerr, N., Holyrood, Ont. ; Lang, M. W., St, 
Mary’s, Ont; Liddell, G. L., Cornwall, Ont. ; Low, D., Glen 
Buel, Ont. ; Main, C. G., Canterbury, N.B. ; Murray, M. W., 
Beechwood, Ont. ; Morris, 0., Pembroke, Ont. ; McEwen, H., 
Carleton, Ont. ; McDonald, M. S., Scotchtown, Ont. ; McKee, 

G. L., Coaticook, Que. ; McKinnon, G. W., Sunnyside, P.E.I. ; 
McKechnie, R. E., Winnipeg, Man. ; MacPhail, J. A., Oiwell, 
P.E.L ; McLellan, A. C., Indian River, P.E.I. ; McManus, H. 
D., Fredericton, N.B. ; Morj^hy, A. (J., B.A., London, Ont. ; 
Noble, C. T., Sutton, Ont. ; Robertson, W., Chesterfield, Ont. ; 
Reid, T. J., Winnipeg, Man.; Ross, J., Halifax, N.S. ; Ross, 

H. R., Quebec, Que. ; Smith, W. D., Plantagenet, Ont. ; Telfer, 
W. J., Burgoyne, Ont ; Thompson, F. E., Quebec, Que. ; White, 
D. D., Montreal, Que. ; Wilson, W. A., Derby, N.B. ; Wheeler, 

C. L., B.A., Montreal, Que. ; Yorston, F. S., Truro, N.B. 

The following gentlemen, in number, have fulfilled 
all the requirements to entitle them to the degree of 
M.D., C.M., from the University. In addition to the 
Primary subjects mentioned, they have passed a 
satisfactory examination, both written and oral, on the 
following subjects : Principles and Practice of Surgery, 
Theory and Practice of Medicine, Obstretrics and 
Diseases of Women and Children, Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics, Medical Jurisprudence, Pathology and 
Hygiene, — and also Clinical Examinations in Medicine 
and Surgery conducted at the bedside in the 
hospital : — 

Baer, D. C., Summerfield, 111. ; Bell, J. H., B.A., Montreal, 
Que. ; Berry R. P., Lindsay, Ont. ; Bradley, W. L, B.A., 
Ottawa, Ont. ; Cameron, J. J., Lancaster, Ont. ; Cartel, E. H., 
Picton, Ont. ; Castleman, A. L., East Williamsburg, Ont. ; 
Chalmers, W. W., B.A., Huntingdon, Que.; Oloustoii, J. R., 
Maple Hill, Que. ; Conroy, C. P., Martintown, Ont. : Desmond, 
F. J., Newcastle, N.B. ; Dewar, C. P., Ottawa, Ont. ; Ferguson, 
W. D. T., Cumberland, Ont. ; Fritz, H. D., B.A., St. John, 
N B • Goodwin, W. W.; Baie Verte, N.B. ; Gunne, N. D. 
Seaforth, Ont. ; Haentschel, C. W., Pembroke, Ont. ; Hewitt, J ., 
Quebec, Que. ; Hoare, C. W., Strathroy, Ont. ; Haldimand, A. 



AV., Montreal, Que. ; Hopkins, H. J., Cookshire, Que. ; Hub- 
bard, O. H., Gilsam, N.H. ; Kennedy, J. H., Lindsay, Ont. ; 
Kenney, F. L., B. A., St. John, N.B. ; Kincaid, R. M., Clarence- 
ville, Que. ; Kirkpatrick, E. A., Kentville, N.A ; Lang, W. M., 
St. Mary’s, Ont. ; Metcalfe, F. T., Buffalo, N.Y. ; Moffatt, R. 

D., West Winchester, Ont. ; Morrow, C., Russell, Ont. ; 
McDonell, A. E. J., B.A., Morrisburg, Ont. ; McDougall, D. S., 
Russell, Ont. ; McCarthy, J. G., Sorel, Que. ; McFarlane, M. 

A. , Arnprior, Ont. ; McKinnon, G. AV., Sunnyside, P.E.L ; 
McLennan, D., Dunvegan, Ont. ; McMartin, D. R., Martin- 
town, Ont. ; Orr, A. E., Cookshire, Que. ; Orr, J. E., Mount 
Elgin, Ont. ; Park, P. C., Durham, Ont. ; Pearman, H. V., 
Halifax, N.S. ; Potts, J. Me., Belleville, Ont. ; Quirk, E. L., 
Aylmer, Que.; Robertson, A. G., Iroquois, Ont. ; Stewart, A. D., 
Arundel, Que. ; Stewart, W. G., B.A. ; Arundel, Que. ; Springle, 
J. A., Montreal, Que. ; 'I'hompsou, J. H., Gananoque, Out. ; 
Weagant, A. A., Hosaic, Ont. ; Westly, R. A., Lancaster, Ont. ; 
Wetmore, F. H., Bloomfield, N.B. ; Woodruff, T. A., St. 
Catharines, Ont. ; Wylde, C. F., Halifax, N.S. ; Young, H. E., 

B. A., Napanee, Ont. 

The Holmes Gold Medal, for the best Examination in all the 
Branches comprised in the Medical Curriculum, is awarded to 
Neil D. Gunne, of Seaforth, Ont. 

The Prize for the best Examination in the Final Branches is 
awarded to William Grant Stewart, of Arundel, Que. 

The Prize for the best Examination in the Primary Branches 
is awarded to Robert Edward McKechnie, of Winnipeg, 
Manitoba. 

The Sutherland Gold Medal, is awarded to Charles Peter Bissett, 
of River Bourgeois, Nova Scotia. 

The following gentlemen, arranged in order of merit, deserve 
honourable mention : — 

In the Primary Branches : — C. P. Bissett, E J. Bowes, E. G. 
Broderick, G. L. McKee, M. W. Murray, AV. E. Inksetter, A. 
H. Coleman, T. H. Ellis, C. T. Noble, W. A. Wilson. 

In the Final Branches : — J. E. Orr, R. M. Kincaid, J. R. 
Springle, A. E. Orr, H. D. Fritz, H. Y. Pearman, J. H. 
Thompson, H. E. Young, A. D. Stewart, D. McLennan, P. C. 
Park, 0. H. Hubbard. 

PROFESSOK^S PRIZES. 

Botany. — W. A. Farwell, Lennoxville, Que. 
^wa^omy.-Demonstrator’sPrizes : 2nd year, P. E. McKechnie ; 
1st year, E. A. Grafton. 

Obstetrics. — W. G. Stewart. 

Pathology. — N. D. Gunne. 



FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

Arthur Lenox Drummond — Lansdowne silver medal, prize for 
summer report, certificates of merit in designing, steam engine, 
hydraulics, machinery, millwork, and mechanical work. 
Edgar Sydney Montgomery Lovelace — British association gold 
medal ; certificates of merit of designing, applied mechanics and 
hydraulics. Marshal Willard Hopkins —Certificate of merit in 
applied mechanics and designing. Alfred Joseph Tremblay — 
Certificate of merit in astronomy. Arthur Edward Childs — 
Certificate of merit in practical construction ; prize for summer 
report. Aubrey George Eneas — Certificate of merit in practical 
construction. Charles Herbert Maenutt — Second rank honors 
in natural science. 

Passed Sessional Examinations. 

Civil engineering, advanced course, in order of merit — Edgar 
Sydney, Montgomery Lovelace, Marshal AVillard Hopkins. 

Civil engineering, ordinary course, in order of merit— Edgar 
Sydney Montgomery Lovelace, Marshal Willard Hopkins, Alfred 
Joseph 'freinblay. 

Mechanical engineering, advanced course — Arthur Lenox 
Drummond. 

Mechanical engineering, ordinary course, in order of merit — 
Arthur Lenox Drummond, Arthur Edward Childs, Robert For- 
rest Ogilvy, Aubrey George Eneas. 



156 UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. [1888. 



Miniug engineering, ordinary course, in order of merit — 
Charles Herbert Macnutt, Francois Xavier A. Roy. 

Practical chemistry, ordinary course, in order of merit — 
William Joseph Hamilton, Chas. Langlin Walters. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Allan Wilmot Strong, prizes in applied mechanics, descrip- 
tive geometry, surveying, mathematical physics and mathematics; 
James Preston Tuplin, prizes in mechanical work, machinery and 
millwork ; leter Lawrence Naismith, prize in experimental 
physics ; Milton L. Hersey, $15 prize for summer report, prize 
in practical chemistry ; George Morse Edwards, prizes in theor- 
etical chemistry, zoology. 

Passed the Sessional Examination. 

Civil engineering (advanced course), in order of merit — Allan 
Wilmot Strong, John Holden AntlifF. 

Civil engineering (ordinary course), in order of merit — Allan 
Wilmot Strong, Peter Lawrence Naismith, John Holden AntUff, 
Malcolm C. McFarlane, Murdy John McLennan, George Kyle 
Addie. 

Mechanical engineering (advanced course) — James Preston 
Tuplin. 

Practical chemistry, in order of merit— George Morse Edwards, 
Milton L. Hersey, Andrew Young. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Edward Ernest Mattice, prize in mathematics and mathema- 
tical physics ; G. Sinclair Smith, prize in descriptive geometry ; 
Percy Norton Evans, prize in expertmental physics ; Orrin 
Rexford, prize in materials. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

Civil engineering, in order of merit — Edward E. S. Mattice, 
Herbert EUicott, Orrin Rexford, Albert Howard Hawkins, 
William Simeon Denison. 

Mechanical engineering, in order of merit— G. Sinclair Smith, 
George W. Mooney, Peter Whiteford Redpath (seger). 

Practical chemistry, in order of merit— Percy Norton Evans, 
Sidney Calvert, Arthur E. Shuttle worth, Robert Henry Jamieson. 

FIRST YEAR. 

E. A. Stone, prizes in mathematics, French and German ; 
John Edward Schwitzer, prize in practical chemistry ; William 
H. H. Walker, prize in general chemistry. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

In order of merit — E. A. Stone, William Henry Hamilton 
Walker, Thomas Henry Wingham, William Jardine Bulman, 
Abraham Bowman Clemence, Percy Howe Middleton, John Ed- 
ward Schwitzer, William Russel, Hugh Yelverton Russell, Henry 
Martyn Ramsay. 

SUMMER REPORT. 

Third year— Class I.— Hersey (prize) (destnictive distillation 
of wood), Antliff Uock gates), McFarlane (surveying), Tuplin 
(boiler repairing). Class II. — Addie (laying out a tramway), 
McLennan (laying out work) and Naismith (levelling) and 
Strong (indicators), equal. Class III. — Edwards (sodium car- 
bonate), Hunter (levelling) and Y oung (electrometallurgy), equal. 

Fourth year— Class I. — Childs (prize) (locomotive crank axles) 
and Drummond (prize) (slide valves), equal ; Lovelace (Montreal 
and Maskinonge railway), Macnutt (exploration of islands on 
east coast of James Bay, etc.), Hopkins (house drainage) and 
Ogilvj (surface and jet condensres) and Tremblay (the system of 
surveys in the Northwest Territory), equal. Class II. — Eneas 
(sugar mill and trifle eflects). Class III. — Roy (Distribution of 
natural gas in the United States), Hamilton (aniline and some 
of the aniline colors) and Walters (the manufacture and use of 
ammonia), equal. 

SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS, 1888. 

Freehand drawing.— First year. — Class I. — Middleton (prize) 
Turner, Russell, (W). Class II. — Ramsay and Lucas, equal ; 
Walker, Wingham. Class III. — Stuart and Stone, equal ; 
Clemence, Russel (H.T.) and Schwitzer, equal ; Bulman, Kloch, 
Fraser. 



Descriptive geometry. — Second year — Class I. — Smith (prize); 
Mattice and Redpath, equal ; Evans ; Jamieson and Mooney, 
equal. Class II.— McMillan, EUicott; Reid and Rexford, equal. 
Class III.— Denison, Monk ; Calvert, Small and Shuttleworth, 
equal. Third year. — Class 1. — Strong (prize). Class II. 
Tuplin ; McFarlane and McLennan, equal ; Antliff, Naismith. 
Class III. — Addie. 

Surveying and geodesy. — Second year. — Class I.— EUicott and 
Smith, equal. Class II. — Hawkins, McMillan, Mattice, Denison, 
Rexford, Reed. Class III. — Mooney, Williams, Redpath, (cCger). 
Thirdyear.— Class I.— Strong (prize). Class II.— None. Class 
III. — Addie ; McLennan and Naismith, equal ; Antliff and 
lUcFarlane, equal. 

Geodesy and practical astronomy. — Fourth year. — Class I. 
Tremblay. 



FACULTY OF LAW. 

The following is the result of the examinations in the Law 
Faculty : — 

Medallists — 1, Ferguson ; 2, Dunton ; 3, Fry. 

Third year -1, Ferguson ; 2, Dunton ; 3, Fry ; 4, Reddy ; 5, 
Budden. 

Second year— 1, Clerk; 2, Topp; 3, Barnard. 

First year — 1, Kneeland ; 2, Girouard ; 3, Harvey ; 4, Hen- 
derson ; 5, Doherty ; 6, Lemieux ; 7, Dunlop ; 8, Vipond. 

THIRD YEAR. 

International and insurance law (Prof. KeiT) — 1, Dunton and 
Ferguson, equal ; 3, Reddy and Fry, equal ; 5, Rudden. 

Roman law (Prof- Trenholme) — 1, Ferguson ; 2, Dunton; 3, 
Fry ; 4, Budden ; 5, Reddy. 

Municipal law (Prof. Archibald) — 1, Ferguson; 2, Dunton; 
3, Fry ; 4, Reddy ; 5, Budden. 

Legal history (Prof. Lareau)— 1, Ferguson ; 2, Dunton and 
Reddy ; 4, Fry ; 5, Budden. 

Civil procedure (Prof. Hutchinson) — 1, Dunton and Ferguson; 
3, Fry and Budden ; 5, Reddy. 

Civil law (Prof. Robidoux) 1, Dunton and Ferguson; 3, 
Budden ; 4, Fry ; 5, Reddy. 

Commercial law (Prof. Davidson) — 1, Dunton and Ferguson ; 
3, Fry ; 4, Reddy ; 5, Budden. 

SECOND YEAR. 

International and insurance law — 1, Clerk; 2, Topp; 3, 
Barnard. 

Roman law — 1, Topp ; 2, Clerk ; 3, Barnard. 

Municipal law — 1, Clerk and Topp ; 3, Barnard. 

Legal history — 1, Clerk ; 2, Topp and Barnard. 

Civil procedure — 1, Clerk and Topp ; 3, Barnard. 

Civil law— 1, Clerk ; 2, Barnard ; 3, Topp. 

Commercial law— 1, Clerk ; 2, Topp ; 3, Barnard. 

FIRST YEAR. 

International and insurance law — 1, Henderson ; 2, Lemieux ; 
3, Girouard ; 4, Harvey and Kneeland ; 6, Dunlop ; 7, Vipond ; 
8, Doherty. 

Roman law 1, Henderson and Girouard; 3, Doherty; 4, 
Kneeland ; 5, Vipond ; 6, Harvey ; 7, Lemieux ; 8, Dunlop. 

Municipal law — 1, Kneeland ; 2, Henderson ; 3, Harvey ; 4, 
Vipond and Girouard ; 6, Lemieux ; 7, Dunlop ; 8, Doherty. 

Legal history— 1, Harvey; 2, Dunlop and Lemieux; 4, 
Vipond; 5, Kneeland; 6, Henderson ; 7, Doherty; 8, Girouard. 

Civil procedure — 1, Kneeland; 2, Girouard and Doherty; 4, 
Harvey; 5, Dunlop; 6, Henderson and Lemieux ; 8, Vipond. 

Civil law— 1, Doherty and Girouard ; 3, Henderson ; 4, 
Kneeland ; 5, Harvey ; 6, Lemieux ; 7, Dunlop ; 8, Vipond. 

Commercial law— 1, Girouard ; 2, Harvey and Kneeland ; 4, 
Doherty ; 5, Hendemon ; 6, Vipond ; 7, Dunlop ; 8, Lemieux. 



A Kansas schoolteacher offered a prize to the scholar 
who would come to school with the cleanest face, and 
the indignant trustees gave her the bounce on suspi- 
cion that she was agent for a soap manufactory. 



1888.] 



UNIVEKSTTY GAZETTE. 



157 



PETITIONS 

ADOPTED AND FORWARDED TO QUEEBC BY THE GRADUATES’ 

SOCIETY. 

To the Honorable Legislative Assembly of the Province 
of Quebec : — 

The petition of the undersigned graduates of the 
faculty of medicine and of other faculties of McGill 
University, respectfully represents : — 

That under the laws as they have heretofore existed, 
and now exist in this province, the faculty of medicine 
of McGill University has attained a position as a school 
of medicine unsurpassed by that of any institution on 
the continent. That its students are drawn in large 
numbers from the other provinces of Canada, and from 
other countries. That the requirements for the degree 
of Doctor of Medicine in said university are greater 
than those of any licensing body in America ; that it 
has come to the knowledge of your petitioners that an 
attempt is to be made during the coming session of the 
Legislature of Quebec, to obtain certain changes in the 
law, with respect to the profession of medicine tend- 
ing to bring the said faculty of said university under 
the control of a central medical board, which it is 
proposed to invest with the right of prescribing the 
curriculum to be followed, and of subjecting said 
graduates, before being entitled to practice, to ex- 
aminations and conditions prescribed by such board. 
That your petitioners are strongly of the opinion that 
the contemplated changes in the law are not in the 
interest of medical education, or of the province to 
to which they belong, and are, moreover, likely serious 
to prejudice the interests of the university, and to 
deter from taking their medical course in said univer- 
sity students who now come from all parts of Canada, 
and from other countries. Wherefore your petitioners 
pray, that no legislation, of the character above 
indicated, and no legislation in any way impairing 
the value of the degrees granted by said university be 
passed by your Honorable House. 

And your petitioners will ever pray. 

Montreal, 22ud March, 1888. 



To His Honor the Lieutenant Governor of the Pro- 
vince of Quebec : — 

The petition of the undersigned graduates of the 
University of McGill College respectfully represents: — 

That your petitioners are disposed to think that the 
time has arrived in the educational history of the Pro- 
vince of Quebec when there should be adopted a more 
uniform system than at present exists for the examina- 
tion of students presenting themselves for admission 
to the study of what are known as “The learned 
professions.” 

That your petitioners believe that, as the main end 
of such examinations is to ascertain the educational 
fitness of the student so applying, there should be a 
provincial board of examiners, divided into two sec- 
tions, one for examination of Roman Catholic students, 
and the other for that of Protestant students, this being 
rendered necessary owing to the difference which 



naturally exists in the two educational systems, which 
distinction has been already recognized by the legisla- 
ture of the province in the division of the Council of 
Public instruction into two committees, one Roman 
Catholic and the other Protestant. 

That each of the sections above indicated should be 
invested with the power of framing regulations for 
such examination, with the right of recognizing the 
degree of Bachelor of Arts, from any Canadian or 
British university, as being sufficient to entitle the 
holder thereof to admission to the study of any of such 
professions on the presentation of his degree, and on 
conforming to such other regulations as may be in 
force with reference to the study of the said profes- 
sions. 

That the establishment of such a provincial board 
would render it unnecessary to continue the existing 
boards, and in the opinion of your petitioners, the 
effect would be to create and maintain a uniform test 
of educational fitness on the part of the students, which 
is the great aim to be sought after. 

And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever 
pray. 



To the Honorable Legislative Council of the Province 
of Quebec : — 

The petition of the undersigned graduates of the 
faculty of law and of other faculties of McGill 
University, respectfully represents : — 

That the provisions of section 49 of the Act 49-50 
Victoria, chapter 34, Quebec, (1886,) empowering the 
general council of the bar to determine the subjects to 
be studied and the number of lectures to be given in 
universities and colleges to constitute a regular law 
course, according to the provisions of said section, and 
the subsequent paragraphs of said section constitute an 
infringement of, and prejudicially affect, the rights 
and privileges of the university of which they are 
graduates, and confer upon the general council of the 
bar an unwarranted and unconstitutional right of con- 
trol over the educational work of said university ; that 
your petitioners are of opinion that the rights and 
privileges of the general council of the bar, and the 
best interests of law education in the Province, can be 
more effectually promoted without infringing those 
long enjoyed by the university, by the repeal of the 
said portions of said act and their replacement by 
provisions to the effect hereinafter stated : — 

Wherefore your petitioners respectfully pray, that 
an act may be passed by your Honorable House 
amending the said section 49 of said act by repealing 
the third paragraph thereof, beginning with the words 
“ The general council may from time to time deter- 
mine ” to the end of said section, and by replacingthe 
same by provisions to the following effect. — The cur- 
riculum to be followed in the law course of universi- 
ties and colleges granting degrees as aforesaid shall be 
submitted to the Lieutenant Governor in Council, who 
shall cause the same to be published during one 
month in the Quebec Official Gazette, and shall appoint 
the time for hearing objections thereto, after which if 
no alteration be made, the same shall be by him 
approved. 



158 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



If any amendment should he made thereto upon 
objection from the general council or other interested 
parties the same shall be published in like manner, 
during one month, before being approved by the 
Lieutenant Governor in Council. The Lieutenant 
Governor in Council, may moreover, on complaint of 
the general council of the bar that any university or 
incorporated college entitled to grant degrees as 
aforesaid does not satisfactorily and effectually follow 
the curriculum so prescribed, order an investigation 
to be made, and if the complaint prove to be well 
founded may thereafter except the degrees of such 
university or college from the benefits conferred by 
the foregoing provisions of this act for such time as 
he may be advised. 

And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever 
pray. 

AIonteeal, 22nd March, 1888. 



Personals. 



W. A. Cameron, B.A., is studying law at Barrie, 
Ont. 

Mr. McNutt, B Ap.Sc., ’88, is off with Mr. Lowe’s 
surveying party, to Hudson Bay, this summer. 

Mr. Mason, B.A., another of our editors, is out on 
misson work this summer j he will be back in town 
in the autumn to finish his theological course. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A., one of the assistant-editors of 
this paper during the past year, has finished his 
course in the Congregational College, and has received 
and accepted a unanimous call to the pastorate of the 
Congregational Church at Brigham, Que. He entered 
upon his duties on the 6th inst. 



Between the Lectures. 



One of the lady undergraduates calls a certain pro- 
fessor “ Experience,” because he is a dear teacher. 

Very Naughty Tommy (who has been severely 

spanked by his mamma)— “I’m pre’sh’-s-s-sorry ” 

(sobbing) — “ y-you ever m-married pa ! ” 

Said Brown — “ The day I was married I quit chew- 
ing tobacco, and 1 tell you it was pretty hard on me 
that day, but in a day or two I was all right.” “ Ah, 
how’s that ? ” “I commenced chewing again.” 

She (having just finished playing) — “ I fear, Mr. 
Sniggles, my music is too poor to give you enjoyment.” 
He (assuringly)— “ Oh ! indeed, I did enjoy it. It 
does not take much to please me in the way of music, 
you know ! ” ’ 

_ A work on etiquette says — “ A genteel carver always 
sits when he carves.” Perhaps he does, but it is pretty 
certain that there are times when he yearnfully yearns 
to put one foot on the table and the other on the bird 
while struggling with the fowl. 



[1888. 



Man of the house (aroused by a knock) — “ Come, 
now, what do you want here at this time of night ? ” 
Stranger — “ Excuse me, sir, but could you let me have 
a candle and a couple of matches ? My dog and my 
little girl have fallen into your cistern ; and he’s a 
valuable dog, and — There, hear him bark 1 ! ! ” 

An usher at one of our fashionable churches noticed 
a little tot of a girl waiting about the vestibule, until 
the bell had stopped ringing and the services begun. 
Then he kindly offered to find her a seat. 

“No, tank ’oo,” she said, sweetly; “I want to go 
in yeal late an’ make a thenthation, like mamma ! ” 

Here is an extract from the prospectus of a hotel in 
Switzerland, published in a newspaper of Berne ; — 

“ Weissbach, in the Bernese Oberland, is the fav- 
ourite place of resort for those who are fond of soli- 
tude. Persons in search of solitude are, in fact, con- 
stantly flocking there from the four quarters of the 
globe.” 

“ Mother,” said Miss Clara, “do you think Bobby 
ought to lounge in that handsome chair ? ” “ Certainly 
not, Bobby,” said his mother reprovingly, “you might 
break it.” “If it’s strong enough to hold Clara and 
Mr. Featherly,” argued Bobby, as he slowly slid down, 

“ it ought to be strong enough to hold a little boy.” — 
New York Sun. 

Young Mr. Featherly (a Theolog.) — “ Have you 
any engagement for Friday evening. Miss Clara ? ” 

Miss Clara (who is passionately fond of the theatre) 
— “ No, Mr. Featherly.” 

Mr. Featherly — “ Well, I would be very glad if 
you would attend with me the Friday evening prayer 
meeting at the Second Baptist Church.” 

“ I don’t see why you should sneer at my engage- 
ment ring,” said a fair girl, with a flush of indigna- 
tion on her cheek, as she faced a rival belle. “ It’s a 
good deal prettier than the one you wore three years 
ago, and haven’t worn since ! ” “ No, dear,” replied 

her friend, with a cool, far-away look ; “ not prettier, 
but quite as pretty. It is the same ring ! ” 



Itorresponbence. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs,— In the 1 2th line of the little article 
headed “Book-Making” (Gazette No. 11), the word 
Nile is substituted for Hill, thereby altering the sense, 
or rather making nonsense of the comparison. If not 
contrary to your rules, please correct. 

Erol Gervase. 



[We are sorry that this mistake should have oc- 
curred in the contribution of Erol Gervase, one of 
our kindest contributors and helpers. In No. 10 of 
the Gazette, the printer made us say par example 
instead of par excellence, in one of our editorials ; 
some kind friend sent us a copy wilh the mistakes in 



1888.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



159 



our editorial underlined. The corrections in this 
latter case display quite a knowledge of the rules of 
grammar, but little common sense in applying them. 
We stand by the English in that editorial, but disown 
the French. — Eds.] 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
;o : 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 



The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 



CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole for ^^orrtrea.! a.rra. TTicirrit^r. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Boots and Shoes, 

UulDbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES, 

IVORY AND GOMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths. &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1 742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 

THE 

“Court” Shirt Store 

OPPOSITE QUEEN’S HALL. 

lO per cent. Discount to Students. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

The Up-town Furnishers. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 



* * 




* * 



hotographers 

■**********'>**-S«***** 



J\Teu: Beale of 'Prices this year 
for Biudenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OIP ITEW YOE.IC 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

A.^sets $115,000,000 

16,000,000 

The MUTIIIL of New fork is tire largest LIFE INSUMHCE COIIlPINf in the mrltli with the host record, 

AGENTS AVANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

SMeirts cai improTe tlrelr ttrairrstances toirsiieratiiy hr aclitrg as Aseits in their on Localities dortiig Vacatloit. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen. Manager. 

I'yos NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3 Q 5 (£z GS'T’ St. ZF’.^'CJXj Stisebt, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



(l ELEBRIITED HOT WmEB HeIITEBS 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Ak Fbenaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GOARANTELD. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Es tablished 1850, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
^ngiiaring fpiiinting 
(^ompany. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Gards, Grests, pFogFammes 
j^onogFams, &e., kz. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 3je^ 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For GROUPSi go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOED’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. _/ JBleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



S f^ull $todk dog^tkntly og Skgd, Imported 
f)ifedt fi^oig tl\e I<ekdigg JVIkgufkdtufefd 
of tl|e Woi‘ld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 






THE OEINXJl J>E 

COOI^’S 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



PURE CANDY. 

254 St. Jaies Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(X. 1 I T E X) .) 



21 2 n <& 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOV£, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C, ASHFOBD*S 
GHE^P BOOK, STATIONERY. 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Bisseoting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS 4 SON,) 

Books prociired to order from England & the United States 

816 MD 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 




Ccxra.ex ^v£c<3-ill a.xxd. H^Totxe ^a,xxxe Stxeets, 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA OF 

READY-MADE CLOTHING, 

— CONSISTING OF— 

Overcoals, Suits, Bof’s h Children’s Ciothing, Hals, Caps & Bentlemen’s Furnishings, 

CUSTOM DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY. STUDENTS USUAL DISCOUNT, 

Xv£a.il Ox<a.exs xccei^re special attexxtioxi. 



I 



w 









