Vol. XII! 



No. 7 








104 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JYAJyHIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St ., Montreal. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



iiMic materials, Bandaps, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

Pltanactilital ( Disptisiij Ctnisli, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool. Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 
Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 

HEADQUARTERS 

— FOR — 

)1 and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. J^DVCES ST 




Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 




D. MoEHTYRE & 



Fine Custom Tailors, 



.tlLMCAL If ’O It KS, BOOHS VSEIt /.V A HT COURSE 
SCIENCE TEAT BOOHS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in Stool and Supplied at Rod Bottom Prices 
STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 

BEST V ALU E X W T OWN ^ , 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

333 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 10th, 1890. [No. 7. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Law ’92. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, Science ’90. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 
Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 



F.W. Hibbard, B. A., Law ’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. P. Yates, B.A. 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. ’91. 



Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 105-108 

Contributions - - 108-109 

McGill News 109-110 

Societies 110 

Poetry Ill 

Exchanges HI 

Sporting Ill 

Personals HI 

Correspondence 111-112 

Between the Lectures .... 112-113 

College World 113-114 



Editorials 



The University Banquet, to be held on Friday, 
14th inst., is growing into shape, and if all the mem- 
bers of the University will only co-operate, its suc- 
cess as an institution in' College life is assured. 



The impression has gone forth that no good thing 
in medicine can come out of the Galilee of English 
speaking countries, but it is one which the Profes- 
sors of McGill are doing their part to correct. Dr. 



Macdonnell, in his lectures, is continually insisting 
that Great Britain has contributed far more than her 
share to the advancement of scientific medicine, and 
at present stands among the first in successful inves- 
tigation ; and Dr. Cameron recalled an instance to 
show that practises, which were imported over a 
hundred years ago, from Dublin, by Austrian 
obstetricians, are now taught as the Vienna method. 
Let our own prophets have honour in their own coun- 
try and among their own kin. 



We feel the necessity of a small comfortable room 
for a permanent abode of The Gazette, where the 
editors from the different Faculties can drop in be- 
tween lectures and read editorial matter and ex- 
changes. In this way only can The Gazette be 
conducted as it should. At present we rush to town 
on Saturday afternoon and meet in a not very in- 
viting room, where all correspondence and editoi’ial 
matter is skimmed over, and is either rejected as a 
whole or put in as it stands. The rest is proof-read- 
iDg. We all feel that something better should be 
done ; but it is impossible under existing circum- 
stances. 



The students of medicine look with the utmost ab- 
horrence on the action of the man who furnishes to 
•one of the vilest papers New York City can produce, 
statements dealing with the names and reputations of 
some of McGill’s best undergraduates. Even if these 
statements were true, it would be mean enough, but 
when they are absolutely false the action of the send- 
er entrenches on criminality, for which he should be 
legally punished. It is doubtless very annoying to 
the students and their friends who are made the vic- 
tims of this coward’s spite, but nothing more than 
annoyance need be felt, taking into account the fals- 
ity of the stories, the character of the writer and the 
class of paper that publishes them. Wo take it upon 
ourselves to state that the men who are assailed are 
those whose reputation stands highest, that no one 
who knows the villainy of the attack attaches any im- 
portance to the falsehoods, that ; in short, the student 
who strikes at his fellow men whose names are above 
reproach is a Scoundrel with a capital S. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



106 



THE UNIVERSITY REPORT. 

The annual report for 1889 shows a marked and 
encouraging degree of progress. All the Faculties 
have been on the alert. Among generous gifts to be 
recot ded, the John Frothingham Principalship Fund 
of $40,000, supplies a long-felt need ; and the Thomas 
Workman bequest of $117,000 has provided for a 
department of Mechanical Engineering in Applied 
Science. 

The Medical Faculty has opened a subscription for 
a memorial fund to its late Dean, Dr. Howard, whose 
death was chronicled last year. 

The Veterinary College has been annexed to the 
University, and forms a new Faculty. Some gradu- 
ates in Law are endeavouring to set on foot a scheme 
to secure an endowment for the Law School. 

Lectures in Sanitary Engineering have been added 
in Science, and also, though not mentioned in the 
report, an Examination in Canadian History in 
Arts. 

Music is now a definite study at McGill, with Prof. 
Bohrer as director, Pi of. C. J. Cameron and Sir 
Donald A. Smith defraying expenses in the men’s 
and women’s classes respectively. 

A number of practical schemes for extension are on 
foot. The new building for the mechanical work- 
shops will possibly be commenced in the spring. It 
is pretty generally known, too, that before many 
years the Donalda Department will have a local 
habitation of a more commodious character than its 
present rooms in the East Wing. McGill will have 
the honor of realizing the long-talked of idea of 
Botanic Gardens. Already a portion of the grounds 
containing valuable shrubs and trees has been en- 
closed, and a pond for aquatic plants prepared. It 
is proposed shortly to solicit subscriptions for a con- 
servatory to be erected in the garden. 

A new Library, with capacious reading-rooms; a 
Gymnasium on the grounds ; a Dining Hall for 
students ; these are among McGill's greatest needs. 
And we believe that they will all be soon forthcom- 
ing. Our University wisely aims at concentration. 
Proceeding with caution, she has gradually gathered 
within her circumference uew Faculties, additional 
buildings, affiliated schools. Of such a course exten- 
sion is the natural outcome. 



WHAT’S IN A NAME? 

The proposed new College at McGill for the ac- 
commodation of women students is to be called “The 
Royal Victoria.” With all due honor and respect 
for the Sovereign who, for more than half a century, 



has ruled wisely and well over Britain and her de- 
pendencies, we cannot but utter a protest, however 
feeble, against the prevalent custom of calling by her 
name every second public institution that requires 
to be named. Here in Montreal are : Victoria 

Bridge, Victoria Square, Victoria Street, the Victoria 
Rifles and their Armory, Victoria University, with 
which, no doubt, the College will be confounded, 
and the Victoria Hospital in course of erection ; the 
Victoria Lacrosse, Football, and Hockey Clubs, and 
Victoria Rink ; not to speak of the thousand and 
one Victoria Laundries, Dye-works, Orchestras, and 
Societies of less importance. The city’s great hotels 
are the Windsor and the Balmoral. The Queen’s 
Hall in the Queen’s Block, Prince of Wales’ Terrace, 
and Wellington Arcade, are objects of interest. 

And now another item will be added to the list : 
Victoria College of McGill University. It will not 
make the slightest difference to the Queen that her 
name forms one more landmark in the vast Dominion 
of which she knows only by hearsay. Nor will it 
stimulate the students to higher aims that their home 
bears the great and good title of Victoria ; for its 
very familiarity has bred, if not contempt, at least 
indifference. 

In pointing out an evil, one is supposed to suggest 
a remedy. Far better would it be, then, for the 
College to tell posterity of its generous founder, as : 
Sir Donald Hall or Donald Smith College (we pro- 
test against Donalda). Or, perhaps, as intended for 
women, it should have a woman’s name. Then there 
are three centuries of women who have lived and 
worked for Canada, from whom to choose. It would 
be well to raise a memorial to some of these, which 
might inspire Canadian women to do as they have 
done. Again, there are names of places. Indian 
names are always euphonious and characteristic. Or, 
how would Royal Mount College sound ? or Lauren- 
tian College? Either name is fraught with associa- 
tions to McGill. 

However, Royal Victoria College has its name 
already, if nothing else, and that it will in all likeli- 
hood retain when the more solid constituents are 
forthcoming. But new buildings and institutions 
are no rarity in Montreal or in Canada, and the ques- 
tion constantly arises what they shall be called. 
Complaints are sometimes made that the best posi- 
tions in this country are given to Englishmen, while 
the claims of Canadians are passed by. Here is a 
similar case. British proper names are constantly 
being forced upon the Canadian public where, in most 
cases, a National name could be used with far more 
effect and individuality. And for this cause our 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



107 



public institutions appear but as poor imitations of 
the greater and wealthier old country ones from 
which they are called. Some of the new towns in 
the North-West bear witness to a movement in the 
right direction. But there is room for much im- 
provement elsewhere. 



MEDICAL EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

An announcement has lately appeared in our daily 
papers, to the effect that the Woman’s Medical 
College at Kingston will not be carried on after the 
close of the present session. Such a report attracts 
the attention of the Gazette on general educational 
grounds, and also in the light of the recent agitation 
for Medical Instruction for Women, in connection 
with our own University. 

One cannot but feel sorry to see the brave little 
city, the fust of Canadian Medical schools to open its 
doors to women, obliged to lower its standard, and 
shut them fast again. But even if it is failure that 
Kingston has to face she may well rest on her laurels, 
for her college has done a noble pioneer work that 
will always be alive in history, and it will leave 
behind it a substantial reminder of its existence in 
every Woman’s Medical school subsequently opened 
in the Dominion. The time has passed when on- 
lookers will point to the closing of this college as a 
mark of the undesirability of Women’s Medical 
Education in general. The causes of the failure must 
be extrensic, and perhaps lie in the fact that Kingston 
as a small city, must find it difficult to cope with her 
upper-Canadian rival. For Toronto is possessed of 
the facilities for study which a large city alone can 
offer. 

But it is too soon to take the gloomiest view of 
affairs. Later reports have been more hopeful, and 
Kingston possesses, at the head of her educational 
matters, Principal Grant, a man said to be almost 
capable of resuscitating the dead. 

With regard to the question of Medical Education 
for women in Moutreal, the law of demand and 
supply and the city’s Medical good-fame alone lead 
us to the conclusion that this will some day be an 
established fact. But there are many approvers of 
the abstract principle, who do not hold this opinion, 
not only doubting the reality of the demand, but also 
the possibility of the supply. Such, pointing to the 
critical condition of the Kingston college, will doubt- 
less warn the supporters of the movement begun 
among us last spring, to take an object lesson there- 
from. Kingston, they say, had i's raison d'etre as 
opening medicine in Canada to women; its career, 



therefore, boivever short lived, was not in vain. But 
for Montreal to embark upon an enterprise that is to 
fail in a few short years, which will scarcely benefit 
even its graduates, would be a huge waste of energy 
and, as such, a misfortune. Therefore, society 
should look carefully into the causes of this failure at 
Kingston, that a similar undertaking may not be 
begun under like conditions among us. 

This is very sensible. That Women’s Medical 
Education should not be attempted if failure is a fore- 
gone conclusion, is undoubtedly true. But, on look- 
ing at the matter more carefully, it is at once seen 
that the cases of Medical Education in Kingston and 
in Montreal are not parallel, and that therefore while 
the object lesson may point out the safest course for 
such education to take, it is not close enough in its 
application to absolutely veto any. The failure at 
Kingston (if such it turns out to be) while springing 
directly from lack of funds, is indirectly (but really) 
due to the smallness of the city, the proximity of 
Toronto, and other like causes. Montreal, on the 
other hand, is a large city, with excellent hospital 
advantages and supporting several Medical Schools, 
the flourishing state of all of which testifies to the 
excellent conditions under which such education 
hero prospers. Again, Montreal is the principal city 
in its own province — a province where no opportun- 
ity for Medical training has as yet been offered to 
women, and which has, consequently, been a constant 
feeder both of the Kingston and Toronto schools. 

Thus there is to be observed at Kingston a failure, 
(if such it is to be), whose proximate cause — the want 
of a good monetary basis for a separate Medical 
school — would not necessarily be a source of failure 
here, but which nevertheless points out that a school 
started here on a like basis is to be regarded largely in 
the light of an experiment, and, as such, should be 
attempted, but only when other methods are unavail- 
able. 

It is seen from the case of Kingston, that it is 
difficult for an educational institution to be run on 
other than business principles laid upon a sound 
financial basis. For this reason the strongest hopes 
for medical education in Montreal lies in two 
sources. Either that some wealthy benefactor should 
see fit to undertake the full endowment of a medical 
college for women, or that one of the institutions in 
the city should throw open its doors to female 
students. The first of these alternatives is of course 
out of the hands of all but the supposed benefactor, 
and the second lies with the authorities; although 
in the latter case the initiative move might be taken 
by the would-be students in presenting petitions. 



108 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



Thus, while the most legitimate and hopeful sources 
from which a medical college here could arise are, on 
the one hand, the endowment of a new faculty, or on 
the other, an old faculty’s admission of women 
students, both these are equally out of the reach of 
those most interested, the women themselves. They 
must perforce, then, continue with the only course 
left open to them. An experiment in the shape of 
an attempt to establish an insufficiently endowed 
school of medicine for women in Montreal, which 
once in operation may attract new endowments, and, 
filling a sorely felt need, become also largely self- 
supporting. In the strong effort that was made last 
spring, the action of the petitioners pointed to a clear 
recognition of all this. For they first endeavored to 
throw their cause into the hands of the Medical 
Faculty of McGill University — ( i . e., they sought 
admission to an old faculty) — failing there, they made 
a public appeal for a large endowment (the endow- 
ment of a new faculty mentioned above) and again 
meeting with no success, they, with those interested 
in their cause, followed the only remaining course, in 
endeavouring to form themselves and all willing to 
favour the movement, into a regularly organized and 
chartered Association preparatory to receiving sums of 
money for the carrying out of their scheme. 

1 hat medical education for women will ere long be 
established in Montreal, all who are at all far sighted 
will venture confidently to predict. For this Asso- 
ciation, having right and the spirit of the times on its 
side ; having, moreover, its raison d'etre as working 
for the supply of a need felt through the Province of 
Quebec, must some day see its object fulfilled. But 
while wishing and predicting success to the endeavour 
of this body, one cannot but hope that its efforts may 
ere long be supplemented by a friendly movement 
from a “safer” source. Admission to women has 
been refused by McGill only, and there are several 
other educational institutions in the city. Surely 
one of these may perceive, with the Association, that 
McGill, in standing aloof and advising her petitioners 
to establish an incorporated medical school for women, 
which, when fully organized and in successful 
operation, might be affiliated with the University, 
has pursued a course marked rather by its eminent 
prudence than by its generosity. It might realize 
that a college graduating women, who are from their 
natural capacities calculated to do honor to certain 
branches of their profession, would strengthen itself 
by the admission of such. And it might forgive the 
fact that McGill has been first petitioned, remember- 
ing that the first petitioners were McGill students. 



If this should happen, if one of the two other medical 
schools in Montreal should see fit to throw open its 
doors to women, the question of her medical educa- 
tion here is solved. If this should not be, then the 
“ Association for the Professional Education of 
Women” has, in the first work it has undertaken, 
an enterprise requiring great expenditure of time, and 
thought, and labour, but which will, in its fulfilment, 
amply repay all that has been done, by the very 
success that the supply of an existing need always 
meets. 



(Contributions. 



A DAY’S OUTING. 

The members of the final year in App. Science 
after various discussions and suggestions decided, the 
beginning of last week, to visit the Dominion Bridge 
Co’s, works and the Lachine bridge, and Wednesday 
the 26th January was the date fixed upon, for be it 
known that almost “all and singular” of our trials 
and tribulations are to be found in the various varied 
forms of bridge construction. 

Our plans were forthwith laid before the Dean, 
who not only most heartily approved thereof, but 
promised to facilitate our arrangements by communi- 
cating with the authorities, adding however, “ he 
should like to meet the 4th year Wednesday morn- 
ing,” to give “a few” additional notes. 

Wednesday morning came and at the appointed 
hour the class assembled for the “few” notes, but they 
were lengthened out, until the clock showed half- 
past eleven, and we had decided to leave by the 
twelve train ; we were, however, not going to be put 
oil by trifles, and a rush for dinner and the depot was 
made. 

Two well known members of the class thought 
the proper thing to do was to take a sleigh to the 
station at once and dine there. Whether they had 
dined or not the rest of us could never ascertain, as 
the charms of some fair waitress was their sole theme 
the rest of the day. The others arrived in due time, 
and by twelve o’clock we were seated in the Lachine 
train and waiting to be off. During the twenty minutes 
of our journey thither we were entertained by the 
musmgs of one of the “stricken,” thus, “ I wonder 
what coal, etc. would cost to keep a house going, etc., 

6tC. 



# , rp-i \ 0 . "wv, UJJUU IJ atJcUUU 10 1 

was The Lekomis,” not “Longfellow’s,” and after 
halt an hours investigation she was found snugly 
stowed away in winter quarters. I may add the Ne- 
komis is a “boat.” 

The bridge came next, and after a walk of about 
tniee-quarters of a mile along the river shore we 
leached it. As we drew near frequent exclamations of 
admiration and surprise were heard as different points 
weie brought out ; it is truly a marvel of engineering 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



109 



After half an hour’s discussion of the various points 
of construction including rollers, angle irons, rivets, 
etc., etc., we started for the Bridge works and were 
shown through the office, drafting rooms, blue print 
and tes’ing rooms, and thence on to the shops proper, 
wnere we had a splendid chance to witness all the 
processes iron and steel are put through in order to 
construct those sometimes web like, yet substantial 
structures that span so many rivers on our continent. 
Piled up out side was the superstructure of an im- 
mense bridge tnat is to cross an arm of the sea at 
Cape Breton. After thoroughly examining the various 
manipulations in the shop we proceeded again to the 
testing room, where, for our benefit, several tests of 
shearing strength were made, and the testing apparatus, 
which is a most unique and complicated piece of 
machinery, thoroughly explained. Adjournment to 
the depot was next in order and Montreal reached 
about 4.30, all well pleased with the outing and what 
had been seen. The very cordial thanks of the class 
are due to Messrs. Duggan and others for their kindly 
interest and attention, ‘and are hereby tendered. 

' Nokomis. 



racism Necos. 



The Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science has 
gone to blew Yoik in connection with the New 
Science building. 

Complaint is made by the fourth year men in 
Medicine of the non ventilation of No. 1 Lecture 
room when they go in for their nine o’clock lecture. 
Of course, it will be remedied. 

A meeting of the student members of the Can- 
adian Society of Civil Engineers was held in the 
Science rooms on Thursday evening, the 27th Jan- 
uary, at which papers were read by Lea and Mattice, 
the subjects being “Stand pipes” and “The Corn- 
wall Canal.” Both papers were very interesting from 
the engineers’ stand point and discussion was freely 
indulged in. 

Mr. John Kennedy, member of council, occupied 
the chair, and gave the benefit of a long experience 
by commenting upon several disputed points. It 
was pleasing to notice the improved attendance and 
greater interest taken in the students meetings and 
we hope to see the numbers still augmented. 

There is a report to the effect that a member of the 
3rd year Arts class is doing what he can to “beat” 
the college; he has succeeded in already victimizing 
several boarding houses, and meanest of all, has bor- 
rowed money both from Professors and fellow stu- 
dents, and boasts he does not intend to repay it. In 
fact he prides himself on being smart enough to thus 
cheat his fellows. A word to the wise is sufficient 
and we hope we shall hear of no one else being 
duped. 

On Tuesday the students of Medicine were grati- 
fied to have handed to them a pamphlet, the gift of 
Dr. Macdonnell, repriDted from the Montreal Medi- 
cal Journal, and which contained condensed reports 
of cases in his wards of the General Hospital. The re 



ports from which these cases were condensed were 
made by Dr. England and Dr. Campbell, Addie, 
Hamilton, Bowes, Murray, McKechnie and Inksetter. 
The publication gives in the most concise form a le- 
surae of many of the most important cases brought 
under the notice of the class, and must prove of great 
value to the final men. Amongst the classes of dis- 
ease met with and reported on are pleurisy, typhoid 
fever with examples of meteorism, delirium ferox, 
profuse rash and syncopal attacks, Anterior Polio- 
myelitis acuta, Uraemia, Progressive Muscular Atro- 
phy, Aortic Aneurism and acute Spinal Meningitis. 
Amongst disorders of the stomach are noted Gastric 
Ulcer and Cancer, causing secondary Cancer of the 
Liver and Cancer of the Pylorus. Other cases treated 
were Herpes Zoster, Pneumonia, Ciirhosis of the 
Liver, Syphilitic Gumma on the cortex of the Brain ; 
cases of Cheyne-Stokes Respiration, Hemoptysis from 
Mitral Stenosis, Thoracic Aneurism, Locomotor 
Ataxy. 

Attentions like these are much appreciated by the 
students, and Dr. MacDonnell has their gratitude for 
another instance of his desire to make the study of 
medicine attractive and as easy as is consistent with 
thoroughness. 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

“ Bacilli Hunting ” on Monday mornings is now a 
recognized sport for final men. No hounds neces- 
sary. 

* 

* * 

The hospital scarcely seems the hospital, with Dr. 
Roddick gone. His return will be hailed with de- 
light. 

* 

* * 

The theorizing youth who wants a “Literary 
Journal,” again appears in last issue. Unfortunately 

for his idea the students want news, first. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Cameron, with his usual self-sacrificin'? devo- 
tion to the advancement of his students, is giving up an 

afternoon a week to instruct them in practical work. 

* 

3k 3k 

It is not generally known that one of our most 
prominent Scotch confectioners of this city, is in re- 
ality an Earl, his plebeian tendencies impelling him 
to discard the title. 

* 

3k sk 

The reply that “six means half a dozen,” was 
aptly illustrated in Friday’s clinic by the final man, 
who assured the Professor, that Pil. Hydrarg was com- 
posed of Massa Hydrarg. 

* 

* * 

There is talk of Anthony Comstock coming on to 
prosecute Messrs. S. & W. for the recent Football 
Team Photo. One of the senior members might just 
as well be dressed for an evening party. 

* 

* * 

It is to be regretted that Dr. Roddick cannot find 
opportunity to get up some of those admirable Case 
Note Books and Methods of Case Taking furnished the 
students in Medicine by Dr. Macdonnell. 



110 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890 .] 



1 he old war horse was roused at what he consid- 
ered as a gratuitous insult from the final class. His 
language was powerful if not exactly elegant. But 
Dr. Ftnwick is in error if he thinks the years ap- 
prove of the behaviour of a few over grown boys. 

* 

* * 

It has been suggested that much valuable additional 
time could be bestowed on Clinical work il courses 
of such theoretical subjects as Jurisprudence, Botany, 
Hygiene, &c., were portioned off as work to be read 
during summer vacation, the examination on them to 
be held in October. 

* 

* * 

There seems to be a growing tendency in the Eng- 
lish colleges, to supplant Theoretical Surgery by 
Surgical Anatomy. Such a course in addition would 
be valuable, as any one who has taken Dr. Shep- 
hard’s summer course will testify. A man cannot 
know his Anatomy too well. 

“Nix Forstay.” 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

A letter has been received by the Fourth Year 
Ladies, from Miss Reid, B.A., ’89. Needless to say, 
it received a welcome such as is seldom yielded to 
epistolary matter by busy seniors. Indeed Miss 
Reid’s well-deserved popularity during her student 
life was such as to render news of her acceptable to 
all inhabitants of the East Wing, and we therefore 
take the liberty of giving the contents of her letter a 
wider circulation. 

The letter is dated from Geneva ; it tells of a busy 
round of study, chiefly of French and music, pro- 
saic perhaps in itself, but performed under the in- 
spiration of the grand Swiss scenery. Although Miss 
Reid does not say much about her surroundings, she 
shows that she appreciates them to the full. “ 1 am 
not surprised,” she writes, “ that the exiled Swiss 
nearly die of homesickness for their mountains ! I 
will miss them dreadfully myself. The Jura range 
is on one side of the lake, and the Alps on the other. 
The Jura is long and regular, giving one an idea of a 
grandly rounded and finished life, while the Alpine 
peaks strive in emulation to overtop one another, 
grandly rugged but uneven. And then I wish you 
could see the vines, — vines everywhere, in every pos- 
sible corner, and climbing the mountains ‘high, high, 
high.’ It is impossible to convey to you the beauty 
of it all. Let your travelled members give you a 
grand description of the Rockies, and if it is not 
thrilling enough, double and tiiple the grandeur, 
and you may arrive at the sense of awe and wonder 
and praise, that is to be experienced on seeing these 
monuments of ages past, present and to come. * * * 
I have been to Ferney and sat in Voltaire’s arm chair, 
and have seen the chateau and park, which are won- 
derfully beautiful. Then ‘ Les D61ices,’ his other 
Swiss abode is quite near here. I have visited Mine, 
de Stael’s poetic resting- place at Coppet, and it is so 
beautiful — water-lily ponds, giant trees and long 
shady walks, ‘ bosky’ groves and running brooks, — 



that I can hardly understand her discontent there ; 
but after all Paris was her world — as Montreal is 
mine. Then Chillon, and Mont Blanc, which I^can 
see every day if I like, eternally white and pure. 

The University at Geneva seems to be about the 
size of McGill, though not as old.^ '1 he women- 
students there are chiefly Russians. The library is 
described as being managed rather uncomfortably— 
at all events for foreigners — (or perhaps Miss Reid 
has been spoiled for other places by the uniform 
kindness of our own McGill Librarian). “All the men 
students wear little round caps, white, red or of mix* d 
colors and a band of ribbon across the chest, the in- 
signia of their society. It is a pretty sight to see 
them in the street, and I believe their dinners and 
entertainments are really beautiful when they are in 
their Sunday-best costumes.” Of course, ’89’s Presi- 
dent has not forgotten her Alma Mater. Compari- 
sons are drawn between Geneva University and Mc- 
Gill, somewhat “odious” as far as the former is con- 
cerned. The rocky shores of the lake are never 
visited without a sigh for the investigating hammers 
of the Geology class. 

The letter contains a poem of varied metre and 
rhythm. It ends with an exhortation to the cultivation 
of good health, which Freshmen as well as Seniors 
might lay to heart. Interspersed are groans as to the 
peculiar nature of the Swiss diet, and the unmusical 
substitution of the coffee-grinder for our early morn- 
ing quiet. But we have no space for more, and en- 
quiring Sophomores would do well to apply to the 
4th year Secretary, if their thirst for information 
from our foreign correspondent is not yet satisfied. 



Societies. 



The Intei’-Collegiate debate, by representatives from 
the four theological Colleges, was held on the even- 
ing of the 31st ult., in the Convocation Hall of the 
Congregational College, the Rev. D. H. Mac Vicar, 
D.D., L.L.D., presiding. The subject was both in- 
teresting and appropriate : “ Resolved, that the Pub- 
lic Schools should be secularized.” 

Affirmative — Geo. Clendinnen, Wesleyan College, 
and P. E. Judge, Diocesan College. 

Negative — Jas. Daley, Congregational College, and 
W. L. Clay, B.A., Presbyterian College. 

Decision was given in favor of the affirmative. 

R. J. MacDougall, representing the McGill Under- 
graduates’ Literal y Society, read an able essay, which, 
we understand, is soon to appear in print, entitled — 
“ Satan among the Poets.” 

An unexpected, but very enjoyable, feature of the 
programme was a paper on the question of debate, by 
a native of Japan. It was very carefully written, 
and showed an extensive acquaintance with European 
thought and familiarity in the use of English. 

The musical pait of the programme was well rend- 
ered, under the efficient management of Prof. Reyner, 
of Emmanuel Church. 

Considering the large number of counter-attractions, 
the attendance was very good. 



1890.] 



UN IVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Ill 



Poetry. 



A PASTORAL. 

They were two lovers in the field, 

Sait lolling in the shnde. 

Ho was a gallant 'p dnt devise / 

And she a dainty maid. 

They watched the branches wavering dance, 
they I is ted the whispering breeze; 

Quoth she, “ Which is your favorite 
Of all the forest trees ?” 

His gaze roamed o’er the glowing fields. 
Then sought her melting eye ; 

With kindling love his bosom swelled, 

And straight he made reply; 

“The oak is kingly in his strength ; 

Ibe stately elm tall ; 

The graceful ash is beautiful ; 

But I love yew best of all.” 



Exchanges. 



The latest acquisition to Canadian College journal- 
ism is the Sydney Academy Record, from Sydney, 
Cape Breton, and we extend to it a warm welcome. 
It is a hopeful sign to find students initiating them- 
selves into editorial duties during their preliminary 
course. 

The exchange department in a College paper may 
be one of the most valuable if put to a right use. 
Exchanges are not per se for the exclusive use of the 
waste paper basket, but should be compared and 
studied, the weak and strong points pointed out, and 
both taken advantage of. 

The January number of the College Student, pub- 
lished at Lancaster, Pa., is at hand. Considerable 
literary ability is displayed in the contributions, and 
the opening address by Prof. Schiedt is especiallj- 
interesting. More attention should be bestowed 
upon the editorials and College news. 

In the last number of the Educational Record, of 
the Province of Quebec, which is edited by Rev. E. 
I. Rexford, M.A., and J. M. Harper, LL D., we 
notice a paper on “ The Pronunciation of Latin,” 
by Dr. J. C. Eaton, and one by Dr. S. P. Robins, 
on “The Aim and Nature of Education.” 

The Atlantis, published at Central University, 
Richmond, Ky., is under the management of the 
College Societies, and is of a distinct literary turn, 
containing essays read before the Societies. Speak- 
ing of The Gazette it says : — 

* * The University Gazette comes to our desk from McGill 
College, Montreal. Its editorials are to be commended for their 
variety and general get up.” 

The Delphic comes to us from Drake University, 
Desmoines, Iowa, an institution boasting of 502 stu- 
dents, and it does them credit. It also has a word 
for The Gazette, when it says : — 

“ The University Gazette , from McGill College, Montreal, 
is an interesting semi monthly received last month. It is con- 
ducted by a stock company. The regular subscription price is 
one dollar, but one share can be bought, which entitles the 
holder to the paper for the remainder of his life.” 



Personals. 



In a recent issue we mentioned that J. L. Ilislop, 
’84 App.Sc., had gone on the second expedition to 
survey a route for a railway in the canons of Colo- 
rado, after having been on the first expedition, most 
of the members of which lost their lives in a number 
of mishaps. The second expedition has met with 
misfortune, but particulars are wanting. 



Sporting. 

The Ottawa College Football Club persists in its 
determination to withdraw from the Ontaiio-Rugby 
Football Union. The Championship Cup, whi;hit 
forfeited this season, will be returned to the Union. 

At a general meeting of the Undergraduates of the 
Faculty of Applied Science, held on Friday evening, 
the 31st January, II. T. Russell, of the third year, 
and W. G. Smart, second year, were elected represen- 
tatives to the Athletic Association. 

All lovers of football will be pleased to learn that 
the dispute between the English and International 
Rugby Unions, which has prevented England taking 
part in the International fixtures for the last two 
years, is in a fair way of being amicably settled. 



ttorresponbence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

I have been requested by Dr. J. II. Y. Grant of 
Buffalo, N. Y., to contradict the statement that ap- 
peared in the Gazette, to the effect that Dr. Frank 
Metcalfe was going into a rapid decline. 

Dr. Metcalfe left Buffalo for Vienna about three 
weeks ago and was never looking better ! 

W. E. Paton. 

[VVe make this correction with deep gladness, and 
are greatly pleased to know that the statement was 
incorrect, notwithstanding the good authority on 
which it came to us.j — Ed. Un. Gazette. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

An article which appeared in the New York 
Mercury last Saturday, states that several ladies were 
present at the Med. Tramp to the Club House. 

As chairman of the committee for that Tramp, I 
beg to state that no ladies were present and that only 
one of the gentlemen whose names are mentioned in 
that article took part in the Tramp. 

The correspondent of the above paper has, as 
usual, been drawing chiefly on his imagination fox- 
items of interest in connection with McGill. 

Yours faithfully, David J. Evans, 

Montreal Feb. 6, 1890. Med. '90. 



112 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Reference having been made in your issue of last 
week, to one of several articles concerning me, which 
have lately appeared in the New York Mercury , I 
desire to deny most emphatically that there is a 
particle of truth in any one of them. 

Knowing the character of the New York Mercury 
and the nature of its productions, I should have 
imagined that the University Gazette would have 
been the last to countenance anything derogatory to 
the interests of the college, or any of its students. 

Who the author of those effusions is, it would be 
difficult to find out, as I understand that any anony- 
mous communication will be accepted. But I think 
a careful perusal of the articles will convince anyone, 
that they were either written by, or, the material for 
them, supplied by one of the students of the Medical 
Faculty. 

It has been suggested that they were written in the 
spirit of a joke; if so, he must be a low and mean 
spirited man, if he cannot find any other way of 
amusing himself, than by writing false and coward- 
ly articles about his fellow students. But after read- 
ing the lying and villainous articles which appeared 
in Saturday’s Mercury , 1 think that they were written 
for the purpose of injuring the students to whom 
reference is made — I do not suppose that this letter 
will have the effect of shaming him into silence, as I 
have no doubt but that he is so void of manliness or 
honesty, that it would be impossible to bring a blush 
of shame to his cheek. 

I shall conclude by assuring him, that, if he hopes 
to injure by continuing his attacks, I shall willingly 
forfeit the esteem of anyone, who would be influenced 
by his scurrilous articles. 

Montreal Feb. 2, 1890. E. J. Bowes, 



Editors University Gazette : — 

In my opinion, if the “kickers” of the two pre- 
vious issues would only stimulate themselves suffi- 
ciently to give as many lines of interesting news, as 
there were of senseless grumbling, the paper would 
benefit appreciably thereby. If they wish to find 
fault, why not also suggest a reasonable plan of 
improvement 1 We do not require long theses on 
abtruse subjects, by embryo journalists or would-be 
authors, when the best talent the world can offer may 
be obtained in their respective fields of labour, in the 
different periodicals found on every reading room 
table. The Gazette is not a periodical, in the sense 
named. Its name implies “ a newspaper : a printed 
sheet published periodically and containing an 
account of transactions and events of public or private 
concern.” (Webster). We want short articles, such 
as appear from time to time by “ Thistle” and others. 

Objection is made to “ the driest of all jokes— the 
purely technical joke,” but if the contributors of 
these light passes would only frame their sentences 
properly, there is no reason why anyone not in the 
fun, should fail to see the point. 

V ith reference to the “kick” about hockey matches 
and foot- ball notes, they are just as good an indica- 



tion of the physical culture so necessary as an antidote 
to the evil effects of such a sedentary occupation as that 
of the student necessarily is, as the learned discourses 
on the “ Antedeluvian geological formations,” are an 
indication of the mental culture of our sisters of the 
East Wing — (with all due apologies in advance). 

I hope you will forgive me taking up so much of 
your valuable space in a final “ protest against the 
kickers,” indeed there seem to be more kicks than 
ha’pence, judging by the subscription list outside of 
the Faculty of Medicine. 

Yours, Omegha. 



Between the Lectures. 



I do detest a man that’s close, 

And further more a day, 

But when a pretty girl is close, 

I feel the other way. 

Some of the third year men are dunn with Alesia. 

Be suspicious of the man you hear repeating — 
“ A— c — e.” 

Who is the Vet. that owns the talking crow 1 Say, 
Vets., isn’t that a little too strong 1 

“ What’s your name 1 Where do you live 1 Pro* 
testant or Catholic 1 ” etc. You all know it ! Well, 
another Freshman has got the “ appointment,” down 
at the General. 

We have it on undeniable authority that service in 
the North-West Mounted Police is a predisposing 
cause to an important class of diseases. This is a 
medical fact of great importance. 

During Lecture — “ And any man that don’t under- 
stand these plates, ought to have his cortex looked 
into.” That’s all right, but who is going to pay the 
funeral expenses of the man that owned the “ cor- 
tex ? ” 

A trasumatic lesion is assigned as the cause of 
specific disease. A patient has appeared who alleges 
that the immediate cause of a suspicious rash was an 
injury received by a tree falling upon him — in the 
North- West. 

Why is there no editor from the Veterinary Faculty 
on the Board of Editors 1 Rumors of choice bits of 
news come to us from that Faculty, but we are un- 
able to write them up from an insufficient knowledge 
of the matter. 

At a recent performance in the New Haven opera 
house, as a number of students left their seats be- 
tween acts, a good lady was heard to remark — “Aint 
it too bad those young fellows have to go home and 
go to studying 1 ” 

Gentlemen who expectorate on the dissecting room 
tioor can not expect to rate very high in the spring. 
If any of the dear public should find the meat of 
these chestnuts too strong, will they not please bear 
in mind that the boys are accustomed to that sort of 
thing during their primary years. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



113 



“ This i6 not the Theatre Royal,” was the bland 
rebuke of one of the clinical instructors to a student 
who addressed a patient, endeavouring to extricate 
himself from a crimson garment, as “ Eli,” and ur"in^ 
him to “ get there.” ° ° 

An ingenious and much-observing Sophomore, after 
innumerable investigations, has discovered that the 
middle mesenteric artery can be felt pulsating above 
the temporal region. Education of the sense of touch 
is fast developing. 

An unusual instance of the value of the faith cure 
came to light at Dr. Stewart’s Wednesday clinic. A 
patient assured him that if he took water from him 
or Dr. Bell, it would do him more good than the best 
medicine from any other doctors. 

In a French examination paper this question was 
put : “ Give the gender of * tete-a-tete,’ with com- 
ments?” One of the answers given was: “Tete-a- 
tete is of the common gender, because it usually takes 
place between a man and a woman.” 

Schoolmistress : “ Edward, give me the definition 
of ‘ excavate.’ ” 

E.: “To hollow out.” 

S.: “ Give me a sentence containing the word.” 

E.: “I hit Will, and he excavated.” 

A rare case was to be submitted for the instruc- 
tion of the third year men, at the Hospital, the other 
day, namely, a girl with toe nails, but the more curi- 
ous part is that the nurse could not find in her ward 
a young lady answering the description. 

Dr. Woodward, F.R.S E., about 1700, fought a 
duel with Dr. Mead under the gate of Gresham Col- 
lege. During the duel Woodward’s foot slipped and 
he fell. “ Take your life,” exclaimed Dr. Mead. 
“ Anything but your physic,” replied Woodward. 

Two young men, Bilirubin and Bilivirdin, from the 
Island of Riel, went down to the Main lumbar 
region to obtain specimens of the arbor vitae, and after 
making free incisions their axes become dulled, so 
serous a matter was it that their labour was in vein. 

Dr. Shepherd has added to his list of anomalies in 
spelling the following : — Bersa for bursa, sholder for 
shoulder, illium for ilium, condog/e for condyle, ver- 
tubra for vertebra, olackrenon for olecranon, calsus 
for calcis, scafoid for scaphoid, quadracepts and quo- 
droceps for quadriceps, phemur for femur, malelius 
and malelis for maleolus. 

The primary years in Medicine met their Sedan 
on Friday. Eighty-nine men of the second year went 
up for the Physiology Examination, and eight pulled 
through. The result in the first year was equally 
disastrous. In this case the Mills ground swift and 
exceeding small. N.B. — By referring to the fyles of 
some years back, we find that on one other occasion we 
were lead into making a similar joke, but it is repeated 
for the Freshmen’s benefit. 

Certain gentlemen, in their too zealous endeavors 
to acquire knowledge, were unfortunate enough to 
utterly disregard the wishes of an unassuming but 
mighty congregation. They were doomed to punish- 
ment, and their guilty souls required a thorough pur- 



gation in the watery element, that they might be 
reinstated in the estimation of their class-mates. The 
ceremony was, of course, performed with all due 
solemnity. 

I )ocumentary evidence has been submitted to prove 
that a freshman, eager for information, asked a fourth 
year man why the space in front of the elbow was 
known as the Tan space ? and that the answer came 
confidently — “ Oh, after the man who described it.” 
For the benefit of those who object to “ purely tech- 
nical jokes,” it may be added that the space referred 
to contains a Tendon Artery and Nerve in the order 
stated, hence the tip “ Tan.” We hope this is satis- 
factory. Any further information will be supplied 
at the dissecting room, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 
between the hours of eight and ten. 

At a recent convivial gathering the following story 
was told : 

A group of Medical students dressed up a Stiff and 
made him one of their number on their evening 
rounds. At a late hour they escorted him into an 
establishment licensed to retail spirituous liquors, 
where he leaned heavily against the bar. The drinks 
were served and one by one the students sloped, 
leaving the Stiff to pay for the refreshments or bear 
the brunt of the tender’s wrath. 

“ Are you going to pay for this ? ” No answer. 

“ Come finish your liquor, pay up, and get out.” No 
answer. 

A blow followed and the Stiff was hurled on the 
floor — dead. 

The students rushed in and with one voice cried : 
“ You have killed our friend.” 

The bar tender awoke to a realization of the fact 
and was equal to it. “ Well I don’t care if I did ; it 
was in self-defence ; he drew a knife on me.” 



College Tilorlb. 



Hereafter no student will be admitted to the Uni- 
versity of the Pacific at San Jose, Cal., who uses 
tobacco in any form. Some such regulation is also in 
force at Amherst. 

Jacob H. Schiff, of New York, has just made a 
gift of $10,000 to Harvard University for the estab- 
lishment of a museum for the study of the literature, 
history and remains of the Semitic peoples. 

A short time ago a lady, the first of her sex, gradu- 
ated in Medicine in Mexico. As an appropriate 
compliment her fellow-students of the other sex got 
up an amateur bull fight in honor of the occasion. 

A. P. Brubaker, M.D., Demonstrator of Physiology 
at Jefferson Medical College; Professor of Physi- 
ology, Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery, 
Philadelphia; publishes a volume on his subject, en- 
dorsed by the following high authority : — 

“ From R. L. MacDonald, M.D., formerly Demonstrator of 
Anatomy, now Professor of Clinical Medicine, McGill 
College, Montreal : 

“ I like the book very much, and have at once commenced 
the use of it.” 



114 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Victoria, Australia, is mourning the death of 
Francis Ormond, one of that colony’s greatest philan- 
thropists. He gave $230,000 to Ormond College, 
Melbourne ; $100,000 to Melbourne University for a 
department of music, and was one of the chief foun- 
ders of the Workingmen’s College, which now has 
2,000 students. 

In a discussion on “ Defects in our Educational 
Process” at the University Convocation of the State 
of New York, we note the following : — 

“ It does not kindle the intellectual lire and awaken 
the faculties of the mind to activity. * * * Our 

educational process is too dogmatic and mechanical, 
and it does not, therefore, tend to produce the intel- 
lectual power and independence which stamp the 
truly disciplined mind.” 

“ A failure to develop the emotional nature.” 
* * * 

% 

“Darwin confessed to an atrophy of his moral 
nature and aesthetic sense. Goethe, in an exclusive 
quest for the intellectual perfection, lost some of the 
finer elements of complete manhood.” * * * 

“ A failure of our education to teach self-reliance. 

The power of original thought is not developed ” 
* * * 

“ Our teaching is too professional.” * * * 

“ A teacher should be a companion to his pupils.” 

“ Another defect is the preponderance of lady 
teachers in our schools. * * * The best educa- 

tion can be given by corps of teachers chosen about 
equally from both sexes.” * * * 

“ We are losing sight of, we are not thinking 
enough, of the individual soul, of the manhood of 
the individual. * * * At the head of every 

historic epoch stands a great man — Moses, Socrates, 
Gladstone, Cavour, Raphael, and de Vince.” 

“A good deal of brain gets into the teachers’ pro- 
fession, but comparatively little stays there. The 
biography of any great man is pretty sure to tell that 
he soon got into teaching ; it is pretty sure to add 
that he soon got out of it— if he hadn’t got out of it 
he never would have been a great man. As a way- 
side inn on the road to fame, teaching is like New 
Hampshire for a birth-place — capital, if you don’t 
stay there too long.” * * * 

“The story is old of the schoolmaster out West 
who offered to teach that the earth was round or that 
it was flat, according to the opinion of the committee. 
It never was much of a joke. The teachers of New 
York have got to teach round or flat, according to 
the committee, or get bounced.” 

“ The different classes of schools do not attend 
with sufficient exclusiveness to do work which they 
were designed to do. The grammar schools often 
attempt to do a part of the work of the high schools ; 
the normal schools, to some extent, attempt to do the 
work of the academies Colleges are, in part, doing 
the work ol the high schools and academies ” 

Socrates is everywhere spoken of as an ideal 
teacher. 



In Guizot’s history it is stated that one third of the 
University students of Europe die prematurely from 
the effects of bad habits acquired at college ; one third 
die prematurely from the effects of close confinement 
at their studies ; and the other third governs Europe. 

Syracuse University is rapidly becoming one of the 
leading educational institutions in the land. The 
benefactions and endowments last year reached $400,- 
000, thus giving it easy first place among the other 
colleges in the amount and value of the gifts received 
during the twelve months just closed. The principal 
of these, it will be remembered, were the Von Rank 
library, worth $35,000, and the new Crouse College, 
valued at over $300,000. Now it has just been given 
one of the finest collections in the world of engravings 
and portraits of scientists, philosophers and dis- 
tinguished men of all ages and countries. The col- 
lection could not be duplicated for $50,000. It is 
the Wolff collection, and was presented by Mrs. 
Harriet L. Levenworth as a memorial to her late 
husband, Gen. L. W. Levenworth. 



LITERATURE. 

W. H. F, SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

:RS F0R 180 St. James Street, 

books, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building f 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 


Armstrong k Radford, 




PAGE. 

117 


Ashford, C., 




118 


Atwater k Co., 




104 


Birks, H., k Co., 




118 


Chapleau k Co., 




104 


Clarke, G. W., 




118 


Cumming & Rrewis, 




116 


Doughty, A. G., 




117 


Drysdale, Win., k Co., 




104 


Dyer, W. A., & Co., . 




104 


Featherston, A. M., 




117 


Gertli, E. A., . 




116 


Gray, Hy. R. , 




116 


Greenshields k Co., 




104 


Gurney, E. and C., k Co., 




115 


Henderson, John k Co., 




115 


Jensen, J. L., 




115 


Lyman, Sons k Co., 




115 


Macaulay, W. B. T., 




117 


Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . 




118 


Murray, Win., 




117 


MacBean, D. B. A., 




116 


Me En tyre k Son, . 




104 


McLaren, W. D., 




118 


Ness, T. W., 




115 


Nightingale, D., 




116 


Nordheimer k Co., 




118 


Notman k Son, 




118 


Payne Geo., 




116 


Periard, A., 




116 


Reid, Robert, 




116 


Robertson k Co., 




104 


Ross, Hugh, 




117 


Sharswood, W. 11. F., 




114 


Sheppard, Geo. J., 




116 


Summerhayes k Walford, 




117 


Tarrante, Sami., 




117 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



115 



Home Medical Batteries surgical instruments 



— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T\ A/V. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 



and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

s& T^nll $todk doi\£tkntly op Hkpd, Imported 
Difedt from tl^e frekdiqg ^1 kpufkdtifretd 
of tl\e Wotld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 



iwm dye 



706 CRAIG STREET. 




.1 fi 





1 nm*. 



229 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. 

385 <35 3S7 St. 

STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY & CO., 

Street, ]^Eonteeal 

Wholesale Manufacturers*— 



GURNEY’S 



H elebruted p W^b 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Furnagbs 



FOR 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 



St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



116 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Elioto^ra|ifiic 'Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

CUMMIItfGr «£ BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 



SPECIAL IIATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 

Established 1859. 

IE£- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

( CORNER LA GA UCHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemicnl Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



The Mon Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

rssrsB ok&asm, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A, GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEORGE IFALY" 1ST IE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing Skates. 

^"Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer, 

AND 

• ■ • LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 

ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING . 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 

Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“BRUNO” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “Victor” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each. 

Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $50 each. 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired . 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students. 

D. NIGHTINGALE^ 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tallies, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 

*9“ Improved Billiard] .Cushions, 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



117 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand : 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C . TROTTER, 

HP- O- Box 2. r 70^:, - Montreal. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HTGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

ear Photos, of Professors on Sale ! “©a 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



, )BUY YQVR (== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 




UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 



2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 



ARMSTRONG X RADFORD, 

Haberflasta and Outfitter!, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's Wear. 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St. ) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

TTie West End 

HAIR- PRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TAR R ANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffitte fftu» anil 

No. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral, ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. AndersonJ, 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns. 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited, Snecial Discount to Students, 



118 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



WJi \l ITJ I 'I\ § SOX. 



Photographers, 

STUDEA'TS 9 PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

P RIP ATE GROUPS 
PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 
COLLEGE FIEU'S, ftc. 



the GENUIWE 

OOOI^’S IE2, I IE 1ST ID 
BAKING POWDbR 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 IBxjETJk-v Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., • MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion l 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS , COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell. Federal, T. H. LOVE, 

580 &. 24 82. 1683. Manager. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NO TE BOOKfi, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. o. dise’t., with others more expensive 

HISTORICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

l^o 23 .trea.l Gen. Hospital I 5 la.a,rre.a.e©paela., 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 818 Doichestcr St., Montreal. 



44 tli YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



ESTABLISHED 1845. 



OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 



THF. 



Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JAMES STREET, MLOTTTTETIA^L. 

HENRY BIRKS * CO. ~ 



.T EW E LEE RS, & c. 



Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c. - 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 



THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St. James Street, Montreal. 

G. W • CLARIiE, Importer of 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Feather Goods 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 




