Vol. IX. 




McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



IV ednesday , March 31 , 1 886 . 



/ 


CONTENTS : 






PAGE. 




PAGE. 


Editorials 


3-5 


Societies - 


8 


Poetry 


5-9 


Correspondence 


9-11 


Contributions 


5-6 


College World 


- 11-12 


McGill News 


6 8 


Between the Lectures 


13-14 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1886. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GreenshieWs. McCorkill, Guerin & Greenshields. 

ADVOCATES, 

jlnrmim-s, jlllarnitp, jloliriiors, 4*t. f 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL.. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. B. A. E« Greenshieids, 

Robertson, Hi, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St- J" StHDC^eS S>tXOOt, 

ItfOITTRE&t. 



ATWATER & CROSS, 

^.Hvocate^ IJarri&erg, fjon)mi^ionei$, $c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

3IONTREAL. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

fPamstevs, Jkiliciturs, &c v 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MON TEE AX*. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

.A.. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MOITTEEAL. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST III THE CITY for McGILL COLLESE DINHE2S. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. CTjATVCIES ST. 



•If ElPICJl Ij U'ORKS, no OHS USER IN ART COURSE , 
SCIEJ\~CE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS HIEOLOGICAL ROOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & sullied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 
^ffiEST VALUE I ZEST TOWUi^ 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BT JYT TOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 



167? J/czre Dame Bz. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Gash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” RiUUon Tor Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 31st, 1886. [No. 12. 






DIRECTORS . — Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., 
F. C. S., President; Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President ; 
Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. Committee -.—Charles 
W. Hoare ; W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87; Fred. W. Hibbard, 
Arts 86 ; E. P. Williams, Med. *87. 

EDITORS . — Arthur Weir, Science *86, Editor-in- 
Chicf ; Ed. Evans, Med. f 87 ; C. Percy Brown, Science *86 ; 
W. Inglis Bradley, B. A., Med. *87 ; Alfred P. Murray, 
Arts *87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



Editorials. 



Owing to the proximity of the examinations and to 
the fact that we have already issued two numbers 
more than were printed last year, the editors have de- 
termined to make no further publication until after 
the Arts and Science Convocation. We hope our 
readers will be agreeable to this and will give us their 
moral support in the great battle we are about to 
enter. 

Some of us do not sever our connection with the 
Gazette with this volume, so if our readers have any 
suggestions to make as to improvements in next year’s 
issues, we shall be glad to receive them now and 
ponder over them during the vacation. 



In another column will be found a quotation from 
the editorial columns of the Toronto ’Varsity, regard- 
ing a question which we agitated in these columns 
some time ago. We are glad to see that the students 
of Toronto University have taken hold of the ques- 
tion in earnest. We sincerely hope that the agitation 
may spread and ultimately prevail, and that ere long 
the present system of examination, with its necessary 
(and unnecessary) injustice and unfairness ; with 
its prizes and other unworth}’ motives of excellence, 
shall have been removed. We desire to see men as- 
pire to a University education because of its intrinsic 
worth ; not because, perchance, they may win a medal. 



When our University degree shall be the sole and 
sufficient reward to the student — a testimonial of his 
ability rather than of his “ cramming” capacity, a 
diploma of which he shall be proud, because coming 
from the best University on the continent : then shall 
McGill have advanced nearer the higher education of 
her graduates. 



THE MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

In looking over the papers set by the professors in 
Medicine at the late examinations, we cannot help 
thinking of the truth of Huxley’s remark, that it re- 
quires a special faculty to be a good examiner. 

The English language is apparently comprehensive 
enough to allow an examiner to put his questions in 
definite language and free from ambiguity ; moreover, 
an examiner should ask for all he wants in the ques- 
tion. Yet, in some of the questions, extensive ad- 
ditions were made to what the question apparently 
asked for ; and a totally different construction given 
to others. We could give some striking examples, 
but refrain. 

Again, some of the papers were so long that the 
professors themselves could not make ninety per cent, 
in the time allowed for them ; hence it is not the man 
who knows his work most thoroughly who gets the 
place of honor ; but, on the contrary, the man who 
can write fastest, and has learned the greatest number 
of “ tips.” Then, after the written examinations comes 
the grand final farce — the “ Orals.” See the poor 
student pacing up and down the hall ; he is pale with 
excitement ; he can hear his own heart, as it beats one 
hundred and twenty per minute ; he is all tension. In 
the library sits an examiner in each corner of the 
room. The bell rings and he is ushered in, and for 
ten minutes he is questioned and badgered by each 
examiner ; and in this short space of time, while the 
examined is all excitement — incapable of thinking and 
scarcely able to speak, said examiner forms his opinion 
of that student’s acquirements for the past two years, 
and is able to say whether he is worthy of a degree 
or not. 

Since these examinations are necessary (though an 
evil) why not try and reduce the evil to a minimum 1 
Why not have the questions set in plain and unmis- 
takable English ] Let them not be so unnecessarily 
long ; or, if they be long, let the time given for an- 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE- t 1886 - 



swering them be all that each student requires, and 
not have it, as at present, a race against time, making 
it not a question of knowledge, so much, as one of 
speedy writing. Let the time for orals be lengthened ; 
let them be more uniform, and give them a more pro- 
minent position in the examinations. It is by them, 
an examiner, if capable, should be able to find out the 
true worth and real capacity and knowledge of a man. 

.When we reflect that it is on the result of these 
examinations that the Faculty grants its medals, prizes 
and honor standing, as well as the degrees, we see the 
necessity of having them conducted free from all 
charge or suspicion of unfairness in any way. No one 
would think of breathing a charge of unfairness against 
any of the examiners ; but we think the method of 
examination might be improved in several and impor- 
tant respects. 



THE LIBltAEY. 

As the instruction received from the professors is 
not the only, though, perhaps, the principal, factor of 
an Arts Education, it is essential to the best perform- 
ance of “ the work we came to do ” that the greatest 
possible facilities should be given to the prosecution 
of outside reading , which is one of the subsidiary 
factors. The establishment of libraries in connection 
with a large number of colleges has been partly due to 
a desire for the furthering of this end. A library 
affords a two-fold advantage to a student : there are 
text-books and works of reference in his own subject, 
or subjects, while the remainder of the library consti- 
tutes a fund on which he may draw for his outside 
reading. Moreover, for the bulk of our students, 
outside reading can only be indulged in by means of 
a public library. 

Now, without actually finding fault with our 
library, we wish to point out a few improvements that 
would greatly increase its usefulness, as regards out- 
side reading and reference. One feature which has 
recently been introduced is the regulation requiring 
that deposits be paid at the Bursars office. As those 
who use the library have already found out, this is, to 
say the least, a great and useless trouble. We would 
say, restore the old regulation requiring deposits to be 
made with the librarian. 

More facilities for reference are needed, especially 
among the senior men. These have to hunt through 
many books for want they want ; and under the pre- 
sent regulations no student is allowed to take down 
books for himself. We would suggest that men of 
the fourth year should be granted freedom to go into 
the alcoves and examine books, without making out 



“ forms”. If this be too general a concession, let a 
student, on presentation of an order from a professor, 
have this freedom. The last suggestion is of the same 
nature as the foregoing. Let there be chosen by the 
Faculty of Arts, the librarian, or some other competent 
judge, several men from the senior years who would 
each give a certain time per day to the work of the 
library. In return for this, they might receive i the 
run of the library.” This has in it benefit to the stu- 
dents as a whole, and to those chosen. The same idea 
has found form in Toronto, where it works very well. 
If some such arrangement were made, Mr. Taylor 
would be enabled to leave the library during the day, 
and be present some evening — as the petition now 
being prepared requests. It would also obviate the 
necessity of the closing of the library when the 
librarian is absent. Such are a few suggestions which 
seem worthy of notice. They are briefly, — more fa- 
cilities for consultation to the senior men, and more 
facilities to the general mass of readers by having two 
or more assistants always present; also greater con- 
venience in the making of deposits. 



The following is from the “ Leading Article” of The 
Varsity , of March 20th: — 

A mass meeting of undergraduates . was called to 
consider the matter. At that meeting the following 
resolution was carried by a large majority. It was 
moved by Mr. F. F. Macpherson, and seconded by Mr. 
A. H. Young, both of them well-known scholarship 
men of the fourth year: — 

“ Whereas, in the opinion of the undergraduates, medals and 
scholarships are detrimental to the true interests of education ; 
and 

“ Whereas, contrary to the expressed wishes of the undergradu- 
ates, scholarships and medals have been restored by the College 
Council ; and 

“Whereas, from a lack of funds, the Library is not equipped 
so as to afford students all the advantages such an institution 
should confer ; and 

“ Whereas, there is the greatest necessity for the appointment 
of a lecturer in Political Economy ; 

“ Therefore, it is resolved, that the undergraduates, protest 
against the restoration of medals and scholarships, and also 
against the action of College officials in soliciting contributions 
for such purpose, thus diverting public benefactions from more 
worthy objects.*’ 

There is no uncertainty in the tone of this resolution, 
nor in that of the two letters which appear in another 
column on this subject. 

The objections against the system of scholarships and 
medals have not been exaggerated. This system sets 
up unworthy objects before students, and obscures 
the highest ideals and aims of education. It intensifies 
all the evils of competition and of competitive exami- 
nations. It tends to produce jealousy and distrust 
among students following the same courses. It 
forces our best students, no matter how unwilling 
they may be, into an unhealthy and degrading rivalry. 
It confers undue honor on a very few at the expense 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



1886.] 



of all the rest, and it aggravates the positive injustice 
which is often done to the best men, as the result of 
the fallacious test of ordinary examinations. 

Our students wish to be generous and helpful to 
each other ; they desire to pursue truth, single-eyed, 
for the truth’s sake alone, and they would preserve 
their manhood and independence in its fullest measure. 

They simply ask, then, that the College Council will 
not expose them to a temptation which would tend to 
prevent them from making a fair approximation to this 
ideal. It is to be hoped that a request so reasonable 
will no longer be refused. 



Poetry. 



AFTER THE BATTLE.* 

Once on a time— it matters little when— 

On English ground— it matters little where— 

A fight was fought upon a summer day 

When skies were blue, and waving grass was green. 

The wild flower, fashioned by the Alnvghty Hand 
To be a perfumed goblet for the dew. 

Felt its enamelled cup filled high with blood, 

And, shrinking from the horror, drooped and died. 

Many an insect that derives its hue 

From harmless leaves and f ender bladed herbs, 

Was stained anew that day by dying men, 

And marked its wanderings with unnatural track. 

The painted butterfly that soared from earth 
Bore blood upon the edges of its wings. 

The stream ran red. The trampled soil became 
A quagmire, whence, from sullen pools that formed 
In prints of human feet and horses’ hoofs, 

The one prevailing hue of stagnant blood 

Still lowered and glimmered at the cloudless sun- 

The lonely moon upon the battle-ground 

Shone brightly oft, while stars kept mournful watch, 

And winds from every quarter of the earth 

Blew o’er it, ere the traces of the fight 

Were worn away. They lurked and lingered long, 

In trivial signs surviving. Nature, far 
Above the evil passions of mankind, 

Her old serenity recovered soon. 

And smiled upon the guilty battle-ground, 

As she had done when it was innocent. 

The lark sang high ;»bove it ; swallows skimmed. 

And dipped, and flitted gaily to and fro; 

The shadows of the flying clouds pursued 
Each other swiftly over grass and corn, 

And field and woodland, over roof and spire 
Of peaceful towns embosomed among trees. 

Into the glowing distance, far away 
Upon the borders of the earth and sky. 

Where the red sunsets faded. Crops were sown, 

And reaped and harvested ; the restless stream. 

That once was red with carnage, turned a mill ; 

Men whistled at the plough, or tossed the hay, 

And bands of gleaners gathered up the grain : 

In sunny pastures sheep and oxen browsed ; 

Boys whooped and called to scare the pilfering birds ; 
Smoke rose from cottage chimneys; Sabbath bells 
Rang with sweet chimes ; old people lived and died ; 

The timid creatures of the field and grove, 

The simple blossoms of the garden-plot 
drew up and perished in their destined terms— 

And all amid the blood-steeped battle-ground, 

Where thousands upon thousands had been slain. 

But, there were deep green patches in the corn, 

That peasants gazed upon, at first, with awe. 

Year after year those patches reappeared, 

And children knew that men and horses lay 
In mouldering heaps beneath each fertile spot. 

The village hind, who ploughed that teeming soil, 

Shrank from the large worms that abounded there ; 

The bounteous sheaves it never failed to yield 
Were called the Battle Sheaves, and set apart, 

And no one knew a Battle Sheaf to be 
Borne in the last load at a Harvest Home. 

For many a year each furrow that was turned 

* These lines are printed as a “ Curiosity of Literature.” The 
reader who refers to the first chapter of ‘‘The Battle of Life” by 
Charles Dickens will find that, by the mere addition or omission of a 
few words, the novelist’s graphic description of the scene where once 
a great battle had been fought is here turned into unrhymed metre. 
The late R. II. Horne pointed out in 44 A New Spirit of the Age,” that 
the account of the funeral of 44 Little Nell,” falls, with slight altera- 
tion, into blank verse of irregular rhythm, such as Southey, Shelley, 
and other poets have occasionally adopted. 



Revealed some crumbling record of the fight. 

And by the roadside there were wounded trees, 

And scraps of hacked and broken fence and wall 
Where deadly struggles erst had taken place, 

And trampled spots, where not a blade would grow. 

For many a year, no smiling village girl 
Would dress her bosom or adorn her hair 
With fragrant blossoms from that field of death ; 

And, when the seasons oft had come and gone. 

The crimson berries growing there were thought 
To l*»ave too deep a stain upon the hands 
Of those that plucked them. 

Geo. Murray. 



Contributions. 



TIT FOR TAT. 

(Translated from the German by Gowan Lea ) 

“You are surely not going out again to-night, 
Henry ?” 

“ I am, my dear !” 

“ And where ? if I may be allowed to ask.” 

“ Oh, to sup with some friends. I am taking the 
pass-key with me, so there is no need for you to sit 
up.” 

Mrs. Schmelzer sighed. 

“ This it the fifth evening of this week that you 
have left me alone. I really begin to wonder why 
you married ! It is hard — yes, it is hard, Henry.” 

“ But, Emma, you astonish me,” said Henry, with 
affected dignity. 

“ It would be better if you could be astonished at 
yourself. How can such thoughtless conduct appear 
to yourself 1 ? 

“Were I a married woman,” answered .Schmelzer, 

“ I should find it quite natural that my husband 
should go out whenever he pleased and wherever he 
pleased, and should do always just what he liked ; 
and if it happened now and then that I did not feel 
entirely satisfied, I should speak in a very different 
tone from that in which you have spoken. Yours is 
not the way to attach a man to his house !” 

“ 0, is there a way ?” 

“ Why, certainly there is. Make your house at- 
tractive. Moreover, have I ever hindered you from 
going out when and where you chose?” 

3 “ I never stay out till three o’clock in the morn- 
in g ” 

“ If you h id good reasons for being away I should 
not object. I might go out at the same time.” 

“ But I have nowhere to go, Henry. Ah, if you 
could know how dreary it is always to be left to sit 
alone ?” 

“ Why not subscribe to a lending library? That 
would provide diversion and amusement for you. 
You might also mend my clothes ; it would help to 
pass the time. My mother used to be always sewing 
for my father. But I must away, child. Farewell ; 
don’t be angry.” 

“ Good-night,” said Mrs. Schmelzer, proudly. “I 
shall remember this; the day of reckoning shall 
come.” 

After that evening Henry heard no more re- 
proaches. He went and came as usual, leaving his 
wife to her solitary meditations. One day he sprained 
his foot, and was brought home in a carriage. At 
least fourteen days was he a prisoner to the house. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



At first he suffered intense pain, and his wife tended 
him with the utmost care. But, as he recovered, and 
his foot required nothing but rest, Mrs. Schmelzer 
smiled with an air of triumph, and put into execution 
the project she had long considered. One evening 
she appeared before her husband in the most charm- 
ing toilette — a rose in her hair, and an atmosphere of 
the most delicate perfume about her. 

“ I am going out, dear Henry,” she said. “ My 
sister Johanne has company this evening. Don’t wait 
up for me ; I am taking the pass-key.” 

“ O, very good,” said Henry, in an offended tone, 
and the door closed after Emma. Then he muttered : 
“ A pretty thing this — very ! To go away out and 
leave a poor man to sit alone in his room ; I don’t 
understand Emma. Never could I have suspected that 
she could thus have grieved — neglected me. What 
shall I do with myself? Not a soul to speak to ! No 
distraction of any sort ! It is simply abominable !” 

As nine o’clock struck he could not help thinking 
her conduct cruel ; at ten he was too angry to speak ; 
at twelve he was raging ; and when his wife returned 
at half-past one, and lingered a moment talking in the 
door-way, he gnashed his teeth with rage. 

“ You are very late,” said he, but he was too proud 
to add any reproach. 

“0, why should you have waited up for me, my 
dear ?” said Mrs. Schmelzer. 

His pride would not permit him to vouchsafe a 
reply; nor yet to take any notice of her remark, that 
she expected her brother to come for her the follow 
ing evening to take her to a concert. 

Again she went out, and again returned late. 
Schmelzer complained most bitterly in her absence, 
but in her presence he was dumb. Mrs. Schmelzer 
spent evening after evening away from home. At the 
end of a week the crisis had come. Emma went to a 
ball, accompanied by her brother. She was later than 
ever in getting home ; indeed, she came in in the 
morning at the same time as the milkman. As she 
entered the room she was met by her husband. His 
face looked pale as a ghost, while his eyes seemed to 
blaze with fury. 

“ You have stayed out all night, madam,” said he. 

“ Yes,” said Emma, with the greatest composure, as 
she stepped up to the mirror, “ the ball lasted very 
long.” 

“ Do you know,” continued Henry, that I have 
now been seven successive days in the house left 
alone, with no other occupation at night than that of 
counting the hours until your return. It is not to 
be endured, I say !” 

“ But, Henry, I am astonished !” 

“ Astonished !” echoed Henry, beside himself with 
rage. “ Do you think that this sort of thing can go 
on ?” 

“ If I were a married man,” said his wife, calmly, 
“ I should find it quite natural that my wife should 
go out whenever she pleased and wherever she pleased, 
and should always do just what she liked ; and if it 
happened now and then that I did not feel altogether 
satisfied, I should speak in a very different tone to 
that in which you have spoken. Yours is not the 
way to attach a wife to her house ” 



“ What!” cried Henry, fairly dancing with excite- 

ment. , 

“ Make your house attractive, if you want to keep 

your wife at home.” 

“ Am I crazy ? Do I hear aright, Emma ( 

« You have had a short trial of what I have been 
enduring all along. Tell me, now, how you like it, 
Henry?” 

“ Ah, I understand. You thought you would re- 
taliate. I grant that I have been out often of late : 
but — but — you had not a lame foot.” 

“ No, I had not. But a wife is always a prisoner to 
the extent that you have been these few days, it the 
man who has vowed to love her chooses to have it so. 
Yes, I have retaliated, as you say, — but my heart bled 
the while. You see now what it is to feel alone, ne- 
glected, and forgotten. ” 

“ I see it all now,” said Henry, penitently. 

“ And that is all that I wish. I shall not stir out 
another night — until you are perfectly recovered.” 

“ And then I shall accompany you or remain at 
home with you.” 

And Schmelzer kept his word. 



JRRctBill Neuis. 



It is a pity the Reading Room tables are so cosy. 
They seem to be preferred to chairs, sometimes even 
to lounges. 

The Reading Room Committee are revelling in a 
group photograph. Their picture will, at least, lessen 
the space for “ Rats.” 

McGill emigrates bodily this coming summer. The 
Principal, Dr. Murray, Prof. Darey, Prof. Moyse and 
Prof. Bovey, go to the Old Country. 

“ Where are the Science Men ? ” Such is the oft- 
repeated question when the boys come into the hall 
after wading kneedeep from the Gates. “ Cannot they 
invent a snow-plough ? ” 

The museum has another alligator. Let us hope the 
two won’t share the fate of the Kilkenny cats. They 
are warned against quarrelling, for they are too far 
from the ground to “ fall out ” with impunity. 

The Freshies in Arts have not responded well to 
the call for subscriptions in aid of the dinner to the 
Graduating Class — perhaps because their vision is too 
dim to stretch over fpur years. In order to cure this 
rebellious tendency, several members of the third year 
came into their lecture room before the professor 
arrived and harangued them on their obstinacy. It is 
too bad that the most numerous class in the faculty 
should hold back their support from such an object — 
the last tribute of respect they can otter to the men 
of ’86. 



Convocation. 

^ The Convocation of the Medical Faculty of the 
1 niversity, was held in the Molson Hall on Monday, 
March dOth. On the platform were Hon. Jas. Ferrier, 
Chancellor of the University, Sir Wm. Dawson, 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



Principal, Dr. Howard, Dean of the Medical Faculty, 
the Professors of the Medical Faculty, members of 
the sister faculties, governors of the University, and a 
number of the old graduates and friends of McGill. 

The proceedings opened (after prayer) by the Dean, 
Dr. Howard, reading the report of the Medical Faculty 
for the past year. 

In the Medical Faculty there are 237 students. 

In the late examinations the following gentlemen 
passed the Primary Examinations. Those who have 
taken upwards of 75 per cent, of the marks given are 
arranged in order of merit : • 

W. J. Bradley, H. I). Fritz, W. D. Guun, F. L. Kemiy, 
J. R. Cl oust on, D. McLennan, R. M. Kincaid, A. I). Macdon- 
ald, A. D. Stewart, A. E. Orr, Hubbard, A. E. Kirkpatrick, 
J. E. Orr, P. C. Park, J. H. Kennedy. 

The names of those who have taken over 60 per 
cent, of the marks are, in order of merit, as follows : 

J. J. Hopkins, K. Cameron, Welmore, D. R. McMartin, J. 
Hewitt, M. McFarlane. H. H. McKay, J. H. Thompson, A. J. 
MacDonnell, W. M. Donald, C. W. Hoare, C. P. Conroy, D. S. 
McDougall, \V. Christie, McCarthy, Geo, McDonald, Robertson, 
Springle, J. Boyd, Morrow, Berry, Pothier, Desmond, Weagant. 

The names of those who have taken over 50 per 
cent, of the marks are as follows, arranged in alpha- 
betical order : 

C. L. Easton, C. J. Edgar, J. Graham, A. G. Hall, C. H. 
Long, D. Murray, H. McKinnon, T. H. Orton, J. M. Potts, 
H. V. Pearman, W. R. Thomas, H. P. Wilkins, C. F. Wylde, 

N.B. Mr. R. A. Westley passed with "honors, but is not 
ranked because he did not undergo the same examinations as 
the rest, on account of illness. 

Those who have taken the degree of M.D.C.M., 
are : 



professor’s prizes. 

Botany. — P rize, G. G. Campbell. 

Practical Anatomy. — Demonstrator’s Prizes : 2nd year, 
H. D. Fritz. 1st year, H. Slater. 

Clinical Medicine. — Junior Class, E. P. H. Blackader. 

Obstetrics. — H. S. Birkett, Hamilton, Out. 

After the distribution of prizes, the Principal, Sir 
William Dawson, conferred the degree of M.D.C.M. 
on the graduates of ’86. 

Dr. Crooket, B.A , the valedictorian of the Gradu- 
ating Class, then came forward. He said, addressing 
those present : “ This occasion, so long awaited with 
happy expectation, brings with it mingled feelings of 
pleasure and regret.” 

He spoke of the pleasure of having completed their 
task at the University ; of the regret at parting with 
friends, whom four years’ acquaintance had endeared ; 
of the sorrow of passing beyond the guidance of their 
processors, who were friends, as well as instructors; 

He referred, touchingly, to the death of the late Pro- 
fessor Scott, and paid a deserved and kind tribute to 
the classmates who had died during their course. 

He expressed the appreciation of the Graduating 
Class, and the Undergraduates, at the rapid advance the 
Medical department of McGill is making year after 
year. He hoped she would soon demand of those 
seeking her degree the qualification of an Arts degree. 

In humorous language he predicted that the future 
.student of McGill would have fair companions to 
lighten his labor and divide the honors, and expressed 
his opinion in the terse sentence — “Woman’s sphere 
is in her home.” On behalf of the class, he bade fare- 
well to the professors and the citizens of Montreal. 

In bidding farewell to his fellow-students, he ad- 
vised them to seek their relaxation from the stern 



J. H. A I'm it age. P. Aylen, H. S. Birkett, G. W. Boggs, A. W. 
Campbell, W. C. Cattanach, J. L. Clarke, M. A. Craig, W. C. 
Crockett, D. McG. DeCow, T. M. Gardner, J. B. Gibson, 
G. J. Gladman, J. Graham, J. H. Y. Grant, T. J. Haytliorno, 
P. H. Hughes, J. A. Kiuloch, R, C. Kirkpatrick, D, Murray, 

E. P. McCallum, W. J. McCuag. T. G. McGannon, J. M. Mac- 
kay, T. H. Orton, Alf. Poole, L. E. McC. Pomeroy, W. R. 
Pringle, Alf. Raymond, G. H. Raymond, F. D. Robertson, 
L. H. Ross, W. M. Rowat, A. F. Schmidt, A. G. Schmidt, 

F. J. Seery, W. R. Thomas. R. Turnbull, W. W. White, J. F. 
Williams, C. W. Wilson, A, W. Worthington. 

The above names are arranged in alphabetical order. 

Of these the following took First Class Honors. 
They are arranged in order of merit : 



duties of the profession in literature, recommending 
to them the advice of Dr. Bingham — u Make the 
science of medicine your first love, and lovingly array 
her in the mantle of literary excellence, etc.” He 
hoped they would all do their duty to themselves, to 
their fellows, and to their Alma Mater . 

Wouldst shape a noble life ? Then cast 

No backward glances towards the past, 

****** 

Give others’ work just share of praise, 

Not of thy own the merits raise. 

Beware no fellow-man thou hate ; 

And in God’s hands leave thou thy fate.” 



Kennedy, R. A., B. A., McCallum, E. P,, Robertson, F. D., 
B.A., Kirkpatrick, R. C.. B.A., Haythorne, T. J., B. A., 
Crockett, W. C., B.A., Campbell, A. W., Gibson, J. B., Kin- 
loch. J. A., Rowatt. W. M., Seery, F. J., Wilson. C. W., Ray- 
mond, Alf., Hughes. P. H., Williams, J. F., Pringle. J. R., 
McCuag, W. J., Grant, J, H. Y.. Gairdner. T. M., Worthing- 
ton, A. N. 

Following are the Prize men of ’86 : 

The Holmes Gold Medal for the best examination in the 
Primary and Final Branches is awarded to Herbert S. Birkett, 
of Hamilton, Ontario. 

The Prize for the best Final Examination is awarded to Walter 
W. White, B.A., of St. John, N.B. 

The Prize for the best Primary Examination is awarded to 
William I Bradley, B.A., of Ottawa. 

The Southerland Gold Medal is awarded to William I. Brad- 
ley, B.A., of Ottawa. 



Dr. Gardner, on behalf of the Professors, delivered 
the farewell address to the Graduates. 

He congratulated them on their brilliant course, as 
evidenced by their standing to-day. His excellent 
address contained much of value for the guidance of 
the young doctor. It was a fitting close to the long 
series of instructions, which, for four years, the profes- 
sors in Medicine had poured, with a lavish hand, on 
the devoted heads of the Class of ’86. 

The Chairman delivered a short address. He re- 
viewed briefly the history of the Medical Faculty, 
from its beginning, in 1821, down to the present time, 
when he addressed the largest class of Graduates in 
Medicine McGill had ever had. 

Sir William, in a few remarks, congratulated the 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Faculty on its success and wished the young Graduates 
every prosperity. He made the announcement that 
the University was about to confer the degree of 
LL.D. on Dr. Howard, Dean of the Faculty. Need- 
less to say it was received with applause. 



Societies. 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Public Debate in Fraser Institute-Church 
Disestablishment. 

( From Montreal Gazette.) 

The twenty-fifth public meeting of the University 
Literary Society was held on Friday evening in the 
large hall of the Fraser Institute. The hall was quite 
filled with an intelligent and appreciative audience. 
The chair was occupied by Mr. McGoun, president of 
the society, and on the platform were also seated Mr. 
Brooke, the vice-president, and the debaters. 

The Chairman, in opening, said that the hall had 
been granted them by the governors of the institute, 
and thanked the readers in the library for waving their 
rights in the society’s favor. And in referring to the 
Victoria Rifles Armory movement, thought the 
“Varsity” might commend the army to the people 
of Montreal. 

Mr. Seth P. Leet, B.C.L, opened the debate on the 
question, “ Should the Church in England be disesta- 
blished?” He sketched the history of the question, 
showing how the church and state had been associated 
from earliest times, but that apart from disendowments 
the church itself would be free from state trammels. 
The only disendowment he would advocate would be 
of such part of the revenues as were the product of 
general taxation upon the nation at large, while church 
property generally, and what had come from gifts or 
even succession from the Catholic Church, should be 
made over absolutely to the church. The only disen- 
dowment would probably'be of the tithes which were 
collected from all, whether they were members of the 
Church of England or not. 

Mr. Selkirk Cross, B.A., B.C.L., followed in the 
negative. He considered that the question depended 
largely on the proposed disendowment of the church, 
the assumption by the state of the property and revenue 
of the church, and their secularization. There were 
different kinds of church property, some derived by suc- 
cession from the pre-reformation church and from the 
suppression of monasteries and convents. It was pro- 
posed by most advocates of disestablishment that church 
property should be secularized, and who would like to 
see Bradlaugh haranguing from St. Paul’s cathedral, or 
Burns and Hyndman in Wesminster Abbey. The 
formal recognition of the church' as a national institu 
tion was a great safeguard to the cause of morality 
and religion. 

Mr. Cross, owing to the great heat on the elevated 
platform, expressed a desire to resume his seat for a 
moment, and Mr. Unsworth consented to proceed at 
once. 

Mr. J. K. Unsworth, B.A., followed on the affirma- 
tive in a telling and masterly address. He thought 



it might seem bold for a youth to make an attack upon 
such a valuable institution as a church that extended 
back for a thousand years, but it was in the spirit of 
the a^e. He proceeded to show that disestablishment 
did not mean the destruction ol the church of England, 
nor any antagonism to religion, that the disendowment 
proposed was not robbery of the church, because it 
was never intended to do more than prevent the reve- 
nues derived by tithes and other assessments from all 
the people from being devoted to church that was 
believed in by only a part, probably only about a half, 
of the church-going people of the Kingdom. Dises- 
tablishment did mean that the Soverign would cease 
to be the head of the church, and it was in the interests 
of religion that this should be so, because although our 
Queen was in every way worthy, as a Christian woman, 
of such a position, some of the kings in the past had 
not been, and in the future might not be, fit persons 
to occupy such a post. Their Parliament was not a fit 
synod for the church, many of its members being 
disbelievers in the doctrine of the church. The main 
ground of his attack upon the establishment was the 
justice of religious equality. It was unjust that one 
church should enjoy the patronage and support of the 
nation, while other religious people who contributed 
to the revenues had to provide entirely fortne support 
of their own churches. Mr. Unsworth, on resuming 
his seat, was rewarded with a genuine round of hearty 
applause. 

Mr. R. A. Greenshields, B.A., B.C.L. , followed on 
the negative, and made an eloquent and effective 
address. His “learned friend, the enemy” had not 
shown that in point of fact any of the theoretical evils 
complained of by him had actually occurred. He had 
based his demand solely on the ground that it was an 
injustice that one church should be favored over 
another. But was this injustice? The truth was that 
tne dissenters had the right to enjoy the ministrations 
of the church, and if they did not choose to do so that 
was their own fault. The divorce of the national reli- 
gion from the state recognition would lead to the spread 
of a pernicious state of society. Mr. Greenshields 
resumed his seat amid applause. 

Mr. Cross, on the negative, resuming, called atten- 
tion to the effect in France of disestablishing their 
national church, and stated that but a fr igment- 
ary part of the church revenues were derived from 
taxes on the people at large, and then were applied 
to church buildings, cometeries, etc Air. Cross made 
a very vigorous and interestiug address, and was 
heartily applauded. 

Mr. Leet, in reply reaffirmed the position that their 
dem ind was based chiefly on the grounds of justice, 
and justified dissent, as the church at the time when 
it seceded was very different from the church of to-day. 
In concluding, Mr. Leet was well cheered. The 
question was then put to the meeting, and decided in 
the affirmative. 



“ I have such an indulgent husband,” said little Mrs. 
Doll. 

“ \ es ; so George says,” responded Mrs. Spiteful, 
quietly, “ Sometimes indulges too much, doesn’t he?” 






1886.] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 9 



HE AND SHE. 

The morn was hot- I dozing lay 
Upon the cosy sofa. 

I did not care to stir that day, 

I fished to be a loafer. 

He naked of me to come and row 
With him upon the river. 

I answered sharply, saying, “ No, 

The thought just makes me shiver.” 

I said I wasn’t such a fool. 

And meant to lounge all morning ; 

Bade him stay, also, and be cool — 

He left, my counsel scorning. 

She came and asked me as I lay, 

The little, bright-eyed charmer, 

If I would come with her to pay 
A visit to a farmer. 

She had some eggs to get, she said, 

“ ’Tis but a little distance.” 

I rose and followed where she led, 

Without the least resistance. 

Arms. 



Itorrespondence. 



Editors McGill Gazette : 

Gentlemen : — I am instructed by the General Com- 
mittee of tikis Association to hand you a list of events 
for competition in our next Annual Field Meeting, to 
take place on Friday, the 15th of October next, with 
a request that you would kindly publish the same. It 
is a matter of interest to many intending competitors 
to know some time beforehand what the programme 
will comprise. 

It is hoped that before next session opens the much- 
needed apparatus, etc., for those in training will be on 
hand, and ready fol* use. 

It lias been decided to ask the authorities for space 
in the coming calendar, so that intending students may 
get all necessary information relating to the Associa- 
tion and affiliated clubs. 

It has been decided to retain all the events of last 
year’s meeting, and to add one more, the 120 yards 
hurdle race, making 20 in all, viz : 

1 — Kicking football; 2 — Throwing hammer (16 
lbs) ; 3— Running broad jump ; 4— Putting the shot 
(16 lbs) ; 5 — Throwing the cricket ball ; 6 — Standing 
broad jump ; 7 — Throwing heavy weight (56 lbs) ; 8 — 
Running high jump ; 9 — Tug of war (teams from each 
Faculty); 10 — One mile run; 11 — 100 yards run (in 
heats); 12— Pole leap; 13— 880 yards run ; 14— One 
mile (open to all amateurs, special medal if Canadian 
record is broken) ; 15 — One mile walk ; 16—440 yards 
run; 17— Three-legged race; 18—220 yards run; 

19 One mile bicycle race; 20 — 120 yards hurdle 

race. 

Trusting that you may find space for the above, 

I remain, your obedient servant, 

John A. Springle, 

Sec 1 ]/ McG. ZJ.A.A. 

Montreal, March 23rd, 1886. 

We have much pleasure in publishing the above 
letter, and hope it will be the means of making keener 
still the already keen competitions at our Annual Field 
Meetings. — Eds. McGill Gazette. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Kindly permit me to make a few remarks with 
reference to the charge of plagiarism laid by Mr. J. 
A. Macfarlane against “Vox.” 

As far as Mr. Macfarlane’s “ supreme contempt for 
plagiarism and plagiarists ” is concerned, it is surely 
shared by all. But in the present case there are ex- 
tenuating facts which I think, ought to be made known. 

I may state that I was fully acquainted with the con- 
tents of “Vox’s” article before it was published ; and 
having, at the time, read the original MS. can say that 
the quotations in question were there acknowledged. 
The quotation marks must have been omitted in the 
copying. Now, although I do not wish to put myself 
forward as a champion of “Vox’s” opinions, I most 
certainly disapprove of the spirit in which he has been 
dealt with by Mr. Macfarlane. Both he and “ Vox ” 
are theological students, but Mr. Macfarlane’s treat- 
ment of the whole matter is surely no exhibition of 
that Christian charity one would look for among such 
a class of men, when we read, “ Brethern, if a man be 
overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore 
such an one in the spirit of meekness ; considering 
thyself, lest thou also be tempted.” Had Mr. Mac- 
farlane possessed ordinary Christian charity he would 
have found better foundation for his treatment of the 
affair than mere suspicion, when he might have used 
his cynicism and love of honor with much greater 
effect. 

Should not his love of honor, which is so lavishly 
displayed in his letter, have led him to have avoided 
such ambiguous words as the following: — “ We are 
especially indignant as this is the second time that 
unacknowledged second-hand articles have been sent 
in to us for publication.” “ Vox,” I learn, has “ sent 
in ” but one article. 

Mr. Macfarlane’s descent to personalities is not cer- 
tainly in very good taste. It is uncharitable, and, were 
one inclined to be harsh, might be called contempti- 
ble. However little credit as a student “ Vox ” was 
to McGill College, Mr. Macfarlane’s reference to such 
was certainly out of plaje, and to those who know the 
facts in this particular case, it proves too much, as in 
whichever way it may be interpreted it involves one 
or other of his fellow-editors. 

“ A house divided against ^itself cannot stand,” in 
view of which it would have been well had Mr. Mac- 
farlane consulted Mr. G. A. Thompson, his colleague, 
as to the reasons given “Vox” why his article was 
not accepted, which were that, “ it was too severe and 
might injure the Presbyterian College 11 and Mr. 
Thompson offered to publish the article if “ Vox ” 
would tone it down. 

Far be it from me to accuse Mr. Macfarlane of dis- 
simulation. Such a thing must not be hinted at, as 
by his letter he shows such high regard for honor. 
Yet, are not the above facts inconsistent witli the 
reason given by Mr. Macfarlane for the rejection of 
the article. Such a glaring contradiction in the state- 
ments of these two editors, can have but one explana- 
tion. Somebody’s “ shrewdness ” is at fault here. 
“ What sort of opinion will honorable students and 
graduates entertain for such men,” as the editors in 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



question, who, in their defence of truth, display such 
an uncharitable spirit and open inconsistency. 

Yours truly, 

“ Subscriber.” 

Montreal, March 23rd, 1886. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Gentlemen, — For the Captain of the Hockey Team 
to give an account of his season is too old a custom to 
be contravened, otherwise I would willingly let this 
year’s record sink unchronicled into the ocean of the 
past, for it has been, if not the worst, at least as bad 
as any season we have had. 

With the other city clubs, we entered the matches 
for the Championship of Montreal, and sent our dele- 
gate to the committee for revising the rules. Our rules 
were adopted almost without exception, and the ab- 
surd regulation as to who should be members of our 
club was at last deservedly discarded, thanks to Mr. 
Swabey’s energy and the good sense of the rest of the 
Committee on Revision. 

We were drawn to play the first match of the Tour- 
nament with the Crystals. This match is acknowledged 
not only the severest of the tournament, but unparal- 
leled in hockey annals, not for its result, not for its 
roughness, but for its duration. Never before have 
two teams faced one another so evenly matched, and 
so equally determined to win as to require four hours’ 
play to decide the contest. The play was unquestion- 
ably rough — blamably so. It would but precipitate a 
discussion to say how it began, but this is true, Mc- 
Gill has not a character for “ killing ” its opponents, 
although able to give as well as take. Each side lost a 
man, disabled, and, after playing from eight to twelve, 
we lost a game and the match. 

The second match, with the same team, was of 
shorter duration and less rough. McGill had been 
feasting for some nights previously, and were not in 
their usual trim. Brown led oft’ bravely with a game 
to our side, amid rousing cheers from our backers, but 
it was not long before the tables were turned and the 
score began to mount up for the Crystals. We lost a 
man, disabled by an accidental swipe — modesty for- 
bids me to give his name — but, even the advantage of 
a fresh man, although it was May, did us no good : 
the Crystals won in the hour by 3' to 1. 

Between these matches we played a friendly one 
with the Victorias, on their own ice, which resulted 
disastrously for us. There seemed to be too much ice 
about, and although Hamilton and Stephens played 
their best, they seemed, like ourselves, victims of un- 
accustomed light and unusual space. 

At all the matches our inner man was not neglected, 
the Crystals sharing their coffee with us, and the Vies 
entertaining us in the Directors’ room. 

Where all played well, it is almost invidious to par- 
ticularize, but, if any three men played like a team 
each, these were Brown, Budden and Hamilton. The 
style of game we were forced to play enabled these men, 
the field defence, to distinguish themselves — and they 
did so. Were it not that the great form and long reach 
of Elder were missing, one would have fancied that 



this “ hero of a hundred fights” was in his accustomed 
place, for Hamilton was “all there.” In all the 
matches, Brown was at his best, his phenomenal cool- 
ness often raising a laugh among the spectators, while 
Budden distinguished himself well in all, but best in 
the match with the Vies, where his play excited gene- 
ral admiration. Stephens, in goal, kept down our op- 
ponents* score to its lowest point, and the rest of us 
did our best as forwards, but might have passed bet- 
ter. Lest I be thought to be shirking the blame for 
this, I desire to make it special towards myself, and, 
without “ fishing ” for a contradiction, say that had 
the centre passed better, and stuck to his position, the 
team would have profited thereby. 

The heroes of these modernThermopilaes,were Brown, 
Budden, Hamilton, Stephens, Wylde, Palmer and 
Weir. May, our first reserve, played in every match, 
and distinguished himself on the ice, as well as upon 
the football ground, which is saying much. 

Your obedient servant, 

Arthur Weir, 

Captain McGill //. C. 

March 29th, 1886. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette 

Gentlemen : — According to custom, permit me to 
review the last football season. The outlook at the 
beginning of the season was perhaps the worst that 
the cqllege team ever had. All the old officers and 
players had graduated the year before, some of the 
places were vacant, and the Montreal Club having 
moved to a ground of their own, the McGill team 
was left to practice by itself, for the first time in 
many years. 

The first match of the season was that against Len- 
noxville for the cup “ ties” on Oct. 10th, on the 
Bishop’s College Ground. The team that went out 
were : 

W. J. Hamilton, W. M. Reid, C. P. Brown, H. A. 
Budden, W. Aylen, J. Dunlop, J. E. May, J. G. 
Kerry (Capt.), R E. Palmer, C. H. McNutt, T. W. 
Wroughton, C. B. Kingston, J. Naismith, H. Patton, 
J. A. Springle. 

The game was a sharp one, but finally ended in a 
game for McGill by 24 to 0. The fast forward play 
of May and Patton, and the steady strength of 
Naismith in the scrimmage, were the points most 
worthy of note in the match. 

The second match for the Championship was against 
the Montreal, on Oct. 17th. The team was the same 
as that for Lennoxville, with the exception of Kingston 
and Budden, who were replaced by Taylor and Wylde. 
McGill was defeated by 43 to 0, the game being an 
uphill game all through. On the McGill side, the 
exceptionally strong play of Wroughton was the 
noticeable feature of the match. 

Wroughton and Aylen were disabled in this match, 
and were unable to play for the remainder of the 
season. 

On Oct. 24th, on the College grounds, the annual 
match with the Britannias took placa Taylor, Wylde, 
Wroughton and Aylen were replaced by Kingston, 



1886 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



O’Sullivan, Kirby and Drummond. The match re- 
sulted in a victory for the Britannia, by 22 to 0. The 
match was noticeable more than any other in the year 
lor the large amount of drop-kicking, in which Ham- 
ilton and Brown showed well up. The loss of 
Wroughton was severely felt in this match, and though 
the new men, Kirby especially, played splendidly, 
they could not make up for the absence. 

The season closed with a match against University 
College, Toronto. Our team was the same as that 
which played the Britannias, with the change of 
Kemp and McDonnell for Kingston and Drummond. 
The match took place on the ’Varsity grounds and was 
remarkable for an almost continuous series of scrim- 
mages, in which the Torontos gained ground by sheer 
strength, and finally won by 17 to 1. May’s playing 
on the left wing of the McGill team, backed up by re- 
markable fine tackling and kicking by Reid at half 
back, was conspicuous through the match. A slight 
accident occurred during the match — Springle break- 
ing one of his fingers ; but he played gamely to the end 
without mentioning it. 

During the season the 2nd fifteen under C. Swabey 
played three matches, losing two to the Brittannias by 
39 to 0 and 24 to 0, and beating the Montreal second 
by 4 to 0. The playing of Walker, and Swabey was 
the strength of the team, but they were well backed 
up by the remainder. 

The other side matches were those of the freshmen, 
who played three matches, beating the High School 
by 24 to 0, and playing the 3rd Brittannia twice, 'with 
a draw the first time and victory by 56 to 0 the second. 

Another noticeable event during the year was a 
series of matches for the championship of the Univer- 
sity between the faculties, resulting in a victory for 
Science, which defeated Arts by 24 to 0 and Medicine 
by 36 to 0 and by 8 to 0. The interest in these was 
heightened by the talk about a championship cup 
for which a subscription was started, but which did 
not receive the monetary support which it should 
have had. 

The annual meeting was held on the 17th of 
D icember, and was a marked contrast to the previous 
year, some 50 members being present in the place of 

12 . 

The results of this year have shown the need of 
more regular practice, energetic support especially in 
men from the various faculties, and the necessity of 
being ready to commence work at the start of the 
season. 

As only some three of the team which went up to 
Toronto are leaving this year, and as there are signs of 
a re-awakening football spirit in the faculties, Medicine 
especially, we may look forward to a good season for 
McGill next year, and since the amalgamation of the 
various sporting clubs we have hope of a stronger 
sporting spirit in the college. 

John G Kerry. 

Captain McG. F.B.C. 

March 23rd, 1886. 



We have sweet girl graduates, but the sweet dudes 
seldom get farther along than the Freshman year. 



College lilorlb. 

Robert Browning, the poet, now lives in Venice. 

Since Nov. 1st, 1885, the purchase, sale and expor- 
tation of edelweiss has been prohibited by the Council 
of the Canton of Uri under penalty of 100 francs, in 
order to prevent complete extermination of the plant. 

We copy this paragraph from Bow Bells of 1875: 
“ The city of Winnipeg, in the United States (sic), 
boasts as an evidence of its growth ‘ that it has been 
found necessary to obtain a larger cemetery than the 
one now available.’ ” 

The students of University College, Toronto, in mass 
meeting assembled, demanded a better equipped libra- 
ry, the abolition of the scholarships and medals recently 
restored by the college council, and the appointment 
of a lecturer in political economy. 

The body of the first Napoleon, buried at the Inva- 
lides in Paris, is inclosed in five coffins — the first in 
tin, and the others in mahogany, lead, ebony and oak. 
All is placed in a sarcophagus of Finland granite — a 
present from Russia. The tomb was completed in 
1861, and cost 6,750,000 francs. 

The late Water Weldon, who was here with the 
British Association, was one of the five men and the 
only man outside of France, deemed by the French 
Societe d’Encouragement worthy to receive its “grand 
medal.” It was he who invented the process by which 
bleaching powder is made, thus, as the chemist Dumas 
said, cheapening every sheet of paper and every yard 
of calico in the world. 

Some of the most popular songs of the day are very 
ancient. “ Sing a Song of Sixpensce ” is as old as the 
sixteenth century. “Three Blind Mice” is found in 
a music book dated 1 609. “ Three Children Sliding on 
the Ice” dates 1633. “The Frog andthe Mouse” was 
licensed 1580. “ London Bridge is Broken down” is 

of unfathomed antiquity. “ Girls and Boys, Come Out 
to Play” is certainly as old as the reign of Charles II ; 
as is also “ Lucy Locket Lost Her Pocket, ” to the tune 
of which the American song of “Yankee Doodle” was 
written. “PussyCat, Pussy Cat, Where Have You 
Been?” is of the age of Gueen Bess. “Little Jack 
Horner” is older than the seventeenth century. — 

It is perfectly well known to experienced engineers 
that if a dozen different locomotive engines were made 
at the same time, of the same power, for the same 
purpose, of like materials, in the same factory, each 
would come out with its own peculiar whims and ways, 
only ascertainable by experience. One engine will 
take a great meal of coal and water at once ; another 
will not listen to such a thing, but insists on being 
coaxed by shovelfuls and bucketfuls. One is disposed 
to start off when required at the top of its speed ; 
another must have a little time to warm at its work 
and to get well into it. These peculiarities are so 
accurately mastered by skilful drivers that only par- 
ticular men can persuade engines to do their best. It 
would seem as if some of these “ excellent monsters ” 
declared, on being brought from the stable, “ If it’s 
Smith who is to drive, I won’t go ; if it’s my friend 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Stokes, I’m agreeable to anything.” All locomotives 
are low-spirited in damp, foggy weather. They have 
a great satisfaction in their work when the air is crisp 
and frosty. At such a time they are very cheerful 
and brisk, but they strongly object to haze and mists. 
These are points of character on which they are united. 
It is in their peculiarities and varieties of character 
that they are most remarkable. 

Lord Tennyson is as fond now of a glass of sound port 
as when in “Will Waterproof’s Monologue” he bade 
the plump head-waiter at the “Cook” tobring a pint 
of the vintage which had felt the glow of Lusitanian 
summers. Upon one occasion he pressed Mr. Irving 
to take a glass of the precious liquid. Mr. Irving did 
as he was desired, but not being a port wine drinker, 
sipped it very slowly. Before he had finished it the 
decanter from which the bard had been automatically 
replenishing his goblet was empty. Lord Tennyson 
bade the butler bring a fresh supply, and, turning 
around to his guest, said dryly, “Do you always drink 
a bottle of port, Mr. Irving, after dinner?” The lau- 
reate, however, though endowed with an appreciation 
of wine, has always partaken sparingly of it. He has 
not practiced, and does not practice now, a similar 
abstinence in the matter of tobacco. He smokes per- 
petually— a pipe always — and by preference a long 
pipe of the kind known as “churchwarden,” and at 
each of his houses he possesses a divan specially con- 
ceded to himself, in an upper story, whither he some- 
times invites a friend to smoke and hear him read. No 
man’s habits could vary less. After an early breakfast 
he devotes an hour to his correspondence, with his 
eldest son. Then he smokes, meditates, writes and 
occasionally strolls in his garden till lunch. 



Between the Lectures. 



You can’t have the last word with a chemist : he 
always has a retort. 

“ Thieving in the outskirts ” in the latest name for 
picking ladies’ pockets. 

One difference between a baby and a shipwrecked 
sailor; is that the one clings to its ma, and the other to 
his spar. 

“ Look at that poor creature,” said Jones, “ I feel for 
her in my heart.” “ Well,” replied Smith, « t’ would 
be better for her if you felt in your pocket.” 

One of the cruelest retorts made by any musical 
audience is reported from California. A vocalist was 
warbling to her own great satisfaction, “ Oh, would I 
were a bird.” A rough miner replied, “ Oh, would I 
were a gun.” 

Buldozing Barber.-“ Have your hair cut to day sir,?” 
Student — “ No, Sir.” B.B. (fumbling among the 
locks) — “Very long — very straggling, sir, comes clear 
down to your coat collar.” Student — “All right, 

I’ll have the collar moved down.” 

A banana skin lay on the grocer’s floor. “ What 
are you doing there ? ” asked the scales, peeping over 
the counter. 



“ Oh, I am lying in wait for the grocer.” 

“Pshaw!” said the scales; “I've been doing that 
for years.” 

While Keene was playing “ Richard III.” in Little 
Rock — just as he called for a horse, a man from Wash- 
ington County said to his companion : 

“ Come on, Ab, an’ les’ go.” 

“ Wait a minit, Sam. The clown has called for a 
hoss, an’ I reckon the show’s goin’ to begin.” 

“ Have you got the ‘ Descent of Man ’ ?” asked Clara, 
looking over the book-shelves. 

“No,” said George, a little timidly : “ don’t care for 
it ; but I’d like to get the assent of woman.” 

It is currently reported that he got it the very next 
Sunday night that ever was. 

“ Eugenia, didn’t I tell you an hour ago to send 
that young man of yours home ?” “ Yes, papa, dear.” 
“ But he went out just now — I heard him — ” “ Yes, 
papa, dear ; but he’d taken your umbrella by mistake, 
and so he came to bring it back. Dear George is so 
conscientious.” 

A malicious boy created a panic in one of our hotels 
one day last week by thrusting his head into the dining 
room and calling out : “ Here comes an officer from 
New York with a warrant.” It was several hours be- 
fore some of the most nervous persons could be per- 
suaded to come out of the woods and return to their 
meal. 

An important question. — Nice young man (lectur- 
ing to a Sunday school) — “Now, is there any little boy 
or little girl who would like to ask any questions ? 
Well, little boy, I see your hand ; you needn’t snap,” 
your fingers. What question would you like to ask ? 
Small Boy — “How much longer is this jawin’ goin to 
last?” 

Senior, pointing to the Molson Hall. “ The name 
of the mother of him who founded that hall must 
have been Mary.” 

. Freshie. “ How do you know that ?” 

Senior. “ Because, don’t you see, he is Mols’son.” 

No extra charges for this joke, unless accompanied 
by an explanation. 

“ Professor M,” said a young lady student in zoology, 

“ It’s absurd to think that frogs drop from the clouds, 
isn’t it?” 

“ \\ ell, Miss A.,” was the reply, “ I know one 
animal that does drop from the clouds.” “ What one 
is that ? ” 

Prof, (smiling) “ The rain, dear” 

1 he lady undergrads should feel quite at home in 
studying chemistry. They are at once on friendly 
terms with Sal Ammoniac, Sal Soda, Sal Prunelle, 
Mag Nesium, Moll Ybdenum, Ann Timony Cad Mium, 
kutli Enium, Pete Roleum, AlUminum, DollO’Mite, 
Lessi Mers Process, Mary Otte’s Law, ’Emma Tight, 
and Ann Alysis. 

Scene, Recitation Room. Artful Student (who 
wishes to make a favorable impression on his French 
instructor, just before the Sessionals.) Monsieur, will 
you be good enough to tell me what books you would 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



recommend me to read at sight outside of the class *? 
Acute Instructor (who has been caught in the trap 
before). If you want something to read at sight, sir, 

I should recommend the books we have been using in 
the class. 

A gentleman of one of the junior years of the 
Science .Department was, the other day, the recipient 
of a spurious invitation to a Seance of the Faculty. In 
a premature interview with the Dean, the fraudulent 
character of the missive transpired. 

Such childish levity has a most demoralizing in- 
fluence and cannot be too strongly condemned. 

Wife (to sick husband) — “Did you not derive great 
consolation, John dear, from the minister’s visit V ’ 
Sick Husband — “ Not very much.” 

Wife (anxious) — “Oh, John, I wish you could bring 
yourself to think of these things ! Surely his words 
must have had some effect. What did he talk about f’ 
Sick Husband — “ He talked about the advisability 
of my endowing a chapel.” 

Chief of Bureau — “ Have you drawn up your plans 
for this special case ? ” 

Detective — “ Here they are, sir.” 

“ Humph ! Why didn’t you use tracing paper'?” 

“ I didn’t know that mattered, sir.” 

“ Certainly it^natters. You’d have the satisfaction 
of knowing that you had traced something during the 
year you’ve been here.” 

“ No, sir, I don’t believe you know what gratitude 
is !” he exclaimed, as he waved his arms around. 

“ I don’t, eh *? ” replied the other. 

“No, sir ! I lent you $10, and you not only refuse 
to pay it back, but you go around and slander me !” 

“ All I said was that you were a mean man.” 

“ But isn’t that slander V 9 

“ No, sir, it isn’t. When I wanted to borrow $5 
more you wouldn’t let me have it !” 

“Charlie,” said a Spartan Philadelphia mother, 
“ you have disobeyed me twice to-day, and I must 
punish you.” 

“ Oh, mamma, please don’t whip me.” 

“ No, I’ll not whip you,” was the calm reply : “ I’ll 
punish you by making you remain in the parlor while 
your sister is taking her music-lesson.” 

At this awful sentence the boy fell insensible to 
the floor. The autopsy revealed that death was caused 
by fright. 

A Peculiar Verdict. — A Sydney, C.B., coroner’s 
jury has rendered the following verdict touching the 
death of Capt. McDonald “ That the deceased came 
to his death from taking off his two coats and vest and 
going towards a sleigh owned by one Wm. Grantmyer, 
with whom he was seen in a scramble ] and that he 
was seen to fall from a push or blow, and died from 
exposure. The jury further find McLean was blam- 
able for going off with deceased’s coats and not looking 
after him.” 

“ Why did you stop lecturing on temperance V 1 asked 
the Governor of Arkansaw addressing a well-known 
reformer. 

“ Well, you see, I went up into the Dry Fork neigh- 



borhood and did my best, but the distilleries were too 
thick.” 

“ Audience got drunk, I suppose 1 99 
“ No, not particularly.” 

“ Why did you stop, then ? ” 

“ Well, you see, I got drunk.” 



OUR OWN JOKER. 

It is said that on the night of his death Moliere went 
to the theatre and played, as he had never played be- 
fore, the comedy of “ Le Malade Imaginaire,” throw- 
ing his audience into convulsions of laughter, and then 
went home to die. Be this as it may, he stands not 
alone as an example of woe under a mask of merri- 
ment. Here am I, on the eve of examinations, trying to 
utter a few light-hearted remarks for your delectation. 
A dying gladiator, as it were, but a wielder of a more 
formidable weapon. 

Under the above heading the reader has doubtless 
met statements that jolted “ the even tenor of his way ” 
so grave and full of wisdom they were. With the first 
person plural, I abandon all claims to the title of a 
“ Funny Man,” and bid adieu as Clown to my many 
and cultured admirers. My path lies not in that of 
Critic, whose giant stride took him over sloughs in 
which poor I would sink. I shall be, if anything, a 
“ Free Lance,” ready to defend the oppressed as well 
as to do a little oppression myself. Regarding the 
title under which I write, or the banner under which 
I fight, it shall remain, for if so ponderous a paper as 
the “ Fortnightly ” can appear as a monthly without a 
blush, as Trollope says, why cannot the heading of 
this column be as absurd. 

“ Vox” is not alone in being accused of plagiarism. 
We know that “ Gilbert and Sullivan,” have been 
already accused of that crime, and I am going to file 
my accusation against them also. The Lord High 
Executioner was preceded by Thackeray in his cata- 
logue of those who will never be missed. He says : 

The reddest lips that ever have kissed, 

The brightest eyes that ever have shone. 

May pray and whisper, and we not list, 

Or look away and never be missed. 

Ere yet ever a month is gone. 

Poor Buttercup also did not formulate the statement 
that “ Things are seldom what they seem,” for Pope 
wrote : 

Then, sir, be cautious, nor too rashly deem ; 

Heav’n knows how seldom things are what they seem. 

The whole subject of plagiarism is curious. The 
more we study, the more we are convinced of the truth 
of the old adage “ There nothing new under the 
sun.” In Science, even, we are often astounded at 
finding some great modern theory is but an ancient 
one advanced by some more persevering man than its 
originator. The Darwinian theory, perhaps worthy 
of being called the greatest theory of the nineteenth 
century, found its first enunciation in Aristotle, yet his 
bitterest opponents would not call Darwin a plagiarist, 
would hardly have done so had he known of Aris- 
totle’s statements. Plagiarism is often unconscious, 
and the result of influences acting upon the plagiarist 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



similar to those that affected the originator of the 
thought or statement. 

Apropos of plagiarism, let me give an example of 
plagiarism indulged in by a student at a university, 
the name of which I forget. This student had pla- 
giarized Bohn, plagiarized him during examination, 
and to such an extent as to attract the attention and 
excite the suspicion of the professor who examined his 
paper. The professor determined to test the case, and 
conlided to one of his confreres his determination to 
summon the student and request him to make a second 
translation of the same piece in his presence. The 
confrere met the student shortly afterwards, and tapped 
him on the shoulder, saying : “ Mr. B., you have a 
good memory, I believe 1 ? ” “Yes, sir,” replied the 
student. “ So Prof. A. told me,” continued his inter- 



locutor, passing on, “ By the way, I would n't forget 
my latin between now and to-morrow, if I were you. 

Slight as was the hint, it sufficed, and all night long 
the plagiarist pored over his translation until he had 
by heart every word he had cribbed at the exam. !Next 
morning he found occasion to see Prof. A., and with 
a skill worthy of a better cause, brought the conversa- 
tion round to the examination “ Do you know, Prof. 
A.” he remarked, “your paper was the luckiest chance 
for me. The translation you set had bothered me so 
much in my studies that I actually learnt it by heart, 
and so when I saw it on your paper, I knew I was 
passed.” “ Indeed,” answered the professor, “that is 
almost incredible. Could you repeat it now '? “ Cer- 

tainly, sir.” was the response, and much to Prof. A’s. 
mystification the student rattled off* the paragraph 
without a mistake. 



GIJRNEY ? S 

Hot Water Heaters 



J~. MABIEN, 

Hair Bsesse? and Wig late, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 



0 

$ 

3 

ft 



s 

r* 




a 



0 



x 

0 

2 

X 

0 

pO 

0 

H 



— AND— 



CAST BUNDY RADIATORS, 




H SEND FOR CIRCULARS f-v 



X 

x 

r?“ 

0 

3 

0 

X 

o 

p 

c+ 

j; 



(D 

H 

P 

0 

P 

CT 

0 

& 



MONTHEA L, . 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES' CHAMPOOING and CHILDRENS HA IR CU TTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO., 

PhannacsnUcal & Dispsii Chemists, 

74 & 76 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 



Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 



Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 



Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 



E.&C. GURNEY & CO , 

385 and 387 St. Paul Street. 

MONTREAL. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of Stoves, Etc. 



Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



I 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



SPECIAL BEDTTCTXOILTS I 





All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carslev’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carslev’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 



MEN’S SILK TIES, 

MEN’S SILK SCARFS, 

MEN’S SILK (MADE) TIES, 

MEN’S SILK MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S SILK MIXED MUFFLERS, ’ 

MEN’S CASHMERE MUFFLERS, 

FANCY SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

WHITE SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, In all Colors, 

MEN’S LINED KID GLOVES, 

MEN'S LINED KID MITTS, 

MEN’S DRIVING GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S DOGSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S 1’IEWAR GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN MITTS, 

MEN S WOOLEN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN GAUNTLETS, 



All Ited need 

At S. Carsley’s. 

4 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

•At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At, S. Carslev’s. 



S. CARSLEY, 



NO THE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL. 



J. & E. McENTYRE, 

Merchant 

TAILORS, 



liflJ 



=] 

~ OAMt 

MONTREAL, 




New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-HlcFOR STUDENTS 

17 ELET7EY ST. 





BICYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

- Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

53 ST. SUFFICE STREET. 



IE. .A.. GERTH, 



IMPORTER OF 



Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try St-u-cLenats 2v£i2ct-u.r e. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Tmms8 9 

jllprf unit @olIat| Hanufarturars, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECIRL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jSurgiral f^ttsIntiiiBtils. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPOHl’ED DIHECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 



AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



€. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

fAso? mmB Bmm> 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SO 1ST], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

67M AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



THE 

JjnrlaiN Jithograpl)ic (Joy., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

A. IL. KINDS 

OF 

►^Engraving and Fine Printing^* 

NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GEOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS. MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES ot 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS. PEN DR A WINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

PROCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR — 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



