Vol. XI 



No. 5 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal, 










UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building 1 , 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. J^AIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR l MCLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



Aitiseitlc Materials, Maos, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Plariateitiial & tiiflilii Mill, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St, 



MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

AuronasaL 
Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



147 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. N COLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRTJICK SHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 



McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

-A.<a.-srocatee, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer k Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JiLMES ST., 

(NEAR THE COURT-HOUSE,) 



MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

Scliool M College Text Books ! 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST.-XA-IMIIES ST. 

JREBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED IJY" ART COURSE , 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

mil Assortment in stoclc am sroliei at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS' NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 

— * BEST V ALU E IN x O W IN’ , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. J amcs Street, 

-A.IjSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 









Vol. XI.] 


McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 6th, 1888. 


[No. 5 



Unihemtg (Sajetk 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.- Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

R. H. Clerk, B.A., Law ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, Corresponding Editor for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. O- 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 51-52 

Poetry 52-53 

Contributions 53-57 

McGill News 59 

Societies 59-60 

Sporting 60 

Exchanges 60 

Personals 60-61 

Between the Lectures 61 

Correspondence 61-62 



Editorials. 



THE MEDICAL FACULTY. 

Already the Medical Faculty of McGill has dis- 
tanced all professional competitors, and can now 
afford to pursue medical truth for the sake of truth. 
It is also forgiDg its way ahead of the other faculties 
in the University, so much so that it is severing the 
ties that hound it to the old body, and acquiring an 
independent existence of its own. There is a possi- 
bility of danger here, that instead of having a broad 



University standing, it may become a mere specializ- 
ing, theorizing school for experimenting in new and 
untried doctrines. Towards this end everything is 
tending. It has the stimulus, novel views and pro- 
mising theories to give. There is an expectation about 
Medicine, a seeking and a gaining of some new thing 
that always yields a stimulus, artificial it may be, but 
none the less impulsive. With Arts and Applied 
Science it is different — these must hold always the 
same ground. The teaching of Euclid and of Socrates, 
the methods and versification of the Greek and Latin 
poets are still the same and the best in their respect- 
ive fields. If the Medical school were to found its 
existence on the systems of Galen and iEsculapius, it, 
too, would be in danger of being regarded as some- 
what slow. It has in its favor what the other facul- 
ties lack, expectation and novelty ; and any one who 
demands such a manifestation of interest from these 
faculties, is asking for that, which in the nature of 
things, cannot exist. They never can have a like in- 
terest in the practical sympathies of men, because 
they stand on their merits simply and appeal more to 
their abstract conceptions than to more material and 
less high motives. The Medical school has not yet, 
however, reached that stage in which it can afford to 
give all its time and interest to theorizing, however 
praiseworthy in the abstract this may be. There is 
a prevalent opinion that one object, by no means un- 
important, for which a medical school exists, is to cure 
disease and alleviate distress, and it is upon this prin- 
ciple it must be based. Some day McGill will awaken 
to this fact, and will find that it is losing itself in the 
sand and vanishing in the thin air of unreality. Much 
of the good work done in the highest professions is 
due to the fact that men cannot do without bread and 
butter, and in any school there must be a certain amount 
of “ bread and butter medicine." It would be a fine 
thing if this country could afford to have one school 
which placed this matter secondary to a more abstract 
standard, but, unfortunately, things have not come to 
such a pass that McGill can assume this role. For the 
first two years of the course no Medicine is taught, 
the atmosphere in which the student moves is not 
even medicated to the extent of a homoepathic pill, 
and the student might as well be in any school of 
technology, which a medical school should not be. 
McGill has overstepped the mark, and this tendency 



52 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



is to turn out men weak in the practise of medicine, 
the very thing they come to fit themselves for. 
Students, from the very first, should he imbued with 
their mission, that chemistry, anatomy and all the rest 
of it, are subsidiary to the prevention and cure of 
disease. When two years are passed and this impres- 
sion not given, who can blame a student for thinking 
that hospital work is merely an accomplishment, use- 
ful for graduating day. Special subjects must be 
taught by specialists, but in such a manner that their 
bearing is perfectly plain, and if specialists think that 
students come to McGill for the sole purpose of mak- 
ing themselves experts in that particular subject, then 
an element of weakness is introduced into the study 
of a profession, which is practical or nothing. We 
are pleading for the newest and latest teaching, and 
warning McGill that it, too, can be too zealous in a 
cause confessedly good. 

A good many people will admit that the success of 
the school is bound up in the students, and when a 
student is commanded “ to go and he goeth,” that 
something yet remains. The teachers are not auto- 
crats, teaching what seems good in the individual eyes 
of each, but discharging an obligation to teach the 
most useful and best things in the best way to each 
student who signs the register of the school. 



PROFESSOR AND STUDENT. 

In the medical faculty, the professors hold varying 
respect from the different students. A strong vein of 
fear runs through their respect for a few professors, 
who hold the prerogative of life and death to their 
college career. 

Others are aceorded a temporary semblance of es- 
teem from those students directly under instruction, 
but the moment the pedant’s usefulness is gone, and 
the student free from his subject, a large amount of 
this respect goes also. Several others among the pro- 
fessors are passive to the average student, and one or 
two next door to detested. Happily there are also 
professors in the faculty who command the highest re- 
spect from the students, and whose presence, more- 
over, is not necessary in order to demonstrate this. 
They are revered for their labour and anxiety in the 
interests of their pupils, not mere automatic workers, 
talking for dollars. If an alien to the college were 
casually to walk among the boys he would invariably 
hear the above men spoken of in golden terms, prov- 
ing the respect shown to them to be grounded on love 
instead of fear. It is truly a pitiful fact, that some 
among the professors know little more than one-fifth 
of the students by name, even in their final years, and, 
what is still worse, there are students in the graduating 



class unknown to their professor by sight, through no 
fault of theirs. One of the professors has been a bril- 
liant exception to this estrmgement between tutor and 
pupil. He has, by bringing the students to his home, 
broken down the frigid formality that is rampant, 
banishing all distinctions, and met the boys as friends 
and guests without detracting any from his dignity, 
but on the contrary, winning the respect and good- 
will of all. 



SCIENCE FACULTY. 

The facilities at the disposal of the engineering 
students of McGill have been increased very much, 
even within the last two or three years. Perhaps the 
greatest advantage among these is that derived from 
the meetings of the Canadian Society of Civil En- 
gineers. The students have the opportunity of at- 
tending lectures given by our most eminent practical 
engineers on works carried out by themselves. These 
lectures take place every fortnight. 

The training in McGill is necessarily theoretical to 
a great extent, owing to the short time students 
spend here, and, moreover, the best place to learn the 
practical details is in the field, where it is very incon- 
venient to have to study the theory. 

Considering this, what could be more useful to a 
student of engineering than a description of the ac 
tual manner in which the stresses in the Lachine 
bridge were calculated, and how the bridge was 
erected and the foundation laid, and this by the en- 
gineer who had the work under his immediate care, 
and who illustrated his remarks by carefully prepared 
drawings 1 

After each of these lectures there is a discussion, 
among all present who know enough about the sub- 
ject, and some take part who don’t. 

These meetings are very interesting, and students 
should make it a point to attend them. 

This is one of the things among others which help 
to raise the standing of McGill Science Faculty, in 
which the ever active Dean has taken a leading and 
initiative part. 

Poetry. 



THREE VERSIONS. 

Ill© mi par esse deo videtur 
Ille si fas est superare deos, 

Qui sedens adversas ridentidein te 
Spectat et audit dulce ridentcm. 

Heureux, qui pr&s de toi pour toi seule soupire. 
Qui jouit du plaisir de t’entendre parler, 

Qui te voit quelquefois doucement lui sourire 
Les dieux dans son bonheur peuvent-ils T4galer. 

Blest as the immortal gods is he, 

The youth who fondly sits by thee. 

And sees and hears thee all the while, 

Softly speak and sweetly smile. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



53 



1888.] 



RENUNCIATION. 

Bo you remember, Sweet, when earth was bright with flowers, 
Together how we walked amid the laughing bow’rs, 

Hand claspt in hand, nor dreamed of parting days to come, 

Ur eyes grown dark with tears and lips with sorrow dumb ? 

Sweet, does it wound you still, the mem’ry of that time, 

Ur have you ceased to fret over life’s broken rhyme? 

Ah love, once mine, the pathos of your eyes, sweet eyes 
And true, without the need of words the hope denies. 

Can love die with the years? Do you remember how, 

Defying fate, we said with kiss and plighted vow. 

Till sudden, sharp, as when on some fair starful night 
Une hears the fire bell the restful silence smite. 

Rude, jangling, into all our lives’ sweet harmonies 
tame duty s despot call and fiery sacrifice ! 

What could we but obey? Not mine or thine the choioe. 
travens might falter, we would suffer and rejoice. 

A‘^ aswe l^ ^weet, ’twas well. Surrender is not loss ; 

And surely what we gave, as gold refined from dross, 

Uut of the crucible divine will yet be giv’n 

Hack to our hearts on earth, or in God’s far oflfHeav’n. 

Erol Gervase. 



ttontributions. 

A COUNTRY BOY. 

[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil Y. Erius. 



CHAPTER HI. — ( Continued.) 



Quick, Bolton,” said Mr. Tilton, “ there’s Mr. 
Simson ; go and tie up his horse in the stable.” 
Bolton got up and went out, muttering to him- 
self — 

“ -C his airs ; why can’t he tie up his own 

horse ? One would think he was a king from the 
way he orders us about.” 

A few moments later, and a tall figure entered by 
the kitchen door and shook himself free of the snow 
that encumbered him, for it was now snowing. He 
looked around the room a moment, and, entering, 
gravely approached Mrs. Tilton, saying — 

“How do you do, madam 1 99 

Mrs. Tilton was not a woman to get into a flurry 
over anything, but with the rest of her neighbors she 
shared in an awe at Mr. Simson that annoyed her 
when he was absent. She rose and bustled about 
the room to find him a seat, while he turned and 
greeted Mr. Tilton with the same grave courtesy with 
which he had treated Mrs. Tilton. To the others he 
bowed, not haughtily, but distantly, and then turning 
to his son, extended his hand to him, saying — 

“ Ah ! Peter, I did not expect you, my boy. Your 
mother will be glad to see you, when you go home.” 
There was just a slight tone of reproach in Mr. 
Simson’s voice, but he was too self-controlled to utter a 
word to hint that Peter lacked in filial duty in passing 
his father’s house to seek another’s. He sat down in 
the corner, and began gently stroking the sleeping 
dog, which soon rose and put its head upon his knee, 
the better to enjoy the process. 

“ How is your lake getting on, Tom 1 ” he asked. 
“ Have you told Peter about it yet? ” 



“ Oh ! ay,” said Tom, with a short laugh. “ We’re 
going out to see it soon.” 

“ Indeed ! Then I hope Peter will bring me back 
a deer’s head. And you, Mr. Tilton,” he continued, 
addressing Hal, “ how is your patent water-supply 
drill getting on ? ” 

“ Famously, sir, famously. We have formed a 
company with a capital of half a million, and expect 
to have the drill all over the country in three weeks. 
It is a most wonderful thing, sir; and such a neces- 
sity that I expect to sell one to every farmer in 
America. I will show you a model to-morrow. It only 
wants a few touches to make it marketable. Brother, 
here, is going to take some shares in the company.” 

“ I don’t know about that, Hal ; you have had so 
many inventions, that I doubt if this one will amount 
to anything. What about your patent milker now ? ” 
said Mr. Tilton. 

“ Oh ! that ; well, I haven’t had time to touch it 
since I showed it to you. But it worked.” 

“ Worked ! yes, and made Daisy kick the hack out 
of the shed.” 

“ But the milker wasn’t perfect, you know,” broke 
in Hal. 

“ No, that’s what is wrong with most of your fads, 
Hal. That self-opening gate kept me half-an-hour 
trying to open it once.” 

“ But it did open of itself.” 

“ Yes, and let the cattle into the garden. But we’ll 
see, we’ll see.” 

Mr. Simson, in the meantime, turned to Mr. Forbes 
and said — 

“Forbes, have you heard of this new theory of 
evolution, or whatever it is? I have the fellow’s 
book at home.” 

“Darwin, you mean,” responded Mr. Forbes. “No, 
I have only seen a review of the book. He tries to 
prove that we all come from the inferior animals, 
doesn’t he?” 

“ Yes.” 

“What,” said Mrs. Tilton, sharply, “me come from 
an ape or a frog, or something like that ! The man’s 
a fool.” 

“ What do you think I come from, Peter ? ” whis- 
pered Lizzie behind the stove. 

“A lily,” was Peter’s reply. 

“ Well,” said Mr. Simson, “ the chief objection I 
have to the theory is that it does away with the 
divine hand.” 

“ Not at all,” said Mr. Forbes, “ it indicates a 
greatness in power and mind far beyond what we are 
giving to God. Give even a child the power of 
working miracles, and he could keep the world mov- 
ing by correcting all his errors by fiats. But to plan 
out a creation so vast as this, and which will continue 
on its course, when once started, without the neces- 
sity for a miracle — that needs a mind far beyond that 
of man. I see nothing objectionable to the theory 
from a theological standpoint.” 

“But,” said Mr. Simson, “does it not do away with 
life? Do we not become automatic? We cannot 
claim to have a soul.” 

Mr. Forbes put his hand down and drew forth his 
fiddle. 



54 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



“ Do you see this ? ” he asked. How matters it 
how it was made. If I play upon it, do I not give it 
something that it had not by nature 1 Music is the 
violin’s soul, and the soul of man is like it. Without 
the master-mind to originate it, the violin would be 
silent for ever.” 

“ By the by,” interjected Mr. Tilton, “ now that 
you have it out you must keep your promise, and play 
for us.” 

“ Oh ! do,” said Lizzie, clapping her hands.” 

Mr. Forbes smiled, and began tuning the instru- 
ment. 



. “ ^ hat shall I play, Lizzie ? ” he asked the young 
girl, while the others became silent in expectation. 

“Anything you like, but let it be something of 
your own,” Lizzie replied. 

“Well, then, I will play you the ‘ Secret of my 
Life ; 9 see if you can guess it.” 

dhe music was soft and faint, as an air that is re- 
called by the mind. Gayer and gayer it became, and 
soon a solemn tone mingled with the gaiety, inter- 
woven inextricably and seeming to form part of it. 
The music flowed like a mighty river, that yet had 
such force as to toss its waves to the sky, though al- 
ready the sunlight fails to touch its bed. Everyone 
was interested, and the musician bent over his violin, 
his lithe fingers caressing the strings like serpents. 
Suddenly there was a crash, almost as of a broken 
note, and Lizzie gave a little scream. The discord 
was the key note to a new melody, slow and sad in 
t le extreme; then followed a rippling, as of brooks, 
and the whispering of the wind in the trees, the hum 
of summer afternoons; and here the listeners detected 
chords from the harvest songs sung in the district 
Eut through it all ran the one current of sadness, 
slowly losing itself in the ocean of melody in which 
it was. Whether in the music there was a tone of 
yearning for sympathy, or whether in the feelings of 

. e there was an intense love of melody, cannot be 
said for certain, but she slipped from Peter’s side to- 
wards Mr. Forbes ; bis eye caught hers, but there was 
no expression in it. The music swept on, but it had 
lost its melancholy strain, and was once more joyous 
—as joyous as before the crash that altered the sym- 
phony. Louder and louder grew the music, until it 
became a peon of triumph, when all at once it ceased 
on a high note, and the musician laid the instrument 
upon the table and sauntered to the window. 

The applause came from the farm hands who were 
present. Several minutes elapsed before any of the 
more educated listeners spoke, and when they did so 

it was with few words. Lizzie did not speak of the 
music at all. r 

Mr. Forbes turned from the window, and replaced 
bis violin m its case. r 

"I T? 80 D0W >” said - “ wm y° u «»< to 

see me before you go, Peter 1 I wish to have a talk 
with you. 

And he was gone. 

nf\hl o 11 ’ - Forbes was a si gnal for that 

WL h 1 Mr \ 3lmson » who had come on horse- 

t^ k, if ft *V 6te v t0 f ° ll0W ’ and Peter took the adva n- 

of th l S : kuown , t0 all lovers. While ho was 
om 0 so, Lizzie took the opportunity to tell him 



of something she had noticed in the early part of the 
evening. While the others had been conversing, 
Bolton and Jim seemed more interested in a con- 
versation of their own. Their eyes had often turned 
to the place where Lizzie and Peter were sitting, and 
Lizzie had caught one or two of the baleful glances of 
Jim. 

“ Peter,” she said at parting, laying a hand on each 
of her lover’s broad shoulders, “ be careful of Jim ; 
he has been looking at us all evening, and such looks ! 
He frightens me.” 

“Nonsense, Liz., he cannot harm you; and as for 
me, I am not afraid of him in a fair fight.” 

“ But he never fights fair. You remember poor 
Bob Wakam ; how they found him in the bush with 
his head cut open ! They say Jim did that when 
Bob was off his guard.” 

“Well, little one,” said Peter, lightly, “Jim will 
never find me off my guard. Besides, we will not 
meet again after Christmas — at least, not for a long 
time. Good-bye ; I shall see you again in the morn- 
ing. I have brought you some flowers for Christmas, 
and hope you will wear them. Do you know, Liz., 

I wonder how you would look in curls instead of 
tying your hair back this way.” 

“Me in curls,” said Lizzie, shaking her head; “I 
am too old for curls.” 

“Not a bit. I’m sure you would look splendid. 
Will you not try them 1 ” 

Lizzie laughed coquettishly, and would not pro- 
mise. 



CHAPTER IV. 



“ ’Twas the night before Christmas.” 



' Now, look here, Hal, I’m only a farmer, and 
don t know anything about any business but my own. 
I m not worth more than that, and if I was to lose it 
I d never make it up again. No, no ; it may be all 
right, but I daren’t risk it. You mustn’t ask me.” 
But, said Hal, as with Mr. Tilton he sat in the 
parlor next day, “if I only had that money it would 
set me up. The capitalists are willing to join in with 
me, if I could finish the invention, and then you will 
get thousands back for your hundreds.” 

The two were talking about Hal’s patent water- 
supply-drill, and Hal was trying to get his brother to 
invest two thousand dollars in the invention. 

iSo, no, said Mr. Tilton, firmly; “I cannot do 
it. If I lost the money they would sell the house 
over my head to pay it, and my wife and children 
would be beggars. When a man reaches a certain 
point in his career, he must give up taking risks, and 
be satisfied with slow profits, if they are sure.” 

“ dll en I am ruined ! ” said Hal, bitterly. 
w ® ui ®|y not, lad,” said the other, “ surely not. 
W ait a bit and work at your leisure, and you must 
get it done at last. You have always a welcome 
home with me and mine. Come to us, and you can 
work your fads to your heart’s content.” 

“ Millions ! millions ! and all lost for the lack of a 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



55 



paltry two thousand ! ” exclaimed Hal. “ The chance 
of a life time, and you will not seize it. You and 
yours might dress in broad-cloths and silks, and yet 
you throw away the opportunity ! ” 

“ I do what I think is for the best, brother,” said 
Mr. Tilton, gently. “ Do you remember the fable of 
the dog and the meat we used to read at school nigh 
fifty years ago ? I’ve worked on that plan ever since, 
and never dropped a certainty for a chance. You’ve 
tried the other way, and what has it done for ye ? 
Your head is gray before its time, and there’s wrinkles 
in your face and heart the greatest success will never 
rub out. You’ve no wife and girl to protect, and it 
doesn’t make much odds so long as you are fed to- 
day, whether you must hunt for your meal to-morrow. 
But those that are trusting to me must never be be- 
trayed.” 

Hal was silent, and drummed on the table with his 
fingers. 

“ Come, brother,” said Mr. Tilton, affectionately, 
“ don’t let money come between us at Christmas time. 
See, there go Liz. and Peter over to the church to 
decorate it. Go with them, and help them. Your 
inventive talents will be of great use there, and they’ll 
be only too glad to have you.” 

Hal left the room, but not to join the young people. 
His heart was too heavy for youth and mirth, and he 
hastened towards the village. 

He went towards the “ Eagle’s Nest,” for, like many 
men who add worry to their brain work, he often 
sought stimulation in the glass. He was not a drinker 
in the ordinary sense of the term, and had never 
drunk to excess, so that his appearance in the tavern 
was a surprise to those who knew him. It was, evi- 
dently, more than a surprise to two of the frequenters 
of the place, for they turned pale, and made a motion 
as though to leave the place. But they changed their 
minds, and greeted him warmly. These men, it is 
scarcely necessary to say, were Jim and Bolton. 

“ How do you do, uncle ? ” said Bolton. “ What 
brings you here ? Has father lent you that two thou- 
sand dollars ? ” 

Hal put down his glass quickly, and turned to Bol- 
ton, angrily. 

“ What is that to you! ” he said. “ Have you been 
telling him not to give it?” 

“ I like that,” said Bolton. “ When there are 
millions to be made, I don’t think I’d stop him.” 

“ That’s just it, Bolton,” responded Hal. “ I’ve 
tried time and again to get him to come in with me, 
and he won’t. Why, it’s a dead sure thing. Every 
farmer must have water for his stock, and is bound to 
take the drill. Yet your father won’t touch it. It’s 
too bad for all of us.” 

Bolton, the reader doubtless knows, was not a' man 
calculated to set the St. Lawrence on fire with his 
intellect. He had listened to his uncle’s persuasive 
talk, and to his mind nothing seemed more certain 
than success. If there were fallacies in the arguments, 
if hope was the basis, and not certainty, he did not 
detect the flaw. In fact, so thoroughly was Hal 
versed in his subject, and so completely did he believe 
it, that few men could hear him speak and remain 
unconvinced. He could, undoubtedly, have borrowed 



the money elsewhere, but he wished to throw the 
advantage in his brother’s way, and was cut to the 
heart to see it rejected. 

“ Look here, Bolton,” he said, “ cannot you per- 
suade your father ? ” 

Bolton laughed. “ Not I,” he said. “ There’s only 
one way of reaching a man’s heart, and that is through 
his women folk. Get mother or Lizzie on your side 
and you are all right, but don’t ask me.” 

(To be continued.) 



DANIEL DEFOE. 



( Continued from last issue. ) 



But his spirit could not be restrained, if there were 
any pamphlets to be written, or a shindy going on, 
away went his apron, and he was in the middle of the 
fray. He was a regular lshmael — his hand against 
every man, and every man’s hand against him. He 
was one of those uncomfortable men who never made 
a good partisan, and so fell on all sides. He could 
see the speck on the church steeple, but could per- 
ceive, likewise, the dust on the table of the conven- 
ticle. He was plentiful of his satire on occasional 
Conformity, and did not spare any man. 

Sir Humphrey Edwin, while Lord Mayor of Lon- 
don, carried the regalia to the conventicle at Pinner’s 
Hall, and great was the outcry made by the Churchmen. 
One said that he had been guilty of a horrid crime, 
inasmuch as he had dared to carry it to the hated con- 
venticle ; but Defoe did not rush in to defend Sir 
Humphrey. In his rough way, he denounced this 
“ playing at bo-peep with the Almighty,” as he called 
it. Not polite, but very forcible this. 

He next wrote his “ Reformation of English 
Morals.” Such a reformation was a giant’3 work. 
Hercules and his stable was nothing to it, and Defoe 
was not a Hercules. He began by attacking the stage, 
but the stage lived longer than he, and its reforma- 
tion did not ensue. Then came one of his great books. 
The people were beginning to tire of their King 
William, and hankered after the Stuarts again. They 
got up the popular cry — “He’s only a Dutchman, and 
we want a true-born Englishman.” And “ true-born 
Englishman-ship ” soon became the cry. Then Defoe 
was told they were laughing at King William, and 
he sat down and wrote his “ True-born Englishman,” 
and very clever it was. He completely knocked the 
bottom out of the “true-born Englishman,” and 
showed him how nice a mixture they were — Piets and 
Scots, and aboriginal people, who dyed the last pat- 
tern into their skins ; Saxons and N ormans, Huguenot 
refugees and Yaudois exiles. This was the true-born 
Englishman. “ Stand up and let us look at you,” he 
said; “ there are not two of you alike — you must all 
have come out of the cave of Adullam.” 

King William knew the immense service he had 
done him, and took him into favour, making him his 
personal friend. King William went and Queen 
Anne came ; with a small head and tender conscience ; 
very scrupulous, very stupid ; a Churchwoman one 
day, a Dissenter the next ; a Divine-right woman one 



56 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



day, a popular election woman another — a poor, well- 
meaning, feeble kind of woman. She was a fine piece 
of background, neutral tint — a capital chance for any 
pen to scribble a pattern on. And, as might be ex- 
pected, out came the Jacobite to scribble his pattern, 
and the Churchman to scribble his. Sacheverell was 
for putting down “these Dissenters” with a high 
hand, and preached — “ he cannot be a true-born 
Englishman who does not lift up the bloody flag and 
banner of defence against Dissenters.” Defoe heard 
of it, and as King Alfred sought the Danish camp as 
a harper, so he wrote his matchless pamphlet — “ The 
Shortest Way with the Dissenters.” The clergy were 
delighted with it, and one went so far as to say that 
“ next to the Bible and the Holy Commentaries this 
is the very best book I have ever read.” It was this 
consummate piece of irony that saved English Dissent. 
He had gone into the Churchman’s camp, and fooled 
them “ to the top of their bent,” and great was the 
outcry on the discovery. The House of Commons 
took the matter up, and ordered the book to be 
burned. Defoe fled, but when the printer and pub- 
lisher were arrested, he pluckily came back to bear 
the brunt. “ I wrote the book,” he said, “ there is 
no mistake about it.” As the author, he was fined 
200 marks, ordered to stand three times in the 
pillory, and to be imprisoned during the Queen’s 
pleasure, and to find sureties for seven years. All 
these punishments were carried out. But in the pil- 
lory the people did not pelt him ; they wreathed the 
pillory from top to bottom with garlands, and came 
forth from public-houses and drank his health from 
foaming flagons. It was his day of triumph, and no 
man pelted him. 

But Alexander Pope did throw mud at him in his 
“ Dunciad.” He wrote : — 

“ Earless on high stood unabashed Defoe.” 

But Pope’s mud stuck to his own fingers, and Defoe’s 
character was unstained. Defoe wrote a hymn to the 
pillory when he came out ; he set the pillory to 
music — a common metre, perhaps, but there it was. 
He went to Newgate, and there, in that vile place, 
among pirates and pickpockets, he made the best of 
circumstances, and gathered information from their 
lives and their wickednesses that served him as sub- 
jects for his pen afterwards. 

The Review he brought out was the precursor of all 
Reviews, and was earlier than the Spectator and Tat- 
ter, but not a single complete copy is now known. 
The booksellers served him very badly, and often put 
his name on the title-page in order to sell a bad book. 
Defoe himself wrote a preface to a most dull and 
stupid work on death, and entitled it — “ Mrs. Veal’s 
Ghost,” than which few things were more humorous. 
By the intercession of a political enemy, Harley, he 
was released from Newgate, and through Harley’s influ- 
ence he was sent to Edinburgh, where he took part 
in some of the negotiations relative to the union of 
England and Scotland. In connection with this mis- 
sion he issued a large book, which contained most 
valuable information touching the Union. 

He was now 60 years of age, and had had a touch 
of apoplexy. His right hand began to fail him, but 



[ 1888 . 



then came out the golden book “ Robinson Crusoe, 
the boys’ darling, the delight of the world ; the most 
consummate tale, perhaps, that was ever written. It 
came from the pen of a man empty in pocket, bank- 
rupt, broken down, and who had been in the pillory 
and in Newgate twice. He sat down after all this and 
wrote that sunshiny book, a book that all wise men 
should read twice j a book that had taken more boys 
into the British Navy than the press-gangs ever did. 
What a curious problem it was. What a singular pro- 
position it set itself to work out — given a man born 
under the circumstances of civilization to be suddenly 
put into a condition of barbarism, what will become of 
him 1 As a work of art, its liveliness, its evenness, its 
simplicity, plainness, and minuteness of detail need 
not be dwelt upon. This extreme minuteness is re- 
markable in his other works too. More people have 
risen up from reading “ Robinson Crusoe,” “ Memories 
of a Cavalier,” and “ History of the Plague,” believing 
they had read a veritable narrative, than from any 
other novels. He did not see the Plague of London, 
and was never a Cavalier, notwithstanding his most 
detailed relations. Many books followed his “ Rob- 
inson Crusoe ; ” some that rather shocked us. These 
were gatherings from Newgate, and Newgate flowers 
were not all sweet. 

He retired at last, in the hope of closing his troubled 
life peacefully ; but it was not to be. He had gathered 
together a little money for the sake of his family, and 
of this he made his son trustee. His son turned 
traitor, and made away with the money ; and the 
man’s tough British heart, that had stood the attacks 
of the clergy, and political enemies, unmoved, and had 
withstood the pillory and Newgate, this great heart 
broke at his son’s treachery. 

He was buried in Bunhill Fields, the Campo Santo 
of English Dissenters, where Isaac Watts was first 
silent, and Bunyan ended his pilgrimage. His very 
name has been perverted to Dubow, most probably 
by the stupidity of the sexton, and, as such, it appears 
in the books. His death occurred in 1731. In his 
works, his capacity and knowledge were fully shown. 
The whole system of savings banks were there, the 
idea of the idiot asylums, free trade, and the whole 
practice of so-called modern political economy were 
set forth. As a specimen of his popularity, it is 
worthy of mention that 80,000 copies of his “ True- 
born Englishman,” were sold. 

His personal description might be seen from the 
following police warrant : — 

“ Whereas, Daniel Defoe, or DeFooe, is charged 
with writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet 
entitled ‘ The Shortest Way with the Dissenters.’ He 
is a middle-sized man, about 40 years old, of dark 
complexion, and dark brown colored hair, but wears a 
wig • has a hooked nose, a sharp chin, gray eyes, and 
a large mole near the mouth. Whoever shall discover, 
etc., shall receive a reward of £50.” 

Defoe deserved more regard from the courtly his- 
torians who found Addison, Swift, and others deser- 
ving of far higher praise, than they could find it in 
their hearts to bestow on Daniel Defoe, who stood in 
the pillory, and who learned much of his wisdom in 
the dark cells of Newgate. Quevedo. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



57 



BACON - VS. SHAKESPEARE. 

Owing to the lively interest which, at the present 
time, is manifested in the Bacon-Shakespeare contro- 
versy, a brief and concise contribution advocating the 
Baconian authorship may not be inopportune. 

The doubts as to Shakespeare’s authorship have 
arisen from the difficulty of reconciling the facts of 
his life with the literature which has been attributed 
to him. “ In every case,” says Mrs. Potts, “ the con- 
viction that Francis Bacon was the real poet has 
grown out of a knowledge of the prose works, legal, 
scientific, and literary, and the plays and poems which 
include every peculiarity of Baconian language, 
science, philosophy, and belief.” If there be strong 
reason to doubt that Shakespeare wrote plays which 
he himself never claimed, and which none of his re- 
lations ever claimed fur him, surely there is no reason 
why we should not seek the real author. This latter, 
indeed, through the evidence as to life, circumstances, 
and studies, is, on the other hand, clearly shown to 
be none other than Francis Bacon himself. 

Baconians, in adducing their proofs, generally make 
use of both internal and external evidence. 

With respect to external evidence : — 

That Bacon was strongly addicted to the theatre is 
seen from the active part he took in theatrical per- 
formances at Gray’s Inn, and elsewhere ; also, from 
the fact that we have three pieces known to have 
been written by him, viz., “ The Conference of Plea- 
sure,” “ The Gesta Gregorum,” and “ The Masque of 
the Indian Prince.” The plays attributed to Shake- 
speare were courtly pieces, intended not for the play- 
houses, but for private representation before Elizabeth, 
and were performed at the houses of Bacon’s personal 
friends, such as the Earls of Leicester and Essex, and 
particularly at Wilton, the seat of William Herbert, 
Earl of Pembroke, Bacon’s life-long friend. Many of 
the plays were first produced in the Middle Temple 
and Gray’s Inn, where Bacon enjoyed the reputation 
of being the chief wit of the day. 

In attempting to arrange the plays chronologically, 
it has, of course, been the aim of Shakespearians to 
assume that they were all written before 1616 (the 
date of Shakespeare’s death), yet nine of these plays 
were never heard of before the publication of the first 
folio, 1623. 

Again, it seems to be little known that seven plays, 
published before 1598, did not have the author’s name 
on the title page. Besides these, six editions of 
Venus and Adonis, and four of Lucrece, were also 
anonymously published. Is it not then strange that 
a man like Shakespeare, at that time in the most 
abject poverty, should act in this way, when he would 
necessarily be desirous of making a name and fame 
for himself, and thus become more opulent 1 

In addition to these external evidences already set 
forth, might be included one whose significance has 
been by no means fully appreciated. But a single 
author, within the compass of a few pages, has en- 
deavoured to give it lucid exposition. I refer to the 
autograph of William Shakespeare. No handwriting 
of Shakespeare has ever been discovered except five 
autographs, of which three occur in his will. Every- 



one of these strongly suggests that the writer was 
extremely illiterate and unaccustomed to the use of 
his pen. The mere fact that 56 ways of spelling his 
name have been discovered, furnishes abundant testi- 
mony of the truth of this statement. It may be said, 
however, that illegible signatures are characteristic of 
many eminent men. While this may be true, yet 
none are so destitute of character, so labored and inde- 
cisive, as that of Shakespeare. On the contrary, his 
autograph betrays puerility in the formation of every 
letter. 

Now, had Shakespeare written these plays, they 
would only have presented a bewildering mass of con- 
fusion, and we would be unable to distinguish one 
word from another. Yet, we have an excellent and 
universally accepted copy, containing but few dis- 
puted words. As an illustration of his defect, might 
be cited the conclusions at which two different critics 
arrived in their endeavour to decipher a phrase (be- 
neath the signature of his will), which was found cap- 
able of being read to mean either “ By me,” or “ 25th 
March.” The meagre means which Shakespeare pos- 
sessed exclude the supposition that he ever employed 
the services of an amanuensis. Thus, the conclusion 
must of necessity follow, from external evidence, that 
Shakespeare could not have written those plays attri- 
buted to him. C. 

(To be continued .) 



GLEANINGS. 

It often happens that men come to regard their 
own wills as subsidiary providences for the moral 
government of the community. A year or two ago a 
graduating class, with something of this tendency, 
embodied their opinion in a memorial to the Faculty 
on the vexed question of supervision in examination. 
The Faculty at the time resented the implication that 
it was unfit to discharge its own special function, but 
now it acknowledges that some additional precaution 
is necessary. 

* * 

* 

There are two ways of securing the utmost fairness 
in examinations. So long as any system of espionage 
is followed, be it ever so manly, it is only a question 
of keenness of vision on one side, and evasive skill 
on the other, and no examiners can be omnipresent. 
If, instead of arraying against them native ingenuity, 
and running counter to that first law of preservation, 
which even the most delinquent student possesses 
in common with other “ locomotor organisms,” the 
examiners were to approach the question, having on 
their side the honor that is born of confidence, they 
would be reaching a difficult end in an easy and 
natural manner. As it is, the open lines, the laby- 
rinth of promenades, the watch-towers, impress the 
student that there is somewhere a low conception of 
moral virtue and of the dignity connected with rea- 
sonable beings. 

* * 

* 

Every man should know some one thing so well 
that if an Emperor were to stand between him and 



58 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



his subject, he could with confidence bid him stand 
aside ; and he should know as much of everything 
else as any other who had not made a special study 
of it. If it is one man’s duty “ to cut men, and he 
cut them straight,” it is not to his discredit if he has 
not an exact notion of Greek roots. He can, at least, 
refrain from attempting at a special knowledge he is 
not supposed to possess. A crude derivation, a false 
quantity or inflexion, is as bad in its own way as a 
scientific inaccuracy as to fact. 

* * 

* 

It is a pity to see respectable people and journals 
discussing, like a debating society, the relative influ- 
ence on intellectual culture of literary and scientific 
studies, as if either could be dispensed with. They 
might as well discuss the relative value of the heart 
and lungs — it is a comparison between a fish and a 
dog. It is the same as if some optimistic Roman were 
to allege, as an offset for the denunciations of John 
the Baptist, the good effect of extending the franchise 
to the Italian towns. 

* * 

* 

As usual, the question is made to turn around two 
men who, from their position, may lend it weight. 
Of course, Matthew Arnold pleads that “ the whole 
of literature is a criticism of life,” and Huxley, that 
to attempt this criticism without an acquaintance with 
the bearings of modern science, is like commencing a 
campaign of the Rhine without military appliances. 
They both acknowledge, as all must, that these are 
the two wings by which intellectual heights are 
reached, and that science and literature can no more 
be divided than can a house without detriment to the 
structure. 

* * 

* 

It is true that a poet, as well as a prophet, is not 
without honour except in his own country and among 
his own kin. If one appear amongst us who is essen- 
tially one of our own kin, in so far as his note is clear 
and his singing true, let us shield the singer from 
those influences that grind us all down to the same 
dead level. 

* * 

* 

What is the ultimate analysis of poetry ? In the 
discordant results is there not a suggestion that it 
takes of the nature of life itself, whose secret no man 
has been able to pluck out! What is the harmony 
running through such definitions as these by men 
who knew it face to face? “All feel, yet see thee 
never ; ” and, again, “ the best and happiest thoughts 
of the best and happiest minds,” — this was as near 
as Shelley could come to it. “ Poetry is simply the 
most beautiful, impressive, and widely-effective mode 
of saying things ; ” and, again, “ It is to the poetical 
literature of an age that we must in general look for 
most perfect and most adequate information of that 
age." This was Matthew Arnold’s explanation. 
Aristotle claimed it was but “ Imitation,” and Bacon, 
“ that it was ever thought to have some participation 
of divineness.” More recently and more finely — 



“ poetry is the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge, 
the impassioned expression which is in the counte- 
nance of all science — ” 

“ Lamp of earth, where’er thou moveet, 

Its dim shapes are clad with brightness.” 

* * 

* 

In the question of the use of the hexameter in 
English verse, there is a nice instance of how such 
things refuse to conform to the laws we make for their 
guidance. The scholars tell us, it is not a musical 
and natural English form. To Mr. Swinburne hexa- 
meters are “ ugly bastards of verse ; ” even those of 
Matthew Arnold have “ no metrical feet at all.” 
Clough’s are admirable “ studies in graduated prose.” 
Even in Kingsley’s “ Andromeda ” — “ the one good 
poem extant in that pernicious meter” — the feet are 
but “ loose, rhymeless anapests,” or sound like “ana- 
pests broken up and driven wrong.” To Lord Derby, 
“ the so-called English hexameter was a pestilent 
heresy, which could only be pressed into the service 
by a violation of every rule of prosody.” They all 
imply the same premises that classical analogies should 
govern our judgment of this measure. But the ques- 
tion ought to be — Should fixed rules of classical verse 
be put out of mind ? Is the verse, in six feet, of such 
poems as Evangeline or Andromeda a good, readable 
measure for an English poem ? Even Mr. Arnold — 
and beyond question he is one of the scholars — ad- 
mits that the dislike of our present English hexa- 
meter is “ rather among the professional critics than 
the general public,” and that even now, if a version 
of the Iliad, in English hexameter, were made by a 
poet who, like Mr. Longfellow, has that indefinable 
quality which renders him popular — something at- 
tractive in his talent which communicates itself to his 
verses — it would have a great success among the gen- 
eral public. The capabilities of the measure have not 
been developed, nor will be until, with the simplicity 
of Longfellow and the vigor of Tennyson, without the 
sing-song of the one and the roughness of the other, 
some fine poet will bring out its music, sweep and 
inspiriting effect. To much of the mechanical quan- 
titative verse Cannings’ outburst is, undoubtedly, 
applicable — “ Dactylics call’st thou them ? God help 
thee silly one.” But even this is only a stage towards 
a true and idiomatic English verse. 

The truth is, the poets themselves, in spite of their 
rules, have a liking for it. Poe opposed Longfellow, 

and, at the same time, paid this unconscious tribute 

its admirers “ are deceived by the ready facility with 
which some of these verses may be read.” Even 
Longfellow shrank from the discussion, and it was in 
defiance of many censors that he allowed his convic- 
tions upon a point in literary art to hold. He found 
that his thoughts “ would run in hexameters,” and 
that the “ measure would take root in English soil.” 

“ It is a measure,” he added, “ that suits all themes. 
It can fly low, like a swallow, and at any moment 
dart skyward.” There is a sort of poetical mother- 
wit among educated people that commends to them 
what they need, and many verses can have given to 
them a desired measure according to the taste of the 
reader, and in doubtful cases the hexametrical mea- 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



59 



sure is always given. Take, as an illustration, any 
dactylic verse of Homer, and such a line as this : — 

Coral and sea fan and tangle, the bloom and the palms of 

the ocean,” 

and notice how the verse can be modified by the 
reading. Even in writings where no pretension to 
meter is made, lines will fall into the measure : 

“ Husbands love your wives, and be not bitter against them.” 

‘ God is gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a 

trumpet.” 

* * 

* 

“There is no remedy against this age of conquering 
selfishness until it and all the thoughts of this genera- 
tion are swept away — as all sin and folly must be in 
our ultimate ruin. Live strongly and kindly, think- 
ing of the cause of the poor always — all victory is in 
theirs.” These are words from an unpublished letter 
of Mr. Ruskin. In the perplexity attending so many 
moral questions men seek relief in authority, and com- 
fort themselves in the categorical statements of a book 
or a man they believe infallible. They obey, with a 
strange selfishness, the bold injunction to lay up for 
themselves treasures in heaven, and neglect the colat- 
eral teaching, whose tenor is in clear tones — Lay up 
for humanity treasures on earth. 



Jflcfcill ttews. 



The meetings of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society have been discontinued during the holidays. 

A large number of our graduates, along with 
graduates from other Colleges, who at one time were 
students in Prince of Wales College, are preparing a 
testimonial to Professor Anderson, the Principal, and 
acknowledging their indebtedness in a substantial 
recognition. Already the subscription is up in the 
hundreds. 

The students in Medicine have obtained the 
Faculty’s consent, to alter the date of their vacation 
extending now from December 24th to January 5th, 
originally from December 21st to January 2nd. The 
last day of the holidays falling on a Thursday makes 
the chances of a reunion on said day extremely hazy. 
However, time will tell. 



Societies. 



McGill medical society. 

A regular meeting of this society was held on 
November 26th. 

A paper entitled “ Electricity in Medicine” was 
given by Mr. G. G. Campbell. The Pathologist 
exhibited the usual number of interesting specimens, 
and after ten minutes had been spent in examining 



these by members present, Mr. W. G. Stewart reported 
a case of “ Peritonitis,” and the Secretary read a letter 
from Dr. Ed. J. Evans, gold medallist of ’87, giving 
his “Clinical notes on the use of Antipyrin as an 
Anodyne.” 

Dr. Evans was a prominent member of the Society 
during his undergraduate course ; and it is to be hoped 
that other graduates will follow his example, in giving 
the Society the result of their investigations in cases of 
agents whose value like that of Antipyrin is as yet a 
disputed point. 



THE LADIES’ MISSIONARY SOCIETY. 

Although this institution is as yet without a name, 
the College authorities objecting to several that have 
been suggested, it is by no means standing still. The 
second regular meeting was held on Tuesday, Decem- 
ber 6th, Chinese missions being the topic for discussion. 
Miss Williams read an instructive paper on China, 
and not less interesting was Miss Kennedy’s account 
of the life of a Chinese maiden. Miss Richardson 
also read a poem translated from the language of the 
“ Celestials.” A letter had been received from Mrs. 
Capron of the Madura Mission, India, accepting an 
invitation from the Society, to address the McGill 
lady students, during her visit to Montreal. 

On Wednesday, December 14th, Mrs. Capron ful- 
filled her promise, and a number of students assembled 
in the Museum theatre, to hear her account of woman’s 
work among the natives of India. A full report of 
Mrs. Capron’s address has appeared in the daily papers. 



THE DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The usual fortnightly meeting was held on Thurs- 
day, November 24th. Miss M. Macfarlane and Miss 
Yipond read essays on Mary Moffatt and Florence 
Nightingale, respectively. Then followed an extem- 
pore debate, the first, but we hope not the last, in the 
annals of the society. 

The subject, “ Does misery or happiness prepon- 
derate in life 1 ” and the speakers were chosen by lot. 
After a short discussion, in which several first year 
students acquitted themselves very creditably, the vote 
was taken in favour of “ happiness.” It would be 
difficult to persuade McGill ladies that “ misery ” 
preponderates in life, even near examination time. 

On the afternoon of Thursday, December 8th, the 
members of this society repaired to the house of one 
of their honorary members, Mrs. J. Clarke Murray, 
whither they had been invited, to meet Sir Donald A. 
Smith, and to initiate him in the proceedings of the 
society which bears his initials. After the ladies had 
been presented to Sir Donald, the meeting was opened 
with a well-written paper by Miss Murphy, entitled : 
“ Vice versa ; or a society girl as viewed by a college 
girl.” 

The subject for debate was then given out : “ Are 

we better than our grandmothers]” The question 
was an interesting one, referring, as it did, to the recent 
stand taken by women with regard to the study of Arts 
and Medicine in the Universities. Misses Derick, 



60 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



M. Evans, and Squire supported the affirmative, Misses 
McFee, Hunter, and Williams, the negative, and the 
speaking on both sides was particularly good. The 
debate being decided in favour of the affirmative, an 
address was read by Miss Ritchie, the President, to 
Sir Donald Smith. Having alluded to Mrs. Murray’s 
kindness in interesting herself in the Delta Sigma, 
and to the respect and admiration with which the 
lady students regarded him who had opened the doors 
of the Faculty of Arts to their sex. Miss Ritchie pro- 
ceeded to give a clear and concise account of the 
society’s doings. Since its organization, nearly three 
years ago, the membership had doubled, debates 
had been introduced, and it had been recog- 
nized by the College authorities. She regretted 
that there was not more interest evinced by the 
occasional students in a society, which, supplementing 
as it did the college course, seemed to be deserving of 
success ; and at the close presented Sir Donald with 
the address, and a fragrant bouquet. Sir Donald, 
in reply, alluded to the recent progress in the educa- 
tion of women. He was convinced that those debaters 
in the affirmative were right, for the education of to- 
day fitted woman for all the relations of life. Dr. 
Murray, whose ready sympathy is ever accorded to 
the lady students, then made a few remarks on the 
value and influence of college societies ; and after 
the students had partaken of refreshments at the hands 
of their hostess, the meeting dispersed. 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

The season has opened very favourably for this fas- 
cinating winter sport. The Crystal rink has, as usual, 
been secured for two practices a week, viz : on Tues- 
day afternoon, between 5 and 6 o’clock, and Saturday 
morning at 9. 

Most of the old team is back on the ice, and several 
new men are promising well. In fact, everything 
points to a good team this year. Our brilliant “ point” 
and reliable “cover-point” are both grasping their 
sticks with a determination to do something for our 
college. The club, as a whole, is on a very good foot- 
ing. Much new blood has been advantageously in- 
fused into it, and the officers and committee are ener 
getic workers, so that we may reasonably expect some- 
thing of “our boys.” The championship matches are 
arranged in a series similar to that of lacrosse this win- 
ter, and is a big improvement on the old challenge 
system. 

McGill has been drawn to play as follows : 

Jan. 18th, — Victorias, in Victoria rink. 

“ 23rd, — Montreal, in Crystal “ 

Feb. 10th, — Crystal, in “ “ 

Mar. 2nd, — Montreal, in “ “ 

“ 12th, — Crystal, in “ “ 

At a general meeting of the Hockey Club held on Sat- 
urday morning, the 10th Dec., in the Crystal Rink, 
Mr. Budden was elected to represent McGill in the 
Canadian Amateur Skating Association. 



'Exchanges. 



Atlantis. — This is a very readable paper. Its print 
is good, its articles well arranged, and its advertise- 
ments in the right place. The last issue contains a 
very interesting article on the senior class of ’87. 

American Angler. — A very interesting paper, but 
we do not vouch for the truth of all the fish stories 
related there. The article on the “ Intelligence of 
Fishes,” which will be found in the issue of Novem- 
ber 26th, is well worth the attention of all sports- 
men. 

Queen's College Journal. — In the last number we 
notice a great deal of attention is devoted to athletics. 
The print of this paper is almost too small to enable 
one to read with much pleasure. In the editorials 
alone is the type good. The article on Bishop Cleary’s 
Napanee address is cleverly written, but we are of the 
opinion the comparisons instituted are rather weak. 

Knox College Monthly. — The material to be found 
in this publication is, certainly, solid. The informa- 
tion given in regard to “ Home Missions,” and the 
essay on the “ Dark Continent,” will be interesting 
to all who have missionary work in view. 

Varsity. — We welcome this journal, and thank it 
for the interest it takes in McGill. An editorial on 
the question of the “ Federation of Toronto and Vic- 
toria Universities,” and a discussion in regard to 
“ Hazing,” deserve special notice. 



Personals. 



A. L. Drummond has been elected Valedictorian for 
Science. 

A. L. Castleman, ’88, was chosen as delegate to 
Queen’s College, Kingston. 

Mr. Calvin Morrow, ’88, ably represented McGill 
Medical College at Bishop’s Dinner. 

Stevenson, Arts ’89, is called home. We regret 
extremely the sad cause of it — the accidental death of 
his father. 

J. H. Kennedy and W. W. Chalmers, were the 
lucky ones delegated by the Medicos to represent them 
at Trinity and Toronto School of Medicine, respec- 
tively. 

Mr. J. G. McCarthy has been chosen Valedictorian 
by the present graduating class in Medicine. The 
class is certainly to be complimented on its choice, 
and “ Jack ” on his enviable position. 

M. W. Taylor, Assistant Librarian, is confined to 
his house with an illness that, we regret to learn, 
is assuming a serious form. All frequenters of the 
Library miss his faithful attention. Mr. Lafleur is 
filling his place at present. 

All McGill Medical students, both past and present, 
will regret to learn of the severe illness of the worthy 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



61 



old Janitor “ Cook,” — the result of blood-poisoning, 
contracted while faithfully attending to his onerous 
duties in the dissecting-room. 

John P. Ball, Science ’87, spent a few days in town 
with the gang, after his summer work on the river. 
He left on Sunday, to spend Christmas at home, and 
from there will go to Nova Scotia, where he has secured 
a position on the Annapolis Valley R.R. 

W. B. Taylor, of the class of ’89, in Medicine, was 
compelled through illness to drop out for a year. He 
left for California early in October, but sad to say, 
that famous climate has wrought no change for the 
better. The latest reports from him are discouraging. 
Yet every McGill man who knew Taylor will breathe 
a wish for his recovery. During his two years in 
Medicine he was one of the most popular students, and 
won many friends among them. 



Between the Lectures. 



The freshmen in Medicine think they have a right 
to the front seats at lectures. 

The sophomores think differently. 

A short time ago, the sophomores, with a view of 
instructing the freshmen as to their proper place, de- 
creed that no freshmen should enter lecture-room No. 
2 by the front door. 

The freshmen held a meeting, and expressed their 
intention of entering the lecture-room through any 
door they chose. 

Consequently one afternoon, a day or two since, the 
sophomores massed themselves at the disputed en- 
trance, just before Dr. G ’s lectures, while the 

freshmen were coming up the hall. 

A very previous freshman started the fray by pre- 
cipitating himself against the crowd of sophomores 
with a wild war-cry. He was promptly slammed 
against the opposite wall. His companions, observing 
with grief and rage, this meteor-like flight, promptly 
charged his aggressors. 

Then ensued a scene which is probably unparalleled 
in the history of the medical school. A hundred men, 
shouting, struggling and sweating surged in and out 

of the door, while Dr. G vainly endeavoured, by 

a torrent of alternate prayer and execration, to main- 
tain order and save the elaborate array of apparatus 
he had arranged for the lecture. 

The reverend Mr. Saphir, a freshman, managed to 
creep between members of the class of ’90, and ven- 
tured to give a weak cheer at his success. He was 
promptly seized and fired over the heads of the mul- 
titude to rejoin his friends in the hall. His treatment 
was particularly galling, as he naturally may not swear. 
Several members of both years had their coats removed 
in sections, and the floor was covered with collars, cuffs, 
neckties, studs, and fragments of note-books that had 
been showered on the contestants by a number of 
neutral juniors, who were enjoying the fray from the 
back seats. 

A detachment of sophomores slipped quietly out of 
the back-door and took the freshmen in the rear, 



breaking their ranks, and managing to bolt the 
door. 

The lecture was then begun. Hardly had the ex- 
cited lecturer sarcastically given the usual formula 
“ Gentlemen” — when the door burst open and the 
freshmen began a triumphal march in. In a moment, 
the sophomores had leaped from their seats, and the 
battle began anew. 

Finally, the sophomores managed to drive back their 
opponents and get into the hall. Then both parties 
indulged in songs of triumph and even went so far as 
to chant “ Hop along, sister Mary !” in front of the 
sanctuary of physiology. The presidents of the re- 
spective years were hoisted by their followers and en- 
deavoured to quell the tumult amid a shower of ribald 
remarks. 

A very pleasant afternoon was terminated by a meet- 
ing in the lecture-room, when an attempt was made to 
adjust matters amicably. 

T. E. Goodwin. 



Correspondence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sms, — Heretofore the election of represen- 
tative-fellows has given rise to considerable discussion 
among our graduates; the interest in the subject 
does not appear to be growing less, but rather increas- 
ing. On the 30th ult. a special committee, appointed 
by Corporation, met to discuss a petition signed by a 
number of science graduates, praying for a change in 
the mode of electing these men. I am not now going 
to discuss this petition on its merits, but I wish to 
draw your attention to the fact that the party, among 
the graduates, who has been chiefly instrumental in 
having this petition presented, has already begun a 
canvass for next election. You opposed this petition 
when mooted last year, and in the interest of the 
position you then took, which I believe is in the best 
interest of the University, you should keep your 
readers informed of what is going on, at least as far 
as in your power. 

The history of this petition, taken in connection 
with the circumstances which gave it birth, is its 
own condemnation. The chief movers in it have not, 
even within the past twelve months, been consistent 
in their actions ; until beaten in the contest, they saw 
no evil in the present mode of election ; and railing 
against the vigorous canvass which their opponents 
carried on last year, they have begun even a month 
ago to solicit votes, before it is known who will bo 
the opposing candidates. One of these gentlemen, at 
least, has now made it very clear that personal inter- 
est and a petty spirit of revenge are the main-spring 
of his action. He has not only, as we have said, 
begun a canvass in October for an election to take 
place in March, but is using all his influence to bring 
out a man whom he opposed a year ago tooth and 
nail. There is no reason for his change of base, other 
than a desire to satisfy a personal spite. 

Now, I hope the Gazette will look into this mat- 
ter, and lay before the graduates the exact position 



62 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



of affairs, and especially the interior working of this 
one-man machine. 

Yours very truly, 

Science. 

[Since this letter came into our hands, the com- 
mittee referred to has refused to recommend the 
change prayed for in the petition. — Eds.] 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

:o: 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole Agents for 2Utoaa.trea.l a.n.cL 'Viclaa.lty. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and Billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 




=) BUY YQUR (==== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 



Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 



Special to the Doctors and S tudents ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts mode to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO THE STUDEKTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 



****** ************ 

hotographers 

******- ************ 

Jfero Beale of 'Prices this year 
for Biudenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 




The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF NEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, - $115,000,000 

Surplus, ------ 16,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New fork is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen . Manager. 

1762 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3 S 5 sSc 337 St. Stebet, I^onteseajl 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators 



— • ^Wholesale Manufacturers*— 




Hot Air Formes 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 

ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 

Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

^ngijaving Jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, GaFds, Orests, programmes, 
plonograms, &e., See. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. A. GrERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Hjc PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 
For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
w C HEMICAL A PPARATUS. 

S 3^ till $todk dor^tkptly op Skpd, Imported 
Difedt from tl\e I<ekding ^Iknufkdtifredd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



the genuine 
COOIE^’S PBIE1TD 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 2H & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 



0 ’HEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 



AND 



FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS A SON,) 

GWLmAE* FOR GASm. 



Books procured to order from England & the United States 



816 END 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



IvCOlTTHE^L. 



Corner 



McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 




'Emm qzee 



for 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 



LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA TO SELECT FROM. 

SUIT SaKlOverc OATS Made to Order, American Styles. 



ESPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS.-^ 





