jVo. to. 



Vof. VJJJ. 



McGILL ’ 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Friday , May i si, 1885. 



Editorials 
Convocations 
McGill News 
Societies 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

3 - 4-5 
- 6-10 
11 



12 



Between the Lectures 
College World - 
Personals 
Correspondence 



PAGE. 

12 

13 

13 

14 



MONTREAL : 

printed by the burland lithographic company. 
1885. 










— -4 - - 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

^7IDY0CPE^ 

Barristers, Solicitors , dh?., 

1©2 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q C. 
R. S. WL|R, B.C.L, 



M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 
f. s. McLennan. 



ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. TAMES STREET, 

7L W. 

^.ilvocate, |jarri&er ? fjommi^ioner, ^c., 
131 ST. JAMES STREET. 

MONTREAL. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jtarmbr$, JDIornc^s, jlolmtors, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



J. N. Grbenshields. J- C. McCorkill. 



Edmond Guerin. 



HEADQUARTERS 

FOR 

|?fp| .mil lilfat |f 5 t lM*s! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. vTjAU^HEIS ST. 



ME MCA Is WORKS , ROOKS USED US' ART COURSE, 
SC I E JVC E TEXT ROOKS t 
THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT ROOKS. 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 
^V-BEST VALUE I IN' TOWN. — 

Stylograjphic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Jaxo.es Street. 

ALSO 

Brahch Stope : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

E. A.. GEETH. 



IMPORTER OF 



M 



fis* mu. w < 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SDLTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr3 r StudentG l^ixt-are. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN'S BLOCK. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STEEET, 

(Near the Court House,) 
MONTREAL. 



J. J. GREAVES, 

IMPORTER OF ALL KINDS OF 

ty/ooLS, Joy?, Jewelry, ^tatio^y, 

Fancy Goods, 'Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c„ &c. 

816 & 1314 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



W JA. J'loTMAN 




ON, 




New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

♦S-FOR STUDENTS,** 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. VIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 1st, 1885. [No. 10. 




Dl RECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. S. McLennan, Secretanj. 

G. C. Stephen. I H. Y. Thompson, B. A. 

E. P. Williams. | T. W. Lesage. 

editors. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

S. Fortier. Assistant Editor-in-Chief. 

C. H. Livingstone. | W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. J. Elliot. 

The University Gazette will he published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



Editorials. 



We must apologise to our readers for the late ap- 
pearance of this issue. Our editors, all except two, 
were obliged to leave town while the work was yet in 
a very backward condition ; and we have been further 
delayed by the failure to receive some promised reports 
of Convocations. 



ADIEU. 

With this issue we conclude the Gazette for an. 
other year, and with it terminates the connection of 
the present staff of editors with the paper. 

In bidding farewell to our readeis, the time is 
opportune, to revert briefly to our labours during the 
past year. In the first place we desire to say that we 
have based our line of conduct upon the belief : that 
a college paper exists, in the main , by and for the 
students : that it is the proper channel for the ex- 
pression of their opinions ; that if it be truly repre- 
sentative of the chief characteristics of its constituents 
it must be most liberal in its treatment of even the 
most diverse and perhaps even unpopular opinions ; 
and that above all things it must be entirely indepen- 
dent of any control emanating from the University 
authorities. 



Its chief aim, — indeed, we may say its sole reason 
for existing, is to furnish a medium for the ventilation 
of honest, manly opinion, upon subjects which more 
or less intimately concern students and student life ; 
and hence the evident objection to having any in- 
fluence at work upon its Board of Editors, which 
might have a tendency to restrain this free expression 
of opinion. 

Acting upon this belief, we have from time to time 
discussed in our columns, such questions as the action 
of the University in passing by our own graduates 
when selecting a lecturer in classics ; we were in this 
matter actuated by no narrow-minded prejudice, our 
contention was, and still is, — select the best qualified 
man that can be got, but give our own graduates a fair 
field. We have discussed the doings of the Corpora- 
tion in connection with the Higher Education of 
Women ; and we have criticised the condition of the 
different Faculties. Our course in connection with 
these subjects has, we are aware, met with censure in 
some quarters ; this was to be expected. In closing 
our labours however, and after a careful and thoughtful 
examination of the topics discussed by us, we would 
not now, having a conscientious regard to duty, that 
these subjects were either fewer in number, or of a 
character less pertinent to the interests of McGill. 

That we have made no mistakes in their treatment, 
we are very far from claiming ; probably the tone of 
some of our articles could be much improved. In the 
warmth resulting from the strength of our convictions, 
upon reforms which we have advocated, we may have 
expressed our opinions in such a way as ttf iave given 
offence to some who, equally conscientious, did not 
see with us. But that we were moved by any but the 
most kindly feelings for, and deep and anxious in- 
terest in, the great institution of learning which, 
rightly claims our allegiance and deserves our gratitude 
we disavow. True gratitude does not blind its pos- 
sessor to a benefactor’s defects, nor is honest criticism 
inconsistent with the most intense loyalty ; on the 
contrary, the former, in a matter of this kind, sharpens 
vision, and the latter deserves commendation. 

And here, we are bound to say that while we depre- 
cate language unduly strong, in condemnation of even 
the most flagrant abuses, or in the advocacy of even 
the most desirable of reforms, and feel sorry, if our 
zeal has led us into this error ; we nevertheless, at the 






4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



same time, in this our last official utterance, as the 
mouth-piece of McGill students and graduates on her 
College paper, wish it to be clearly understood, that 
we misinterpret, very much indeed, the whole purport 
and aim of the school, if it should ever tend towards 
causing us to receive, with simply silent assent, the 
dictum of any man, from our gifted, scholarly and rever- 
ed Principal down to the humblest citizen among us ; or 
should ever lead us to place any custom or any opinion 
above the reach of honest- and fair criticism; and we 
have equally misinterpreted the sentiment of those 
who have place ! us here, if they would consider us to 
have done our duty in ignoring questions which are of 
vital importance to them, and therefore to the Univer- 
sity. 

We have aimed at a respectful, though firm and 
straightforward expression of opinion, with what re- 
sult we leave our readers to judge. 

In addition to these really vital questions, we have 
endeavoured to direct attention, as the time required, 
to the broader field of educational work outside our 
own University ; and have reported the transactions 
of various societies in connection with the College. In 
this latter connection we feel forced to remark that we 
sincerely wish, their work was better worth reporting. 

The plan of having the paper conducted on the 
financial basis of a Joint Stock Company, has now 
been on trial a year. We think the plan preferable 
to that adopted in former years, and have good hopes 
for the success of the Gazette in the hands of succeed- 
ing Boards working under this system, especially since 
they will escape the friction, attendant upon every in- 
novation no matter how good, to which the present 
staff was exposed and from which they have suffered 
slightly. 

Our work is ended. We commit the fortunes of 
the Gazette to the able Board of Editors that have 
been selected for the ensuing year, relying upon the 
liberal and hearty enthusiasm of McGill men. to sup- 
port and assist them in the future as it has us in the 
past. 

THE ARTS MATRICULATION 

Last year we believed the time had come for a gene- 
ral raising of the standards in the Arts faculty, and 
urged that as a preliminary to this the matriculation 
be made much more searching and general. We are 
still of the same opinion, and propose now to institute 
a comparison between the entrance examinations of 
University and Queen’s and our own colleges, to the 
end that the necessity for action in this dij ection may 
be clearly seen. As the matriculation requirements of 
Queen’s and University colleges are nearly identical, 



and we are only concerned with the difference between 
our own and the most advanced of the others, it will 
not be necessary to refer to the slight divergencies be- 
tween the former. In Greek, McGill asks its ordinary 
matriculants to be familiar with a single book, either 
of Homer or Xenophon ; University demands a know- 
ledge of one book of each. While for matriculants in 
honors McGill requires only the same amount of in- 
formation as do the ordinary examinations in Ontario. 
From the upper province matriculant is exacted a 
knowledge of the Odyssey and of a portion ol the 
Olynthiacs. Similarly in Latin, the honor examina- 
tion here takes up an equivalent to the obligatory test 
in Toronto, while the optional examination there em- 
braces portions of Livy, Horace and Ovid. In mathe- 
matics there is but slight difference, the Ontario uni- 
versities, including quadratics in the amount of alge- 
bra demanded from students entering, and the honor 
examinations being the same in the three seats of learn 
ing. The ordinary English examinations are also nearly 
alike except that in Ontario the matriculant is requir- 
ed to have a practical acquaintance with the rules of 
composition. In history, all require a knowledge of 
the outlines of English history, but the Upper Canada 
colleges demand also familiarity with the principal 
events in the histories of Greece and Rome. Ancient 
and modern geography are also obligatory in Ontario, 
and there are honor examinations in both history and 
geography. Our honor examination in literature re- 
quires merely a general acquaintance with the history 
of English literature ; theirs a critical knowledge of a 
play of Shakespeare. In addition, McGill’s competi- 
tors test stringently the would-be student’s understand- 
ing of French, and have advanced examinations in 
both French and German. They also allow an option 
between German and one of the dead languages. It 
will therefore be seen that not only do the Ontario 
colleges require a more general and advanced know- 
ledge from those who would enter their halls, but that 
their matriculation also embodies the modern idea that 
man may be well educated though he possess not an 
acquaintance with Greek or Latin. It is not necessary 
to enter here into a discussion of the value of the fossil 
tongues ; it is sufficient for our argument that the 
spirit of to-day forbids the expenditure of much time 
upon a study whose practical worth is nil. Money has 
always been the cry with which the onward march in 
our university has been checked, but the general rais- 
ing of the standard can be accomplished, the demand 
that the work now done in our junior years be left to 
the high schools can be satisfied without any new ex- 
penditure, and before long that raising must be accom- 
plished, that demand satisfied. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



MILITARY EDUCATION. 

Sir William Dawson in a few felicitous sentences, 
at the close of the Arts and Science Convocations 
referred to the present disturbance in our Northwest 
and with the .enlightenment begot of ripe scholarship 
coupled with deep thinking, and the patriotism which 
strives to apply it for the advancement and good of 
his country alluded to the mighty influence which the 
dissemination of knowledge, and especially which the 
possession of a sound liberal education by those who 
are placed in positions of national trust, exercises in 
doing away with the causes of rebellion. 

That this view is sound and worthy of consideration, 
is self-evident whether we ask for education to be 
given either the governed or governors. 

The personal liberty secured under Western consti- 
tutions is a blessing fraught with very grave responsi- 
bilities ; and the very existence of these constitutions 
is dependent upon the fidelity with which the leaders 
of men attend to the mental and moral needs of the 
common people. 

No more explosive force exists in the wide universe 
than a knowledge of wrong, hand in hand with an 
ignorance as to how to right that wrong. 

The force of Sir William’s remarks gathers 
strength and emphasis from a consideration of what 
successful and just statesmanship requires : what, 
broad sympathies and what varied acquirements ! 
We know not how often communities are thrown 
into commotion and disorder because of the lack of 
that liberal and charitable view of events, which is 
par excellence the gift, dependent on a sojourn in the 
kingdom of letters. 

But our object in this article is not so much to 
argue upon the value of applying the great engine of 
education and even-handed justice, in the solution 
of the problem of government, as to point to the 
lamentable and culpable neglect which the people of 
this country display in respect to their military 
education. 

From all appearances, the day is yet far distant, 
when peoples and nations will be in a position to rely 
upon the spelling-book and the school- master rather 
than upon the sword and the general, for the settle- 
ment of their difficulties. If this be true then we 
hold it simple madness for any nation, no matter how 
isolated her condition, or how few her international 
concerns to neglect, as Canada has done, the military 
education of her young men. 

The present crisis has demonstrated abundantly, of 
what excellent stuff, our young men are composed. 
And when we remember that the Minister of Militia, 



is contemptuously dubbed in the House of Commons, 
the “ Minister of Militia and Expense ; ” that any 
outlay upon the training of these very men who are 
now sacrificing their lives in their country’s cause, is 
fiercely attacked by one set of our representatives and 
as weakly defended by another ; that whatever profi- 
ciency our volunteers have, is due mainly to the self- 
sacrificing liberality, both in time and money of the 
volunteer officers throughout the country ; we cer- 
tainly have good reason to deplore the want of intel- 
ligent interest in national affairs which this state of 
things argues. 

The Gazette knows no party politics. This subject 
comes properly within our sphere ; and we are bound 
to say that no political party is immediately to blame 
for it, but that the sentiment, or rather the lack of 
sentiment, of the voters of the country has not sup- 
ported parliament and thereby enabled it to perform 
its duty in this respect. 

We have said, that no political party is to blame in 
this matter ; this statement requires qualification, 
doubtless a broader culture, in our public men, would 
result in a more exalted idea of the responsibilities of 
public office, and would ensure a race of members of 
parliament who would sometimes consider it as much 
their duty to lead as they now do to follow the public 
opinion. 

And what of McGill men ! must our college studies 
cause us to forget our citizenship ? While we train our 
minds to speed the pi ogress and prosperity of our 
country and race, do we never think, that the soil 
from which our young strength has sprung may some 
day need our arm to strike a foe, — against whom 
reason is powerless ? 

There was a time when McGill boasted her college 
company ; an ideal Canadian corps ! from every pro- 
vince of the broad Dominion, from the Atlantic to the 
Pacific, might there be found men, side by side, under 
the Union Jack ready to fight for flag and fatherland ! 

The manly exercise of the military drill is in itself 
worth knowing ; it has a most beneficial effect upon 
the body and bearing of a man, independent of our 
obligation to acquire it, and we trust steps will be 
taken next session to place the McGill Company 
again upon the list of the country’s citizen soldiery. 



“ What do I put you in mind of?” “A French 
clock,” she said softly. And pretty soon he arose and 
went on his way. The next morning he called on an 
eminent horologist and asked him what was the dis- 
tinguishing trait of a French clock. The horologist 
said, “ Why, it never goes.” And the young man was 
sorely cast down, and he grieved, and told no man of 
his hurt. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



TIIE LEAF. 

( From the French of Arnault ) 

Poor leaflet, severed from the bough, 

And faded, whither wanderest thou ? 

I do not know ; 

The noble oak, 

My sole support, has fallen low 
Beneath the tempest’s stroke. 

And all day long the changeful breeze 
Has blown me rudely back and forth 
From south to north. 

From the forest’s dismal shade 
To the flower be-sprinkled leaf, 

To the val'ey from the hill, 

Wheres .e’er the breezes will 
I am carried undismayed, 

For well I know 
I only go 

Where everything in season goes, 

Laurel leat and leaf of rose. 

Attie. 



itonuocations. 



MEDICAL CONVOCATION. 

The Annual Convocation for conferring degrees in 
Medicine was held in the William Molson Hah on the 
30th March last. 

The following are the members of the Graduating 
Class : J. H. 11 Allan, R. A. Arthur, I. Baird, F. N. 

Burrows, G. A. Cassidy, D. Carson, W. S. Daly, J. H. 
Darey, II. Dage, W. W. Doherty, D. W. Eberts, 
J. Elder, F. G. Finlay, S. Guston, E. O. Hallett, A. G. 
Hanna, F. Harkin, A. E. Hawkins, H. J. Hurdman, 
R. I. Irvine, II. D. Johnston, W. H. Klock, H. J. 
McDonald, N. McCormack, M. C. McGannon, J. W. 
McMeekin, D. L. McMillan, G. Palmer, F. H. Powell, 
A. M. Robertson. J. L. Silbv, J. L. K. Willison, 

D. J. G. Wishart, E. G. Wood. 

The following is the list of prize men : — 

Junior Prize : H. S. Birkett ; Sutherland Medal : 

H. A. Lafleur ; Botany : Clouston ; Practical Ana- 
tomy: H. A. Lafleur ; Demonstration prize : Bradley; 
Primary prize : E. Evans. 

In the final year the gold medal was awarded to Mr. 

E. G. Wood, who took 3,733 points out of a possible 
3,950, and the final prize to Mr. S. Guston, who took 

I, 947 out of a possible 2,150. 

The Valedictory was read by Dr. T. A. Baird, and 
the Graduating Class was then addressed by Dr. Rod- 
dick and the Hon. Justice Mackay. 



LAW CONVOCATION. 

The Annual Convocation for conferring degrees in 
the Faculty of Law was held in the William Molson 
on the 31st March last. 

The following are the names of the Graduating 
Class : — 

1. I. E. Struthers, First Rank Honors and Elizabeth 
Torrance Gold Medal. 2. A. W. Smith, B. A. hirst 
Rank Honors and Prize for best thesis. 3. R. A. 
Greenshields, B. A. First Rank Honors and Prize for 
general proficiency. 4. J. F. O’Halloran, B.A. Second 
Rank Honors. 5. G. B. Claxton, Second Rank 
Honors; 6. H. J. Hague, B.A. ; 7. J. G. Jolly; 8. 

J. D. Cameron, B.A. ; 9. H. J. Duffett, B.A. 



In the Second Year the prize men were 
1. A. J. Brown, B.A. First Rank Honors and hirst 
Prize ; 2. R. J. Elliot, First Rank Honors and Prize 
in International Law, and 2nd Prize; 3. J. Mackie, 
Second Rank Honors; 4. R. Murchison, Second Rank 
Honors. 

In the First Year the prize men were 
1. J. Mabon, B.A., Second Rank Honors and First 
Prize ; 2. H. A. Beauregard, Second Prize. 

Prof. Lareau addressed the Graduating Class in 
French, and the Hon. Judge Torrance in English- 
There was no valedictory, an omission, which we hope, 
will not be taken as an example to be followed by 
succeeding graduating classes. 



ARTS AND SCIENCE CONVOCATIONS. 



It may have been the fine weather or the presence 
of a new and attractive element in Arts Convocations, 
(i e. the lady students) which drew such a large 
audience to the William Molson Hall on the afternoon 
of Tiiursday, April 30th. Upon the platform were 
Hon. Judge Torrance, who presided in the absence of 
the Chancellor, Senator Ferrier, Principal Sir William 
Dawson, LL.D.,F. K.S., Archdeacon Leach, Dr. R. P. 
Howard, Prof. Bovey and others. 

The graduating class in Arts consisted of W. G. 
Stewart, ( 1st. Rank Honors in Science and Logan Medal, 
J. A. McFarlane, (1st. Rank Honors in Philosophy 
and Prince of Wales Medal), Wm. Lochead, (Honors 
in Science), A. H. U. Colquhoun, (1st. Rank Honors 
in English), J. C. Martin, (1st. Rank Honors in Eng- 
lish). Ordinary : — Class I. H. S. McLennan, (Hiram 
Mills Medal), G. J. A.Thompson ; Class II. H. Budden, 
M. Watson, G. A. McLennan, J.H. Macvicar ; Class III. 
P.M. Robertson, J. H. Higgins, A. Currie, W. T. Currie, 
A. S. Grant, D. Cameron, G. J. Calder (aeyer). Morrin 
College : — Class I. N. Rolph, J. A. Ferguson, H. J. 
Silver, W. A. Home, A. J. Walters. Class II. H. # 
Campbell. 

For M. A : W. H. Naylor, W. D. Lighthall, J. H. 
Darey, H. M. Ami. Ad Eundem, W. W. Whyte, B.A. 

The Medals, Honors, and Prizes having been pre- 
sented to the graduating class as well as to the under- 
graduates, (the full list of which we cannot publish for 
lack of space), the degrees were than conferred. The 
valedictory tor the graduating class in Arts was then 
read by Mr. Colquhoun B.A. who touched upon the 
success which the various student enterprises had 
achieved during the past session notwithstanting the 
fact that a good deal of attention was withdrawn to 
similar movements in the affiliated theological colleges. 
After mentioning the advantages to be derived from 
attendance at the Undergraduates Debating Society, 
he referred to the return once again of Sir William 
Dawson to active labor, and the gratitude which every 
student felt at the Principal’s arduous labors on behalf 
ot the University. Continuing, he said “and it must 
be gratifying to them as well as to every Canadian 
that those honors, intrinsically of inadequate value, but 
the only way of signalizing great intellectual services, as 
well as services of a more tangible kind, have, amidst a 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



general acclamation, been showered upon the head of 
Principal Sir William Dawson.” The valedictory next 
referred to the presence of lady students, and the remark- 
able success they had achieved. Their presence besides 
correcting false notions about the intellectual capacity 
of the ladies might incidentally lead to the discarding 
of that relic of ages passed away, the gown. It was not 
to be expected that graduates just leaving their college 
had no observations to make upon beneficial changes 
which might be made. Loyalty to their Alma Mater 
should not lead to a lack of discrimination between 
what was good and what ought to be remedied. The 
best members of any society or corpoiation were those 
who quick to recognize the necessity for reforms were 
equally willing to bear a part in effecting them. The 
establishment of a general dinir g-hall would be an 
improvement in the college life of McGill. In ad- 
dition to the saving of time and increase of comfort, 
such an institution would strengthen that feeling of 
community of interest, which attendance together on 
lectures did not sufficiently promote amongst the stu- 
dents. In conclusion, the undergraduates were urged 
to foster the athletic sports, take part in the work of 
the debating society, and support the college paper. 
While competing with those of the opposite sex in a 
fair and generous rivalry they could exhibit a courtesy 
and respect, in their treatment of the lady students 
which would go far to render easy the carrying on of 
partial co-education at McGill. The diligence which 
would comprehend more than the mere range of cut 
and dried course laid down would give a better claim 
to the rank of scholar, while upon their conduct the 
reputation of the college greatly depended. In bidd- 
ing a formal farewell the class of 1885 left its record 
for its immediate successors to approve of or else im- 
prove upon. 

When the lady-students were called forward to re- 
ceive their prizes, a storm of applause greeted them, 
indicative of the sincere congratulations of their com- 
petitors of the opposite sex. 

THE FACULTY OF SCIENCE 

Prof. Bovey, Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science, 
then read the results in his Faculty. The graduates 
were the following : — H. V. Thompson (Lansdowne 
Medal, Skelton prize, and six other prizes, for various 
subjects) C. W. Trenholme, B.A. (British Association 
Medal), E. McC. Macy, (Honors in Natural Science and 
prize), E. P. Mathewson, (Honors in Natural Science 
and prize), Samuel Fortier, (Prize in heat and heat 
engines) Jude Routhier, and T. W. Lesage. Mr. 
Fortier, B.A.S. was called on to read the valedictory 
for the graduating class in Science. 

The first part of it was devoted to a thoughtful, out- 
spoken and manly examination of the college course 
which the class had just completed. In a zealous and 
patriotic tone he dwelt on the disinterested and faith- 
ful work of their professors, and on the benefits of the 
mental training received. u Far be it,” says he, “ from 
us to feel ungrateful for that spirit of zeal and unsel- 
fishness which has been shown by the professors in our 
behalf.” Again, “ our intellects have been trained, not 
by long intervals of rest during the first part of the 



session followed by spasmodic efforts near the close, 
but rather by steady application during every day 
throughout the session.” 

Notwithst.inding, however, the admirable spirit of 
the address towards good, old McGill, the writer takes 
occasion to speak of the dissatisfaction felt by many of 
the most earnest and thoughtful students on account of 
some of the features of the work of the science f aculty. 
Here, though, he v is too loyal to rudely complain. So 
much useful and wise instruction has been given as to 
render it difficult to speak of the drawbacks. But that 
there are imperfections, and that the writer experienc- 
ed them, is plainly shown by the address. “ We know 
not yet,” he says, how much we shall be benefitted by 
the course now completed, or how much of the know- 
ledge obtained will be serviceable to us in our future 
careers. We know not yet whether the four best 
years of our lives could have been more profitably spent 
in labor in the field. The answers to such enquiries 
can only be given after years of time, and upon the 
verdict which time shall give depends to a great extent 
the success of the Science Faculty.” In another place, 
“We assert with satisfaction that a large part of the 
work of the course has been effected by our unaided 
exertions. The arduous task of solving problems in 
engineering science has not been accomplished without 
some disco o tent on the part of the students. There 
have been times when unable, after hours of hard study, 
to perform well the tasks assigned us, our spiiits have 
risen in rebellion against the severe mental discipline 
to which we were subjected. Even now the recollec- 
tion of these trials is too vivid to permit that outflow 
of thanks with which professors are usually deluged on 
convocation day.” He adds, in his encomiums on the 
good deeds of the citizens of Montreal. “We entreat 
you to guard the interests of the infant Faculty of 
Applied Science in the future as you have done in the 
past. Such a department is essential to the country 
and if through want of accomodation or the necessary 
equipments its usefulness be restiicted here, other 
universities will receive the students who would have 
gladly come to McGill. 

The other chief topics of the valedictory were the 
importance of the science of engineering and the enter- 
prises of the student outside of his immediate class 
work. Under these enterprises we have reference to 
Athletic Sports in which a well merited compliment is 
paid to the Professor of Surveying. Reference is also 
made to the Reading Room and the McGill University 
Gazette. On the subject of engineering we have the 
following eloquent passage : “ Already the members 

of the engineering profession have exerted a mighty 
influence in the development of the country. The 
bridges which span our wide rivers, the channels cut 
by human agency to overcome their rapids the valua- 
ble ores obtained from mines, the machinery in use, 
the locomotive whose shrill whistle wakens the dwell- 
ers on Acadian shores, resounds through the forests of 
New Brunswick, rouses to increased activity the in- 
habitants along the Banks of the St. Lawrence, fright- 
ens the wild herds on Saskatchewan plains, rever- 
berates from peak to peak of the Selkirks, and finally 
dies away on the bosom of the broad Pacific ; all attest 
to the genius and skill of the engineer.” 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



Prof. D. P. Penhallow, delivered the address to the 
graduating classes in both Faculties. This was a de- 
parture from the usual custom of having a professor 
from each Faculty address the respective classes. Tak- 
ing for his subject the question of “ Science vs. Classics’’ 
Prof. Penhallow gave a lengthy and able paper upon 
this still interesting conflict, and treated his subject 
in a manner which reflected the highest-credit upon 
this recent addition to the teaching staff of the College. 
We give it in extenso , on another. 

Sir William Dawson, in the course of a speech sum- 
marizing the work of the past session said. Apleasing 
feature was the large graduating class in Arts. More 
than 500 students had attended lectures in the several 
faculties, and the financial statement for 1884 showed 
that $150,000 had been added to the funds of the 
University through the generosity of benefactors. The 
fairest promises were foreshadowed by the success of 
the first class of women students and the authorities 
expected that this course would prove to be a source of 
strength to the Faculty of Arts, rather than of 
weakness. 

The Board of Governors had now to consider how 
increased accommodation in Medicine, Arts and Science 
could be provided. The want of a dining hall seemed 
to be great enough to demand speedy attention, and 
every effort was being made to arrange for such. It 
might not be ready for next session, but would be es- 
tablished, he had no doubt, in due time. 

The proceedings were closed with prayer by Rev. 
Dr. Wilkes. 

ADDRESS. 



PROF. D. P. PENHALLOW, B.Sc. 

DELIVERED AT THE CONVOCATION OF m’GILL UNIVERSITY, APRIL 30 , 1885 . 



Mr. Chancellor , Members of Convocation , Members of the Graduat- 
ing Class : Ladies and Gentlemen : 

In coming before you to-day, I feel that a double responsi- 
bility rests upon me, inasmuch as a radical departure from 
time-honored customs has been made, by uniting in one 
person the addresses which have formerly been delivered from 
two faculties. I am thus called upon to serve two causes; to 
uphold arid maintain the interests of arts on the one hand, and 
on the other to advance the claims of science, and push them 
with that force which its importance in our modern life de- 
mands. During the past year the discussion concerning the 
relative Value of classics and science in - education has been 
continued with unabated vigor, and already have rcsilts of a 
most important and significant character begun to appear 
through the introduction of practical reforms in the educa- 
tional methods and requirements of some of our oldest and 
most conservative universities on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Were I here to-day to represent s ience alone, I could not 
give her the fullest justification without acknowledging the 
debt she must ever owe to classical studies, and on the other 
hand, were I here to represent arts alone. I could not discharge 
my pioper duty without admitting the leading importance of 
all scientific work, and particularly of scientific methods of 
thought and reasoning. This inter-dependence of these two I 
important departments of human knowledge is worthy of our 
most serious consideration, and bv virtue of the double office 
which I fill here to-day, I feel that 1 cannot do better than 
briefly touch upon that aspect of the question, “Classics vs. 
Science," in which the relation of each one to the needs of 



practical life shall be briefly considered, and show how far 
each is capable of meeting those requirements. It is undoubt- 
edly safe to say that comparatively few men are able or will- 
ing to seek an education purely for the sake of the culture it 
will bring Of those who possess sutficient means to do so, 
the majority probably look to the future with the hope of 
adding to their already large possessions, and any means 
which will secure this end. even by considerable sacrifice in 
other directions, is most likely to be adopted. For the great 
majority, therefore, the college training is regarded purely as 
a necessary means to the end in view. It is so much capital 
invested, upon which a man desires to realize the greatest 
returns, and he who really has a serious purpose in view will 
always choose that course of study which will best prepare 
him for the use of that capital. It is from such a practical 
standpoint that the world at large judges of the merits of any 
educational system at the present day. without any very special 
regard for the particular views of the educationalists them- 
selves, and it is a pertinent question if this is not after all to 
a very large degree, the true standard of judgment. Senti- 
me it may be allowed a certain weight if you will, but it cer- 
tainly will not answer the requirements of the present day to 
cherish too fondly our reverence for time honored ideas and 
for methods which have long since out ived the purpose they 
were intended to serve. If we scan the history of our modern 
j classical colleges we will find that in many ways and in most 
cases, they are but the continued exoression of ancient ideas. 
They were founded at a time when science was practically 
i unborn, and even those of more recent date which have sprun ' 
into existence since the development of raoder science, 
have been largely founded upon the old id as and run in much 
the same grooves. In the earlier period of their history these 
colleges were all important, since th y were the only definite 
channels through which knowledge could be acquired, and 
that their prescribed course should be composed entirely of 
language and literature, was a necessity of the times, si ice 
these were the only directions in which thought could find 
healthy exercise. As time went on, however, conditions 
rapidly changed and the feeling is now prevalent that modi- 
fications in the requirements and methods of instruction have 
not kept pace with this progress, but that undue preference 
is still given to Greek and Latin over scientific subjects. 
Hardly yet has the old idea given way to the modern view, 
that a man may be considered respectably educated without 
the classics, but happily our views in this direction, as in 
many others, are becoming broader, and the time is not far 
distant when those who believe the sum of all knowledge to 
be concentrated in and about the classics will he relics of the 
past. But the truly practical test is to be fuund when we 
determine what classics, on the one hand and science on the 
other will accomplish for a man in the way of making him a 
better citizen, or aiding him to gain a mo.e substantial live- 
lih >od. We are first of all confronted wiih a fact which 
seems to be very generally admitted at the present day, that 
with the majority of those who follow a college course their 
knowledge ot the classics, so far as the ordinary affairs of life 
are concerned, practically -ceases on the day of graduation. 
Such men become absorbed in business or in other pursuits 
where Latin and Greek have hut little weight in determining 
the income ot the day, and for such men the question as to 
the wisdom of their spending so much time on these studies, 
becomes a most pertinent one. When the objection is raised 
that we have overlooked the very imp »rtant results to be 
found m culture and mental discipline, we are inclined to 
reply that other studies than these have an equal value in 
those two directions and the weight of argument must then 
tall to that side which can show the most extended and valu- 
al> e application to solving the practical problems of life Of 
the smaller number of graduates who may be supposed to con- 
tinue their classical studies and apply them to their profes- 
sions, we have the clergymen and men of letters, to a less 
degree the lawyers and certain specialists in scientific pursuits, 
and lastly, the doctors. We will agree that for all these the 
classics m iy be regarded as possessing some substantial ad- 
vantages ; but if even these were reduced to a proper standard 
it would doubtless be lound that only a small percentage 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



could read the classics understanding^, and yet fewer could 
read them with that facility which they have acquired in the 
u>e ot their native tongue. The conclusion, then, becomes 
direct and simple that very few men out of all those who 
receive a classical training have sufficient command of these 
languages to originate ideas in them, while, for those who are 
mere followers, some other language will answer much better 
or at least equally well, and that language should be by pre- 
ference the one to which they are born. It thus becomes clear 
that the real utility of such studies, in meeting the practical 
problems ot life, is of an exceedingly limited nature, and it 
naturally follows that there must be other branches of know- 
ledge which will serve the purpose better, and benefit the 
individual and the community far more. It is, therefore, 
manifestly unfair, as well as most unreasonable and inconsist- 
ent, to demand that a man shall take a course in classics to 
the exclusion of science, whether it meets his needs or not. 
While we rightly look to the classics for a most desirable 
and important culture, we must not forget that in our own 
English language, we have not only the most noble tongue 
of the present day, but we have also a language which is ex- 
ceedingly rich in all that ten Is to culture. It is built upon 
all that is best and purest of other languages, and it still 
draws largely from them wherever found : so that its proper 
study, particularly if pursued in connection with science, will 
doubtless answer all the requirements of culture, so strongly 
urged in favor of classics. The remark is frequently made, 
and would appear to be justified by observation, that men 
graduate in classics while yet they have but an imperfect 
knowledge of their own language, and the conclusion is justi- 
fied that proper proficiency in the latter has been sacrificed 
to the study of the former, but that only mediocrity has been 
reached in either. The educational system which will per- 
mit of such results is undoubtedly wrong, although we in ist 
make all due allowance for the material as represented in the 
man, and that system will best serve the needs of the day 
which, other things being equal, will make the study of Eng- 
lish of leading importance and place other languages sub- 
ordinate to it, making them actual requirements only so far 
as they meet a definite want and fulfil a definite purpose. 

1 he present age is a progressive one and eminently utilitarian 
in all its tendencies. Possibly in some directions, at lea&t, 
there is too strong a tendency that way. Nevertheless, men 
rightly look to the development of industries and the acquisi- 
tion of wealth as their goal, and they desire that their training 
should be directed to this end. Evidence of this is to be 
found on every hand, particularly in the rapid growth of 
technical schools within the past two decades, not only in 
America, but all over Europe, while even the oldest and most 
honored of our classical colleges on both sides of the Atlantic 
have been caught in the rushing tile, and are now beginning 
to acknowledge the force of these facts and the tendencies of 
the times, and that their prescribed courses have outlived 
their original purpose, and thereby lost their specific value. 
It is right that we should look to our universities for the ex- 
ercise of a wise eonservati m. In this respect they are the 
balance wheels of public sentiment, and it is well and proper 
that they should bj so; but conservatism must, to retain its 
value, be tempered with a just regard for the require- 
ments of the age in which we live. Men live for the 
future, not for the dead past The present year will ever be 
memorable in the history of educition, since it ma-ks 
the beginning of a new era. The two oldest universi- 
ties in England an l America, and the most conservative as 
well, have instituted a movement which other colleges will be 
forced to follow. The changes which they now contemplate, 
or have already male, are consistent with a wise conservatism, 
with their character as leading institutions, and with the 
requirements of the day. These changes are sufficiently in- 
dicated when we point out that at Harvard College, science 
and classics have practically been placed on the same basis, 
so that a student may select from all the studies of the 
curriculum, such as will best quilify him for the object in 
view. It may be urged with some reason, tint such an 
optional system as is there developed in a high degree, is 
liable to abuse, particularly in cases where the student has 



not fully determined upon a profession. It may also be urged 
that a student is not capable of correctly judging as to what 
Profession he has the greatest inclination to, or aptitude for, 
until he has completed a general course. This often occurs, 
and the graduate then seeks technical schools for education 
in a specialty. Iu accord with these views, it might he 
deemed expedient to allow a man no option, but force him 
through a specified course, whether in accord with or opposed 
to his tastes and requirements. But another aspect of this 
question presents itself. As in the case of Harvard college, 
where such liberal options are allowed, they may be so couple 1 
with other requirements, as total number of subjects taken, 
matriculation, etc., that the course is not weakened thereby, 
but rather that the stud mt is comp lied to gain a more 
thorough and advanced preparatory training, and he then 
brings to the college that maturity of judgment which enables 
him to select his profession at the outset, and choose his 
studies judiciously with this end in view. Thus is established 
at once, by natural means, the only true and reliable safeguard 
against abuse of the privilege of options. But the effect is 
much more far-reaching than this. It is safe to siy that the 
preparatory schools will never exceed the requirements of 
the university matriculation, while their interests compel 
them to meet these requirements fully, so that whatever the 
former may exact the latter will at once be prepared to accept. 
This has been shown to be the case on former occasions, when 
the standard of admission at Harvard has been raised, and it 
will appear again, as indicated in the new rules, in connection 
with which a special notice is given to teach rs that between 
the subjects of astronomy and physics, and a course of experi- 
ments in mechanics sound, light, heat and electricity not less 
than forty in number actually performed at school by the 
pupils, preference will be given to the latter. The tendencies 
of the day would be clearly brought out were it possible to 
secure proper statistics concerning the students after gradua- 
tion. Unfortunately with one exception, our large universities 
are wholly unable to supply such data. Cornell, however, 
offers a very good opportunity for forming an opinion, since 
it has several special courses open in several directions, any 
one of which a man may freely select. From the ten-year 
book of that university we find there were 476 gradua es 
during the period from 1868-1878. Of these, 55 9 per cent, 
entered those professions in which Latin and Creek are sup- 
posed to be essential, 32.1 percent, bicarae bankers, engineers, 
scientists and doctors, and 11 per cent, entered trade or had 
no occupation. This would seem t) indicate a strong prefer- 
ence for classical studies, hut if wj examine the degrees taken 
during that period we will at once gain a true indication of 
the actual tendencies. Thus, out of 325 degrees bestowed, 
2$ 3 per cent, were in arts or literature, while 71.7 per cent, 
were in science, giving therefore a ratio of arts and science of 
1:1 53. This shows conclusively that the tendency at the 
present time is greater to seienrifi ; than to classical studies, 
and that the former answer all the requirements of m >st pro- 
fessions in which the latter were formerly supposed to be 
essential, and it we further hear in mind tbit there is a com- 
mon and strong ten lency for arts graduates to finally enter 
the scientifij professions, the argument will have additional 
force. Mr. Matthew Arnold tells us that a knowledge of 
la guages broadens our ideas and gives us almost as many 
diff rent lives, through our abi.ity to come into sympathy with 
the thoughts and feelings ef the peop e they represent; and 
this we are quite ready to grant, but when he further 
assures us th it it brings the products of all research to our feet 
an 1 enables us to take a broad and general survey of all 
knowledge, implying its superi >:ity in this respect to science, 
we are incline l to doubt the wisdom an 1 even the force of his 
remirk. The min of classical attainments tikes his know- 
ledge of everything outside his own particular sphere at 
seeon 1 hand and therefore labors unier all the great dis- 
a 1 vantages whica this implies. He can never lead, except 
in languige itself, but must always depen l upon the results 
ohtiinid by the rain of science, wh> thus becomes the leader, 
striking out into piths of origin il research, always fresh, 
always in the van of progress. Language is the medium 
through which thought and ideas pire conveyed, and must 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



always be subordinate to the ideas themselves. If we are 
asked what the study of science accomplishes for a man, our 
reply first of all would be, that it gives him a breadth of view 
and a grasp of the general problems of life which no other 
training can give. The interdependence of all scientific 
knowledge, renders it absolutely essential that a man should 
go much beyond his particular field and become acquainted 
with the work of others. More that than, itgiveshim a deep 
insight into, and intimate acquaintance with that highest of 
all knowledge, natural law. Through this it broadens and 
quickens both his moral and intellectual perception ; it lifts 
him into the purest and most lofty atmosphere of thought 
and brings him through nature up to nat ire’s God ; it 
strengthens every fibre of his being in the resolution to accom- 
plish a noble purpose in life, and when we apply a more prac- 
tical test we find that it meets all the wants of our existence, 
serving as the mainspring of all our commerce and industries, 
and the source whence flows all that ministers to man’s needs. 
In a word, it is to science that the world stands indebted to. 
day for all its material p osperity and progress. When we 
understand this we recognize that science gives to man a 
power over the most important details and necessities of our 
existence, which language alone is powerless to deal 
with. Are we, then, to throw the study of classics over 
altogether? By no means. I count myself among 
those who believe in the dignity and value of all 
knowledge, and I would certainly dislike to see a sweep- 
ing revolution in existing methods, whereby the classics 
should he wholly banished. 

VN hat the requirements i.f the present day do seem to de- 
mand, however, is that our systems ef education should be so 
arranged that science and classics shall occupy positions pro- 
portioned to their value in professional work and in their re- 
lation to the general problems of life, and that the student 
may be allowed to determine the course which is best suited 
for his purpose. And while, therefore, I do believe that science 
is the true basis of all that is practical in life and meets the 
greater number of the requirements of our existence, and that 
it sh mid have the precedence or at least < qual advantage with 
the classics in our educational systems, the latter should fo m 
a feature of every perfect and well- developed system of in- 
struction, in order to introduce a wider element of culture, 
and round into full and graceful outlines the more practical 
ideas of the scientist. Finally, the complaint is not unfre- 
qnently made that gr duates of our scientific schools do not 
follow the calling for which they have been educated, or that 
the course is narrowing in its effects, and can equip men for 
but one or two occupations in life. The first objection may 
be met upon the ground that if there be an actual fault in this 
direction, then it is common to both scientific and classical 
colleges, since it is a well known fact no college graduates 
men, all or even a large percentage of whom seek occupations 
in the special fields for which their study is supposed to have 
qualified them. Nor does the training received lose its value 
on this account, as many are very erroneously disposed to be- 
lieve. A wisely completed course of science, as already shown, 
amply qualifies a man for entering any profession, except 
those in which the classics are specially demanded, and even 
then, the fault is not in defective mental training and want 
of capacity, but in limitation of special acquirements ; and 
concerning this again, our ideas are commonly very much at 
fault. As l have already pointed out on a former occasion, 
there is a vast and important distinction between actual ac- 
quirement and mental training. The second doubt may also 
be readily set at rest. Observation show’s that scientific 
courses are most broadening in their influence and permit the 
graduate to choose from a large number of protessions, tor any 
one of which he is equally well qualified, and it is not diffi- 
cult to recall the names of many such graduates who have 
attained to prominence in medicine, the ministry and the law. 
But let us answer ihe quesiion by looking to our own gradu- 
ates in science. Of the eigbty-five men who have thus far 
received a scientific training here, the occupations of sixty 
alone, or 70.6 per cent, are known. Of these sixty we find 
engineers, 55 per cent. ; professors, 8.3 per cent. Several of 
these occupy prominent positions, one being in the Univer- 



sity of Tokio, Jap m, while another fills an important chair in 
our own university. Miscellaneous, 8.03 per cent ; geologists, 
5.03 per cent ; business, 5.0 per cent. ; manufactures, 5.0 per 
cent. \ chemists, 3.3 per cent. ; arch tecta, 3 3 per cent. ; jour- 
nalists, 3 3 per cent, ; draughtsmen, 3.3 per cent. These 
figures show that our graduates fill a number of important > nd 
useful positions in life, among which they are about equilly 
divided, with the exception of engineering, which apparently 
absorbs the general interest of the student. Doub. less the 
| objection will be raised that this at once indicates the narrow 
tendencies and limited usefulness of the course, since all its 
energies appear directed to the education of engineers. The 
answer to any sucu objection mu>t be found in part in the 
statistics themselves, and in part in the recollection that it is 
not the college co irse which alone determines the choice of 
a profession, but it is to a far greater decree, a man’s natural 
inclination and aptitude,- coupled with the prospects of re- 
munerative employment in the chosen field. The college 
course, however wisely planned, cannot overcome these con- 
ditions; it can only meet them as they exist. The college 
has no power to determine remunerative employment for its 
graduates, simply because it turns th^mout with special quali- 
fications. The conditions of active life, and the law of supply 
and demand which operates here as elsewhere, determine this, 
and to these the college must be secondary. It so happens at 
the present time, that there is great activity in the Dominion, 
in projecting engineering works, and these offer the greatest 
opportunities for an ambitious man, but as has so often oc- 
curred elsewhere, a reaction must ensue sooner or later, and 
with the development of industries constantly in progress, 
there must soon be equally tempting fields in other directions, 
and then will our chemists, geologists and botanists be found 
in excess, without any special effort on the part of the colleges. 
It is simply necessary that these institutions should be fully 
prepared to meet all such changes of demand upon their capa- 
city. There is sometimes a tendency among students to feel 
that they are abundantly able to choose the course best suited 
to their needs without consulting those who, by experience, 
are better prepared to advise, and lest any such should derive 
an undue measure of comfort from what I have said, a few 
remarks in closing should be made. Those of you who go 
forth to-day to make your own positions in life will realize 
with additional force as the years pass, that the professors 
whose watchful care you leave to-day are your proper advisers. 
Some of you, as you encounter the experiences of sharp com- 
petition, may feel a regret that you did not accept a greater 
measure of that which they always consider it their duty to 
give the student. Those of you who yet have a portion of 
the course before you would do well to bear in mind that, 
while you are expected to think and act for yourselves, you 
have had but very limited experience of what the world will 
demand of you, and you will do wisely if you freely and 
frankly seek the counsel of those who are your natural advisers 
during the college course, and I can assure you that such a 
course on your part will never be regretted, but may prove of 
the greatest value in after life. 



How did you manage to raise money to go to the 
opera last week t” asked Brown of Jones, wi.o is very 
deaf. “ Pawned my ear trumpet.” “ I don’t see how 
you enjoyed the opera without your ear trumpet.” “ I 
took my opera glass. — Ex. 

When President Arthur took his Son, Allan, to 
Princeton, the chief magistrate was called on by the 
boys for a speech. He responded, and in conclusion 
remarked, with a great deal of feeling, that he was 
about to confide to their care the dearest thin^ on 
earth. The words were scarcely out of his mouth 
when one of the youths rose and sung out in stentorian 
tones : Three cheers for the thing .” — Philadelphia 

Press. 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



THE FAREWELL. 

(Translated from Daniel Stern— Comtessc d'Agoult.) 

Her heart may break, but thou shalt never hear 
rrom her proud lips one murmur of regret ; 
N JL 8a< V^ pro,lches » 110 accusing teer 
Thy fickle soul shall fret. 



And canst thou dream that she was nothing loath, 
And that to-morrow, care'ess of to-day, 
one will not brood upon thy broken trocn. 

But go her way ? 



I tell thee true — her faith can never die, 

And though, soon destined for the realms above, 
She quits her lover, she will bear on high 
Her deathless love I 



fflclBUl News. 

In respect to the number of students, McGill ranks 
sixth among the universities of America. 

Efforts are being made to form a University lawn 
tennis club during the summer months. 

The income of McGill University for the present 
session, as per treasurer’s statement, is almost $270,000. 
This is independent of the fees in the Faculty of 
Medicine, which amount to about $20,000. 

The graduating classes in Arts and Science before 
separating, subscribed a good sum of money to be 
presented to the College Library. This parting gift 
was intended to be a practical expression of the good- 
will of the new graduates towards their Alma Mater. 

At the final meeting of the Citizen’s Committee in 
connection with the British Association, the balance 
of funds in the treasury, about $1,500, was handed 
over to the treasurer of McGill. It will be devoted to 
the advancement of those sciences most patronized by 
the Association. 

Sir William Dawson, McGill’s esteemed principal, 
has just been elected President of the British Associa- 
tion for the ensuing year. The university has reason to 
congratulate itself on being able to contribute so dis- 
tinguished a scholar to preside over the most influen- 
tial scientific association in the world. 

During the past session Ontario contributed to Mc- 
Gill 18 per cent, of the students in Applied Science, 
22 per cent, of those in Arts, and 54 per cent, of those 
in Medicine. These percentages are much in advance 
of those of last year, and speak eloquently for the in- 
creasing attractiveness of McGill in Ontario. 

The editorial staff of the Gazette for the session of 
1885-86 stands as follows: Messrs. J. R. Murray, B. A.; j 
A. H. U. Colquhoun, B. A; Henri A. Lafleur, B. A. ; | 
Colin H. LiAingstone, Arthur Weir, C. Percy Brown, 
R. J. Elliot and E. J. Evans. The Board of Directors 
for the same term consist of Jeffrey H. Burland, B. 
Ap. Sc., F. C. S ; Geo. C. Wright, B. A. ; E. De F. i 
Holden, F. W. Hibbard, W. A. Carlyle, E. P. Williams j 
and G. C. Stephen. 

Besides the ladies who were partial or occasional 
students, nine have been successful in the sessional 
Examinations: — Misses Cross, Evans, Foster, Melee, 
Me Lea, Murray, Reid, Ritchie and Simpson. Miss | 
McLea stood first in Greek and Chemistry, and along j 
with one of the opposite sex had the highest mark in 
Latin, Geometry and Arithmetic, and Trench. Miss 
Ritchie was first in English and German, while in 



Trigonometry and Algebra the most that a gentleman 
could do was to be equal with her. From this it can 
be seen how admirably the ladies have done. 

The Announcement of the Faculty of Arts for the 
Session 85-86 is in our hands Besides a few changes 
in the different courses, both ordinary and honour, 
of which we shall not speak in detail, there are some 
announcements which appear in the Calendar of the 
college for the first time. Among these we have the 
Regulations for the Gold Medal to be awarded for First 
Rank General Standing. As our readers know, this 
medal is the gift of the Marquis of Lansdowne, and 
instead of being given to tiie best student in the 
Ordinary Course, may be offered for the Honour 
Course in Modern Languages. The regulations will 
very probably have the effect of causing only compa- 
ratively few to compete, as out of the seven subjects 
required, five of th^m are obligatory, four of these 
being Latin, Greek, Mechanics and Hydrostatics, and 
Astronomy and Optics. 

Other announcements are, The Major Hiram Mills 
Gold Medal , for a subject to be chosen by the Faculty 
from year to year. The Jane liedpath Exhibition , 
open to both men and women . 

A slight change has also been made in the distribu- 
tion of the Scholarships and Exhibitions for the 
differeat years. 

Under Special Course for Women we have the 
following : — 

Regulations for Examinations, Exemptions, Board- 
ing Houses, Attendance, Conduct, Library and Mu- 
seum will be the same as for men, but not the same 
for Academic Dress. For women also the Library 
fee is optional. 



LAWN TENNIS. 

The Third Annual Meeting of the McGill Tennis 
Club was held at the College on the 7th inst., when 
the following officers were elected for the ensuing 
season : President — H. Budden ; Secretary — W. E. 
Ellis ; Treasurer — C. B. Hamilton ; Committee — F. 
Metcalfe and C. Swabey. 



GRADUATES SOCIETY. 

The Annual Meeting of the Graduates Society, was 
field on Wednesday evening, 29th April, in the 
Library of the Natural History Society. The atten- 
dance was not large owing partly to the fact that 
another meeting was being held at the same time iu 
which the medical members were interested. Never- 
theless some questions of very great importance were 
brought up for discussion during the evening. The 
election of officers resulted as follows : — 

Pesident Prof. M. C. McLeod, M. E. Vice-Presi- 
dents : — Dr. James Stewart, Dr. F. W. Kelley, Mr. 
Arch. McGoun B. C. L. Secretary : — Mr. J. Ralph 
Murray B. A. Treasurer : —Mr. W. J. Sproule B. S. C. 
Resident Members of the Council *. — Dr. Shepherd, 
Messrs. W. McLennan, W. F. Skaife, H. H. Lvman, 
James Bell M.D., W. Molson M.D. 

Non Resident Members of the Council: — Messrs. J. 
J. McLaren, Toronto; Dr. Osier, Philadelphia ; Dr. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



Grant, Ottawa : J. F. Torrance, Beauce ; Rev. R. Lang 
Halifax, and Rev. E. I. Rexford, Quebec. 

Amongst those present were several of the Repre- 
sentative Fellows. l)r. F. W. Kelley gave a short 
report of University matters particularly interesting 
to the members. On motion of Prof. McLeod the 
incoming committee were instructed to make a change 
in the method of nominating Representative Fellows. 
Mr. Sproule thought that the voters fee of fifty cents 
was a nuisance and ought to be abolished. He con- 
sidered that otherwise they would never have a true 
representation of the graduates. After some discus- 
sion a motion was carried requesting the authorities 
to reduce the commutation fee from ten to five dollars 
Mr. Fraser Torrance proposed a motion to the effect 
that when the next vacancy occurs upon the Board of 
Governors those with whom the choice lies should 
consider whether there is not some graduate of the 
University who would suitably fill the place. Mr. 
Torrance supported his motion in a forcible speech in 
which he drew attention to the improper way in 
which professors are at present appointed. After some 
other questions had been discussed the meeting ad- 
journed. 

During the past year little or nothing has been done 
by the Society, and we hope that in the coming year 
it will display more signs of life. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The last of the season’s public debates given by the 
University Literary Society was held in the Win. 
Molson Hall on the evening of the 14th inst.. and 
was an unqualified success. The attendance was large 
and the speeches were good. The chair was filled by 
Mr. A. McGoun. President of the Society, and Sir 
Wm. Dav r sonand Prof. Johnson occupied seats on the 
platform. We regret exceedingly that pressure of 
other matter prevents us from giving even a synopsis 
of the discussion which was on one of the most inter- 
esting questions of the day — “ Should Great Britain 
establish a protectorate over the Soudan?” 

The debate was opened by Mr. Oughtred in an elo- 
quent speech in which he referred to tne close connec- 
tion of the Soudan with Egypt, the splendor of whose 
glory dated back to the day^ “before Carthage was 
and when Rome was not.” He maintained that for 
the protection of the Suez Canal and for the welfare 
of Egypt it was necessary that England should under- 
take the government of this country ; that such a 
course would result beneficially to her own commercial 
interests, and he appealed to his audience to say if it 
w r as not desirable that England should lift these people 
out of the depth of barbaiism to which they had fallen 
to a higher state of civilization even than that which 
they had previously enjoyed. 

Mr. Brcoke on the negative took the ground that 
the present critical state of European aifairs rendered 
it imperative for England to use the utmost caution in 
avoiding all unnecessary entanglements, and that Great 
Britain had persistently refused to assume any re- 



sponsibility for the government of this country. He 
entered at length into a description of the country and 
the difficulties which would be incurred by a European 
nation in effecting the subjugation and control of so 
vast and inhospitable a region, and reviewed the causes 
which led to the present complications in Egypt and 
the Soudan, and asserted the rights of the Soudanese 
to govern themselves in their own way, denouncing 
the argument of his opponent that it was necessary for 
the honor and prestige of England that she should per- 
sist in a cruel and unjust war for the display of her 
own might. 

Mr. Mackie followed replying to the arguments of 
the last speaker and holding that the suppression of 
the slave traffic could only be effected by the means 
proposed and making a stirring appeal to the sympathy 
and patriotism of his hearers. Mr. Cross in a short 
but pithy and sarcastic speech contended that the 
affirmative had wholly failed to make out a case, that 
their plans were defective and their arguments were 
bad. He ridiculed the grounds taken b} r the affirma- 
tive that the subjugation of the Soudan was necessary 
for the welfare of Egypt and the safety of the Suez 
Canal, or that the cause of humanity demanded the 
slaughter of thousands of Arabs and British for the 
sake of putting down the slave traffic. 

The opener of the debate then summed up in a 
caustic reply to the arguments of his opponents and 
on the question being put to the vote it was decided 
in favor of the affirmative by what was rather a large 
majority. 



Between the Lectures. 



Bills of long standing and trousers of long sitting 
are better receipted. 

“ What is laughter?” asks a chemist. It is the 
sound that you hear when your hat blows off. 

A Boston girl is considered accomplished when she 
can sneeze without dropping off her eye-glasses. 

Grubber : “ what could this chicken have lived on 
to make it so tough ?” Punster : “ It lived on from 
year to year.” 

Why is it so much prominence is given to women 
now-a days ? She was nothing but a “side-issue ” in 
Adam’s time. 

Descarte’s “ Law of Signs,” Tech version. “ Drop 
them quietly over a front yard fence, if you meet a 
‘cop’ on your way home.” 

Yale has organized an anti-swearing society at 

least, so say the newspapers, — in which the penalty 
for swearing is the payment of drinks for the whole 
society. — Crimson. 

They were in the wood. Said he, looking things 
unutterable, “ I wish I were a fern, Gussie.” “Why ?” 
she asked. “Why— p’raps you— might -press me, 

too.” She evidently hated to do it, but it is best to nip 
such things in the bud ; so she replied, “ I’m afraid 
you’re too green, Charley.” The poor boy almost 
blubbered. — Ex. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



SPRING. 

^ 0U rk ! ??u ta, k ^. e signs of the weather, 

Ut the coming days you may sing, 

But sitting down on a red hot stove 
Is the sign of an early spring. 

Tech. 



College lUorlb. 



Since 1847, American colleges have received $50, 

000,000. 

A Chinese student at Yale has taken the first prize 
for English composition. 



shall go on as I did the other night for two mortal 
hours. (Go on.) No, no ; think of two mortal hours. 
(Laughter.) I hope you will be as happy as I am. 
The mixing of music with words, words that stir the 
soul and instruct the mind, is the most intellectual of 
all possible kinds of entertainment. The ancient 
Greeks always had their music to words that they 
understood. We can not accept music that is simply 
a kind of tight-rope dancing in the air, which merely 
tickles the ear with a soft, honeyed luxury, and does 
not stir the soul and brace the mind. (Applause.) 
But will sit down. 



There is a college to every hundred miles of terri- 
tory in the United States. 



Personals. 



PROFESSOR BLACKIE ON MUSIC, TOBACCO 
AND BOOKS. 

Professor Black ie was chairman at a concert lecture 
delivered in Manchester recently by Miss Jennie J. 
Young. In the course of a humorous speech the pro- 
fessor said — I some times wish myself back into the 
middle ages, when the minstrel was the only teacher, 
and when singing was almost the only sermon. And 
I will tell you why ; reading is a stupid dull kind of 
thing, but singing stirs up the whole soul. In the 
best days of the world there was reading and no books 
at all. Homer never saw a book, never could have 
seen a book. — I think we see a great deal too many 
books. A great number of people become mere read- 
ing machines, having no living functions at all. I 
would like some time to give you a lecture on the 
logic of education. It simply means that you must 
learn to use your legs, your arms, your ears, your 
tongues, and your throats — every part of your soul and 
your body — rather than be crammed up with all sorts 
of things and then measured with red tape by a gentle- 
man from London. (Laughter.) Especially if you 
wish to be happy cultivate song. I am rather a young 
old boy, and I am one of the happiest creatures under 
the sun at this moment ; and let me say to you that 
one of the best things in the world is to cultivate a 
love of song. How people can get through their idle 
hours I don’t know. In railway coaches and other pla- 
ces I see a number smoking what they call tobacco. 
(Laughter.) Well, whatever may be said about that 
it is not an intellectual or a moral stimulant, and the 
flavour of it is not at all like the rose, or any poetic 
thing I know. (Laughter.) It is essentially a vulgar 
sort of amusement. My amusement is to sing songs. 
(Applause.) At home I am always singing Scotch 
songs ; and abroad, when those wretches are smoking, 
I hum to myself “ Scots wha hae,” “ A man’s a man 
for a’ that,” and songs of that kind. I advise you to 
do the same. Your soul will become a singing bird, and 
then the devil won’t get near it. Be as busy as you 
can at any work put before you, and then sing songs. 
Make them if you can. 1 sometimes make songs ; 
that is better than singing them. (Applause,) A 
German proverb says that bad men have no songs, be- 
cause they cannot sing. It is true ; peevish, bad men 
do not sing. But if I don’t put rein upon myself I 



Dr. M. C. McGannon, one of 85’s graduates has 
started practice at Brockville, Ont. 

W. Lochead, B. A. ’85 is at present Master of 
Mathematics in Lyall’s School, McTavish st. 

Dr. Win. McClure, B. A. has been appointed 
Superintendent of the Montreal General Hospital. 

H. M. Amie, M. A. who took his degree at the 
recent Convocation will go to Europe this Summer. 

Mr. Mulgan, the new Classical lecturer left for 
England before the Examinations were over. He will 
return a benedict. 

Mr. Bernard J. Saunders, P. L. S. fourth year 
Science left his examinations at the call of duty, and 
bravely went to lend his aid in the North West. 

Prof. J. Clark Murray, L.L.D., the highly esteemed 
Professor of Philosophy is expected to go shortly to 
Scotland on a visit. Mrs. Murray has been there for 
some time. 

The following are the three gentlemen who have 
been appointed from the newly graduated class to the 
Montreal General Hospital : — Drs. F.G. Finley, S. 
Gustin and D. W. Eberts. 

Rev. Jas. Barclay, a Fellow of the University, 
chaplain of the Montreal Garrison Artillery, will 
accompany the regiment ordered to the scene of the 
rebellion in the North West. 

L. R. Gregor, B. A. ’82, spent last winter in 
Charlottetown, P. E. I. From the newspapers of 
that place, we see that not long ago he gave a most 
acceptable lecture on “ Means of Culture.” 

Roderick Macdonald M.D., the oldest graduate in 
the Faculty of Medicine, McGill University died at 
his residence in Cornwall, Out., recently. He had an 
extensive practice there and was a prominent figure 
in the public life of the country. It is said that at 
the time of his death he was the oldest living graduate 
of our University. He was 83 years of age. 



A soph, who recently received substantial favors 
from his mamma’s pa, now tells of “ revelling in an- 
cestral hauls.” 

The dairymaid pensively milked the goat, 

And. pouting, she paused to mutter, 

'* I wish, you brute, you would turn to milk/* 

And the animal turned to butt her. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



A FRENCH LESSON. 

Twas a bright and moonlight evening. 

And we wandered on the shore, 

Quite alone and unmolested, 

As we oft had done before. 

First we talked about my college, 

(While she tried my heart to wrench 
With sweet smiles and blushing glances,) 
then she chanced to speak of French. 

” Decline un baiser, please,” she murmured, 

While closer to my side she drew : 

Twas very wrong. I know, but yet, 

I could not well decline ; could you ? 

F. W. H. 



itorresponbence. 



Editors University Gazette . 

Quebec, March 23rd. 

Dear Sirs. — I am content to allow the matters in 
dispute between Mr. Palmer and myself to be judged 
by our respective reputations for veracity ; but, as he 
has made several fresh charges against me, I must beg 
that space be accorded me for brief answers to them. 

1. I was guilty of no breach of faith in disclosing 
the identity of “ X,” because my answer to him was 
written before I had returned to the board ; and my 
discovery of his authorship was made simply by get- 
ting from each of the other persons, who were in a 
position to have written the letter, a denial of being 
its perpetrator. 

2. Instead of telling me plainly of his proposed 
course, Mr. Palmer merely remarked in a jocular way 
that he was going “ to slang ” me in the next Gazette 
I never dreamt he spoke seriously and had entirely 
forgotten the circumstance, until reminded of it by a 
third person. 

3. The authority for the interview spoken of by me, 
is Mr. Palmer himself, and it was related before a 
witness. 

4. Mr. Palmer’s resignation was tendered at the 
shareholders’ meeting by a fellow zite and friend. 

5. Any one who bears in mind the talent for 
theatricals, exhibited on various occasions by the 
zites, will take Mr. Palmer’s explanation of his acting 
as managing editor with a grain of salt. 

6. The statement made in my previous letter about 
the editorials includes those of No. 5. 

7. It has been a frequent practice with editors of 
the Gazette to cancel ma ter after it has been in type 
and is one which is still pursued. 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. TURNER. 



A Scotchman in London was at the bedside of his 
dying wife, who had originally come from the High- 
lands, and had always retained a strong affection for 
the land of her birth. “ Promise me, Angus,” she 
said, “ that ye’ll bury me in the Hielands ; I could 
never rest quiet down here.” “ M eel.” replied the 
prudent Angus, “ I’ll just see. If I find that ye canna 
rest quiet here, I’ll hae ye removed to the Hielands.” 
— Ex. 



THE 

^aiiitariuin or jjome jjogpital, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,! 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical advisers. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

Mxe Q?r- Mrs- 

IS "U"2a.i^rersit3T Street, 

MONTREAL. 



BUY YOUR 

E3oots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

“ i 

UPTOWN: QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK. 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

MattersmdFurriers, 

2S3 J\fotre Same Street. 



FOE GOATS, GAFS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “McGILL” for Sale. 

yhc ITtcmavch J'hivt Emporium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 James Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

c otch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves. Mufflers, now - 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER,— FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Ahv't will Get io t. c. Disc, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



^Central Drug Store.:|«- 
W. H t PHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL pH EM 1ST, ^NG,, j 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OF CRAIG Sc BLETJRY STS. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury btreer. 

RJlDHELJEU Hid I el, 

I. B. DUROCHER. Proprietor. 

Jacques Caitier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL 18 THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McSILl COLLEGE DINNERS. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl anil ( ollar fUanufadursrs, 

21 BLEURY ST. 



Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurjiiai Unslrn munis. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 



—FROM THE— 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION.' INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



RAADT & CO., 

-HftFTUR DRESSER, JM- 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen's Block, 1323 St. Catherine St„ 

I^OITTBEAL. 

McSiff 

University Gazette, 

Published 1st and 15th of the Tflonth. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

-A-IEriD 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpel 

'BY WEISS Sc SOK,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Book 8 procured to order from England & the United States 

6781 SND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Subscription , - - - $1.00. 



PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 



J\ IMLAIEUIIEIT, 

Hals Blesses and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MOITTBEAL. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



I _L 





Late of London, England, 

lls Tailor, 

31 BEAUER HALL. 

LARGE ASSORTMENT 0Fk_ 

j}n|li$h, Scotch anil JJrencli 



THE 



j]ur]ai|(l ^itl|o6raphic (jo’y. 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

INC ONTREAL. 



General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 



ALL K 1 ND 8 

OP * 



Engraving and Fine Printing. 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



J^IETJD 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 

Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

fjeniovable (lollar^ anil 

FOR OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HEBETOFOBE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS , PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

PEOCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
■ subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
I work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

111 all tli eli’ several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

special designs made for 

Menu Pards, Prests. Monograms, Business Pies 

$ c -> , 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



