4 



/j 



ftQonlreal, Bareli 2, 1894 

. ._. - /£>V\ 

\W% 

' A^' ~ 



&? 






«r 



Q Las. 



<rr 



/ 






\L‘ 



’/ 



/ 



v ,toNT2>NT $ . 






je&i 



Editorial Comments 261 

The Late Dr. Geo. Douglas 261 

The Canadian National League 262 

Contributions 263 

In my Easy Chair 263 

An Incident ..264 

A Trip up the East Coast 264 

Poetry 268 

The Criminal Code of Canada 268 

The Arts Conversazione 270 

Cap’n Goun at the Conversat Poetry.271 

Life at Bryn Mawr 271 

Cycling in Central Ontario 273 

Jottings from the Gym 273 






Students Missionary Convention 274 

Correspondence 275 

Obituary 276 

Societies. 276 

What? Where? When? 277 

Class Reports 278 

Legal Briefs 278 

Feathers from the East Wing.. ..278 

Leaves from a Freshman’s Diary 279 

Arts Notes 279 

Medical Class Reports 280 

Science Jottings 280 

Comp. Med. Class Reports 280 



Mcgill un 






i\ r -* 

ARC Hi v£S 

1 ACC. NO. \ \ 7^ 

l\u i 




Fine s * 

ITALIAN 



- AHEBICAS GUITARS 

In Oak, .Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
“DOBSON” . . . 



Qoojos 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything In the 
Musical Line » ■ 



KODAKS 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 

N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



and all kinds’ of ^Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 
IPB^TC-ES : $6 to $75- » 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

Montreal Photographic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent- for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and' Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 

MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 

258 St. James Street, 

Near McGill St. 




WM. FOSTER BROWP3, 

<xJThe McGill Book Store 

2323 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

MONTREAL. 

TELEPHONE 3641 . 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



D. DRYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 



Ager^t for Storrstt’s Tools. TeIepPyor\e 169 

E. A. GERTH, STUD ENTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block, 
MONTREAL. : : 

Havana Cigars 

Try Gcrth’s Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres* Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



THE ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPjTAL 

Has purchased its entire and magnificent outfit of 

Surgical Instruments, Microscopes, 
H Sterilizers, Anatomical Models, 
Electric Batteries, Etc., Etc., 

FROM _ _ _ 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. MONTREAL- 



20 : 100 : : $ 5.00 : X 

Vigentum per centum deductum 
erit ab omnibus “ Sales ” per mag- 
num 

“ Stock Taking Sale ” 

NOW GOING ON AT 

Munroe Bros . 



IMI 



2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc, 



17 Bleurv Street 



TELEPHONES. 



r the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



DiBBor Importer 
of High-Class 



Wholesale 

ajnd Retail. 




SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



"Electrical Supplies of every description 

CalP and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T.W.NESS&C0.,~^ 



fAQGlhh FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

OL. II. MONTREAL, MARCH 2, 1894. No. 11 




^EDITORIAL BOARDS 

Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B. A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y R H p ( (Comp. Med. and Vet. 
Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) ’ * Science *94.) 

J. A. McPhail, B.A., M.D., Graduates’ Society. 

EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrell, (Donalda ’95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med.& Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. '95) C. H. Fox, (Med. ’95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. RenouPs, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W 
Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 

* 

J 

THE LATE DR. GEORGE DOUGLAS. 

Before the words which express our grief at the loss 
we, as students of McGill and as Canadians, have 
sustained by the death of the late Mr. Peter Redpath 
were read by our subscribers, McGill had been called 
upon to mourn over the grave of another of its dis- 
tinguished men. On Saturday, February 10th, Dr. 
Douglas, Principal of the Wesleyan Theological 
College, passed away. Although his loss will naturally 
be most keenly felt by the Students in the College 
where he has laboured so long, yet every son and 
daughter of McGill who loves her best interests, and 
who has the cause of truth and right at heart, feels 
deeply the loss that not only our Alma Mater, but our 
country and race have sustained in the death of Dr. 
Douglas. 

The Rev. George Douglas, LL-D., belonged to a 
family and to a district famous in Scottish story. He 
was born in 1825, a few miles from Abbotsford, Sir 
Walter Scott’s home. His family came to Montreal in 
1832. Though this city did not then offer many 
educational advantages, young Douglas, by the in- 



domitable pluck and energy that characterized him 
throughout life, obtained a fair education, and matri- 
culated in the School of Medicine at a comparatively 
early age. He pursued the study of Medicine for a 
short time, and then circumstances took place that 
turned his energies into what became his life-work, — 
the Christian ministry. He received his theological 
education in London, Eng., and began his ministerial 
duties in 1848 as a missionary to the West Indies. 
During his brief sojourn there he contracted a disease 
which troubled him through the rest of his life, and 
ultimately robbed him of sight. One of the city papers 
says : — “ The greater part of Dr. Douglas' ministerial 
life was spent in Montreal, and the Methodist Church 
of this city and outlying districts owes not a little of 
its prosperity to the influence of his noble name, to his 
splendid gifts of oratory and his great business talents. 
In 1870 McGill University conferred upon him the 
honorary title of LL-D., and in 1884 Victoria Univer- 
sity honored him by that mark of professional 
eminence, the degree of Doctor in Divinity. For the 
last twenty-two years he has been the distinguished 
head of the Wesleyan Theological College in this city, 
which is in affiliation with McGill University. In con- 
nection with his professional duties, he accomplished 
labors that will furnish a new chapter in treatises on 
the achievements of the blind. His lectures were 
necessarily delivered without the aid of books or 
manuscripts, as his sermons also were ; and yet so 
diligent a use had he made of his eyes, while their 
powers were still unimpaired, in the way of taking 
in impressions from external nature, as well as in 
deriving instruction from libraries, that it was a 
treat to listen to his prelections and discourses. 
Possessing a deep-toned voice of rare compass and 
melodious strength, the master of a splendid diction, a 
clear thinker, a powerful reasoner, endowed with an 
exuberant imagination — and all animated with an 
electrical emotionalism — Doctor Douglas may well be 
called a phenomenon. His genius appears to have 
acquired concentration, like that of Homer and Milton, 
by withdrawal from communion with the world of out- 
ward vision and an euforced life of contemplation. 
His want of external sight was compensated for by a 
profound insight.” 

Many eloquent and heartfelt tributes have been paid 
to the memory of Dr. Douglas, ,but there has been 
none more eloquent and more sincere than that which 
was paid by our own Dr. J. Clark Murray at the close 



262 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of his lecture to the class in Moral Philosophy on 
February 12. Though prepared for his class alone, Dr, 
Murray has kindly consented to let us publish it. 

Dr. Murray’s Tribute:. 

Before closing the lecture of to-day, it .seems appro- 
priate, especially in the class of Moral Philosophy, to 
dwell for a moment on the loss which the University 
has sustained since we last met, by one of the affiliated 
colleges being deprived of its Head. It may indeed 
be said with truth, that the higher intellectual and 
moral life of all Canada is poorer to-day by the voice 
of Dr. Douglas being now silent for ever. That was a 
voice that never uttered an uncertain sound. The 
clear intellectual force with which it rang always 
commanded respect, even when it did not secure assent. 
At times his words fell upon an audience like a thun- 
derbolt, shivering to pieces the sham supports that are 
sometimes erected to defend a dominant wrong, and 
throwing a lurid light down into the abyss of iniquity, 
out of which such shams arise, and into which they 
were hurled back. In power of denunciation his 
language could be compared, perhaps most fitly, with 
that of the great masterpiece of indignant exposure, — 
the Provincial Letters of Pascal. There were occasions 
when his blows smote heavily upon individuals. Such 
occasions, however, were extremely rare, and they 
were never directed to an individual, except when he 
was conceived to be the embodiment of an evil princi- 
ple, and the denunciation was directed so clearly 
against the principle involved, that one often lost sight 
of the individual, and felt indignation turned rather 
against the evil which he was supposed to represent. 
If he was mistaken at times, and spoke a word that 
was unjust to any human being, no one was capable 
of regretting it more sincerely than himself. Of mere 
personal or mere sectarian animosity, I believe, he had 
not a taint ; and though I could not claim to be ranked 
among his more intimate friends, I scarcely ever came 
into contact with him without being struck by the 
singular generosity of his mind. If therefore at any 
time the lightning-flash of his indignation swerved 
aside from the object at which it was directly aimed, 
and left a scar upon the innocent, such a mistake was 
certainly due to that imperfection which is the common 
attribute of all human intelligence ; and it shall not 
prevent us from honoring in grateful memory the un- 
faltering sincerity and the righteous power of that voice 
“ That never sold the truth to serve the hour, 

Nor paltered with Eternal God for power.” * 

The whole life of Principal Douglas was full of noble 
lessons. Working amid great physical obstacles from 
paralysis of muscular vigor and of eyesight, he stood 
in his varied activities a living reproof to those of us 
who are obliged to confess with shame, that even with 
normal health and strength we accomplish so very 
little after all. The passing away of such a man 
cannot fail to flash into the minds of us who are left a 
fresh gleam of light upon the eternal purport of our 
existence. For most of you, in the ordinary course of 
nature, the final transition is likely to be an event still 



comparatively distant in time. But events in the life 
of the spirit are not indicated by the dates of earthly 
history, as they are not bound to localities on the sur- 
face of the earth. And therefore there are moments, 
such as the vanishing of a great soul beyond the 
limits of space and time, when these limits seem to 
vanish for our souls too, and with quickened spiritual 
perception we can almost hear the panting of the steeds 
of the Dawn, as they bring the Immortal Sunrise up 
towards the horizon of our own lives. For, in the 
infinite world of the spirit as in the finite world of our 
little earth, the solemn glories which gather on the 
Western heavens around the parting day are strangely 
like the more cheerful splendors which the rosy fingers 
of the Dawn sprinkle over the Eastern sky ; and 
therefore in both worlds — the spiritual as well as the 
material — the daylight, fading amid the solemnities of 
its gloaming, sends our thoughts forward to the new 
daylight that is soon to gleam upon our life. 

“ Sunset and evening star, 

And one clear call for me ; 

And may there be no moaning of the bar 
When I put out to sea. 

But such a tide as, moving, seems asleep, 

Too deep for sound or foam, 

When that which drew from out the boundless deep 
Turns again home. 

Twilight and evening bell, 

And after that the dark ; 

And may there be no sadness of farewell 
When I embark. 

For though from out the bounds of time and place 
The tide may bear me far, 

I hope to see my Pilot face to face 
When I have crossed the bar.” 



THE CANADIAN NATIONAL LEAGUE. 

We do not think that The Fortnightly is going be- 
yond its province as an exponent of University life and 
thought in referring to the work of the Canadian Nation- 
al League, which has been brought prominently before 
the public during the past week. The objects of the 
League are: “To advance and maintain our national 
unity and integrity, to disseminate a spirit of patriot- 
ism, to promote an interest in citizenship, its duties 
and rights, to spread a knowledge of Canadian history 
and resources.’’ McGill has already produced many 
men who have borne a conspicuous part in the making 
of Canada. Her future graduates will doubtless have 
an equally large share in guiding its destinies. In 
addition, she is sending to every corner of the Domin- 
ion professional men whose potential influence as 
leaders of thought in their respective communities is 
beyond calculation. It would be difficult indeed to 
overestimate the power of this University, if rightly 
applied, in forwarding the ends which the promoters 
of the Canadian National League have in view. 

Overburdened as we already are with college socie- 
ties, there seems, nevertheless, to be room for yet 
another organization, designed to bring together all 
from among both professors and students who take an 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



263 



intelligent interest in the affairs of the country. Per- 
haps the Literary, or some other society already 
established, could do something to forward the good 
work, by devoting an occasional evening to the discus- 
sion of subjects of national interest. The introduction 
of political subjects in the Literary is, no doubt, from 
some points of view undesirable. But possibly such 
an innovation might afford an excellent opportunity, 
not only for awakening an interest in the duties of 
citizenship, but also for learning to discuss without 
prejudice questions in the consideration of which party 
feeling so often gets the better of common sense. 

Is it too much to hope that the day will come when 
the leading Canadian universities will, like Oxford, and 
Cambridge, and London, have direct representation in 
Parliament ? In days when mere politicians are in 
danger of usurping the places which statesmen alone 
should occupy, the introduction of such an element 
into our national councils as we might look to the 
universities to supply could hardly fail to be of the 
greatest benefit to University and State alike. 



The thanks of the Students are due to the Manage 
ment of the Academy of Music for their kindness in 
allowing us to obtain tickets for the “gods ” before 
the opening of Irving’s performance on Thursday last. 
It was an expression of good-will on the part of the 
Management which was thoroughly appreciated by the 
Undergraduates. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



IN MY EASY CHAIR. 

“ / am a gleaner after Time.” 

On a previous occasion I have spoken of the extra- 
ordinary queries which at times are presented to me in 
the Library, and it may perhaps be interesting to gossip 
about a few more which have turned up, especially as 
they may serve as a peg upon which to hang a few 
remarks. There are a few old standards, prefaced with 
the inevitable tc Can you tell me, such as, What 
was the good news carried from Ghent to Aix ? ” and 
“Who signed the Treaty at Versailles in 1783?” 
Recently these have been varied somewhat with enqui- 
ries after “ Queen Anne’s Fan ” and the “ Anstey Hat.” 
A few days since I was startled by the enquiry, 
n what emperor had nine wives ? ” but one above all 
set me “ a-thynkynge; ” after a few words of introduc- 
tion I was solemnly asked : a What is the first thing that 

you remember ? ' 

This was of a somewhat serious character, and it pre- 
sented itself to me again and again, and I resolved to 
endeavor to furnish some reply to it. I believe I may 
say that the first thing I remember worth recording 
here is that I saw Peter James Bossy standing in the 
pillory for perjury, on June 24, 1830, the last person who 
suffered that punishment in England ; a little later (on 
August 1, 1831), I saw the opening of the new Lon- 
don Bridge by King William IV and Queen Adelaide. 



As I sat thinking, and began to look back into my 
memory, such a throng of recollections came to me 
that I was puzzled, and scarcely knew where to begin ; 
so I plunged into what was the beginning with me, 
that is, the very first things that I remember, which 
stand out absolutely distinct from everything else ; 

I have been told that it was (that it is) quite impossible 
that I can remember them, for they happened when I 
was only between 5 and 6 years old, but for all that, I 
sail) them and remember them. Probably the second 
event mentioned may be impressed on the tablets of 
my memory from the fact of a balloon having ascended 
from the centre of the bridge, and it was the first balloon 
ascension that I ever saw. 

The next noteworthy event was the death of King 
William IV on June 20, 1837? and the accession of our 
present Queen. I saw the Queen on her first visit to the 
City of London on November 9, 1837, when the old 
form was gone through* of the gate at Temple Bar being 
closed, and the herald knocking and asking permis- 
sion for the Queen to enter her “ loyal city of London.” 
Next, I well remember the Queen’s marriage on 
February 10, 1840 ( strangely enough , this present writing 
is done on the same date of this year of grace 1894); 
and I saw also the last review of troops held in Hyde 
Park in commemoration of the Battle of Waterloo, on 
June 18, 1840; the anniversary was kept thus for 25 
years, and was then given up. On the occasion 
referred to, I saw the Duke of Wellington and Marshal 
Soult ride down the lines, .side by side, every man who 
had served at Waterloo being decorated with laurel. 

I remember that it was my good fortune to visit 
France during the year of the Revolution (1848), and 
I saw several members of the Provisional Government, 
Lamartine, Louis Blanc and others, in a great proces- 
sion and at a review, and I saw also in a Museum at 
Boulogne a medal, struck to commemorate the inva- 
sion of England by Napoleon in 1804, which invasion, 

I think history tells us, never took place, but the medal 
bore the erroneous impression “ Frappe a Londres” 

The year 1851 brought the triumphant entry into 
London of the Hungarian patriot, Louis Kossuth ; and 
in November, 1852, came the public funeral of the Duke 
of Wellington, — both of these were sights never to be 
forgotten; and in 1856 I saw the fire-works and the 
“rejoicings” in celebration of the Treaty of Peace 
after the campaign in the Crimea, which was a won- 
derful demonstration. I have wandered far from my 
starting point, and I have jotted down a few other 
memorabilia , but the list I have given could be 
increased “cum mult is aliis qui nunc prescribere longum 



P.S. — It is said to be fashionable to save some impor 
taut piece of information for a postscript, and I may be 
permitted to follow the fashion, by telling that I 
remember the Chartist Riots in London on April 10, 
1848, and that I served as a special constable on that 
occasion, and that I still preserve amongst my Lares et 
Penates the certificate of my constablesliip, and I trea- 
sure the baton which I carried on that day. 



H. M. 



264 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



AN INCIDENT. 

Having had occasion a few days ago to visit an un- 
familiar part of the city, I hunted up its bearings in a 
directory, and armed with this knowledge set out for 
my destination. I proceeded as far as my somewhat 
indefinite information warranted me, and then, as an 
officer of the law approached, I drew up and hailed 
him. 

“ Good day ! ” 

“ Bon jour ! ” 

“ Can you direct me to Vitre Street ? ’ ’ 

“ Zee which ? ” 

“ Vitre, I wish to go to Vitre Street.” 

“ Veetr ! Ah ! oui, done 1 You see vers le fleuve zee 
petite — vat you call — lane ? Veil, you turn off at zee 
coin, et bientot you come at zee Veetr Street.” 

Perhaps he considered it elegant English, but he 
might as well have talked Hebrew, for his broken patois 
was an unintelligible jargon to me, so I thanked him 
and wandered on. Crossing the street a few steps 
farther up, I accosted a somewhat portly elderly gentle- 
man, wearing a gold-rimmed eye-glass, kept in place 
by a jovial smile that proclaimed him a hearty English- 
man. Adopting the pronunciation of the policeman, I 
said : 

“ I wish to reach Veetr Street. Can you tell me 
where it is ? ” 

“ Veetr,” he said, hesitating a moment ; “no, I think 
I have never heard that name before.” 

“ I am sure it must be near here somewhere. Per- 
haps you call it Vitre , it is spelled V i-t-r-e.” 

“Oh! Vitree ! Why certainly, my boy ; just come 
with me.” 

I turned and walked down to the next crossing with 
him. Taking off his eye-glass and pointing with it, he 
said : 

“ Take this street as far as Craig, turn along it till 
you reach St. Denis, and follow it till you come to 
Vitree.” 

I thought I could remember, and told him so with 
many thanks. He 'replaced his eye-glass and wished 
me good day. I lifted my hat to him and set off for 
Craig Street. On reaching it I found that it ran in two 
directions : looking one way it ran east, looking the 
other, west. I had not thought of that before. Which 
way should I turn ? I knew not, and had nothing to 
guide me ; so to avoid crossing the street I was on, I 
turned to the right and [proceeded east. Then a new 
difficulty arose’: How should I know St. Denis street 

when I reached it ? The street was lighted by electri- 
city, and all the old lamps had been taken down, to- 
gether with the names which adorned them. I had now 
two streets to find instead of one. Here was a dilem- 
ma ; I must seek information again. I summoned up 
a hopeful smile, and pausing in front of a man with a 
twinkle in his eye and a pipe in his mouth, who was 
leaning against a post as if he had not much on his 
hands but a surplus of time, I enquired : 

“ Do you know where Vitree Street is ? ” 

“ Does your honor think I’ve lived here tin years for 
nothing ? ” 



“ Well, then, is there such a street as Vitree, or Veetr, 
or Vitre, in this benighted city ? ” 

“ Faix, if there is, it must be kaping mighty quiet, for 
I’ve never come acrost it yet. ” 

A woman who was standing in a doorway beside him 
broke in here : 

“ Perhaps the gentleman means Vetray , Michael. 

I assented. What else could I do ? And the man 
began again : 

“ Sure, if it’s Vetray Street yer honor’s after wanting, 
it’s just over beyant there. You go past the soign av 
the three balls an turn up the little lane till you come 
to an ash-yard, cross it and follow the fince till you come 
out on a street, and the first cross one you come to is 
Vetray.” 

This was confusion worse confounded, but I forced 
an intelligent smile and thanked him civilly ; then I 
hastened on, and was almost out of hearing before his 
“ Tap o’ the morning to you, sir,” reached my ears. I 
walked on some distance, turned into the first quiet 
street I came to, and followed it. A boy was amusing 
himself at the nearest crossing shying stones at a pool 
in the gutter. Seizing him by the collar and scowling 
fiercely at him, I demanded : 

“Is there such a place in this forsaken city as Vetray , 
Vitree , Veetr , Vitre , V-i-t-r-e street ; answer me on your 
life ! ” 

“ I suppose yer wants Vi t ter Street . Well, if yer had 
eyes in yer head or knew yer letters, you could see it 
in front of yer without a pulling of me to pieces. ,, 

I looked up and just opposite me in large letters I 
saw printed VITRE STREET, and beside it the name 
of the gentleman in whose shop worked the friend for 
whom I was looking. Crossing over, I entered and 
enquired for him, only to find that he had left a few 
days before. I turned upon my heel without a word, 
left the building, and wended my way homeward, a 
madder if not a wiser man. 

Cambridge. R. Macdougau*. 



A HOLIDAY TRIP UP THE EAST COAST OF 
BRITAIN. 

He that has sailed upon the dark blue sea 
Has view’d at times, I ween, a full fair sight ; 

When the fresh breeze is fair as breeze may be, 

The white sail set, the gallant frigate tight. 

I am an inveterate traveller. This I admit at the 
outset, as it will in a large measure be my excuse for 
writing the following very interesting and veracious 
history. It is always with the best grace in the world 
that I shut up my books— especially text books— in 
order to widen my mental horizon and pursue investi- 
gations in pastures new. When therefore an opportu- 
nity was afforded me of visiting England, it was with 
the utmost alacrity and the highest anticipation that I 
undertook the journey. Was I not to see Merry Eng- 
land, that land so dear to us, every foot of which is 
stained with the blood of martyrs and of heroes, whose 
very stones, had they tongues, could tell us many a 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



265 



legend of days gone by and many a stirring tale of 
dering-do ! More than that, if more there could be, was 
I not to revel in the delights of London, that wonder- 
ful epitome of the Universe ! The very thought was 
rapture. So eager was I that I did not in the least 
cool down even after I got to sea. Of the voyage I 
will say nothing. ** The least said soonest mended.” 
I was not sea sick. Jerome says that nobody ever is 
sea-sick on land. To prevent mistakes, therelore, I 
repeat I was not sea-sick. Nevertheless, I was relieved 
when the look-out man announced, one night at ten 
o’clock, the Bishop light on the Scilly Islands. Next 
morning at day-break we were approaching the Lizard. 
A kaleidoscopic view of varied interest lay around us. 
To the left was the lofty coast of Cornwall and Devon- 
shire, Land’s End disappearing in the distance like the 
spires of some mighty serpent. Before us lay the 
Channel which, for once at least in its history, was as 
calm as a millpond. The scene was ever changing, for 
on all sides were ships of all shapes and sizes and pre 
tentions to respectability, from the tiny fishing-smack, 
with its brown-tanned sails, to the stately P. and O. 
steamer bound for Bombay. Sailing-vessels one mass 
of snowy canvas were slowly making for the adjacent 
port of Falmouth, pursued by harpy -like tugs hoping 
to make an honest penny in case the wind should drop. 
Dirty little coasters and oil-tanks for Philadelphia 
made up a scene replete with life and energy. It was 
not like visiting an Old World ; it was like discovering 
a New. To put it in the words of Keats : 

“ Then felt I as some watcher of the skies 
When a new planet swims into his ken.” 

The Lizard is a bold promontory jutting into the 
sea, on top of which is a coast-guard station. Here we 
signalled our arrival in English waters. A few hours 
steaming brought us abreast of the Eddy^tone Light- 
house. This has had an exciting history. The first 
jt lighthouse that we have any record of on this rock was 
completed by Winstanley in 1700, but was destroyed 
in the great hurricane of 1703,111 which the engineer 
himself perished. The next was built of oak and 
masonry by Rudyerd in 1709. It was burnt in 1755. 
In i759 Smeaton completed his celebrated work. It 
stood for many years, but there was always some fear 
as to its stability, and it was replaced by the present 
lighthouse, built by Douglass in 1882. This is a very 
shapely structure. Not far away can be seen the re- 
mains of Smeaton’s tower, about half of which re- 
mains. The next point of interest to be reached was 
the Start. The coast of Devonshire is very beautiful, 
with its lofty capes and retreating bays, its climbing 
hills forming a lovely back-ground to the view. Port- 
land Bill, with its famous convict station, next hove in 
sight, and was soon left far astern. At St. Alban’s 
Head the coast is very rugged. 

jagged peaks of rock stand out of the water, threat- 
ening dire vengeance to any unlucky ship that may be 
cast upon them. Two of these, and perhaps the most 
striking, near to Swanage, are called Old Harry and 
his wife. Late in the afternoon we passed the Needles, 
two tall pinnacles of rock, which are aptly named, stand- 



ing like sentinels to guard the entrance to the Solent. 
The Isle of Wight presents a lovely picture from the 
sea. The shores are high and of a greyish color, while 
inland are hills upon hills, and gently undulating 
ground covered with bright green herbage. Night 
was just closing in as we signalled to St. Catharine’s 
Point, and when Ventnor was passed, people were 
lighting up their houses, and many twinkling lights 
were gently rising and falling in the water like gigantic 
fire-flies. Next morning at day-break the vessel was 
abreast of Hastings, and when I came on deck shortly 
after, the houses were rapidly diminishing in the dis- 
tance. Dungeness in Kent was next reached. Here a 
long sand bank, crowned at its termination by a light- 
house, juts out from the shore. At this point we took 
on the pilot for Gravesend. As he stepped on board 
and shook hands with the captain, his portly presence 
was an eloquent though silent expression of virtues of 
good old English roast-beef. Breakfast occupied our 
attention for a short time, and when we again made 
our appearance, we were within sight of Folkestone 
and Dover. It is said by some that the chalk cliffs 
which are such a striking feature of this part of the 
coast gave to England the name of Albion, whence 
also Tennyson so beautifully calls it the “ silver-coasted 
isle.” To the south-west of Dover is a frowning cliff 
known as Shakspeare's Cliff. 

“How fearfu 

And dizzy ’tis, to cast one’s eyes so low ! 

The crows, and choughs, that wing the midway air, 
Shew scarce so gross as beetles : half way down, 

Hangs one that gathers samphire ; dreadful trade ! 
Methiuks, he seems no bigger than his head : 

The fishermen, that walk upon the beach, 

Appear like mice; and yon tall anchoring bark, 
Diminished to her cock ; her cock, a buoy 
Almost too small for sight: The murmuring surge, 
That'ou the unnumber’d idle pebbles chafes. 

Cannot be heard so high : — I’ll look no more ; 

Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight 
Topple down headlong/’ 

The cliff hardly merits such an extravagant descrip- 
tion as this, but still “ a soizable un he be,” as John 
Browdie would say, and it forms a notable feature in the 
landscape. Dover presents a charming picture. The 
white cliffs stand boldly out from the water, crowned 
upon the top by the famous castle. On a little bay 
between the cliffs the shore rises gently, and here the 
town is built in a succession of terraces. The town 
was called Dubris by the Romans, who built one of 
their main roads from Dover to London passing 
through Canterbury and Rochester. 

The castle is an immense structure, comprising a 
large Norman keep with protecting walls and buildings. 
Within it are two buildings of earlier date, the Roman 
pharos and the Romano-British church, which, with the 
exception of the roof, is in the condition in which it 
was built. This forms a specimen of ecclesiastical 
architecture unique in Christendom. The castle is 
altogether most imposing, and is second in appearance 
only to Windsor. For some distance beyond Dover 
the shore still possesses the same lofty configuration 
and the same greyish color. After passing the South 



1 



266 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Foreland, which is a splendid chalk cliff, we entered the 
Downs. This is the name given to the channel inside 
the famous Goodwin sands, where perhaps more wrecks 
take place than on any other part of the coast. Certainly 
no one would think as we were passing the lightships 
that but a few feet blow the surface were bleaching the 
bones of many a gallant ship and her sturdy crew. 
Everything was peaceful. The sun was shining glori- 
ously and the sea was calm and still, yet not far away 
could be seen the masts of a sunken ship sticking out 
of the water, a grim reminder of what had been so 
often before and might be again. At Deal, Broadstairs 
and Ramsgate, which are watering-places on the shore 
just opposite the Downs, are kept well equipped life- 
boats ready for any emergency. Many a brave deed 
has been done here, and many a life saved from a 
watery grave. The sands, which are now entirely 
immersed in the gradually encroaching sea, formerly 
were part of the lands belonging to the celebrated Earl 
Godwin, whose son, Harold II, was defeated near Hast- 
ings by William the Conqueror. The great Dutch 
Admiral De Ruyter also fought a sea-fight with the 
English near the Downs. Deal is a fashionable sum- 
mer resort, for which purpose it is admirably adapted. 
It has a fine stretch of sand and several large hotels. 
A mile or so away is Walmer Castle, where the Duke 
of Wellington died It was built in the reign of Henry 
VIII, and is now one of the residences of the Marquis 
of Dufferin in his capacity as Lord Warden of the 
Cinque Ports. The North Foreland is a lofty promon- 
tory of chalk, on one side of which is Ramsgate and 
on the other Margate, both very attractive resorts for 
Londoners. The mouth of the Thames here is very 
wide, and it is not till we were appraching Sheerness 
that we saw much of the shore. Just opposite, at South- 
end, is the longest pier in England. Soon we have 
passed the famous “ Boy at the Nore ” and the mouth 
of the Medway. Both sides of the river now become 
attractive. Small villages with quaint little churches 
almost hidden in ivy peep out here and there, and by 
afternoon we are moored snugly in our berth at the 
town of Gravesend. Just opposite is Tilbury Fort, 
built by Henry VIII. Here Queen Elizabeth reviewed 
her troops before the defeat of the great Spanish Ar- 
mada- Her speech on this occasion was characteristic : 
“ I know that I have but the arm of a poor weak 
woman, but I have the stomach of a King, and a King 
of England too.” Tilbury is chiefly famous for itsdocks, 
which are the longest in England, and are included 
in the port of London. Gravesend itself is a quaint 
and interesting town It is built upon ground which 
gently rises from the river till it reaches its culmin- 
ation in a height called Windmill Hill. On this hill 
there was an observatory even earlier than that of 
Greenwich. The view from the top is charming. One 
of the features of interest is the old parish church, 
which is built of flint. In it are said to be the remains 
of the Indian princess Pocahontas, who died at Wap- 
ping. The square contains a fine clock, with chimes 
erected to celebrate the Queen’s Jubilee. One of the 
prettiest thoroughfares is Windmill Hill. This is lined 



on both sides by flowering trees such as laburnums, 
hawthorns and chestnuts, while the walls are crowned 
with ivy or holly, and many of the houses are covered 
with climbing roses. The effect was very delightful 
to those who here touched terra firma for the first 
time after a long voyage. The month was June, and 
everything was in its beauty. Near to Gravesend are 
the Rosherville Gardens, a favorite place of resort for 
Londoners. To the lover of Dickens the country near 
Gravesend is classic ground. Two or three of us set 
out upon a country drive one afternoon. It was of 
the utmost interest. As we drove down the hill from 
Gravesend on the way to Cobham, the view was charm- 
ing. The road was good, and on each side lined with 
laburnums and hawthorns. Here and there was a 
picturesque wall built of broken flints and crowned 
with a hedge of holly or of ivy. On each side were 
the hop-fields, the vines clustering up the rows of poles. 
From time to time we passed a quaint old farm-house, 
or a kiln for drying hops, shining with its red roof 
through the trees. A drive of a few miles brought us 
to Cobham. It is a small village, with a church in the 
Early English style, which contains one of the best 
collections of brasses in England. 

Close by on the main road is the “ Leather Bottel,” 
an inn which informs you, as most of the inns do here- 
abouts, that Dickens used to be a visitor. Readers of 
Pickwick will remember that Tupman, after his esca- 
pade with Rachel, old Mr. Wardle’s sister, put up at 
the “ Leather Bottel,” where Mr. Pickwick found him. 
-Not far away Mr. Pickwick made that wonderful dis- 
covery that was to revolutionize the antiquarian world 
— the stone with the curious inscription : 

t 

B I L S T 
U M 
P S H I 
S M 
ARK 

What we came chiefly to see was the seat of the Earl 
of Darnley. The park is about seven miles in circuit, 
and contains a beautiful little lake. The display ot 
rhododendrons here in June is the finest in England. 
For almost a mile we walked along the paths in the 
park, surrounded on all sides by bushes twenty feet 
high, which were literally covered with pink blossoms 
as big as one’s head. The sight was worth coming miles 
to see. Cobham Hall itself is interesting, although 
we did not have time to go through it. It is composed 
of a centre and two wings, the former by Inigo Jones. 
In the X\ th century it belonged to Joan, heiress of 
John, Lord Cobham, who married Sir John Oldcastle. 
Oldcastle assumed the name Cobham, and was even- 
tually put to death on suspicion of favoring the 
Lollards. He is said to have been the original of 
Falstaff. In 1596 the estate came into the possession 
of Henry Lord Cobham, who was Warden of the Cinque 
Ports. He with others was accused of taking part in 
Raleigh's conspiracy, and his estate confiscated. It thus 
became royal property, and in 1612 James I. granted it 
to the Duke of Lennox, one of his own relatives. At 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



267 



the end of the XVIIth century, they were sold to pay 
the debts of the owner. In 1714 the estates came into 
the possession of a family called Bligh, one of whom, 
in 1725, was created Earl of Darnley. This family 
still possess the estate. The park is extensive ; some 
of the oaks are more than twenty feet in girth. The 
park had the reputation of producing excellent venison. 
Queen Elizabeth and Charles II. both visited Cobliam. 
Driving past the lodge, we set out for Rochester. The 
view as you descend the valley of the Medway, 
through Strood, is grand. The city of Rochester as it 
rises from the slope across the Medway presents a 
perfect picture. In the foreground is the massive 
stone bridge spanning the river. From the bank, 
building rises upon building till they reach their crown- 
ing glory in the ancient Cathedral and the castle. The 
most prominent feature is the Norman keep, hoary 
with age, and covered to the summit with clinging ivy. 
Somewhat lower down and behind is to be seen the 
tower of the Cathedral. 

“ What a study for an antiquarian ! ” were the very 
words which fell from Mr. Pickwick’s mouth, as he 
applied the telescope to his eye. 

“ Ah ! fine place,” said the stranger, “ glorious pile — 
frowning walls — tottering arches — dark nooks — crumb- 
ling stair-cases — old cathedral, too — earthy smell — 
pilgrims’ feet worn away the old steps — little Saxon 
doors — confessionals like money-takers’ boxes at 
theatres — queer customers, those monks — Popes, and 
Lord Treasurers, and all sorts of old fellows, with 
great red faces, and broken noses, turning up every 
day — buff jerkins, too — matchlocks — sarcophagus — fine 
place — old legends, too — strange stories : capital.” 

il The principal productions of these towns (Rochester 
and its suburbs),” says Mr. Pickwick, “ appear to be 
soldiers, sailors, Jews, chalk, shrimps, officers and 
dockyard men.” 

Clattering across the bridge, which is a handsome 
stone structure, we drove up the High street and 
pulled up at the old “ Bull ” inn, now the Victoria and 
Bull. It has the usual notice up outside that it is 
mentioned in Pickwick. It is a quaint place, with 
wainscoted walls. Although the inn is old the charges 
are very modern. It will be remembered that in an 
upper room in this building took place the memorable 
ball in which Jingle insulted the redoubtable Dr. 
Slammer. The castle is an imposing structure, con- 
sisting of a massive Norman keep and the remains of 
its guarding walls. The keep is grey with age and 
covered in part by ivy. It now serves the more peace- 
ful purpose of a pigeon-loft. The grounds are laid out 
in picturesque gardens overlooking the Medway, and 
contain an elegant memorial of the Queen’s Jubilee in 
a Queen Margaret Cross. 

The castle is said to have been built by Gundulph, 
Bishop of Rochester, towards the end of the Xlth 
century. Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, to whom the town 
had been granted by his half-brother the Conqueror, 
was besieged here because of his implication in a con- 
spiracy in favor of Robert of Normandy. King John, 
Simon de Montfort, and Wat Tyler also besieged it. 



A grand tournament was held in the castle by Henry 

III. in 1251. The structure was repaired by Edward 

IV. , but soon after fell into decay. 

Rochester was the seat of a church, founded by 
Augustine as early as 604 A.D. This edifice was 
partly destroyed by the Danes, and was rebuilt by 
Bishop Gundulph at the beginning of the Xllth 
century. The building is comparatively small, being 
only 310 feet in length. It is very plain inside, but 
contains a fine crypt. 

To get into the choir you must ascend a flight of 
steps. There are a number of interesting tombs, 
among them one to the Worthy Master Richard Watts, 
who founded a charity nearby “for six poor travel- 
lers, who, not being rogues or proctors, may receive 
gratis for one night, lodging, entertainment and four- 
pence each.” The glory of the cathedral is its magni- 
ficent west front, with a richly carved door in the 
Norman style. 

Through Rochester, the Roman Durobrivae passes 
the Roman road, Watling street. Many a time must 
the Canterbury pilgrims, leaving the Tabard inn in 
the Borough, have travelled over this road to worship 
at the shrine of the good St. Thomas of Canterbury. 

Repassing the bridge, where our readers will no 
doubt remember Mr. Pickwick had his colloquy with 
the dismal man, we at length reached Gadshill. This 
is a hill, as its name signifies. At the top is a large 
house, which, though somewhat altered in appear- 
ance, is substantially the same as when Dickens 
owned it. Here in the retirement of a charming 
country district beloved by all around, Dickens lived 
for the last years of his life, and produced many of his 
best works. The inspiration of the place clings about 
his writings in an unmistakable manner. Frequently 
he used to saunter through the pleasant walks of 
Cobham Park, and even pursued his journey up to 
London. In many of his shorter pieces *he describes 
the delight he felt in doing this. Gadshill is also 
famous in Shakespere’s Henry IV., where Falstaff and 
the riotous Prince Hal waylay some honest travellers, 
and Falstafi gets rather the worst of it. This is com- 
memorated by the Sir John Falstaff Inn near by. 
Leaving Gadshill the road leads by the quaint old 
church of Chalk with its curious sun-dial, through 
Milton and back to Gravesend. This whole region is 
of great beauty and interest to those who are historic- 
ally and artistically inclined. Lying in the stream at 
Gravesend afforded opportunities for considerable 
thought and romancing. Every few moments steamers 
were coming and going forward to all parts of the 
world. The amount of traffic is enormous. It 
happened to be Whitmonday when we were there. 
As a consequence, all “ Lunnon ” was out. Countless 
excursion steamers came down on their way to South- 
end, Margate, Ramsgate and other places, crowded to 
the top of their funnels. The ’Arrys and 'Arriets 
were all there ; babies squalling, mouth-organs and 
key-bugles playing; pandemonium everywhere. Va. 
rious sweet melodies of the day, such as “Ta-ra-ra- 
boom-de-ay ” and “ Get yer ’air cut,” floated across the 



268 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



water, and all was joy. The scene was full of life and 
interest, but would need a Dickens to depict it .ade- 
quately. Leaving Gravensend by the South Eastern 
Railway, we set out for London, passing through 
Erith, Dartford and Eltham. Time forbade stopping 
at the latter place, where there remains the great 
banqueting hall of a Royal Palace built by Henry 
VIII. It contains a fine timber roof that is worth 
seeing, although the place is being put to a rather 
plebeian purpose, being used as a stable, or something 
of that sort. 

Soon we were sensible of the great dome of St. 
Paul’s, looking like some huge sentinel keeping watch 
over the great city at its feet, and disembarking at the 
Charing Cross Station, the great city lay before us. 

( To be continued . ) 



triolets. 



Joy, dying out from the soul— when Lo ! an 
Angel face in the distance beaming. 

Radiant eyes with a winseme seeming, 

Flashing bright comes the light, new breaking ; 
Starlight, silvery, sweet and alluring ! 

Hail to thee ! love to thee ! Hope enduring ! 

D. Bannell Sawyer. 

Montreal, 24th Jan., 1894. 



ABSENT. 

Sweetly dream the sleeping flowers 
Underneath the winter snow 
Of the coming of the springtime, 
When the Southern breezes blow’. 

Yearningly, beside their nestlings, 
Thro’ the dark, uncertain night, 
Dream the song-birds of the dawning, 
And the gladness of the light. 



AN ADJURATION. 

(On picking up a Note-Book in the East Wing.) 

Oh scribble on, thou clever maid, 

Upon thy note*book’s pages white ; 

From sketch to sketch I, gleeful, wade. 

Oh scribble on, thou clever maid, 

Thy likenesses will never fade ; 

Thou wieldst a pen with skill and might. 

Oh scribble on, thou clever maid, 

Upon thy note-book’s pages white. 

Oh scribble not, thou heartless maid. 

Upon thy note-book’s pages white. 

’Tis plain that thou art not afraid. 

Oh scribble not, thou heartless maid, 

And leave thy books where’er they’re laid. 

I found my portrait — ’twas a fright. 

Oh scribble not, thou heartless maid, 

Upon thy note-book’s pages white. 

F. T. T. 



Constantly the mighty mountains 
Dream in silence of the sea. 

Of its slumbrous-voiced music, 

And the white waves tossing free. 

As the flow 7 ers dream of springtime, 
As the hills dream of the sea, 

As the song-birds of the dawning, — 
So dream I of thee. 



Day by day the timid songsters 
Dream upon the morning’s birth. 

Year by year the waiting flow r ers 
Dream of spring upon the earth ; 

And forever and forever 

Dream the mountains of the sea. 

Thus do I thro’ times that sever, 

— Envious seasons — thee and me, 

Days and nights and years and ever 
Dream, sweet love, of thee. 

R. MacDougall. 



Cambridge. 



DESCRIPTIVE- 

A bonuie, sousie lass was she, 

But please, oh please, don’t think I’m Scotch. 

I call her thusly, for you see 
A bonnie, sonsie lass was she ; 

These words just suit her to a T, 

And others would but make a botch. 

A bonnie, sonsie lass was she, 

But please, oh please, don’t think I’m Scotch. 

F. T. T. 



HOPE. 

Angel face in the distance beaming, 

Radiant eyes with a winsome seeming. 

Ruby lips, all aglow, love hailing, 

Wooing strangely the heart fast failing. 

Day-joy out o’er the blue sea fleeing, 

Tw ilight soft o’er the meadows stealing, 
Darkness fast on love’s pathway falling, 
Gloom and shade gather round— appalling ! 

Earth seems shrouded in deepest woe, and 
Heaven, all clouded, is dark and leaden ; 



THE CRIMINAL CODE OF CANADA. 

The handsome volume* which Mr. Crankshaw has 
prepared upon the Criminal Code deserves high recog- 
nition for the uniform skill and conciseness with which 
it treats that important division of our law. To pro- 
duce a work which, in completeness and facility for 
ready reference, is suited to the requirements of the 
judge and the practising barrister, and is equally well 
adapted, by brevity and clearness, for the use of the stu- 
dent is an achievement of which any legal writer might 
be justly proud. It is only common justice to concede 
this praise to Mr. Crankshaw, and to congratulate him 
upon the distinction which it confers upon the Bar and 
the University to which he belongs. 

While the desirability of Codification is still a con- 
tested question in England, there can be no doubt that 



*The Crimiual Code of Canada, and the Canada Evidences 
Act, 1893, with an Extra Appendix, etc., and an Analytical In- 
dex, by James Crankshaw, B.C.L., barrister, Montreal. White- 
ford (Si Th£oret, Law Publishers, 1894. * 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



269 



its advocates have scored important points by the adop- 
tion of the Bills of Exchange Act and the Partnership 
Act, each of which is really a code of existing law. 
The Draft Code submitted by the Criminal Law Com- 
missioners will, it is hoped, upon further discussion 
and elaboration, if necessary, also be accepted and 
passed in the near future. 

Meantime, we in Canada have, with commendable 
enterprise, constructed a Criminal Code of our own, 
with the English Draft Code and our own statutory 
legislation as a basis. The advantage to students of 
such a step cannot be questioned. They are thus pre- 
sented with an authoritative collection of leading priir 
ciples, freed from the puzzling incrustation of fiction’ 
and shorn of the nice subtleties of construction which 
have gained for English jurists such an unenviable 
reputation for technicalism. The student should always 
be considered in making a text-book like this ; he has 
claims which cannot be ignored. 

Codification brings in its train two great advantages. 
The first is that it furnishes, in a better way than all 
the skill of the digest-maker ever could, an effective 
means of grouping the case-law upon each particular 
branch. The second advantage is that, by necessitat- 
ing a continual reference to basal principles, it keeps 
the progress of the law in symmetry with its original 
embodiment. 

The net-work of cases upon the English Criminal 
Law covered almost every supposable instance, even 
before the present Code ; but many of the distinctions 
and explanations upon which its theory rested were 
antiquated and impractical. The Code brushes away 
a host of such fictions, of which a few may be instruc- 
tively studied, such as the presumption that a wife who 
commits a crime in her husband’s presence does so by 
his compulsion— a disposition utterly without founda- 
tion in our present social life, and rightly abrogated by 
section 15. 

The rubbish which has in the past crushed all mean- 
ing out of the -word “ malice,” and made it so elastic 
as to mean, according to the occasion, anything from 
the scarcely premeditated, impulsive doing of injury 
to the “doing of harm for harm’s sake,” has been 
cleared away, in regard to homicide, at least, to make 
room for scientific definitions of the nature of intent. 
(Sections 227, 228.) 

The provisions of sections 133 and following, as to 
frauds upon the Government, will make interesting 
reading for all who are inclined to palliate or deal 
leniently with those detestable crimes which tend to 
the corruption of the public service. The briber and 
the bribed, the scheming contractor and the influence 
broker are all reached by a few clauses of unequivocal 
import (sections 133 and following). These enactments 
are part of Canada’s contribution to the Code. Unfor- 
tunately, they may but too well recall the story of the 
stranger who asked Lycurgus what was the punish- 
ment of parricide in his State ? The Spartan law-giver 
answered : “ There is none. The crime is too atrocious 
even for mention among our laws.” The people of 
Canada, it must be regretfully admitted, can make no 
such boast in regard to administrative corruption. 



The author is entitled to credit for the excellent and 
concise summary of legal notions as to the nature of 
insanity and its value as an excuse for crime, con- 
tained in the note to section 11, pages 10 and 11. It is 
difficult to see how the old test of knowing right from 
wrong is to be dislodged, although the doctrine of un- 
controllable impulse as equivalent to insanity has been 
stoutly supported by as great a criminalist as Sir James 
Fitzjames Stephen. This question will doubtless be a 
bone of contention among doctors and lawyers for many 
years to come ; but in the meanwhile most of us can 
accept with safety that theory of the law of criminal 
liability, which holds that the community has a right 
to exact of each of its members that he reach a certain 
standard of ordinary qualities at his own peril. 

Compounding felonies has always been deemed a 
flagrant assault upon the dignity of the law. Section 
157 is worthy of notice, as a means of reaching persons 
who advertise for lost or stolen property with the assur- 
ance that “ no questions will be asked.” 

A noteworthy progress in the law of blasphemous 
libels is to be perceived in the annotation to section 1 70. 
In the words of the English Commissione/s, the offence 
lies not in the expression of erroneous opinions, but in 
the outrage which it inflicts upon the religious senti- 
ments of the community. Another reason maybe found 
in the fact that such productions might, in cases, lead 
to breaches of the peace. 

The law of nuisances in general (p. 1 14) and that as 
to gaming houses and gambling (p. 121) are well 
treated ; but the subject of gambling in stocks hardly 
receives the annotation which it deserves on account of 
its frequency and importance. 

The exposition of the law of Theft and the compari- 
son of the old cases upon Larceny in their bearing on 
the new text, is exceedingly well worked out, and is a 
fair clue to the practical utility of the work. 

The best features of the book are undoubtedly the 
careful annotations in smaller type than the text of the 
Code, the insertion of black-type catch-lines, and the 
relegation of citations to foot-notes. An index, cover- 
ing over sixty pages, is a welcome sign of progress in 
Canadian law-books, which are as a rule so deficient in 
this respect. 

The “Canada Evidence Act, 1893,” is a creditable 
piece of legislation, calculated in every way to facilitate 
the thorough and impartial investigation of facts in 
criminal cases. 

In future editions of the work, it is, however, to be 
hoped that the author will omit the House of Commons 
Debates on the Bill (pp. 806 and following). However 
interesting these may be to the student of legislative 
history, they are not in any sense a legal authority ; 
they cannot be cited as such, and they have no proper 
place in a legal text-book. While some judges have at 
times allowed themselves the liberty of recalling parlia- 
mentary reminiscences in their own careers as guides to 
the interpretation of laws which they themselves origin- 
ally framed or amended, it is clear that no barrister 
should be allowed to appeal from the text of the law to 
the debates in the House at the time of its passage. 
In the case of The Queen v. Hertford College , 3 Q.B.D., 



270 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



at p. 707, Lord Coleridge, C.J., said : “ We are not, 
however, concerned with what parliament intended, 
but simply with what it has said in the statute. 
The statute is clear, and the parliamentary his- 
tory of a statute is wisely inadmissible to explain it, 
if it is not.” And in The Attorney General v. Si/lent, 2 
H. & C., at p. 521, Chief Baron Pollock said: “But 
neither this court nor any other court can construe any 
statute, and least of all a criminal statute, by what coun- 
sel are pleased to suggest were alterations made in 
Committee by a member of Parliament who was no 
friend to the Bill, even though the Journals of the 
House would give some sanction to the proposition.” 
The Supreme Court of the United States has also 
refused to consider debates in Congress as evidence of 
the meaning of an act (see District of Columbia v. Wash- 
ington Market Co., 108 U.S., at p. 254). It is true that 
the author has only followed the example set in a recent 
Treatise on Bills and Notes,— otherwise also a valuable 
work,— but that example is bad in this respect, and 
should be eschewed henceforth. 

On the whole it can well be affirmed that no com- 
mentary on the criminal law will go to the profession 
with better claims to recognition than this work of a 
McGill graduate. 

P.C.R. 



THE ARTS CONVERSAZIONE. 

The Conversazione given by the Undergraduates in 
Arts on the evening of Feb. 16th was in all respects 
an unqualified success. The interior of the Molson 
Hall was gayly decorated for the occasion, festoons of 
brightly colored bunting hung gracefully from the 
summits of the pilasters to the large gasaliers in the 
centre of the room. The “ severe and naked simpli- 
city ” of the walls was further relieved by shields 
representing the various societies of the University, 
silken banners suspended from the cornice, and the 
British and Canadian flags which were draped above 
the window at the rear of the hall. A profusion of 
palms, ferns, lilies and other plants, gracefully disposed, 
added to the attractiveness of the room, and the whole 
formed a combination highly creditable to the taste and 
skill of the Committee. Downstairs the old library 
showed a similar transformation. The alcoves were 
tastefully draped with curtains and buntings, and formed 
a very pretty and convenient refreshment room. 

The guests began to arrive shortly after 5 o’clock, 
and very soon about three hundred of the llite of Mon- 
treal were assembled. Dr. and Mrs. Johnson and Dr 
and Mrs. Murray received. Most of the members of 
Faculty were present; besides Drs. Johnson and Mur- 
ray, we noticed Professors Moyse, Cox, Darey, Adams 
Harrington and Penhallow, and Messrs. Gregor, Morin 
Evans, Deeks and Tory, and Mr. Gould, the University 
Librarian. The representatives from neighboring 
universities were Messrs. Moore of Toronto, Johnston 
of Queen’s, Ayehearst of Victoria and Montgomery of 
Bishop’s ; and from sister Faculties, Messrs. Byers of 



Medicine, Barrow of Law, Dawson of Applied Science, 
and Solandt of Comparative Medicine. 

About 9 o’clock the chairman, Prof. Moyse, made a 
few very happy remarks, after which the following 
programme was rendered : — 



PART I. 



I. 


The Wandering Singer’s Patrol. 
McGill Glee Club. 




2. Song, 


6 ' The Owl and the Pussy Cat.’’ 
Mrs. Morrison. 


Ingraham 


3- Reading, 


Selected. 

Mrs. F. W. Gilmour. 




4 Song, 


“ It was not thus to be ” 
Mrs. Thurston. 


V. Nessler . 


5. Song, 


“ The Message.” f{ 

Mrs. J. C. Barlow. 


5 Blumenthal 




PART II. 




1. Duet, “ 


Noontide heat has long passed over 
Miss Evans and Mrs. Aunesley. 


Thomas . 


2. Song, 


“ Polly and I.” 
Miss Bell Ross. 


Wakefield. 


3. Reading, 


Selected. 

Mrs. William MacKeracher. 




4 * Song, 


“ For Thee.” 

WITH VIOUN OBUGATO. 
Miss Chambers. 


A.G. Robyn . 


5 . 


Plantation Frolic. 
McGill Banjo Club. 





After the above programme was carried out, refresh- 
ments were announced, and a committee of the whole 
house waited upon the Minister of the Interior, in a 
precipitate rush. When the cravings of the inner man 
were satisfied, the strains of the orchestra sounded a 
retreat to the hall above, and the promenading began. 
This was the essentially social part of the evening’s 
proceedings, and was entered into with great zest by 
all. 1 he expression of the man who couldn’t find his 
partner was a study in physiognomy when the music 
began, but when the music ended and the search was 
still unrewarded, his expression was a study in language. 
But these little incidents only added to the enjoyment 
— of the others. 



» uicu away, rne 

ast promenade was over, the hall was quickly deserted 
by the gay company, and the social event of the season, 
as far as the college world is concerned, drew to a close! 

The Committee of Management was as follows: Pro- 
fessors Johnson, Cox, Moyse and Murray from the 
Faculty. Misses Warner, McKenzie and Ogilvy of the 
4 th year and Miss Armstrong of the 3rd year, Con- 
sulting Committee from the Donalda Dept. Messrs. 
Garrett, Fraser, Barlow and Ireland of the 4th Year 

Oamnh^p ?° pkiDS a “ d R ° gers of the 3rd Year, 
™ R ° bertSon and Kennedy of the 2nd Year, 
and McMaster, Botterell and Howard of the 1st Year 
Mr. Garrett was chairman, Mr. Fraser, secretary, and 
Mr. Barlow, treasurer, of the Committee. 



McGill fortnightly. 



271 



CAP’N GOUN AT THE CONVERSAT. 

(Written for Mr. MacKeracher’s recitation at the Arts 
Conversazione.) 

*Twas once upon a time, we’ll say, in the history of McGill ; 
And not a tliousaud years ago, for the men are living still 
\\ ho were at the bottom and top of the thing, — as in Latin we 
say,— the persona, 

Who managed this brilliant affair of the year, the couversa 
zione. 

All the bright lights of the city, intellectual, social and great, 
Were eager for invitations, and the few who were chosen elate : 
’Twas the only event of the season the whole University set 
w ? ould be at ; 

And of course I was going along with the rest to the wonderful 
conversat. 

But I had no girl, — from society circles myself aloof I had 
held ; 

And a lady-student I never would meet for fear of being ex- 
pelled. 

Of course, like every fellow, I’d one particular fair in my eye, 
But I’d ouly met her a couple of times, and of calling I’ve 
always been shy. 

In this gloomy condition of grief and despair I was doing St. 
Catherine street. 

When, by Jupiter, whom but this very girl should I chance on 
a sudden to meet 1 

I asked her to spare me just one promenade, as I smilingly 
doffed my hat : 

But she promised to spare me all the time the night of the 
Conversat. 

St. Catherine street became too smallf my coat and vest too tight, 
And I added, that afternoon as I walked, six inches at least to 
my height. 

I bought a dozen ten cent cigars and a bottle of native wine, 
And I smoked and sip'ped till the stars went out and the sun 
began to shine. 

My cerebellum by what she had said was kept in a waltz-like 
whirl, 

For I never cared much for girls in my life, — but Oh ! how I 
wanted that girl ! 

And the chance I had waited for five years had come to me 
now so pat ; 

And I was to promenade with her all night at the Conversat. 

Next morning I looked at my old dress suit, and I thought it 
was rather scuffed, 

Altho’ a couple of years or more respectably it would have 
roughed ; 

And I went to a tailor — the best in the town — and he measured 
me thrice with care : 

I promised to pay him a “ fifty ” down, tho’ I hadn’t much cash 
to spare. 

I bought new shoes, new shirt, new studs, and a collar four 
inches tall, 

I forget what else, but remember well that that wasn’t nearly 
all. 

I ended up with an overcoat and a beautiful ten dollar hat ; 

For I was to see her home that night, after the Conversat. 

I went into the Library that same day — the librarian pricked 
up his ears 

When I asked for the books taken out by the girls in the last 
two hundred years ; 

He said he could not let the Library out, but that I might sit 
and read ; 

And he kept three Freshmen carrying books, which I swallowed 
with marvellous greed. 

I rushed thro' the poets from Chaucer down, the novelists down 
from Scott ; 



I read every volume on music and art, as fast as the book could 
be got ; 

Spent day after day o’er quotations and jokes and all sorts of 
delectable chat : 

For I was to talk with her that night, during the Conversat. 

All the Society gossip I gathered from up and down ; 

I studied the family history of all the best people in town ; 

And with whomsoever I met that week I talked of the coming 
event. 

Particularly my lady-friends, — with a look, — they knew what it 
meant ; 

And when they inquired if I would be there, I paused, to pro- 
duce an effect, 

Then said with a smiling superior air, “ Well, I should presume 
to expect” 

I said I was sorry I wouldn’t have them, but I really couldn’t 
help that ; 

I was booked already for every trip the night of the Conversat. 

The time came round and my hopes beat high, and I rigged 
myself in my best, 

With a smile on my face and a flow’r on my coat, and a big 
gold chain on my vest. 

At the head of the stairs in the Molson Hall I waited a little 
while, 

Till I saw her ascend on the arm of a friend, and I greeted her 
with a smile. 

She told me that now, as her programme was full, she could 
spare me remarkably well ; 

She explained she had thought that it might be a joke — with 
some men she never could tell. 

She said that I was such a funny man — I thought that I was 
such a flat 

To allow myself to be fooled by her, left at the Conversat. 

It all comes back to me again as if it had been to-night, 

I never knew a girl in my life so entirely out of sight ; 

But they say she has conquered a lecturer’s heart, and her 
quiver is only half spent ; 

She has flirted with four of the honor men, and ensnared the 
president. 

###### 

Farewell, Old McGill, if unfavored in love, I at least have been 
faithful to thee ; 

Some day you’ll remember this chap, perhaps, and honor him 
too, — we’ll see. 

But don’t be surprised if before I depart too tightly I tie my 
cravat — 

But, no, I’m going off home to bed, sick of the Conversat- 

CAP’N GOUN. 



LIFE AT BRYN MAWR. 

Arriving here one bright day in October, the writer 
first of all sought the secretary’s office, in order to dis- 
cover her place of residence. On reaching this destin- 
ation, a score of Freshmen met her eye, and as these 
were all awaiting their turn for admittance, there seem- 
ed nothing else to do but sit down and wait patiently. 
Here was the first opportunity of observing American 
students. However, they did not appear very different 
from Canadians on the whole, but being all Freshmen, 
which the observer did not know at the time, they did 
not impress her as being very scholastic-looking. At 
last, when admittance was gained to the secretary, 
apologies were made for the delay, stating that it was 
not the custom to keep their fellows waiting. She 



272 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



presented the writer with a student’s card and course 
book, and directed her to her hall of residence, where 
the housekeeper and mistress were very cordial in their 
welcome, and after shewing the writer to her room, saw 
that some lunch was furnished, though now after the 
regular lunch time. 

The next business on hand was to interview the 
Dean. This must be done by every student entering 
college, so that here again considerable time was spent 
waiting at her door ; but this time, a greater variety of 
students presented themselves for observation, some 
giving the idea of much culture. The interview with 
the Dean did not occupy much time, but gave some idea 
of that lady’s personality. She, by the way, is the 
leading spirit at Bryn Mawr, and since by a recent 
change, the present president has resigned on account 
of ill-health, and the Dean has been appointed his suc- 
cessor, next year will probably see her occupying this 
higher position. 

Dinner, that first evening, gave the first impression 
of a college dining hall. The different tables are 
generally occupied by students belonging to the 
different years of college life, but there is perfect 
liberty to change one’s seat, if desirable. There is a 
graduate table in each hall, and often some of the older 
undergraduates prefer to sit there. The sophomores 
are noted for having the noisiest table, and it is be. 
wildering at first not to be able to hear oneself speak 
for the noise, but custom soon renders it pleasant. 
Indeed, when many of the students are away, the 
silence is quite oppressive. Next day brought with it 
the interviewing of the different professors, after which 
the preliminaries now over, the writer began to feel in 
truth a student of Bryn Mawr. 

It is, of course, hard at first to enter into the ways of 
another university, and graduate work, which is 
purposely made very distinct from undergraduate 
work, seems very difficult at first; but these difficulties 
wear away as time goes on. Very few examinations 
are held in the graduate courses, but one day every 
week is devoted to seminary work in both Latin and 
Greek. Of course, the more one does at this, the easier 
it becomes, so that, as the term goes on, the work 
becomes lighter, and as the dread of examinations is 
taken away, one learns to study from the pure love of 
study. In addition to the seminary work, each mem- 
ber of the class has papers to write during the year, 
and these papers must show original investigation. 

Each department of graduate work has its own 
separate reading room, where are all the books used 
in the advanced work. These are the workshops of 
the graduate students, and here it is possible to study 
from early morning till ten o’clock at night if that is 
desired. 

College life at Bryn Mawr outside of the lectures 
is very lively and quickening. American vivacity, 
showing itself in a college composed of 200 girls, 
comes forth in strong relief. To a Canadian, it is a 
pleasure, in being a graduate, to feel outside of the 
whirl of excitement. Among the institutions peculiar 



to this college are the Sophomore and Freshmen plays. 
The former is generally worked up in the summer, 
and given soon after the first term commences. One 
of the year composes the play, bringing in famous 
characters of romance, and always adding some local 
hits, which are very amusing. The costumes displayed 
show great originality on the part of the actors, and 
the singing and dancing which form part of the play 
give opportunity for the use of much talent. At this 
exhibition, though all are invited, the Freshmen are 
the honored guests, and they are expected to respond 
by giving a play in return. These emulate the 
sophomores in their display, and this year gave an ex- 
hibition quite equal to that of their seniors. Besides 
these, other plays are occasionally given, sometimes an 
admission being charged, in order to gain money for a 
certain purpose. Fancy dress balls also occasionally 
take place. Of course, 110 gentlemen are admitted to 
any of these exhibitions. As a rule, there is some 
diversion on hand for Friday evening, and during 
vacation, those who are not so fortunate as to be able 
to go home manage to amuse themselves very success- 
fully. For instance, on Thanksgiving evening 
charades were acted and ghost stories told till a late 
hour. 

Bryn Mawr College is ruled by the system of self- 
government ; all matters of college life, outside of the 
house keeping, are regulated by the students them- 
selves, who form in a body what is called the Self- 
Government Society. Every year a president is ap- 
pointed and also an executive committee, who take 
into their hands any special case of disregard for the 
regulations. Each residence hall appoints its own 
proctors to see to the carrying out of the rules. The 
one regulation over which there is most difficulty is 
that in regard to quiet hours for study ; but if the 
proctor be well chosen, even this is well observed. 
Even such matters as the sloping of lectures are treated 
by the Self-Government Society. For instance, before 
the Christmas vacation, the students met, and passed 
a motion of indignation against those who unneces- 
sarily sloped the first lecture after the holidays. 

The graduates studying at the college are^in number 
43, and they have lately formed themselves into a 
Graduate club, which meets every fortnight. Their 
object, at present, is chiefly social, but they hope 
occasionally to have speakers from outside, especially 
from other colleges, so as to learn what is being done 
in graduate work elsewhere. 

To conclude, if beautiful natural scenery is con- 
sidered an important factor in education, Bryn Mawr 
College should hold a high rank. Situate as it is, just 
ten miles from Philadelphia, in the midst of beautiful 
rolling country, many aspects of delightful natural 
scenery display themselves. 

As the country is very well settled, there are many 
fine residences in the neighborhood, and, for the 
vigorous, beautiful walks in all directions. 

ELIZABETH M. FAIRCLOUGH. 



Mcgill fortnightly. 273 



CYCLING IN ONTARIO. 

As one of a jolly party of wheelmen who spent three 
very pleasant weeks touring in various sections of the 
Province of Ontario, some months since, I will en- 
deavor to portray here our experiences upon the road. 

The pretty town of Niagara, which has the honor 
of standing guard at the mouth of the celebrated river 
of that name, being a central meeting place for all, 
was decided upon as our starting point ; and from 
here early one Thursday morning, one could have 
seen a number of students — who had evidently 
left their text-books in their rooms behind them, 
there to await their return — riding away toward the 
West, gayly laughing and chatting, as if their pros- 
pective trip was an accomplishment of but a few hours. 

With a few minutes in St. Catharines, just time 
enough to take a spin on the smooth brick sidewalk, 
at the expense of a hurried exit because of the seeming 
youthfulness which our conduct had aroused in an 
elderly constable, we passed on to Grimsby Park. 
Here we found many friends to wish us their hearty 
bon voyage. 

The eighteen mile run between Grimsby and Hamil- 
ton was upon the finest cycling road in the Dominion, 
well known to all riders of America. 

At Hamilton we were cordially received by rep- 
resentatives of the chief clubs of that city, and after 
a refreshing meal we pushed on to Dundas, where our 
first mishap took place in the shape of a broken wheel. 
A walk of two miles, which was necessitated by the 
sandy roads, brought us to Ancaster, where we found 
a pleasant country inn with good accommodation for 
man and iron beast. 

Through the very bright town of Brantford and 
the society town of Woodstock, where one finds 
himself subject to the critical examination from the 
fairer sexed portion of its population, then on to St. 
Thomas, the recognized railway centre of Ontario, 
and in an hour’s spin we find ourselves in London. 
At the latter place and in its vicinity we spent sev- 
eral gay days as guests of the Forest City Club. 

St. Mary’s will long be remembered by one of our 
contingent, who attempted to ride over a live wire 
which had fallen to the street. We found Stratford 
a delightful spot wherein to spend a quiet Sabbath. 
Another day was quickly passed in running through 
Berlin, St. Petersburg and Waterloo ; in each of these 
the odor of saner-kraut and beer was prevalent. A 
halt of two days was next made in the beautiful city 
of Guelph, after which we wheeled into Toronto, amid 
the glare of a most charming sunset, being so well 
satisfied with our trip that we felt that if ever another 
opportunity presented itself for a similar rabble, we 
would have no hesitation whatever in completing 
our circuit of Ontario. 

From experience gleaned in France, England, 
Scotland, Ireland and the United States, and con- 
trasting with that of our trip outlined above, I should 
recommend to those anticipating a similar trip, 
for good, hard and level roadways, beautiful scenery 
and delightful air, with much more which makes a 
vacation a pleasure, the neighboring Province of 
Ontario. 

(Signed), RODOTTO. 

Arts ’96. 



JOTTINGS FROM THE GYM. 

A very interesting and instructive entertainment 
took place at the University Gymnasium, 19 Uni- 
versity St., on the 8th inst. On this occasion a 
representative gathering of Professors and Governors 
of McGill met to witness the physical drill of the 
Students. Although McGill has progressed in many 
directions, the department of Gymnastics has not 
received all the attention it deserves, and the Stu- 
dents have very few more facilities than they had as 
long ago as 1861. However, a strong effort is being 
made to bring about a great improvement in this 
direction, and place McGill in this respect on a more 
equal footing with other halls of learning. The work 
of the Gymnasium has been for some years under 
the charge of Dr. R. Tait McKenzie and Mr. J. J. 
Ross, B.A., who have done much to increase its 
efficiency. Among those present on the occasion 
referred to were Sir Wm. Dawson, Mr. W. C. Mc- 
Donald and Miss McDonald, Mr. E. B. Greenshields 
and Mrs. Greenshields, Dr. Johnson, Dr. J. C. 
Cameron and Mrs. Cameron, and Dean Bovey, Prof. 
McLeod, Dr. McEachran, Prof. Harrington, Mr. 
James W. Brakenridge, B.C.L. 

It seems that in Harvard the applicant fills out a 
“ history blank,” undergoes a muscular test and an 
examination ot the heart and lungs, has his weight, 
height, chest-girth and fifty other items taken, and 
a careful record made of the skin, muscles, spine, etc. 
These items plotted on a chart, made from several 
thousand measurements, the examiner is able to know 
the relative physical standing of the individual, and 
to recommend a special order of appropriate exercises 
for the development of deficient organs. 

Dr. McKenzie thought that at McGill, students 
should be examined physically as well as mentally. 
According to Dr. Sergeant, director of the Hemenway 
Gymnasium : “ One-half the fight for physical train- 
ing 'is won when the student can be induced to take 
a genuine interest in his bodily condition : to want to 
remedy his defects and to pride himself on the purity 
of his skin, the firmness of his muscles and the 
uprightness of his figure.” 

After the exercises, speeches were made by Sir 
Wm. Dawson, Dr. Cameron and Dr. Johnson. 

Sir William said he had for many years taken an 
interest in this important matter. The Gymnasium 
had not grown with the growth of the College. The 
whole thousand students were no better off now than 
the few in the early days of ’61, *vhen the Montreal 
Gymnasium Club built the present gymuasium at 19 
University street, — indeed, they were worse off, in the 
sense of being further away from the building. He 
also referred to the importance attached to practical 
hygiene and physical culture in the United States, 
and said that the provision of proper physical training 
as a part of the College curriculum and a properly 
equipped building were imperative. They had now, 
he said, the right man in the right place, and he 
wished Dr. Mackenzie every success. 

Dr. Cameron was glad to see that the Students of 
McGill had made a beginning in physical training, 
and had got the right man for a teacher. That 
required a dual qualification : the trained gymnast and 
the physician, and both of these qualifications Dr. 



274 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Mackenzie possessed in an eminent degree. The 
University had done well in placing the physical 
health of the Students in his hands. Many of the 
Students, before coming to the University, had been 
accustomed to an outdoor life, entailing physical 
exercise, and the study and and confinement of the 
new conditions were calculated to cause a break-down 
in health. It was the duty of the College not only 
to look after the minds of the Students, but their 
bodies as well. Many a promising career had been 
wrecked when this important matter had been 
neglected. 

Dr. Cameron referred to other universities where 
any want of physical development was noted, and a 
course laid out calculated to eliminate the defects. 
If -A.mherst, Yale, Harvard and many other universi- 
ties had found it necessary to take this course, cer- 
tainly it was as necessary for McGill. He should 
like to see, too, in the near future, a proper building 
provided, well heated, well arranged, and with proper 
bathing facilities. In conclusion, Dr. Cameron 
congratulated Dr. Mackenzie upon the splendid re- 
sults already achieved, considering the disadvantages 
under which he had labored. 

The references to a new building were specially 
appreciated by the Students. There can be no doubt 
that the work has to be done under very grave dis- 
advantages. 

The defects of the present system are obvious. 
The instructor has to work in the dark as to the 
physicial condition of the individual student. In 
the limited time and with the large number of stu- 
dents, anything like graded work is next to impossible. 
Lectures, especially in the professional faculties and 
the Donalda department, clash with the gymnasium 
hour— very differently to Harvard, where no lectures 
are given after 4 o’clock. 

As for the building itself, besides the inconvenience 
of its situation, it is very insufficient for the work as 
it should be carried on. The bathing facilities, a 
most important hygienic agent, consist of a cold 
shower in a dark corner. The lockers are antiquated, 
and afford no protection from theft. The lighting 
involves the escape of a large quantity of gas every 
time it is used. The heating by two coal stoves is 
totally inadequate on a cold day, and there is little 
chance for ventilation. The ceiling is in such a con- 
dition that frequently large pieces of plaster drop, 
and endanger the men exercising beneath. The 
roof is so leaky that on a rainy day the floor is cov- 
ered with pools of water, which, besides the incon- 
venience when many are on the floor, are dangerous 
to the health from dampness and wet feet. 

A building is needed nearer the University, if 
possible upon the campus, so that more interest 
would be taken in the Gymnasium by the Students 
at large. This is one of the improvements to which 
we still have to look forward. 

It may be stated that one of the events in our 
sporting life, the Wicksteed Competition, will take 
place on March 3rd and 6th. 



of the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign 
Missions. 

McGill in all its departments will be well repre- 
sented, better perhaps than at any previous conven- 
tion of any nature. This is certainly very desirable. 
The Convention will have a deep significance from all 
standpoints, the importance of that word missions,” 
so often abused, is enough to give greatness to the 
gathering, for is it not the one thing in the world of 
greatest moment, namely, the extension of the King- 
dom of Jesus Christ to every land where the sun 
shines ? It will be a great educational factor in the 
life of every student in attendance. Fully forty of the 
world’s most eminent foreign Missionaries will be 
present to open the eyes of the College world to the 
needs of those lands “ without God in the world ; ” 
in addition, the leading men on this continent will 
also be in attendance, — in brief, the missionary forces 
of the world will centre in Detroit. 

Many will remember the Cleveland Convention of 
1891, when only two McGill representatives were in 
attendance. The interest following the reports of these 
delegates was wonderful, and we are assured that 
this interest will be manifold on the return of the 
present delegation, which is as follows : — 

Donalda Department, Misses Seymour and Ross. 
McGill Mission Band and Y. M. C. A. 

S. H. Mallinson, Arts, ’97, Percy Leslie 
Veterinary Faculty H. D. Clark, ’95 
Medical “ Arthur Gunn, ’95 

Science “ H. P. Archibald, ’97 

J. A. Stevenson, B.A. Sc. 
Wesleyan College C. A. Sykes. 

Congregational College R. G. Watt. 

This large delegation is almost entirely due to the 
visit of Mr. Lawrence Hunt, who appeared before 
the students in the interests of the Convention. His 
enthusiasm and wisdom have been rewarded, and 
McGill will not be the losers. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

THE BUILDING. 



STUDENTS’ MISSIONARY CONVENTION. 
The greatest Inter-Collegiate gathering ever held 
will take place in Detroit, Feb. 28 to March 4 the 
occasion being the Second International Convention 



Our thoughts run in this direction from the fact 
that the last few days have brought a letter 
from Mr. J. W. McOuat to the man who had audacity 
enough to introduce the “ first motion ” to build 
This was in 1885, and Mr. McOuat adds that he and 
others “ were positive in our convictions that it was 
then even a necessity and possibility to build.” The 
faith of these few of “ former generations ” is most 
encouraging, but there is certainly a tinge of dis- 
appointment in that, while the Association in its 
present numerical strength has considered it “ a 
necessity and possibility to build,” that the building is 
not yet occupied. Nine years since the inaugural step 
was taken, yet no building ! Shall the present gen- 
eration of Students have the privileges of the Associa- 
tion Home ? We believe they can answer the ques- 
tion in the affirmative, will they ? ^ 

The special meetings conducted in the city should 
have a very decided influence on our work Many 
Students have received new aspirations and ^reat 
inspiration to be and do something; let these incom- 
ing blessings find an out-going influence. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



27s 



The following programme will be carried out in 
our meetings : — 

Friday, 7.15 p.m. 

March 2 — Christ our example, 

Leader, A. B. Newcombe, Sc. ’9 7. 

9 — Christ our strength. 

Leader, A. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

Sunday, 2 p.m. 

March 4 — The claims of Jesus Christ upon men. 
Speaker, A. Mahaffy, B.A. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



Montreal, Feb. 8th, 1894. 
Editor McGill Fortnightly: — 

Dear Sir, — Judging by opinions expressed, the 
most pressing wants of the students in McGill at the 
present moment are a gymnasium, a University club 
building, auda home for the Y.M.C.A. ; to these might 
well be added rooms for the Athletic Association. 

Surely all these might go hand in hand : betterment 
of soul, mind and body ! 

Land is an expensive article in Montreal. The cam- 
pus is becoming crowded with buildings. It would 
seem that one foundation and one roof might cover 
all, economically of course, and I see no reason why 
not fitly also. Any club tolerated in connection with 
a University should be one of high principles, and run 
in such a way as to give offence to none, and to have 
an elevating and ennobling tendency continually. A 
building of 4 stories would give ample room, the 
Y.M.C.A. and gymnasium occupying a flat each and 
the club the other two, out of which one or two 
rooms could be devoted to the Athletic Association’s 
offices and dressing-room. 

And in connection with the Athletic Association I 
venture to suggest that as the football season is short 
in this cold climate, and lawn tennis and cricket for 
the summer only, greater prominence should be 
given to skating. Present arrangements are surely un- 
satisfactory ; a bagatelle of students skate, the rest do 
what is next best, take gymnasium exercise in close, 
impure air, or else walk on the streets. I think 
the showing made by the M.A.A.A. open air rink 
should convince anyone that flooding the grass in win- 
ter need do it no harm, and at a small expense the 
campus could be made a magnificent rink every winter, 
where all the students, for a very small compulsory fee, 
might skate as much as they pleased, and many others 
like myself, who cannot possibly find time to go to 
distant rinks, might enjoy every evening, between 5 and 
6 p.m., a vigorous open-air skate, and it would also give 
facilities and encouragement to a none too flourishing 
hockey club. I’m sure the Association would meet 
with no rebuffs if they went to the Governors and re- 
presented the matter clearly, and showed both a need 
and a way for meeting it. 

Yours sincerely, 

CECIL B. SMITH. 



Dear Editors, 

As I transmit my humble dollar, I call to mind the 
good old times when I was one of yourselves. That was, 
I think, in 1880, and perhaps you will not mind a word 
or two of reminiscence from a past Editor of the paper. 
When I was a Freshman, in 1879, the McGill Gazette , 
as we called it then, was a tiny sheet with a page less 
than half the size of yours, without a cover, and with 
less than one third of the pages, at least one copy of 
which can be seen somewhere in the Redpath Library. 
The leading spirits on its Editorial Board, I believe, 
were Eugene Lafleur and A. W. Atwater. It was the 
second Gazette issued at the University, the other hav- 
ing died a year or two previous, leaving as tombstone 
a woodcut heading in the hands of the printer. This 
little sheet having died also in its first year, several of 
the students, including David C. McLaren, now M.D., 
of Ottawa, Dr. Sutherland and myself, united our ener- 
gies, and started another the ensuing session. We en- 
tered upon our work as green as ever any newspaper 
editors could be, — knowing absolutely nothing of either 
business or writing for print- Our experience, however, 
and their lasting practical results have ever since 
brought me to consider a college paper one of the most 
valuable of educational institutions, and equivalent in 
its usefulness to a Chair. Our printers were at first 
McQueen & Corneil, and I well remember the distrust- 
ful and contemptuous glances of the partners whenever 
we supplied them with the copy, which was invariably 
short and late. The distressing gaps in our columns 
and the doubts about our subscription list also caused us 
rueful countenances. Next year the paper was again 
started independently, and A. B. Chaffee was one 
of the business managers. We then recovered the 
discarded woodcut of the earliest Gazette , had a stereo- 
type made from it, and printed our paper at the Witness 
job office. We here perpetrated a felonious “ plant ” 
upon one of our advertisers, which twinged our con- 
sciences and risible muscles long afterwards. The poor 
man was a tobacconist on Notre Dame street, who gave 
us his ten dollars with a cut of a sailor, which was his 
sign, and counted apparently on thereby drawing to 
himself the whole of the student trade. On bringing 
the advertisement to the Witness office, we were met by 
a regulation forbidding the issue of any advertisement 
of liquors or tobacco from any part of the establish- 
ment. We were at first nonplussed ; but, loth to fore- 
go the ten dollars, finally induced the foreman to print 
the sailor and the advertiser’s name and address, with- 
out any indication whatever of his goods or occupa- 
tion. He never seems to have seen the paper, and as 
we had his money, we looked upon ourselves as suc- 
cessful highwaymen. 

Next year the journal was entirely set on foot by 
Chaffee and myself, who, after starting it, organized a 
board of editors, in which I remember I refused to let 
my name appear. 

The Board included J. N. Greenshields, J. S. Mc- 
Corkill, Chaffee and others ; and so successful were we 
that we expended the surplus at the end of the session 
upon a large photographic group of our noble selves, a 
copy of which I still preserve. 



276 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The experience gained in all this has been of great 
use ever since. The insight into what goes on behind 
a newspaper was alone an education. The business of 
organizing and meeting the monetary needs was also 
very instructive. It was something to learn how to 
handle copy and proof, and learn what will or will not 
do. And the journalistic facility then acquired has since 
come in handy for many and varied public, private and 
business objects. I trust a University paper will never 
again cease to be issued at McGill, and even that you 
will soon have an illustrated rival as good as the Har- 
vard Crimson and Lampoon. 

One thing I would like to see the Fortnightly pay 
a little more attention to is the desirability of McGill 
becoming a national University. By this I mean that 
it should emphasize the fact in all its teaching, that our 
students have, both as citizens and in the future prac- 
tice of their specialties, special duties to Canada and 
the Canadian people. How much is the average Mc- 
Gillite taught to think of the needs of the community 
of which he forms part, and of the earnest call which its 
hopes and miseries ought to make upon him to better 
them ? I blame no one, for no one is to blame ; but there 
is something requiring a change. As good men should 
belong to churches, so they should be active members 
of the nation in which they find themselves, and work 
with it and through it for progress. 

The Universities have largely made Germany, they 
have done much nationally for France, Holland, Swe- 
den, England and Russia, they are the hope of United 
States in its threatening problems: shall they be 

centres of clearly-marked plan for the betterment of 
Canada ? 

How soon is McGill to become a national University ? 

A single Canadian lecture in his subject by each pro- 
fessor per annum would do a great deal towards it, and 
discussion among students still more. 

W. I). UGHTHALL 



OBITUARY. 

It is our painful duty to record the death of Mr. H. 
C. Morgan, formerly of the Class of Science ’96. The 
state of his health obliged Mr. Morgan during the i 
summer to go to the Pacific coast, whence, a few days 
ago, came the sad news of his death. He was highly 
esteemed by all with whom he came in contact. 

At a meeting of the Second Year, on the 20th ult., j 
resolutions were passed expressing a deep sense of the I 
loss which the class had sustained in Mr. Morgan’s 
removal, and tendering the heartful sympathy of his 
former class-mates to his bereaved friends. 



Prof. McLeod presided at the last Students’ meeting 
of the Can. Soc. C.E. Mr. Pitcher, 94, read an interest- 
ing paper on “ The Equipment of a Street Railway 
Power House.” An unusually large number took part 
in the subsequent discussion. 



SOCIETIES. 



the literary society. 

The regular meeting was held on Friday evening, 
February 23rd, with the President, Mr. Lambly, in 
the chair. Mr. Hopkins was appointed critic and 
Mr. Dyer reporter. 

The routine and extraordinary business was 
promptly dispatched. The President drew attention 
to the fact that the next meeting was a special one. 
Mr. P. T. Lafleur, M.A., had kindly consented to 
deliver the annual lecture to the Society on that 
occasion. All those who had attended any of the 
courses of lectures given by Mr. Lafleur were sure to 
be present. 

A motion was made that the President and two 
other men be appointed to advertise the lecture which 
is to be delivered next Friday, March 2nd. Mr. Cle- 
land was first on the programme for a reading, but 
sent in an apology for inability to attend, which was 
accepted with regret. Mr. Hopkins gave “ Daisy 
Belle/’ the audience joining inthechorus. This song 
was in good taste after the serious thoughts of the 
previous few minutes ; an enoore was requested but not 
given. Mr. Hanson read an “ Essay on the Tenure 
of Property,” which gave many interesting facts 
clearly and in good style, leading up to the Feudal 
System in England. 

The debate proper now commenced. 

The subject discussed was : — “ Resolved, that the 
English Revolution of 1688 did more to promote the 
growth of civilized nations than the French Revolu- 
tion of 1789.” The speakers on the affirmative were 
Messrs. H. Young, E. E. Howard of Arts ’95, and 
Mr. MacLeod of Science ’97. Those on the negative 
were Mr. Dickson of Arts 94, Mr. Sutherland of Arts 
’95, and Mr. C. Howard of Arts’97. 

The debate was well contested, and the affirmative 
won by about five to one, when it came to the vote. 

I he affirmative brought up more points and attacked 
the argument of the negative more forcibly than 
their opponents did. 

The critic, Mr. Hopkins, spoke well of nearly all 
the speakers in the debate. 

He praised Mr. Young for clearness, Mr. Dickson 
for deep thoughts, Mr. E. E. Howard also for deep 
thoughts and spoke of his big stories and insincerity. 
He praised Mr. Sutherland for eloquence, Mr. Mac- 
Leod for good points and good preparation, and 
astly Mr. C. Howard for eloquence. The meeting 
then closed after an enjoyable evening. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

O11 Thursday, February 15th, the joint meeting of the 
Alumnae and Delta Sigma societies took place. The 
guests of these societies were the wives of the Profess- 
ors and the members of the Women’s club. One would 
hardly have recognized the theatre, transformed as it 
was into a drawing-room of a very literary and scienti- 
fic aspect. 

Miss Robbins, the president of the Alumnae, presided 
and in a few well chosen words welcomed the guests’ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



277 



and gave the object of the meeting, which was to pro- 
mote a feeling of union between the graduates and un 
dergraduates, and also between these as a body and 
all those who have at heart the highest interests of 
women. ^ 

Miss Campbell then read a paper on “ Magazine 
Literature/* which was listened to with great attention, 
A debate followed, as to whether the Miser or the 
Spendthrift was the most injurious member of society, 
which the Misses Reid, Derick, Warner and Pindar 
took part. 

Miss Reynolds gave the triumphant scene from 
Shakspeare’s “ Merchant of Venice,” and was pro- 
nounced by all to be a perfect “ Portia.” Refreshments 
brought a very pleasant afternoon to a close, and the 
Alumnae and students, who for the first time had worked 
together, parted with the wish that their joint meeting 
might be the first of a series of annual meetings, which 
would prove a source of benefit to all “ Donaldas.” 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A lecture on “Medical Ethics” was delivered by 
Dr. Jas. Stewart, Professor of Medicine, to a large 
assembly of Medical students on the evening of Feb- 
10th. 

In opening, the Doctor pointed out that it would be 
impossible, in such a lecture, to touch upon more than 
the broadest principles which serve to guide the con- 
duct of the medical man in his relations to his patients 
and to his fellow-practitioners. 

The real reason for the existence of the Medical Code 
of Ethics was pointed out, and the necessity of govern, 
ing one’s actions in strict accordance with its principles 
very strongly impressed upon those about to graduate 9 
in order to the elevation of the standing of the profes- 
sion. Much advice of a very practical nature was 
given as to the honorable means to be employed in 
building up a practice, one’s behavior in consultations, 
and in regard to the all-important matter of charging 
for advice or services. The different classes of quacks 
also received attention, and the course to be adopted 
when brought in contact with any of them clearly 
defined. Many other very important subjects were 
dealt with during the course of the lecture, all com- 
bining to render it a particularly interesting and instruc- 
tive one throughout. No one could listen to the lec- 
ture without profiting greatly by it, and the Society is 
deeply indebted to Dr. Stewart for his kindness in 
bringing the matter so forcibly to the attention of its 
members. 

At the conclusion, a hearty vote of thanks was ten- 
dered Dr. Stewart, to which he briefly replied. 

MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

Regular meeting was held in Lecture room of the 
Veterinary Faculty, 6 Union ave., Wednesday evening, 
2 1st inst., President Adami occupying the chair 
After reading of the minutes and transaction of 



business, communications from Dr. Rowat, Santa 
Barbara, Cal., and Dr. Brainerd, Memphis, Missouri, 
were read. 

The Essayists of the evening were Messrs. Lally, 
Moore and McAlpine, presenting interesting topics, 
which were discussed by the members of the Associ- 
ation, as well as interesting remarks made by the 
President. 

The meeting was well attended by its members, and 
finally adjourned for two weeks. 



WHAT? WHERE? WHEN? 

Note.— I tems for this column must be in the hands of the Editor by 7. HO p.m. on 
Saturday. 

Friday, March 2nd. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.ui. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 

Literary Society. Lecture by P. T. Lafleur, M.A., 8 p.m. 

Saturday, March 3RD. 

Competition for Wicksteed Medals. Gymnasium, 5 p m. 
Sunday, March 4TH. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 2 p.m 
Tuesday, March 6th. 

Competition for Wicksteed Medals. Gymnasium, 5 p.m. 

Wednesday, March 7TH. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5.30 p.m. 
Veterinary Med. Society. 6 Union Ave., 8 p m. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

Friday, March 9TH. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p m. 

Annual Meeting of McGill Glee and Banjo Club, 7 * 3 °P -m. 

Saturday, March ioth. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

Medical Society. Medical Building, 8 p.m. 

Sunday, March i ith. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 2 p.m. 

Wednesday, March 14TH. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5.30 p.m. 
Classical Club. East Wing, 8 p.m. 

Thursday, March 15TH. 

Delta Sigma Society. East Wing, 4 p.m. 

McGill Mining Society. Old Science Building, 8 p.m. 



At a meeting of the four years on the 19th, several 
amendments to the constitution of the Applied Science 
Undergraduates Association were adopted. The 
amendments are designed to place the finances of the 
Association on a better basis. Mr. H. P. Archibald, ’97, 
was elected to represent Science at the Detroit Conven- 
tion. 



278 



McGill fortnightly. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Just as men have been known to sit calmly on the 
summit of a crater, wholly unheeding the internal 
struggles that may at any moment result in an outburst 
that would scatter their remnants all over the sur- 
rounding country, just as the people of Pompeii, 
who thronged their great theatre, bent only on pleasure, 
were in blissful unconsciousness of the terrible catas- 
trophe that was suspended like the sword of Damocles 
over their heads, so in like manner has the Faculty of 
Law gone on as usual without having the faintest idea 
of the narrow escape it had from being shaken to its 
very foundations by a deep laid plot concocted by 
desperate characters. As your reporter was going up to 
lecture the other day, he came upon the group of con- 
spirators, when he heard the following : — 

“ Faix, an’ they bees goin’ to give us the Exam, in 
Procadure on Saint Patrick’s Day, are they ? Ah, it’s 
always the way here ; poor, long sufferin’, down-trodden 
.Ireland recaivin’ another smack in the face. Civil 
Procadure, do they call it ? Begorra ! me boys, to my 
thinkin it s the most uncivil procadure that oi ever 
heard of.” 

Here the speaker’s voice was for a moment lost amid 
cries of “ Ireland forever ! ” “ Bully boy, St. Patrick ! ” 
“ The Irish contingent won’t be walked on ! ” But like a 
leading voice in the chorus of execrations could be 

heard the continuations of the orator’s speech : 

“ Phat are we goin’ to do about it ? We can’t be 
talkin’ here till the cocks crow, and anyway what’s the 
use in spendin’ our time with Whalen and gnashin’ of 
teeth. Bedad, boys, we’ll do as our grand ould ancestors 
did when Brian Boru was alive. W(e) alshall rise in our 
might and protest for all we can, and then perhaps the 
question will Don a hue which we’ll be less obnoxious 
to boys of Ould Ireland. But the Dev’lin it all is that 
I had got a job to roide a big white horse in the pro- 
cession which was to be decorated with green ribbon. ” 
Just at this point someone noticed the reporter, and 
the conference was brought to an abrupt termination. 



Talk about your sharpshooters and rifle practice, but 
some of our Law students are practising at the “ butts” 
in a way which cannot fail to arouse the ardor of our 
military confrere. 

The butts used are termed “ Rosebudasbestos.” 



At a recent Faculty meeting Mr. Donahue, ’96, was 
appointed on the Editorial staff of the Fortnightly, 
and Mr. Devlin, ’95, on the Business Board. 



It might not be a bad idea to institute “ summer 
session ” in connection with the Law Faculty, when the 
rather numerous overdue lectures could be delivered 
instead of having them piled on our shoulders at a 
time when every spare hour is of importance in view 
01 the coming exams. 



“ Which do you prefer,” said a facetious lawyer to a 
rustic cousin, “ Mare Librum or Mare Clausum ? ” “I 
don’t know those ’ere young ladies,” was the reply, 
“ but Marie Simpson is good enough for me.” 

Paradoxical as it may seem, many Freshmen are 
admitted to the Bar before they complete their First 
year. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

A marked increase in the attendance at morning 
prayers has been the result of changing the hour from 
noon to 11 a.m. 



Miss Ross, ’97, has been chosen to represent the 
Y.W.C.A. of McGill at the International Convention 
of the Student Volunteer Movement, to be held at 
Detroit from February 28 to March 4. It is extremely 
gratifying to all to be assured so sincerely by Miss 
Ross that she is delighted at having been allowed to 
accept the honor of representing us at the Convention. 
We consider ourselves happy in the choice we have- 
made, and can only hope that the change of air and 
scene will prove a help to her when making up for 
lost time after her return. 



The Donaldas wish to take this opportunity of 
thanking the Arts men for the courtesy extended to 
them in the matter of the Conversazione on Friday 
evening. 



What is the difference between a stony stare and a 
copper glance ? Ask our Third Year Mineralogist. 



Innovations in the Donalda prayer meeting. On the 
notice-board : “ Prayer meeting at five o’clock. Each 
one is requested to bring a student.” 

Theologs, we suppose, would be preferred. 



Oh, that the students in Mineralogy (of the Third 
Year) were all men, that they might receive equal 
attention. 

ARTS, ’97. 

If the opinion of the guests is of any weight, the 
First \ ear Lunch was a great success. 

At 12 o’clock, on Friday, we were ushered into the 
Third Year Class-room, the scene of many a similar 
festivity, and shown to our places at a table tastefully 
decorated with flowers,— red, white and green being 
the prominent colors. The menu cards were duly 
adimred. They bore the McGill crest in green, and 
were written in green ink, the following quotation 
appearing on the cover 

“ Op ! up ! my frieud and quit your books, 

Or surely you’ll gr0 w double. 

’ my . friend au d clear your looks, 

Why all this toil and trouble? ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



279 



The speeches were by no means the least interesting 
part of the programme. We must congratulate the 
members of the First Year upon their powers of 
oratory. Several of the toasts were decidedly original, 
among them : — “The Calendar,” — “ I am Sir Oracle, 
and when I ope my lips let no dog bark,” proposed by 
Miss Shaw in a most amusing manner. Miss Holden 
responded with witty remarks at the expense of the 
calendar. Miss Young proposed a toast to the Queen : 
— “ I would applaud thee to the very echo that should 
applaud again.” Miss Cameron replied in a patriotic 
speech, and in an equally loyal manner, to li McGill.” 
The representatives from the other Years were Miss 
Ogilvy, Miss Watson and Miss Hammond, who ex- 
pressed the good wishes of their classmates, and 
wished Arts 97 every success throughout their college 
career. “The benevolent junior” gave some good 
advice, which we hope was appreciated. Great 
amusement was caused by the following quotations 
“What man dares I dare,” for the Second Year, and 
“ How fresh and green we are,” First Year. 

After a toast to the President, all gathered round 
the piano, and a pleasant half hour was spent in singing 
college songs, closing with God Save the Queen, as the 
inexorable gong demanded our attention elsewhere. 

LEAVES FROM A FRESHMAN’S DIARY. 

MONDAY. 

Work very pressing, but a due regard for that pre- 
cious jewel Health has always restrained me from 
excesses, and I trust ever shall. Moreover, I was not 
made for the drudgery of tasks. The poetic fire burns 

within me. _ « 

Mem. — To tell my mathematical professor that I do 
not possess the geometric faculty. He seems to expect 
deductions of me. How little discernment have these 
men whose brains are but masses of fact ! 

TUESDAY. 

Have been told that I lack accuracy. Never. Let 
me transcribe what I have even now been studying. 
It has been a blow to my childish belief — but truth, 
truth before all— “ Siren,— a genus of pennibranchiate 
batrachia, of eel like form, but having two small weak 
limbs on the fore part of the body. Each foot has four 
toes. The vertebrae of the tail are compressed and 
gradually diminish in size to its tip.” 

Wonderful light does science shed on Mythology. 

FRIDAY. 

To make a speech in public How shall I ever do 
it ? Away my books. How bring the thoughts to 
ordinary work at such a time ? 

MONDAY. 

The great day is over. Our luncheon has been 
called a success and my speech was applauded ! Back 
now to the commonplaces of Virgil and Moliere. 

WEDNESDAY. 



Resolved to work more steadily. Frivolities must be 
given up. Four afternoon teas a week, Saturdays ex- 
cepted, shall be my meagre allowance. Two hours 
daily at the rink will hardly keep this body in health ; 
but what of that, the mind is the gainer . 



THURSDAY. 



Did I write the above ? Oh, fond and foolish 
dreamer ! Let me regret such words and cheat the 
ready physician. This night let my phrase-book 
languish while my feet tap waxed floor, 
here. Away ! 



The hour is 



ARTS NOTES. 

Those who had entertained the most sanguine expec- 
tations respecting the Arts Conversazione were, wholly 
satisfied with the result. The experiment was in every 
respect a decided success, such a success, indeed, that it 
looks as though the Faculty Dinner of the Artsmen 
were a thing of the past. Everybody, even the Fresh- 
men, notwithstanding the fact that some of the young 
ladies were cruel enough to refuse to accept their apo- 
logies for failing to “ turn up ” for the first promenade, 
passed a most enjoyable evening. The greatest praise 
is due to the committee who labored so faithfully and 
so successfully to have the arrangements perfect. 

We have received a note asking us to warn the fair 
damsels, who greeted the class in Elocution with a 
shower of chalk the other day, of the danger of such an 
act of hostility. 



The following advice may be taken to heart by some 
of our Freshmen: Honor thy professor in the days of 
thy youth, that thou mayest be solid in thy Senior 
year. 



At a meeting held on Wednesday, Feb. 21st, the 
Artsmen passed a resolution endorsing the memo, sub- 
mitted to the Students in the different Faculties by the 
Athletic Association. There is every prospect that the 
new basis of government suggested by the Association 
will be adopted by the University next session. 



Who says the fashions are not changing ? Why ! a 
Freshy was seen actually parading our classic halls 
with his lily-white hands in a muff. 

Notman took a photograph of the reading-room' com 
mittee on Saturday last. 

The men attending the classes at the Gymnasium 
who are going to compete for the medals at the end of 
the session have been formed into a special class. It 
is expected that the contest will be exceptionally close, 
as the class includes some of the best trained men Mc- 
Gill has turned out for years. 



Several of the Class of ’95 made collections of plants 
during last summer’s vacation. Three or four of these 
collections have been entered for the prize offered for 
such work. The announcement of the award will be 
awaited with much interest, for all the collections en- 
tered are unusually large and have been prepared with 
special care. 

The Literary Society expect a treat on the 2nd inst. 
No one should fail to hear Prof. Lafleur’s lecture. 



The Students of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Years at a recent 
meeting passed a resolution, in which they declared 
their hearty approval of the stand taken by the 4th 
Year in the Valedictory affair. 



The annual scrap between Arts and Science of ’97 
was nothing to that of the past week. It is to be de- 
plored that these scraps have been somewhat frequent 
of late, for much valuable time is thus lost. 



We are pleased to hear very gratifying reports from 
another of our affiliated colleges. St. Francis College 
Richmond, under the wise rule of its able and popular 
Principal, Rev. Mr. Tanner, is having a very prosper- 
ous session this year. There are no less than nineteen 
undergraduates— three in the second year and sixteen 
in the first year— besides a large number of students in 



28 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



other departments. Many of our students claim St. 
Francis College as their early home, and we are pleased 
to see that there is every likelihood cf many others 
following them to McGill. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

On the 13th inst., at a meeting of the Four Years, 
held to ventilate the subject of ventilation, the four 
presidents were elected to interview the Faculty on 
the subject. The Students have to put up with ser- 
ious inconvenience and even detriment to health, in 
being obliged to take lectures in stuffy rooms, and it 
is to be hoped that in the future some adequate pro- 
vision may be made to get purer air in the class- 
rooms. 



A meeting of the Four Years was held on the 15th 
inst., to discuss new regulations for the Athletic 
Association. Mr. F. E. L. Johnson read an outline 
of the changes that were proposed, to the effect that 
a compulsory annual fee be exacted from all Students 
by the University authorities, and out of this revenue 
all expenses for the different clubs and for preserva- 
tion and improvement of the grounds be met. A 
petition to the Faculty advocating this improvement 
is now going the rounds, and is being largely signed. 

When one gets a blow on the eye, can it be rightly 
called a sick-light-is ? 



Cobbs: “Say, Nobbs, where did you get that 
cold ? " 

Nobbs: “ Well, ) ou know, the sleeping-car was so 
wretchedly draughty the other day, that I got the 
grippe.” 

Cobbs : “ Oh, ah ; a sort of piillman-airy trouble, I 
presume.” 

A few of the Final men have been interviewing Dr. 
Cameron recently. It does not appear as yet whe- 
ther they or the genial doctor got the worst of the 
encounter. 



Dr. Aylen is now recovering satisfactorily. 

A physician, boasting of his great knowlege of his 
profession, said that he never heard any complaints 
from his patients. Some wit replied : — “ Very likely, 
Doctor, for the faults of physicians are generally 
buried with their patients.” 



A country practitioner was roused one night by a 
violent knocking. Hurriedly dressing himself, he 
went to the window, and called out : “ What do you 
want?” “I want to stop here all night,” was the 
reply. “Well, stop there,” replied the doctor as he 
crept back to bed. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

It is reported that the members of the graduating 
class are having a composite photograph. As in the 
case of the freshies it will be a question of the largest 
moustache- 



OE-S-W. — “ Help ! I’ll be drowned ! I can’t touch 
bottom .’ 9 

Onlooker (in great surprise) “ Why, it’s only 5 feet 
o inches deep there” 



The Arts class of ’94 are still in need of a valedic- 
torian. Perhaps one of our irrepressible freshies would 
fulfill the requirements. Good recommendations for 
wind and staying-power guaranteed. 



We learn with surprise and delight that some of the 
Electrical Engineering students of the Fourth Year 
have succeeded in producing a straight line. With such 
productions as these, in truth, our Faculty must become 
world renowned. 



“ Loss of head due to discharge M was the way a 

Fourth Year man put it, when L pulverized all 

former records across the Hydraulic Laboratory, in 
order to get out of the way of the 3 inch jet. 



Anyone with an eye for the beautiful (in a liquid 
state) cannot do better than look into the wonderful 
kaleidoscope which sundry members of ’95 have de- 
vised in the testing lab. 



“ Are you an Arts or a Science student ? ” asked the 
young lady at Notman’s. 

“I am Professor L ” was the crushing reply . 



Several members of ’94 indulged in their annual 
“wash up” the other day. Such drastic measures 
are particularly desirable towards the end of the year, 
and a marked improvement is noticed. 



A wonderful moral reform wave seems to be sweep- 
ing over the Freshmen. Tickets for Mr. Fay Mills’ 
meetings were in great demand at $1.00 apiece a few 
days ago. We rejoice to learn that some prominent 
members of ’95, who were hitherto (unjustly) supposed 
to have been beyond the reach of such influences, have 
joined the movement. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

He arranges his clothes on the back of the chair, 

I11 regular fashion with scrupulous care — 

The coat's at the bottom, the trousers on top, 

That he at the morn when from bed he doth pop 
May lose not a minute, but e’en as with wings 
Fly into his raiment and don all his things, 

To be off like the wind so as not to be late 
For Anatomy lecture which begins sharp at 8 . 

When Mr. Solandt speaks about “ calves ” he 
should be more clear as to his meaning. 

Tis the church bell in the steeple, 

That to worship calls the people. 

But the church belle in the choir 
Is what we worship when we spy her. 



Mr. Harry Clark has been elected to represent 
this Faculty at the Y.M.C.A. Convention in Detroit. 



We are pleased to welcome Mr. John Greer to our 
ranks once more after his long illness. 



Given a jack-knife, handsome Harry soon betrays 
his nationality. 7 



In answer to the many kind enquiries about “ that 
dawg,” the “ committee ” are pleased to report that 
he still “ lives, moves and has his being.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



281 




Now ready. February, 1894. 

Just leceivecl, first consignment of 




Indudi lg eh >icest q« aliiies a >d 
latest novelties, before our military 
orders monopolize our time we will 
be glad to give our best attention to 
any of our patrons requiting spring 
clothing, assuring them of perfect style, 
fit and finish 



Prices range from $15.00 to $25x0 



Have you seen our Blue Worsted 
Waterpoof Cloaks ? 

Made to order, only $15.00 each. , # 



leaning Tslotrs. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 

a better bath. 

Medical men generally arc now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



Paterson 61 Foster, 15 Phillips Square, would draw the 
attention of Medicos to their advertisement in this issue. 

Their stock of instruments is very complete, and a visit will 
be interesting as well as profitable to intending purchasers. 

Lovers of music will be glad to hear of the success which one 
of our Canadian manufacturers has actually achieved. The 
following letter from so critical a musician as the organist of 
St. Peter’s Cathedral speaks for itself :— 

Montreal, Nov. 28, 1893. 

L- E- N. PraTTE, Esq., 

Montreal 
Dear Sir, 

The upright pianos of your make— if one may form a judg- 
ment from the one I have acquired— possess a combination of 
all the qualities esteemed by musicians : a liquid and singing 
quality of tonp, entirely free from all overtones and rumbling 
sounds so frequently found in upright pianos ; a touch so light 
and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack and the 
lightest pressure,— in fact, capable of the most varied effects. 

Allow me to congratulate you on your good work. 



T. FITZPATRICK , 



. DENTIST . 



Gold CrouJn and Bridge ulork a specialty. 

54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

TELEPHONE 37 55 . 



HELEN DRAKE, 



2407 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

JUST WEST OF PEEL ST. 

. . . IMPORTER OF 



^Montreal. 



Nouelties in Materials for Dresses 

Millinery, Mantles, Trinnmings, 5c* 

N.B.— Special selection of Novelties for Ball and Evening Dresses. 

DRESS MAKING A SPECIALTY. 

Latest Styles from LONDON, PARIS and NEW YORK. 

ESTIMATES GIVEN. 

Sole Agent in Canada for . . . 

F. I. L. CORSETS 

Highly recommended for Style, Comfort and Durability. Perfect Fit 
and Shape. 



JOHN MURPHY, 

FAINTER DECORATOR. 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 



R. OCT. PELLETIER. 



2301 ST. 



CATHERINE STREET. 



F OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

380 to 386 St. Paul Street, - - /Wontreal 




282 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS : n a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 



A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 




Indian g*ea Depot. 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

p ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit everyone. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LcMESURIER 

5eason 1893*4 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 
complete. 

Special Discount to Students. 







Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. . 



WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

jw gfECTiow invited. 135 S t. Peter Street. 



WINDSOR MARKET. 



ESTABLISHED 1839 . 



Importers and 
Manufacturers of 



BROWN BROS. 

Fine Table Delicacies. 

The ErrtporUirrt for Fine Meats, 

Cor- St. Catherine Street and McCill College Avenuel 

Telephone 4038. 



Call at the 



== HOLLY CIGAR STORE, 



and give us your custom for Imported and 
Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— College Cigars and Perique Mixture 



HI. fiEflGffOLDT ft CO., 



2397 

ST. CATHERINE STREET 



TO ATHLETES. 



Foot Ball ' 

Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 

McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 




Read Ibis 

Students' Outfits 
H complete line of 
Surgical Instruments 
Gauzes, Gotions 
and all necessaries 
for a practitioner’s 
outfit. 

Examine our goods 
early and obtain prices. 






Sole Agents for. 



REICHE^TS /MICROSCOPES. 



PATERSON & FOSTER, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers, 

^_15 PHILLIPS SQUARE. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



283 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR, KRUSE, Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



The COOK'S FRIE ND is retaiM t ; all Good Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL 



COLIN CAMPBELL. 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAYER HALL HILL, 

Formerly 76 Victoria Square. 

Greenhouses at ROCKPIELD, Lachine. 

Largest Stock of PALMS and other DECORATIVE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



JLAIMIIES BRAY, 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 




SAMUEL S. GRANT, 

1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D 



SPECTACLES, EYEGLASSES, 



Hours 9 a.m. to 8 pan. 

HENRY GRANT & SON, Corner Dorchester Street. 



VIOE-KEGAL DEOOEATOES AND FLOEISTS. 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5- Davidson Sc Sons, 

Branch : — 174 St. James St. Conservatories :>-Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL . 9324 and 1734. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(Bngratjer, 

118 Mansfield Street, Catherin e 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Pap and Ei/abpsi Linol in Colors. 



QUT FLOWERS . . 

JOS, BENN ETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (Cor. PEEL) 

» Tel. 49 11. 



J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S.. 

DENTIST, 

MONTREAL 

49 UNION AVENUE. 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J SLOAN & SONS Havs It. 

ALL S0RT8 AND SIZES 



199 ST. ANTOINE ST. and 2647 ST. OATHEBINE ST, 




284 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



W. H. HOPE, 

Manufacturer of 

PICTUBB IFIRA-TVIIES 

Importer of 

Steel Engravings, Etchings and Oil Painting's, 

TEL f 6 p 2 H 9 ONE 2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., "°n t*b au 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 

■ — 

pOUN TAIN MARKET ^ 

. . Fish, Gam^and Oysters. 

Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Cor, Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St* 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6° Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 



W. DRYSDAL E & CO., 

All the Books required for the 




SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



The GE ORGE K iSriOg. 

Engraving and Printing Co. 

COLLEGE , CLUB AN D PROGRAMMES 

SOCIETY PRINTING ^ MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

169 St. 5 ames Street tickets 

The American Fur Store 

wHOLBSALB .|ftomtjferi»ring Jfurriers 

Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 

BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St •) Be ^cGUl V Co^ege Ave!^ 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 



An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness o 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 

Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the hea 1, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Esta bli shed 

ZEUEZSTIR^ ZEL. GKR, A3T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty* 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McCILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE : UP TOWN STORE : 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P<?ns- 



Diaries, Calendars, 

51anl< Kooks, Stationary. 



BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PKICES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 7 ;^ 

L . ilxi.Lo 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



285 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber. 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square White Oak always in Stock 
and Cut'to Order. 



Point St Charles, Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CRA IG STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Ouartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Bircli, Maple, and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc, 

JOHN PAXTON & CO. r 'S®”* 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS. MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

£tntt, JHttal ami firaticl Hoofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch’s Liyes of Illustrious Men 3 vols. f cloth $2.50 reduced from $5.00 

Lord Lytton’s Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3 00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ 7 50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 



MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

^C 03 Sr , X , K;B]A.X J . 

ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



ROBIN & SADLER 

manufacturers of 
OA. IEC-T AUSTILTIEID 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 



mum mison & co. 



SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., DUNCAN BOBER! SON 

TORONTO. MONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 



LUBRICATING :0ILS: ILLUMINATING 



(13 Gold Medals in 6 years.) 



Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St, Catherine St., Montreal, 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers liave them 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAI . 

(3-- <Sc CT. ESPLIN 

Box Manufacturers 

AND 

. . Lumber Merchants 

Office, 126 Duke Street. Montreal. 



GREASES NAPHTHA 

Ben Teiephone'9i90 . 92 McGill St-, Montreal. 



GEO. S. lilMBER, 

HE. SIM HD FIESCB PHITB, 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Tv lephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight MY DFSiRtD MOTOii. 





286 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 



Largest Fire Office in the World. 



Unlimited Liability. Absolute Security. 

Every inscription of property insured at moderate rates of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

XV. TATI.EY, Manager. 

GEO. SIMPSOX, Assistant Manager. 

E. Hurtubise, 7 Special * Agents James Allin, [Special Agents 

Alfred St. Cyr, ) French Dept. \V. S. Robertson, J English Dept. 

of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

WvJ DURING the summer and 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Lake Ontario, 5300 Tons, Capt. Campbell. Lake Superior, 5300 Tons, Capt. Stewart. 

Lake Huron, 5000 Tons, Capt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons Capt. Herriinan. 

Lake Xipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this Line have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
Trade. The state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
accommodation for all classes of Passengers at very low rates 
Specially reduced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 
Z&AOJsT'X'IR.IEA-IL,. 



McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Fine 




VARNISHES, JAPANS 

and rm riR.s 



MONTREAL 



v 

SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 




WARDEN KING <£ SORT 



(Late Rogers & King.) 



Manufacturers of 



Spences Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 



«ICANADA LIFE)* 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 

HEAD OFFICE , HAMILTON , ONT. 

Capital and Funds over 13,030,000 Dollars. 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

EDWARD L. BOND 

dfire and tftarinc Underwriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co. 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Companv (Fire) 



THE MOLSONS BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 



Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 | Rest, $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S* H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H. Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES,— Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W.T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound 
Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Thomas, Ont., Toronto, Toronto 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont., Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London. — Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited!; Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Cq, ; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool. — The Bank of Liverpool. Cork— Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 
Paris.— Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp, Belgium.— La Banqued’ Anvers. Hamburg 
—Hesse, Newman & Co. s 

AGENTS IN UNIT ED STATES. — New York. — Mechanics* National Bank 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep’ 
herd, Agents Bank of Montreal) National City Bank, also in the principal cities 
of the United States. r * 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World 



HENDERSON BROS- 

lumber and timber 

Steam S cltv arid Planing Jdills 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling Wood always in Stock 



H. R. IVES & CO- Es “» M 
Architectural Iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 

Queen Street, MONTPEAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



287 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 



HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR FURNACES 
RADIATORS, REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOCKS AND SCALES 



Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



383 tfc 387 St. Paul St. MONTREAL. 



ESTABLISHED 1809 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



Cxtraorbinara directors. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore J The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen I The Hon. Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon, Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly - 85,000,000 

Total Assets, - 52,053,716 



— *- Head Office for Canada at Montreal === 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



The Liverpool X London X Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135, 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted ... 

<3-. IF. G. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL. 



FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



Insure your Property with the. 

Phoenix Insurance Co. 

TIME TRIED 



OF 

HARTFORD 



CANADIAN BOARD : 



Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 



Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., 
Robert Benny, Esq. 



- Directors. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



and FIRE TESTED 



SMITH & TATLEY, 

Managers for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 

'^Guarantee Comp y 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 

BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

B. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

Mail Building*. M FI>I,AN I> A JONES, Agents 



Norton Assurance Co, 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 

INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds $ 35 » 73 o»poo 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 5 , 495.000 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 200,000 




ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 

City Agent: BROWNING” British Empire Building. 



288 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




Hot later, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 

— to the — 

McGill Unioersity Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board of Trade Building. 

Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



• pOBERT GARDNER & SON 



Established 
. . . 1850 . . . 



MANUFACTURERS OF 






Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth , Brennan and Da/housie Sts., 



MONTREAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 



PRACTICAL 



foiise anh Jibatnbastl JMI-^fanger, Jbcftantillj anh gmiraljjllatksrailh 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPENTERS' and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 
762 and 764 CRAIC STREET, West of Victoria Square, /VlOI\lTRP ni 

Bell Telephone No. 2591 ™ /*■ w I 1 I I 1 1 *^/ V I 



Manufacturers of * 

fZTkint ,&tduSe& 

Engineers , Plumbers ’ , Gas and Steam-fitters ’ Goods. 



Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 



M ontreal. 




McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 

^(tuocatcs, barristers, &c., 

HEW Tronic LIFE BUIE DITTO-, 

MONTREAL. 



R. D. McGIBBOX, Q.C. 



PEERS DAVIDSON. 



GEORGE BRUSH ‘ ffestablished 1&30. 1 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 

ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 




-ft; ' 

<V Jfi 4 

jflM 1 



DRAIfi PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, ENAMELLED 
SINKS, CALCINED PLASTER, 
WHEEL BARROWS, & c. 

COAL OIL, 

Portland, Roman and 

Canada Cements. 

50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 

BOYD & GO. Telephone 1996^ 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal : — Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co : 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co., D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 

TRIANGLE, 
SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

Special Discounts to Students. 




HEARN & HARRISON, 



1640 

NOTRE DAME 



W. ft F. P. CURRIE ft CO. 

IOO CREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



W 1 ITBF 0 KD & THE 01 ET 

'SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

$aui JBoohscItcr.s, git blisters amt bookbinders 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Legale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Just out, Oranksheiu’s Criminal Code of Canada, $10 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 
Juluocafes, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 



J. B. Abbott 
H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague 



C. S. Campbell 
,F. E. Meredith 



ATWATER & MACKIE 

Jiduocafes, barristers, (Commissioners, etc. 

O LD STANDARD _ BU.LP.NC ^ J A JJ£ S 

MONTREAL 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C.,D.C.L. 



Geo. G. Foster 



ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 



Telephone 1880 



Cable Address, “Arcfost.” 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



HALL, GROSS, BROWN 8 SHARP, 

Advocates, bisters and Solicitors, 



S JEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, 



MONTREAL 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C, 



Farquhar S. Maclennan 



MACMASTER & MACLENNAN 

Jutuoeatcs, barristers, <gtc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

^nucleates 

|57 St. James Street, MONTREAL 




Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AND THE ASOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 



Largest Stock. No Canvassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 
taken in exchange 




Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices 



FURNITURE 

FOB 

Professors and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



REMUD, KING & PATTERSON 

652 CRAIG STREET 



STUDENTS 

BUY YOUR 



Good Fall and Winter 

• o 



BOOTS 

$2.25, 2.75, 3 50, 4.00 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



SPMNGJIATS 

ALLAN’S, 661 CRAIG STREET, 

He has all the latest English and American styles at most reasonable prices. 
No trouble to show the goods. Coine in and see them; 5 per cent, off to Students. 

Do You Paint? 



JpX 'painting requisites 
and Artists' Jffaterials. 

DRAWING MATERIALS, 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, 

At special prices for Students at ... . 

WALTER COTTINGHAM & CO., 

1822 NOTRE DAME ST., 

CORNER ST. HELEN. 







Pull assortment of RUBBERS and OVERSHOES 



WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 

It goes without saying that 

^ALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 

Photos of Professors on sale. 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 




,TE/IM 



MANAGER. 




136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 

MONTREAL. 



HATS, CAPSaM FINE FURS 

Having opened a new store at 2411 St. Catherine Street, 1 would invite special inspec- 
tion oi a lar«e and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 



TELEPHONE 3466 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 2411 St. Catherine Street 



