IWcGlIsb FOHTNlGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature^ University Thought and Event- 



VOL. III. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 9 1894. No. 3 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 

Editor-in-chief— UowBR M. Jaquays, B.A. (App, Sc. ’96). 
Secretai'y — Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda *95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. *95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts *95). 



^ BUSI NESS B OARD ^ 

E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95), Chairman, 

A. F. Edwards (Med. '96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

W, F. Angus (App. Sc. ’95). J. C. Cutting (Com. IMed.and Vet. Sc. '95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts ’96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is 51.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. Renouf’s, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



It is unfortunate that all the Students of McGill 
could not have heard Dr. Adami’s inaugural lecture 
delivered last October before the undergraduates of 
Comparative Medicine. The lecture contained 
sentiments which could hardly fail to have com- 
mended themselves to all hearers. 

We wish that space permitted us to print it entire ; 
but as this is impossible, we select some of its especi- 
ally admirable thoughts. 

After speaking of the relations of student to pro- 
fessor, Dr. Adami thus enlarges upon the benefits to 
be derived from University training and the peculiarly 
advantageous position in which the University student 
is placed, 

“ Let me impress upon you the fact that you have become mem- 
bers, not merely of a Faculty of the University, but of the Uni- 
versity itself, and urge upon you to seize all the benefits that 
can be gained in this larger field . There is, I find, in too many 
of the Universities of this continent the tendency of the under 
graduates to wholly overlook the fact that they are members of 
a larger whole, and to content themselves with entering heart 
and soul into the affairs of their Faculty alone. I own that it is 
difficult to overcome this Faculty feeling, and I don’t wish to 
imply that in itself it is not most praiseworthy, as praiseworthy 
as it is natural. You are inevitably thrown into most intimate 
contact with those who are pursuiug the same course as you are 
yourselves. With them you have common interests and the 



strongest bond of union. But let me point out how much you 
lose if you let this override everything. You have, it is true, 
the same interests as have the other undergraduates of your 
Faculty, but these are what must be your interests throughout 
life, and never will you be able to tear yourselves away from 
them wholly. Never again will you have the same opportunity 
as will now during the next three years be yours of meeting on 
terms of frank intimacy those of different interests, different 
mode.s of thought, different aspirations, of obtaining so easily 
an insight into and sympathy for the controlling impulses of 
those who are embryo doctors, lawyers, theologians, engineers 
and would-be members of each of the learned professions. The 
more you learn to appreciate and comprehend the different 
minds of men and the diverse modes of thought associated 
with each line of life, the better and more capable men do you 
become — and, as I say, never in all probability will you at a 
later period have such an easy opportunity of acquiring all 
this. Thus it is that I would beg you with all earne.stness, 
while entering with eagerness into the concerns of your own 
Faculty, and while making your most intimate friendships 
within the walls of this (the Veterinary) college, at the same 
time to embrace every opportunity that leads to making you 
feel that you are members of the University. Meet and mingle 
with the students of the other Faculties in games upon the cam- 
pus, in the sports, in the debating and musical and other Uni- 
versity societies, and again outside the University, and at all 
these points of contact with the other students do your very 
best to make them through you respect your Faculty and your 
profession that is to be.” 

Our undergraduate may reply to this : “ We have not 
the necessary equipment to promote this feeling ; we 
lack dormitories, and our buildings are chiefly Faculty 
buildings.” This is undeniably true, but only shows the 
more conclusively that we should improve to the ut- 
most the opportunities we have. If we are not so for- 
tunate as to possess a union club, good gymnasium or 
an athletic field, we are at least (with the exception of 
the Faculty of Law) al] comparatively near to each 
other, and might surely see more of one another than 
we do. Then, is there any reason why we should not 
■'have, for example, a University dinner, and make it a 
great success as well ? “ Where there is a will there 

is a way.” After all, we are inclined to think that 
the students of different Faculties see less of one 
another and have less of the University feeling as 
opposed to Faculty feeling than is desirable, the fault 
lies largely in themselves. That this fault is one 
which should certainly be remedied, Dr. Adami has 
conclusively shown. 

As regards the club, we feel quite sure that if 
the students undertook in earnest it, or any one 
of the several projects just mentioned, they would 
be surprised at the ease with which it could be 
accomplished. The trouble is that the earnest effort 
is wanting. To take what is now our one object of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



38 



absolutely common property, the FORTNIGHTLY, 
it could hardly exist were it dependent solely 
upon student support. Of course the excuse is offered 
that there is no time to write. Here again let us 
quote Dr. Adami ; — 

“ My own experience has led me to think but poorl}' of the 
man who is a bookworm and nothing else ; to think even more 
poorly of the man who is slack ; and to §ee that neither of 
those classes of men do good in the world or achieve true 
success. It is those men who throw themselves heartily into 
work and college life outside of class room that I find happiest 
and most successf^ul in their future careers. And, finally, I have 
learned to appreciate most those who have the widest range of 
interests, and the greatest eagerness in the pursuit of those 
interests, and to see that it is those men who, provided they 
pursue those interests at right times, are not merely the happiest, 
but are bound to make a mark in this world and to do good, 
not simply to their own immediate surroundings, but to those 
distant, not merely in place but also in time.’^ 

Those who have been brought into contact with 
Prof. Hugh Longbourne Callendar since he came to 
McGill will be pleased to learn of the honour recently 
conferred upon him. His students will receive the 
news with special interest, for, short as has been the 
time since his advent among us, they have learned 
to admire and esteem him in no slight degree. 

Prof. Callendar was one of the fifteen who were 
elected members of the Royal Society, on Thursday, 
June 7th, 1894. The following is a list of his qualifi- 
cations : — 

“Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, Lecturer 
on Physics. Has made important investigations on 
the measurement of temperature by electrical means. 
These are described in the papers : — ‘ On the Practi- 
cal Measurement of Temperature’ (Phil. Trans. 1887 
A, p. 161) ; ‘ On the Determination of the Boiling 
Point of Sulphur, and on a Method of Standardizing 
Resistance Thermometers by reference to it ’ (ibid., 
1891, A) (this paper is written in conjunction with 
Mr. Griffiths) ; ‘ On the Construction of Platinum 
Thermometers’ (Phil. Mag., July, 1891); ‘Some 
Experiments with a Platinum Pyrometer on the 
Melting Points of Gold and Silver ’ (ibid., February, 
1892).” 

After its brief but brilliant outburst attendinsr 
^Sports day, McGill has once more lapsed into its 
usual placid calm ; and it seems right that a passing 
comment should be made on the manner in which 
affairs were conducted on that always memorable 
occasion. 

The usual large assemblage of visitors was present, 
it being the recognized thing for everybody who pre- 
tended to be “ anybody ” to spend, at least, an hour 
or two on the College campus watching the McGill 
men disport themselves at play and gain the much 
coveted laurels. 

The entrance by ticket was an innovation, though 
a good one, as only those were present who take 
interest enough in the College sports to procure an 



admission card, and who attend regularly on account 
of the enjoyment they derive from them. It also 
prevented the small boy fraternity from sending its 
usual large delegation to hamper the officers and 
cause disaster in the bicycle races. 

The entries for the different events were more 
numerous than usual, and the events themselves were 
very well contested throughout, — in fact, they appear- 
ed better than in former years, and certainly several 
records were completely demolished. 

The management of the afternoon games was very 
faulty, and showed either neglect or ignorance on the 
part of the members of the Committee. The races 
were allowed to drag wearily on, and much time was 
lost on account of the high jump and pole leap which 
consumed about two hours, while some races, among 
them the relay race, had to be postponed till the fol- 
lowing day. 

We think it only right to point out such defects 
and errors so that greater precautions may be taken 
to prevent their recurrence. 

Though donations and endowments have been 
made to all our Faculties, and our University is ex- 
tending rapidly in all its brahehes of study, there is 
one very important part of our education which has 
not received the support it deserves ; that this is so 
is due both to our superiors and to ourselves : to 

our superiors, because they have not placed at our dis- 
posal a convenient and suitable gymnasium ; to our- 
selves, because we have not given sufficient evidence 
by our enthusiasm to stimulate the authorities to give 
us the gymnasium. At the present time it is in order 
to enquire what advances are being made in gymnas- 
tics and what prospects there are for us to have a 
gymnasium. The work that has been done, though 
thorough after a manner, has not been up to the 
quality done at other colleges ; and it is only 
within the last year or so that the system in vogue 
in the American colleges has been introduced at Mc- 
Gill. 

This change we owe entirely to our enthusiastic 
instructor, who has given so much time to the study 
of gymnastics from a medical standpoint. 

The system has been employed in the American 
colleges for some years, and has proved admirable 
in every respect. Briefly, it is that every student who 
intends to go in for athletics or gymnastics has to 
undergo a thorough medical examination. Those 
who are unfitted for either kind of work are not allow- 
ed to undertake it, and where special work is re- 
quired, that particular work is prescribed. The system 
has this year been introduced at McGill, and as a 
result several students have been forbidden to go in 
for gymnastics on account of having organic disease j 
j others have been allowed only the lighter forms of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



39 



work ; others again have been forbidden the very 
heavy work, so that the students are thus grouped 
into classes, each class having suitable work. 

One can see that this is only a beginning of a 
more extensive work that will be in vogue before 
many years. For we find that at the American col- 
leges every student who enters the University under- 
goes a thorough medical examination, at which his 
weak points are noted and the kind of work beneficial 
to him is prescribed. It has been found that the 
health of the students increases from the Fresh- 
men to the Senior year. At McGill we have in part 
adopted this system ; we have as our instructor one 
»vho possesses the qualities of both a thorough and 
competent instructor and a first class medical man, 
but we do not possess a good gymnasium on our cam- 
pus, nor are we aware that we shall have one in the 
near future. 



We would draw attention to, and invite corres- 
pondence upon, the subject of a letter contained in 
this number concerning an open air skating rink for 
McGill. Should the Students view the plan favorably, 
there is little doubt but that the authorities would 
forward it by every means in their power. 

The thousand students assembled here, with a semi- 
weekly day for their friends, ought certainly to be 
able to furnish life enough to support a rink, and 
make it not only a success but a rousing one. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



To the Editor of the Fortnightly : 

Sir, 

Many Students are anxious to know if, in connection 
with the new management of Athletics in McGill, we 
are to have an open air skating rink on the College 
grounds during the coming winter ; and if not, why 
not } 

Skating is of all forms of exercise the best suited to 
the special conditions of our long winter session ; but 
unfortunately it cannot at present be indulged in by 
the average student. The closed rinks are costly or 
objectionable, while the magnificent open air rink of 
the M. A. A. A. is too far from the College to be 
available, when an hour is perhaps the maximum time 
one can well afford to give up each day to exercise. 
A rink on the campus would give students an oppor- 
tunity of making use of even a few minutes in taking 
much needed exercise in a most healthful and delight- 
ful way, and the writer is assured it would be greatly 
appreciated by all classes of students. 

B 



CONTRIBUTIONS 

THE DONALDAS AT THE GYMNASIUM. 
The Donalda class at the Gymnasium is larger and 
more enthusiastic this year than it has been for some 
time, in spite of the inconveniently early hour at 
which it is held. It seems rather hard that the Donal- 
das should have to turn out at nine o’clock two morn- 
ing’s of the week, while the other students have an 
afternoon hour for their classes ; but such is the case, 
and even then some ladies are forced to leave before 
the hour is over to get up to college for a ten o’clock 
lecture. 

With less than two hours a week it is impossible 
for rapid progress to be made, but it is easy to see 
that this year’s beginners are bright and in earnest, 
and will do well in the end ; and as for the “ veterans,” 
they are reaping the reward of faithful work which will 
come to an end only with their title of “ Donaldas.” 

Variety is said to be the spice of life. Perhaps this, 
is why the scarlet blouses are of so many shapes and 
sizes. Would that we had an artist to sketch the 
uniforms — loose blouses with loose sleeves, tight 
blouses with tight sleeves, loose blouses with tight 
sleeves, tight blouses with loose sleeves; big black 
velvet collars, small black velvet collars, no visible 
collars ; long cuffs, short cuffs, no cuffs, and so on ; 
but we feel convinced that this matters not at all, 
so long as the work presents no such variety but is 
always correct and graceful. 

Even on the most miserably wet days, the 
Donaldas turn out at this unseasonable hour, and 
while “ tying the knot at the double ” round the 
largest pool of water on the floor, their cheerful 
smiles and rosy cheeks present a happy contrast to 
the gloomy, gray weather outside. Should they 
ever be so fortunate as to have a Gymnasium wind 
and water tight, how much happier they would be 
and how many more would join in this health-giving 
exercise ! 

Much attention is paid to walking, in this class, and 
the members of it ought to be, and we hope are 
easily recognized by their graceful carriages. At the 
next lesson each student is to show Miss Barnjum 
how she is in the habit of “ sitting at ease,” but of 
course, as busy Donaldas, they are not expected to 
be well up in this. 

We expect an unusually large number to enter for 
the annual competition in the Spring. It is a matter 
of regret that the number of spectators is limited to 
the three judges and Miss Barnjum’s “ aides.” 

When, at the end of the lesson, the old swing is 
put up, and half a dozen stately Donaldas pile in, 
while others improve their vaulting and ladder 
exercises, and one performs extraordinary antics 
peculiarly her own, it is a sight worth seeing ! 



40 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Truly, the Donalda gymnastic class combines 
pleasure with profit, and vve cannot be too thankful 
that we have such a woman at the head of it — whose 
cheerfulness keeps the girls bright and active, and 
whose thorough instruction will do much towards 
making them strong and healthy women. 

But we must not forget to mention our pianiste, 
whose selections not only help us in keeping time, 
but also in remembering just what is to be done 
next. When some one, in despair, over the intricacies 
of the “ Catherine Wheel” or “Windmill” lets her 
arms fall at her sides, she has but to look towards the 
piano, and she gets such a cheery nod and smile 
from the player that despair vanishes and she is 
quite ready to set to work again and overcome all 
difficulties. 

THE QUARTIER LATIN. 

When I drove from the Gare du Nord, down the 
Rue St. Denis, across the Pont au Change and the 
Pont St. Michel, my ideas of the Quartier Latin were 
vague, romantic and mysterious. To me it was the 
labyrinth of narrow streets and dirty alleys in which 
Jehan Frollo led his reckless fellows and where Les 
Trois Mousquetaires made their home. I was accord- 
ingly surprised to find the Boulevard St. Michel a 
wide avenue, perhaps somewhat gayer than the streets 
on the north side of the Seine but no less civilized. 
And when I reached the quiet little hotel opposite 
the Odeon on the Rue Corneille, I came to the conclu- 
sion that with such secluded retreats the students’ 
quarter could not be so terrible a place after all. The 
first few days after my arrival were spent on hunting 
for a room that would support my ideas of La 
Boheme. In and out I wandered, from the Boulevard 
St. Michel to the Rue Royer Collard, and from the 
Rue Guy Lussac to the Rue Malebranche, darting at 
every sign “ chambre a loner ” and climbing endless 
stairs, until I at last found a comfortable room, chez 
Madame Brunet au troisihne. The following day my 
things were brought over from the hotel, and my life 
among the students began. 

Madame Brunet has for some years kept a students’ 
boarding house, and is a great favorite among the 
Egyptians, many of whom go to Paris to study. Of 
the nation we had several specimens. The first of 
whom I shall attempt to give some description is 
“ Ismail Chimy Bey, premier substitut du Procureur 
General pres de la Cour d’Appel mixte, Alexandrie, 
Egypte,” a typical Arab, slight, wiry and energetic, 
with an intelligent brow between piercing black 
eyes and curling black hair. His dark skin betokens 
the man of tropical clime and his impetuosity the 
character of the Oriental. Impatient of contradiction, 
he is an incessant disputer, and his fiery nature lends 



brilliance and eloquence to his conversation. In 
1889 he took his Doctorate in Law in Paris, and 
returned to his native land, where his ability and the 
influence of his family rapidly advanced him in his pro- 
fession. Last winter an unfortunate bereavement 
broke down his health and spirits, and the doctor 
advised a change of scene. What place could be more 
suitable for distraction than Paris, the scene of his 
student life.? Thither he went, and “descending” 
naturally at Madame Brunet’s, preceded me by but two 
weeks. In spite of antagonistic opinions, we became 
fa.st friends. He was ostensiblyaMohamedan, in reality 
an atheist ; an Anglophobe whom the British occupa- 
tion of Egypt galled beyond endurance j and an Orien. 
tal, who looked on woman as a cipher to be hidden be- 
hind stone walls or impenetrable veils all the days of 
her life. On these three questions we were eternally 
arguing. A telegram from Egypt would raise his 
ire, and Lord Cromer would be abused as an 
imbecile, Mr. Gladstone as a per fide. I would hasten 
to take up the defence of our nation, but with halt- 
ing French and a fierce opponent seldom made any 
impression. To Chimy I am indebted for my more 
intimate knowledge of Paris. He took me every- 
where, translated to polite P'rench the scraps of intim- 
ate conversation I could not understand, and was 
ever an interesting companion. 

Two Egyptians, Fonade Bey and Rusdji, were 
Law students who took life easily and spent liberal 
allowances. Perhaps an explanation of Pacha and 
Bey may not be amiss here. These titles in civil life 
correspond to General and Colonel in military par- 
lance, and are usually the reward of some merit. A 
Pacha’s son, however, is by right a “ Bey, ” and that is 
how Fonade, a law student, comes by his title. Chimy, 
on the other hand, received his for public services on 
the Municipal Board of Alexandria. Besides these 
three who were in Paris most of my sojourn, we had 
several others who were'there for ash^rttime : they 

w’ere Cheneri Bey, who found an income of 60,000 
francs insufficient for his tastes ; M. Naiquib, one of 
the most gentlemanly fellows at our table, who had 
brought his wife from Cairo for an important surgical 
operation ; his brother, whose features betrayed Ethio- 
pian blood ; and P'akri a civil servant who came from 
the Egyptian capital to break the bank at Monte 
Carlo, and who used to spend half the night before a 
diagram of the table spread on the floor of his room, 
perfecting his system. He finally went to Monte 
Carlo, but I left before he returned with his wealth. 
From intercourse with these men their country be- 
came a land of interest, and a land of interest is of ' 
course one that must be visited. 

Our other companions were Cocontze, an indus- 
trious and intelligent Greek, studying Law ; Signor 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



41 



Compos, a clever young Italian, completing his medical 
course ; and lastly M. Henri, a lively Parisian. Being 
introduced to our table, you can easily imagine the 
variety of our conversational subjects. In religion 
it was each man for himself, for we represented 
Mahomedanism, Catholicism and Protestantism, the 
teachings of the- Greek Patriarchial Church, the 
doctrines of the Jews, and Atheism. We were nothing 
if not cosmopolitan. In politics, the Greek and 
Italian sided with the English, the French with the 
Egyptians ; in Sociology all the Europeans turned 
against the Africans Signor Compos was our author- 
ity in medical subjects ; M. Cocontze, on legal subjects; 
and Chimy Bey, who would brook no doubt of the 
accuracy of his knowledge, was our oracle on every- 
thing. 

There was a club known as “ La Boucane, ” where I 
found men from Canada who knew my friends and 
whose friends I knew. M. Fabre, our courteous com- 
missioner, very kindly gave me a letter of introduction 
to the President, a young sculptor who has exhibited 
in the Salon, and since returned home. We used to 
meet on Saturday evenings once a month at the Cafe 
du Fleury opposite the Luxembourg Gardens, where 
billiards, cards and pipes made the evening pass 
all too quickly. We were all from Canada, but our 
pursuits varied, — sculptors, painters, doctors, lawyers, 
architects and litterateurs. Every other Saturday 
our president was at home in \\\s atelier, where among 
clay models muffled in wet cloths, plaster casts and 
lay figures we enjoyed ourselves as only ’students 
can. 

The student population of the Quartier Latin is 
said to be 10,000, but that includes only the Univer- 
sity men and those attending the College de France; 
if we extend our district to the Boulevard Mont 
Parnasse, and include artists and the students of the 
Ecoles des Beaux Arts, des Ponts et Chaussees, etc., we 
would have a far larger number. In the Ecole de 
Droit we had between 900 and 1,000 men. Lectures 
are delivered from 8.30 a.m until 6 p.m., but attend- 
ance is not in the least compulsory. To prevent 
entire absence there is the following regulation : 
“ Tout e'tudiant aspirant soitau baccalaureat, soil a la 
licence, ou voulant obtenir le certijicat de capacite, devra^ 
pour justifier de sa presence au siege de la Faculte, 
apposer sa signature sur un registre tenu par le secre- 
taire de la Faculte, en decembre, fevrier et avril de 
chaque annh.” 

There is another kind of inscription known as the 
Inscription Trimestrielle, that forms an interesting 
feature in the Faculty regulations. Four times a 
year the student must renew his carte dTnscription 
by appearing before the Secretary, reinscribing in the 
books, and, unless exempted as a prize man, paying 
thirty francs. This is the only fee payable during 



the session, but the examination fees range from 
twenty to seventy-five dollars. In comparing our 
respective systems of teaching, if it be not considered 
presumptuous, I think ours is the best, for the reason 
that the student gets a practical knowledge of his pro- 
fession while storing his mind with its theories. In 
other regards it is hardly to be supposed that a stu- 
dent who spends all day in an office, and studies 
and takes lectures only when office work will allow 
him, can compete with one who devotes his 
whole time to lectures and the study of the authors. 
As it is everywhere, so in Paris there are some stu- 
dents who take careful notes, and others who take 
none. But a professor is never asked to go more 
slowly, and all questions are reserved until the lecture 
isconcluded, when they are most courteously answered 
in the Professor’s room. The teaching staff of the 
Faculty is composed of twenty-six professors and 
seven adjunct or assistant professors. Of these, five 
are devoted to Roman Law, — a subject that is consi- 
dered by some of us as a nuisance. As an example 
of how the detail of Roman Law is studied there, I 
may mention that Prof. Jobbe Duval occupied two 
trimestres on lecturing to the Second Year on “La 
Theorie Generale de la Procedure Civile ” (Roman) and 
“ Les actions de droit strict etde bonne foi.” I fear if 
we had been threatened with half as much we should 
have died or sloped. In other matters the work is 
very similar to ours, only more detailed. 

The examination system is interesting. Each 
year must pass tw'o oral examinations on all the 
matters taught during the session. Long before the 
day of trial the students draw lots, and are assigned 
some day to appear before the Faculty. Instead of 
all being examined at once, one may have his exam- 
ination, the first of the month, another the last. 
Should a man not be prepared for an early exam 
ination. he can often effect an exchange and postpone 
his trial for two weeks or more. On appearing before 
the examiners, the candidate is asked two or three 
questions by two or three professors. If he answers 
well he gets a white ball ; if the answer is less than 
creditable, a red ; and if altogether bad, a black. A 
student who takes trois blancs is recognized as a 
scholar, while one wEo takes one boule noire and 
one roiige noire or three rouges-noires is, as the 
regulations have it, ajourne. The examinations are 
held in July, and often last well into’August. The 
second year safely passed confers the Bachelor’s 
degree, and the third that of Licentiate. The licen- 
tiate to obtain his Doctor’s degree must undergo three 
examinations, which may, I believe, betaken any time 
after four years’ study or sixteen inscriptions, and 
write a Thesis. 

But this is the student at work, when he is invisible. 
The real student life appears on the Boulevard St. 



42 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Michel, or, as he calls it, the Boule Miche, between the 
Rue Soufiflet and the Boulevard St. Germain. There, 
gay, reckless, goodhearted and generous, he sings 
half the night, rollicking from one cafe to another, or 
from the Bal Bulier to D’Harcourts. 7 hey are noisy, 
iiresponsible boys. One sees every kind of eccentri- 
city, in dress, manner and language ; artists are there 
\\ ith long hair and slouch hats ; severe, clerical-look- 
ing law students, portfolio under arm ; and medicals, 
with flat brimmed silk hats that look halfa century out 
of date. And with them are les files dii quartier^ 
light-hearted and laughing, though poverty may have 
sent them to bed .v'ithout any dinner the day before, 
as faithful to Jean to-day as they were to Jacques 
last week. Happy as happiness goes, knowing every 
one, caring for no one, they shout their greetings across 
the street, slap the garfon's face if he is slow, and jest 
as coolly as though at home instead of under the glit- 
tering lights of the streets and the flaring lamps of the 
cafes. There is exhilaration in the crowd ; one is con- 
tinually laughing. A droll figure, a quick repartee, 
something is always appearing or being heard. 
Crushed in a mass of shouting boys and shrieking girls, 
one does not get angry but amused. D’Harcourts is 
the gieat resort for all classes. There from ten or 
eleven until two in the morning no table is vacant, and 
you must wait for a seat. Flower women thread their 
way in and out among the tables, coaxing with ready 
wit I' ami to buy a bunch of roses for I'amie ; peddlers 
of rugs and curtains to furnish Bohemian rooms, pen- 
cils, fans and Chinese umbrellas ; sellers of puzzles, 
or buttons and ribbons for Carnot’s huneral, cry their 
wares with untiring energy. And around the edge 
of this mass of tables and human beings hover solemn, 
dark, eagle-eyed men vv'atching with unwavering gaze 
the cigar in your hand or the cigarette in your lips, 
ready to speai it with a pike-pointed stick the 
moment it touches the ground, pocket it with its 
fellow-stubs, cut, dry and resell it at les Halles Cen- 
trales. And above the hum or rather roar of this 
crowd rise the shrill cries of ne^^vsboys, some of whom 
are very droll. I remember one paper published 
under the classic yet fitting name of Cochon, that 
was cried most lustily : “ Voice le Cochon, Ach-e-tez 

mon Cochon, Redacteur en chef M'sieu De'goutant, 
Itse pav Madame Sans Gene et le demi-monde ! etc 
A pamphlet that had a great sale was “ Les trente- 
deux positions d'un gendre avec sa belle-mere. This 
is without the cafe doors on the broad sidewalks that 
often accommodate many more clients than the caf6 
itself. Within, the hubbub is worse, because confined. 
Songs and jests, orders given in shrill trebles or roll- 
ing basses turn D’Harcourts into a bedlam. The scene 
is unique. The back part of the cafe, the resort of 
especially noisy boys, is separated from the front by 
thi ee steps, at the head of w'hich stands a burly artist 



with flowing locks and zouave trou.sers, to whom every 
girl must pay toll of a kiss before she passes. A 
waiter is seized, and passed bodily from table to table, 
irrespective of glaces. An amorous couple in the 
corner are locked in one another’s arms, innocent of 
surroundings, until the waiter excitement subsiding, 
the boys crowd around, eager for a share of the kisses. 
At another table half a dozen fellows sing loudly and 
I well : — 

“ Je sais une complainte 
De quatre z-^tudiants 
Fait’ pour dormer la craiute 
Des p’tit’s femm’s aux jeun’s gens. 

L’premier faisait des lett’es 
L’second du Droit Romain 
L’troisi6tne faisait des dettes, 

L/’quatriem’ faisait rieu, etc. ” 

But all the restaurants are not like D’Harcourts. 
There are others of a quieter order, where more stu- 
dious or less boisterous students resort to play chess, 
cards or dominoes. Occasionally those students, 
whom grinding poverty does not confine to the 
quartier, make excursions to the other side of the river 
to visit the Moulin Rouge or the Casino, to hear Yvette 
Guilbert at the “ Ambassadeurs,” or “Les Cinq Sceurs 
Barison” at the “ Folies Bergeres, ” and wind up with 
supper (beer and hard boiled eggs) at Pousset’s, or a 
grog amMcain at the cafe of the same name. 

In the morning the student is chez lui, reading or 
sleeping. In the afternoon he attends lectures, or goes 
to the cafe for a game of billiards or some such plea- 
sant employment. The student of the Quartier Latin 
is a jolly’companion, — seldom quarrelsome and never 
pugnacious ; he drinks Chartreuse and Cognac as a 
matter of course, and though frequently gai is rarely 
parti. Practical jokes are on all the time. A long 
string of students in single file will cross and recross 
a street, stopping all traffic until the gens d'armes re- 
spectfully object. One fellow made a bet that he 
alone would stop the traffic on the Boulevard St. 
Michel, an important thoroughfare, for ten minutes. 
The bets were no sooner registered than our bon- 
homme twisted some braid, such as officials wear, 
around his shoulder and arm, and with note book and 
measure in hand stepped into the road and motioned 
the drivers to stop. Every thing, cabs, tram-cars, heav- 
ily laden waggons and private carriages came to a 
standstill, while he stretched his line across the street, 
and with a great show of importance made entries in 
his book. The measurements had of course to be 
corrected, verified and corrected again until the ten 
minutes were up. Then he quietly rolled up his mea- 
sure waved his hand as a notice that life might go on 
again, and walked into the cafe to claim his bet. 

The Bal des Quat-z-Arts, held every spring, is the 

effervescence of the Art students’ Bohemian life. The 

costumes are unique and startling, indeed only artists 
and models could imagine such combinations or 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY, 



43 



would dare such paucity of clothing. An Arts student 
of my acquaintance gave me a good account of the 
Ball as held in April last. He went with six men from 
the same atelier^ dressed as Goths or Huns, or some 
such savages. Their bodies naked to the waist were 
daubed with colors more hideous than the Apaches. 
From their girdles hung hammers, axes or old swords 
borrowed from the studio. Around their necks were 
hung chains of nails, bits of iron or old lock, with a 
battered coffeepot for a pendant. In this array they 
made night hideous with their yells, pranced through 
the figures, threatening the lives of their neighbors, 
and convulsing every one with laughter. Originality 
was the charm of the costumes ; Louis Quatorze, 
Marie Stuart and Escamillo were scorned. Beelzebub 
in his real character, not the graceful Mephistopheles 
of Faust, might have been seen, with Caliban and any 
other horrible characters you can imagine. Venus 
de Medici and the Lady Godiva, the tyrannical 
police would not allow to appear. They were so well 
represented the year before that the authorities pro- 
secuted. The students rose to defend their favorites^ 
and in the riot one man was killed ; hence the police 
supervision of all costumes. 

The Ball is held in the Moulin Rouge after the 
regular performance, — that is, from 12.30 until 6 or 
7 in the morning. 

About a month before the examination, the haunts 
of the student know him no more, or, more correctly^ 
see considerably less of him. Dreams of trois blancs 
encourage, or fears of terrify him, and as with 

us every one crams. 

Such are the boys of the Quartier Latin. Generous 
to a fault, they are ready to receive every one — ex- 
cept a German — as a brother ; and devoting to work 
a considerable portion of their time, in spite of decla- 
rations to the contrary, they are the men whose ability 
France recognizes, and for whom she reserves all her 
indulgence and a great part of her affection. 

A. RIVES HALL. 

McGILL LITERARY SOCIETY. 

In addition to the changes lately made in the 
constitution of our Society, I would suggest one or 
two others : 

First : would it not be well to change the present 
programme in such a way as to give more freedom to 
those taking part in it } I think, if, instead of tying 
men down to some special item, we were to let each 
of them choose for himself the nature of his contribu- 
tion, it would please them better, and would at the 
same time guarantee to the Society the best each 
could give. 

This change would widen the range of the pro- 
gramme and greatly remove any temptation to de- 
fault. 



Another step we should take is the appointment 
of special critics, for a great deal of harm is done by 
our present method of choosing them indiscrimin- 
ately. What we need is a fixed standard of criticism 
to look to, and which will stimulate us to careful 
preparation. The present standard is always shift- 
ing, and we are often praised or blamed when we 
least deserve it. 

The critic’s office is one which calls for tact and 
judgment, and one or two of the senior members, in 
whom the Society has confidence, should be appointed 
to fill it. 

S. T. S. 



OUR OBLIGATION AS WOMEN TO INDIA. 

A LECTURE BY MRS. ASHLEY CARUS-WILSON TO 
THE THEO DORA MISSIONARY SOCIETY. 

The series of monthly meetings of the Theo Dora 
Society opened on Wednesday afternoon, Oct. 31st, 
when Miss Watson, introducing Mrs. Carus-Wilson, 
expressed the earnest hope that the lecture which 
was to follow might prove the means of re-awaken- 
ing the spirit of missionary zeal which should ani- 
mate all the movements of such an organization as 
the Theo Dora Society. 

Mrs. Carus-Wilson then opened her lecture with a 
brief statement of the largeness of its subject and the 
difficulty of treating it adequately in so short a time. 
The difficulty, however, was one which weighed less 
with the outward observer than with the active 
worker. Reports of returned missionaries, crowded 
as they are with details of individual work, weighted 
with statistics which often convey no intelligible in- 
formation, are apt to obscure rather than bring out 
the grand outlines of this great w'ork — the Christian- 
ization of India. 

The position of India, physical and historical, was 
then lightly sketched, and its importance made mani- 
fest as the ground of many triumphs of strong races 
over weak, as the cradle of heathen faiths, as the land 
of 290,000,000 of men, men so varied that they spoke 
in one hundred and one languages, yet so united in 
error that India is still after long years of missionary 
effort the stronghold of heathendom. “ India taken,” 
said Mrs. Carus-Wilson, “ Heathenism is van- 
quished.” 

Then came a review of the missionary work in In- 
dia from the earliest days of Christianity, St. Thomas 
w'as said to have labored there. St. Francis Xavier 
in the i6th century led a band of Roman Catholic 
missionaries who worked long. Not until one hun- 
dred years ago did England wake up to a sense of 
her obligation in the matter. In the last century 
much has been done and much remains to be done. 
In spite of all discouragements, the hopeful facts re- 



44 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



main that Christianity, in point of numbers, now 
stands third among the religions of India, and in in- 
fluence it far surpasses all others. Statistics show 
and leading journals have noted that in University 
examinations Christian candidates outnumber and 
excel both Moslems and Brahmins. 

The power mo^t baffling to the missionary in India 
is the strong force of Brahminism, and, strange to say, 
this force finds its greatest exponent in Indian 
women. It seems inexplicable that these women 
should be devotedly attached to a religion which has 
used them so cruelly : “ Which makes women at 

birth unwelcome, in childhood untaught, in marriage 
enslaved, in widowhood accursed, and in death un- 
lamented.” 

Yet the fact remains that in many cases men have 
been touched by European influence, and would lay 
aside the bondage of Brahmin religion were it not 
for the fanatic bigotry of their wives and mothers. 
This puts rather a new face on our ideas of Indian 
women and makes plainer than ever the responsibil- 
ity of the women of Britain. 

India — a country ancient, rich, vast almost beyond 
our comprehension, has been given by the Providence 
of God into the keeping of the English people. 
The land is the citadel of Heathenism, and the key 
to the fortress held by the wives and mothers of 
India can be secured only by Christian women. The 
logical conclusion of the argument is surely plain. 

The conclusion of the lecture, of which this must 
be taken as a mere outline, consisted of extracts from 
the recent letters of the sister of Mrs. Carus-Wilson, 
an active missionary in Cashmir, and glimpses of 
actual experience which gave life and vividness to 
foregoing facts. 

FOETRY. 



“ LOST— A KEY TO LIVY.” 

So thou art gone, my oiyn, my Livy Key ; 
Henceforth thy help is not to be for me. 

Alone, unaided, onward must I plod 
Until I fathom every “ period.” 

How oft have I caressed thy pages fair, 

And followed every line with greatest care ; 

And now exams up high before me loom — 

How couldst thou leave me to so dire a doom ? 

I wonder where thou findest now a home. 

And who to thee for aid does often come. 

I pray you, sir, whoever you may be, 

To send me back my cherished Livy Key. 

DONLASAGE. 

Oct. 30th, 1894. 

AN INVITATION TO READING CHAUCER 

Leave for awhile the fret of modern life, 

Its cheap pert aims, delirious unrest ; 

Leave social maladies and the lust-pest 
To Nature’s surgery. Trust her wise knife. 

Shut out the reek of this stock-jobbing age. 

The muddy ferment of its greed, and rage 
Of blind, deaf, mad, industrial war. Close ears. 
Close eyes. Waken in long past lovely years, 



Waken in Chaucer’s England, ’mid the ring 
Of bells, 'mid rainbow throngs, and rich gay sights. 
Lo ! here a baud of pilgrims, dames and knights 
Beset with evil’s strong encompassing 
In days when men had souls to save. What Thing 
Is this that dogs these wayfarers, affrights, 

Mocks, lures, and frustrates, startles and delights. 
And wins them to a wild abandoning 
Of heaven, of all ? Such Power dogs us to-day ; 

And we are pilgrims, shadowed on our way, 

Waging the old, inexplicable strife 
With darkness, taint of blood, necessity, 

Fate, chance, or something? Can we see ! 

H. M. 

THE BOYS IN THE GODS. 

Of course, they were noisy and wouldn’t keep still. 

And oft interrupted the play 
With a “ What’s the matter with Old McGill ?” 

And a deafening “ Hip! hip I hurrah !” 

Of course, they were scarcely quite up to the mark, 

But what, in good faith, was the odds ? 

We knew they were students and out on a lark. 

And we bore with the boys in the gods. 

And the music was . Well, I’ll admit that the score 

Wasn’t writ for a classical ear. 

And the words were, “We’ll Never Get Drunk Any More,’’ 
And “ The Son of a Gambolier.” 

But we listened with manly delight to each song. 

And we answered with hearty applauds. 

For their voices in unison true were and strong 
As the hearts of the boys in the gods. 

And the bald-headed gent with the rim of gray hair, 

Who ought to know better, you’ll say. 

Sank listlessly back with a sigh in his chair. 

And pronounced himself sick of the play. 

He declared that the opera singing was cracked. 

That the orchestra fellows were frauds. 

And he growled from beginning to end of the act 
For a song from the boys in the gods. 

They have started once more ; they are singing of love. 

The lady looks up with a blush. 

With her fan folded shut in her lithe-fitting glove 
And her snowy arm still, on the plush. 

She listens until they have finished, and then 
With approval unconsciously nods ; 

And that night in her dreams she heard over again 
The song of the boys in the gods. 

W. M. M., IN “Songs of a Sophomore.” 



THEATRE NIGHT 



TRI-FACULTY NIGHT. 

One more successful Theatre Nignt has been added 
to the score of such, for which the friends of McGill 
have to thank her under-graduates. 

On Friday evening, Nov. 2nd, Arts, Science and 
Law made for themselves a record in the accomplish- 
ment of their annually recurring desire for this par- 
ticulai kind of fun, when no thought is given to any- 
thing more serious than processions made gorgeous 
ith sti earning banners, extravagant head gear be- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



4j 



decked with red and white, and brilliant pyrotech- 
nics enlivening the respectable localities about our 
University. 

Never before have we mustered in such numbers 
at old McGill’s gates — for the returns. of our special 
ticket show that there were six hundred and seventy- 
eight in the procession. Promptly at 7. 1 5 o’clock 
the Fusiliers’ band, receiving word from the Committee 
that all was ready, struck up a rousing march, and 
under the lead of our three waving banners, side by 
side, we started briskly in the bracing air bound on 
at least one night’s free enjoyment, knowing that 
even though it should be somewhat hilarious, every- 
one would take it in good part; as a relaxation from our 
somewhat confining and exacting routine duties. 

At the Academy of Music order was soon obtained, 
as after McGill had settled down there was very little 
room left in the gods for outsiders, — the little there 
was being immediately filled. But there is neither 
time nor space at my disposal to do justice to our 
night. There was such a prevalent good humor, 
the programme of solos and choruses ran so smoothly 
and were so evidently enjoyed by all, there were so 
many novelties introduced both in the house and on 
the stage in decorations and otherwise, that the 
unanimous decision of those participating was : 
“ Never before have we held so enjoyable a Theatre 
Night ! ” 

Among the solos the palm must be accorded to the 
“ Armorer’s song,” which E. Burke, Arts ’98, with his 
splendid bass voice, sang in a manner highly credita- 
ble to any musical programme ; the words of “ Climb 
up, chillun, climb,” with their special reference to con- 
temporary University matters, also called for loud 
applause and cheers for Mr. W. Mackeracher, B.A., 
who wrote them. 

One special feature too of this our ’95 night was 
the manner in which, after the play at the theatre 
was over, the interest was kept up until the very last, 
for, after tramping miles to the accompaniment of the 
never-tiring band, when we came to sing “Auld 
Lang Syne” at one o’clock a.m., we found our ranks 
not perceptibly diminished in number, and certainly 
not at all worn out in the exuberance of their spirits. 

The thanks of the studeqts are due to the commit- 
tee of management composed of the following gen- 
tlemen, who, by their efforts, contributeJ so much to 
the success of the night : — Chairman, C. D. White, 
Law, Class ’97 ; Secretary, E. E. Howard, Arts, 
Class ’85 ; Treasurer, L. Boyd, B.A., Law, Class ’98; 
Conductor, A. R. Holden, B.A., Science, Class ’95 ; 
F. Carmichael, B.A., Law, Class ’86 ; H. M. Killaly, 
Science, Class ’97 ; Mr. Leroy, Arts, Class ’95 ; Mr. 
Marler, Arts, Class ’97. 



MEDICAL THEATRE NIGHT. 



Halloween, when spirits float abroad, and the 
small boy delights himself at the expense of a pea- 
blower and discomfort of neurotic individuals, the 
Medical Students of “Old McGill” sauntered into 
the rain and mud to enjoy their annual theatre 
night. 

Everything was favorable to their complete enjoy- 
ment ; and elements disagreeable to ordinary indiv- 
iduals seemed to be their vantage-ground. 

The Vic’s Band played sweet music, the Students 
sang their hereditary songs, and off they started from 
the College gates, swinging the long bones of past 
ages amusing themselves and the public gener- 
ally. 

After making their usual preliminary march, with 
H. W. Peppers in the lead, they eventually entered 
the Queen’s Theatre with a “hustle.” Here they 
found a full house, who, attracted by the occasion, 
shivered with delight to see their old favorites. 

The Theatre was lavishly decorated to the tune of 
McGill colors, which started the students off on their 
old, old yell and appropriate college songs ; and 
when the professors entered they were stimulated to 
a repetition cf the same. 

The Camille d’Arville Opera Company did its best 
to please the Students, and the Students vied with it 
in amusing the audience. On the whole, everything 
was done in proper order, and carried out with the 
old time success which always attends the Meds. 

During the intermissions proper floral gifts and 
suitable souvenirs were made to the Stars, and 
only too soon did the opera come to an end, 
when the pleased audience went home ; — not so did 
the Students, These had more on their programme 
which they strictly fulfilled. After forming in line 
at the theatre door they started on their annual visits 
to the professor’s residences, and it was only at a 
very late hour that they, as a contemporary puts it, 
'^dispersed, and some of them went home." 



The officers and soloists deserve special mention ; — 

H. W. Peppers. — President. 

T. I. Lynch ) ^ 

E. W. Hayden j Committee. 

H. H. Hurdon } ^ ^ 

A. S. McElroy j Committee. 

G. P. McDougall \ n/r • 1 r' 

H. M. Robertson Committee. 

A. R. Pennoyer ) , 

E. M. Von Eberts I 
VV. P. Scott ^ 

W. P. McNally ! c / • . 

H. McRoberts > Soloists. 

M. Fortin (Bishops) j 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ATHLETICS. ^ bicycle race in 2 mins. 45 1-5 secs., thus beating 

the previous college record by 27 3-10 secs. 

THE ANNUAL FIELD DAY. Inter-Faculty trophy was won by Medicine 

I with 75 points out of a possible 144. Science won 
Thursday, Oct. 25th, was a gala day at McGill, second place with 37 points ; and Arts third with 23 
for on that day the McG. U. A. A. held one of its points. 

most successful field meetings that has ever been held Campbell, of Med, ’97, won the Governors’ trophy 
by the McGill students. The day was not all that with 20 points ; Tees and McDougall of Medicine, and 
could be desired, as the sky most of the day was over- Coussirat of Arts, were equal for second place with 
cast and the weather was threatening, added to this 10 points each. Tees won the M.A.A.A. medal for 
there were numerous other counter-attractions ; yet in the 440 yards run. 

spite of all these unfavorable circumstances, the crowd The following is the result of the different 
was the largest which has ever been seen on the Col- events : 

lege grounds on any such occasion. The small boy i. Kicking foot-ball. — i. K. Molson (Arts). 2. 
was not so numerous as in days of yore, which Baker (Sc.). 3. Sparrow (Med.). Average kick, 124 ft. 
was due to the fact that only ladies, and gentlemen 4^ ins. 

having tickets w'ere allowed in the grounds. The 2. Throwing hammer (16 lbs.). — i. McDougall 
number of the fair sex who were present was the (Med.). 2. Griffin (Sc.). 3. McLennan (Med.). 72 ft. 

largest on record, which was due, no doubt, to the ins. 

forethought of the Committee in erecting wooden 3- Throwing heavy w'eight (56 lbs.). — i. Mc- 
benches around the campus. The interest amongst Lennan (Med.). 2. Baskin (Med.). 3. Armstrong 

the students taken in the Sports this year was without (Arts). 20 ft. 4^ ins. 

doubt keener than on any previous occasion. This 4- Throwing cricket ball. — i. Robertson (Med.), 
was due to the many kindnesses of friends who lent 2. A. Barclay (Sc.). 3. McLea (Sc.). 103 yds. 6 

us very tangible aid in the shape of cups, medals, ins. 

trophies, etc. The Inter-Faculty trophy, which was 5- Putting 16 lb. shot. — i. McDougall (Med.). 2. 

promised by last year’s Committee, was very kindly Walker (Med.). 3. Sparrow (Med.). 32 ft. 5^ ins. 

presented by the Graduates, and the Governors of the b. High jump. — i. Killaly (Sc.). 2. Peppers 

University showed their appreciation of the efforts of (Med.). 3. McLea (Sc.). 5 ft. i in. 

the A. A. by presenting a cup for competition, which 7- Mile run. — i. Brodie (Sc.). 2. Smith (Med.), 

is to be given to the student who wins the greatest 3- Green (Sc.). 2 mins. 40 4-5 secs. Record broken 

number of points in all events. This cup is to be 8. 100 yds. dash — i, Campbell (Med.). 2. Creig 

competed for annually, the competitor winning it each f Med.). 3. Tees (Med.). 10 4-5 secs, 

year is to have a suitable souvenir, and will also have 9- Running broad jump. — i. Campbell (Med.), 
his name carved on the trophy. 2. Dearden (Med.). 3. Peppers (Med.). 20 ft. ii 

In addition to these two donations the M. A.A.A. Record broken. 

very kindly offered a medal for the winner of the lO. M.A.A.A. race (440 yards).— 1 . Tees (Med.), 

mile run. Since last year, too, under the manage- 2. Curran (Med.). 3. Hillary (Sc.). 56 4-5 secs, 

ment of the Committee in charge of the College Bicycle race (3 miles).— i. Coussirat (Arts, 

grounds and Athletics, the track had been lengthened 2. Archibald (Sc.). 3. McMaster (Arts), 
and greatly improved especially at both ends. With 12. Sack race.— i. Baker (Sc.). 2. Larmonth 

all these numerous attractions it is no wonder that (Sc.). 17 secs. Record broken, 

the number of entries was greater than ever before I3- Hurdle race.— i. Campbell (Med.). 2. Todd 

and that many records were broken. (Arts). 3. Tees (Med.). 19 1-5 secs. ^ Record 

Brodie, of Science, lowered the mile run record by | broken. 

14 secs., making the fast time of 2 mins. 40 4-5 secs. I4- Faculty team race. — i. Medicine. 2. Arts. 
Campbell, of Medicine, made a magnificent jump 3- Science. 

of 20 ft. II ins., thereby establishing a new college IS- 220 yds. run.— i. Campbell (Med) 2 Tees 
record, and beating the old one by 14 ins. Baker, of (Med.). 3. Hillary (Sc.). 23 4-5 secs. Record broken. 
Science, won the sack race in the extraordinarily fast ib. Bicycle race (one mile).— i. Coussirat (Arts), 
time of 17 secs., beating all previous records. Camp- 2. Archibald (Sc.). 3. Bickford (Sc.). Time 2.45 1-5 

bell lowered the previous record of 19^ secs, for the secs. Record broken. 

hurdle race to 19 1-5 secs., and the same athlete U- 880 yds. run. — i. Brodie (Sc.). 2. Trenholme 
also made a new record for the 220 yds. run, doing it (Arts). 2 mins. 14)^ secs. 

inthe remarkably fast time of23 4-5 secs., thus beating 

the old record by 54 sec. Coussir.tt, of Arts, won the | It was unfortunate that the whole 




programme 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



47 



could not have been got through, and that three such 
interesting events as the pole leap, three mile bicy- 
cle race and the Faculty team race — one of the feat- 
ures of the day — had to be postponed till Friday 
afternoon. This was not wholly due to dilatoriness on 
the part of the officials, but because of the weather, 
although, if we may say it, we would suggest that 
the number of officials might to adv'antage be 
decreased. The following were the painstaking Field 
officers to whom the Students owe a debt of gratitute 
for a very successful and enjoyable field meeting : — 
Referee — Prof. D. P. Penhallow, B.Sc., 

Timekeepers. Judges. 

Prof. C. H. McLeod Ma. E. The Hon. Justice Archi- 
bald. 

W. O. H, Dods, M.A.A.A. Prof. B. J. Harrington, 

Ph.D. 

D. D. MacTaggart, B.Sc. Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, 

B.A. 



Starter. 

R. F. Rutton, M.D. 

Clerk of Course. 
E. Edwin Howard. 



Prof. J. Wesley Mills, 

M.D. 

Prof. John Cox, M.A. 
Mr. T. L. Paton, M.A.A.A. 
R. Tait McKenzie, B.A., 
M.D. 

Asst. Clerk. 

Alex. Cowan. 



Measurers. 

F. J. Day, B.A. 
Graham Drinkwater. 



Scoers. 

H. T. Knapp, B.A. 
V. E. Mitchell. 



The usual scene was enacted in the Molson Hall 
at the distribution of the prizes to the successful can- 
didates. Mrs. E. B. Greenshields very kindly pre* 
sented the prizes, which were pretty and tastefully 
selected, and showed that the Committee had chosen 
them with considerable care. After the prizes had 
been distributed and the successful competitors had 
been bounced, the occupants of the Hall trooped out 
amid the University and Faculties yells and the 
strains of “ There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea’’ 
and “ Hop along, Sister Mary.” 

The following are the names of the Officers and 
Committee of the McGill A. A. upon which the success 
and pleasure of the day so largely depended : — 

Hon- President. — Prof. C. H. McLeod, Ma.E. 

President. — F. A. Wilkin, App. Sc. 

Vice-President. — S. Carmichael, B.A., Law. 

Secretary. — F. E. L. Johnston, Med. 

Hon-Treasurer. — Prof. John Cox, M.A. 

Treasurer. — H. J. Schwartz, Med. 



E. E. Howard, 
V. E. Mitchell, 
H. T. Knapp, 
G. Drinkwater, 



COMMITTEE. 



Arts. 

Law. 

Medicine. 
App. Sc. 



A. R. McMaster. 
Chas. Gaudet. 

H. C. Campbell. 
H, R. Trcnholme. 



Alex. Cowan, 
P'. J. Day, 

A. P. Brace, 



Comp. Med. S. C. Richards. 

It,, , f G. D. Ireland. 

I 1 heology | 



Report of PWot-Ball Matches. 



McGill i. vs. Montreal I. 



The last hope that McGill might win the Provin- 
cial Championship this year was destroyed on Satur- 
day, Oct. 27th, when we met Montreal 1st XV on the 
M.A.A.A.grcunds. The game was by no means so fa.st 
and brilliant as it should have been, considering this 
year’s reeords of the two teams. The forwards on 
both sides were fast and about equal in their play, al- 
though if anything the superiority lay with the Col- 
lege team. But the Montreal baek division showed 
itself to be far and away ahead of ours in team play. 
This was mainly due to the fact that Trenholme,who 
is the main-stay of our back division, was quite unfit 
to play with any vigor or dash, being quite “knocked 
up.” This weakness in our back division was readily 
seen by Dandurand, who throughout the match 
played a most scientific game. But the star of both 
teams was our full back “Pete” Brunnellc, who 
played such a game as it is seldom the luck of a 
spectator to witness. Mr. Murphy of the “ Brits ” 
made an impartial and efficient referee. The fol- 
lowing were the teams : — 



Backs 



MacDougall 



Montreal. 

J. Savage Back 

E. Fry 
Hagar 
R. 

Waud 

Baird ^ f. 

Buchanan (Capt.) | | 

Branch | 1 

G. James y Wings. ^ 

E. James j [ 

Godwin j | 

Rankin J 

Redpath j 

Routh I Scrimmage 

Poff j 



McGill. 

Brunnelle 

C A. Barclay 

! Trenholme 

( Baker 

Back Dandurand 



Sparrow 

Schwartz 

.. . Irving 

W. Angus 

J. Barclay 

H. Hill 

J. Tees 

Grace 

.Drum (Capt.) 
Gordon 



McGill II. vs Montreal II. 



The above teams met on Saturday, Oct. 27th, on 
the College grounds in the final round for the Inter- 
mediate Championship, and for the first time for three 
years our 2nd was beaten by a score of 19 to 12. 
Both teams were very evenly matched except in the 
scrimmage, where the College boys proved to be greatly 
superior to their much heavier opponents. Montreal 
seems to have won the match because of the inability 
of our boys to stop their desperate rushes and also 
because of the inefficiency of the referee. We were 
pleased to see once more upon the campus two old 
reliable veterans, W. Donahue and J. Primrose, who 
played with all their old time dash and vigor. With 
a little practice our team will still win the Intermediate 
Championship next Saturday when they again meet 
Montreal II. 

Although our team is much lighter than the Mon- 
treal II, it is much faster, and the players showed by 
their handling of the ball a superior knowledge of the 
game. The following were the teams : — 



48 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Montreal II. 

Oswald Back.. 

Murphy 

H. MacDougall... > ^ Backs 

V. Lyman j 

C. Jack, (Capt.) ^ Backs 

G. Lyman "J 

Massey | 

Maxwell [ 

Barry y Wings. 

Patadis | 

Anderson j 

Mowat 1 

Wotherspoon ^ 

Whyte > Scrimmage 

Henderson j 



{ 



I 

I 

L 



i 



I 



McGill II. 

W. Donahue 

K. Molson 

.Drink\vater (Capt.) 

J. Lynch 

S. Davidson 

Primrose 

McDougall 

Turner 

Wilkinson 

McLea 

Wilkin 

Todd 

Howard 

Ring 

Bond 



McGill III. e/j Quebec Juniors. 

These two teams played in Quebec on Saturday, 
Oct. 27th, when the Quebec team won easily by 34 
points to 2. In the first half Quebec had everything 
their owm way, but in the latter half our boys held their 
opponents down very well. The fact that Quebec won 
the match by such a large score is explained by their 
playing five or six men who played last year on their 
Senior team. Mr. Hill of the Montreal Club made 
a most satisfactory referee. The following w^as the 
College team : — 

(Back) Bishop ; {}4 backs) Burnett, Burnham, W. 
Lynch ; (j^ back) Montgomery ; (Wings) Balfour 
(Capt.), Burke, Haycock, Kenny, McPhail, Sise, Suth- 
erland ; (Scrimmage) Laurie, McMaster, J. Ross. ^ 

McGill III. vs. Montreal III. 

The last chance of McGill retaining the Junior 
Championship vanished last Saturday, when Montreal 
III beat them on the Campus by a score of 1 1 points 
to 3. Mr. J. Barry of the “ Brits ” made a most 
efficient and impartial referee, also performing the 
duties of umpire. The game was a close one from 
start to finish, and was thoroughly enjoyed by both 
teams. Montreal’s superiority lay in its back divi- 
sion, there being nothing to choose between the two 
forward lines. Owdng to the unfavorable weather, two 
halves of half an hour each sufficed the players. 

The following players represented our 3rd : (Back) 
McLeod ; (J^ Backs) Burnett, Burnham, W. Lynch ; 

Back) Montgomery; (Wings) ^Balfour (Capt.) 
Burke, Haycock, McPhail, Packard, Sise, Sutherlandj 
(Scrimmage) Laurie, McMaster, J. Ross. 



McGill II. vs. Montrea II. 

After being beaten on Saturday, October 27, by 
Montreal by 7 points, the McGill II won the’Inter- 
mediate Championship last Saturday, on the M.A.A. 
A. grounds when they defeated their opponents by 
19 points to 10, thus winning the greater number of 
points in the two matches. The weather was most 
unfavorable and the grounds were in a horrible con- 
dition ; nevertheless, the exhibition of football was 
splendid and well worth inconveniencing oneself 
to see. Our boys won the match entirely by their 



superior scientific and intelligent play. Playing 
against a gale in the first half, they held the oppo- 
nents down well, the score at the end of the first 
half being 10 to 3 in favor of Montreal. About 
five minutes after the second half had started it was 
evident that the “knights of the three crows” were 
going to win. The heavy Montreal scrimmage was 
useless against the clock-work play of Howard, 
King and Bond and the magnificent playing of 
Drinkwater and Davidson. Without the least dif- 
ficulty our boys won a thoroughly fine match. Drink- 
water showed commendable skill and judgment and 
an accurate knowledge of really scientific manner in 
the way in which he captained the team. Baker, at 
back played a cool and reliable game. Montreal 
would seem to have relied solely on the avoirdupois 
of its scrimmage men, as it was owing to their poor 
play that their back division had hardly anything to 
do. 

The teams faced Mr. Whitham of the Brits, who 
made an excellent referee, in the following order ; 



Montreal II. 



McGill II. 



Kennedy 

P. Lyman 

H. McDougall 
W. Murphy ... 

A. Massey 

MacDonald.. 

Godwin 

Maxwell 

Mowat 

Paradis 

Barry 

Anderson ... 

Wotherspoon .. 
Warmington. .. 
Whyte 



} 



1 






.Back Baker 

j' Lynch 

Backs -< Drinkwater(capt) 

( Molson. 

( Back S. Davidson 

Primrose 



r 



.. McDougall 

Kenny 

Wings. Wilkinson 

Angus 

McLea 

Wilkin 

1' Bond 

Scrimmage.-! King 

H oward 



FOOTBALL NOTES. 

We were all very sorry to hear that W. G. Turner 
had been badly hurt in practice last Thursday. We 
hope to see both him and Todd, who has been laid 
up for the last week, playing against the Ontario In- 
termediate Champions. 



All Footballers have to thank Messrs. Donahue 
and Primrose for the loyal manner in which they 
turned out and played on the second team last Satur- 
day. 



We have lost the Provincial Championship, so has 
Montreal ; but we have secured the Intermediate 
Championship, and they have not. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



49 



% 

Y.M.C.A. ^ 

Two more Sunday afternoon lectures have been 
added to the series of historical addresses on the 
Old Testament. On October 28th Mrs. Ashley 
Carus-Wilson, B.A., lectured on “The Hope of the 
Promise,” showing admirably the development of the 
Messianic hope, from Eden until that hope was 
realized in the Christian era. 

Last Sunday Dr. Rose, of St. James Methodist 
church, spoke on the subject, “ The Bible and Modern 
Criticism.” He thought plenary inspiration could 
no longer be maintained. It as best to acknow- 
ledge that slight errors do exist in the text of Scrip- 
ture. But when we consider the essential purpose 
of the Bible, these apparent discrepancies, which may 
yet be reconciled, are of little significance. The 
Bible is not a scientific treatise, nor does it openly 
claim historical accuracy or literary perfection. Its 
avowed object, as set forth by such a passage as John 
XX. 31, is to lead men to God, to holiness of life 
and to salvation ; and for this purpose it is absolu- 
tely infallible, inerrant. 

For the next two weeks lectures are as folio a^s : — 

Nov. 1 1. — Egypt in relation to Israel, by Sir Wm. 
Dawson, F.R.S. 

Nov. 18. — The Revelation to Moses of God as 
Jehovah, by Prof. Ross, B.D. 

These lectures are designed to be of practical value 
to students in general. It is therefore hoped that 
many more college men, no matter what their denom- 
ination or religious profession, will attend. It will 
pay. There’s time enough for a walk after four 
o’clock. 

McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the McGill Mining Society was held 
on Friday, Oct. 26th. Mr. Gwillum, the vice-president, 
occupied the chair, as the President was unavoidably 
late. The minutes of the previous meeting were read 
and adopted. Mr. Gwillum then introduced Sir 
Wm. Daw'son, who gave a very interesting and 
instructive lecture on the outcrop of coal seams. 

At the close of the lecture a hearty vote of thanks 
was tendered the lecturer by the President. 

Mr. Gwillum’s motion to have the night of meeting 
changed to Friday instead of Thursday was then 
brought up for discussion, and carried. 

McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting of the Society this term 
was held in the upper reading room of the College, 
on Saturday evening, October 20th. In the absence 
of the__President and Vice-President, Mr. Merrick was 
appointed chairman. 



A letter was read from Mr. Cruikshank, resigning 
the presidency. The Society regret very much to 
lose the services of such an able and painstaking 
president as Mr. Cruikshank has proven himself to 
be ; but as he stated that he had determined to resign 
only after careful consideration, and that his decision 
was final, the meeting accepted his resignatiog. The 
election of another president was left over until the 
next meeting of the Society. 

The paper of the evening, which was a most inter- 
esting and exhaustive one, was read by Dr. John 
Bailey of the Fourth Year. The title of the paper 
w'as “ Notes on Feeble-mindedness.” At the conclu- 
sion of the paper, a very hearty vote of thanks was 
tendered by the meeting to Dr. Bailey. Tht next 
meeting of the Society takes place in Lecture Room 
No. I of the Medical P'aculty building, on Saturday 
evening, November 3rd, commencing at 8 o’clock. 

The students of all years, from the Medical Faculty, 
are most cordially invited to attend the meetings of 
the Society. 

McGILL LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the above Society was held in No. i 
class-room, Arts building, on Friday evening, Oct. 
26th. President Hanson in the chair. 

The minutes of the previous meeting were read 
and approved. Then, as there was no business to 
come before the meeting, the programme was pro- 
ceeded with. 

Mr. Mitchell of Law opened the programme with 
a recitation from Sir Walter Scott. Then followed 
a song by Mr. Hopkins, Fourth Year Arts. Mr. A. R 
Ross of Second Year Arts read a carefully prepared, 
essay on the subject of “ Education.” 

Mr. Mitchell (Law) then opened the debate on 
the subj’ect: — “Resolved, that the existence of the 
English House of Lords is beneficial to the Empire.” 

Mr. Donahue (Law) then took up the cudgels for 
the negative. After his speech the discussion was 
thrown open for anyone to take part. 

Messrs. Saxe (Arts), Carmichael (Law) and Devlin 
(Law) ably defended this institution of our realm, 
whilst Messrs. Mullin (Law), Trenholme (Law), and 
S. Graham (Arts) as ably attacked what they 
called, useless a piece of apparatus in the English 
Legislation. 

So closely contested was the question that the vote 
of decision resulted in a tie. The President then gave 
his vote in favor of the affirmative. 

Mr. Carmichael then gave his critique, omitting 
none from the chair down. He characterized the 
whole proceedings as “ very good.” 

It is to be hoped that the programme committee 
will see fit before long to have another open debate. 

The meeting then adjourned, not to meet again for 
two weeks. 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Association was held 
in the Lecture room, 6 Union ave., Thursday evening, 
1st inst.. Dr. Adami occupying the chair. After the 
reading of the minutes and new business the Associa- 
tion listened to a paper by Mr. H. D. Clark upon 
“ The Feeding of Dairy Animals.” A lively discussion 
followed, in which the effect of modern systems of 
feeding upon the health of the animal was considered. 

Mr. E. C. Thurston reported a case of Traumatic 
Pericarditis in a cow. The question of the immediate 
cause of death was raised, and proved a fertile source 
of discussion. The able remarks of Dr. Adami in 
summing up the facts bearing upon this question were 
of much benefit to the students present. 

Dr. Mills, Dr. Charles McEachran and Dr. Baker 
were present. The next meeting will be held Thurs- 
day, 15th inst. 

SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The above named Society met last Thursday even- 
ing ; the president, Dr. Mills, in the chair. Dr. M. A. 
Dawes delivered the inaugural address, in which he 
pointed out the practical applications of a knowledge 
of comparative psychology. In investigating the 
psychic phenomena in the lower animals, we would, 
at the same time, be increasing our powers of observ- 
ation in health and disease. Thus a knoweldge 
of comparative psychology would aid us in clin- 
ical examination, and, in addition, lead to a more 
kindly .treatment of our animal friends. A 
member read a paper, published in the American 
Naturalist, on the “ Habit of Amusement in Lower 
Animals,” in which were described peculiar postures 
and behavior of animals low in the biological scale. 

The writer expresses himself as convinced that 
“ every animal, at some period in life, has a true ap- 
preciation of psychical amusement.” The president 
stated that he himself had witnessed actions among 
the Rotifera and other minute forms of animal life 
which indicated what, in higher forms, we would call 
exuberance of animal spirits. 

Mr. Inglis then read a paper lately published in 
the British Fancier on the subject “ Dogs and Music.” 
In the opinion of the writer, dogs first fear, then be- 
come interested, and finally acquire a liking for music 
preferring a reed instrument to a stringed one. Facts 
were adduced to show their exceeding sensitiveness 
to discord. In the discussion which followed, Mr. 
Zink criticized the opinions of the writer pointing 
out the difficulty, owing to obvious conditions and 
circumstances, of arriving at positive conclusions 
regarding the psychic effect of music on the lower 
animals. 



Dr. Baker suggested that experiments relating to 
the hypnotic effect of music on the lower animals in 
dfsease be carried out in the College hospital. 

After further remarks by the President, the Soci- 
ety adjourned to meet again in about a fortnight. 

McGILL CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The usual fortnightly meeting of the McGill 
Classical Club opened promptly at 8 p.m., last Fri- 
day, with President Mackintosh in the chair. 

The programme for the evening was : 

1. Reading, Mr. A. Ross, Arts ’ 97 * 

2. Translations of Act II of Phormio : — 

Antipho, Mr. Heine Arts ’98. 

Phoedria, “ Ferguson Arts ’96. 

Geta, “ Cole Arts ’96, 

Denipho “ Macmillan Arts ’97. 

After which enjoyment those high-minded heroes 
who scorned the frivolities of Hallow’een slowly 
wandered home in thoughtful silence. 

DELTA SIGMA. 

The first regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Soc- 
iety was held Thursday, November ist, in the Don- 
alda Department. The attendance was unusually 
large and encouraging, and we were also pleased to 
have with us a few of our honorary members. 
When the secretary had read the minutes of the an- 
nual meeting and called the roll, the debate : — Re- 
solved, that “ The Victorian era is greater than 
the Elizabethan,” followed. Miss Watson and Miss 
Smith supported the affirmative, and Miss Fraser and 
Miss Carr the negative. The four years were thus 
represented, and each felt justly proud of its members, 
for it is seldom we have listened to a debate with so 
much pleasure. The affirmative won by a small ma- 
jority. Miss Derrick, B.A., kindly acted as critic, giv- 
ing many valuable hints to those intending to de- 
bate for the first time in cur coming meetings. When 
the President had thanked Miss Derrick, and spoken 
briefly of the Society’s prospects, the meeting was 
adjourned. 

Y. W. C. A. 

The branch of the Y. W. C. A., which holds 
weekly Devotional meetings on Friday at 5 p.m., in 
the Second Year class-room in the East Wing, is 
quietly working and, let us hope, doing good work^ 
The meetings are regular and punctual, and we have 
much pleasure in reporting that the average attend- 
ance shows a slight increase above the correspond- 
ing attendance of last session. Still the figures show 
that rather more than half the total number of under- 
graduates do not attend these meetings ; we hope, 
however, for an improvement in the future. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



51 



We are glad to welcome so many new members to 
our Association, and trust that some others may yet 
join us. 

It is the earnest endeavor of the leaders to make 
the subjects as helpful and practical as possible. 

On Friday the 19th October we had a most inter- 
esting address from Miss Doull, Arts ’97. 

The essay, though covering a wide range, was treat- 
ed in a practical and able manner, the subject being 
“ Daniel.” 

On Friday, the 26th October, Miss Ross, also of the 
class of ’97, was the leader. The subject was “ Entire 
Consecration,” and the earnest words spoken will, we 
hope, not be soon forgotten by those present. 

CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

(Ye Classe Reporter of the Lawe Fellowes turneth 
out earlie in the morninge to aire himself withal, and 
meeteth with divers adventures.) 

Ye Classe Reporter rose betimes. 

And put his waterproof on, 

And off through the rain and drizzle, 

To aire himself is gone . 

Ye Classe Reporter rose betimes, 

Sayeth he — Tis goode to walke,^^ 

And out through the mist and rain he went — 

^Twas eight thirty by the clock. 

(He hoveth in sight of the Fraser Institute, and 
docth greate walkinge.) 

He passeth up St. Catherine 

* And through the Phillips Square, 

Ouoth he — ‘‘ where’s long-boot Creighton now — 
Push on olde boye — git there.” 

(He standeth in the doorway of the Fraser Institute 
to reste.) 

He standeth in the doorway 
And leaneth on his cane, 

Sayeth he : “ i’ faith when I’m rested 
I’ll att it harde againe.” 

(He heareth a strange voice behinue him.) 

He standeth in the doorway 
And leaneth on his cane. 

When lo ! a voice behinde him said — 

“ Come in out of the raine . ” 

(He meeteth a handsome and worthie clerke who 
treateth him right scurvillie.) 

Anon a handsome clerke came up — 

A clerke with lovelie eyne 
And haire all fret with crispie curl — 

His nose was aquiline — 

Like sweete Dan Chauser’s lady-knight 
That curfed so very fine. 

This handsome clerke anon he spied 
A’cominge up the walke — 

Pusheth ye Reporter by, sayeth— 

I have no tynte to talked' 



(He meeteth a bolde Baron.) 

A l)olde baron came inarchinge down 
Each stride aryarde or tw'o 
Reporter quak-ed when he sawe 
Him fierce his moustache chewe — 

“ By Cuj as’ ghost makewaye,” quoth he, 

My lecture will be through. ” 

(He meeteth a Captaine of Her Majesty’s troopes, 
who demandeth the password.) 

Reporter next did see approach 
(His knees ’gan bend and shake) 

A warlike Captaine of the troopes 
Right in the baron’s wake ; 

He was ne greate, ne tall, but straight 
For legal scribe did make. 

He glar— ed through his pince-nez specs, 

Nay, Reader, ’tis no fib ! 

Password,” cried he, or by my big busbie 
I’ll leave thee scarce a rib. 

' Fainting scribe cried Mercy Cap ! ’’ 

Ah well ! ’tis Legal Bib:' 

(He meeteth a grave Professor who putteth him to 
rout.) 

A grave Professor next came up, — 

A kindlie man looked he ; 

He pointed to an inward room 
And eyed Reporter curiouslie. 

“ Haste, sir,” quoth he, ” or you’ll miss 
Your BIBLIOGRAPHIE.” 

That hideous, uncouth name ye-crept 
Into Reporter's braine— 

His haire stood up in ghaistUe fright — 

And out he dashed againe. 

And off he sped with all his might 
Homeward through the raine. 

(Ye Classe Reporter reacheth home in a colde 
perspiration. He indulgeth freelie in “ kiltie,” and 
taketh to his bed, where for the remainder of that 
day he hath “ a very healthfulle tyme.” 

He giveth a warning well to be had in mind by 
all who may loiter about the entrance to the Fraser 
Institute when the students are pressinge in to the 
morninge lectures.) 

In clammie colde sweate Scribe reached home 
Upstairs he nimbly sped 
Straight he made for the “ kiltie ” flask — 

Then betook himself to bed 
Where chills and horrid ague start. 

All day him torment-ed. 

Twixt copious draughts his nerves to still 

For which he oft did shout [walkes 

“ Dear Friends,” sayeth he, “ when you take your 
Look out what you’r about ; 

Keep away from the Institute 

When the Legal Limbs are out.” 



We are pleased to hear from Mr. R. M. Harper, gold 
medallist Arts 1894. Mr. H, is studying law in Que- 
bec, and, we hear, is very enthusiastic over it. We 
wish our “ brither ” every success, and regret that he 
is not with us in the Law Faculty of McGill. 



52 



. McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



Professor, lecturing on Community of Property : 
“ Gentlemen, this is a disputed point among the authors. 
Poithier discusses the matter at length,” Freshman : 
“ Is that Poithier on Obligations Professor, with a 
world of compassionate tenderness in his voice : 
“ No ; Poithier on Community.” 



Mr, A. G. Jones of Class ’94 beamed in upon us 
the other evening. J. looks well, and seems to have 
abundant sympathy for the old students, particu- 
larly the Final Year men. He knows how it feels to 
be in the Final year, especially from a medal point of 
view. 



Criminal Law at last! And now for the Code. 
The introductory lectures on this subject have been 
the event of the session so far — being intensely inter- 
esting, and delivered in the Dean’s very best manner. 
We trust the enthusiasm evinced by the students at 
the outset will bear much fruit — at the examinations 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

A special meeting of the Applied Science Glee 
Club was held on Monday, Nov. 5th, for the purpose 
of reading a letter from the president, Mr. R. L, 
Blackburn, in which his resignation from the position 
of president was tendered on account of his inability 
to return to McGill this session. 

After his resignation was accepted, A. R. Holden, 
Sc. ’95, was elected to the position of president, and 
the Executive Committee was instructed to imme- 
diately engage a conductor and open the campaign 
for this session. 

The Club has special aims this year, and will need 
support from all the Science men. Besides the annual 
Christmas drive and dinner, there will be a smoking 
concert given for the benefit of a special object in 
connection with the University, which needs some 
such help, and which will be made public later. 

We are glad to hear that Mr. W. A. Ramsay, 
Science ’98, is up again after his attack of typhoid 
fever. We are sorry that he will not be able to re- 
turn to College before Christmas at the earliest. 

On the evening of September 24th, an oyster sup- 
per was given to the Second Year by Messrs. McKin- 
non and McLeod. 

At this time the question for Sc, ’96 to decide is 
not “ can he swim } ” but “ Kenny sing.” 



The Prof, of Astronomy has indeed reason to feel 
satisfied with the interest shown by the present Fourth 
Year Civil students in this branch of their work. 

One Member of the class in particular has, it would 



seem, thrown himself heart and soul into the study 
of the heavenly bodies. Not satisfied with the two 
evenings a week of practical work in the College 
Observatory, he may be found every clear night (at 
about II p.m.) deeply absorbed in watching the 
“ transit of Venus.” Let us hope that the amount of 
extra time he thus spends in advanced practical work 
will not prove detrimental to his other studies. 

The Class of ’95 are anxiously looking forward to 
an interesting publication, in which Willie’s results are 
to be communicated to the world at large. 



Some of the members of the third team football 
showed themselves quite proficient in the use of car- 
mine pigment in the trip home from Quebec. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

* A FROG STORY. 

One pleasant morning in the autumn of 1 894,a young 
frog lay, croaking his merriest in one of the choicest 
frog-ponds about here. “ Bliss is it on this dawn to be 
alive,” thought he, ashe basked on the edge of the 
pond and ate his wormy breakfast. But the last squir- 
mer had barely disappeared when strong hands seize 
him, pop him into a can, and carry him, cramped and 
miserable, for many a dreary mile. Pity him, gentle 
reader ! When released from his prison, it was only 
to feel the sharp cut of a knife, and then “ blind un- 
consciousness stole over his senses,” until he woke to 
find himself being stared at by eighty pairs of eyes 
and talked about most familiarly. Knowing his wound 
was mortal and that therefore these indignities could 
not last long, he passively submitted to them, and 
tried to catch what was said of him. He evidently 
heard much, for almost his last thought was; “Never 
too late to learn ; here in my dying hour I find I 
have lungs and a heart, veins and arteries, with cor- 
puscles of different sizes. Truly, I am ‘fearfully and 
wonderfully made ’.” He then began to sink rapidly, 
and e’er long was in the happy frog-pond of all good 
frogs sacrificed in the pursuit of science. 

Donalda Sophomore (translating) ; “And Cincin- 
natus ordered the men to biing provisions cooked for 
five days, and to carry with them stakes." 

Professor (sleepily): “ S-t-e-a-k-s, I supposealso 
cooked for five days.” 

Are the Donalda Sophs, color blind } If not, why 
in freshman-like simplicity does one mistake orange 
red macrospores for yellow microspores, and astonish 
the professor by mildly inquiring : “ How when you 
get one thing are you to know it’s not the other ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



53 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

Dr. D. McEachran attended a meeting of the 
Board of Cattle Commissioners of Massachusetts, 
held in Worcester recently. Over two hundred in- 
spectors, representing every district in the State, and 
a large number of veterinarians were present. The 
Board has been granted full power and the necessary 
funds to stamp out tuberculosis, and the meeting was 
called for the discussion of this subject. Addresses 
were delivered by Dr. McEachran, Prof. Lyman of 
Harvard, Prof. Osgood and others ; these will be 
published in a full report of proceedings. The tuber- 
culin test will be used in confirming diagnosis. 

Drs. J. M. Parker, ’89 ; J. McLaughlin, ’77 ; B. D. 
Pearce, ’81 ; Chas. Simpson, ’87; C.' Winslow, ’79 ; 
A. S. Cleaves, ’93 ; N. Cressy, ’78, attended. 



A member of the Third Year, in pursuance of ad- 
vice from a professor, is about to experiment on the 
psychic effect of music on the lower animals. We 
fully exonerate the professor ; but being ourselves 
only too well acquainted with this student’s musical 
abilities, we respectfully call the attention of the 
S. P. C. A. 

At the Sports : Freshman, just arrived : “ What 
was the last event ? ” 

Senior . — “ High jump.” 

Freshman .' — “ What was the time ? ” 

Napoleon wielded the Faculty broom. 

Till his fingers were full of blisters. 

But insatiate still decided the doom 
Of N b’s prolific whiskers.. 



ARTS NOTES. 

Mr. J. C. Hickson, Arts ’95, has been chosen as 
Arts editor, Mr. Rogers having resigned that posi- 
tion. 

(Overheard on Sports day.)— ” What is that 
blue object near the centre of the campus ? ” 

Science Student : “Oh ! That is an Artsman who 
has joined the Temperance Order. He is showing 
his colors.” 

W e, having called the roll in the Philosophy 

Class, resumed his seat. Presently he inquired : 
“ What'er you doing to my chair ? 

Mathematical Prof.— “ A traveller, going round the 
world in a westerly direction, found that he had to 
reckon two Tuesdays in one week ; what would have 
happened had he made his journey in the opposite 
direction ? ” 



H son : “ He would have had two Mondays.” 

Med. meditating on Sports day: “Why does Arts 
look so blue to-day.^” 

The part of the class of ’97 that takes French is 
now prepared to study the history of India with more 
appreciation, as they experience something of the 
Black Hole of Calcutta 3 days a week. 

McM r (earnestly seeking sporangia with the 

aid of his glass). Professor: “ What is the Greek word 
for invisible ” 

Professor : “ How large are those sporangia ? ” 

Aspiring Botanist : “ Small, sir.” 

What’s the matter with the Second Year’s yell, and 
what’s the matter with our worthy secretary, to whose 
creative genius we are all indebted ? 

“ B.A., M.A., LL.D., 
in Facultate 

Arts." 

We wish to record the sympathy we feel for the 
foot-ball team. The deep dejection of the members 
saddens us and excites our pity. All mention of the 
fatal matches has been suppressed, by order. We 
hope that time — and perhaps another victory — may 
revive their spirits and dispel the gloom that hangs 
over us. 

NOTICE. 

Prof. will not lecture, on account of illness. 

P — . I move a vote of sympathy be extended to him. 

Q, — Let’s amend that, and wish ourselves many 
happy returns of the day. 

Why are the Honor English men so often late 
for lectures.^ We are puzzled to know whether they 
are presuming on Prof. La — r’s good nature, or 
whether their lateness is an effect of co-education. 

Freshman : “ I say ! are you going to the Academy 
to-night or to — } 

(A voice) — “ Prayers, gentlemen ; prayers ! ” 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Of course everybody knows which Faculty won the 
trophy on Sports-day ; and why shouldn’t Medicine 
win } 

Medical men in all ages and in all countries are 
the enthusiastic advocates of physical exercise as 
being the essential complementary stimulant to 
mental development. Hence in order to be consist- 
ent with their teachings, “ the physician cures 
himself,” and Medicine wins the trophy. 



It is with deep regret that we record the departure 
from among us of two very popular medical men : — 



54 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Dr. G. S. McCarthy, lately house surgeon at the 
Montreal Maternity, has left for his home in Ottawa, 
where he will spend the winter preparing himself 
for a post graduate course in Germany. While per- 
forming his duties in the Maternity, he was constantly 
in relationship with the Fouth Year Meds, of whom 
he was a true friend. Dr. E. J. O’Connor of Ottawa 
and a graduate of ’94, has taken his place in the 
Maternity. 

The other loss which the class of ’95 suffers is in 
the popular person of D. A. Link, who left last week 
to finish his course in the States. 

They all have our best wishes for success. 

What’s the matter with McGill in the far West ? 

Here is a copy of a letter lately received from Dr. 
A. D. McArthur, ’93, who still remembers with 
affection his Alma Mater. 

Littleton, Oct. 20, 1894. 
Editor McGill Fortnightly : 

Dear Sir, 

Kindly send me the FORTNIGHTLY for ’94 
and ’95, and if any back numbers, send them also if 
possible. Without the college paper one soon loses 
touch with college affairs. We have several McGill 
men practising medicine out here in the far West 
and even the oldest of our men are proud of their 
Alma Mater. In Denver we have Dr. Rodgers, one 
of the leading surgeons of the city, and connected 
with the Denver Medical School as Professor of 
Surgery. Dr. C. P. Conroy is visiting physician 
of St. Anthony’s Hospital ; Dr. Catnae i.s also a visit- 
ing physician of St. Anthony’s Hospital. Dr. 
Kearns of ’94 is practising in Evans, Col., about 40 
miles from Denver. Dr. Richardson is in Cripple 
Creek, about 100 miles from Denver, and I am out 
here about 10 miles from Denver. 

Dr. McArthur also writes privately that W. J. 
Le Rossignol of ’95, who left us at the end of his third 
year on account of ill health, is^ now in University 
Park, Colorado, and rather improved. 



“ Chemical Stink,” as it affects the Third and F'ourth 
Years when they enter No. i lecture theatre for sur- 
gery, may be entirely and absolutely disinfectant, but 
most emphatically disagreeable to the ordinary ole- 
factory nerve. 

W'e would like to see some effective measures 
taken whereby we could “take in ” the lecture with 
all our special senses. 

No wonder Dr. Roddick’s throat gave out before 
the time on Friday last. 

During last week the Fourth Year elected J. A. Wil- 
liams for class reporter, and Messrs. Keny and Day 



to represent them at the Nurse.s’ “ At Home.” There 
was also a good deal of canvassing for the president 
or the annual dinner. M e.ssrs. Riley and Tees are 
the candidates for this office. 

Messrs. W. T. Scott and Robt. Craig, who were fortu- 
nate enough to be elected to repre.sent the Third Year 
on the occasion of the dance given by the House Sur- 
geons of the Montreal General Hospital, report that 
the evening was a most enjoyable one, and will form a 
happy reminiscence of student days at the Montreal 
General Hospital. 

The several large rooms which were placed at the 
disposal of the guests were most tastefully decorated, 
and most prominent among the decorations every- 
where were the colors of Old McGill. 

At a meeting for the election of a general trea- 
surer of the Finance Committee of the four years, 
Mr. C. P. Steeves, B.A., was chosen by a unanimous 
vote. 

On Friday, 12th Oct., the First Year Meds 
held their election of officers, which resulted as 
follows : 

President, — N. Grace. 

Vice-President. — A. E. Heeney. 

Secretary-Treasurer. — C. B. Dunn. B.A. 

Class Reporter. — W. H. Kiernan. 

Much to the honor of the F'reshmen this year, the 
College register shows seven B. A.’s and one M.A. 

Friday evening, the i6th inst.. Dr. Elder gave, 
First Year Medicine, a lecture on dissecting, and it is 
to be hoped the class will take note of the advice 
given. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 
Lecturettes is the latest addition to our language. 
It comes from the land of “ Lady Mayoresses and 
lady paintresses ! ” and seems to mean an informal 
talk — sort of froth of a lecture, perhaps. 

* 

* * 

Professor.—^' Yomx age please, Miss.” 

(absently) “One hundred and fifty-three.” 



The larynx now goes up. 

The pharynx with a slam 
Ejects the note 
From out the throat 
Pushed by the diaphragm. 

A McGill student, a non-resident of Montreal, met 
a car bearing the inscription “ Sault au Recollet,” and 
commented on the strange advice offered by the Elec- 
tric Railway, It was interpreted thus Sault au 
Recollect, Remember to jump. (What’s the matter 
with Old McGill > ) 



