Vof. IX. 



JVo. 13. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday , May 5 , 1886 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - 3-4 

Poetry 5, 12 

Contributions - - 6-7 

McGill News 7-12 





page. 


Personals 


12 


Correspondence 


12-13 


Between the Lectures 


13-14 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL: 

PRINTED BY THE KURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields. McCorldll, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

JWrtsiirs, JOlarraijs, jlaliritors, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

Robertson, lie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. Ta-xxc.es Street, 

SS<MTTB 8 AL. 

ATWATER & CROSS, 

Mvocatajl, 'parripteif, (jon|mi$ianei$, Sc., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



| . HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

|#W Ifc iM • 

j * DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. J" A-HVCE3S ST. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

|p arris ter s, jialicitors, &t., 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.l. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l 



.A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T^LHvEIES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MONTREAL, 



JU ERICA I WORKS, ROOKS USED IJV ART COURSE, 
SC I E JVC E TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS 7 Mi KOI OGIVAL ROOKS . 

Fall assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 
-^FBEST 'V^A.XiTJIE ITT TOWlTi*^ 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. James Street, 

-ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

but TOUB 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATH ERSTON’S 

Shoe Stoi •es. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

ISt. L a wrence Main St,, cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON l CO., 

Hatterss® Furriers, 

1577 JSczre Dame Jr. • 



I. B. DUROCHEE, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL ts the BEST IN THE CIT7 for HcSILL C0LLE3E SINNERS. 



PUR COATS, DAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

THe “ Mc*GI LL 99 Ribbon for Sale. 



SPECIAL NOTICE! 



•ytf/cn/lert/, K y//<7y &/t , /<¥(f& 

Dear Sir: — 

In presenting to your notice the present issue of the Gazette, we wish to call your attention to a few facts 
in connection with its recent history. 

Prior to 1884-85 the paper appeared in a most erratic manner, depending altogether upon the unorganized eiforts 
• of the Undergraduates for its very existence, the difficulty being that no one had the authority or funds with which to 
issue the first numbers of the Session. In October, ’84, a number of those interested in the prosperity of the paper 
agreed to subscribe a certain sum to form a guarantee fund, to insure its publication for a time, the only compensation 
the subscribers were to receive, being a gratuitous copy of the paper each session. 

A staff of Editors was appointed consisting of one Undergraduate from each Faculty, and four Graduates or 
Undergraduates to represent the subscribers. A Hoard of Directors was also elected, giving the Undergraduates of each 
Faculty a representative, the only qualification being that such representative must be himself a subscriber to the fund. 
Under this organization the paper has been successfully issued for two sessions: 10 issues being made in 1884-’85, 
13 issues in 1885-’86. In view of the success which has so far attended their efforts, and to give further facility for 
developing the paper, the directors considered it advisable to apply for Letters Patent, incorporating the subscribers to 
the fund. 

We appeal to our Graduates to give us increased support to enable us to enlarge the paper and extend its 
usefulness. Our appeal is made because, 

1st, We wish to increase the number of issues next session. 

2nd, We believe that there should be some medium through which our Graduates may become acquainted 
with the course of events at the University, and thus keep alive their interest in the welfare of their Alma Mater. 

3rd, We feel assured that, with the continued support of* our subscribers, together with the experience which 
we now possess, we shall be able to make our College Journal worthy of the University. 

We trust, as the annual subscription is only One Dollar, you will assist us in our endeavors by filling in the 
enclosed blank, and returning it at an early date. 

Yours truly, 

JEFFREY H. BURLAND, 

President . 




























I 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 5th, 1886. [No. 13. 




DIRECTORS. — Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., 
F. C. S., President ; Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President; 
Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Scc .- Trcas . Committee: — Charles 
W. Hoare ; W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87; Fred. W. Hibbard, 
Arts S6 ; E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS . — Arthur Weir, Science ’86, Editor -in- 
Chief ; Ed. Evans, Med. r 87 ; C. Percy Brown, Science *86 ; 
W. Inglis Bradley, B. A., Med. ’87 ; Alfred P. Murray, 
Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



To Correspondents. 

Shareholder. — We have received your letter, but do not publish 
it, as the rumour you refer to is incorrect. The new name is not yet 
decided upon, and is not likely to be the Collegian. 



Editorials. 



ADIEU. 

In laying this number of the McGill Gazette, the 
last of volume IX, before our readers, we will avail 
ourselves of the opportunity afforded briefly to scan 
the labours of the past year. Seldom has the Gazette 
had so successful a year, from a business standpoint, 
and as regards the harmony that has existed between 
its readers and its staff as well as among the members 
of the staff itself. We believe our prosperity to have 
been due in the main, if not entirely, to the moderate 
tone in which we have discussed the various topics 
that have come before us for consideration. Fault we 
have sometimes been forced to find, hut ours was no 
carping criticism. It has always been our endeavour 
to realize that Utopia is far distant from this practical 
world, to recognize the difficulties with which the 
authorities have to contend, and to appreciate their 
labours in our behalf even under these difficulties. 
Yet we have felt, and still feel, that, as the physician 
must hear the complaints of his patient before he can 
successfully treat him, so must the faculty give an ear 
to our complaints before they can hope to make of us 
st.ron" healthy students. For- this reason, therefore, 
we have never hesitated to express our grievances and 
suggest changes, hoping that we will be credited with 



that motive which has always influenced us, the desire 
to see our college take and keep the highest rank as 
an Institution for the Advancement of Learning. We 
laid no sacrilegious axe at the foot of the tree that has 
so long sheltered us, but we have essayed, with rever- 
ent hand, to prune away branches whose heavy 
shadows oppressed rather than protected us. 

The changes that we have suggested as regards the 
University have been an improvement in the Law 
Faculty, changes in the Methods of Examination in 
the Medical Faculty, The Kaising of the Standard of 
Matriculation in Arts and Science, and greater liberty 
in the Library for the older years in Arts. 

Our discussion regarding the Law Department has 
already begun to act, and was, at the time of its appear- 
ance, accorded a reception to us pleasing and assuring. 
The valedictorian in Law, even the very professors 
themselves, agreed with us in the main, not only as 
regards the existence of evils, but as regards the 
method of overcoming them. So speedy a response 
as this is an encouragement for us to hope for similar 
results in the other faculties. 

For the stand we have taken regarding the Medical 
Examination, our readers are referred to our former 
editorials. Suffice it to say we desire a longer time for 
Oral Examinations and, to a great extent, the abolition 
of competitive examinations. 

As regards the Standard of Matriculation, we have 
only this to say, that the majority of the students who 
come up to college are well able to pass a higher stan- 
dard, and that the time given to reviewing — and 
usually forgetting — old work, might well be given to 
other subjects that would tend better to equalize work 
in the several years. This is well seen in Science, 
where the gap between the first and second years is ex- 
cessive. If we began with a higher standard that 
necessitated more knowledge of Euclid, Algebra and 
Trigonometry, then the first year might very profitably 
devote some time to Mechanics, and thus render the 
second year work more easy. We would also like to 
see Engli-h Composition treated somewhat more fully 
in Science or abolished altogether, for as it stands at 
present, it is but the wasting of a valuable hour in 
doing work that we have gone over at school. This 
criticism is in no way levelled at the gentleman whose 
subject this is. We suspect that he is limited by the 
exigencies of the case, but with a re-arrangement of 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE t 1886 - 



studies in accordance with a higher Matriculation his 
subject might be given the place its importance 
merits. 

The experiment of allowing students the freedom of 
the library has already been tried on a small scale in i 
the Faculty of Science, with a favorable result. The 
faculty of Arts is larger than that of Science, and to 
extend to it the §ame privileges might cause too much 
confusion. But to give its fourth-year men this right 
could not but be productive of good. Since our 
editorial upon this subject, we have received the 
favorable comment of a former medalist, himself now 
a successful teacher, and have also heard that the j 
practice of giving to older years greater freedom in 
the library is observed in some American colleges, j 
particularly at Cornell. 

The Gazette may take credit to itself for the 
establishment of the University Club, an institution 
mooted in last year’s issues, and successfully founded 
during the early part of this session. It is already in 
a most flourishing condition, and if it “ avoid the 
temptations of a larder,” bids fair to become a recog- 
nised part of University Life. And here let us advise 
undergraduates to patronize it. It will throw them 
in contact with men who have entered the world 
under the same circumstances which will attend their 
own entrance, and whose experience will therefore be 
invaluable. It will be the means of keeping Old and 
Young McGill in sympathy, and while the elders learn 
the wants of the younger men, the younger will profit 
by the advice of their elders. Besides this, and apart 
from it all, undergraduates will find the club-rooms 
the pleasantest place in all Montreal to while away 
an odd hour. 

Before bidding adieu to our readers and laying 
down our editorial pen, we desire to thank most 
heartily those kind friends whose contributions in 
prose and poetry have so materially lightened our 
journalistic labours. We would like to suggest to our 
city literati that the only permanent paper the 
city possesses, and the only one that distinctly aims at 
a literary character is the McGill Gazette, and that, 
instead of allowing their noblest efforts to blaze like 
a meteor in some newspaper and sink into unmerited 
forgetfulness, they should prefer to have them pre 
served in many a library, as we are convinced from ex- 
perience is the fate of the McGill Gazette. 

To Mr. George Murray this volume, like many pre- 
vious volumes, owes a debt of gratitude for the numer- 
ous verses with which he has adorned it, and we feel 
sure that the translations of Horace, the first pub- 
lishers of which we had the pleasure of being, have 
given pleasure to many of our readers, To Gowan 



Lea, also, we render thanks for contributions, more 
especially for the tales translated from the German, 
which have made many of our issues more interesting. 
To the less regular contributors to whom we are also 
indebted, we extend our gratitude, and with the hope 
that our successors will find as much joy in the dis- 
charge of their official duties as did we, we extend our 
hand to one and all of our many readers and say that 
saddest of words, “ Farewell.” 

The book is complete! 

And closed, like the da) r ; 

And the hand that has written it 

Lays it away. 



We publish two letters in this issue, which 
are important to students, and have the sympathy 
of the Gazette in their purpose. Kelpie writes 
to us concerning the foundation of a building for 
the Y. M. C. A. Looking on this institution, even 
from the lowest standpoint we can, we are unable to 
do aught but hope the Association will meet with 
success, for is it not, at leant , a training school for 
some of our students, those in theology ? But from a 
higher standpoint, one we need not discuss, the pro- 
ject merits encouragement. 

A student in Science writes suggesting that some 
one in authority endeavor to secure places for Science 
students during summer. He has taken the words out 
of our mouth, for we had intended making the same 
suggestion. The Government does not endow us as 
the College of Toronto, for example, is endowed, so 
we think that it might, at least, send to our Faculty 
the offer of a certain number of situations, say six, on 
the Survey, and a greater number on its various canal 
and railway, or even topographical staffs. These situa- 
tions, being of various grades, could then be given to 
the students in the different years, by competitive 
examination, or otherwise, as is deemed best. 



ATTENTION, ’86 ! 

At the Graduating Dinner, held in the Windsor 
Hotel on the evening of April 30th, it was decided to 
organize the class in such a manner as to enable the 
members, as far as possible, to obtain information with 
regard to their class-mates whenever desired. For 
this purpose, the following officers were elected : — 

President — Colin H. Livingstone, B. A. 

\ ice-President — Frank Pedley, B. A. 

Secretary— Nevil Norton Evans, B. A. Sc. 

Vice-Secretary — Arthur Weir, B. A. Sc. 

The duties of the President are to act as convener 
where any class-meetings are decided upon ; those of 
tJie Secretary, to keep a record of the whereabouts. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



1886.] 



occupation, &c., of each graduate of *86, Science and 
Arts. Each member of the class is to write annually 
at least one letter to the Secretary, which letter is to 
arrive on or before the 15th of April of each year. If 
any important Change takes place in the circumstances 
or address of any member, the sooner such changes are 
forwarded to the Secretary the better. Once a year, 
a list of the members, with their addresses, &c., will be 
forwarded to each member, and should a member at 
any time desire any information regarding a class-mate, 
he can obtain it on communicating with the Secretary. 

The Secretary’s address is McGill College, or 21 
Milton Street, Montreal P. Q. The members are 
requested to communicate with the Secretary as soon 
as possible, giving their present address, and as soon 
as this address alters, the change should be forwarded 
immediately . It is contemplated holding a reunion of 
the class on, or about, Convocation day 181)6. 



Poetry 



MUMMY WHEAT.* 

Telling of harvest-days to come, 

Yon ripening wheat appears. 

With slender steins that gently bow 
Beneath the golden ears. 

Strange is the story of the seed 
That first was planted there— 

How wondrous that a withered grain 
An hundred fold should bear! 

Once, buried in a silent tomb, 

It slept through ages slow. 

Clasped in a dark Egyptian’s hand 
Three thousand years ago. 

Portrayed upon the massive walls 
Might all nis deeds be viewed: 

No mortal step had e’er profaned 
That awful solitude. 

At length within the painted cell 
A stranger dared to tread. 

And, fearless, stretched his impious. hand 
To steal the ancient dead : 

He seized upon the mummy’s form, 

And bore it far away. 

Until on British ground he laid 
The venerable prey. 

With careful fingers he removed 
The swathings. one by one. 

And scanned at last with eager gaze 
Old Egypt’s swarthy son. 

And soon arose the fragrant scent 
Of spice and oil and balm. 

And grains of corn came rolling down 
From out the blacken’d palm ; 

Grains, that perchance were threshed and stored 
In Canaan’s tune of dearth : 

Parched as they were, he planted them 
Below the genial earth. 

Down dropped the gentle rains of heaven, 

And soft refreshing dew ; 

The seed their kindly influence felt, 

And life-awakened grew. 

And see ! the stems in beauty spring, 

As tender, young and green, 

As if but one short year ago 
That seed had gathered been 1 

Geo. Murray. 

•In the must rated London Neve for September 22. 1849. is a Je- 
a/trinrinn (with an engraving) ot mummy wheat raised by R. Enoch, 
of ^ow-on^h^VVold from grains brought from Tbebes by the 
family of Sir William Symonds. See kotes and Queries for July 
17. 1852. 



A DREAM ABOUT THE ASPEN.* 

Oh ! know ye why the aspen leaves so tremulously sigh. 

When through the burning summer noon no breeze is heard on nigh, 
When the green canopies that crown the woodlands are at rest, 

And gladden faint wayfaring men with shadows calm and blest . 

* In the dread hour when God’s own Son. upon the Cross was nailed. 

The fierce red splendor of the sun in midnight gloom was veiled ; 
Earth’s bosom heaved, and girt around with darkness, deep and still, 
Men bowed, like frail wind-shaken reeds, before God’s mighty will. 
With dim presentiment of woe, each beast concealed his form. 

And shrank within his cavern-home, as though beneath a storm ; 

No bird-wing fluttered in the grove, or floated through the air, 

And Nature’s heart had ceased to beat, wrung deeply by despair, # 
Save that the shrouded trees and flowers still murmured low in 
thought, . 

And wailing told of deeds of blood, and justice set at nought. 

Of bigot priests, and traitor hearts, and faith for silver bought. 

The cedar groves on Libanus a dirge-like music made. 

And, dark as night, athwart the hills was flung their giant shade ; 
While softly from a weeping tree, the tree of Babylon, 

A voice in lonely whisper sighed : “ ’Tis finished— He is gone ! 

Then deeply down she hung her boughs within Euphrates’ stream. 

And ever dreameth of His death a life-enduring dream. 

Calmly beneath the Eye of Heaven the glowing vineyards slept. 

The vintner watched the big bright tears that from the branches 

And, when the purple clusters dropped, and the new wine was prest, 
Mindful he named it “ Tears of Christ,” and still that name is blest. 
But soon a vapour round the Mount arose with fragrant flow, 

Breathed from the very soul of Love compassionating Woe, 

By the night-blooming violet, to cool the burning brain 
Of Him, whose thorn-encircled brow throbbed wildly in its pain. 
Mournfully spoke the cypress then : 44 My branches I will wave 
Tn memory of this awful hour for ever by the grave 
And through the sultry dimness passed a gently-wafted breath. 

As to the Cross an Angel moved, stern messenger of death ; 

A sad voice groaned : 44 My God ! my God ! why hast thou me for- 
saken?” 

And all the trees and flowers with fear and agony were shaken. 

The Aspen shook not: she alone, a proud unpitying tree. 

Stood tearless, motionless beside the Mount of Calvary, 

And thus outspake that haughty one : 44 What reek we of thy pain . 
Why should we weep ? We trees and flowers are free from sinful 
stain: 

Soon will my sisters cease to pine— this hour will soon be o er- 
A bright epiphany of joy shall beam for evermore.” 

Then Death’s dark Angel took the cup, red with the Saviour’s blood, 
And at the cold proud Aspen’s root poured forth the mystic flood. 

And spake strange words, and by those words the miserable tree 
Was cursed, and every leaf was doomed aquivering leaf to be ; 

And till that old, old curse be dead, her branches cannot rest. 

But still she fenreth, trembleth still, when all is calm and blest. 

Scorn not the tale! Those thoughts were bom within a child-like 
heart. 

E’en as the tears that in our eyes so oft unbidden start— 

Born like the strains that gush from out the forest- warbler’s breast, 
That, soft or shrill, are bird-song still, and may not be represt. 

Then, scoff not at the simple tale, nor deem the legend wild, 

It was not woven that the ears of men might be beguiled. 

But that men’s eyes might trace the form of Truth in Fiction’s 
stream. 

And read a world-old, God-framed law forthshadowed in a dream. 

Slowly ’tis learnt by heart, although by memory quickly caught— 
Faintly ’tis writ in tears upon the tablets of the thought— 

Still, still that law of exile lives— the ban of Heaven above— 

That 44 they who shut out Love shall be in turn shut out from Love.” 

Geo. Murray. 

• ” The legend frequently assigned to the Aspen — that it was used 
for the Cross of Our Lord, and that its leaves have shivered ever 
since— is, we believe, of no great antiquity. The shivering of the 
leaves is said, in some parts of Germany, to have been a punishment 
for the great pride of the tree, which refused to bow its head when 
the Saviour passed through the forests of the North, and all the 
other trees bent lowly before him.” — London Quarterly Review , July, 
1863. Art : ‘‘Sacred Trees and Flowers.” I have adopted a variation 
of this legend. 



Ancient Brute. — Er, excuse me— but doesn’t my 
open window trouble you ? 

Lady Passenger. — Oh, thank you ! I was feeling it 
a little. 

Ancient Brute. — Well, I wouldn’t run any risk of 
catching cold. There are some empty seats forward. 



I 



6 



McG-ILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Contributions. 



HEINRICH HEINE’S FIRST LOVE. 

BY DR. H. R. 



(Translated from the German by Gowan Lea.) 

In the year 1817, Samson Heine took his son, Hein- 
rich, to Hamburgh, where he was established in a 
business of his own by his uncle Solomon. Heinrich 
conducted his business so badly that in the space of 
two years he failed. Then his rich uncle took him 
into partnership. 

It was at the house of his uncle that Heinrich Heine 
became acquainted with his charming cousin ; and 
this lady, as talented as she was beautiful, so won the 
heart of the susceptible youth that she was never after- 
wards absent from his mind. Was his love returned ] 
We conclude that it was : else how could he have 
looked forward with so much hope and assurance to 
his future happiness. 

With unremitting industry he applied himself to 
the study of jurisprudence at Bonn, hoping that at 
the close of his curriculum he would be enabled to 
marry. To the ecstasy of love was added that anxiety 
which every lover experiences when separated from 
the object of his devotion — that “ Hangenund Bangen 
in Scfrwebenden Pein,” described by Goethe, as a con- 
stant attribute of true love, and which, in our impul- 
sive, poetic youth, quickly blazed up into a destroying 
flame. 

In such hours of anxiety would Heine take refuge 
in his muse, and find in it comfort and refreshment, 
forgetfulness and joy. 

From Bonn, Heine went to Gottingen, and thence 
in the beginning of the year 1821, in consequence of 
a duel, to Berlin. 

At this time, the poet seems to have begun to feel 
misgivings for his future. If his cousin remained 
true to him — which we will take for granted she did 
— circumstances did not permit of his marrying. This 
‘‘hope deferred/’ as far as one can judge, was the 
means of unlocking the delicately-strung lyre of the 
poet, and working from it its first tones of pain. Each 
plaintive song — whether it tell of the waiting for the 
loved one, or of disappointed hopes ; whether it de- 
scribe the maiden in the Land of Flowers digging the 
poet’s grave, or the appearance of Don Ramiro at the 
marriage-feast — is prompted by that one deep-rooted 
affection : — 

“ Morning dawns, I rise and ask ; 

Comes my love to-day? 

Shades of evening gather round ; 

She is far away. 

Midnight finds me with my grief, 

Wide awake I weep ; 

Midday comes, I listless walk 

And dream as half-asleep.” 

That which the poet had long feared, at length came 
to pass. In the spring of 1821 he received the news 
that his beautiful cousin — the beloved of his heart, 
his thought by day and his dream by night, the hope 
of his future, the idol of his songs — had given her 
hand to a rich stranger. 



From the time that Heine received the announce- 
ment of this marriage, he seemed to abandon every 
hope of happiness. In later years he describes his 
love-pain in a striking manner in the poem begin- 



ning 



Li T wv 



„ t, u im li G n H firtsiebzehu . 1 1 



When Gerard du Nerval— who translated Heine’s 
poems into French- was asked, “ What was it that 
bound you and Heine so closely together 1 

Girard replied, “We both suffered from the same 
sickness. We both wished to bury the hopelessness 
of a true love in song : we are singing yet,— but it 
dies not !” 

TWO LIVES IN EIGHT LINES. 

FROM HEINE. 

( Translated by Goicctn Lea.) 

There stands a lonely pine-tree 
Upon a northern shore ; 

Beneath.the cold ice sleeping. 

Unheeding tempests’ roar : 

But dreaming of a palm-tree 
Afar in eastern lands. 

In silent sorrow mourning 
Upon the burning sands. 



WITHOUT A MOTHER. 



BY LUDWIG SPEIDEL. 

- (Translated from the German by Gowan Lea ) 

To-day as I watched tlie first snow fall, and at the 
same time observed the poverty-stricken children, 
thinly-clad, with pale melancholy faces, go by, there 
came to my remembrance a touching incident that 
happened in my boyhood and left an impression on 
my mind never to be effaced. It was the history of a 
girl and a boy — twins, who, one cold bleak morning 
in the winter-time went away, as they said “ to seek 
a mother/' and who, a few days afterwards, were 
found in the woods frozen to death. I had known 
the two children well, — the dark-complexioned Mali, 
whose thick braids of hair fell over her shoulders, and 
the fair Conrad, with his honest blue eyes. Often 
had I gone strawberrying with them, or with them 
chased the butterflies ; and in winter we had snow- 
balled each other, or had gone out with our little sleds 
together. As they were pretty children, and always 
neat in appearance, notwithstanding their poverty, 
everybody looked at them with admiration. Their 
mother had died at their birth, and the father — a day- 
laborer, who lived mostly by splitting wood — was a 
rough man, who, in despair over his unhappy circum- 
stances, fell into intemperate habits. One morning 
the father was found dead in his bed. The poor 
twins were in a bewildered state of mind. Shivering 
in a room without a fire, they sat down to a table on 
which they had been accustomed to have set before 
them a thin watery soup for breakfast, and discussed 
in childish fashion what was next to be done. Often 
had they heard the passers by say : “ These poor chil- 
dren, if only they had a mother !” And the dark-haired 
xlali-—-f or girls are always more precocious than boys 

had asked one of the neighbours : “ What do they 

mean by ‘ a mother V ” The neighbor said, in reply to 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



the little girl’s inquiry : “ A mother is a woman who 
takes care of little children as the apple of her eye ; 
one is never cold, but always warm and comfortable, 
when one has a mother.” This answer of the neigh- 
bour the thoughtful little girl carried to her brother, 
and as they sat together at the bare table a bright 
thought seemed to fill Mali’s mind, and she said : 
“Do you know what, Conrad? Father is dead, and 
there is nobody now to care anything about us, unless 
it be cross old Hanna. Let us go away and search for 
a mother. There are such lots of mothers in the world, 
surely there must be one for us somewhere.” Conrad 
had nothing to say against the proposal ; he was ready 
without much preparation ; but Mali stuck a piece of 
bread in her pocket, and hung by a cord round her 
neck a woolen muff. Thus, hand in hand, they passed 
out at their doorway, through the streets, and followed 
the footpath through the meadows until they arrived 
at the wood. Some of the country people saw them, 
and one man, in a tone of surprise, asked them what 
they wanted going through the snow this cold 
weather. They replied they were “seeking for a 
mother.” The man shook his head and watched them 
awhile until they disappeared among the trees. As 
they entered the wood and saw the pines glistening in 
winter apparel, they thought it must be Christmas 
there, for these trees were exactly like what the rich 
people had in their houses on Christmas Day. They 
could not sufficiently admire the loveliness of it all; 
and then they had a hearty laugh when they shook 
the big tree and a whole shower-bath of snow fell down 
upon them and filled their eyes. On they went, Mali 
stopping now and then to call out in an imploring 
voice : “ Mother ! mother !” Her own voice sounded 
in reply, and frightened a woodpecker, which fiew up- 
ward, scattering the snow from the branches as it went 
Continuing their way up the hill, they came to a di- 
verging path by which they stopped, and gazed at the 
evening light tinging the summits of the trees. By 
this time they began to feel tired, so sat down under 
a pine-tree to rest. Mali produced the bread from her 
pocket, and gave it to her brother, who was very 
hungry. The cold made their fingers feel numb, and 
Mali took Conrad’s hands and drew them into her 
muff*. Then sleep overcame them, and they slumber- 
ed hand in hand and cheek to cheek. Suddenly, as 
if touched by a warm ray of light, Mali awoke, and, 
waking her brother, she said to him : “Conrad, I be- 

gin to feel warm and comfortable ; can it be the 
mother !’’ “ Yes,” said Conrad, “ it is the mother !” 

And in closer embrace they fell asleep, smiling, and 
opened their eyes no more. Our old Mother Earth, 
whose hard exterior permits us but to suspect her love, 
had opened her arms in compassion and taken the 
twins to herself. 



(2.) If Arabella likes Claude, and Claude likes 
somebody else, what does Arabella think of somebody 
else? 

Geometry: Problem — (1.) To construct a brown- 
stone building and establishment on the basis of a 
$900 salary. 

(2.) Square a milliner’s bill. 



PFlclBill News. 



There are nearly sixty students attending the Sum- 
mer Session course in medicine. Quite a number ot 
these are from other schools — Toronto, Kingston and 
London. 

Could not the examination, for the appointment of 
the Hospital Staff, be held immediately after the 
medical convocation in future ? Men who wish to com- 
pete, if they happen not to live in the city, find it very 
inconvenient to wait for the examination for nearly a 
month. 

Cook thinks the faculty of Medicine would be 
studying its own interests if it would give him 
holidays and send him to the Old Country, that he 
might see how things are conducted over there. We 
think he could already teach them over there how a 
medical school is run ; but he certainly deserves a 
holiday. 

The annual meeting of the “ Ladies’ Lawn Tennis 
Club” was held in the Ladies’ Reading Room of McGill 
College, on the 22nd of April, when officers were 
elected for the coming season, i. e . — President, Miss 
Reid ; Secretary-Treasurer, Miss M. N. Evans ; As- 
sistant Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Murray. The meet- 
ing was then adjourned, with the intention on the 
part of the members of having the court ready as soon 
as possible. 

Drs. Birkett, Kirkpatrick, and Corsan have received 
the appointment of Hospital Staff for ’86 and .’87. 
Dr. McClure remains as superintendent. The appoint- 
ments will be very popular amongst the students, and 
the men are unque?tionably well suited for their 
position ; but it would have been well could the 
faculty of medicine have prevailed on the Governors 
of the Hospital to have made all the appointments 
from the class just graduated ; these three positions 
they announce as being open to students annually, 
whereas this year only two received appointments. 



LAW CONVOCATION. 

An adjourned meeting of Convocation, for confer- 
ring degrees in Law, was held in the Molson Hall on 
Tuesday, March 30th. 

The degree of B.C.L. was conferred on the follow- 
ing gentlemen, whose names are arranged in order of 
merit : 

Messrs. A. J. Brown, 

R. J. Elliot, 

J. F. Mackie, 

G. C. Wright, 

J. R. Murray, 

F. S. Mackay, 

L. T. Polette, 

Alfred Monk. 

In the graduating class, Mr Brown took first rank 
honours, the Elizabeth Torrance gold medal, and prize 
for best thesis : Mr. Elliot first rank honours and 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



prize for general proficiency ; Mr. Mackie, first rank 
honours and prize for International Law ; Mr. Wright, 
second rank honours. 

In the second year, M. Beauregard took the first 
prize for general proficiency ; Mr. Burroughs, second 
prize. 

In the first year, Mr. Ferguson took first rank 
honours and first prize for general proficiency ; Mr. 
Dunton, first rank honours and second prize for 
general proficiency ; Mr. Fry, first rank honours. 

Mr. Elliot delivered the valedictory, and Prof. 
Kerr, Dean of the Faculty, addressed the graduating 
class. 



THE GRADUATING DINNER. 

Friday, April 30th, an eventful day for many of our 
students, was fittingly terminated by a dinner to the 
graduates in Arts and Science, in the Windsor. A 
goodly number attended, and quite a merry meeting was 
the result. After the more substantial feast was dis- 
posed of — which occupied some time, the last gentle- 
man to leave the table being carried round it, seated 
in his chair, and still contentedly peeling an orange — 
we entered upon the less substantial, but more amus- 
ing, “ feast of reason ” and “ flow of soul. ,, “ The 
Queen ” received the customary honours, and then 
Mr. McDougal, in a few well-chosen remarks, proposed 
the toast of “ Alma Mater,” to which Mr. Livingstone 
responded. The speech of the latter gentleman we 
are unable to report, for the reportorial pencil was 
spellbound before the torrent of eloquence that was 
let loose upon us. It seemed to us and to many 
others that Mr. Livingstone was no sooner up than 
down again. The Class of ’86 was well represented 
by Messrs. Topp and Brown, the speeches of both 
being clever and telling. Although Mr. Topp. was 
compelled by circumstances to look down upon us, 
his speech evinced nothing but a kindly and brotherly 
feeling for his fellow-graduates and their hosts, the 
undergraduates, and, although one of the longest of 
the evening, was eagerly listened to by all. Mr. 
Brown, in his own inimitable happy way thanked the 
undergraduates in the name of his fellow-graduates for 
the toast, and referred to the rivalry between Arts 
and Science for the good will of their respective 
faculties. 

In replying for “ The Dean and Professors,” Messrs. 
Pedly and Dawson made some decided hits, and came 
to the conclusion that now the speakers had been 
capped, their professors were not a bad set after all. 
Messrs. Fyles, Ritchie, Topp, Swabey, Kerry and Weir 
briefly replied to the toast to the medallists, and Kerry 
and Holden answered for the sports. In the course 
of his remarks Mr. Holden adverted to the Pavilion, 
and expressed his opinion that if the trouble were 
only taken to start a subscription it would result satis- 
factorily. 

Mr. Weir responded for the Gazette, alluding 
to the change of name, and assuring the under- 
graduates of the sympathy of that paper with 
them in their desires. “ The ladies,” proposed 
by Mr. N. N. Evans and replied to by Mr. Bell, 
brought the list of toasts to a close. During this last 



toast Mr. Holden was called on to reply for the young 
ladies, as he was supposed to know something ol t e 
subject. It is hoped that next year, when he is in a 
position to respond for the married ladies, his speech 
will be as good as was his of Friday. 

The songs were well rendered, and besides the gen- 
men set down on the programme, Messrs. Holden and 
Kingston were persuaded to warble, and brought dow n 
the house, the latter gentleman giving us a fine ren- 
dering of “Finnagan’s Wake.” 

In the course of the evening a deputation from the 
Graduates’ Society was sent in to us, and expressed 
the pride and interest which that society felt in their 
younger brothers. A deputation from us was then 
sent in to the Graduates’ Society and came back with- 
out having to be carried, but greatly pleased with 
their reception. 

Before the dinner was adjourned, it was decided to 
keep track of each member of class ’86, and Mr. Evans 
was elected permanent secretary for the purpose. 

THE ARTS CONVOCATION. 

The session of 1885-6 was brought to a close by the 
Convocation on the afternoon of Friday, April 30th. 
The Hon. James Ferrier, chancellor of the university, 
presided, and amongst those on the platform were 
Principal Sir William Dawson, LL.D., C.M.G., and 
Messrs. John H. R. Molson, John Molson, W. C. 
McDonald, R. A. Ramsay, M.A., B.C.L., governors of 
the university ; Rev. J. F. Stevenson, D.D., Rev. Dr. 
Cornish, Rev. Principal MacVicar, Rev. J. Clark Mur- 
ray, LL.D., Judge Torrance, B. J. Harrington, B.A., 
Ph.D., C. H. McLeod, Ma.E., F. W. Kelly, B.A., Ph. 
D., Rev. R. W. Norman, M. A., D.C.L., Alex. Johnson, 

B. A., LL.D., Rev. Canon Henderson, M.A., Jas. Stew- 
art, M.D., D. P. Penhallow, B.Sc., P. J. Darey, B.C.L., 
LL D., R. J. B. Howard, B.A., M.D., D. C. McCallum, 
M.D., George Wilkins, M.D., R. P. Howard, M.D., 
LL.D., Rev. Prof. Coussirat, Prof. Markgratf, Rev. W. 
J. Dey, M.A., Rev. W. J. Shaw, M.A., Rev. Hector 

A. McIntyre, B. A., J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L., 
Jeffrey H. Burland, B.A.Sc., J. W. Brakenridge, B.- 

C. L., F. S. Barnjum, Rev. E. M. Taylor, M.A., Arch. 
xVlcGoun, B.A., B.C.L., Rev. J. A. Newnham, M.A., 
Rev. A. B. Chambers, B.C.L., W. J. White, B.A., J. 

L. Morin, B.A.,H. M. Aim<$, M. A., Rev. John Scrimger, 

M. A., Dr. J. C. Cameron, M. W. Taylor, W. Dixon, 

B. A., J. S. Archibald, M.A., B.C.C., R. Shepherd, M.- 

D. , and W. C. Baynes, the secretary. 

Proceedings were opened with prayer by the Rev. 

J. Clark Murray, alter which Dr. Alex. Johnson, vice 
dean of the faculty of arts, read the following : — 

FACULTY OF ARTS. 

PASSED FOR THE DEGREE OF B.A. 

Ill Honors— First rank : Edward E. Braithwaite. W. M. 
Fyles, John McDougall, William Pattersou, Philip E. Ritchie, 
Charles Swabey, Francis Topp, Nelson Yates, F. Pedley. 

Ordinary in order of merit— Class I. : Colin H. Livingstone, 
Ronzo H. Clerk, Frederick W. Hibbard, John W. McOuat. 

* t T benjamin Clements. William Sparling, equal; 
n nham H. Dalpe, Andrew McWilliams, W. Herbert Evans, 
Uass III. : R Benjamin O’Sullivan, George A. Blair, John H. 

j rts * William W. Chalmers, Duncan A. McRae, 
tdgar De F. Holdeu, William E. Wallace, Isaac L. Hargrave. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



BACHELORS OF ARTS PROCEEDING TO THE DEGREE OF M. A. IN 
COURSE. 

William White, B.A., and Joseph L. Morin, B.A. 

Admitted to the degree of LL.D., “Honoris Causa.” — R. P. 
Howard, M.D., dean of the faculty of medicine : Admiral Sir 
Erasmus Ommaney, C.B., F.R.S. ; Professor P. J. Darey, 

B. C.L. 

PASSED THE INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATIONS. 

McGill College, — Class 1. — Rosalie McD. McLea, Octavia G. 
Ritchie, James E. Le Rossignol, William James Giles, H. H. 
Curtis, John L. Day, equal ; C. A. Campbell, Eliza C. Cross, 
equal. 

Class II. — Frederick W. Macallum, Donalda McFee, Andrew 
Bryan, Hilton Pedley, Charles J. Martin, Horace E. C. Mason, 
Henry Neville Goff, Norman Lindsay, John A. Morison, Mary 

C. Simpson, William Howitt, Blanche B. Evans. 

Class III. — T. A. McPhail, Thomas Pritchard, William A. 
Duke, Peter L. Naismith, William T. D. Moss, Alfred P. Bry- 
son, Alice Murray, George P. England, Martha Murphy. 

Morin College — Class II. — John Donn. 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

B.A. honors in mathematics and natural philosophy. — Francis 
Topp, first rank honors and Anne Molson gold medal. 

B.A. honors in classics — William S. Fyles, first rank honors 
and Chapman gold medal; William Patterson, first rank 
honors. 

B.A. honors in natural science — Charles Swabey, first rank 
honors and Logan gold medal. 

B.A. honors in mental and moral philosophy— John McDou- 
gall, first rank honors and Prince of Wales gold medal ; E. C. 
Braithwaite, first rank honors ; N. P. Yates, first rank honors ; 
F. Pedley, first rank honors. 

B. A. honors in modern languages — Philip E. Ritchie, first 
rank honors and Lansdowne gold medal. 

Special certificates — Colin II. Livingstone, Hiram Mills, gold 
medal ; Ronzo H. Clerk, Frederick W. Hibbard, John W. 
McOuat. 

Neil Stewart prize in Hebrew — A. S. Grant, B.A. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Alexander R. Johnson, first rank honors and prize in mathe- 
matics and mathematical physics first rank general standing, 
prize in classics, James Walsh, first rank honors and prize in 
science, first rank general standing ; Alfred P. Murray, first 
rank honors in natural science, first rank general standing, prize 
in zoology ; John A. Nicholson, first rank honors in English 
language and literature, first rank general standing ; William 
N. Rochester, first rank honors and prize in classics, W. Leslie 
Clay, first rank honors and prize in mental philosophy ; Charles 
W. Colby, first rank honors in English language and literature 
and prize in rhetoric and Chaucer ; Hugh M. Patton, first rank 
honors in modern languages ; Wellington A. Cameron, first rank 
honors in mental and moral philosophy ; William A. Nichols, 
second rank honors in English language and literature ; J. F. 
Langton, second rank honors in mental philosophy ; Chas. W. 
Whyte, second rank honors in mental philosophy ; S. R. Brown, 
first rank general standing, prize in mental philosophy ; Robert 
Johnstone, first rank general standing ; M. McLennan, prize in 
Hebrew. 

Passed the sessional examination in the third year — Walsh, 
A. R. Johnson, Murray, Brown, Nicholson, R. Johnstone ; Clay 
and McLennan and Rochester, equal ; McArthur, Colby, King- 
ston, Solandt ; Patton and Sanders, equal ; Larkin, Nichols, 
Cameron, Langton ; Russel and Whyte, equal ; Gerrie, Nais- 
mith, ceger. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Henry Neville Golf (High school, Port Perry, Ont.), second 
rank honors and prize in mathematics ; James E. Le Rossignol, 
first rank general standing ; William James Giles, first rank 
general standing ; H. H. Curtis (McGill Normal school); prize 
in French, prize in logic ; Fred. K. W. Macallum (Oberlin col- 
lege) prepy. department), prize in Hebrew ; Charles J. Martin 
(High school, Montreal), first prize in English ; William Howitt, 



(private tuition), prize in botany ; Andrew Bryan (St. Francis 
college, Richmond, Q.), second prize in English. 

Passed the sessional examination — Le Rossignol, Giles ; Curtis 
and Day, equal ; Campbell, Macallum, Bryan, H. Pedley, 
Martin, Mason, Goff, Lindsay, Morison, Howitt, McPhail, 
Pritchard, Duke, Naismith, Moss, Bryson, England. 

FIRST YEAR. 

William E. Deeks (Morrisburg High school, Out.), second 
rank honors and prize in mathematics, prize in Greek and Roman 
history, prize in Hebrew ; W. D. Gibson, (Morrisburg High 
school, Out.), prize in classics, prize in chemistry, prize in Ger- 
man ; Wm. Rogers, (Huntingdon Academy, P.Q.), prize in 
French; F. S. Meighen, (High School, Montreal), prize in 
German . 

Passed the sessional examination — Gibson, Deeks, Rogers, 
Swanson, Meighen, Robertson, Smith, Walsh, Parker, MacKen- 
zie, Shepherd, Holden, Lucas, Moore. 

At the examination in September, 1885, the following scholar- 
ships and exhibitions were awarded : — 

SCHOLARSHIPS — TENABLE FOR TWO YEARS.. 

Third year — Mathematical scholarships, A. R. Johnson, R. 
Johnstone ; classical and modern language scholarships, H. M. 
Patton, S. R. Brown ; natural science scholarship, Alfred P. 
Murray. 

EXHIBITIONS — TENABLE FOR ONE YEAR. 

Second year — J. E. LeRossignol, High school, Montreal ; 
John L. Day, High school, Montreal ; A. P. Bryan, St. Fran- 
cis college, Richmond. 

First year — Wm. D. Gibson, Morrisburg High school, Ont., 

D. Grant, High school, Montreal. 

ANNE MOLSON MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. 

At a special examination in September, 1885, this prize was 
awarded to Francis Topp, student of the fourth year. 

NEW SHAKESPEARE SOCIETY’S PRIZE. 

At a special examination in January, 1886, this prize was 
awarded to Francis Topp, student of the fourth year. 

MORRIN COLLEGE. 

INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATIONS. 

Greek— Class I., Donn. Latin — Class I., Donn. Trigonom- 
etry and Algebra— -Class II., Donn. Logic— Class III, Donn. 
English — Class II., Donn. French — Class II., Donn. 

The B.A. honors and prizes were distributed first ; the cheers 
and applause that greeted the several names must have been 
flattering to the class of ’86. The honor and prize lists of the 
third, second, and first years were then gone through. ‘Ladies 
first ’ is the usual method among the students, but the faculty 
made it otherwise, and the fair sex received their share (a very 
large one) of the prizes after all the others. Their list is as 

SPECIAL COURSE FOR WOMEN— (DONALDA ENDOW- 
MENT. 

PRIZE AND STANDING — SECOND YEAR. 

Rosalie McD. McLea, Girls’ High school, Montreal— First rank 
general standing, prize in botany, prize in logic. Octavia G. 
Ritohie, Girls’ High school, Montreal— First rank general stand- 
ing, prize in French (Alliance Francaise), prize in German. 

Passed the sessional examinations — McLea, Ritchie, Cross, 
McFee, Simpson, Evans, Murray, Murphy. 

Passed in certain classes as partial or occasional students — 
Blackader, Van Horne, Dorey, McFarlane, Ida Swabey, Lilly 
Swabey. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Mildred A. Stevenson, Oxford High school, England, first 
rank general standing, prize in chemistry, prize in English, 
prize in German, prize in French. 

Passed the sessional examinations — Henderson, Stevenson. 

Passed in certain classes as partial or occasional students — 
Bott, H. Johnson, Morgan. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



THE SCIENCE CONVOCATION. 

The events more especially pertaining to the Science 
Convocation were begun by Prof. C. H. McLeod read- 
ing out the lists of the standing and prizes in the 
various subjects. 

FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

J. G. G. Kerry, British Association gold medal. $25 mathe- 
matical prize, prizes in theory of structures, steam, hydraulics, 
designing, drainage and materials ; Arthur Weir, Lausdowne 
silver medal ; W . M . Keid, Leslie Skelton prize for summer re- 
port, prize in mechanical work ; 0. P. Brown, second rank 
honors in natural science, Leslie Skelton prize for summer re- 
port ; N. N. Evans, prize for chemistry and mineralogy. 

Passed the degree examination — civil engineering (advanced 
course), J. G. G. Kerry ; civil engineering (ordinary course), in 
order of merit. F. W. Cowie, G. H. Dawson, H. Trueman, B. 
J. Saunders; mechanical engineering, W. M. Keid ; mining 
engineering, C. P. Brown ; practical chemistry (advanced course), 
Arthur Weir ; practical chemistry (ordinary course), N. N. 
Evans. 

THIRD YEAR. 

R. E. Palmer, $25 mathematical prize ; prizes in descriptive 
geology, theory of structures and drainage ; W. A. Carlyle, 
Watson prize in chemistry ; prize in mathematical physics ; 
prize in mining ; W. Ferrier, prize in geology and mineralogy ; 
prize in experimental physics. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Civil engineering (advanced course) R. Palmer ; civil engin- 
eering (ordinary course) in order of merit — Raoul Rinfret, W. 
Forneret, J. P. Ball, Daniel Taylor ; mining engineering, in 
order of merit — W. Carlyle, W. Ferrier. 

SECOND YEAR. 

M. W. Hopkins, prizes in French, zoology, mathematical 
physics, experimental physics, descriptive geometry, surveying, 
materials ; E. S. M. Lovelace, $25 mathematical prize, prizes in 
surveying and mechanism ; A. L. Drummond, prizes in ma- 
terials and mechanical work ; R. F. Ogilvie, prize in mechanism. 

Passed the sessional examination, civil engineering, in order 
of merit — M. W. Hopkins, E. S. M. Lovelace, A. J. Tremblay ; 
mechanical engineering, in order of merit— -A. L. Drummond, 
R. F. Ogilvy, A. E. Childs ; mining engineering, in order of 
merit— J. Hislop, C. Green, C. H. Macnutt. 

FIRST YEAR. 

G. McFarlane, prizes in English and mathematics ; G. M. 
Edwards, prizes in chemistry and German ; M. C. McFarlane, 
prize in mathematics . W. D. McFarlane, prize in freehand 
drawing. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

In order of merit — A. G. McFarlane, G. M. Edwards, M. C. 
McFarlane, M. L. Hersey, A. Young, W. D. McFarlane, J. S. 
Warren. 

The giving of prizes and certificates of honor came 
next ; then followed the bestowing of the diplomas, 
during which long-expected time the following gen- 
tlemen were arranged in an approximately correct 
semicircle in front of the platform : Messrs. Kerry, 
Cowie, Dawson, Trueman, Saunders, Eeid, Brown, 
Weir and Evans. 

The affirmation having been repeated after the 
Secretary, Mr. Baynes, the Principal spoke the usual 
formula and gave the necessary tap — vigorously ap- 
plauded in the sacred precincts behind — admitting 
them to the privileges of Bachelors of Applied Science 
of McGill. 

The Valedictory address then followed, and Mr. 
Weir, in delivering it, said, that as the representative 



of Science he need not strive after that exalted senti- 
ment and fervid flight of oratory so ably attained by 
his colleague in the Faculty of Arts. The path oi 
Science, he regretted, lay necessarily more amidst the 
sterner realities of the present day. His task, however, 

was not less noble. . 

He said that, as not representing the Engineering 
branch of his Faculty, some of its terms seemed to 
him a trifle obscure, for instance, to him a ‘ tie was 
an article of apparel, a “ frog” was alive, and he was 
as guiltless of a knowledge ot “ stretcher as ^vas 
Washington himself. Moreover, he was not a “design- 
ing” young man, and could therefore naturally give 
no points in “ crib* work,” and as to such definitions 
as “ oscillatory circle” (oscillatory), he would appro- 
priately allow them to he given by the lady undergra- 
duates. 

Since his entrance into college many great changes 
had taken place, one, and not the least, being the ad- 
mission of ladies. Evidence most satisfactory of their 
presence was given by a perusal of the top names in 
the Arts class lists, though he lamented that in one 
sense of the word it seemed as if on that list they 
never would be “ missed.” 

Of sixteen freshmen entering with him, but three 
were left besides himself. Their college life had been 
a pleasant round of lectures, dinners, sports, slopes and 
examinations. 

Great and practical encouragement had been given 
to Science by the visit of such societies as the British 
Association, and who would not struggle the harder 
after having seen, heard, and perhaps talked to, such 
men as Greely, Glaisher, Roscoe, Playfair, Rayleigh, 
Thompson, Bonney, etc. 

Mr. Weir spoke next of the prominent part in the 
University athletics always taken by his Faculty, 
though numerically so small, and advised his fellow 
students to aid the new Association of affiliated clubs 
by mutual trust and self denial. 

In referring to the University Gazette, he said it 
was emphatically, and must of necessity be the organ 
of the students. At the request of the Faculty, the 
speaker said he would read a brief report of his spe- 
cial work in analyzing Montreal water, which showed 
that it was not so bad as it might have been. In 
speaking of the wide range of Science, he said every 
branch had its particular beauties, though the hedge 
concealing them might be high and thorny. In con- 
clusion, he said if he had wearied them they must re- 
member that the condemned criminal standing on the 
scafl'old, whose last syllable signalled the falling of the 
drop and an issuing into a new and unknown state of 
things, was naturally in no hurry to speak the final 
word. 

Prof. Wilkins, of the University of Toronto, then 
received the ad eundum degree of M. D. at the hands 
of the Principal. The degree of M. D. was then con- 
ferred upon two students in Medicine, who had gra- 
duated at the preceding session, and that of B.C.L. 
upon one student in Law — the students being pre- 
sented by Profs. Stewart, and Archibald. 

The ceremony, all important to the men of *86, was 
the next part of the proceedings. In ‘ capping,* Sir 
William omitted the tap on the head in the case of the 



t 



1886.] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 11 



President of the year : in making up for the mistake, 
the Principal said that such a distinguished graduate 
needed no capping. 

The valedictorian of Arts ’86, was Mr. N. P. Yates, 
President of the Literary Society. In opening his speech 
the valedictorian pointed out the appropriateness of 
the term Alma Mater , and of the comparison between 
a university and a mother ; because, next to one’s 
mother’s influence, the university has most influence 
in moulding future life. Mr. Yates also showed a 
student’s duties ; there is great importance in having 
a desire to learn on the student’s part. A student must 
put active work in parts of college life other than the 
class-room, for it is truly stated that it is not merely 
class-room instruction that will give a man a univer- 
sity education. A liberal education may be defined 
to be a 1 harmonious development of the whole man.’ 
A good student ought to pay due attention to his 
studies ; but he ought to bear in mind that in college 
he must use the opportunities provided for coming 
into contact with men — different from him, and from 
one another. Theological students of the affiliated 
colleges came into contact with those of a different 
creed, and by the contact had their ideas widened, and 
their sectarianism diminished. Also theologs come 
into contact with other students, and so gain a know- 
lege of the world and of human nature very useful in 
their vocation. He then paid farewell to the profes- 
sors. In bidding adieu to the students, he advised 
them to strive to be men, to cultivate the whole man, 
to study systematically and hard, but not too hard ; 
and reminded them of the sympathy of ’86. He com- 
pared saying good-bye to the c youngest faculty ’ to the 
farewell to the favourite youngest sister. Then with 
mingled feelings of joy and sorrow, he bid farewell to 
Old McGill. 

Messrs. W. J. White, B. A., B.C.L., and J. L. Morin, 
B.A., received the degree of M.A., in course. The 
degree of LL.D., was then conferred, honoris causa, 
upon Dr. R. P. Howard, dean of the faculty of medi- 
cine, a well deserved tribute ; upon Prof. P. J. Darey, 
M.A., B.C.L., for his long continued services in the 
cause of education, a degree which he honors, and 
upon Sir Erasmus Ommaney, C.B., F.R.S., who was 
here with the British Association last summer. 

Dr. Cornish, on behalf of the University, made some 
interesting statements. The graduating class number- 
ed 26 : eight of these graduated in honours : sixteen 
were professional students. He said it was a very 
good sign that so many professionals took advantage 
of an Arts education. Another good, sign and one 
that made this meeting specially interesting, was that, 
at this convocation, ladies for the first time had their 
names on the University lists. Eight ladies passed 
the Intermediate examination, all very creditably : two 
of them had the whole year. He bade good-by to ’86 ; 
he exhorted them not to stop studying when they left 
college, but to continue their work. He gave them 
much good advice about how and what to study. 

The Wicksteed medals were then presented by Sir 
William Dawson, in the absence of the donor. The 
successful ones were : F. Pedley, gold medal ; H. Ped- 
ley, silver medal; T. Pritchard, bronze medal. Hon- 
orable mention, C. Swabey, Nelson P. Yates, Wm. 



Patterson and P. E. Ritchie. The Principal, in pre 
senting these, paid a very handsome compliment to 
Mr. Barnjum on his excellent system. 

Prof. Cornish, in addressing the graduating classes 
in both Faculties, cautioned bhem, above all things, to 
beware of setting up as geniuses ; there was no royal 
road to learning, nor to anything durable and good. 
His address was listened to with the great attention it 
well deserved. 

A DDK ESS OF THE PRINCIPAL. 

Principal Sir William Dawson referred to the apprehensions 
which had clouded the opening of tne sessions, owing to the 
epidemic then prevalent, and this in contrast to the additions 
which had been made to laboratories and class rooms, and to 
the previous prospects of a large increase of students. The 
statistics of the session showed that, while the anticipated addi- 
tion to the number of junior students had not been fully real- 
ized. there had been no diminution in the senior classes, and 
that in the aggregate the number had been greater than in 
former years. The total students of McGill College, reckoning 
only those in actual attendance on classes, but including the 
women in the Donalda special course, had been 564. In addi- 
tion to these the students of Morrin College, St. Francis College 
and the McGill Normal school %had been 111. The new special 
course for women may now be regarded as an assured success, as 
we have now 51 lady students, and of these eight have passed 
the intermediate examination, two of them standing at the head 
of the class. The timely liberality of the Hon. D. A. Smith has 
thus, by endowing our college for women, placed us in this im- 
portant department of work in advance of all other universities 
in Canada. The number of graduates in all the Faculties at the 
close of this session is liiney-two, a larger number than in any 
previous session, and we have again to record, with gratitude to 
God, the fact that order, harmony and an excellent spirit have, 
in the last session as heretofore, characterized all our proceed- 
ings. Next session, unless we shall be visited with some other 
public calamity akin to that of last year, we may hope to have 
more than 600 students, and perhaps 100 graduates. 

While thus prosperous in an educational point of view, the 
financial feature of the University has again been exciting some 
anxiety. Here the somewhat singular spectacle is presented of 
a large increase of our invested funds, and at the same time a 
threatened deficit in income. A statement has been prepared by 
the lion, treasurer, Mr. Ramsay, to whose careful management 
of its finances the university is greatly indebted, which will be 
circulated at the close of this meeting, and which presents these 
features in a very clear manner. It shows that in 1881 the in- 
vested capital of the university was $385,000, and that since 
that time endowments have come in to the amount of $336,000, 
thus nearly doubling our productive capital in the space of five 
years. Such a sum as this freely given to our university and by 
the citizens of our city, is unexampled in this country and shows 
how strong a hold the" higher education has on the sympathy of 
those who represent the wealth and intelligence of the 
community ; yet this large sum does not meet all our 
wants. It has added to the extent of our usefulness, and 
has given much relief to the general funds of the university* 
but its benefits have been largely neutralized by the continued 
diminution of the rate of interest, and by the cessation in the 
present year of subscriptions for a limited time given five years 
ago to meet the deficit then threatening. It thus happens that 
our expenditure will still be in excess of income, not, it is true, 
to a large amount ; but still in a manner to render retrenchment 
of a very undesirable character necessary". In these circum- 
stances we do not wish again to ask for annual subscriptions, 
but rather for an addition to permanent endowment. A sum of 
$75,000 would enable us to carry on all our present work at the 
existing rates of interest, but the actual prospective wants of 
our educational work would require an addition of $250,000. 
This we do not despair of obtaining within a few years, but as 
the present need is urgent it has been thought well to bring it 
the notice of our friends, along with a detailed statement of the 
modes in which aid might be best given to us to support impor- 
tant parts of the work, and at the same time strengthen the 
general fund, on which we depend for increase and for contin- 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



gentries. Perhaps 1 may say that the statement which has been ! 
prepared is not so much an appeal to generosity as a guide to 
certain profitable educational investments iu the interest of the 
community, and more especially of the English and Protestant 
people. The experience of more than thirty years assures me 
that the friends of education will receive this statement in the 
spirit in which it is given, and that we may feel assured that 
our wants will be fully supplied. In prospect of my own pro- ' 
bable absence for a time, 1 could only wish that the response 
may not be delayed and that I may be able to carry with me 
the assurance that no curtailment of the operations of the uui- 
verfity will be required. 

The proceedings were then closed by the Eev. Canon Norman 
pronouncing the benediction. 



REPRESENTATIVE FELLOWS. 

The following are the results of the elections for Representative 1 
Fellows : 



LAW. 

Jno. IS. Hall, Jr., B.A., B.C.L. 



MEDICINE. 

T. Rodger, M D. 

ARTS. 



F. W. Kelley, B.A., Ph.D 374 

C. H. Gould 110 

Majority for Dr. Kelley 264 

APPLIED SCIENCE. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. A. Sc 324 

W. J. Sproule, B. A. Sc. . . . . . 181 



Majority for Mr. Burland . ... 143 

P ersonals . 

Dr. Hayd is now practising in Buffalo. 

Dr. Sutherland has returned from his trip to Ber- 
muda. 

Dr. Elder was in the parade with the Garrison 
Artillery on Sunday, April 25th. 

Dr. McCuaig passed through the city on April 17th. 
He was en route for California, where he goes to prac- 
tise. 

Dr. liutt an has returned from Toronto. He was 
attending the examinations in Toronto University, 
where he is examiner in chemistry. 

It is reported that one of our most popular professors 
in medicine, hearkening to the advice, — It is not good 
that a man should live alone, — is about to take unto 
himself a wife. We only hope the report may prove 
true. 

Dr. Kinloch, Seery, Crockett, and G. H. Baymond 
sailed from Halifax by the Parisian on April 17th. 
They go to Edinburgh to study. From there Dr. 
Kinloch goes to Vienna to study a special branch of 
medicine. 

‘Dr. J. Herbert Darey, the last-year resident physi- 
cian of the German Hospital, Philadelphia, was re- 
cently appointed medical examiner of the Pennsyl- 
vania Bailway Belief Department, with headquarters 
at Erie, Pa. 

Mr. A. H. U. Colquhoun, B.A. ’8 5 leaves for Ottawa 
on Friday, to take the editorship of the Evening 
Journal of that city. We wish him every success 
in his new office, and hope that he will make of his 
paper the success he has made of the McGill Gazette 
during his editorship. 



A SONG OF ’86. 



Air: Take Back the Heart” 

Farewell, friends, tested and trusty, 

Sadly we bid you adieu : 

Going forth hopeful and lusty 
Life’s busy paths to pursue. 

Yet tho’ life’s battle we enter, 

Mem’r.v shall keep us here still ; 

Still shall our love have for centre 
Dear Alma Mater McGill. 

Chorus : 

Ere we say " Farewell for ever/* 

Hark to the vow that we make. 

Distance and time, they shalt never 
Our chain of fellowship break. 

You in the halls of your college, 

AVe in the world’s busy marts. 

Seeking and thriving by knowledge. 

Shall be united in hearts. 

Seas may divide each from other. 

We shall companions be yet— 

Nursed by the same noble mother, 

How could we ever forget? 

Chorus. Arthur Weir. 



Correspondence. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Gentlemen : — Permit me, through your columns to 
call the Faculties’ attention to a want felt by the 
students, and to one way of overcoming it. I need 
not insist on the importance, for engineering students, 
to do, during the summer, some kind of work relating 
to their studies. One on graduating, may have his 
head full of theories about railway work, bridge con- 
struction, etc., but he really does not know much if 
he has not been practising during his vacations, and 
he cannot be considered as an accomplished engineer. 

Probably most of the students would be glad to 
have any kind of work having some connection with 
what they study, for the whole or only apart of their 
vacations ; and not so much for the pay they may get, 
as for the learning they would derive from it. 

But many students do not get such work, through 
want of influence. 

Those generous persons, who are regardless of their 
money when the prosperity of the University is at 
stake, and who give large sums as annual subscriptions 
or endowments, would doubtless be ready to use their 
great influence in favor of the students, if they were 
asked by the proper persons, who are the professors. 
I admit that the professors have already the tedious 
duty of teaching ; but they would complete their work 
by enabling the students to put into practise what they 
teach them. 

Hoping you will tind the space for this, I remain, 

Yours, 

A Student. 



Editors McGill Gazette : 

Dear Sirs : — In the “ College Bulletin ” for the 
month of March, may be seen an account of the open- 
ing of the Hall recently built by the Toronto Univer- 
sity \ .M.C.A. When one sees this, the question may 
be asked, “ have we such an Association ] ” Shame 
be it to McGill that such a question need be asked : 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



there is no such question required in Toronto, where 
the fine new hall stares every student in the face. 
An occassional notice on the ‘ board * is all that most 
of our students see of the McGill University Christian 
Avssociation. Such should not he the case, especially 
among the young men who are to form the Canadian 
nation in the next decade : and the Association has 
resolved that such shall not he the case. Next month 
the governors are to he requested for ground whereon 
to erect a hall : and with the opening of next session 
canvassing for funds will he commenced. The As- 
sociation has set the hall rolling, and may well expect 
every weilwisher of McGill to keep it in motion. 

Now, sirs, as the Gazette is the best means for 
reaching the mass of the students, let me heg of you 
to insert this notice of the intention of the Associa- 
tion. 

Yours, 

Kelpie. 



Between the Lectures. 



A young wife who lost her husband by death, tele- 
graphed the sad tidings to her father in these succinct 
words : “ Dear John died this morning at ten. Loss 
fully covered hv insurance.” 

A facetious mob out West, who pulled a horse-steal- 
ing Indian to the top of a telegraph pole by a rope 
around his neck and left him there, hung a card on 
his hat bearing these words : “ High the poor 

Indian.” 

“ Are your domestic relations agreeable ? ” was the 
question put to an unhappy looking specimen of 
humanity. “ Oh, my domestic relations are all right,” 
was the reply ; “ it is my wife’s relations that are 
causing the trouble.” 

In Massachusetts, under a new law, a man who gives 
a minor a pinch of snulf is liable to a fine of 850. 
The law is not likely to be violated, however. A 
Massachusetts man was never known to give a boy 
anything but moral lectures. 

Natural History: What bird is most appropriate 
for a walking hat ? 

Astronomy : State the reason for the son's declination 
to take the hint concerning a moonlight drive. 

Latin : Translate Femina mutahile semper . — Ex. 



Old man (to daughter): “ Young Mr. S. paid you 
a fine compliment last evening, my dear.” 

Daughter (delighted): “What was it, papa?” 

Old Man : “ He said you were a very intelligent 
young lady.” 

Daughter (disappointed) : “ 0, pshaw ! I told 

mamma I would look like a fright in the brown dress, 
but she insisted on my wearing it.” 

Musical Amateur (to Irish fiddler): “ My good friend, 
do you play by note ? ” 

Irish Fiddler : “ Divil a note, sor.” 

M. A. : “ Do you play by ear, then ? ” 

I. F. : “ Divil an ear, yoar honor.” 

M. A. : “How do you play, then?” 

I. F. : “ By main stringth, be jabbers ! and it’s 
moighty dry wor-r-k ! ” 

“Can February March? asked the punster, with a sick- 
ly smile. “ Perhaps not,” replied the quiet man ; 
“ but April May.” The punster had not another word 
to offer. — Boston Transcript . June know this ought 
to be stopped? — Pittsburg Chronicle. July awake 
nights, August chronicler, to arrive at this conclusion ? 
Of course, none of the months really march, but it 
cannot be denied that April and May are moving 
months. 

Girl : “ I will look at your hummocks, please.” 
Dealer: “Yes, Miss. Now, there is something 
nice. Not expensive, but at the same time pretty and 
strong.” 

Girl : “ It doesn’t look very strong.” 

Dealer : “ I will guarantee it to sustain a weight of 
300 pounds, Miss.” 

Girl : Let me see ; 120 and 175 would be just 285 — 

! very well. I will take that one.” 

Miss Clara (to young Mr. Stammer, who has just 
finished a song at the piano) — “ The impediment in 
your speech, Mr. Stammer, doesn’t seem to affect your 
singing.” 

Mr. Stammer — “ N-n-ot at a-all, Miss Clara; it is 
; only w-w-when I a-a-attempt to t-t-talk that I am b-b- 
bothered.” (Suddenly changing the subject.) “ But, 

; M-m-miss Clara, I w-w-wish to s-s-speak to you re- 
regarding a certain m-m-matter th-that is of v-vital im- 
p-p-portance to my f-f-future h-happiness. I have 1- 
loved you 1-long and d-d-devotedly, and I want to a- 
a-ask you t-to be m-my wi-wi-wi-wi — er — ah — t-to be 
m-my wi-wi-wi-wi — ” 

Miss Clara (blushing shyly) — “ Why not sing it, 
Mr. Stammer?” 



“ My friend,” said a clerical-looking gentleman on 
the front platform to the driver, “ if you must use the 
word, why not say sheol?” 

“ I tried that word on the down trip,” replied the 
driver, “ and I was ten minutes late at City Hall.” 

“ Bobby,” said the minister at the dinner-table, 
“ what do you expect to do when you grow up ? ” 

“ I’ll be a minister, I think.” 

“ That’s a laudable ambition, indeed, Bobby. Do 
you think you will like to Be a minister? ” 

ft O, yes,” Bobby replied, “ Pa says you’ve got the 
softest job in town.” 



OUR OWN JOKER. 

I 

The play is done, the curtain drops, 

Slow falling to the prompter’s bell ; 

A moment yet the actor stops 
And looks around to say farewell. 

It is, indeed, “ An irksome word and task,” dear 
reader, for it means forsaking halls where we spent 
many pleasant hours with you ; it means exile from 
the sacred pale of Molson Hall and the silencing of 
the ravishing music of scratching pens and lon^- 
drawn sighs, of gliding professors and rustling papers. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



No more bouncing, no more rushes, no more slopes ; 
the conscript is drawn, and, with a parting word to 
Alma Mater , as she buckles his armour, his face is 
turned resolutely to the battle of life. “ With your 
shield or on it,” said the stern Spartan mother, and so 
says our mother also. For four years she has trained 
us for the battle, and may now exclaim, if we may 
alter the metaphor, “ In the sweat of our brow we 
have often reached the height where our work lay, 
but you have been steadfast and industrious through- 
out, using in all possible cases your own muscles, in- 
stead of relying upon mine. Here and there I have 
stretched an arm and helped you to a ledge, but the 
work of climbing has been almost exclusively your 
own. It is thus that I should like to teach you all 
things ; showing you the way to profitable exertion, 
but leaving the exertion to you — more anxious to 
bring out your manliness in the presence of difficulty 



than to make your way smooth by toning difficulties 
down.” Alma Mater , adieu. 

My readers are of two classes chiefly — those who 
have crossed the Rubicon of “ finals,” and those who 
are still 

Standing with reluctant feet 

Where the brook and liver meet, 

so that all can appreciate the question, when I turn 
to the undergraduate and ask, “ Is it well with thee ? 

I hope so, most sincerely, for of all things most damp- 
ening to the enjoyment of a vacation, a “sup” in 
prospect is the worst. Of course I do not speak from 
experience, a contributor to the McGill Gazette 
never can (There, Messrs. Editors of 1886-87, surely 
that will fill Box 1290 for you), but I am gifted with 
a vivid imagination, and can well conceive the feel- 
ings of a “ ploughed.” 



GURNEY’S 

Hot Water Heaters 



J\ IMLAR/IIEJSr, 

fistic ficessec and: Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 



CAST BUNDY RADIATORS. 



o 

$ 

© 

ft 



© 

x 



% 

0 

pQ 

0 




“1 SEND FOR CIRCULARS [^r 



rf- 

o 



X 

9 
— • 
K 

t; 

© 

4 

0 



3 

4 

© 

M 

© 

ft 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO , 

385 and 387 St. Paul Street. 

MONTREAL. 



Wholesale Manufacturers of Stoves, Etc. 



WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

MONTHEA I*. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES’ CHAM POPING an d CHIL DR EN’S HAIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO. 

Pharmaceutical & Dispsii demists, 



> 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris 
AU Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, CeUuIoid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, NaphthaUn. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges , 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



SPECIAL EeEZDTTCTIOILTS I 



All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 



MEN’S SILK TIES, 
MEN 



S T ’S SILiTSbARFS, 
MAN'S SILK (MADE) 

\ MUFFLERS, 



TIES, 



MEN’S SILK 

" MEN’S SILK MIXED MUFFLERS, 

• MEN’S CASHMERE MUFFLERS, 

FANCY SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

WHITE SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, In all Colors, 

MEN’S LINED KID GLOVES, 

MEN’S LINED KID MITTS, 

MEN'S DRIVING GLOVES, 

MEN'S BUCKSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S DOGSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S PIEWAR GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN GAUNTLETS, 



All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 



S. CARSLEY, notke dame street, 



lOItT'X’RE.A.X.. 



J.& E. McENTYRE, 

Merchant 

TAILORS, 




BI CYCL ES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



—ALSO— 




e] 1671 (= 



lOfEl w 

MONTREAL, 



# * 



w 



M 



. Not 



man 




ON, 




0 



PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION • 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

63 ST. 8ULPICE STREET. 

E. .A.. O-EK/TH, 

IMPORTER OF 



New Scale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 



-He FOR STUDENTS 

17 BLETJRY ST. 



Briar and Meerschaum Pipes. 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr^r St*u.a.eaa.ts Mixture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK, 




« — • 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlfprl mb iollat] flantifadiirBrs, 

21 BLEUBiY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuits, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

Jbrgnal Jnslriunittls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

.IMPORTED DIHECT 

. — FRpM THE— 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 



AX INSPECTION INVITED. 




V 384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



THE 

^uplai)(l LjithograpLic £jo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

►jfEngraving and Fine Printing** 

notes, drafts, cheques, bills of exchange 

and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book ; Stationery. 

3 D 



By Lithography or letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, CiEOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



® 80 P§ 8 B 0 F, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BIT -WYEISS &MS 02 T], 

CHEAP FOR CA 9 H. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States, 

678* AND 680 DORCHESTER ST„ 

MONTREAL. 

i— • i 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleary Street. 



PHOTO -IHUTPTOCGPO^nHIYY' 
% 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS. PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for OR DIN A R Y PR IN TER 'S USE. 

peocess. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all tlieir several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR— 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed ar.d Illuminated. 



