
TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 1st, 1883. 




EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., Consulting Editor. 



J. R. Murray, ’83, Arts. 

J. E. Martin, ’83, Law. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

C. A. Duclos, B.A., ’84, Law. 



R. F. Ruttan, B.A., ’84, Med. 
J. W. Moffatt, ’83, Ap. Sc. 

A. R. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

H. J. IIarrisson, ’83, Med. 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 



CONTENTS. 



• PAGE. 

Editorials 1-3 

Contributions 3-6 

College World 6-10 

Between the Lectures 10-11 

Personals 11 

Correspondence 11-12 

Poetry 12 

Notes and Queries 12-13 

New Books Received by Librarian 13 



;£ tutorials. 

It speaks well for the future of higher education in the Province of 
Quebec that those in whose power its furtherance lies, assist it from time to 
time in an open-hearted and trustful manner. Many of the men who have 
risen to leading positions in the commercial world have, when bequeathing 
their estates, not forgotten that the Dominion possesses an intellectual side, 
which needs more recognition than has hitherto been accorded to it, and 
have done what they could to build up that part of a nation whence lasting 
greatness proceeds. Among these was Mr. David Greenshields, whose 
munificent gift to McGill College merits the gratitude of everyone 
that has the welfare of our country at heart. His bequest of $40,000 
is a timely one indeed, especially as it is subject only to such conditions 
as may be agreed on by his executors and the Governors. The liberal 
spirit of the donor is evinced by the freedom from any regulation 
or restraint likely to prevent the best use of his benefaction, and we 
believe that in addition to such candid dealing, he made arrangements for 
the payment of interest on the above-mentioned sum from the day of his 
death. It is not flattery, but merely simple truth and justice to say that 
the benefits which which will result from such extension of University 
influence as Mr. David Greenshields has created, are incalculable. Those 



who are intimately acquainted with the difficulties under which McGill 
College has of late been labouring, and! with the quality and energy of the 
work carried on within its walls, will feel heightened respect for one who 
could appreciate the value of an efficient educational centre, and could fore- 
see the part that learning will have to play in Canada before she can be 
truly called great in every sense of the word. We are not for a moment 
supposing that any number of bequests can produce a corresponding 
number of geniuses, whose names will bring honour to their country from 
far and wide. Geniuses are uncommon, as well in Universities as in non- 
academic paths, but every helper of thorough instruction adds to the quota 
of those who are taught to form habits of thought. The sole aim of reason- 
able and rational Universities is, not to send men forth into life’s work with 
their heads transformed into memory-boxes, filled with most incongruous 
items, often comparatively useless, and not seldom very badly arranged, but 
to enable men to think clearly, perhaps powerfully, on the various topics 
which meet them from day to day, and to grasp any mental problem, small 
or great, in a large and liberal spirit. Individual centres of vast wealth do 
not tend to national greatness, but an increase of those people who can 
appreciate the complexities of social and political matters and, thus appre- 
ciating, can throw unselfish earnestness into social and political develop- 
ment, furthers national stability as nothing else can further it. Given 
respect for intellectual power, intellectual power will arise and earn the 
reward whereby it exists. We have been told — and there is some truth in 
the remark — that were the circle of those who take a genuine interest in 
Canadian literature a large one, Canadian authors would be forthcoming. 
This state of things can be remedied but slowly : still one of the remedies 
consists in the extension of — let us write the much-abused word — culture. 
We repeat that the donor of our latest endowment was sensible of this, and 
in the name of McGill College the McGill University Gazette is proud 
to offer this tribute of esteem to his memory, of sympathy to his relatives. 



It is by no means our ambition to be always calling attention to griev- 
ances and abuses, and to be for ever throwing schemes of reform broadcast 
upon our innocent readers. A chronic discontent is perhaps the most 
miserable of human states, miserable for the subject of the disease and just 
as miserable for those who are doomed to listen to him. But if there is 
any subject on which it is allowable for us to descant freely and mercilessly, 
it is the deficient provision which exists in this province, and indeed we 
may say in the Dominion generally, for enabling young men to obtain the 
highest class of education. It is hard to suppress a smile, a sardonic smile, 
when we think of the unreasonable stand taken by some worthy and no 
doubt well-meaning people a short time ago, on the question of bringing 
teachers from the other side of the Atlantic. With selfish conceit and 
little patriotism they raised a cry of “ None but Canadians need apply”. 
They seemed to think that the protective policy which has worked so well 




2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



in the world of trade might be extended with advantage to other spheres. 
But they forgot to inquire whether the article which they wished to exclude 
could be manufactured at home. It is a pity that the wasted energies of 
the people who wrote so fanatically upon this subject, were not directed 
towards the establishment of facilities for higher education in this country. 
On the occasion to which we refer, our educational institutions wished to 
make some additions to their staffs, and like all sensible people they went 
where they could obtain what they wanted best and cheapest. They would 
have preferred Canadians, but they were not to be got, and so they took 
others. In a similar case in trade we should do the same. If the arch- 
enemy himself kept a store, we should be inclined to patronize him if he 
kept a good stock. The fact that we have to look abroad for professors 
for our Universities and teachers for our higher schools, shows that the home 
supply is not up to the mark. We are quite as anxious as anyone else that 
Canadians should hold the posts in our chief educational establishments, 
but we consider that the way to effect this is not to put a tariff upon 
scholars from the Old Country, which alone would not protect us and 
would merely raise a revenue for ignorance, but to educate men in this 
country up to the requisite standard. 

By what we have said we do not in any way indict our Universities, 
which are doing a noble work under great difficulties. But it must be 
remembered that the University course extends over only three or four years, 
while the first two of these are given up to what ought, and in England is, 
done in the schools. There thus remain two years, too short a period 
surely in which to finish an education. The student after leaving college 
cannot afford to devote himself longer to close study, while if he have 
means he will travel to Europe in preference to studying by himself in this 
country. Up to this there has been no other alternative. In the States, 
the John Hopkins University has supplied the want by offering fellowships 
for competition to graduates of the different Universities. In England, too, 
they have fellowships, although of a slightly different character, while in 
Trinity College, Dublin, there are two Studentships awarded every year 
whose value is $500 per annum for seven years. Dr. Johnson, in his 
address at the Arts Convocation of last year, very ably pointed out the want 
of some provision of this kind, and suggested that the Dominion Govern- 
ment should be asked to make a grant for the purpose. What he proposed 
was that a certain number of studentships should be founded to be com- 
peted for throughout the Dominion. This would enable a number of the 
best men in our Universities to study for some time abroad. Such a demand 
would be a very reasonable one to make upon the Dominion Government, 
the matter being one of general interest to the whole country. From our 
Provincial Government we are afraid there is not much hope of ever getting 
such a beneficial measure. But in another way much can be done towards 
the same end. As we said above, if a student determines after taking his 
degree to devote himself to some particular line of studies, he must, if he 
remain in this country, depend upon himself and what he can get out of 
books. Hence arises the necessity for what are called Post-graduate courses, 
which might more properly be styled Post-graduation courses. The insti- 
tution of such courses rests evidently with the several Universities them- 
selves. In the present state of things it is not to be expected that a very 
large body of graduates would avail themselves of these courses even if they 
did exist, although a number large enough relatively to the number who 
graduate each year no doubt would. As the country expanded, however, 
these classes would become more numerously attended, and the benefit 
derived even in the beginning would justify their establishment. This 
method would afford opportunities not only to those who wish to devote 
themselves to the profession of teaching, but to others desirous of following 
out any special line of study. It is only this year that the r acuity of Arts 
in McGill has made certain changes in the curriculum with the view of 
allowing students to follow out any special course which they may choose, 
but anyone who has passed through any of the honour courses, must admit 
that much remains undone which it was desirable should have been done 
had there been sufficient time. We are entirely of the opinion that the 
Undergraduate course should be a more or less general one, and that men 
should make themselves specialists afterwards. A B.A. degree should in 
our opinion mean a fair general education . Many men may wish to pre- 
pare themselves as specialists from the beginning ; if there be such 
let them take a partial course and do without the degree of B.A. Of 
our Canadian Universities, Toronto has been the first to take measures 
for the establishment of courses such as we are advocating. At a 



[January 1st, 



late meeting of the Senate of that University, the following resolution 
was adopted : — 

1. That the Senate recommends the establishment in University College 
of nine Fellowships in respective departments and sub-departments 10 ow- 
ing, namely Two in Classics, one in Mathematics, one in Physics, one 
in Chemistry, one in Mineralogy and Geology, one in Natural History, one 
in French and German, and one in English ; but that the Council of the 
College may, if it deems it advisable, establish a Lectureship in English 
and History in lieu of the Fellowship in English and History and one of the 
Fellowships in Classics, and when it deems it advisable from time to time 
may revive such last-mentioned Fellowship, and during such period suspend 
such Lectureship. 

2. That it shall be the duty of a Fellow to assist in the work of instruc- 
tion, and to pursue some special line of study, under the direction of the 
Professor of the department in respect of which such Fellow is appointed. 

3. It shall be the duty of the Lecturer, under the direction of the Pro- 
fessor of English and History, to assist such Professor in the work of his 
department. 

4. That such Fellows and Lecturers be appointed from amongst the 
graduates of the University of Toronto, on the recommendation of the 
College Council. 

5. That the salary of a Fellow be at the rate of five hundred dollars a 
year, and that of said Lecturer at the rate of one thousand dollars a year. 

6. That the term for which such Fellowship shall be held shall not exceed 
three years, and a Fellow shall not be eligible for re-appointment. 

7. That a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the Council of Uni- 
versity College with a view to its consideration by the Council, and, if 
approved of, to effect being given to it by statute of the Council. 

We congratulate Toronto University upon their action, feeling sure that 
it will have most beneficial results. With reference to our own University, 
it is almost cruel to suggest an improvement of this kind, although we are 
emboldened to do so just now by rumours of large expenditures being 
about to be made for the admission of women to the College, and by the 
brighter outlook which seems to be opening up. 



The holidays are over. That period of long expected pleasure is now a 
thing of the past, and we earnestly hope that it did not remain an expect- 
ancy, but that the wishes of each one were fully realized. Dame 
Nature had made the amplest provisions for the success of our winter 
sports ; and we do not doubt that, the gown and its associations having 
been thrown aside, the student became the sportsman and gladly buckled 
on the snow-shoe or the skate. 

Thanks to the transit of Venus this has been an unexceptionally Merry 
Christmas for our Final men, whose anticipations were not dimmed by 
impending examinations nor their recollections soured by past failures. The 
very air around the College seems impregnated with activity a» each one 
puts on the harness and resumes work. The Sophomore feels all the 
influence of his returning dignity, and the Freshman, having kissed mamma, 
is refreshed. Our legal brethren, however, are not satisfied ; they intend 
that that the period of pleasure shall overlap that of duty, and have fixed 
an early date for their annual drive. We hope they will press the matter to 
execution and successfully contest all oppositions. 

On the threshold of this New Year, we in spirit grasp you by the hand 
and welcome you back to the haunts of learning, wishing to each success 
in the future. 



We wish once again to call the attention of the Students to the sugges- 
tion made at the beginning of the Session with regard to the election of a 
permanent Sports Committee. We believe that it is the intention of the 
Undergraduates in Arts to take steps in the matter almost immediately, and 
we hope that those of the other Faculties will co-operate with them and do 
their best to make the undertaking a success. 



We have been asked to call attention to the irregularity with which the 
College mail is delivered. It seems that the mail which should be delivered 
about 9 a.m., does not arrive until somewhere between n a.m. and 1 p.m., 
and that the second mail which should arrive about 1 p.m., is not delivered 
until 3 p.m. Tha cause of this delay is attributed to the fact that the 
postman who brings the College mail has got too much to do, and always 
makes the College the finishing point of his rounds. A remedy, we think, 
might be found by giving the distribution to the postman who delivers on 
McGill College Avenue, and we are sure that the post office authorities 
would willingly make the change if application were made to them from the 
right quarter. 



• 883 ] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



NOTICE. 

Competitors for the prize offered by us in our November issue, must 
send in their poems before the 20th January. The successful poem will 
be published in February’s issue instead of January’s, as at first intended. 



(Contributions. 

(We are not responsible for any opinions expressed in this column . — Ed.) 

The Ground-Tone of “ Measure for Measure.” 
by r. w. boodle. 

( Continued from December issue.) 

It must be apparent to the most careless reader that the moral ques- 
tions suggested by the play before us are the most striking point about it. 
The verse is rugged and unfinished except in solitary passages. The plot 
is fuller than usual of inconsistencies. The easy pardons of the guilty 
deputy and the part played by Mariana do violence to our sense of the 
dignity of woman and of human justice. On the other hand we are con- 
fronted with a seiies of characters suggesting, and personifying different 
aspects of life and its meaning, ranging from Claudio, who clings to life with 
a feverish longing, to Barnardine, “ a man that apprehends death no more 
dreadfully but as a drunken sleep.” Let us begin with this lowest type. 
He is described as “ careless, reckless, and fearless of what’s past, present 
or to come ; insensible of mortality, and desperately mortal,” and again 
as one that has a stubborn soul, 

“ That apprehends no further than this world 
And squar’st thy life according.” 

Barnardine is by birth “ a Bohemian,” and a Bohemian he is in the 
modern meaning of the term, and one of the lowest type. A higher type 
we have in Lucio, the man of pleasure, who never thinks of death, and 
lives solely to enjoy himself; yet Lucio is not without a sense of right 
within him, forcing him to reverence the beauty of holiness embodied in 
Isabella. She and Angelo seem to typify the different ideals of the Ca- 
tholic and the Puritan respectively, as viewed with Shakespeare’s eyes. On 
more than one occasion Shakespeare classes Puritan and Papist together 
as when the clown in All’s Well That Ends Well, tells us that “ young 
Charbon the puritan, and old Poysam the papist, howsome’er their hearts 
are severed in religion, their heads are both one, they may joul horns 
together, like any deer i’ the herd.” Both alike do violence to the present 
life ; Isabella through dwelling on the life to come, Angelo by repressing 
within him the instincts of humanity. These two types of spiritual life are 
happily struck off by Francis Newman in a passage in his work on “The 
Soul,” though without reference to the play before us. “The self-com- 
placent man,” (here we have Angelo) “ measures his present attainments 
with some arbitrary finite standard, (which is pronounced to be adequate,) 
and admires or approves himself as a result of the comparison. The 
standard assumed may be the conventional routine, which in a particular 
religious society is held to characterize Piety ; or may be a sort of average, 
struck from the apparent goodness of man in general, or may be an 
invention of his own ; but in all cases the standard is finite, and is already 
reached by him. But the sacred happiness of the heart” — and here we 
have Isabella — “ which knows it is known of God, is not derived from 
approving its own attainments, but from the very acting of its insatiable 
desires, and from its sympathy with the Source of life and joy. Its outcry 
is after perfection. It longs after God’s own holiness ; for this it would 
give Earth and Heaven. It no sooner effects one conquest than it aspires 
after another. If God would offer to make it at once and wholly perfect, 
it would eagerly catch at the offer.” Thus Isabella finds the rules of her 
convent wanting in strictness. She aspires after a higher state of holiness. 

I need not say how thoroughly I agree with Hallam in calling the Luke’s 
intention to marry Isabella “ a little too commonplace, one of Shakespeare’s 
hasty half-thoughts.” This is one of the many incidents in which this 
play is unsatisfactory. Shakespeare was doubtless led to this consumma- 
tion by the dramatic requirements of marrying off his chief characters. 

There is something on the other hand to be said for his treatment of 
Angelo’s character. “ Some rise by sin ” says the wise Escalus : Angelo 
could only be saved from his depths of self-satisfaction and complacency 
by the commission of a great crime. Let me again illustrate from Francis 
Newman’s noble work. “Just as in Political, so too in Spiritual conflict, | 
any great abuse of power by one party is apt to damage its cause, and 
irritate the opponents into vehement exertion ; hence many a tyrant and 
many a dynasty has been ejected in consequence of some wanton and 
atrocious deed. Exactly in the same way is the paradox to be explained, 
(which is a fact, whether people choose to be scandalised at it or not) that 
the commission of some unusually great sin has been known to lead to a 
change of the whole character for the better; in fact, to a marked spiritual 
conversion. It needs no great insight into the soul to understand the 
principle of such things. A man of impulsive passion and moderately 
strong will, is perhaps ordinarily correct enough to satisfy his conscience ; 
and if now and then carried a little beyond bounds, he yet manages to 



keep up a good opinion of himsfclf. But if his passions on some day run 
out to fearful riot, his self-complacency is mortified, his conscience is 
deeply stirred, his soul (for the first time perhaps,) is called into activity : 
a general insurrection of the whole man takes place against the tyrannous 
usurpers.” It was then but natural for Angelo, when he was found out, 
and when he at the same time had found himself out, to wish for death. 
He was disgraced before the world and abased in his own esteem. Let 
us be charitable to him ; he may have learned his lesson and may event- 
ually be moulded out of his faults into a better man. 

The family likeness between Isabella and Claudio is as strongly marked 
as that in “ Hamlet ” between Polonius and Ophelia. Both at times rise 
into passionate eloquence. The sensibility to outward impressions that 
leads Isabella to a nunnery, to outdo the piety of the ordinary votary of 
St. Claire, causes Claudio to yield to his passions and to be ashamed of 
himself afterwards ; to be won over by the philosophy of the Duke to 
acquiescence in death, and then again, when it appears inevitable, to 
revolt from it with shudderings and to supplicate his sister to purchase his 
life by her shame. One is forcibly reminded of Spenser’s contemporary 
portrait of the Red Cross Knight, who is meant to typify the ordinary 
Englishman of the period, now the sworn champion of Una (or truth), 
now the slave of Duessa (or falsity), and who in the depths of his con- 
trition and worked up to it by the mournful eloquence of despair is ready 
to put an end to his life. 

If the hardened Barnardine fears not death, so neither does the philo- 
sophic Duke. Life is for him, nor youth, nor age ; 

But, as it were, an after-dinner’s sleep, 

Dreaming on both. 

Life has no great charms for him, “ rather rejoicing to see another merry, 
than merry at any thing which professed to make him rejoice.” We may 
compare with this John Stuart Mill’s description of his own father : he 
“thought human life a poor thing at best, after the freshness of youth and 
of unsatisfied curiosity had gone by. He would sometimes say, that if 
life were made what it might be, by good government and good education, 
it would be worth having ; but he never spoke with anything like enthusi- 
asm even of that possibility. The pleasures of the benevolent affections 
he placed high in the scale ; and used to say, that he had never known a 
happy old man, except those who were able to live over again in the 
pleasures of the young.” 

Enough has been written to indicate the ground-tone of the play before 
us. Shakespeare gives the picture in his darkest colours ; the state in 
everywhere corrupt. 

I have seen corruption boil and bubble 
Till it o’er-run the stew. 

The Duke whose laxity is partly the cause of this evil state, looks on 
philosophically and puts the responsibility of action upon the shoulders of 
his strict Deputy. The young men of the play are mostly libertines, and 
those who are repelled by the license they see around them, take refuge 
in a formal austerity which withers the heart while it satisfies the consci- 
ence, or fly to “ narrowing nunnery walls ” to prepare for the life hereafter. 
For this picture, though probably overdrawn, Shakespeare had we know full 
warrant in the times. The later court of the Virgin Queen was only pure 
by comparison with the gross foulness of the court of James I. It was 
this state of morals that prepared the way for the excesses of Puritanism 
which culminated in the Commonwealth. The lesson to be learned from 
our play, though Shakespeare only teaches it indirectly, is one of modera- 
tion — moderation in the exercise of justice and a wise medium in all 
things — even in goodness Perhaps after thinking all the characters over, 
the only one with which we feel full sympathy is that of Escalus, the 
shrewd and faithful counsellor, bred in the old school, without the philoso- 
phic laisser faire of the Duke or the rigorous austerity of Angelo. 

What I Know About Still-Fishing. 

11. 

BY INEZ. 

As the reader will remember, Browne and 1 were left a month ago, 
slowly and sadly returning to the humble roof of the poor but honest settler 
which had sheltered us from the dew and sacrificed us to the mosquitoes 
and kindred forms of animal life during the previous night. When we 
reached the house — and not till then did I venture a remark — I suggested that 
it must be about nine o’clock and consequently breakfast time, but Browne 
made some disrespectful reference to my ideas of time which I need 
not repeat and producing his regulator assured me that it was 
a little before six. How time does fly in the country ! However by the 
time we had straightened out our fishing tackle, which you may imagine was 
no easy task, we heard the good wife’s cheery call to breakfast. This kind- 
led the poetic fire in Browne and he even broke out into song, a proceeding 
in which he very rarely indulges. We felt rather crushed though, when we 
found ourselves confronted with a dish of salt pork and great thick slices of 
bread which could scarcely be described as of “ snowy whiteness.” Hunger 
is proverbially the best sauce and as we had no lack of this we did pretty 
well, although I will confess that we did not neglect to take some crackers 
with us when we again started for the water. We had contracted with one 
of the younger branches of the family to supply us with bait and this time 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January ist. 



Browne to make quite sure of it put his share into his coat pocket. About 

riHeH k tW r -f IrS ' B i |! ad . the plumbers going through the house and they de- 
cided that it was defective drainage— but it wasn’t ! After we had break- 
fasted we were both in better humour and our misfortunes were forgotten in 
the pleasant prospects now before us. The weather was beautiful/a cloud 

TW nr^nTi °" y , sky a bn g htcr blue and wefelt sure of a fine day. 

25*0 lak ® surrounded by rough hills sparkled and danced as though it 
r '-f Wlth fisb and evef y °ne of them was winking at us and chuckling 
green T Nve must be lfvve had an y hope of catching them . Before 
we left the house, I suggested to Browne that it would be a good plan to 
Uke some potatoes with us and that then we could build a fire and roast 
them in the ashes. Baked potatoes seemed to have rather a pleasant sound 

0 Browne so we took a small tin pailful and 1 volunteered to act as cook, 
m 'ing y t ns means, to keep myself well smoked and so be free from the 

mosquitoes and also recollecting the story of the wily JEsop and the basket 
of bread, with what result the sequel will show. We had decided to try the 
stream this lime, as Browne said that trout always preferred rough water, 
how it may be stated generally, that rough water is usually associated with 
rough land and I think that if Browne’s remark be true, the trout that 
inhabited that stream must have been rocked in the lap of luxury — that they 
were rocked I am certain ! The stream ran at the bottom of a deep ravine 
with a thick growth of brushwood covering the banks on either side. Here 
and there a fallen log, green and mossy, formed a bridge of charming 
picturesqueness but doubtful stability, while the stately monarchs of 
the forest cast their cool shadows on the rocks below, forming 
a retreat damp, cool and admirably adapted to the cultivation of a 
large, healthy and energetic variety of mosquito. Behold us then 
at the top looking down into this ravine — Browne carrying his 
fishing rod, the tackle and the fish basket, while I carried a rod, a 
bag of biscuits, a pail of potatoes and a supplementary can of worms for 
my own use. As I have said, the bank was steep ; I might add that as there 
were many pines about, it was also slippery, so that when I started to go 
down, the conundrum as to how with my two hands I was to carry four such 
clumsy parcels, was settled for me on the spot — I went down on the broad 
of my back followed at intervals by sections of the fishing rod and Early 
Rose potatoes, for I clung desperately to the bait from experience, and to the 
biscuits from intuition, and we three arrived at the bottom cn masse. When 

1 had disengaged myself I found Browne about half way down the bank 
clinging desperately to a pine and appearing very much amused. For some 
time afterwards he found sufficient amusement in the resinous condition of 
his hands, to prevent him from enjoying my misfortunes. I had been stop- 
ped by the brushwood along the bank and when I had collected my rod 
and the potatoes I found that I was in a very poor position for fishing. 
Browne had found an open spot farther down the stream and was having a 
grand time, for now and then he would call to me that there was a beauty,— 

what did I think of that? and at intervals I heard “ lost it again,” 

and then he would call to me “just lost a lovely four pounder !” or “ big- 
gest yet,” for I notice that the very large fish have a remarkable capacity for 
getting on to the hook and oft again. I thought I saw a most tempting 
spot a few yards below on the opposite side of the stream and as there was 
a fallen log close by, which I trusted' would carry me over I determined to 
“ go below.” The mosquitoes must not be forgotten, their attacks were un- 
ceasing and by this time they literally swarmed about me, for I have always 
found myself particularly toothsome to these pests. Laden as before with 
the rod and biscuits in one hand and the two tins in the other I started on 
my transit, obscured like Venus — but by a cloud of mosquitoes. As the log 
was ancient and slippery I decided that “ discretion was the better part of 
valour ” and started on all fours. I was progressing very favourably and 
was about half way across when something caught my trousers. The en- 
gines stopped and the entire machine was at a standstill. I dared not turn 
around to see what was the matter for I should certainly have slipped 
off the log; both hands were occupied and the mosquitoes took a 
deliberated advantage of my unguarded position, and I am now 
convinced that they are utterly devoid of nobility of character. I 
tried to back out but as the trousers were a fixture, this only had 
the effect of exposing my nether extremities to the minions of H. S. M. 
Browne was out of sight by this time and it was useless to seek for assistance 
in that quarter, so making up mind to one grand effort towards making the 
transit a success I started forward : there was a short struggle as to which 
should give way but finally my tailor’s handiwork triumphed, the twig broke 
and I reached the shore without further adventure very warm and affection- 
ately accompanied by my friends the minions. I tied my head up in a 
handkerchief as closely as I could and then set to work at last to fish. Think 
not gentle reader (if any such survive to this stage of the game) think not 
that my misfortunes were now at an end and that I was at last to stand like 
the fisherman in the picture books undisturbed on the shore and draw in “ the 
finny treasures of the deep ” as fast as I could cast my line. “ You may take 
a horse to the water but you can’t make him drink,” and similarly I had now 
taken the bait to the fish but I couldn’t make them bite. I set down the tins 
and the bag of biscuits, carefully arranged my line and rod, baited the hook 
dropped it neatly into the stream and stood in breathless suspense waiting 
for a nibble. There ! steady ! I really felt a bite and I stood on tiptoe 
anxiously awaiting further developments. Suddenly I felt what I thought a 
splendid nibble and energetically whipped the line out of the water, then I 
saw a little fish come about a foot above the surface and fall back with a 



splash, while my line sailed upward and wound itself around a branch high 
in the air. 

( To be continued.) 



Some Reflections on a Recent Essay on Pure Ethics, with a 
Theory of the Motive. 

This brochute, concerning which we intend to offer a few remarks, was 
got up in a nice style, suitable for distribution. It consists of little over a 
dozen pages, a rather small space in which to fully treat of a subject of such 
importance and magnitude as Pure Ethics. It may well be questioned 
how far the usefulness of short essays in general extends, and more espe- 
cially of short essays upon profound subjects. In the present instance the 
effect produced is a disappointment upon coming to the end of the sketch 
to find that there has been practically nothing proved. The arguments are 
sparse throughout, and one finds oneself lapsing through a slippery collec- 
tion of statements, whose establishment has not been attempted. Neither 
do we notice any new departure in the treatment of the subject by the 
author, while a certain vagueness overshadows the whole. 

Commencing with a division of the subject into Absolute and Relative 
Ethics, the author draws the following distinction between an absolutely 
good deed and one relatively good : “ Either the deed is good of itself, no 
matter by whom and in what surroundings done, or it is good relatively to 
the intention of the actor, who does it with a beneficial motive.” A 
specific deed, good of itself, no matter by whom or in what surroundings 
done, to our mind does not exist. As Spinoza says : “ In considering what 
is the true or the chief good, it is to be observed that good and evil are only 
relative terms. Nothing regarded in its own nature is to be called either 
perfect or imperfect ; especially when we are satisfied that everything which 
happens does so according to an eternal order and fixed laws of nature.” 

It is the same old fallacy to which Socrates, in his day, drew attention. 
In considering deeds in this connection, it must be granted that we have to 
do only with reasonable deeds. With unreasonable deeds we have nothing 
to do. But all reasonable deeds must have some purpose in view, in so far, 
at least, as they are voluntarily performed, and, therefore, all voluntary deeds 
may be considered relatively to the persons performing them, or the persons 
upon whom or for whom they are performed. If the deed be involuntary, it 
must be considered in connection with the person or persons whom it 
affects. All good is relative, and to say that a deed is good, or in fact to 
conceive of such a thing at all, without considering also the participators in 
the act, is an absurdity. A good act is good for something or somebody, 
and not simply because it conforms to a certain standard and for no other 
and deeper reason. Supposing the moral law to take its authority merely 
from the command of an all-powerful Being, and supposing no punishment 
to follow upon disobedience of it, it would not be reasonable to call all 
actions which conformed to this law right and all others wrong. If, how- 
ever, a severe punishment followed upon disobedience, we should then say 
that all actions performed in conformity with it were good, that is to say 
good for the person performing them, and all others bad. There is in 
reality no deed absolutely good without a consideration of the participation 
in it. 

The three objections raised against the happiness theory are the follow- 
ing : — 

I. That pleasure is far too low an element to be in any form identical 
with good. II. That pleasurable desire is selfish in essence, whereas right 
motive is not. III. That such theories overlook the binding force, or 
obligation, which attaches to laws of duty. 

In the first place we should like to know what is meant by happiness 
being a low element. The Utilitarian may well retort that if happiness is 
low, so is good On the one hand it is asserted, and satisfactorily enough 
proved, that true happiness is good, while on the other it is assumed that 
happiness is a very low thing. It cannot be that the Appreciators have 
confounded true happiness with sensual pleasures, and yet it seems a very 
foolish statement to say that happiness is low, while all the time it will 
hardly be admitted that good ends in anything but happiness. We have 
never known a Christian believing in Heaven who thought of it as a place 
of misery, and most Christians do their good actions with the sole view of 
getting to Heaven. Good actions often imply temporary unpleasantness, 
but who will deny that happiness redounds to the agent in the end ? If 
the result of good actions was misery in the present, and misery in the 
future, we should like to know who would perform them for their own sakes ? 

The second objection contains two statements, first, that pleasurable de- 
sire is selfish in essence; secondly, that right motive is not. Now, sup- 
posing the former of those to be true, it remains to prove the second. We 
assert on the contrary that all right motive is selfish, if by selfishness, we 
understand a consideration for one’s own truest happiness. To each man 
his own final happiness is of the greatest importance, a statement which is 
in accordance with the saying of the Lord, “ What shall it profit a man, if 
he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul ?” It is unfortunate that 
the word selfish, which must be applied equally to this Scriptural doctrine as 
to the theory of the Egoist, has another and less desirable signification. 

The third objection is a mere statement which has never been proved. 

Proceeding to notice the connection of Christianity with the happiness 
theory, the author asserts as follows “ If the charges made by the Ap- 
preciators are correct, there is a drawn battle between Christianity and the 



i88 3 ] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



pleasure theory, which must be decided by the life question, ‘ Which is 
true?’ If incorrect, the danger is done away, etc.” Now, if the charges be 
correct, the pleasure theory must fall to the ground, and be abandoned. 
How then can it happen that there is a drawn battle between Christianity 
and the theory, if the theory can no longer be maintained. The life ques- 
tion, “ Which is true?” will have been already decided against the pleasure 
theory. On the other hand, if the objections be incorrect, it is asserted 
that there is no danger. So that the author evidently holds the opinion 
that Epicureanism is not incompatible with Christianity. In this belief we 
heartily concur. In his criticism of Egoism, the author is not so fortunate. 
He says: — “The theory being admittedly selfish, has, at least, the second 
of those defects before mentioned, which are charged by the hostile party.” 
This, which is the sole objection raised against Egoism, is supposed utterly 
to crush that theory. But suppose selfishness to be shown not to be a defect, 
and we maintain that in the sense mentioned before it can be so shown, 
what hinders Egoism from being true ? With regard to Altruism he says : 
“ It seems impossible for a man who acknowledges only desire as a motive 
to really seek the pleasure of others by any other means than by pursuing 
his own.” To us, indeed, an altruistic motive seems inconceivable, but at 
the same time it must be remembered that by reason of existing relations, 
and more especially because of the restrictions arising from powers of com- 
pulsion, it will often, and indeed generally, happen that one’s own true and 
final happiness is identical with the greatest happiness of the greatest num- 
ber, or rather the means to be taken in each case become identical Still 
we maintain the true ulterior motive to be egoistic. 

The next objection made, but not sustained, against the happiness 
theory is “ that pleasure can be in no manner essentially connected with 
good, because it has a gross, as opposed to a lofty character. The pro- 
position that “ Pleasure is Good is rejected entire.” No one would ever 
think of maintaining that all pleasure is good, but we do maintain that true 
happiness is good. We cannot see that the truth of this is affected in any 
way by the fact that there are different grades of pleasure. The next 
sentence in the essay might easily have been omitted without detracting 
from the reputation of the author. “ We demur to levelling our noblest 
actions to so grovelling a field, being certain that moral feeling is sublimer 
than gratification.” 

But the piece de resistance of the whole is the author’s theory of Sub- 
conscious pleasure The name on the face of it looks suspicious, because it 
seems an impossibility for a person to feel happiness and not be conscious 
of it. Whoever heard of a person experiencing pleasure or pain uncon- 
sciously ? And yet it is offered as an explanation of the moving force which 
leads the Utilitarian to set up the happiness of others, that there is a sub- 
conscious happiness reflected in him from theirs and made his, unknown 
to himself, by his automatic power of sympathy. The motive power is 
evidently admitted to be pleasure. But by whom is this pleasure experi- 
enced? Not by those for whom the action is performed, for the pleasure 
which they feel cannot move the person who performs the action and who 
did not feel the pleasure. He is moved not by this pleasure, but by a 
reflection of it through sympathy, which reflection is a sub-conscious plea- 
sure. That is to say, he is moved by a happiness which he does not 
experience, of which he is unconscious. It may be that what is intended 
to be conveyed is that pleasure is not thought of at the moment as the 
motive of good actions. But this does not alter the case at all, for on 
analysis it can in every case be shown that pleasure either in the present 
or in the future is the ulterior power which moves to action. The future 
pleasure, of course, being made present by the power of representation. 
We should have been glad had the writer been more explicit in defining 
the difference between reflected pleasure and any other pleasure, in so far 
as the person experiencing them is concerned. Although he seems to 
imagine that he is elaborating in this theory of reflected pleasure an objec- 
tion sweepingly detrimental to the Egoistic theory, he is in reality but show- 
ing its truth, for after all he admits that the agent is moved by pleasure, 
although that pleasure be but reflected. Still, it is pleasure felt by himself 
that moves the agent, and this is what Egoism maintains. To object to the 
pleasure being taken as the motive because it happens to be reflected, is as 
silly as it would be for a messenger sent to buy a package of flour to 
refuse to take that offered because it was marked “ Best Quality,” and 
because the person who sent him did not happen to mention anything 
about it, except that it was flour which he was to get. The author has 
fallen into the mistake of first attacking the Egoistic theory and afterwards 
falling back upon it to explain the possibility of the Utilitarian theory 
which he maintains He first of all affirms that good is “gloriously 
beyond pleasure,” whatever he may mean by that, and afterwards explains 
the motive as due to sub- conscious reflected pleasure , an expression as un- 
fathomable as the other. But though the pleasure moves him, says the 
writer, he does not think of it as in himself. Still the pleasure to be a 
pleasure must be felt, and it is felt by himself, nor is it any matter what 
he may think or imagine on the subject. We have not to do with what 
each one may think his motives to be, we have to enquire what they really 
are. Again, it is stated that a true man would perish for the good of his 
race, even although he believed his own possibilities of happiness were 
doomed to everlasting extinction. This is a statement the truth of which 
we greatly doubt, and it is our lot to be acquainted with very many true 
men" who would do no such thing. And we believe that they have 
reason on their side. The threat of Christ that, “ He that saveth 



his life shall lose it, but he that loseth his life for my sake shall save it," 
refers, as will be at once seen, to this present world. In fact it cuts in a way 
exactly opposite to that intended by the writer of the pamphlet, for it dis- 
tinctly holds out to those who undergo a little temporary trouble in this 
world for Christ’s sake the hope of eternal happiness in the world to come. 
He does not ask such an unreasonable thing as that we should sacrifice 
ourselves for Him in this world, and receive as a reward in the world to 
come, eternal damnation. If He did, we are afraid the number of earthly 
saints would greatly diminish. Bacon writes : “We read that some of the 
elect and holy men, in an ecstacy of charity, and impatient desire of the 
good of communion, rather wished their names blotted out of the Book of 
Life than that their brethren should miss of salvation.” But we should be 
careful to recollect that this unreasonable wish was made in an ecstacy of 
hnpatient desire. What men may wish in ecstacies is surely not to be taken 
as an argument in any calm, rational dispute. The main point then which 
this essay seems to have been intended to bring out will be found to depend 
on a solution of the difficulty with regard to the connection between the 
rightness of an action and the worth of the agent. It is needless to say that 
this problem has not been attempted, but the author, taking for granted that 
such and such things are true, comes, in company with Schopenhauer, to 
certain conclusions which seem to give him eminent satisfaction, and which 
we should also be obliged to concur in but that we happen to recollect the 
very doubtful character of the hypothesis upon which they are based. 

On coming towards the end of the essay, we were rather dismayed upon 
reading that “ by misconception much has been made, in our science, of 
the government, the behests, the Law, of Reason,” but we were glad to find 
that the elaboration of the statement proved entirely harmless. 

The subjects referred to in the closing part of the essay are much too 
extensive to be even touched upon in such a short sketch as this, but we 
are very much afraid that the beautiful dream which has been there drawn 
of the world developing into a state in which men will be forced and 
swayed sublimely and absorbingly into the pursuit of good, is as illusory as 
it is delightful in contemplation. We agree with the writer that morality 
depends to a great extent upon the truth of religion, but how far that 
dependence extends we are not going to discuss. 

In conclusion, we join with the author in hoping that his sketch may be 
of use, and we congratulate him upon being able to devote some of his 
time during the every-day hurry of a life in this country, to the higher pursuit 
of philosophical studies. 

Egoist. 



Our Foot-Ball Matches this Season. 

When we entered upon the Foot-ball Season this year, we had lost 
six members of the old team, among them the Captain, Secretary, and 
Treasurer of the Club, all good players who had worked hard to bring 
the team into good condition and who found their efforts well rewarded 
by the record of the matches of the season of ’81. We started this year 
with a good reputation and it was evident to all that we should have to 
play well to keep it up. After electing the officers of the Club, the next 
thing was to arrange the matches for the year. This was done satisfac- 
torily by the Secretary, and the programme included matches with the 
other Montreal Clubs with the R. M. C. cadets, Toronto University and 
with Harvard. 

Names of the Team. 

The team this year consisted of the following Undergraduates. 

Backs — H. Hamilton, ’84, Sci. (Captain). 

T. Haythorne, ’84, Arts. 

Half Backs— R. F. Smith, ’83, Sei. 

T. W. Robertson, ’84, Arts. 

Quarter Backs— W. L. Murray, ’84, Sci. ; F. Hague, ’83, Law. 

Forwards — J. H. Rogers, ’84, Law ; A. W. Smith, ’85, Law. 

G. C. Wright, ’84, Arts ; J. L. Hislop, ’84, Sci. 

J. Elder, ’86, Med. 

R. A. Kennedy, ’84, Arts. 

J. R. Unsworth, ’84, Arts. 

N. Worthington, ’86, Med. 

W. R. Shearer, ’86, Sci. 

Spare Men — C. M. Robertson, ’85, Arts. 

C. B. Smith, ’84, Sci. 

The finances of the Club were soon in a good condition, as there 
seemed to be quite a revival of interest in foot-ball among the students 
of all Faculties. This was due to the successful season of last year, and 
the energy of the officers of the Club, who spared no efforts to arouse 
in the Undergraduate a due appreciation of “ Our University Game.” I 
may also add that all the Montreal Clubs commenced their season with 
prospects as bright as our own. The Britannia holding the Champion- 
ship Cup were pretty confident of retaining that trophy for another 
season. The Montreal Club had their team recruited by some of the 
best players from other clubs in Canada and England. Our first match 
was with the R. M. C. cadets and was played on Oct. 13th, on the McGill 
grounds. It was so fully reported in the Nov. issue of the McGill Gazette 
that it would be superfluous to give any detailed account of it. In this 
match which we won by a goal and a touchdown, it was seen that the 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [January ist. 



McGill team, although at first rather over-matched by the superior weight 
of their opponents, played towards the end in such a manner as ultimately 
to gain the victory. It has been the invariable rule in the matter this 
year that whether from training or practice or both, our team has always 
played a better game in the second three quarters, and this fact has not a 
little contributed to the successful issue of some of the matches. 

Montreal Match. 

Our second match was with the Montreal Club. They had an excep- 
tionally strong team and the match was a very good one. Our team, 
although lighter than their opponents by eleven pounds, holding their 
own in a way which reflected great credit on their play and management 
by the captain. The match resulted in a draw: an improvement on last 
year when we were defeated by Montreal. The utmost good feeling pre- 
vailed on both sides during this match, as has always been the case when 
these teams play one another. 

On the list of invitations this year the club had one from Harvard, 
although it was known that their rules and whole style of game differed ma- 
terially from ours, yet as they had visited Montreal several times in preced- 
ing years, we decided to accept their invitation. On the journey down a 
match was arranged with Dartmouth for the return trip. On arriving in 
Boston, the respective captains endeavoured to harmonize the two different 
systems of play, and to lay down a code of rules for the match that would 
be understood by the players of both teams. In this they were unsuccess- 
ful, as the Harvard ruies on the subject of “off side,” “holding the ball,” 
&c., seem to be at total variance with ours, and were greatly advanta- 
geous to their style of play. Our captain, seeing that it was the only 
chance of having a match at all, at last consented to play by their rules. 
Our men entered the match under the disadvantage of knowing that the 
game they had to play, and the rules they were expected to observe, were 
altogether different from those they were accustomed to. Under these 
circumstances it is not surprising that our men were unable to win the 
match. The play of McGill, however, was such as to warrant the con- 
viction, that if they had played by the ** Rugby Union Rules,” they would 
have had no difficulty in holding their own. With regard to the “ open 
formation ” game, which seems universal in foot ball clubs in the States, 
I may say that it is directly opposed to the Rugby Union Rules, which 
say that in a scrimmage the ball shall be driven in the direction of the 
opposite goal line. 

In other respects our men had nothing to complain of during their stay 
in Boston, and if a hearty reception and hospitable treatment could make 
up for ill-success, the McGill team have every reason to be satisfied with 
their trip this year. On the return trip a match was played with Dart- 
mouth College. Although our men showed by their play that they were 
somewhat more used to the American rules, they were unable to cope 
with men who had always played by them. These matches show that 
it is impossible to reconcile the different systems of foot-ball played by 
the American colleges and by ourselves. Until an international code of 
rules is divised, we shall be unable to play intercollegiate matches with 
the Americans, with any hope of satisfaction on the part of either side. 
The first match played after the return from the States was with Toronto 
University. It will be remembered that last year we paid Toronto a visit 
for the purpose of playing this team, and the result was one in which we 
had every reason to be satisfied. This season the Torontos came down 
with the anticipation of avenging their defeat of last year. In this for- 
tunately they were destined to be disappointed, as we succeeded in obtain- 
ing the victory by a goal and a touchdown. The last McGill match for 
the season was that with the Britannias for the challenge cup. As the 
match was played only a short time ago, it is unnecessary to comment on it. 
Our men, it may be observed, complained of a considerable amount of 
unnecessary rough play on the part of their opponents. It would be well 
if some rule could be devised to restrain such tendencies in future, as they 
not only considerably lessen the enjoyment of the players, but are cal- 
culated to lower the game of foot ball in the estimation of the public. 
The match resulted in a victory for the Britannias, who thus retain the 
cup. In all the matches played this year, there was felt to be a want of 
some uniform system of rules. Nearly all Canadian clubs are supposed 
to play by the “Rugby Union” rules. In 1880, a “Canadian Rugby 
Union ” was formed which published a code of rules, differing slightly 
from the old Rugby Union. The Canadian Union unfortunately was 
allowed to fall through, so that now the rules are in a somewhat confused 
condition. There are several points which often arise in the game on 
which there seem to be no explicit rules at all, and which have to be settled 
by the captains, or to be left to the judgment of the umpires. What is wanted 
now is a Canadian Union, established on a more permanent basis than 
the one of 1880, and having representatives from every foot-ball club in 
Canada. A foot-ball convention could then be called and a system of 
rules devised that would be at once uniform and comprehensive. 

F. H. 

[There appears to be a definite movement on foot in Toronto, towards 
the establishment of a Canadian Foot-ball Union. The Montreal clubs, 
no doubt, will be invited to send representatives, and it is to be hoped 
that something will be accomplished towards settling the many conflict- 
ing theories, with regard to the rules of Rugby Union Foot-ball.] 



(College SStortcl. 

McGill. 

The following have been elected Valedictorians in the several facul- 
ties : — Arts, Mr. A. Scrimger; Law, Mr. P. S. G. McKenzie ; Medicine, 
Mr. J. B. Loring; Applied Science, . 

A member of the staff interviewed Dr. Murray, with the expectation 
of getting some information concerning the progress made by the Com- 
mittee appointed by the Corporation to investigate into the expenses that 
would be incurred by admitting women to the Arts classes of the College ; 
but was told that it was not in that gentleman’s power to give any such 
information, the proceedings of the Committee being private. 

Some vandal has been tearing down the notices of the meetings of the 
Undergraduates' Literary Society. This has caused much annoyance to the 
members of that society, and they express the intention of putting the 
offender under the tap, if they catch him. 

The metings of the Undergraduates Literary Society were unusually well 
attended before Christmas. This was due to two causes. The lecture deliver- 
ed by Dr. Murray, of which mention was made in the November number, 
had a strong effect upon the students, making them think more of the necessity 
for mental culture than of their ambition to take a high place in the examin- 
ations. The effect of this lecture would, perhaps, have been evanescent, 
had it not been for the praiseworthy efforts of the special committee in pro- 
viding pleasing programmes and choosing interesting subjects for debate. 
A noteworthy feature of the programmes has been the revival of essay read- 
ing, which at one time the members of the society despaired of ever bringing 
about again. We append a list of the programmes of some of the meetings. 

October 27 th, Esssay Reading , L. M. England. 

Debate — Resolved , that direct taxation is preferable to indirect. 

November 3rd, Essay Reading , R. A. E. Greenshields. 

Debate — Resolved , that partyism in politics is beneficial to the State. 

November xoth, Essay } W. Dixon Reading , N. P. Yates. 

Debate — Resolved , that justice is better secured by trial by judges than by 
juries ? 

November 17th — Essayist J. W. Pedley. 

Debate — Resolved , that the valedictorian should be elected by all the stu- 
dents in a Faculty instead of by the students in the Graduating class. 
November 24th — Debate — Resolved , that women should be admitted to our 
Universities, and all University privileges accorded to them. 

December ist — Debate — Resolved, that the recent disallowance of rail- 
way charters by the Dominion Government was justifiable. 

Reading , J. K. Unsworth. 

A large and enthusiastic meeting of the Students was held in class room 
No. 9, on Saturday evening, to consider the advisability of forming a Glee 
Club, in connection with the University. Prof. Moyse occupied the chair, 
and Dr. Harrington was seated on the platform. Mr. Stewart briefly 
stated the purpose for which the meeting had been called. Dr. Harrington 
then addressed the meeting. In the course of his remarks he urged on the 
students the necessity of forming such an organization, and also the necessity 
for continued and diligent practice. He alluded to the fact that McGill 
was the only University on the continent which was without a Glee Club. 
He expressed the pleasure it would give him in assisting the club in every 
possible way, and very kindly offered the use of his house and piano for its 
meetings. The chairman in the course of a few remarks spoke of the 
benefits that would result from such a club, a very prominent one being the 
raising of the standard of college songs. Mr. Rielle being called upon, 
stated that the want of an organization of this kind had long been felt 
among the students of Law, and he promised their hearty co-operation in 
the event of the club being started. 

Owing to the fact that the meeting was not sufficiently representative, it 
was not deemed advisable to take any definite steps till the students of the 
various faculties had been consulted. Mr. Rielle then moved, seconded by 
Mr. Geo. Rogers, that a committee composed of representatives from all 
the faculties, be appointed to obtain all needful information concerning the 
cost and management of the club, and to report to a general meeting to be 
held one week from that date. The motion being carried unanimously, the 
following gentlemen were named by Mr. Rogers to constitute the Committee : 
Messrs. Dowling, Rielle, Wright, Robertson and Wilson. 

Mr. Rogers then moved that a vote of thanks be tendered to Profs. Moyse 
and Harrington, for the kind interest they had taken in the meeting. The 
motion was carried, with applause, after which the meeting adjourned. 

A meeting of the undergraduates of the various faculties of McGill 
University, was held in No. 1 Class Room, McGill College, on Saturday 
evening, November 25th, 1882, Mr. R. A E Greenshields in the chair. 

The object of the meeting was to hear the report of the Committee that 
had been appointed to find out the feeling of the under-graduates on the 
subject of establishing a Glee Club. Their report having been heard, it 
was moved by Mr. J. R. Murray aud seconded by Mr. J. H. Rogers “That 
we organize ourselves into a Glee Club.” Carried. 

It was then agreed upon the motion of Mr. J. R. Murray, seconded by 
Mr. G. C. Wright, “ that the officers of the club be a President, a Vice- 
President from each faculty, a Secretary and Treasurer.” 

The following were then elected as officers for the ensuing year : 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1883] 



President , Dr. Harrington ; Vice-Presidents , Medicine, Mr. C. A. Cameron ; 
Arts, Mr. L. M. England ; Science, Mr. U. B. Dowling ; Law, Mr. Ken- 
neth McPherson ; Committee , Medicine, Messrs. W. A. Porteous, F. S. 
Muckey; Arts, Messrs. R. A E. Greenshields, James A. Porter; Science, 
Messrs. James McEvoy, J. L. Hislop; Law, Messrs. Norman T. Rielle, 
Lynn F. Leet ; Treasurer , Mr. George Rogers ; Secretary , Mr. Wm. G. 
Stewart. 

Moved by Mr. W. H. Turner, seconded by Mr. Wm. Christie, “That 
all arrangements be left to the Committee.'’ Carried. 

Moved by Mr. J H. Rogers, seconded by Mr. W. L. Murray “That 
the annual meeting of McGill College Glee Club be held about the last 
Saturday of February in each year.” Carried. 

The meeting then adjourned.” 

Since then the committee have had several meetings. It has been de- 
cided to meet on Saturday evening in each week during the session. The 
first meeting to be on Saturday evening, January 13th, 1883, at 8 o’clock 
p. m. 

The committee intend to obtain the services of an instructor and to hire 
a piano, and are doing everything in their power to make the Club a suc- 
cess and an honour to McGill. 

McGill Medical Society. 

The fifth fortnightly meeting of this Society took place on the evening 
of Saturday, December 2nd, the President in the chair. The minutes 
were read and adopted, and some new members added. Dr. Gurd gave 
a very amusing reading, “ Rory O’ More’s Present to the Priest.” Dr. R. 

L. Macdonell, B.A., read a paper on “ The Nineteenth Century, from a 
Medical Standpoint.” The paper was a very long and very interesting 
one, showing the rapid strides medicine has of late been making. Such 
papers as the above are particularly interesting to the student, as he gets 
a great deal of information with the sacrifice of very little time. The 
Society is certainly indebted to Dr. Macdonell and Dr. Gurd for the very 
pleasant and instructive evening that was spent. The sixth meeting was 
held December 16th, Mr. McMerney read “ Antony’s Oration,” and J. S. 
Lathern gave a paper on “ Abscess of the Kidney.” This paper was a 
well constructed one, and took up all parts of the subject, giving the 
medico-surgical treatment of the disease. The subject was illustrated by 
the history of a case that had been seen by most of the members. After 
the reading, remarks were made on the subject by Dr. Geo. Ross, M.A., 
and some general practical remarks were made by Dr. T. Wesley Mills, 

M. A. At both of these meetings the Pathologist of the Society, Mr. 
Johnston, was to the front with some very interesting pathological 
specimens. A motion was made by Mr. Johnston, seconded by Mr. 
Loring, at the last meeting, that the hour for meeting be changed to eight 
o’clock. Carried. 

Annual Medical Dinner. 

The first Undergraduates Annual Dinner came off in the Windsor Hotel 
on Monday evening, 18th December, and was in every respect a decided 
success. As lengthy’ reports of the proceedings have long since appeared in 
the daily papers it is unnecessary for us to enter into any detailed account. 
The Committee of Management was composed of the following gentlemen : — 
Chaiaman, Mr. W. G. Henry. Hon. Secretary, Dr. Osier. Secretary to 
Committee, Mr. S. B. Loring. Other members, Drs. Roddick and Ross, 
with Messrs. J. L. Addison, S. H. Jolliffe, A. B. Osborne, A. W. Campbell, 
D. J. G. Wishart, B.A., D. McG. Debon, and A. W. Worthington. The 
chair was occupied by Mr. Cameron, fourth year, who performed the duties 
of the position in a very able and hospitable manner. Among the guests 
were Principal Dawson, Consul-General Steams, Drs. Sullivan and Lavalle, 
of Kingston, Mr. Curran, Q. C-> M.P., Mr. Coursol, M.P., Mayor Beaudry, 
Dr. Stevenson, Principal MacVicar, Dr. F. W. Campbell, and many other 
distinguished citizens. The representatives from other Faculties were from 
Arts, Mr. J. R. Murray ; from Applied Science, Mr. Dowling. The toasts 
were as follows: — (1) The Queen. (2) The Governor-General and Lieu- 
tenant-Governor. (3) The President of the United States, replied to by 
Consul-General Stearns. (4) Alma Mater, proposed in a brief but epigram- 
matic and technically comical speech by Mr. Johnston, and replied to by 
Dr. Dawson. (6) The Dean and Professors, replied to by Dr. Scott. (6) 
The Montreal General Hospital, replied to by Dr. Ross. (7) The Sister 
Universities, replied to by Mr. Mills. (8) The Sister Professions, proposed 
by Mr. Herbert Darey, and replied to by Mr. Curran, Dr. Stevenson, and 
others. (9) The Class of '83, replied to by Mr. Cameron. (10) The 
Frenchmen, replied to by Mr. Debon. (1 1) The Ladies. (12) The Press, 
replied to by Mr. Richard White. 

The arrangements were in all particulars excellent, the dinner presenting 
a strange and pleasing contrast to the old “ Footing Dinners.” We hope 
that in future years this institution will not be allowed to decay, but that it 
will become an even greater success as time goes on. 

Results of Christmas Examinations. 

Arts, — Greek. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Unsworth, Massd, Haythorne. Class II. — 
Christie and Rondeau and Lariviere, eq. ; Mabon and Pedley (J.W.), eq.; 
Marceau. Class III — Cameron (Kenneth), Gerrie. 

Second Year. — Class /. — Climie ; Lockhead and McFarlane, eq.; 
Stewart ; McArthur and McLean(J.), eq. Class //.—Hargrave ; Osborne 



and Thompson and Blair, eq.; MacVicar, Calder, Ellis, Martin. Class III . 
— Grant ; McLennan (Geo. A.) and Roberts, eq.; Currie (W. T.) and 
Higgins, eq.; Colquhoun, McLennan (Hugh S.), Watson ; Cameron and 
Robertson, eq. 

First Year. — Class I. — Patterson, McRae, Ritchie. Class II. — Ro- 
chester and Yates eq.; McOuat and Fyles, eq.; Sanders, MacDougall; 
Kerry and Swabey, eq.; Chalmers; Clerk and Internoscia and Sparling, 
eq.; Dalptf, Holden (Edgar); Evans and Thomas, eq. Class III. — Mc- 
Lean (Don.); Hibbard and Ogilvie and Pedley (F.), eq.; Clements and 
Holden (Rufus), eq.; Wallace and Livingstone, eq.; Munro, Bell. 

Latin. 

Third Year. — Class /. — Mackay ; Christie and Wright, eq. ; Hay- 
thorne and Kennedy, eq. Class II. — Kirkpatrick. Class III. — None. 

Second Year. — Class I . — Lockhead and McLean (J.), eq. ; Climie and 
McArthur, eq. ; Stewart. Class II, — Calder and McLennan (H. S.) 
eq. ; McFarlane, Blair, McLennan (G. A.), Thompson, Ellis, Macvicar; 
Martin and Osborne, eq. Class III. — Colquhoun, Hargrave ; Grant and 
Watson, eq. ; Currie (W. T.), Currie (Alex.), Budden ; Roberts and 
Higgins, eq. 

First Year. — Class I . — Patterson, Rochester; Ritchie and Yates, 
eq. ; McRae, Swabey; Evans and Fyles. eq. ; Chalmers and Sparling 
and McOuat, eq. ; Sanders and Clerk, eq. Class II. — Hibbard and 
Kerry, eq. ; Internoscia and Pedley (F.), eq. ; Macdougall and Thomas, eq.; 
Holden (E. D, F.) and Ogilvie, eq. ; Wallace ; Bell and Dalpe and Munro, 
eq. ; Craig and Clements, eq. Class III. — Livingstone and Stevenson, 
eq. ; Holden (R. C.), McLean (Don.), Dewar. 

English Literature. 

Third Year. — Class I . — Turner, Unsworth; Rondeau and Christie, 
eq. Class //.—Cameron, Kennedy, Blackader, Gerrie. Class III. — 
Pedley (J. W.) 

Second Year. — Class I . — Martin and Currie (W. T.), eq.; Blair and 
Hargrave, eq ; McFarlane and Macvicar, eq.; Lockhead ; Colquhoun and 
McArthur and McLennan (G. A.), eq. ; Climie, Stewart. Class II. — 
Calder. Carmichael, McLean (J. A ), Thompson, Watson, McLennan (H. 
S.), Ellis. Class ///.— Currie (A.), Osborne, Budden, Robertson ; 
Higgins and Roberts, eq.; Cameron (Don.), Crant. 

First Year. — Class I. — Livingstone, Kerry, Patterson, Rochester ; 
Clerk (Ronzo) and Sanders, eq. Class II. — Stevenson, Swabey, McRea 
(D. A.), Clements; McOuat and Wallace, eq.; Whyte; Hibbard and 
Sparling and Ritchie, eq.; Munro and Dalp6, eq.; Thomas, Dewar ; 
Evans (W. H.) and McLean (D.) eq.; Holden (E. D. F.), Bell. Class 
III. — Pedley, Fyles, Internoscia, Chalmers, Craig, Ogilvie. 

Moral Philosophy. 

Fourth Year. — Class /.— Pinel. Class II. — Jamieson. Class III. — 
Campbell ; Clark and Robinson, equal ; Cross and Locke, equal. 

Mental Philosophy. 

Third Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Mabon, Wright, Pedley, 
(J.W.) Class III — Gerrie. Passed. — Emory, Howard. 

Elementary Psychology . 

Second Year. — Class 1. — Climie, Martin. Class II. — Calder, Mac- 
farlane, Stewart ; Currie (W. C.) and McLean (J. A.), equal ; Osborne, Mac- 
Arthur, Lockhead and McLennan (Hugh), equal ; Thompson ; Colquhoun 
and Ellis, equal ; Hargrave, Currie (A.), Macvicar. Class III. — Roberts, 
Carmichael, Watson ; Budden and Robertson, equal ; Cameron (D.), 
Grant, McLennan (G.), Blair, Higgins. 

French. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Marceau, Masse, Lariviere, Christie, Turner, 
Rondeaa. Class II. — Mabon, Wright. Class III. — Cameron (K.), Kirk- 
patrick. 

Second Year.— Class I. — McArthur. Class II. — Climie and McLean 
(J.), eq.; Thompson, Stvwart, Lockhead. Class III. — Blair, Hargrave, 
Calder, McLennan (H.), Macvicar, Robertson, Watson. 

First Year. — Class I . — Ritchie, Thomas, Clements, Dalp< 5 ; Clerk 
and Kerry, eq.; Rochester, Patterson, Munro. Class II. — McOuat, 
Holden (E. D. F.), Ojilvie ; Sanders and Evans, eq ; Cross, Swabey, 
Craig; Sinnel and RoWnson, eq.; MacDougall ; McRae and Pedley (F.), 
eq.; Chalmers, Hibbard, Livingstone, Fyles. Class III — Taylor, Holden 
(R.), Bell. 

German. 

Fourth Year. — Class I — Scrimger. Class II. — Internoscia. 

Third Year. — Class II. — Masse. 

Second Year. — 1st Division. — Class I . — Gregor (B. A.), Thompson. 
2nd Division. — Class I — None. Class II — McLean (J. A.) Class III. 
Blair. 

First Year. — Class /. — Ritchie. Class II. — Thomas. 

Hebreiv. 

Optional Course. — Class I. — Lee, Fraser. Class II. — None. Class 
///.—None. 

Advanced Course. — Class I. — McFarlane, Ellis, Campbell, Currie (W. 
C.) Class II — Martin, Hargrave, Marvin, Grant, Higgins, Cameron 
(D.) Class III — Roberts, Osborne. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January ist. 



Elementary Course.— Class /.— Sanders, Wallace. Class //.—Sparling, ! 
Dewar, Barron, Stevenson. Class III.— None. 

Mathematical Physics. 

•ni ^i 11 ^ ^ E \ AI V Class /.— Mackay, Wright, Haythorne, Kirkpatrick; 
Blackaderand Kennedy, eq. Class II . — Marceau and Masse, eq. ; Came- 
ron (K.). Class III. — Rogers, Mahon, Turner, Christie. 

M at hematics. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Lockhead, Climie, Cameron (D.), Ellis, McLean 
(J- A.), McArthur, Stewart. Class II . — Currie (W. T.), Watson, Thomp- 
son; Hargrave and Osborne, eq. Class ///.-Martin, McLennan (G. A ) ; 
Blair and Budden, eq. ; — McLennan (H. S.), Carrie (A.), Robertson, 
Calder, Colquhoun, Grant, Macvicar, Roberts. 

First Year— Class /—Patterson, Sparling, Wallace, McDougall ; 
Livingstone : afhd Ritchie and Rochester, eq. Class //— McOust, Chal- 
mers, McR^ Dewar. Class III. — Kerry, Clerk, and Hibbard, eq. ; — 
Swabey, Stevenson, Clements ; Pedley and Sanders, eq. Evans, Bell, ; 
Craig, Holden (Edgar), Dalpe; Munro and Ogilvie, eq. ; — McLean (D.), 
Internoscia. 

Geology and Mineralogy. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — Barlow, Ross, Hunter, Porter, Richardson. 
Class II . — England Kinnear and Shearer, equal ; Duffett, Emory, Camp- 
bell. 

Zoology. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Blackader Rogers ; Mass6 and Gerrie, equal; 
Unsworth, Mabon. Class II. — Pedley (J. W.), Cameron (K.), Marceau? 
Kirkpatrick, Lariviere. 

Botany. 

Second Year. — Class I — Climie, Stewart, Lockhead, Currie (W. T.), 
Hargrave, Martin, Macfarlane, Colquhoun, MacArthur, McLean. Class 

II. — Carmichael, McLennan (G. A.), Budden, Calder, Osborne, Mc- 
Lennan (H.), Currie (A.), Robertson, Grover (V. J.), Blair, Thompson, 
Watson, Macvicar, Roberts. Class III. — Ell£s, Grant (A. S.), Higgins. 

Chemistry. 

First Year. — Class I. — Livingstone, Patterson, Anderson (< 9 zr/.), 
Holden (Edgar) ; Kerr and McOuat, eq. Class II. — Sparling, Ritchie, 
MacDougall, McRae. Clements ; Clerk and Wallace, eq.; Evans, Roches- 
ter, Swabey, Stevenson. Class III. — Hibbard, Pedley, (F.), Internoscia, 
Dewar, Sanders, Dalpe, Fyles, Holden (R. C.), Thomas, Chalmers, Bell. 
Applied Science. 

Mathematics. 

Firts Year. — Class I. — Evans, Watson, Dawson ; Class II. — Brown, 
Ferrier, Johnstone, Weir, Perkins, May ; Class III. — Craven, Taylor, 
Molson, Shearer. 

Second Year. — Class /. — Thompson ; — * Class II. — Fortier, Macy ; — 
Class III. — Reid, Matthewson ; — Class II. — Special. — Trenholme. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Smith (C. B.), Ogilvy ; — Class II. — Mc- 
Donald ; — Class III — Davis, Iiislop. 

Fourth Year. — Class /. — Dowling; — Class II. — McEvoy, Howard, 
Smith (R. F.) 

Mechanics. 

Third Year. — Class /. — Ogilvy and Smith (C. B.), eq.; — Class II. — 
Hamilton, McDonald, Graham, Forlong ; — Class III. — McToggart, 
Walters, Hislop. 

Zoology. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Matthewson, Fortier, Macy, Thompson ; — 
Class II. — Hamilton, Roy, Routhier, Lesage ; — Class III. — Mignault, 
Kennedy, Pitcher. 

English. 

First Y'ear. — Class I. — Brown, Evans (N. N.) ; Class II. — Ferrier, 
Dawson, Weir, Johnstone and Watson, eq., May ; Class III. — Perkins, 
Craven, Shearer, Costigan, Taylor. 

French. 

First Y 7 ear. — Class I. — Brown, Ferrier ; Class II. — Evans, Dawson, 
Watson, Johnstone ; Class ///.—Costigan, Shearer. 

Second Y'ear. — Class I. — Fortier ; Class II -% Macy, Mignault, Roy ; 
Class III. — Dragon, Matthewson, Thompson, Routhier. 

Chemistry. 

First Year. — Class I. — Evans, Martin, Dawson, Ferrrer, Weir, Brown, 
Johnstone ; Class II. — Craig, Perkins, Watson ; Class III. — Molson, 
Taylor, Hutchison, May, Shearer. 

Geology and Mineralogy 

Class I. — Robert, Ogilvy, Smith, McDonald. Class II. — Forlong. Class 

III . — Hislop, Walters, Davis. 

The Undergraduates in Medicine assembled in the Anatomy room on the 
night of December 21st, for the purpose ot presenting Cook, the Janitor, 
with the usual purse. At about fifteen minutes past five Cook came in, to 
slow music, leaning on the arm of J. S. Lathem, who was to present the 
purse. Having deposited his charge in the University chair, Mr. Lathem 
proceeded, in glowing terms, to give a short sketch of the life of this worthy, j 
His hearers w ere moved. Three or four even put five cents more in the | 
bag. He said he looked upon Cook as representing the five last dorsal and 



all the lumbar vertebrae in the backbone of the College. (One smile). After 
concluding a very eulogistic speech he presented the purse which amounted 
t° $57.50. Cook in feeling terms thanked them heartily for their generous 
donation saying that without it he would this Session have been unable to 
declare a dividend. He said that in presenting him with the purse they had 
shown themselves men of cents. As the purse consisted chiefly of coppers 
a pun was suspected. The age of the speaker was taken into account, how- 
ever, and the note books were lowered again. Owing to the bad provision 
made for members of the press the concluding remarks were not heard. I he 
meeting broke up with cheers for the Cooks generally. 

Faculty of Law. 

The following case came up for discussion before the Moot Court, viz : 
An action instituted by an undisclosed principal to recover the price and 
value of goods sold and delivered by his agent. The defendant pleaded 
that he had dealt with the agent only, and knew not the plaintiff in the trans- 
action . The plea was held good and the action dismissed. 

Messrs. Hague & Duclos, for the plaintiff. 

Messrs. Leet & Falconer, for the defendant. 

Professor Trenholm, who presided, in his elaborate judgment reviewed 
the history of agency from the early Roman times, and dwelt on the ever in- 
creasing importance the subject was assuming. He held that there could be 
ne doubt that the action was rightly brought, if the law of England was made 
to apply in this instance as pretended by the plaintiff. In his opinion this 
pretension was unfounded, and French law' and the general rules governing 
contracts in our Code must apply. Our Courts generally recognize that in 
commercial matters, when not provided for by the Code, the law of England 
shall have force. But granting the contrary let us review the judgment 
upon the grounds given in its support. 

Articles 1023 & 1028 C. C. were cited as the law' in this case. Now Art. 
1023 says : “ Contracts have effect only between the contracting parties, 

“ they cannot affect third persons, &c.” And Art. 1028 “ A person can 
“ not, by a contract in his own name, bind any one but himself, his 
heirs and legal representatives.” If we accept this as the law binding in 
cases of agency we might wipe out altogether from our Code the title of 
Mandate, except in the limited cases where an agent acts in the name of his 
principal. The question is simple “ Can an undisclosed principal recover 
on a contract entered into by his agent ?” Either the present case is one of 
agency or is it not. If it is contended that it is not, all discussion ends. But 
by the question itself it is admitted to be a case of agency . And we are 
told that the rule, that contracts can have effect only between the contract- 
ing parties must apply to it. What follows ? That when an agent contracts in 
his own name, not only for an undisclosed principal, but even if he should 
disclose his principal, that principal can not recover. This latter conclusion, 
which is perfectly natural, cannot be entertained for a moment. It would 
seem therefore clear that the Arts, cited ought not to be held to apply in 
cases of agency. In conclusion the learned gentleman said, that in order to 
save his action the principal ought to have made the agents, mis-en-cause. 
This is a practical contradiction of the former part of the judgment, by ad- 
mitting the right of the principal to bring the action in his name since the 
only effect of placing the agent mis-en-cause would be to guarantee the* de- 
fendant against any new proceedings on his part. 

The appointing of an appellate jurisdiction in the Moot Court would be 
highly beneficial. 

Appointments or the University Literary Society. 

January 12th, 1883. — Subject of Debate-. Should emigration to the North- 
west from the older Dominion Provinces be looked upon with favour ? 
Affirmative : P. S. G. McKenzie, Mr. Arch. Barnard. Negative : Mr. A. 
G. Cross, Mr. F. S. McLennan. 

January 19th, 1883. — Reader , Mr. Francis McLennan. Subject of De- 
bate : Ought the American Federal Authorities to interfere for the suppres- 
sion of Mormonism ? Affirmative: Mr. B. C. Maclean, Mr. L. T. Leet. 
Negative: Mr. Arch. McGoun, Mr. F. Hague. 

January 26th, 1883. — The Society’s first Annual Dinner. 

February 2nd, 1883. — A Discussion on Longfellow ; comprising an essay 
by Mr. McGoun; a biographical notice by Mr. R. C. Smith; a recitation 
by Mr. Cross ; and general remarks. 

The Annual Public Debate will take place early in February, the 
speakers being Mr. H. J. Kavanagh, Mr. A. G. Cross, Mr. Arch. Barnard, 
and Mr. C. J. Brooke. 

General. 

We have received the following: — The Argosy , The Morrin Review, 
The Presbyterian College Journal , The ’ Varsity , The Dalhousie Gazette , 
I he Queen's College Journal , 7 he Educational Record , Acta Victoriana 
The Dartmouth , The Trinity Tablet. 

We are delighted to be able to welcome the appearance of the Morrin 
Review , the first number of which was issued last month. The humorous 
but kindly reference made to ourselves in its columns, was much appreci- 
ated by us. Of course, our relations with the Review will always be of the 
most interesting and intimate character, and we anticipate much pleasure 
from our intercourse with what we must consider a child of ours. Like all 
young children, of course, our first-born is plain and small, but we hope 
that with time and help it will grow and prosper. The publishing of a 
paper is an evidence of increasing vitality in Morrin College, which is very 
gratifying to us who belong to the same University. 



1883 -] 



McGill university gazette. 



9 



An American took the first prize in Mathematics at the University of 
Heidelberg, Germany. 

Of the 1,058 students in the Universities of Switzerland, only one hundred 
and thirteen study theology and one hundred and fifty-eight law. A grow- 
ing tendency to avoid these professions is noticeable in Europe. 

Two thousand dollars has been bequeathed to Boston University “ for 
the purpose of clothing worthy theological students.” 

The heliometer now in place at Yale was made in Germany at a cost of 
$8,000, and is the finest in existence. — The Dartmouth. 

The editors of the Yale JSleivs arc endeavoring to make the editorship 
equivalent to an optional study. — Ex. 

Princeton has received upward of $2,500,000 since Dr. McCosh took 
charge. 

Vienna has 4,853 students ; more than any other European University. 

“ Gentlemen and fellow-students,” is the way a Harvard Professor begins 
his lecture. 

There have been 184 woman students at Michigan University during 
1882. Of this number no were in the Literary department. 

The regents of the University of Nebraska have appropriated $150 to 
the Hesperian Student, the students’ publication of that institution. 

Central College, in Missouri, founded in 1859, * ias a productive endow- 
ment of $1 10,000, and buildings worth $60,000. In 1882 it had seven 
professors and one hundred and seventy students. 

At Glasgow University in the Session of ’8o-’8i there were in all 2,304 
students, while at Aberdeen the number was 475. The graduates from 
the former amounted to 285, — from the latter, 214. 

Harvard has the largest college library in the United States. It contains 
185,000 volumes. Yale has 93,000; Dartmouth, 60,000; Brown, 52,000 ; 
.Princeton, 49,000; Cornell, 40,000; Wesleyan, 31,000. University of 
Michigan, 29,000 ; Tufts, 25,000; Williams, 19,000 ; and Dickinson, 29,000. 

Yale and Harvard may be taken as the most expensive Colleges in the 
United States, and Brown University as more moderate. A Yaleman’s or 
Harvardite’s expenses average about $900 each year, while the average at 
Brown University sinks as low as $450 per annum. The expenses at 
Toronto University are as follows : — Tuition fees, $20 ; usual board for the 
academic year 31 weeks— $124; subscription for games, clubs, societies, 
&c., $20 ; books, $40. Thus $250 per academic year is about the average 
cost at Toronto University. — The Dalhousie Gazette. 

The average age of the gradation of United States students is 22. 

Trinity College is making a new departure, A Professorship of boxing 
is to be established. — ’ Varsity . 

The Harvard Echo has stopped publication after an existence of three 
years. This leaves the field alone to its successful rival, The Herald. 

At Williams the fund derived from the rent of rooms is appropriated for 
the reduction of board at the college club, thus placing the best fare at less 
than §3.00 per week. 

Professor Packard, the Greek professor at Yale, has been tendered the 
position of resident curator of the American School of Classical Studies at 
Athens, Greece, which position will be rendered vacant at the expiration of 
the term of office of the present occupant, Professor Goodwin of Harvard. 

Some time ago the library of Cornell University received, by the will of 
a friend, an estate which at the time was considered to be of but moderate 
value. It was found to be invested in Wisconsin pine lands, now worth 
about $2,000,000 in hard money. This makes $7,000,000 worth of pine 
lands that Cornell has in the same State. 

Prof. Virchow, of Berlin, has in his laboratory a collection of 6,000 
skulls, representing all races and times. 

The law professors at Columbia receive a salary of $7,500. 

The permanent school fund of Kansas amounted to $2,270,121.67 on 
June 30th. 

The salaries of the new professors of the University of Texas range from 
$4,000 down to 2,500. 

Texas is to have a State institution with endowment of $2,000,000. One 
of the departments opens next Sanuary. 

In the German Universities there are at least 7,000 American students. 

Cambridge and Oxford have an income of $1,000,000 each, and each 
student’s expenses for the six months of the academic year amount to from 
six hundred to one thousand dollars. 

Mr. Holloway, an Englishman, has given $2,000,000 to endow an insti- 
tution for the higher education of women. 

A item recently stated the number of students in the University of Berlin 
as over 2,000. It should be borne in mind that these 4,000 students are 
graduates of colleges, a collegiate course being a prerequisite for admission 
to a German University. 

Edinburgh University had 3,237 students last term. 

The college students of the United States number 25,670. 

Trinity has 15 Frenchmen; Hobart, 22; Victoria, 33, Hamilton, 44 f 
Rochester, 51 ; Williams, 68 ; Brown, 82 ; Amherst, 85 ; Syracuse, 140; 
Princeton, 178 ; Yale, 260; Harvard, 275; Cambridge, 855. 



The Yale College Faculty have declared that hereafter when the Seniors 
and Sophomores injure a Frenchman the guilty parties shall be punished 
just as if they had injured a human being — Ex. 

The classical departments at Oxford still continue to attract the largest 
number of able men, being closely followed however by the mathematical 
school. Natural Science comes next, then theology, then history, and last 
of all, law. 

John Hopkins University has 186 students of which seventy are French- 
men. 

Phonography has been made a part of the curriculum in the Iowa State 
University. 

Ashbury college will hereafter be known as De Pau University, in honour 
of W. C. De Pau, who has donated one million dollars to that college. 

At present there in the United States sixty four Greek Letter Fraternities, 
having 487 chapters, thirty-five chapter houses, seventy alumni chapters, and 
and a total membership of 62,256. 

The Czar has given his consent to convert seventeen imperial palaces into 
institutions of learning These palaces will, of course, be used for higher 
schools, while nothing is done for the improvement of popular education. 
Russia has a school population of 15,000,000, and the numbej of children 
in primary schools is a little over 1,009,000. 

Since the modest beginning, thirteen years ago, of Girton College — the 
woman’s college at Cambridge — it has twice been found necessary to make 
considerable extensions. The students have proved themselves eager to 
profit by the advantages afforded to them, as was shown by their distinctions 
obtained at Cambridge this year. It is now onee more intended to develope the 
work of the college by making further and more elaborate extensions. For 
some time past a number of applicants have been refused admission owing 
to the want of space, and plans have at last been adopted which will make 
room for 23 more students, bringing up the number to 78. 

At the installation of Lord Roseberrv at the Edinburgh University, the 
Undergraduates decidedly distinguished themselves. They interrupted the 
opening prayer by a fire of exclamations such as * tut, tut, man ’ — * that’s 
nonsense ’ — ‘ that’s not true,’ &c. They pelted peas through pea-shooters. 
They cheered, hooted, and groaned at all the well-known men of the day, 
and wound up the evening by storming several houses, and smashing any 
quantity of panes. The police, as usual, were on the alert, and out of three 
or four hundred ‘ rioters ’ arrested, four appeared next morning and gave 
bail for further appearance. Lord Roseberry’s speech was patriotic and 
Scotch, and called forth such enthusiasm that a staid Professor broke out 
into sonnets, from which he has not yet recovered. 

The students of Aberdeen have had a most successful riot ; the most 
riotous in fact, the police think, that has taken place in the town for a 
quarter of a century. The occasion was the inauguration of the Lord 
Rector of the University, Dr. Alexander Bain. A pledge having been 
exacted from the students that they would keep the peace, Dr. Bain felt 
justified in preparing his discourse. Apparently t^e students repented 
them of their promise, for, as the report goes, they “ marched in a body 
from the University, headed by itinerant musicians, pelting the people in 
the street with peas and stones, and singing ribald songs.” But this was 
only the overture. The real performance began when the hall was reached. 
An announcement that war had been declared had been received before- 
hand, and the door was barricaded and guarded by stalwart porters full of 
academic martial spirit. But the students were not disorganized by these 
preparations. The doors were smashed as well as the porters, and the 
rabble, rushing into the building, terrified the guests who thronged the 
galleries. Then followed a scene over which the Scotch papers are 
eloquent. Everything that was capable 6f being broken was broken, peas 
were discharged in clouds, and the visitors were hospitably set fire to with 
squibs. At this crisis the Lord Rector appeared upon the scene, but in no 
wise awed the assembly. Finally he resigned the hope of delivering him- 
self, and, like a sensible man, walked out, accompanied by the members of 
the Senate. The victory was celebrated by another feu de joie of crackers 
and peas. The students then formed in procession and marched through 
the streets of the town, shouting and insulting the passers-by. This Scotch 
University has earned a bad name, which in soberer moments its students 
must themselves most of all regret. 

Melbourne University. 

The following information concerning this institution will be of interest 
to our readers : — 

The Melbourne University was established under a special Act of the 
Victorian Legislature, which was assented to on the 22nd January, 1853. 
This Act provides for the endowment of the University by the payment of 
,£9,000 annually out of the general revenue of Victoria ; also that no re- 
ligious test shall be administered to any one to enable him to be admitted 
to the rights and privileges of the institution ; also for the appointment of 
a Council consisting of twenty members, of whom sixteen at least must be 
laymen, and for the election by them out of their own body of a Chancellor 
and a Vice-Chancellor ; also for the constitution of a Senate to be presided 
over by a Warden, as soon as the superior degrees (comprising degrees of 
Masters of Arts and Doctors of Law, Music and Medicine) should amount 
to not less than 100. This number was reached in 1867, and the Senate 



10 



McGill university gazette. 



[January ist, 



was constituted on the 14th of June of that year. By the Act of in- 

“ r i > r i ° n V the , C °' ln J Cl1 were . em P°"' ere d to grant degrees in Arts, Laws 
and Music, to which degrees in Surgery were added by an Act assented to 

vtJlot A n ’ l8y ,--‘ Royal leUers patent, under the sign manual of Her 
, +1? 2- ueen ^ tctoria, were issued on the 14th March, 1859, declaring 
that all degrees granted, or thereafter to be granted, by the Melbourne 
wersi y, s lould be recognized as academic distinctions and rewards of 
t’ C ^ ’ ^ )e entitled to rank, precedence, and consideration in the 

me Kingdom, and in British colonies and possessions throughout the 

United 1 Kingdom^ ** ^ ^ ^ been granted any Universit y in the 
The foundation stone of the University was laid on the 3rd July, 1854, 
and the building was opened on the 3rd October of the following year. 

On the 22nd March, 1880, the University was thrown open to females, 
and they can now be admitted to all its corporate privileges, except as re- 
gards the study of Medicine, from which they are restricted until special 
provision has been made for their instruction in that subject. 

The memorial stone of the University Hall, to be called the “Wilson 
Hall,” was laid on the 2nd October, 1879, by the Hon. Sir Samuel Wilson, 
M.L.C, who by his munificent gift of £30,000 (which by interest had in- 
creased to £37,000 before the University authorities were in a position to 
spend it), was the means of the Hall being erected. The building is to be 
of the perpendicular Gothic style of architecture, in length 140 feet ; breadth, 
47 feet j height of walls, 45 feet ; and of apex of roof, 84 feet. Its cost 
will exceed ,£40,000. 

Provision had been made in the Act of Incorporation for the establish- 
ment of affiliated Colleges in connection with religious denominations, and 
ground for the erection of such Colleges was reserved near the University. 
I p to the present period this privilege has only been taken advantage of 
by the Church of England and the Presbyterian Church. Their Colleges 
are named respectively Trinity and Ormond. 

In the year 1880, 738 males and 216 females presented themselves for the 
Matriculation and Civil Service examinations at the University. Of these 
2 55 > or 3 ° P er cent, of the males, and 79, or 37 per cent, of the females, 
passed the former ; and 368, or 50 per cent, of the males, and 123, or 57 
per cent, of the females, passed the latter. Three males and three females 
passed the Matriculation examination with credit. A large majority of 
those who pass the Matriculation examination have no intention of pursuing 
a University career ; although 334 passed the Matriculation examination in 
1880, only 15 1 matriculated, and of these 11 were females. The number 
of students taking lectures in the several Faculties of the University in 1880 
was as follows : — Arts, 73 ; Laws, 52 ; Engineering, 35 ; Medicine, 141 ; 
total, 301. The number of graduates in 1880 was 51, of whom 49 took 
direct and 2 ad eundem degrees. The whole number of the graduates from 
the founding of the University to the year 1880 was 645. 

The receipts of the University in 1880 were £18,193, and* the expendi- 
ture was £17,682. 



2^'tuu'cn the £fctuces. 

Song of the Med : “ Good Bye, Sweet-Hart, Good Bye.” 

Ben fetch the baby. 

Nearly all the post-pffices in Texas are in charge of females. It works 
so well that males arrive nearly every hour of the day. — Ex. 

Lesson in Political Economy. — “Is time money?” “Yes, sir, it is.” 
“ Prove it by illustration.” “Well, if you give twenty-five cents to a 
couple of tramps, it’s a quarter to two.” — The Dartmouth. 

One of the speakers at the late medical dinner said that he did not con- 
sider that that was the proper place to speak on grave subjects. 

Mr. Editor, tell me why the colonel 
Is spelt in a style so infolonel ? 

Cast one ray of light on a sorrowing wight. 

Who for years has subscribed for your jolonel.” 

“Vanity of vanities ; all is vanity, except the preacher,” is the way a 
Theologue quotes it. — Ex. 

An Irish nobleman, riding along a country road, saw a very fat boy 
dozing by the roadside. “ Which way is it to Macroom, my lad ?” asked 
the nobleman. “ That way,” replied the boy, lazily moving the toe of 
his boot in the direction of the place. Astonished at his extreme laziness, 
“my Lord ” dismounted. ‘ Boy,” said he, “ if you can show me a lazier 
act than that, I will give you a half-crown.” The boy eyed him sleepily 
for a moment, and. turning half over on his side, muttered — “ Put it in 
my pocket, sor,” He got his half-crown. 

Why is a clock the most humble thing in existence ? Because it always 
holds its hands before its face and, however good its works may be, it is 
always running itself down. 

A friend of ours says he likes to pay occasional visits to the Legislative 
Assembly. He declares that it reminds him of a prize fight. First the 
“ Ayes ” have it and then the “ Noes.” 

“ An anxious enquirer ” wishes to know why a stupid, awkward fellow is 
called a “ muff.” We are not very sure but we think it’s because nothing 
but a muff will hold a lady’s hand without squeezing it. 



Professor (meeting Student leaving Molson’s Bank). Is it a slope? 

Student . Yes, Sir. 

Prof. Thank God ! ! ! 

It is due to the reputation of the class to say, that there is a steep ascent 
of three storeys to the lecture room. 

Visible Language. — The spoke of a wheel. 

“Songs without Words.”— The mosquitoes 

A man, who is su lost to all sense of decency as to pun in the wildest and 
most forlorn manner, declares that the recent demand for building materials 
makes him long to be a brick. Those who hear him long to be brick kilners. 

There doesn’t seem, at first glance, to be any connection between collect- 
ing accounts and blacksmith’s work, but collectors of accounts after they get 
the money in very often make a bolt for it. This is not intended for iron, 
but is usually a case for steal. — Ex. 

The theologue Snukes in the recent trip to the country delighted one of 
his Sunday audiences with a scientific dissertation on the probable origin of 
the world. In speaking of what he called the different wicked, atheistical, 
cosmical hypotheses he remarked that “ some held that the earth was a gi- 
gantic plant, others that it was an animal of abnormal proportions upon 
whose back men and women flit about as fleas, while in his own humble 
opinion it was a concoction composed of myriads of atoms of floating matter 
conglomerated into a conflagration ” 

An improbable interview with Mrs. Langtry. — It is rumoured that Mrs. 
Langtry, the English beauty, has been interviewed by a medical reporter. 
She said she was not a homeopathist, as had been stated ; she believed in 
the New York Code, however. Her impressions of American medical men 
has so far been very favourable; and confirmed previous anticipations formed 
by a constant reading of the Medical Record. The branch of medicine in 
which she had been chiefly interested was dermatology ; in this America 
easily led the world, and she was sorry she could not have got over in time 
for the Newport meeting of the Association. She attributed the beauty of her 
complexion to a constant study of American dermatological literature. Mrs. 
Langtry was hardly prepared to give her opinion of Post-Graduate Schools, 
but thought they were very nice. She would send tickets, she said to any 
doctors not connected with some medical school — it seemed such a pity. 
The reporter told her, however, that there were none such. Mrs. Langtry 
preferred to take her medicines in pill form. She liked the oval-shaped, 
sugar-coated ones best. Mrs. Langtry asked about our insane asylums, and 
strongly urged the use of the tight-fitting jacket called the “Jersey,” as a 
substitute lor camisoles and straight-jackets.— N. Y. Med. Record. 



O sculation ( Continued). 

I he agitation of this subject in our last issue, has invoked innumerable 
rimes and epigrams, some of them being of a legal turn but most of them 
being inspired by the poetic muse. 

The following are among the best : — 



“ A language all can understand, 

In any age and any land.” 

“ My definition’s a commercial one, 

A bill presented and a stamp thereon.” 

“ A kiss is a declaration of love by 
deed of mouth.” 

“ A speechless token 
Of things so sweet, 

They can’t be spoken.” 

“Child and mother’s fond delight, 
Lover’s draught of sweetest bliss; 
Woman’s veil of keenest spite, 

A Kiss.” 

“ The key which opens the fatal door 
To thoughts unknown, unguessed be- 
ll fore ; 

But whether ’tis for weal or woe, 

Those e’en who use it do not know.” 



“ The best definition of a kiss, 

Why — barely two mouthfuls of bliss.” 

“ It may mean little, it oft means much. 
And oftener nothing at all ; 

And it’s always oft* as soon as it’s on, 
And it’s never the same to all.” 

“If fit material for a kiss you seek, 

You need but two lips and a little 
[cheek.” 

“ A kiss to be sweet must be under the 

[nose, 

But sweeter by far when ’tis under the 

[rose.” 

“ The right of a mother, 

The toy of a flirt, 



The hope of a lover, 
The true one’s desert.” 



An Extract from the Diary of Samuel Pepys, Esq , while an Under- 
graduate at Cambridge. 



\\ e hold in our hands a Mathematical Honour list, etc., certainly pub- 
lished earlier than the year 1747 ; for although the date has unfortunately 
become obliterated with age, we know it to be more ancient than any other 
existing list, from the fact that our Author’s name appears therein, third 
from the bottom of the Junior Optimes ; a place which the endorsement in 
Mr. Pepys’ handwriting would lead us to suppose he scarcely considered 
worthy of his merits and attainments. 

In addition to this list, we possess a few of the Problems actually set, as 
the endorsement informs us, in the very examination for which Peovs 
entered. 

Mathematical men will, we have no doubt, look upon these problems 
with interest, and will not fail to mark the enormous stride which science 
has made since our Author’s time. It will be noticed that Pepys considers 



I88 3 ] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



these problems as by far the most difficult of any that were set in that, or 
in any previous examination ; yet in the present day we doubt if the lowest 
Junior Optime would find the slightest difficulty in solving any one of 
them. 

Problem ix. is beautifully simple when we grasp the data, and affords us 
a novel and interesting fact in natural history, with which we venture to 
assert that none of our readers were previously acquainted. These pro- 
blems, however, speak for themselves, and, without any further remarks 
from us, will commend themselves to the notice of all true mathematical 
minds. Suffice it to mention in conclusion that Problem n, apart from its 
intrinsic merit, is especially noteworthy from being endorsed in Mr. Pepys’ 
hand : “ To this question Izaak Newton (y c senior wrangler) alone gave 

y c correct answer, which is .0001. S. P.” — Ed. 



Moderators. 
Wranglers . 



| Izaak Walton, M.A., Jrin. 



William Barlow Humphry Vilikins, M.A., Trin. 

Senior Optimes . yunior Optimes. 



Ds. Newton, 
Kepler, 
Barrow, 
Thompson, 
Huygens, 

{ Maclaurin, 
Taylor, 
Napier, 
Harrison, 
Milton, 
Watts, 



Trin. 

Emm. 

Trin. 

/oh. 

/oh. 

Trin. 

Clare. 

Down. 

Corpus. 

Christ's 

Clare. 



Ds. Clavius, 

{ Cocker, 
Wren, 
Euler, 
Copernicus 
Gunning, 

C Reaumur, 

-j Boyle, 

( Fahrenheit, 
( Brown, 

-j Jones, 
Robinson, 
Disraeli, 



Cains. 
Magd. 
Trin . H. 
Pe mb. 

, Pet. 

/oh. 

Trin. H. 

Down. 

Sid. 

King's. 

Queen's. 

Cath. 

Trin. 



Ds. Dryden, /esus. 
Burton, Caius. 
Fitzroy, Trin. 
Warren, Trin. 
A nberley, Trin. 
Pepys, Magd. 
f Smith, Emm. 
{ A. Brown, Petnb. 



Endorsed in Mr. Pepys’s handwriting: “A more than usually stiff 

exam" ; much below my place, and mightily solde. S. P.” 

Endorsed in Mr. Pepy’s hand : “ Some of the hardest problems in the 

exam 11 . S. P.” 



Problems. 



i. A very small elephant, whose weight may be neglected, balances him- 
self upon a spherical ball whose diameter is 10 inches, which he moves with 
uniform velocity v up an inclined plane, inclination = a. At the same time 
he raises his trunk with uniformly accelerated velocity from a vertical to a 
horizontal position. Find the locus of the center of gravity of a fly which 
makes a complete revolution of the trunk in the same period. 

3. A lady on being asked her age replied : “ If you multiply one- 

seventh of the cube of half the square root of what my age was last year by 
three-fifths of the cube of the difference of the digits of what it will be next 
year ; the products will be four-ninths of the square root of fifteen times the 
sum of the digits of what my age will be in ten years time, divided by 
three- elevenths of the square of the double of the cube-root of my present 
age.” How old was she ? 

ix. A moveable platform is drawn with uniform velocity round a circular 
path of given diameter. Upon it a walrus, whose weight is IV, pirouettes 
with constant angular velocity w> on his left hind leg, and at the same time 
blinks with his right and left eye alternately, beginning with the right, at 
intervals which qre in a given Harmonical Progression. At the centre 
of the circle a given hippopotamus pirouettes with uniform velocity 
nw, in the opposite direction on his right hind leg, and blinks with his 
eyes alternately, beginning with the left, at intervals which are in a given 
Arithmetical Progression. Supposing that they begin to blink simultaneous- 
ly, investigate the probability of each of them seeing the other with his left 
eye alone at a given time t. 

11. A speaks the truth twice out of five times, B three times out of seven, 
and C once out of nine times. B says that A has affirmed that C denies 
that D is a liar. Investigate Da regard for veracity. 

13. At an evening party, two belles are present whose attractions vary 
inversely as the distance, the absolute forces being ui and 1/2 respectively. If 
a gentleman on entering be introduced to the one in whose case the absolute 
force is the least, find the time that will elapse before the more powerful 
attraction of the other induces him to obtain an introduction to her, the 
distance between the seats of the belles being given = to a. 



personals. 

We hear that Hugh Gale, M.D., ’82, who now practising in Bad Anxe, 
Mich., intends taking a partner. We have’nt heard the young lady’s name. 
Add another name to the list of martyrs . 

We congratulate the class of ’83, in Medicine, on their choice of a Vale- 
dictarian. They have, in J. B. LoRiNG,a thorough representative of the class 
and one fully qualified to undertake the writing of a valedictory. 

We are glad to learn that W. C. Cousens, M.D., ’82, last month passed 
his examinations at the Edinburgh School of Med, erne recemng the 
degrees of L. R. C. P. and S. We tender him our congratulations. He 
is at present sniffing the balmy air of the South of France. 

We notice by an Edinburgh paper that W. L). Brydone-Jack, B. A , whom 



all the finals will remember as a jolly good fellow, has been elected presiden 
of the Edinburgh Canadian Students’ Club. Jack, old boy, shake. We 
knew your Freshman year with us would be of service to you sooner or later. 

A. K. McCorkill, M.D., ’82, may be consulted in East Famham, Que. 

Dr. O’Keefe, ’82, is practising in Minto, Dakota. 

Edmund Christie, M.D., ’82, has accepted the bonus of the citizens of 
Chicago and commenced practice among them. 

Drs. Howard, B.A., Thornton, B.A., and Grant, all of ’82, are to- 
gether in England, attending the London Hospitals. 

C. H. Keays, ’82, Arts, has followed in the footsteps of his fathers and 
taken unto himself a wife. None of his fellow students, who had the plea- 
sure of hearing his exposition of the law of Evolution at the Graduating 
dinner of ’80, will doubt for a moment the success of this last enterprise. 
Miss Celia Capp, of Hamilton, is the happy lady. May she prove a golden 
lock ! 

R. K. McCorkill, M.D., ’82, may be consulted in East Famham, Que. 



< lovvcspomXtntt ♦ 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 



OllxO} 

With regard to the Glee Club just established in the College, I would like 
to suggest that it have some definite object in view. There is enough musi- 
cal talent in McGill to have a good concert at the end of the Session, and 
there is no want of City institutions in behalf of which it might be held. 

I remain, &c., 



F. H. 



To the Editors 0/ the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, 

Can any of the readers of the Gazette tell me where I may obtain Nos. 
one, two and three for October, November and December, respectively, of 
the Gazette for 1879. Information of where they may be obtained will 
| greatly oblige. 

W. A. DeW. SMITH, 

Medical Faculty. 

Montreal, 19th Dec., 1882. 



The New Profession. 

To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, — 

During a recent trip in Europe, I learned that young men and educated 
women were studying electrical or telegraph engineering, which profession 
has not yet become overcrowded, and great fortunes have been made in its 

pursuit. . 

The enormous extension of the telegraph, telephone, electric light, cables, 
&c., into all parts of the world, will create a great demand for skilled 
electrical engineers. 

If any of the readers of your valuable journal are interested in this new 
field, I will cheerfully give them any information in my power. 

Yours respectfully, 

Henry Greer. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette 

Sirs, — 

A third year man in Arts would like to direct the attention of the authori- 
ties to the following. In the Intermediate last spring, there were two papers 
on English, each consisting of ten questions ; the one on the lectures of 
the English Professor, the other on a part of Spalding’s English Literature. 
The candidate could chose twelve of the twenty to answer. Here’s the 
trouble. In my opinion one can prepare the Spalding in much less time 
than half the time that it takes to as thoroughly prepare Prof. Moyse’s lec- 
tures. So that either the student will neglect the Professor’s lectures— a 
thing which is certainly not to be desired — or, if he wants to prepare and 
answer on them, be at a disadvantage in the examination with those who 
prepare Spalding. 

’84. 

The reason for setting alternative questions was that colleges affiliated 
to McGill University, might not find themselves at a disadvantage because 
they were unable to furnish oral teaching. A student could, under the old 
regulations, obtain the maximum number of marks by showing exact know- 
ledge of the prescribed portions of Spalding : or, again, could earn first- 
class standing by writing a good paper on the matter set forth in the 
University lectures of the second year : in such case a slight supplementary 
knowledge of Spalding was necessary to allow of full marks being taken. 
The instructions at the head of the questions made this perfectly clear. The 
1 difficulty has now been obviated by a regulation that the second year 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[January ist, 



lectures in English are obligatory, not optional, as before, 
therefore, not be required to study Spalding in future. 



McGill students, 
Con. Ed. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs, 

In the last issue of the McGill Gazette, I noticed that the sports com- 
mittee of Harvard University has adopted a plan to prevent the contestants 
from obtaining professional assistance in their training for the various 
College sports • and, \ n order that this arbitrary measure may not creep 
into our College rules, I wish to point out how inapplicable such an enact- 
ment is. 



i Besides being a severe rule, it seems to be ultra vires of the Committee 
nasmuch as it restricts the liberty of the student, it has, moreover, a 
tendency to diminish the interest and enthusiasm of the students in these 
Athletic contests. 

To say nothing, however, of its disadvantages, I would simply ask the 
question, how is it to be effected ? For my part, I cannot answer it. 
lo exact an oath from each of the Athletes that he has not received hints 
respecting his training from some professional source or another, would not 
only be most impracticable, but degrading. 

One may inadvertently obtain from a professional trainer sufficient infor- 
mation to disqualify him from competing ; while another may acquire know- 
ledge from, or even practice with, an amateur who is equally proficient in 
these matters, and yet be not subject to such regulations. 

To my mind, it is of little importance how many suggestions a man may 
get in order to render him a good athlete. If he have not the mettle in 
him, he will gain little for his trouble ; and this will be illustrated by the 
fact that no matter how thoroughly you train a Clydesdale horse, he will 
never be able to compete with a Black Hawk in the qualification of the 
latter. Though this be said of horses, it also holds good for men. 

Notwithstanding what I have said, why debar anyone from soliciting aid 
from his superiors ? When persons of equal skill go to that length, it 
shows they pride themselves in their skill, and should consequently be 
encouraged and handsomely rewarded rather than excluded from the sports. 

The insertion of that clause in the University Athletic Association Rules, 
is surely the outcome of jealousy on the part of some unsuccessful candidate, 
who afterwards exercised his influence in working the exclusion of the more 
successful competitor. No honest minded man would think of debarring 
another on such trivial grounds as these referred to. 

Hoping 1 have not taken up too much space, 

I remain, 

Your obedient servant, 

R. A. K. 



got trij. 

SQUANDERED LIVES. 

( Written fur the McGill Uxivkrsity Gazette). 



The fisherman wades in the surges, 
The sailor sails o’er the sea, 

The soldier steps bravely to battle, 
The woodman lays axe to the tree. 

They are each of the breed of the 
heroes, 

The manhood attempered on strife, 
Strong hands that go lightly to labour, 
True hearts that take comfort in life. 

In each is the seed to replenish, 

The work with the vigor it needs, 
The centre of honest affection, 

The impulse to generous deeds. 



But the shark drinks the blood of the 
fisher, 

The sailor is dropped in the sea, 

The soldier lies cold by his cannon, 
The woodman is crushed by his tree. 

Each prodigal life that is wasted, 

In manly achievements unseen, 

But lengthens the daj r s of the coward, 
And strengthens the crafty and mean. 

The blood of the noblest is lavished. 
That the selfish a profit may find, 

God sees the lives that are squandered. 
And we to His wisdom are blind. 



SONG FROM TIIE NEW COMIC OPERA, “ PATIENTS.” 

{As given in Montreal by Doctor Bunthorne, A-S.S - , Member Homeopath. Soc., d'c., d'c., ad. lib> ) 
(Reported by Anne-Anat’my.) 

[Enters and sings A 

If you’re eager for to shine in the Homoeopathic line as a man of wondrous skill, 
You should write a little Manual and give a little granule alternately with a pill. 
You should talk with all the ladies and tell them that to Hades the allopaths 
will send them sure, 

With their complicated mixtures and apothecaries’ fixtures, which may kill but 
cannot cure. 

[ Chorus . J 

And every one will say, as you drive about each day, 

If he is so much better than the ortho-Docs, and they can cure me, 

O, what a very super-extra kind of Doc, 

A Homeopath must be. 

II. 

If they’re feverish at night, give a touch of Aconite, 

No other drug is worth shucks \ 



If they’re simply feeling ill-a, a little touch of Pulsatilla, 

Followed up with a dose of Nux. 
If you do yourself the honour to prescribe some belladonna, 

Or a pilule of Rhus-Toc : 

Or in giving out Mcrcurius, shun the imitations spurious, 

Which all druggists keep in stock. 



[PAojim.] 

And every one will say, if you go on in this way, 

If quantities so very , very small will really cure me, 

Oh, what very singularly strong kind of drugs, 

These Homoeopathic drugs must be. 



III. 

Speak in no measured terms, of the “ Allopathic ” worms , 

In “ illustrious Hahnemann’s ” days, 
Whose “similia similibus non pozvde.ris et pillibus 

His followers' minds did craze; 

But their Allopathic labors we’ll seize upon, Be jabers, 

And claim them as our own , 

Since they will not recognize us, we will carry off the prizes, 

By our persecuted early Christian tone. 

[Chorus.] 

And every fool will say, when we take on in this way, 

Just look at those poor, good, meek men, kept back through jealousy; 

Oh, what hard-hearted reprobates, 

Those Allopaths must be. 

\_Double shuffle, and hurries off to attend an important case of Biliousness.] 



THE COLLEGE FOP. 
(By Harry Shortfellow ) 



The swell stood in the college hall, 

His watch-guard, purest lead, 

The fumes that left his cigarette 
Rolled round his empty head. 

Yet pitiful and green he stood, 

As born to be an ape : 

A creature of infernal cheek, 

A proud though childlike shape. 

The fumes rolled up, yet there he stood. 
Chuck-full of self-conceit : 

His scented hair, his big brass ring, 

His sleek, but ill-formed feet 

Impressed us all that this thing's j 
mind , 

(O, Mind, forgive a joke!) 

Was made of air and chlorophyll, 

And thickened up with smoke. 

He tried to speak ; once more he tried — 
If that could be called speech, 

Lisped out from somewhere, in his 
nose, 

Which seemed beyond his reach. 



About him was a musky smell; 

But in his face no shame; 

While, in his hand, he swung aloft 
A slender milk-weed cane. 

This tight-clad youth in college sits, 
Whom Doctors seek in vain 
To teach, but fail ; his skull is filled 
With bran instead of brain. 

The learned men may well be wild — 
May well with choler sigh ; 

And long to shoot this o’er-grown 
babe, 

Like powder, to the sky. 

There’ll be a day — and not far hence : 
The fop — where will he be? 

Ask you the winds, that, far abroad, 
Upon the wintry sea, 

Hold revel with the crested wave ; 

And rend the ships of oak : 

A strange weird answer they will 
give — 

“ He has gone up in smoke ”. 



IJotcs and Queries. 

What do the words bourdon and pergolas mean ? W. 

“ The blare of that triumphal buordon of brass instruments ” is the phrase 
from which the word as spelled in the query is taken. The form is incorrect ; 
it should be bourdon. Bourdon here means a deep bas°, or a musical 
chorus, wnich is practically the same thing. Chaucer, Frol. 673-4, reads : 
This Sompnour bar to him a stiff burdoun, 

Was nevere trompe of half so great a soun. 

This implies that the Sompnour sang, either the bass part of the Pardon- 
er’s song, or lustily in its refrain Bourdon is the direct source of the word 
burden , a refrain, as in “ Sweet sprites, the burden bear.” — [Temp. Act I 
Sc. 2.] 

Etymology. The etymology of the word bourdon, and its other forms 
burdoun and burden is the Low Latin burdonem, acc. of burdo, [onomato- 
poetic word] a drone , — u the idea of a humming noise being persistent in the 
word’s history, eg ., Fr. bourdon, a drone or drone-bee ; also the humming or 
or buzzing of bees ; also, the drone of a bagpipe.” [Cotgravel. c.f. Fr. bour- 
donner, to hum. The L. Latin burdo also meant [1] a mule [2] a long organ 
pipe. Diez [Grammar of Romance Languages] thinks that burdo, a mule, is 
the root-meaning of the word. From it he derives the idea of the pilgrim’s 
staff (this is a very common meaning in Middle English). It, bordone 
Span, bordon, Pg. bordao, Fr. bourdon. The pilgrim’s staff was his mule*, 
his support ; so Span, muleta, a mule or a crutch. This staff being large led 
to the signification of a large organ-pipe, giving forth a deep sound, whence 
bourdon and burden, a refrain, (c.f. bourdon, the instrumental stop). 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



1883.] 



Pergolas I am unable to find in any Romance lexicon. The word is 
applied to vines. 

What is Gavelkind ? H 

Gavelkind is a species of land tenure. The term is applied to the 
agrarian system of the Irish Celts, and also to the agrarian system in certain 
parts of Britain, chiefly Kent. Irish gavelkind and English gavelkind are, 
however, of very different natures. 

Irish gave/kind. — The early Celtic inhabitants of Ireland were partitioned 
into clans or tribes, each looking back to a common ancestor, from whom they 
claimed kinship. Large clans were subdivided into smaller groups. These 
groups corresponded to the Roman gens and the Greek yh<o^. The unit social 
and political was therefore the family group or Sept. The system of succession 
among the Irish Celts or gavelkind is similar to that still in vogue among 
the Zadrugas of Servia and the joint-families of India, and resembles the 
compani or Frarescheux , the “ coteries” and fraternities of mediaeval France, 
which lived in one house, tilled land in common, and shared its produce. 
[The primitive community, as displayed in the earliest Teutonic villages, and 
now in the miroi Russia, and the sawahs of Java, had given place among the 
Irish to a different polity, the family property of the Gens]. According to the 
custom of Irish gavelkind , “ when a member of a sept or clan dies, leaving 
property, the chief makes a new distribution of all the lands of the sept 
among the different households, who thus obtain a large number of parcels. 
Succession in the direct line is accordingly still unknown ; the collective 
succession of the clan is the system in force, and women are entirely 
excluded.” 

Gavelkind as established in Kent is a very different thing. By it, if the 
head of a family, in the ordinary sense of the term, dies intestate, the estate 
does not descend to the eldest son but to all the sons in equal shares. This 



resembles French law. There were other conditions attached to Kentish 
gavelkind. One of the most important declared that no escheat or forfei- 
ture resulted on attainder for felony. 

The etymology of gavelkind is usually given as A. S. gafol, tribute and 
kind, the ordinary suffix. This is an error. The word is the Irish gabhail- 
cine , which signifies “ accepted from the tribe,” that is, family-tenure. 

Con. Ed. 



%i$t of It cio $oohs Itecciucd 

New Books, from 1st December , 1882. 

Civil Engineers Society, London, England. — Vol : LXX. 

Dawson (Dr. J. W). — Fossil Men. 

Thomas. — Coal Mine-Gas and Ventilation. 

Miller. — Elements of Chemistry. — 2 vols. 

Warren — Mastodon Giganteus. 

Tasse. — Les Canadiens De L’Ouest. — 2 vols. 

Photographs of Lake Memphremagog. — Notman. 

Hatch. — Aristotle’s Moral Philosophy. 

Hatfield. — Theory of Transverse Strains. 

Wood. — Theory of the Construction of Bridges. 

Corliss Engine. — Uhland’s Treatise. — 4 vols. 

Harvard University Catalogue. — 1882-83. 

Library, December 22nd, 1882. 

M. Williams Taylor, 

Asst. -Librarian 



Juluertiscments. 



CAMPBELL LANE, B.A., B.C.L, 
Advocate, Barrister, Attorney and Solicitor. 

163 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



WM. HILL, 

PROFESSOR OF 

Crinicultural Abscission 

AND 



Macmaster, Hutchinson, Knapp & Weir, 

ADVOCATES, 

Sbolfieftojra* 



CRANIOLOGICAL TRIPSIS, 

ST. LAWRENCE HALL 

AND 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q^C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

F. A. KNAPP, B C.L. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 



MONTREAL. 



Instruments. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

FHOM THE 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS 

OF THE WORLD. 

70 - AT* INSPECTION INVITED. ^ 

Lyman Sons & Co. 

384 ST. PAUL ST. 




G. W. CLARKE, 

IMPORTER OF 

Books, Stationery, 

AND 

FINE FANCY GOODS, NOVELTIES, &c. 

JULY STOCK OZF 

NEW GOODS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 

WILL BE FOUND THE FINEST IN THE DOMINION, AND THE 

Christmas and New Year Cards 

Will also he superior to anything ever imported. 

^ CALL AND EXAMINE STOCK. 



G. W. CLARKE, 

238 & 240 St. James Street. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[December ist. 



McGill College Text Books 

DAWSON BROTHERS 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the TEXT BOOKS 
in use at the College. 

Also, STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 

Students’ Note Books. Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles. 



XOTE P APER and EXYELOPES stamped with the 
University Pie, for the use of Students. 



FOR SALE AT 



159 "to 165 Sts. James Street;. 



WM. MAN S SON, 

Photographers to the Queen, 



17 and 19 Bleury Street, 



MONTREAL. 



ft STYLISH OUTFIT IS 



“Steppin an’ C us,” 

AND WE WILL MAKE YOU THE CENTRE OF ADMIRATION. 



THE BOSTON 

CLOTHING HOUSE, 

STYLISH AND LOW-PRICED 

CLOTHIERS AND GENTS’ FURNISHERS, 

41 & 43 ST. JOSEPH ST., 

MONTREAL. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 



WM. DRYSDALE & CO., 



wholesale and retail 



Booksellers ancl Stationers 



College Text Books 



A SPECIALTY 



SUPPLIED AT BOTTOM PRICES. 



Students’ Note Books— a fine assortment- 

Standard Works, 

School Books, 

Maps, Globes, &e 

£3£ ST. TA JVEES STREET, 

— and — 

1483 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



B. D. Johnson & Son, 



HEALERS IX 



BOOTS & SHOES 

13 AND 15 

St. JT oseph. Street, 

MONTREAL. 



^ BOOTS MADE TO MEASURE. TSw 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



1882.] 

C. HILL, 



USooksellei- anb .Stationer. 

English and American Periodicals and Illustrated Works. 

BEST LONDON STATIONERY. 

ALL KINDS OF FANCY STATIONERY. 

Cards Engraved— Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 

GREENSHIELDS, BUSTEED & GUERIN, 



<H. shjlrpI'Jey & sows. ; 
IfeiueUcvs, 

THE LARCEST ASSORTMENT IN THE CITY OF 

MARBLE and BRONZED CLOCKS, 

BRONZED and CHINA STATUARY, 

Sterling Silver and Electro- Plated Ware 

AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FANCY GOODS. 



ADVOCATES, 

^Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, Set., 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

J, N. Greenshields, B.C.L. E. B. Busteed, B.C.L. Edmund Guerin, B.C.L. 



Headquarters for Out-door Games, viz : CRICKET, LAWH TENNIS, 
ARCHERY and FOOTBALL. 

A large assortment of Artists’ and Drawing Materials, consisting 
of WINSOR & NEWTON’S COLORS, WHATMAN'S DRAWING 
PAPERS, TRACING PAPER AND CLOTH. 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ac. 

282 cltxcL 284 JStotre Dame Street. 



ASHFORD'S 
New Book and Stationery Shop 

(One door West of his Old Stand). 

A GOOD SUPPLY 

College Text Books, 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books 

ALWAYS IN STOCK 

AND AT LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES 

FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS. 

Dissecting Cases and Scalpels by Weiss & Son, Ophthalmascopes Metrique 
De Wecker, Fine Trocar and Canula, Nitrate of Silver Holders. 
Probes, Directors, Clinical Thermometers, 

Pocket Cases, Scissors, &c., 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

C. ASHFORD, 

BOOKSELLER & STATIONER, 

678a & 680 DORCHESTER STREET, 




PHOTOGRAPHER 

141 — ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including the INSTAN- 
TANEOUS PROCESS, & c., &c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelligent regard to 
established rules of art. 

^CABINET PHOTOGRAPHS of HERBERT SPENCER, taken 
on hi9 recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 50 cents. 

TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION. 

MONOGRAMMED 

Note Paper I Envelopes 

PUT UP IN BOXES. 

NO CHARGE FOR DIES. 

A VERY ACCEPTABLE 

CHRISTMAS PRESENT. 

GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 

FASHIONABLE ENCRAVERS, 

16 © Sb. J~ ames Street. 



MONTREAL. 



16 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



RICHELIEU HOTEL 



[January, 1883 



J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp. Court House and City Hall 

MONTREAL. 

The above Hotel is the best in the City for XcGill College Dinners. 

John Henderson & Co., 

alters & furriers 

283 NOTRE DAME ST. 





Fur Coats, Caps and Gauntlets. 

EXTRA QUALITY GOODS AT LOWEST CASH PRICES. 

THE "McGILL” RIBBON FOR SALE. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS 

THE BEST VALUE IN THE CITY. 

CHEAP STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS. 

W. 7. CL JlRK.E, Bookseller, 

BEAVER HALL SQUARE. 

R. N. MCCALLUM, 

IMPORTER, 

STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, TOYS, &c., &c. 

1303 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

QUEEN’S HALL. BLOCK. ZMIOXl/bZETOal- 

ESTABLISHED 1818. 

SAVAGE & LYMAN, 

219 ST. JAMES STREET, 

HAVE IN STOCK A LARCE ASSORTMENT OF 

SILVER PLATED GOODS, 

AU 50 , 

SOLID SILVER GOODS, IN CASES, 

CARRIACE CLOCKS, &c. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Merchant Tailors, 

SHIRT AND COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

% 

GENERAL OUTFITTERS, 

ISTo. 21 Blenry Street, 

MONTREAL. 



ZEE . S ALTDEBS, 

Optician, 

IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF 

Optical, Mathematical&Surveying Instruments 

SPECTACLES FOR ALL SIGHTS. 

No. 188 ST. JAMES STREET 

MONTREAL. 



And a variety of FANCY GOODS suitable for 
WEDDING PRESENTS. 



Montreal : Gazette Printing Company, St. Francois Xavier Street. 



