Vol. XII 



No. 3 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. TJYIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

NIACMASTERj HUTCHINSON, WEIR & McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 



Antiseptic laterals, Bailies, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Ptaiacntltil 8 Distant Cteiisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies 1 . 

HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

1 aid College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 st. jya-hvcieis st 




Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



JtIBIIICAB WORKS, BOOKS If SB It IJY ART COURSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS, 

TUB VARIOUS THROB O (4 1 CAB BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, See., Sec., 

4 ^ B E8T VALUE I IV T O W IV . 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

^32 ^ t. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 19th, 1888. [No. 3. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 



J. F. Mackie,.B.A., B.C.L., President . 
J. A. Elliott, Arts '90, Vice-President . 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

C. Peers Davidson, Arts *90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Acting Editor -in- Chief '. 
Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc. Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

R. McDougall, Arts ’90. C. P. Bissett, Med. *90. 
Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 27-30 

Contributions 30-33 

McGill News 33 

Poetry 33, 37 

Societies 33-35 

Personals 35 

Between the Lectures 35-36 

College World 37-38 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 

The fourth number of the “ University Gazette ” 
will contain a Sonnet by Professor Roberts, of whom 
William Sharpe, in “ Sonnets of this Century,” says — 
“ He is indisputably foremost among the poets of 
Canada.” Steadman, also, the well-known poet, and 
author of “ Victorian Poets,” awards Professor Roberts 
the palm among Canadian poets. 

The same number will contain an article from the 
able pen of Mr. Hy. Mott, on the “ Alleged Anti- 
Poetic Tendencies of the Age.” Mr. Mott claims that 
poetry can never die out, and Professor Roberts un- 
consciously advances, by his Sonnet, an unanswerable 
argument in Mr. Mott’s favour. 



Editorials. 



UNIVERSITY LECTURE. 

The deliverance of Sir Wm. Dawson, in the annual 
University lecture, is looked upon as the sounding of 
the key-note of Protestant education in this Province, 
to be heard alike by friends and opponents. Last 
year it was devoted to a discussion of the question at 
issue between the two systems, but in the lecture 
which was delivered on Wednesday last, a broader 
plan was followed, and he contented himself with 
outlining the history and course of the University 
since its foundation. We are unable to publish the 
text of it, though it is rich in its suggestiveness, and 
inspiring from its recording of deeds of devotion and 
self-sacrifice ; it is the most succinct thing that has yet 
appeared, and gives a true view of the long fortune 
of McGill, with its struggles and successes. It appears 
most appropriately at this time, when the generation 
is passing away which guarded her interests so faith- 
fully, for of the original band who constituted the 
first Board of Governors under the new charter, not 
one remains — Sen. Perrier being the last to go. The 
teachers composing the stalf at that time are now 
represented only by the Principal and Dr. Howard, 
and one or two others, who have long since retired 
from the field of active work. Between then and 
now ten generations of students have flowed, and 
many of her spiritual children do honour to their 
Alma Mater, which alone of Canadian Universities 
had an origin in private endowment. The early 
history is instructive ; it shows the same state of affairs 
as at present — persistent opposition on the part of one 
section of the people to any system of Governmental 
education, and an apathy on the part of the other. 
But the sagacious Scotchman was not to be outdone, 
and McGill University is the outcome of his well- 
placed endowment, without even the help of the 
public grant made at that time to the colonies. In 
such a social condition as then existed in Canada, it 
is strange that the idea of a University should have 
arisen ; as early as 1787 an enlightened agitation was 
on foot, but it was strangled in its cradle by the ener- 
getic vigilance of its opponents. In addition to this, 
there was the inspiring presence of another educated 
Scotchman — Mr. Strachan — who was interested in 



28 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



higher education. No investment has had richer re- 
sult; it is like a spring widening into a mighty 
river. 

For thirty years the University struggled on, 
and in 1852 a noble band of men undertook its 
renovation under a less cumbersome charter. Let us 
record their names : — Day, Ferrier, McGill, Ander- 
son, Holmes, Davidson, Coffin, Robertson, Ramsay, 
and Dunkin. 

The new charter brought the institution directly 
under the influence of Imperial patronage by creating 
the Queen’s representative its visitor, thus placing it 
beyond the reach of locality and party. Next in 
order comes the Board of Royal Institution, whose 
president is ex-officio the Chancellor, and whose func- 
tions at one time extended to all the schools in the 
Province. The Board is self-perpetuating, and what- 
ever may be said of the principle of the system, the 
fact remains that the University has prospered under 
the management of this body of men. The experi- 
ence of the Scotch Universities teaches that an 
Academical Board is not productive of the best results ; 
indeed, a Bill is now before Parliament to arrange 
their Government on much the same basis as that of 
McGill. After the Governors in authority stands the 
Principal, who, except as a member of Corporation, 
has no legislative function, but he has general super- 
intendence of the University, and is the ordinary 
medium of communication between the University 
and other bodies and the public, and between differ- 
ent portions of the University itself, and he acts for 
the University in the public conferring of all degrees. 
Some of his opportunities for usefulness depend on 
his personal influence, and it is just here Sir Wm. 
Dawson has succeeded ; he has smoothed asperities, 
he has prevented conflicts of jurisdiction, he has ex- 
tended hospitality to friends and strangers, and he 
has aided students and graduates individually and 
personally. When Sir Wm. Dawson came to McGill 
the Museum collection consisted of one stone, in the 
secretary’s drawer, and until now he has had a per- 
sonal supervision over every detail of the whole insti- 
tution. It is not to be expected that his successor 

long may his advent be deferred — can take up these 
multifarious duties, and some division of labour 
should be made. At present there are twenty-nine 
Fellows, and the Corporation numbers forty-four 
members, whose function is purely educational, with 
no control of property income, salaries, or appoint- 
ments. During this time McGill has taken a firm 
root in the nation’s life, and has spread its influence 
in every direction through the main channel and the 
affiliated schools. 



JOHN READE— POET AND ESSAYIST. 

There are few men in whom the body so reveals the 
soul as in Mr. Reade. With slender hands, thin wrists, 
lithe frame, active in all its movements, and always 
restive ; a face strangely lined with thought, square 
brow, surmounted with hair as incurbable as his soul, 
and arching a pair of piercing eyes ; he is the beau 
ideal of the poet of the heart. 

He was born at Ballyshannon, County Donegal, 
Ireland, on the 13th of the closing month in the 
year that steeped Canada in Canadian blood, 1837. 

He has been a student all his life, passing through 
Portora Royal School, Enniskillen, into Queen’s Col- 
lege, Belfast, and studying law and theology after 
his visit to Canada. Of newspaper work and school 
teaching he has done his share, and for seventeen 
years has been on the staff of the Montreal Gazette, 
his position as literary editor dating from 1874. 

At the age of nineteen Mr. Reade came to Canada, 
and young as he was, established, with some friends, 
the Montreal Literary Magazine, which had the fate 
that most of its successors have suffered. Three years 
later he took up the study of law, but dropped that 
for the position of rector in the Lachute Academy, 
which he held until 1862. 

But study was his mistress, and he prepared him. 
self for the English Church, being ordained by Bishop 
Fulford in 1864-5, and labouring in the Eastern 
Townships. In 1868-9 the old cacoetlies scribendi 
seized him, and as a compromise between his calling 
and his literary inclinations, he took the editorship of 
a Church of England journal in this city. 

In 1870 appeared his first and, unfortunately, his 
only volume of verso so far. It was entitled “ Merlin 
and other Poems,” and for a copy sent to Her Majes- 
ty, he received a warm letter of thanks, while we be- 
lieve the Prince of Wales, then travelling in Canada, 
expressed great delight at the ode, “Dominion Day.” 

As a poet Mr. Reade ranks high. His verses have 
a subtle charm, and his lyrics have all the tenderness 
that at times one thinks only an Irishman can express. 

He seems never to have forgotten his native land, 
and in his poem “ Thalatta ! ” sings sadly, and yet 
how sweetly, of his old home : — 

I. 

In my ear is the moan of the pines — in my 
heart is the song of the sea, 

And I feel his salt breath on my face as he 
showers his kisses on me ; 

And I hear the wild scream of the gulls, as they 
auswer the call of the tide, 

And I watch the fair sails as they glisten like 
gems on the breast of a bride. 



1888.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



29 



II. 

From the rock where I stand to the sun is a 
pathway of sapphire and gold, 

Like a waif of those Patmian visions that 
wrapt the love seer of old ; 

And it seems to my soul like an omen that 
calls me far over the sea — 

But I think of a little white cottage and one 
that is dearest to me. 

III. 

Westward, ho ! Far away to the East is a 
cottage that looks on the shore — 

Though each drop in the sea were a tear, as it 
was I can see it no more — 

For the heart of its pride with the flowers in 
the “ Vale of the Shadow” reclines, 

And — hushed is the song of the sea and 
hoarse is the moan of the pines. 

Far be it from us, though we touch it never so 
gently, to attempt to lift the veil that evidently hides 
a sorrow in Mr. Reade’s life. But we feel sure we 
shall be pardoned if we reproduce another and still 
more plaintive lyric, dealing probably with the same 
subject, though for poetic purposes not entirely the 
expression of the soul's experience. 

It is entitled — 

IN MY HEART. 

I. 

In my heart are many chambers through which 
I wander free ; 

Some are furnished, some are empty, some are 
sombre, some are light ; 

Some are open to all comers, and of some 1 
keep the key, 

And I enter in the stillness of the night. 

II. 

But there’s one I never enter— it is closed to 
even me ! 

Only once its door was opened, and it shut 
for evermore ; 

And though sound of many voices gather round 
it, like the sea, 

It is silent, ever silent, as the shore. 

III. 

In that chamber, long ago, my love’s casket 
was concealed, 

And the jewel that it sheltered I knew only one 
could win ; 

And my soul foreboded sorrow should that 
jewel be revealed, 

And I almost hoped that none might enter in. 



IY. 

Yet day and night I lingered by that fatal 
chamber door, 

Till — she came at last, my darling one, of all 
the earth my own ; 

And she entered— and she vanished with my 
jewel, which she wore ; 

And the door was closed — and I was left alone. 

Y. 

She gave me back no jewel, but the spirit of 
her eyes 

Shone with tenderness a moment, as she closed 
that chamber door, 

And the memory of that moment is all I have 
to prize, 

But that , at least , is mine for evermore. 

VI. 

Was she conscious, when she took it, that the 
jewel was my love ? 

Did she think it but a bauble, she might wear 
and toss aside ? 

I know not, I accuse not, but I hope that it 
may prove 

A blessing, though she spurn it in her pride. 

Mr. Reade is not alone a poet. He has written 
several tales — “ Winty Dane's Transformation," “ The 
De Chalney's,” and “ The Ecclestons," among others. 
Besides these, he is -the author of numerous learned 
essays upon literature, history, philology, and other 
branches of science. 

His works have received the commendation of 
Bryant, Whittier, and Longfellow, and in some 
instances have been translated into French, and 
published in Paris. 

We feel sure that our readers will enjoy the short 
article which Mr. Reade contributes to this number. 



The students now, for the first time engaged in 
hospital work, are beginning to realize that the course 
in Physiology at McGill, in addition to being a classi- 
cal one, is eminently fitted for its practical applica- 
tion under altered circumstances, namely — disease. 

Should the course in Pathology prove as successful, 
the students will have cause to remember Dr. Mills 
with gratitude. He has ceased the practice of his 
profession in order to lend his whole energy to the 
study and teaching of what must always remain one 
of the most fascinating and important subjects of 
medicine, namely — Physiology. 

The tendency at present in all science is towards 
specialism. Owing to the vastness of all science, this 
is necessary, for what would or could be accomplished 
to the furtherance of knowledge when one considers 



30 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



the multiplicity of subjects and the short span of 
human life ! McGill is fortunate in having for her 
teachers men who have devoted a life-time almost ex- 
clusively to their particular subjects; and in this lies 
her success, and consequently merited celebrity. 

Hontributions. 

THE FUTURE OF CANADIAN UNIVERSITIES. 

BY JOHN WATSON, LL.D., 

Professor of Moral Philosphy in the University of Queen’s Col- 
lege, Kingston, and author of “ Kant and his English cri- 
tics,” and of “Selections from Kant.” 

(Continued from last issue.) 

And Leonard Bruni says, that “ by the study 
of philosophy, of theology, astronomy, arithmetic, 
and geometry, by reading of history, by the 
turning over of many curious books, watching 
and sweating in his studies, he acquired the 
science which he was to adorn and explain in his 
verse.” The result of this “watching and sweating in 
his studies” was that Dante made himself master of all 
the science of his age. He was not under the strange 
delusion that originality must rest upon ignorance. 
True originality, as he saw, pre-supposes the assimila- 
tion of the best thought of all time. He would have 
endorsed the wise words of Goethe, “ If thou wouldst 
penetrate into the Infinite, press on every side into the 
Finite.” It would be easy to multiply instances, but 
this one may suffice. The lesson for us which Dante’s 
life suggests is obvious. Such are the men who make 
a people great and noble. We all desire to see our own 
people take their place worthily beside the older na- 
tions, and contribute something to the education of 
the world. But such a consummation, doubly as we 
may wish for it, will not come unless we take pains to 
make it come. A nation does not grow with the easy 
spontaneity of a plant; its development is its own 
act, and involves infinite labor and patience. Canada is 
giving manifest signs that the higher intellectual life 
is not indifferent to her. Perhaps she still exhibits 
something of the immaturity and over-confidence of 
youth, but she has also its hopefulness, its buoyancy, 
its enthusiasm. The universities will be false to their 
trust if they do not turn this abundant energy to 
fruitful issues. It is their function, not to produce 
men of genius — no university can do that — but to pre- 
pare the soil out of which genius may spring. Our 
universities ought to have a large share in the process 
or moulding the character of our people. Grea/, 
scholars, thinkers, and men of science do not arise by 
chance : they are the natural outgrowth of fit condi- 
tions. Now, it is vain for us to disguise from our- 
selves that our universities have not hitherto done for 
Canada what Oxford and Cambridge have done for 
England, Leipzic and Berlin for Germany. With 
slender means, and, as a consequence, with an insuf- 
ficient body of teachers and inadequate equipment in 
other ways, they have helped to keep the torch of 



[1888. 



learning burning, but they have not to any extent pro- 
duced a race of scholars and thinkers and men of 
science. Whenever young men have wished to carry 
their studies to a higher point, they have been forced 
to go to the universities of the Old World, or to those 
universities of the New World, where a higher con- 
ception of the vocation of the scholar has prevailed. 
Surely the period of dependence should now come to 
an end. There is good hope, I think, that we are en- 
tering upon a fuller life. Our universities are grad- 
ually becoming easier in their financial condition, and 
have begun to add to their teaching staff. Many of 
our young men now aim at something higher than a 
mere pass, and of late years they have even entered 
with enthusiasm upon a course of post-graduate study. 
This is as it should be. The ordinary graduate of a 
Canadian university leaves college with less know- 
ledge of certain subjects than that with Avhich most 
English boys enter it. The first two years of a Cana- 
dian student are usually spent in doing work that 
ought to have been done, and one may hope will yet 
be done, in the High school. One reason for this no 
doubt is, that parents are too eager to have their boys 
enter upon what is called the “practical” work of life, 
that they send them to college in a lamentably inade- 
quate state of preparation. In many cases a boy comes 
to college at the age of sixteen, with an imperfect 
knowledge of his Latin grammar, with no knowledge 
of prose except what is enough to enable him to write 
a little dog- Latin, and with a superficial acquaintance 
with a book of Virgil and a book of Caesar. At the 
end of his classical course it is still a struggle for him 
to make out without aid the simplest piece of Latin. 
How can it be expected that he should have any en- 
thusiasm for Latin literature, or any real comprehen- 
sion of the part which the Roman people have played 
in the civilization of the world 1 Naturally he asso- 
ciates the name of Rome with a series of irksome tasks, 
and heartily wishes that the whole of its literature had 
shared the fate of the lost manuscript of Virgil. No 
doubt the student has taken an honor course in clas- 
sics, is beyond this elementary stage, but even he 
is just beginning to feel that he is fit for some bit 
ol independent work of his own, when the pressure 
ot necessity calls him imperiously away to do some- 
thing that he can turn into a means of subsistence. 
The only wonder is that so many of our students 
have the courage to carry their studies beyond the 
point that usage has fixed. That of recent years an 
increasing number of our young men do so, is a most 
hopeful sign, and it is the plain duty of the univer- 
sity to encourage them by all means in her power. 

I his is the class from which we may yet hope to 
obtain a body of Canadian scholars, fit to be named 
along with the foremost scholars of Germany and 
England, and the United States. We nmst, in our 
universities, make a serious attempt to supply classes 
of students. We must try to lift to a higher level 
the whole of the work that is done in them. The 
standard of matriculation should be higher in quality, 
and a course of post-graduate work should crown our 
honour courses. Jo secure the first measure of re- 
foim will not be easy. Little can bo done by any 
single university, and certainly very little by a uni- 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



31 



versity such as ours, that cannot hope to determine 
the character of the work done in our High Schools. 
I venture, however, to make one suggestion, although 
past experience makes it very doubtful if any heed 
will he paid to it. Let us have a meeting of repre- 
sentatives, if not of all our Canadian universities, at 
least of the universities of Ontario, for the purpose of 
enquiring whether our matriculation examinations 
might not be made more national than they now are, 
and for the discussion of all questions affecting the 
interests of higher education. The past history of 
Queen’s has shown, I think, that she will not stand 
in the way of any necessary reform. In the matter 
of post-graduate work we are, fortunately, in a more 
independent position. The main limit here is in 
the relatively small number of our teachers, consider- 
ing the varied work that we undertake. But our 
condition is steadily improving. The recent additions 
to our staff make it possible for us to attempt some- 
thing in the way of post-graduate work, and give 
some assistance to those who intend to do the whole 
part of it in the university. Such a scheme is now 
under consideration, and will probably be published 
in the next calendar. I make bold to suggest to the 
trustees of our university that half a dozen fellow- 
ships, of the annual value, say of $250 each, should 
be exhibited, to be given to men who have taken high 
honours in one of the departments of study, and who 
are willing to stay on at the university in the prose- 
cution of independent work. ISTo money could well 
be better spent. Those men are most deserving of 
help who show that they are eager to help them- 
selves. 



THE RANGE OF GREEK AND ROMAN 
LITERATURE. 

The naturalization of the Classics in our educa- 
tional system has kept us nearer, in some respects, 
to the past than wo are to the present. A modern 
student would find much to satisfy his needs in 
ancient Rome. Books were not so dear, even newly 
published. Second-hand books were constantly for 
sale, especially in the provincial towns. Conver- 
saziones and lectures were of daily occurrence. Even 
at the very ends of the earth (in Britain, for instance, 
under the Roman occupation), all the great master- 
pieces of Greek and Roman learning were within 
easy reach of persons of moderate means. Private 
libraries were not rare. The bibliomaniac was a 
familiar figure. Every important city and town had 
its scholarly men. Apart from literature proper there 
was a large number of books devoted to what may be 
called useful knowledge, such as those that Pliny the 
Elder enumerates as among his authorities. There 
was also no lack of compilations and elegant extracts. 
The educated classes spoke and read Greek as well as 
Latin, and even before it was comprised within the 
domain of Rome, Alexandria had discharged the 
kindly office of bringing Greek and Hebrew scholars 
into fruitful sympathy. Then (as the late Dean 
Stanley says, with reference to the completion of the 
canon of the Old Testament), “ the tents of Ham were 
closed, but the doors of Japheth were expanded with 



a never-ending enlargement. The first page of the 
Greek volume began with the Grecian translation of 
the Pentateuch ; the last pages were not closed till 
they had included the last of the writings that bore 
the name of St. John.” 

Thus, noiselessly, in a little islet in an Egyptian 
harbor, was begun, by a few obscure scholars, a work 
which was destined to transform both Greek and 
Roman literature, and to revolutionize the thought of 
the western world. 

Still, the traditions of the classical age were not 
all at once forgotten. Pagan culture declined gradu- 
ally. The great Fathers had often for their masters 
rhetoricians or grammarians of the old faith ; not a 
few of them had professed it themselves at the out- 
set of their careers. It is still uncertain whether 
Claudian was a Christian or a heathen, so thoroughly 
are his poems impregnated with the pagan spirit. 
Ausonius drew on himself reproaches from his friend 
Paulinus, for a like oblivion in his verse of the claims 
of his professed faith. Marius Victor rebuked the 
ladies of his time for reading Terence and Horace and 
Virgil instead of the Lives of the Saints. Boethius 
would have been beatified but for the absence of any 
clearly expressed profession of the Christian faith in 
his Consolations of Philosophy. Cassiodorus, who 
carried Latin literature into the cloister, was proudly 
mindful of his intellectual heritage as a Roman, and 
in erecting his fortress against aggressive barbarism, 
did not neglect setting the good example of establish- 
ing a library. It was the first of many such retreats, 
in Avhich, in the storm and darkness of a long night, 
the student’s lamp shone as a beacon-light to the 
wanderers in the outer waste of ignorance and con- 
fusion. 

****** 

If we were asked to form an estimate of the share 
of Greek and Latin literature in the education of 
humanity, we would not be likely to make it a 
numerical one. Compared with the mighty stream 
that has issued from the modern press, and is being 
constantly swelled by fresh accessions, the largest 
catalogue that we could compile of Greek and Roman 
books would dwindle into insignificance. The writ- 
ings of classical antiquity, as known to us, would be 
surpassed in number by the printed works not only 
of France, or Germany, or England, but even of Hol- 
land or Denmark. If we hearken to tradition, how- 
ever, the case is altered. The Alexandrian library is 
credited by different writers with 100,000, 200,000, 
and 700,000 volumes — the discrepancy being ac- 
counted for by the fact that these figures are the 
estimates of successive centuries. Even the first of 
them exceeds the estimate generally formed of the 
writings of the classical period. We are apt to judge 
them by such lists as we find, for instance, on the 
inside covers of the Tauchnitz or the Teubner editions. 
The names of authors, both Greek and Latin, printed 
there do not exceed 150. It is a different story, how- 
ever, when we inquire concerning the writings that 
have been, but exist no longer. Let us consult 
Heyne’s treatise on the Sources of the History of 
Diodorus Siculus, or the Index to Voss’s Greek His- 
torians, or the first book of Pliny’s Natural History, 



32 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



and how many writers, whose works have long 
perished from the face of the earth, start once more 
into breathing life! Voss’s Index consists of over 
fifty pages, each containing an average of forty names. 
This gives ns a total of about 2,000 for all the Greek 
historians. The record is brought down to after the 
fall of Constantinople, but most of those mentioned 
belong to antiquity. In general, they were volumin- 
ous writers, so that ten volumes to each of them 
would not be too high an average. That would give 
us 20,000 volumes for the historians alone, and if we 
apply a like rough calculation to the other depart- 
ments of Greek literature, and to the whole of Latin 
literature, we shall have no great difficulty in reach- 
ing a total ranging from 150,000 to 200,000 volumes. 
How many authors there must have been who, for 
one reason or other, never succeeded even in obtain- 
ing mention in the compilations or literary bio- 
graphies, we may imagine from the analogy of experi- 
ence in modern times. 

Perhaps, after all, then, the estimates not only of 
Eusebius, but of Seneca, and even of Aulus Gellius, 
may not have been so much beyond the mark. And 
there would be still greater reason for such a conclu- 
sion if we were to comprehend in our reckoning the 
Latin and Greek ecclesiastical writers, and the poets, 
historians, and philosophers of the Middle Ages, extend- 
ing the Latin period to the Renaissance, and the 
Grecian to the Turkish conquest. Such hospitality 
to Christian barbarians would, of course, shock the 
fastidious purists who, nevertheless, are by no means 
agreed as to the classical pale. 

John Reade. 



FICTION : FOR AND AGAINST IT. 

Even in these days, when fiction is an acknowledged 
medium of political, social and religious teaching ; 
when a Disraeli, a Bulwer, a Kingsley, and a George 
Eliot have alike erected upon the staid foundations of 
what they believe to be some great initial truths, a 
certain airy superstructure to attract the lighter mind 
and induce it, perhaps unconsciously, to receive the 
underlying lesson, there are yet to be found those 
who condemn it, and who would, if they could, ex- 
clude it in its popular form, viz., the novel or romance, 
entirely from the young. 

They say that the minds of the young are weak- 
ened, their judgment impaired, and their memories 
rendered less retentive of the particular kinds of 
knowledge which it is essential for them to acquire 
by having presented to them imaginary, rather than 
real, occurrences, and by having held up for their 
avoidance, or imitation, characters which exist only in 
the writer’s fancy, or which, if they be, as is often the 
case, reproductions from actual life, are yet stript of 
their integrity by the meritricious dress in which they 
are too frequently represented. Doubtless some 
weight must attach to these arguments, and assuredly 
there is a charm in what we know to be true in its 
every particular, which no fiction, how powerful solver, 
can quite equal. 

For this reason biography and autobiography must 
always possess intrinsic value for us. Invaluable must 



it always be for us to know how this or that eminent 
man or woman looked and lived. Under what con- 
ditions he was born and reared. What were the mov- 
ing springs of hss actions. Had he much to suffer or 
to overcome, and what hands were lifted up to help 
or impede him. Who were his associates? How did 
he work, and with what motives? He was human 
like ourselves : his human experience may teach us. 

Let us inquire how fiction wrought in one whole 
life, and writings are before us as we write. 

Brian Walter Proctor (Barry Cornwall), of whom 
the editor of the “Autobiographical Fragments and 
Biographical Notes” says : “ His silence seemed wiser, 
his simplicity subtler, his shyness more courageous 
than the wit, philosophy and assurance of others,” 
whose “ series of gracious poems, of which he alone 
of all his circle, was not proud,” but which shall live 
as long as men can appreciate the sweet, the pure, and 
the true, and whose friendship or acquaintance was 
eagerly courted by Wordsworth, Keats, Leigh, Hunt, 
Scott, Coleridge, Hood, Tennyson, Carlyle, Rossetti, 
Talfourd, and all the leading contemporary lights of 
art and literature ; tells us how the first awakening of 
his genius was brought about. “ In the village where 
l dwell,” he says, “ there was a circulating library. 
Its contents were of a very humble description. It 
contained the novels and romances of fifty years ago, 
a score of old histories and a few biographies now for- 
gotten. 

* * * * * * 

I had already read Caesar, and Virgil, and Ovid, and 
some parts of Theocritus, and passages of Homer,* 
but 4hese passed unprofitable over my mind like 
shadows over the unreflecting earth below. They 
were read as words only, and left no trace or image. 
But now a more effective agent was at work which 
moved my heart at the same time with my other facul- 
ties. Let no one despise the benefits which thus open 
the young and tender heart. They are the gates of 
knowledge. If I had never become intimate with Le 
Sage, and Fielding, and Richardson, with Sterne, and 
Inchbald, and Radcliffe, I should, perhaps, have 
stopped at my seventeenth year, disheartened on my 
way ; they forced me to travel onward to the Intellec- 
tual Mountains.” After this who shall despise fiction. 

Erol Gervase. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

IV. 

Fame. — A glass castle, erected by Public Opinion for 
the better observation of its inmates. 

Family. — A caravan in the Desert of Society. 

I ire. — One of the Titans, still capable of hurling 
rocks at heaven. 

Iron. — A mighty reformer, who has come out of the 
interior of the earth to spread improve- 
ment on its surface. 

Labour.— The stern friend who teaches Man his 
powers. 



Remember the writer had just emerged from Harrow. 



1888 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



33 



Lawyer. — One whom Society employs to scrape up 
mud, and then complains of for being 
dirty. 

Letter. — A speaking-trumpet through which the 
voice may be heard at any distance. 

Life. — Our drop in the Ocean of Eternity. 

Love. — The only religion which realizes its Heaven 
upon Earth. 

Luxury. — The hectic flush of a consumptive nation. 

Malice. — The dirty road upon which Revenge 
travels. 

Marriage. — Going home by daylight after Court- 
ship’s masquerade. 

Memory. — The hoarded slides of the mind’s magic- 
lantern. 

Menagerie. — A place where wild animals are tor- 
tured for the amusement of tame ones. 

Newspaper. — The great general of the People, who 
has driven the enemy from the fortified 
heights of Power, and compelled him to 
give battle in the open field of Thought. 

Q. 



TOctBill News. 



An apparently unique system is being pursued in 
a class of the Third Year (ladies), by which the 
notes on the subject have been, with but slight excep- 
tion, obtained by a solitary representative. The practice, 
singularly enough, perhaps, seems to have met with 
the approval of the lecturer, for when, some few days 
ago, the full number of students assembled for the 
first time, lo ! he himself was absent. 

John A. Creasor has been elected president of the 
Medical Dinner Committee. The dinner is to be 
held at the Windsor, on the 29th of November, and 
in addition to Mr. Creasor, the following are the gen- 
tlemen in charge: — Committee: 1st Vice-president, 
W. S. England, ’b9 ; 2nd vice-president, M. W. 
Murray, ’90; 3rd vice-president, John Clark, ’91; 
Chairman, A. D. Holmes, ’89 ; Hon. Secretary, Jas. 
Bell, M. D. ; Secretary, C. P. Jento, ’90 ; Treasurer, 
H. B. Yates, B.A. ’92; R. P. Howard, M.D. ; Geo. 
Fenwick, M.D. ; Wm. Gardiner, M.D. ; R. J. B. 
Howard, M.D. ; R. F. Ruttan, M.D. ; W. S. Eng- 
land, ’89 ; M. W. Murray, ’90 ; John Clark, ’91 ; 
W. A. Brown, ’91 ; D. A. V. Jock, ’92. 



Laura is a little girl of five years old, who is very 
much interested in learning to read. The other day 
she was studying over a list of words, and sister 
Gertie, who has been almost through the Third 
Reader, was helping her. The word “fur” proved 
especially puzzling, and the little one’s forehead con- 
tracted into innumerable wrinkles. “ Why, you 
know that word, Laura ! ” exclaimed Gertie, eagerly, 
“ it’s something that cats have.” Like a flash the 
little girl’s face brightened, as she cried, “ I know — 
fits ! ” 



CLEVER SAMUEL SLOW. 

Samuel Slow was lank and lean, 

Of form somewhat uncouth, 

His face was mildly sad, but still, 

He was a clever youth. 

Of which I trow his bulging brow, 

Of high and massive line, 

And hair unkempt, from care exempt, 
Was sure and certain sign. 



When brought to the baptismal font, 
’Tis said he never cried. 

But with impassive, solemn face. 

The priest and people eyed. 

The sober grace of Samuel’s face 
Made priest and people glad, 

Elate and proud, they cried aloud, 
To see a babe so sad. 



He would not clap his hands nor crow. 
He would not romp nor play, 

Alone he’d love to lie and brood, 

In moody erie way. 

His mind so high, they durst not try 
By arbitrary rule ; 

And all averred he should not herd 
With common lads at school. 



So he at home was tutored by 
His auntie, Sarah Slow, 

A worthy maiden lady she. 

As maiden ladies go. 

The easy rule of Sarah’s school 
Well suited Samuel’s mood, 

She let him pore and ponder o’er 
Such studies as he would. 



Whilst yet he sucked a bottle, and 
Was dandled by a nurse, 

He could recite the Iliad 
In Homer’s grand Greek verse ; 
And hold his own unlearned tone— 
Now, was he not in truth, 

As you have heard so oft averred, 
An intellectual youth ? 



This deeply learned wight remained 
Hard by his aunt until 
He came to air this learning fine 
At honored old McGill. 

And when he came, there spread his fame. 
Increasing day by day , 

A youth who’d speak in classic Greek, 

In fluent easy way. 



And round him flocked all brilliant minds 
Then gathered at McGill, 

Like Chateau Blank, and Wilfred Clair, 

And many others still 

He loved to walk with them and talk, 

And for a subject take. 

The social scheme, which they would deem, 
A grand, a high mistake ! 



Say, do you recognize this youth, 

This clever Samuel, who, 

In studious manner spends his days, 

\ And spends his evenings too? 

No prank nor brawl please him at all, 

He loves not cards nor beer, 

But talks so rare with Wilfred Claire, 

And dreams with Arthur Weir. 

Spriggins. 



Societies. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting of the Theo Dora was held 
on Tuesday, Oct. 29th. As the increasing numbers 
of the society had rendered a removal from the Read- 
ing-room to more commodious quarters desirable, the 
members assembled in the 2nd year class-room, Miss 
Bailey, Vice-President, in the chair. The subject un- 
der discussion for the afternoon was “ Turkish Mis- 



34 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



sions.” As the historic birthplace of the Christian 
faith, Turkey was felt to claim much interest. Miss 
Derick read an essay on the country, viewed from its 
historical and physical points of view, and Miss Einley 
followed with a comprehensive sketch, entertaining 
as well as instructive, of its missions, dwelling strongly 
upon the difficulties to be encountered in contending 
with Mahommedanism, its prevailing religion. Miss 
Inez Botterell read a short selection. It was unani- 
mously resolved to again send the contents of the 
mite-box to the China Inland Mission at the close of 
the present college year. The interest shown in the 
society by its members and outsiders is seen in the 
fact that voluntary contributions, up to the present 
time, nearly equal the sum collected last session. It 
was decided to establish scrap-books for the collection 
of items of interest to the society, these to be given in 
charge to the following members, who volunteered 
their services : Misses Henderson, MacFarlane, Mac- 
Gregor, Campbell, Lyman and Whitehead. 

The Theo Dora Society will hereafter meet every 
fortnight, instead of every month. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The second regular meeting of the Delta Sigma So" 
ciety was held at 5 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 2nd, in 
the 2nd year class-room, Miss Squire, the President, 
in the chair. The meeting was opened with an essay 
on “ Gossip,” written by Miss Raynes and read by 
Miss Lyman. It was bright, interesting, well written 
and well read. This was followed by a stirring ex- 
tempore debate— “ Resolved, that Great Britain has 
brighter prospects than the United States.” The slips 
being drawn, the unfortunate victims marched up to 
the front in the following order : Affirmative — Misses 
I. Botterell, Monk and Abbott. Negative — Misses 
Derick, Lyman and Angus. The debate was one of 
the best ever held in the society. There was no 
trouble in finding words or matter on either side. 
Taxation, Chinamen, Cleveland and Sackville received 
due consideration. After Miss Botterell had closed 
the debate, the vote was taken, resulting in a majority 
of twelve for the affirmative. Although the hour was 
late, several members gave their views on the subject, 
and the Glee Club losed with a song. 

The third regular meeting of the Delta Sigma So- 
ciety was held Thursday, Nov. 8th, at four o’clock, 
subject of debate being — Resolved : “That savages 
have a right to the soil.” The affirmative side was 
upheld by Misses Abbott and Baillie, while Misses I. 
Botterell and Finley supported the negative. The 
debate was carefully prepared and well delivered, 
some of the arguments being peculiarly striking. 
The result of the vote was a majority for the savages, 
or rather for the affirmative side. The critic, Miss 
Reid, found little to criticise. After a few words 
from her, views on the subject were given by differ- 
ent members, Miss Derick then read an appropriate 
selection from Bryant, and the Glee Club sang a 
round. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The third regular meeting of the McGill Medical 
Society was held at 8 p.m., in the Upper Reading- 
room, on Saturday, Oct. 27th, the President, Mr. G. 
G. Campbell, in the chair. 

The paper for this evening was read by the Presi- 
dent, the subject being “ Recent Researches in Brain 
Surgery,” by Dr. McEvvan, and proved most inter- 
esting. 

The fourth regular meeting was held at the saipe 
hour and place, on November 10th, and, in spite 
of the weather, the average number was not im- 
paired. The paper for this meeting was given by 
Mr. II. McEwen, having for subject, “Di *tetics of 
Infants.” and was met with most hearty appreciation ; 
for the want of information, specially referring to 
children’s troubles, has long been felt among young 
medical men. The case report was read by Mr. J. 
A. Creasor, on Typhoid Fever, and the subject being 
so generally studied at this season, the after discus- 
sion was quite general. The meeting adjourned after 
notice being given that next meeting’s paper would 
be given by Dr. R. J. B. Howard. 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

On Sunday, 4th November, Mr. R. P. Wilder, son 
of Dr. Wilder, of India, was present at McGill and 
addressed the Y.M.C.A. 

• Mr. Wilder is a Yale graduate, who has given up 
his college zeal to travel among the colleges of the 
United States and Canada, in the endeavour to in- 
crease the interest in the work of foreign missions. Mr. 
Wilder spoke at the afternoon meeting in the rooms 
on Victoria Square, to a very large gathering of 
students. His address was chiefly in reference to 
the work of medical missionaries, and his earnest words 
will not soon be forgotten by those who heard him. 

Meetings were held in the forenoon and evening, 
for freer discussion of the work. 

As a result of his visit, about twenty-eight students 
have offered themselves for Foreign Mission work. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

On the second of November, the weekly meeting of 
the above society was opened by an excellent essay 
on “Iceland,” by Mr. Deeks, showing ability and pre- 
paration. Mr. Truell, the president, followed with a 
reading from one of Tennyson’s Idylls, the “Morte 
d’ Arthur.” Resolved : — “ That the whole North 

American continent is destined to become one great 
nation,” was the subject for debate, the affirmative 
being upheld by Messrs. Ryan, Hamilton and Rob- 
ertson ; the negative by Messrs. Trenholme, King- 
horn and Henderson. The speeches were excellent, 
especially those of some of the junior members, 
though by some the question was discussed in a 
rather limited sense. The question was carried for 
the negative by a large majority. 

A resolution was passed to communicate with the 
Presbyterian College in regard to an inter-collegiate 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



35 



debate, and another to request Professor Moyse to de- 
liver the usual semi-annual address to the society. The 
critic delivered an excellent criticism. 

Friday, Nov. 9. — The programme was commenced 
with an essay on “ Methods of Study,” by Mr. H. C. 
Sutherland, followed by Mr. W. H. Smyth, who 
gave a Scotch reading in good style. The debate 
was then opened : Resolved : — “That . secret so- 

cieties should be abolished.” The question was in- 
troduced on behalf of the affirmative by Mr. J. Rob- 
ertson, who was spiritedly opposed by Mr. A. R. 
Hall. The affirmative was supported by Messrs. W. 
E. Paton and AY. H. Kollmyer ; the negative by 
Messrs. A. McGregor and AV. Ellenwood. The de- 
bate was carried on vigorously by both sides, but the 
question was decided in favor of the negative. Dur- 
ing the evening the Glee Club of the Society ren- 
dered a couple of popular songs in excellent style. 
Mr. AY. L. Jamieson accompanied them on the violin. 

Mr. Jamieson, the critic for the evening, reviewed 
the programme. The attendance at both meetings 
was large, and the interest lively and spirited. 



Personals. 



Fritz, Med., ’88, is practising in Nova Scotia. 

Kenny, Med., ’88, is practising at St. John, N.B. 

Phillip E. Richie, B. A., is studying law in Toronto. 

R. E. Palmer, B. Ap. Sc., ’87, is assistant City En- 
gineer of Vancouver, B.C. 

A. E. Childs, B. Ap. Sc., ’88, is in England, study- 
ing Electrical Engineering. 

A. Macarthur, B.A., ’87, is as pleased as when he 
had his first pair of top boots. 

A. A. McLellan, ’89, has been chosen to represent 
McGill at Trinity’s annual dinner. 

Campbell, president of freshman class ’86, is in New 
York, continuing his medical studies. 

Love, freshman class ’86, has returned to pursue 
his studies after an absence of one year. 

Miss Abbott, of ’90, has been elected Assistant- 
Editor in the ladies’ department. 

AVe regret to learn that J. J. White, M.D. ’89, is 
still absent from classes, through illness. 

AV. A. Carlyle, B. Ap. Sc., ’87, is contributing 
largely to the building up of the great AYest. 

H. McKay, who completed his second year in ’86, 
is expected here shortly to continue his medical 
studies. 

C. L. AA r alters, B. Ap. Sc., ’88, was first of the class 
“ to go.” The letter case misses its semi-weekly ad- 
ornment. 

Dr. H. V. Pearman, ’88, has been appointed J unior 
House Surgeon in the Victoria General Hospital, 
Halifax, N.S. 



Dr. H. E. Young, ’88, is putting a guard string on 
Lacrosse, AYisconsin, to prevent the ball of health 
from rolling off that town. 

AVe must not omit to comment on the extremely 
lucid, concise and interesting lectures on Pathology, 
which Dr. Mills is delivering this year in the absence 
of I>r. AV. G. Johnston. 

J. B Ball, B. Ap. Sc., ’87, is assistant engineer on 
the construction of the water works of Charlottetown, 
P.E.I., and when these are finished he will probably 
be retained as permanent superintendant. 

Dr James Hewitt is in Vienna, studying diseases of 
the nose, throat and ear, of which he intends to make 
a specialty on his return to Montreal. In these his 
deft fingers will be of great value to him. 

Dr. W. Inglis Bradley, ’88, is wrestling with disease 
in Carleton Place, and Death has temporarily retired 
in high dudgeon to think out new methods of circum- 
venting the combative young physician. Dr. Bradley, 
however, finds that he is paid in an article which he 
himself would term “ wind.” He states in a letter 
that he has been endeavoring to raise a pitiful dime 
in cash, with which to patronize a strawberry festival. 



Between the Lectures. 



Professor.— “AVhat is the condition of patient dur- 
ing intermission 1” 

Student. — “He’s alright !” 

A five-year old child, being reprimanded because 
she was not writing, thus explained the cause : Miss, 

how can I write with this pen, it has no front teeth !” 

“They sat in the gloaming,” says a sophomore, “means 
they occupied one chair.” A gloaming may be ob- 
tained at any fashionable furniture store ; no parlor 
is complete without it. 

A medical thus expounds the derivation of the 
word Restaurant : — Res. — a thing — tauras — a bull, is 
a bully thing. It is needless to add that this scholar 
had just graduated from Oxford. 

Dentist. — “Shall I administer anaesthetics, Mrs. 
Parvenue, before extracting the tooth V’ 

Mrs. P. — “Goodness, gracious, no ! Doctor ; them 
aesthetics has quite gone out of fashion ; try the laugh- 
ing gas !” 

“Mike, darling,” she said, looking up at a drug- 
gist’s sign as they passed, “AVhat is an eye lotion 1” 

“An ile ocean, me jewel,” answered Mike, “is 
what was burned up at the Standard Oil AVorks a 
year ago !” 

AVould some of our brethren, profound in mathe- 
matical lore, kindly answer the problem propounded 
by a cheeky freshman in Medicine : 

If the professor of Necromancy can stow a foot rule, 
two magnifying glasses, a stethescope and one square 
yard of dish-cloth in his vest pocket, how much could 
be contained in his trouser pocket at the same rate 1 



36 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



French Sewing Woman to Lady Graduate — “And 
you have feenish your study now, Mees A. ? You 
must be very glad.” 

L. G. — “ No, indeed, Madame Y. I hardly know 
what to do with myself, now that college is over.” 

F. S. W. — (Raising her hands and assuming 
ecstatic expression) — “ Oh ! why do you not learn 
wax- flowers? ” 

On the heels of the cold wave comes the soothing 
announcement that the class Cry of the Yale freshmen 
is — “ Brec-a-kex-kex, coax, coax, brec-a-kex-kex, koax, 
koax, whuop, whuop, parabaloo — 92 ! ” There may 
not be much poetry about this, but it at least has the 
merit of being free from any questionable partisan 
reference to annexation. 

“ Miss Maud,” lie said, “ I have come in this even- 
ing to ask you a question, and I have brought a ring 
with me. Now, before you. try it on, I want to tell 
you that if you feel inclined to be a sister to me I 
will have to take it back, as my father objects to my 
sister’s wearing such large diamonds.” And Maud 
said she would keep the ring. 

Professor in logic. — “Does the effect invariably 
follow the cause ?” 

Student. — “Not always, sir ; sometimes it precedes 
it !” 

Prof. — “Indeed ! Can you give me an example ?” 

Student. — “Yes, sir. — A man wheeling a wheel 
barrow !” 

Professor collapses. 

Fond mother (to little girl, who has just seen 
Queen’s-McGill football match) — “Well, Dollie, what 
did you see ?” 

Dollie. — A lot of men playing pig. The sides 
face each other and put their heads down to the 
ground and grunt, and roll in the mud, and two or 
three at each side run and jump and squeel like little 
pigs, and then they all pile on top of each other. 

Query — Whether a professor in botany takes more 
pleasure in plucking flowers and classifying them in 
the summer, or in plucking students and classifying 
them in the spring? 

A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

Swell affairs — Bull frogs. 

Anhydrate — Chemical slang for dry up. 

Maritime affairs — Wedding gifts. 

A rise in colors — Blushes. 

A grave charge — Prosecution for body snatching. 

The average M.D. now has more patients than even 
Job of old. Surely the world is growing better. 

A Professor in Logic happened to be dealing with 
syllogism, when a brilliant individual remarked that 
he thought he could give a syllogism that the Pro- 
fessor could neither deny nor admit : 

“Not to be discontented with one’s position should 
be an aim of every man. To be unscrupulous is not 
to be discontented with one’s position. Therefore, 



to be unscrupulous should be the aim of every man’s 
life.” 

When first I met my Bess, her con- 
versation charmed my ear. Upon 
Our next encounter, her conver- 
sation allured my thoughts to her. 

And listening still, her conversa- 
Tion led my heart along the way ; 

Till bound by her conversation, 

My soul and her’s were blent in one. 



A DESPERATE ADVENTURE. 

In our day there was at Laval University a group 
of young men who gave much more time than they 
should have done to recreation of various kinds, and 
more or less innocent. They all lived at one end of 
the house, and nightly, in one of the rooms, under a 
cloud of smoke, story after story, mainly of successes 
in mashing, was told to hilarious hearers. Among 
those who dropped in for an occasional post-prandial 
pipe was a heavy, stolid, hard-working Frenchman 
named Marcotte, blonde of complexion, clumsy of 
movement, and innocent as a child. His imagination 
was gradually fired by the stories of love adventure, 
and one night he was absent from the convivial gather- 
ing. The next night, however, he reappeared, and 
after listening with nervous impatience to a few anec- 
dotes, broke in suddenly, with beaming smile and 
stammering speech, with the following story, which 
was received in blank amazement by the surrounding 
Lotharios. 

“ I, too, have had an adventure,” he began. “ Last 
night I was coming home, and was passing in front of 
the cathedral, when I saw a girl, oh, such a pretty 
creature ! advancing towards me. I trembled with 
emotion, and the short time that elapsed before we 
met seemed like an eternity. I managed to screw up 
my courage, and looked at her earnestly. She smiled 
— ah ! that divine smile. I also smiled ” 

“Well!” came the excited chorus from the 
wrought-up listeners. 

“ Well, if I had had time, I should have spoken to 
her.” 

Here the speaker stopped, and when the boys 
realized that the adventure ended there, a roar of 
laughter went up that shook down the plaster, while 
Marcotte, feeling that he was now as desperate a 
ruffian as any of them, went slowly to his room to 
prepare a second diabolical plot. 



For the first time in the annals of the London Uni- 
versity College, a lady is put up as candidate for a 
professorial chair. The Chair of Archaeology, vacant 
by the retirement of Sir Charles Newton, will be con- 
tested by Miss Jane Harrison, whose lectures on 
Greek art have won for her a high place among the 
lecturers of the day. This lady, a graduate of Newn- 
ham College, is recognized by scholars as holding an 
almost unique place among them for her knowledge, 
especially of the popular form of Greek art expressed 
on vase paintings. She has been several times in 
Greece, where every sort of honor has been paid to 
her by the King, by professors, and by officials. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



37 



the poet and the philosopher. 

Of love I sing too much, you say. 

I cannot help it ; I am young 
And this sweet theme in youth’s heyday 
Is ever on the mind and tongue. 

You add, I have the poet/s art 

Too much to rhyme of trivial things- — 

Do you not know it is the heart 

That gives the poet’s verse its wings ? 

Hearts vibrate to the heart alone 
And men are made so much akin 
That thoughts the loneliest heart has known 
Find echo other hearts within. 

If ever I should strive to write 
Of feelings I have never felt, 

My verse would never give delight, 

Nor other hearts to kindness melt. 

He who would win himself a name 
And rank himself among the few 
Inscribed upon the roll of fame 
Must ever to himself be true. 

Love will with flight of years abate. 

Or lift me unto nobler things ; 

But lowly be my themes or great, 

My heart must/ce£ whate’er it sings. 

I will to mine own heart be true 
In youth, maturity and age ; 

And when at last I bid adieu 
To youth, and find myself a sage, 

Of love I’ll cease to sing, and write 

The thoughts that in my heart I find, — 

But as the years pursue their flight 
I pray them leave some love behind- 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



College "lilorlb. 



For the first time in the history of Nova Scotia, a 
lady has gone before the Medical Board of Examin- 
ers, to matriculate into the profession. 

Woman suffrage seems to be conquering at Boston 
University. The chief editor of the University paper 
is a young woman, while some of the reporters are 
young men. 

The number of female medical students entered at 
Paris this term is 114, of whom 90 are Russians, 12 
French, and 8 English, with 1 American, 1 Austrian, 
1 Greek, and 1 Turk. 

The new Arts College for Women, affiliated with 
Trinity University, Toronto, was opened on the 15th 
October, in its temporary location, number 48 Euclid 
Avenue. The college is to bear the name of St. Hilda, 
who was abbess of Whitby in the 7th century, and 
took so prominent a part in the intellectual and re- 
ligious progress of her age. 

A Fredericton paper says the present freshmen class 
in the University is the smallest in attendance for 
years. Twelve students are taking the full course, and 
four others, three of whom are ladies, are in for oc- 
casional studies. It is only natural that the four years 
should in a certain degree affect the number of enter- 
ing students. And when it is considered that what 
should be the educational, as well as the commercial 
centre of the province, only sent one student, a matri- 



culating class of sixteen is not a small one. From 
what we can learn, no class of former years ever re- 
presented so wide a territory. 

Dr. Grace Walcott, and three other American 
women physicians, had lately the honour of an invi- 
tation by Prof. Billroth, of Vienna, to attend his 
private Clinic four times and witness his own opera- 
tions. The next day he took them to his private 
museum, where they saw some of the results of his 
surgical triumphs. Prof. Billroth is a renowned con- 
tinental surgeon, and a few years ago led the opposi- 
tion to the admission of women to the medical schools. 
The fact that these American women doctors were 
invited by Dr. Billroth to his own Clinic and to his 
private museum, created quite a sensation in Vienna, 
and was quoted in all the papers . — London Queen. 

Harvard College is progressive, not alone in its 
advocacy of eclectics, of the woman’s annex, of “ non- 
attendance at prayers,” and other organic modifica- 
tions, but the internal arrangements and class-room 
methods are continually advancing. In 1880 the 
professors, by the aid of the librarian, began to assist 
the pupils systematically in their reading and study. 
A professor has an alcove assigned him, under his 
name, to which his students have access at all hours 
of the day with the privilege of taking a book from 
the room over night. In this alcove are placed the 
volumes that the professor wishes his classes to study. 
In 1880, thirty -five professors reserved for their al- 
coves 3,330 books, and in 1886 fifty-six professors 
reserved 5,840 books. In 1880, 41,986 books were 
taken from these alcoves, and in 1886, 60,195 were 
taken. It is said that this simple departure has had 
a remarkable effect upon the intellectual activity and 
habits of the students. 

There is a great difference between the educational 
standards in the different states of South America, 
Chili and the Argentine Republic are the most ad- 
vanced in progress, and are doing their utmost to 
keep abreast of modern improvements. The Minister 
of Education of Chili has sent instructions to the 
Chilian representative at Berlin to take the necessary 
measures for sending the two Chilian teachers at pre- 
sent in training at the Training College at Dresden, 
to Naas, in order to follow there a course on mannal 
instruction. Another Chilian —Mr. Claudio Matte — 
has just returned to his native town, Santiago, from 
a tour through all the civilised countries in the world, 
which has extended over five years, undertaken 
entirely at his own expense in the interests of educa- 
tion, in order to study on the spot the different sys- 
tems. He has published a report of his experience 
and investigations, and has opened at Santiago an 
exhibition of the things, educational and otherwise, 
which he has collected during his peregrinations. 

Some days ago, at Cornell University, the fresh- 
men, to the number of 400, marched through the 
city giving their class yell, which the sophomores 
quickly followed, making the city ring with their cry 
of— “ Who— ’Rah— Rye— X— C— L ! ” After the 
preliminaries were arranged, the classes met in fierce 



38 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



combat in the city park. Four freshmen and an 
equal number of sophomores grasped the firm hickory 
stick, and an upper classman gave the signal to begin. 
Then followed a wild struggle, lasting nearly two 
hours. The followers of the respective classes closed 
in around the cane, dragging their opponents to the 
rear, and striving in every way to keep the strong 
men from the stick. The seniors cheered on the 
sophomores, while the juniors protected their especial 
charges, the freshmen. The dense mass of 800 
students swayed to and fro, and the air was filled 
with cries of “ On, freshmen ! ” “ Go in there, ’91 ! ” 
Clothes were torn, hats stamped under foot, and heads 
jammed together in a general mass. The cane was 
finally won by the freshmen, who immediately formed 
in line and marched through the city in triumph. 
There was no interference by the faculty or city 
police. 

One of the most interesting, and, probably, the 
worst managed of the educational endowments in 
Italy — the Asiatic College of Naples — is at length, 
by a bill laid before Parliament this session, to be 
re organised, and, it is to be hoped, placed on a sound 
footing. The history of the foundation is curious. 
In 1724, a priest of Eboli — Matteo Ripa — submitted 
to Charles VI. of Austria a project for establishing a 
college in Naples for the training of native Chinese 
who, having been taught the dogmas of Christianity, 
should be sent back to the East “ in the service of 
God and your Majesty, and to further the glorious 
enterprise of commerce with China now opened in 
Ostend.” And, inasmuch as the projected college 
would be for the commercial advantage of the empire 
no less than for the religious benefit of the heathen, 
it was suggested that the Ostend Mercantile Company 
should contribute towards its maintenance. Three 
years later the Emperor gave his consent to the 
establishment, and, besides supplementing the liberal 
endowment given by Matteo Ripa with an imperial 
grant of 800 ducats a year, ordered that the Ostend 
Mercantile Company should each year convey to and 
from China twelve students free of expense, and thus 
the first Asiatic college in Europe was established. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

Ml lakers aifl lei’s Furuisliers, 

SNOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO’Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

PTJEE 'WA.TEE. 

PERFECT -^TORE. 

:F'P£©2v!rF 5 'T , EELIVERT. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

. : . ) YQTJ JFL (== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe; stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-Address : 

30 ST. TOTTTT STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 387 St. Street, ILvHoi>tt:re.^Xj- 

— ^-Wholesale Manufacturers* — 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 

R elebrated Hof Water Heaters 

AND 

Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Furnaces 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 18 59. 

lEZEnsnEST IE3- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
(rnggctviiig ^ Pointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Orests, programmes, 
plonograms, See., See. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extr* Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. CJEHTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-He PHOTOGRAPHY #-«- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

and: chemical apparatus. 



S tfull $to6k dog^tkgtly og ^ikgd, Imported 
?)ii‘edt froig tl\e I<ekdig^ Jvlkgufkrtufef^ 
of tl\e WoHd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

• • 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

* *__*_ »*■*■*■*■*■*■* * * * * *_ ■*„ * * 

¥ Jf h otog rap hers 

dr * * *** * ****** •» * * * * * 






Jfeuc Scale of 'Prices this year 
for Siuderiis. 



THE GENUINE 

Coos’s FBiEim 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 

TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 2H & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director, 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re- finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



0, ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK. STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHKAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MOUTBE^lL. 




1850 and 1852 IT O THE DAME ST., COMTEK McCILD. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

IHH.A.HLL-IMI.A-IDIE CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

Bffi* SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. “8S* 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




