Vol. XIII 



No. 8 













120 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO.. 
Ftnanlitil 8 Dignity Cluisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTERS 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



-FOR— 

School and College Text Boots ! 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. iT AMES ST 



.UKinc.tr, won ns, kooks user ijv jirt con its/; 

SCIEJYCJB TEXT KOOKS , 

TUK FW UMOVS TKEOt. O CHCJtl, KOOKS. 




Fine Custom Tailors. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS, 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., See., 

best VALUE X V' To W IV , 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

^ James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 17th, 1890. [No. 8. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Law ’92. 

John Clark, Med. '91. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, Science ’90. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in- Chief . 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. F.W. Hibbard, B. A.. Law ’91 
S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. H. P. Yates, B.A. 

D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. ’91. 



as long as it “ fulfils the laws of its existence and 
carries out the objects for which it was incorporated.” 
Mr. Burroughs must reflect that the examining power 
was given as a test to be applied in cases where there 
might be any sort of doubt of the fitness of the can- 
didate, and not as a means of insulting and degrad- 
ing the Universities of the country whose fitness as 
teachers and examiners has been demonstrated be- 
yond all doubt. If so doing can be construed to be 
a part of the fulfilment of the laws of its existence, 
and the carrying out of the objects of its incorpora- 
tion on the part of the Bar, it must still be remem- 
bered that the Legislature has vested rights of other 
equally important bodies to recognize, and can clearly 
define within what limits the Bar shall exercise its 



Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



examining powers. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
uo exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 121-122 



Contributions - 122-125 

Poetry 125 

McGill News 126-128 

Societies - - - - - - - - 128-129 

Personals 129 

Correspondence - 129 

Exchanges 130 

Between the Lectures 130 



Editorials. 



THE B. A. BILL. 

Mr. Charles S. Burroughs, one of the two English- 
speaking lawyers who voted in favour of a resolution 
of the Bar, condemning the “ B. A.” Bill, in a letter 
to the Montreal Gazette of the 1st of February, at- 
tempts a defence of what he would style the “vested 
rights of the Bar.” Mr. Burroughs’ contention is 
that the power to examine all candidates for admission 
to study is a right conferred upon the Bar with its 
incorporation, and of which it should not be deprived 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Voluntary institutions may, in general, be said to 
lead a more or less uncertain existence. Ushered in 
with a wave of enthusiasm and upborne from time to 
time with spasmodic feelings of interest, they finally 
dwindle out of life altogether and their memory lives 
only in the reminiscences cherished by their scatter- 
ed supporters. Time, altering men and conditions, 
gives to the lives of many most worthy societies that 
measure of uncertainty, which is the great problem 
and the vexed question in the minds of all who look 
to the voluntary association of individuals as a means 
of attaining some of the higher qualities of thinking 
and progressive men. While we would be far from 
stating that the University Literary Society has 
reached that stage in its existence when it may soon be 
expected to “go out” altogether, yet the present ex- 
perience that the Society is undergoing well warrants 
the uneasiness that exists in the minds of its well 
wishers, as to how long, with its present support, it 
may be able to protract its being. The Society has a 
noble record, and among its list of past officers and 
members are to be found the names of men foremost 
in the walks of life : careful discussions have taken 
place by the hundred under its auspices, and the ma- 
jority of leading questions of the past and present 
have received no little light from the deliberations of 
its members. Papers, often masterly and deeply 
thought out, have investigated many a social problem, 



122 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890 .] 



while the range of thought, power of expression and 
of self-conti ol that it has engendered into the mental 
training of the many participants in the labour of its 
sphere, are gratefully recalled by numbers who have 
tested the usefulness of these high qualities.- We are 
loath to believe that in the face of these really great 
achievements and the field of usefulness that yet lies 
before it, this society will pass out of its life and 
work, but so it must be unless a rally be made to its 
support. Our appeal would not be simply for the 
sake of preserving the existence of a society that once 
was great : we urge its claims only in view of the 
good that may be accomplished to the individual 
benefit of its supporters. Time and space do not 
permit us to dwell on the acquirements that may be 
learned and fostered within its patronage, but it can- 
not be out of place to note the lack of opportunity in 
our City and University for the cultivation of the 
eminently useful and befitting faculty of expression. 
Words are the order of the day, and in vastly too 
many instances words only will be found : surely 
now is not the time to lose the opportunity to culti- 
vate thought and expression in one. Older members 
of the Society are now giving it its greatest measure 
of support : newer and younger life and energy are 
necessary to its continuance, and in the light of its 
own advantage we trust that younger life and energy 
will find its way to meet the necessity. 



Contributions. 

EDUCATIONAL WORK IN JAPAN. 

In the attainment of our modern civilization are 
involved many centuries of patient toil. In this 
article we consider one phase in the development of 
a nation which, while yet comparatively barbarian, 
incorporated into its national life the acquirements of 
the most highly cultured countries. To better under- 
stand Educational Work in Japan, we briefly review 
some of the characteristics of its people. 

. Unlike their neighbors, the Chinese, they are not 
hindered by a false national pride from learning of 
their superiors. Upon the opening of their doors to 
commerce and to Christianity, students, either of their 
own accord or by governmental appointment, sought 
among the nations of the West, the Arts and Sciences 
of a higher civilization. Yet the element of originality 
is not wanting, for they nearly always improve on 
what they borrow. Of this their Materia Medica, 
taken from China, is a good illustration. Their 
future religion may come from Christian lancfs, but 
an united church is the idea of the Japanese. 

I hen, again, as a people they are exceedingly ea^er 
to learn. Apropos of this, we may mention an In- 
cident which occurred during the visit of Lord Ebdn 
The question arising as to what tongue should be made 



the medium of diplomacy, one of the commissioners 
remarked : “Oh, you had better make English the 
official language. There is no telling how long it 
will be before you’ll be able to write a despatch in 
Japanese ; but give us five years and we shall be quite 
competent to correspond with you in English.” 

Further we notice that the position occupied by 
children is almost the reverse of that held by them in 
our own land. Parents will do anything reasonable, 
if it will add to their pleasure. Travellers tell us that 
the men make a practice of submitting their quarrels to 
their . decision. Japanese mothers are especially 
remarkable for the care and minuteness with which 
they supply their intellectual wants. “ Even the 
children of our own race are not better instructed in 
the literature and history of their native land.” 
Having noticed briefly a few characteristics of the 
people, we pass on to the consideration of their educa- 
tional system. The revolution of 1866 may be fitly 
taken as the grand turning point in Japanese history. 
Then was ended the dual government of the spiritual 
and the temporal emperors. Without unnecessary 
digression, it maybe said that practically the temporal 
emperor stood in about the same relation to the 
spiritual (so-called because of his mythical descent 
from the gods) as the Mayors of the Palace to the last of 
the Mewvingian kings. The rebellion resulted in the 
restoration of the spiritual emperor, the Mikado, and 
the downfall of superstition, ignorance, and despotism. 
Since then the growth of the country 7 has been mar- 
vellous. As soon as the business incurred by the 
restoration would allow, the Mikado commenced a 
vigorous policy for the enlightenment of the people 
and the development of the national resources. The 
new educational sy r stem was planned in 1873 by an 
ordinance which divided the empire into seven school 
districts, giving one school to every 7 600 inhabitants. 

It is based upon elementary schools, and ascends 
through Middle and Normal to Foreign language 
schools and colleges for special sciences. The educa 
tional reports for 1877 give 25,450 elementary schools 
with twice as many teachers, and over 2,000,000 
scholars, three-fourths of whom are boys. The cost of 
tuition in these establishments is fixed at a rate within 
the means of the poorest classes. In the most remote 
villages, the sclioolhouse is now the most conspicuous 
building. In these schools the older pupils are taught 
the Chinese characters, also Geography andAritlimetic. 

A peculiar feature of their training, and one which 
is becoming very popular, is the giving of object 
ess on s to the younger pupils. A great craze exists 
o\t i t e English language, and Homan characters are 
fast coming into use. The text books are chiefly 
oreign, and frequently imperfectly translated. In 
le^e Elementary schools a teacher’s salaiy 7 averages 
only about 50 dollars a year; but it must, be ie- 
membered that the cost of living is comparatively very 

In order to understand the work done in these 
schools, a brief enquiry into the nature of the lan- 
guage is necessary. Tradition attributes the introduc- 
tion of written characters, among other sources to the 
Coreans, during the 2nd century B. C. While the 
Chinese is monosyllabic, the Japanese language is 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



123 



polysyllabic, the words often being of great length ; 
yet in the latter they are exceedingly musical, where- 
as in the former, they are harsh, guttural and far more 
difficult to learn. The written differs so widely from 
the spoken language that one, who has acquired con- 
siderable proficiency in speech, may be unable to peruse 
the daily papers, and vice versa. The number of 
written characters in common use is enormous, and 
forms a serious obstacle to the acquirement of an edu- 
cation. At the lowest estimate a school boy is 
required to learn 1000, while 12,000 or 13,000 must be 
committed to memory before a young Japanese can 
begin the pursuit of science. This requires at least 
1 0 years of persistent effort. If he wishes to become 
a man of great learning the number must be increased 
to tens of thousands. 

Any account of education in Japan would be very 
incomplete without mention of Tokio University, 
which represents the culmination of the educational 
institutions established by the Government. Although 
founded in 1856 by Imperial ordinance, its origin 
dates back as early as the commencement of the 18th 
century, when a certain learned man was sent abroad 
to investigate the condition of Holland and Rome. 
As a result of this and subsequent enquiries, observa- 
tories were erected. The study of Astronomy was 
followed by the introduction of Mathematics, Botany 
and Chemistry. The first foreign instructor was 
employed in 1866. Owing to the trading monopoly 
which Holland then enjoyed with Japan, the Dutch 
language was introduced. Afterwards the English, 
French, German and Russian languages were taught, 
but at present instruction is given mainly in English. 
Tokio University, as now constituted, embraces five 
departments, viz : — Literature, Science, Medicine, Law 
and Engineering. Each course extends over 3 years, 
except Medicine, which has an additional year. In 
nearly every department there are elective courses, in 
Science as many as six. The college curriculum is 
modelled after those of Western countries, the inten- 
tion being to make the course equivalent to those 
prescribed by our own universities. Everywhere 
English Law, History, and Philosophy, especially the 
former two, occupy the foremost position. To show 
the nature of the work done in the University, permit 
me to quote the course laid down for the senior year 
in philosophy. The first three works are text books, 
the others are used as references : — 

Descartes’ Discourse on Method and Meditation. 

Spinoza’s Works. 

Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason. 

Caird’s Philosophy of Kant. 

Mahaffy on the Critique. 

Hume’s Treatise on Human Nature. 

Reid on the Human Mind. 

Wallace’s Logic of Hegel. 

Lewes's History of Philosophy. 

Ueberweg’s History of Philosophy. 

Mill’s Examination of Sir Wni. Hamilton’s Philosophy. 

Under such a training it is not surprising that 
foreign teachers are rapidly giving place to native, 
whoso mental acumen is of the highest order. The 
system of training seems to be much the same as that 
given in our own colleges. The standing of each 
student is determined, not by sessional examinations 



alone, but his daily recitations are taken into con- 
sideration. If a student fails in a single examina- 
tion he loses his year, if he fails the second time he 
is peremptorily dismissed from the University. 

As yet, Tokio has not had time to graduate many 
students. The number upon the College roll is, how- 
ever, very promising, something over 1,700, including 
those at the preparatory school. One very noticeable 
feature in the report of the institution, and one which 
could be worthily imitated by some of our own Uni- 
versities, is the careful attention paid to the welfare 
and comfort of the students. Leaving out of con- 
sideration the large number of exhibitions and 
scholarships, we notice a system by which students, 
proficient in scholastic attainments and of good moral 
character, unable to meet their College expenses out 
of their own private means, may receive a loan 
scholarship of 85 yen per annum, to be paid back, 
after their graduation, in instalments, extending 
through the same length of time as that in which the 
debt was contracted, interest at 6 per cent. Again, 
dormitories are provided for undergraduates, also a 
boat-house, teacher in swimming, recreation grounds 
with all gymnastic requisites, rooms for indoor sports, 
rooms for scientific, literary, and musical meetings, 
reading-roofti, etc. Connected with the University 
there are a library of 180,000 volumes, laboratories, 
museum, apparatus rooms, meteorological and astro- 
nomical observatories, and botanical gardens. The 
University of Tokio is directly supported by the 
Government, which, within a very few years, has 
expended over twenty-one million dollars on educa- 
tion alone. 

Not only are there these Colleges for professional 
students, but the training of the farming class is also 
made a specialty. Sappors boasts an Agricultural 
College with eleven professors, giving instruction in 
Agriculture, Botany, Physiology, Comparative Ana- 
tomy, Agricultural Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, 
Civil Engineering, Entomology, and Chinese. The 
number of graduates averages about 20 yearly. 

There is a strong call for teachers in nearly all the 
Governmental schools. They are not able to give 
large salaries, but a moderate living is obtainable. 
Here is a splendid opportunity for Christian workers 
to do good service for Christ. 

• Although thus far no particular reference has been 
made to the education of woman, it must not be 
inferred that she is neglected. Among no other 
Asiatic people is she allowed more freedom, or held 
in greater respect. Their chief mythological deity is 
a woman, .as also have been nine of their sovereigns. 
In the records of history, poetry, and philosophy, in 
the examples of fortitude, affliction, and martyrdom, 
members of the gentler sex rank amongst the most 
illustrious. The daughters of the higher classes re- 
ceive their elementary training from private govern- 
esses, and about two centuries ago private schools, for 
the poorer girls, were established throughout the 
country. After this elementary training comes the 
study of certain books, constituting the Bunko, or 
library, specially adapted for the use of Japanese 
women. Among the various subjects on which it 
treats are — household lore, rules and examples to 



124 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



secure perfect liarmony between husband and wife, 
filial obedience, etc. Having committed these to 
memory, they take great delight in reciting them to 
the members ot the domestic circle. Schools of a 
high grade have now been established for women, 
ihe chief obstacles to the social and intellectual ad- 
vancement of Japanese women may be stated as fol- 
lows : — (1) Enslaving theological tenets as, for ex- 
ample, the doctrine of Buddhism, which refuses them 
a soul; (2) Popular superstitions, which make them 
scapegoats lor sinning men ; (3) Polygamy and filial 
obedience. This latter demand, which is of the 
most absolute kind, among a people whose great sin 
is licentiousness, works the physical and moral ruin 
of thousands of bright young girls ; (4 ) The influence 
ot Chinese classics, which brings them down to the 
level ot mere brutes. The equality of man and 
woman would subvert society and destroy the nation ; 
it would be, as they graphically express it, “as if a 
hen were to crow in the morning.” It is gratifying 
to observe that this state of affairs is rapidly improv- 
ing. In many educational institutions the boys are 
taught to give precedence to the girls. 

V e come now to consider the schools and colleges 
" Bidi missionary eflort has established throughout 
Japan. Among the latter is the Doshishtf, one of the 
largest Christian Colleges in Asia. Here over 700 
students are in attendance, of whom one-half are 
members ot the College Church. In the Christianiz- 
ing ot Japan it has rendered invaluable assistance, 
and its literary and religious standing has gained for 
it a national reputation. Besides this, the Missions 
report fifteen boarding schools for boys, thirty-nine 
lor girls, and forty-seven day schools for both sexes 
with an aggregate attendance of over ten thousand. 
Of course the influence of these schools in secular 
education is comparatively small, the other schools 
being so much the more numerous and receiving lib- 
eral support from the Government. Their special 
object, therefore, is the organization of a select bodv 
ot Japanese men and women, who will not only be 
equipped with all the culture of the West, but who 
will also be thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the 
Christian religion, ihe primary motive which brings 
most ot the students to these institutions is the "Teat 
iacilities offered for acquiring a knowledge of the 
English language. Thus far they have been almost 
entirely under foreign management ; in fact, all mis- 
sionaries m the interior have been obliged to teach 
m order to get a permit of residence. As a treaty 
j a * Uow b een framed which does away with this 
difficulty, native teachers will be much more exten- 
sively employed. As a rule these latter are quite as 
efficient as foreigners in the class room. 

Ihus far we have considered two great school sys- 
tems, the Governmental and the Missionary. One 
yet remains. In order to counteract the efforts of 
G iristianity, Buddhism, in these last days, is puttin'' 
forth all its energies. While in 1714 there were 
nearly 400,000 temples in Japan, to-day there are 
less than 60,000. This ominous falling away is at- 
tributed by devout Buddhists to the superior Educa- 
tion of their opponents. Possessed with this idea 
they are erecting costly schools and colleges through- 



out the land for the training of their priests, and 
copying generally the methods and policy of the 
Christian church. But believers in Buddhism, or in 
Shintoism behold the tenets of their faith crumble in- 
to dust before the investigations of modern science. 
Western philosophy is an agent quite as powerful as 
Christianity, in the destruction of their doctrines, 
though its ultimate result is frequently different. In 
the Governmental schools and colleges the teachings 
of men like Spencer, Huxley, and Mill not only 
undermine their religious faith, but make them ag- 
nostics. 

, Education of some kind the people are determined 
to have. Even now they can nearly all read and 
write ; and whereas thirty years ago there was not a 
single newspaper in the Empire, to-day there are 
more than in Spain and Russia combined. Almost 
evei\ thm Q is going to depend upon the kind 
of education they receive. Shall it be Christian, or 
Agnostic, or Infidel? The Japanese are frequently 
told that the Gospel is losing its hold upon civil- 
ized nations. The prevalent philosophy is that of the 
i sceptical school, while infidel writings are widely 
disseminated among the people. 

Ihe great need of Japan, then, is not so much 
foreign missionaries, for the native are quite as cap- 
able and much more efficient, but rather talented lec- 
turers and professors who can show the grand har- 
mony existing between the results of scientific inves- 
tigation and the statements of Revelation. “The 
Light ot Asia says a Japanese student “ is fading 
and waning ; but while it is at its sunset, the Light of 
the World is rising on that Island Empire.” 

Winfred. 



A SEQUEL. 

One hot morning last summer I was aroused from 
the unwonted luxury of a reverie by a peremptory 
ring at the door bell. I heard the maid’s quick little 
step up from the basement, the opening door, and then 
her voice raised as if in altercation. This same maid 
usually despatches agents or vendors with more speed 
than courtesy ; so I was a little surprised when, after 

a moment, she appeared with a small yellow pamphlet 
in her hand. 



xj j " — . x ctolVCU, 

“ Please, there's a poor man at the door, and he 
wants to know if you will buy his book, only ten 
cents, was the answer. J 

• n ?,’ * 1 cai !’ t > h ere > let me see the thing,” I said 

impatiently trying hard to cover up a certain tender 
spot in my heart for the poor creatures who toil up 
steps after steps pull bell after bell, only to meet 
with gruff refusals. J 

I looked at the little pamphlet. It seemed at first 
hke an almanac or an advertisement recipe book. 

Notre Ham 6 J™ ° U the cover > J - G - Jefferson, 
Notie Dame de Grace, attracted my notice, brin^in" 

y c Ztl ° T d " Certain cohl ™ of the University 
tion w^fb W t hei6 a Similar name flourished in connec- 
ted I eiJ ‘T usiu S letters received by the 

Medical and lady students, respectively, askin'* for 
oiigmal contributions towards a volume to be°pub- 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



125 



1890.] 



lished shortly, about McGill, and olfering a percentage 
of the profits realized thereby. So I gave the required 
amount, and, retaining my purchase, glanced through 
its pages with some little curiosity. I may say here 
that it was my full intention to preserve it for The 
Gazette’s future delectation. But in a day or two 
it mysteriously disappeared ; and from the fact that a 
certain member of the family invariably pounces upon 
and consigns to the flames any literature of a ques- 
tionable character, its fate can be conjectured. 

And now there only remains to tell the little I can 
recall of its contents. The title has escaped my mem- 
ory. On the first page was a rough sketch of a young 
lady, with a fishing rod on which was suspended a 
very diminutive and dude-like man. “This young 
lady” said the text “is fishing for a husband.” Then 
followed a dissertation on the best kind of bait to use 
in such a case as that represented in the picture. 
Another item alluded to the share McGill had taken 
in the carnival drive, describing the different cars, 
and jokingly referring to the two caged up lady 
students of Arts. 

But worst of all was the article devoted to the 
Women Medical question. Its tone was something 
in this style : “ How nice it will be for the dear 
sweet lady students when they are doctors, for then 
they will be able to care lor their loving husbands 
when they are sick and make them well again ; ” 
(after they had been “hooked” I suppose.) A 
number of short poems, reprints from magazines, some 
religious, some comic, were scattered through the 
volume. A short biographical notice stated the 
author to be a deaf mute and to have lost all his 
worldly possessions in a journey from the Pacific 
Coast. This, together with my extreme wrath that 
the name of McGill should be even mentioned in such 
a connection, is all 1 can remember. 

Dactyl. 



CHARLIE’S COURTSHIP. 

Charles Cecil Campbell, commonly called Charlie, 
courted Clarissa Colman. Charlie cultivated cabbages, 
cucumbers, currants, common-sense, Clarissa’s com 
pany. Clarissa churned, cooked cranberry -cakes, 
concocted curious confectionery. Clarissa’s cranberry- 
cake cooking capabilities captivated Charlie. Charlie 
called continually, composed cunningly contrived 
complimentary carols, carried Clarissa carraway 
candy. Charlie's constant calls compelled Clarissa’s 
candid consideration. Can Charlie contemplate 
connubial co-partnership 1 cogitated Clarissa. Charlies 
conduct confirmed Clarissa’s conjectures. Certain 
circumstances conspiring, Clarissa caught cold , 
Charlie, combining common-sense cum consolation, 
conveyed Clarissa cabbages, camphor, chocolate 
comfits, castor-oil, condolences. Clarissas complaint, 
consequently, ceased completely. Convalescent, 
Clarissa’s charming conversation completed Charlie’s 
capture. Contemning cool contiguous converse, 
Charlie came. closer, confidently calculating conquest. 
Caressing Clarissa’s cherry cheek, Charlie commenced : 
“Constant companionship creates — ” Confusion 
commencing, Charlie’s courage collapsed. “Certainly,” 



commented Clarissa, calmly. Charlie continued 
crestfallen. “Chirk-up, Charlie,” consolingly. Charlie 
chirked, cheerfully complying. Comparing comfort- 
less celibacy, Charlie contrasted continual conjugal 
concord, constraining Clarissa’s compassion. Clarissa 
changed color. Cherishing confidence, Charlie con- 
tinued : “ Come, Clarissa, consent.” Coyly comply- 
ing, Clarissa consented. Cupid’s ceremony completed 
Charlie’s courtship. Curtain. 

JoHLE JOHKR. 



Poetry. 



[For “The Gazette. ”] 

THREE STAGES. 

1. Hochelaga. 

Guarded by forest shades, 

Down where the river, flowing, 

Laps the rude palisades, 

Savages wild are going 
Out on their midnight raids, 

Glare from the camp-fire showing 
War paint and long black braids. 

2. Ville Marie. 

Heroes of New France, knowing 
New France mothers and maids 
Freedom and life are owing 
To the strength of their blades. 

Fight for their country, throwing 
Fear to the winds ; nor fades 
Ever their prowess glowing. 

3. Montreal. 

Fair city, swift decades 
O’er thee have passed, bestowing 
Commerce and wealth and trades : 

Flowers round thy guns are growing, 

And Royal Mount, thy glades, 

Where the tall pines are blowing, 

Peacefulness now pervades. 

B. 



A MOSAIC. 

In tempus old a hero lived, 

Qui loved puellas deux ; 

He ne pouvait pas quite to say, 

Which une amabat mieux. 

Dit-il lui-meme un beat* matin, 

“ Non possum both avoir, 

Sed si address Amanda Ann, 

There Kate and I have war. 

Amanda habet argent coin, 

Sed Kate has aureas curls ; 

Et both sunt very, agathai 
Et quite formosae girls ! ” 

Enflu.the youthful anthropos, 

Philoun the duas maids. 

Resolved proponere to Kate, 

Avant cet evening’s shades. 

Procedens then ad Kate’s domum, 

II trouve Amanda there, 

Kai quite forgot his late resolves, 

Both sunt so goodly fair. 

Sed smiling, on the new tapis. 
Between puellas twain, 

Coepit to tell his flame to Kate, 

Dans un poetique strain. 

Mais, glancing ever and anon. 

At fair Amanda’s eyes, 

Illao non possunt dicere 
Pro which he means his sighs. 

Each virgo heard the deini-vow, 

With cheeks as rouge as wine ; 

And offering each a milk-white hand, 
Both whispered— “ Ich bin dein.” 



126 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



RflciBill News. 



Dr. Roddick has returned to his old familiar post 
at the Hospital. 

On Saturday evening, Dr. Stewart lectured on 
“ Inebriation” before the Medical Society. 

W. S. Morrow, Medicine, ’91, was elected by his 
class as representative on the Athletic Committee. 

Choice selections from Fourd et al may he had in 
any variety of manuscript. Apply, Lav Faculty. 

The members of the graduating class in Arts re- 
cently spent a very enjoyable evening at the resi- 
dence of Prof. Murray. 

Professor McGoun has instituted a practical course 
in pleadings. This is a most commendable move, 
and must prove of great advantage to students going 
to the Bar. 

Owing to the severe and continued illness of his 
wife, Dr. Fenwick is unable, for the present, to meet 
the class in Systematic Surgery. Beginning from 
last Monday, Dr. Roddick will, temporarily, fill his 
place. 

The Primary years were advised, the other day, 
to do any treadmilling they had to do — down at 
Payette’s boarding-house. Tramp ! Tramp ! Tramp ! 
Tramp ! ! ! Why will men insist on coming into 
lectures late 1 

The patronage which the Library is receiving is 
continually on the increase. It is not uncommon to 
see 50 or 60 people in the Library at a time, and the 
Librarian, who has the wonderful faculty of always 
knowing what one wants better than they know them- 
selves, finds enough to do to answer the shower of 
inquiries which are being heaped upon him. 

A meeting of the students of Medicine was held 
on Thursday morning, to consider a statement from 
the Dinner Committee, to the effect that it would be 
“advisable for that Faculty to send a representative.” 
There was a general impression that none should be 
sent, as a proper invitation had not been received ; 
and one of the students took occasion to protest against 
the reunion being called a University dinner, as only 
some of the elements were represented, and he 
thought it misleading to advertise it as such. It was 
stated that the benefactors of the University would 
be unfavourably impressed if the Faculty of Medicine 
was not represented, and though it was decided to 
send no representative, it was agreed that if any 
member of the Faculty chose to attend there would be 
no objection to his responding to such sentiments as 
might be offered. It was known that Evans, ’90, 
would be present, and it was expected that the pro- 
spective duty would fall upon him, than whom no 
better man could he chosen. 

From a recent lecture on “ The Aim and Nature of 
Education,” delivered by Dr. S. P. Robins in the 
lecture theatre of the Redpath Museum, we select the 
following as being of interest to those who are striv- 
ing for a perfect education : — 



Let me indulge for a moment in a flight of fancy. 
Let me picture to you the finished product of a per- 
fect education. I shall not refer to girls. Only the 
delicate hand of a lady could rightly portray “the sweet 
girl graduate ” of an ideal “ Donalda Department.” 1 
shall not suppose that our ideal pupil has extraordin- 
ary powers ; hut I shall suppose that they have been 
sedulously cultivated. He is in full health. It is 
for him a joy to live. He drinks in pleasure with 
every exercise of his physical and mental powers. 
His muscles are under complete control. His car- 
ria e and movement are prompt, graceful, agile, cer- 
tain. His hands use with precision the pen, the 
pencil, and so many other tools as ensure his ability 
to learn the use of any tool. Having learned the 
right use of his senses, he takes rapid, accurate, com- 
prehensive note of objects and of phenomena. He 
observes in detail, he analyzes in an orderly way, he 
sets parts in their right relations to one another and 
to the whole, he understands, he judges, he remarks 
similarities, he classifies, he generalizes, he reasons. He 
remembers, that is, he makes provision for recollecting; 
having wisely selected that which he will remember, 
he links it to life and experience by many direct and 
indirect associations, so that what he knows is ready 
for use in the emergencies of life. He is imaginative ; 
he rearranges into new forms the elementary concep- 
tions stored in his mind. He is a creator of new 
forms ; but his new conceptions are not fantastic, in- 
coherent, fragmentary. They are coherent, integral, 
shapely, such as can be transferred to other minds, 
or embodied in the material world. He knows and 
uses language well, whether spoken or written. He 
has a large vocabu ary ; he has learned the names of 
many things, actions, abstractions, relations, each call- 
ing up a vivid and distinct idea. Words well used de- 
light him. Each word suggests its own exact concep- 
tion, whether of thing or of relation ; each conception 
as it is evoked he rightly marshals with those that have 
preceded it, so that finally the whole thought of the 
speaker or writer is accurately, fully, and consistently 
reproduced in his own mind. So, reciprocally, he 
employs language deftly to depict his own 
thought ; his mind is orderly, his conception clear 
and vivid, and he has acquired the faculty of clear, 
picturesque, and powerful utterance. All the con- 
ventions of speech and of writing he knows, so that 
nothing in the form of his expression contravenes 
established usage or shocks the cultivated taste of 
hearer or reader. 

Highest in importance it is that our ideal pupil 
should be cultivated in the minor graces and in the 
major verses. He should he practiced in the exercise 
ot social amenities, should have a courteous address, a 
self-possessed manner, neither forward nor shy, a frank 
speech, an open and pleasant glance. Ho should be 
calm, self governed, truthful, generous, a champion 
ot the weak, a succourer of the needy. He should be 
pure in thought, brave in spirit, bold and prompt in 
action ; afraid ot nothing but wrong, a scorner of 
nothing but meanness. Yes ! our ideal should be an 
admirable Crichton in cultivaton, a Milton in cultuie, 

a knightly Bayard in morals, sans peur et sans re- 
proche. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



127 



THE LIBRARY. 

^ By a donation of 143 volumes from the McGill 
College Book Club, the Library has recently been 
enriched. It is an important addition, as the books 
are very interesting and valuable. We append a list 
of them : — 

BIOGRAPHY, MEMOIRS, &c. 

Life of General Napier. 

“ Frank Buckland. 

“ Bishop Hannington. 

“ The Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. 

“ Goethe. 

“ Annie Gilchrist. 

“ Queen Victoria. By G. B. Smith. 

“ “ By T. G. Ball. 

“ Lord Lyndhurst. 

“ Samuel Morley. 

“ Lord Lytton. 

“ Marlborough. 

“ Charles Darwin. 

“ Princess Alice. 

“ A. Vambery. 

“ Percy B. Shelley. By E. Dowden. 2 vols. 

The Real Shelley. By J. C. Jeaffrison. 2 vols. 

What I Remember. By T. A. Trollope. 

Lives of Greek Statesmen. By G. W. Cox. 

Recollections of De Quincy. 

Letters of General Gordon to his Sister. 

“ George Sand. 3 vols. 

“ Charles Lamb. 2 vols. 

Life and Correspondence of Louis Agassiz. 2 vols. 

Memoirs of General Grant. 2 vols. 

Lady Hamilton and Lord Nelson. 2 vols. 

Greville’s Journal in the Reign of Queen Victoria. 3 vols. 
Memoirs of Count Horace De Viel Castel. 2 vols. 

Memorials of the House of Alexander. 2 vols. 

“ James Hogg. 

Lord Beaconsfield’s Correspondence with his Sister. 

Don John of Austria. By Sir W. Stirling Maxwell. 2 vols. 
John De Witt. By M. A. L. Pontalis. 2 vols. 

Letters and Journals of W. Stanley Jevons. 

Record of Ellen Watson. By Anna Buckland. 

Jacob Bolhme ; his Life and Teaching. By Dr. Martensen. 
Life and Work of Syed Ahmed Khan. 

HISTORY. 

History of England. By Spencer Walpole. 5 vols. 

“ Portugal. By E. McMurdo. 

“ Burma. By Sir A. P. Phayre. 

Decisive Battles since Waterloo. 

Eventful Nights in Bible History. 

The Unpopular King ; the Life and Times of Richard III. 
2 vols. 

The Burmese Empire. By Tandy. 

The Conflict of the East and West. 

INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE SERIES. 

Earthquakes. By J. Milne. 

British Discomycetes. By W. Phillips. 

International Law. By Leone Levi. 

Weather. By R. Abercromby. 

Anthropoid Apes. By R. Hartmann. 

Physical Expression. By F. Warner. 

LECTURES AND ESSAYS. 

Hibbert Lectures. 1886 and 1887. 2 vols. 

History of Iuteqiretation. “ Bampton Lectures.” 1885. 
Matthew Arnold’s Discourses in America. 

Scientific Theism. By Francis K. Abbot. 

The Destiny of Man. By John Fiske. 

NATURAL HISTORY. 

Bird Ways. By 0. T. Miller. 

The House Sparrow. By . Gurney. 

A Naturalist’s Rambles about Home. 



SPORTS, &c. 

The Badminton Library — Hunting and Fishing. 3 vols. 
Chronicle of the Coach. 

Field Sports of the North of Europe. 

Reminiscences of the Turf. 

Days and Nights of Salmon Fishing. 

Sports and Anecdotes. 

Patroclus and Penelope- -a Chat in the Saddle. 

TRAVELS, &c. 

From Korti to Khartum. By Sir C. Wilson. 

Three Years of Arctic Service. By . Greely. 2 vols. 
Tent Life in Palestine.' 2 vols. 

Como and the Italian Lake Land. 

Travels and Researches in Japan. By J. J. Rein. 

Russian Central Asia. By Henry Lansdell. 2 vols. 

The New Paris Sketch Book. 

An Inglorious Columbus. By E. P. Vining. 

The Highlands of Cantabria. 

Persia and the Persians. By S. G. W. Benjamin. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

A Clerical Symposium— Inspiration, The Atonement, Im- 
mortality. 3 vols. 

Canada and the States. By Sir E. W. Watkin. 

Country Life in Canada Fifty Years Ago. 

The York Mystery Plays. By Lucy Toulmin Smith. 

The Fleet— its River, Prison, and Marriages 
Shakespeare’s Female Characters. By Lady Martin. 
Geology. By Joseph Prestwick. Vol. 2. 

Renaissance in Italy. By J. A. Symonds. Vols. 6 and 7. 
The Story of the Heavens. By Robert S. Ball. 

Pottery and the Precious Metals. By H. B. Wheatley. 
Owens College ; its Foundation and Growth. 

Triumphant I emocracy. By A. Carnegie. 

The Buntling Ball. 

Classical and Foreign Quotations. By W. F. H. King. 

The Silent South. By G. W. Cable 
Ecclesiastical Institutions. By Herbert Spencer. 

Wealth and Welfare— our National 'trade Policy. 

Justice and Police. By F. W. Maitland 
Life and Labor. By Samuel Smiles. 

England’s Case against Home Rule. By A. V. Dicey. 

The Happy Prince. By Oscar Wilde. 

Pearls and Pearling Life. By E. W. Streeter. 

English Satire and Caricature on Napoleon I. 2 vols. 
Modern Ships of War. By Reed and Simpson. 

The Occult World. By A. P. Serinett. 2 vols. 

Five Years of Theosophy. 

Four Centuries of Silence. By R. A. Bedford. 

Philosophy of Theism. By Borden P. Bowne. 

Memoir of Fleeming Jenkin. By R. L. Stevenson. 
Scientific Meliorism. By Jane H. Clapperton. 

The Light of Asia and the Light of the World. 

Confessions of v a Young Man. 

About Money and Other Things. By Miss Mulock. 

Labor, Land, and Law. By W. H. Phillips. 

History of Sunday Legislation. By A. H. Lewis. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Two shares in The University Gazette have been 
bought for the Donalda department, in the name of 
Miss L. G. Smith, elected shareholder at a meeting of 
lady students, held Jan. 28th. Of these shares one 
was kindly donated by Mrs. Reid, and one was bought 
by the students themselves. 

Festivities are the order of the day. 

On Saturday afternoon, Feb. 1st, an “At Home” 
was given by Mrs. Finley, and on Saturday evening 
a pleasant little reunion of members of the graduat- 
ing class took place at Mrs. Murray’s. The kind 
hospitality of both ladies was much appreciated. 



128 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The University dinner, also, is on the tapis, and at 
meetings held Jan. 28th and Feb. 7th, has been dis- 
cussed with much energy. 

The second year Donaldas lately held a grand 
“ Sophomorial jollification”, in the Heading liooin. 
The doors were mysteriously closed, and a rigid sur- 
veillance excluded even “ press representatives,” but 
a member of the class has furnished the following 
report of proceedings : — 

The. 7th Feb., 1890, will always be a pleasant 
memory to the Arts, ’92 (ladies). During the morn- 
ing members of the class might have been seen com- 
ing laboriously up the avenue laden with mysterious 
looking parcels. At about a quarter to one o’olock 
the doors of the “ Ladies’ Reading Room” were thrown 
open by the committee, and revealed to view a table 
which groaned, or at least ought to have groaned, 
under its good cheer. A merrier party was never 
seen than that which graced this festive board. 

The menu and toast cards were very tastefully 
arranged, and were tied with the class colours (navy- 
blue and white). 

The toasts were — 

“ Donalda Class of ’92,” 

“ Whence is thy learning had by toil 
O’er hooks consumed the midnight oil,” 

proposed by Miss Tatley, and most gracefully re- 
sponded to by Miss Leach, who spoke in glowing 
terms of the wit and learning, and also of the mirth- 
fulness of her class-mates. The present second year 
has always been noted for its union, and Miss Leach’s 
speech did much to strengthen this feeling. 

“The Societies,” 

“ Mixed reason with pleasure and wisdom with mirth,” 
proposed by Miss Ross, and quite eloquently re- 
sponded to by Miss MacDonald. 

“ The New Gymnasium,” 

“ Mens sana in corpore sano.” 

Miss Raynes, in proposing this toast, hoped that in 
future years all who donned the cap and gown would 
also don the black and scarlet. The response was 
made by Miss K. M. Campbell. 

After two or three songs had been sung, the party 
rose to the strains of the “ National Anthem,” and 
adjourned to the second year class-room. Here an 
airier programme was about to follow, when cruel 
Fate, in the form of the two o’clock bell, gave a 
gentle warning that such things as lectures must be. 

R. F. C. 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

“ Give a woman her head, and you don’t know 
where she’ll land you.” 

(Ext. “ Didactic Lectures.”) 
* 

2k Jk 

The outcry of the professors against the Didactic 
Lectures would cease, if all such lectures took the 
form of magnificent demonstrations such as, for in 
stance, the lectures of the professors of Anatomy and 
Obstetrics. 



[ 1890 . 



It would be a nice idea, if the incoming and out 
going Final years would organize a “ farewell con- 
versazione” at the close of the session. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Macdonnell alluded feelingly, on Friday, to 
the death of Miss Mary, of Ward 11, saying that we 
might well consider her loss as personal to each of 
us. 

* 

* * 

The side lights of the Asst. Eye Surgeon have 
undergone a slight extension, and with them his 
naturally keen sense of personal and professional 
dignity. 

* 

* * 

Dr. R. L. is pretty close on to the heels of his 
Clinical clerks, and Mac. got it for omitting his Sun- 
day morning calls. Patients will, perversely, fall 
sick on Sundays. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Claude Wheeler is reported as taking up the 
leading role of his company, on an emergency, and 
receiving lavish praise from both audience and press 
for his clever acting. 

* 

* * 

One dollar a month from one hundred men, would 
rent and keep up a pretty nice Club House, say on a 
side street, such as Burnside. Let the 1st, 2nd, and 
3rd years consider this idea. 

2k * 

How would it do for the Directors to supply 
volumes of The University Gazette of former 
years to the Reading Room ? The R. R. Committee 
would pay for the binding. 

* * 

Why does not some Arts man, some Science man, 
some Law man, and some Theolog. man, carry a slip 
of paper in his vest pocket, jot down little incidents 
and ideas that crop up during the week, and give 
half an hour on Sunday afternoon to writing them 
out for The Gazette 1 He does not need to be on 
The Gazette staff. 

“ Nix Forstay.” 



LIBRARY. 

GENERAL STATISTICS FOR 1889. 

Readers 7,100. 

Visitors 243. 

Books read 3,375. 

Books lent 3,188. 

Books bound 194. 

Total volumes in library 28,494. 

Increase for 1889 692. 



Societies. 

UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of this Society was held on the 
evening of January 31st, the President in the chair. 
An essay was read by S. Moore on “Language, 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



129 



its origin and development;” and Donahue gave a 
reading. 

Subject of debate— “ Reived, that the U.S.A. is 
destined to become the greatest of nations.” Affirma- 
tive supported by Messrs. Harvey, Ryan, McGregor, 
and Stearns. Negative by D. J. Fraser, R. S. Hall, 
Carmichael, and A. R. Hall. 

Negative won the debate by a small majority. 

Mr. Ivinghorn kindly acted as critic for the even- 
ing. 

The meeting on the evening of Feb. 7th, was called 
to order by the second Vice-President, W. J. Le- 
Rossignol. 

On the motion of P. C. Ryan, it was resolved to 
ask Dr. rrenholme to address the Society at the clos- 
ing meeting, on the 28th inst. 

The reading for the evening was given by G. F. 
Allen. R. J. MacDougall read an essay, entitled — 
“ Satan among the Poets.” 

The subject of debate was — “ Resolved, that organ- 
ized strikes should be made illegal.” Affirmative, 
Judge, LeRossignol, and Ryan. Negative, Calvert, 
Kollmyer, and Mansur. 

Decision was given in favor of the affirmative. 

J. F. Warne acted as critic. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

This Society met on Thursday, Feb. 6th. The de- 
bate — “ Resolved, that Imperial Federation is desir- 
able,” was supported on the affirmative by Miss Monk 
and Miss Millar ; on the negative by Miss Finley 
and Miss Hall. After a vigorous discussion on both 
sides, the affirmative won. 

Miss Abbott acted as critic. 

A reading — “ The Change on the Ottawa,” was 
given by Miss K. Campbell. 



THE MUIOTA. 

The following are the essays read at the last two 
meetings of the lady graduates’ Society : — 

Jan. 3rd. — Subject: “New World Literature.” 
Canadian writers, Miss McLeod, Quebec; United 
States writers, Miss McFee. 

Feb. 3rd. — Subject : “ Modern English Prose.” 
Novelists, Miss Murphy ; historians, Miss Palmer, 
Halifax. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Society held its regular meeting on Thursday, 
Jan. 30th. A paper was read by Miss MacDonald 
on the “ History of the Japanese.” Miss Raynes gave 
an admirable essay on the “ Religions of Japan.” 
The contributions took the form of a special thank- 
offering. 

Denmark has an art and industrial school for 
women, which won two gold medals at the Paris Ex- 
position for some of its products. Its report for the 
past year shows that the membership has been eighty- 
one. The school has received for its support nearly 
$2,000 from the government, and $275 from the com- 
munity. 



£orre$pcm6ence. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

The following is an extract from the unpublished 
works of a future Canadian author. All who read it 
will appreciate the thought, eloquence and rhetoric 
which it contains. We have heard that among our 
number there is a poet, who intends publishing a 
small volume of his works, but we hope he will not 
imagine that we are endeavouring to lower the inter- 
est in poetry by contributing to this paper a prose 
production so meritorious. Were we able to rob the 
portfolio whence this is taken, litterateurs might have 
good cause to fear, but that, alas, is impossible, as this 
is an isolated work by an unknown writer : — 

WINTIR— an assay. 

“Rich and poor, great and small, all have to experiment the 
spectacles that appear to the eyes of everyone of us, which is the 
facts of that season ; (winter). Though it is considerably mo- 
derate by the length and the severity of cold in general, no one 
asks for it. For if we throw a retrograde regarde we remember 
that snow was sent to us in the begining of November, and 
sufficiently enough for the people to do their business with 
winter coach.” ***** 

‘‘Wintir is for many a season which forms the joy in their 
hearts. First for the rich who likes to divert himself christian- 
like, secondly, the rich who likes to live a worldly life. * * 

In conclusion I have to say that it is a pleasure for a student 
who like the education to come and pass the wintir in the 
college, where he can develope his mind in the sciences of this 
world and of the world to come.” 

“Wydown.” 



Personals. 



Rev. J. W. Pedley has been preaching in Van- 
couver City, B. C., since March, ’88. 

D. H. G — rd would like to know who organized 
the slope on Tuesday and Thursday. 

We sincerely sympathize with J. W. Flinn, 2nd 
Arts, who, within less than a week, has lost both 
father and sister. 

P. L. Naismith, B.A., B.Sc., who, during the past 
summer, has built a railroad in Cape Breton, was 
among the boys last week. 

G. E. Read and A. Robertson, 2nd Arts, have just 
recovered from a severe attack of congestion of the 
lungs. The former will be unable to continue his 
course this year. 

R. H. Cl — k, B.A., B. C. L., lost his beard on the 
top of the Eiffel Tower. It has been suggested 
affinity for the prevailing thinness at that height 
was too much for it. 

J. D.L. Ambrose, President of the Faculty of Law, 
has returned, to the manifest delight of all his co- 
students, who rejoice that neither ‘ grippe ’ nor 
Toronto were sufficiently attractive to deprive the 
Faculty of so useful a man. 

The Dalhousie Gazette gives an obituary notice, 
with portrait, of Dr. Lyall, age 80, Late Prof, of 
Logic and Psychology in Dalhousie College. In 1864 
he received LL.D. from McGill in recognition of his 
work, “ The Intellect, the Emotions and the Moral 
Nature.” 



130 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Exchanges. 



An old friend of The Gazette, Mr. J. W. McOuat, 
B.A., ’86, now Principal of the Lachute Academy, 
has undertaken a journalistic venture ol his own and, 
in conjunction with some of his pupils, is publishing 
the Lachute Academy News. It is creditable in the 
extreme to those who have it in hand, and we wish 
our little contemporary every success. 

The Atlantis, for January, published by the Central 
University, Richmond, Ky., contains 16 pages, 8 of 
which are devoted to what are called, in the American 
colleges “ Orations.” If less space were given to 
these effusions, excellent though they are, and more 
to a discussion of college affairs, and some recogni- 
tion of their exchanges, the paper would possess a 
greater interest to students and outsiders alike. 

The Dalhousie Gazette, from Halifax, is always up 
to the standard, and in some respects is almost classi- 
cal. The articles are valuable, yet not heavy, and 
the tone of the Magazine is strong, betokening a 
healthy creation of student life. Speaking of the 
University Gazette, it says : 

“ The University Gazette, which is now published 
weekly, comes regularly to our table, and under its 
present management is one of the best of our con- 
temporaries. Its articles are well to the point. We 
note one on University Athletics in the issue of Jan- 
uary 20th, which we would advise our students to 
read. The same number contains the result of the 
midsessional examinations. We trust in another 
year the Dalhousie Gazette may have the pleasure of 
publishing a similar list.” 



Between the Lectures. 



The standing joke of the conductor — Lots of room 
inside. 

Prof, (after a lecture): “I fear 1 have been throwing 
pearls before swine.” 

Student : “ A few edible husks might have been 
better.” 

In the hall of the Medical building is a coil of pipes, 
which form an exceedingly comfortable seat. It is 
proposed to arm the pipes with sharp-pointed spikes, 
and to provide leather lounges for use between the 
lectures. 

A certain classical Professor was wont, before 
retiring for the night, to place on a chair by his bed 
a candle, and a jug of whisky with which to refresh 
himself, should he awake. One night, however, he 
forgot to replenish the jug or to extinguish the candle. 
After a while he awoke. He felt for the jug — it was 
empty. He felt for the candle — of course it had dis- 
appeared. And as he rolled back, sleepy and dis- 
appointed, he murmured to himself : “ oudetode, oude 
t’alla.” 

The influence of women in the scientific world was 
well illustrated at a recent meeting of the Royal 



[1890. 



Astronomical Society, in a discussion on a paper by 
Prof. Holden, of Lick Observatory. Two of England’s 
greatest astronomers admitted that they thought a 
certain chart exhibited was a map of stars of some 
sort. Prof. Huggins stated that his wife made it, 
with a tooth brush and Indian ink, drawn at random 
over a comb. 

The editors are very much in the position of 
Dickens’ actress. “ Some wanted tragedies, and 
others comedies ; some objected to dancing ; some 
wanted scarcely anything else ; some thought the 
comic singer decidedly low, and others hoped he would 
have more to do than he usually had. Some people 
wouldn’t promise to go, because other people wouldn’t 
promise to go ; and other people wouldn’t go at all, 
because other people went.” So we, “ omitting some- 
thing in this plan, and adding something in that, 
pledge ourselves to a bill of fare which is compre- 
hensive enough, if it has no other merit.” 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

180 St. James Street, 



ORDERS FOR 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. 



MONTREAL. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



Armstrong k Radford, 


PAGE, 

. 133 


Ashford, C., 


134 


Atwater k Co., 


120 


Birks, H., k Co., 
Chapleau k Co., 


134 


120 


Clarke, G. W., 


134 


Gumming k Brewis, 


. 132 


Doughty, A. G., 


133 


Drysdale, Wm., k Co., 


120 


Dyer, W. A., k Co., . 
Featherston, A. M., 


120 


. 133 


Gerth, E. A., . 
Gray, Hy. R. , 


132 


1 32 


Greenshields k Co., 


120 


Gurney, E. and C., k Co., 


. 131 


Henderson, John k Co., 


131 


Jensen, J. L., 


. 131 


Lyman, Sons k Co., 


131 


Macaulay, W. B. T., 


. 133 


Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . 


134 


Murray, Wm., 


. 133 


MacBean, D. B. A., 


132 


Me En tyre k Son, . 


120 


McLaren, W. D., 


134 


Ness, T. W., 


. 131 


Nightingale, D., 


132 


Nordheimer k Co., 


134 


Notman k Son, 


134 


Payne Geo., 


132 


Periard, A., 


132 


Reid, Robert, 


. 132 


Robertson k Co., 


120 


Ross, Hugh, 


133 


Sharswood, W. H. F., 


130 


Sheppard, Geo. J., 


132 


Summerhayes k Walford, 


133 


Tarrante, Sami., 


. 133 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



131 



Home Medical Batteries SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 



— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type- writers, Copyguaphs, and Office Supplies. 



Wi'fth DYE W0RKg, 



706 CRAIG- STREET. 



and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



^ull $todk dop£tai|tly oq Uki|d, Imported 
fHrtdt from tl\e frekdiqg ^lkqufkdttfrefd 
of tl\e Wortd. 

AN IN'SPKCTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 




'.T.srs 




Til [r 




Wll 



ICS 



WSJ Si «S)*J BJ 



229 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

395 <33 3S r 7 St. P^ul Street, 



— J-Wholesale Manufacturers-: — 



STOV ECS, 



GRATES, 



RANGES, 



SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebbM Hut W>teb_ Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Furnaces 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 




132 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 




A. PERIARD, 




I 



IS THAT OF 

CUMMIIMG <£ BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed, 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



AND 

• • • LEGAL STATIONER, • • ■ 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

( CORNER LA GA U CTTETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Tie Merit MM or Roman Batli, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E- A. GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



GEOPGE ZPA-imSTIEj, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing* Skates. 

Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “Victor” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each . 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each. 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 



AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 



2282 St. Catherine St. 



N.B. — Special discount to 

Students. 




B. NIGHTINGALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tallies, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE LAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



133 



1 1 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand : 

The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

IP- O- Box 1734, - ILzTontreaJL. 

TUTORING. 



RING UP ! 



BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 
FEDERAL “ “ 693, 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG ft RADFORD, 

Haberiasta ani Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in ( lentlc - 
men's Wear. 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents -for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. OATHEItlNE STREET, 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffitxe If*** amt fgfcal& 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral , ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Kate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

as* Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



r) BUY YOURC 



Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe: stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



Tlie West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR - CUTTING 



AND 



Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 



Tie Place for all tie Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 

HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house lias always been famed for. 



Clerical, Advocates’ and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Snecial Discount to Students. 



134 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Y/| l. \( >TJ I 'I Y % S§N, 

Photographers, 

STUOEJFTS > PORTRAITS 

CLjISS GROUPS 

PRIf\1TE GROUPS 
PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 
COLLEGE PIER'S, Sfc. 

17 Blettrt Steeet, 

MONTREAL. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell. Federal. T. H. LOVE, 

580 &. 24 82. 1683. Manager. 



TU -E GENUINE 

Cook’S Pbiend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should he pre- 
for red by all careful housekeepers. Eetailed 
everywhere. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc’t., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &C. 

2v£oa.DLtrea.l 3-ea^.- Hospital X=ii.SLr 3 ^a.copceia., 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University St. 818 Doy C hester St., Montreal. 



44th YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



ESTABLISHED 1845. 



« /-% I XU I J « 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 



THE 



Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. & S. NORDHEIMER, 



213 ST. 



JAMES 



STREET, 



nVLOITTEETITX.'lA. 



HENRY BIRKS * CO. 



JEWELLERS, &c. 



Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, Ac. 

236 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 



THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St. James Street, Montreal. 

G. W • CLAH 1 \.E ? Importer of” 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Feather Goods- 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 




