The McGill Gazette. 



VoL. II. 



Montreal, December i, 1875 . 



No. 3 . 



Literary. 

Deterioration of an old Standard 
Editorial. 

Resurrectioning 

Musings over a Pipe 

Journalism 

Correspondence, College Songs 



CONTENTS. 



FAOB. 

. 27 

. 29 

• 30 

• 3 1 

. 33 



Gymnasium 

A College Skating Rink . . . 
University Literary Society 

Glee Club 

Exchange 

A Health to Old McGill... 
Advertisements 



pa am. 

33 

33 

33 

34 

34 

34 

25, 26, 35 , 36 



The McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University . 
Terms , $ i.oo per annum; Single Copies , 10 Cents . For sale at Drysdald s, Dawson 1 s and Hill s. Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary , McGill College . Contributions should be directed to the Editor s, McGill 
College . 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays , and all suitable literary matter from University men. It 
will open its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner . 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a scaled envelope , which 
will be opened if the contribution is inserted , but will be destroyed if rejected . This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

H. H. WOOD, Secretary. 



SAVAGE, LYMAN $ CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIN, of Locle, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 

in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, RUBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 
ALSO IN STOCK : 


J. D. ANDERSON, 

MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 

206 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 


Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., &c. 

226 & 228 St. James Street. 


ALWAYS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS , 
SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 


PROFESSIONAL. 


John C. Becket, 

STEAM 


A. WRIGHT, L.D.S., 


Book and Job Printer, 


SURGEON-DENTIST. 


658 & 660 CRAIG STREET, 


38 BEAVER HAEJj TERRACE. 


MONTREAL. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



16 



GO TO 

Walsh's Clothing House, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing anil Tailoring Establishment, 

463 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

— 

A large assortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys* Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Prices very moderate. A call solicited. 

W. WALSH k CO. 

LORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




Wholesale and Retail 



No. 21 St. Lawrence Street, 

MONTREAL. 

/ 

- ; 

437 and 439 Notrs Dame Street. 
GO TO 

CheapsidE 

FOR YOUR 

GOODS, 

r 

And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 
answer to an advertisement in the McGill Gazette. 

A. A. MURPHY. 



S. R. PARSONS, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF THE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&c., &c., &c., 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the new Post Office) 

MONTREAL. 

20 YARDS OF BEAUTIFUL STRIPED SILK 

FOR <$io.oo 

RICH PLAIN COLOURED DRESS SILKS, 
Only 75 Cents per Yard. 

GOOD FRENCH MERINOES, 29 Cts. 

HANDSOME WINTER DRESS GOODS, i6 l / z c. 

GENTS’ FURNISHINGS. 

We keep the largest Stock of Gents’ Underclothing 
and Furnishing Goods in Canada, and we sell them 
cheaper than any other Retail Store in the Dominion. ^ 

s. CABSLEY, 

No. 399 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

xEititicr.'jitji Jttcrarg Jsncietjr 

MEETS 

SATURDAY, DEC. 4, 

AT 

910 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

■ _» 

DEBATE-SUBJECT: 

11 Was file Canadian Rebellion of '3/ justifiable?" 



The McGill Gazette. 



Vol. //., \ew Series. 



McGill College , December 1st. i8jj. 



No. J. 



LITERARY. 



Deterioration of an old Standard. 

“ Love's Labour Lost’’ will probably be the 
epitaph inscribed over that great body of argu- 
ments which have from time to time been urged 
in defence of Classical Education, and which, as 
far as present indications show, seem destined in 
the close future to find an untimely grave. When 
these are consigned to their last resting place, 
with willing fingers will their opponents chisel 
out the symbols R. L P., a prayer which at that 
day may be charitable enough, but is now de- 
voutly uttered with feelings far other those of 
good wilL Such seems to be the purport cf 
a late article in the London Spectator, which 
censured Members for delivering out of Parlia- 
ment, speeches on the subject of Education 
not only Classical but general, on the ground 
that it would be just as ridiculous to be for ever 
haranguing about eating and drinking, because 
the school room forms as much a necessary 
part of our existence as the dining room. 
Admitting for a moment the soundness of this 
proposition, which, by the way, looks very much 
like a reductio ad absurdum , it may be said 
that such is not the idea of Young Canada, 
especially with regard to the study of the dead 
languages. For the young aspirant to the 
counting house sits down to these with far less 
relish than he does to a good dinner, the while 
that his father pronounces over the literary 
meal the invariable grace “ Cui bono ?' " 

After all the solutions to this conundrum 
which have apparently failed to satisfy the pro- 
pounders of the question, it is truly dishearten- 
ing to resort to the only answer that is left 
leading to the climax of “mental culture.” 
“No that won’t do,” exclaims the practical 
Plutocrat, “ try something else.” That process 
won’t bring the silver to my coffers, r says the 
‘ hardy son of toil ’ whose walks over broad 



acres are more extended than his excursion 
into the domains of intelligence. “ Don’t talk 
to me about Hesiods Precepts or Virgil's 
doctrines, I never needed either one or the 
other to direct my operations and I have 
managed to make a very comfortable living 
without even knowing who they were. Now, 
build scientific schools and assemble classes 
in Agriculture and I will do my best to support 
them. " Yes of course every one will support 
these because the knowledge gained therein 
can readily be converted into money. It would 
augur well for the prosperity of Canada if such 
Schools and Colleges were scattered far and 
wide throughout the country and no alarm 
need be experienced about their establishment. 
Eut at this moment when the foundation of 
the College proper seems to be crumbling, 
when the base, whereon the education of 
centuries has been reared gives signs of decay, 
there is cause for fear that the whole edifice 
will go to ruin if some measures are not taken 
to strengthen the tottering pile 

Truly the worst may be apprehended when 
a statesman like Mr. Lowe, (who perhaps 
regretted that he had not devoted more time 
to Mathematics because of their great service 
to a Chancellor of the Exchequer) turns his 
back upon the languages that have from time 
immemorial been the dearest study of prospec- 
tive Ministers of (English) State.’ Tis enough to 
elicit a denunciation against him from every 
stobe in the walls of St Stephens which have 
for ages resounded with the immortal music 
of classic diction. 

But, on the other hand it is encouraging to 
see the English Members, while waxing warm 
in the philanthropy and advocacy of middle 
class education, still encouraging and forward- 
ing these studies which are now considered 
obsolete and unsuited to the times. Unsuited 
in sooth ! In what respect ? If this means that 
no one now-a-davs wants showy erudition, but 



28 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 









rather that “ Crassa Minerva” and keen sharp- 
ness necessary for the last decades of the 
nineteenth century, then the objection may be 
admitted. But will any one attempt to prove 
that because Lord Derby made a grand trans- 
lation of Homer's Iliad, he was unfitted for his 
position and should have lived two generations 
earlier, or breathes there one insane enough 
to say that the profound learning which has 
given to the world such works as “ Inventus 
Mundi,” has had nothing to do with the 
success of Gladstone ! “ Oh yes” its whispered 
perhaps if he had not dipped into such irrele- 
vant matter as the myths of the ancient Heroes, 
he might still be Premier, and if he came to 
Canada, without ‘ his blushing honours thick 
upon’ him he would not find a constituency. 
And if the old fashioned system of education is 
not adapted to the present day, is it to be 
presumed that a proper training can be derived 
from the diversity of pursuits which boys are 
now compelled to take up ? 

O shades of our grandfathers, revisit this 
earth and take a peep into the modern school- 
room ! Look at our studies and convince 
yourselves of the shameful ignorance in which 
you gloried, Latin and Greek, as much reduc- 
ed to shades as yourselves. Greek supplanted 
by Book-keeping. Oh ! Manes ! your flesh 
would creep if you had any. Dead languages 
and live languages. Just to think of German 
in your day. And mathematics ; what know 
you of these, a little arithmetic, and perhaps 
Euclid, that is if you got to the top of the 
tree. But here what do you see ? The young- 
est boys giving to a the numerical value of i 
and trying desperately to commit the structure 
of the Pons Asinorum to memory. Ask that 
infant to translate the expression, and his 
knowledge of English Literature preponderates 
so greatly over his acquaintance with the Latin 
Grammar that he renders it quite readily. 
“The Bridge of Sighs.” Chemistry too. Why 
you thought that it consisted in a knowledge of 
the four elements. And did you strive “rerum 
cognoscere causas ?” No, and if you did you 
could not have satisfied your curiosity, for they 
did not undertake to teach Natural Philosophy 



in the Schools. And Botany, Zoology, Con- 
chology, theories of music and drawing, with 
numerous other “ologies and “osophies,” whose 
enumeration would demand more tongues than 
did Homer’s catalogue of “ the leaders and 
rulers of the Greeks.” 

Having listened to this list have you any 
thing to urge why judgment should not be 
pronounced upon you, why you should not be 
condemned to perfect oblivion and never more 
be quoted as authorities on Education ? Yes, 
they put in a plea, the ghosts of our ancestors 
reply by a counter question. Is there any 
practical benefit to be derived from this variety 
of pursuits ? Did we not gain more real good 
from the study of two ancient languages than 
you, our descendants, do from half-a-dozen 
literatures, and as many sciences ? Professor 
Fawcett, is seated on the bench and acquits 
them honourably with the sentence. “ Excel- 
lence in a few subjects might be regarded as a 
much greater distinction, and is certain to 
prove of more permanent benefit than medio- 
crity or showy superficialism in various sub- 
jects.” 

But while such was the case in the days 
of our forefathers, not even the most ardent 
lover of the classics would now wish to see 
the school term so inordinately devoted to the 
study of Latin and Greek, as was the practice 
at a time when in addition to the dead 
languages little more was learnt than History 
and the most Elementary Mathematics. For 
instance, there is no necessity for forcing the 
youth to study the Latin and Greek Grammar 
in these respective tongues, nor to make such 
poets of boys as that they may be able to 
apostrophize Venus in Latin Lyrics, or put 
Greek Iambics in the mouths of Romeo and 
Juliet, but is it not rather shameful that men 
should come up to College for a Matriculation 
Examination, having a fair knowledge of three 
books of Euclid, able to solve any problem in 
Quadratic Equations, crammed with Chemistry, 
and one or two philosophies, and yet not 
competent to construe two lines of Xenophon’s 
Anabasis, or to re-translate Horace’s patriotic 
line into anything more beautiful than, 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



29 



Dulcis est et decora patriae perere. 

This is the kind of neglect of the Classics 
which surely ought to be deprecated and 
amended, not only because it shows that these 
studies are losing too much ground in the 
schools, but also because it tends to lower their 
standard in the Colleges. And it is this 
ignorance which must be guarded against, 
inasmuch as it is displayed in pursuits to which 
the greatest encouragement was given in the 
earliest Institutions of learning, and to which 
no second place has ever been accorded. In 
England they will retain their place for a long 
time to come, but it is in Canada that mea- 
sures must be provided to resist any attempt to 
thrust them into the back ground. 



The McGill Gazette. 



Monday , December 1st, 1 875. 



Graduate Editor, R. 

K. H. Hethrington, ’76. 
C. H. Gould, ’77. 

E. Laflkur, 77. 

R. D. McGibbon, ’77 



Huntingdon, B.C.L. 

R. Robertson, ’77. 

A. W. Atwater, ’77 
E. Evans, ’78. 
Holton Wood, ’79. 



JEJDirOFiS: 
W. 



RESURRECTIONING. 

As our readers are probably all aware a 
medical student of Victoria College, was 
recently arrested on suspicion of being engaged 
in body-snatching. At his trial the students of 
the various Medical Colleges in the city 
(McGill among the number) were present in 
large numbers. The fine imposed upon the 
gentleman arrested was paid by a subscription 
raised among his fellow students then present. 
After the trial, the Students acting probably 
under the influence of the excitement conse- 
quent on such proceedings but certainly promp- 
ted in a great measure by that esprit de corps 
which is the peculiar characteristic of medical 
students, formed a procession, and headed by 
the hero of the day paraded the streets. 

Whereupon, a city contemporary in doleful 
tones moralizes upon these acts, calls medical 
students in general and Montreal medical 
students in particular, a “ hard lot” and insti- 



tutes a comparison between these latter and 
those inimitable but somewhat exaggerated 
creations of Dickens, Mr. Bob Sawyer and 
Mr. Ben Allen. The article referred to is 
generally devoid of pointedness. But we feel 
ourselves called upon as a College 'organ to 
resent that part of the article which reflects in 
such ungenerous terms upon students of 
medicine in McGill University. We utterly 
fail to see when and where our students have 
acted in such a manner as to deserve the 
name given them, and we defy any one to 
adduce proofs to show that such acts have 
been committed. 

The object of the mention, in the article refer- 
red to, of the oft repeated tale of Burke and 
Hare, we confess we fail to understand. It is a 
matter of doubt with us, whether our contem- 
porary wishes by recalling this tale, to prevent 
children and others remaining out too late at 
night, or whether it desires to hint that similar 
practices are encouraged by medical men here. 
If the former was its intention, though 
praiseworthy it is hardly connected with the 
title of the article, but if the latter is its desire, 
all we have to say is, that a more disgraceful 
slander or a more pointed libel we never saw 
in public print. Possibly, however, a sincere 
desire to afford amusement to lovers of anti- 
quarian lore, prompted the writer in question. 
But two and only two inferences can be drawn 
hom this part of the article : either the writer 
has intended a slander, or he has in a most 
pitiable and silly manner w r andered from the 
course which in the beginning of his effusion 
he laid down for himself. 

The question of the propriety of body- 
snatching is an entirely different matter. But 
we object decidedly to a slander on medical 
students being made a hook upon which to 
hang opinions on this subject. Though we by 
no means countenance such practices, there 
is this to be said in palliation of body- 
snatching. If the Government or city officials 
provided sufficient matter for dissecting purpo- 
ses — a nd surely they are able to do so, — 
resurrectioning would ipso facto be stopped. 
But we must have medical men, for the proper 
education of these “subjects” are needed, are 



3° 



THE McGILL gazette. 



in fact, indispensable, the Government does 
not supply these, therefore the practice of 
body-snatching is as an extreme measure taken 
to by those, to whom, as we said before bodies 
are absolutely necessary. The blame in the 
present instance lies clearly with the authorities 
and not with those who are so to speak driven 
to such extremes as “ resurrectioning” : 

We hope to see in future the blame imputed 
where it is due, and not upon the medical 
students who, though they are not “ proverbi- 
ally a hard lot,” are very often made the objects 
of such articles as the one to which we have 
referred. 

MUSINGS OVER A PIPE. 

In a very clever article upon “an umbrella” 
written several years ago, the writer endea- 
voured to prove that, that useful shelter of 
mankind was possessed of a distinct individua- 
lity, that it was responsible for its actions, and 
that its vagaries were the result of its own 
sweet will. In the same way the genuine 
smoker cannot help attributing a personality to 
his pipe, though the moral character of the 
pipe, if I may use the expression, offers a 
pleasing contrast to that of the umbrella The 
umbrella is fickleness personified, it is unworthy 
of trust, you place your whole confidence in it, 
and presto! it “goes back” upon you by 
turning inside out, or, if left to itself for a 
moment, it deserts you without the slightest 
remorse, and enters into the possession of a 
stranger. But the pipe does none of these 
things, it is steady, reliable, the friend, more 
than the servant, of its master, it becomes a 
necessary part of his being, animce dimidiutn 
sibi, the very half of his soul. One is often 
tempted to wonder, considering the really vast 
influence of the pipe upon modern life and 
literature, how the ancients ever contrived to 
exist without its use, and the charms of its 
society. How much happier would the Shep- 
perd have been, if, when reclining under the 
shade of a birch tree with 

Nor gaud, nor toy 

save one short pipe, that pipe had been of the 
root of the briar, instead of being simply a 



reedy whistle ! and it is interesting to speculate 
upon the manner in which the great men of 
antiquity would have worshipped the goddess 
Nicotina. Horace, indeed, would have pro- 
bably been too fine a gentleman for anything 
but a cigarette, puffed over his nine-year-old 
Falernian, rolled by the deft fingers of Phyllis, 
and lighted by a taper in the shapely hand of 
Lesbia. But Virgil would have beheld the 
wanderings of tineas through a cloud of Tata- 
kia, and Juvenal would have moralized savagely 
upon the evils of his time over a short black 
clay. How much greater than the influence 
of Persian manners might have been that of 
the Persian weed upon the state of Rome ! But 
if the ancients excelled us in some things, we 
at least, have been more fortunate in this. 

There is as much difference in pipes as in 
men, there are all classes and all kinds of 
both. To my mind the briar, if not the king 
of pipes, is at least the representative of the 
gentleman among them. It is not pietentious, 
but its nature is better than its appearance, 
which is one great boon, when the contrary is 
so often the case both among pipes and among 
mankind. It is not fragile, and can stand 
rough usage, or even a fall, without breaking, 
and however hard may be its existence, it does 
not become soiled and dirty, as does the 
inferior clay. It can take things as it finds 
them, but it is not injured by contact with every 
day life. 

One of the greatest charms of a pipe is the 
number of associations with which it is con- 
nected. It is a Magician’s wand, and can 
conjure up old memories and old faces from 
the almost forgotten depths of the past. You 
sit at a table, or pour out a bumper of wine, 
and you recall the old friends who once sat 
around the board, and in whose company you 
erstwhile lifted the glass to your lips. But 
your mind is enabled to bring back but the 
memories connected with the table or the 
glass. The pipe does more than this, it gives 
you more varied recollections, its vapour takes 
many a different form, it recalls many a differ- 
ent scene. You think, for instance, of the 
nights when you sought its solace after a hard 
day s work in camp, and, as the smoke-clouds 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



3 1 



roll away, you behold again the once familiar 
spot The tent stands under the pines, reliev- 
ing with its white canvas the monotony of the 
sombre shade. The camp fire blazes and 
sparkles fitfully, seeming to burnish the polished 
kettle which hangs on the forks beside it, until 
it shines like silver. The lap of the tiny waves 
on the rocks beneath sounds again in your 
ears, and you see once more the homeward 
bound canoe, a dusky spot far out on the 
broad lake. And the round full moon, rising 
beyond the farther shore, shines brightly on 
the rippling waters, and casts across them a 
bridge of gold. Or the scene changes, and 
you are in a warm and lighted room, with the 
chilly wind striving vainly to penetrate your 
fortress, and howling as it retreats baffled from 
the sturdy walls without and good cheer within. 
The song, the toast, and the jest go round, 
and, the faces of your companions shine 
through the thick fragrant atmosphere like the 
moon through a summer mist. One rises, and. 
— But my pipe is out, it is growing late, and 
one cannot conjure without the fumes of the 
magic incense. I knock out the ashes on the 
hearthstone, as an offering to those friends of 
the old time by whose firesides my pipe has 
so often been smoked, and from whose hospi- 
table stores it has so often been replenished. 

JOURNALISM. 

That somewhat stale phrase, “ The pen is 
mightier than the sword” certainly expresses 
the truth as regards every instance in which 
those two instruments may be compared. But 
the pen cannot be said to exercise such an 
enormous influence in the administration of 
the affairs of the universe, except in connection 
with its auxiliary the printing press. What 
influence for good as also for evil has the 
printing press exerted upon our language, and 
upon the thoughts of the people ! To-day the 
great medium through which the art of printing 
exerts its influence, is unquestionably the peri- 
odical press. In all civilized countries the 
daily newspaper is looked upon as one of the 
necessaries of life, and its views upon all 
questions are by its own partizans at least 
bsorbed and endorsed without the least ques- 



tion. The ordinary Englishman as he reads 
the Times, very seldom dissents materially 
from the views expressed in the leading articles; 
on the contrary, as he reads he accepts those 
views with complacency and lays down the 
paper saying, “ A very good article, but that is 
what I have always thought upon the subject” 
whilst in reality such thoughts never entered 
his head, and would probably if presented 
to him in conversation by a friend have been 
rejected as unworthy of notice. The same is 
the case with the leading papers of every 
country, city, town and village. The city 
merchant imbibes the thoughts served up to 
him in an able article in his favorite morning 
paper, with as little dissent as does the farmer 
the somewhat crude views presented in the 
weekly periodical of the town or village. The 
influence thus exerted upon the thought is 
equalled only by that exerted upon the lan- 
guage, and education of the people. 

Marsh, whilst admitting many advantages 
which have accrued to the language by means 
of the periodical press, thinks that upon the 
whole its influence upon the purity of language 
has been deleterious. If such is the case we 
should be careful to guard against the deterio- 
ration of the purity of our language. 

Now since the influence of the periodical 
press is so great, ought not care to be taken 
that those in whose hands this power is 
placed, should be worthy in every respect of 
their position, thoroughly acquainted not only 
with the subjects of which they are treating, 
but also with the philosophy, structure, and 
idioms of their language, and able to make 
use of that language in its purity. 

Journalism has grown to be an important and 
noble profession, and we wonder that hitherto 
no steps have been taken by the leading Uni- 
versities of the world towards affording the 
aspirant for journalistic honours, an oppor- 
tunity of making himself thoroughly acquainted 
with all the branches of the profession which 
he has chosen. We remember hearing Prof. 
Goldwin Smith, at a late University Lecture 
eulogize the profession, and if we mistake 
not he advocated the establishment in Univer- 
sities of Chairs of Journalism. 



3 2 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



The knowledge of a journalist must be 
extensive and varied. During the practice of 
his profession he is called upon to treat of 
many questions involving an acquaintance with 
every branch of science and of Art. To treat 
of politics, one must have a broad and com- 
prehensive knowledge not only of the politics 
of the present day, but also of the history of 
all ages and nations. Social questions arise 
and to deal with these, the writer must be 
acquainted with political and social economy. 

An editor must not be ignorant of law, and 
he must be a connoisseur in the fine arts ; 
whilst to treat of any question in a suitable 
style he must have been a close student of 
literature, rhetoric and logic. But even yet 
we have not the model editor. Acquaintance 
with these subjects is necessary but that one 
may write the popular editorial, a large amount 
of experience is needed. What other of those 
professions for the study of which Colleges are 
established through the length and breadth of 
the land calls for such an extensive and univer. 
sal study as this, and yet what profession has 
suffered such neglect ? 

To our minds the College paper which is 
now an institution in every University of stand- 
ing, is the fruit of this neglect. Students, with 
views more advanced than the venerable pro- 
fessors themselves have felt this want, and the 
College paper is the result ; and as a rule we 
think the editors of these papers are those 
who, looking forward to active life as journalists, 
are thus compelled to supply this much felt 
want by their own enterprise. We hope that 
ere long the powers that be will waken to the 
necessity for such a Chair in Universities. 
Then when each University has a promising 
school of journalism sending out each year 
men well trained in their profession, we may 
expect to see the daily newspaper an organ of 
high intellectual character, an authority in 
every circle of life, political and social, an 
instrument for good and indeed “ the feature 
the most characteristic of the life and literature 
of Anglo-Saxon humanity in the present age.” 

L. R. Church, is Attorney General of Pro- 
vince of Quebec. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

College Songs. 

To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Sirs — I have much pleasure in addressing you 
on a subject to which you have referred in your 
last issue. The resolution passed at the meet- 
ing of Arts students on the afternoon of the 
Annual University Lecture was in the following 
terms : Resolved, That the Editors of the 

“ McGill Gazette be requested to insert a 
“ notice in its next issue, calling upon all Grad- 
“ uates, Undergraduates, and old students to 
“ forward to the Editors any words they may 
“ possess of old College Songs, within a month 
“ from the date of such issue.” 

At the meeting referred to, a discussion took 
place upon the subject of College Songs, and 
all were agreed as to the desirability of obtain- 
ing a collection. It was suggested that any 
songs that might be received in response to the 
notice, should be revised by a Committee and 
published in the Gazette one in every issue, as 
long as the stock lasted ; also that in addition to 
the copies of the paper printed, a certain num- 
ber ot the songs should be struck off on loose 
sheets in such a manner as to admitof their being 
collected together in the form of a hand book 
when the collection might be considered com- 
plete. McGill College has had various versions 
from time to time of “ Vive la compagnie” (the 
College song par excellence^) of “Upidee”and 
possibly of some others. If the scattered frag- 
ments ot these could be got together they would 
form the nucleus of a collection ; and there are 
many College songs the common property of 
all students speaking the English language, 
which could be used to supplement those hither- 
to used in McGill. These could be obtained 
from members of other Universities in England 
and elsewhere, who I have no doubt would be 
glad to furnish them if applied to by some of 
your readers. There must be a large number 
of English national student songs which would 
be well adapted to our College if they could be 
secured. The University Glee Club is expect- 
ed to render valuable assistance in promoting 
this object. It is possible that a few new songs 
of a suitable character might be written and 
set to music by members of this Club. 



33 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



It might be suggested to one any who may feel 
himselves to have a mission to supply with new 
and original compositions any deficiencies that 
may exist in the quantity of available matter 
that nothing must be accepted without some 
slight literary merit. While care must be taken 
to secure propriety in taste and morals, it is of 
equal importance that nothing destitute of 
vigour and force should find its w r ay into print. 
In music of course the Chorus is the best style. 

If the readers of the Gazette will make an 
endeavour to bring this matter to a successful 
issue we may hope for a good college song 
book before next year, and one which may be 
enlarged at any future time as the demands for 
music increase. 

I think that the thanks of the students are 
due to the Editors for the promptness with 
which in their last issue they inserted the 
notice headed “ College Songs.” 

A. M. 

Gymnasium. 

Dear Gazette, 

Every one will admit that a certain amount of 
Physical Culture is necessary for a student 
during his College career. Now that foot ball 
is over, the only Exercises which remain are 
the Gymnastic classes, and the Snow Shoe 
Club. I am not aware that the Students in 
Arts should possess a monopoly in the former 
of these Exercises, and yet, the present state 
of affairs would seem to imply that the College 
authorities hold this opinion. For, the hours 
of Gymnastic Classes are exceedingly un- 
suited to the Students of Medicine and Law. 
I would respectfully suggest that classes be 
formed at such hours as will suit these Students. 
I might also remark that one would suppose 
that a University Gymnasium would be situated 
on the College grounds and be open at all 
hours to students. Most students have one 
or two spare hours during the day, which, were 
the Gymnasium convenient ; might be more 
profitably spent than at present. 

I hope that something will be done to form 
classes for us Students in Medicine and 

Law. 



A COLLEGE SKATING RINK. 

It has often occurred to us that the College 
grounds, which are the source of so much 
pleasure in summer and in autumn, might be 
made to yield quite as much enjoyment during 
the cold season. Few places in the City are 
better situated for the making of a skating rink. 
The students of the Jesuits’ College are in the 
habit of making a rink every year, which has 
proved a great success, being patronized by a 
large number of the students, and by the Re- 
verend Fathers themselves. Our own grounds 
are even better adapted for such a purpose, 
being more extensive and more easily drained. 
Any portion of the grounds could readily be 
flooded from the hydrant in rear of the College 
buildings. Should such a project approve itself 
to the College authorities, we think it might be 
carried out very satisfactorily and cheaply. 
One, man, constantly employed, would be able 
to keep the rink clear of snow, and in the event 
of any unusual fall of snow, we are sure that 
the students would come en masse and lend 
a ready hand. The man in charge of the 
rink might (Academia consentiente) be lodged 
in one of the unoccupied rooms of the College 
buildings, and suitable arrangements might also 
be made for his board. If the annual subscrip- 
tion were fixed at two dollars for the students, 
we are certain that a sufficiently large amount 
w r ould be obtained from the students of the 
different faculties to defray all expenses. During 
the morning hours, when nearly all the men 
are attending lectures, outsiders might be ad- 
mitted at the usual prices for open-air rinks. 
In the afternoon and evening none but the 
students and the ladies they might invite would 
be allowed to skate. 

It is needless for us to dwell on the varied 
pleasures which a rink would afford, pleasures 
to which few of the students are strangers. 
We sincerely hope then, that steps will at once 
be taken for the attainment of so desirable an 
object. 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meetings of the U. L. Society have so 
far this Session been well attended. The 



34 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Debates have been interesting and well sus- 
tained and the only cause for regret is, that so 
few of the undergraduates take an interest in 
the proceedings. We would urge upon the 
students, especially those who may be looking 
forward to a professional life, to take advantage 
of the opportunities offered by this Society. 

On Nov. 13th the question “ Was the French 
revolution beneficial to France !” was discussed 
and decided in the affirmative. On the 20th 
the question “ Does England owe more to the 
Whigs than to Tories!” gave the undergraduates 
an opportunity of displaying their knowledge 
of the English Constitution and History. It 
was owing no doubt to the Radical nature of 
the Society, that the question was decided in 
favour of the Whigs. We would suggest to 
those who voted for the Whigs, the question, 

“ What would England be but for the Tories!” 
■ ■ 

GLEE CLUB. 

A committee meeting of the Glee Club was 
held Friday, Nov. 12th, at which the following 
resolutions were carried. 1st. That the club 
be called “ The University Glee Club.” 

2nd. That the subscription be 75 cents, the 
money to be used in buying music, &c. 

3rd. That a concert be given soon after 
Christmas. 

4th. That the club meet every Friday, at 7.45 
p.m., for practice. These resolutions were after- 
wards submitted to the general meeting, and 
approved of ; after which the Club had their 
usual practice. In order to ascertain the 
strength of our club, with a view to arranging 
for a concert, it is absolutely necessary that 
the members should attend regularly and punc- 
tually. Remember, the practice is every Friday 
at 7.45 p. m., sharp! 



EXCHANGES. 

We have been heretofore under the impres- 
sion that the solitude of rural retirement 
exercised a soothing influence upon the human 
mind. But the exchange editor of the Dart- 
mouth, is an exception to this rule, if it be one, 
and the tranquil shades of Hanover serve but 
as a vantage ground from which he can hurl 



his thunderbolts at his contemporaries. From 
the common lot we can claim no immunity, 
and the shortcomings of our initial number 
afford an occasion for the display of his 
righteous wrath. We are strongly advised 
to improve, advice which we certainly intend 
to take. A perusal of our own columns clearly 
shows us that we might do better, while a 
tolerably extensive acquaintance with the 
Dartmouth, both in its past and present form, 
confirms us in the belief that we might do 
worse. Our contemporary is particularly severe 
upon our gloom and solemnity. We recall 
that old story of the two partners in the 
temperance lecture business, one of whom 
expatiated upon the evils of alcohol, while the 
other appeared as the example of its deleterious 
effects. In its lecture upon solemnity, the 
Dartmouth has the advantage of these peripa- 
tetic gentlemen, inasmuch as its own columns 
afford both the wise precept and the evil 
example. 



A HEALTH TO OLD McGILL. 

( Written for the Class of '74.) 

The lights around the festal board, 
On plate and crystal quiver, 

The generous wine is freely poured, 
The toast awaits the giver, 

So here’s a health to old McGill, 
With feelings proud and tender, 

Let each a brimming bumper fill, 
And loving homage render. 

Chorus . — Another toast before we part 
Another bumper fill, boys ! 

A toast that comes from every heart, 
A health to Old McGill, boys ! 

For what more fitting than that we 
The night before we sever, — 

Meet here once more in company, 

To part, perchance, for ever. 

Should, ere we go our several ways, 
The tie again acknowledge, 

That binds, with links of happy days 
Us to our dear old College. 

Chorus . — Another toast &c. 

Though of each man, the future fate 
Be past our divination, 

For some the laurel wreath may wait, 
For some a humbler station. 

Y et each to each we still are found, 

By ties, time cannot sever. 

So as the wine cup circles round 
McGill, McGill forever ! 

Chorus . — Another toast &c. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



35 



DEVLIN’S 
Hat and Fur 

DEPOT, 

416 Notre Dame Street, 



ZMZOISTTIRIE-^l.Xj- 



Gents Furnishing Goods. 

Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothingi Scarfs, Cloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



THE 

(jMiitia j|cit aM {e„ 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 



The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of— 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, Iu Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, iu Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES iu Tins and Skin 
And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Bre/kfast and Supper Table. 

MeG & B, can confiden'ly recommend these 
Goods as equal ana, in some cases, superior to 
the imported and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars iu Price Lists, which may be 
had on app ication. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

JO' 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

22 r ST. JAMES ST. 



ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL 

3S7 HOTRE DAHE STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OK 

Jwfo’ fro {i3i& japi | {loves 



NOW ON HAND. 



College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 



307 NOT HE DAME ST. 



PctSill College ^oolifi 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 



IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 



MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO THE BOOKS USED IN 

McEacliran 9 s Veterinary Col ley c 9 

AT » ; 

HILL’S LIERABY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 

. * - * I 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 







FINE ASSORTMENT 

Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY. 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 



McGill College Text Books 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books in use at the College, 

t 

LSO 

i 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY , 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stumped with the University Die for the use of Students, 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. JAMES ST 



SUBSCRIBE TO 

THE McGILL GAZETTE 



GO TO 

I95| ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 

FIRST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

% 

J. G. PARKS, 

PHOTOGRAPHER. 

COHEN & LOPEZ , 

IMPORTERS OF 

FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

Haratta dj-iprs, 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 
C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, fyc. 

PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver Mounted & Engraved, to Order, 

CORNER PLACE D’ARMES k ST, JAMES ST.. 

ALSO 

231 ST. JAMES STREET , 



OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 




G. BISHOP & CO., 

Engravers, 

Lithographers and Printers, 
169 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Printed by J. C. Becket, 658 A 660 Craig St 



