Vol. X 



No. 5. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 



Assets nearly 
Surplus over 



OIF 1 ItTEW YORK 
ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

$ 109 , 000,000 

13 , 000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY io the world, with the best record. 

ACENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve tlieir circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

17S2 N'OTBE IT .£>.3^:0 STREET, - - ~N/rr- ) -KTn-’T ?.T=n a t . 



WEDDING CARDS, 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS, 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 

MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 A 9 Bleary St., MONTREAL,. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

■-*»»»»»»«»« » ******* 

± Unotographers 

* * jj * * * * * * *"*—* ********* 
y. s'sj Scale of 'prices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
3E C HEMICAL APPARATUS. 

A } Lull Stodk con^tai)tly oi) ftkijd, Iniported 
Difetit front) tl]e Leading ^lartufadUfredd 
of tl)e Wodld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



— FOR — 




jnh\ 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. 0" -A.tlVr~IT!P 3 ST. 

'MEIHi.1t. It V8EU Ijy jmt covhse, 

CE TEXT Hook* 

Full assortment in stock & stipplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ MOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c, &c, 

IBEST VALTJE I XT TOWXTi-^ 
StylograpMc Pent, Anti-Stylo Pern and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Ta.Kca.es Street 

also 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. x.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 15tii, 1886. [No. 5. 



SUitesitjj 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President . 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

Ciis. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts S7. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

K. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chic / • 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be .addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CONTENTS; 

PAGE. 

Editorials - 59-60 

Poetry - 60, 70 

Contributions 60-66 

McGill News 66 

Societies - - 66-67 

Sporting 67 

Personals 67-68 

Between the Lectures 68-69 

College World - 70-71 

Correspondence 72 



NOTICE ! 

Subscribers who have not yet paid in their sub- 
scriptions for the current year, will please do so 
as soon as possible. 

All moneys and communications with refer- 
ence to the address of papers sent by post, should 
be directed to Mr. Mackie, Sec.-Treas. to the 
Board of Directors, Box 1290. 



Ebitorials. 



A HOCKEY ASSOCIATION. 

We notice with much pleasure that the Hockey 
Clubs of the Dominion have formed themselves into 
an Association resembling that of the Lacrosse Clubs. 
Such an Association, if carefully conducted, will greatly 
foster what may be called “ our winter national game.’’ 
Heretofore, the selection of rules has been arbitrary 
with clubs or carnival committees, and with all due 
reference to the latter, we are certain that the game of 
hockey will profit by its rules being superintended by 
those whose delight it is, and who are thoroughly 
acquainted with it. 

McGill, the oldest hockey club in and around 
Montreal, if not in the Dominion, has entered this 
Association, and if the committee who will have 
the arrangement of the matches will but consider 
our peculiaT circumstances, the new era will be a 
satisfactory one. The Lacrosse Clubs have found that 
they have too long a season, and that the men are 
almost overtrained, and their employers certainly put 
about. This is due to the method of playing matches, 
and the number of clubs entered. The football 
matches, being between fewer teams, are carried to a 
successful issue, and so also will the Hockey competi- 
tions, if the Association looks the facts in the face and 
tries to prepare for them. McGill must of necessity 
have a short season. Men cannot be expected to play 
during examination time, and examinations take place 
just after the opening and closing of the Hockey season. 

For this reason the matches should take place close 
upon one another, and the number of competing clubs 
must be limited. Let there be a senior and junior 
championship, the former open at present to all clubs 
that possess carnival or champion cups, and hereafter 
to all clubs that have held a junior championship. 
Thus we shall find the pioneer clubs of McGill, 
Victoria, 'Montreal and the Crystal pitted against each 
other, and the Quebec, Ottawa, Toronto and new clubs 
entered for the junior championship. Or, to enable 
Quebec and Ottawa to be eligible for the senior com- 
pitition, of which honor their playing has shown them 
worthy, there might be a time rating. It is obviously 
unfair to clubs of known standing to force them to 
face every new club that may be organized, no matter 
whether its men have never before handled a hockey 




60 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



stick. Let such clubs prove themselves good metal, 
and it will not be long before they find their merited 
situation. 

The McGill Hockey Club starts this year under new 
circumstances. It is scarcely to be expected ihat its 
team can be composed of such scientific players as it 
had last year, but certainly its record cannot be worse. 
What McGill wants, and must have, is a few light, 
agile, swift skaters, and a preponderance of heavy, 
long-armed, stout-limbed fellows, such as were Jack 
Elder, Low and Green, in the days when the carnival 
cup was brought home in triumph to “ McGill’s classic 
halls.” 



Poetry. 



A BACHELOR’S PLAINT. 

“ Come, curl yourself upon the rug, 

My Carlo, at your master’s side, 
tan any others be so snug 

As you and I this Christmas tide? 

14 Twere better in that chair should sit 
A loving and devoted wife ! 

Carlo, you lack your usual wit, 

There is not such a thing in life. 

I ve looked in many a pair of eyes, 
tut always turn to yours again, 

They never yet have glanced forth lies, 

Ur gloried when they saw my pain- 

“ Of honeyed words I’ve had my share. 

But dearer is your bark to me, 

Tor lurks no harsh deception there: 

It has the ring of honesty. 

I never sought to build a nest 
^P. an . y woman’s heart save one — 

What is is always for the best, 

What s done can never be undone. 

“ F % r waning love I was not made, 
o _ , not veer with every whim, 

cohere with you, my sole comrade. 

1 sit and read my eyesight dim. 

* CarIo » I would scorn 

ThJ-ifk 11 ahve that word t0 name ; 
rhe ffi, wl be on e my death to mourn. 

What lover lives dare say the same 

Montreal. 

ftl a il 1 , , , . Arthur Weir. 

his bachelor°friendJ lmself in no wa ^ responsible for the words of 

Contributions. 

a McGill man. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazette. 

CHAP. V. 

I°“ se , e a yelling, panting pack, 

Tea . 1 ® er the ice, and poke and whack 

Thk k U ° C i k S ? mC fellow 0,1 his back— ’ 

Ttas is a hoc key matc h." _ Me0m ^ 

our facer, a’cool P ScfanM man named iw'* Ced ’ and 
and sent it flying to our lekwingf Jh“d*f o'ff 



with it towards the Victorias’ goal, amid cheers from 
the McGill men on the platform. 

“ Go it, Timkins,” screamed an excited theolog., 
who, realizing a moment afterwards that he had com- 
mitted a breach of decorum, assumed a most contrite 
and pious look. 

“Now, forwards,” “Lam them, boys,” “Sit on 
their necks,” and such like terms, encouraged Timkins 
to such an extent that he became careless, and, after 
running into the solid form of Charley Smithson, 
rebounded against the side of the rink, and lay 
sprawling upon the ice. He was game, however, 
and, though down, managed to sweep the puck to 
the centre forward, who passed it on, and a few 
moments later McGill took a close shot for goal. 



The ball was brought out and faced, and this time 
Victorias got it and sent it towards our goal. Clooney 
quickly returned it, and thus for some time the game 
went on, the puck now near one goal, now near the 
other, but never in dangerous proximity to either. 
It soon became apparent that the teams were about 
evenly matched, and that the stayers would win. 
Charley Smithson was playing half-back, a position 
which he did not usually hold, but taken probably 
with a view to getting his tuque. He was one of 
those men who can play anywhere, and so determined 
were his rushes that he became an especial object of 
attention from our side. In those days, we played 
nine men to a-side, and not seven, as now, so that it 
was a most difficult matter for one man to get as far 
as “ point.” Long shots and combined attacks were 
most indulged in. Clooney was playing point for 
our side, that is, the goal-minder was the onlv man 
between him and the goal, and had not yet come into 
contact with Smithson. I was a little afraid what 
that conflict would result in when it came, for I knew 
that under Clooney’s quiet demeanour there simmered 
a -iiS fire ’ a ? d 1 also knew that Smithson, if fate 
steel ” them t0 be f06S ’ Was a “ foeman worthy of his 

t> JJ i U ^battle raged. Jim Coward and Andy 
r, oi e Vies., were continually worming their 
vaj roug our men, and tobying the puck from 
one to another. Yet, somehow, this dangerous corn- 
el 0 * TT - l0St the bal1 at the decisive moment, 
behind t ** l swiftly towards the Victorias’ goal 

man H3 kmS Stlck ’ ° r that of some other McGill 
w ' °, c 1S > perhaps, the most fatiguing of all 

fittle ’ T rfn 11 the , fonvards of both sides fell off a 
plav Win ° U i ly V but enou oh to let individual 
m pn 1 d 1 W0 f k ^ 0r points commence. The 
Victoria? 3?^ a11 bunched around the puck at the 
puck On mi 1 ’ a f d between our goal-minder and the 
was a auffik n7i St ° 0d a most alone * Suddenly there 
black obippi .ri? m 1 16 tkron g of players. A little 
and around th U1 jder their feet for a few yards, 

bolt came On f ed (f e -°[ tbe crowd > like a thunder- 
instant and h & ? uthson : He had the puck in an 

white ban dtp 7- °f men and the flutter of 

space hpH r ohiefs, he sped across the intervening 

rplalr e S h ™- Self and 0ur S° al > the rest of 

thatouTlalf!wr nS , at h “ heels - 11 ™ 

the forwards f • it’ ’i '°’ as duty bound were near 
lorwauls, tried to head him off. All hope, beyond 



1886.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



61 



that in our goal-minder, was centered in Clooney. 
The decisive moment had arrived, and, ignoring the 
shouts of friendly warning, he started forward to meet 
Smithson. Everything took place in half-a-minute 
or less, yet there had been time for the audience to 
shout itself hoarse, and then become perfectly silent, 
as the two captains were about to meet. Careless of 
Clooney’s presence, and seeing only the goal, Smith- 
son skated on, and ran full into Clooney. At the 
same time he turned very slightly to make his shot 
for the goal, and this turn was fatal for him. Clooney 
met him with his shoulder, and, though thrown 
several feet hack by the encounter, succeeded in up- 
setting Smithson altogether and flinging him heavily 
upon the ice. The puek, meanwhile, had slid aim- 
lessly on, and was easily stopped and returned by our 
goal-keeper. The return followed so quickly upon 
the encounter that the mass of the players had not 
time to stop and turn before it struck the side and 
rebounded past them. Clooney saw and seized his 
opportunity, darted through the skaters, and repeated 
for Victorias the act of Charley Smithson. He was 
followed up by Timkins, and instead of trying to 
pass the Victorias’ point with the puck, he sent it to 
Timkins, passed the point, and receiving the puck 
again, lifted it neatly into the air, and hurled it 
through the Victorias’ goal. Half-time was almost 
immediately called, and the McGill men thronged 
out upon the ice to congratulate and encourage 
our men for the work they had done and were 
to do. 

During the second half-hour luck did not alter. 
Cnarley and Clooney came oftener into contact, but 
the McGill goal remained unpassed. If Charley had 
played a team game, he might have succeeded in get- 
ting the ball through, that is, by passing it, for the 
decisive shot, to some one else ; but, though his tuque 
was forfeited, he still desired to win the game. I 
must confess that though Clooney defeated Smithson 
in the one particular, neither could claim to have had 
the advantage of the other when the match was over. 
Smithson carried his arm in a sling for a couple of 
days after the match, and Clooney used to waken me 
up at most unconscionable hours to put a wet cloth 
on his wounds, or rub arnica on them. Once, after 
rubbing away vigorously for half-an-hour, and taking 
a grim pleasure in hearing him groan, I found the 
lotion I had been using was not arnica, but Lemon 
Syrup. Clooney held a faculty meeting and sus- 
pended me after this, and cured himself. 

Time passed. It’s a way time has — as Artemus 
Ward says — and brought us into the Sessional Exami- 
nations. Do what I would, I never could get an 
opportunity to introduce Clooney to Miss Mayflower. 
In fact, I scarcely dared to try. From some words 
the young lady had dropped in the course of a con- 
versation I had with her shortly after the match, I 
gathered that she had not forgiven Clooney for the 
toss he gave Charley Smithson. Charley had, of 
course, and he and Clooney were quite good friends, 
although I knew that Clooney felt more than a twinge 
of jealousy now and again. Charley and I became 
very intimate also, and the bright, young business 
man would often run in on us for an evening’s fun. 



It was not until Charley let slip just enough to con- 
vince us that he did not care for Miss Mayflower, 
and did care for some one else, that we took him to 
our arms as a gentleman and a brother. 

Clooney had been very mournful for some time, 
and I feared that he was contemplating suicide or 
poetry, I did not know which. It may have been a 
novel that engaged his thoughts, for now and then 
scraps would drop out of his note book that bore 
strange and mysterious sentences. 

The Sessional Examinations came and passed, and 
we succeeded, though with difficulty, in following 
their example as to the latter. There were several sub- 
jects that gave us great anxiety. Mathematics has 
ever been my “"black animal,” to use a French- 
Anglicism ; I could run up a column of figures with 
any man, and give him odds in bringing out a differ- 
ent result every time. But as I got a good third- 
class, I did not grumble. In physics I got on better, 
and would have got the prize, only that in describing 
an optical experiment I forgot to light the candle I 
was suppositiously using, a neglect of great import- 
ance to the accuracy of the work — “ in fact, one of 
the essential points of the experiment,” as the pro- 
fessor afterwards confidentially assured me. Clooney 
couldn’t get the hang of his Greek, bnt crawled 
through his examination by the judicious introduc- 
tion of a few remarks on irregular verbs. 

As is usual at McGill, the students celebrated Con- 
vocation Day by attending the theatre in a body, 
with the intention of serenading the professors after- 
wards. In those days McGill seemed better organ- 
ized, and both at Convocation and theatre the humour 
and songs were apropos and well received. We were 
preceded by a gigantic Medical, carrying our standard, 
a battered mortar-board and a tattered gown on a pole, 
and woe to the bobby that dared to lay sacriligeous 
hands on either man or standard. He was picked off 
his feet before he could express his surprise, and 
passed along over the heads of the crowd like a log 
of wood, and dumped on the ground, in our wake, 
limp and breathless. Of course, the city was a little 
wilder in those days, and tolerated what would now 
bring the whole force of police and letter-writers upon 
us. We left the theatre at about twelve o’clock, and 
proceeded to serenade our professors. One of them 
was a timid, old bachelor, and after waking him with 
unearthly wails, we greeted his nervous appearance 
at the bedroom window with “ Bye, baby, bye, oh ! ’ 
and our old friend, Cutler, who, though usually tem- 
perate, had been celebrating his promotion to the 
senior year, cried out to him — 

“ Say, old feller (hie), hope you’ll be married next 
session.” 

The window went down with a bang, and after 
plugging the keyhole with putty, we passed on. Most 
of the professors received us well, and were well 
treated in return. 

It was about two o’clock when Clooney and I were 
once more homeward-bound along Sherbrooke street. 
Except for us, the street was deseited. We were 
passing a private house when Clooney stumbled over 
something lying on the sidewalk, and stooped to ex- 
amine it. It was a short crowbar. 



62 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



“ This is funny,” he said to me. “ What is this 
bar doing here 1 It looks like a jimmy.” 

“ We had, perhaps, better look round and see if 
any of these houses have been visited,” I replied. 

Without considering an instant, Clooney jumped 
over the low fence of the house, and approached the 
basement window. A slight push forced it open. 

“ Something is uj),” he whispered to me, excitedly. 
“People don’t leave their Avindows like this. Shall 
Ave waken up the folks 1 ” 

“Well, no,” I said, after some hesitation, “it may 
have been simple carelessness on the part of the 
household, and if Ave disturb them Ave may get more 
kicks than halfpence. We might Avait a little while 
in concealment to see if our friends, the burglars, 
come out, or one might Avatch Avhile the other gets a 
policeman. He Avould be authorized in Avakening 
up the folks.” 

(To be continued.) 



MENTAL SLAVERY AND MENTAL FREEDOM. 

III. 

Mental emancipation must be an individual’s OAvn 
Avork ; it is a liberty not to be achieved by one human 
being for another, by the many for the individual, 
•and still less by the individual for the multitude. It 
is not a Avork to be commenced by convening great 
meetings ; no banners, drums, or trumpets can herald 
its advance in the world. It is a AA r ork of internal 
Jibeiation. Mental freedom is not the mere castin" 
oil' Avith scorn what others venerate. It does not com 
sist in the simple belief or rejection of any tenet or 
dogma Avhatsoever; it depends on the principle upon 
Avhich that rejection or reception is formed — upon a 
sincere and heartfelt love of truth animatin'' the 
breast in every intellectual enquiry. There are°those 
who think themselves mentally free because they are 
very liberal in their censures upon others; lookin'* 
doAvn with scorn upon this as a prejudice, and that 
as an error, when, perhaps, there may be, at the same 
time, a large accumulation of gross and pernicious 
matter pressing heavily upon their own mental facul- 
ties, rendering them more enslaved than others at the 
very period when they are boasting of their perfect 
liberty It consists not in the adoption of any form 
° ° c ;‘ n S ua © e > f 01 ’ “ f ree speaking,” in the common 

“ free fttokto?” ’ Th 7 “° means * sure indi <*«on of 

nee thinking I here are many to whom we mmht 

well apply the language of Crabbe— 

“ They talk their minds ; we wish they’d mind their talk.” 

A deep and lasting love of truth is the first and 
most vita condition of intellectual liberty-a pnn 
ciple which leads its possessor to care little with whom 
he may agree or differ in opinion, in what his mind 
receives or rejects, but which simply takes truth^ for 
its guidmg-star, and folloAvs its course, Avithout any 
desire of pomp or show, in any path whatsoever into 
which it may lead. Rut combined with thTs loVe of 
luth there must also be constant diligence, which in 
fact, is the test of a love of truth T iftla nf 1 V 
he who makes no effort for attainment, “L'^o^ 



ever satisfied with any point at which he may have 
arrived. Freedom Avithout this ! Why, mind is 
Avanting to make up the completeness of the defini- 
tion. There must be mind as Aveli as liberty to form 
the conjunction, mental freedom. Without earnest 
diligence and toil in the acquisition of knowledge, 
freedom is but as the liberty of a straw, to show which 
Avay the Avind is blowing it ; but when there is this 
conjunction, then the noblest boon is conferred upon 
society, and the highest privilege enjoyed by the 
individual. 

I have endeavoured to work out a specimen of 
mental slavery. It Avas necessary to place the picture 
in strong relief — although, I trust, it Avas not untruly 
painted — and thus to shoAv, even in a conspicuous 
teacher, a man so celebrated as a moralist as Dr. John- 
son, the characteristics of mental slavery. If I were 

to select an instance of an extraordinary intellect 

extraordinary for its freedom — I know of no name in 
literary history to Avhich I should more readily point 
than that of John Milton, because his Avritings and 
course of life are very generally known. The Avhole 
career of that great man, his entire intellectual life, 
seems to me to consist in successive assertions of his 
mental freedom. Take him at the very commence- 
ment of his course in life, and Ave find him a youth 
at college, aspiring to the rank of a religious teacher, 
and regarding that as the noblest and most serviceable 
Avork in which he could be engaged. Yet, this in- 
genuous youth said to himself, “ I will not subscribe 
‘ slave ! ’ Dear as those prospects are to my heart, 
and singular as my conduct may appear AA r hen vieAved 
in contrast with the practice of others, yet here will 
I take my stand ; my conscience is my own, and I 
Avill not alloAv it to bend doAvn before the mandates 
of bishops, councils, or churches.” Milton saAv the 
taut) oi poetic composition ; he felt his oavu poAver 
ox embodying, even in the dramatic form, lessons of 
divine philosophy, Avhich should charm the listening 
cai. He produced — no doubt to the honour and 
aversion of his Puritanical friends and connexions — 

11s Masque of Comus, to tell to after ages, that Avhilst 
those about him were endeavouring to ovenvhelm all 
u, A\as graceful and beautiful in the amusements 
am enjoyments of the people, he, in his own freedom 
o ought, burst through their prejudices, triumphed 
ovei o ei difficulties and obstacles, and embodied 
practically his own sense of the worth of beauty and 
tue grace of humanity, as Avell as the value of religious 
ie qi < i° m p ari( ^ ^ le rights of conscience. 

• f i!° dle l n ' ess , as the best security for 

in e ec ual liberty in individuals, Avas one of the 
points which Milton endeavoured to establish. While 
a s long mind may work its own Avay, there can be 
uo doubt of its being affected, and that powerfully, 
<lwr.ii 6 .atmospliere of the region in Avhich it 

nf vrn > la } 1S lornied the press, and the object 
< . i on3 ^ r ? 0 T a (jlitica Avas to show that no such 
obstacle as that of a censor or licenser ought to inter- 

attpnf 6 ' U ’x ,U <■/ 16 s P ecu larions of the author and the 
attention of the world. In one part of that work he 
bays : — 

man Ic fl?« C \ a | U1 ‘ 1 kill il man as kill a good book ; who kills a 
man, kills a reasonable creature-God’s image ; but he who 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



63 



188 G.] 



destroys a good book, kills reason itself — kills the image of God, 
as it were, in the eye. Many a man lives a burden to the 
earth ; but a good book is the precious life-blood of a master- 
spirit, embalmed and treasured up on purpose to a life beyond 

Milton pleaded in vain to “ the lords and com- 
mons,” then under sectarian influence. Notwith- 
standing his mighty protest, they sanctioned the 
censorship. But, perhaps, a more remarkable triumph 
than that of convincing the legislature was in store 
for him ; for it is recorded that, at no very great 
distance of time, the influence of his Areopagitica was 
such as to convince the very licenser himself, and 
cause him to throw up his functions, declaring that 
he would no longer be concerned in a work so mis- 
chievous and wicked — he retired from his situation 
for very shame. Perhaps, under the circumstances, 
as a successor was not appointed, to the many laurels 
Milton won as the poet of Paradise Lost and de- 
fender of the people of England, must be added that 
of being practically the abolisher of the censorship of 
the press 

Together with the works which should more and 
more abound, in a country enjoying a free press, it is 
also desirable, as an external means of cherishing 
mental freedom, that there should be an opportunity 
for practical observation to a greater extent than is 
commonly found. We are divided too much into 
classes — marked and ticketed. There are several 
descriptions of mind : such as a working-class mind, 
a trading-class mind, an aristocratical mind, a literary 
mind, and a clerical mind. Men’s minds are judged 
as you look at the uniform worn by a soldier to ascer- 
tain to what regiment he belongs, and under what 
captain he serves ; and you forthwith are led into the 
man’s thoughts, opinions, motives, and purposes. 
Thought will never be what the interest of nature 
requires until this practice is, in some measure, broken 
down, and we use the best means within our reach, 
and familiarise ourselves with the feelings of those 
Avho belong to other classes, trace their modes of 
thought, ascertain the principles upon which their 
characters are formed, have somewhat of a metempsy- 
chosis with them, by which our minds pass into theirs, 
as we hope theirs would into ours, eliciting thereby 
more of the common principles of the universal 
human mind. 

Mental liberty tends to the advancement of every 
other kind of freedom. The mind, once accustomed 
to test things by truth, reality, and utility, will not 
easily bend before any conventionalism, however long 
it may have been consecrated. It will be for putting 
these old productions into the crucible, for the pur- 
pose of seeing of what metal they arc made, and 
separating the gold from the dross. As this disposi- 
tion spreads, the people are on the high road towards 
the reform of whatever is oppressive in their institu- 
tions, and the formation of such as are free. It is 
from within that the power ever comes. Look at 
some of the poorest, as they seem, of nature’s produc- 
tions. Mark how the shell-fish renews its coat of 
mail, its means of defence ; it is from within, not 
from without. In the same way the human mind 
derives its strength and defence. But although it 



originates within, it does not stop there, but develops 
itself externally, producing visible results, which the 
world may contemplate. Any great number of well- 
trained, boldly-exercised, truth-speaking minds, would 
soon compel reform in any institutions which derived 
their chief strength from the prejudices or interests 
of privileged classes. Here is the worth of general 
education, of such a training as gives the intellect a 
chance, stimulates it to freedom, and administers 
wholesome and sound nutriment whereon to feed. 

Such is my faith in the power of mental freedom, 
that I regard its promotion as the worthiest object to 
which the continuous labours of a life can be directed. 
Whatever my opinions may be, either theologically 
or politically, there is one thing Avhich I prize more 
dearly, and would labour with greater earnestness for 
its promotion in the world — and that is, mental free- 
dom. In claiming freedom of thought and speech, I 
am not demanding for myself that which I would not 
willingly — I will not say concede to others ; for it is 
what 1 call upon every one to assert and enjoy for 
themselves. I am anxious that they should think; 
comparatively, I do not care whether they come to 
the same opinions as I do, or to views diametrically 
opposite; I care not for opinions ; my sympathy is 
less for any opinion whatever, however long or firmly 
I may have held it, than for the freedom which gives 
to opinions their individuality, worth, and power in 
the mind, and there makes them the elements of good 
in social life. This is the right which 1 Avould 
encourage all to exercise, comparatively regardless of 
consequences, so that I should stir up the honest love 
of liberty and truth. I feel no danger in such a 
mental freedom, and apprehend no evil results from 
its exercise, for I believe that the course of the human 
mind is like that of the eagle, and that, when un- 
shackled by restraint, and undeceived by appearances, 
it fixes an undazzled eye, and soars with an untiring 
wing, to Avar ds the great orb of truth. 

— H. M. 

AN UNLUCKY WOOER. 

BY “ CRANK. ” 

Written for the University Gazette. 

“ No, sir, you cannot marry my daughter. I have 
said that she shall marry no one who is not a chem- 
ist.” 

So spake professor Junebug to young Charley Sim- 
kins, who had just declared, in regulation style, his 
undying love for Minnie Junebug, the motherless 
daughter of the professor, and her deathless affection 
for him. Professor Junebug set it doAvn somewhat 
differently in his notebook that evening, treating the 
case as a scientific phenomenon. The entry Avas thus : 
“ Strange affinity. — The molecule C. S. being brought 
into the presence of M. J., they develop a strong at- 
traction for each other, resulting in the desire of the 
M. J. molecule to desert the Prof. J. crystal and unite 
Avith the C. S. molecule. Result by laAV of physics, 
coolness in the P.J.B. crystal, and great warmth and 
energy in the C. S. and M. J. molecules. Influence 



64 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



uf C. S. not yet strong enough to decompose the P. J. 
and M. J. compound.” 

“But, professor Junebug, if that is your sole objec- 
tion, I will become a chemist,” said Charley. 

“ So be it,” replied the professor. “ Become a 
chemist and do something great, and I will consider 
your request. I give you two years.” 

Charlie took professor Junebug at his word. In 
two years his name was widely known throughout the 
civilized world as that of an eminent chemist. He 
had made himself famous by a paper showing con- 
clusively that the primordial protoplasmic globule 
could be chemically prepared in the laboratory and 
endowed with life by means of 6,000 Grove batteries 
“ arranged in series.” He had not actually prepared 
this globule, nor had any one else after this method. 
Indeed, one man said he had followed every direction 
carefully and no amoeha had resulted ; but Charley 
satisfactorily demolished this agnostic in the eyes of 
Tyndalites and Huxleyists by replying that “ if the 
method hadn’t produced living matter it ought to have.” 

Triumphantly he sought professor Junebug, and 
demanded Minnie. But the professor demurred. 

“ You must spend some time in my laboratory, 
first,” he said, “ and then you may have her. He who 
will share my daughter with me must also partake of 
my labours.” 

Charley sighed. At this rate he would win the 
beautiful Minnie when both were gray-haired. 

Professor Junebug, like his namesake, had a hard 
case, but Charley’s sigh pierced into the soft nature 
below. 

“My lad.” he said, “I will do better than that. The 
properties of Nitrogen Chloride are not well known. 
Come and live with me, and as soon as you have pre- 
pared a good monograph on this explosive, settling 
disputed points, you shall have Minnie.” Then he 
added thoughtfully, “ that is, if you are not too much 
crippled.” 

Charley seized the offer eagerly. Was he not to 
dwell with his inamorata, and would she not nurse 
him through all his accidents 1 So he came to live 
with the professor. 

A shed some distance from the house was fitted up 
as a laboratory, and he set to work. He inserted a 
large flask containing chlorine over a vessel full of a 
solution of sal ammoniac, and collected the oily drops 
that resulted in leaden dishes. Taking one carefully 
he touched the Chloride with a feather dipped in tur- 
pentine. 



When restored to consciousness, and after his lef 
arm had been replaced in its socket, he wrote with 
hand trembling with joy the first memorandum of hi 
woilc: “Nitrogen Chloride explodes when touche 
with a feather dipped in turpentine.” 

, ^ da y s l a t er > when about once more, he triei 
the effect of heat upon the substance. 

This time he went through the roof and was rescue* 
with some difficulty from the bough of a tree standin 
about a hundred yards from the laboratory. The onl : 
result of this experiment was that his scalp was pei 
manently twisted half way round, and his appearanc 
consequently caused considerable comment, as th* 
paitmg in his hair ran from ear to ear. 



Professor Junebug had the roof repaired at his own 
expense. 

The memorandum of this experiment read : “ The 

projectile force of this explosive is considerable, and 
the peculiar effect upon my scalp shows that the ex- 
plosion imparts a gyratory motion to the projectile.” 

It now became necessary to examine the chloride 
optically. This experiment was very successful, 
Charley losing only two finger nails over it. The 
nails had finger attachments. About this time, the 
news of Charley’s researches having spread, the 
neighbours went to the sea-side and nine doctors 
moved in. They send schedules of wholesale rates to 
the professor. 

During all this time poor Minnie was naturally 
anxious, but she was her father’s child, and looked upon 
a slight accident in the cause of science as of little 
importance. She was beginning to think that, in 
spite of all his effort to rise, Charley was a little 
flighty. But she considered the provocation and for- 
gave him. 

Charley next had to investigate the effects of the 
Chloride upon the animal economy. He knew the 
effects of an external application, and was now desirous 
of discovering the result of an internal dose. He had 
a grudge against the professor’s cat and, enticing her 
into his laboratory, gave her a few drops of the Chlor- 
ide. He had previously nutralized one property of 
the Chloride, that of spontaneous combustion in pre- 
sence of organic matter, so that the cat did not dis- 
appear in a cloud of fur. After a reasonable time 
had elapsed without any result, he let the cat go, and 
she returned to the house. As was her custom of an 
afternoon, she got into the professor’s easy chair, and 
the professor accidentally sat upon her after he came in 
from lectures. 

A couple of carpenters sawed him out of the ceiling, 
after some trouble, but the cat and chair had vanished 
as completely as the ‘ wonderful one-hoss shay.’ 
Charley patiently swept up the dust in that room for 
some days after, but on the whole, his post mortem 
examination of the cat was unsatisfactory. 

The professor excused him from further labours in 
that line. 

Charley, meanwhile, had not been idle indoors. He 
had learned something from the Chloride of Nitrogen 
and made love with considerable warmth. Minnie 
pitied him in the position in which he was, and at last 
consented to elope with him at the end of the week. 
Ibis near realization of his hopes made Charley a little 
cai'eless in his experiments; and the result was, that 
on making an examination of the specific gravity of 
the fluid, which he found to be nearly 1 *653, it ex- 
ploded once more, and blew his left boot and stocking 
into the next county. Very carelessly, he had 
neglected to take his foot and leg out of said articles 
of attire. He regretted this, for though the whole 
nine physicians devoted themselves to him, he was 
unable to elope that week. However, he got an arti- 
ficial leg, and went on with his experiments. 

Minnie sought her father’s study and besought him 
to accept Charley’s apprenticeship as sufficient. But 
he was inexorable/ 

My dear child,” he replied, “the discoverer of this 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



65 



1886.] 



body lost an eye and three fingers through it, and 
Faraday and Sir Humphrey Davy were also severely 
injured in investigating its properties. The day when 
your lover goes, or is carried, before the American 
Association and proclaims, or has proclaimed for him, 
his discoveries, will be the happiest day of our lives.” 

The elopement had fallen through, and Charlie set 
to work doggedly to complete his monograph. One 
day he was blown through the window of a rather 
crusty old fellow, who felt considerably offended at the 
intrusion, but, as Charlie gave him the hand of fellow- 
ship, he could not be more than grumpy over the 
apology. He returned the hand next morning. It 
was the left. 

An artificial hand was procured, and the work went 
on. But Charley had lost heart. One day, while 
holding a tube of the Chloride up to the light, an ex- 
plosion occurred. When he came to, he was still 
standing as before, but felt a peculiar coldness about 
his head. A casual glance into a hand glass showed 
him that the top of his skull had been blown oft'. 
This frightened him for tjie first time, but, as he saw 
that his brain was still there, he concluded that he 
was safe. 

Minnie regretted the loss of his cranium, for she 
had begun to be proud of the part in his hair. No 
other girl’s fellow had it. Still, she consoled herself 
with the thought that she could unscrew the silver 
top and read his thoughts whenever she liked. 

Charley lost his lungs next. He couldn’t breathe 
for a while after the accident, but one of the neighbor- 
ing doctors grafted a few pieces of a cow’s breathing 
apparatus in, and he got on fairly well, barring a de- 
sire to low occasionally. 

Then he lost his other arm and leg, one after the 
other. Minnie nursed him successfully, but was be- 
ginning to be discouraged. She didn’t mind devoting 
part of him to science, but she did want to draw the 
line now. But the professor was not to be moved. 

Then came the grand finals. One day Minnie heard 
a terrific explosion in Charley’s laboratory, and, after 
waiting for a few minutes, as was her custom, to see 
if he would land anywhere within sight, she sought 
the laboratory with some misgivings. There, bending 
over the apparatus, she saw a figure. It looked a 
little slimmer and less substantial than Charley, but 
she recognized him and flung her arms around his 
neck. 

Her arms met over her own bosom, and she shrieked. 

“ Why, Charley, what is the matter V’ she cried ; “ I 
can’t feel you at all !” 

Charley smiled mournfully and replied, “Dear 
Minnie, that last explosion has blown me into space, 
and this is my space you see.” 

Minnie fainted. 



THE ABENAQUIS OF SILLERY. 

The memoir, of which the following is a translation, 
refers to the Abenaquis Indians of Sillery, and has 
lately been published in the third volume of the 
“ Collection de Manuscrits,” for which we are in- 
debted to the Hon. J. Blanchet, Provincial Secretary. 
The memoir is of interest, not only as showing the 



well-known zeal of the Jesuits for Indian converts, 
but also for the information which it contains of the 
Indian tribe, a remnant of which may still be seen at 
Sillery. The date assigned is 1742, but the signature 
is not given, although there is little doubt that it is 
from the pen of one of the heroic fathers : — 

“The Abenaquis Indians, of Sillery, near Quebec, 
have only been settled there for a few years. They 
dwelt formerly amongst the English, but not wishing 
to become involved in the war, which the greater part 
of the Indians of New England were carrying on 
against the English, they left their country to live 
amongst the French. 

They are great hunters, and bring in a large quan- 
tity of furs to the French. 

They also make large numbers of canoes, which are 
very well built and in general use, being highly 
necessary for voyages of peace or war, which could 
not be made in Canada, otherwise than in canoes. 

Their country, which they have left, is extremely 
fertile, and abounds in corn, in fruit, in game and in 
wild beasts, and trading is there very remunerative to 
them, because the English pay out their money with 
open hand. Sillery, on the contrary, is bereft of all 
the necessaries of life. Nor is there any good land on 
which to sow Indian corn, besides which the French 
sell their goods to the Indians at very high prices. 
From this it happens that the Abenaquis have always 
suffered from hunger and every kind of misery since 
they have been at Sillery. 

In this way a large number of those who had at 
first settled there, were obliged to return to their own 
country when peace had been made between the 
Indian nations of New England and the English. 

Those who remained at Sillery, when they had been 
instructed in the teaching and the principles of the 
faith of the Jesuit fathers, embraced Christ. Ani- 
mated with so much fervour that, not only did they 
resolve to rather suffer all sorts of inconveniences than 
to leave the only place where they could receive in- 
struction, but they also undertook to go in search of 
their relations in their own land that these, too, might 
share their happiness ; and these were so successful 
that their number has considerably increased. 
Up to this time about 200 came in three months of 
last year, and we hope to have settled at Sillery the 
whole Abenaquis nation, which is numerous. 

To assist them in their distress the Jesuit fathers 
have bought a piece of land opposite Sillery, where 
they will settle them. This land, however, is not yet 
cleared, and is covered with trees, with high under- 
brush, and it will cost considerable to clear. The In- 
dians cannot do this work, because amongst them there 
are few, except the women, who are employed in sow- 
ing and gathering the Indian corn, while the men are 
away hunting. 

The same Jesuit fathers, being unable to go to such 
great expense, felt in duty bound to represent to His 
Lordship, the Count de Maurepas, the advantages 
which the French colony would receive from this 
settlement, and how necessary it is to attach these 
Indians to the country by clearing the land for them, 
by furnishing the necessaries of life to the most desti- 
tute of them, and that for this purpose it will bo 



[ 1886 . 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



necessary to give them for several years a considerable 
amount in gifts. This would have a great eflect upon 
the rest of the Abenaquis, who are still in New Eng- 
land, who have always been friendly towards the 
French, and who are much inclined to embrace 
Christianity after the example of those at Sillery, who 
do not cease to urge them to come and dwell among 
them, and who could do so with still greater success, 
if they could take the presents from the Governor by 
which they would invite them here. 

This would also possibly attract numbers of other 
Indian nations, that are very numerous in New Eng- 
land, and who are dissatisfied under the English rule, 
because of the hard treatment which forced them ten 
or twelve years ago to make war on them. 

Besides this, they are all enemies of the Iroquois, 
and would gladly join the French in the war which 
they are about to enter on, and they would feel more 
secure from the insults of these same Iroquois in the 
French colony than in New England, where the Iro- 
quois frequently attacked them, without the English 
taking the trouble to defend them.” 



PflclBill ;Neuus. 



The medical male quartette sang dove-like melodies 
at the medical dinner, and are, in the words of a 
member of the same, “ a great success.” 

At a recent meeting of the class of ’87 in Arts, the 
following motion was passed ‘ That the class of ’87 
in Arts appear after Christmas, in and around the 
college buildings, in the full Academic Dress of 
Trencher and Gown.’ This movement, which has 
been simmering in Arts and Science for some time, 
has now come to a point. Other years — ‘go and do 
likewise.’ 

Mr. R. B. Henderson, ’87, went last week as a repre- 
sentative to Toronto Dinner. On the evening of his 
departure about thirty of his friends turned up at the 
college gates, and marched down in full college dress 
to the C.P.R. station, to give him a ‘send-off.’ The 
novelty of the Caps and Gowns attracted much atten- 
tion on the way through the streets. Mr. J. Kennedy, 
who was leaving by the same train, also received a cheer. 



Societies. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY 

At the meeting of this society held on Frida 
.N ovember 26th, over forty members were present. T1 
piano was on hand for the first time ; and the socie 
owes a debt of gratitude to Mr. N. N. Evans for aidii 
in the musical part of the programme. The reader 
the evening was Mr. Kinghorn. A song was then 
order to the call for which H. M. Patton respond* 
w.th Down among the Dead Men,” while Evai 

Pl !{ e <7™ ® ^ com P amrae nt. H. Pedley then follow* 
with My Bonnie he sang it very well, though 1 
is a theolog. ° 

Cameron, MacCallum and Quimby successful 



spoke on the affirmative side of “ Does Morality In- 
crease with Civilization?” J. Naismith, Pedley and 
A. W. Walsh, defended the negative. After songs 
by Kinghorn and Jamieson, Murray read his criticisms. 
The meeting adjourned to the piano. 

Members are requested to turn out in full force on 
December 1st, as it is the last meeting of the year, and 
much important business is to be transacted. 

The last meeting of the Society for this term was 
held on Friday, December, 3id. Several business 
items came up for discussion. The Piano is to be left 
in the care of the Special Committee. Next term is 
to be opened by a lecture from Dr. Murray. One of 
those attempts, too numerous of late, to suspend the 
constitution, failed. 

Mr. Deeks opened the programme with a reading 
of “ Curfew Must not Ring To night : ” his perform- 
ance was first-class, but the opinion of the society on 
his subject might be seen in the very frequent “Chest- 
nuts.” Mr. A. Childs followed with a recitation of 
“ The Heavy Brigade ” — his dramatic action completely 
veiled his words. Mr. H. Pedley was called from the 
chair to give a song. 

The debate was on the question : — “ Is Limited 
Monarchy the best form of government 1 ” Messrs. 
Nicholls, Warden and Colby, spoke on the affirmative, 
and Messrs. Brown, Truell, and Murray on the negative. 
Mr. Colby’s speech was the best of the evening; it 
showed a great deal of preparation and sound reason- 
ing ; it was rather heavy, as it treated the question 
from an abstract point of view. The affirmative 
carried their side. 

Those who favoured the introduction of a piano 
are congratulating themselves on the much increased 
attendance, evidently due to its attraction. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on Tuesday, 23rd 
November, in the Donalda Reading Room, twenty-six 
members being present. 

Miss Gairdner was elected Honorary member. The 
question, “ Has Music a greater influence than Paint- 
ing ? ” was then discussed. Misses Reid and Squire 
upholding the affirmative, Misses Evans and Ritchie, 
the negative. The meeting decided in favour of the 
negative. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

I he annual public address by the President, was 
delivered by Mr. R. C. Smith, in the William Molson 
Hall, on I riday, the 3rd instant. The attendance, 
considering the other attractions of the evening, was 
good, but Mr. Smith’s admirable paper, and well- 
known oratorical powers, deserved a full hall. The 
platform was occupied by the President, Mr. R. C. 
Smith, Sir William Dawson, and Messrs. Selkirk 
Cross, J. R. Murray, A. McGoun, jr., and R. Hender- 
at U kmith had chosen as his subject “ Myths and 

i lorals, but at the suggestion of some of his friends, 
v ho reared that the public would not go if they ex- 
pected a lecture on morals on a week day, dropped 
the latter part from the title, but not from his address. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



67 



He took up numerous ancient myths, shewed the 
origin and meaning of some, and their application to 
modern life, causing great amusement by many of his 
witty inferences and remarks, particularly, perhaps, 
when he failed to see why so much had been made of 
Orpheus’ musical powers, since rocks may be seen 
following perambulating musicians about any day in 
our own streets. Close attention to his remarks was 
evinced, and all were very much pleased with their 
evening’s instruction and entertainment. 



Y.M.C.A. BUILDING MATTERS. 

The amount of one thousand dollars, which it was 
proposed to raise among the students before the holi- 
days, is likely to be reached. The students in Arts 
and Applied Science, along with the theological 
students, have subscribed over $700. The canvass is 
now being proceeded with among the Medicals, with 
such success that, at the present time, about $900 is 
down on the list. The canvassers have met with a 
good reception on all sides, and a great degree of will- 
ingness to help in obtaining the building has been 
shown by almost all students hitherto approached. 
The Building Committee would express their thanks 
for the very liberal way in which a response has been 
made. The fact that those for whom the building 
will be erected, themselves, feel the desirability of its 
proposed advantages, encourages the Committee to 
press this scheme more earnestly upon the attention 
of the public. 

The Building Committee is now completed, with 
the exception of a representative from Applied 
Science, who will be chosen at the next meeting of 
the Committee. The Committee consists of fifteen, 
eleven of whom are students. For the two Univer- 
sity men, the Association has been very fortunate in 
securing two highly respected Professors, Dr. Harring- 
ton and Dr. Stewart. 

The two business men are Mr. Geo. A. Greene, of 
Greene & Sons, and Mr. Jas. W. Mills, of Mills & 
Hutchison. Tfie counsel and co operation of these 
four experienced gentlemen will be invaluable to the 
younger members of the Committee. 

The following are the names of the ten students of 
the Committee : S. E. Brown, Methodist Coll. ; John 
McDougall, B.A., Presbyterian ; N. P. Yates, B. A., 
Diocesan ; J. K. Unsworth, B. A., Congregational ; 
Jas. E. Le Rossignol, Arts ; J. R. Clouston, 0. H. 
Hubbard, G. G. Campbell, G. M. Campbell, B.A., and 
D. J. Evans, Medicine. 

The Committee will shortly approach the Board of 
Governors, in order to obtain their co-operation in the 
scheme, and a site or accommodation for the building. 
If they meet with the support they hope for, the mat- 
ter will be laid before the graduates and friends of the 
University after the New Year, and a vigorous can- 
vass commenced. 

The final report of the Building Committee of the 
Toronto Univ. Coll. Y.M.C.A., was handed in a few 
days ago. Two years ago the enterprise was begun, 
and now the Association possesses a handsome build- 
ing altogether free of debt. The total cost of the 
building was seven thousand five hundred dollars, 



which was provided for by the subscriptions, as fol- 
lows : Senate, $1,125; Faculty, $232 ; Undergra- 

duates, $879 ; Graduates, $1,384 ; Friends outside, 
$3,244. The furnishing, etc., was given by the ladies 
of Toronto. 



Sporting. 



The annual meeting of the McGill University Foot- 
ball Club was held in No. 1 Class Room, on Novem- 
ber 25th, Mr. R. E. Palmer, President, in the chair. 

After the minutes of the last annual meeting were 
adopted, the treasurer’s and secretary’s reports were 
read and accepted. 

The revised constitution, as drawn up on affiliation 
with the McGill University A. A ., was, after a few 
minor alterations, adopted. 

The meeting then proceeded to elect the officers for 
the ensuing year, with the following result : 

President — P. M. Robertson. 

Vice-President — C. H. McNutt. 

Captain, (1st 15) — A. E. J. Macdonnell. 
do (2nd 15) — Ogiivie. 

Treasurer — J. E. May. 

Secretary — W. J. Hamilton. 

Committee. — Medicine : Messrs. MacLean and 

Blanchard ; Arts — Messrs. Dunlop and Lucas ; 
Science — Drummond and Mattice ; Law — H. A. Bud- 
den, B.A. 



HOCKEY CLUB. 

The annual meeting of the Hockey Club was held 
in the Arts Building on Friday, Dec. 3rd. The officers 
for the ensuing year were elected. President, J. 
McCarthy ; Secretary - Treasurer, M. Lucas. Com- 
mittee — Messrs. McNutt, Science ; Holden, Arts ; and 
Wylde, Medicine. The meeting adjourned just as 
last year’s secretary-treasurer came on the scene. The 
president called the meeting to order again to allow 
of the reading of the minutes of the last annual meet- 
ing. 



Personals. 



Jack Elder, Medicine ’84, was in town last week, 
sporting a plug hat. For why] He’s married ! 

Green, Science ’82, was in the City last week, at- 
tending the Hockey Convention, a delegate from 
Ottawa. 

Cecil B. Smith, Science ’84, is now locating the 
Western Ontario Pacific Extension, from London to 
Chatham. He gives us taffy, and encloses a dollar. 
Thanks, Cecil ; we are proud of you. 

Colin Livingstone, Arts ’86, is lecturer in English 
language and literature, logic, rhetoric, and experi- 
mental chemistry, in the Gramercy Park Polytechnic 
Schools, New York. He has discarded high-water 
pants. 

G. Calder, Arts ’85, one of our distinguished grads., 
is a very prominent citizen of Aylmer, Que. Inter 



68 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



I 



<t!ia, he is Editor of the Lachute Watchman, Deputy 
i ’rothonotary and Clerk of the Circuit Court, Minister 
of Finance in the mock parliament, and occasionally 
leaches school. He is, in fact, the great Pooh-bah of 
the Ottawa Valley. 



A Burlington girl says 1 here is no truth in the say- 
ing “ Like father, like son.” She says she likes the 
son first rate, but she can’t bear the father. 

« ]yp a y i aspire to your hand ? ” asked a dude of a 
witty belle, who instantly replied, “ You may have 
the refusal of it, sir, for an indefinite period.” 



Between the Lectures. 



A QUEER LOVE SPELL. 

In search of knowledge 
He went to knowledge, 

• And there was so busy 

He often grew dusy ; 

His time was spent wholly 
Un deep studies wsolly ; 

He wouldn’t touch liquor 
And never would sniquor. 

He did his own sewing 
And wouldn’t go rewing ; 

He spent little money 
And never was foney ; 

His heart was like gneiss 
Until one day a gmeiss, 

Attractive and puisne, 

Just made him go luisne ; 

His love was as great 
Asa bird’s for its meat ; 

One morning he said, 

“ Sweet angel, let’s waid.” 

And she told him “ Your 
Love sickness I’ll cour ; 

Your heart mustn’t ache 
Any more for my sache ; 

So, as you may guess, 

My answer is ‘ Yuess.’ ” 

H. C. Dodge. 



Eyes are not eyes when cigar-smoke makes them 
water. 

A dead give away — The “ subject ” medical students 
get at a hospital. 

The man who was kicked out of a seaside resort was 
caught by the under toe. 

Size ain’t everything. A watch ticking can be heard 

farther than a bed ticking. 

° 

When a woman smiles from ear to ear it’s mean to 
say her mouth goes back on her. 

. \\ hen does a farmer act with great rudeness towards 
his corn ? When he pulls its ears. 

A piece of steel is a good deal like a man — when 
you get it red hot it loses its temper. 

It is curious that when a dog chases his tail, his tail, 
rhead 18 Certamly behind ’ should always keep a little 



fashion note— “All seams in the waists of stn 
dresses are whaleboned.” Those in the waists of sfi 
dresses are backboned. 

My daughter,” exclaimed a fashionable moth 
is innocence itself. You can’t say anything in 1 
presence that will make her blush.” 

We are a howling advocate for an equal diatributi 
of wealth. Will Henry George please send arou 
our share of that ten thousand dollars ? 



“Papa,” said a little five-year old, pointing to a 
turkey gobbler, strutting around in a neighbor’s yard, 
“ ain’t that red-nosed chicken got an awful big bustle ? ” 

A scientist has discovered a way to remove mustaches 
from the lips of ladies. No prudent lady should allow 
a mustache to stay on her lips more than a few seconds 
at a time. 

That Denver is in an encouraging condition of social 
advancement, is shown by the remark of a local danc- 
ing master, “ dancing in the bare feet at balls is no 
longer considered the correct thing in polite circles 
in this city.” 

A little boy asked his mother to talk to him and 
say something funny. “ How can 1 ? ” she exclaimed. 
“ Don’t you see I am busy baking these pies? ” “Well, 
you might say, * Charlie, won’t you have a pie ? ’ 
That would be funny for you.” 

Old lady (suffering from hiccoughs) to drug clerk — 
Young — man, I want to — get some liquor — 

Clerk (hastily) — Can’t do it, madam. You’ve had 
enough alrea — 

Old lady (frigidly) — Some liquorice. 

A couple of visitors from a rural district in the 
House gallery were trying to pick out their member 
on the floor. “ I can’t distinguish him,” said one, 
after a hopeless visual observation. “ Of course not,” 
was the honest reply, “he can’t even distinguish 
himself.” 

Prof, to Junior : — “ Were you ever in the earth’s 
shadow ? ” 

Junior. — “ Ho, sir.” 

Prof. — “ Where do you spend your nights ? ” 

The student did’nt say, but the class chaffed him 
all the same. 

Manager — AVhat is the meaning of this item for 
“ hardware, $50,” in your expense account? 

travelling man — Let me see. Hardware — hard- 
ware. Oh, yes ; that is for poker. I thought it better 
to tone it down a little by generalizing. It isn’t well 
to be too specific about some things. 

“ Maria, I wish you would keep still,” said Brown, 
trying to write. “ Your tongue is like Tennyson’s 
brook, it goes on forever.” 

“ Humph ! ” answered Mrs. B., indignantly. “ I 
suppose you think that’s a joke?” 

“ W ell, I meant it for a sort of a gag.” 

Tn Miss Edith’s school, the other day, the reading 
lesson contained some reference to “ a ferocious Gaul,” 
and, desiring to have the expression fully understood, 
she asked its meaning. There was a moment’s silence, 
when a bright boy arose and responded : “ Please, 

ma am, it means a terrible lot of cheek.” 

A cheeky Med. recently asked a theolog : “ What 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



69 



1886.] 



positive proof is there that King David and his son 
Solomon were tailors 1 ” “I do not know,” mildly 
replied the theolog. His interlocutor answered : 
“ And Solomon mended the breeches which David his 
father had made.” 

“ Why are we like angels’ visits 1 ” asked a pretty 
girl on a sofa to a bashful sophomore, who was sitting 
lonesomely on a chair at the other side of the room. 
“ Really,” he stammered and blushed, “ I must give 
it up. Why are we 1” “Because,” she said, “they 
are few and far between.” He destroyed the similarity 
almost instantly. 

It is said of A. McClure, the witty orthodox parson 
of Malden, that he was obliged to resign his pastorate 
in the Malden church because he read from the pulpit 
a notice for a meeting of the ladies exclusively in the 
Vestry thus: “On Wednesday all the old hens in 

this congregation will meet for the purpose of a general 
cackle ; no rooster will be admitted.” 



THE LATEST SCANDAL. 

Student (to Prof., who is in the habit of reading 
the morning paper while lecturing): “Would you 
please repeat the last clause, sir ? ” 

Professor (reading aloud) : “ The next witness 

called was Lady Campbell’s ser’ oh ! — ah ! — ah ! ” 

“ What did you say, sir?” 

We may remark that a full class attend these inter- 
esting lectures. 



LORETTA WAS ABOUT RIGHT. 

During the earthquake Loretta, Louis Yager’s well- 
known parrot, became alarmed at the din and flew 
into the street. She lit in the midst of a lot of house- 
hold goods, where a lady who had just been burned 
out was bemoaning her loss and crying : 

“ Oh, this is fearful ; this is dreadful.” 

Loretta appeared to feel that way too, but, owing 
to her somewhat limited vocabulary, she was not able 
to express herself with much variety of language. She 
perched herself on the lady’s shoulder and remarked, 
in a shrill voice that was heard above the roar of the 
flames and the cries of the firemen : “ Oh, oh, oh ; 
this is hell ; yes, you bet, this is nearly hell ! ! ! ” 

The lady immediately parted company with her pro- 
fane but earnest sympathizer. 



THE RELATIONS OF CONNECTICUT AND 

GEORGIA. 

“ Is there a gentleman from Georgia in this car 1 ” 
asked a stranger, thrusting his head through the door- 
way while the engine was taking on water at the 
tank. 

“ I am from Georgia,” replied a deep bass voice in 
the rear. 

“ Then will you be kind enough to lend me your 
corkscrew 1 ” There was a roar of laughter and a 
tinkle of chestnut gongs, through which the deep bass 
voice rose again : 



“ Why, certainly ! But will you please state first 
where you are from ? ” 

“ Connecticut, sir ! ” 

“ Connecticut f Then you must excuse me. I 
would never see my corkscrew again.” This time the 
roar of laughter was not accompanied by the voice ot 
the chestnut gong. And the deep bass villain, thrust- 
ing the cork jerker into his boot top, doubled his legs 
up under him and sat down with his hand on his hip 
pocket. 



HINTS TO FRESHMEN. 

[I purpose, in a series of timely papers, to impart 
a little necessary instruction to my new friends in the 
University, upon matters that intimately concern their 
welfare, remembering, as I do, how I should have 
appreciated a little of just such information, when I 
was a freshman myself.] 

I. 

HOW TO WIN AT POKER. 

I consider that any student of two months’ standing 
must be conversant with all the technique of the fes- 
tive game, and have thus entitled this article advised- 
ly “ How to win,” which is an accomplishment not so 
generally known. 

I. In the first place, bring your own pack of cards 
to the board, with the court cards slightly bent longi- 
tudinally. It is unnecessary to enlarge on the advan- 
tages of this rule. 

II. Never go in, when not dealing, unless with a 
pat hand, or when you have “ aged,” and then have 
them of a kind not smaller than jacks. 

III. Never discard until you have seen your draw. 
Then wait till no one is looking, to reject your useless 
cards. 

IV. When dealing, drop an ace on the floor and 
leave one on the bottom of the pack. If your right- 
hand player cuts the pack, replace the cards as they 
were before. The crowd of ‘ suckers’ you are playing 
with will never know the difference. On the draw, 
help yourself to your reserve ammunition, telling a 
funny story meanwhile to distract impertinent atten- 
tion. If some one is watching you rather closely, 
pick up the dropped card openly and announce a mis- 
deal. 

Y. Whenever a friend takes a large jack-pot, say : 
“ By jingo, old man, you’re in great luck ; let me 
count that pot.” Do so, and when passing over the 
blue chips, flip one or two up your sleeve. A little 
practice will make you perfect at this useful device. 
Do not take more than three chips from one pot. It 
is not necessary to make a hog of yourself, and if you 
follow out these rules carefully, you can afford to be 
generous. 

VI. Talk, freely about the liberal game you play, 
trust occasionally, and lend your victims money now 
and then on “gallateral segurity.” 

I have found the above code of rules extremely 
useful, and can cordially recommend them to any am- 
bitious student. An analytical comment on the system 
will be forwarded by the author on receipt of five 
dollars to pay postage. T. E. Goodwin. 



70 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886 



“ THE THREE TRAVELLERS.” 

BY H. M- PATTON. 

Three travellers one gloomy day 
Before an Inn by chance were met. 

From different lands their ways had come, 

To different lands their ways were set. 

The Englishman proposed, of course, 

They celebrate it, dine together, 

The Scot and Yankee both were pleased 
So well to pass the cheerless weather. 

They held their feast, and when the Scot 
Perceived that each had had hi3 fill, 

He cautiously proposed that they 
Should separately pay their bill. 

“ By no means so!” the Yankee said, 

“ I think I'll show a better way ! 

Whichever bear the oldest name 
His footing shall the others pay. ” 

“ I’m Alfred Eve,” the Briton said 
” Older than Eve ’twere hard to be !” 

44 I’m Adam Brown,” the Scot replied, 

44 ’Tis clear that you must pay for me.” 

The Yankee smiled, a smooth, sad smile, 

Just as in 44 poker ”* when one’s winning, 

Slow, from his pocket drew his card. 

And there was writ the name— B. Ginning. 

* As an Arts student I am supposed to be ignorant of the above, 
and therefore must explain that the information was obtained thro’ 
a Medical. 



College lHor(6. 



The Manitoba Medical College students have 
organized a football club. 

Rev. E. D. Eaton was installed as president of 
Beloit College, at Beloit, Wis., recently, and announced 
gifts of $10,000 to the college. 

An unknown donor has given $2000 to the Bursar 
of University College, Toronto, to found a scholarship 
in natural sciences to be called the “ Daniel Wilson.” 

Professor Whitney, of Yale, has been forced to 
abandon all his classes on account of growing ill-health, 
but hopes that a winter of rest will bring him around 
all right. 

In the inter-collegiate football game between Yale 
and Wesleyan, Yale won by a score of 136 to nothing, 
beating all previous inter-collegiate football records 
by fifty points. 

Rev. Dr. W illiam C. Roberts, a graduate of Prince- 
ton, Class of ’55, and a trustee of the College of New 
Jersey since 1866, has accepted the Presidency of 
Lake Forest University, near Chicago. 

Frederick Marquand presented Yale College with 
a $60,000 building for the use of the Yale Y.M.C.A. 
This building was dedicated a few aveeks ago, and is 
to be called Dwight Hall, after the President of the 
college. 

The folloAving college presidents accepted invi- 
tations to be present at the Harvard anniversary : 
Barnard, Columbia; Robinson, Brown; Adams, Cor- 
nell ; Gilman, John Hopkins ; McCosh, Princeton • 
Dwight, Yale; Seelye, Amherst; Carter, Williams' 
Capen, I ufts ; Pepper, Colby University, and Stuart! 
University of Virginia. 



GENERAL. 

Like the Postmaster- General, we are somewhat at 
a loss to decide upon the proper status of the Bishops’ 
College Medical Gazette, a sheet published by the 
students of the Faculty of Medicine of the University 
of Bishops’ College. We are not surprised that it took 
the Postmaster-General such a long time to decide 
Avhat this paper really was, for a more nondescript 
production it would be almost impossible to discover. 
Among the hundreds of exchanges which we receive 
from Colleges in every part of our own and other 
countries, ave find nothing to at all compare avith this 
little Medical Gazette, except one other little paper 
from a boys’ school in some remote hamlet in the back- 
avoods of Neav Brunsavick. But even the latter has 
some pretension to literary merit. We did not receive 
the first number of the Bishops’ Gazette, but the reason 
of this ave find in the leading editorial of the second 
number, noav before us — the managers of the paper 
omitted to attach the necessary postage stamp. It is 
really too bad that the Medical Gazette should not be 
classed as free matter, for as Lot is reported to have 
said to his avife — “ Jt is but a little one.” However, 
the Bishops’ Gazette hints that some other paper or 
papers are unjustly alloaved free delivery, and they 
are going to look this matter up. We hope the direc- 
tors of the University Gazette have not been bribing 
the post office officials. If they have, they avill noav 
most surely be exposed. 

The second of the leading articles consists of some 
remarks, in our opinion in very bad taste, concerning 
a certain surgical operation avhich avas not performed 
for the first time in the General Hospital, but ave pre- 
sume in some other hospital as far removed from the 
General as the West is from the East. We imagine 
no one avill be more disgusted at the patent puff con- 
tained in this item, than the medical gentlemen them- 
selves avhose names are mentioned. 

Stale and vulgar puns on Rhea’s name take up a 
large portion of the paper, avhile points of interroga- 
tion, inverted commas and jokes requiring explanation 
in brackets, are extremely frequent : Indeed, the jokes 
can be described as nothing less than evidences of 
hopeless imbecility. 

If an institution calling itself a University cannot 
publish a better paper than the Bishops' College 
Medical Gazette, our advice to the students is to refrain 
from entering the field of journalism at all, and thus 
save themselves from ridicule. 



THE MCGILL MEDICAL DINNER. 

“ Rah ! rah ! rah ! and a tiger !” 

These sounds, and the gentle strains of “ Sleep on 
thy pilloav, sleep on, sleep, sleep on thy,” &c., smote 
on the ears of the neighbouring boarders in the 
Windsor Hotel, on the night of Thursday, Dec. 2nd, 
and had, doubtless, a soothing effect in sending them 
to sleep on their pilloaa^s. 

. Ih® Medicals had turned out, and after performing 
vivisection on some oysters, and dissection on other 
viands, as avell as experimenting upon the equilibrium 
of fluids and the inhalation of the fumes of nicotiana 
tabacum, felt themselves able to tackle the lungs and 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



71 



administer doses of Nitrogen 4iij, Oxygen liij, mixed, 
and taken over coffee. 

Ihe dinner was excellent. The modest skeleton, 
with the empty soup plate, found itself repeated on 
the table. The guests were numerous, and the 
students, having laid the ghost of footing, most 
cordial towards one another. 

Among the guests were — Sir Win. Dawson, Sir 
Donald Smith, Dr. Anderson (American Consul), 
Richard White, Andrew Robertson, J. S. Hall, junr., 
M.P.P., Dr. Kennedy (of Bishop’s College), and 
representatives from Sister Faculties and Univer- 
sities, as well as the professors of our Faculties. 

The toasts were numerous, and necessitated the 
omission of the musical part of the programme shortly 
after the toasting began. However, when so many 
good speeches are made as were made that night, it 
might be said, perhaps, not that tho toast-list was too 
long, but that the time was too short. 

After the feasting, letters of regret were read from 
other invited guests, Sir John A. Macdonald, Lord 
Lansdowne, Mayor Beaugrand, Hugh McLennan, Dr. 
Osier, Dr. H. Arnott, Dr. McEachran, J. R. Dougall, 
W. T. Aikins, R. A. Ramsay, Judge Mackay, J. 
Hickson, M. H. Gault, Dr. Desrosiers, Dr. Browne, 
Justice Torrance, G. W. Stephens, Senator Ferrier, 
and Hon. E. Blake. 

“The Queen” and the “Governor-General” were 
fittingly honoured, and the “ Health of the President 
of tho United States ” followed. The proposer of 
this toast, Mr. A. E. Kirkpatrick, foretold a brilliant 
future for the United States, and stated that in 50 
years 180,000,000 people would elect a President, 
instead of 58,000,000, as at present. 

Dr. Anderson (American Consul) replied in a 
happy way, showing that the President was a true 
physician, since so many flocked to him for treat- 
ment, and endeavouring to secure a medicine of which 
there was only a small stock. An overdose, strange 
to say, never killed. 

“The Mayor and Corporation” was then proposed 
by Dr. Roddick, who proved how much united were 
this body with the medical students. The students 
not only assisted in laying water-pipes, but added to 
the fin(e)ances of the city to a certain extent. He 
hoped that if, as the Star says, no one but a French- 
man can again be Mayor, Mr. Beaugrand can be per- 
suaded to accept office ad infinitum. 

Mr. Richard White, Acting-Mayor, expressed the 
Mayor’s regret at being absent, and his appreciation 
of the honour done him. 

Mr. Lafleur proposed the toast of “ Our University.” 
He said that the growth of the university had been 
rapid and its scope extended to include four faculties 
and many branches of learning. Commercial centres 
are not always bad places for culture ; London and 
Berlin are examples, and Montreal might also be 
worthy of citation. McGill was known abroad and 
has entertained bodies of learned men. It has also 
sent away men to other colleges. Sir Wm. Dawson, in 
reply, began by expressing Senator Ferrier’s regret at 
being absent. He then went on to say that medicine 
was at once the oldest and youngest science, papyra of 
Egypt predating Abraham, having been found bearing 



formulae for cures. Arabia and Greece studied the 
Egyptian art, but in the middle ages it had sunk very 
low. Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood 
in 1 6 1 6, not very long ago. The students should appre- 
ciate the studies of to-day. Sir William looked forward 
to the time when a doctor in one province would be a 
doctor in all, indeed to a time when graduates of certain 
colleges would be recognized all over the British 
empire. 'There is at present too much “ trade unionism” 
by means of councils scattered over the Dominion. 
He drew the attention of the students to the fact that 
in a medical school associated with the university 
should be men of broad culture, men able to assist the 
intellect as well as the body, and concluded by telling 
the students that though he had been asked to speak 
for the University to-night, he look to them to speak 
for it at all times. 

Mr. J. G. McCarthy in a neat, forcible manner, pro- 
posed the toast of “ Our Benefactors.” Sir Donald 
Smith, in rising to reply, was loudly applauded. He 
said that the true benefactors were not those who gave 
their money, but those who gave their lives and talents 
to the work of ministering to the sick. The next toast, 
that of “ The Dean and Professors,” was proposed by 
Mr. Metcalfe, and replied to by Drs. Howard, Fenwick, 
MacDonald and Cameron. Dr. Howard said that the 
occasion made him feel young again and remember 
how thirty years ago he too was an undergraduate. If 
the founders of McGill could revisit it he felt they 
would be like another Van Winkle, so great has been 
the change. He hoped to see McGill some day so 
placed as to be able to endow chairs for men who are 
willing to resign a lucrative practice for the sake of 
scientific medicine. The next toast, “ Sister Univer- 
sities,” was responded to by Dr. Kennedy, of Bishops ; 
Mr. Galloway, of Toronto ; Mr. Philp, of Trinity ; Mr. 
Hay, of the Royal College, Kingston; Mr. Campbell, 
of Bishops, and by representatives from Laval and Vic- 
toria, whose speeches in French were well received. 

“ Our Hospitals ” was proposed by Mr. S. W. Boon, 
and was responded to by Mr. Andrew Robertson. 
The toast of “ The Graduates,” by C. J. Edgar, of the 
class of ’87, was replied to by Dr. Alloway, who showed 
from statistics how well McGill graduates w r ere appre- 
ciated throughout the world. The toast of the class 
of ’87, proposed by Dr. Geo. Ross, was responded to 
by J. A. Dickson. After the toast of the “ Freshmen” 
had been proposed by Dr. Mills, and responded to in 
a neat speech by Mr. G. M. Campbell, the assembly 
united in giving three cheers for the “Ladies” and 
“The Press” and dispersed, feeling that McGill 
Medical School had scored another success. The fol- 
lowing are the names of the officers of this, one of tho 
most successful dinners McGill has ever seen : Chair- 
man, Wm. Hall, ’87 ; 1st vice-chairman, W. F. Loucks, 
’87; 2nd vice-chairman, J. H. Bell, B.A., ’88; 3rd 
vice-chairman, W. J. Delaney, ’89 ; committee, J. D. 
Flagg, ’87 (chairman) ; hon. secretary, T. G. Roddick, 
M. 1). ; secretary, W. G. Stewart, B. A., ’88 ; treasurer, 
W. F. Loucks, ’87 ; R. P. Howard, M. D. ; G. P. Gird- 
wood, M. D. ; Wm. Gardner, M. D. ; T. W. Mills, M. 

D. ; J. C. Cameron, M. D. ; E. W. Gemmill, ’89 ; R. 

E. McKechnie, ’90 ; M. W. Murray, ’90 ; J. H. Bell, 
B. A., ’88. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



72 



ttorresponbence. 

TRENCHERS. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs : — The fourth year in Arts has decided 
to wear Trenchers as well as Gowns in and around 
the college buildings. Now that the proverbially 
difficult beginning has been made, it is time for the 
other years to follow. The movement, of which this 
is the result, is farspread, — not confined to the one 
year nor to the one faculty. The committee’s report 
on procuring Trenchers is already posted on the board. 

But are we to stop here? Now is the time to strike 
for a College uniform. If Trenchers and Gowns are 
worn in the buildings — why not to and from? 
Severity of the climate is urged : the gown is not im- 
plicated in this ; and as for the Trenchers — how many 
of us wear felt hats all winter ? — and Trenchers are 
warmer than felt hats. 

The Knickerbocker League and wearing of college 
ribbon are outcomes of the same tendency — to have 
some distinctive college badge. 

Just on account of the wearing of the caps and 
gowns, how much more effective was the turn-out to 
send-off Mr. Henderson. 

Looked at from whatever side, the public- wearing 
of our Academic Dress is desirable ; and I would call 
on all the other years in Arts and Science, and every 
student in either faculty to back up Arts ’87. 

Yours, 

An Agitator. 



THE IMIOlDIE^ISr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL, 



Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

^■NOVELTY IRON WORKS *♦ 

40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



o'srsT’riies all hovss. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 



Established 1 S.% 9 . 



HzEisrirsr IES. 

< Pff£ft.UftCEtPTIC&£, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 



The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
iLa Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 

plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock- 

lE^rerTT" pen iranteed. 

TT IH3_ GEAPTON <Ss SOISTS, 

Q52 St. James Street. 



BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, ... 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “ Hydro-1 hera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. C onvalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 



S. J. BRISSETTE JOS. COURTOIS. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

W HITE’S Laiti:, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Piper Makers, Piper Box Manufacturers, 



** BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.** 

♦ 

Spectal attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 



D. B, A. MACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor, 



SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

J>esit ?1 »oa and XSulIt to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 

-H{C 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



£3T 03115 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 

irargest Stocfi in Canada to Select fronts 

S UlTS^m 0 VERCOA TS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



ZBTJTT 3TOTTIR, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 



1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St, , cor . of Craig St. 

fffiue Confectionery, 

Bonbons and Chocolates 



PHILIPS SQUARE, 



yy 



MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS “? Moimtii Lipifls 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PR KP A RED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 






ARTISTICALLY 



^Engraved and Printed,*- 



— IN — 



RELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 



The Burl and Litho. Co., 



5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



MONTREAL, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ArVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET l FALCONER, 

AOVOGATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET 
2v£Oiq;TRE,&Jo. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Maciaster, Hdtchinson, Weir & McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

barristers, Solicitors, & c ., 

175 St. James St., Montreal . 



DONALD MACMASTKR, Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. W KIR, B.C.L. 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l. 



Chukch, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 



Hou. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. 
Hod. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST- J-^MES ST., 

(near the court house,) 

MONTREAL. 



BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

Fencing Foils, 

Masks, Are. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

Watson <Sc Felton, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 





Hairdressinj anil Shavini in the Latest Style, 



QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



PALMER’S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

BiTi0l)e^, Corqb^, $trop$, 

Perfuniefy, ctr\d ¥oilet 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST, 





THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

L i 

Engraving ^ Printing 

Company. 

160 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Gards, Grests, programmes, 
planograms, &c., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

elEWBLLiBI^Y § FANCY (HOODS. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

fine gold and silver jewellery. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

A SILVER WARE, CLOCKS, BRONZES, and 

Ly 6 OOD =>. suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations. 

OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites forlooT Ball, Lawn T knnis, and Cricket. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc,, etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3Q5 <£z GOT' St. Steeet, 



Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 
rES, 

SCALES. 



R 



GURNEY’S 



Relebrated 


Haw 


ATER 


■ ERTERS 


1 II 

1 4 Mi 
I 



—AND— 



Cast Bundy Bafliators. 




HotAir Furnaces 



— FOR— 



Coal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 



St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, { 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 
Manilla Paper, 



Hanging Paper, 

Brown Paper, 

Grey Paper, 

Straw Paper. 

Building Paper. 

Carpet Felt, 



Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes and TKT e5.gr2i.ts Made to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application . 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



Iff ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 amf 23 DeBresoles Street, HI out real. 

MANUFACTURERS of 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 

WORKS AT 

J, CORNWALL, ONT 
CiLPITiLL, - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, ( Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 




SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST. f 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

Freight and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T EAMS FURNISHED TO PARTIES GOING TO THE COUNTRY. Telephone NO. 738 . 

SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONC OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 
l'T’3 St J aines street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



“ QUEEN'S BLOCK,” 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St., 
Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

|mporbr$ mih ffmmfariuraV Jtgenls, 

821 Craig Street, 821 

MONTREAL. 

IE. A_. GERTH, 

IMPORTER OF 7 

•Me aiGr^!E5S JM- 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SDLTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr;y StvLd.e2a.ts ZLvTinztVLre. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $ 1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



THK GENUINE 

COOK’S Fkieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should he pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GREY NUN 8TUEET. 
IMPORTERS OF 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, 

Vent Linings, 

Flue Covers, 



Roman Cement, 

Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, 

Whiting, 

Plaster Paris, 
Portland Cement, Borax, * 

CHI1TA CLAT, cSccn <£ec. 



Fire Bricks, 
Fire Clay, 



Manufacturers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 




MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Oor. St Catherine St.. 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages^ Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
^ . . All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue. Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

a nd Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes • 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain • Snone-es’ 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’ ’ P ee8 ‘ 



C. ASHFORD’S 



IA LARCE S TOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 

TELEPHONE No. S80. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21. 2Ji & 23 St. Antoine Street. MONTREAL. 

T# H LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

[j? ' r Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 

Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No ChbmI 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GDODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now 0 P en . wherein will be found a LARfJE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of .VI ANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

SlIjIC JVItTID ITtTIR, ZE3I.ATS 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

~W~ . 2s/L. SAMUEL, 

Hatter and Furrier. 

1751 Notre Dame St . 



Cheap Book, Stationery, 

A. 1ST ID 

FANCY 6©0®g SH0®, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SOH], 

CELE2AX* FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 3{H- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

% 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For aIPkinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



