Vof. IX. 



JVo. 7. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Wednesday , January 20, 1886. 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials ... - 3-6 

Poetry 6 

Contributions 6-10 

Every Fortnight - 10-11 



PAGE. 

McGill News 11-13 

Societies 13-14 

Sporting 14 

Personals 14 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



188G. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 

HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




GreensMelfls, McCorkill, Gnerin & GreensMeMs, 

ADVOCATES, 

jlarmbrs, jFilarmnjs, jlnlittlars, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

DKOIITREAIi. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

- 2 

Merlsoii, lie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. James Street, 

IMrqXjTTREAJL. 

ATWATER & CROSS, 
^.flvocate^ IJarrRter^, (jommi^ioner^ &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

fparristevs, jloliritors, 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

A.. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMDS STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

zjvcozN'TiEaiE.A.ij. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 



Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CIT7 for McGILL COLLEGE DINNEES. 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. U-A-IMIIES ST. 

JflEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED IJV ART COURSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL ROOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & snppM at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 
-*-i’BEST ‘V.A.XjTTIEI IlsT TOWlTt-r- 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Tames Street, 

AKDSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

H3TT1T VOTTTU 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATH ERSTOINTS 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 }7olre T)e.rae 31. 



EUE C04TS, SAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGILL ” I4il»l»oii for Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



vol. ix.] McGill college, Montreal, January 20 ™, 1886. [No. 7 . 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President . 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Charles W. Hoare. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



NOTICE. 

Subscribers to the Gazette who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the Sec.- 
Treas., as this is the only method of having the un- 
avoidable mistakes and necessary imperfections of the 
mailing system rectified. 

Subscribers wishing to preserve their last year’s 
volume of the Gazette, may have them neatly bound 
in cloth, by Messrs. John Lovell & Son. with whom 
arrangements have been made to do the work, at a 
charge of fifty cents per volume. 



Editorials. 



THE STANDARD OF MATRICULATION. 

The reasons assigned for retaining the present low 
standard of matriculation in Arts are sufficiently 
weighty to demand that the matter should be given 
grave consideration before a decision to raise it is 



made. What that decision will ultimately be there can 
exist no doubt. But it is well to know what the im- 
mediate probable and possible consequences may be 
of demanding wider and more extensive knowledge 
on the part of matriculants. A certain number of 
students from this Province, whose training in the 
lower schools is defective, and whose opportunities 
for private study are very limited, would be debarred 
from coming to the University at all. The number 
of students who would be thus temporarily shut out 
is stated by some as large ; an examination of the 
class lists will show that the number is smaller than 
generally supposed. However, whether few or many, 
it is evidently a primary duty for McGill to provide 
means of higher education for the youth of this part 
of Canada ; if to do this the standard required for ad- 
mission has to be placed ridiculously low, evidently 
reform is needed in the preparatory schools. Should 
the College wait until such improvement is made ? 
Surely not. So long as little work is demanded, so 
long will students come to the University ill-prepared, 
often quite ungrounded in some branches of elemen- 
tary knowledge. This is the natural outcome of 
placing matriculation requirements at a temptingly 
easy standard, thereby attracting students who will 
never do themselves or the College much good, and 
who had better stay away. The tendency at present 
is to encourage young men to take an Arts degree, by 
placing within their means and abilities, however 
narrow these may be, all the prestige which is con- 
ferred by University training, without the substantial 
benefits that ought to be inseparable from it. Let it 
be remembered that the loss of students will only last 
a session or two, if that long. 

Another consequence will be a readjustment of the 
work done in the first and second years, and this will 
entail some trouble, and be attended, perhaps, with 
extra labour to the professors. But our professors 
have never been found obstructing reforms because 
they would require to work harder, and, therefore, 
neither shall we stop to consider this objection. We 
believe that so long as McGill continues to admit 
students practically without examination, the country 
academies and schools will never improve their own 
curricula. Why should they indeed On the other 
hand, these schools will immediately reform if they 
find that their pupils, desirous of entering professions 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



are excluded by McGill’s high standard. By the 
present system men, sometimes quite unfitted for col- 
lege, are admitted, and await the first Christmas ex- 
amination with trepidation. They go down before it, 
and here is the real matriculation, say the defenders 
of the status quo . But these students are already re- 
gistered undergraduates, we reply, they usually re- 
main in the college, retard the work of the classes, 
and conscientious or not, are compelled to resort to 
cramming in order to pass future examinations. These 
ill-prepared students can explain many of the exist- 
ent evils of our methods of education — cramming, ab- 
soluteism of written examinations as a test, etc. — and 
what is most lamentable, such students cannot be held 
responsible for any one of these evils. It is the sys- 
tem which is at fault. 

Look at our own Medical Faculty. Its regulations 
are most stringent; candidates are rejected with un- 
compromising sternness, even at their final examina- 
tions. Yet, what do we find? That the number of 
students is constantly increasing, that its reputation 
has become continental, that unsuccessful candidates 
come back again and again, in spite of heavy expenses, 
to obtain a degree from a school which has so justly 
acquired celebrity. 

The proposal, therefore, to raise the standard of 
matriculation, and, consequently, to improve in gene- 
ral the whole Arts course, may seem too radical ; but 
the results in other Universities and another Faculty 
of our own University point to the change being worth 
the risk. 

THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

Among the questions which are to receive particular 
attention at the approaching meeting of the Corpora- 
tion of the University we understand that the present 
condition of the Law Faculty, and how it may be im- 
proved, will have a prominent place. This meeting 
of Corporation will be a most important one, and we 
sincerely hope that the discussion upon this and the 
other most important subjects to be considered will 
quickly lead to practical and beneficial results. At 
the meeting of the Graduates Society to be held on 
Saturday some of these matters will receive attention, 
and it is the duty of every member to be present on 
that occasion and thus enable the Representative Fel- 
lows to speak in Corporation backed by the opinion 
and voice of the great body of Graduates. It is by 
no mere coincidence that this meeting of the Society 
takes place a few days before that of the Corporation ; 
it has-been arranged with a wise purpose, and we con- 
gratulate the Executive Committee upon their fore- 
sight. We suggest, if we may be permitted to do so, 



that another meeting be called in a short time to hear 
from the mouths of our Representative Fellows the 
result of their endeavours in the Corporation. It is 
only by thus keeping touch with their constituents 
that the Representative Fellows can ever hope to 
effect much. 

Our remarks on the Faculty of Law in last issue 
have, of course, so far not had much effect. The re- 
sult of improving the attendance at lectures, and 
giving a momentary fillip to the Professors was of 
course obviously to be expected. But what we look 
for is a permanent improvement not to be obtained 
without a radical re-organization. Those inclined to 
adopt a laissez-faire policy must be asked to resign 
from the Faculty at no matter what cost and their 
positions filled by more energetic if less well-known 
men. There has been too much pessimism rampant 
for a healthy condition. It is to be hoped that the 
Corporation will take the matter thoroughly in hand, 
and not be talked over by those whom it may suit to say 
that the Faculty is just as it has been for years, and 
that nothing better is ever to be expected. The reso- 
lutions with regard to the Faculty of Law to be pre- 
sented to the Graduates’ Society on Saturaday will 
embody, we believe, almost exactly what we have 
advocated in these columns. 



VALEDICTORIES. 

A correspondent in the States writes asking if the 
Gazette publishes the valedictory addresses read at 
Convocations, and our reply is that summaries only 
of these addresses are usually published. The words 
of the professor chosen to address the graduating 
classes are generally printed, not from any desire to 
pass over the students’ efforts, but, because the latter 
are not often willing to see their effusions in print. 
In these days and at our University, the task of the 
writer of a valedictory is a thankless one. The area 
to be traversed is limited enough in all conscience, 
but the powers that be, not content wth the restric- 
tions naturally imposed by the occasion itself, are 
quick to resent the slightest deviation from the pre- 
scribed rules. We do not refer to departures from 
respectful utterances alone, although on this point an 
undue sensitiveness seems to have been developed by 
the authorities extending to a positive distaste for 
independence of thought or language. But we believe 
that the institution is rapidly degenerating — if that 
stage has not already been reached — into a sort of 
valedictory mill, and the appointed performer is ex- 
pected merely to turn the crank. 

Now, if the custom is worth preserving, as we 
believe it is, why not permit the writer sufficient 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



latitude to ensure an occasional fresh idea finding its 
way into an otherwise wholly uninteresting collection 
of commonplaces. Public opinion is very long-suffer- 
ing, as the Faculty is very well aware, hut there is 
a limit to its patience, and to treat audiences that 
attend Convocations, year after year to an enforced 
repetition of unmitigated twaddle is a dangerous in- 
dulgence in arbitrary power. Is it reasonable to expect 
that young men, rashly radical as they sometimes may 
be, will say anything worth listening to when they 
are subject to a censorship so strict, that it excludes a 
free expression of the main opinions of classmates 
who have confidently chosen their representatives? 
As the vigorous minded Mrs. Poyser in “ Adam Bede” 
said, life would not he worth living if one had always 
to he kept corked-up, and only allowed to dribble out 
one’s opinions on the sly like a leaky barrel. 

Ridiculous self-assertion will recoil upon itself. 
The anxiety to preserve the young spokesman of his 
fellow graduates, from the consequences of his own 
rashness and folly, by checking the pace of his youth- 
ful Pegasus to a stumbling walk, may arise from a 
watchful and kindly regard. Those possessed of the 
intelligence of even a dodo have always doubted that 
sort of sympathy. 

In these times the divine right of kings and other 
authorities to govern wrong, is questioned without 
hesitation, and the influence of the outside world, 
ofttimes alters the policy in little matters of the most 
respected and dignified bodies. The contention in 
the present instance is reasonable enough. Were 
the privilege demanded a great one, too much might 
he involved in the granting of it. Time will show 
whether its very smallness is sufficient ground upon 
which to refuse it. 



DESULTORY READING. 

The students of Edinburgh University were recent- 
ly treated to a discourse by Lord Iddesleigh, their 
Lord Rector, devoted mainly to the uses and abuses 
of desultory reading. Much of the advice which he 
gave his hearers has been given before, and the 
maxims and wise saws on this subject which are so 
frequently poured into the inattentive ears of the 
rising generation were once more brought into requisi- 
tion. But, on the whole, his lordship was kind to 
the desultory reader, mindful, perhaps, that like many 
of his class he has been a sinner in the matter him- 
self. From the cares of statecraft we may imagine 
him to have often turned to his library as a solace, 
free to follow the bent of his literary inclinations. It 
is reasonable to admit that a certain amount of mis- 
cellaneous reading even of a light character is good 



in so far as it serves to relieve the mental strain 
brought about by hard study. This much may he 
granted, hut it is dangerous doctrine to preach, for 
the average student is never slow to avail himself of 
the privilege. To he just to Lord Iddesleigh, how- 
ever, he seems to desire desultory reading pursued 
with some method, paradoxical as this may sound. 
Evidently he would like to condemn the practice, hut 
the memory of past pleasure is too strong for him. 

Now, the tendency to become a hookworm is so 
slight in these days, while the temptation to devour 
hooks indiscriminately without regard either to their 
character or the digestion of their contents, is so 
strong, that whatever advice is necessary is, in our 
opinion, that which frowns upon the indulgence of 
ill-regulated tastes and habits. The time consumed 
in cursory glances at hooks may not he utterly lost ; 
aptness in quotation may deceive the unthinking 
multitude into believing that here we have a widely- 
read man, but the judgment of persons whose good 
opinion is worth having will he otherwise, and even 
the man himself when he seriously reflects upon the 
results of his sciolism, will confess that his more 
deeply if less widely read neighbour reaps more prac- 
tical benefits from his knowledge than he. The one 
is a thinker, and will originate something ; the other 
can go no farther than his tether will permit him. 

All this is, of course, well-trodden ground ,but we 
are led to it from having met with students in our 
own university whose excuses for random reading 
were very plausible. One student whose active and 
bright intelligence had been confined during the 
elementary part of his education to a limited range of 
reading, on finding himself with more spare time at 
once plunged into novel-reading, and proceeded to 
make himself familiar with the great novelists. By 
the end of his second year he had read the works 
of Scott, Lytton, Dickens, Thackeray and George 
Eliot, with of course other authors, not novelists. To 
the charge of going in for too much light reading, 
he replied ingeniously that a man must know these 
writers at some period of his life and that in their 
works was embodied the deepest study of the human 
heart. These and other arguments commonly adduced 
in favour of the novel reading habits of students con- 
stituted his defence. The point to be noted is that 
students do not usually read fiction except for plea- 
surable entertainment. One may hesitate before ad- 
vising them not to read the works of the master 
artists of fiction, hut anything like attempting complete 
acquaintance say with even Scott, if not acquired by 
accidental circumstances, is certainly to he deprecated* 
This may appear treason to the professional critic, to 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



the litterateur ; from the experience of the ordinary 
individual in this very, perhaps too, practical land, it 
is sound common sense. The fate of misdirected 
energy is liable to overtake those who for the sake of 
ha PPy allusions in their speeches or essays emulate 
the example of the unhappy young man whom Mr. 
Lowell satirizes as, 



Contributions. 



A reading machine ever wound up and going 
He mastered whatever was not worth the knowing. 

Another illusion so seductively presented in our 
numerous reading-rooms, libraries, and clubs calls for 
a warning also. We must keep up with contemporary 
literature is the cry. Wait, do not he too eager. If 
you are studying up some question of the day, th e 
latest review will certainly aid you, will conveniently 
give the results of some one else’s labour in the same 
direction, but better still, get the elements of the 
subject under consideration where the writers in the 
magazines got them, and work it out for yourself. In 
general, much of periodical literature may safely be 
neglected, and the cultivation of the power of know- 
ing what not to read will be found of great value at 
every stage of life. 



Poetry. 



[for the gazette.] 



HORiE HORATION.E. 

BOOK III. : ODE XIII. 

B a ndusian Spring, as crystal clear, 

a 1 • j x wcrs thy due, and pleasant wine, 

A k ! d to-morrow shall bo thine, 

Whose horns just budding forth appear. 

Portending love and strife. In vain ! 

Spring from a wanton flock, his blood 
Ihe ice-cold current of the flood 
ibrelong with crimson hue shall stain. 

The blazing dog-star’s scorching heat 

Doth touch thee not. Oh, grateful thou 
,£°, °* er ? weary of the plough, 

And the faint herd with wand’ring feet. 

Thou, too, ennobled shalt be found 

fountains, when I sing 

Frmlhii a ^ lng n I s downward spring 
* rom hollow crags by ilex crowned. S 

BOOK III. : ODE XVIII. 

0 Faun us of the wood-nymphs coy 
rr j 1 ?. , lo , ver > through my sunny farm 

Tread lightly, and, bestowing joy, 

My nurslings shield from harm ! 

So shall a kid his life-blood pour 

- ft a k cl “ y ea r thee : Love’s mate, the bowl 

Shall brim with wine-an altar hoar 
Its fragrant smoke shall roll. 

The w e hl S i n verdant pastures play. 

T , 'y^n thy December Nones appear: 

Camlet, too, makes holiday. 

With many an idle steer. 

’"^wolves the fearless lambkin bleats- 
The hateful ground in glee. 

Geo. Murray. 



DUELLING IN EUROPE. 

The time when duelling was countenanced is this 
country may be easily called to mind by many who 
can hardly yet he called old, and doubtless many of 
the readers of this paper have had friends or relations 
who at some time have seen fit to uphold their honour 
by a duel, but now we have come to look on the custom 
as something utter incompatible with modern ideas of 
justice. 

Nearly all other civilized and uncivilized nations of 
the world are of a very different opinion, for the prac- 
tice has at the present day a deep firm hold among all 
but English-speaking peoples. Itis true that in most 
countries there are laws against it, but they are so 
rarely enforced and so easily evaded that it is evident 
to all that in this case the law makers sympathise with 
the law breakers. In fact the authorities merely re- 
quire that the thing be done privately and according 
to the rules which regulate affairs of honour, and these 
conditions being complied with there is no danger of 
any serious punishment even if the result be fatal. 

In Germany, France, Holland, Denmark, Italy, 
Austria, Spain and Russia any man may find himself 
obliged to fight or be looked down upon as a coward 
for ever after, and perhaps be ignominously turned 
out of any society to which he may belong. In the 
case of an officer in any of the standing armies refusing 
to fight when the court of honour decides he ought, 
he loses his commission and is obliged to give up his 
career for ever. 

P^ ticu . larl 7 ain ong military and university men 
that duelling is most prevalent and it is practise to an 
extent of which most people in this country have little 
1 5 ) e ?" 7 ? ) ^ eara g°°d deal about the encounters in the 
ois de Boulogne , and also of the way in which Ger- 
man students tight all padded in leather, and we are 
isposed to look upon the duelling of the present day 
as a very farcical affair. But those who have lived for 
any ength of time abroad know that there is quite as 
much tragedy as farce to be seen on the duelling 
oioun m Europe to-day, for among the German and 
bclavish nations, very bloody and fatal encounters 
with sword and pistol are not at all uncommon. They 
are most frequent among the Poles, Hungarians and 
£rr A bu { . are ^mmon enough among Germans 
Fiance Austm and Gei 'many, and often occur in 

nf last ‘? amed country, however, the character 

seauenee^f ^ W SOlt ° f sa *®S u * rd against fatal con- 
fer 1,1, ,n,i ’ ° r ai j e not vindictive and their desire 
imer! a ii? Uay /r° derates vei 7 considerably in the 
swords Th ^ 6n t le (luarrel and the crossing of the 
use the mS' ? is unimpeachable and they 

their ™ ^ n i dead i? 1 eapon known to duellists, but 
muchharm * ^ ehm dc rs them from doing each other 
fi'dit in riodit ^ i S ° the Gei- mans or Sclavs. They 
best to rnafp h ? ° d earnest alwa y s - each man does his 

different 'cnimh^ S°vern duelling vary very much in 
oun tries and the weapons used vary still 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



more. In France the fleuret is universal while the 
pistol and sabre are rarely to be seen. Among students 
and literary men duels are very common and may be 
considered as a harmless amusement. Among officers 
they are also frequent but almost always serious affairs, 
and often end in the death of one or both of the 
antagonists. Fencing is part of their education, but 
nevertheless they seem to have a strong liking for 
pistols at short range, and these latter will doubt- 
less become more common soon. 

In Poland and Hungary they use pistols and 
curved sabres, and a duel which does not terminate 
fatally or very seriously is an exception. The 
number and fierceness of these encounters is truly 
startling. The people are as excitable as the French, 
quite as brave and ten times as determined and vindic- 
tive. They fight for the pure love of fighting very 
often, and such characters as was “Fighting Fitzgerald” 
are quite common. The following incident may serve 
to illustrate what I say : 

A number of students were sitting drinking beer in 
a famous Bierhalle, in Vienna, when a Pole whom I 
knew slightly joined them, being introduced to the 
majority of those present by a friend. One of the 
students did not like the way in which the Pole looked 
at him, and promptly challenged him to fight a duel 
with sabres. The Pole refused, saying he had not 
meant to offend him in any way, nor had he been 
offended himself, and moreover he did not wish to 
fight with a man whom he had seen for the first time 
only five minutes before. The other said that if he 
wished for provocation he would be happy to insult 
him on the spot, whereupon the Pole remarked that 
he answered insults with his fist. 

This was considered quite sufficient to warrant a 
recourse to sabres and they met early next morning. 

The Austrian was an excellent fencer but he met 
his master in the Pole, who, at the expense of what he 
was pleased to term a scratch, across the chest, laid 
his opponent’s abdomen open inside of five minutes. 

Such scenes are constantly occurring and are par- 
ticularly common in and about Krakau and Lemberg. 
The encounters are not regulated by strict laws as to 
duration, etc., and they fight to a finish every time. 

Among the Germans duelling has been reduced as 
nearly as possible to an exact science. They like to 
see everything regulated by precise laws and the rules 
which must be adhered to when a duel is fought are 
many in number and very complicated. I would not 
attempt to enumerate them even if I could, and shall 
only give an idea of the ways in which duels are ac- 
tually fought. 

First of all there is the “ Schlaegermensur” of which 
we so often hear. The weapons used are light swords 
with straight blades sharpened on both sides near the 
point. The men stand facing each other with the 
weapons held high above their heads and slanting 
slightly forward. When in this position a blow can- 
not reach them and the whole science of the thing is 
to strike quickly and get back into position again 
before the other can return the blow. The arm is 
held always in the same position and all the work done 
with the wrist. The sword arm, chest and throat, are 
well protected by bandages, while the eyes are covered 



with iron spectacles kept on by leather bands which 
partially protect the ears. Owing to the lightness of 
the swords and the way in which they are used from 
the wrist only, it is impossible to strike a hard enough 
blow to fracture a man’s skull, but you may cut to the 
bone every time and sometimes splinter it, or you may 
cut off his lips or his nose or go right through his 
tongue. Fatal wounds are never given and deaths 
from this sort of duelling never occur. In fact it 
may be said to replace our boxing with gloves, 
which latter practice the Germans consider to be 
low and brutal and not to be compared for a mo- 
ment with the Schlaegermensur as regards the skill 
needed. I have however had the good fortune once 
or twice to see a German put on the gloves with an 
Englishman and in a few minutes get up off the floor 
with a very high opinion of our noble art. 

The duel with the Schlaeger serves the purpose of 
settling small disputes and of affording the student an 
opportunity of showing his courage. The majority of 
the encounters are between members of the different 
corps who usually fight for the pure love of it. It is 
not exactly bloodthirstiness but because there is 
really no other way in which they can contend with 
each other physically. All our out door sports are 
entirely unknown, with the exception of boating 
and bicycling, neither of which have attained any 
development, and the only way in which a man 
can make himself honourably conspicuous is by fight- 
ing. Comparatively few belong to the corps, but a 
large number fight under their auspices, and indeed no 
duel ever takes place without some corps or society 
first sitting in judgment on it, to decide whether 
there is sufficient cause or not, and afterwards seeing 
that it takes place attended with all the necessary 
forms and ceremonies. Such duels are tacitly allowed 
by the police and the university as a general thing, but 
now and then a new rector will try and put a stop to 
them, and they are held in private. 

Sometimes I have seen the room filled with all 
sorts of townspeople, soldiers, old women, young 
girls and children, all watching the blood flow and 
seemingly enjoying it immensely. Such exhibitions 

became so common at the university of G. where 

I was, that a determined effort was made by the 
’ authorities, and soon it became very difficult to find 
out where a duel was going to be held. But being 
. great friends with the fencing master I generally 
knew about them and used occasionally to go and 
• look on. One day I was informed that there were 
going to be several very interesting encounters early 
on the following morning, and so I arrived upon the 
scene shortly before the first pair were to fight. 

There were some forty students present, talking 
quietly, many indulging in a glass of Schnapps, or 
beer, early as it was. As soon as the doctors arrived 
and had got their bandages, basins, etc., ready in a 
small side room, the two who were to open the ball 
stripped and were attired in their fighting gear by 
their friends. They then advanced towards an open 
space in the middle of the room and took up their 
position opposite each other, where certain lines chalk- 
ed on the floor marked the places. 

They were strange looking beings, all swathed in 



8 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. t 1886 * 



black bandages from throat to waist, with huge iron 
spectacles on and their right arms supported horizon- 
tally by friends. 

They sat on the backs of a couple of chairs and 
looked at each other, while their respective seconds 
stepped forward, each with his bright cap on his head 
and a sword in his hand, and gravely saluted what we 
would call the umpire or time-keeper, introducing 
themselves and their men. This being done, the 
swords were brought and placed in the hands of the 
principals (who all along were allowed to make no ex- 
ertion not absolutely necessary before the fight began), 
and each sword was carefully wiped down with a rag 
and some sweet oil. Next the umpire, as I shall con- 
tinue to call him, called out, “ Silence for a schlacger- 
mensur between Herrn S. and Herrn M.,” “ which is 
to last thirty minutes/’ Then the seconds placed them- 
selves on either side of the men, stooping down and 
holding themselves ready to strike up the swords of 
the combatants with their own, and one called out, 
“ Auf die mensur /” whereupon the men stood up just 
outside of the marks on the floor. Then the other 
second commanded “ Bindet die klingen /” and they 
crossed their swords. “ Sind gebunden J” shouted the 
first second again ; “ Los /” exclaimed the other, and 
hardly was this last word spoken when the men began 
to slash at each other with a rapidity and force which 
i difficult to give an idea of on paper. It was a corps 
duel, and the men, as is usual in such, very evenly 
matched, but neither were very good fencers. Three 
or four minutes elapsed before anything happened, 
when, suddenly, there came a cry of “ Halt !” from 
the seconds and they struck up the swords. The 
younger man had got a cut from the back of his head 
to his forehead and was bleeding pretty freely. The 
doctor examined it, as he leant against a chair with 
his arm supported by his second, and as it was not 
very deep he sponged it a little, the swords were 
wiped, the same formula gone through by the seconds, 
and at the word Los / the fight began again as fiercely 
as ever. Each man appeared to be trying to see how 
many blows he could strike per second and how hard, 
and it seemed incredible that so few should take effect. 
Another five minutes elapsed, and then the doctor had 
to be called to pronounce upon a cut on the younger’s 
forehead. It was not very bad, and again they set to 
work, less vigorously now on the part of the younger 
who was weak from loss of blood. 

It was evident that the elder was going to win and 
in fact the last round only lasted one minute, when 
his sword lighted on his opponent’s temple, 
making the blood simply spurt out. The doctor 
stopped the fight for good now, and the wounded 
man was delivered over to his care. He never showed 
by as much as a wink that he was hurt, and received 
each blow without flinching in the smallest degree. 
Indeed I only once saw a man try to avoid a blow by 
moving his head, and his corps was perfectly furious 
with him for so doing, although the poor fellow had 
lost so much blood that he could neither strike nor 
guard, and hardly knew what he was about. 

Next came the great event of the day. The chal- 
lenger was a noted fencer having fought twenty-five 
duels and only been beaten in the first one, the other 



was also an old hand at the business, and hailed from 
Gottingen. Being in the town on a visit he could 
not resist the temptation of having a trial of skill 
with the famous Dr. Schudt, so he jostled him on the 
street as gently as possible, and received the desired 
challenge in double quick time. Nobody had an idea 
as to which would win, and when they faced each 
other, they were seen to be well matched as regards 
height and weight. Neither had any scars to speak 
of, but everybody knew that one of the two would 
leave that place with about as bad wounds as are to 
be had in a duel of this description, for the fight was 
to last forty-five minutes, and an often disputed ques- 
tion of superiority to be settled once and for ever. 
As soon as the surgeons had finished patching up the 
victim of the first duel, the men were led to their 
positions, the usual salutations and introductions were 
gone through, and amid dead silence the seconds called 
out sharply the four commands. 

Instantly the word Los was uttered the men 
attacked each other furiously. For half a minute the 
bright swords went flashing through the air far 
faster than the eye could follow them, then came 
the sudden “ Halt ” of the seconds and the striking 
up of the weapons. I looked at Schudt, and saw that 
he had got a nasty cut on the right temple, but the 
stranger was badly hurt, having one side of his head 
laid open to the very bone. The doctor sponged the 
wound a little, fitted on a bandage and, after merely 
casting a glance at Schudt, signified that they might 
go on with the fight. In a few seconds they were 
at it again, raining blows upon each other with a 
power and quickness which showed both to be masters 
of their weapons, and indeed I had never seen the 
Schlaeger used with such dexterity before. The 
excitement among the spectators was intense, but there 
was no noise, and all watched for the blow which 
would perhaps finish the affair, for experts like these 
were, deal in nothing but the hardest sort of hitting. 
And the end came sooner even than anybody expect- 
ed. There came a sudden Ah ! from a number of the 
spectators, as Schudt was seen to draw his sword 
along his adversary’s cheek from his ear to his mouth 
cutting right through and exposing both rows of his 
teeth. Instantly the seconds interfered, and the 
stranger leaning forward let the blood pour down on 
to the floor, while the doctor coolly examined the 
wound to see whether he could possibly be allowed 
to keep on fighting. This was pronounced to be not 
exactly advisable under the circumstances, and so 
he was helped away to the side room, being followed 
thither by his late adversary who was bleeding plenti- 
fully from three cuts on the side of his head, which 
however were of very little account compared to the 
injuries the other had received. 

The way the affair terminated mightily pleased all 
the spectators, but there was no unseemly applause, 
only a quiet hum of comment until the next pair 
faced each other. There was little interest attaching 
to this contest to any one but the antagonists and per- 
haps myself, I being curious to see two students of 
theology (for such they were) settle a trivial dispute 
according to their ideas of what future expounders of 
the doctrine of Christ should do under the circum- 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



stances. It was soon evident to me that spilling 
each other’s gore was not considered incompatible 
with preaching the gospel, for the first exponent of 
the golden rule began operations by hacking a piece 
off his beloved brother’s chin, to which the latter 
responded by letting him have one on top of the head 
which splintered the bone. Then No. One felt for his 
adversary’s teeth, and in so doing got the point of 
No. Two’s sword through his nose, after which they 
slashed each other pretty equally for some time, until 
the doctor considered that enough blood had been 
shed, and they were led weak and half blinded to the 
side room. 

Having lived so long in Germany the whole affair 
did not surprise me much, but it may afford many, as 
it did me, much food for reflection. I remarked 
interrogatively to another theologian present that I 
supposed those who had just fought were governed 
by the old Mosaic law, and had not yet studied up as 
far as the New Testament. He did not seem to like 
the remark, and as I knew better than to trust the 
forgiving spirit of a German upholder of the Christian 
faith, I subsided into silence and soon took my depart- 
ure. 

The above is a description of the mildest form of 
duelling known in Germany, and now I will briefly 
mention something about a few other modes in which 
duels are fought is that enlightened country. 

To begin with there is the duel with the sabre, 
which may be fought with bandages on, or without 
any whatever. 

The bandages when used consist of leather pads 
over the heart and under the arms and of a strong 
leather collar round the neck. The men are stripped 
to the waist and armed with long curved swords, 
sharpened on both sides, and with heavy iron hilts. 
They stand facing each other, leaning forward and 
with their sword-arms extended at full length in front 
of them. When in this position they can just reach 
each other with the points of their swords. They 
are not allowed to move the left foot, but may 
advance with the right one if they care to. All the 
movements of the sword are made from the wrist 
alone, no thrusting is permitted, and as the weapon 
is very heavy, a great deal of strength as well as skill 
is necessarv in order to become at all proficient in its 
use. In fact comparatively few master it, and hence 
those who are known to be able to wield it effectually 
are a good deal feared and respected. Duels with it 
and in which the men are bandaged, are common, and 
very serious or fatal wounds are the result of a 
areat many. But when it comes to fighting without 
bandages, in four cases out of five, one man gets 
killed or maimed for life. It is in fact the most 
deadly sort of encounter known to German duellists 
and is rarely to be met with among the Germans pro- 
per though much more common among the Austrians. 
In this latter country however lighter swords are 
used, the men are allowed to move round as much as 
they like, and much more skill and less strength is 
needed. It is a very pretty sight to see two expert 
Austrians fencing, the movements being more after 
the fashion of French School than anything else. 

I now come to duelling with pistols, which custom 



seems to be growing in favour very rapidly, owing to 
the little preparation necessary and the eminently 
satisfactory results to be arrived at. It is the only way 
in which officers and civilians fight, the swords being 
used almost exclusively by university men, but these 
latter also consider it as the most gentlemanly and 
polite way known of settling a serious dispute or aveng- 
ing an insult. Such an encounter is of course a very 
formal affair, and the conditions under which the men 
fight are susceptible of considerable variation as regards 
distance and number of shots. Usually the men are 
placed fifteen paces apart with their pistols pointing 
towards the ground. Then the word is given to fire, 
and a certain interval allowed them to do it in, during 
which either may advance five paces towards his op- 
ponent, or stand still as he pleases. Sometimes neither 
party fires and then they begin again. As a rule one 
shot each is all that is allowed, but on special occasions 
an exchange of as many as four or more shots is ar- 
ranged for beforehand. 

Germans are, as a rule, bad shots, and very nervous 
and excitable, which accounts for the fact that a very 
large number of pistol duels are fought without anybody 
getting hurt, and sometimes they deem it necessary to 
make things sure by some such arrangement, as was 
come to by a couple of wild youths, one of whom I 
knew well. Both were studying in Munich ; my 
acquaintance hailed from Bohemia and had already 
fought thirty-six duels, seven of which had been with 
the sabre and the rest with the Schlaeger. He had 
however, never fought one with pistols, and having 
been knocked senseless one day by a blow of a beer 
mug (I must give him his due when I say the assault 
was quite unprovoked), he made up his mind to 
indulge in a pistol duel which would be memorable 
in the annals of the university corps to which he be- 
longed. His agressor. a North German, was nothing 
loth, and accordingly it was arranged that they should 
stand six paces apart and exchange six shots. One 
morning at sunrise they stood facing each other with 
their weapons in their hands, the Bohemian as cool 
and steady as if his opponent had been a post, and the 
latter trembling so that he could hardly stand, 
although a brave man enough and an experienced 
duellist. Twice they fired, or rather the German, did, 
for curiously enough the Bohemian’s pistol failed to go 
off each time, and the result was a bullet hole through 
the latter’s ear. Then for the third time the word was 
given ; the German’s bullet went wide, the other’s 
pistol went off as he was lifting it to take aim. Again 
the weapons were loaded and this time both were hit, 
the Bohemian in the hip, the German in the stomach, 
which ended the affair, as the latter could not stand 
up. 

This little affair occured in the year of our Lord 1882, 
and I can vouch for the truth of the above account 
in every particular. 

It is seldom that Americans or Englishmen are given 
to duelling, but instances are on record in which they 
usually have distinguished themselves. 

They are naturally better shots and much better fen- 
cers than the Germans, being far cooler and more self 
possessed. About two years ago, in Wurzburg, an 
American was grossly insulted on the street by a 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



captain in the infantry without having given any pro- 
vocation whatever. The result was a challenge to 
fight with the sabre, but the officer insisted on pistols, 
the conditions being ten paces distance and three paces 
advance. At the word fire, the officer advanced im- 
mediately while the American stood still, and as soon 
as the other lifted his pistol to aim, shot him right 
through the head. 

Enough about pistols. I have got only one more 
sort of duel to mention, and it is what the Germans 
and Austrians have the effrontery to term an “Ameri- 
can ” duel. This invention of the devil is a very 
simple but singularly effective way of making sure of 
an interesting termination to the encounter, and con- 
sists merely in the casting of dice by the principals, 
each binding himself by oath beforehand to commit 
suicide should he lose, within a specified time. 

I was for sometime after I first heard of it, very loth 
to believe that such duels ever took place, but 1 satis- 
fied myself that they did, and several instances have 
come under my notice. It always happens that the 
loser kills himself just before the alio ted time expires. 
Why they call it an American duel, I have never been 
able to discover, for indeed only Germans could be so 1 
fanatical as to consent to risk their lives in such an 
absurd way. 

The above is a plain, entirely unexaggerated 
account of how duels are fought in Europe 
to-day. It may seem strange to many that such an 
evil should flourish in our age of progress, but the 
more one sees of modern German society, the more 
easy it becomes to understand how such a state of 
things as I have described in this paper, can exist among 
people so highly cultivated as they are. All religious 
feeling is dead within them, and nothing has taken its 
place. Certainly the old love for God has not been 
replaced by love for their fellow men. They are per- 
vaded with an absurdly high idea of their own indi- 
vidual importance, which causes them to look upon 
the most trivial things as insults, and a real 'insult as 
something that can only be satisfactorily settled by the 
death of one of those concerned. Rut what can be 
expected from a people who treat women in a way that 
savours even more of barbarism than duelling does 1 

W. T. Skaife. 



Euery Fortnight. 



A good idea has been cast away — an opportunity 
lost. It is now too late to think of a College concert 
this year. The thing might have been done had the 
spirit for it been abroad, but my suggestion fell on 
barren soil. In a small way however something may 
be done at the Theatre this week, when the students 
take possession of the Academy. Still for the older 
and staider men like myself, a regular concert in the 
Molson Hall would have been preferable. 

* * 

* 

A kind friend who has given me many thoughts 
says ; — “ Never excuse yourself nor give way to a fault 
or habit, because another has committed it, but form 



the highest, noblest standard for yourself, and end- 
eavour to follow it.” 

* * 

* 

Turning over the leaves of a book of poems, where, 
perchance, I might find some pretty lines for my read- 
ers in the Gazette — for often we do find some gems in 
the works of little known and obscure verse-makers — 
I came across this little poem having something of the 
same idea of a high ideal. I cannot say that I myself 
have ever formed any distinct ideal ; in fact I am in- 
clined to think it would be very difficult to form any 
such for a busy, everyday man in these practical times. 
Because an ideal must be a possible one to be worth 
much. The verses are entitled “ Life Tapestry,” and 
are of more merit from the thought expressed than from 
the word — clothing. 

“ Too long have I, methought, with tearful eye 
“ Pored o’er this tangled work of mine, and mused 
“Above each stitch awry, and thread confused ; 

“Now will I think on what in years gone by 
“ I heard of them that weave rare tapestry 
“ At Royal looms, and how they constant use 
“ To work on the rough side, and still peruse 
“ The pictured pattern set above them high ; 

“ So will I set MY COPY high above, 

“ And gaze and gaze till on my spirit grows 
“Its gracious impress ; till some line of love 
“Transferred upon my canvass, faintly glows ; 

“ Nor look too much on warp or woof, provide 
“ He whom I work for sees their fairer side.” 

* * 

* 

What a wonderful sway a man of intellect holds ! 
But what a corresponding responsibility rests upon 
him ! A trite subject. “ Ships and armies you may 
replace, if they are lost,” says Ruskin, “ but a great 
intellect once abused, is a curse to the earth for ever.” 

* * 

* 

Do you think students should attempt to master 
the great English novelists 'l I do. But do you think 
that Arts students, during the session, should read 
novels 1 I do not. They have more than they can 
attend to. But I know of no healthier and pleasanter 
way for them to spend their holidays. I am very fond 
of good novels, and think they should be studied as 
well as read. There are such numbers of them, too, 
in our language, that one should never be tempted 
into reading the thrash which thrives apace by their 
side. But beware of becoming intoxicated with this 
kind of literature. Such a thing is possible, believe 
me. But I hardly think there is much danger of the 
Arts students running into excess in this respect. A 
few of the cleverest may need a warning, but as far 
as I know the typical Arts student, a little more 
novel reading— and other kind of reading, too, out- 
side his course, — would do him a great deal of good. 
My friend, the theological student, I venture to sur- 
mise, does not indulge overmuch in fiction. He has 
weightier matters to depress him. And yet I have 
read better sermons in the pages of a novel than ever 
I heard from a pulpit. My advice, then, is, use novels 
as a tonic, not as an intoxicant — but still use them. 

*** 

This subject of novel reading is one which is often 
regarded with prejudice, and “superstitions, errors 



1886 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



and prejudices,” according to De Finod, “ are cob- 
webs continually woven in shallow brains.” 

* 

The object of the University Club is “ the promo- 
motion of social intercourse amongst its members.” I 
am told that there is some doubt in the minds of cer- 
tain learned men from the East as to the exact signi- 
fication of the term “ social intercourse.” Does it in- 
clude a bar 1 seems to be one of the questions mooted 
by the philologists. 

* * 

± 

It seems strange to me that so few undergraduates 
think it worth their while to try and write for the 
Gazette — not necessarily for the sake of the paper, 
but for their own sakes. Nothing is so profitable as 
the cultivation of the art of expression. I understand 
that now and then some student with a grievance in- 
dulges in a letter, but that beyond this not much is 
attempted. These letter-writers are, as a rule, con- 
ceited numbskulls, itching to set the time according 
to their watches, which are always slow ; ever ready 
to show what fine fellows they themselves are and in 
what manner everybody else is out of joint. These 
men go about with letters in their pockets, and if you 
by ill-luck answer one, they must needs run away and 
write another and make themselves conspicuous. If 
men of this stamp could only recognize their own in- 
feriority, editors would save much space. 

* * 

* 

What about that letter-rack *1 Has a lock been put 
on it yet, or do the authorities still neglect their 
duties ? If so, just let me know. 

Critic. 



IflctBUl News. 

Mr. F. Topp, ’86, has been awarded the New 
Skakspeare Society’s prize for 1885-6. 

All the way from Berlin comes a rock section cutter 
and polisher for the museum. It is a compact little 
instrument and will no doubt enable some one to make 
a noise in the world. 

The Primary Class in Medicine have rented a piano, 
each Monday and Friday evening they meet for sing- 
ing practice. It is to hoped they will be the nucleus 
of a College glee club. 

The Arts’ dinner will take place on Wednesday, 
Jan. 27th, at 8 P.M.,in the Windsor. There is a new 
departure this year in the professors and graduates of 
the faculty being among those taking part. Nearly 
all the professors will grace the board, and several of 
the more recent graduates. Bring your song books h 

The students of the Science Faculty held a meeting 
in the 4th Year Draughting Room on Monday the 
10th inst., to make arrangements for having their 
annual dinner. A committee consisting of the Pre- 
sidents of the four Years, the Secretary and Mr. J. H. 
Burland, Ap. Sc. ’82, was authorized to make all ar- 



rangements. It was determined to hold the dinner 
on the evening of Thursday, January 28th, at the 
Windsor Hotel, the price of tickets to be $2.50. 

The new Medical building narrowly escaped being 
injured by fire one evening last week. Some one 
carelessly threw the stump of a cigarette into a wooden 
spittoon, which was filled with dry saw-dust, in the 
reading room. When discovered, a considerable por- 
tion of the floor was charred and the spittoon burned. 
The janitor, with indomitable courage and much effort 
succeeded in quenching the conflagration with a small 
bucket of water. “You can’t, you know,” do with- 
out him. 

The Junior Clinical class this year are very much 
pleased at having separate medical clinics at the hos- 
pital. Being removed from the Senior Class and hav- 
ing a special teacher, they have unbounded oppor- 
tunities to become thoroughly grounded in the science 
and well prepared for the Senior year. They extol 
highly the systematic, energetic way in which they 
are taught, and are loud in praise of the manner in 
which they are allowed to practically acquaint them- 
selves with the diseases presented. 

The Museum recently received from England a 
“ Magic Lantern ” by which magnified images of 
microscopic objects can be made visible to a whole 
class at once by projection upon a screen. The in- 
strument is provided with a costly Nichol’s prism, 
an alum cell, a cell for animalcules, an apparatus for 
shewing the circulation of the blood in a frog’s foot, 
and with a set of objectives. The lantern can be used 
either with the electric arc or the lime light. This 
instrument, made by Messrs. Wright and Newcomb, 
was on Exhibition at the Inventions Exhibition at 
South Kensington, London, and is novel in that it can 
be used equally well for lithological demonstrations. 
The beautiful phenomena produced in sections of 
crystals by polarized light can thus be studied at 
leisure. The late Dr. Carpenter was so impressed by 
the merits of this instrument that he had ordered a 
companion one for himself shortly before his death. 



CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS. 

The following were not posted in time to publish in last num- 
ber : — 

ARTS. — 2nd Y ear. 

German. — Class I. — Martin, MacFarlane ; "McFee and "Rit- 
chie ; "Cross, *Palmer, Wan Horne. Class II. — *Murphy, 
Murray. Class III. — Sweeny. 

1st Year. — German.— Class I. — * Johnson and Stevenson ; 
Meighen, "Morgan ; Gibson and Grant. Class II. — None. 
Class III. — Lucas. 

The following corrections apply to the lists published in last 
number : 

Arts, 1st Year — English. — Darey. Mills, Charters, McAdie ; 
these names ought to be under * Literature only.* English. — 
"Darey ought to be Davey. 2nd Year. — Latin. — Pritchard, 
Sweeny, Evans ought to be inserted at the end of the list. 
Botany. — Truax, to be inserted as first in Class III. Psycholo- 
gy. — "Darey ought to be Davey. Hebrew. — Tessot ought to be 
Yessot. 3rd Year. — Latin. — Langton ought to be Larkin. 
Zoology. — Brown and Gerrie, ought to read Bourne and Gerrie. 
Vegetable History, ought to read. Vegetable Histology. 



12 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1886. 



THE ARTS DINNER. 

A meeting of the students in Arts was held on the 
11th, in the Reading-room, Mr. F. Topp, President of 
the 4th year, in the chair. 

The chairman opened the meeting with a few words 
enjoining on the younger years the duty of support- 
ing the dinner. Mr. Bell, seconded by Mr. Hibbard, 
moved 6 that the faculty hold its annual dinner’ : — 
carried. Mr. Livingstone then moved ‘ that the pro- 
fessors and graduates of Arts be invited to attend/ 
seconded by Mr. E. Holden. There was much dis- 
cussion on this motion. Mr. Bell, seconded by Mr. 
Evans, ’86, moved ‘ that the dinner be a students* 
one.* The chairman called on the younger years for 
an opinion ; and, in reply, Mr. Curtis spoke advoca- 
ting the presence of the professors. 

The amendment proposed by Mr. Bell, in regard to 
having the professors, was then put and lost. The 
original motion, to have an invitation extended to 
the professors and graduates of the faculty, was 
carried by a sweeping majority. Mr. E. Holden then 
nominated Mr. F. Pedley as chairman of the dinner, 
seconded by Mr. Chalmers : but the meeting decided 
to conform to the usual rule and have the President 
of the 4th year for chairman of the dinner. It was 
then moved 4 that the officers of the various years be 
the dinner committee * : this was amended to the 
effect that Messrs. Pedley and Livingstone, *86, Mur- 
ray and Colby, ’87, Curtis and Pedley, *88, and Deeks 
and Evans, *89, be the committee : the amendment 
was carried. The meeting broke up after conveying 
a request to the committee that the dinner be held in 
the Windsor, and during the present month. 



MR. STUDD’S ADDRESS. 

Mr. J. E. K. Studd is a graduate of the University 
of Cambridge who during this winter is visiting the 
American colleges. Being in Montreal with Mr. 
Moody, at the request, we understand, of Sir Wm. 
Dawson he addressed a meeting of about 200 students 
in Morrice Hall. The Principal was in the chair and 
on the platform were professors of the Arts and 
Science Faculties and representatives from the theolo- 
gical colleges. 

Mr. Studd is one of a group of men whose names 
have been brought before the public, especially in 
England. One of the group is Stanley Smith, once 
the stroke oar of the Cambridge eight and now a mis- 
sionary in the interior of China. Along with him 
went six other* to China, one of whom is Mr. C. F. 
Studd, who was a splendid cricketer and was on the 
English eleven. Mr. Studd’s address was a simple 
straightforward narration of the connection of these 
athletic students with Mr. Moody’s meetings at Cam- 
bridge ; of their subsequent visit to Oxford, and Edin- 
burgh and Glasgow ; and of their departure from Eng- 
land and voyage to China. It is imposssble to mention 
here any of the many interesting incidents mentioned 
in his story. It is sufficient to say that all who heard 
him were intensely interested ; and there is a strong 
desire to hear from him again. It is very probable 
that this desire will be gratified, as Mr. Studd is likely 



to visit Momtreal some time in February. Should 
he come he will without doubt meet a much larger 
audience than was able to hear him on his former 
visit. 

The Sunday afternoon meeting could not be held 
on the 10th, as the rooms of the Montreal Y. M. C. A. 
were closed on account of the flood. 



THE LADIES’ CLASSES. 

Mr. Mulgan, lecturer in Classics, began a course of 
lectures to the lady students on Greek literature, in 
the Redpath Museum lecture theatre, on Thursday 
last. 

Sir William Dawson, who, with several other pro- 
fessors, was present, said that it might be interesting 
to those who have been engaged in the work of the 
Ladies’ Educational Association to know what is now 
being done by the University under the Donalda en- 
dowment, and to what extent it is carrying out the 
work handed over to it by the Association. In the 
present session the total number of students is fifty- 
one. Of these twelve are undergraduates and nine are 
partials, taking three or more courses of lectures. The 
remainder are occasionals, taking oue or two courses 
of lectures. It would thus appear that, so far, the 
number is not quite as great as in some of the larger 
classes of the Association. On the other hand, the 
number of lectures taken by each student is much 
greater, and it is to be anticipated that in future ses- 
sions, as the number of years in the undergraduate 
course and the- number of lectures open to occasionals 
increase, the attendance will increase in proportion. 
It is to be observed also that at the opening of the 
session several students in this, as in other depart- 
ments, were prevented from presenting themselves by 
the epidemic then prevalent. In the present session 
there are regular students only in two years, and the 
classes open to women are those in latin, greek, eng- 
lish, french, german, logic, mathematics, chemistry 
and botany. Next session there will be regular students 
in three years, and separate classes for women will be 
open in experimental physics, zoology, advanced logic 
and rhetoric. In the session after next there will be 
students in all the four years, and separate classes in 
mental and moral philosophy, geology and history, 
in addition to the foregoing. It will be reasonable 
to expect that when the classes in the whole course 
are thus in operation, and so great variety offered to 
occasional students, the number of students will be 
nearly doubled. We are prepared to find that, for 
some years, the number of partial and occasional 
students shall be large, in comparison with that of 
undergraduates. It is hoped, however, that, as the 
advantages of the regular course become better known 
and facilities for preparation are afforded in the 
schools, the number of undergraduates will increase. 

1 o this end the University would beg to invite the 
attention of parents, and especially of those ladies 
who have heretofore aided in the work of the Associ- 
ation, to the importance of cultivating a taste for the 
higher education, and of sending young women to 
those schools which provide an adequate preparatory 
training. In the arrangements for the third and 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



fourth years it will be provided that there shall he 
separate classes for women in all the ordinary sub- 
jects up to the standard for the degree, giving them 
all the options enjoyed by male students. In each 
subject the lectures to men and women will be 
delivered by the same professor or lecturer, and the 
examinations will be identical. The degrees to be 
given have not yet been formally decided by the cor- 
poration, but it may be considered as settled that they 
will be the same for women as for men. 

M. Mulgan’s course consists of ten lectures, the 
first three of which will treat of Homer’s works, 
while the remaining seven will comprise three different 
phases of early Greak Literature, the Drama, Philoso- 
phy, History and Oratory. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on the evening 
of Friday the 8th inst. There were present Mr. 
McGoun, President, in the chair, and Messrs. Brooke, 
Smith, Colquhoun, Doherty, Selkirk Cross, Sproule, 
Turner, Ferguson, Budden, Ritchie, Parmalee, Barnard, 
Revd. G. Rogers, Elliot, and a large number of visitors. 

The programme for the evening was an essay by the 
Revd. Prof. Clarke Murray, LL.D. upon Bishop 
Berkeley. Want of space prevents us from publish- 
ing the paper in full, and no synopsis could give any 
just report, either of the profound knowledge display- 
ed by the learned essayist in his treatment of the sub- 
ject, or the finished and scholarly manner in which 
the essay was composed and delivered. 

The discussion upon the paper was opened by 
Messrs. Doherty and Selkirk Cross, who were follow- 
ed by a number of others. All the speakers appeared 
to be considerably beyond their depth ; but displayed 
however no lack of a rather crude and hasty imagina- 
tion if they did not shine as metaphysicians or ideali- 
stic philosophers. It was rather amusing however, to 
hear our noted objector to other men’s opinions, stagger 
the whole assembly of philosophers with the bold 
assertion that mind was an object in space : probably 
this accounts for his running his head against so many 
people. 

A meeting of this society was held on Friday even- 
ing the 15th inst. Mr. C. J. Brooke first vice-president 
in the chair. The question for debate was, “ Should 
a representative in Parliament continue to vote ac- 
cording to his own opinion, when lie knows it to be 
at variance with the general voice of his constituents ” ? 
Messrs. Leet and Ferguson spoke for the Affirmative 
and Messrs. Brooke and Unsworth on the Negative. 
The debate was in every respect a good one. The 
regularly appointed speakers conducted the discussion 
in a manner which evidenced thought on, and careful 
preparation of their speeches. The voluntary speeches 
by Messrs. C. S. Campbell, J. P. Cooke, A. G. Cross 
and W. J. Sproule were very good. The subject, in 
view of the recent action of some of our public men, 
embodied a live issue : and it was this probably which 
made it so interesting to some members of the society 



who, we understand, are looking towards an entrance 
upon political life at no very distant day. Besides 
being a live issue, it was eminently a practical and 
useful subject for discussion ; and we must congratulate 
the General Committee of the society upon the evid- 
ent care with w T hich they have prepared their pro- 
grammes, so far this season. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meetings of this society for the spring term 
were opened on Jan., 8th, by an address by Principal 
Sir. Wm. Dawson. The meeting was one of the most 
successful ever held by the society, fifty five members 
and visitors being present : among those present were 
Mr. N. P. Yates, the President in the chair, Messrs. 
Mason, Lerossignol, Hersey, England, Garth, Lucas, 
McArthur, Bryan, Holden, Livingstone, Pedley, 
McOuat, Hibbard, Cameron, Murd, McKenzie, Patton 
Curtis, McPhail, Henderson, Walsh, Charters, Moore, 
Robertson, Patterson, McLeod, Watt, Hislop and W. 
G. Stewart, (B.A). The very varied programme com 
menced with a spirited reading of “ The Battle of 
Inkermann,” by Mr. Watt. Then the morals of the 
society were looked to by Mr. Hislop who gave u A 
Temperance Lecture,” which was received amid much 
uproar. 

At this point Sir. Wm. came into the room and was 
received with an ovation. Mr. Curtis gave a reading 
called, “ Bob. Browning’s Account of Rubenstein’s 
Playing.” 

The President then introduced Sir. Wm. with a few 
appropriate remarks. This address by the Principal, the 
main feature of the programme, was full of interest 
to every member of the society, treating as it did of 
the various ways to acquire the art of public speaking. 
In the course of the address it was said, that public 
speaking was better learned in a debating society than 
in a class-room. After the conclusion of his remarks, 
Sir. Wm. left the room amid cheers, and “ He’s a Jolly 
Good Fellow.” 

W. G. Stewart, B.A., then took the lead in the po- 
pular song, “ Jingle Bells,” Messrs. Patton, Evans and 
Stewart, gave songs at various intervals. A vote of 
thanks for his address was sent in to Sir. Wm. Dawson. 
The special committee for the spring term was elected : 
the ballot resulted in appointing the following, Messrs. 
Pedley (F.), Murray, Curtis, Hibbard, McPhail. The 
chairman then closed the meeting after a few remarks 
on the advantages of the society : he pointed out to the 
Freshman the benefits to be derived from its meetings. 

The meeting on Jan. 15th was called to order at 8 
p.m., by Mr. R. Henderson, the Vice-President, about 
twenty members being present. E. De F. Holden 
was appointed critic for the evening. Mr. F. Topp 
gave notice of the following motion, That Mr. N. P. 
Yates, the President, and Mr. H. Curtis be appointed 
a committee to wait upon Mr. John Andrew, In- 
structor in Elocution, with the view of procuring an 
address from that gentleman upon the principles of 
elocution, to be delivered before the society some 
time next month : seconded by Mr. J. W. McOuat. 

Mr. J. A. McPhail opened the programme with an 
essay on “ Prince Edward Island.” The debate was 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



on the subject, “ Resolved that Woman Suffrage 
should be Adopted in Canada.” The affirmative side 
was supported by Messrs. J. McOuat, Ryan, Pritch- 
ard : victory declared itself for the affirmative, which 
found supporters in Messrs. Yates, Garth, and Chart- 
ers. Mr. P. E. Ritchie read “ The Fate of Young 
Chubb.” After Mr. Holden’s critique, the meeting 
adjourned. 

Sporting. 



FOOTBALL. 

The Committee of the Football Club is now busy 
raising a fund for the purpose of purchasing an Inter- 
faculty Challenge Cup by means of ten-cent subscrip- 
tions. The success so far is gratifying and it is to be 
hoped that it will continue so. 



HOCKEY. 



McGill University Gazette. 



ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING. 



The Annual General Meeting of the subscribers to the 
Guarantee Fund, will be held on 

Monday Evening. 1st February next 

AT 8 O’CLOCK, 

in No. 1 Class Room, Main College building. Important 
business. 

GEO C. WRIGHT, 
Sec'y-Treas. 

Kali? Dresser and Wig Maker* 



A general meeting of the Hockey Club was held at 
the Crystal Rink, Thursday the 7th inst., after the 
practice. The Secretary, Mr. Swabey, who was the 
delegate to the Tournament Committee, notified the 
club of the arrangements made for matches, changes 
of rules, etc. The club then proceeded to the elec- 
tion of Captain when the President, Mr. A. Weir, 
was unanimously chosen for that position. It is to 
be hoped that under the energetic direction of the 
new Captain the team will give a good account of it- 
self this winter. 



Personals. 



Mr. A. A. McKay, B.A., ’84, responded to the toast 
of * sister universities ’ at Law Students, Supper, Dal- 
housie College. 

The many friends of J. W. McMeekin, M.D., C.M. 
’85 will regret to hear of the death of his wife of puer- 
pural fever, which sad event occurred at St. Catharines 
December 31st, 1885. 

Mr. A. B. Osborne, who was prevented by illness 
from waiting for his degree in Medicine last spring, 
successfully passed a special examination, given to him 
during the Christmas vacation, and has since been 
appointed House Surgeon in the Hamilton General 
Hospital. 

D. W. Eberts, M.D., who has been one of the hos- 
pital staff since he graduated in ’85, has received the 
appointment of House Surgeon to the Winnipeg 
Hospital. The Dr. is sure to be a success in his new 
position. He carries with him the best wishes of the 
professors and students of the college, and is sure to 
be much missed by the hospital staff* here. 

Prof. N. W. Trenholme has returned from England, 
where he has been for some time past, conducting a 
case before the Privy Council, and has resumed his 
lectures in the Faculty of Law. The learned Prof, is 
looking none the worse for his trip ; on behalf of the 
law students, we welcome him back to the class- 
rooms. No professor is held in higher esteem among 
them. 



1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

31 O NTREA I. . 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES’ CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING. 



Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

PkariiMitical & Dispsini Chemists, 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, CoghiU ; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges) 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



S. CABSLET’S 

Gentlemen’s Furnishing Department. 



Men’s Kid Gloves, Lined Lamb, Plush and Wool. Men’s Dogskin Gloves, extra heavy Lamb Lined. Men’s Buckskin 
Gloves, lined and unlined. Men’s Antilope Gloves, heavy and warm. Men’s 11 Piewar” Gloves, lined Plu 6 h, 
Jersey wrist. Men’s Mitts, with heavy lining, in each of the above make, and in all sizes. 

The Right Place to Buy the Best GLOVES and MITTS Imported s, at S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men’s Linen Collars and Cuffs, also White Dress Shirts, in all the Latest Styles. 

Silk and Cashmere Mufflers, Silk Handkerchiefs, in all the Leading Colors and Best Qualities, at Lowest Prices. 
Men’s Silk and Satin Neck Ties and Scarfs in all the Fashionable Shapes and Latest Colors. 

Men’s Socks, in Cashmere, Merino, Lamb’s Wool, and Worsted, all Latest Colors. 

Men’s Underwear, in Lamb’s Wool, Cashmere, Merino and Silk, in all Weights, Sizes and Qualities, at Lowest Prices. 
Men’s Chamois Underwear and Chamois Perforated Vests, in all Sizes. 

Men’s Cardigan Jackets and Vests in all the Latest Colors, and all Sizes. 

For all kinds of Men’s Furnishing Goods, at Lowest Prices, go to S. Carsley’s. 



S. CARSLEY, 



1765 , 1767 , 1769 , 1771 
1773 , 1775 , 1777 



• NOTRE DAME STREET, 






J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant 4 ^- 

TAILORS, 



==] 1871 [: 




New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-Me FOR STUDENTS 

17 BLE'O'E.Y ST. 



BI CYCL ES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO— 

PRIZES OF Alili DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHEISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

5S ST. SULPICE STREET. 





IE. -A.. GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF 



p-F 



i><&m 









Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTAMS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS E&YPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 



Tr y St-u.c3.eri.ts 



Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 



1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE 

T}ur‘lai)fl Jithoj}rapl|ic go’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlijirl nnb. ©ollmj fUanufatlurars, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuifs, Tuques. Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jSnrrptiil Ynslniiiicnls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIHECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

" 384 ST. PA UL STREET 

C . ASHFQBB’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

J^JSTID 

f£HO¥ SOOIS SHOP. 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[!BY WEISS &c SOBSn, 

CHEAP FOR CASK:. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

678 i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinei Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 



This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ADD KINDS 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printing*^ 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERT SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS. PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE. 

PEOCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really .Engraving 1 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visitin 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR — 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c, 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



