

CQontrcal, December 22, 1693 




<t-0^ 









rA\\! ,/,/7// 



























PACK 

Editorial Comments 137 

The Royal Victoria Hospital... 139 

Contributions 142 

The Medical Faculty Dinner 142 

From Callimachus, Poetry 143 

Mignon, Poetry 143 

Ci-Git Kitty, Poetry 143 

Wit and Humor 144 

Correspondence 146 





PAGS 

The University Lecture 146 

Societies 148 

Sporting Column 150 

Class Reports ii^o 

Art Notes 150 

Feathers from the East Wing.... 151 

Medical Class Reports 151 

Science Jottings 152 

Comparative Medicine Class Reports. 152 

McGILL UN\'vL . . 
ARCHiVes^ 

ACC. NO. h ' 

REF. Zl"7& 








Hnc - ® 

imHH HUgPOLISES 

-jrajlis 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

‘‘^STEWART,’' 

“ BAY STATE ,» and 
“DOBSON*' . . . 






gonjos 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 
Strings and everything In the 
Musical Line 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



IfnnAlfQ kinds of Cameras for Sale, 

iVUUnliw Exchange or to Rent. 

I5K,XOJES: 416 to 4175. 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

/Montreal Pliotograpliic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Cana<f a .-—Rodinal, Carbutt’s and* Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 
MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
INC INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 




258 St. James Street, 

Near McCIII St. 



° • XMAS, 1893. * o 

A Choice Selection of 

BOOKS, CARDS and STATIONERY 



2323 



. . . at . . . 

The McGill Book Store, 
Wm. Foster Brown, 

St, Catherine Street, 



jy, ORYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHAMCS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL. 



Agent for* Stoi-rett’s Tools. Telephorie 169 . 

H. A. GEBTH, 



STUD ENTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block. 
MONTREAL. : : ’ 

Havana Cigars 

TryGerth-sSupwior Smoking Tobaccos. K^iasi Frires’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty. 

J. H. CHAPMAH, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McCIII College Avenue. 



Bell Telephone, 4396. 



MONTREAL- 



N/VTCR/\L WOOL 
WINTLR - 

ONDLRWL/VR 



$1.50 pep Suit. 



Just the thing for the cold weather, and 

A BARGAIN 



IKEunroe Bros. 



» » f T 



2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



.17 Bleurv Street 




TELEPHONES. 



Warehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, OflScee 
and Public Buildings. 

SOLD OUTRIGHT. HO RENTALS. 



'Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call * and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T. W. NESS & CO. Craig St.. 

rr. f*g.ww « uv., MONTREAL 




IHcGlbb FORTNlGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, Universitv Thought and Event. 

VOL. II. MONTREAL, DECEMBER 22, 1893. No. 6 




^EDITORIAL BOARD-^ 



Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y j, Ppattak f (Comp. Med. and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) * ‘ M Science ’94. 

J. A. McFhail, B.A., M.D., Graduates’ Society. 



EBUSINESS BOARDS 



Frank J. Day, (Arts ’94), Chairman 
F, A. Hogle, (Law ’94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrell, (Donalda '95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. '95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is 51.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal . 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renoufs, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Exiitor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



CHRISTMAS GREETINGS. 

Riug out, wild bells, to the wild sky, 

The flying cloud, the frosty light : 

The year is dying in the night ; 

Riug out, wild bells, and let him die. 

Ring out the old, ring in the new, 

Ring, happy bells, across the snow : 

The year is going, let him go ; 

Ring out the false, ring in the true. 

Christmas time has come again with all its hallowed 
associations. Pleasant thoughts of the home far away 
flit through the mind, and bring a bright gleam to the 
eye of the weary student. Visions of loast goose and 
its accompanying plum-pudding bring a smile to his 
face as with eager heart he shuts up his books and sets 
out on a well-earned vacation. Examinations are past, 
and an opportunity is given for needed relaxation and 
preparation for the final struggle in the spring. 

Christmas, of all seasons of the year, is the time when 
a man is pre-eminently at peace with himself and all 



the world. It takes us back eighteen centuries and 
more to an event of momentous importance in the 
world’s. histor>% graced by the Angels’ song of “ Peace 
on earth, good will toward man.’' 

It signalizes the death of the Old and the birth of the 
New. In every nation, Christian and otherwise, Christ* 
mas is the time of universal festivity and joy. The 
holly, the mistletoe, the yule-log, and the carols, all are 
links between the present and the past. The bells from 
their joyous throats sing a song of peace and happiness 
which rolls in a harmonious flood over the length and 
breadth of the land. To Canadians, Christmas is abo\e 
all the time for pleasure. What a delight it is to bind 
on the snowshoe and take a run over the crisp snow 
that sparkles like diamonds in the moonlight ! With 
what a throb of exultation does the blood leap in our 
veins as the rapid sleigh, with its tuneful bells, glides 
over the snow, and we draw in the keen, life-giving air ! 
No wonder a Canadian loves his winter ; it brings hap- 
piness and rosy health to every cheek. Let us then 
enjoy our holiday to the best of our ability, and may 
peace and good-will be the lot of all of us. The Fort- 
nightly wishes everyone a “ Merry Christmas ” and a 
“ Happy New Year.” 



THE UNION CLUB. 

When the subject of a Union Club for McGill was 
first broached in our columns a few weeks ago, there 
seemed to^be little prospect of its realization at any 
time in the near future. When we thought of the 
deliberation with which the promoters of the University 
Song Book, and, we might add, the University pin, had 
proceeded, it did not at first sight appear likely that 
so serious an undertaking as the formation of a Union 
Club should, during the present session at least, advance 
beyond the stage of discussion. In all this, however, 
we have been agreeably disappointed. It seems as if 
there were a latent desire on the part of the undergra- 
duates for some such institution, and the mere sugges- 
tion enabled them to realize how deeply the want of a 
common meeting-place for the students of the different 
faculties was felt. 

Our readers will have noted with pleasure the com- 
munication in our last issue, from the Executive Com- 
mittee of the University Glee and Banjo Club, in which 
they announce their intention of devoting the proceeds 
of their Christmas tour to the proposed Union. This 
action on the part of the Glee Club gives them a new 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



138 



claim upon the support of their friends, which graduates 
and undergraduates alike will not be slow to acknow- 
ledge. The announcement is particularly welcome, as 
an indication that the students are in earnest, and that 
the question of a Union Club has, as the statesmen say, 
come within the range of practical politics. Other evi- 
dence is not wanting of the strong undercurrent of 
feeling which, as we believe, prevails among the stu- 
dents of the different faculties. At the Medical dinner, 
two at least of the speakers strongly supported the 
scheme, and the warmth with which their remarks 
were received showed how completely they had enlisted 
the sympathies of their audience. 

The advantages of a Union Club are so well under- 
stood, that it hardly seems necessary just now to dis- 
cuss them at any length. We trust that many who are 
•now undergraduates may have an opportunity of ex- 
periencing them before they have finished their 
courses. Men who can look forward to only a few 
more months of life in McGill are by no means the less 
enthusiastic on that account. They believe that, as Dr. 
Adami has pointed out, the proposed Union will ultim- 
ately be of incalculable benefit, not only to the Uni- 
versity, but to the country at large, and that anything 
they can do to forward it is worthy of their best efforts. 

Other universities with smaller opportunities than 
McGill are making strenuous efforts towards a similar 
end. The following clipping from the Medical News 
speaks for itself : 

“ The movement for establishing a students’ union at 
Queen’s College, Belfast, continues to make satisfactory 
progress. The general subscription list now amounts 
to ;^3,700, and a committee has been for some time at 
work organizing a bazaar and summer fair, to be held 
in the College grounds next June, in aid of the proposed . 
union. President Hamilton is pressing forward the 
movement by every means in his power, and is receiving 
much sympathy and support. It is hoped that the total 
amount realized will not fall short of;^6,ooo.” 

It may seem no light matter for the Students of McGill 
to raise a similar sum, but we have great faith that, 
once they have shown themselves in earnest, they will 
not ask in vain for assistance from the graduates and 
friends of the University. 

We heartily commend the suggestion, that a mass 
meeting of the undergraduates be held as soon as possi- 
ble, to take some definite action. We hope that our 
readers will put on their thinking caps during vacation, 
and that with the New Year we shall be able to an- 
nounce a still more satisfactory pro.spect. 



FRANCIS PARKMAN, UL D. 

On November 8th, 1893, the eminent historian, Dr. 
Francis Parkman, died at his home at Jamaica Plains, 
aged 70 years. 

Dr. Parkman was born a.t Boston, September i6th, 
1823, graduated at Harvard University in 1844, and 
two years later he travelled the Western plains with 
a view of studying the manners and characters of the 
Indians. On his return he published his observations 



in a series of papers in the Knickerbocker Magazine, 
and subsequently embodied them in a volume under 
the title of the ''Oregon Trail'" (1849). 

While yet at college, as we are informed by a note 
! in one of his later works, he followed on foot the trail 
of Rogers the Ranger in his retreat from Lake Mem- 
phremagog to the Connecticut in 1759, and his sub.se- 
quent expedition demanded as much courage as 
endurance ; he penetrated what was still the Wild 
West, as far as the Rocky Mountains, living for 
months among the Dakotas, as yet untainted in their 
savage ways by the pale face. The privations of this 
journey were too much for his vigorous constitution, 
and left him a partial cripple for life. 

The criticisms on this first published volume of the 
author serve to show the success it achieved It was 
said : ‘‘ He writes with much vivacity and good taste, 
“ and his story has all the air of truth with the attrac- 
" tiveness of fiction ; it is one of the few books from 
“ which we can obtain anything like accurate inform- 
^‘ation of the character of the country between the 
“ Mississippi and the Pacific. The volume throughout 
" is instinct with the spirit of the wild life which it 
“ describes.” 

This was followed by the Conspiracy of Pontiac, 
published in 1851. This is an uncommonly merito- 
rious work. It gives a more complete and accurate 
picture of Indian life and character, and of Indian 
warfare such as it w^as a century ago, than had before 
appeared in print, and it is WTitten with so much 
spirit and picturesque effect that it is as entertaining 
as a nursery tale. We have, in the form of authentic 
and detailed record, exactly such incidents as make the 
materials in the most delightful of Cooper’s novels. 

His subsequent works may be named in the order of 
publication as follows : — 

France and England in North America. 

The Huguenots in Florida, 1865. 

Pioneers of France in the New World, 1867. 

The Jesuits in North America, 1867. 

La Salle and the Discovery of the Great West, 1869. 

The Old Regime in Canada, 1874. 

Frontenac and New France under Louis XIV, 
1877. 

Montcalm and Wolfe, 1884. 

A Half Century of Conflict, 1892. 

They form a connected series, in which, however, a 
gap remains to be filled, between Frontenac and 
Wolfe. They have all passed through several editions, 
and have also been translated into the French and 
German languages. 

This series is known to every student of Canadian 
history. The collection of the necessary material 
involved an immense amount of labor. The chief 
sources were the archives of France and England, the 
use of which required repeated visits to those countries. 
Many documents were also obtained from the collec- 
tions of societies and private individuals on both sides 
of the Atlantic. 

Candid and impartial, with an insight into character 
unclouded by any mists of prejudice, there are few 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



139 



historical writers who combine such rare gifts as 
Francis Parkiua If we except Washington Irving 
and Prescott, there is no American writer who shows 
greater skill in giving full value to his researches. 
Kven Motley, though a writer of considerable talent, 
is not, on the whole, so great a master of his pen as 
Parkman ; indeed the latter pleases, both by what he 
says and b}’- an impression which he leaves of saying 
less than he might say, and by avoiding alike undue 
emphasis and artificial exaggeration. 

His “Montcalm and Wolfe” will take its place as 
a master-piece in military history. It is probably the 
best account of the most important war in our colonial 
period. 

In addition to the important historical writings, he 
furnished numerous articles to magazines, and in 1856 
put forth a novel entitled “ Vassal Morton^ The scenes 
of the story are those of recent days, and in its progress 
the reader is presented with pictures of life on both 
sides of the Atlantic. 

In 1866 he published The Book of Roses,’* and it 
may almost have escaped recollection that during 
1871-72 he was Professor of Horticulture at Harvard. 

He received the degree of B.A. at Harvard in 1844, 
and a few years later that of M. A. ; he was afterwards 
made an honorary LL.D., a degree which had pre- 
viously been conferred upon him by McGill University 
and by Williams College of Massachusetts. At the time 
of his death Dr. Parkman was one of the seven mem- 
bers of the Corporation of Harvard University, a posi- 
tion he had held for sixteen years. He was also Presi- 
dent of the Massachusetts Historical Society, corres- 
ponding member of the Roj^al Society of Canada, and 



member of most of the historical societies of Canada and 
the United States, as well as of various learned societies 
in England and on the Continent of Europe. 

It may be added that during the later years of his 
life he sufiered from a disease of the eyes which made 
the use of them often impossible and at best precarious ; 
but such was his energy and indomitable perseverance 
that he worked on at his life-work in spite of all 
impediments. 



THE ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPITAL 

On Saturday, the ist of December, this great monu- 
ment of generosity was formally opened by His Excel- 
lency Lord Aberdeen. This event is of importance not 
merely to the city of Montreal but to Canada at large. 
The conception of this noble tribute to our gracious 
Queen, intended to commemorate the jubilee of her 
illustrious reign, we owe to Lord Mount-Stephen and 
Sir Donald A. Smith, the latter of whom is the Chan- 
cellor of our University. To both these generous- 
hearted men Montreal is indebted for many solid ad- 
vantages. McGill University especially owes a debt of 
gratitude to Sir Donald, which it can only repay by mak- 
ing the most of the great boons which he has conferred 
upon it. To the University, and more particularly to 
the Medical Faculty, the completion of this Hospital 
is a matter of vital moment. 

It is the proud boast of McGill that the clinical 
training which her students receive. is unsurpassed on 
the continent. Apart from the admirable and enthu- 
siastic staff of teachers, much of this is due to the ex- 
cellent hospitals which are found in Montreal. Sit- 










140 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



uated as the city is at the head of ocean navigation, and 
at the same time being the largest city of the Dominion, 
it is to be expected that Montreal would be one of the 
great medical centres upon the continent. For years 
back McGill has trained her students at the General 
Hospital, where there exist great facilities for practical 
clinical work, this being one of the few hospitals where 
students have actual charge of cases upon which they 
have to report. 

This feature gives a training of the utmost value 
when these students go out into practice, and it is largely 
owing to this that the McGill Medical school has won 
its wide reputation. The thorough work must tell. 
Recently the General Hospital has been enlarged by 
the construction of two large wings, intended for the 
reception of surgical cases. This extension contains a 
well-equipped operating-room and a pathological labor- I 
atory. The older part of the building is also to be re- j 
modelled in the near future. This will enhance its ! 



already great efficiency. ’Hie Royal Victoria is not in- 
tended to eclipse the General by its more brilliant light, 
but will amplify its work. An important feature of the 
new Hospital from a scientific point of view is the 
pathological laboratory. Neither pains nor money 
have been spared to render this near perfection, and it 
will give a new and greater impetus to original re- 
search. To a large degree, facilities for this have been 
lacking until now. This laboratory is very complete 
and well ordered, and is under the direction of our 
genial professor of Pathology, Dr. Adami. It cannot 
fail to further Medical science in Montreal, and will 
greatly benefit the Medical school of our University. 
We are glad to note that the Principal of McGill Uni- 
versity and the Dean of its Medical Faculty are mem- 
bers of the governing body ex-ojficio^ while three of our 
I professors are upon its visiting staff, Drs. James Stewart, 

I T. G. Roddick and J. G. Adami. The latter also holds 
! the position of Pathologist to the General Hospital. 




THE MONTREAL GENERAL HOSPITAL, DORCHESTER STREET— FRONT VIEW. 



The advantages of the original research referred to 
alx)ve are obvious, and this is one thing that we should 
aim at in McGill hereafter. To do this we must have 
more buildings and increased equipment. We are like 
Oliver Twist, we “ want more.” It is a good healthy 
sign, however. An educational institution like McGill, 
should it not ask for more, and should it not strive after 
greater things, is very likely to retrograde. We have 
not yet reached the stage of perfection in McGill. 
Much has been said recently with regard to a six years 
course, by which a student might attain a degree in Arts 
.IS well ns his professional degree, arranging some of the 



preliminary medical subjects in an Honor Course in 
Natural Science in the Faculty of Arts. This is a pro- 
ject that has much to recommend it, but brings us face 
to face with a great need, and that is a well-equipped 
Biological laboratory. Such an institution would be 
a great boon both to Arts and to Medicine. Toronto 
Universit}' has a good Biological department, and so 
should we look forward in hope, however, and some 
day in the near future some of our ideas may be realized. 

For the accompanying views we owe our thanks to 
Dr. R. F. Ruttan of the Medical Faculty, and to Mr. 
Patton of the Montreal General Hospital. 




McGill fortnightly. 



141 




SURGICAL tiieatrk-ca:\ipbkll memorial building- -general hospital. 



\ 




WARD K-CA^rPBELL MEMORIAL BUILDING— GENERAL HOSPITAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



. THE MEDICAL FACULTY DINNER- 

“ Food fills the waim and keeps us livin’.” 

It is said that one of the chief characteristics of the 
old Saxons was their lov'e of eating and drinking. 
Heredity with its iron law has reproduced this laudable 
trait in their modern representatives. Even the 
Medical will at times unbend his brow from a contem- 
plation of the great truths enunciated by Nicias, 
Galen and Hippocrates, and turn from this feast of 
reason to another of a more objective and, for the time 
being, a more seductive nature. Such was the state of 
affairs on the 7th inst., when the Students of the 
Medical Faculty dined at the St. Lawrence Hall. None 
ventured to speculate upon the relative proportions of 
proteids, carboh)'drates and fats in the tempting 
array of viards that was presented ; all were above 
such sublunary considerations as this. One of our 
genial Professors has said : “ The cook has outstripped 
the physiologist, if not the chemist also,” and we quite 
agreed with him. 

A goodly number of Students and Professors met at 
the appointed time, and clustered in little groups in 
the handsome parlors of the Hotel, discussing the 
weather and other kindred topics, their immaculate 
.shirt fronts glowing with anticipation. An adjourn- 
ment was soon made to the dining-hall where lay the 
field of operation. The tables were tastefully decorated, 
and an orchestra enlivened the proceedings from time 
to time. With unlimited pabulum, with sweet music, 
with a two hours’ limit, what more could a man 
desire ? 

Mr. E. J. O’Connor, of the Final Year, presided, and 
right well did he do it. 

On his right sat Prof. T. Wesley Mills, Mr. Louis 
Sutherland, Dr. James Bell, Dr. Adami, Dr. Wyatt 
Johnston, Dr. Armstrong, Dr. Martin, Dr. J. M. Elder 
and Dr. McCarthy, and on his left Dr. Girdwood, Dr. 
W. Geo. Beers, Dr. J. C. Cameron, Mr. A. W. Morris, 
M.P.P., Dr. Ruttan, Dr. Lafleur and Dr. Wilkins. 

Among others present were : Drs. W. E. Deeks, D. 
J. Scully (of Aspen, Col.), Birkett, Kirkpatrick, 
Messrs. N. J. McCallum, Toronto University; J, 
M. Jory, Trinity College ; J. R. Allan, Queen’s College : 
A. A. Detchman, Dalhousie College, Halifax ; S. A. , 
Daudelin, Laval ; and George Fisk, Bishop’s College. 

Mes.srs. P. R. Lewis, J. R. Shaw, McDougall and 
Larmonth represented respectively the sister faculties 
of Arts, Comparative Medicine, Law and Applied 
Science. 

The chairman, before toasting “ The Queen ” said 
he regretted that Sir William Dawson was not present 
with them that night. Sir William, in writing his 
regrets, stated that whilst it would have given him the 
greatest pleasure to have been present, in doing so he 
would be acting in open violation of the judgment of 
leading members of the Medical faculty itself, who 
enjoined on him great care and avoidance of late 



hours for the pre.sent winter. He asked them to accept 
his sincere good wishes and kindly regards, instead of 
his presence. 

The toast of “ The Queen ” was drunk with much 
enthusiasm, and all pre.sent united in a hearty rendering 
of the National Anthem. 

Mr. J. E. Robertson, the Secretary of the Dinner 
Committee, read several letters of regret at inability to 
be present from The Right Hon. Sir John Thompson, 
Hon. J. J. Curran, Vice-principal Johnson, Dr. T G. 
Roddick, Dean Campbell, Dean Bovey, Dean Tren- 
holme. Dean McEachran, Dr. W. F. Hamilton, Mr. 
R. B. Angus, and others. 

Mr. C. G. L- Wolf, B.A., then proposed the toast of 
‘‘Old McGill.” In the course of his remarks he said 
that McGill well merited the encomiums which had 
been bestowed upon her was apparent to the most 
casual observer. Even in the memory of the class of 
1894 their Alma Mater had made giant strides. In 
every department the progress McGill had made would 
appear incredible to one not acquainted with her 
methods of advance. Truly had it been an example 
of foundations wisely laid, sufficient to bear the tests of 
time and of criticism, and the superstructures thereon 
erected had been such as to challenge the applause 
and admiration of the collegiate world. That she had 
not only gained in the more material sense of brick and 
stone was almost too well known to bear mention ; 
but it was only right to say that the acquisition she 
had made in skill, experience and prestige of men from 
other universities had been of the greatest adv'antage 
to her. That the.se gentlemen were helping to make 
McGill known as the home of untiring and patient 
research was 011I3' evident, and they all looked forward 
to the day when their Alma Mater would be a centre 
for original investigations, well worthy of a place 
beside the oldest universities of Europe and the United 
States. McGill, in the 5’ear which had just gone bj', 
had been especially fortunate. Two needs had been 
supplied, of which she long stood in want. By the 
donations of Sir Donald Smith, Mr. Peter Redpath 
and Mr. Molson she had now a home for her books and 
a place for pathological study. 

He also referred to the project on foot for establish- 
ing a Union Club in McGill, which he thought would 
be productive of great good. 

Dr. Milks, who was received with great cheering, 
made a very happy speech, in the course of which he 
.said that during the two j’ears he had been with them 
he was proud to know that he had their sympathy. 
After speaking of the regret which McGill felt at 
losing Sir William Dawson, he .said that the pride of 
McGill had been in having such a gentleman with 
them for so many years. McGill’s history showed that 
she gathered around her great men, and that she had 
enough life and modern spirit in her to appropriate 
what is good in other institutions. 

He thanked the Students for the great honor they 
had done him in placing quotations from his w'orks 
upon the menu card, and jocularly remarked that it 
was a surprise to have them placed alongside those of 
such a genius as Sbakspeare. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



143 



Mr, L. Y. McIntosh next proposed the toast of the 
“ Dean and Professors.” He expressed the warm 
teeling which had always existed between Students 
and Professors, and suggested some points which he 
thought might, in the good time coming, increase the 
comfort of the classes. 

Dr. Girdwood, in the absence of the Dean, replied. 
He referred to the illne.ss of Dr. Craik, which all would 
regret. 

He hoped that the reputation of the Medical faculty 
of McGill would be no less prominent in the future 
than it had been in the past. Through the generosity 
of some of the Governors, who had placed considerable 
funds at their disposal, the Professors would be able 
next year to give to the Students increased accom- 
modation in the way of lecture room and library, and 
well equipped laboratories for the prosecution of their 
studies. They also hoped before long to be able to give 
them a good reading room, and in the time to come to 
have residences within the College, with a large dining 
hall, where the Professors could meet around the social 
board, not once a year, but often during the season. 

Dr. Bell, who also spoke to the toast, was warmly 
received, and after thanking them for their kindness, 
said the work of McGill had never been interrupted, 
and that the best fellowship existed between the Pro- 
fessors and Students. He regretted that the annual 
dinner was the only time in the year that they could 
meet for social intercourse, but he hoped the time would 
come when they would meet more frequently. 

Mr. W. H. Smyth, B.A., proposed the health ot the 
“Sister Universities,’' congratulating Queen’s upon 
having obtained the Dominion Football Champion- 
ship. He emphasized the cordial feeling existing be- 
tween the different universities of the country, and 
expressed the hope that in the future a system of Inter- 
collegiate games would be established, as this would 
do much to increase this fellow feeling. This was re- 
sponded toby Messrs. N. J. McCallum, Toronto; J. M. 
Jory, Trinity ; J. R. Allen, Queen’s ; A. A. Detchman, 
Dalhotisie ; Geo. Fisk, Bishop’s ; and S. A. Daudelin, 
Laval. 

The toast of ‘‘ Class ’94 ” was proposed by Mr. J. H. 
Gleason, and responded to by Mr. A. Bazin ; and that 
of “The Freshmen,’’ proposed by Dr. Elder, was re- 
sponded to by Mr. W. Gesner Allan. 

During the evening, songs were rendered by Messrs. 
Scott, H. M. Kinghorn, B A., and F M. Fry, B.A., 
which were very well received. 

The song rendered by Mr. Scott was a clever parody 
of “The Man in the Moon” by Mr. W. M. Mac- 
kerracher, and has been sung with great eclat before. 

The success of the Dinner was due to the following 
Committee : — 

Officers- 

President — E- J* O’Connor. 

ist Vice-President — A. T. Shillington. 

2nd Vice-President — E. H. Saunders. 

Hon. Chairman— G. P. Girdwood, M.D. 

“ Secretary— J. C. Cameron, M.D. 

“ Treasurer — J. G. Adami, M.D. 



Members. 

Hon. Member— H. S. Birkett, M.D. 

Chairman — A. J. Richard.son. 

Sec. — ^J. E- Robertson. 

Treas.— A. G. Allan, W. T. Scott, W. R. Fergu 
son, T. I. Lynch. 

FROM CALLIMACHUS. 

Calliope the deeds of heroes siugs ; 

Great Clio sweeps to history the strings ; 

Euterpe teaches mimes their silent show ; 

Melpomene presides o’er scenes of woe ; 

Terpsichore the flute’s soft power displays ; 

And Erato gives hymns the gods to praise; 
Polymnia’s skill inspires melodious strains ; 

Urania wise the starry course exp’ains ; 

And gay Thalia’s glass points out where folly reigns. 

MIGNON. 

(from the german of GOETHE.) 

Knowest thou the land where now- the citrons bloom, 

Where the golden oranges glow from out the gloom, 

Where soft and gentle winds from the clear blue heaven sigh. 
Through the lowly myrtle and fragrant laurel high ? 

Know St thou it'well ? 

Thither ! would I with thee, O my beloved, flee. 

Knowest thou the house,— its roof on pillars tall, 

O’er many a brilliant room and sun-illumined hall ? 

These alabaster statues, wrought by the artist’s hand, 

Seem e’en to pity me, as motionless they stand. 

Know’st thou it well ? 

Thither ! would I with thee, O my protector, flee. 

Knowest thou the mount, ascending through the cloud. 

Where seeks the mule his path amid the misty shroud, 

Where dwell in caves the dragons, so famed in mythic lore. 
And o’er the jagged cliffs the rushing torrents pour? 

Know’st thou it well ? 

0 father ! I beseech thee, thither let us flee ! E A. H, 

CI'GIT KITTY. 

Thou art dead ! E en now the rigor mortis 

Stiffens out thy tiny limbs and makes thy muscles rigid. 

Scarce did I dream that thou shouldst part so soon, 

Thy life was morn ; not yet thy elders hard 
Responsibilities had pressed thy shoulders down. 

From morn till night and e’en long after shadows weird 
Had fallen cross the ice-bound stream from waving pines 
That line its banks, thou foundest trifles pleasures, 

And ’mused thy watchers with thy playful ways. 

But Death ere lurks in hideous form upon our path 
To snatch the loved ones from our side, and make 
Us sorrow. He came to thee in form least thought. 

He whose care should be to guard thee from all ill. 

Grown vicious with old age and the heavy weight of life. 

Could no more support thy happy playfulness. 

And with one sharp and horrid snarl, he pierced thy brain 
With these fell canine teeth. Ah Kitty, would 

1 had not seen thee die ! Or would I hadj 
Some wondrous apple of Arabian lore 
That I might place it on thy nostrils chill 
And give thee further lease of life ! But no. 

It was not thus to be. Thy struggles soon 
Were o’er ; but while they lasted how my heart 
Was pierced by those dread shivers |of thy frame. 

We were such friends ! And who has not looked on 
The dreary world with sighs and tears when Death 
Has robbed them of a friend ? No longer shall 

I feel thy velvet paws as round my neck 
Thou climb’st, to purr into my ready ear 
The satisfaction that thou feel’st. Ah me ! 

I sigh, the tears come unbidden to my eyes, 

Alas ! thou art no more ! W YDOWN. 



144 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



WIT AND HUxMOR.— 



Douglas Jerrold was most widely known by his wit, 
for his wdt was ver>^ nimble and original. His reading 
was wdde, and his memory for w^hat he read was prodi- 
gious. His wit, how^ever brilliant, was not his finest gift 
, — he was remarkable for the extraordinary rapidity of 
his apprehension. He perceived analogies invisible to 
other men, and these analogies sometimes made him 
merr}', sometimes indignant. His essays over the 
signature in the early volumes of Pu7ich are 

wondrous specimens of |deep wisdom, and would alone 
have been sufficient to raise the character of that peri 
odical. 

I venture to say that Douglas Jerrold’s writings are 
not so much read as they deserve to be — he is perhaps 
best known by his “ Black Ey’d Susan '' and his ** Cau- 
dle Lectures*^— but his “ Comedies,’^ his ‘‘Cakes and 
Ale’^ and “Men of Character,’^ his “Story of a 
Feather ’’ and “ Chronicles of Clovernook,” are all more 
worthy of careful and thoughtful reading than scores 
of the ephemeral outpourings of the present day. 

At the risk of being regarded tedious I must furnish 
two or three further illustrations of his quaint humor. 
In his “ Cakes and Ale is given a “ Gossip at Recul- 
vers ’ — a place, I should explain, on the coast of Kent 
in England, where the sea is gradually encroaching, 
and the old church and burial-ground is being washed 
away. Herne Bay, close by Reculvers, was a favorite 
resort of Jerrold^s for a summer holiday, and he tells 
Uhat : 

“ One day, wandering near this open grave-yard, we 
“ met a boy, carrying away, with exulting looks, a 
‘‘ skull in very perfect preservation. He was a London 
‘ boy, and looked rich indeed with his treasure. 

What have you there ?* we asked. 

A man s head a skull,* was the answer. 

And what can you possibly do with a skull ? * 

“ ‘ Take it to London.’ 

And when you have it in London, what then will 
you do with it ? ’ 

“ ‘ I know ! ’ 

No doubt. But what will you do with it ? ’ 

“ And to this thrice-repeated question, the boy three 
times answered ‘I know.’ 

Come, here’s sixpence. Now, what will you do 
with it ? ’ 

“ The boy took the coin, grinned, hugged himself, 
hugging the skull the closer, and said very briskly 
Make a money-box of it ! ’ 

“ A strange thought for a child. And yet, mused 
we, as we strolled along, how many of us, with nature 
beneficent and smiling on all sides-how many of us 
think of nothing! so much as hoarding sixpences-yea 

hoarding them even in the very jaws of desolate 
Death ! 

In Punch’s “Letters to his Son,” there is a rich 
fund of wisdom “sugar-coated.” In the first letter we 
have the story of the “ Bright Poker ” : ' 

“ The widow Muggeridge, in her best room had two 
pokers. The one was black and somewhat bent : the 
other shone like a ray of summer light— it was effulgent, 



speckless steel. Both pokers stood at the same fire-place. 
‘ What ! ’ you ask, ‘ and did the widow Muggeridge stir 
the fire with both ? ’ Certainly not; was a coal to be 
cracked — the black poker cracked it : was the lower bar 
to be cleared — the black poker cleared it ; did she want a 
rousing fire — the black poker was plunged relentlessly 
into the burning mass, to stir up the sleeping heart of 
Vulcan ; was a tea kettle to be accommodated to the 
coals— the black poker supported it. ‘ And what,’ 
methinks you ask — ‘ did the bright poker ? ’ I an- 
swer nothing — nothing save to stand and glisten at the 
fireside ; its black, begrimed companion, stoking, 
roking, burning, banging, doing all the sweating work. 
As for the bright poker, that was a consecrated thing. 
Never did Mrs. Muggeridge go from home for a week, 
to visit her relations, that the bright poker was not 
removed from the grate ; and, carefully swathed in 
oiled flannel, awaited in greasy repose the return of its 
mistress. Then, once more in glistening idleness, 
would it lounge amongst shovel and tongs ; the jetty 
slave, the black poker, working until it was worked to 
the stump, at last to be flung aside for vile old iron ! 
One dozen black pokers did the bright poker see out ; 
and to this day— doing nothing— it stands lustrous and 
inactive !j 

My son, such is life. When you enter the world, 
make up all your energies to become — A Bright Poker.” 
And so on, through twenty-three letters, and the 
series is brought to end as follows : — 

” I had not heard from my son for a long time. I 
was thinking of him, when I was startled by the knock 
of the postman. I know not how it was, but the smitten 
iron sent a chill through my heart, and the goose-quill 
fell from my fingers. 

Our landlady we were then in lodgings — brought 
me up a letter. My wife was happily from home. I 
immediately recognized the handwriting of my son, 
and, with trembling fingers, I broke the wafer. I give 
the contents :— 

“ ‘ Condemned Cell, Newgate. 

“ ‘ Honored Parent, 

I have to the best of my abilities followed the 
a vice sent to me from time to time in your letters. 
You will, therefore, as the Ordinary says, not be sur- 
prised to find I write from this place. It is a case of 
mutton, and I am to hanged on Monday. 

” ‘ Your son, 

“ ‘ PUNCH THE YOUNGER.’ 
P.S.-YOU will find that, in spite of my misfor- 

J family still at heart. I 

shall therefore be hanged as John Jones.’ 

‘ My heroic boy kept his word ; and until this very 
hour, his mother is ignorant of his fate, believing him 
to be at this moment Ambassador at some foreign 



Court. 

his humoT-^^^’^^’" illustration of 



Jerrold in his youth entered the Royal Navy as a 
mi -Shipman, and served for some months in the Baltic 
One day he went in command of a boat to take some 
letters ashore, when one of the sailors asked permission 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



145 



to go ashore to buy some apples, a request which 
Jerrold granted, at the same time tossing the man a 
piece of money, asking him to buy some for him. The 
man deserted, and Jerrold got into serious trouble for 
having granted him leave. Twenty-seven years after- 
wards, he was walking in one of the most crowded tho- 
roughfares of London, when he saw his sailor looking 
into a shop window. Jerrold stepped up to him, and 
tapping him on the shoulder, said, “ My friend, you’ve 
been a long time gone for those apples.” 

On the first publication of Jerrold’s Cakes and 
Ale,” it was dedicated to Thomas Hood, with these 
words : — 

” A writer whose various pens touched alike the 
springs of laughter and the source of tears.” 

On the issue of a later edition, after Hood’s death, 
Jerrold added the following tribute: “This humble 

offering is herewith renewed, with the expression of a 
regret, that it was necessary for Thomas Hood still to 
do one thing, ere the wide circle and the profound 
wealth of his genius were to the full acknowledged ; 
that one thing was — to die.” 

Every word of which dedication might be applied to 
Jerrold himself 

His death on June 8th, 1857, is thus told by his son : 
— “ We saw a dreadful change. We called to the dear 
“ ones in the next room, and in wild agony they 
“ gathered about the bed. For a moment again his 
“ eyes regained their light ; he saw all about his death- 
“ bed ; his head leaned against my breast ; he looked 
‘‘ up, and said, as one hand fell in mine, and my bro- 
“ ther took the other, ‘ This is as it should be.* 

In a moment, without a struggle, peacefully as a 
child falls asleep in its nurse’s arms, he fell into his 
long rest, with a smile upon his face.” 

The “ In Meraoriam ” verses in Pu 7 ich which have 
appeared from time to time on the occasion of the 
death of eminent men have generally been of high tone, 
and these on the funeral of David Livingstone in West- 
minster Abbey may well take their place among the 
best of them. The closing lines are well worthy of quo- 
tation : — 

“Open the Abbey doors, and bear him in, 

To sleep with king, and statesman, chief and sage, 

The missionary, come of weaver kin, 

But great by work that brooks no lower wage, 

He needs no epitaph to guard a name, 

. Which men shall prize while worthy work is known. 
He lived and died for good— be that his fame, 

Let marble crumble, This is Living-Stone.” 

And the graceful tribute to our own Sir John A. Mac- 
donald may also serve as an illustration. 

m MEMORIAM. 

“OLD TO-MORROW.” 

The Right Hon. Sir John Alexander Macdonald, late Premier 
of Canada. 

Punch sympathizes with Canadian sorrow 
For him known lovingly as “ Old To-morrow.” 

“ Hail to the Chieftain ! ” He lies mute to-day, 

But fame still speaks for him, and shall for aye 
“To-morrow and to-morrow 1 ” Shakespeare sighs, 

So runs the round of time ! Man lives and dies. 



But death comes not with mere surcease of breath 
To such as him. “ The road to dusty death ” 

Not “ all his yesterdays ” have lighted. Nay ! 

Canada’s Old To-morrow ” lives to-day 
In unforgetting hearts, and nothing fears 
The long to-morrow of the coming years. 

We cannot afford to despise the jester Punchy for 
some of the best specimens of wit and wisdom have 
appeared in its pages. I well remember that Christ- 
mas number in 1843, when Hood’s “Song of the 
Shirt ” appeared, that song which did more to attract 
attention to the condition of the needlewomen of Lon- 
don than all the police reports ever published ; 

“ Oh ! men with sisters dear. 

Oh ! men with mothers and wives, 

It is not linen you’re wearing out. 

But human creatures’ lives.” 

‘‘Stitch, stitch, stitch, 

In poverty, hunger and dirt, 

And still in a voice of dolorous pitch, 

Would that its tone could reach the rich, 

She sang the ‘ Song of the Shirt ” 

In the pages of Punch, too, appeared many of the 
best effusions of Gilbert Abbott a Beckett, that ex- 
traordinary genius whose talent was so versatile, that 
on one occasion the whole of the leaders in the Times 
newspaper were from his pen. 

We have all met with Mrs. Partington, but some of 
you may not be aware that we are indebted to the Rev- 
erend Sydney Smith for the invention of the character. 
At the time of the agitation of the Reform Bill in 
England, the House of Lords had brought upon itself 
a great deal of abuse, by resisting the popular measure, 
and the Reverend gentleman thus wrote upon the 
question : — 

“ I do not mean to be disrespectful, but the attempt of the 
Lords to stop the progress of reform ” reminds me very forcibly 
of the great storm at Sidmouth, and of the conduct of the excel- 
lent Mrs. Partington on that occasion. In the winter of 1824 
there set in a great flood upon that town ; the tide rose to an 
incredible height, the waves rushed in upon the houses, aud 
everything was threatened with destruction. In the midst of 
this storm, Dame Partington, who lived upon the beach, was 
seen at the door of her house with mop and pattens, trundling 
her mop and squeezing out the sea water, and vigorously push- 
ing away the Atlantic Ocean. The Atlantic was roused. Mrs. 
Partington’s spirit was up, but I need not tell you that the con- 
test was unequal. The Atlantic Ocean beat Mrs. Partington. 
She was excellent at a slop or a puddle, but she should not have 
meddled with a tempest. 

The British House of Commons would be a rich mine 
if we had time to explore it for examples. Sheridan, 
one of its most brilliant members, said of Kelly, the 
musical composer, who had turned wine-merchant, and 
had been unsuccessful in everything he had attempted : 

** That Kelly was a; most enterprising fellow, for he com- 
posed his wines and imported his music.” 

I heard Dr. Bowring (the celebrated linguist) recite 
the following epigram on Dr. Goodenough being chap- 
lain to the House of Commons : 

“ ’Tis well enough that Goodenough should to the Commons 
preach. 

For sure enough, they’re dull enough for Goodenough to teach.’’ 



146 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and this he parodied on the occasion of the first return 
of John Bright to the House of Commons : 

Tis meet enough and fit euougli the House should be enlighl 
eued, 

For sure enough, theyVe dull enough and wanting to be Bright- 
ened.” 

If I felt that I had not already encroached upon your 
time, I should ask your attention to the “ Rejected 
Addresses ” of Horace and James Smith and the “ Ad 
dress to the Mummy,*’ by Horace Smith, and a fuller 
notice of the serious poems of Thomas Hood, proving 
that wit is closely allied to the deepest pathos ; but it 
is time that I should thank you for the patience with 
which you have listened to m}^ (I fear) tedious gossip, 
and I will conclude with some lines on the aforesaid 
John Bowring (who was conversant with 28 or 30 lan- 
guages) by the aforesaid Thomas Hood 

“ To Bowring, man of many tongues, 

All over tongues, like rumour, 

This tributary verse belongs, 

To suit his learned humour. 

All kinds of gab he knows, I wis, 

Servian, Sclavonian, Scottish, 

As fluent as a parrot is, 

But far more /b//^-glottish . 

No language too obscure he meets. 

However dark or verb-y. 

He gabbles Greek about the streets. 

And often /?w5-(s) urbe^ 

Strange tongues, whate’er men may them call. 

In short the man is able, 

To tell you “ What’s o’clock ” in all 
The ^/rtZ-ects of Babel. 

He talks them all with equafease. 

The German and the Spanish. 

The Magyar, Polish, Portuguese, 

Bohemian, Tuscan, Danish. 

. Try him with these and twenty such. 

His skill will not diminish. 

Although you should begin with Dutch, 

And end like me with Fin-nish, 

H. M. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



To the Editor of the McGill Fortnightly ; 

Dear Sir, 

In your last issue under “ Correspondence,” refer- 
ence is made to a lecturer on mission work who pass- 
ing through Montreal, was denied an opportunitv of 
speaking to the Y.M.C.A. of this University. 

Allow me to state that sufficient time was not given 
(by those who made the request) in which to bring the 
matter before the Faculty. “ 

Undergraduate. 



THE UNIVERSITY (Continued.) 

The High School, under the rectorship of Dr. Howe, 
was an affiliated school, and we could look to it as 
likely in a few years to furnish us with a larger num- 
ber of students — a hope not disappointed. But our 
great difficulty was lack of money ; and the seat of 
government being at the time in Toronto I was asked 
to spend my first Christmas vacation in that city, with 
the view of securing some legislative aid. There was 
as yet no direct railway communication between Mont- 
real and Toronto, and of course no Victoria bridge. I 
crossed the river in a canoe amongst floating ice, and 
had to travel by way of Albany, Niagara and Hamil- 
ton. The weather was stormy and the roads blocked 
with snow, so that the journey to Toronto occupied 
five days, giving me a shorter time there than I had 
anticipated. Sir Edmund Head was very kind, and 
under his auspices I saw most of the members of the 
Government, and some initiatory discussions were had 
as to the Hon, Mr. Cartier’s contemplated Superior 
Education Act, passed in the following year, and which 
secured the status of the preparatory schools, while 
giving aid to the universities. I was also encouraged 
by Sir Edmund and Cartier to confer with the Super- 
intendent of Education and the Governors of McGill on 
my return to Montreal, with reference to the establish- 
ment of a Normal school in connection with the 
University, which was successfully carried out in the 
following year. I may here remark, in passing, that 
McGill Normal Shool has, in my judgment, been one 
of the most successful institutions of its kind. It has 
proved indispensable to the growth of our provincial 
education of every grade, has indirectly aided the 
University, has been deservedly popular throughout 
the country, and has had the good will and support of 
the successive superintendents of education and of the 
provincial governments of both political parties. 

The direct aid, however, which could be obtained from 
the Government was small, and the next movement of 
the Board of Governors was our first appeal to the 
citizens of Montreal, resulting in the endowment of the 
Molson chair of English Language and Literature with 
$20,000 (subsequently augmented to $40,000 by Mr. J. 

H. R. Molson), and $35,000 from other benefactors 
This was a gxeat help at the time, and the beginning of 
a stream of liberality which has floated our University 
barque up to the present date. In connection with this 
should be placed the gift of the Henry Chapman gold 
medal, the first of our gold medals. The liberality of 
the citizens in 1857 encouraged the board of governors 
to strengthen and extend the teaching staff in Aits by 
the appointment of Professors Johnson and Cornish and 
shortly afterwards of Professor Darey, who still, after 
all these years of arduous and faithful service, remain 
to t.ie University, and are now the senior members of 
Its professoriate. 

To counterbalance the.se successes and advantages 
m the early part of 1856 the building occupied by the 
Iigh School and by the Faculty of Arts was destroyed 
by fire, along with some of the few books which had 
been collected and .some of our apparatus, and a large 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



147 



part of my private collections which I had been using 
for my lectures. The specimens, apparatus and books 
were not insured, and the insurance on the building 
was quite insufficient to replace it, so that this was a 
great pecuniary loss, but one which our Governors bore 
with admirable fortitude and equanimity, and took 
immediate steps to repair. For the remainder of the 
session the College classes were transferred in part to 
the original College buildings above Sherbiooke street, 
and in part to the Medical Faculty’s building on Cote 
street. The classes were not interrupted, and plans 
were at once prepared for the erection of a new and 
better building. 

The year 1857 'vas signalized not only by the open- 
ing of the McGill Normal School and by the addition 
to our staff already noted, but by the institution of a 
chair of Civil Engineering, the first small beginning of 
our Faculty of Applied Science. At the same time, in 
the hope that the Faculty of Arts might be able before 
many years to occupy permanently the College build- 
ings, the improvement of the grounds was begun by 
planting, draining and making walks. At first I did 
this at my own cost, as a labor of love, with the aid of 
the late Mr. Sheppard in laying out the walks, merely 
asking permission of the Board. Dr, Howe, who resided 
at that time in the centre building, gave some aid, and 
the new secretary, Mr. Baynes, took a deep interest in 
the matter. The graduates undei took to plant trees 
along one of our walks, and eventually the Board gave 
small sums toward this object, and at a later date ap- 
pointed a caretaker, for whom a lodge was erected by 
a subscription among our friends. 

We had proposed that so soon as the students in Arts 
should exceed fifty we would venture to occupy the 
old building. This happened in i860, and we accord- 
ingly proceeded to move up and take possession of the 
centre block, the east wing being used for residences. 
The movement was a fortunate one, for it suggested 
to our friend, Mr. William Molson, the erection of a 
third block, corresponding to the eastern one, to be 
named the William Molson Hall, and which was to 
contain the Convocation room and Library. This was 
the original limit of Mr. Molson’s intention ; but, 
driving up one day in company with Mrs. Molson to 
note the progress of the work, she suggested that it 
would be a pity to leave it unfinished, and that it would 
])e well at once to connect the three blocks of buildings 
ill one pile, according to the original plan. The hint 
was taken, plans were prepared, and one of the con- 
necting buildings became our first museum, while the 
other provided a Chemical and Natural Science class 
room and laboratory. Both buildings, as well as the 
library, were seeds of greater things. The library was 
provided with shelves for 20,000 volumes, while we 
possessed less than 2,000, and at first it was distressing 
to see its emptiness ; but the lime has long passed when, 
after crowding it with additional book-cases and extend- 
ing it into an adjoining room, we began to desire larger 
space, now happily supplied by the magnificent Peter 
Redpath Library. The museum, equally empty, re- 
ceived in the first instance a portion of my own collec- 



tions, and others obtained in exchange and by purchase 
from my own resources. In this way it was possible 
almost from the first to fill it respectably, for a museum 
without specimens is even more forlorn than a library 
without books. Dr. Carpenter’s magnificent collection 
of shells was added in 1869. The whole furnished the 
nucleus for the Peter Redpath museum, which stands 
at the head of Canadian educational museums. The 
other connecting building became the home of our 
Chemistry and Assaying, in which Dr. Harrington, 
with the aid for a time of the late Dr. Sterr>' Hunt, built 
up our schools of Practical Chemistry and Mining and 
Assaying which have trained so many young men for 
useful chemical and manufacturing employment, for 
mining enterprises and for the Geological Survey, and 
has sustained indirectly the honor course in Geology 
ill the Faculty of Arts. Thus our resuming possession 
of the old buildings was successful and fruitful of new 
enterprise, and Mr. Molson’s timely aid laid the found- 
ations of greater successes in the following years. 

About this time a number of our graduates resident 
in Montreal formed themselves into the nucleus of a 
University society, which has continued to grow and 
expand up to the present time^ and has still room for 
further extension, more especially by the formation of 
branch or local associations, of which the Ottawa Valley 
Graduates’ Society has set the first and a brilliant ex- 
ample. One of the early efforts of this Society, at the 
time under the presidency of Brown Chamberlin, M.A., 
D.C.L., was the institution of the Founders’ Festival, a 
social gathering on Mr. McGill’s birthday. It was 
continued with spirit for some years, but failed to attract 
graduates from a distance, and was ultimately dropped 
in favor of other movements. The time may shortly 
come for its revival. 

In i860 we entered on the new departure of affiliating 
colleges in Arts, by the affiliation ofSt. Francis College, 
Richmond, and this was followed in a year or two by 
Morrill College, Quebec. In this matter the president 
of the Board of Governors, Judge Day, and the Hon. 
Judge Dunkin were very earnest, believing that these 
affiliated colleges might form important local centres 
of the higher education, and might give strength to the 
University. They have not, it is true, grown in magni- 
tude as we had hoped ; but so far they have maintained 
a useful existence, and have unquestionably done edu- 
cational good ; and, more especially, have enabled 
some deserving and able men to obtain an academical 
education which would otherwise have been denied 
them In the circumstances of the Protestant popula- 
lation of the province of Quebec this is an end worthy 
of some sacrifice for its attainment. The only addi- 
tional college of this class is that of Stanstead, added at 
a comparatively recent date. In 1865 the Congrega- 
tional College of British America, an institution for 
theological education only, was removed to Montreal, 
and became affiliated to the Univer>ity, and has been 
followed by three others. The value of these institu- 
tions to the University no one can doubt. They not 
only add to the number of our students in Arts, but to 
their character and standing, and they enable the Uni- 



148 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



versity to offer a high academical training to the can- 
didates for the Christian ministry in four leading de- 
nominations, thus rendering it helpful to the cause oi 
Protestant Christianity, and enabling us to boast that 
we have aided in providing for the scattered Protestant 
congregations of this province a larger number of well- 
educated pastors than they could possibly have ob- 
tained in any other way, while the ministers they sent 
out into the country have more than repaid us by send- 
ing students to the classes in all our faculties. Our 
system in this respect, which has been imitated else- 
where, presents, for colonial communities at least, the 
best solution of the question how to combine Christian 
usefulness with freedom from denominational control. 

The year 1870 brings me to the beginning of a most 
important movement not yet completed, but which has 
alread}^ proved itself a marked success, that for the 
higher education of women, respecting which a few 
chronological statements may be in place here. At a 
meeting of citizens convened by the Board of Governors 
in the early part of the year 1870, for the purpose of 
soliciting additional endowments, a resolution was 
moved by the late Rev. Dr. Wilkes, and with the explicit 
approval of our chancellor. Judge Day, to the effect 
that the University should'at as early a date as possible 
extend its benefits to women. It is true that no special 
endowments for the purpose were at this time offered, 
nor were there any applicants for admission ; but in 
spending the summer of 1870 in England, my wife and 
I made it our business to collect all the information we 
could on the movements in this matter then in progress 
in the mother country. The conclusion at which we 
arrived was that in our circumstances the methods of 
the Ladies’ Educational Association of Edinburgh were 
the most suitable ; and seconded by Mrs. G W. Simp- 
son, whose experience and influence as an educator were 
of the highest value, we endeavored to promote such an 
organization in Montreal. At a meeting of ladies, con. 
vened by our friend Mrs. Molson, of Belmont Hall, in 
her drawing-room, the preliminaries were agreed on, 
and the classes were opened in October, 1871, on which 
occasion I delivered the introductory lecture. This 
Association conducted an admirable and most useful 
work for fourteen years, until its place was taken by the 
University special course for women. 

About the same time, with the organization of the 
Ladies’ Educational Association, two other movements 
occurred bearing on the same question. One was the 
foundation by former pupils of Miss Hannah Willard 
Lyman of an endowment in commemoration of that gifted 
lady, and the income of which was to be expended to 
found a scholarship or prize ^ ‘ in the college for women ” 
afiiliated to the University, or in classes for women ap- 
proved by it. This endowment was used in the first 
instance for prizes in the classes of the Association, and 
its terms furnished an indication as to the prevailing 
sentiment with respect to the education of women, and 
were in accordance with the fact that Miss Lyman had 
been the lady principal of one of the greatest and most 
successful colleges for women in the United States. 
The other, and practically more important, was the 



establishment of the Girls’ High School of Montreal. 
This was suggested by the Rev. Dr. Jenkins, the chair- 
man of the Protestant Commissioners of Schools, in his 
report for 1871, and after some delays, owing to the 
claims of other objects, I moved as a member of the 
Board, in February, 1874, the appointment of a commit- 
tee with power to establish such a school. The committee 
acted promptly, prepared a plan, recommended teachers, 
and engaged a temporary building, and the school came 
into operation in the autumn of 1874. In moving in 
this matter I fully expected that the establishment of 
a school giving the training necessary for our matri- 
culation examination would lead in a few years to a 
demand for college education on behalf of the passed 
pupils of the school, but trusted that means would be 
found to meet this when it should arise, though I de 
precated any premature action on the part of the Uni- 
versity itself in this direction. The attention of the 
corporation was again directed to the subject by the 
Rev. Dr. Murray in 1882, and the matter was referred 
to a committee to collect information, but the demand 
did not actually develop itself till 1884, when several 
pupils of the Girls’ High School had distinguished 
themselves in the examinations for Associate in Arts, 
and formal application was made by eight qualified 
candidates for admission to University privileges. At 
first the only resource seemed to be to appeal to the 
public for aid in this new departure ; but at the moment 
when the difficulty pressed, 

Sir Donald A. Smith 

voluntarily came forward with an offer of $50,000 to 
provide separate classes in Arts for women for the first 
and second years, leaving the question of how their 
education was to be continued afterwards in abeyance. 
This generous offer was thankfully accepted by the 
University, and thus our classes for women were com- 
menced in 1884. Subsequently the same liberal bene- 
factor increased his gift to $120,000, to continue the 
work over the third and fourth years, and, besides, con- 
tributed $4,000 annually in aid of sessional lectures, 
while the corporation, without hesitation, admitted the 
women to all the privileges of examinations and 
degrees. Under these arrrangements the Donalda special 
course for women has been going on successfully for 
eight years ; but it will devolve on my successor to 
carry out the development of the plans of the founder 
into a separate college for women. In this form, and 
with a suitable building in proximity to the other 
buildings of the University, and aided by its library, 
museum and laboratories, it cannot fail to attract a 
much larger number of students, and to become more 
than ever a leading department of the work of the 
University. 

{To be conthiued.') 



SOCIETIES. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

In spite of the cold and stormy afternoon, the 
William Molson Hall was nearly filled on Tuesday, 
December 5th, to hear the lecture to the Delta Sigma 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



149 



Society, — an annual event which is always looked 
forward to with interest. 

This year the announcement that, for the first time 
in the annals of McGill, a lecture would be delivered 
in its halls by a woman and a graduate of a sister 
University filled not only the Donaldas, but all those 
interested in the University with pleasurable anticipa- 
tion. 

Mrs. Ashley Carus-Wilson disappointed no one, 
and her practical, eloquent advice on ‘‘ The right use 
of Books** will not readily be forgotten. 

As Mrs. Carus-WilsoTi has kindly consented to allow 
the Fortnightly to publish her lecture in extenso, 
any remarks on its substance would be de trop. 

It only remains to add, that the thanks of all lovers 
of books are due to the Lecturer for a great incentive 
to reading. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

• The meetings during the last few weeks have hardly 
averaged so large a gathering as early in the session. 
Can we not unite to maintain a higher average through- 
out the entire Spring term ? 

The Friday Evening Prayer Meeting will be con- 
tinued during the Christmas Holidays ; the next meet- 
ing on Sunday afternoon will take place on January 
7th, 1894. 

The Bible Training Classes have been a most encour- 
aging feature of the work ; 24 men have been entered in 
5 different classes, or rather groups. The plan pursued 
has been as follows : 

Course “A** — The members entered on a mutual 
agreement of regular attendance and at least one hour’s 
preparatory study ; the lessons have consisted of one 
half hour’s drill on some fundamental Bible topic, and 
the remainder of the hour is given to informal confer, 
ence on personal Christian life or w’ork. Course B ** 
— The agreement was as above, with the addition that 
each member participate in Personal Work ; the course 
of study has been confined to this theme, dealing theo- 
retically and practically with the methods to be pur- 
sued in doing Personal Work- During the spring term 
we shall study the Life of Christ as a “ Personal 
Worker.’* We sincerely trust a largely increased num- 
ber of Students will become students ** of the Bible, 
Confer with the General Secretary before you leave on 
your vacation. 

In speaking of journalism *as a profession, Charles A 
Dana, of the New York Sun, makes this statement 
concerning the literature a newspaper 'man should be 
familiar with : “ First and foremost is the English Bible, 
which, considered merely from the point of view of pro- 
fessional preparation and ability, far outranks any other 
that could be mentioned- Its suggestiveness, its 
sublime simplicity, and its lofty integrity in motive and 
in style make it a volume without a parallel.” 

If this is true in speaking of a man of the world, how 
much more in '' the man of God,” who must be 
‘‘ thoroughly furnished unto all good works.’* 



The loth Annual Meeting of the Association is called 
for Saturday, January 13th, 1894, at 7.30 p.m. Let us 
close the first decade in the history of the Association, 
with a large and representative meeting ; let the occasion 
mark the time from which we shall “ reach forth unto 
those things which are before.** 



Mr. Fenwick, returned missionary from Corea, ad- 
dressed a large and interested meeting in the Y.M.C.A. 
Building on Sunday afternoon, Dec. 3rd. In order to 
give the Students an opportunity of hearing Mr. 
Fenwick, the regular Sunday afternoon meeting of the 
McGill Y.M.C.A. was dispensed with. The Rev. Dr. 
Wardrope presided, and introduced the speaker as a 
representative of the Canadian Colleges* Mission. 

Mr. Fenwick first spoke briefly of the field of work, 
and then outlined the religion of the Coreans, which 
consists almost entirely of the worship of demons. In 
cases of extreme peril they offer prayer to a god who 
they believe can deliver them, whom they recognize as 
almighty and call the Heavenly King ; but for the 
most part the purpose of their worship is to propitiate 
the demons. There are in man three spirits. At death, 
one of these enters an ancestral tablet, which is pre- 
served in the family. The eldest son in presence of 
other mourners, bows before this tablet, and offers prayer 
and incense to the demons, that they may not disturb 
the spirit of the departed. Another remains in the 
grave where the body has been laid, and a dutiful son 
offers sacrifice daily for three years at his father’s tomb, 
that the spirit may be at peace. The third spirit takes 
up its abode among the ancestors ; and hence a Corean 
never speaks of his departed friends as dead, but as 
“ gone back,” /.<?., to their ancestors. On all occasions 
of danger and misfortune the demons must be pro- 
pitiated. 

The College Mission movement was begun by the 
Toronto University Y.M.C.A. in 1888, when Mr. Jas. 
Gale, B.A., went to Corea as the representative of the 
Association. Two years later the Medical Students 
Y.M.C.A. sent Dr. R. A. Hardie and family ; but it 
was not till 1892 that the Canadian Colleges* Mission 
was formed by the union of the two Associations men- 
tioned. There are now nine associations in the 
Mission. The movement is Pan-Denominational, 
and supports rather than opposes Denominational 
effort. Its object is two fold ; first, to evangelize 
one heathen country viz., Corea; and secondly, to 
stimulate missionary interest at home. Mr. Fenwick 
made a strong appeal to the Students to support the 
mission, urging that it was distinctly collegiate ; that 
it was to their own advantage to join it, as it fostered 
the missionary spirit ; that it was Pan- Denominational 
and popular with the churches ; and that it was dis- 
tinctively Canadian. 

At the close of this intensely interesting address, 
Dr. Wardrope, who was for a long time closely identi- 
fied with Foreign Mission Work in connection with 
the Presbyterian Church, made a few remarks com- 
mendatory of the Canadian Colleges’ Mission move- 
ment. 



150 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of the above Society was helc 
Saturday evening, Dec. 2nd. 

After the transaction of sundry business items, C. G. 
Wolf, B.A., read an admirable paper on ^‘Urinary 
Analysis.” Having given a brief sketch of the work 
done on the subject from the earliest times, he gave a 
hhort description of the normal secretion, and then took 
up the abnormal constituents with more detail. Different 
tests for each were accurately described, and the great 
a'^sistance rendered by the early detection of these 
abnormal substances to a correct diagnosis was dwelt 
upon at length. 

As Mr. Wolf has devoted much time to the study of 
this subject, he was able to point out many of the 
difficulties likely to occur to the practitioner in his 
work, and to recommend the apparatus best suited to 
his wants. The paper had been very carefully prepared, 
and stands at the head of the many good papers read 
before the Society this session. 

After tendering Mr. Wolf a vote of thanks, the 
meeting adjourned until the i6th. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

Regular meeting was held in Lecture room of Com- 
parative Medicine Faculty, Thusday evening, 7th inst., 
the Honorar}" President, Prof. McEachran, occupying 
the chair. After the regular business of the Associa- 
tion had been transacted, Mr. A. H. Hall reported an 
operation on a pig, the details of which stimulated a 
lively discussion. 

The essayists of the evening were Mr. J. R. Hollings- 
worth and Mr. J. McLeod. The former gentleman 
presented the subject. The External Parasites of the 
Horse, in which he gave detailed account of the 
different species, habits and general effects on the 
Equine races, also remedies and means of eradication. 

The latter gentleman read an essay on Pleuro- 
Pneumonia Contagiosa in cattle, setting forth early 
history, causes, and general forms of the disease, 
symptoms, means of diagnosing and treatment, etc. 
The subject Ijeing so important to the Veterinarian in 
this couiitry to-day, a special meeting was called for 
Monday evening, which was held. President Adami 
occupying the chair, and discussion followed. Prof. D. 
McEachran and Prof. Adami presented interesting 
remarks on this subject, which cau.sed great interest 
and discussion from the members. 



applied science glee club. 

The weekly practices of this Club have been discon- 
tinued until after the holidays ; they will recommein.e 
on Wednesday, January lolh. Why don’t all the mem- 
bers turn up to every practice? The Club this year 
has the use of a fine piano, the services of a very able 
instructor have been secured, and there are a goodly 

number of members, but only a faithful few attend the 
practices. 



The feeling of the Annual Meeting last year was 
that the Club .should give a concert this spring, but 
this will be impossible unle.ss we have a large chorus. 
The Club made its first public appearance this year at 
the Smoking Concert, at which it was well received. 
The Annual Drive, which is always an enjoyable event, 
will take place early next term. Do not think that 
because you ‘‘ have no voice ” you cannot become 
a member ; the chief object of the Club is to find a 
voice for evety man, or rather to put him in the way of 
finding it for himself, and this it can do, as may be 
proved by listening to the really excellent manner in 
which the above-mentioned few ” render the rousing 
choruses of the Toronto College Song Book. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 



FOOTBALL. 

A pleasant incident occurred the other evening when 
the members of the McGill II XV F. B. Club Interme^ 
diate champions for 1893 waited upon their popular 
captain, Mr. Lome Druraui, and presented him with 
a handsomely painted picture of the team. 

Mr Alex. Cowan, president Second year Comparative 
Medicine, made the presentation, and in a short speech 
alluded to good feeling existing between captain and 
members of club, and trusted that Mr. Drumm would 
have the success as captain of ist XV as had 
already characterized his efforts in connection with 
Intermediate champions. 

Mr. Drumm thanked the members for their kindness, 
after which a pleasant social evening was spent. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



ARTS NOTES. 

The Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the different 
years have been appointed a committee to have charge 
of the room formerly occupied by the Library, and 
which has recently been opened as a study-room for 
the students in Arts. 



Mrs. Dr. Alexander Johnson entertained the First 
and Second y^ears at an At Home ’’ on the evening of 
Saturday, the 9th inst. On the same evening Mrs. 
Chas. Moyse was “at home” to the members of the 
Third and Fourth Years. It is needless to say^ that 
those who were present at either gathering spent a very 
enjoyable evening. 



The Arts men have decided to hold a Conversazione 
this year, instead of the usual Faculty Dinner. The 
whole of the students by no means thought well of the 
proposed change, and two livel}' meetings were held 
before it was decided by a fair majority to have the 
Conversazione. The prospects are that we will have a 
very successful event at an early date next year. A 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



iSi 



committee of twelve undergraduates, with Mr. Garrett 
of the Fourth year as convener, have charge of the 
arrangements. The following professors, at the request 
of the Students, have consented to act on the com- 
mittee Dean Johnson, Dr. Murray, Prof Moyse and 
Prof. Cox. With such a committee of management as 
this, the success of the Conversazione is assured. 



The Students in Arts were represented at the 
Conversazione of Victoria College, Toronto, on the 15 th 
inst., by Mr. Frank J. Day of the Fourth Year. 

Mr. Lewis of the Fourth Year represented Arts at 
the Medical Dinner on the 8th inst. 

Mr. M. O. Lambly, Arts ’94, was chosen by the Lit- 
erary to represent McGill at the annual Conversazione 
of Queen’s College, Kingston, held on the 15th inst. 

We understand that all these gentlemen performed 
their duties in a manner highly creditable both to their 
Faculty and to themselves. Evidently the Arts men 
believe in mingling Theology with the secular in life. 



A Junior remarks, that though vacation always 
begins with a V, it just as invariably ends with a great 
scarcity of them. 



One of the ‘‘light-fingered gentry” seems to have 
visited the halls of the Arts building the other day, for 
when our senior came to get his overcoat, it was gone, 
while another could not find his otter cap. If the 
thief be caught, it will be made rather “hot” for 
him. 



Several of our Professors have been suffering from 
“ La Grippe ” of late. We are pleased to see that some 
are again able to resume their work, and sincerely hope 
for the speedy recovery of the others. 



The feathers are flying in the Molson Hall and will 
continue to do so while this kind of weather lasts. 



How did you do ? 



That the men thoroughly appreciate the benefits 
derived from the exercises in the Gymnasium is 
demonstrated by the way they turn out to their classes 
there even during these examination times. The 
Gymnasium is to remain open during the holidays. 



Mrs. Dr. Eaton invited some of the Professors, the 
members of the Classical Club, and a few others to her 
home, on Wednesday, the 13th inst., to meet Miss 
Peck. During the course of a most enjoyable evening 
Miss Peck gave an informal talk upon Modern Athens, 
which was much appreciated by all. 



“ I am looking for one of your class-reporters,” said 
a contributor to the editor, ” but I have forgotten his 
name.” 

“ Can you describe him ? ’’ asked the editor. 

“ He is short.” 

“Oh, that is no means of identification. Class- 
reporters are always short (of news). You will have 
to be more explicit.” 



The First Year had their lecture in English the other 
day alone. We wonder what the matter with the 
Science men was. .. j 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

We accept the homage ; but, if the Easter salutation 
is to be adopted in this country, we would recommend 
its votaries to practise the rise and fall at home, before 
trying to accomplish a graceful Salaam on a highly 
polished floor like that in the Physics Building. 

rtow much room is generally required to make a 
Freshie comfortable in class ? 

A light most brilliant shone from out the magic lantern 
Throwing resplendent colors on the snow-white screen : 
Designs whose beauty far surpassed the efforts of the sculptor 
So graceful were the outlines. Slowly the scene is changing, 
For see, how' gradually the colors fade and dim, 

Only to reappear, in all their former loveliness and glory ! 

And once again we gaze on tints so delicate 

As only now and then the morning or evening skies display. 

Suddenly, without one word of warning, Prometheus 
Has stolen from the altar of the gods their fire, 

Because forsooth the hour-glass has run out. 

And the four Satelites, lost in the darkness visible 
Stand astonished while mighty love vows vengeance 
On the base wretch below, the one who pressed the button. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

The opening of the new Royal Victoria Hospital and 
the enlargement of the General Hospital are of con- 
siderable importance to the Meds, and in fact to Medi- 
cal education throughout Canada. In this issue are 
presented several views of these buildings, which will 
no doubt be of interest to all the Students. 



Dr. Joseph Hayes of the Class of ’91 has just been 
admitted M.R.C.S , L R.CP. of England He is now 
taking a course in Practical Pathology and Bacterio- 
logy. 



Whed a bad tells you that he has a cold id the head 
you cad reasodably codclude that he has ad attack of 
the fashiodable epidebic 



With respect to “ new growths ” and the consequent 
glandular hypertrophy before referred to, we believe 
that there must have been some hair-red-itary predis- 
position. 






152 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Two students were wending their homeward way 
one evening, when one of them referred to the beauty 
of the Dogstar which is now visible in the heavens. 
His companion remarked that it was a rather fine ex- 
ample of a sky- terrier^ but doubtless he could hardly be 
Sirius. 



Please, Mister Doctor, do you think that a Turkey’s 
bath would do me no harm ? 



A good many of our number are the victims of grippe 
at present. It is hard indeed to have Christmas exams 
and influenza grip one at the same time. 



Hasn t nobody seen nothing of no dog nowhere about 
here ? 



Drs. W. K- Deeks and W. A. Brown have been ap- 
pointed to the Royal Victoria Hospital as resident 
medical officers on the Medical side. Dr. Scane has 
also been appointed to the surgical side of the same 
hospital. 



We are pleased to note that our esteemed Professor 
of Materia Medica has recovered from a very severe 
cold, and is able to lecture again in his usual distinct 
and pleasing manner. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Mr. J. H. Earmonth, ’94, worthily represented Science 
at the Medical Dinner. 



Descriptive Geometry has lost none of its terrors 
Well, C, what are you doing? 

Soph, (gazing ruefully at his muchly mixed dia- 
gram), “ Please, sir, nothing ; I’m just looking at it, 
sir.” 



Do 7 ialda.—^^ How fast that machine is moving ; it 
hardly takes a'moment to turn, does it? ” 

Science Prof. — Well, that depends on how long a 
moment is.” 

Donalda (with surprise).— A moment! Why, a 
moment’s just the shortest possible space of time. Did 
you never know that ? ’ ’ 



The results of the summer essays in the Third Year 
are posted. The Electrical students have distinguished 
themselves. 

Suggestion for next year s calendar : 

“ Children in the kindergarten, in case of absence, 
must bring a written excuse from their parents or guar- 
dians, in default of which the birch rod will be admin- 
istered.” 

A handsome photograph of last year’s graduating 
class has made its appearance in the Reading Room. 



One of the prize competition stories for the Fort- 
NiGHTi^Y is said to be entitled, “Original research in 

the Detective line ; or D the sleuth-hound of 

Science ’94.” 

The class pin of Sc. ’95 resembles Encke’s comet. 
It is now fast receding from view in its elliptical path, 
but our astronomer prophesies that it . will come back 
with the New Year, none the wwse for its journey. 



Professof . — “What did you find in your analysis of 
that meteorite, Mr. C. ? ” 

Student. — “ Principally striae, sir, with about 10 per 
cent, of nickel.” 



Have you seen the new window curtains in the 
museum ? 



Freshie. — “ What’s that you’re doing, sir?” 

Soph, (knowingly)— I’m just finding the specific 
gravity of this number of the Fortnightly. It con- 
tains a new joke which I’m afraid will break the jolly 
balance.” 



The graduating class regret the loss of Scott, ’94, who 
was obliged to go home as a result of his recent illness. 
Mr. Scott will'probably return next year. 



Dr. Harrington and Mr. Carlyle were confined to 
their rooms last week with severe colds. We are glad 
to see that they are both able to be out again. 



The unkindest cut of all is given by the Professor 
who wishes you a Merry Christmas after plucking you. 



Our representative to a recent dinner regretted that 
he was unable to attend lectures on the following day. 
We had expected better things. 



At a recent meeting of the new committee of the Foot- 
ball club, it was decided to purchase a tackling bog, 
and have it set up in the Gym. This is a move in the 
right direction, as the men showed a great lack of good 
scientific tackling in all the matches played this year. 
The apparatus will probably be in place by the begin- 
ning of the New Year, when it is hoped that the foot- 
ball men will avail themselves of it. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 



The Students of this Faculty are very busy 
ing with Christmas examinations. 



contend- 



IS sam tiiat the number of dogs at the clinics on 
Mondays and Fridays has increased lately. The Stu- 
dents will no doubt benefit by the increase, as very few 
If any, ever expect to become judges at dog-showi ’ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



153 



The number of students who intend remaining during 
the holidays will be smaller than last year. The 
heroes of the scavenger ride ” will remain, and no 
doubt make merry those who are inclined to get lone- 
some. 

We are pleased to have Mr. J. A. Ness back in the 
charmed circle. 



Some of the Third year men are evidently preparing 
to play the role of Santa Claus. We are sure they will 
succeed admirably. 

‘‘Jack ” takes a malicious delight in telling about 
the “ little man.’* 

iJealimg Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the genera 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



Testimonials like the following are rarely obtained by even 
makers of old standing^ who have been manufacturing and im- 
proving for years ; but when they are written in praise of the 
very first instrument turned out of a newly established factory, 
as in this instance, the case is unprecedented in the history of 
piano-making and is the strongest possible proof of the success 
achieved. 

Windsor Hoted, January 31st, 1892. 

Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, 

Montreal. 

Sir, 

The piano which you were so kind as to send me during my 
stay in Montreal is excellent in every respect, and has given me 
entire satisfaction. I desire to congratulate you. 

Please accept my heartfelt thanks. 

Ea. Aebani Gye 
Montreal, June 9th, 1892. 

Dear Mr. Pratte, 

Prior to my departure for England, I write to thank you for 
the very excellent instrument you sent me for my use. 

The piano as I understand is of your own manufacture, and as 
snch does you credit. The tone is rich full and of a “ velvety 
quality such as artists appreciate, whilst the touch is every- 
thing, to my mind, that cl^n be desired. 

Your piano-fortes will assuredly command a high standing 
amongst the profession and those seeking a really first-class 
instrument. 

Wishing you success, 

Believe me to remain, 

Yours truly, 

Edward Leoyd. 




FINE FURS 



Kull Assortment of 

BEAUTIFUU NOVEUTIFS 

KOR 

^ Xmas Gifts 



Cor. Notre Dame and St, Lambert Streets, 



N.B, — Open Saturday evenings till 9.30. 



JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER DECORATOR. 

Pine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6 ^ Co. execute Photo 
Engiavings m the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



F or Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No ti’ouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

380 to 886 St. Paul Street, 



iVlontreal 



154 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Ca’herine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 



SERVICES SUNDAYS : ii a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday- 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 

Indian *I*ea Oepot^-^' 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LeMESURIER 




5 eQ 5 on 1893=4 



I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 
complete 

Special Discount to Students. 



f 



Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. . . ..... 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

INSPECTION INVITED. 135 St. Pctep Street. 

WINDSOR MARKET. established ibss. 

BROWN BROS. 

Fine Table Delicaeies. 

The Ernporiiirn for Fine Meats, 

Cor* St. Catherine Street and McGill College lAvenue 
Telephone 4038. 



Call at the .... 



HOLLY CIGAR STORE. 



and give us your custom for Imported and 

Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— Colleg-e Cig-aps and Perique Mixture 



01. BEOGtiOLDT k GO., sx. 



2397 

CATHERINE 8T F ET 




TO HTffLETEG. 




Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 



Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 



REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 

Plicro. OccBSSoriBS 
Clinical TI(Brii|on|Bi6rs 
BypoderiniG Syringes 
Laryngoscopic [ilirrors 
OptiialmosGopes 
SieiiioscopGS 
Specula of all patiarns 
Skulls and Skalalons 
Gspiraiors, Batteries 
Pocket Gases, etc., etc. 
STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 




/ 



CD 



E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, . 



15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 



at very reasonable prices. 



PATERSON & FOSTER 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I5S 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water <s kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Halil and Swim, 25 cenlS; including lowels and trunks. 

Turkish Hath, 75 cents. Stu ents, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For furih r particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR. KRUSE, Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



COL//V CAMPBELL, 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAVER HALL HILL, 

Fopmeply 76 Victopia Squape. 

Greenhouses at ROOKFIELD, Lachine. 



Tie COOK'S FRIE ND is relaiM 0 ; all Goal Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. D. McLaren, 



ljurgest Stock of PALMS and other DECORA TIVE 
PLANTS in Canaria: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



• D. N'GHTINCALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



Cr^IMIElS 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 



SAMUEL S. GEANT. 



1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 



SPECTACLES, EYEGLASSES, 

Hoiir$» 9 a. in. to 8 p.m. 

HtNRY GRANT k SON, 



72 BEAVER HALL. 

Corner Dorchester Street. 



VIOE-EEGAL DEOOEATOES AND FLOEISTS. 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5- Davidson Sons, 

Branch 174 St. James St. Conservatories Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL. 9324 and 1754. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(Bngraver, 

118 Mansfield comer of St. Catherine, 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 



Q UT FLOWERS . . ^ 

JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (CoR. PEEL), 

■•" ' Tel. 4911. 



T. F-ITZRATRIOK, 

^DEN T/S T. 

Gold CrouJn and Bridge uJork a specialty. 

54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

TELEPHONE 3755, 

J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S.. 

DENTIST, 

iUtOAfTPg-41 

49 UNION AVENUE. 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES. 

199 ST, AMTOINE ST. and 2647 ST, OATHBSINE ST, 




156 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



W. H. HOF*E, 

Manufacturer of 
Importer of 

Steel EngrravingTs, Etchingrs and Oil Paintingrs, 

2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



The GEORGE gISHOP 

En.qraving and Printing Co. 



COLLEGE, CLUB AXl) 
SOCIETY FEINTING 



169 St. Street 



PROGRAMMES 

menus 

invitations 

TICKETS 



The American Fur Store 



wHOLKAji P;inu|;;idurln0 ^urrierfi 



and RETAIL 



Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St , McGill College A ve. 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 



An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smo.»th and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 



A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, H^y Fever 
and Influenza. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 



ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2.352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Hstablislied i8sq« 

-R. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians, Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF WcCILL. 

DOWN TOWN:sTORE ; UP TOWN STORE : 

232 ST. JANIES ST. 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



XMftS 

GOODS 



Calendars, Gold Pens, Fountain 
Pens, Diari«?s, etc., <?tc. 

HOETOH, PIILIIFS & CO. 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



157 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, IVTouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER A BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square a:id Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square W i lie Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Ordir. 






E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealersi 

725 STRyEET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 



JOHN PAXTON &, CO. 



Tel'^phone 

365 . 



Importers and Manufacturers of 



OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

^latc, Petal and (Brauel |loofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



Nos 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OK 
OA.IC-T A.3STITEI3 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

imsHioi. liomsoN i co. 

Masonry Contractors, . 

2467 St Catherine St.. Montreal. 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Mai-ufacluied by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY 

All Dealers hare them 

A. RAMSAY & SOX. Agents for Canada. MONTREAL 

&.<sc cr. 

Box IVIanvif etc torpors 

AND 

Office, 126 Duke Srteet. Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch’s Lives of Illustrious Men *.. . 3 vols., cloth Sa.so'rcduced from $5.00 

Lord Lytton’s Works 13 “ “ 5.00 ** 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3.00 ** 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ 7.50 ** 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 

MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

nyi:o 3 srTi^EA.i-.. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



SAMUEL KOGEKS & CO., 
TORONTO. 



DUNCAN ROBERTSON, 
MONTREA L. 



THE SAMUEL R08EHS CO. 

OILS 



LUBRICATING 



uluvinating 



Gold Medals in C years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

BeL iTe'ephc ng_oi9o. 02 McGill St , Montreal. 

GRO. S. KIMBllR, 





l| 1111111 kill 

AU kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CAfHERINB STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESiRtO MOTOR. 



r 



LiULi 




106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL 




158 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co.|**<canada UfEi>^ 



Largest Fire Office in the World. 
Unlimited Liability, Absolute Security. 

Every •lescriptioii of property insured at moderate rates of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATI.EY, Manager. 

OEO. SIMPSOX, A^iHistant Manager. 



E. Hurtubise, 
Alfred St. Cyr 



? Special Agents 
!, S French Dept. 



James Allin, I Special Agents 
W. S. Robertson, J English Dept, 
of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



bi:avi;r line: 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

rtu Superior, 5300 Tons, Ca|it, Stowart, 

Lakt l.nroii. oOOO Tons, (apt. (aroy. Wiimipft', 3.500 Tons, fapl. Ilerriman. 

Lake \ipiu;on, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

'T A of this I inc have been built specially for the A tlantic Passentrer 

are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
8.CC mmocifition f r all classes of Passpnerpr^ at xrortr inTxr ►.=,0 
pecially re .uced rales during 

Office or'any local Agent* 

Tor further infoimaticu apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, Gonmil Manag:(‘r, 4 Cnsloiii H<m,se Siiiiare, 
nvr a.Xj, 

McCASKILL, D 0 UG 4 LL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 

'“^VARNISHES, dAPANS 






and COLORS 



. . . MONTREAL . . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 



t-i 






WAHDtClVr KIIVG- A SOIVT 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spences Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST.. MONTREAL 



ASSURANCE COMPANY. 



ESTABLISHED 1847. 



HEAD OEFICE, HAMILTON, ONT. 

Capital and Funds over 13,030,000 Dollars, 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 



President, 



A. G. RAMSAY 



J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

EDWARD L. BOND 

J[irc iuul Hlarinc ^lulcnuritcr 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co, 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 

THE IVrOESOlvrS 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . .$2,000,000 | Rest, ^ $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIREC TORS : 

John H. K. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpher.son 
F. WoLFERSTAN Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood, Arsistant Inspector. 



BRANCHES, -Aylmer, Oat., Brockville. Calg.ary, N.W T., Clinton Exeter 
Montreal Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound 



Hamilton, London’, Meaford, ........ ,:,uu. g. ivorwicn, uitawa, i 

Ridgetown, Smith s Falls, Sord, P.Q., St. Thomas, Our., Toronto 



Junction, IVenton, W.aterloo, ‘om ’’ windipeg,* Woodstock 'lint * ^ 

AGENTS IN EUROI'E.-/Wc7«._Parrs Bankin- ( o nnri Th.. Mi- 
Bank (Limited): xMesvrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs ‘.^Iorton Ro'^&^rn^ 
/ The Bank of Liverpool. C...^-MunstVr and Sins e^r Baii^^ 

B.-.„qued-A„ver. 

M STATES.— AVw I W-.— Mechanics’ N.ational B.ank 

Messrs Morton, Bl.ss Jc Co ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S A She3' 

rflh^uSlatt bank, also in the pr.ncipal cd"s 

ColUctions made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 

HENDERSON BROS. 

dumber ami 3^imbcr 

StecLiri ScLMT ctrul .Plcuxi -g \lills 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling Wood always In Stock 



EstabliMhcd 

1859 






H. R. IVES <&. CO. 

Architectural Iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 

Queen Street MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



159 




GURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 



Address : 

3SS C3S3 30*7’ S^t. 



Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR EURNACES 
RADIATORS, REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES/’ sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 



PLUMBEBS’ SUPPLIES 
LOOKS AND SCALES 



jM:Or»a ^3FL3IS n. . 



KSTARI.ISHEO 1809 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



CxtraorbinarQ |3ircctorft. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
Tne Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen 1 The Hon. Lord Well wood 

The Right Hon Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly 
Total Assets, - 



85,000,000 

52,053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal =— 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



A. r 

FIRE lISyRAICE ASSOCIATION 

(IjT3S,a:iTEID) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CA^ADIAK BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., | _ Directors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



ESTAB1.ISHEU 1872. 



The 



CuarantGG Eomp’y 



OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SUliETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



XOROI^XO BRABiCH 

Ittail BaUdlnys. MEDLAND A JOXEtt, A^enU 



The Liverpool 5 London 5 Globe 

INSURANCg; CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, .$.53,169,13.>. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted ..... 

0-. IF. O. SlsdlTTIT, 

(chief agent CANADA BRANCH) 



16 PLACE D’ARMES, 



MONTREAL. 



Insure your Property with the 



OF 

AllTFOKD 



Phoenix Insurance Co. .1 

TIME TRIED 
and FIRE TESTED 

SMITH & TATLBY, 

Managers for Canada. 
114 ST. JAMES STREET 




Noflliern ^.ssyrauce Co. 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

'-x/J Branch Office for Canada— 1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892 



Capital and Acumulated Funds ? 35 , 730,000 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds g .g 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Policy Holders aoo.ooo 

ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 
CityAg«nt: BROWNING British Empire Building. 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



i6o 









Bol Water, Steam ft Sanitary Engineers 


— TO THE 


I P il i|l jlSf 1 jl' 1 


^IcGill Unioersitii Building, 




Royal Victoria Hospital, 




Board of Trade Building. 




Mans and Estimates Given on Application. 



R 



OBERT GARDNER & SON 



Kstabllshed 
. . . 18.10 . . . 






MANUFACTURERS OF 

Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc.. 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth, Brennan and Da/housie Sts., 



MONTREAL. 



J. K. MAGDONAI^D 



PRACTICAL 



l|otisD aiih ^bitiiilinal Jfll-!l|.iiigtr, Jtnttismiilj aiib Stiipral JIarksmilli 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPEhTERS' and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 

- MONTR^/VL 



762 and 764 CRAIG STREET, West of Victoria Square, 



Bell Xeleplione Xo, 259I 






Manufacturers of. 




and 

^UaUic. 

l^noineerH\ Plumbers’, Gas and Steam fitters^ Goods. 

Office &, Showroom. 8 Bleury St. 

Factory, St. Cunegonde. 






^sasaaB 



Montreal. 



McGill fortnightly. 



FOUNTAIN, 

FISH, 

GAME 
O YS TER 





Please 



Ring 




OYSTERS delivered on the HALF -SHELL a specialty. 

^11 Poultry and Game delivered dressed. 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 







Bell 

Telephone 

Number 

3405 




CORNER BEAVER HAiLL HILL 
and DORCHESTER STREET. 



II 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



For Nrari.y ^ 

SIXTY YEARS 



THE 




Have been before the Public, and by their excellence alone 
have attained an unpurchased pre-eminence for TONE, 
TOUCH, Workmanship and Durability 

WILLIS & CO., 

SOLE AGENTS, 

1824 Dotpe Dome 6 t., (N^gr AlcGill) - /VlONTHEAb. 




McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 
^duocatcs, barristers, drc., 

K’E'W TTOK-IC XjIB’E 3BTJIL. DII^G-, 

MONTREAL. 



I 



B. D. IfeOIBBOK, Q.C. 



PEERS DAVIDSON. 



GEORGE BRUSK Kstablithd : 



EAGUE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 



ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 

SCOTCH DRAIN PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, FLUE COVERS, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, VENT LININGS, 
ENAMELLED SINKS, 

CALCINED PLASTER, WHEELBARROWS, 
HAND BARROWS, GARDEN VASES, COAL OIL, 
LADDERS, POLES, 

MORTAR AND BRICK, HODS. &c. 

Poptland, Roman and Canada Cements 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHOBTE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 



BOYD dt OO. 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMOBi SXREHX, mOKXRHAI^ 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

Beferencts in Montreal Messrs. H. & A. Allan. Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
61LLB8 PIK, Moffatt & Co., J. Rattbay & Co., D. Torranck & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 




Special Discounts to Students. 



HEARN a HARRISOR, 



TKIANGLE, 
SCALEH, 

T SQUAKE. 

1640 

NOTRE DAME 



W. «i F. P. CURRIE « CO. 

100 GREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WHITEFOKD & TIEOIET 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

boohsenijrs, publishers and b<Jolihinder» 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“The Monthly Law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Leg^ale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St* James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



To be Out Shortly:— Crankshaw’s Criminal Code of Canada, 1892- 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 
Jiduocates, Solicitors, dc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 



J. B. Abbott 
H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague 



C. S. Campbell 
F. E. Meredith 



ATWATER & MACKIE 

Jtduocates, barristers, d^ommissioners, etc. 

O LD _ 8TANDAR _ P _ BUILDINC 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C..D.C.L. 



Geo. G. Foster 



ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 



Telephone 1880 



Cable Address, “Arefost.** 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



HALL, CROSS, BROWN S SHARP, 

Jdvoralffi, Sarrislers and ^olitiiors, 

I .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C. 



Farquhar S. Maclennan 



MACMASTER 8t MACLENNAN 

Jiduoeates, b^’^’’»stcrs, (Ktc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

^;d[wjcrcates 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 



Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AND THE ^OLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGrAKTS. 



Largest Stock. No Canvassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 



taken in exchange. 




^ Notre Dame.Montreal 



Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices 



PURNITIFRU 






Piofessots and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



RENAUD, KING Zc PATTERSON 



652 CRAIG STREET 



Good Fall and Winter 



• • 



BOOTS 



$2.25, 2.76, 3.5 D, 4.00 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



Full assortment of RUBBERS and OVERSHOES 

WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 



It goes without saying that. 

WALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 
Photos of Professors on sale. ..... 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Copnep St. Cathepine and Vlctopia Stpeets 



WHAT ARE YOU STUDYING FOR, 

A Doctoff a Lawyer, a Minister or an Engineer ? 
No matter what Art, Science or Profession, W0 can fit yOU all with Clothes. 

Good Wear, Good Fit and Low Price guaranteed. We have now 
everything desirable in Men’s Wear from head to foot, including inner and outer 
garments. Underclothing’ to Overcoat, Hats, Boots, Shoes and Rubbers. 
No need to run all over the City when you can get all you want from us at most 
reasonable Prices. Special discoun. to Students. 

CTOHIlSr A.IjXjA.ISr'S 

659 to 665 CRAIG SrrRRSrr. 



“THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

- G-XjOVES - 

• • • AT THE 

Paris Kid Glove Store 



262 St. James Street | 2341 St. Catherine Street 

E. B. COOKE & CO. 




>TE/IM 



■ 136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 




MANAS ER. 



MONTREAL. 



HATS, GAPS and FINH FURS 

Having opened a new store at 2411 St. Catherine Street, I would invite special inspec- 
tion of a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL. 2411 St. Catherine Street 




