jVo. 2. 



Vof. VJII. 

McGILL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Monday , December \st, 1884 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials 3-5 

Federation of the Empire - 5-6 

McGill News 7 

Societies - 8 



PAGE. 

College World 9-12 

Between the Lectures - 12-14 

Correspondence 14 

Personals 14 



MONTREAL : 

printed by the burland lithographic company. 



1884. 



McGILL UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



MSCMSSTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

Barristers * Solicitors, &g., 

1©2 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

R, S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. S. MtLENNAN. 

Botiertson, Ritchie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

Ti. w. 

^.flvocate, |jarri3ter (Jjommi^ioner, ^c., 
131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. TA-IMIIES ST. 

MEMPMCA U U 'O It KS % HOOKS I/SKIP M" ART COURSE, 
SCMEJVCE TEXT HOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAMj TEXT BOOKS . 

Full assortment in stool & supplied at Rod Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., See., 

— BEST VALUE IN TOW N. — «^->— 

Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St- James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

JBarmters, JUtarnaijs, jloluilors, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 St. Francois Xavier St., 

KEONTREAI., 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. • 



IE. A.. GBRTH. 




IMPORTER OF 





Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIANICIGARETTES IN BOIES OF 25. 



Try St-u-dents 2v£i3cfu.re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., Queen’s Block. 



TV. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And. Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 



J. J. GREAVES, 

IMPORTER OF ALL KINDS OF | 

ty/ooL?, Joys, Jewelry, £tatio^ei^y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 <& 1344 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 




New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 

^FOR STUDENTS,*. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. VIII.] MoGILL COLLEGE, MONTEEAL, DECEMBEE 1st, 1884. [No. 2. 




DIRECTORS. 



Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. S. McLennan, Secretarij. 

J. W. McMeekin, I H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

A. B. Osborne, | T. W. Lesage. 

EDITORS. 



W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

E.A.E. Greenshields, B.A. 
S. Fortier. 



G. F. Palmer. 

C. H. Livingstone. 
T. IIaythorne, B. A. 



The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



Editorials. 



NOTICE. 

If we are to publish a weekly after ’Xmas, as is 
most desirable, we must get at least four hundred 
subscribers, for three hundred of whom we look to 
the students. It really rests with these whether the 
Gazette is to be continued as a • fortnightly or not • 
for however willing the editors may be to publish a 
weekly, it is obvious they cannot do so unless sup- 
plied with means. 



THE LAVAL TROUBLES. 

Students everywhere will watch with no passing 
interest the course and final issue, of the trouble at 
present existing between the Montreal branch of 
Laval University and the law students, which so far 
has resulted in the open rebellion of the latter. 

The apparent cause of the difficulty is the desire on 
the part of the rector, Mr. Hamel, to enforce the rule 
requiring the students to wear gowns at lectures but 
in justice to the students it must be said that the real 
cause is of a much more serious nature. We do not 
think the custom of wearing gowns can be supported 
by very convincing arguments ; at least it is an in- 
heritance of the past, and like so many other old cus- 
toms, its age is its only title to respect. However 
the objections to it are hardly many enough or strong 



enough to justify the students in so serious a step as 
rebellion against their alma mater. But they have 
other and better grounds for the action they have 
taken. Mr. Hamel has evidently very exalted ideas 
of his duties and powers as rector of the university 
and but little respect for the common sense and good 
judgment of his students. Not satisfied with provid- 
ing for them able and instructive lectures on the 
various branches of law by capable men, and of 
exercising a wise and dignified supervision over their 
conduct when at lectures, he goes further and insists 
on the rigid observance of a number of rules for the 
regulation of their conduct in everyday life, and in 
these rules we find the true cause of the rupture. It 
is not bur intention to discuss the merits of each par- 
ticular regulation which he desires to enforce but 
merely to mention two as illustrations of the attitude 
assumed by him towards the students. One of these 
is to the effect that the students shall under no cir- 
cumstances attend the theatre, and another, forbids 
them to ' identify themselves with, or attend any 
meetings of a political club or debating society. 
Without committing ourselves to an opinion as to the 
utility of the theatre or debating club, we consider 
such rules an unwarrantable interference with the 
freedom of the students. Of course the first duty of 
the student when at college is to devote his time and 
energy to his studies and any reasonable steps on the 
part of the powers of Laval to secure this end would, 
we are sure, meet with the approval of all right- 
minded students and certainly of this paper. But 
are the rules above referred to reasonable? Is it 
reasonable that young men who have come to 
years of discretion and entered upon the serious 
study of their profession, and who are supposed to 
possess, in some degree at least, that wisdom which 
comes of years, should be hampered and humiliated 
by rules fit only for children. The principle involved 
in their rules if recognized and carried out as Mr. 
Hamel would like it to be carried out will undoubtedly 
have the effect, on the one hand, of robbing the stu- 
dents of their independence and manliness, and on the 
other hand, of robbing Laval of her students. No one 
we are satisfied will question the right of Mr. Hamel to 
advise his students on these matters and to impress on 
their minds the necessity of applying themselves with 
diligence to their studies, and had he been satisfied 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



with so doing, we are much mistaken if the students 
would have done otherwise than listen to his counsel 
with respect and been profited thereby ; but when he 
goes so far as to use the imperative “ thou shalt not” 
he assumes an authority alike humiliating to the 
students and inimcal to the success of the university 
over which he presides. The love of the law students 
of Laval for their university may be very strong — no 
doubt it is — but, notwithstanding, they will never 
submit to be hedged round and hampered by hard and 
fast rules affecting the minutest details of their con- 
duct as long as there are other universities close at 
hand affording as many advantages to the student and 
free from these objectionable rules. The decisive 
step taken by the students show that they are seriously 
in earnest over the matter, and their good faith is 
evidenced by the fact that they returned to the 
lectures on the strength of Mr. Hamel’s assurance 
that the rules for the present, at least, would remain 
a dead letter. But although the difficulty is stayed, 
it is by no means settled : and we venture the opinion 
that it will never be satisfactorily settled till either 
Mr. Hamel withdraws his autocratic demands and 
allows the students the freedom they deserve and to 
which they are entitled, or the latter seek and obtain 
admission to another university. The students de- 
mand of right that they be treated not as children, 
but as men capable of choosing for themselves their 
course of conduct in life, and the sooner Mr. Hamel 
recognizes the reasonableness of their demands and 
acquiesces therein, the better for his own reputation as 
a liberal gentleman and scholar, and the better for the 
reputation of Laval University. 



MEDIAEVAL WISDOM. 

The Arts Faculty seem desirous of emulating Laval 
in grandmotherly government. Some little time ago, 
the University Literary Society asked permission to 
hold their public meetings in the Molson Hall. This 
was granted, but with the ungracious stipulation 
attached, that the society should submit the subject of 
discussion on each occasion to the faculty. The 
reason of this was explained to be the fear of the 
faculty that they might be thought to countenance 
heterodox political views. Being at a financial ebb, 
the society pocketed the insult, and availed themselves 
of the generosity of the learned professors. The 
latter were so delighted with their success, that 
straightway they issued a decree to the U ndergraduates 
Literary Society, commanding them not to discuss the 
subject of Annexation, and ordering them to submit 
all questions for debate to the approval of the faculty. 
Marvellous to relate, this -society also ate the humble 



pie prepared for them. There was a time when, 
rather than submit to a similar injunction, a college 
society allowed itself to be driven from the walls of 
McGill, and continued its sessions in a hired room in 
the city. Using the Principal’s own phrase, may we 
not say that “ the breed of students” has degenerated. 
But we must not be too hard on them ; it is with the 
faculty that we are indignant. Whence comes this 
sudden, sensitive conscientious, and to what lengths 
will it carry them ? What will be the next step ? Is 
all freedom of discussion, all originality of thought, 
all boldness of speculation, to be checked ? Does the 
faculty expect to turn out a yearly class of model 
young men, all charactered the same and warranted 
inoffensive ? If the faculty are responsible for every 
word uttered in a students’ debating society, where 
does their responsibility end 1 Surely a more unwise, 
impolitic step was never before taken by any body of 
men. 



THE PRESENT PROBLEM. 

With regard to the controversy, between the Star 
and Principal Dawson, upon the question of separate 
or co-education, we prefer, so far as we are concerned, 
to leave it stand as at present, with the balance 
decidedly in favor of the Star. No one denies, for a 
moment, that, other things being equal, separate classes 
are to be preferred ; but in the present financial con- 
dition of the University, we must strenuously deprecate 
any division of its energies. As it is now, the Art s 
Faculty is not keeping pace with the advance of rival 
schools ; and with the prospect of having to compete 
with a consolidated Ontario University in the near 
future, it appears the height of folly to divert large 
sums of money, that might be applied to the general 
improvement of the college, for the purpose of main- 
taining separate classes. It must be patent to all that 
this is the real state of the case, for the last benefactor 
of the University is not an educationist, and the con- 
ditions of his gift have probably been determined 
upon the advice of some one in authority, presumably 
the Principal. Whoever is the Hon. Mr. Smith’s 
adviser in this matter is certainly not acting in the 
best interests of the University, and should Mr. Smith 
insist that this gift be applied to the maintenance of 
separate classes, the Corporation will be perfectly 
justified in refusing his benefaction. It is unfortunate 
that one, whose wisdom has done so much towards 
building up the University, should have so firmly 
taken the rather peculiar and inconsistent stand of 
wishing to weaken an old established faculty, for the 
sake of founding a new. Fortunately at this time, the 
days when the Principal was the University have gone 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



by, and as we understand that the majority of the cor- 
poration entertain views of an opposite character to his, 
Sir William will doubtless bow to the inevitable and 
gracefully accept his defeat. 



HOCKEY. 

The king is dead, long live the king. Although 
a few daring spirits still kick the football about the 
campus, the leather is virtually shelved for the sea- 
son and replaced by the puck. The McGill Hockey 
Club has held its annual meeting which, although 
taking place at night, was so well attended that the 
club may reasonably anticipate a successful season. 

The game of hockey is full of excitement and 
one the rules of -which are easily learnt. It com- 
bines the advantages of Rugby and association foot- 
ball without their drawbacks and is intensified in 
enjoyment by the rapidity of action possible only on 
ice. No better exercise can be found to keep the 
mind clear and the body in trim than a well-contested 
game of hockey as it is not exercise for duty’s-sake but 
for enjoyment. 

However, “good wine needs no bush.” The club 
expects, and has a right to expect, aid from every 
student, and we hope that the undergraduates in Arts 
and Medicine will not let themselves be outdone by 
those in Science but will work equally hard with them 
to keep up the honor of McGill on the ice. Their 
men are of equally good stuff, their time equally free, 
and their money equally plentiful ; and if the 
Hockey Club is to take in the present and future the 
position it has held in the past, all three must be 
placed at its disposal. 



Contributions. 

FEDERATION OF THE EMPIRE.* 

I shall first make the assumption that we should not 
get free trade from other nations. The total amount 
of our dutiable Imports in 1883 was something over 
$90,000,000. Suppose $10,000,000 of the same articles 
produced in Canada. That makes $100,000,000 out 
of which our revenue has to be drawn. Of the $90,- 
000,000, $48,000,000, was imported from foreign 
nations. But if we adopt a highly discriminating duty 
against them, we must expect this amount to be largely 
reduced: let us say it would fall to $25,000,000. The 
balance would be either produced here, or imported 
from within the Empire. The produce of the Empire 
would then be $75,000,000. To yield the necessary 
revenue then would require an ad valorem duty of 30 
per cent, on the produce of the Empire, and the same 
with 30 per cent, addition on imports from foreign 
nations. __ 

•President's Annual Address to University Literary Society. 



The Budget estimates would then be : 

30 per cent, on $43,000,000 now imported from 

within the Empire $12,900,000 

“ “ “ “ $10,000,000 produced in Canada 3,000,000 

“ “ *' 4 ‘ $23,000,000, now imported from for- 

eign countries, but to be produced 

within the Empire 6,909,000 

22,800,000 

60 per cent, on $25,000,000 to be imported from 

foreign nations 15,000,000 

$38,200,000 $37,800,000 

* If $6,000 000 only were require for Imperial expenses, a duty of 
24 per cent, or British, and 48 per cent, on foreign produce would be 
more than sufficient. 

Our present average rate of duty on dutiable 
imports is 25.29 per cent. The United States rate on 
dutiable imports is 42.646. 

We could therefore raise all the revenue we require, 
including the $14,000,000 for Imperial purposes, by 
increasing our rate’ of duty on imports from the 
Empire, 4.71 per cent, or from 25.29 to 30 per cent, 
which is still 12.646 per cent, less than the American 
rate ; and by raising the duty on imports from nations 
that refuse us free trade to 60 per cent. 

These rates might be considerably reduced, perhaps 
to 25 and 50 per cent, respectively, by reason of 
revenue to be derived from certain classes of articles 
now imported from foreign nations free of duty, but 
on which under the new system, duties would have to 
be imposed. This would apply to about $12,000,000 
of the $19,000,000 free goods now imported from 
foreign nations, fish, settler’s effects, government stores 
and certain other articles remaining free. 

It might seem as if it would do little to foster our 
trade with the United Kingdom, if instead of repealing 
our duties they were maintained at 25 or increased to 
30 per cent. But in reality it would give them prac-. 
tically free admission to our markets, because the same 
duty would be collected also from producers of the 
same articles here, and in addition to the prohibitive 
duty of 30 per cent, on foreign protective nations. 
All the English could demand would be that there 
should be no discrimination against them in our own 
favour. And this tax being purely for revenue would 
be in no way incompatible with free trade. Nor would 
60 per cent, duty destroy our trade with foreign coun- 
tries, because only half of it would be prohibitive, and 
the rest would be paid also by producers in the Empire. 

Another means by which a considerable portion of 
our revenue might be raised is by an income and 
property tax, similer in principle to that now in force 
in Montreal, which I have heard praised by very high 
economic authorities, provided it be collected impar- 
tially. I have examined the lists of persons enumerated 
in the last census of Canada, as engaged in profitable 
occupations. They are 1,400,000 in number. A 
revenue of $10,000,000 could be collected from these 
by an income tax of 3 per cent, taking the assessable 
incomes at a very low valuation, — merchants and 
manufacturers incomes being put at $1000, professional 
men, innkeepers and gentlemen of private means 
(rentiers), at $500, merchants’ clerks and other mer- 
cantile men at $300, Farmers and Industrial employees 
at $200, Farmers, sons, Fishermen, Seamen, Miners 
and Laborers, at $100 a year. As an incentive to the 
due payment of this tax, the Upper Chamber of the 
Legislature might be made elective, and every taxpayer 
have a right to vote for the members thereof in pro- 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



portion to the amount of taxes lie paid. If this or 
some such system were adopted, the Customs and 
Excise duties on the products of the Empire could he 
reduced to 20 or even to 15 per cent. And it seems 
to me that it would be a fair division if the $14,000,- 
000 necessary for our share of Imperial expenses were 
raised by that means, and $10,000,000 of the amount 
required for our own purposes were raised by the 
Property and Income tax. 

On the other assumption, namely that the United 
States and other protective nations would not adhere 
to their protective duties, but would grant us free 
trade, then I should imagine trade would increase to 
such an extent that the same rate of duty would raise 
all the revenue needed. If not, the United States 
would have to impose internal taxes to raise the 
revenue they required, and we could adopt the same 
system of internal taxation as the in order that neither 
of us should have any artificial advantage over the other. 

Proceeding now to consider the other features of Mr. 
Bourne’s scheme, it at once appear that the advantage 
to Canada of such a policy as he has outlined would 
be enormous. And the advantage would be great, 
whatever the effect produced on protective nations. 
Nearly all protectionists who have any knowledge of 
of political economy, certainly Sir John A. Macdonald, 
Sir Leonard Tilly, and the other members of the pre- 
sent conservative government of Canada, hold that 
free trade is the best policy, provided you can get free 
trade all round. Sir John’s formula was reciprocity 
of trade or reciprocity of tariffs. And he has many 
times declared and has placed it on record on the 
Statute book, that he is willing to enter into reciprocal 
trade relations with the- United 'States. Free trade 
with that country is all that we should get by Com- 
mercial Union. The objection Canada has to that 
policy is not that it wouid increase our trade with 
them, but that they declare their determination to 
admit us to their markets only on condition that we 
place greater restrictions on our trade with all other 
nations, discriminating even against Free Trade En- 
gland, taxing English goods double, so as to make up 
the revenue lost by admitting American goods free ; 
the injustice of which policy is manifest, and our 
people must never resort to so contemptible a policy. 
Now under Mr. Bourne’s scheme the United States as 
well as other nations that have protective tariffs would 
be given to understand that unless they abolished their 
protective duties as regards the British Empire, the 
Empire will effectually shut them out from her mar- 
kets, or make them pay a heavy tribute for the benefit 
of the colonies on all they send into the Empire. 

The high tariff* now in force in the United States is 
designed to foster the interests of the Eastern manu- 
factures. But if the western farmers, who now really 
control the elections, if the people generally of the 
United States, were to see that they are about to lose 
their market for over $400,000,000 of their yearly 
produce, or will have to pay duties to build up their 
rivals in the colonies of the Empire, is it likely they 
would continue to submit to such a tariff ? Would 
they see the farmers of the Canadian Northwest get- 
ting 90 cents a bushel for wheat when they could get 
only 75 cents without making their influence felt at 



the polls? I do not think so. The probability is thaj; 
at the next general election after the declaration o 
such a policy, the farmers of the west would arise in 
their might, sweep away the protective tariff, and 
insist upon giving free trade to the British Empire 
rather than lose the British markets. It was partly 
in the hope of coercing the United States into recipro- 
city that the protective tariff was adopted in Canada. 
But it is manifest that Canada’s trade is not of suffi- 
cient magnitude to overturn the policy of that nation, 
Canada consuming only 5.75 per cent, of the domestic 
export of the United States, while the English market 
is by far their best, being 52 per cent, for the British 
Isles alone, and 61 per cent, for the whole Empire. 
Germany which comes next takes only 8 per cent, and 
France, the third, less than 7 per cent. (Returns of 
1883). England’s proportion of the total foreign trade 
of the United States is shown by the top red line in 
their Commerce and Navigation volume. The United 
States are far more dependent on the British mar- 
kets than the British Empire is on them. For while 
the American export to the British Isles is 52 per 
cent, of its total, the export of domestic produce from 
the United Kingdom to the United States is only 11.45 
per cent, of its total ; that from the United Kingdom to 
the British possessions, on the other hand, is 34.93 per ct. 

If then the United States were induced to give us 
free trade, as it is clearly their interest to do, we 
should then have all the advantages of commercial 
union, without the accompanying disadvantage of 
closing our ports to all the other nations of the world. 
It would be the same with France as with the United 
States, only perhaps France would decide upon it 
sooner. The other nations would follow suit, and the 
grand ideal of universal free trade would be attained. 

Suppose however that this effect were not produced ; 
suppose that the United States persisted in maintaining 
their protective duties. What would be the conse- 
quence ‘l Conada would then have, for all she now 
produces in competition with the United States, mono- 
poly of the English markets. We all know what an 
advantage this is in the matter of live cattle. What 
would it be if applied to all her products ? Why it 
is utterly impossible to estimate, almost impossible to 
conceive it. The United Kingdom now imports from 
the United States over $400,000,000 a year, for $220,- 
000,000 of which she is a competitor of Canada. 
Thus, of live cattle and sheep, of meat, of wheat, 
barley and other grains, furs, hides, skins, butter, 
cheese, agricultural implements, leather and wood 
manufactures, the U.S. export to England in 1883, 
was $210,000,000, the other $10,000,000 being of a 
variety oi articles ; while Canada’s total export was 
$47,000,000. Now this comparison is with the United 
States alone. But of the principal articles now' im- 
ported by England from Canada, England’s total 
import in 1883 was $700,000,000,' of which $60,000,- 
000, was from Canada and Newfoundland, $50,000,000, 
from other Colonies, and $590,000,000, from foreign 
nations. The exact amounts in sterling are : British 
Jsorth America .£11,970,000 ; other British Possessions 
£10,775,000 ; Total British Possessions £22,745,000 : 
Foreign countries £118,909,000 ; Grand Total £141,- 
654,000. ( To be continued.) 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



3¥lc$ill News. 



During the last week, Lady Dawson entertained the 
students of the different faculties and years at the re- 
ceptions which she is wont to hold every year. It is 
needless to say that these were very much enjoyed. 

We have it on good authority that the Hon. Donald 
A. Smith purposes giving a second $50,000 to McGill 
for the higher education of women. It is also said he 
will insist that the classes remain separate, as at 
present. 

At the approaching Christmas examinations, those 
of the ladies, owing to the contracted space in the 
Molson Hall, will be conducted in one of the rooms 
of the Museum, except the French examination. The 
policy of separate education is evidently to be pursued 
in every detail. 

The following is an extract from a letter sent by 
a medical freshman to the Association News of 
Liverpool, Eng. The italics are our own. — “ This 
will show you that I have come to Montreal, as 
I anticipated. I am now well into work, which I like 
very well . My time is fully occupied all the days of the 
week except Sundays and half of Saturdays, and my 
spare time I devote to Christian work and exercises . 
The Y.M.C.A. here is very active, the Secretary being 
a man of extraordinary grace and good abilities . We 
have a college Y.M.C.A. in connection with it, (the 
Secretary ?) Had the first meeting last Sunday, which 
I enjoyed more than any meeting that I have attended 
for years ; only forty or fifty of us, but all bent on 
something. When the speakers described the work 
to be done, and the means of doing it, an expression 
of enthusiastic zeal might be seen on every face. There 
are about 500 students in McGill College, the majority 
of whom are reckless worldlings . 1 hope when I write 

next to be able to tell you of work being done among 
them for the Master.” 

* T. D. King’s Books. 

The Shakespeare collection of the late T. D. King 
has been purchased for the Library by the Hon. D. A. 
Smith, and Mr. W. C. McDonald, each subscribing 
the sum of $250. The books are to be kept in a sepa- 
rate case, the cost of which has been defrayed by sub- 
scription. Below are printed the names of the books 
and the date of publication, if earlier than 1850.. 

Facsimile of Folio (photo-lithography), 1623 ; John- 
son’s Edition, with portraits, by Yertue, 1765 ; Theo- 
bald’s, 8 vols., 1773 ; Bell’s Scene and Character Plates, 
1788; Plays from Text, Johnson & Steevens, Thur- 
ston’s Wood-cuts, 1804; Peed’ edition, 8 vols., 1809 ; 
J. O. Halliwell’s edition, 3 vols., illustrated and with 
portraits of celebrated actors, no date ; The Plays of 
Shakespeare, from the text of Steevens, 1811 ; Ham. & 
A. Y. L. I., Specimen of New Edition ; Singer (Whit- 
tingham Press), woodcuts by Thompson, 1826 ; Douce s 
Illustration, with plates and woodcuts, 1839; The 
Poems, illustrated, Charles Knight, 1841 ; Songs 
and Sonnets, illustrated by John Gilbert, no date;- 
Shakespeare Library, J. P, Collier, 2 vols., 1843 , 
Dramatic Works of Shakespeare, Edinburgh, 1843; 
Seven Ages of Man, illustrated by Van Voorst, 1848 ; 



Edition, with Life, by J. P. Collier ; The Plays and 
Poems of Shakespeare, illustrated by A. J. Valpy; 
Howard Staunton’s, illustrated by Gilbert ; Carruthers 
and W. Chambers, with wood-cuts ; Comedies, His- 
tories and Tragedies — exact re-print of 1623 edition ; 
Charles Knight’s pictoral edition ; Cowden Clarke, 
illustrated by Selous ; Howard Staunton’s Cambridge 
edition ; Eolfe’s Uugby edition, by Moberly ; Imperial 
Edition, with Life, by Collier ; Schmidt’s Shakespeare 
Lexicon ; Eev. Alex. Dyce ; Cassell’s, illustrated by 
Selous; • Singer’s edition, 10 vols., Explanatory Notes 
by Zachary Grey, 1754; Voltaire’s Essay, 1769 ; Far- 
mer’s Efcsay on the learning of Shakespeare, 1789 ; 
Shakespeare Forgeries, by Samuel Ireland, only 138 
copies extant, 1796 ; Comments on the Plays of Shake- 
speare and Beaumont and Fletcher, by J. Monck 
Mason, 1798 ; E. H. Seymour’s Ee marks on the Plays, 
1805 ; Schlegel’s Lectures on Dramatic Literature, 1815 ; 
Shakespeare’s Himself Again, by Andrew Becket, 1815; 
Win. Eichardson’ Essays on Shakespeare, 1818 ; Genius 
of Shakespeare, by Z. Jackson, 1819; Nare’s Dic- 
tionary, 1822; The Seven Ages of Man, by John 
Evans, 1823; Augustine Skottowe’s Life of Shake- 
speare, 1824 ; Bowden’s Life of John Kemble, 1825 ; 
Caricature Headings of Shakespeare, by Seymour, very 
curious, 1830; Collier’s History of English Dramatic 
Poetry, 1831 ; Life of Mrs. Siddons, by Campbell, 
1834 ; Shakesperiana containing twelve tracts on 
various subjects connected with the Poet from 1790 to 
1843 ; The Text of Shakespeare Vindicated, by Singer; 
The Grimaldi Shakespeare; Coleridge’s Lectures on 
Shakespeare ; The English of Shakespeare, by Geo. L - 
Craik ; Characteristics of Women, by Mrs. Jameson ; 
Shakespeare’s Legal Acquirements, by Lord Campbell ; 
Cole’s Life of Charles Kean ; History of Shakespeare’s 
Portraits, with an Enquiry into their Authenticity, by 
Friswell, illustrated ; Clarke’s Shakespeare Characters ; 
Kenny’s Life and Genius of Shakespeare ; Halliwell’s 
Historical Account of Shakespeare’s last residence ; 
Notes and Emendations, by Collier ; Shakespeare’s 
Tercentenary, Boston ; Bible Truths with Shakesperian 
Parallels, by James Brown; Shakespeare’s Delineations 
of Insanity, Imbecility and Suicide, by Dr. Kellogg ; 
Shakespeare Treasury, by Dr. Stearns ; Shakespereana, 
Genealogica, by George Kussell French; Hazlitt’s 
Shakespeare Characters ; Shakespeare Argosy, by 
Capt. Harcourt ; Hudson’s ; E. Grant White’s ; Dis- 
sertations on the Hamlet of Saxo Grammaticus ; Cali- 
ban, the Missing Link ; Snider’s Essays ; Abbott’s 
Grammar ; Home and Eural Life, by Walter ; Dr. 
Karl Elze’s Essays ; Tyler’s Philosophy of Hamlet ; 
Shakesperiana — , E. & J., Eeprints, Quartos, 1597 
and 1595, Eevised Edition, 1599, Quarto; Parallel 
Texts of the first two Quartos, edited by P. A. Daniel ; 
Trans. New Shakespeare Society ; Shakespeare’s Al- 
lusion Bks. (1592-98) edited by Ingleby ; Bacon vs. 
Shakespeare, by T. D. King ; Shakespeare’s Diversions, 
by Jacox ; Mind and Art of Shakespeare, by Dowden ; 
Authorship of Shakespeare, by N. Holmes ; Commen- 
taries of Cervinus ; Shakespeare Manual, by Fleay ; 
Boyd’s Essays ; Facsimile of a Pleasant, Conceited 
History printed in 1594 ; Shakespeare’s Home (W. 
Irving and Fairliolt), with etchings by J. F. and N 
W. Salin. 



#• 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



Societies. 



The Medical Society. 

At the annual meeting of this Society, in April last* 
the following officers were elected : President, Dr. 

Stewart ; 1st Vice-President, M. C. McGannon ; 2nd 
Vice-President, 1). Corsan ; Secretary, G. C. Stephens ; 
Treasurer, T. A. D. Baird ; Pathologist, R. H. Arthur. 
There has been a decided improvement in the meet- 
ings this year, both in point of numbers and the in- 
terest taken in them ; and a large number of new 
members have joined the Society during the present 
term. The Society began its work this year under con- 
siderable financial difficulties, but it has again been 
placed on a good footing by the efforts of its mem- 
bers. 

The following papers have been read before the 
Society : Gunshot Wounds ; Mr. Darey ; Stricture of 
Urethra, Mr. McGannon ; Complications of Typhoid 
Fever, Mr. Corsan. The following reports of cases : 
Case of Aortic Disease, Mr. McGannon ; Case of 
Ecyenia, Mr. Harkin ; Case of Aortic Aneurism, Mr. 
Allan ; Case of Rheumatism, Mr. Boggs. 

The Hockey Club. 

The annual meeting of the McGill University 
Hockey Club was held in No. 1 Class room, Arts 
Building, on Monday, Nov. 24th at 8 p.m. There was 
a large attendance and the meeting was called to order 
by Mr. J. R. Roy, who occupied the presidential chair 
en grande tenue. After Mr. Cowie (3rd Sec.) had been 
elected secretary pro. tern. Mr. Kerry as representing 
the old regime was called upon to read the general re- 
port for last year. The treasurer’s report showed a 
total receipt of $26.00, an expenditure of $24.37 and 
a consequent surplus of $1.63. With regard to 
matches the club played eight, winning six and losing 
two, one of which latter, as our readers will doubtless 
remember, was the disputed match with the Victorias. 
The report having been adopted the meeting proceeded 
to elect the officers for the ensuing year with the fol- 
lowing result : — President, J. R. Roy ; Sec. Treasurer, 
0. P. Brown, 3rd Science; Committee, Chalmers. 1st 
Med., Weir, 3rd Science. It was then decided to 
increase the number of the Committee by one, and 
Mr. Budden (4th Arts) was elected to fill the position. 
The meeting then adjourned. The new committee 
seems to be an enterprising one and the issue of a 
very artistic ticket appears to have had a good effect 
in attracting subscribers. The subscriptions are com- 
ing in rapidly and already $10.00 more than the 
total of last year has been paid up. The Crystal 
Rink, whose width has been increased by four feet 
has been engaged for two practices a week and 
although the vacancies caused by the withdrawal 
of Craven, Ogilvie and Hutchison from college life will 
not easily be filled it must be remembered that Kin- 
loch, an ex-captain, and one of McGill’s most brilliant 
players, intends resuming play this year and that Elder 
is not the man to desert his college in extremity. 
Altogether, the McGill team runs no slight chance of 
winning a companion cup to that of 1883. 



University Literary Society. 

There were several things about the meeting of this 
society, held on the 28th ult., which call for sharp 
criticism. In the first place, the number of members 
present was small — no unusual, but certainly a 
deplorable, circumstance. The majority of the mem- 
bers have a pleasant habit of only presenting themselves 
when they are appointed to take part in the programme, 
and not always then. A little more considerateDess on 
the part of these gentleman would not be out of jriace. 
On this occasion their absence was altogether too bad, 
for Mr. Brookes had gone to much trouble in preparing 
the carefully and agreeably written essay on “Mrs. 
Carlyle,” which he read to the society. Here and 
there it betrayed some traces of conventionality, and 
the writer never attempted any very daring flights of 
style ; but the whole essay was eminently pleasant and 
entertaining. Alas ! that our praise must end here. 
The members appointed to lead the discussion upon 
the subject came up wholly unprepared, and made 
speeches which convinced the society of nothing so 
much as their ignorance of both the life and character 
of “ Mrs. Carlyle.” Being lawyers, their knowledge 
of this fact did not prevent them from speaking — very 
little about the subject, and much about various trifling 
side-issues that had been touched upon by the essayist. 
When the ramblings of these gentlemen were brought 
to a close, the chairman called upon a member who is 
noted in the society for his playful eccentricities, one 
consisting in his inability to speak to the point. On 
this occasion he entertained the society with a lengthy 
oration upon anti-nuptial contracts, some slight allusion 
to which had been made in the essay. Another 
pleasant peculiarity of this speaker is that soon after 
lie has unburdened himself, he invariably remembers 
a most important engagement, and is obliged to leave 
the room — while some other member is speaking. This 
charming habit was not discarded at the meeting in 
question. Fortunately his exit was the last disagreeable 
incident of the evening, the remaining speakers adher- 
ing more or less to the main topic, and all having some 
knowledge whereof they spoke. 



Lawt’s of the Laval students have dis-f/owm-ted an 
old habit. 

Why is the Undergraduates Literary Society like a 
slock nearly run down ? Because neither can evolve 
poly -ticks” 

Why are McGill medical students like youthful 
camels'? Because they harken not to the voice of 
their elders and chews another master of the feast. 

Who was master in Shakspeare’s house when the 
poet could exclaim to his spouse : — “ Alas ! Ann hath 
a way of her own !” While she could retort : Yea, 

and a Will of her own too !” 

Many more students have given up painting for 
knickerbockers and no longer disguise their calves. 
This accounts for their stocking around tailor shops 
lately. The breeches in the party who dislike the 
costume are becoming greater. 



1884 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



itollege U)orl6. 



Gymnastics will be compulsory at Princeton next 
term. 

Amherst Art Gallery has been the recipient of a 
$5,000 gift. 

There are. 104 college graduates in the Michigan 
House of Representatives. 

The average salary of all the college professors in the 
United States is $1,530 per annum. 

The widow of the late Ezra Abbott has presented to 
the Harvard Divinity School her husband’s theological 
library, comprising nearly 4,000 volumes. 

The Dartmouth sophomores and freshmen had a 
cane rush lately. After a struggle of twenty minutes, 
the somophores succeeded in getting the cane into Reed 
Hall and were declared the victors. 

It is reported that a “ Shakespeare Club ” is to be 
formed at Harvard, to promote both the advanced 
study of oratory and of the classical drama. Lectures 
will probably be given by Henry Ward Beecher, Henry 
Irving and others, and a series of readings by other 
gentlemen. 

The literary fertility of some of the students of the 
Presbyterian College has been displaying itself in the 
production of two very creditable journals called 
Phoenix and Earnest , which contain many racy ar- 
ticles as well as many items that have called forth free 
comment on the unknown authors. 

The Harvard Crimson says, there ai‘e but three per- 
sons in the United States, who have received the three 
honorary degrees of Doctor of Divinity, Doctor ot 
Laws, and Doctor of Literature, they being Professor 
Wilson, of Cornell, President Barnard, of Columbia, 
and President McCosh, of Princeton. 

Although German colleges maintain .such a reputa- 
ble educational standing, yet there is but one periodical 
published by their students ; and even this, strictly 
speaking, is not an undergraduate paper. The paper 
referred to is the AUgemeine Deutsche Studentenzer- 
tung ; and appears monthly in Berlin. 

Canada’s representatives at the Gilchrist examination 
stood as follows : — Honors Division — No. 1. A. \\ . 
Duff, of the University of New Brunswick ; 41, John 
Albert Bell, Dalhousie College, Nova Scotia; 49, 
Frank W. Nicholson, Mount Allison College, New 
Brunswick. 1st Division— A. G. Reid, Dalhousie College, 

With the exception of the dean of Christ Church 
and Professor Jowett, master of Baliol, there is not 
now a single head of a college in Oxford who has an} 
reputation as an author in the world ot letters. Oxford 
indeed, seems nowadays to be vying with the silent 
sister in Dublin. To what end, asks the irreverent, is 
all this learning and the pecuniary rewards thereof. 

The number of Freshmen at Oxford this term is 
unprecedentedly large. Students of narrow means are 
much more numerous than twenty years ago ; in fact, 
in this respect, Oxford seems to be returning to the 
sixteenth century, when the sons ot persons in what in 
England is called the lower middle class— yeomen, 
shopkeepers, etc. — made up much of the university. 



Eighty boys at Adelbert College, Cleveland, have 
refused to attend the recitations because of the action 
of the board of trustees in deciding^to extend to ladies 
the privilege of the college. The action of the board 
has met with very general favor, but has so stirred up 
the boys in the Adelbert that they have been rebellious. 
Many promise to’leave, but the faculty believe that the 
college will gain by the action. The young ladies of 
the city held a jubilee in honor of the occasion Saturday 
•night. 

The trustees of Middlebury (Vt.) College seem to be 
having trouble with their presidency. Nothing is said 
about President Hamlin’s having resigned, yet the place 
has been offered to and declined by E. H. Higley, of 
Worcester, Mass., formerly professor of Greek and 
German at the College, and the presidency has now 
been offered to Rev. Dr. Kerr C. Anderson of the First 
Presbyterian Church at Troy, ^.Y. Rev. C. S. Murk- 
land of Chicopee, Mass., has also declined a professor- 
ship in the college. 

The freshmen of Cornell University have passed 
the following resolution : That we, class of ’88 of 
Cornell University, considering cane-rushing as per- 
nicious and dangerous, do hereby pledge ourselves not 
to challenge the future class of ’89 to participation in 
a cane rush. Moreover that the influence of this class 
shall be exerted to the overthrow of such practice of 
cane-rushing in this university. The junior class 
adopted resolutions upholding the freshmen in their 
efforts^ to put down rushing. 

A wasp went imully to his work. 

And various things did tackle, 

He stung a boy and then a dog 
And made a rooster cackle. 

He settled on a Freshman’s cheek 
And labored with a will- 
He probed there for half an hour 
And then he broke his drill. 

’Tis said the wasp then quickly rose. 

And settled in his hair, 

And though the drill was short and dull 
It penetrated there. — Liberal 

The Yale College professois have adopted a new 
system of examinations since the elective system of 
study has been made so general. The old annuals are 
done away with, an$l an examination at Christmas and 
one at the end of the year substituted. Some of the 
senior professor are assigning special branches of the 
studies to the different students and requiring them to 
prepare full papers to be read and criticised before the 
class. The examinations will then embrace a thorough 
knowledge of the points covered by all the papers. 

Education appears to be making great strides in the 
Madras presidency. During the year 1882-3 the 
number of children attending schools in the presidency 
rose from 393,683 to 446,324. These figures show an 
advance of 66 per cent, as compared with those of 
1879-80, the year which marked the close of the famine. 
There is an increase 1 7 per cent, over the previous year 
in the number of girls under instruction, but the pro- 
portion of girls at school to girls of school-going age is 
still only 1 to 54, compared with 1 to 60 in Bombay. 
The number of Mohammedans pupils increased by i2 
per cent, among males, and 35 per cent, among females. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



The University of London has taken an important 
step in resolving to confer a new degree, to be called 
the “ teacher’s diploma.” It is to be under the seal of 
the university, and signed by the chancellor. No one 
will be examined, however, who has not already 
graduated. The examination will test the practical 
ability as well as the information of the candidat s, and 
will combine a close scrutiny into their knowledge re- 
garding the theory of the art of teaching. These dip- 
lomas will be certificates of merit of the highest order. 

Ex-Governor B. F. Prescott of Epping, N.H.. a dis- 
tinguished alumnus of the class of 1856, is making an 
effert to secure for one of the alcoves in the library 
building now being erected at Dartmouth College, as 
far as possible, a complete collection of copies of all 
books and pamphlets that have been * written or pub- 
lished by the graduates of the institution, as well as 
from those who have received honorary degrees from 
the college. This gentleman has been largely instru- 
mental in obtaining pictures from the portrait galleries 
at Phillips Exeter Academy, the State House and at 
Hanover. 

The following list of subjects for the Townsend 
prize orations has been given to the Yale seniors : 1. 
Corruption in our Elections ; its Prevalence, its Dan- 
gers and its Remedy. 2. The French Conquests in 
Italy ond their influence on French Civilizaiion. 3. 
The Future of the English House of Lords. 4. De- 
velopment of the American Political Creed as shown 
by the New and Revised State Constitutions since 
1789. 5. Michael Angelo at the Florentine Fortifi- 

cations, 6. Charitable Works ; Institutions as Judged 
by Political Economy. 7, The Origin and Duration 
of the Solid South. 8. Prometheus. 9. Parliamen- 
tary Institutions in the German Empire ; 10. Sainte- 
Beuve. 

Edmund Gosse, who has lately succeeded Leslie 
Stephen as Clark lecturer on English literature at 
Cambridge, is on his way to this country to give a 
course of Lowell lectures at Boston the first three 
weeks of December and at John Hopkins University 
in January. The title will be “ From Shakespeare 
to Pope,” and the subject broadly stated, will be the 
rise and development of the classical school of Eng- 
lish poetry in the seventeenth century. The separate 
lectures will be : “ Poetry at the Death of Shake- 

speare,” “ Waller and Sacharissa,” “ The Exiles,” 

“ Davenant and Cowley,” “ Tim Reaction ” and “ The 
Restoration.” There will be a shorter supplementary 
course at Baltimore on “ Gray, and the Recent His- 
tory of his Writings,” a subject to which Mr. Gosse 
has lately been giving special study. 

Three weeks ago some of the students of the 
Worcester County Free Institute led a horse belonging 
to one of the professors up two flights of stairs to the 
school chapel, where they left him over night. The 
faculty got the animal down with considerable diffi- 
culty and have since indulged in a still hunt for the 
perpetrators of the . outrage. They discovered that the 
boys at a school meeting held the day following the 
horse scrape, signed a paper agreeing not to answer 
questions about the affair, and Thursday they called up 
'one by one each member of the school and asked him 



if he wanted to stand by his action in signing that 
paper. The majority backed down at once, but twenty- 
eight member of the senior and middle classes stood 
firm and were suspended. The boys say they had help 
from outsiders in their adventure with the horse. 

The annual catalogue of Dartmouth College and the 
associated institutions for the year 1884-85 was pub- 
lished recently. The faculty numbers forty-two. The 
new members are : Charles P. < 'hase, A.M., instructor 
in political economy in the Chandler scientific de- 
partment ; Rev. Theedore C. Pease. A.M., Chandler 
instructor in evidences of Christianity ; Owen H. 
Gates, A.B., tutor in Latin ; George H. Whitcher, B. 
S., instructor in the agricultural college. The sum- 
mary of students is as follows : College, 244 ; Chan- 
dler scientific department, 74 ; agricultural college, 

28 ; medical college, 44 ; Thayer school of engineer- 1 
ing, 12; toial, 402. In the academic department 19 
are from Maine, 98 from New Hampshire, 54 from 
Vermont, 33 from Massachusetts. Outside of New 
England, nineteen States and Territories are repre- 
sented. 

The sixty-fifth annual catalogue of Colby Univer- 
sity shows a list of 116 students, of whom 15 are 
seniors, 35 juniors, 33 sophomores and 33 freshmen. 
Rev. Dr. George I). B. Pepper is president and there 
are nine professors. The number of young women in 
the college does not increase. There are now two each 
in the two upper classes and four each in the two 
lower. At the last commencement three ladies received 
the degree of bachelor of arts, and one was made 
master of arts, which sounds a little strange. Com- 
mencement in T885 comes Wednesday, July 1. In 
the sixty-two years since the first class completed its 
course there have been ?39 graduates from the college. 

Of these, 219 are ordained clergymen, 158 lawyers, 

44 physicians and 120 teachers, of whom seven have 
been presidents of, and thirty-four professors in, col- 
leges. In 1874 it was voted to admit young women to 
the course of study, and fourteen have graduated. 

Another step has been taken in the formation of the 
new Engineering School at Firth College, Sheffield, in 
the appointment^of *ir. W. H. Greenwood to be Pro- 
fessor of Metallurgy and Mechanical Engineering, and 
Mr. Ripper to be assistant Professor of Engineering. 

It may be in the memory of our readers that the City 
tnd Guilds of London Institute made a grant about 
eighteen months ago of 300/ a year to the Firth College 
in aid of the establishment of a Chair of Engineering. 
Since then additional subscriptions have been promised 
for five years to the amount of 550/., together with a 
capital sum of over 10,000/. A site for laboratories 
and shops has been obtained, and these will be pro- 
ceeded with as soon as possible. It is hoped that the 
special advantages of Sheffield will make it the central 
school of metallurgy, especially for iron and steel, in 
the kingdom, and the Committee intend to spare no 
efforts in rendering it a complete and effective one. 

Princeton, N.J., Nov. 22.— The reason that only 
four of the fourteen colleges which are now in mem 
bership and supporting the School of Classical Studies, 
at Athens, Greece, were represented at the meeting 
held here yesterday, was that the managing committee 



1884 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



represents only Harvard, Columbia, Brown, and 
Piinceton. This School of Classical Studies was 
founded by the Archaeological Institute of America in 
1870. Prof. Goodwin’s report for 1882-83 states that 
France and Germany already have the' start* of 
America and that England is prospecting the estab- 
lishment of such a school. The principal object of 
this school is to afford an opportunity to graduates of 
American colleges to study classical literature, art, and 
antiquity in Athens ; also to operate with the Archaeo- 
logical Institute of America in the exploration and 
excavation of classical sites. Prof. Harkness, the Di- 
rector for the coming year, will personally superintend 
the work of the students, but will conduct no regular 
courses of instruction apart from meetings for con- 
sultation. There are two principal courses — one for 
•study ot Greek architecture and the other for general 
cultivation in Greek literature. This school, as the 
report of Prof. Van Benscohoten yesterday revealed, 
is no longer an experiment, and the American col- 
leges may hope to receive valuable results from it. 

Some Toronto Hazing (]). 

The public debate Friday night at University Col- 
lege was celebrated at its close by the hazing of a 
number of “cheeky ” freshmen. It was the intention 
to put ten through, but only four could be caught. 
These were secured in the afternoon and in the even- 
ing, and put in the coolers till wanted. The cheekiest 
man spotted however was not captured. He brought 
two girls with him to the meeting, and as soon as he 
noticed the fellows coming round him and asking him 
outside on all sorts of pretexts he smelt a mice, told 
the girls they wanted to take him, and implored them 
not to let go of him when the meeting was over. They 
held on to him as promised, and despite their best 
efforts the hazers had to let him go. After 1 1 o’clock 
about 200 hundred students were gathered on the lawn. 
They tried to get into the building and were put out. 
About 12 o’clock they returned and got possession. 

It is known to the undergrad that underneath Uni- 
versity College building there are spacious, cheerful, 
cool cellars, admirably adapted for initiation. Here 
the students wended their way, finding an entrance 
through a window. But some unfriendly spirit had 
plentifully besprinkled these lower regions with 
cayenne pepper, which proved so trying to the nostrils 
that the hazing party had to beat a speedy retreat, 
hastened by the cry ol‘ “ peelers,” raised from outside. 
A convenient stair-case brought them up to the mathe- 
matical lecture room, which was soon completely filled 
with students, many of whom wore grotesque masks or 
were otherwise disguised. All the gas in the building 
was set agoing. Upon a long counter-like piece of fur- 
niture, known as the experiment table, a row of chairs 
were placed for judges and jury, and the trial was pro- 
ceeded with. The trial itself was not a great success. 
There seemed to be no ringleaders in the affair, and the 
spirity of lenity that prevailed was so great that the 
cheeky freshmen went away as cheeky as when they 
came in. However, no harm was done . — Toronto 
World, Nov. 17 . 



Morrin. 

The Morrin College Alma Mater Society held its 
annual meeting recently in the College Hall, Professor 
J. R. Murray, B.A., in the chair. The various reports 
were presented, and the following officers elected for 
the ensuing year, viz. : Mr. A. H. Walters, President; 
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, Secretary ; Mr. A. Laurie, Asst.- 
Secretary ; Mr. J. C. Myles, Treasurer ; Messrs. It. 
Rolph, N. McLeod, J. Sutherland, J. F. Langton and 
M. McLennan, Executive Committee. 

The annual meeting of the Morrin College Debating 
Society was held hist Wednesday evening in the 
Morrin College classical lecture room. The Vice- 
President, Mr. N. McLeod, B. A., occupied the chair. 
The Secretary-Treasurer, M. J. C. Myles, presented his 
report, showing a balance to the credit of the Society 
of $0. 85. The election of officers for the present 
session resulted as follows: Prof. J. R. Murray, 

B. A., President; Mr. N. McLeod, B.A.> Vice-Presi- 
dent; Mr. J. A. Ferguson, Secretary : Treasurer; Messrs. 
A. II. Walters, M. .* cLennan, and H. J. Silver, Gene- 
ral Committee, 

There are a larger number of regular undergraduates 
here this year than ever before. There will probably 
be six candidates for B.A. 

The solitary lady student who created such a furore . 
last session has disappeared, and the students of the 
sterner sex will not be comforted. 

A motion was presented at the last meeting of the 
Alma Mater Society to discontinue the publication of 
the Morrin College Review , but was defeated by a large 
majority. The Financial Editor’s report showed a 
balance of about $16, which must be considered very 
satisfactory. 

On Friday, the 28th inst., the first public meeting ef 
the Debating Society took place, the Rev. N. B. Clark 
presiding. The programme consisted of a paper by the 
President, entitled “ Tobias George Smollett, M. D., 
Novelist, Poet and Dramatist.” The Society holds public 
meetings once a fortnight, and private meetings on the 
alternate Fridays. 

The Glee Club will most likely collapse this year. 
The fact is, there are too few undergraduates to keep 
up so many societies. 

Cooper’s Hii^ Engineering College. 

The following notes from CasseVs Family Magazine, 
on the above institution, may prove interesting to 
Science students. 

The college was established under the Secretary of 
State for India in Council, to educate civil engineers 
for the Indian Public Works Department, and is pre- 
pared to take in sixty fresh students every year. All 
do not enter the Indian Service, there being often no 
vacancies. The entrance qualifications are more 
simple than our Senior Matriculation in the faculty 
of App. Sci. The college course* for Civil Engineer- 
ing lasts three years. There are three terms, divided 
from each other by a four weeks’ vacation at Christmas, 
two weeks’ at Easter, and eight weeks’ in summer. 
The annual charge is £180 for .each student. The 
College fees include all charges for board, lodging 
washing, but not for medical attendance, wine, or 
beer. There is a library for the use of the students 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



and a reading-room, provided with current periodicals, 
a gymnasium, and a workshop for learning the use of 
the lathe. The subjects of study in the hrst year are 
engineering (including a knowledge of building 
materials, geometrical drawing, surveying, free-hand 
drawing, physics (or chemicals), mathematics (includ- 
ing analytical geometry and the elements of calculus), 
statics and dynamics, kinematics, geology, architecture, 
and work in the chemical laboratory and mechanical 
shop. During the second year, engineering and 
applied mechanics, geometrical and free-hand drawing, 
surveying in the field, chemistry and physics, mathe- 
matics, geology, and architecture are taught. In the 
third year are taught engineering and applied 
mechanics, keeping accounts, estimating for works, 
surveying, making projects for roads, railways, and 
canals, working out designs from given data, mechan- 
ical engineering, and architecture. On passing the 
Final Examination, the students, if such is his aim, 
will be appointed to one of the vacancies of the 
Indian Service, if found of sound constitution and free 
from serious physical defects. When vacancies occur, 
preference is given to those students standing highest 
at their Final Examination. Once in India the career 
open to the young engineer is a very good one. 
Beginning at 4,200 rupees a year, he obtains 5,400 on 
rising one grade, and 11,400 on rising to be an execu- 
tive engineer of the first class. As superintendent 
engineer of the first class, he earns 19,200 rupees per 
annum, and as chief engineer, 30,000 rupees per an- 
num. The works on which young engineers are 
engaged are chiefly the making and maintenance of 
railways, roads, and canals throughout the jungles 
and forests of that vast peninsula. 



Extract from the “ Principes — “ Come freshmen 
do not tarry.” Inscribe this on your Pierre pr^cieuse.” 

The Maritime students deny the charge that their 
association is to be a Merry-time society. It may how- 
ever be a meating together. 

The most popular dining hall of McGill students is 
a Barr room. The principles of good templars and 
theologs do not de-barr their attendance. 

A junior in Arts now turns. D’ F’ ear to all en- 
quirers concerning the Championship Junioro-soplio- 
more foot-race. Have any mis-stakes been made ] 

The freshman in Medicine who was seen throwing 
kisses the other day to a pretty nurse on McGill 
grounds is warned to nurse such luxuries till he is 
weaned from his own Alma Mater. 

Professor of Physiology . — “Describe to me the 
crystal of Ficetium just exhibited ] Intelligent fresh. , 
who has been hoar- ding up his wit for an occasion : — 
“ It’s a — it’s a short little long thing.” The dis-/*oar- 
der was soon quelled. 

The higher education of woman is progressing satis- 
factorily as the following correct report of a recent 
dialogue will vouch. Prof. D. — “ Miss J., please 
translate Qui est le mcilleur ? ” Miss J. — “ Who is 
the miller] ” 



Between the Lectures. 



One day, in English recitation 

A fair co-ed, with piquant grace, • 

Laid bare her innocence of heart 
By knowing not the word embrace. 

The Latin word was given her 
As was also the prefix, cm. 

She joined the two with ease, and gave 
The part of speech they formed— and then 

The proctor asked, with smile so sweet, 

“ My dear Miss Blank, the meaning give.” 

She hesitated, blushed aud said 
" I do not know, pray, please forgive” — 

The class as one, to give her " points,” 

Rushed up, and for the honour fought, 

But prof., with stern commanding voice, 

►Said, ” I’m the teacher, she’ll be taught.” 

His smile so sweet was turned to wrath. 

Said he, “ It’s strange you don’t surmise, 

But then, where ignorance is bliss 
It’s not my place te make you wise.” 

University Cynic. 



A CAT-ASTROPHE. 

One night, if legion heard be true, 

A gay sophomore, with eyes of blue, 

Upon the college fountain sat, 

And saw approach, a spotted cat ! 

Now being of a humane mind, 

He thought, in truth, ’t would be but kind 
And good, and altogether tittin’ 

To take into his room this kitten. 

So he approached, to take it up, 

(As one would collar any pup) 

But sad t;> say, he made a flunk, 

The cat turned out to be a skunk . 

University Cynic. 



It is with tearful eyes tha we chronicle the sad event t at 
Mathew hab got 7 is d'nose proke. 

Prof. — “Mention an oxide.” Student. — “Leather.” “Ox- 
ide of what?” Student. — “ Oxide of beef.” 

The Freshies in Medicine have an anoma’y, half med, half 
theolog. One who fortifies the inner man with the At hole 
brose of the Presbyterian College before tackling the unclaimed. 

Now doth the weary editor 
With mind insatiate, 

Fi.l up half a column 
With gags on ’88. — Ex. 

A. “What are those fellows with pick-axes looking at so 
intently ?” 

B. “Pick-axes! why, old man, they are the Poly geology 
students inspecting the glacial scratches. Do yer freeze on 
to it?” 

There is being executed in the 4th year Science draughting 
room the rnosc unique design of the session. It is represented 
on perforated drawing paper, and profusely painted in many 
colours. Profs, have tried in vain to find out what it is. Our 
private opinion is that it is a — something 

Some philanthropist sent a bible to a Milwaukee editor in 
hopes of doing him 6ome good, and he thought it was a new 
publication, and wrote a review of it, in which he said the 
production was a failure. If it was intended for a novel it 
lacked plot, and if it was for a history* it was full of impro- 
bable incidents. He couldn’t recommend it. 

“I am not easily discouraged, and was ve y sensible through- 
out my entire literary career,” remarked a man that was sell- 
ing blotting pads, “ Instead of labelling my manuscript 
‘ Important or ‘ Copy' in red ink, as most young writers do I 
used to scribble mode tly in one comer ‘/’or the editorial waste- 
paper basket / and — ” 

“ Well,” suggested a listener. 

“They always went there,” he said with a sigh, and the re- 
signation in his tone made the crowd feel three years older. 



1884.] 



McGILL -UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



The Gospel According to Ananias. 

Chap . /. 

1. And it came to pass in those days that there was 
war between the Hoodlumites and the Zites. 

2. And the Hoodlumites, each and everyone, arose 
and said, “ Behold as the Zites have oppressed the 
children of Gilcol in the former times and have 
usurped the power of the majority, 

3. Let us show up the guile wherewith they have 
teguiled us and likewise the deep damnation of the 
deed. 

4. Go to, let us get the bulge on them. And great 
was the bulge wherewith they bulged the Zites withal. 

5. And lo ! it came to pass that on a certain day, a 
ruler was appointed for the feast that is called Phooting. 

6. But the ruler was of the children of Baal, yea, 
even a Zite, namely Elder, surnamed B. A., a cunning 
player on the football, and the children of Gilcol 
chose him before all to be ruler of the feast. 

7. Howbeit, the Hoodlumites, holy and humble men 
of heart, stirred up the multitude and said, 

8. As the Lord liveth, the hand of the oppressor 
that waxed strong shall be laid low. 

9. And his horn shall be broken, and the pride of 
his heart be for a derision and scorn among men. 

10. And with sackcloth and with lamentation shall 
they be compassed. Selah. 

11. Now there was a certain little man of the moun- 
tain that is called Vanleek, and his name was Har, sur- 
named Kin, 

1 2. The son of Aguk, the son of Gotoh, the son of Nua. 

13. And he had vowed a vow, saying, there shall no 
razor come upon my head till 1 am made a ruler of the 
feast among the children of Gilcol. 

14. And have honoured my tribe with the chiefest 
of all the offerings of the sons of Gilcol. 

15. And when Har, surnamed Kin, heard of all these 
things his wrath was hot within him. 

16. And as he sat at meat he spake unto his man- 
servant, Mak, the son of ' Gunnion, chief cook and 
bottlewasher of the tribe of the Hoodlumites, saying, 

17. Go forth unto this man Elder, who hath been or- 
x dained ruler of the feast. 

18. And when thou hast got thyself well out of his 
reach, thus and thus shalt thou say unto him, 

19. Let not him that girdeth on his harness boast 
himself as one that putteth it off. 

20. And he yet further spake unto him, saying, Hast 
thou not seen the multitude of the tribes that cry aloud 
for this man Elder? 

21. Behold I, even I, will deliver him into the hands 
of the Hoodlumites this day. 

22. And thou and all the men of Gilcol shall know 
that I am the boss. Selah. 

23. Behold, thou and thy brother, and thy tribe, even 
the Hoodlumites my brethren, shall go forth this day, 

24. And ye shall speak privily with the young men, 
who are the children of Gilcol. 

25. But chiefly unto them that dwell the other side 
the Primary, even unto the young men of the first 
tribe and the young men of the second tribe. 

26. And through them shall I make myself ruler of 
the feast and smite the ungodly, the oppressor. 



27. And Mak, the son of Gunnion, arose and said. 
Is thy servant a dog that he should do this thing ? 

28. But he answered, Yea, even a yaller dog. 

29. And the manservant held his peace, for he was 
afraid, and he went on his way rejoicing. 

30. And it came to pass that when all the tribes had 
gathered together for the second time 

31. They were amazed, and said every man unto his 
I neighbour. 

32. Behold it is even as seventy of the one and 
, three score and ten of the other. 

33. Forasmuch as the Hoodlumites desire that from 
them shall the ruler of the feast be chosen, and the 
ungodly, yea even the Zites have vowed a vow that the 
ruler of the feast shall be a Zite. 

34. Now while they took counsel among themselves, 
and communed one with another. 

35. There arose in their midst one, even lie who sat 
upon the seat of judgment, namely Har that is sur- 
named Kin, and they gave ear unto him. 

36. And he spake from the rising up of the sun unto 
the sitting down of the same. 

37. Both of their pride wherewith they are puffed 
up spake he unto them, and of the evilness of their 
ways. 

38. And these and many other of their abominations 
spake he unto the children of Gilcol. 

39. And it came to pass that when he had made an 
end of speaking, there was the sound as of a rushing 
mighty wind from among the Hoodlumites, and from 
among the Zites, weeping and wailing and gnashing 
of teeth. 

40. And behold the Hoodlumites mocked the Zites 
one to another, saying Let them call upon their High 
Priest. Peradventure he sleepeth and must be 
awakened. 

41. Or peradventure he takethadrink at the Oxford, 
or he is at the Windsor and playeth pool. 

42. Howbeit the Zites were as silent as the Bump on 
the Log spoken of by O’Daniel the Prophet. 

43. So it was when Elder heard these things he 
wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood 
in the entering in ‘of the chamber. 

44. And behold there came a voice unto him and 
said what dost thou here, Elder surnamed B. A. 

45. And he said, I am very jealous because of the 
children of Gilcol, who are about to forsake their 
covenant and slay my people with the sword. 

46. And I, even I only, am left, and they seek my 
life to destroy it. 

47. Howbeit the Hoodlumites girded up their loins 
and they cried out together with a mighty shout. 

48. And called unto Mak, the son of Gunnion, that 
made Gilcol to sin saying, up find us a ruler that he 
may sit at the feast and rule over us. 

49. And he straightway asked of his master, Har sur- 
named Kin, that he should be ruler of the feast. For 
all things had been ordained of them before. 

50. And Har, surnamed Kin, gave thanks unto the 
children of Gilcol. 

51. And the rest of the acts of Har, surnamed Kin, 
and all that he did, and liow he ruled at the feast, are 
they not jwritten in the second chapter of the the 
Gospel according to Ananias. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



The Captious Critic. 

The approach of Christmas festivities accounts, Ho 
doubt, for the deluge of juvenile literature with which 
our sanctum has lately been flooded. Prominent among 
these is a very original work by Max McGunnion, 
entitled A Tale of Two Dinners, — a cunning little 
work for cunning little people, and best adapted to 
the age of six, though not uninteresting at sixty. In 
a private communication the author states that he has 
not allowed himself to be fettered by history. The 
progress of events which led to the Banquet of the 
Greeks has been somewhat altered from the facts, and 
the habits of that romantic race are purely fictitious. 
But to children the interesting but imaginary details 
suffice to more than compensate for these deviations 
from historic truth. The story has sold well. 

Blatt and Bradley’s neat 12mo. handbook on Cabs 
and Cabbaging though of small literary merit contains 
many interesting reminiscences of city life among the 
lowly. It owes a good deal of its value to the excel- 
lent table concerning the tariff of cab fares appended. 

Of H. A. R. Kin’s elaborate treatise in twenty-four 
volumes on Rules for Disorder, we have received as 
yet only the first four volumes. Though the work is 
very diffuse, apologetic and explanatory in style— 
which, indeed, resembles the stump-oratory form of 
literature, — we can, at least, say that the author is a 
thorough master of his subject. 

An addition to this year’s McGill Calendar is an 
improvement which, we wonder, did not suggest itself 
to the authorities before. That the keepers of board- 
ing houses in the city have not ere this been “ requested 
to report to the Principal any cases of immortality 
among the studenks” that may come under their 
observation, is an oversight that may have deprived 
Science of some invaluable contributions, and com- 
pilers of vital, statistics of some exceedingly important 
data upon which to compute the rate at which students 
should be insured. 

Prescriptions and Prescribing. By T. Gunnion, 
Ph. D. Assisting House Physician, Montreal General 
Hospital : Hop Bitters Publishing Co., (Limited)., pp. 
84. This little book comes before us too late for 
extensive review. Its chief merit would appear to 
consist in the employment of an entirely original 
system of weights and measures which will doubtless 
be highly appreciated by those who are able to under- 
stand it, among whom, however, we cannot rank our- 
selves. More works of a similar nature are expected 
to follow shortly. 



itorresponbence. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — I write to enquire if there is any truth 
in the report that the Freshmen in Arts are petitioning 
the Faculty to give them separate papers from the 
ladies at the ’Xmas Exams. Poor dear little Freshies ! 
What a shame it is that the Faculty should ask them 
to compete with the girls, and be ranked in the same 
class-list with them ! X 



Personals. 



Dr. W. S. Renner ’84 is pursuing his studies in 
Vienna. 

Dr. W. B. Porte ous ’84 has taken a degree at 
Edinburgh and intends settling in Boston. 

Dr. G. B. Rowell ’84 has taken his M. R. C. S. de- 
gree and opened an office at St. Albans, Vt. 

Dr. E. H. Smith ’84 who has been practising in 
Chicago visited the city during the past week. 

Dr. W. G. Henry ’83 late House Surgeon of the 
M. G. H. is now walking the hospitals in London. 

Dr. C. E. Gooding ’84 has taken his M. R. C. S. a wife* 
his abode, and a good practice in Barbadoes, W. I. 

Dr. G. Graham ’84 having resigned his position on 
the hospital staff has “ hung out his shingle ” at 
Chicago, 111. 

Drs. J. A. Hutchison ’84 and J. B. Loring ’83 are 
steadily (very steadily) acquiring fortunes in the west 
end of the city. 

Dr. J. P. Mclnerny recently read an interesting 
paper before the Medical Association of New Bruns- 
wick at St. John’s, N.B. 

C: B. Smith, B. Ap. Sc. ’84 (gold medallist and 
high-water-pants man) is on an engineering staff* near 
Bracebridge, Ont., and wants a copy of the “ Gazette.” 
D. B. Dowling, B. Ap. Sc. ’83, has lately returned to 
Ottawa from the Wood Mountain region, where he 
spent the past summer in the interests of the Geologi- 
cal Survey. 

T. D. Green, B. Ap. Sc. ’82, was engaged last sum- 
mer, as chief of party, in laying out Indian reserves in 
the vicinity of Lake Winnipeg and the North Sas- 
katchewan. 

B. J. Saunders, ’85 Science, has just returned from 
Ottawa after having successfully passed the examina- 
tion for Dominion Land Surveyor. Shaneze will hence- 
forth wear a stand-up. 

Dr. J. J. Gardner ’83 has opened an office on Notre 
Dame St., and has been appointed Demonstrator of 
Anatomy to Bishop’s College and Physician to the 
Montreal Dispensary. 

Dr. T. A. Landor ’84, W. B. Ferguson ’84, W. 
McClure ’84, W. A. de W. Smith ’84, and R. B. 
Struthers ’83 are Dr. Girdwood’s assistants on the 
Eastern Division of the C.P.R. 

We are happy to learn that the Rev. D. P. Merritt 
’84 has recovered from the severe illness by which 
he was prostrated the past summer. We congratulate 
him on his restoration to health. 

Dr. W. G. Johnston, we are surprised to see, has 
neither been made to apologise for anything or send 
in his resignation for nothing, though he°has been 
House-Surgeon in the M. G. H. since May last. 

We congratulate Dr. C. E. Cameron ’83 on his 
appointment as Physician to the Maternity Hospital, 
and Dr. R. F. Ruttan, ’84 upon his appointment as. 
Lecturer on Chemistry and assistant-Demonstrator of 
Anatomy. 



i 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



^Central IDr'u.g- Store.^ 
W. H, CHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL |3 h EM 1ST, ^NG., 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
• of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OR CRAIG &c BLEURY STS. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 
JSljirl nnb Gollnr fSamifatlnrars, 

21 BLEIJRY ST. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHA YES & WA LFORD 'S. 
For Croups go to S(JMMERHA y[s & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Groups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & WA LFORD 'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury btreet. 



R3THEL3EU HlDIEL, 

I. B. DUROCHER. Proprietor. 

Jacques CartierSquare, opp. Court House k City Hall, 

MONTREAI.. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL 18 1HE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McGILL COLLEGE 0INNER8. 

RAADT & CO., 

-Mcp7IIR 

St. Iia\yrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St Catherine St., 

University Gazette, 

Published 1st anb 15th of the Month. 



Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jSurgiral Hiislrumenls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITEI*. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

-A. 1 ST ID 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

CBY WEISS &c SOIST,) 

CHHAJP FOR CASH:. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Subscription , - - - $ 1 . 00 . 



PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 



OY GVEAHRAEIEIsr, 

Hair Dresser and Wig Makes* 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MOITTEEAL. 



Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention 
LADIES (SHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 



for 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Late of London, England, 

PasMonablii Tailor 



31 BEAUER HALL. 



THE 

J]urlaa3 pUiotaphic (Jjo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KIND8 



wiC LARGE ASSORTMENT OFikw 



OF 

Engraving and Fine Printing. 



Scotch and french 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



YirTWEEDS, 

-A. IS" 3D 

Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 

Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cush. 

Removable (]ollap$ anil (juff$ 

FOR OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs , 

Fit Better than sewed on 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS OAEDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

; By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTOX TIC- 
K. KTS, .HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

PEOCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELEOTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

111 till tlieir sever.il branches, 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

special designs made for 

Menu Pards, Prests, M on ograms ) Justness Pies, 
$c., $c, 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



AS HEEETOFOKE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



