The McGill Gazette. 



VOL. V. 



WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10th, 1879. 



No. 5 



CONTENTS. 



GRADUATING DINNER 


• 49 

CO 


EXCHANGES 




EDITORIAL 


PERSONALS 


57 


GALILEO, GALELEI 


• 

• 53 


CLIPPINGS 


5» 


MODERN PHILOSOPHICAL THOUGHT.... 


53 


ITEMS 


58 


CORRESPONDENCE 


• 55 







Terms.— Single Subscription , $1.00 per annum , in advance. Single numbers , 20 cents. 

For sale at Dawson Bros., Hill's , Drysdule's, Ashford' 8 and Me Adam's. 

Address, “THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1259, Montreal. 



P rofessiowtnana Visiting Curds, Arms, Crests and Monograms, 

AND 

r HE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,” 

AT 

J. 1). SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 

College Society Cards and Badges a specialty. Patronage solicited. 



1ACMASTER, HALL & GREENSHIELDS 

Advocates, Barristers, & c., 

No. 181 St. James Street, Montreal. 

D. Macmaster. John 8. Hall, Jun. J. N. Greenshirlds 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HATTERS -A. IN" HZ) FURRIERS, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Th« “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 



GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRAVERS, 

169 SX. JAMES ST. 

MONTREAL. 



GET YOUR HAIR CUT AT HILL’S, 

Queen's Hall Block, - - 1321 St. Catherine Si. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 




JAMES GOULDEN, 

CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 St. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St. 

GOULDEN’ S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure lor Neuralgic pains in 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, &c. 

Neuralgine is of great service in improving weak digestion, 
loss of appetite, <fec 



GENTLEMEN’S Coats, Pants, fyc., 
Beautifully Cleaned or Dyed and Pressed 
without shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

7 06 CRAIG ST., near Victoria Square. 



FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 

Those contemplating a tour to tropical climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. JAMES 
St., Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



P1I O lOG Tl jl <± J H JT. 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. A R LESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 



11 



The McGill Gazette. 



THOMAS ALLAN & 00 , 


HILLS LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET. 


WATCHMAKERS 


McGILL COLLEGE: TEXT BOOKS , 


ANI> 

JEWELLERS, 

3dl NOTRE DAME STREET , 

MONTREAL. 


JNU 1 L dUUKo, 

AND 

STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

Also, all the Books u<ed in McEachran’s Veterinary College. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 


n IT • 1 1 /~t 1 1 rT5 TA 1 



GROSS’ 

Newly Improved 

Sh o u Icier cJj ? ‘ctces 
0R 

// ;(/ CHEST EXPANDERS, 

Before lor After 

Wearing Ladies, Gentlemen or Children, Wearing. 





DAWSON BROS. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 



MANUFACTURED AT THE 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Street, (Established 1856.) 

F. GROS * CLARE <0 CO., 

Surgical Instrument Makers, Inventors and Manufacturers of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross' 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, &c. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 

A large assortment of Rubber Good , Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymnasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clubs, Rheumatic Chains and Belts, 
&c., always ou hand. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles done with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 



FURS, HATS AND CAPS. 



JOB 0. THOMPSON & C0„ 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, and Importers of English Hats, 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which 
we sill at the very lowest price. We mark all f oods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

O-ir system works well, as the Public have shown by 
their extensive support since we re -commenced business. 

416 & 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 

Established 1835. 



TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 



Students’ Note Books,' 

Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT ^ 

159 St. J ames Street. 



190 ST. JOSEPH STREET, 

I. A. BEAUVAIS, 

MERCHANT TAILOR 

AND 

HABER 0ASI1ER 

Two first-class cutters attached to the premises. A liberal 
discount to those who apply as “ McGill ” students. 

N. B.~ Ready-made. Ulsters and Overcoats a specialty. 



H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 
BANKERS AND EXCHANGE BROKERS, 
149 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, February 19 th, 1879. 



GRADUATING DINNER. 

rilUE graduating class in Medicine has this 
-L year initiated a new movement, which 
we have no doubt in time will be one of the 
greatest fete days in connection with the Uni- 
versity, — we mean a graduating dinner. This 
is an American idea, but we must not condemn 
it on that account, as many of the customs 
and manners of our cousins across the 45th 
parallel are worthy of imitation by us here. 
Hitherto aftei convocation the young gradu- 
ates in Medicine used to precipitately hasten 
their departure from the city, perhaps without 
having an opportunity of taking their last 
adieus of friends who had for four years at least 
been battling shoulder to shoulder in the great 
struggle necessary to enter the temple of Escu- 
lapius ; and this, although not always thought 
of in the moment of excitement and triumph, 
was often a source of worry to their feelings 
in after years. However, this will not be the case 
in future, if we may judge from the spirit that 
now animates the minds of the students, from 
the callow Freshman to the almost fully fledged 
Final. During the month of January, at a 
meeting of the Final class, steps were taken 
to have a grand reunion of the graduates after 
convocation Quite a considerable amount of 
enthusiasm was displayed at this meeting, and 
the speeches which the occasion drew forth 
were of such a character as to leave no doubt 
of the earnestness which pervaded the whole 
assembly. It was proposed to have the Final 
dinner on such a scale as would make it agree- 
able both to the intellect and the senses, a 
feast of reason and flow of soul ; and to make 
this a reality, a historian, a prophet, and a 
poet were appointed by the class, who were to 
be present at the dinner, for the purpose of 
elevating the minds of the young disciples of 



Galen above the more vulgar things of sense 
during the progress of the festivities. The 
three elected to do this important duty were 
Messrs. W. R. Sutherland, J. L. Brown, and 
VV. J. McGuigan, the first named gentleman 
being the historian, the second the prophet, 
and the third the poet. These latter gentlemen 
were also appointed a committee to make ar- 
rangements for the dinner, and it is to be 
hoped they will leave no stone unturned to 
brino it to a successful conclusion. It is too 

O 

bad that these gentlemen were not appointed 
earlier in the session —say at the time for 
electing the valedictorian, as it would have en- 
abled them to do something worthy of such 
an important epoch in their own career, and in 
the career of the Medical School of McGill Uni- 
versity. These men are now undergoing a 
severe mental strain preparing themselves for 
the final examination, and the literary cells of 
their intellectual centres must be rather dor- 
mant at present, and we fear very much 
that the historian’s glowing pictures will 
fade away from before his mind’s eye, in the 
pursuit of some specimen of morbid anatomy 
that may be intruding itself into his company 
at the most, unseasonable times, while the 
poor prophet and the poet will wish in vain 
for the “ fine frenzy” which is necessary for 
either to make himself useful at the coming 
festival. However, let us not discourage the 
movement for such reasons as these. We 
must make a beginning, and now is as good a 
time as any. Let us augur well for the suc- 
cess of this and all future graduating dinners, 
and may they flourish like the green bay tree. 



The meetings which from time to time are 
held by the Law students, are as noisy as of 
late years, and they certainly have not gone 
back on their reputat ion for disorder. The 
only reason that appears possible of statement 
in explanation of this is that nearly every law 



50 



The McGill Gazette. 



student thinks himself a born orator, and in 
consequence, takes every opportunity of dis- 
playing his eloquence to the supposed be- 
wilderment and delight of his hearers. At 
those meetings, the favourite time for a 
man to hold forth is when some one else is 
speaking, and hence the uproar above alluded 
to. The students in law would do well in 
future to turn over a new leaf, and carry on 
their meetings with that order and precision 
for which the profession is celebrated. 



We understand that the committee ap- 
pointed to carry out the arrangements 
for the Founder’s Festival has by a majority 
of one vote decided that no entertain- 
ment shall be held this year. We protest 
most emphatically against this decision. The 
committee was elected for a certain purpose, 
and if the members were personally opposed 
to any particular form of entertainment or if 
they were unable to agree amongst themselves, 
their only course was to report to their consti- 
tuents and to seek instructions from them. 
We certainly think that in former years the 
festival was dull and prosy, and the opinion of 
the majority of the students at least was to 
this effect. The committee, however, had no 
right to decide, on this account, that we should 
have no festival at all. They should, finding 
themselves unable or unwilling to perpetuate 
the old festival, have devised something new, 
or else have resigned their positions and al- 
lowed the students and graduates to elect a 
new committee to make other arrangements. 
The committee has been guilty of an excess of 
duty, and it is to be hoped that they will be 
called to account. The students should meet 
and censure these officious gentlemen who 
have by their inaction deprived us of one of 
our few annual re-unions. ‘ Half a loaf is better 
than no bread,’ and we would have preferred 
to submit to a repetition of the old Festival, 
however mild and cheerless, rather than to see 



none at all. Why was not a dinner gotten up ? 
We pause for a reply ; but in the meantime 
we cannot refrain from expressing our dis- 
satisfaction with this incompetent and despotic 
committee. It is only proper that we should 
except from the censure expressed above, the 
minority on the committee. We hardly think, 
however, that the gentlemen composing this 
minority are entirely blameless. They should 
have perceived that the decision of the majority 
was ultra vires of the committee, and should 
have laid the matter before the general body 
of students. Nevertheless, they are not worthy 
of so much censure as the majority. 



At the earnest request of Mr. Barnjum, the 
college authorities have enlarged and complete- 
ly renovated the University Gymnasium, af- 
fecting such changes in the structure of the 
building as has been rendered necessary to suit 
the convenience of the different classes that 
take advantage of it. A new wing has been 
added, — which, being lighted from the top 
gives the interior of the building a very bright 
and cheerful appearance, — while the removal of 
the centre pillars, and other alterations of a 
like nature, affords the open space so long 
needed in order to allow the several classes to 
go through the custom ary club and bar-bell 
exercises, without being in any way impeded 
by “ those posts.” . In consequence of under- 
going these improvements, the gymnasium 
was closed during the whole of the past month, 
but now, although the workmen have still pos- 
session of the building, the classes are be- 
being held as usual. Athletics does not 
awaken at McGill such enthusiasm as it 
does at most other colleges, the membership 
of the gymnasium and various clubs being 
confined almost entirely to the Arts and Science 
students, who, more fortunate than their con- 
freres in Medicine and Law, are enabled by 
their hours to take advantage of the benelits 
such institutions afford, it must be regrett d 



The McGill Gazette . 



5i 



that such is the case ; that a physical education 
is of inestimable value to students while at- 
tendng a university, is by every one admitted, 
and those whose experience gives them power to 
bear testimony, say that the mental strain their 
duties require is made more endurable by such 
exercise as may be found in attending gymn- 
asium or participating in any out door game. 
We are quite certain that the Medical and 
Law students, more particularly the former, 
would consider as a gi-eat boon any opportunity 
afforded them of attending classes at the 
gymnasium, and could an hour suitable to all 
be set aside, these faculties should see that such 
an arrangement is made. If they were to 
compel their students, as do the faculties of Art 
and Science, to become members of the institu- 
tion, nolens volens as it were, they would 
gain not only the thanks of the students 
themselves, but the approbation of all who 
believe that students are but human and re- 
quire as much care to be taken of their bodies 
-as of their minds. 



The Annual Report to the Governor Gen- 
eral, now in print, is, we understand, more 
extensive and elaborate than usual, the College 
authorities having expressed the wants of the 
University in rather an extended and compre- 
hensive rnannei'. The need of new buildings 
by the Law and Science faculties has been 
touched upon; while the report adds that if 
the endowment fund of the latter could 
be raised to $60,000, this new Faculty might 
be said to be permanently established. A 
desire is also manifested for a larger and 
more commodious building for the museum, 
the authorities holding that a space five 
times as large as that at present occupied 
could be profitably made use of, and additions 
•of great value obtained from the Geographical 
Survey and private collections. As the only 
available places of study at present for honour 
men in the different natural sciences are the cor- 
ridors, liable at any time to be used as passages, 



and therefore unsuited for quiet study, suitable 
rooms could be set aside for them in this build- 
ing, to be used not only for class demonstra- 
tion and microscopic work, but even for 
original research. If this were done, the 
present museum could be made part of the 
library, and the collection of rare books, 
works of art, relics, medals, antiquities, 
and other objects, at present inconveniently 
dispensed through the college, might be exhi- 
bited in it, besides enabling the authorities 
to make large additions to this department. 
W e have frequently heard it stated by persons 
who have visited the college, that the size of 
the museum and the number of its contents 
were altogether too small for that department 
of such a Universiry as McGill, and they ex- 
pressed surprise at it. It is therefore pleasing 
to know that it is want of sufficient space 
alone prevents the authorities enlarging such in- 
stitutions as the museum and library. As has 
been already stated in our columns, the library 
has received important additions, and now has 
space enough for 25,000 volumes, the number 
of books already in it amounting to some 
16,500. We have noted these items of the 
report, inasmuch as they are changes which 
have been long needed at McGill, have been 
long commented upon at Convocation, and still 
seem as far from being effected as when first ur- 
ged. Last year Queen’s College, Kingston, felt 
itself in want of suitable buildings ; earnest soli- 
citations for aid were made by Principal Grant 
to the people of the Province of Ontario, and 
even of Quebec, and as a result the College 
expects to be soon located in new and hand- 
some buildings. Could not such a thing be 
done at McGill? Repeated calls have been 
made on the citizens of Montreal for small 
amounts, and they have not been unliberally 
responded to, and we feel sure that, notwith- 
standing the “prevailing cry,” a hearty support 
would be accorded any movement having as 
its end the effecting of the above changes in 
our alma mate- . 






52 



The McGill Gazette . 



It is with regret that we are obliged to 
criticise adversely any of the students of this 
University, as hitherto they have been allied 
to each other by the closest ties, and have acted 
together in the spirit of fraternal concord- 
But unfortunately an event lately occurred 
which would seem to indicate that there are a 
few spirits amongst them that do not entertain 
that feeling of mutual interest for their fellow- 
students which we would like to see in all the 
different classes at the College. We refer to a 
small number in the Primary class in medicine 
who lately persisted in taking a lecture from 
one of the professors when what in college 
phrase is called a “ slope ” had been voted by 
a majority of two to one. Now, as to slopes, 
we do not pretend to say that in the full sense 
of the term they are correct. Perhaps as a 
matter of strict principle, they are not the 
thing, but, nevertheless, the} 7 are time-honoured 
customs of the Medical School, and have until 
very recently been faithfully observed in the 
institution. But to particularize the slope 
which calls forth this article, and to come at 
once to the point. On Thursday afternoon, 
13th instant, the Primary class feeling that a 
holiday would not be out of place, and one of 
the professors being a little late, they appointed 
a chairman, and began the discussion of ab- 
senting themselves from the lecture. A motion 
to that effect having been put to the meeting 
was declared carried by a large majority. The 
minority, however, acquiesced after the vote 
had been taken, and left with the majority. 
When we say the minority we said rather 
much, for there were a few who hung around 
the College, and when the professor came took 
his lecture. Now this was altogether contrary 
to student etiquette, and the consequence of it 
was that these individuals exposed themselves, 
and very justly, too,- to the indignation and 
contempt of their comrades ; for this action 
on their part was robbing the others of a 
lecture ; because if some of these men had 
not been recreant to their pledged word 



that they would do as the rest of the class, the 
professor of this chair would not have deliver- 
ed his lecture. There is something selfish in a 
man who will endeavour to derive a benefit at 
the expense of his fellow-creature, and 
although it may be said that all human nature 
is selfish, there is no excuse nevertheless for the 
man who will show it off in so palpable a man- 
ner. To punish these men, therefore, for this de- 
fection from the code of academic morals, an in- 
dignation meeting of the Primary class was 
called the following day, Mr. L. D. Mignault 
being in the chair. Mr. R. T. Macdonald moved 
seconded by Mr. H Heyd, that in the opinion 
of the Primary class, the students who took 
the lecture after it had been decided that no 
lecture should be taken, acted in an ungentle- 
manly and contemptible mauner, and take 
this their earliest opportunity of passing a vote 
of censure upon them. It is needless to say that 
this motion was carried by the unanimous voice 
of the independent members of the class. The 
action of these men cannot be palliated under the 
circumstances, and if we could say anything 
for them we would most willingly do so. One 
of them was so far forgetful of himself that 
when called to account not only defended his 
action, but declared he would do so again.. 
This kind of spirit is not to be tolerated, and 
the person who would set himself up to the 
rest of the class in the spirit of opposition, 
declared and openly, should be made to un- 
derstand firmly but decidedly that his course 
is inimical to the interests of the race, and that 
reconstruction of his principles would be useful 
to himself and the community at large. We 
hope that the little ill-feeling, however, be- 
tween the students will soon blow over, and 
that the gentlemen who were weighed and 
found wanting, on Friday, 14th inst, will see 
the folly of their ways, and endeavour to act 
like men in the future. 

ooo 

As a Senior and a Sophomore were walkin< r 
along the street they saw an intoxicated Irish” 
man lose his balance and fall. Quoth the 

Soph. : , “ Dr. D , ought to be here. 

“ Why ? “ Because he does not often get 

a chance to pick up such a fine specimen of 
apatite.” 



The McGill Gazette . 



53 



GALILEO, GALILEI. 



June 2‘2nd, 1633. 



’Twas long ago. Yet the convent walls 
Still cast their shadows when sunset falls, 

And its glory lightens Minerva’s* halls. 

Moss-grown and old, and the cloisters pale, 

To-day re-echo the swell and fail 

Of the vesper hymn, and the shadows veil 

In their depths a tale that could still outlast 
The rust of time as the years fell past. 

Though the ages fail, yet the truth stands fast, 

While all else moves ; and the changing sands 
Run through Time’s glass, and the fettered hands 
Strive vainly ever to’ burst the bands 

That bound of yore, and that still would bind 
Freedom of thought and speech, whilst blind 
Religion mocks at the march of Mind. 

****** 

Robed in the garh of the penitent, 

With spirit broken and strength nigh spent. 

The Sage to their council chamber went. 

For rack and torture at length prevailed, 

And I ween that the old man’s strength has failed, 
Though their ghostly terrors have naught availed 

To fetter a mind whose eagle flight, 

Piercing the clouds, had brought the light 
To their bigot souls and blinded sight. 

m 

The saints in their niche3 along the wall, 

Behold him kneeling in sight of all-- 
Doctor and prelate and cardinal. 

His hand on the sacred book is laid, 

Faltering of voice and with bended head, 

The falsehood wrung from his sSul is said. 

And the saints in their niches along the wall, 

Gaze on him kneeling in sight of all— 

Doctor and prelate and cardinal. 

Rising and turning to one who near 
Him stood, he utters in accents clear, 

And the tones erst vhile unswayed by fear, 

“ E pur se muove .” f At the last 

Truth speaks, and, the hour of weakness past, 

The words to the listening world are cast. 

Did the saints enshrined in their places high, 

List to the words that may never die, 

That reach from the ages long gone by? 

I know not. Yet from the convent wall, 

They watch whilst the shadows of evening fall, 

On doctor and prelate and cardinal. 

Reveil. 

*rhdc3aveatof Miuerva. wlnre Galileo’s abj uration waimade. 
For all this it does move." 



MODERN PHILOSOPHICAL THOUGHT. 



This age of ours is one of progress. We are 
not content to take anything for granted un- 
less we have proved it by direct experiment 
for ourselves and found that it is all that it 
was represented to be This is, indeed, one of 
the great characteristics of the age, and to the 
spirit of enquiry which such feeling excites we 
owe many of the discoveries which have been 
| made within the present century. We cannot, 
indeed, say that the philosophers and experi- 
mentalists of this period have been the only 
ones who have made attempts in the field of 
originality and research, for it is a well-known 
fact that centuries ago, in the twilight of Gre- 
cian history, the great geniuses of the chief 
city of Athens did as much in some of the do- 
mains of thought as any of their modern 
• brethren. And if we take into account the 
means of information at their disposal, we can- 
not but marvel at the magnitude of the great 
intellects which flourished in that era of 
Athenian culture and refinement. It is cus- 
tomary at the present day to speak in terms 
of extravagant praise of our modern men of 
thought, and particularly of that school which 
! may be pointed out by stating that it is re- 
presented by Tyndall and Huxley, two of the 
greatest scientists of Europe, or perhaps of the 
world. Now, although these men are, in the 
full sense of the term, great in the field of 
science, yet in the role of metaphysicians they 
are simply nowhere. And not to make in- 
vidious distinctions, we may add that the 
whole sect of materialistic physicists who are 
at this moment attempting to revolutionize the 
minds of the present generation are, in the 
| truest sense of the word, only players at philo- 
sophy. They are men who, as far as the ex- 
ternal world of matter is concerned, are trust- 
worthy observers : but the distinctions which 
they draw from the phenomena of nature are 
so illogical and absurd that the well-informed 
have only to hear them to detect their falla- 
cies and absurdities. It does not follow be- 
cause a man has devoted the best years of his 
life to the study of protoplasm, or the science 
of biology, that he is capable of delivering an 
infallible homily on the subject of perceptive 
judgment, will, and other mental phenomena ; 
and still this is what is claimed by these men 
and their disciples. Professor Tyndall is no 
doubt a great chemist ; but we think him a 



54 



The McGill Gazette , 



very poor philosopher. In regard to Huxley, 
he may be able, and there is no doubt is able 
to describe the anatomy of the molluscs and 
fishes, and can examine nerve tissue and brain 
matter in the most satisfactory manner possi- 
ble ; but still we say, as a logician he is far 
from being eminent. The great fault there is to 
be found amongst our modern men is that they 
are not satisfied with their proper sphere of 
action, but like poor fools of nature horribly 
shake their dispositions with thoughts beyond 
the reach of their souls. 

We have just now amongst us a class of 
men who may be called psycho-physiologists, 
who have made perceptions of the mind and 
the other mental faculties so simple that 
they merely depend on the function of nerve- 
centre. It is ludicrous to hear one of these 
men talk in learned jargon of the anterior 
lobes of the brain secreting thought, after the 
fashion of Carl Vogt, who used to talk of the 
brain elaborating thought as the liver did bile, 
and thus reducing all mental acts and the 
highest intellectual principles to the level of a 
mere function of a gland, and thereby render- 
ing the soul and essence of spirit, which is in- 
deed a distinguishing feature of the human 
personage, a chimera and a nonentity. If we 
were to believe the doctrines of somewhat 
allied schools that the great corner-stone of 
their system is the good of the whole race of 
humanity, the teachings which we have point- 
ed out just now would seem to indicate that 
instead of the improvement of the race they 
were seeking the very contrary, viz., to bring 
it down deep in the slime and dust of the 
earth. For if we listen to the opinions of one 
of the greatest of modern philosophers, Lord 
Bacon, we will find him saying that the man 
who will endeavour to prove the non-existence 
of soul or spiiit does not elevate his man- 
hood, but on the contrary debases it. This 
modern thought is nothing but the negative 
of a soul, but also of a personal Supreme Being, 
and the substitution of something else which 
has neither a local habitation or a name. 

Let us for a moment say that we are the 
subjects of a mere excitation in a nerve centre 
or ganglion — and this is what our modern 
physiologists will tell us — and what is the re- 
sult of this teaching when pushed home to 
its logical conclusion ? Simply this, that all 
our actions being the result of agents over 
which we have no control, we are not respon- 



sible for our actions. Take the faculty of per* 
ception as an example. We perceive through 
an organ of special sense, the eye, some 
object. This object is painted on our ret- 
ina as an inverted figure, end from that it 
is conveyed to the thalamus opticus, or the sup- 
posed ganglion of vision. Now when it arrives 
there, what becomes of it ? This is the ques- 
tion which has puzzled the minds of the great- 
est thinkers from Plato to Newton, and still it 
has never been properly solved. But behold 
our modern physiologist says in his easy way 
that this ganglion merely functionates, as he 
calls it, and behold the object in all its beauty 
and all its parts stands before us in the clear 
light of the mental vision. How easy is all 
this, and at the same time how obscure ! It is 
simply the subterfuge of a tyro who wishes to 
cover the enormity of his shallowness and 
ignorance under the shadow of a ganglion of 
the brain. This little example will suffice to 
show the general principle on which our 
moderns explain things away, and to any one 
who thinks of such things at all, it must ap- 
pear superficial and impertinent. But we will 
go still a step further, and see what we have 
yet to show in regard to our self-constituted 
pseudo-philosophers. We claim that if the 
mental and moral phenomena are all under the 
mere caprice of nerve, or ganglion, then this is 
as true of one faculty of the mind as another. 
If so, what of the will ? If the will is the 
necessary consequence of an antecedent cause, 
then we have what may be called necessary 
will, or a result similar in character to the ex- 
citement which originated it. Now, we all 
know that our wills are not at all like the- 
causes which should set them up, for the will 
is often the very contrary of what we are- 
prompted by our feelings to perform ; and thus 
it is shown that in the case of this faculty ol 
themind,atleast,wehavesuch a contradiction of 
the theory of ganglionic action as sets it all null 
and void. There is no such thing as necessary 
will, nor is there any such thing as necessary 
perception in the same sense in which ma- 
terialists would have it. And if there was,, 
such a thing as a will which would be at the* 
mercy of every involuntary excitation, then 
we would have the barbarous doctrine that a 
man was guilty ot the perpetuation of actions 
over which he had no control, and the ends of 
justice and right instead ot being salutary 
would be only malicious mockery. We 



The McGill Gazette. 



55 



have said so much for the opening up of the 
subject under discussion. The minds of the 
present day are being caught with the phan- 
tom which has been presented before them for 
acceptation and beliet. It is a very simple 
means of getting over difficulties which have 
been hitherto, and in spite of what our savant* 
can say, are yet buried in mystery, and there 
is not much likelihood of their being unravelled 
before we are ushered into that land from 
whose bourne no traveller returns. The Eng- 
lish school of materialists and German idealists, 
together with the French positivists, may battle 
in vain against the old canons of thought and 
philosophy, but they will find that they have 
been futile in their attempts when they endea- 
vour to erase the old landmarks, which have 
their foundations laid down deep in the dark- 
ness of mystery ; and, as the person mentioned 
in Addisons Vision of Mirza could not pierce 
the thick cloud that shut out his vision at the 
end of the bridge which extended its arches 
far over across the great ocean of eternity, so it 
will be as useless for these men to penetrate the 
arcana of the mind by any peurile attempt 
at explanation by giving us the effect, and en- 
deavouring to palm it oft* as the cause of what 
they are entirely ignorant. This is called a 
sceptical generation, but we are inclined to 
think that we are the most credulous people 
that ever existed, for there is nothing which 
any great man teaches too absurd to prevent 
him getting multitudes of followers. 

000 

CORRESPONDENCE. 



[This column is open to those students who have questions 
to ask, or grievances to air. The Editors, however, disclaim 
all responsibility.] 

To the Editors or the McGill Gazette: 

Gentlemen, — The following notice is taken 
from a Montreal paper which was published 
some seventy years ago : 

“ Mrs. Forest and her sister, Miss Grant, respectfully 
inform their friends and the public that they intend removing 
into town in the course of the present month to the commo- 
dious and well-situated house lately the residence of Andre ■' 
McGill, Esq., which will \ e in readiness for the reception of 
young ladies, on the usual plan and terms, the first of the 
ensuing month.” 

Montreal, oth April, 1806. 

'I lie above old advertisement of that day 
refers to the residence of Andrew McGill, who 



was the brother of James McGill, founder of 
McGill College. Can any of your readers in- 
form us where the residence was situated ? 

Yours truly, 

J. H. 



000 

To The Editors of the McGill Gazette : — 

Gentlemen, — by resolution of the Graduates 
Society passed in l!S7fi it was decided : 

“That the members and graduates be invit- 
ed to subscribe to a fund for the endowment 
of the libraries of the University; said fund 
I to be invested and the proceeds applied under 
the supervision of the council of the Society in 
annual additions to the libraries, an equitable 
division to be made by the council between 
the University library and those of the 
professional faculties.” 

In compliance with this resolution a large 
: number of prominent graduates subscribed to 
this fund, and I find to my astonishment that 
something over SI, 200 was subscribed by 
graduates in Law. I say, to my astonishment; 
not that I am surprised at the generosity of 
the Law graduates, but I learn that the council 
of the Society have after a great deal of labour 
made an equitable division of a portion of the 
interest On this fund, by which the magnificent 
sum of $-5.00 has been apportioned off for the 
Law library. Why is this thus ? $5.00 will 
not buy many law books. I also notice that 
many of the books purchased, relate exclusively 
to the subject of Anglo-Saxon literature ; good 
enough in its way, but hardly of general in- 
terest. I will be told that all are interested 
in the University library. True enough ; but 
what about the “equitable division ?” 

I would suggest that the munificent sum 
allotted to the Law library be expended in 
purchasing some work on equity which will 
teach the council the leading rules on which 
such divisions should be made. A common- 
sense division differs considerably from that of 
the council. Let us have light ! 

Yours truly 

B. C. L. 



000 

Prof. — “Mr. H., what are you eating ? ” 

Mr. H . — (after feeling in his pocket:) “ Very 
sorry, Professor, but that’s all I’ve got.” — 
Student Life. 



56 



The McGill Gazette. 



EXCHANGES. 



2 he Crimson calls attention to the absurdity 
of placing certain authors under restriction as 
regards the use cf the library by the students. ! 
We quite concur in the opinion of our con- 
temporary that such a course would tend to 
deprive one of “ man’s peculiar distinction, 
the knowledge of good and evil. ’ J. Bs. 
verses are a good satire on the Englishman of 
the genus “ snob.” 

The Columbia Spectator is interesting and 
varied ; its strictures on the childish mis- 
behaviour indulged in by a certain class of 
men at lecture, should hit the mark aimed at. 

Queen's College Journal contains an amus- 
ing article on the prevailing epidemic of 
“ autograph album poetry.” We also notice 
that the college is soon to be located in new 
buildings, which will doubtless do credit to 
the “ Royal ” title. Our Kingston contem- | 
porary makes a very creditable appearance in 
its new garb, and it seems to have otherwise 
improved by the change. Its editorials do 
not yet, however, deal with matters of especial 
interest to the student mind, but are as sweep- 
ing as ever. Still a “ new departure” is some- 
times welcome. 

The Brincetonian takes us to task for our 
remarks on “ Collegiate Oratoi'y.” We stick 
to our colours, however, and maintain that our 
opinions expressed in that article hold good as 
to the majority of American colleges, though, 
of course, we will allow a few exceptions to 
soothe the injured feelings of ‘ Princeton.’ We 
observe, however, that the principles envolved 
in our article are enlarged upon in the 
Brincetonian of the 6th inst., where it is 
editorially asserted that debating is much 
neglected, and that the “ tendency of all coliege 
speaking is to become mere declaiming.” 
Exactly ! Just what we said. 

The Acadia Athenceum possesses many 
points of interest to the student of more sedate 
tendencies. Prof. Welton’s “ Reminiscences of 
London,” will, no doubt, please the boys from 
“ Hold Hengland, you know.” 

The Harvard Advocate is as spicy and racy as 
usual. The articles headed “ Alcove Twenty,” 
and “ A Retrospect,” are the best, and there 



are some verses entitled “The New Opera,” 
which are rather good. We are pleased to 
learn on the authority of the Advocate that 
the rumour to the effect that the chief of the 
secret police had ordered a set of the t '■) 
photographs from Mr. Pach, is untrue. 

The Bowdoin Orient has reached us. An 
essay on the jEneid, a communication on the 
subject of Hazing, are the principal articles of 
this number. 

The Dalhousie Gazette is an excellent one, 
and contains inter alia an able article on 
Macaulay’s History of England, which the 
writer fitly terms “ the greatest work of one of 
Britain’s greatest men.” 

The most interesting columns of the last 
Dartmouth are those headed “ Exchanges.” An 
editorial apology and a contributors apology, 
for having said hard things of the profs., a 
plea for “Instruction in Elocution,” con- 
stitute nearly the whole of the original matter 
in this number. 

T he Cornell Era contains besides the usual 
editorials “ A Tragedy,” “ Leipzig Letter,” and 
three pages and a half of “ Communications,” 
which latter is very interesting — to Cornell. 
One correspondent is incensed because a 
professor in a lecture called the celebrated Dr. 
Bueehner an “intellectual brute,” and seeks to 
defend that German materialist. “Fraud in 
Examinations ” is the subject of another letter, 
and a few remarks of the writer serve to show 
that Ah Sin’s sleeves are made use of at Cornell 
as well as at other colleges. He says : “ In a 
recent examination in Entj. Lit. one student 
from where he was sitting counted thirty 
members of the class with the text book 
open.” He attributes this wholesale cribbing 
to “ the carelessness and apparent indifference 
cf professors.” There is, we should imagine, 
more truth than poesy in this charge. 

The Brunonian reflects credit on its editorial 
board, and bears the palm among this month’s 
exchanges. Sound sense and quiet humour, 
are judiciously distributed through its pages, 
and leave impressions of a gi-atifying nature 
in the mind of the “gentle reader.” The 
poem “ Heart’s Wealth ” is expressive of man's 
search for that which too often eludes his 
grasp. The following verse is a specimen : — 



The McGill Gazette. 



57 



“Where is Peace? 

Dark care and sorrow 
Never cease. 

Peace cometh after night, 

Peace dwelleth in the light 

Men ca'l ‘Tomorrow.’” 

The following we take from the Trinity 
Tablet, the last number of which compares 
favourably with its predecessors : 

MADRIGAL. 

You asked me, pretty Mabel, 

Sweet Mabel, none so fair, 

If I would send a rose to you 
To twine within your hair. 

But oh, my fairest Mabel, 

I think you will agree 
That favour never puzzled one 
As this has puzz’ed me. 

For I cannot, lovely Mabel, 

I cannot send to you * 

The rose which blooms in blushes red, 

The rose of crimson hue ; 

For when the red rose saw you, dear, 

So lovely and so meek, 

'Twould pale before the richer glow, 

That lingers on your cheek. 

And yet, my sweetest Mabe 1 , 

I cannot send to you, 

The rose which blooms in purest white, 

The rose of Lily hue. . 

For when the white rose saw you, love, 

It surely would, I trow, 

Blush bright with lovely crimson, 

Ashamed before your brow . 

And so, my lovely Mabel, 

You see me puzzled quite ; 

I cannot send the crimson rose, 

I cannot send the white. 

And either you, my Mabel, must 
Become less sweetly fair, 

Or I can never send a rose, 

To twine within your hair. 

The following are also to hand : — Richmond 
College Messenger, Kenyon Advance, The 
Under graduate, The Tuftonian, Cornell Era, 
The Tripod, The Volavte, College Mercury, 
Vale Record, Packer Quarterly, Central Colle- 
gian, La Salle Advance, JS'asau Literary 
Magazine, University Press, Beacon, Rochester 
Campus, Cornell Review, King’s College 
Record, Kingston Collegiate Herald , Canadian 
Spectator, New York Monday World, Ar- 
genteuil Advertiser, Canadian Illustrated 
Neivs, Evening Post, etc., etc. 



PERSONALS. 



’78. C. J. Brooke, B.C.L., has gone on a 
trip to the Western States. 

’78. A. Clarence Lymau, B.A., is attending 
Law lectures. 

’78. Henry J. Kavanagh, B.C.L., has com- 
menced practice in Montreal. 

’78. Harry Abbott, B.C.L , has joined the 
firm of Abbott, Tait, Wotherspoon & Abbott 

’77. Joseph Palliser, B. C. L., was married on 
the 5th. 

W. F. Cochrane, late of ’80, is pursuing his 
studies at the Science School, Hoboken, N.J. 

’75. Dav. Rodger has had a serious fit of 
sickness in Manitoba, but is, we are glad to 
1 say, improving. 

’82. D. McMillan, Med., has been obliged to 
give up his studies for this year, owing to busi- 
ness matters with which he is connected. 

’79. Mr. John Smith, Med., did not seriously 
injure himself on Fletcher’s Hill, as it was at 
first supposed. Nothing more than a slight 
scratch was sustained from the collision. 

’79. Mr. W. F. Shaw, Med., has sufficiently 
recovered from his recent illness to be able to 
continue his professional studies. We are glad 
of this, for his eloquence could not be well 
spared from the graduating class dinner. 

’78. E. T. Taylor paid a flying visit to his 
friends in town the beginning of this month, 
having obt ined ten days’ leave of absence from 
his duties at the Military College, Kingston. 
While here, the Hockey Club, of which he was 
a most active member, arranged a match, and 
in which he took part with his usual skill. 

We are ‘Sure the many friends of John Mc- 
Ciiunnon, M.D., C.M., in the University will 
b.e glad to hear of his return from Edinburgh, 
Scotland, where he succeeded to the degrees of 
L.R.C.P. and L.R.C.S. Dr. McCrimmon has 
our best wishes for his success in the practice 
of his profession. 

’78. Drs. Gibson and Wright, are at pre- 
sent attending St. Thomas’ Hospital, Lon- 
don, England. They go up for examination 
shortly for degree of M.R.C.S., Eng., and we 
feel their well known abilities will add to the 
list of honours they have already taken in pro- 
fessional studies here. 



The McGill Gazette. 



58 



CLIPPINGS. 



Inscription for Bob Ingersoll’s tombstone — 
“ Robert Burns ” — Ex. Material for same, — 
“ Brimstone.’' Burial casket, — A plain s(hell). 

Slocum asks : “ How do you know Cowper 
was in debt ? ” 

Ans. — “ Because he oil’d for a lodge in some 
vast wilderness.” 

“ What made the ark to move along ? ” 

I pondered o’er and o’er ; 

At last I have the riddle solved, ~ 

’Twas paddled by a Noah / 

Greek Recitation : Prof. — “ What is the 

time expressed by these dependent moods ? ” 
Soph, (composedly) — “ That is just what I was 
going to ask you.” Prof, subsides. 

Student (to professor). Have you any 
absences against my name, sir ? 

Prof, (looking over his book). Yes, here is 
one on the 17th. (Crosses it out.) What is 
your excuse ? 

Student. Wed, I believe I was absent on 
that day. 

A lady named Mary Magui-ah 
Had trouble in lighting her fi-ali, 

The wood being green, 

She used kerosene. 

# * # # 

She has gone where the fuel is dri-ah. 

The Medic calls the yellow dog ; 

In confidence he comes. 

The Medic takes the yellow dog 
Into the Medic’s rooms. 

The owner seeks the yellow dog ; 

He seeks for him in vain. 

Alas, alas, the yellow dog ! 

He’ll never smile again ! 

Freshman approaching a clerk in one of our 
stores: “Say, I owe you seventy-five cents, 
don’t I ? ” Clerk admits the truth of the 
statement. Freshman, putting his hand in his 
pocket : “ Got a quarter ? ” Clerk throws the 
silver on the counter. “ Thank you,” lisps the 
guileless youth, as he pockets the piece and 
fades away in the distance. 

“Cupid” is at Illinois College, and is an 
interesting creature. He is fully six feet high, 
and wears a white plug, and is the impersona- 
tion of innocence. — Ex. All a mistake ; we’ve 
got him here, and he has the loveliest pair 
of “ siders ” you ever saw ; at least, he says 
so. — Richmond Coll. Messenger. Both wrong. 
He “ hangs out ” at McGill, where he is ex- 



hibited under a glass case, and excites the 
“ cupid-ity ” of the fair sex, who declare be 
is “ perfectly lovely.” 

We never could see the point of the follow- 
ing joke until recent occurrences at McGill 
made it apparent to us : 

“ A Freshman walked into the express office 
yesterday with a package of letters which he 
desired to send to a young lady. ‘ What do 
you value them at ? ’ asked the clerk. The 
young man started, hesitated a moment, then, 
clearing his voice of a certain huskiness, 
answered sadly : ‘ Well, you may put them 
down at four bits, but a week ago, I would not 
have sold them for the whole Sierra Nevada 
mine. Hang that Freshman bust ! I don’t see 
how she found out about it,’ and sorrowfully 
left the room.” 

TWO KISSES. 



When I made a visit home, 

And stole upstairs, good fortune leading, 

I saw, or rather thought I saw, 

My sister in the study reading. 

With noiseless tread I forward crept, 

With schemes of mischief most imprudent ; 

And leaning o’er the arm-chair’s back, 

I softly kissed the gentle student. 

§he turned to fly with burning face, 

As if a brother’s kiss polluted — 

Kapture ! ’Twas not my sister Lu, 

But Cousin Amy I’d saluted. 

Of course I then began to beg 

She would excuse my having kissed her ; 

Protesting that, upon ray word, 

I really thought it was my sister. 

A conversation followed next, 

Whose theme, be sure, was’ not the weather ; 

And then a very blissful pair 
Seated -well, rather close together. 

And Amy with her roguish way, 

^ When for the second time I kissed her, 

Said, archly looking up to me, 

“Are you quite sure it’s not your sister?” 

— Harvard Crimson. 

000 

ITEMS. 

Sups on Friday. 

The Moot Club is defunct. 

There is to be singing at the Medical and 
Law Convocation. 

Defaulting members are regularly censured 
by the Literary Society. 



The McGill Gazette. 



59 



The Literary Society will soon adjourn for 
the session. 

What about a football match in the spring ? 
Why not play Ottawa ? 

The law graduating class has elected C. J. j 
Fleet, B.A., Valedictorian. 

The Science men are obliged to obtain 80 
per cent, in Drainage to pass 

A lively time is expected at the annual 
meeting of the Graduates’ Society. 

The Law exams, commence on the 6th 
March, and terminate on the 14th. 

The Hon. Mr. Justice Rainville, Professor of 
Civil Law, is, we are glad to hear, convalescent. 

The matriculation examination in Law is 
to be undertaken by the Arts faculty in 
future. 

Five ballots were taken to elect the Law j 
Valedictorian. Nevertheless, the choice is a 
good one. 

The Law faculty sadly needs new quarters. 
Their present rooms are “ four pair up,” and 
badly lighted. 



It is rumoured that an attempt will next 
year be made to start a University Club, and 
it is stated that several influential graduates 
have signified their approbation of the scheme. 

Students are beginning to feel that there 
was something in those goo:l resolutions made 
at New Year’s — if they had only been kept. 
They have been laid on the table till the begin- 
ning of next session. 

A wager was made the other day by two 
students that not a single valedictory would 
be delivered this year without containing a 
reference to the time-honoured ” mingled feel- 
ings of regret and pleasure.” 

On (lit that when the number of 
students in Applied Science reaches fifty 
there will be a new professor appointed. May 
lie be as well adapted for his position as some 
lately appointed ones have been ! 

We understand that the resolution from 
the Graduates Society urging the appointment 
of an assistant librarian, was considered at the 
last meeting of Corporation, and favourably 
reported on to the Board of Governors. 



We have not had a night in the Gods this 
session. Why not attend the Academy en 
masse some evening ? 

It is rumoured that a determined effort will 
this year be made to oust the present Repre- 
sentative Fellows from the Corporation. 

W. C. Baynes, B. A., Registrar of the Uni- 
versity, has gone off on a European trip. Who 
will read the minutes at Convocation ? 

It is rumoured that the East Wing is to be 
vacated by its present occupants and converted 
into students’ lodgings. Too good to be true j 
The annual report to the Visitor is to be 
more extensive than usual, the governors 
having expressed their wants pretty minutely. 

“ What do you think of Blank’s manners ? ” 
said one student to another. “ Blank’s man- 
ners ? ” was the reply ; “ why, he hasn’t any.” 
The student who asked the Acting-Dean 
how many “ slopes ” were allowed, was told 
that all depended on the “ inclination ! ” 

The Sophomores are to have a supper some 
time during the Easter vacation. A committee 
has been appointed to make arrangements. 

Messrs. Trudel, McLennan and Demartigny 
have been elected committee of arrangements 
for the annual Law dinner, which comes off a 
few days after the last exam. 



The Professor in English has offered two 
prizes to the Freshman class for the two best 
essays on “ A Liberal Education.” All essays 
must be handed in before March 31st, and un- 
less six compete but one prize will be awarded. 

A very modest little letter in the Montreal 
Gazette asked on what principle appointments 
are made to professorships in McGill. The 
“ principle ” has not yet been explained. 
Query, Are they made on any principle! 

The Public Debate was very dreary. The 
subject, perhaps, accounts for this, but the 
speeches were altogether too long-winded. 
The President’s address was above par, and 
the reading by R. C. Smith simply magnificent. 

I'he law students’ drive came off on the 3rd 
instant, and was one of the most enjoyable 
affairs of the season. The turn out was fair, 
and a good time was spent, great credit being 
due to the Committee, Messrs. Fleet, Chart rand 
and Sharpe. 

The discussion of the question whether their 
annual dinner should be on temperance prin- 
ciples or not gave rise to quite a lively time 
amongst the Law students, and resulted in a 
compromise. Two sets of tickets will be 
printed, one including wine, &c., and the other 
temperance beverages. 



6o 



The McGill Gazette. 



On account of the indifference of many of 
the graduates, and the opposition of others to 
the Festival as held in former years, the cele- 
bration in honour of the founder will not 
likely take place this year unless the presence 
of the Governor-General is assured. A 
students’ concert and a general university 
dinner have been suggested instead. 

oo 

The paid-up subscriptions to the Graduates’ 
Library Fund amount now to about 81,000. 
The interest on this sum will be invested at 
once in books specially valuable to the 
students. Among the books already sent for by 
the committee are several works on English 
philology, and a fine copy of “ Allibone’s 
Dictionary of Authors.” 

The reading-room never boasted of any 
particularodourof sanctity that weareawareof, 
but whatever little there was has been entirely 
driven away since that letter lock has been put 
on the box for the old periodicals. More good 
old Saxon has been expended by the suffering 
committee over their attempts to open that 
lock than we should like to say. It is 
seldom any one of them gets the letters 
in a straight line the first time, and if he does 
get this far the thing usually sticks, and the 
result is sad to listen to.. Some steps should 
be at once taken by the committee to econo- 
mize their profanity, and not let it go to waste 
in such a trivial manner. 

We think it proper to call the attention of 
the students to what we consider an extremely 
mischievousand ungentlemanly trick which was 
perpetrated lately on a certain second year stu- 
dent by some one supposed to be a Freshman. 
This youth filled the said Sophomore’s over- 
shoes with water and left them to soak while 
he went in to a lecture. Obliged to walk home 
in his wet overshoes, the victim caught a 
severe cold, and having just recovered from a 
serious attack of intlamation of the lungs, 
he was threatened with a relapse which 
would have been extremely dangerous. It is 
impossible to say whether the creature who 
attempted this “joke,” as he no doubt styles 
it, knew what might have been the conse- 
quences of his stupidity, but anyhow, let us 
hope it will be a lesson to him not to play 
any more such tricks. 

The Junior Class supper was held on Friday, 
Feb. 1st, at the Terrapin, and proved quite a 



success. Twfenty-six students sat down to a very 
good bill of fare, and need we say did ample 
justice to everything that was set before them. 

Mr Bull, President of ’80, piesided in a 
highly creditable manner, and in rising to pro- 
pose the health of Her Majesty he extended a 
welcome to all present who were not of his 
year. There were one or two delegates 
present from every year — except the first year 
who had a supper the same night — and this 
contributed much towards the enjoyment 
of the evening, not only on account of 
the individual excellence of the respective 
representatives, but also because it made it more 
of a University gathering, and afforded greater 
scope for the proposing of toasts and the con- 
sequent speechify ing. The regular toasts were 
proposed, and were on the whole responded to 
in a manner which showed that oratory was 
certainly improving at McGill. Mr. Lafleur 
and Mr. Currie responded to the “ Governor- 
General ” and “Alma Mater” respectively. 
Mr. Bennet replied very effectively to the 
“ Professors,” as did Messrs. Wood and Scrivei 
to the toasts of the “ Football Club ” and the 
“ Sporting Interests of McGill.” Mr. Pillsbury 
made a capital speech in reply to “ The Presi- 
dent of the United States,” and the healths of 
the various years were proposed and were 
responded to by their respective representatives, 
Messrs. Wood, Falconer, and Waddell. Mr.Skaife 
replied for the “ McGill Gazette,” and last but 
by no means least, Mr. Smith responded in his 
usual happy manner to “ The Ladies,” a task 
which he was naturally well qualified to per- 
form. 

The toasts were iuterspersed with many 
pleasing melodies by the various singers pre- 
sent, all of which were well sung. One 
especially deserving of notice was “ Old Black 
Joe,” which was finely rendered by Messrs. 
Pillsbury and Morkill. Many other toasts were 
proposed and songs sung, but space does not 
permit our giving an account of them. 
Later on in the evening Mr. Lafleur and Mr. 
Robertson went over as delegates to the 
Freshman supper, which was being held at the 
Temperance Hall, and on returning brought 
back with them Messrs. Stephen and Tren- 
holme as return delegates, who bore a very 
generous invitation from the Freshmen to join 
them at 11 o’clock. The invitation was of 
course accepted, and the evening terminated 
in a manner as pleasant as it was unexpected. 



