îcG4lu cNiviasmr 
APR' 57 1927 
LIBRARY 



The McGill 



Red path 



•ü Drary 






Fortnightly Review 



An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. II No. 8 



PRICE 10 Cents 



Friday» March 25, 1927 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 



Morrison, Sweeney, and Mr.Standersdt . Leo Kennedy 

Blind Homer Chandos Mahon 

La Vierge Margaret Amy Ross 

The Unknown World Jon Grahame 

Woodcut of Figure with Pebbles F. R. S. 



Vale Bernard March 

Varia A. J. M. Smith 

Gertrude Stein Has Tea at the Union F. R. S. 

Troubled Understanding T. T. 

Journey G. R. M. 



EDITORIAL 

W E have pleasure in announcing that the prize 
of five dollars for the best short story submitt- 
ed by an undergraduate has been won by Miss 
Margaret Amy Ross for her story La Vierge which is 
published in this issue. Honorable mention has been 
accorded to Mr. Graeme Taylor and to Mr. C. H. 
Dawes for their stories, which we hope to publish in 
our next and final number. 

We take this opportunity of thanking Dr. H. G. 
Files who acted as judge. 

♦ * * 

A LTHOUGH the Red Ï6 White Revue has not 
yet had the good fortune of receiving a com- 
“ pletely outspoken criticism it is not our purpose 
here to undertake so thankless a task. The critics of the 
downtown newspapers indulged in much unintelligent 
appreciation; it was left for J. L. E. to give us in the 
Daily something approaching an intelligent deprecia- 
tion. For detailed analysis this must suffice. It will be 
better at this late date, to give our impressions of the 
productions as a whole and to make some suggestions 
for the future. 

Without denying the merits of certain isolated parts, 
the candid critic can come to no other honest conclu- 
sion but that the show as a whole hovered close to 
fatuity. The music was as forgettable as — we have for- 
gotten what. The Faust skit seemed to have been stag- 
ed for the sole purpose of giving the actors unlimited op- 
portunities of saying Hell. Indeed all the skits can be 
criticised for ragged and purposeless dialogue, 
lack of motivation in getting the characters on and off 
the stage, and feebleness of plot. What the producers 
intended to make the grand finale was the worst of- 
fender in this way. La Tuque Verte , the acting of 
Messrs. Ford and Giulanelli and some of the clever 
authorship of Mr. Dawes were oases in an otherwise 
unrelieved Sahara. 



The question which naturally arises is, what is to 
be the future of the Revue? Is this mediocre exhibition, 
this Martlet mummery, to be repeated year after year, 
a sort of college comic cuts? Five annual productions 
without noticeable improvement should be enough to 
convince the student body that we either lack the abil- 
ity to create a good Revue or that there is something 
fundamentally wrong with the methods adopted to 
discover and employ such talent as we possess. We rec- 
ognize that there has been a certain amount of clever- 
ness in each of the past Revues, but there has never 
been enough to justify the time and energy spent in 
their preparation. This year, for example, rehearsals 
began in November, and the greater part of the college 
year went to the making of a show which on its merits 
should not have taken more than a month to produce. 

If the Students’ Council is satisfied with any per- 
formance, no matter how crude, so long as it can be 
counted on to make money, we can of course be con- 
tented with things as they are, but if some other rec- 
ommendation is required, and the Revue as a per- 
manent institution is to remain, some drastic changes 
must be made. 

We would suggest the following: that the 
show be not given in an outside theatre — Dr. 
MacMillan has always been an uncritical and ardent 
supporter of the Revue and would, we feel sure, not 
oppose its production in Moyse Hall; that not more 
than six weeks be spent upon its preparation; and 
finally, that co-operation with the Players* Club be 
sought in order to obtain better direction and more 
careful choice of material (a blunder like Dorothy and 
Desmond must be prevented in the future) . These 
suggestions if put into practice would result in an en- 
tertainment less lavish and more in keeping with the 
resources at our disposal. If, after a trial period of say 
two years, the show is still open to such criticism as 
can be brought against this year’s edition, then let us 
turn our energies elsewhere. 




58 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



« 



A READER has informed us of an amusing in- 
cident that occured recently at a social func- 
tion. The company becoming bored, someone 
suggested a public reading from The Martlet. The 
suggestion was enthusiasticly received. “Go ahead,” 
said the hotess, “but for goodness sake don’t read any 
of the poetry in the Fortnightly!” 

* * * 

T HE next issue of the Fortnightly will be the 
last. Numbers nine and ten will be combined to 
form a double number, selling at twenty cents. 



Morrison, Sweeney , and Mr. Standersdt 



Leo Kennedy 



O N one of those blue and silver nights that hap- 
pen magically in late May, H. Morrison, stock 
broker and graceful fleecer of nitwits, left his club 
at the intermediate hour of 1 1 o’clock for the purpose 
of returning to the flat bosom of his family. Morrison 
was forty-five, with pale retiring hair and a babyish 
pink face. He had little, plump hands, and a trick of 
holding the left stiffly on the palm of the right; right 
fingers bent over like the flap of an envelope; when 
amused, he made a snickering noise that maddened 
fresh acquaintances, and exasperated friends of long 
standing. At forty-five he was mediocre and comfort- 
able: the possessor of a thin, delicate wife who still 
loved him, and contrived his domesticity most excel- 
lently. 

The distance from the club to his home being short 
and the night a pleasant one, Morrison decided to walk 
that distance, husbanding a taxi fare and enjoying the 
cool breeze of that place. He set out briskly, walking 
tap, tap, tap on the broad pavement, all amiability and 
rotund sturdiness. 

* # * 



At somewhat the same hour Little Sweeney, alias 
Gregg of O’Donovan’s, issued from the vague black- 
ness of his cellar residence, alert for business possibili- 
ties. Sweeney was short and wizen, broken-nosed and 
thick-eared, the follower of an honorable profession 
gone wrong. Just now Sweeney was short of money, 
and logically, all the pleasant trifles that money will 
procure; and when he had walked some way through 
streets that should have not attracted him, the hoped-for 
but unexpected vision of a round fat figure walking 
ahead gave undue satisfaction. Someone, possibly 
James Joyce or Paul Morand suggests the imagery of 
a lean grey-hound following a plump heifer, though 
in a different sense, and had he known anything of 
imagery, Little Sweeney might have evolved certain 
graceful poetics from the situation. But Little Sweeney, 
or Gregg knew nothing and cared less than nothing for 
these things: his cat-like pad, pad, padding, and sliding 
along in shadow was part of the night’s labor; at the 
end of it he would clout his man into unconsciousness, 
and rob him swiftly. 

This was existence. You required food and cigaret- 
tes, and the maddening comfort of whisky; there was 
a small rental to pay and painted women to visit 
secretly ... all this cost money. Then there were little 
things dire necessaries that were expensive too, and 
this meant money. So you went out at night 
with some others and broke into places, and looted, 
or you walked behind a man on a quiet street and 



bashed him on the head from behind. Then you looted 
again. 

There was a constant vigilance to be kept, bulls and 
stools to avoid, all the thousand enemies of an honest 
criminal. There was death, appalling possibility, that 
hung over you from awakening to going to sleep 
again; it percolated into sleep and caused a tossing and 
moaning; it might be a halter, a skilful knife, or swift 
searing bullet. On the whole though, life was pleasant 
there was only oneself to worry about; you walked 
along a little while making the best of the things till 
something happened, and you lay down wherever you 
were and that was the end of you. There were 
compensations as well. The drollery of good story, 
illicit intercourses, a badgering of the occasional fool 
who got religion. Religion . . . something that came 
with a big stomach, a Rolls Royce car, and the max- 
imum amount of graft. Religion. . . Hump. . . 

Within a few blocks of his home H. Morrison paus- 
ed to light a fresh cigar. The match flickered and then 
burnt brightly in his cupped hands. He inhaled deeply, 
dropped the blackened sliver, and continued tap, tap, 
tap. in that short pause Little Sweeney crept nearer 
and clung like a disembodied thing to the wall s 
flatness. Police Officer Standersdt a few yards behind 
did likewise, purple visions of promotion and the ac- 
companying reimbursement swirling before his Swe- 
dish-blue eyes. Law is as stealthy as lawlessness, it has 
to be. The policeman's great bulk moved swiftly and 
softly; he might have walked on cushions. To the 
blank eyes of the houses across the road they looked 
like figures of some ridiculous frieze, suddenly slinking 
from age-old frozen posturing. The gentlemanly 
thief, the sneak thief, and the honest policeman who 
sustained a large family on nothing, eked out with 
occasional well-earned bribes from divers sources. 
Three nice gentlemen. This could not last always. 
Presently the broker came before a narrow opening 
between buildings. The gloom of that place was im- 
penetrable, and here Sweeney chose to launch himself 
like a cat at his victim. As the two hurtled into the 
alley’s mouth, Morrison squirmed and thrashed with 
all limbs; the black-jack man battered him terrifically 
about the face and head; and in that moment Officer 
Standersdt pounded in after them, to throw himself 
whole-heartedly at duty. From evil and blackness 
issued grunts, the thudding of blows, the Sweeney’s 
bitten blasphemy, and a persistent moaning. Then 
pistol shots muffled, an indeterminate screech, and 
silence made curious and heavy by the mingled smell 
of blood and burnt powder. Beyond and above the 
blue darkened, the silver of stars quickened to white 
gold, and the souls of the three dying stirred, uneasily 
preparing themselves for God. 

* * * 

The spirit of Morrison was first out of its husk. 
It was a very poor soul; it shivered and hunched to- 
gether at the first breath of unaccustomed cold. It 
considered its residence of forty-five years blankly. 
Then it gaped. 

“Ah.” said the soul, and “Ah/' then it sat down to 
wait for the others. The policeman’s dying was a 
prolonged business; his popping blue eyes rolled in 
his head and he twisted a great deal. The life spurted 
out of him in crimson gouts, but there was a lot of 
life in him. Little Sweeney by contrast had no vitality: 
he lay like an old sack that has contained unpleasant- 
ness, and bled slowly. One, two minutes ticked by, and 



to 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



59 



the soul of him sat up and tried to wriggle out. 

Sweeney stirred slightly and threw his soul into a 

grave predicament: the predicament of being half out 
of a man not yet dead. Then he lay still and the soul 
stood up and shook itself. 

“If you will be good enough, ” said the soul of Mr. 
Standersdt, “you might help me out of this. This 
great body of mine is most tenacious of life, and I 
find the present interim very boring. Thank you; you 
are kind. Tell me please, what sort of world is it we 

are come into? Cold, you say? Ah. . . that is better. 

Here is the end of you, Mr. Standersdt. ” 

He stood up too and nudged the dead policeman. 

“A poor thing. ” he said, “quite devoid of all imag- 
ination. I am glad it is dead. Now, gentlemen, what is 
our next movement?” 

The three regarded each other gravely. The same 
thought had found a home in all. It would be pleasant 
thing to go in company. That is the high adventure 
of dying in battle; there are so many of you. 

“I have heard,” said the first, “that we walk down 
a brief passage* from one phase of being to another. A 
draughty passage. Is this present place such a passage 
do you think, for it is cold enough and dark, and I am 
damned if I like it. But, hem,” he smiled, “we are 
all for that matter. Metaphysics and such weighty 
things were always beyond me, and in any case I do 
not care for them. But I suppose metaphysics are in- 
volved in our momentary transience, and we must 
make the best of them, surely.” 

He drew himself together. 

“I am verbose, gentlemen; forgive me. It is the 
novelty, the freedom I have not enjoyed in this cheap 
stock brother’s lifetime. Ah.” he said, “what is that?” 
and pointed to a large bluish star was quite over 
the alley-mouth. 

All three went out, and the night wind curled about 
with cold tongues, chilling them. They huddled to- 
gether. The soul of the dead bandit wailed. “It is un- 
pleasant to be a soul. How cold it is. . . and one 
grasps the wrong end of things. You are wrong with 
your passage and your damming: we go directly to the 
Seat of Creation and there is some sort of a judging 
and sorting. At least, so I believe. But we three are 
futility, we are each quite sure the others are wrong, 
and uncertain of the soundness of our own conjectures. 
I am sorry that I am a soul, but I cannot help it.” 

The third nodded. 

“That is so. We do not quite grasp what is expect- 
ed of us. When I was incorporated with the mind of 
a Swedish policeman I felt something like this. I ac- 
cepted Hell as a reasonable finale, the gesture of 
Omnipotence meting out a just punishment of evil. 
That was very fine; but I was terrorized at the idea of 
Heaven. I hated the thought of eternal boredom and 
tried to banish it by unbelief. A silly method as I see. 
And mind you, such is the complexity and duality of 
us, these opinions were individually mine and not the 
policeman’s. I could not have been the policeman. . .” 

“All nonsense and all rot,” said the thief’s soul, 
“there is the sorting and weighing that I mentioned, 
and there is that blue star overhead. 

Let us attend to such things.” 

They went then all three, Homer Morrison, Little 
Sweeney, and Mr. Standersdt, blind-footed and doubt- 
ing to their Judgement. 



Blind Homer 

Notes on James Joyce 

Chandos Mahon 

a dark 

Illimitable Ocean without bound. 

Without dimension, where length, breadth and highth, 
And time and place are lost; where eldest Night 
And Chaos , Ancestors of Nature, hold 
Eternal Anarchie amidst the noise 
Of endless warrs and by confusion stand. 

Paradise Lost (Book ii) 

J AMES Joyce represents the gradual but definite 
shattering of the old ordered literary method into 
an anarchic state which is the chaos of modern life. 
He started his literary career a product of the rigid scho- 
lastic training, the hair-splitting mediaeval interpreta- 
tion of Aristotle and the study of Thomas Aquinas. 
He stands now, certainly not at the end of his career, 
but his table is littered and confused, where before all 
was orderly and systematic. The dishes are upset, the 
bric-a-brac is heaped up, some of the coffee has been 
spilt and the vase with wilted flowers lies on its side. 
Pen in hand Mr. Joyce is trying to record the scene 
with that peculiar detachment of his, and he does so 
with all the minuteness of the scientific reporter of an 
experiment. 

For James Joyce today expresses, as no writer has 
done, the relentless mechanical hysteria of our century. 
His mind did not always see the world in this light, 
and if we consider The Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Man as autobiographical, which is reasonable 
enough, we can observe how Joyce’s though developed 
from the disorganized state of childhood through the 
methodical quibbling of his student days, to its 
present all inclusiveness. Gradually the chaos that 
was Dublin, his environment, took hold of him 
and destroyed this vision of things which saw all 
in terms of the logical precision which characterizes 
his early poems. As the destruction took place 
Joyce began to note the futility and disillusion 
and hysteria with that same mechanical relentlessness 
which marks these forces in modern life. So Chamber 
Music his first published work, a book of verse, with 
its delicate artificialities and chiselled lyricism is relat- 
ively unimportant in his development. It simply 
reveals that romantic trait in him, which is almost 
obliterated by the rigid discipline of Ulysses. 

His next work Dubliners, a book of short stories, 
again shows traces of a certain artificiality as indeed 
most of Joyce does except perhaps the “Portrait.” The 
method of Flaubert is applied to Dublin life (though 
Flaubert’s essential romantisme is sometimes success- 
fully rejected) the objectivity being very clearly realiz- 
ed, as, for example, in Ivy Day in the Committee 
Room . The Celtic romanticism is, however,, still evi- 
dent in some of the stories, particularly the last 
in the book, The Dead , a piace of work which leads us 
directly to the “Portrait.” 

The Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man can be 
considered as Joyce’s first mature work. Ulysses may 
be more “significant,” but the “Portrait” is his best 
work. In it we see the conflict between an essential- 
ly poetic nature and the drab realism of the poorer 
Dublin scene which is its environment. We are shown 



60 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



the conflict between mysticism and rationalism. The 
travail of a sensitive spirit is carried through from 
religious fervor to scholasticism and on to an almost 
perverted rationalism. The Jesuit strain is there and it 
remains, 

you have the cursed Jesuit strain 

in you, only it's injected the wrong way 

Malachi Mulligan tells Dedalus (Joyce) in Ulysses. 
The strain exists to his very day. 

Passages in the “Portrait” notably the dinner-table 
argument on Parnell are almost purely objective in 
contrast to the introspective exploration of the 
mind of Dedalus. which is later used so fearlessly in 
Ulysses. Through the book we see the maturing of the 
mind of young Dedalus and his gradual approach to 
the position Joyce holds today — a cosmopolite, arrog- 
ant and aloof from the other Irish writers, his con- 
temporaries. 

With Ulysses came the more spectacular acrobatics. 
Here Joyce walks the tight-rope of his own emotions. 
This book is frankly an experiment. It is not to be 
taken too seriously, but it has opened a new field for 
the novelist. In his shifting from the objective to the 
subjective with such dexterity Joyce has made a defin- 
ite contribution to the technique of the novel. No 
action or thought of the chief protagonists, Dedalus 
and Bloom, is too trivial to be neglected. The frank- 
ness of the book has caused it to be compared with 
Rabelais, but there are essential differences. The gusto 
of Rabelais, his reformatory satire, his heroic pattern of 
life, are here replaced by an almost humourless 
passion for scientific investigation — scientific insofar as 
it is the search for cause and effect. The book is almost 
a tale from Dubliners treated in exhaustive detail. 

Joyce today has drifted far from the “Portrait.” 
Verbal acrobatics seem to absorb his interest in the 
later sections of Ulysses and to judge from the publish- 
ed portions of his work in progress they are absorbing 
all his interest at the present time. He has become a 
recorder of chaos and he seeks to record it in a suitable, 
chaotic form. That is why Joyce has turned to. such 
extensive experimentation, turned far from the haunt- 
ing prose of the “Portrait.” He goes from one experi- 
ment to another with the somewhat tedious patience 
of an analyst. Perhaps he will yet gather together the 
threads of his scattered work “the butt-ends of his days 
and ways” and bring us something as beautiful as the 
“Portrait,” less gigantic than Ulysses, and his work 
in progress may turn out to be, after all, something 
better than it promises. 

Back of all his prose so far there has been order — 
definite order, the precision of the Jesuit strain. Ulysses 
was placed on the framework of the Odyssey. Would it 
be fair to say that Joyce has been giving us ordered 
chaos. It would seem so if we are to take Mr. T. S. 
Eliot's word for it. 

It [i. e. the use of the Odyssey ] is simply a way of 
controlling, of ordering, of giving a shape and a 
significance to the immense panorama of futility 
and anarchy which is contemporary history. 

Mr. Joyce probes the boredom of our existence and 
finds it interesting. 



La Vierge 

By Margaret Amy Ross 

S HE stood in a corner below the chancel steps, la 
Vierge in a blue plaster robe. For her the cathedral 
was a world in itself, alive with countless interests, 
head to her heart. Day long came the worshippers to 
kneel before her in adoration. How many souls. She 
loved it all, the celebration of the mass, the swinging 
of the censers, priest voices thundering in a Kyrie 
Eleison. Best of all she loved the hush of early dusk, 
when the church was alone, St. Joseph, grey bearded, 
in crimson raiment, stood to the left of the altar steps, 
brooding over the dusty pews. La Vierge watching him 
thought as always, what a fine dignity was his. Com- 
pared to him the twelve Apostles, set in the wall above, 
were nonentities. 

Evening deepened. Very soon now Vespers must 
commence. Already Brother François, the youngest 
priest of St. James, had come from the Presbytère to 
light the candles. He moved, a lean dark shadow, past 
the confession boxes up towards the steps. La Vierge 
watched him fondly. As one could easily see holy vows 
had not brought him happiness. Such a boy, thought 
she, to have renounced the world forever. There were 
shadows under his sunken eyes, and he was very pale. 
Suddenly there came back to her, words once spoken 
by the charwoman *to Le Forge the organist. “Ce jeune 
Frère François,” she had said, “he was to be married, 
you understand, but the girl she became distrait.” 

La Vierge was troubled. She remembered now, when 
François had come to church as a child. He had been 
red cheeked then, and the eyes that had gazed upon her 
shone. Now they were dulled and listless in a lean 
mask of face. Ciel, what a change a few years had 
wrought. It was a grave pity indeed, that so fine a boy 
as François should come to hate life. As he passed her 
she was tempted to put forth her hand, and gently 
touch him. Pauvre petit. Through a haze of incense 
she studied the face of St. Joseph. Lost in reminiscence 
he started down the aisles to where lights played 
against smooth pillars. Brother François lit the candles 
on the altar, droning a pater noster under his breath. 
For a moment he stood there, watching the lights 
waver and shift. Then turning towards the Virgin he 
blew out the taper, and bent his knee for a moment’s 
adoration. The draught falling from high narrow 
windows, brushed the candles one to another, and 
stirred the boy’s dark hair. 

The face of the Virgin was very gentle, as she look- 
ed upon him. Had he glanced up she must certainly 
have spoken, but his eyes were fast shut, and his lips 
moved tensely. La Vierge, hands outstretched, blessed 
him with all her heart and was vexed that St. Joseph 
did not observe and do likewise. But he was thinking 
always of the Pope at Rome, high mass, or the singing 
of choirs. What a man it was. Suddenly across the 
quiet of the hour came a sound, far back at the entrance 
to the edifice. The great doors swung open tempest- 
uously, the figure of a girl slipped through. Brother 
Francois, it appeared, had heard nothing; devoutly he 
prayed on. 

La Vierge caught St. Joseph’s dazed stare, and lifted 
questioning eyebrows. Joseph came out of his reverie 
with a start, and followed her gaze down the dim aisle 
to the intruder. Distinctly then, he shrugged. Slowly 
the woman came out of the shadows, glancing furtive- 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



61 



ly about her. La Vierge watched her with a sense of 
uneasiness. She felt somehow that this was not the 
first time she had beheld that pale restless face, framed 
in dark hair. The eyes were very bright, oddly dilated. 
“Joseph” she murmured, but he motioned her to be 
still. The girl paused for a moment, and leant dazedly 
against a pew nearby. 

Fixedly she started down at the bowed head of 
brother François. With the rise and fall of his earnest 
voice the light in her strange eyes deepened. Now he 
became aware of a presence close behind him. Starting, 
he dropped his thin hands from his brow, and glanced 
sharply across his shoulder. In that moment came the 
sound of laughter, high, shrill, mad laughter, jarring 
on the heavy air. La Vierge drew a breath of horror. 
Laughter in a church? if it had been only the laughter 
of a child, but from the lips of one unsound in mind, 
what desecration! François shaking now, yet kneeling, 
stared at the woman behind him. She stretched out her 
arms to him, and her face was flushed, distorted. 
Faltering she came forward, crying in a voice choked 
with passion, “François.” 

Hastily the boy rose, and made the sign of the cross. 
His face was set and grim as he turned towards her. La 
Vierge alone saw the suffering in his eyes. Slowly the 
smile faded from the girl's lips, her eyes became cloud- 
ed with anger. Suddenly she clutched at the neck of 
her dress, cried out in helpess agony, and fell in a fit. 
A broken sob came from the little Brother. “Mother 
of Christ,” he pleaded, “is it necessary, such misery?” 
The Virgin's eyes were filled with compassion. “Oh 
les pauvres enfants,” she murmured horror-stricken. 
The door of the vestry opened, and Monsieur le Forge, 
the organist, came forth. As his eyes fell upon the 
scene, he stood still, transfixed in amazement. Brother 
François called to him bravely, “Le Forge, mon ami. 
come help me.” 

Monsieur le Forge obeyed the summons in haste. 
He knew well enough the story of Frère François, his 
face was filled with commiseration. He knelt beside the 
girl, and grasped her hands firmly. For a moment she 
struggled against him. then suddenly fell back, limn 
and unconscious. Le Forge took her slight form un in 
Hs arms. Thrusting the frenzied boy aside, he bore 
her from the church. For a moment La Vierge thought 
that Francois would follow them, but even as he hes- 
itated a wave of intense nauseation swept his soul. He 
fell upon his knees before the Virgin, murmuring dis- 
tractedly. La Vierge glanced at St. Joseph, and sadly 
shook her head. Her tears rained down upon the boy's 
head unrestrained. He was to her at that moment, 
cvervthing that she had missed since the statue of 
1’Fnfant Jésus had shattered in a thousand pieces. 



The Unknown World 

BEHIND the eye and the ear 
A world is in hiding, 

Remote, yet incredibly nea\ 

In the spirit abiding, 

A world that the heart and the mind 
Can share in receiving, 

A world that no song can enwind 
In its weaving. 

Jon Grahame 



Woodcut of a Figure with Pebbles 



SHE wanders far from shrub or tree 
Along the fringes of the sea. 

The friendly women find her slow 
To answer, when the tide is low. 

Old men will tell you with surprise 
Of strange discernement in h r eyes. 

They say her step is livelier 
When the wind works his will on her. 



She loves to laugh aloud, they say, 

When there are shadows on the bay. 

Yet often she will stoop awhile 
Without a smile, without a smile, 

Gathering pebbles one by one 
Distractedly beneath the sun. 

And only one child understands 
Why she holds pebbles in her hands. 

Bernard March 



Vale 



AFTER a dread farewell 
Turn away. 

Sit in the dull corner 
Of an empty day. 

Can you see dust-motes 
Dance in the sun? 

Then you are not all 
Undone. 



Still on the earth’s face 
Trivial things move; 

This is a solace 
When you lose love. 

Once there was laughter 
And eyelids lifting. 

And now? See, in the gutter 
Old papers are drifting. 



Bernard March 



62 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



VARIA 



I. Portrait of the Artist as a Poet 



PUNCHINELLO in a purple hat 
Scattered a handful of grey dust, 

Singing the while a song of this and that, 

They asked him why. He said because I must. 

Punchinello in a purple hat 

Stood upon his mother’s breast and sang. 

He sang of stars and flowers, this and that, 
And for a little while the welkin rang 
And clappered like a long dingdong 
That churned the Milky Way to cheese, 
Whereof he carved a moon. His song 
Treated of ecstasy, of things like these: 

Cupid and my Campaspe, kisses, cards; 
Pledged cocktails of a woman's eyes; 

Tears idle tears, tall trees and dusty shards; 
Love, laughter, beauty, apples, angels, flies; 
Mermaidens winding their golden tails 
About the heart, combing the sea to waves; 
Nightingales and girls, and nightingales 
And brooding boys; coral and cool caves. 

Whilom he sang, the dust awoke: 

There was a stirring in the inner bone; 

And somewhere scarlet, for he saw the smoke; 
And somewhere fe lowship, he stood alone. 



II. Portrait of the Artist in Spring 

Young Punchinello in his college days 
Encountered boredom in the hairy spring; 

The mucous membrane of the muddy ways 
Was all he saw of what the shepherds sing. 

He thought the trees looked naked but not nude, 
Bewildered as a chicken from the egg, 

Benevolently wished the world were stewed, 

And felt quite grateful for a woman’s leg. 

He elegantly skipped among the mud, 

Feeling an impulse in his body quicken 

The sluggish movement of his heavy blood 

That overcomes his caution. See it th cken 

To cloud with an old opalescence 

What Punchinello likes to call his brain. 

He feels the earthiness of countless peasants 
Stir in his loins and sprout like little grain. 

Then April sent a gentle wind, and all 
The budded trees shook down on him a sweet 
And delicate shower: he felt his footsteps fall 
Softly, caressing the mud, and saw that his feet 
Were cloven, and knew that his limbs were hairy. 
All over the wet campus he pursued a maid, 

And caught her, changed to no laurel, but a fairy 
With whom he somewhile rather sweetly played. 



III. Portrait of the Artist as an Old Man 

Punchinello in an old plug hat 

Sat up behind his unfrequented horse. 

The beast was drooping — it was never fat — 

Ribbed as an umbrella, final as divorce; 

It was as weary an old bag of bones 
As the Deus ex Machina on the seat; 

And each found anguish in the squawky tones 
The taxis lathered on the sprinkled street. 

Punchinello, for the better cheer, 

Muttered among his stubble some old rhyme, 

Some old wives’ tale — his eyes went bear — 

Some song remembered from his singing time. 

He pulled the rug up, and with rheumy eyes 
Scanned the pedestrians for likely fares: 

These left him sorrowful and rather wise — 

Some went to women and some went to prayers. 

But Punchinello waited where he was: 

The price of oats was so and so and such, 

Cheaper, indeed, than high grade motor gas, 

And yet, upon the whole, not cheaper much. 

When that I was and a little tiny boy 
The hounds of winter did not mire the spring, 

A drowsy numbness did not rot the joy, 

All night the nightingale ceased not to sing. 

A. ,/. M. Smith 



Gertrude Stein Has Tea at the Union 

F. R. s. 

W HAT I want to say is sometimes. By 
that I mean this. So many students in so 
many universities have asked me so many 
students have asked me to have tea. So many students 
have asked me to have tea, but other things always 
prevented this utter sacrifice of detachment. There 
were not enough, however, as there are now. So now 
is different from before. This time by that I mean 
that. 

Take another without fear. Pierre is a mythical 
myth in a mythological mythology who claims credit 
in your Daily in your Daily in your Daily daily for 
other people’s comestibles. Thus the outside comes in- 
side through the middle. Absolutely. 

You asked me tomorrow for today, but I accepted 
on the subsequent day for the day before. It often 
happens that way. We live in a strange age of strange 
inversions inverted strangely for us to live in. If it was 
not inverted we should not confidentially be able to 
live in it. If it were the right way up we should all 
fall out. Because if it were the right way up with the 
up way the right way always it wouldn’t be an invert' 
ed age therefore we wouldn’t be able to live in it be- 
cause we live in an inverted age and no one can live in a 
different age from the age in which thev live. So the 
moralists are wrong behind. Probably probably prob- 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



63 



ably they are wrong in front too. Because they want 
to make this age like some other age which you can’t 
do for two reasons first because if you did you 
shouldn't and first again because if this age were like 
there must be a this age for living people to live in. By 
this time by this I may mean something else. 

Without sugar your tea is poor, much poorer. But I 
some other age there wouldn’t be any this age and 
don’t mind I don't mind for you haven’t got Ulysses 
in your library. To be forever without something is 
not without something I don’t know what. Some- 
thing less than nothing is quite too bad, don’t vou 
think r Because everything is nearly. 

The only things worth doing are the things worth 
having done when they are done. Almost I am sure 
or this. 

I am becoming very interested in my interest in my 
interest in your University in its relation to beauty If 
you do not mind I will tell you how it all happens 
You see I am a follower of beauty follower of beauty 
and because I follow beauty beauty is just in front of 
me. That makes it very beautiful, being so close. Be- 
ing nearness is contemporary with the quite Now it 
seems to me that you have beautiful gates just in front 
of the college with the college behind and the gates in 
front. The college is not far behind the gates. So it 
seems to me that your college is following beauty and 
that is the most beautiful thing a college can follow. 
Nothing can be more than the most. 

I see you have a daily paper which comes out every 
day except Sunday just as if each day were not a dif- 
ferent day. It is very wonderful overcoming newness 
every day every day except Sunday which is the only 
day different from the other days. And I see you have 
a fortnightly paper not out every fortnight in which 
1 am speaking to you as I am speaking as I speak. Don’t 
you feel the wonder of this thisness? Here I am sitting 
here drinking tea not minding the tea and yet I am 
not here but speaking from the pages of a fortnightly 
which does not come out every fortnight. I always 
wonder why I am where I am but of course nobody 
knows it as long as nobody knows it. I see also I see 
you have a funny monthly monthly which takes 
months to come out. Would more wonder than this 
be anything? Continuous present is one thing and be- 
ginning again and again is another thing. These are 
both things. But never being continuous and never 
being again and again and still yet being is something 
most arduous and succinct. I mean that as it was. 

Then too the games which you play when you play 
if you play them are certain. A great difference is 
made by this great difference. It is fine to see so many 
watching certain games with certainty. Nothing chan- 
ges from generation to generation except the thing seen 
and that makes the game. The few who play it as 
it is played are the few who used to play it as it was 
played. All the rest are the rest and the more you 
have of the rest the less you have of the few. From this 
time on the problem becomes definite. 

I hardly feel heavier than before. So I will go away 
now for the only way to do new things is to do them 
when they are new. Sometimes my mind is tersely, and 
then I write things which you can only read and which 
only the editors of understanding periodicals can ever 
come near to understanding nearly. This is as it is now. 



Troubled Understanding 



DARK rhymes 
Woven of old, sad words 
Are your eyes. 



Song lurks 

In the long hair fallen 
Over your pale shoulder. 

Then why does the touch of your hand 
Trouble me with understanding 
Too deep for verse? 



T. T. 



Y ou 

try 



Journey 

G. R. m. 

OU can't idealize the Nation's Capital. You can 
try to. but you can’t. You can'F idealize the 

the 8 tl0n s Capital - See in the Parlor Car of 
the 8.15 express to Ottawa! Ah, to get awav f,™, 

Montreal! To sit back in my little plush seat and 

the . snow ' c 9 vere d fields rushing past and the 
lighted stations going flick! flick! as our locomotive 
plunges us through the night, scaring the blackness 
with the fire it belches forth. To get awav' Aw 
from it all. the drudgery of routine, the sameness of 
St. Catherine Street, the scandal of city politics To qo 

rn 8 U ri| t acS h . ,he m8ht a to* A* ~ - 

Arris' «is p 

ends of cigars. See the flouncy little YWCA 
stenographer in the seat ahead of mine! see her flounce 
her head with disgust at the great sleek, fat, commer 
cal travel ers, all dozing and chewing cigars' How 

C n r!pk° ra d y - th l V c ° m P are with smardy-tailored 
Greek gods in the illustrations of the magazine she is 

reading So she flounces her magazine shut and leans 

dozers he3d baCk ° n thC plush Seat and she to ° 

Ottawa! Ottawa! “Dis way out, genelmen ’di« 
way shouts the black-faced porter, 8 the cheerS 

n A^’ faCCd H 0 ”” Wh ° hands OUt your su itcase to the 

Suarter m T a ÿ. ln cWfu,1 >' «acts the statutory 

q arter. seize my suitcase; it is very heavy. “Carrv 

y ° ur b a g, sir. chirps a young red cap; a young 7 
smooth-faced red cap with a chirpy, pleasant voice and 
big, wistful, devoted eyes. The bag is heavy, but he 
struggles with ,t proudly. Ah. how proud he is to 
have a bag to carry! How he would like to devote 
himself, always devote himself to some master. Those 
wistful eyes, how devoted is their glow! 

Chateau, Sir?' It is the obvious question. In all 
Ottawa, the Nation s Capital, there is only one hotel 
But no Chateau for me. “'The Raymer Apartments ” 
say I, do you know them?” He does, does Master 
Wistful. How eagerly he explains to me that they are 
as the crow fl.es, only a step distant, if only we could 
take the direct way. They are just across the canal d 



V 



64 The McGill Fortnightly Review 



a few hundred yards away, but we cannot walk across 
the canal, the snow is too deep. So up the steps of the 
big Union Station we go, and out into Sparks Street. 

The Nation’s Capital — all concentrated there, in 
that small area! The Nation’s Capital what does it 
consist of? Easy enough. There is the Union Station, 
the Chateau and the Houses of Parliament. Nothing 
else. Not even my lodgings, the Raymer Apartments, 
that we struggle to down a slippery side street, wist- 
ful gleefully leading the way struggling and panting 
with my big heavy, leather suitcase. Past a high gaunt 
building with hundreds of small windows. Is this it? 
No, replies Wistful, grinning, this is the jail.” To 
another gaunt building, soaring sky-high. The Raymer 
Annex.” Ah, the Raymer itself, at last. Mr. Wistful 
puffing proudly over his exertions. “Twenty-five 
cents, is that enough?” “It is plenty. Thank you, Sir.” 
Good-night. “Good-night, Sir.” 

Ah, that last look of those, devoted eyes! How he 
would like to attach himself for ever to some master — 
to devote himself, to carry forever a heavy, leather 
suitcase over the slippery Ottawa streets. 

I enter the hideous rotunda of the Raymer and look 
round for the office. There is none, apparently. I ring 
for the elevator. “Is there a room reserved for me?” 
“What name?” I give my name. He will go and see . . 
No there is no room reserved for me. Would it be 
under another name? No, it wouldn’t and it was def- 
initely reserved. He would go and see again. . . It 
was all right: I was expected last night so my room 
had been given away. But they would fix me up for 
tonight. 

He leads me to a room — a poor scrawny room, 
with a flat hard bed and two thin blankets. The win- 
dow is open, but the air is hot and stuffy. I look out 
of the window. This is an “inside room” and looks 
out into a narrow court. I crane my neck and discern a 
minute patch of sky miles above. No wonder there is 
no air! “Is this the only room there is?” The only one. 
But to-morrow something better might be arranged. 
Oh, all right. The chief matter is to get some sleep . . . 

Look at me next day having breakfast all alone 
in the great dining room of the Chateau! It is eleven 
thirty and all the other people have finished. I over- 
slept because no light came into my inside bedroom to 
warn me it was time to get up. See the smooth, quiet 
Scandinavian waiter move about at my bidding! What 
could I like? I could have anything on the menu ex- 
cept hot cereal. I will have orange, poached eggs and 
a pot of tea. Thank you, Sir. I read the New States- 
man . . . Then he comes back, the cute, smooth little 
Norwegian waiter and puts an orange in front of me. 
I eat it, and get the rest of my breakfast placed before 
me. The tea in a heavy metal teapot containing rather 
less than a cup. The tea leaves tied up tightly in a 
little bag. 

The waiter brings the bill. I find I have been eating 
oranges at $2.40 a dozen, eggs at $3.00 a dozen, toast 
at $1,40 per loaf, butter at $6.50 per pound and tea 
at $22.50 per pound. See me playing the careful 
house wife in the Chateau Laurier! Ah, to get into the 
fresh air again after that stuffy inner bedroom and the 
heaviness of the Chateau! The lovely morning air, the 
lovely air and sunshine as I stand on Parliament Hill 
looking up the river. Ah, the crime of an inside room, 
of a Chateau dining room, on a day like this. To stand 
only to stand on Parliament Hill all one’s days, breath- 
ing in the lovely morning air, breathing in the warm 



sunshine, as one looks down the splendour of the 
Ottawa River! 

I inquire at the newsstand of the Chateau for the 
Martlet. They have not got it. Do they expect to 
get it soon? Don’t know; never heard of it. So 1 
resignedly read the New Statesman again. 

It is afternoon: see me at the door of the National 
Museum. Wher> is the Permanent Collection of pic- 
ures? It is up on the 4th floor. Thank you. So up I go: 
up in an elevator run by an official plastered with rib- 
bons. Had he been in the War? Had he been in which 
war? He had been in five Wars. Had he been wounded? 
He had been wounded seven times. Had he retired from 
the Army? He had retired. 

The Permanent Collection. “Italian, Flemish, 
Dutch and English Art of the 16th to 19th centuries.” 
All this in one room! “Italian, Flemish, Dutch and 
English Art of the 16th to 19th centuries.” The 
Permanent Collection. Those portraits of Gainsbor- 
ough’s. Those dandies of the Regency: those smooth- 
faced superior, imbecile dandies so beloved of Gains- 
borough. Where is their dark self, ah, where is that 
splendid darkness and aloneness that stands out in the 
men of the Spanish School? Those swarthy, secretive 
men in the little room nearby, the Spanish room! Ah! 
the Art of Spain, how it overwhelms the “Italian, 
Flemish, Dutch and English Art of the 16th to 19th 
centuries!” Beside those dark secretive Spaniards, how 
simpering appear the Madonnas! How wooden the 
Dutch figures. How idiotic the superior dukes and 
duchesses that Gainsborough dotes on! 

And oh, the dreary brightness of modern English 
Art! That constant theme. “The Bathers” — “Les 
Baigneuses.” The idealization of the human figure, the 
unlovely human figure of the modern English and 
French seaside resorts! That deep blue sickly sea, the 
nauseating glare of the sun, the oppressiveness of the 
sand the long strip of yellow sand, the garishness of 
the bathers’ tents! 

The cleverness of men like Orpen, the futile clever- 
ness of the Orpens! 

And the diabolical cleverness of John! But all, all, 
futile! The super-intellectualizing of Art, the fasten- 
ing on to the upper centres, the conscious centres, and 
the complete obliviousness to the dark depths of the 
Spanish self! Ah, let me away from it all; let me 
away from the smugness of the English landscapes, the 
sleek domesticity of the cows, the sleeker domesticity 
of the portraits, the sickly freshness of the children . . . 
let me away from it all! 

Let me go back to the dark self, the aloneness of the 
Primitives. Let me gaze on the Modern Primitives, the 
Cézannes, the Tom Thomsons. Where are the Cé- 
zannes? There are no Cézannes. Where are the Tom 
Thomsons? The Canadian Section is closed up for re- 
pairs. For repairs! for repairs! What repairs are needed 
on “The Jack Pine?” Where is the Canadian section, 
anyhow? The Canadian section is closed, sir, for repairs. 
Then where are the Renoirs? There are no Renoirs. 
No Renoirs! It is too much. Out of the Permanent col- 
lection. I stumble out into the afternoon sunshine, the 
fresh, always beautiful sunshine. Ah, to walk through 
the melting snow in the afternoon sunshine, always to 
walk, swish through the puddles and the melting enow 
in the lovely sunshine. After the Gainsboroughs and 
the Muirheads and Laverys. To walk always in the 
melting snow! 



x 



