,„aJL DMV 

OF.C 20 1926 

LTB i*. *1 



77ie McGill 



^\^'T x-v v c 

.Reâpath l* 'bo^ry 




ortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. II No. 4 



PRICE 10 Cents 



Wednesday, December 15, 1926 



EDITORIAL 
McGill Week 
The Mock Parliament 

New Names 

James Branch Cabell . . . 



CONTENTS 

The Gallows Bird 

Flame and Fountain. . . 

Jazz 

T. T. Contemporary Poetry. . 
D. C Adam College Spirit 



Philip Page 

..A. J. M. Smith 

Carroll Davis 

. A. J M. Smith 
Vincent Starr 



EDITORIAL 



T HE announcement that the Players’ Club is 
to be allowed to have the use of Moyse Hall 
has been received with great satisfaction through- 
out the student body. Mr. Amaron, whose efforts 
to bring about a settlement of the misunderstanding 
were untiring, deserves the gratitude of all who have 
the interest of college dramatics at heart. It now 
remains for the club to prove itself worthy of its 
new home. 

Permission to use the hall, however, has not been 
granted unconditionally. A committee composed 
of the heads of the English, French and Classics 
departments has been appointed with undefined 
powers of supervision and censorship. So long as 
this committee acts in a purely advisory capacity, 
and does not seek to limit the freedom of what is 
primarily an independent and spontaneous under- 
graduate activity, we feel that the present settle- 
ment is all that could be desired. Indeed, we are of 
the opinion that the same or a similar committee might 
even more profitably exert its influence upon the 
Red and White Revue. There is not very much doubt 
but that the Players’ Club may be relied upon to 
present something that will reflect credit upon the 
the university; there is considerable doubt whether 
the same can be said of the Revue. 



• • • • 



T HE Fortnightly was afraid that the projected 
Labour Club would never get beyond the stage of 
suggesting and rejecting. But the Club lives and 
is very active. Already it has held four meetings, at 
which a visitor from abroad, a trade-unionist, an 
M.P., and a parson have spoken. 



The Commercial Club is thought by many to be 
a valuable feature of college life because it brings 
business men before the students. We hold that the 
Labour Club is similar in that it brings to the uni- 
versity both men who work with their hands and 
men whose lives are spent on behalf of the welfare 
of their class. Any organization which brings to 
college people a sense of real, friendly life is to be 
commended. Students and scholars are too apt 
to forget that their comfortable pursuits are de- 
pendent on a vast substratum of harsh activity. 
They are also apt to make of their various sciences 
an academic philosophy of deductions. This is par- 
ticularly the case with sociologists and economists. 
Life and art may occasionally be divorced, but life 
and the study of life never. 

* • • • 

T HE Daily is to be congratulated upon its orig- 
inal efforts to increase the gaiety of undergrad- 
uates and enliven the dying days of a rather 
dull term. The series of interviews published one day 
last week in which “several representative male mem- 
bers of the undergraduate body” gave their opinion of 
what constitutes the ideal girl is especially commenda- 
ble in that it shows some of our more prominent stu- 
dent pundits in a human and slightly ridiculous light. 
The populace was distinctly amused to find that ins- 
tead of treating the question as a joke to be answered 
in the same spirit, they all, with one exception, dis- 
coursed learnedly and gravely, with an air of boyish 
experience, upon a “question which has perplexed 
the civilized world since its inception”, (sic) 

Taking them by and large, the characteristics 
attributed to the ideal girl would necessitate a being 
fearfully and wonderfully made, particularly if the 
quotation from the“Song of Songs” given by one of 
those questioned is to be accepted wi' h devout literal- 
ness. She should be “fairly beautiful”, a id yet “should 
be able to wear clothes”. She “should have a fair 



6 • 






26 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



amount of so-called pep”, which however must not 
interfere with her ability to shimmer like “a dew-laden 
bud in a misty light — moist but firm”. She is buoyant 
• — perhaps because “her breasts are like a pair of 
fawns”; “she is healthy and participates in athletics” 
and has “a neck like the tower of David, built for an 
arsenal”. Although she only weighs 125 pounds,“she 
is stout enough at heart to meet adversity with a 
grin”. She is a girl of the Mauve Decade — but 
‘‘Should she be able to ccok? I’ll say she should!” 
The pious purpose of the Daily in featuring this 
symposium is not only to provide amusement for 
its readers but to assist “any of the feminine sex who 
are imbued with the urge for self-improvement”. 
Such naive and tender faith in the perfectability of 
woman is a pleasant indication that our college youth 
remains unsophisticated in spite of co-education. 
For our part, we have long ago given up the attempt 
to teach women anything. 



* * * * 

McGill Week 

M cGILL is situated in the midst of a large in- 
dustrial town, like a pearl in an oyster. The 
simile is instructive for McGill. For a pearl 
grows and develops just in so far as it refuses to 
be assimilated by its murky surroundings. If the 
little speck of alien matter in the oyster, which is 
the beginning of all pearls, were to make itself palata- 
ble — were to meet the oyster half way, so to speak — 
there would be no thing of beauty created ; the oyster 
itself would be content, but it would contribute 
nothing to humanity more permanent than a hors 
d'oeuvre. This is true of all Universities that find 
themselves embedded in our populous manufacturing 
districts. So long as the standard of values in com- 
merce and industry remains what it is, so long as 
the piling up of material wealth continues to be the 
aim and end of all endeavour, for just so long must 
the unassimilated University, with its different stan- 
dards, find itself antagonistic to its environment. It 
must live in a state of intellectual warfare with the 
world about it, and be ever on its guard against com- 
promise with commercialism, which is the worst of 
treasons. 

To all who hold this conception of a University, 
“McGill Week” at the Palace Theatre must have 
come as an unpleasant shock. Here was the McGill 
Mandolin and Banjo Club, an undergraduate society, 
hiring itself out, with official permission, to perform 
on the stage of a local cinema at the rate of $150 for 
the week. The nature of the performance is admirably 
disclosed by the account given in the Daily of Nov. 
29th. 

Yesterday the Mandolin and Banjo Club proved its mettle 
when it appeared for the first time this year at the Palace The- 
atre. The twang of the mandolins and banjos, the soft music 
of the violins, the saxophone of Lou Dobrofsky and the gentle 
accompaniment of the two pianos, made the orchestra among 
the best amateurs heard yet. It is in a distinct class by itself. 

As Pickleman said. “The music is of the highest grade possible.” 
The scarlet red of McGill sweaters in contrast with the dark blue 
trousers as worn by the members made them look like McGill 
men should look. 

The stirring college hymn “Hail Alma Mater” is sung first: 
the McGill yell following this immediately, and then the follow- 
ing songs are sung: — “Moonlight in the Ganges”, “Blue Room”, 



“Cherie,”“ Indian Love Call, ’’“Breezing Along with the Breeze”, 
and “On the Rivieria”. The McGill yell concluded the perform- 
ance. 

The decorations are very simple but effective. The stage is 
artistically set. At the back, a huge McGILL in white on a scarlet 
background, and on one side a banner with ARTS '28 and 
SCIENCE '28 on the other are set. 

Along the walls, banners with ARTS, MEDICINE, SCIENCE 
and COMMERCE, are placed. Huge McGILL banners are 
placed in profusion along the sides of the entrance, and the 
ticket-sellers box is surrounded with McGILL pennants. 

“This year is the greatest year in the history of the Mandolin 
and Banjo Club”, Gerald Pickleman, president, said in an inter- 
view cn Saturday. 

The films which accompanied the McGill yells, 
the singing of Hail, Alma Mater and the jazz songs 
of the men who were thus giving the public a view of 
McGill’s student activities, were The Prince of 
Tempters, a "powerful screen drama” adapted from 
one of E. Phi lips Oppenheim’s masterpieces, and a 
comic film which (appropriately enough) depended 
for its success on the capacity of the audience to enjoy 
watching travellers being seasick. Out of these 
elements was concocted McGill Week. 

We shall not stop to argue with those who main- 
tain that such a performance does not detract from 
the reputation of McGill. In our opinion the incident 
was a great misfortune and a grave symptom. It 
could not have occurred without raising a storm of 
protest if McGill were not already dangerously imbued 
with the commercial spirit. In the present instance 
not a word has been said by way of criticism. The Stu- 
dents’ Council, it is true, had the good sense to refuse 
their patronage to the venture of the Mandolin Club, 
but they gave it permission to appear upon the stage, 
and thus cannot escape their share of the blame. 
For no worse an offense the Rooters’ Band last year 
came in lor very severe censure. The Fortnightly 
publishes this article in the hope that by bringing 
the matter to light a public opinion may be created 
which will safeguard the University from similar 
mésalliances in the future. 

* # # 

The Mock Parliament 

S OMETHING is wrong with McGill or with the 
Mock Parliament. Whereas a few years ago it 
was quite common to have from one to two 
hundred men attending a debate, and to have speak- 
ers from all sections of the House taking an active part 
in the proceedings, today the numbers are reduced to 
an average of forty or fifty, and the floor is largely 
monopolized by the holders of the front benches. 
Despite the fact that the men who compete in in- 
tercollegiate debates are chosen from the Mock, and 
despite the possibility of a trip to England next sum- 
mer for a McGill team, less and less interest is being 
taken in the meetings. If something is not done very 
soon to remedy the situation, we may expect to find 
the debates reduced to an acrimonious dialogue be- 
tween the Prime Minister and the leader of the op- 
position, with the Speaker and the Clerk of the House 
as unwilling listeners. 

We incline to the view that the fault lies chiefly in 
the current misconception of the nature of a mock 
parliament. It is assumed by most students that a 
mock parliament is intended to be a mockery of 
parliament. As a result, most of the speeches are 
burlesques, and sorry ones at that. Extreme exaggera- 
tion passes for humour, and there is a marked ten- 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



27 



dency — amongst certain debaters particularly — to 
indulge in every dirty double entendre which a vulgar in- 
genuity can suggest. It is impossible, in this sort of 
atmosphere, to arouse that keen interest in the subject 
matter of the debate which is the only certain way 
of drawing crowds to the meetings and of stimulating 
the individual speaker to his best endeavours. The 
student who is anxious to learn to speak in public 
finds no inspiration in these meetings, where there 
are no standards expected of him and nothing seems 
really to matter. 

A mock parliament is not a mockery of parliament ; 
it is a copy of parliament. It should reproduce as 
nearly as possible the conditions existing in a real — 
perhaps one should say ideal — House of Commons. 
This does not mean that the Mock at McGill should 
debate nothing but questions of national importance; 
that the speakers should appear with masses of sta- 
tistics and should conduct themselves with a boring 
solemnity. There is room for wit, satire, sarcasm, 
for an occasional touch of vulgarity even, in a House 
of Commons, as well as for cold logic and a business- 
like straightforwardness. But it does mean that the 
Mock should be treated a great deal more seriously 
than it is at present; that it should choose subjects of 
general interest to undergraduates, and debate them 
with as much care, consideration and ceremony as if its 
decisions were going to become law on the following 
day. A division in the Mock ought to reflect very 
fairly the undergraduate opinion of McGill. 

We venture to offer some suggestions to the execu- 
tive. Let the meetings be held regularly, and on no 
account postpone them — not even for hockey matches. 
Insist on an adequate degree of ceremony in all the 
proceedings; it would be well to maintain the tradition 
that the leaders of both parties should dress for the 
debate. Prevent the Daily from cheapening the char- 
acter of the meeting by forbidding the publication 
of flippant interviews with members of the govern- 
ment. And lastly, do not be afraid of introducing 
bills dealing with lively topics; there is no reason 
why the Scarlet Key Society, or Socialism, or Com- 
pulsory Lectures, should not be freely discussed. 



New Names 

I THINK we should give new names, 

To the stars. 

What does Venus mean 
Or Mars ? 

The tall pines on the hill 
Have seen no blood. 

Beneath them no men and maids 
Have woo’d. 

Who would read old myths 
By this lake, 

Where the wild duck paddle forth 
At daybreak? 

I am more moved by the lake sheen 
When night is come, 

Than by all the tales of Babylon 
Or Rome. 

Look — the moon’s path is broken 
By rippling bars. 

I think we should give new names 

To^the stars. T.T. 



James Branch Cabell 

D. C. Adam 

I N the literature of modem America James Branch 
Cabell holds a unique place. In the work of such 
men as Dreiser, Lewis Anderson, we find a hint 
of youthfulness, a groping for the expression of the 
true genius of America. Mr. Cabell, however, writes 
of a small world of his imagination, regarding the 
world of reality with a slightly irritated amusement. 
Considering literature as a medium of escape from 
the too insistent realities of life, he strives to “write 
perfectly of beautiful happenings.” Romance, “the 
first and loveliest daughter of human vanity,” is 
his chosen province. Mr. Cabell is a “romantic” 
dreamer. He has no illusions, however, about his 
dreaming; a doubter who wishes he were able to be- 
lieve in them but cannot quite do so. Sceptical with- 
out cynicism, he tempers irony with sentimentality, 
pitying the objects of his laughter. 

The better portion of Mr. Cabell’s work takes 
place in the imaginary land of Poictesme, a ‘“happy, 
harmless Fable-land’ which is bounded by Avalon 
and Phaeacia and the Sea-coast Bohemia. . . .and 
on the west by the Hesperides.” The remainder of 
his novels have as their scene an almost equally im- 
aginary Virginia. Influenced, no doubt, by his early 
career as a genealogist, his central characters are 
each descendants of Dom Manuel, the Redeemer, 
the first Count of Poictesme. All his fiction is but 
a continuation of the life of Manuel and is grouped 
under the general title of Biography. He likens this 
perpetually reincarnated life to “an itinerant co- 
median that with each generation assumes the garb 
of a new body, and upon a new stage enacts a variant 
of yesterday’s drama.” This is, in its essentials, but 
a piece of machinery by which the general similarity 
of all his main characters is accounted for. Mr. Cabell 
does not cover a wide field in his studies of the human 
animal. He has created no really outstanding char- 
acter, nor has he attempted to do so. That monstrous 
clever fellow, Jurgen, for instance; it is not in Jurgen, 
himself, that we are interested but in his dreams and 
aspirations. He is not presented to us as a character 
with just the right human proportions, but as a 
brilliant puppet endowed with the dreams and dis- 
illusionments of his author. 

The main theme of Mr. Cabell’s works is essenti- 
ally the same; the somewhat bewildered dreamer 
seeking he knows not quite what. This is summed 
up by Mr. Cabell, himself, in "The Lineage of Lich- 
field" when he writes: — “The first act is the imagining 
of the place where contentment exists and may be 
come to; and the second act reveals the striving 
toward, and the third act the falling short of, that 
shining goal, or else (the difference here being neglig- 
ible) the attaining of it to discover that happiness, 
after all, abides a thought farther down the logged, 
rocky, clogged, befogged heartbreaking road, if any- 
where.” Manuel and Jurgen and Florian, Charteris 
and Kennaston and Townsend are all victims of a 
species of nympholepsy. They strive after some 
unforgettable loveliness, to find in the end but dis- 
illusion, unsatisfied yearnings. The symbols of these 
visions of perfection take form in Helen of Troy or 
Melior or her sister, the legended Melusine, and 
such other visions of fair women as have stirred the 
poetic imagination through the ages. This striving 
after perfection in female guise is drawn from the 



28 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



part of medieval chivalry known as ‘domnei’, or 
woman- worship. 

Mr. Cabell is fond of gestures. His heroes are 
sentimental and cynical in turn, and the fusion of 
these two qualities results in the sort of gesture of 
which he is so fond. The address of Jurgen to the 
Gcd of his grandmother is a case in point. It is the 
gesture, in a tone of tender disbelief, of a disillusioned 
dreamer who wishes to continue his dreams. The 
gesture is clcsely bound up with the idea of Gallantry 
which Mr. Cabell speaks of as “the acceptance of 
the pleasures of life leisurely, and its inconveniences 
with a shrug; as well as that; among other requisites, 
the gallant person will always consider the world 
wilh a smile of toleration, and his own doings with 
a smile of honest amusement, and Heaven with a 
smile which is not distrustful ” 

In Beyond Life, the prologue to the Biography, 
Mr. Cabell, through the mouth of Charteris, attempts 
to discover why man strives at the arts, particularly 
that of letters. He finds it to be a manifestation of 
what he terms the “romantic demiurge,” the attempt 
to veil the harsh, and often ugly, realities of existence 
with a rcsy haze of the imagination. “No one,” he 
writes, “on the preferable side of Bedlam wishes to 
be remirded of what we are in actuality, even were 
it possible, by any disastrous miracle, ever to dispel 
the mist which romance has evoked about all human 
doings”. From the first early cave drawings of puny 
man “browbeating a frightened dinosaur” to the 
more modem novel of the happy ending and the 
virginal hero he perceives evidences of this delusion. 
Religion and love, patriotism and optimism, these 
again Mr. Cabell sees as but romantic delusions with 
which man bedrugs himself. 

The characters of his nove’s, a'l ‘figures of earth,” 
are prey to these illusions, and, eventually, they 
recognize them as such. This realization brings with 
it a regretful pessimism, which they share with their 
author, and they continue dissatisfied and a little 
bewildered, failing to quite live up to what dreams 
remain to them. Manuel attempting to find satis- 
faction in a life of achievement, Florian de Puysange 
in search of beauty and holiness, Jurgen seeking 
rational justice, Kennaston endeavouring to escape 
modem existence; all are left in bewilderment and 
sometimes disillusion, yet still clinging to the thought 
that man, after all, has some bright destiny. 

Domnei and The Rivet in Grandfather’ s Neck present 
Mr. Cabell’s idealized version of things as they ought 
to be. They are essentially sentimental novels, and 
are barely saved by their author’s artistry and faint 
traces of his irony from mawkishness. The love of 
Perion and Mellicent, like that of Tristam and Iseult, 
never wavers under all the difficulties in its path 
and the rather conventional happy ending leaves 
the romance still intact. 

The novels of Poictesme are more mature expres- 
sions of Mr. Cabell’s genius. Here he uses his wide 
knowledge of legend and mythology to create a glit- 
tering background for the gestures and disillusion- 
ments of his Gargantuan puppets, Manuel and Jurgen 
and Florian. Mr. Cabell casts the “oblique light 
of comedy” on these heroes and laughs sympathetic- 
ally at their vagaries and illusions. In these, more 
than in the novels of contemporary Virginia, he 
takes occasion to satirise American life. The Phil- 
istine, Mrs. Grundy, their queen, and the uplifter 
come in for their share of ridicule. In this, Mr. 



Mencken, the most vociferous, and Mr. Cabell, the 
most delicate, of modem American writers meet 
on ccmmon ground. Perhaps this is the real cause 
of their mutual admiration. 

“The literary artist plays: and the sole end of his 
endeavour is to divert himself”, he writes in Straws 
and Prayer-Books. The objects of his playing are 
“common-sense and piety and death”. In these three 
things he sees the essential comedy. But there is one 
other object of Mr. Cabell’s playing, the vetoed sub- 
ject of sex. He sees the essential comedy in the rela- 
tions of the sexes, not only in its more spiritual and 
idealistic aspects but also in its more earthly mani- 
festations. He sees no reason why this should not 
be interpreted in the light of comedy with any other 
human trait. The sturdy moralists are of course 
aroused at this, and hence the famous prosecution 
of Jurgen. So Jurgen takes its position beside the 
Bible (when run by an enterprising newspaper in 
serial form), Mademoiselle de Maupin, and Petronius, 
which works had already been obliged to tarry for 
a while in the legal corridors. 

As “art is, in its last terms, an evasion of the dis- 
tasteful,” and as Mr. Cabell has no strong predilec- 
tion for the world as it is, he finds himself obliged 
to create “other worlds, whose orderings are different, 
and to his mind more appro vable” in which to be 
about his playing. 

“For life in my country does not engross us utterly, we 
dreamers waste there at loose ends, waste futilely. . . .So we 
struggle, for a tiny, dear-bought while, into other and fairer 
seeming lands in search of — we know not what.” 

As a means of further escape he places a great 
deal of stress on style and on the general structure 
of his novels. Each part of his work is linked to the 
other parts to form a neatly constructed literary 
edifice, having none of the ragged edges of nature. 
Mr. Cabell’s style is essentially artificial. It is rem- 
iniscent of the stylistic archaisms of Lamb, the 
polished wit of Congreve, the paradoxes and inver- 
sions of Wilde. He is fond of repetition, which he 
generally uses effectively, but a few pet phrases of 
his occur perhaps a little too often. 

Mr. Cabell is capable at times of very beautiful 
passages of prose, which, though having a slight 
trend toward that variety known as purple, rank 
with any prose yet produced in America. A fine ex- 
ample of this is Horvendile’s speech to Etarre in 
The Cream of the Jest and his latest prose poem The 
Music from Behind the Moon. 

The qualities that Mr. Cabell ‘desiderates’ in lit- 
erary art are “distinction, and clarity, and beauty, 
and tenderness, and truth and urbanity”. To achieve 
these qualities the literary artist must toil incessantly 
in revising, in seeking the correct phrase or adjective. 
“You change every word that has been written”, 
says Townsend in The Cords of Vanity, “for a better 
one, and do it leisurely, rolling in the mouth as it 
were, the flavour of every possible synonym, before 
decision,. ...” And again, “a man writes admirable 
prose not at all for the sake of having it read, but 
for the more sensible reason that he enjoys playing 
solitaire”; another Cabellian gesture. 

The fantastic, half playful notions that Mr. Cabell 
holds in regard to the universe are too complicated 
and varied to be gone into here. The same may be 
said for the diverse and often obscure allegory and 
symbolism which enrich his mythological novels. 



T ne McGill Fortnightly Review 



29 



The Gallows Bird 

1 

A WILD bird sang upon a day, 

(Ye prudent princes hear my lay), 

The lithest song that ever was wrung 
From thrush's throat or linnet's lung 
In April's way. 

2 

Whenas the young queen riding heard 
That song, she bade one snare the bird, 

And cage it fast and clip its wing 
That all the court might hear him sing, 

Such was her word. 

3 

But never a note of song he would, 

Nor take one peck at the dainty food 
Which serving men and princes brought 
To banish from his brain the thought 
Of a green wood. 

4 

They brought him goodly wine and grain 
And honey sweet, but all in vain. 

Tell me a charm, to wring that note 

The young queen cried from her jewelled throat 

To her chamberlain. 

5 

This is the gallows bird, quoth he, 

That singeth his chaste song verily 
Only such time as he is fed 
Upon the flesh of the newly dead, 

Fruit of the gallows tree. 

6 

Then forge a chain, the young queen cried 
A silver chain, that he may bide 
On yonder tree, and eat his fill 
Of dainty fare upon the hill, 

Where the last traitor died. 

7 

In chamber and in bower that night 
Each lady lying with her knight 
Heard such a quiring sweet and rare 
And merry song uprising where 
The gallows stood upright. 

8 

He sang from sundown unto dawn 
Of sunlight shimmering on ripe com, 

Of sunbeams seen through coloured glass. 

Of sun-brown bracken and dew-bright grass 
When day is bom. 

9 

And then on a sudden beneath his wing 
Nestled his beak and ceased to sing, 

And never a note of golden song 
Came from his throat the whole day long, 

Nor carolling. 

10 

Then cried the young queen fretfully, 

If any man known as traitor be, 

Lo bind him now both hand and foot, 

And let the good tree bring forth fruit 
Of minstrelsy. 

11 

What time the bird had once again 
Devoured his fill from that small brain 
He fashioned a poem strange and new. 

And carolled it the long night through 
In Love's disdain. 



12 

And then on a sudden when dawn drew nigh. 
And smaller fowl began to fly, 

He ceased to chaunt his doleful lay, 

Nor many a night nor many a day 
Made any cry. 

13 

Yea, though they pruned the gallows tree 
That it might flourish fruitfully, 

Nobody heard the gallows bird 
Warble a chord or utter a word 
Of poesy. 

14 

But once upon a certain night, 

When the moon was a pool of crystal light, 

I heard him rattle a silver chain, 

Singing the while this grim refrain 
From the gallows height. 

15 

I am weary weary of pecking the eyes 
From the carcasses of human flies, 

Bring me the wasp of golden sting, 

And butterflies, they of the coloured wing 
And proud device. 

16 

What time they hang from the gallows tree 
Fruit of the flower of chivalry, 

What time they hang from the branches down 
Silken dress and ermine gown, 

I will make melody. 

17 

I have eaten my surfeit ten times ten 
Of hungry and ill-conditioned men, 

What day the good tree fruiting bear 
Princes and ladies, daintier fare, 

Will I sing again. 

Philip Page 



Flame and Fountain 

SEEKING a symbol, I return again 
To flame and fountain shewing heart and brain: 
Sensitive, lonely, and in every wind 
Veering and wavering, neither harsh nor kind, 
But bright or feeble, tall or nb, 

As the winds vary and the seasons go. 

A red torch burning in the utter black: 

What but the heart atoning for the lack 
Of many things it must lament — 

Kindness and understanding, wonderment? 

And what at last more bitterly burnt out 
To leave such wreckage in the fired redoubt? 



Ana an, now cold, how pitiful and pale 
The fountain rises and assumes her veil I 
Ghostly in the ghostly afternoon she stands 
And lifts unwearied, ineffectual hands. 

As if to pluck an answer from the air si <4 
To the eternal Why that all must share. , - 



The heart of man Jtt.be intelligence: 

This pondering on^fhe why and how and whence, 
And ever springing like a fountain’s plume 
Whitely and icily against the gloom; 

And that as hot, as wavering, as fire. 

Kindled for comfort, burning to desire. 



A, J. M. Smith 



30 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



JAZZ 

A Plea for Tolerance 

Carroll Davis 

T HERE seems to be a suspicion lurking in the 
minds of undergraduates that critical writing 
which is not radical lacks vitality. Undoubtedly, 
this can be attributed to the influence of American 
commentators on the drama, literature, music, or 
any of the major arts. Their “stuff” is not only easily 
procurable, it is inevitable; and its chief charact- 
eristic is a cynical smartness that sometimes verges 
on insolence. When undergraduates adopt this style 
they are bound to offend someone. If we could but 
remember that dogmatic utterances are unbecoming 
to extreme youth, and that age, experience, wisdom, 
and maturity breed tolerance, we might expose our- 
selves less frequently to the apathy of better balanced 
and better informed minds, and might hope for their 
intelligent interest. 

To become somewhat specific, there is the subject 
of music. It is, and always has been, an art over 
which opinions clash. Today Wagner is accepted 
as a master; a scant forty years ago, he was considered 
a revolutionary and was tough food for tender throats 
to swallow. This is the kind of subject that should 
not be approached in too assured a manner; there 
is too much scope for controversy. 

In a recent issue of the Fortnightly an article ap- 
peared under the heading: The Lively Arts Myth. 
Jazz music was one of the things it deprecated; 
indeed, it disposed of it in the manner that dyed-in- 
the-wool classicists are wont to adopt— with a shrug, 
and the assertion that it simply does not merit serious 
consideration. Messrs. Whiteman and Gershwin 
were mentioned, but only as exponents of jazz who 
were making themselves ridiculous by taking it ser- 
iously. And yet, there are critics, who have made 
music a life study, who are quick to admit that the 
position which jazz will eventually occupy is inde- 
terminable from this distance — at least, to them. 
Conceded that jazz may not rank with the music 
of the old Masters, surely it is worth while and surely 
Gershwin and Whiteman are not so ridiculous, if 
jazz, properly interpreted, can become a truly art- 
istic endeavour. 

Let us look, first, to the genesis of jazz. The name, 
born in New Orleans’ cabarets, was gradually ac- 
cepted by the public to describe a type of music more 
regular in rhythm than ragtime, its predecessor. Rag- 
time was syncopated, the syncopation being effected 
by a shortening of the accepted notes. Jazz, on the 
other hand, was not only syncopated, but was regular 
in rhythm, and required a new use of instruments. 
At first, the jazz orchestra was composed of men 
who had a natural ear for faking; in other words, 
of players who invented their own parts as they went 
along. In this period, the clarinet and the trombone 
were the essential instruments; later, the muted 
trumpet added an effect of sharpness, while the sax- 
ophone brought out a slurred quality now necessary 
to proper dance music. The possibilities of the banjo 
were not developed until Whiteman entered the field; 
he realized that il was the instrument ideally suited 
to the keeping of regular dance rhythm, and he made 
it the basis of the jazz orchestra. By using these 
instruments in a new way, jazz players obtained 
effects heretofore unknown to the public, effects 



which could not be perfectly expressed in terms o 
notation, but merely sufficiently indicated for th 
player to follow. This indefinite quality which jazz 
players give to their music is that which sets it apart 
from the other forms of the art. All jazz is necessarily 
written in common tempo; that is to say, four beats 
to the measure. By slurring the note written, playing 
it slightly ahead of its true theoretical position, jazz 
accentuates the weak notes of the bar, 2 and 4, and 
introduces a violent, but never monotonous, effect. 

This rhythm, negroid in origin, is America’s own 
contribution to the fund of rhythmic forms. Until 
the birth of the Blues, we relied on continental 
methods when we attempted to create, and with 
indifferent success. Our composers, although erudite 
and industrious, were never quite at home in the 
ballet, the opera, or the fugue; they have added 
nothing in this respect, because our mental rhythm, 
temperament, and thought, are not European. But 
we can safely say that, with the introduction of this 
particular rhythmic quality, differing radically from 
anything our grandparents knew, we have, at last, 
a musical form of our own. 

Jazz music, by nature, requires a new and different 
treatment and instrumentation. Herein lies the main 
reason for its criticism; our pedants would have it 
conform to the conventional standards of the classics. 
It is in a sense, a revival of the old art of improvisa- 
tion; but the medium is not the same. Jazz has, thus 
far, for its specific purpose, the modern dance; and 
the European dancing public has succumbed to it. 
To them, it is foreign and intriguing. This adoption 
obviously demonstrates its superiority as dance 
music; just as we admit, in practice, the pre-eminence 
of their symphony and opera. If the jazz dance has 
a vulgar reputation, we can answer that the schot- 
tische, the waltz, and the two-step, at the time of 
their inceptions, had also. 

Jazz has as its motif the movement of American life. 
It is still in a crude stale ; but so is the life it expresses. 
Both can be refined immeasurably. New York life, 
for example, is not staid and puritanical; rather is 
it pulsing and incontinent. Its music then, if it be an 
accurate representation of its surroundings, will 
be vibrant and torrential. The cacophony of trumpets 
and the alternate triumphant crowing and plaintive 
sobbing of saxaphones will express this spirit. Jazz, 
therefore, is free and is incapable of constraint by 
the iron-bound rules applicable to the sonata and 
the rondo. It has all the elements of music: harmony, 
rhythm, and melody. Is it necessary to force these 
elements into accepted form before the result can 
be considered an art? Bach broke all the rules existent 
in his day; Wagner was a musical outcast until late 
in his life. Is it not possible that our composers — 
Gershwin, Kern, Carpenter and the rest — will, in 
time, rise above their present limitations and develop 
a totally new form more expressive of modem life 
than the accepted foreign product? 

Our intellectuals, probably, will not accept the 
new idiom until continental maestros have endorsed 
it. But, already the evidence is strong that writers 
of symphony have begun to think seriously of the 
effect that jazz might exert on modern works. Strav- 
insky, the Russian genius, has employed jazz freely 
in his symphony wherever he required it. The Metro- 
politan has produced a jazz opera. Damrosch has 
sponsored its use. And it is becoming generally 
recognized that, while it has not enough variety for 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



31 



a long symphony, it can be the subject of shorter 
works. With its wealth of new rhythms and instrumen- 
tal effects it cannot help but give additional colour 
to serious music. This alone is an achievement, and 
is sufficient reason for its being classed as an art form. 

In the face of these facts, then, is the sincerity of 
Whiteman and Gershwin so absurd? Perhaps so; but 
it may be well to remember that, at one time, Chris- 
topher Columbus held certain beliefs which made him 
an object of scorn throughout the civilized world. 



Contemporary Poetry 

A. J. M. Smith 

O UR age is an age of change, and of a change 
that is taking place with a rapidity unknown 
in any other epoch. Science has altered not 
only the character of our everyday life, but has had 
its influence on the philosophies by which we interpret 
that life. If the Victorian Age was one of solid, gradual 
progress from precedent to precedent, with a growing 
confidence in the applications of science and in the 
stabilizing effect of business, our own age has known 
the disaster which is bound to occur when a respect- 
able philosophy makes terms with an acquisitive 
society. In our case, however, the problem has been 
vastly complicated by the sudden acceleration of 
the change which had hitherto only been gradually 
making itself felt. In less than three decades came 
the motor car, the steam turbine, the aeroplane, the 
telegraph and wireless, and the electric light. The 
result was that the standard of living was very quickly 
raised, business corporations were formed to exploit 
the new discoveries, and the whole world contracted 
almost visibly under the tightening bands of closer 
communications. Things moved faster, and we had 
to move with them. 

It is not, however, only in the realm of everyday 
life and commonplace death that progress has been 
suddenly accelerated. Our way of living has changed; 
so too have our religious and philosophical ideas. 
Science, again, has been the catalyst. The discovery 
that the atom is not a single, solid whole, but a minia- 
ture solar system in itself; the principle of relativity 
which affirms the curvature of space and the limita- 
tions of the universe; the anthropological discoveries 
systematized by Sir James Frazer in The Golden 
Bough, which traces Christian creed and ritual baok 
through folk lore to the Pagan rites of the older civil- 
izations and finally to those of savagery: all these 
have had their influence upon contemporary thought. 
Our universe is a different one from that of our grand- 
fathers, nor can our religious beliefs be the same. 
The whole movement, indeed, is a movement away 
from an erroneous but comfortable stability, towards 
a more truthful and sincere but certainly less comfort- 
able state of flux. Ideas are changing, and therefore 
manners and morals are changing. It is not surpris- 
ing, then, to find that the arts, which are an inten- 
sification of life and thought, are likewise in a state 
of flux. Those who attended the concert given by 
the Boston Symphony Orchestra a few weeks ago 
will have noticed the influence of our changing age 
upon music, while Post-Impressionism, Cubism, 
Vorticism and half a dozen other isms indicate its 
effect upon painting. Contemporary poetry reflects 
it as clearly as any other art. 



Poetry today must be the result of the impingement 
of modern conditions upon the personality and tem- 
perament of the poet. Some have been awakened to 
a burning enthusiasm by the spectacle of a new era; 
others are deeply disturbed by the civilization of 
a machine-made age. Some have heard music in 
the factory whistle; others have turned aside into 
solitude that they might the better hearken to the 
still small voice. 

But however much contemporary poets may differ 
in their estimate of the value of our civilization, the 
peculiar conditions of the time have forced them all 
to seek a new and more direct expression, to perfect 
a finer technique. In a preface to James Stephens’ 
“Collected Poems’’ published but the other day, 
occurs the following excellent summary of the situa- 
tion: “The world interest today differs notably from 
that which gave it enthusiasm in the past, for, with- 
in the last thirty years, the tempo of the whole world 
has been enormously accelerated. It is still accelerat- 
ing, and the technique that we inherited, in whatever 
art, from a leisured society is not equal to the demands 
that are now made upon it, and which demands 
are still incoherent if not unconscious. We must 
evolve a new technique, or we must continue to 
compose and paint and write in the only form that 
can deal with an interim situation, or with speed— 
the lyrical form. We are at the beginning of an era, 
and who creates a new world must create a new art 
to express it.” 

Here we have an explanation of why there is being 
written what has been called, and what may very 
conveniently be called. “The New Poetry”. It remains 
to ask, What is the new poetry and wherein does it 
differ from the old? The difference is not solely one of 
form, for though some contemporary poetry is written 
in vers libre, by far the greater amount infused with 
the new spirit is written in the traditional metres 
and with the traditional rhyme schemes. It is not 
solely one of diction, though this, indeed, is an ex- 
tremely important question: the deems, forsooths, 
methinks, the inversions for the sake of a rhyme, the 
high sounding pomposities and all the rhetorical 
excesses which make so much Victorian poetry seem 
overdressed and slightly vulgar— all these have been 
ruthlessly removed from the diction of contemporary 
poetry. The result was, in the words of Louis 
Untermeyer, that people made the discovery that to 
enjoy poetry it was not necessary to have at their 
elbow a dictionary of strange words and classical 
references; they were no longer required to be ac- 
quainted with the details of the love affairs of the 
minor Greek deities. Life was to be their glossary, 
not literature. The new work spoke to them in their 
own language, and the difference between the new 
poetry and that from which it is a reaction, though 
most obvious as a change in form, is something at 
once deeper and more fundamental, as Miss Harriet 
Monroe has put it, “The new poetry strives for a 
concrete and immediate realization of life; it would 
discard the theory, the abstraction, the remoteness 
found in all classics not of the first order. It is less 
vague, less verbose, less eloquent than most poetry 
of the Victorian period and much work of earlier 
periods. It has set before itself an ideal of absolute 
simplicity and sincerity — an ideal which implies 
an individual, unstereotyped rhymn.” 

Now this contemporary poetry is divided by the 
war into two clearly marked epochs. In the earlier 



V 



32 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



it was the work of the poets to overthrow an effete 
and decadent diction, and to bring the subject matter 
of poetry out of the library and the afternoon-tea 
salon into the open air, dealing in the language of 
present-day speech with subjects of living interest. 
This is the task that W. B. Yeats, John Masefield, 
Robert Frost, E.A.Robinson and Carl Sandburg 
have performed, each in his own manner, so success- 
fully. But besides this there has been a turning back 
to the Seventeenth Century, a renewed interest in 
the poems of John Donne, an attempt to recapture 
and exploit in a new way the poetics of the Metaphys- 
ical poets. Rupert Brooke was one of the pioneers 
in this movement. Such a poem as “Dining Room 
Tea” describes a trance-like state of super con : 
sciousness that is akin to the Platonic ecstasy 
described by Donne in his poem, “The Ecstasy.” 
From Donne to Brooke, and from Brooke to Eliot: 
it is a long stretch, but the curve is continuous. An 
advantage which the very latest poets of this school 
have had over their predecessors is that they have 
been able to make use of the various psychological 
theories of the subconscious, and to forge from them 
what is almost a new form of expression — a form 
which has found so far its culmination in the prose 
of James Joyce and the poetry of T.S.Eliot. Poets, 
such as Eliot, the Sitwells, Wallace Stevens, E.E. 
Cummings, whose widely divergent characteristics 
may be all included in the term ultra-modem, have 
been hurled into poetry under the compulsion of a 
bitter and poignant disillusionment, and they have, 
— most of them — turned aside from the world, con- 
cerned themselves with abstruse questions of tech- 
nique, probing with the best instruments they can 
forge the wounds in their own subconsciousness. It 
is perhaps dangerous to group the poets I have just 
named together in this way. Certainly, however, 
they are all poets of disillusion. Eliot and Cummings 
have delved deeply into the subconscious; while 
Edith Sitwell and Wallace Stevens have constructed 
their own artificial, beautiful and cubist world; and 
they have all emphasised the importance of form. 

This preoccupation with form has led some critics 
to see in the works of the ultra moderns the symptoms 
of a deep decadence. The dislike exhibited by these 
poets, they say, for didacticism, for the moral aim 
has led them to take the safe course, and to keep 
not only morality but meaning out of their poems. 
If you read some of Eliot’s Sweeney poems, or Edith 
Sitwell’s Bucolic Comedies you may at first think 
that there is a good deal in the charge. If, however, 
you have had any experience as a reader of poetry, 
and you come to the test with an open mind, I think 
you will find it easier to admit that there is beauty 
in such poetry than to discover in it a logical meaning. 
More than once someone has spoken to me bf a poem. 
“I don’t understand altogether what it means — but 
I like it; it sounds well; there is beauty in it.” Perhaps 
' . they were on’y being polite. But if that is the case, 
'the fact that such a remark is considered to be a 
compliment rather than an insult shows that even 
in the popular mind Beauty, (that is, Form,) is con- 
sidered to be more important than the idea or the 
logical meaning, (that is, than Subject Matter). 
In other words, though most people loudly disclaim 
it, in their hearts they really think that what you 
say is less important than how you say it. A fal lacy, 
of course, but if they did not think thus when wish- 
ing to be complimentary they would say: “I don’t 



think there is any beauty in your poem, but I under- 
stand and admire its sentiments very much.” This, 
however, would be considered an affront. 

Now this popular idea that Form is more important 
than Content, of course, is just as absurd as the prof- 
essorial conception of the supreme importance of 
right-thinking and the comparative insignificance 
of right-expression; and, as a matter of fact the dis- 
cussion of the relative value of Form and Subject 
Matter is one that should never have arisen; because, 
in poetry, at least, these two things should be merged 
into one — a single and complete artistic whole — 
Form, the Body and Content, the Soul: the one, 
but the visible manifestation of the other. 

But what, then, are we to say when the beauty 
of a poem appeals to us, while its meaning is some- 
how hidden? Simply that our faculty of aesthetic 
appreciation is more fully developed than our under- 
standing— that we are become, God help us! — by 
natural right, a member of that despised sect — the 
Aesthetes . 



College Spirit 

SUFFER the little children 
To come unto me, 

Said the Big Business Man 
As he endowed a University. 

Let the coming generation 
Have the proper education. 

Our boys and girls must be taught 
Right ideas from the start: 

There is a great danger 
In independent thought — 

We’ll have none of it here, 

No fear! 

We shall instruct our students in 
The value of discipline: 

Esprit de corps 
Won the war. 

Did it not? 

We shall preach the divine right 
Of Capital to its dividends. 

For here economics begins 
And ends: 

And our students shall grow God-fearing, 
That is, respectful of money, 

And learn to distrust Scott Nearing, 
And think Poets funny: 

So suffer the innocent children 
To come unto me. 

Said the Big Business Man 
Cunningly, 

While Higher Education 
And High Finance 
Capered hand in hand 
In a ritual dance. 

Vincent Starr 



