<■' Sydney j_ym 



CD 

O* 

I 

>- 

<c 



The McGill 



Gazette. 



Vol. //., Neu< Series. McGill College , October 22nd , 18*5. No. 1. 



The EJitors of the McGill Gazette earnestly appeal to the Students of the University, 
irrespective of Faculties, to aid them in the publication of the College paper. Any communications 
will be received by either or both of the Managing Editors. 

It is the intention of the present editors to have Editors from the faculties of Law and 
Medicine elected by the Students of those faculties who will represent them on the editorial staff. 
The terms of the paper are such as to put it within the reach of all and we earnestly look for 
assistance and encouragement. 

We also appeal to the Graduates of the University, who, we hope, will aid the enterprise 
of their younger brethren in “ Alma Mater.” At as early dates as possible we expect to receive 
contributions from several “ Alumni ” who are at -present studying abroad. 

Information concerning Graduates, or others connected with the University would be 
thankfully received. 

Editors McGill Gazette. 



LITERARY. 



A FRENCH COLLEGE SONG. 

Buvons, eamarades, tenons nos coupes pleines, 
Quand nous buvons, nous croyons au bonheur; 

Que la liqueur, en coulant dans nos veines, 

Dans un beau reve endorine noutre cceur. 

A nous, h nous, le champagne et l’ivresse, 

Eolles chansons, fol amour et beauts : 9 

Tout est & nous, nous avons la jeunesse ] 

Tout est a nous, nous avons la gaiete. 

Pourquoi chercher un problcme, mes fr&res, 

En nous servant d’un Y incertain? 

La solution se trouve dans nos verres, 

Buvons, eamarades, buvons jusqu’k domain. 

« 

Chantons, eamarades, notre jeune franchise 
Aime & chanter les refrains du vieux temps ; 

Nous adorons Fr6tillon en chemise, 

Et dans sea bras nous fuyons les tourments. 
Chantons, eamarades, la chanson nous appelle, 

C’est un enfant livr6 & tous nos sons ; 

Mais e’est aussi la grande irae immortelle, 

Qui nous rallie & ses males accents. 

Pourquoi r6soudre un probl&me, mes freree, 

En nous servant d’un Y incertain ? 

La solution est au fond de nos verres, 

Chantons, eamarades, chantons juequ’& demain. 



Aimons, eamarades, qu’uno beaute gaillardc 
Nous forme tous it sa douce legon j 
Aimons sans cesse, et mettons la cocarde 
Au tier bonnet d’une Mimi Pinson. 

Voici le soir notre belle amoureuse 
Qui nous d^fie & d’illustres combats. 

Soutenous-nous dans la lutte joyeuse, 

Pas de quartier, soyons vaillants soldats. 

Pourquoi r£soudre un probleme, mes fr<*res, 

En nous servant d’un Y incertain ? 

La solution se trouve dans nos verres, 

Aimons, eamarades, aimons, jnsqu’it demain. 

( Harvard Ad r.) 

Pedestrianism in the White Mountains. 

It is to be regretted that in this country, both 
in Canada and the States, where so many grand 
and beautiful spots of both Mountain and valley 
scenery, are open to the aspiring tourist, that 
pedestrianism is so little in vogue, and that, 
instead of following the hardier example of our 
trans atlantic cousins in regard to Alpine and 
other pedestrian clubs, the “ Switzerland of 
America” is visited by the car-rail and steam 
whistle, or by wagon and stage loads of Saratoga 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



trunks, accompanied by the fashionable owners 
thereof. 

Inspirited by such thoughts, and through love 
of the beauties of nature, two young men left 
Portland, for North Conway by rail, for the 
purpose of walking the White Mountains. Our 
baggage was in the shape of packs weighing 
about five pounds apiece, and strapped ou our 
backs. We left North Conway in the morning, 
under rather unfavorable circumstances, heavy 
clouds obscuring the mountains, with which the 
place is surrounded, to within a few hundred 
feet of their bases, and rendering it impossible 
to ascend Mount Kearsage, the loftiest of the 
surrounding mountains, being 3,000 ft. above the 
level of the surrounding plain, and on whose 
summit is a U. S. observatory station. Taking 
an almost Northerly direction, we followed the 
turnpike road, which leads along the bank of the 
liver Saco, and by one o’clock had left fourteen 
miles behind us, and had arrived at Upper 
Bartlett, where we took diuncr at the Hotel (?) 
which is kept here by a gentleman named 
“ George,” — whether that was his Christian or 
surname wo could not ascertain. Here we rested 
ourselves and calculated very nicely on the 
number of miles we should make before night, I 
believe about twenty 

We here fell in with a gentleman who was 
inclined to be communicative, not to say friendly, 
who was most polite at table, seemed to have a 
chronic atfection of the left eye, which kept it 
constantly opeuing and shutting, could place his 
foot so marvellously high on the post of the 
gallery and tip his Chair back so very far, that it 
seemed a miracle that his centre of gravity kept 
within the line of support and preserved him 
from falling backwards. Above all, his travels 
and experience were wide and varied and his 
fund of anecdote and adventure with Indian, 
White man, Nigger and “ Heathen Chinee, ’* was 
exceedingly rich and diversified. However, we 
finally tore ourselves away from this enchanting 
individual, and started to fulfill our afternoon’s 
tramp. But, alas for the frailty of human 
affairs ! hardly had we gone two miles before 
the clouds which had been hanging above us all 
day, began to shed themselves, at first gently, 
then savagely, upon us. We passed on for half 



a mile further, when we came to the shelter of 
a small house, and were met at the gate by a 
very large dog with an unpleasantly deep voice, 
having, however, made our peace with him and 
his master, we were invited to the kitchen, 
where we were entertained by the master and 
mistress of the large dog, who was very wet and 
persisted in being very friendly, and in our turn 
amused the children, ever and anon looking out 
of the window at the pouring rain, which showed 
no si'-ns of cessation, and which, as it was 
growing late, we decided to brave, and mourn- 
fully turned our faces again towards “George’s” 
hospitable house, getting very wet and ruefully 
thinking of the twenty miles which we had not 
walked. We dried ourselves that evening by a 
roaring wood fire, in an old fashioned fire place, 
with its andirons and crane, and rose the next 
morning to find the weather glorious, the clouds 
dispersing, and every prospect promising a fine 
day. 

Having had our breakfast, we found that a 
construction train was about to leave for Willey 
Brook, about ten miles beyond, with a company 
of workmen to complete some work on the new 
Portland and Ogdensburg llail road recently 
opened through here, and as our landlord spoke 
a good word for us, the superintending engineer, 
a gentlemen named Barrett, offered us a ride 
which we accepted, as the track ruus about 500 
ft. above the Saco liver, on the side of magnifi- 
cent mountains, and commands a better view of 
the valley, and the entrance to the Crawford 
notch, than the road does. 

Mr. Barrett is a well educated and thorough 
engineer, who evidently had his men under 
thorough control, and he aud his assistant Mr. 
Cowle. treated us in ihe most gentlemanly 
manner. < 

Leaving the traiu abaut 7 a.m. we resumed 
our pedestrian ism and after walking four miles 
on the track, almost, as it were on the edge of 
a precipice, and over some trellis work fifty feet 
in height, we arrived at the gate of the Notch. 

As you a-cend the Saco, the valley narrows, 
the mountains seeming to'shutin upon it till, 
just at its headwater, Mounts Willey and Web- 
ster, almost close on it. 

(To be continued.) 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



3 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

To the Editors of the University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, 

Understanding that you are about to re-com- 
nience the publication of the Gazette, I take 
this opportunity of wishing you success, and at 
the same time of thanking you for thus affording 
a medium through which we, the undergraduates, 
may pour our grievances into the ears of the 
public, as well as into those of the Faculty. 
The particular grievance which I am at present 
desirous of bringing to your notice may justly 
be styled the boarding house nuisance. Already 
some complaints have been made respecting the 
absence of residences in connection with the 
College; but the authorities appear to be 
aborning under tbe delusion that the students 
are satisfied with the pi*esent state of affairs, and 
have made no move in the matter. Possibly 
they are deterred from taking steps in the 
matter by the thoughts, that it would be scarcely 
in place to solicit subscriptions for the erection 
of residences for the students, as Ion" as those 
buildings, which were intended by the Founders 
of the University for the use of the Undergra- 
duates, are occupied by officers of the Corporation; 
and that the benefactors of the Institution, 
whilst they would no doubt be willing to 
subscribe liberally towards any object calculated 
to promote the comfort of the students, would 
have a decided objection to furnishing the 
Professors and other Officers of the Corporation 
with dwellings, to which use, under the present 
regime such buildings if erected would certainly 
be applied. The clauses in the calendar under 
the head of Licensed Boarding-houses may have 
the effect of convincing some gentleman, unac- 
quainted with the facts of the case, that here 
his son, residing in one of these model houses, 
will be constantly under the eye of the Faculty 
who will train him in the way he should go; 
but in one acquainted with boarding houses and 
their keepers, this attempt of the Faculty to 
check the student will excite merely ridicule. I 
am glad, however, that these restrictions have 
been made, even although they cannot be carried 
into effect, siuce they prove that the authorities 
are convinced, that, boarding in the city free 
from all restraint is not the thing for young and 



impulsive students. When the license system 
has been demonstrated a farce residences must 
be built. At the opening lecture the Students 
were advised, above all things to secure comfort- 
able rooms. With all due deference, 1 think 
the learned Professor must at the time have 
been speaking sarcastically, since comfortable 
rooms, in my experience at least, are rarely to be 
found in a boarding house. In a comfortable 
room the air should be pure and at the same 
time warm, but in the majority of instances it is 
destitute of either one or the other of these 
attributes. To secure warmth, pure air must be 
sacrificed, and if pure air is desired, one can 
obtain it only by being content to live and study 
in a room, the temperature of which approaches 
zero. Then it is of the greatest advantage to 
one to be constantly associating with the men of 
one’s own class and with those of the more 
advanced classes. The benefits derived from 
such an intercourse are numerous. It engenders 
a good feeling and a clannish spirit among the 
students, who thus form a circle of their own 
and keep aloof from those individuals whose 
influence tends only towards a neglect of work. 
Again by constant conversation and discussion 
in reference to the studies which they prosecute, 
and by an exchange of opinion the undergra- 
duates derive a great advantage and make much 
more rapid progress in their work. It is 
scarcely necessary to say that at present there is 
no opportunity for cultivating that good feeling 
and clannish spirit, or for conversation, discussion 
or an exchange of opinion ; that the students are 
scattered and lose that influence which they 
would have as a body ; and that, instead of 
associating with those of their class, become the 
companions of those very individuals to beware of 
whom they were cautioned in the opening lecture, 
viz : idle men ; men whose influence tends 
towards anything but the cultivating of a taste 
for study and good morals. Here Mr. Editors, 
1 cease, lest I weary you with complaints ; but 
let me express, the- wish that when the Faculty 
become convinced of the inutility of the regula- 
tions concerning boarding houses, buildings will 
be erected on the College grounds in which the 
students may reside and pursue their studies 
apart from the noise, inconvenience and discomfort 



4 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



of a boarding house, and unexposed to the 
numerous temptations with which they are 
surrounded whilst boarding in the city. Again 
wishing your paper success and prosperity, 

I remain yours etc., 

Convicfor. 



The McGill Gazette. 



Monday , November ist , i8jy. 



MAN A^GTINTG- EDITORS : 

R. ROBERTSON, ’77. | A. W. ATWATER, ’77. 



EDITORS: 



F. H. Hetrington, ’76. 
C. H. Gould, ’77. 

E. Lafi.eur, ’77. 

R. D. McGibbon, ’77. 



R. Robertson, ’77. 
A. W. Atwater, ’77 
E. Evans, ’78. 
Holton Wood, ’79. 



CONTENTS. 



Literary. 

French College Song 1 

o o 

Pedestrianism in the White Mountains ... 1 

Correspondence 3 

Editorial. 

Salutatory 4 

Boarding Houses, &c 5 

College Items 7 

Personals 8 

Sporting Notes 8 

Exchanges 9 

Clippings 9 

Foot-Ball 10 

The Inteprovincial F. B. Match n 

Advertisements 12 



SALUTATORY. 

After a silence of nearly eighteen 
months, caused by the traditional “ cir- 
cumstances over which we had no con- 
trol,” the Gazette again prepares to accost 
its readers. For the length of time which 
has intervened between our last issue 
and our present number, we are well 
aware that excuses and apologies are in 
order, and we propose to make them as 
brief as possible. An unfortunate and 
unforseen accident was the final cause 
of our suspension, a suspension which, 



however, was due in a great measure to 
a lack of that spirit and enterprise among 
the students which sustained us so well 
during the first year of our existence. 
To a revival of that spirit our present 
appearance is due, and we trust that 
henceforth the Gazette will have in 
McGill a permanent local habitation as 
well as a name. We are fortunate in 
that we owe no apologies to our sub- 
scribers, inasmuch as they received the 
paper regularly until the expiration of 
their subscriptions. To those exchanges 
who, in touching couiidence, continued 
to send to us during the time in which 
we were not, we beg to express our 
sincere regrets for our involuntary 
short-comings, to assure them that we 
will always be mindful of their kindness, 
and to promise that in the future we 
will do our best to atone for the faults 
of the past. To those others who (very 
properly) have cut us off from their ex- 
change lists, we beg to offer an assurance 
that we shall not again be found want- 
ing, and to express a hope that they will 
allow us to renew the very pleasant re- 
lations of old times 

The aim of the Gazette will be to con- 
tinue in the way which from the first it 
marked out for itself, that of an essen- 
tially University journal. By that wo 
do not mean, on the one hand, that we 
intend to become a repository for all the 
small talk which is exchanged in the 
halls between lectures, or over the 
social pipe around the evening lire. 
Nor do we, on the other hand, consider 
that we have a providential mission to 
circulate those “ yearnings after the 
infinite,” soul-stirring appeals to man’s 
inner consciousness, and thrilling poeti- 
cal effusions in which the spirit of rhap- 
sody oversteps the trammelling exigences 
of rhyme and metre, which occupy so 
large a space in the columns of some of 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



5 



our collegiate contemporaries. T hese, as 
is most natural, seem to spring l'rom the 
bosom of the free and sunny "West. We 
trust that the coldness of our climate, 
and the practical nature of our lives, 
will preserve us from contributions of 
this kind. But we propose to contain 
articles upon University subjects, written 
by University men, and which will be 
ol interest to students of the University 
both past and present. We trust that 
the Gazette will not be the echo of one 
Faculty, but the mouthpiece of all, and 
not only this, but that it will, as far as 
possible, serve as a tie by which to bind 
more closely our graduates to their 
educational mother. We make this year 
a slight change in our name and form, 
but we trust, not in our character. 

We do not intend to become the 
medium of any personal attacks, but 
we shall not hesitate to discuss, in a 
gentlemanly and respectful manner, those 
subjects -which require reformation. 
Mankind is not likely to arrive at perfec- 
tion, at least until the happy days of the 
millennium, a period which, by the way, 
would seem to the average reader, who 
drinks in his daily supply of clerical, 
political, and commercial scandal, with 
his matutinal coffee, to be one of mosl 
unpromising slowness. This being the 
case, there will always be in the Univer- 
sity matters requiring reform, and w^e 
will endeavour as far as in us lies, to 
point out the deficiences and the best 
methods of remedying them. Besides 
this, we will of course chronicle every 
event of importance connected with the 
University. 

So much for the future, now a word 
or two concerning the past. Eighteen 
months is but a short time to the general 
world, but a long one to that little world 
which lies inside the college gates. Since 
last the Gazette was issued, the old 



editorial staff have gone out from 
among us, and save as rare visitors, 
the place which has known them shall 
know them no more. What hosts ot 
old recollections come over us as we 
write ! How sound seemed the logic of 
one, how keen the sarcasm of another, 
how mirth-provoking the wit of a third ! 
Perhaps we would not perceive now all 
the beauties which we admired then, 
for it is the lot of collegiate journalism, 
as it is of all journalism, to be ephemeral, 
and the interest of an article lasts but 
for the duration of the mood which in- 
spired it. So too our own time will 
come, and may the editors of the future 
feel as kindly to their predecessors as 
we do to ours. Let us thank them 
heartily for those things in which they 
succeeded, sympathize with them in 
those things in which they failed, and 
regret that stern Time has urged them 
onwards from the resting-place they 
shared with us, as he will urge us on- 
ward too in our turn. Que les beaux 
jours sont courts! 

But our prologue has already occupied 
too much time. The prompter’s hand 
is upon the bell, and the curtain is drawn 
up, leaving us again to figure upon the 
boards ot the little stage once so familiar, 
before an audience whose kind sympathy 
we ask for and expect as of yore. 



BOARDING HOUSES, &c. 

With reference to a letter from an 
afflicted “ convictor” in another column, 
we, on behalf of the under graduates of 
McGill, grasp the editorial pen and dig 
up the hatchet against two crying evils, 
the “ boarding house nuisance” and the 
nurse maids and children who infest the 
grounds. When will McGill have halls 
and dormitories in which the bodies, as 
well as the brains of her students can be 
taken care of and sheltered ? How is 



6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE 



it to be expected that any thing like 
fellow feeling or a love of “ Alma Mater” 
can exist among men who meet for a 
few hours a day, hardly make the ac- 
quaintance of their own class, and then 
disperse to the comforts of their board- 
ing houses and the tender companion- 
ship of their own thoughts, or, if more 
socially inclined, to that of any company 
which can be found and which will in- 
sinuate itself most readily on their loneli- 
ness. 

Thanks to the very low standard of 
the McGill matriculation, students can 
enter it at an age when they should not 
be trusted out ot school, and not know- 
ing enough to carry them through the 
5th or 6th forms of a good grammar 
school, and yet by a pleasant fiction are 
called “ men” spoken of as “ gentlemen” 
and made to feel as though they could 
do a good deal as they like.— and they 
certainly have ample time for doing it 
their freshman year, if they possess the 
most ordinary quantum of brains. 

Now is a boarding-house — nine out of 
every ten of which are not fit to be called 
houses — the proper place to put these 
boys (we beg their pardon, men) ? 

They have little or no company of 
their own age and class, and in such a 
city as Montreal, are often thrown in 
with people of a station and occupation 
entirely different from their own, which 
certainly is not conducive to study or 
the love of study — are obliged, (since 
they have no appeal) to put up with 
what is given them, and, as the boarding 
house keeper is responsible to the college 
authorities only in so far as concerns the 
retention of his or her license, is out- 
rageously overcharged. 

Is it to be wondered at then, that this 
being the state ot the case, more students 
do not come to McGill ? AY hat man 

with any common sense would trust his 



son in the largest city in his country, 
knowing that there was but little re- 
straint placed upon his actions, that he 
is only within college walls some three 
or four hours, at most, daily, with not 
enough to do to keep him busy, and 
open— at least liable — to the many 
temptations which are almost sure to 
beset him. McGill is at present emin- 
ently small and select (especially the 
former) and will continue to be so until 
she provides shelter for the bodies as 
well as knowledge for the brains of her 
students. Then, perhaps, we may hope 
to see the matriculation raised above 
what the average infant mind is able 
to grasp. Then, To see how comfortably 
housed and taken care of the “ theologs” 
are, one would imagine that the arts 
buildings were attached to the theologi- 
cal college, and the art students allowed 
to attend lectures on sufferance. 

To come to the second of our griev- 
ances, were the grounds of this univer- 
sity intended for a public park or for 
the use of the students? 

If a student, during his first term in 
college, undertakes to ramble through 
grounds that he poetically has imagined 
belonged to his college, and in the anti- 
cipation of whose shade and quiet he 
may have rejoiced for some time pre- 
viously, he will probably find himself 
the observed of all observers and the 
centre of attraction to various bevies of 
nursery maids and irreverent children. 
He may run his head against a hammock 
suspended from a tree, or be tripped up 
by some pet dog of the minute tan terrier 
species, who will, in all probability, 
revenge himself by grabbing at his heels, 
and -when at length he reaches the 
avenue, he will most probably thank 
heaven for his safe return and vow that 
the nursemaids will never again have 
their privacy intruded upon by him. 



THE McGILL gazette. 



7 



lie may then possibly loiter across to 
the foot-ball grounds, only to lind it 
occupied by a yelling multitude of small 
boys* He sighs and wends his way 
homeward, wondering if James McGill, 
when he founded a college, did not in- 
tend that some portions of his munificent 
donation should be used by the students. 

COLLEGE ITEMS. 

All Freshmen are requested to wear the 
College ribbon and thereby shew their loyalty to 
their new found Alma Mater. 

FOOTBALL! ! ! FOOTBALL! ! ! ! ! ! 

The Freshmen number about fifty. 

The Seniors feel themselves overworked. The 
poor fellows have to attend about half-a-dozen 
lectures a week. 

Prof. Kerr delivered the opening lecture in 
law in Mol son Hall, last Saturday. 

The Meds. have begun work, and now “the 
voice of the songster is heard on the street,” 
about 10 p.m. 

We hear that the cre ws of Harvard and Yale 
will, hereafter, row eight oars with a cox-swain, 
like the English University crews, — and that they 
have withdrawn from the rowing convention of 
Colleges, and will hereafter row alone, so that no 
body but Yale can lick Harvard, and nobody 
but Harvard can lick Yale. They say they are 
tired of advertising small Colleges. Quite so \ 
They certainly have advertised them well. 

Gymnasium Classes commenced on Monday 
4th, with a very large attendance, Mr. Barnjam, 
is again heartily welcomed and we congratulate 
him on his choice of an assistant. 

We understand that a Glee Club is being 
organized in our midst by a respected and 
enterprising gentleman connected with the 
College, we wish him and it every success, and 
hope the spirit of song may be infused into our 
men. It will do them good in every way. 

It is truly an inspiring sight to see a Freshman 
in all his new fledged glory of gown and 
trencher; dodging around and carefully guarding 
both, lest some supercilious Soph, may rip up 
the one and take the tassel off the other. 



Annual University Lecture takes place in 
Molson Hall, on November 11th. We would 
respectfully suggest to the Faculty that the 
services of Josh Biliings, who lectures in 
Mechanics Hall, Thursday evening, be retained. 

When the Guibord burial takes place we beg 
of the College Companies not to be too far in 
advance, as the greater number in that case 
would probably be killed, and we can’t afford to 
lose too many. We know of one gentleman 
however, who is thirsting for a fray of some sort 
and has been so since he came up. Let us hope 
he will be gratified. 

Where! Oh Where! is the Founder’s 
Festival. 

Judging from appearances, or rather sounds 
the tunes from “ La Fille de Madame Angot,” 
seem to be popular. One's ears are saluted witli 
it at every turn, and in every Hail. Even 
Theologs. are catching it. Oh ! 

We commence the publication of the “ Rugby 
Union” Foot-ball rules. These rules are those now 
generally accepted by the leading Foot-ball clubs 
both of this and the old country, and are those by 
which the College Club plays. The want of the 
Rules in a printed form has been long felt as occa- 
sionally points of dispute have arisen, which, 
through the ignorance of the majority, would have 
to be settled by the “ dictum’’ of one player who 
might happen to know something of the Rules, 
and we hope that by our publication of them we 
will make them familiar to all the Students and 
to members of F. B., Clubs without the Uni- 
versity. 

The U. L., Society has recommenced its 
debates and meets as usual every Friday evening 
ia the Alexandra Rooms. Let all — particularly 
Freshmen, who will have their eyes opened and 
intellects enlarged — attend. Sophomores are 
not sufficiently impressed. 

The University Literary Society’s Meeting 
on Friday evening had a fair attendance as it 
generally has had this term, but we are sorry to 
chronicle that Mr. McGoun was the only 
appointed Debater who “ poured out,” as the 
others proved delinquents to the duty of debat- 
ing, as to whether “ Gladstone or Disraeli, was 
, (or is) the greater Statesman.” 



8 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



The debate on Free Trade and Protection, 
which was somewhat stormy, has been laid on 
the table till Oct, 22nd. 

Owing to delays consequent upon the starting 
of a paper, our first issue is delayed a fortnight 
beyond the proper time. But the heaviest part 
of a load, is the raising it from the ground, and 
our next will make its appearance on the first of 
November. 

That University Prayer-Meeting on Saturday 
afternoons has been resumed. 



PERSONALS. 

51. — W. H. Hingston, M.D., Major of 
Montreal, waslatelj married to Miss MacDonald, 
daughter of the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario. 

’64. — We hear that there is some probability 
of Wilfred Laurier, B.C.L., M.P., being offered 
a place in the Cabinet. 

52. — The Hon. Alexander Morris, M.A., 
B.C.L., is Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba. 

*3. — R. Prefontainc, B. C. L., has been 
elected M.P.P., for Ohambly County. 

’71.— W. S. Walker, B.C.L., ’74.-and E. J. 
Major, B.C.L., were admitted to the Bar of 
Lower Canada last July. 

*4. J. C. Cameron, M.D., is House Surgeon 
in the General Hospital, J. D. Cline, M.D., 
'74. Ass't. Surgeon, and W. H. Burland, M.D. 
’75. is Apothecary to the same Institution. 

75. P. J. Goodhue, M.D., is practising his 
profession with much success in Minnesota. 

74— J. S. McLennan, B.A., and G. H. 
Chandler, B.A., 75, have gone to Cambridge, 
for the further prosecution of their studies. We 
hope sincerely that the same success may attend 
them in England as has always done hero. 

75. — Dav. Rodger, B.A.Sc., is on the staff 
of the Pacific Railway, and when last heard 
from he was at the Lake of the Woods. 

4 5. . E. Dawson, B.A.Sc., is pursuing a 

course in the Polytechnic School at Paris, France. 

77.— The great Mr. Graham, who last term 
graced these Halls is at present teaching school 
in the Townships. 



SPORTING NOTES. 

Debarred by our natural position from engag- 
ing in Aquatic sports and prevented by the 
early closing of the Session in the spring from 
practising Cricket, Lacrosse, or Base-ball, there 
remains to us only one out-door game which we 
can with any amount of success play, and that 
is Foot ball. 

To Foot-ball the Students of McGill have 
always taken kindly and though unsuccessful in 
the two Inter Collegiate matches with Harvard, 
have generally acquitted themselves well. 

Their failure in these matches may be 
attributed to utter want of practice. 

This Session, however, the practices have 
been well attended and from a careful observation 
of the play we can predict with a certain amount 
of confidence a bright future for McGill in the 
Foot-ball field. 

A challenge is expected from the University 
of Toronto, for a match in October, and we 
believe a contest with Queen’s College, Kingston, 
is also ou the tapis. 

A meeting for the formation of a Foot-ball 
club was held on Tuesday, 21st ultimo. There 
was a large attendance and much interest was 
shown in the proceedings. 

As the Medical and Law Students do not 
assemble till Oct., 2nd the proceedings were all 
pro tern. 

The Chairman Was instructed to invite the 
Montreal Foot-ball club to practice on the 
College grounds, and the invitation has, we learn 
been accepted. 

Much benefit lias always accrued to both 
clubs from this practising together and College 
men are invariably found on the Montreal team 
which is the strongest individual team in 
Canada, and some say in America. 

Rugby Union Rules were decided on as the 
code to be followed. 

E. T. Taylor, (Soph.) was elected Captain 
pro tern , and R. Dawson, (Soph.) and R. Robert- 
son, (Junior) appointed Secretary and Treasurer 
respectively. 

As before stated the proceedings were all pro 
tern and are subject to the approval or disapproval 
of a meeting of all the Faculties to be held 
Wednesday Oct., 6th. 



THE McGILL gazette. 



9 



A matcli McGill past and present vs. all 
comers, played Sept. 18th, resulted in a draw. 

The Annual Matches High School vs. Fresh- 
man. Arts vs. Science, and Arts vs. Medicine, 
will all come off during this month. 

The Inter-Provincial Match, Ontario vs. 
Montreal Oct. 9th resulted in a draw. 

On dit that the Town vs. Gown Match, will 
be played Oct. 23rd. 

LACROSSE. 

“ ’Toronto” played “ Montreal” Saturday Sept. 
25th, and were beaten after a close contest. 

The scheme of sending a team of the Montreal 
Club to England, to introduce the game there 
has been abandoned for this year. 

A Meeting to arrange about the Annual 
Athletic sports will be held Monday 18th. 

At a meetiug (postponed from Oct. 6th,) held 
on Thursday, the 14th inst. the University 
Foot-Ball Club was orgauized permanently. 
The officers elected were : 

President. — R. D. Rogers, Sc. ’77. 

Captain. — E. T. Taylor, ’78. 

Ass' t-Coptain. — S. D. Taylor, (Law.) B. A., 
’74. 

Secy- Treasurer. — R. Robertson, ’77. 

Committee. — Dawson, ’78, and McGibbon, 
’77, Arts. MacDonnell, Medicine , McDou- 
gall, Law , and Scriver, Science. 

R. B. McGibbon, was elected delegate to the 
Toronto Foot-Ball Convention. 

The Harvard team, we hear is coming on in 
the course of a fortnight, to play the Montreal 
Club. We hope to see some of our old friends 
of last year among them. 

■ » 

EXCHANGES. 

The information furnished by the Racine 
<< Mercury” is of too local a character to attract 
the notice of outside barbarians. 

Such a selfish tendency betrays either a 
consciousness of being “ uncared for and un- 
known” beyond its small circle of admirers, or 
a wholesome fear of giving a handle to its con- 
freres, by treatiug of subjects which might in- 
vite perusal and evoke criticism. 

The Cornell “ Era” shows no signs of decay 
under the new editorial staff. The salutatory 



contains some excellent remarks, and the acoount 
of the Saratoga Regatta is well written and 
interesting. 

The remarks from the Editorial chair of the 
Vassar Miscellany are remarkably good and we 
heartily endorse her views on critics and criticism, 
but does she not wax a little too eloquent and 
warm in praise of her country ? Let us quote 
for the benefit of our benighted countrymen 
“ How much we owe to those simple, earnest 
men, * * * we can only estimate by comparing 
our country as it is to-day, with Canada or any 
other British province on this continent. What 
they are, we might have been, had our fathers 
been less determined, les3 brave, we had almost 
said, less inspired.” We forbear comment, but 
would respectfully invite the editors of the 
“ Miscellany” to “ come East.” We are sorry 
the .Alumnae department is going to drop, and 
hope all the light reading will not at the same 
time forsake the Miscellany 

We welcome the new series of the “ Dart- 
mouth” and congratulate it on its improvement 
in style and issue. The editorials are decidedly 
<rood, and in most of its articles, it seems to have 
followed that excellent piece of slang advice 
which the majority of college papers so sadly 
need viz. to “boil it down.’’ 

We have received the “ University Monthly” 
and the <l Beloit. ” 



CLIPPINGS. 

Vassar College has at present 440 students. 

Brown University has seventy freshman this 
term. 

A Senior scientific asked the other day if a 
certain animal were herbivorous or carboniferous! 
— Era. 

The Rev. Dr. Jacques, late Professor of 
Greek in Wesleyan University, 111., has accepted 
the office of President of Albert University, 
Belleville; Canada. 

The number of persons in this year’s freshman 
class at Union College will probably equal the 
'whole number in college four years ago. Many 
are from the Southern States, and, without ex 
ception, rank high for character and scholarship 
The various courses of study have been revised. 



IO 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



and largely expanded, while the general standard 
of study has been greatly raised. — Ex. 

— Scene. — A dwelling house on Mill street 
where several students room. 1st Soph, (who 
goes to call on 2nd Soph, and his Freshman 
chum, finds them both out, and for the want of 
a better card fills, as he supposes, “ chum’s” 
boots with water. Calls to the next door and 
fiuds No. 2.) “ I ley, Cully, I have got a bully 

joke on your Freshman.” 2nd Soph. — “ Good, 
what is it?” 1st Soph. — “ I was just in his 
room and filled his boots full of water.” 2nd 
Soph. — “ Why you darned fool those were my 
boots , git out o’ here.” Curtain falls, and No. 
1 borrows some arnica of his landlady when he 
gets home. — Era. 

— History Class. Student — Professor, are 

kings and queens always the highest ? Professor 
— Certainly, why do you ask such a nonsensical 
question ? Student — Because I noticed that in 
a game of railroad euchre, the joker ( Pro- 

fessor — Leave the room, sir! — Niagara Index. 
— Dartmouth. 

Yale College opened Sept. 16. There have 
been in all 226 applications for admission, and 
109 students were admitted without conditions. 
There are no changes of importance to record 
at the beginning of the year. Neither the 
Chapel nor the Peabody Museum is yet com- 
pleted. Rochester University opens with a 
Freshman class of 45, and further additions are 
expected. Syracuse University was reopened 

on Wednesday, Sept. 15. There were present 
115 students at the first chapel service. Chan- 
cellor Haven announced that attendance upon 
chapel service would be required hereafter of 
all the students. The Massachussets Agricul- 
tural College at Amherst was reopened with a 
new class of 13 members. Among them is one 
young lady, a graduate of the State Normal 
School at Salem. Obcrlin College was opened 
with about the usual number of students. There 
have been a few changes in the faculty. Ashbury 
University (Ind.) began its Fall session on the 
15th iust. The members of the old faculty 
have been reinstated. Dr. Martin, ex-President 
of Virginia University, has been elected Presi- 
dent. — Ex. 



— Not far from Heustis street is a pear orch- 
ard which enjoys a high reputation among the 
students of that vicinity. Last Tuesday even- 
ing a “ man” of the Junior class with his Fresh- 
man chum, decided to pay it a visit, and after 
rigging themselves out with the articles neces- 
sary for such an expedition including a “ dark 
lantern,” they started. On the way they called 
on some neighboring students and tried to in- 
duce them to go. But on the plea of “ too much 
work on hand,” they declined, and the former 
pair went for pears. Soon after their departure 
one of the “ working” students produced a pistol 
and with his chum also proceeded to the “ pear’ 
rendezvous. They met the first named pair at 
the orchard fence, returning with ‘‘dead loads 
of fruit.” “Jack, let the dogs loose,” and the 
firing of the pistol were followed by a fall of the 
dark lantern, two pillow cases fuU of pears, and 
the Junior and Freshman all in an instant. But 
the latter soon recovered from the first shock- 
picked up their traps and started for home on a 
run. About half way up the steps the pistol 
was again heard ; this was more than they could 
stand and down went the pears, but the owners 
did not stop until they had locked the door of 
their room behind them. Here the curtain 
falls until half an hour after, when a student 
called and invited them to his room, where he 
said he had some fine pears and wanted his 
friends to try them . — Cornell Era. 



FOOT-BALL. 

Tn accordance with the requests of a circular 
sent by Mr. R. M. Esdaile of the Montreal F, 
B. C. delegates from the various clubs in Canada 
met Saturday Oct. 16th in Toronto to form an 
Association under the above title. 

The following gentlemen were present, Messrs. 
Gough, Esdaile, Boodle & Creighton of the Mon- 
treal clubs, Griffiths & Stewart of the Quebec 
club, Bull & Aylsworth of Toronto University, 
Glazebrooke & Lamb of Argonaut club, & Me- 
Gibbon of the McGill University club. 

The Hamilton, Port Hope, Britannia and 
Kingston clubs were represented by proxies. 

On motion Mr. Lamb took the chair and Mr. 
Esdaile acted as Secretary. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



A constitution was then drafted and the meet- 
ing proceeded with the election of officers. The 
result was as follows. 

President. — R. St. B. Young, Quebec, Q. C. 
Vice- President. — Mr. Coding, Argonaut C. 

2 nd Vice-Pres. - E . A. Whitehead, M. C* 

Sect/.- Treasurer. — R. M. Esdaile, M. C. 

Council : — Messrs. Hope (Hamilton) Glaze- 
brooke (Argonauts) Perram (Trinity College) 
McGibbon (McGill University) Bull. (Toronto 
University). 

The meeting then proceeded to decide upon 
a code of rules to be played by the Association. 

Mr. Creighton moved, seconded by Mr, 
Griffiths “ That we adopt Rugby Union Rules 
subject to such modifications as the gen. com. 
may see fit. 

Mr. Glazebrooke moved seconded by Mr. 
Gough, “ That we accept Rugby Union Rules 
in full and also that this association join the 
Rugby Foot-ball Union.’’ 

Mr. McGibbon stated that he thought it was 
not competent for the Association to join the 
Union and spoke in favour of adopting the 
general principles of the Rugby Union game 
with such particular modifications and altera- 
tions as might be deemed proper. He strongly 
advocated our having a National Association. 

Mr. Aylsworth of Toronto University followed 
in the same strain and Mr. Glazebrooke with 
drew the latter clause of his motion. On a vote 
being taken Mr. Glazebrooke’s amendment was 
carried by a vote of 8 to 3. 

The delegates of the Toronto Union then 
withdrew from the meeting as they were auth- 
orized by their club to refuse to join if any rule g 
which contained the provisions as to “ off side’’ 
were played. 

The annual subscription was .fixed at §5.00 
for senior and §2.50 for junior clubs and schools. 
.After further business the meeting adjourned. 

We understand the Association intends to 
issue a football annual after the model of Lilly- 
white’s guide which shall contain reports of all 
matches played by clubs in the Association. 



I T 

The Interproyincial Foot-Ball Match. 

This annual match was played on Saturday 
Oct. 16th on the cricket ground in Toronto. 

The afternoon was extremely chilly and the 
field when the players made their appearance 
presented a bleak and not particularly inviting 
aspect which was relieved somewhat by the 
presence of a large number of spectators many 
of whom had come by special train lrom Hamil- 
ton. 

We shall not enter into any long description 
of the match suffice it to say that after an hour 
and a half’s hard play Ontario won, a goal having 
been dropped by Mr.Kerrof Brantford. Through, 
out the whole match it was evident that Ontario 
was much the strongest team (physically) and 
though Quebec played well together still no de. 
cided advantage was gained by them. We were 
utterly unable to select any one player as better 
than any other on the Quebec side aud on the 
Ontario we would meation Messrs. Kerr, Hope, 
Perram, Greenfield and Stewart. There were 
not more than 5 runs during the match and the 
(to us) unnecessarily provocated “scrummages’’ 
which render the game monotonous seemed to 
be one of the strongest arguments in favour of 
the idea of modifying the Rugby Qnion rules in 
this respect. To this subject we shall again 
allude. 

The members of the Quebec team were kindly 
treated by the Ontario men, and the teams dined 
together on Saturday night. 

Harvard University play a team from the 
Dominion next Saturday on the Cricket grounds. 

The Freshman and Proprietary School played 
a match on Oct. 11th, the former winning by 
one goal to their opponents nothing. 



The McGill Gazette is published forth- 
nightly during the College Year by the under- 
graduates of the University. 

Terms : $ i per annum ; single copy, i o cts. 

For sale at Drysdale’s, Dawson's & Hill’s. 

Subscriptions and Advertisements to be sent 
to the Secretary-Treasurer, McGill College. 

Contributions should be directed to the 
Managing Editors. McGill College. 

E. Lafleur, Secy Treas. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



12 




FINE ASSORTMENT 



Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

N. *\yWS/\/ w\/\/ 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY, 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 

McGill College Text Books 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books in use at the Coi.lege, 

AI.SO 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY , 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stamped -with the University Die for the use of Students , 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. vT^-ZMES ST 

SUBSCRIBE TO 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



GO TO 

I95i ST. JAMES STREET, 

IK YOU WISH 

FIRST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PI 10 TOGRA PIIER. 



THE 

I 

f 

jjssiiiaa jjjjsit and froiiice j?,, 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 



The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparationss of this Company, 
consisting of — 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, In Tina 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 

i And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG, & B. can confidently recommend these 
Goods as equal and, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES ST. 

^ f* 

ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 

Printed by J. C. BECKET, 658 & 660 Craig Street. 



