JVo* i ♦ 



Vof. IX. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday , October 14 , 1885 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - 3.5 

Contributions 5-8 

Every Fortnight ----- 8-10 

Poetry - 10 

McGill News 10-13 



PAGE. 

College World 13 

Societies - 13-14 

Sporting - 14-15 

Personals 15 

Advertisements - - - - 2, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1385. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



GreensMelds, McGorlall. Guerin & GreenslMs. 

ADVOCATES, 

P;irrisiors y ^ttarnnp, Jlolitiiors, &t. r 

Chambers : Exohange Bank Building, 

102 St. Francois XavierSt., 

MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill, Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



J. J. GREAVES. 

IMPORTER OF ALL KINDS OF 

WOOLS, TOYS, JEWLLRY, STATIONERY, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 & 1344 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant 

-m TAILORS, 

= 1 1671 [== 

N-0 THE DAME ST. 

MOITTEE&L 




-Me FOR STUDENTS 3|h- 

17 BLE7B7 ST. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. CTJL3VIES ST. 



.71 E 11/1.1 Mj II 'OR K S, n O OKS USER IJY ART CO 1/ RSE, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS '1 HEOIjOUI CAE ROOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., See,, 

-•-KB ZEST V.A.IjTJE 1 1ST TOWITi-^ 

Stylograph ic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BUY "YOTTIR, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 JMcire Dame Si. 



EUR COATS, CATS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 






UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, OCTOBER 14th, 1885. [No. 1. 



JMKff EliiiDcusitij (§a,jette 

DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Trcas . 

COMMITTEE. 

Geo. C. Stephen, 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Colin H. Livingstone, Arts ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. '87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

notice. 

We are sending the first number of the Gazette to 
old subscribers and to those likely to subscribe. We 
would request all who do not wish to receive it in 
future, to notify us to that effect, or return the paper. 



Editorials. 



GREETING. 

In presenting the first number of the Gazette for 
the session of 1885-6 the editors have again earnestly 
to bespeak the cordial support and sympathy of the 
graduates and undergraduates of the University. 

The absence from the editorial staff of Mr Walter 
H. Turner, B.A., whose able pen and untiring energy 
were placed unreservedly and unselfishly at the 
paper’s disposal last year in his capacity of editor-in- 
chief is a loss which necessitates a great exertion on 
the part of the present board to maintain the position 
and excellence now, it is hoped, achieved. 

It is but reasonable to expect that those who have 
been instrumental in reviving this paper and establish- 



ing it on a firm basis financially, will not continue to 
withhold that assistance without which it will be im- 
possible for the Gazette to fulfil any useful purpose 
or become the recognized voice of McGill’s alumni. 
If it fails to become this, the fault will lie with the 
students and graduates in whose interest alone this 
journal is published, and whose encouragement and 
countenance it is our aim to deserve and appreciate. 
Last year was very prosperous as far as material 
results were concerned, but the apathy and neglect of 
large numbers of those who were justly and openly 
appealed to for literary aid left something to be 
desired in this essential feature of the paper. 

Not being the organ of any faction, but the un- 
prejudiced medium through which the sentiments and 
ideas of all friends of McGill may find expression, the 
endeavor will be to amend every error of the past, im- 
prove upon every success, and command respect and 
confidence. The editorial policy of a paper of this 
class must be a straightforward independent criticism 
of matters affecting the college, tempered by a respect- 
ful modesty which will disarm the opposition so easily 
raised against the exuberant readiness of youth to 
solve all the serious problems of life. Guided by this 
rule we look for the approval of active minds ever 
searching for reforms, at the same time avoiding the 
censure of those dispassionate and responsible persons 
who have hitherto refrained from yielding even a pas- 
sive support to the objects of a college paper. 

These columns will always be open to expressions 
of opinion couched in proper language, and such 
communications whether they contain praise or blame 
of our conduct, will be equally welcome, as an evi- 
dence that the Gazette is regarded by its readers as 
the most fitting channel for the interchange of their 
ideas. 

Contributions of an interesting, instructive or 
amusing kind are earnestly solicited, so that the stan- 
dard of excellence in this department as regards merit 
and variety may be preserved. It is also hoped that 
those who have it in their power to render the paper’s 
office as a chronicle of college events more perfect 
and complete, will voluntarily lend their services in 
this direction. 

The students and younger graduates we hope will 
believe that the Gazette exists primarily for them, 
that our treatment of them and their affairs will ever 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



be actuated by the friendliest motives, and that for 
these reasons we confidently count upon their co- 
operation. 

The older graduates who have perhaps looked upon 
this enterprise with coldness since its inception, may 
be sure that our humble efforts are directed toward a 
result in which they are concerned — the creation of a 
strong bond of union between them and the younger 
members, so that it may be the privilege of all to play 
an effectual and important part in the progress of the 
University. 

SIR WILLIAM DAWSON. 

Every McGill man must have felt proud when he 
read that our distinguished Principal. Sir William 
Dawson, had been elected President of the British 
Association for the Advancement of Science for next 
year. We imagine that the honor of the position is 
but imperfectly appreciated in Montreal. The British 
Association is undoubtly the most important body of 
its kind in the world, and its presidents have mostly 
been men of world-wide reputations. It must be 
recognized, of course, that Sir William Dawson’s 
appointment is intended as a compliment to Canada 
in general, and Montreal in particular, in return for 
the princely reception of the Association here last 
year. But this derogates very little, to our mind, from 
the honor conveyed personally to our Principal. If a 
man fully worthy of filling the position were not to 
be found here, not even the desire of paying a com- 
pliment to Canadians would cause the British Associa- 
tion to elect a mediocre man to the Presidency. The 
fact that the meeting next year is to be held in Bir- 
mingham will add also greatly to its interest, and we 
may be sure that all eyes both in this country and in 
England will be turned with eagerness towards that 
city next August. 



THE UNDERGRADUATES SOCIETY. 

The giving of advice to young men, is often a 
thankless task, unless one adopts the method of the 
American humorist who first found out what kind of 
advice was desired and then gave that sort, thereby 
increasing the person’s respect for his own judgment, 
and for the wisdom of the adviser. But we cannot 
resist impressing upon the freshmen the expediency of 
setting aside every Friday evening for attendance at 
the Undergraduates’ Literary Society meetings, and 
allowing no trival excuse to prevent them from 
regularly participating in the debates. We say this 
not alone to the freshmen in Arts. It is an open 
secret that students in the other Faculties, medicine 



for instance, are frequently desirous of joining the 
society, but are dissuaded by the majority who seem 
to think such training incompatible with the dignity 
of professional students, or else believe that the small 
amount of leisure left to them might be more agree- 
ably and profitably spent. We cannot stop to argue 
with those who are confirmed in these views, but we 
would remind the less obdurate as well as students 
now thinking of the matter for the first time, that the 
testimony is overwhelmingly in favor of the training 
received in debating societies, and university graduates 
invariably look back with satisfaction at the time 
spent at this really important branch of education. 
We hope that the Society this session will have its 
list of members largely added to by new students, and 
that under the presidency of Mr. Yates its career will 
be one of undiminished usefulness. 



McGILL GRADUATES AND NEW PROFESSOR- 
SHIPS. 

Now that the question of the teaching of women in 
the University has been definitely decided it becomes 
the duty of all, no matter what private opinions they 
may hold or what system they may prefer, to join in 
trying to make that system which has been adopted as 
perfect a success as possible. One result of separate 
classes, which does not altogether displease us, will be, 
that after a short time additions will have to be made 
to the teaching staff of the college. Within a year it 
seems to us the present Professors of Mental and 
Moral Philosophy, of English Literature, and of 
Modern Languages will have to be relieved of part of 
their work. Now this we consider a good opportunity 
of carrying out a scheme which was urged in the 
Gazette a year or two ago, namely, the institution of 
fellowships or lectureships to be held for a period of 
three or four years. The salaries which the college 
can at present afford to offer will attract only young 
men who have recently graduated, so that this would 
really be the best way of obtaining lecturers in these 
subjects. The duties should be light, not more than 
six hours a week, and the appointments should be by 
competitive examination. Graduates of McGill Uni- 
versity alone should be eligible, and thus we should 
have a training school for professors, and not be com- 
pelled to draw upon the Old Country so much as we 
do at present. Lectureships of this kind have been 
established at Toronto University, and we believe with 
success. The plan at all events is worthy of considera- 
tion, and we hope that when the time comes for 
something to be done in the matter the authorities 
will not overlook our suggestion. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



It was to be expected that the smallpox epidemic 
now exposing the incapacity of MontreaFs sanitary 
officials, as well as the credulity of people in other 
parts of Canada in absorbing exaggerated accounts, 
would cause a diminution in the number of students 
at McGill this year. But the falling oft* is not large 
enough to be serious, and happily, it is a state of 
things easily remedied when the truth becomes known. 
The danger to students from the disease is not great, 
for the precautionary measures necessary are simple 
and effectual, and the care which has incidentally to 
be taken, does not come amiss. A proper regard for 
health is so easily forgotten, that any cause which 
compels regular habits of life amongst students is not 
an unmixed evil. The regulations of the college 
authorities are timely, and these in conjunction with 
the ordinary vigilance to be expected of each in- 
dividual, should secure our students complete im- 
munity from the disease. 



Sport appears to be looking up at McGill this 
year. The Football Club began morning practice 
early in the first week of college and has continued 
them vigorously in spite of sore arms. We have lost 
with the graduating class some of our best players but 
we have an exceptionally good stock of reserve 
material and see no reason to doubt having our usual 
success in the inter-collegiate. The Freshmen are pay- 
ing up their subscriptions promptly and it would be 
well if, despite college etiquette, the senior years 
followed their example better. It is the duty of 
every undergraduate to support to the utmost extent 
of his abilities the enterprizes and customs of his 
college and of these football is not the least at 
McGill. 

In a few days our annual sports of 188G will have 
become a thing of the past. The Fall Athletic Games 
of McGill have attained a continental celebrity, and 
with justice we think. It rests with you to sustain 
that reputation. Your committee is now preparing 
for them. Give them your usual support both in 
entries and funds that they may pass off with their 
customary succe ss. 

There promises to be a brisk rivalry during the 
coming year between the Advocate , the old-established 
literary bi-weekly, and the new magazine, the Har- 
vard Monthly , which issues its first number, October 
21st. The Advocate is first on the field, its first num- 
ber appearing in enlarged form. It will offer in its 
editorial column a prize of $10 for the best story 
handed in before January 1, 1886, and a prize of $5 
for the best essay on some subject interesting to 
Advocate readers. 



itontributions. 



A CLASSICAL COURSE A LIBERAL EDUCA- 
TION. 

After long battle, such as is ever waged before can 
be brought into question a venerable institution that 
has imposed its sway upon the minds of men for cen- 
turies and has its strength in the power of prejudice 
transmitted through such countless generations that it 
has come to be believed natural— after such battle, 
the highly artificial system of classical training, 
falsely called education, has finally been made to 
totter. Its devotees, whose minds have been so cramped 
by its influence that they are incapable of grasping the 
possibility of another system of training being effectual 
have rushed to its rescue. The daring inconoclasts 
who have attacked this last of mediaeval institutions 
have appealed from the platform and through the 
press to the judgment of the people, and have 
triumphed. But still the defenders of classical train- 
ing do not acknowledge their defeat. Abandoning 
fair argument they have taken refuge in mean insinua- 
tion. Professors in danger of losing their occupation, 
persons who having known no other training find it 
impossible to conceive that another can be effectual, 
dillettante intellects are uniting to cry out even be- 
fore other systems have had a fair trial, that the results 
of these are not to be compared to the results pro- 
duced by a classical training. Other systems, they * 
say don’t educate. This is their position, they have 
turned the tables upon their adversaries. Their asser- 
tions are loud, but backed by very questionable sup- 
port. Professors whose own training has been purely 
classical state boldly that the minds of students trained 
in the sciences are not so fully developed as those of 
scholars exercised in the classics. But are such men 
fair judges ? Should their declaration be received as 
valid? Is it not probable that their judgments, even 
if one suppose them conscientious, have received a 
bias from their training? Give the new system of 
education a fair trial. Time is necessary to show the 
advantages of the sciences, of the modern languages, 
of the optional system, as educators. Meanwhile there 
can be no objection to discussing the theoretical values 
of the different courses, provided that in doing so no 
unproven assertions be made and prejudice be left 
wholly aside. 

Before an argument can be opened it is necessary 
that the points in common between the disputants 
should be clearly stated and the meaning of the terms 
used by both well understood. J ust now the point at 
issue is the educational value of a classical as opposed 
to a scientific course of training. Which of these is 
best adapted to further the end of the student seeking 
a liberal education ? A recent upholder of the 
classical system has defined what we understand by a 
liberal education. Let us adopt his definition. He 
says the aim of the college is to give the student a 
liberal education and goes on “the college provides that 
he shall get such a complete possession of himself — 
in all his powers : mind, body and that total of 
qualities known as character — as is essential to the 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



highest success in any specialty or profession what- 
ever.” Again, he says, that the educated man should 
have other qualities, “a certain largeness of view, an 
acquaintance with the intellectual life of the world, 
the appreciation of principles, the power and habit of 
independent thought, the freedom from personal pro- 
vincialism and the recognition of the other point of 
view, an underlying nobleness of intention, the per- 
sistence in magnanimous aims.” 

Now let us see how many of these things can be 
got out of a classical training. Does it give “ a com- 
plete possession of self? ” — Of the various faculties of 
the mind which are brought into play in the study of 
the classics. Memory, perseverance, reflectiveness to 
a certain extent, and icsthetic sensibility principally. 
But the memory is no more exercised in studying a 
dead than a living language. Its exercise is not 
greater when the brain is taxed to carry heaps of un- 
couth sounds or lists of inverted and involved con- 
structions than when the mind is master of the system- 
atic classifications and exactly expressive nomenclatures 
of the sciences. The perseverance which ends in the 
mastery of Latin or Greek is not greater than that 
which is required to follow out the steps of a scientific 
induction or verify a discovered law of nature by 
minute observation or a series of careful experiments. 
The classics induce reflectiveness, the reading of them 
provokes comparison between ancient and modern 
times, they supply the first steps of inductions made 
easy by our historical knowledge. But in science we 
have the first steps of inductions whose issues are im- 
pressed until laboriously readied. Science compels 
where the classics only tempt to reflection. As to the 
icsthetic sensibilities they receive but an artificial 
stimulus from the classics. What descriptions of 
beauty or proportion can awaken the admiration 
excited by the inimitable lines of a flower or the 
flawless symmetry of a crystal. If the defenders of 
the classics would only condescend to explain where- 
in rests the vaunted educational superiority of the 
latter it might be easier to join issue with them but 
they content themselves with saying that experience 
has proved and is proving that superiority. This, 
notwithstanding the fact that until very very recently 
there has been no other system of higher education in 
practice. If the upholders of the classics know that 
in their study is virtue not manifest to the uninitiated 
it is fair that this should be declared. 

But let us take up the other qualities which the 
classics are said to bestow upon their students, “a 
certain largeness of view.” Evidently this is to be 
gained by comparison of ancient with modern times. 
But is it so gained ? Among what scholars do we find 
the narrowest minds? Who are they who have ever 
refused to see any good possibility in other systems of 
education ? Who are they who arrogate to themselves 
alone the title of educated, who have styled themselves 
the chosen few, the Israelites, and have dubbed all the 
outside world Goths and Philistines ? Who are they who 
would restrict the term liberal to such education as 
they themselves have received? Who are they who 
keep themselves aloof from the burning questions of 
the day, who stand aside in haughty superciliousness 
leaving to others, illiberally educated, the fulfilment 



of the duties of citizenship ? The largeness of view of 
such acts as these is too apparent for comment. 

And does science not give to its votaries any large- 
ness of view ? Its laws require careful scrutiny of a 
problem from every side. It deals in mighty com- 
parisons. It recognizes not the petty divisions of men. 
Its teachings are wholly catholic. They are in ad- 
dition practical. “An acquaintance with the intel- 
lectual life of the world.” No one disputes that there 
was active intellectual life in classical times, but how 
does it compare with the intellectual life of the last 
four centuries ? Which of the two periods has been 
the most productive in philosophical theory, in 
physical discovery, in practical invention ? Life is 
short and Admirable Crichtons are no more. The 
intellectual life of Greece and Borne may be known 
through the labors of others condensed into works in 
our own tongue. The mass of existing knowledge to 
be attacked can never be wholly mastered. We can 
only gather in a part and surely it is wisdom to secure 
first such knowledge as will immediately advantage 
ourselves or lay the foundations for future profit to 
our fellows. “ The appreciation of principles.” How 
fond the defenders of the classics are of stealing their 
adversaries’ thunder ! The appreciation of principles 
derivable from the study of Latin and Greek ! 
Philological principles perhaps ? One thing is certain, 
the principles of morality cannot be meant ; the 
morals of the classics are somewhat too shady for that. 
One hardly knows what can be intended by such an 
assertion. But the Physical and Mental sciences do 
lead to an appreciation of principles. It might almost 
be said that such is the aim of their study. Under- 
lying principles are sought unceasingly and when 
discovered their applications are pointed out minutely. 

“ The power and habit of independent thought ” are 
undoubtedly fostered by the study of the classics but 
so are they by the sciences. The latter have however 
the advantage in this respect in that the classics are 
limited in extent, intellectual effort has for ages been 
lavished upon them, and all the reflections that can 
possibly arise out of their study have become trite. 
Not so with the sciences. The student is ever dis- 
covering, and every discovery has to be fitted into its 
proper place in our idea of the universe’s economy. 

“ The freedom from personal provincialism.” What 
is provincialism but exclusiveness, and where do we 
find so excessively developed a type of exclusiveness 
as by the man who has been classically educated. He 
lives in the past, he has a contempt for the present. 
The modern is to him the sordid. Its practical, rest- 
less, everlasting activity is repugnant to him. He 
loves the academic shades and lives in a world of his 
own. Far otherwise the scientist. The march of 
knowledge is so swift that to keep up with it in his 
own branch he must hold communion with his fellow 
investigators in all countries. He must be quick to 
recognize the value of the meanest’s labor. He is a 
member of learned societies in every quarter of the 
globe and is decorated with orders by every reignin" 
monarch. None other is so thoroughly cosmopolitan. 
“ underlying nobleness of intention.” Derived of 
course from the magnificent models of humanity held 
up to his admiration in the classics. And the result 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



is this that the admirer of these heroes of ancient ro- 
mance is always waiting for the opportunity to do a 
great thing, something that succeeding ages will mar- 
vel at. But somehow in this terribly prosaic age of 
ours, the romantic opportunity never comes, and in 
the meantime the unfulfilled smaller duties accu- 
mulate. 

With science the teaching is different. “ Your 
aim ” it tell its followers “is to benefit rcnn. Labor, 
be patient, wait. The results of your toil, if not 
magnificent, may be the foundation for another’s suc- 
cess. Be unselfish. The end is the same no matter 
by whom achieved.” And so in the patient heroism 
that is more sublime than any mad act of an over- 
excited brain or over stimulated body, the scientist 
labors on assured that his toil will result in good. 

At this time it may be asked and in this paper 
what use to cover again old ground. In our univer- 
sity students are permitted to make their choice as to 
the course they will take to get a liberal education, 
what more do you want? We do want something 
more, we ask for the student the privilege of choosing 
his course at the beginning of his four years in Arts. 
Give the system of education in physical and mental 
science, in modern languages, in history, a fair chance to 
do thorough work. The work of the first two years is 
much of it child’s play, or work that should have been 
done in the schools. Why not then in these years lay 
down the foundations for original research and let this 
be the work of the senior years. The Greek alphabet 
and rudiments of Latin Grammar are learned in the 
schools, and the classical course is advantaged thereby. 
Let the German alphabet and the French Grammar, 
the elements of chemistry, botany and zoology, of 
psychology and logic, the principal facts of English 
and European history, the pure mathematics be also 
mastered in the schools. This can be done by raising 
the standard of marticulation. There is not now nor 
ever will be under the present system an enthusiastic 
desire among the students for such knowledge as is 
furnished. How can it be expected when so much of 
the work exacted is mere memorizing ; why is it that 
a great university like McGill is not looked up to 
throughout the whole country as a centre of intellectual 
influence ? Is it not because there is so much of the 
dry bone element in the course, so little that is calcul- 
ated to provoke enthusiasm among the learners, to in- 
spire them with the zeal of inquiry * 

W. H. Turner. 



THE FUTURE OF CANADA. 

There is a good deal being said at present both by 
thinking individuals in the intercourse of social life, 
and in the public press about the future of this coun- 
try. Some aimless persons indeed have no opinion 
upon the subject or at best deem it a premature and 
useless one for discussion. But students, using the 
term in a wide sense, generally give such attention 
to the question as is suggested to or forced upon them 
by passing events and the really important nature of 
the matter. There are three solutions of the problem 
offered which all find eager and eloquent upholders. 
One is the contention that Canada being so intimately 



bound up with the fortunes of the Empire with which 
during her development she has been connected, will 
continue a colony as a present, until such time as a 
closer and more dignified relation can be established — 
this relation having for its attractive, if somewhat 
vague, appellation the term Imperial Federation. 
There are others who argue that geographical and 
commercial considerations point to a union with the 
American Republic, while a third class of individuals 
ardently insist that the people of Canada have in them 
all the elements out of which a nation can be formed, 
a country to live in boundless and beautiful as well as 
rich in natural resources, and aspirations which either 
of the two destinies indicated can never satisfy. They 
believe that the Independence of Canada is only a 
question of time. 

The arguments adduced in favor of these different 
views are not without value, and if the subject has 
not yet been exhaustively considered, it has at least 
brought out some excellent contributions, the result of 
private investigations into the social, political, and 
economical conditions of the people of Canada. Bat 
one contribution has still to be made, and that is a 
thoughtful study of what the future of this country is 
to be founded upou an intimate knowledge of its his- 
tory and development. There is little desire and less 
inducement to possess more than a slight acquaintance 
with the princioal events of the history of Canada, and 
the reason of this is not far to seek. Contented with 
the text-books now doing duty in schools, no one has 
attempted to write a book from which migat be learned 
the true record of the country’s past, which would 
elucidate the principles underlying the various settle- 
ments, treaties and wars, and be in itself an inspiration 
to the authors of our national literature. Can we, 
though, be tiuly said to have a national literature when 
we continue halting between three opinions ? While 
we timidly hesitate to decide that we will be a nation ? 
It is not too hazardous a proposition to affirm that a 
general and thorough study of Canadian history, would 
materially aid in the answering of those questions, 
which appear to be daily growing more and more 
obtrusive, and which will soon pressingly demand a 
decision of some sort. To belittle its importance, to 
relegate its teaching to a place in the primary branches 
of learning, as the present arrangements of public sys- 
tems of education do, is the surest way of producing 
a race dead to the name of patriot. This exhibits the 
strangest forgetfulness of the fact that if Canada is 
ever to be an influential member of a British Federa- 
tion or an American Union, her sons must know and 
believe in her capabilities. They are not now in- 
spired with such ideas in the schools, and those young 
men who enjoy higher educational privileges at our 
colleges, are similarly neglected, and carry away with 
them a profound indifference to the possibilities of a 
national existence. At such institutions among the 
requirements of a purely scientific course will be 
found “ a knowledge of the leading facts of English 
History.” 

Why not Canadian History ? 

Because it is infinitely less important, will be the 
answer of the framers of the course. Here lies the 
whole difficulty. In this and other cases it is presup- 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



posed that Canadian history is really too insignificant 
to be placed in the list of important studies. 

Undoubtedly our American cousins have gone to the 
other extreme, but they err on the right side They exalt 
their national heroes until the famous ones of antiquity 
are mere pigmies beside them . Their historians often 
venture so far into the realms of romance that it be- 
comes a sad awakening to the American when his 
equilibrium is restored by something more than a cur- 
sory glance at civilizations older and mightier than his 
own. But this policy foolish as it may seem has its 
beneficial effects. A nation has been formed under 
the most adverse circumstances, and out of the most 
heterogeneous elements, and the rapid and nearly com- 
plete absorption of German and Celt, Saxon and 
Spaniard after a short residence in the republic is one 
of the remarkable features of the century. 

Whoever sets before him the task of writing a his- 
tory of Canada that shall be worthy the name must 
have exceptional abilities for the work. To tell the 
brilliant story of the older continent in an age when 
its two mightiest contestants for power extended their 
battle ground to the new world ; to trace the struggle 
going on in the midst of a barbarous civilization 
inimical to both parties, terminating with the fight be- 
side a picturesque fortress ; to show how this victory 
by crushing out one power led the sons of the other to 
found an independent state : a few remaining with 
the conquered in loyal allegiance to the victor beyond 
the sea ; to follow the fortunes of this latter colony in 
northern latitudes, its success eclipsed by the rapid 
and magnificent progress of its free neighbor to the 
south, its development retarded by the ill-sorted union 
of two distinct races ; to chronicle the acquisition of 
self-government, and other advances made in the 
present century, the combination of the two people 
being still left imperfectly consummated — a confedera- 
tion and not a coalescence— with its fatal diawbacks 
of divided interests and wide differences of sentiment ; 
all this will require the touch of a master hand. What 
attempts have thus far been made in the line of 
biographies of political leaders, or sketches of particular 
regimes are conspicuously lacking in fairness. They 
exhibit more of the bias which is a constant obstacle to 
a just appreciation of contemporary men and events, 
than is accountable for. But their faults are due to 
the entire absence of a thorough study of Canadian 
history. The difficulty of writing an impartial account 
of the present is enhanced by prevailing ignorance of 
the past. The question is not a trivial one, nor are 
the interests at stake wholly sentimental. Sentiment, 
as a Canadian writer has said, is one of the strongest 
things in nature : upon it has often hung the fate of 
empires, amd to ignore its wonderful power under cer- 
tain circumstances, when it can help to weld together 
people differing in race and religion, when it may in- 
duce even the sordid of mankind to rise above material 
prosperity, and sacrifice private ends for the public 
good, is folly of a dangerous sort. If the progress of 
a national course is stopped even for an instant by the 
interposition of men’s personal in erests its success is 
endangered, and of) us ideal pictures of future great- 
ness, idle in themselves, but valuable in proportion as 
they tend to bring about unity in contending with a 



common enemy, have frequently been the rallying cries 
that have preceded and produced some of the most 
wonderful achievements of history. The common 
enemy of Canadians is disunion, and to combat the 
disintegrating influences of a growth stealthy but none 
the less sure, a powerful agency appealing broadly and 
effectually seems just now absolutely necessary. 
Ignorance begetting prejudice, and prejudice hatred is 
the road to national ruin, and facilis descensus aver ni. 
A remedy may be found in allowing narrow bigotries 
to sink into oblivion, and by the cultivation of a 
broad sympathy amongst those whose lot is cast to- 
gether, and who could not if they would cut the chain 
which sectionalism and the bitterness of party spirit 
has made irksome. 

This is the issue before Canadians, and they must 
meet it squarely. If believing that we may yet bridge 
over our differences and emerge a more united and 
contented people is an illusion scouted at by those wise 
philosophers whose proposals are always more correctly 
logical than humanly practicable, still let us cherish 
the fond conce t with the tenacity “ that shall not die 
and cannot be destroyed.” 

The cherishing of the desperate thought that to 
quench our young nationality in the mighty but 
utterly alien civilization of the American Kepublic is 
the only means of averting the fate which will result 
from the present discord threatening daily to become 
perpetual, cannot be defended as expedient, just or 
manly. A calm moderation is what is required to ad- 
just the difficulty in a safe and statesmanlike manner. 

The Canadian historian has therefore his work cut 
out for him, and small encouragement will he have to 
perform it, if there is a persistent and general avoid- 
ance on the part of his countrymen to le irn the lessons 
taught by the histoiy of older nations and to apply 
them to the study ot our own times. The maxim of 
the copy boo c, 4 respect yourself and others will re- 
spect you ’ is worthy of a nobler use than the school- 
boy puts it to, and the fundamental truth it touches is 
grossly neglected by the educationalists and public 
men of Canada in the scant respect they pay, and the 
place they assign to the history of their country. 

A. H. U. Colquhoux. 



Euery Fortnight. 



So the Gazette has got a critic at last ! — a regular 
George Augustus, whose shoe-latchets Laclede is 
hardly worthy to unloose. No bon-vivant , however, 
is the new acquisition, but a regular 44 sour-pill ” to 
use a vulgar expression. In one point he is sadly 
deficient, namely in the cookery line. You must ex- 
pect no new receipts for tomato-sauce or resurrection 
pudding ; all such subjects being debarred from this 
column. 

* * 

* 

Let me commence my work by saying that ail com- 
munications, whether of a combative or peaceable 
nature, referring to matters treated by me in this 
column should be addressed to 44 Critic , P. O. Box 
1290,” I shall be glad to answer any questions which 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



may be addressed to me, as far and as fully as my 
limited ability will allow, and suggestions, provided 
they be made in no hypercritical spirit will be grate- 
fully received by me. 

^ % 

* 

To return to cookery and puddings it was with no 
small disappointment that I learned on returning to 
College that the long-promised dining hall had not 
been secured, and that for another year I was to get 
my meals in that harum-scarum fashion so detrimental 
not alone to my digestive organs, but also to the few 
glimmering social qualities wliich had withstood a 
three-years residence in a secluded and washing-day 
smelling boarding-house. If I remember aright we 
were promised by the Principal at last Convocation 
that steps would be taken during the vacation to have 
a dining-hall ready for the opening of the present 
session. Our hopes however were doomed to dis- 
appointment. The difficulties besetting the project 
were evidently too great for the energy of the author- 
ities to overcome. And there were great difficulties 
to be overcome, or at all events one great difficulty. 
A suitable caterer is not easy to obtain in Montreal ; 
so it appears. This is a great difficulty. Another 
difficulty arose from the fact that the authorities were 
going out of their way to try and find a suitable 
building, when the most suitable building in Montreal , 
was under their eyes. As far as this is concerned they 
have no excuse. The Gazette has been echoing the 
cry of the students for a dining-hall for three long 
years, and it has repeatedly called attention to the 
fact that one whole wing of the college building was 
being occupied by the Secretary, when it ought to 
have been made use of for this purpose, and a suitable 1 
cottage provided for the Secretary. It would be no 
hardship to him, and it would be adding to the corn- 
torts and enjoyments of some two or three hundred 
students. 

% * 

I shall continue to call attention to this matter of a 
dining-hall from time to time remembering the old 
truth, “ rjutta non cicavat la}) idem , sed scepe cadendo.” 
The fact is we can have only a shadow of true college 
life without more numerous means of intercourse 
among the students than we at present possess. I 
hardly expect to see the dining-hall in my day, but 
then one must not forget posterity. 

*** 

McGill, I think, is the only university in the world 
of any standing which has not a dining-hall. The 
stained-glass windows and walls hung with pictures of 
many a college dining-hall in England rise before my 
mind as I write. We may not be able to afford such 
grandeur, but at all events let us have our hall on the 
College grounds and not in McGill College Avenue. 
To sum up, the Secretary must go. 

* 

I was glad to see during the vacation that our dis- 
tinguished Professor of Moral and Mental Philosophy 
had published a new work on Pschology. I have no 
doubt that the work will bring honour upon the author 



and our University. As, however, it has not yet been 
sent to us for review, I refrain from making further 
remarks until it is. 

'f* . 'K 
* 

Within a few months I hope to have the pleasure 
of referring to a work by a young graduate of McGill 
well-known and admired in this city. The book is 
to be published about Christmas time, and I hope that 
it will meet with unqualified success, especially in 
Montreal. Who knows but this may be the first sign 
of the birth of a distinctive Canadian litterature ! 



Thank goodness, the discussion on the higher 
education of women is over. The young ladies may 
now quietly enjoy their lawn tennis on the separate 
system. I do not wish to revive any bitter feeling by 
referring to this subject but merely to quote a sentence 
of Madame de Stael’s which struck me as containing 
a thought very lofty, if somewhat vague. “ II croyait 
que la premiere destination des femmes, et meme des 
homines , n'etait pas V exercise des facultes intellec- 
tuelles , mais V accomplissement des devoirs particidiers 
d chacunV 

* * 

* 

Smollett, as was perhaps natural, had no great faith 
in the superiority of the female intellect. He wrote 

** Simple woman 
“ Is weak in intellect, as w^lt as I rune, 

“ Ami ju'l^s o1.hu fioni t he partial voice 
That so* a lies her wis es most.** 

More poetry than truth in this, perhaps. 

* * 

* 

But George Eliot’s opinion is worth something 
more. “ The sustained zeal and unconquerable 
patience demanded from those who would tread the 
unbeaten paths of knowledge,” says she in Romola, 
“ are still less reconcilable with the wandering vagrant 
propensity of the feminine mind than with the feeble 
powers of the feminine body.” 

* * 

* 

The first good result of having formed an Athletic 
Association is that the date of the Annual Sports is 
1 marked in the College Calendar. The date fixed for 
the event is the 16th of this month. While speaking 
of this matter I should like to tell the Committee of 
the Association something to their advantage. When 
the track was being made and subscriptions being 
taken up for that purpose, a certain professor in the 
youngest faculty refused to give anything, but pro- 
mised to give a cup as soon as a permanent Athletic 
Association was formed. The Association has been 
formed but so far the cup has not been forthcoming. 
So true is it that “ there is many a slip between the 
cup and the lip.” 

* * 

* 

During the vacation our affable and popular 
Librarian, retired from the single state and became a 
Benedict. “ More Hour to his pratie cake,” as the 
Irish say. May he have long life and great happiness 
and when he dies at a hundred may the people ask 




10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885 



what ailed him. A suggestion, I hear, has been made 
to present him with some little token of respect. Such 
a step would not be amiss. 

A 

* * 

± 

The appearance of the new song book has been a 
standing joke for the last couple of years. This Fall, 
I believe, we are to be deprived of the joke, but it re- 
mains to be seen whether the song book or the joke 
is the better. Would it not be well in honor of the 
great event to have a series of concerts in the Molson 
Hall this Winter, say under the patronage of the 
of the Graduates’ Society. The proceeds might be 
devoted to starting a fund for a Club house. I merely 
throw out the suggestion knowing that there is plenty 
of musical talent in the College this year. 

Critic. 



TIIE SWEET GIRL GRADUATE. 

She read the valedictory ; ’twas deep and aualytic, 

And scored a splendid victory o’er every carping critic ; 

But much I fear her logic clear and all her moods and tenses 

Were lost upon my list’ning ear and my enraptured senses, 

For when she talked of botany, and leaves and grass and 
rushes 

I only saw the roses red that mingled in her blushes. 

And when she spoke of history, and turned the lamp-stained 
pages, 

To me its only mystery was what the dear girl’s age is. 

She wandered off on x plus z, on cubes and squares grew 
flowery, 

It set me thinking what might be the figure of her dowry, 

So pondering down in the parquet I’d set my heart to w^o her. 

When she picked up a huge bouquet some other fellow threw 
her ; 

Took out a note, blushed rosy red, smoothed all its pinky 
creases, 

While over my devoted head my castle went to pieces. 

— Pro v ide nee St a r. 



TflcSill News. 



The Congregational College has fourteen students. 

N. P. Yates has been elected to read the valedictory 
of the graduating class in Arts. 

The regular students’ prayer-meeting is held every 
Sunday afternoon at 4.30 p.m., in the room of the 
Montreal Y.M.C.A., on Victoria Square. 

The undergraduates in Law have elected Mr. 
Wright, Pres., Mr. Beauregard, Vice-Pres., Mr. Monk 
Sec’y., Messrs. Mackie and Budden representatives on 
the Sport Committee, and Messrs. Elliot, Murray, and 
Burgeois officers of the Moot Court. 

Every new student has been presented by the College 
Christian Association with a very neat and useful little 
card, which on the one side shows a diagram of the 
middle district of the city, and on the other recom- 
mends the Association to the students’ sympathy. 

The Arts Reading Room Committee have met and 
elected the following officers : F. Pedley, President, 
Arthur Weir, Vice-President, J. McCarthy, Secretary,* 
and Cameron, Treasurer. W. Hamilton and J. 
McCarthy form the sub-committee to attend to pre- 
liminaries. 



Mr. G. F. Armstrong, who was for some time pro- 
fessor of engineering in McGill, has been appointed to 
the Regius professorship of engineering in the Univer- 
sity of Edinburgh. The post was long held by F leming 
Jenkin, LL.D., F.R.S., whose eminence in applied 
science was well known. 

The opening proceedings of the Presbyterian College 
last Wednesday evening were very successful. Rev. 
Principal Macvicar occupied the chair at the meeting 
in the David Morrice Hall, and Rev. W. T. Herridge, 
B.A., of Ottawa, a graduate of the College, delivered 
an address on “ Christianity and Culture.” Fifteen 
new students have entered the college and more are 
expected. 

The following are the results of the Scholarship and 
Exhibition Examinations for September, 1885 : — 

I. SCHOLARSHIPS (TENABLE FOR TWO YEARS.) 

Third Year. 

Mathematical scholarship — * Johnson, Alex. R. 

Mathematical scholarship — ** Johnson, Robert. 

Natural Science scholarship — * Murray, Alfred P. 

Classical and modern language scholarship — * Pat- 
ton, Hugh M. 

Classical and modern language scholarship — 

+ Brown, Samuel R, 

II. EXHIBITIONS (TENABLE FOR ONE YEAR). 

Second Year 

* Le Rossignol, James E., High School, Montreal. 

§ Day, John L. High School, Montreal. 

H Bryan, Andrew, St. Francis College, Richmond. 

First Year. 

(E.) * Gibson, Win. Donald, Morrisburg High 
School, Ont. 

(E.) * Deeks, William E., Morrisburg High School, 
Ont. 

(E) X Grant, David,. High School, Montreal: 

* Annual value of Scholarship or Exhibition, $125 ; 
founder, Chs. Alexander, Esq. 

§ Annual value of Exhibition, $125 ; donor, George 
Hague, Esq. 

IT Annual value of Exhibition, $100; founder, 
Major H. Mills. 

X Annual value of Exhibition, $100 ; founder, 
Mrs Jane Redpath. 

** Annual value of Exhibition, $125; donor, Pro- 
fessor Johnson. 

(E.) These students are entitled also to the Governor 
General’s “ Exemption from Fees” for four years. 

ANNE MOLSON MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. 

This prize was awarded to Topp (F.) student of the 
Fourth year. 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



McGill College Christian Association. 

Although this Association has been organized not 
yet two years, it is now one of the established institu- 
tions in connection with McGill. Last winter the 
growth was very satisfactory, the membership having 
increased from fifteen to sixty. The outlook for the 
coming season is very bright. The Association has a 
good reputation in the college world ; its membership 
includes some of the leading students ; the various 
committees enter upon their work with vigor ; and 
especially, a real need is met by this society’s efforts — 
for all these reasons a good winter is expected by those 
interested in this kind of Christian endeavor. The 
officers ol the society, who also constitute the Executive 
Committee, are : President, H. E. Kendall, B.A., 
Med.; Vice-President, Jos. K. Unsworth, B.A. ; Re- 
cording Secretary, W. G. Stewart, B.A., Med/; Trea- 
surer, E. J. Edgar, Mecl ; Corresponding Secretary, 
J. W. McOuat, Arts. 



Intercolegiate Missionary Alliance 

The following circular gives the plan of this inter- 
esting conference : 

Montreal, September 28, 1885. 

Dear Sir, — We beg to bring to your notice the com- 
ing Annual Convention of the Canadian Intercol- 
legiate Missionary Alliance, which will be held in this 
city October 29th-November 1st. The object of this 
Alliance (quoting from the Articles of organization) 
is to encourage among students in general, and Theo- 
logical students in particular, an active interest in, and, 
as far as possible, a consecration to mission work, both 
home and foreign. Althongh the Alliance has been 
formed not much more than a year, it embraces the 
Theological Colleges in Toronto, Woodstock, King- 
ston, Cobourg, and Montreal. ^The firsts Convention, 
held last year in Toronto, was very successful in draw- 
ing more closely together the students of the different 
colleges, and in stirring up in them an enthusiasm for 
missionary work. The subjects on-whicli papers will 
be read in the day sessions are the following : Sum- 

mary of Canadian Missions; French Protestant Work 
in Canada ; Palestine ; China ; A Biography ; Central 
Africa. The claims of Medical Missions will be pre- 
sented at a public evening meeting by Mr. L. D. 
Wishard, ofNew;York College,* Secretary of the In- 
ternational Committee Y. M.C. A. . and Mr. Wishard 
will also hold a conference with medical students con- 
cerning this subject. Several returned missionaries 
are expected to address a public meeting on Saturday 
evening, October 31st. Beside these, leading ministers 
of different denominations will address the Convention 
on missionary topics. A programme will be out about 
October 22nd, a week before the Convention. The 
Committee earnestly ask for your prayers that this 
Convention be for the honour of Him who has sent 
us forth to preach the Gospel to every creature. Yours 
sincerely, N. A. F. Bourne, Dioc. Theo. Col. Mon- 
treal ; J. K. Unsworth, Cong. Theo. Col. Montreal ; 
S. Rondeau, ^ Pres. Theo. Col., Montreal; W. M. 
Walker, McMaster Hall, Toronto ; W. W. Andrews, 
Victoria College, Cobourg. 



The Song Book. 

For the last year and a half the Song Book Com- 
mittees have been busy collecting, altering and setting 
to music the various chants of McGill and in arrang- 
ing for their publication, but by Nov. 1st, at latest, 
this task will be completed. There has been some 
discontent about the length of time the Committees 
have taken in preparing the book ; doubts as to its 
ultimate appearance even have existed ; but we feel 
that doubt and discontent will vanish when the 
students see the book and realize what labor has been 
given to it. Only the Committees can realize the 
difficulties that beset the work, which is an excursion 
into untrodden paths, for, although we owe a debt of 
gratitude to the compiler of the little volume 'which 
has thus far served us, this was at best only a make, 
shift, scarcely opening a path for its successor, with 
its wealth of music and host of new songs. We have 
had the privilege of examining some of the proof sheets 
of the work, which is now passing through the press, 
and were struck by the fine appearance of the pages. 
Plain type and clearly-printed music are best appreci- 
ated by the singer, but such beauties are not invisible 
to the voiceless, and clearness is one of the character- 
istics of the book. 

The book will be about the size of Dawson’s Lec- 
ture Notes, but thicker, as it will contain some hun- 
dred and sixty-six pages, and its cover will bear the col- 
lege crest and the name. All advertisements are ex- 
cluded, and, by mutual agreement between the pub- 
lisher and the committees, no change in the book or 
price can take place without the consent of the latter. 
Many solos, such as “ Allouette,” have been arranged 
for part songs, many songs are for the first time accom- 
panied by written music, and not a few are making 
their first appearance, yet the book contains all our old 
glees as well. 

Every session efforts are made to establish a glee 
,club, and so for they have failed. This has been due 
to the want of a song book. The book is now forthcom- 
ing, and there is no lack of musical talent at McGill, so 
that if we make another endeavor it must be successful. 
Let us at once have a glee club, whose meetings and 
concerts will tighten the bonds of fellowship between 
the students, bonds that have become too lax, not 
through cold-heartedness, but through circumstances. 



THE NEW LABORATORIES AND CLASS 
ROOMS. 

For the last few years the accommodation for the 
chemical department of the Science Faculty has been 
too small and the use of every art that experience 
could suggest for economising space only delayed, 
without dispensing with, the necessity for more room. 
The crisis came last year, and before Dr. Harrington 
left for Europe, he was able to see the dawn of a new 
era through the clouds of dust from falling mortar 
and torn walls. 

The work was greater than was expected and is not 
yet finished. Yet in a few days the new laboratory 
will be able to call to its tables the students in the 
hi^l^er years who are at present wandering in gay 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



idleness through the college halls. Laboratories are 
always peculiarly interesting to those who are not 
versed in the “ Black Art,” so a description of ours 
and their attendant rooms may not come amiss. At 
the same time the new class rooms over the fourth 
year draughting room and those for the ladies near 
the laboratories must be referred to The most impor- 
tant improvement to our college building this year is 
the addition of a storey to the buildings connecting 
the central edifice to Molson Hall and the Principal’s 
house, and the erection of a two-storeyed wing behind 
the Arts laboratory and joined to it. This wing con- 
tains the two new laboratories, one above the other, 
and of which the upper will not be fitted until the 
growth of the faculty requires it. 

The basement of this wing contains two rooms for 
assaying and a third for the furnace which heats the 
building. The next flat comprises several new rooms on 
a level with the Arts laboratory. A passage connects 
the old and the new laboratory and from it doors into 
open the apparatus room and a dark room for chemicals 
on the left, and the weighing room and the yard on 
the right. The apparatus room opens into the chemi- 
cal lecture room and a room for preparing class experi- 
ments. The new laboratory is larger than the old and 
well lighted with ten windows. The occupants of the 
second and third year drawing rooms may be pleased 
to know that they will no longer be initiated “ willy 
niily 99 into the chemistry of smelis or rather the smells 
of chemistry for it is intended that in addition to the 
five large cupboards around the room each student 
shall have a draught cupboard to himself by which 
all noxious gases shall be conveyed outside the build- 
ing. The students will work four at a table, each 
having a cupboard and two drawers for his chemicals, 
two gas jets and half of a sink. A broad shelf will 
run around the room, as in the Arts laboratory, at 
which when necessary new places can be found. 

Upstairs, in addition to the large laboratory, the 
Science Faculty possesses two rooms, one for the Pro- 
fessor’s laboratory and the other for a lecture room. 
The ladies class rooms, three in number, are on this 
flat but are accessible only by a door near that of the 
Vice Dean in Arts and a flight of stairs passing 
through the old balance room. 

An important, although perhaps unavoidable, change 
is that which deprives the laboratories of a front en- 
trance and gives it to the ladies, for certainly so fine 
a series of rooms, forming in themselves almost a dis- 
tinct building, is worthy of a frontage. 

The western wing, connecting Molson Hall with 
the main building, has had an addition of five new 
class rooms and as these are in the second storey the 
fourth year draughting room has been altered. The 
skylight has disappeared and several new windows 
have been cut in the western side. 



The New Medical Buildings. 

The senior students of McGill Medical College will 
be pleased to see the extensive additions to, and al- 
terations in, the medical building, which have been 
made during the past summer. The Freshman class 
will, no doubt, be impressed by the noble dimensions 



of the building, and the unrivalled facilities which are 
now available ; and as they proceed in their studies 
they will find that the facilities and appliances of the 
college will be fully utilized for their benefit, by the 
excellent staff of professors, teachers, and demon- 
strators, under whom it will be their happy lot to pro- 
secute their studies, till, from Freshmen, they have 
passed through the several stages of development into 
full-grown M.D’s. 

We clip the following from the Canada Medical 
and Sunjical Journal : 

“ Some idea of the whole structure, complete, can 
be formed from the fact that the main hall, on the 
first floor, is 136 feet long, with a room 28 feet long 
at the end of it, giving a total length from front to 
rear of 164 feet; also by the fact that the building 
covers 13,930 square feet.” 

This gives but a faint idea of the capacity and facili- 
ties of the new edifice ; and only on a thorough in- 
spection can a person appreciate the judicious manner 
in which various parts of the building have been 
utilized for the furtherance of medical teaching, as well 
as for the prosecution of scientific, original research. 

The library, which remains in the old place, has 
been much enlarged. The museum has been almost 
doubled in capacity. A large and comfortable reading 
room has been provided for the “ McGill Medical So- 
ciety,” in whicn the fortnightly meetings will now be 
held by the members. The lecture rooms, one on the 
first floor and one on the second, are very large, well- 
ventilated and excellently lighted, and capable of 
seating respectively 275, and 300 students. Besides 
these there is a smaller lecture room, which will seat 
over 50. 

The dissecting room is on the second floor. It has 
been much enlarged and refitted. It is now 72 feet 
long, is provided with 20 tables, and furnishes ample 
room for about 200 students. Adjoining it is another 
large room, intended for the study of Osteology. But 
the special and most striking feature of the whole are 
the numerous large and splendidly-equipped labora- 
tories, of which there are five. The chemical labora- 
tory, which accommodates 75, is fully supplied with 
chemical appliances and apparatus, brought from Ger- 
many (the home of medical chemistry), by one of the 
professors, during the past summer. Here under the 
supervision of the Professor in charge, the student 
will learn, practically, this important branch. Con- 
nected with this, as with the other laboratories, are 
apparatus rooms and private rooms. 

The physiological laboratory has been enlarged and 
much valuable apparatus has been procured for it, so 
that the student will have increased opportunities for 
prosecuting the practical study of physiology. Here 
the course of practical and experimental physiology, 
so successfully pursued last session, will be taught 
more elaborately, and, if possible, more successfully 
in future. The histological laboratory is built in stages, 
so as to afford the best means of procuring light for 
microscopic work, which forms a leading feature in 
this branch. 

The pharmacological is, we believe, a new feature 
in the medical schools of this country. Here a prac- 
tical knowledge of the chemical and therapeutic pro- 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



perties of drugs, their preparation, compounding, 
physiological action and untoward effects will be 
taught, and, when possible, experimentally demon- 
strated. That it is under the charge of the Professor 
of Materia Medica ensures its success. 

Another new departure is the fitting up of a patho- 
logical culture room. These rooms are intended 
specially for the culture of Bacteria, the relations of 
which to disease are becoming every day more within 
the range of practical medicine. This will be the only 
culture room in America, with the exception of one 
at the John Hopkins University, which has been fitted 
up this summer. It is being fitted up with Koch’s 
Sterilizing Apparatus and other appliances essential 
for class demonstration and original research. They 
will be in charge of a young and enthusiastic Profes- 
sor, who has perfected himself for the work in the 
laboratory of the great Koch and in other German 
schools. Their success is assured. The above is a 
short description of the more striking features of the 
new building and conveys a very poor conception, in- 
deed, of what the Governors and Faculty of ‘‘Old Mc- 
Gill ” have furnished for the student of medicine who 
is so fortunate as to pursue his studies within her 
walls ; still to outsiders it will, perhaps, convey some 
idea of the immense strides that are being made in 
their midst by the noble university of which the city 
of Montreal and the people of Canada have so much 
reason to feel proud. 



College UJorR>. 



Princeton has a Freshman class of about 150, the 
largest yet. 

There is a college for every 100 square miles of ter- 
ritory in the United States. 

It is said that in Strobeck, Germany, chess is a re- 
gular course of study in the schools. 

There are no less than 4,465 matriculated students, 
besides 1,205 unmatriculated “hearers” at Berlin Uni- 
versity; 89 are Americans, and 11 Englishmen. 

Dr. W. B. Jack has resigned the presidency of the 
University of New Brunswick and the chair ol mathe- 
matics in that institution. Dr. Harrison, Professor of 
English, succeeds him. 

Heidelberg University will celebrate the five hun- 
dredth anniversary of its existence next August. A 
festival hall capable of holding five thousand persons 
will be erected for the occasion. 

The University of Glasgow was founded in 1451 by 
Bishop Turnbull, who procured a bull of ratification 
from Pope Nicholas V. In 1460 James, first lord of 
Hamilton, endowed a college in the densest part ot 
High street, on the site of the former buildings, the 
older portion of which were erected between 1632 
and 1656. Queen Mary bestowed on the University 
thirteen acres of adjacent land. In 1577 James \ 1. 
granted increased funds in a new charter. In 1864 
the University and adjacent lands were sold, and 
handsome new buildings designed by Sir Gilbert Scott 



were erected on the banks of the Kelvin at a total cost 
of £350,000. 

Canon Farrar, in a lecture before the students of 
John Hopkins University, pleaded that the study ot 
Greek and Latin should not be exclusive, but he also 
urged that it should not be excluded. He puts the 
whole matter in a nutshell in these words : “ The 

study of Greek and Latin, thanks to the development 
of comparative philology, has become a science. We 
are the children, after all, of the past, and a compre- 
hension of the laws of nature must not exclude the 
law of man, who is part of Nature. The past lives and 
tingles in every part of our body. The exclusive 
domination of Latin and Greek was due to their in- 
herent power. Greek and Latin are worthy of study, 
if only for the beamy and grandeur of the languages. 
They are among the greatest instruments of thought, 
and we cannot neglect those languages without damage 
to ourselves.” 



Societies. 



University Literary Society. 

This society held its first meeting of the season, at the 
rooms, 15 Philips Square, on Friday evening the 2nd 
inst. 

There was present a large number of members, and 
several new men were proposed for membership ; 
these proposed members come, some of them from the 
medical faculty, some graduates of the University now 
engaged in journalism, and others clergymen, so that 
the stigma, if such it may be called, that the society is 
under the control of the law students and lawyers, no 
longer attaches, and this first meeting would seem to 
indicate that the society has entered upon even a 
more enjoyable and profitable year than that which is 
just closing. 

The debate upon “ Is Canada ripe for manhood 
suffrage,” was fairly well sustained and gave evidence 
of considerable preparation. The affirmative was 
argued eloquently and carefully, by Messrs. Oughtred 
and Wright, who were defeated by the casting vote of 
the President, a victory so indecisive for Messrs. Elliot 
and Mackie of the Negative, that they will require to 
use all their influence towards stemming the torrent of 
innovation which they profess to see coming upon us 
with such disastrous effects. 

Mr. McGoun, the indefatigable President of the 
society, presided during the evening and announced 
at the close of the debate that the subject for next de- 
bate would be “ Optional courses of study for a Uni- 
versity degree.” 

The President has issued a circular to the members 
of the Society and to the Graduates and Under- 
graduates of McGill, earnestly appealing to them to 
avail themselves of the benefits of the socieiy by be- 
coming members. The annual meeting for election 
of officers and other business will beheld at the end 
of the month. 

A second meeting of this society was held on Friday 
evening the 9th inst. ; the President in the chair. 

The following gentlemen were elected members of 
the society; Rev. J. A. Newnliam, M.A. Messrs. A 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1885. 



H. U. Colquhoun, B.A. ; A. G. B. Claxton. B.C.L. ; 
H. Budden, B.A. ; J. A. Boyd ; H. Silver, B.A. Some 
new names were proposed for membership to be 
balloted for at next meeting. 

The debate upon “ Optional courses of study for a 
University degree,” then followed participated in by 
Messrs. Brown, Turner and Leet on the affimative, 
and by Messrs. Smith, Cross, Wright and McGoun on 
the negative. After a very fair debate the question 
was decided in favor of optional courses by the casting 
vote of the chairman. 

The annual meeting for election of officers will be 
held on Friday the 30th inst. 



Undergraduates Literary Society. 

The first meeting of the Undergraduates Literary 
Society for the session of 1885-86 was held on Sept. 
25th. The number present was unusually large, and 
the interest manifested promised well for the success 
of the Society during the session. The chair was taken 
at the usual hour by B. B. Henderson, 2nd Vice- 
President, and the following business transacted. The 
miuutes of last meeting having been read and con- 
firmed, the election of officers for the ensuing year 
was next proceeded with and resulted in the election 
of the following gentlemen : Pres. N. P. Yates, 1st 
Vice-Pres. R. B. Henderson, 2nd Vice-Pres. H. Ped- 
ley, Treas, J. Hislop, Sec. A. MacArthur, Ass’t-Sec. 
F. Charters. Messrs. Topp, F. Pedley, O’Sullivan, 
Gerrie, and Hopkins was appointed the special com- 
mittee for the next two months. 

The first regular meeting was held on Friday, 2nd 
inst., and was one of the most successful in the history 
of the Society, giving a fair indication of the interest 
taken by the students, and promising well for the 
session. The newly-elected president — N. P. Yates — 
occupied the chair. The business of the meeting having 
been disposed of, the boys settled down to enjoy the pro- 
gramme. Mr. Hislop opened the ball by reciting a 
parody on “ Cassabianca.” Jt is needless to say he 
brought the house down. A reading by G. W. McOuat 
followed, in which the misfortunes of a cow with 
crumpled horn were detailed, and well-earned tribute 
paid to bovine characteristics. The debate “ resolved 
that Riel should be hanged ’’was next in order. J. H. 
Bell leading off on behalf of the affirmative. He 
gave a rapid sketch of the Rebellion ; a very striking 
picture of the rebel leader’s attitude in the matter, 
and concluded that the sentence of the law should be 
carried out. F. Pedley taking the negative side, en- 
deavoured to draw from history and present circum- 
stances a few reasons why hanging should not take 
place. A. P. Solandt leaned upon the historic post 
also, and in language profoundly emphatic advocated 
that no mercy be shown. A. R. Johnston proved to 
administration that Riel was not half as bad as he has 
been represented. F. Charters in his maiden speech 
did justice to himself, at the same time doing a good 
deal of harm to the cause of Riel. Mr. Hopkins, also 
appearing for the first time, discussed in an able 
manner the negative side of the question. 

The meeting decided in favor of the affirmative. Mr. 
Patterson, critic for the evening, presented his report, 



dwelling very appropriately on the leading features 
of the evening’s programme. Then came to an end 
one of the most encouraging meetings of the U.L.S. 



Sporting. 



Tennis. 

The first of the draws for the College Lawn Tennis 
Championship, between C. Swabey, Arts ’86 and C. 
Martin, Arts ’87 was played on Thursday Oct. 1st., 
and after a close contest was won by Martin with the 
score of set-4 and set-3. 

The second draw of the series between C. Colby, 
Arts ’87 and J. R. Murray, B.A., Law ’86, was played 
Friday and resulted in a victory for Colby by the 
score of set-2 and set (7)-5. This was an exceedingly 
interesting competition at one time in the last set the 
score standing 5-5. 

The third drawing between C. Kingston, Arts ’87 
and H. Budden, B.A., Law ’88 fixed for Saturday was 
postponed till Tuesday the 6 inst. on account of rain. 

The third contest of the first drawing of the Lawn 
Tennis Tournament took place on Tuesday afternoon 
the 8th, between Budden, Law ’88 and Kingston, Arts 
’87 and was won by the former by the score of set-3, 
set (8)-6. As will be seen by the score, the last set 
was very closely fought. 

The fourth drawing of the tennis series was won by 
Martin by default, as Elbes failed to put in an appear- 
ance 



The fifth in the series played Friday morning be- 
tween Wilde (Med. ’88), and Wheeler (Med. ’89), was 
won by Wilde with the score of set (8)- 6 and set-2. 

The afternoon of the same day, Colby and Budden 
played the final game of the first ties, the former 
winning by set-0 and set-4. 

The doubles began last Saturday. 



The Annual Games. 



The following is the programme for the Annual 
Games on the 16th inst. : 



1. 

2 . 

3 . 

4. 

5. 

6 . 

7. 

8 . 

9. 



1 . 

o 

3 . 

4. 

5. 

6 . 

7. 



8 . 

9. 

10 . 

11 . 



I URL.iUUA f 



Kicking Football. 

Throwing 16-lb. Hammer- 
Running Long Jump. 

Putting 16-lb. Shot. 

Throwing Cricket Ball. 

Standing Long Jump 
Throwing 56-lb weight. 

Running High Jump. 

Tug of War (Teams of 6 men from each Faculty.) 



AFTERNOON, (2 A.M.) 

One-Mile Run. 

100-yards. (Preliminary Heats.) 

Pole Leap. 

880-yards Run. 

One-mile Walk. 

440-yards Run. 

One-mile, open, (Amateur,) 

(Special medal if Canadian Record is lowered.) 
10 '-yards run (Final Heat.) 

3- Legged Race. 

220-yards Run. 

One-mile Bicycle Race. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



1885.] . 



McGill vs. Lennoxville. 

The match between the above-mentioned teams took 
place on the afternoon of the 10th inst., on the 
Bishop’s College grounds, at Lennoxville. The Mc- 
Gill team left the Bonaventure station at 8 a.m. Sat- 
urday, and after an enjoyable trip reached their desti- 
nation at 2 o’clock, and were taken to the college to 
prepare for the match at 3.30. 

The following were the teams : 



McGill . 




Lennoxville . 


W. J. Hamilton. 


Back. 


Tomlinson. 


W. M. Reid. 


Half Back. 


H. D. Hamilton. 


II. A. Budden, 


99 


B. Maxwell, 


C. P. Brown, 


9 * 


II. W. Welch. 


W. Aylen, 


Quarter Back- 


C. Elliott, (Capt.) 


J. Dunlop. 


>» 


Gullaghcr. 


J. E. May. 


Forwards. 

n 


Hibbard. 


J. T. Kerry (Capt.) 


Robertson, 


R. E. Palmer, 


>> 


II. Raker, 


C. H. Macnutt, 


>» 


W. Baker, 


T. Wroughton 


tt 


M. O. Smith, 


C. B. Kingston, 


a 


J. Laurie, 


J. Naismith, 


it 


Brown, 


H. Patton, 


>t 


Wright, 


J. II. Springle. 




Robertson. 


H. D. Kemp. 


Umpires. 


J. Shuter. 



Referee— Mr. White, of Lennoxville. 



McGill lost the toss, and kicked off at 3.30. One 
of the Lennoxville team being late, a substitute was 
allowed until he arrived. The Bishop’s College team 
had a decided advantage in the first ten minutes, their 
team play being much superior to that of McGill, and 
kept the ball very near to the visitors’ goal line for 
some moments, but by steady scrimmaging it was 
worked back, and the first rouge was scored by Mc- 
Gill, Naughton being forced to touch. Welch kicked 
out, and the sphere was returned by Reid. Scrim- 
mages were for a time the order of the day, in which 
Laurie and Wright, for Lennoxville, and Naismith 
and Palmer, for McGill, got in some fine work. So on 
it was rouged again by Bishop’s, about which time 
their late man appeared on the field. Some good 
passing back by Dunlop resulted in a close attempt at 
a goal from the field, and Hamilton, of Lennoxville, 
catching the ball on the fly, brought it half-way down 
the field by a fine run. Good play by May and 
Wroughton worked it back, and Patton, who had 
been following up, magnificently scores a touch. The 
kick failed, and after one more rouge by the visitors, 
half-time was called, the score standing 7 to 0. 

In the second three-quarters the play was more one- 
sided. Tomlinson kicked off for Lennoxville, and the 
leather was rushed to our goals. The backs were 
equal to the occasion, and in spite of the desperate 
efforts of Elliott, who played a fine game throughout, 
Welsh, and others of Bishops, the ball was kept in the 
centre field. After four more rouges by McGill, in 
getting which Kerry distinguished himself in his 
usual style, and during which time all Elliotts desper- 
ate attempt to get in a run were foiled by the fine 
tackling of Wroughton and Springle, May got a touch 
down well out to the side from which a goal was 
kicked. After kick out the ball came down to our 
goals for a time, from which the pressure was removed 
by a brilliant run of Wroughton’s nearly the length 
of the field. After this Patton made another touch, 
which, by a peculiarity of the rules, could not be 
kicked at goal. After one more rouge time was called, 



and the game was won to McGill by a score of 24 to 

0 . 

On the Lennoxville side Elliott was, as usual, a host 
in himself. His efforts were well seconded by Welch, 
Hamilton and Maxwell. For McGill, Patton, 
Wroughton and May played a fine rushing game, 
while Macnutt was very steady in the scrimmage. 
Where all played as well as on the McGill team it is 
hard to discriminate. The material is good, and with 
more practice they will be dangerous opponents for 
any team. The return journey was much enjoyed, in 
spite of the lateness of the hour, and tedious delays at 
Lennoxville and Sherbrooke were greatly enlivened 
by the efforts of two or three of the more musical of 
the party, and, indeed, snatches from “ Mary had a 
little lamb,” and the “ Bold McIntyre ” might have 
been heard in the sleeper at any time until Montreal 
was reached. 

Altogether, the team and those accompanying them 
had a most enjoyable trip, and the verdict concerning 
the day’s trip and result was that “ It was all right.” 



Personals. 



J. McKenzie, B. Ap. Sc. is at present engaged on 
the Hudson Bay Expedition. 

N. T. Rielle, B.A., B.C.L., and K. R. Macpherson, 
B.A., B.C.L., have returned from Europe, and resumed 
the practice of their profession. 

Dr. J. Clark Murray, the esteemed and able Professor 
of Mental and Moral Philosophy has recently pub- 
lished “ A Handbook of Psychology.” 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., President of the 
directors’ board of this paper, has been travelling in 
Europe during the past few months, and is now on 
his return homewards. 



IE. -A.. GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF 




Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr^r Students isctvLre. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 






McGILE UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

TmmsR 9 

jlljirl anir ©oHhij HmuJatlmm, 

21 BLETJBY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuHs, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

Jtargiral fnslramenls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

—FROM THE— 



Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C, ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

-AuiTID 

SAWS' SOOSS SHOff, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SON], 

CHEAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States, 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



.A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. J AMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

ikroisri'iRiE.A.Xi. 



THE 

l pnrlai|3 jjithoj)rapl|ic 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers , Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KIND8 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printing-?** 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS OARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PL A VS. PEN DR A WINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced .< table for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE. 

Y; peocess. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal .o the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELEC" 'lOTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

7 l all tlieir several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR — 

MENU OARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c, 

And a’ i?ds 0 f Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



