JWcGlIsIs FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature^ University Thought and Event- 

VoL, III. MONTREAL, OCTOBER 26, 1894. No. 2 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



Eilitoi'-hi-chief—HoWKR M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. *96). 
Secretary-^Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H, Zink (Com, Med. and Vet. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 



^ BUSI NESS B OARD ^ 

E. B. Devlin B.A. , (Law ’95), Chairman. 

A. F. Edwards (Med. *96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

W. F. Angus (App. Sc. ’95). J.C. Cutting (Com. IMed.and Vet. Sc.'95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts ’96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is ;Ji.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.’s F. M. Renoufs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chef, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



We welcome to the pages of our FORTNIGHTLY 
with the most sincere pleasure a contribution from the 
pen of Lady Aberdeen. She has written this article 
to the women students of Canadian Universities to 
encourage and to show them the mighty influ- 
ence for good which lies within their power. She 
warns them to undertake their work in the spirit of 
true womanliness : “ Truest woman apes not to become 
man’s shade.”' Lady Aberdeen lays much impor. 
tance upon the dress and carriage of the woman stu- 
dent. If “ manners maketh man,” what do they for 
woman } Surely more in every way. We believe the 
influence of the surroundings of the women of McGill 
to be elevating, therefore it rests with themselves to 
demonstrate to their world that a University educa- 
tion has not exerted a deteriorating influence on their 
womanhood. We also think that the extension of 
University privileges to the women of Canada will 
result in strengthening the general belief of Canadians, 
ultra-conservative pessimists to the contrary notwith 
standing, that the unity of the family is the bulwark of 
modern civilization. Already we see many women 



entering college, not for the purpose of pursuing a 
professional career, but to acquire the breadth of mind, 
the disciplined habits of work and the general nobil- 
ity of character which the Universities of the mother- 
land have given in so great a degree to their students. 
We expect to see many Canadian women whose 
minds have been trained within the walls of McGill 
finding fitting opportunities in their own homes for 
the exercise of these ennobling qualities. 

The Session iSqq’-pS is now fairly begun. Hard 
work, if not already, must soon be the order of the 
day. The number of matriculants in the several 
Faculties is in no case smaller and in some cases larger 
than before ; altogether, this promises to be a pros- 
perous year for McGill, 

‘ The athletic season has opened most auspiciously, 
and the Knights of the three Crows, who, in the opi- 
nion of many of their admirers, hold, just as present, 
the fate of the University in their hands, and who cer- 
tainly have the good wishes of all, are to be congra- 
tulated upon their well earned victories. 

The new buildings of the Faculty of Medicine are 
not yet quite ready for occupation, but the excellent 
arrangements afforded by them will soon be at the 
disposal of the members of that Faculty. 

Indeed, new buildings, or renovated ones, seem to 
be, thanks to the generosity of certain gentlemen, as 
easily obtained at McGill as students to occupy them, 
for it is rumored that the quarters of the Law Faculty 
i will soon be moved from the Fraser Institute, and that 
I the students of Arts, Medicine and Applied Science 
: are to enjoy the companionship of their fellows in 
i Law. Should this take place, it would give great 
I satisfaction to all undergraduates, inasmuch as the 
i distance, which has hitherto separated the Faculty of 
I Law from the sister Faculties, has been a serious ob- 
i Stacie to the unanimity and friendship that should 
' exist between students of the same university. When 
I this change comes, as is sincerely to be hoped it may, 

I Law can rely upon a warm welcome from the pre- 
I sent denizens of the College grounds. 

I For the benefit oi the occasional readers of the 
j Fortnightly, we deem it but right to refer to a re- 
' mark which was recently made by one of our City con- 



22 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



temporaries, to the effect that “ nicknames” had been 
applied to professors in the last number of the hORl- 
NIGHTLY. We say “ occasional” readers, because we 
feel confident that regular will at once acquit 

the Fortnightly of such a charge. No professor 
has been or will be “ nicknamed” in our columns, and 
beg to assure any reader who may have thought 
that he detected a professor lurking behind any sou- 
briquet in our recent issue, that he has been entirely 
and, as far as we concerned, unwillingly deceived. 

m 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 



AN ADDRESS -BY LADY ABERDEEN TO 
WOMEN STUDENTS. 

The prejudice against women being admitted to the 
advantages of a University education dies but slowly — 
I suppose because the main ground for desiring to 
have such an education is so largely misunderstood. 

Very often one hears the motive assigned for our 
desiring to go to the Universities being to show that 
women are as clever as men, that they are able to 
carry off as many honors, that they can be as good 
classical scholars, and so on. Whether these things 
be true or not, is not for me to say ; but if that were 
the object, I scarcely think it would be worth striv- 
ing for. Pray forgive me for saying so, gentlemen. 

But, ladies, is it not true that the reason why we 
value the concession that women have a right to a 
University training is because that thereby is also 
conceded that women, according to their circum- 
stances and opportunities, have a right to as thorough, 
as real an education as men ; that women have a de- 
finite life-work for which they must be prepared and 
disciplined as well as men are for theirs, and that if 
they are not thus prepared and educated, it is not 
only the individuals that suffer loss, but their homes 
and their country ? 

But here the objectors to University education for 
women tell us that women’s life-work is a different 
one, and therefore that they need a different training. 
Be it so ; but may we ask these objectors whether, 
they can point to any schools or colleges where A^e 
can go and learn the science of housekeeping, the 
science of motherhood, the laws of health, the know- 
ledge of nursing and of physiology, and how to draw 
out the powers and faculties of the little children. 
There are many of us, I have no doubt, who hope 
the day may not be far distant when there may be 
such places of education. But in the meantime, what 
do we find instead of this ^ A system which provides 
for the education of women for their life-work, that they 
shall learn a little French, a little German, a little music, 
a little smattering of many accomplishments. We don’t 



think that that prepares women in the best possible 
way to be wives and mothers. We rebel against that 
system, and it is the system which has received its 
deathblow by the admission of women to the Univer- 
sities. 

I well understand that for a long time yet it will 
only be the few women who will go in for a Univer- 
sity career, and that the majority of these will go 
through it for the sake of a profession ; yet it must- 
nevertheless, be true that the admission of women to 
the Universities of Canada must have a far wider influ- 
ence than its direct effect on the students admitted; 
for by making the standard by which women’s attain- 
ments are judged the same as that of men, the whole 
attitude towards the education of girls in the country 
is changed. It is placed on a more thorough footing 
it suggests the advisability of training all girls, what- 
ever may be their station, for some definite calling in 
life, and the need which exists for women as well as 
men to acquire, in some way or another, that learning 
how to learn, that discipline of mind, that realization 
of how vast and wide are the fields of knowledge, how 
many sides there are to all truths, that knowledge of 
life, which, I presume, are considered of even greater 
value as the results of a University training than the 
actual knowledge gathered and learning acquired. 

Young ladies, you can scarcely realize with what 
hope we older women, who have not had the advan- 
tages which you are enjoying,are looking towards you. 

A true woman’s life has always been, must always 
be a life of service, and to this the women of our gen- 
eration have been called — service not only in the 
family and to society but to the country. Service to 
humanity is so full of opportunities that we, to whom 
these opportunities have come, feel very keenly the 
need and the lack of that training, which you have 
at your command. 

There are social problems and difficulties which are 
facing us, and which follow us into those relations of 
family and domestic life where we cannot shirk them 
if we would ; they cannot be solved without the help 
of women — but the help of women of balanced minds, 
trained to accurate thought, accurate observation, 
accurate judgment, based on personal knowledge 
coupled with the sympathy which wins confidence. 
Time and thought and work and self are required for 
this service. The eall to labor here is urgent, the 
responsibilities are very great. We are living in times 
when the most sacred questions of the family are un- 
reservedly discussed, and the faith which so many of 
us have been brought up in is being doubted, recon- 
structed or rejected. How can uneducated minds — 
minds without intellectual principle or consistency, 
which flash into enthusiasm or sink into panic before 
each new^ aspect of truth, whether in defence or attack 
— preserve their faith or remodel it or help those near 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



23 



and dear through that most lonely of struggles on the 
question of questions ? We cannot do it without that 
balance of mind, that humanity of spirit, that sense of 
the power of evidence and the weight of fact which 
higher education in its truest sense gives. 

There is one more call which is imperative to edu- 
cated, thoughtful women. The chief danger in any 
country lies in the lives of those whose education has 
taught them to subordinate work to pleasure and ease, 
who make conformity to fashion their standard of 
conduct and morality. Doubtless in Canada there is 
less of this done than elsewhere, owing to the happy 
necessity that exists for work in most cases, but let us 
remember that where it does exist it is the fault of the 
women. If higher education is not to be a delusion or 
a sham, it will turn out women whose true culture 
will enable them to create in society, as well as in the 
family, a leaven of thought, of action and morality 
which will act upon all classes of the community 
purifying and elevating our whole national life. 

Only, ladies, in your preparation for the high ser- 
vice which is before you, let me entreat you to remem- 
ber that one great essential is to approach it in the 
spirit of truest womanliness. Even in such small mat- 
ters — such very small matters — as dress and appear- 
ance may I beg of University students ever to keep in 
mind the importance of being prettily and daintily 
dressed. 

But, young ladies, you know how much harm to 
many causes frowsiness and frumpiness have done in 
the past. And then any imitating or aping of men 
any attempt at mannishness, ruins woman’s work and 
saps it of all its force. It may often be the very same 
work as that carried on by men, and yet there will be 
an insensible distinction in the spirit in which it is 
undertaken. It should be as difficult to define when 
man’s work ends and woman’s work begins as to define 
the exact distinction between the father’s and the 
mother’s influence. Both are blended in one, and yet 
the children feel instinctively that there is a sphere 
for each. And so in the world of service, whether it be 
in family, society or humanity, we need to see it 
blended, not opposed ; man working in the fullest 
strength of his manhood, which involves many of the 
virtues hitherto supposed to be peculiar to women, 
and woman working in the fullest strength of woman- 
hood, which also involves many of the virtues specially 
attributed to men— strength, judgment, truth, courage 

in which perhaps we have been supposed to be 

lacking. 

But whatever may be the result of this educational 
movement, a very great responsibility rests upon you 
who are reaping the fruits of the toil of those who have 
gone before you. You have to justify the action of 
those who have won these privileges for you ; you have 
to show that University women will justify their 



emancipators — not by unsexing themselves, not by 
claiming power or by asserting their superiority, but 
in the words of a pioneer of the University educational 
movement in England by showing “that conscience, 
reason and will, trained and disciplined to understand 
and act on principle, will produce a higher type of 
character in the average woman than the old life in 
the leading strings of custom and conventionality ; 
that the wider knowledge, the more practical judg- 
ment, the deeper sense of responsibility which belongs 
to freedom, will make them better as well as wiser 
women, will fit them in fact — not in pretention only^ 
like the old system, but in fact — to fulfill all the duties 
of their womanhood.” 

This, young ladies, is the task set before you. This 
is what we hope from you. Accept my very best 
congratulations for the opportunities which you have, 
and my earnest wishes, that you may so use them that 
the country may yield grateful thanks to your Alma 
Mater for the gift she has given it in you. 

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. 

Quts desiderio sit pudor ant modus 
Tam cari capitis ? 

Holmes’ warmest admirer would not dare to hint 
that as a literary figure he is in the same class with 
Sophocles, yet Matthew Arnold’s lines on the “sing- 
er of sweet Colonus ” are equally true of the mellow 
humanist of Beacon Street. It is well to give high 
praise where high praise is due, and let no reader 

grudge to have it said of Holmes that he was one 

“ Whose even balanced soul, 

From first youth tested up to extreme old age, 
Business could not make dull, nor passion wild ; 
Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole.” 

In Holmes’ case, business was the practice of his 
profession ; passion, — so far as any is revealed in his 
writings, — dislike of homoeopathy. He was assi- 
duous in his devotion to medicine ; in attacking the 
Hahnemaniacs he was not without his smashing 
blow. But no one can accuse him of being either 
dull or wild. 

It is possible to write about Holmes from numer- 
ous points of view. He was, for most of those who 
knew anything of him, a literary man ; and as a 
literary man he had many titles to regard. He was 
a poet, a novelist, an essayist, a talker in print who 
combined wit and humor with wide reading, saga- 
city, and knowledge of the w'orld. But he was more 
than this . He was a distinguished professor of 
Anatomy, a man of affairs, and above all an adept 
in the art of living. In this complex age when the 
temptation is sti'ong to seek distinction in a narrow 
field without regard to general culture, it is refresh- 
ing to come across men who by precept or example 
encourage one to perfect himself in the art of liv- 



24 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



in" One nec<l not quarrel with Milton’s definition 
of a good book as “ the precious life-blood of a mas- 
ter spirit, imbalmed and treasured up on purpose to 
a life beyond life,” to believe that for most literary 
men living is more important than writing. Occa- 
sionally some one who has been educated under the 
influence of Greek rather than German ideas comes 
out with a definite profession of faith on this subject, 
Symonds, writing volume after volume in his impri- 
sonment at Davos, felt that even the short life he 
could expect was of more consequence than anything 
he was likely to^lvrite. “ Life seems so much graver, 
more important, more permanently interesting than 
books. Literature is what Aristotle called Sid'ycoj'^ 
an honest, healthful, harmless pastime.” Perhaps a 
time will come when biography will be esteemed 
more highly than it is now ; when it will be held 
that the record of a life led in conformity with high 
ideas is of more value than any literary expression 
of the ideas themselves. Holmes is certainly a wri- 
ter “ whose own example strengthens all his laws.” 
He is not one of those who are more edifying in 
their books than in their lives. What devotee of the 
“ Vicar of Wakefield ” does not feel that the author’s 
human qualities are less than his literary qualities ? 
It is not alone that Goldsmith “ talked like poor 
Poll : he had weaknesses of disposition which make 
us regret that we have so much biographical detail 
about him. How different it is with Holmes! His 
masterpiece is not the “ Autocrat,” but his eighty-five 
years of buoyant, inspiring vitality. 

Holmes was born in 1809, the year of Wagram • 
the year, also, in which Darwin, Tennyson, and 
Gladstone were born. As a Harvard student the 
intellectual influences by which he was affected were 
very different from those which had held universal 
sway in New' England during the preceding century. 
The moral basis of Massachusetts society was as 
strong in the days of Holmes’ youth as it had been 
in the days of Solomon Stoddard and Cotton 
MaUier. But the' intellectual horizon was expanding 
rapidly. It w'as not alone that Calvinism in large 
measure relaxed its hold on popular credence. A 
genuine social awakening accom panied the process of 
religious transition. The combination of ethical 
purity with freedom of thought, and wide human 
sympathy, is what giv^es the Boston literary school 
1840-1880 its claim to lasting regard. Those who 
have read the “ Professor,” or the essays on Johna- 
than Edwards, and the Pulpit and the Pew, will 
hardly need to be reminded of the spirit pervading 
Holmes’ utterances on matters of speculative reli- 
gion. For the rest, every page he wrote is aglow 
with his interest in whatever men do. No writer of 
classical or modern times could say more truly of 
himself. Homo suvt ; ml humant a me alienum piito 



The Harvard of Holmes’ youth was a very differ- 
ent institution from the Harvard of the present day. 
No doubt it was a better place to study than had 
been the embryonic high-school over which Dunster 
presided in the early years of the colony of Massa- 
chusetts Bay: when the dormitory ua'ndows had no 
glass, and when students paid their fees in eggs and 
pumpkins. But Harvard in the early part of this 
century had not outgrown the stage at which one 
professor teaches three or four subjects ; occupies — 
to borrow a phrase from Holmes himself — not a 
chair, but a whole settee. And, moreover. Harvard 
in those days was not progressive. Holmes said not 
long before his death : “ During all my early years our 
old Harvard Alma Mater sat still and lifeless as the 
colossi in the Egyptian desert.” But if stationary. 
Harvard even then was not without charm. The 
library was housed in Harvard Hall. The books 
w'ere stored in arched alcoves, “ which secluded with- 
out isolating the reader.” In this place where a little 
later Lowell browsed delightedly upon Dodsley’s 
“ Old Plays,” Cotton’s “ Montaigne,” and Hak. 
luyt’s “ Voyages,” Holmes must have found much 
to arouse his literary enthusiasm. The class of 1829 
to which he belonged, numbered among its members 
several men who rose to eminence in the generation 
of the Civil War. James Freeman Clarke; Benja- 
min Pierce, the mathematician ; ^ F. Smith, author 
of the national anthem “ My Country, ’tis of thee 
B. R. Curtis, of the Supreme Court of the United 
States; G. T. Bigelow, Chief Justice of the Supreme 
Court of Massachusetts ; F. B. Crowninshield, Speaker 
of the Massachusetts House of Representatives ; 
were classmates with whom Holmes remained through 
life upon terms of special intimacy. He was while 
in college a member of the famous Phi Beta Kappa 
Society, and a considerable number of his occasional 
poems were prompted by gatherings of his class, by 
banquets of the Phi Beta Kappa, and by functions of 
the University. The piece entitled “ The Boys, ” 
written for the class banquet of 1859, will be remem- 
bered as one of his happiest performances in this 
sort. 

In the introduction to “A Mortal Antipathy,” 
Holmes has given an account of the state of Ameri- 
can literature when he opened his first portfolio. 
Cooper, Irving, Bryant, Dana had all done their best 
wont before Holmes became known to the American 
public. The reigning favorite was N. P. Willis, who 
emerging from a line of “old-fashioned, coleopte- 
rous Calvinists led for a while a butterfly existence 

> rurir ^ The popular- 

ity of V\ ilhs in one way, as the Brook Farm move- 
ment in another, points to a general unsettling of 
society in eastern Massachusetts, which was particu- 
ary noticeable in the years 1830-45. When the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



25 



process of readjustment was complete, the flowering 
time of the old Puritan stock came. Holmes, Lowell, 
P.merson, Longfellow, Hawthorne, Thoreau, Chan- 
ning, Everett, Prescott, Motley, Philipps, Parker, 
Garrison, Sumner, Parkm an : this is a list of great 
and worthy names, a list of which New P^ngland 
may well be proud. And there were others, not so 
well known to the present generation, who were felt 
by those just mentioned to be their intellectual 
peers. It is an unusual society which reckoned 
among its less conspicuous members, Benjamin 
Pierce, Jeffries Wyman, Dean Gurney, Asa Gray and 
Charles Eliot Norton. 

Versatile as Holmes was, he is free from the charge 
of cacoethes scribendi. His table-talk is sometimes a 
little garrulous in style, but self-control is seen in the 
comparative paucity of his production. He doubt- 
less wrote with facility. The American people 
bought his books with a free hand. And yet all his 
contributions to literature — with the exception of a 
few memoirs — are contained in the twelve small 
volumes of the “ Riverside ” edition. To criticize the 
writings of Holmes seems a work of supererogation. 
“ Fanny ” Bowen covered the ground very well when 
he said in an old number of the North American Re- 
viezv : “ As he is everybody’s favorite, there is no oc- 
casion for critics to meddle with him, either to cen- 
sure or praise. He can afford to laugh at the whole 
reviewing fraternity.” The qualities revealed in 
Holmes’ books are the qualities which make a man 
beloved in daily intercourse. Wit, humor, informa- 
tion, observation, sagacity, benevolence, affection 
made Holmes dear to the hundreds of his friends 
and to the thousands of his readers. It is by no 
means a grateful business to tabulate the strong 
points of a favorite author for the purpose of de- 
ducting therefrom his limitations. Chacuna son gout., 
in literature as in gastronomy, It is the opinion of 
the writer that Lowell, Emerson,- Hawthorne and 
Thoreau are each to be credited with works which, 
either in point of fcrm or as contributions to the 
world’s stock of ideas, must be ranked higher than 
the best work of Holmes. But this is no bar to his 
full and free enjoyment of every book which the lat- 
ter published, from the Poems of 1836 to “Over the 

Teacups.” _ . . . 

One strong point of Holmes’ writing it is always 

well to emphasize. While his knowledge of litera- 
ture was most unusual in a doctor, his habits of scien- 
tific observation were of great service to him m liter- 
ature In the combination of literary and scientific 
attainments he recalls Gcethe more than does any 
other American. Unlike the mass of professional 
men he was able to rise above his profession We 
never feel that his knowledge of medicine ,s a bar to 
our non-professional intercourse with him. Special 



study and active practice brought him in contact 
with many phases of life which are little known to 
the layman. That for which we have reason to be 
thankful is that wide acquaintance with mankind 
made him reflective, without making him cynical or 
pedantic. 

It is always pleasant to read a selection of pieces 
which show the wide range of Holmes’ moods and 
knowledge. To pass from the broad fun of the 
“ Height of the Ridiculous ” to the perfect grace of 
“ Dorothy Q,” or to the elevating beauty of the 
“Chambered Nautilus;” to pa.ss from the persiflage 
of lighter passages in the Breakfast Table series to the 
serious discourses of the same, or from a descriptive 
essay like “ The Seasons ” to a scientific essay like 
“ Automatism and Crime:” this is a test of the writer’s 
power and the man’s breadth. Lowell, of all the 
New England brotherhood, is the only one whose 
compass is not less than that of Holmes. 

The public career of Holmes was a career of un- 
broken success, and numerous passages testify to his 
domestic happiness. Rarely has a life been so well 
rounded. His friends were the foremost men of his 
own land. He had no enemies, — except, it maybe, 
the homceopaths. Health, comfort, worthy posterity, 
power of enjoyment in old age were all his. A fit- 
ting fifth act to his long and happy life was a triumph- 
al reception in England in 1886. We who feel de- 
frauded if we are unable to visit Europe every two 
or three years may wonder that Holmes crossed the 
Atlantic but twice. Such is the fact ; but on the oc- 
casion of his second visit he was covered with enough 
glory to have satisfied a Roman dictator. It is inter- 
esting to read the list of receptions and dinners which 
were given in his honor. It is pleasant to think of 
his visit to Quaritch’s shop in Piccadilly. It is 
positively delightful to know that Oxford, Cambridge 
and Edinburgh gave him their degrees ; that on ar- 
riving at the House of Commons after all the places 
reserved for distinguished strangers were occupied, 
he was put among the ambassadors to hear Glad- 
stone’s speech on the Second Reading of the Home 
Rule Bill. Every circumstance which shows the 
warmth of English good-will is gratifying to Holmes’ 
admirers in America. But for real light upon Holmes’ 
own character, two incidents of his visit to Paris are 
worth the whole catalogue of social ovations. He 
called upon Pasteur without a letter of introduction, 
simply to pay him homage. “ I told him I was an 
American physician who wished to look in his face 
and take his hand— nothing more.” The other inci- 
dent carries us back to 1836 when Holmes was a 
student in the Ouartier Latin. Returning to Paris 
fifty years later, he went alone to the Cafe Procopc, 
illustrious for its association with great Frenchmen 
from Voltaire to Gambetta. Here Holmes had seen 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



26 



in his youth Arago, Poisson, and Joufifroy. Here in 
1886 he thought of old friends who for the most part 
had become a mere tradition to their grandchildren. 
No wonder sentiment waxed strong within him as 
he sipped his solitary cup of coffee in the empty 
room. So deeply had he been moved, that on de- 
parting he wished to give the waiter five francs in- 
stead of the five sous which formed the total of the 
note. But one consideration deterred him : He 

would be violating the traditions of a place “ where 
generation after generation of poor students and 
threadbare Bohemians had taken their morning coffee 
and pocketed their two lumps of sugar. It was with 
a feeling of virile sajiity and Roman self -conquest that 
I paid my five sous, with the small additional fraction 
which I supposed the waiter to expect, and no more." 

Aspiration makes ideal whatever is best in the 
qualities of common humanity. And Holmes did 
not lack a note of aspiration to exalt his humor, his 
wisdom, and his sympathy with every phase of man’s 
experience. Since his death many — one can hardly 
guess how many — have had in their minds and on 
their lips the last stanza of his finest poem. It is be- 
cause Holmes so truly lived in the spirit of these his 
own lines, that thousands have blessed him and 
mourned his death : 

Build thee more stately mansions, oh my soul, 

As the swift seasons roll ! 

Leave thy low- vaulted past ! 

Let each new temple, nobler than the last, 

Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, 

Till thou at length art free, 

Leaving thine outgrown shell by life’s unresting sea !*’ 

COLLEGE HONOURS. 

This world would be a paradise indeed, were man 
but perfect. Had our first parents been content with 
the pleasure so abundantly bestowed upon them, 
there would be no need for us, their unhappy child- 
ren, to be ever driven on to our tasks by the lash of 
stern duty, or enticed to fresh endeavour by the re- 
wards of fortune or fame. But since we can neither 
turn back the wheels of time, nor undo that which 
has been done, let us look at the matter candidly, 
and discover, if possible, by what means we may 
counteract the effects of their sad fall. 

We find in mankind, generally, a constitutional 
antipathy to labour or exertion of any kind, either of 
mind or body. His normal condition is one of sloth 
and inactivity. We have abundant proof in the 
lives of multitudes around us at the present day, and in 
the record left us by generations gone before! that if 
man’s wants are supplied, like the brute, he lies down 
in perfect contentment. There is, therefore, a need 
for some outward inducement to arouse him from 
this condition, and incite him to rise to that noble 



elevation upon which he is capable of standing. 
Whatever, then, will stimulate him to exercise his 
dormant powers is good, and demands our hearty 
commendation. We might cite, without limit, the 
sayings of philosophers, poets and statesmen to 
maintain the truth of this .statement. Let a few in- 
stances, however, suffice. In cultured, wise and no- 
ble Greece we see the most honourable of her sons 
contending in the established games , and in these, 
rewards were offered not only for feats of muscular 
development, but also in those “ exercitatio 7 tes ingenii 
et curricida mentis, ” on which Cicero bestows such 
high praise. And is not the high state of culture 
and refinement, to which Greece attained, due in 
large measure to these contests in which her citizens 
contended for rewards or prizes t And that philoso- 
pher, whose fables have been familiar to us from 
childhood, and are so replete with wisdom, encour- 
ages us to the use of reward in leading on, when he 
tells us of the struggle of the Sun and Wind. One 
more instance will be sufficient for our purpose. Let 
him who has passed a peaceful day with Horace on 
his Sabine farm, charmed by the gentle murmur of 
the fountain that plays near by his dwelling, or slow- 
ly meandering through that little grove which grows 
not far away, listen to the poet as he recommends 
rewards in the following lines : — 

Ut pueris olim daut crustula blandi 
Doctores, elementa velint ut discere prima/’ 

And again, pursuing the same theme, he says : — 

“ Perfidus hie caupo, miles, nautaeque per omne 
“ Audaces mare qui currunt, hac meute laborem 
“Sese ferre, senes ut in otia tuta recedant, 

“ Aiunt, quum sibi sint congesta cibaria.” 

Every effort made by man is, simply and solely, 
for the reward which it brings. The merchant strives 
with all his powers, rising early and toiling late. He 
racks his brains for new plans, and closely watches 
every change in the market in order that he may 
increase his trade and enlarge his business, and all 
for one end ; that he may gain the reward of a large 
fortune. 

The politician bends all his energies to the pleas- 
ing of his constituents. The slightest ripple on the 
surface of public affairs cannot escape his watchful 
eye ; and all this he does for the reward of praise 
and power. 

To him who pursues the paths of literature, Fame 
beckons on, and points to a niche in her temple, as 
yet, unoccupied. This is to be his reward. 

We see, then, that this stimulus of reivard applies 
to all the walks of life. Is it just to deny it to the 
student } Rather would we say that to him of all 
others it must be prescribed, for to youth the honours 
of the world are not yet apparent in all their fulness, 
the growing intellect must be stimulated by every 
means that is right and true. 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



27 



Now college honours tend in that direction ; they 
expand the mind by encouraging the student to ex- 
cel in a laudable contest, and the youth who strips 
himself of every incumbrance, and pushes forward 
toward the prize, deserves the cheer of all beholders ; 
He who gained the garland of olive in the Olympic 
games was deemed a hero of whom his countrymen 
were proud, and while in training was, doubtless, 
cheered by the thought that he had the good wishes 
of all his fellow-citizens. So let them who in our 
college contests devote themselves with untiring 
energy to study, depriving themselves of many plea- 
sures which they might otherwise enjoy, receive the 
hearty Godspeed of all their fellows. 

ANLIQUIS. 



THEATRE NIGHT. 

[Recited at the closiug concert of the Glee Club, in the 
Queen’s Tlieatre, May, 1894.] 

There are some sights a fellow sees, not soon to be forgot. 

But like the scenes which nature spreads around some hallowed 
spot. 

The memory fondles them as things it lovingly reveres. 

And, oft recurring, magnified beyond the mists of years. 

They cheer with visions of the dawn the dimming e3*e of age. 
And gleam like little poems forth from life’s prosaic page. 

And we, in later years, perchance, enamored by the gleam 
Of days behind, shall think of when we ferried o’erthe stream 
youth’s gay garden and the fields of solemn toil and 
strife. 

And stooped and drank from out the flood a few deep draughts 
of life. 

Ay, comrades, then such nights as these we’ll cherish every 
one : 

When, by a sliding thread of years, short, fragile, quickly run. 
Stem manhood held the sword of life suspended o’er our joys. 
We felt for one whole night at least that — hang it ! we were 
boys- 

And when small kids that look like us shall hang upon our 
knees. 

And say, “ A little story tell, dear papa, if you please ? ” 

When the misty sunlight shortens and the leaf is brown and 

sere, 

In the mild October weather at the waning of the year. 

We’ll tell with many a thrill of joy and many a look of pride. 
Of how we marched in college days as students, side by side, 
Down the old avenue elate, and shouting with a will. 

Behind the storied banners, the banners of McGill ; 

Of how we thronged the theatre and filled the house with dm, 
Of how the city crowded out and couldn’t half get in ; 

Such we will joy to tell them, and they will joy to hear. 

In the mild October weather at the waning of the year. 

And when we train their youthful minds, one lesson we'll instil. 
That there is nothing in the world the matter with McGill ; 

One grand old song, the first of all, we’ll teach them how to 

A A Viplr^iulisoing treble tones our ‘Alma Mater ’ ring ; 

Oae grand old word before the rest we’ll teach them how to 

spell, 

Till loyal thousands shout like us, 

“ M— C—G— I-'I<— L. 

Cap’n Goun. 



SI JEUNESSE SAVAIT. 

0 pleasant ‘tis to loiter on the lawn, 

When our fierce phalanx, swathed in gules and white. 
Lines for the scrimmage, and prepares to take 
Vicarious exercise for all who watch. 

One afternoon, thus loitering, I saw 
A Freshman who had stayed him to observe. 

1 say a Freshman ; there could be no doubt. 

He bore the marks in gait, in guise, in mien. 

Nor do they bear more sure betokening marks, 

Who but a little week ago were wed. 

Blazoned are both, but in a different way ; 

These seek in vain to hide their amorous joy. 

The Freshman triumphs in his verdancy. 

lie had not waited long ere he espied 
A maiden of transparent beauty, one 
So fresh, so trim, so radiant that e’en 
My wizened heart beat with a quicker pulse, 

At sight of her. But not alone she moved ; 

Beside her was a youth on whom she smiled. 

Not academic, he ; his craft I ween 

Was to shave drafts, and keep a ledger right. 

Short time the Freshman tarried. His soft heart 
Glowed with ambition to cut 6ut that clerk. 

He had some slight acquaintance with the maid, 

I know not how. Perchance for him she’d poured. 

At a church social, a cup of tea. 

Some slight acquaintance had he, and therewith 
Put forward his best foot to gain her grace. 

And I who watched could not but wonder how 
A Freshman, with so little to commend 
Extravagant pretensions, should have dared 
To meet a bank clerk upon neutral ground. 
Self-knowledge should have plucked him by the sleeve ; 
A sense of supplementals imminent 
Should have recalled to him his littleness. 

Accosting her he ventured to remark 
That rain is customary in the fall. 

And for that matter so’s fair weather, too. 

He failed to score a little joke, and then 
Blushed to his ears, and felt that he had failed. 

She, interrupted in a colloquy 
Of all-absorbing interest, was scant 
In courtesy, and quickly turned to go. 

I who was sorry for the Freshman, then 
Would fain have gone to him, and told him not 
To make himself an ass another time. 

But other counsels followed; and it seemed 
Better to write these lines which he should read. 

And meditate with much self-questioning. 

But the alluring maiden sauntered on 
Out of the precincts of the college, grounds, 

Unmindful of the havoc she had made'. 

Unmindful of the youth of ’98, 

Unmindful of his wounded amour-propre. 

Her thoughts were fixed ou her erect bank clerk. 

Who walked so well, and had such pleasant ways, 

And talked to her of theatres, aud balls. 

ENVOY. 

Freshman, if you from this a moral seek, 
fftav-dr, and beware of cheek. 



THE THREE GRACES OF AMERICAN TRAVEL. 
II. THE B.\GGAGE SMASHER. 

Baggage smasher, lithe and agile, 

Who canst smash with equal skill 
Light and heavy, stout aud fragile. 

Well pack’d trunks, aud trunks pack’d ill ; 



28 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Tell me, dost thou love the caruage, 

Love to see the boxes fly, 

Lovest thou mad travellers daruage 
When their tones mount hot and high ? 

Neither bile nor bale nor rancor 
In thy strenuous heart is hid ; 

Almost never dost thou hanker 
To wrench off a hinge or lid. 

Save for tourists in mid-summer, 

And thy old inveterate foe, 

The seductive, guilesome drummer, 

Thou art free from passion’s glow. 

But the Saratoga waxes 
Every year more broad and tall. 

And the drummer never packs his 
Samples in a band-box small. 

These thou markest thy examples, 

These thou smashest with a slam, 

Using specially the samples 

As a high-power battering ram. 

But impartially thou wreakest 
One destruction in the main. 

On the strongest as the weakest. 

Like earthquake or hurricane. 

Unto me thou scarce seem’st human ; 

Rather a dread cosmic force 
By law hurling to their doom an 
Endless train of trunks in course : 

So I care not if thou small be. 

Medium, massive, lean, or fat, 

Kpdroj I’m constrained to call thee, 

Though thy name s more likely Pat, 

III. THE HOTEE CLERK. 

Thou, only thou, hast to perfection brought 
In our rough world, the ozymandian art 
Of making all men feel thou liv’st apart 
From them, and hold’st their vulgar life at nought. 

Such dignity as thou hast can’t be bought 
By wealthy parvenus in common mart : 

And yet it seems to me thou play’st a part 
Which with thy stately mien comporteth not. 

Thou should’st have been a monarch in an age 
When slaves were numerous. Alas that now 
The Ethiop bell-boy should exact a wage. 

Thy minion. Servilely he seems to bow 
Before thee in thy presence, but e’en he 
Behind thy back makes mocks and gibes at thee. 



MEDEA. 

WRITTEN FROM A PAINTING. 

Avenging passion in those strange grand eves 
Leaps to the light, and yet so fierce it glows 

^ TF face ; as from the skies 

The lightning hurls its terror, yet bestows 
Upon the face of Heaven a weird, wild beauty. 

^ of grace, and true 

How changed thy face ! at last I see thee stand 
The haua that shattered all tLrSe^heefTg t, 



SOCIETIES. 

McGILL literary SOCIETY. 

The meeting on Friday, Oct. 12th, was called to 
order promptly at eight p.m., the President, Mr. 
Hanson, occupying the chair. 

After the reading and confirming of the minutes 
of the previous meeting, the business of the Society 
was quickly disposed of and the programme for the 
evening proceeded with. 

First came a reading, by Mr. Packard of Science. 
This was delivered in splendid style, and was without 
doubt one of the best readings ever given before the 
Society. 

Next came the event of the evening, the debate on 
the subject : — “ Resolved, that the poets have exerted 
a more permanent influence on civilization than the 
Statesmen.” 

The subject was ably handled by Messrs. Robertson, 
Campbell and Hopkins for the affirmative, and Messrs. 
Hanson, Trenholme and Ross for the negative. The 
question was then put to the meeting for decision, and 
resulted in a victory for the affirmative. Mr. Wallace 
gave an able critique of the evening’s proceedings. 
Mr. W. C. Sutherland, who was unavoidably absent 
during the earlier part of the evening, being now 
present, read a splendid essay on the “ Principles of 
Anarchy.” This concluded the programme, and the 
meeting adjourned to meet again on the following 
Friday. 

Perhaps the most interesting meeting of the Literary 
Society which has been held at Old McGill for years 
opened at ten minutes after eight last Friday evening, 
with President Hanson in the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and, 
approved, and as there was no business the programme 
followed immediately. 

First came a very appropriate reading from Oliver 
Wendall Holmes, by Mr. McMaster*(Arts ’97), which 
was delivered with great feeling and expression. 

Neither the song nor the singer were present, but 
as someone thought that the latter might be suffering 
from a severe attack of “ Coldus Canadensis,” he was 
excused without censure. 

Next came an excellent essay on “ Friendship” by 

Mr. R. Rogers (Arts ’94), which was well written and, 
if possible, better read. 

And then the Debate ! The subject for discussion 
was:— ‘‘ Resolved, that the advantages of a British 
connection are such that Canada would not be bene- 
fited by national independence.” 

The speakers pro and con were as follows : I Toward 
(Arts ’94), Craig (Arts ’94) and Pollock (’97) versus 
Mullin (Law), Burnet (Arts ’94). and Trenholme (Arts 

’97). 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



29 



A truly patriotic meeting, by a slender majority 
decided in favor of the affirmative, 

Mr. Tory then followed with an interesting critique. 

He criticized the general behavior of the audience 
for uncalled for and irregular applause. 

He commended the reader and the essayist, but he 
thought that both spoke too rapidly. 

Of the speakers in the debate, Mr.Tory stated that 
Mr. Howard expressed himself well, but said the 
leader’s closing summary was especially worthy of 
commendation. 

He praised Mr. Mullin for great eloquence, 

Mr. Craig, Mr. Tory thought, made a wonderfully 
fine showing ; indeed, Mr. Craig’s speech was consi- 
dered by the audience generally to be the speech of 
the evening. 

The other speakers, while criticized for smaller 
faults, were praised for arguments. 

Mr. Tory closed his useful critique by saying he 
was glad to be among “ the boys” again. 

On the motion of Messrs. Carmichael and Howard 
the meeting was adjourned until next Friday night. 

So finished an evening eventful in the annals of the 
McGill Literary Society, though the happy notes of 
“ What’s the matter with Old McGill ^ ” were borne by 
the breezes till some hours later. J. G. S. ’97. 

MCGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the McGill Mining Society was held 
in the old Science building on Thursday evening, Oct. 1 
4th. Prof. Carlyle in the chair. The minutes of the 
previous meeting were read and accepted. 

It being the first meeting of the Society this ses- | 
sion, officers were elected. The elections resulted as 
follows : — 

Honov(xyy President, — Dr. Harrington, 

President. — Prof. Carlyle. 

Viee-P resident. — J. C. Gwillim. 

Secretary-Treasurer. — W. M. Archibald. 

Dr. Harrington, Prof. Carlyle and Mr. Gwillim 
were elected unanimously. Messrs. Rutherford and 
Archibald were nominated for Secretary Treasurer, 
and Mr. Archibald was elected. 

A hearty vote of thanks was tendered by the I re- 
sident to Mr. Hart, the retiring secretary, for the 
manner in which he had carried on the work during 
his term of office. Mr. Hart said a few words in reply, 
and promised to read a paper before the Society 
some time during the session. 

It was moved by Mr. Gwillim, seconded by Mr. 
Askwith, that the night of meeting be changed to 
Friday ; as required by the Constitution, this matter 
was laid over until the next meeting. 

After a few remarks by the President on the future 
outlook for the mining engineer, the meeting adjourned 
until Friday, Oct. 19th* 



VETERINARY ASSOCIATION. 

Annual Opening Meeting and Election 
OF Officers. 

The annual opening meeting of the Montreal 
Veterinary Medical Association, held in the lecture 
room of Faculty of Comparative Medicine of McGill 
University, was attended by an unusually large and 
enthusiastic audience. In the absence of Dr. J. G. 
Adami, President of the Society, Dr. D. McEachran 
occupied the chair. 

The election of officers for the ensuing year result- 
ed as follows : 

President . — Dr, J. G. Adami. 

\st Vice-President . — Dr. M. C. Baker. 

2 nd Vice-President. — L. S. Cleaves. 

Secretary-Treasurer . — E. C. Thurston. 

The Honorary President, Dr, McEachran, in an 
address of welcome made a brief resume of the work 
of the Society, than which no better incentive to ear- 
nest, successful effort in the future could be given. 
The ballot for new members resulted in the addition 
of twenty names to the list of active membership, a 
large number, and significant of an awakening interest 
in the Society* and the profession to the advancement 
of which it aims. 

I Dr. M. C. Baker, upon invitation, addressed the 
Society in his usual entertaining style, more especially 
directing his attention to the new members. The 
cultivation of habits, of accurate observation and 
record was impressed upon those present. At the 
next regular meeting, to be held on the 25th ult., a 
paper, entitled “The Feeding of Live Stock,” will 
be read by Mr. H. D. Clarke. Mr, E. C. Thurston 
will report an interesting case of “ Laceration of the 
Muscles of the Neck” of a horse. 



The following officers were elected at the opening 
meeting of the Society for the Study of Comparative 
Psychology, held on the 17th inst : — 

Honorary President. — Dr. Duncan McEachran. 
President. — Dr. Wesley Mills. 

\st Vice-President. — Dr. M. A. Dawes. 

2 nd Vice-President. — Mr. Sherman Cleaves. 
Secretary- Treasui'er . — Mr. C. A. Boutelle. 
Corresponding Secretary. — Mr. A. Cowan. 

Press Reporter. — Mr. Harry Dell. 

Librarian. — Mr. E. C. Thurston, 

After the election, addresses were given by Dr, 
McEachran and Dr. Wesley Mills, and an exceedingly 
interesting paper, published recently in Forest and 
Stream, was read by Mr. C. H. Zink, describing the 
ability of a certain retriever dog to understand human 
language. 

Dr. M. A. Dawes will deliver an address at the 
next meeting. 



30 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



OUR MUSICAL CLUB. 

Again in the fiont rank of our University organiza- 
tions we find the McGill Glee and Banjo Club, with 
renewed strength in both numbers and activity, ready 
to uphold the reputation which was gained by it 
during the past season. 

The few enthusiastic students, who, one evcnine, 
met to discuss the feasibility of organizing a Banjo 
and Glee Club in connection with the Applied Science 
h acuity, little dreamed that their scheme was the 
nucleus of a club, which has in two years developed 
into a strong and permanent society in connection 
with McGill University life. 

The one feature especially commendable in regard 
to this organization is the lack of any rules of mem- 
bership which might tend towards exclusiveness. Our 
tnembers are drawn from all faculties of the University, 
the only requirements being, either a trained voice 
and good music-reading abilities, or the knowledge, 
of the use of^some string instrument. 

A few words may not be amiss in reference to the 
very successful journey made by the Club last April 
through the Eastern provinces. The reception met 
with at the hands of the graduates of our Alma 
Mater, heie and there along the route, showed the 
interest still maintained by them in their old home 
The Club would here take the opportunity to extend 
to the following Universities thanks for their kind 
patronage and College fellowship in aiding to make 
the trip a success. University of New Brunswick 
Mount Allison University, Bishop’s University, St. 
Dunstan’s College, and the College of the Prince of 
Wales. 

The annual meeting of the McGill Glee and Banjo 
Club was held on Tuesday, i6th inst., with Vice 
President Askwith in the chair. After upwards of 
an hour spent in discussing the business affairs of the 
Club, the election of officers was taken up. Mr. R. A 
Gunn, B.Sc., to whose untiring energies the present* 
welfare of the Club isdue, will act as Business Man- 
ager. The other officers are as follows 

//o/:. Pres . — Alexander Johnson, LL.D., Vice- 
Principal and Dean of the haculty of Arts 
President—'^. O. Ross, B.A. 

Vice-President. —\\. R. Askwith 
Rec. Secretary. ~Y. W. Harvey, B.A. 

Leader Banjo Clnb.~\\. B. McDunnough. 

Leader Glee Club. — Thos. Tetreau. 

Press Reporter. — S. Graham. 

S. G. 



dents”; and on the 2ist, Prof. Ross of the Presbyte- 
rian College gave a very vivid presentation of the 
doctrine of “progress in revelation,” A choir of twenty 
students lead the singing, and some excellent solos are 
usually provided. We are glad to welcome a goodly 
number of friends who attend these intensely interest- 
ing and profitable lectures. 

The Faculty Bible classes are also on the increase. 

P'or the next fortnight, meetings are as follows: — 

Sunday, Oct. 28th, Mrs. Ashley Carus-Wilson will 
lecture on “ The Hope of the Promise ; ” and on Nov. 
4th, Rev. Dr. Rose will speak on “ The Bible and 
Modern Criticism.” 

Bible class work will be : “ Character studies in the 
life of Abraham.” 

Watch for posters. A. M. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

The officers of the McGill Medical Society for the 
present session are : — 

President. — Mr. A, Cruikshank. 

Vice-President, — Mr. E. Commins, B.A. 

Treasurer.— yiv. D. D. McTaggart, B.Sc. 

Librarian. — Mr. C. C. Alexander. 

Secretary.— yix, H. B. P'raser, B.A. 

During the summer session, meetings of the Soc- 
iety were held every Saturday evening, and much 
valuable information was acquired by those who at- 
tended, from the many instructive and interesting 

papers that were read and the enthusiastic discussion 
which followed them. 

It IS the desire of the Committee to'put forth every 
erfort to make this one of the most successful years 
in the history of the Society, and to this end it is 
loped that the men of every year in the Medical 
Paculty will give their support, both by attending the 
meetings of the Society and also by a willing response 
to invitations to prepare and read papers. During 
tie winter session the meetings will be held every 

commencing at 8 o’clock, in 

the Medical building. 



Y. M. C. A. 

The Sunday Afternoon lectures in Association 
Hall, Dominion Square, arc incrcasin>r in interest. 



On the iqth inst. Rev. R. 1. Rc.xlord 



helpful address on "Practical Suggestions^ RibVs'tu- 



On Wednesday, the loth inst., the Fourth Year in 
edicme held its annual election of officers, and 
s lowed Its good judgment by selecting such capable 

men as Duncan Wood, Piesident, and D. F. Walker, 
oec. Ireasurer. 

Duncan Anderson, of the Fourth Year, who repre- 
sented the Medical College at the dinner of the Laval 
. tudents on Fhursday last, turned up on the follow- 
ns nioimng for lectures at 9 o'clock. He reports a 

“ White'Boys"' ' 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Three months’ vacation does not seem to have been 
sufficient for J.E. Robertson of the Fourth Year. 
However, we are glad to see him in his old place, and 
hope that the extra recreation will count to his benefit. 

I he Medical College has just commenced a new era 
in its annals of illumination. The incandescent lights 
are most satisfactory ; no more will Cook climb up 
the students’ coat collars to light the gas jets in the 
lecture theatres. 

The Constitution which was unanimously adopted 
last session, for controlling the money matters of the 
INIedical Students, has admirably succeeded in its 
object. Not only has it given entire satisfaction, but 
also leaves a reserve of over seventy dollars. 

For the benefit of Freshmen and others we insert 
below a correct copy of the report, just as it was 
adopted : — 

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CUR- 
RENT EXPENSES TO THE MEMBERS OF 
THE FOUR YEARS IN MEDICINE. 

Gentlemen, 

Your Committee consider that the following item- 
ized account of expenditure is at present adequate for 
the purposes mentioned : 

Delegate to Cab fare. Hotel Bill. Pullman. Ticket. 



(a) Toronto f2 oo $S oo $4 oo |i7 50 $zS 50 

(d) Trinity .... 2 00 5 00 4 00 17 50 28 50 

c) Queen’s.... 2 00 5 00 4 00 9 70 20 70 

(d) Halifax.... 2 00 5 00 8 00 28 00 43 00 

(e) Reception Committee for dinner (3 men) 50 00 

(/) Expenses Academy night 30 00 

(£") “ for dinner 10000 



Total I300 70 



They would also submit the following suggestions 
for your consideration ; that, 

1. A fee of $1.50 be levied on every student to de- 
fray these and other expenses ; 

2. Any student who has not paid this fee will not 
be eligible to vote at any meeting or to receive office 
either from his own year or from the Faculty, but 
may acquire such right by paying all back fees from 
date of entrance ; 

3. A general-treasurer be appointed by the Third 
Year, who shall receive the collections from the secre- 
tary treasurers of the four years ; 

4. A finance committee be appointed, consisting of 
the secretary-treasurer of each year, together with 
the general-treasurer, whose duty it shall be to 
determine the amount of each expenditure. The 
secretary-treasurer of the fourth year shall be chair- 
man of this committee ; 

5 A majority of a meeting of the four years hav^- 
ing decided that an appropriation be made for a cer- 



31 



tain purpose, it shall be the duty of the chairman of 
the finance committee to call a meeting of said com- 
mittee, at which will be determined the amount of the 
appropriation, the votes of three members being 
necessary for a decision. He shall then communicate 
the decision to the secretary of the fourth oear, who 
shall draw out an order on the general-treasurer, sign 
it himself, and have it countersigned by the president 
of the fourth year. The secretary shall then forward 
this order to the person authorized to receive it, to 
whom the money shall be paid by the general trea- 
surer on presentation of the order ; 

6. The president of the fourth year shall have the 
right of refusing to sign any order for the expendi- 
ture of money. In such a case it shall be his duty to 
call a meeting of the four years at the earliest possible 
opportunity, and lay the matter before them. The 
decision of a majority of this meeting shall be final ; 

7. The president of the fourth year shall at any 
time call a meeting to discuss any question with 
regard to expenditure, on receipt of a request signed 
by any ten men who are eligible to vote. A major 
ity of this meeting shall decide whether or not an 
expenditure shall be made ; 

8. An annual meeting called b)’ the president of 
the fourth year shall be held during the first week of 
the winter session, at which the general-treasurer of 
the past year shall present his financial statement 
and at which his books shall be audited and handed 
over to the newly appointed treasurer. 

JAMES PRITCHARD, 

Secretary. 



At a meeting of the Third Year ; it was unani- 
mously resolved that no election for president should 
be held until next year, and that the office should be 
left vacant out of respect for our late president, J. B. 
Ferguson, the vice-president acting in his stead. 

VV. F. Scott was elected Class Reporter by a unani- 
mous vote, this being the only change in officers from 
last year. 

We would like to draw the attention of the P'aculty 
to the fact that on account of the Third Year having 
lectures every afternoon from 4 to 6, members of the 
class are unable to take part in or witness the foot- 
ball practices. We are all football enthusiasts in our 
class, and many are keen players, who are thus pre- 
vented from representing McGill on the football 
campus. 

As football is the representative game of McGill, 
this is a very discouraging state of affairs, and we all 
hope that some step will be soon taken to remedy it. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



32 



ARTS NOTES. 

What’s in a name i Everything, in the case of our 
Secretary-Treasurer. Mr. A. Gordon holds that 
position, not Mr. Campbell, as stated in last number 
His duties have not been very heavy so far, yet he 
deserves all the credit that is to be had. 

Messrs. Cole and Smiley were omitted in the list 
of officers for the year. 

They were elected as members of the Reading 
room Committee. 

Mr. Kenneth Molson will probably represent us 
in the Arts team for the Faculty Race. We expect 
to see, at least, one good lap. 

The rhetoric class is distinguishing itself. We 
wish to call attention to the fact that in every debate 
up to this time, the side supported by its men has 
been successful. 

We do not mention this from any motive of self- 
glorification, but merely as a hint to the junior mem- 
bers — if you wish to vote on the winning side, vote 
for the Third Year man. 

Wanted — 

At the Saturday demonstrations in Zoology, — a 
Hamlet, all other essential requisites are on hand — 
an audience and Yorick’s headpiece. 

The year has subscribed nobly to the FORTNIGHTLY 
— no less than twenty out of a possible eighteen sub- 
scriptions, — so says our Treasurer. 

A meeting of the Second Year was held in Lecture 
room No. i on Monday, Oct. 15th, the President, 
Mr. McMaster, in the chair. 

An animated discussion took place as to the ad- 
visability of procuring a banner for the year. The 
debate continued for some time, and it was finally 
considered better not to put the question to vote, 
but to appoint a committee to make enquiries rela- 
tive to the banner ; the meeting was adjourned until 
Wednesday. 

The adjourned meeting was held at noon on Wed- 
nesday. The minutes of the previous meeting were 
read and approved. The report of the committee 
was heard. The discussion was renewed, Mr. 
Saxe supporting, Mr. Marler opposing, the motion. 
The opinions of many were expressed, and the feel- 
ing of the year was seen to be decidedly against the 
proposition. While all commended the action of 
the First Year in giving the initiative to succeeding 
years, it was felt that the Second Year .should not be 
influenced by its action, but that it should rather fol- 
low the precedent set by its predecessors ami be 
content to walk under the Faculty banner. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Be Brief ! 

Since the night of the Laval promenade, there has 
been trouble brewing in the Faculty of Law. An 
unaccountable uneasiness and nervous disquiet has 
fallen upon and disturbed the whole student body of 
Law. Hitherto industrious students have been found 
during the lectures gazing at the Profe.ssor with a 
pained expression, and not taking a note. Even the 
indefatigable B — r— n has sometimes looked up, and 
with an audible sigh laid down his pen for a space. 
Fluent professors have fidgetted in the chair, ill at ease. 
The other day the source of all this mischief was dis- 
closed. An important discovery was made The 
sacred banner of the P'aculty with the familiar effigy 
of the grave and philosophic fowl emblazoned thereon 
hung no longer from the walls of the class room. 
Where was the owl that was wont to look down with 
his kindly eye (one eye) on the perspiring note-taker ? 
There was wrath ; there was indignation. A meeting 
was called in this emergency, and every man consti- 
tuted himself a voluntary witness, and bit by bit the 
fabric of circumstantial verity was established. All 
started at the same point. All saw the banner with 
due solemnity taken from its hanging place on the 
wall to head the procession on Laval night. All saw 
it flying gaily as the procession started. So far there 
was not the shadow of a doubt in the mind of any. 
But the testimony of the witnesses beyond this point 
was strangely incongruous and conflicting. Some lost 
all sight of the beloved pennant early in the evening ; 
others declared that they watched the owl intently, 
and that it grew funnier as the night went on ; while 
still others solemnly deposed that far on in the night 
they observed the sagacious bird under a gas-light 
deliberately open his blind eye, flap his stubby wings, 
and give forth the shrill, clear note of chanticleer. 
The testimony of these latter was rejected as totally 
untrustworthy, and the deponents put aside for re- 
examination when the pressure of popular excitement 
had subsided. Then came forward a Second Year 
man, who made a startling statement that stirred the 
student ma.ss to its profoundest depths. He had 
seen the banner in the rooms of our worthy V. P. ! 
In the rooms of our worthy V. P. ! A cry went up for 
a rope, but here the cooler heads intervened, and 
counseled law and order. “ Let these investigations 
be carried forward in the spirit of justice and fair 
play. Let the accused defend himself, ” they said. 
Worthy V. P. rose, and pleaded in his own behalf. 
It was an eloquent effort. Yes, he carried the flag 
on that eventful night — but he did not know of its 
pre.sent whereabouts. It was not in his rooms ; it 
was not in his care and keeping. Here the speaker 
was interrupted by a cheer, and in burst D — t bearing 
the long-lost banner. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



33 



clear reader, whoever you arc, picture the scene 
which followed. Third Year men clasped the flag- 
pole in a fervid embrace, till at length they were taken 
away by sympathetic friends; Seccwid Year men , 
stood on the desks, that they might hold the precious 
texture in their proper hands ; while First Year men 
stood at a respectful distance, and gazed in silent 
adoration on the features of the wise and ancient 
fowl. Many wept. 

Slowly, solemnly, and wi th all due care and deco- 
rum it was re-installed in its old place on the wall. 

There let it remain. 

Laus Ulnlae 

Bulletin— ( later). 

Since the remarkable circumstances related above, 
and discovery of the owl, profound quiet has settled 
once more over the Faculty. The lubricative element 
has been restored. All goes smoothly. 

Pleased to see the familiar face of Mr. J. A. Devlin 
once more in the class room — happy, hearty and — be- 
whiskered. 

C — k is a cook-oo ; he cooked (misprint for cocked) 
his eye on the judge, and then “cooked ” the defend- 
ants. 

Theatre night is approaching. Let us have a 
rousing turn-out. Our class is very large this year 
owing to the big influx of First Year men, all of whom 
are good fellows, and many old Arts men. Let us 
make the Law Faculty the contingent of the evening. 

At an informal meeting, loud cries for Secretary 
to read the minutes. C — m — 1 (tendering his watch 
to the Secy.) : “ Here, read them the minutes.” Great 
confusion, during which C — m — 1 escapes. 

Messrs. White of the Second, and Boyd of the First, 
Year have been appointed to represent Law on the 
Committee Theatre night — the right men. 

At a recent meeting Mr. Carmichael laid before 
the Law students [a proposal for a University 
Memorial to the late Mr. Peter Redpath, the matter 
having been taken up by the several other Faculties. 
The co-operation desired will no doubt be cheerfully 
accorded, and we trust the commendable object in 
view will be speedily accomplished. A meeting will 
shortly be held with regard to it. 

The second meeting of the Moot Court was held 
in the Faculty room, on the 5th instant, when an 
interesting case, involving questions of commercial 
contract, was presented. Dean Trenholme presided 
in court, and took the case en ddibere. Mr. Patterson 
appeared for the plaintiff, and Messrs. Gaudet and 
Boyer for the defendant. 



The third meeting of the Court was held on th 
i6th instant, the case being argued before Professo 
Fortin on points of procedure. Messrs. Donahue and 
. Cooke appeared for plaintiffs, Messrs. White and 
Jasmin for defendants. 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The Students in Applied Science were treated to 
an excellent lecture on the “Distribution of Power at 
Niagara,” on Monday the 15th inst. The lecturer 
not only handled his subject ably, but in such a way 
as to inspire his hearers with a portion of his energy. 

The many friends of Mr. Louis Herdt, B.A.Sc. 
’93, will be pleased to hear of his recent success. Mr. 
Herdt has lately obtained the Diploma from the In- 
stitute at Montefiore, with very creditable standing. 

We see that fall planting has commenced at the 
Physics building. While we . would not presume to 
dictate, yet, having considerable experience with this 
climate, w e have good reasons to believe that it is 
not suited for growing thermometers. 

Magnificence is sometimes inconvenient, as cer- 
tain ’95 electricals recently experienced — for we live 
so high with our magnificent equipment that even a 
waste-paper box is too good to be used for a seat 
while using instruments which otherwise necessitate 
a very uncomfortable posture. 

It is encouraging, especially to the junior years, 
to see what prestige one obtains by persevering in 
the arduous tasks which fall to our lot. The follow- 
ing, from the Bishops College School’s publication, we 

are pleased to insert : “H C. B (B.C.S. 1883- 

87,) who is taking the Applied Science course at McGill 
University, has lately come out second in his year. 
Mr. B. paid a visit to the School a few weeks ago, and 
expressed himself as greatly pleased with the genera 
work and apparatus of the laboratory.” 

We notice with regret that one of the Mining stu- 
dents of Class ’96 has taken a rather too lively interest 
in the affairs of the Mechanicals at this their busy 
time. He had better beware, for we have d. Hunter 
who will Chase him till he turns Greeii about the 
Gillis). We will Walkem downstairs with little 
Courtice, and he will get no Smai^ll punishment. We 
will put him in the tank, turn on the water, and we 
think he would Rutherford the rushing river about 
which the grass and White flowers grow. If he 

is Webb footed he will be all right, otherwise the 
question is swim. He thinks it is quite Wright 
to take this interest, but we fail to see Hoive he makes 
it out. He should understand that he Mussenif) take 
this unwelcome interest or he will lose his Hare. 



34 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 lie following appeared on the bulletin board a 
few days ago : — 

Lost — A Sun-did by Mr. — , ist year with brass 
face. 



Mr. H. T. Barnes, B.A.Sc., is taking a postgradu- 
ate course in Electrical Engineering. 



At a meeting of First Year Science the following 
officers were elected : 

President. — E. Me Lea. 

Vice-President. — P. Butler. 

Secretary- Treasurer. — J. McRae. 

Class Reporter. — K. G. Rea. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

The First Year is very glad to be able to express 
in the pages of the Fortnightly its appreciation of 
the warm welcome it has received from all sides, and 
the feeling of good fellowship which has been upper- 
most whenever it has met with the other years for 
work or pleasure. 

The First Year has eighteen members, who for the 
most part seem to be interested in their work. They 
are not afraid of asking questions, and are anxious to 
find out the exact limits for which the examiners 
will hold them responsible. 

However, all the satisfaction these inquirers have 
yet received is the meagre information that “exam- 
iners are uncertain animals.” 

The First Year is reported on good authority to 
possess the “ most presumptuous Freshie ” yet seen 
within the East Wing. Let us strive to assist this 
member in keeping up the reputation of Arts’ 98. 

Please don’t teach the class of ’98 any slang. The 
President has forbidden its use. 

Donalda Sophomore (translating )— “ Pe^iuria erat 
mulierum — There was a lack of asses” — 

Professor. — “Well, not exactly.” 

Professor . — Ou avez-vous perdu votre franfais 
Mademoiselle ? 

Student. “Oui (and she doesn’t understand yet 
why they laughed). 

Once upon a time there walked along one of our 
principal up-town streets a lady, a McGill student, 
and — a small dog of the breed known as poodles. 

The latter repeatedly annoyed the student by 
attacking the heels of his rubbers and even a little 
higher up. 

Now, this student, although handsome, was not a 
cruel man, and did not wish to incur the displeasure 
of the lady by injuring her dog. 

He placed his foot under the quadruped, and 
deposited him at a safe distance in the gutter. home 



The lady hastened to the rescue, and with scorn 
and indignation in her voice, commanded : “Sir! kick 
a dog your own size.” 

Our friend the student was somewhat astounded ; 
but, student-like, rose to the emergency, and with, 
equal indignation, exclaimed : “ Madam, find me a 
dog of my size.” 

Last Monday there was a meeting of the Donaldas 
to discuss the question of buying a piano. It is felt 
that the old custom of paying rent for one every year 
has so many disadvantages that we must get rid of 
it by having a piano that has “come to stay.” A 
cabinet grand piano, which seems to meet our wishes 
has been offered to us for $150. After speaking for 
itself at the meeting, almost all present promised to do 
their share in paying for it. If ■^ve accomplish this, 
we flatter ourselves that we will have conferred a 
lasting benefit on the Donaldas who succeed us. 

We always did believe our professors most self- 
sacrificing, but what of him who not only tears out the 
hairs of his head for our sakes, but sheds his very 
heart’s blood that we may advance in wisdom ? 

CLASS REPORT FOURTH YEAR. 

On Saturday, Oct. 6th, the class of Arts ’95 set off 
on their second Geological tramp. 

The mountain was selected for investigation, and 
indeed it abounds in material for scientific research ; 
for we saw boulders galore, vast heaps of earth that 
once had been rock, huge layers of Trenton lime- 
stone, and plenty of stink-stei that stank as only 
stink-stein can stink. 

One part of the mountain was thickly sprinkled 
vV'ith colossal crystals composed of quartz, mica and 
feldspar; in these were preserved “the monumental 
records of the changes” which the professor no doubt 
referied to in his definition of Geology. 

After we had done up the mountain from a Geolo- 
gical standpoint, we proceeded to investigate the 
various places of interest, and refreshed our^’memory 
as to some of the later historical events. 

Our love for the aesthetic was gratified by a bird’s 
eye view of the mountain from the observatory. 

Even a hoi se kindly contributed to our amusement 
by dumping his master down on the ground in such 
a fantastic manner, that even Seniors could not re- 
frain a smile— and, oh, I forgot— the professor, he 
smiled too. 

We all enjoyed the excursion, and derived great 
benefit not only from the valuable information ob- 
tained but also from the healthy exercise, for we 

hammers now with con- 
siderably dexterity. 

Oct. 13th.— An expedition planned to the quarries, 
thank fortune it rained. There’" 



re’s no place like 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



35 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

A college^ work is merely a foundation, a begin- 
ning. not an end ; the proper criterion of an institution 
is not numerical strength, nor the immediate value 
of its instruction, but rather the after-lives of its 
alumni. 

To those who are well acquainted with the history 
of this Faculty, it is a common fact that our graduates 
very generally occupy high positions, and stand fore- 
most in all movements for the elevation of the pro- 
fession. 

W ith this year begins the first session of the 
United States College of Veterinary Surgeons, Wash- 
ington, D.C. With a proper equipment, hospital, 
and an extensive practice, everything augurs well for 
its success. We wish Dr. C. Barnwell Robinson, ’82, 
Dean, and Dr. Cecil French, ’94, Professor of Ana- 
tomy and Bacteriology, every success in their new 
labors. 



Senior . — Great sights up at the laboratoty this 
afternoon. 

Freshman (with visions of class rushes, black eyes, 
etc.) — What sights ? 

Senior. — Leucocytes ! 



Professor in Cynology . — How long has the dog 
been known as a domestic animal ? 

Freshman (after severe mental effort). — Well, as 
far back as I can remember. 



Before the Bel Air races. — Have you any — aw — 
nice imported cigars } 

After the same. — Derbys, please. 



Unconscious joke. 

A Freshman leaving the Anatomy class on Friday 
noticed a scissors man, and innocently remarked, 
“ What ! Another grind } ” 



Second Year men are delighted over the inaugura-^ 
tion of “ quiz ” classes in Anatomy. Under the able' 
conduction of Mr. Zink they cannot fail to be of much 
material service. 



Mr. Charlie Richards has been elected our repre- 
sentative to the Athletic Association. 

The Second Year officers for the ensuing year are : 
President. — J. A. Ness. 

Xreasurer.—Y^^x^y Newcomb. 

Secretary,— Hell. 



ATHLETICS. 

REPORT OF FOOT-BALL MATCHES. 

The Foot- Ball season opened, as regards McGill, on 
Saturday, 13th Oct., when McGill ist XV played Bri- 
tannia 1st XV on the College campus, and succeeded, 
after a good hard struggle, in winning by a score of 
14 points to 9. The weather was very unfavorable, 
a heavy rain having fallen during the previous 
night and all Saturday forenoon, thus making the 
campus very muddy, and curtailing to some extent 
very brilliant play. The referee, Mr. A. G. B. Clax- 
ton, got the game started a little after three o’clock, 
when the teams lined up as follows : 



Britannia 




McGill 


J. Acer 






Ross 'I 




C A. Barclay 


V. Barry > ... 






P. Saunderson j 




i P. Leslie 


E. Linton 


. l^ack 




Whittam (Capt.)^ 




f Tees 


Brown 1 




1 Hill 


J. Barry | 




1 Irving 


McRobie ^ 






Vipond 1 




1 J. Barclay 


Gordon | 




1 Sparrow 


Patterson J 




l^Cowan 


Carter 'j 




C Bond 


Russel > 


Scrimmage 


. Drum (Capt) 


Crowley J 




f Grace 



The McGill back division was much stronger than 
Britannia’s, and the College wings also proved to be 
slightly superior to their opponents. But the supe- 
riority of the wings was counterbalanced by the weak- 
ness of the McGill scrimmage. If a change in its 
composition had not been made in the second half, it 
is doubtful if the boys would have won. The pret- 
tiest pieces of play were the respective runs of A. 
Barclay and Trenholme. The game was a hard one 
from start to finish, the checking of the wings 
being particularly close. McGill certainly deserved 
to win, as her team play was much superior to Bri- 
tannia’s. There is just one word to add, which may 
be of use to the college team : tackle low, prac- 
tise hard, and something ought to be effected before 
the close of the season. 

McGILL 2 ND XV w. OTTAWA COLLEGE 

2ND XV. 

On Saturday, Oct. 13th, our ind XV travelled to 
Ottawa to play Ottawa College 2nd XV, and gained 
a well merited victory, scoring 16 points to their oppo- 
nents 8. The match was a thoroughly hard and clean 
exhibition of Rugby Foot-Ball from start to finish, 
the play being characterized by its openness and also 
by the amount of dribbling which was effectively done 



36 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



by the McGill boys. Our team worked well together, 
and far outclassed their opponents in every way. 
Davidson at quarter particularly distinguished himself 
Our team, though much lighter, were much faster 
than their heavier opponents. The following was the 
McGill team : — 

(Back) McLeod ; ^ Back) I. Lynch, Baker, 

Drinkwater (Capt.) ; back) S. Davidson ; (Wings) 
Turner, Primrose, Wilkinson, Gilday, Todd, McLea, 
Wilkin ; (Scrim.) King, Laurie and Howard. Mr. J. 
Savage of the Montreal club made a very efficient 
referee. With lots of hard practice and team play 
the 2nd ought to give a very good account of itself 
this year. 



McGILL III w. BRITS III. 

The above teams played their scheduled match on 
the Shamrock Lacrosse grounds on Saturday, 13th 
Oct. The grounds were covered with liquid mud, and 
consequently clever play was totally absent from the 
game. Both teams played a hard game, but the pace 
was very slow, and the College III just managed to 
win by a doubtful score of 2 to i. A great improve- 
ment will need to be effected by our 3rd if they are 
to get the Championship. We were represented by 
the following ; — 

(Back) C. Russel; backs) Burnett, Lynch, Da- 
vidson, Molson (Lynch replaced Burnett who was 
hurt) ; back) Montgomery; (Wings) Balfour (Capt), 
Hillary, McPhail, McLennan, Sise, Haycock, Burke ; 
(Scrimmage) J. Ross, McMaster, Gordon. The above 
team is composed of entirely new players, and yet 
needs to learn how to give and take that amount of 
rough usage which is to be got in a game of Foot-Ball. 



McGILL 1st z't OTTAWA COLLEGE ist 

I 

Perhaps, what will prove to be the finest cham- 
pionship game in the Province of Quebec, Rugby 
Union, was played last Saturday in Ottaw'a by the 
team of these two Colleges. All the Ottawa boys 
admitted that it was the hardest fought game which 
they had played for years. Mr. Shillington of the 
Ottawa College Club acted as referee, and performed 
his duties with admirable impartiality. He, as well as 
many others, said that it was the fastest match they had 
ever seen, and it goes down as a record in the annals 
of Rugby Foot-ball in Ottawa. Both forward lin^s 
played an exceedingly fast and brilliant game, and 
many were the plaudits which our wing men received. 
It was anybody’s game from start to finish, as about 
5 minutes before time the score stood 18 points all* 



It would seem that superior condition enabled 
Ottawa College to make the desperate spurt which 
secured them the victory. By a very fine piece 
of play they got over the line, and secured a try, thus 
making the score at the finish 22 to 18 in their favor. 
Our boys certainly did exceptionally well, and will 
perhaps, if they practise hard and keep in con- 
dition, vanquish Montreal next Saturday. The 
following were the teams ; — 



McGill 




Ottawa College 


Brounelle 






A. Barclay 'j 




i McCarthy 


Trenholme 






P. Leslie j 




k Gleason 


Dandurand 






Schwartz ^ 




f Lee 


Tees 1 




1 O’Brien 


Hill I 




1 Foley 


Irving 






J. Barclay j 




1 McDougall 


Sparrow | 




1 James 


Cowan j 




(^Clancy 


Grace 




r McReady 


Drum (Capt) V ... 




.. -< Boucher 


Gordon j 




( Prudhomme 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

A well known classical professor in a Western 
Canadian college said to some students who had 
come to the Lecture Hall without gown and trencher : 
“ I see some gentlemen here who are academically 
naked.” 



Two brothers, of small stature, by the name of 
Hill, from the same college, are about to be ordained 
— both are nervous and excited. 

“ Why hop ye so, ye little Hills ” said a waggish 
brother-student. 



In a clever little book, “Verses to Order”, the 
writer points out in an original way that the crudities 
and errors in the verses of classic poets are used as 
models by the versifiers of to-day. Here are two 
cases in the way of illustration : — 



Still from slips in ancient song 
We frame consistent uses, 

And when they make their lines too long 
We call it Anacrusis. 

Whene’er some celebrated man 
The critic’s ear perplexes. 

By writing lines that will not scan 
’Tis Hypercatalexis. 




