Vol. X 



No. 10 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF KEW YORK 
ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

. _ $109,000,000 

Assets nearly ' 13,000,000 

Surplus over 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world) with the best record. 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 



UOTEE STREET, 



MOITTBE^-L. 



WEDDING CARDS, 



VISITING CARDS, 



MENU CARDS, 



RECEPTION CARDS, 
INVITATION CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

ancT chemicaljpparatus. 

S iTill $tock don$tai\tly oi) ftar|d, Imported 
Dirtdt from tl)e L<e'adiri^ ^I&iufadtufety 
of tf|e Wortd. 

AX INSPECTION INVITED. 



efi> i 



f\y*L I .. I llvi-vfy 



384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



-FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 

232 st. ua_:m::e3s st. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 

AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5 » 7 * 9 Bleiiry St., MONTREAL. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 

* ******** * 

t photographers 

’ * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * n Supplies a Specialty. 

//ew Scal ; of Fricss this yezr W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

- , ' r 8.v.dents. 232 St. Tazn.es Street, 



JU.EMCJLI, I I'ORKS, HOOKS L'SKO /.V JHT CO LUSK, 
SCMBJYCB TJBXT HOOKS, 

THK l\l It I O I S I HBOLOGMCJE. BOOKS. 

Fall assortment in stock & supplied at Roclt Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

-*“Ibest value let toweti-^ 

Stylogravhic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 



17 BLEURY STREET. 



ALSO 



Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. X.] 



McGi ll co llege, Montreal, march 23 rd, iss 7. 



[No. 10 . 




crsiti) ia^cttc. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., resident. 
Ldward P. AY 1LLIAMS, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Ciis. W . Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

K. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 



jectors, shall not develop into impatience. It would 
be a pity to erect a building which would not add to 
the beauty and grandeur of the pile that is being 
reared around old McGill. Ten thousand dollars is a 
modest sum to appropriate to such a work, and we 
would earnestly advise the friends of the undertaking 
to make haste slowly ; and to aim not only at erecting 
a McGill \ . M. C. A. Building, but at erecting one 
which will be an ornament to the City and a credit 
to McGill. 



Bai.eic.ii J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts '87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 

Box 1290. 



CONTENTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 129-130 

Poetry 130, 139 

Contributions 130-137 

McGill News 137-138 

Personals 138 

Between the Lectures .... 139 

College World 140-141 

Correspondence 141 



Editorials. 



We regret to say that Mr. J. Kalph Murray is not 
improving very rapidly in Florida. Mr. Arthur Weir 
and Mr. A. P. Murray, two other of our associate 
editors, are ill, and unable to do their usual work on 
the Gazette. We hope for their speedy recovery. 



THE COLLEGE Y. M. C. A. BUILDING. 

We direct the attention ol our readers to Mi. 
Unsworth’s letter, published in another column, upon 
the College Y.M.C.A. Building. With the movement 
we are in hearty sympathy, and are only anxious that 
the energy and enthusiasm of those who are its pio* 



REPKESENTATIVE FELLOWS. 

The time has again arrived when the graduates of 
the University are called upon to elect representatives 
at the meetings of Corporation. No change has been 
made in the method of electing these men ; graduates 
of any faculty have the right, on payment of fifty 
cents, to vote for the representative fellow of any other 
faculty. The ill-advised plan of election advocated 
by a few sometime ago has apparently received its 
quietus from a high authority. That soul-stirring 
petition to the Governors must have mis-carried ; at 
any rate, the course of the Gazette in this matter has 
evidently been endorsed by the solid men of the Univer- 
sity, and our action in opposing the change has been 
vindicated. 

The retiring fellows this year are : — Medicine, Dr. 
Craik ; Aits, Mr. Dougall; Law, Judge Tait; Science, 
Prof. McLeod. There is not likely to be any contest 
in either Medicine, Arts or Science. Dr. Craik will 
be re-elected in Medicine and Mr. Dougall in Arts. 
AVe are fortunate in securing Dr. Craik’s services for 
another term. As regards the Arts representative, we 
must confess to considerable diappointment that no 
opponent to Mr. Dougall has been brought out. He 
has not kept himself in touch with the younger and 
the more progressive element among the graduates ; a 
man of strong prejudices, he is not sufficiently careful 
to look into the opinions of his adversaries before 
committing himself to a line of action which is opposed 
to a liberal reform. 

In Science, Mr. Skaife has been nominated, and is 
supported by Prof. McLeod, the retiring fellow, who 
will not seek re-election. We heartily approve of 
Mr. Skaife’s candidature ; he is active and energetic, 
has shown himself in earnest over whatever work he 
has undertaken in connection with University organi- 



130 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



zations, and will doubtless make a useful represen- 
tative. 

In Law there is likely to be a contest between Prof. 
Hutchinson and Mr. McGoun. We would impress 
upon the graduates their duty to qualify early, and to 
register their votes in favor of one or the other of these 
candidates. Mr. Hutchinson has shewn himself in 
the past to be in harmony with the younger graduates 
upon many desirable reforms in the law faculty, and 
he has besides the confidence of the older men. His 
opponent, Mr. McGoun, is in many respects an estim- 
able man, but the position of representative-fellow at 
McGill is the exact position which Mr. McGoun is not 
qualified to fill. He appears to be imbued with a 
slavish respect for the very narrow-minded and in- 
tensely conservative policy which has been up to a late 
date predominant there We feel confident that there 
is little doubt of Mr. Hutchinson’s election. 



Poetry. 



A LESSON OF MERCY. 

Beneath a palm-tree, by a clear cool spring, 

God’s Prophet, Mahomet, lay slumbering, 

Till, roused by chance, he saw before him stand 
A foeman, Durther— scimeter in hand. 

The chieftain bade the startled sleeper rise : 

And, with a flame of triumph in his eyes, 

* Who now can save thee, Mahomet?” he cried. 
‘‘God,” said the Prophet, “God, my friend and guide.” 
Awe-struck the Arab dropped his naked sword, 

\V hich, grasped by Mahomet, defied its lord : 

And, “ Who can save thee now thy blade is won ?” 
Exclaimed the Prophet. Durther answered, “ None I” 
I i r- e P s P l ^ e the victor, “ Though thy hands are red 
With guiltless blood unmercifully shed, 

I spare thy life— I give thee back thy steel— 
Henceforth, compassion for the helpless feel.” 

And thus the twain, unyielding foes of yore 
Clasped hands, in token that their feud was o’er. 

Geo. Murray. 



(Contributions. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



I RESIDENT S ADDRESS, DELIVERED IN THE \YlLLI 

Molson Hall, Dec. 3rd, 1887. 

Mr. R. C. Smith, in opening bis address, af; 
welcoming the large audience present, and thanki 
his hearers for the generous interest shewn in t 
welfare of the Society, sketched briefly its ori" 
history, present condition and prospects, and contir 
ing said W lien the Society did me the honour 
electing me to the chair, I had, in a desultory wr 
been amusing myself with mythology, and 1 thoim 
I might incur less risk of doing violence to t 
opinions of any of my fellow-members were I to 
back some centuries— escaping the hurly-burly of 
d vided public opinion— and look at a few niyths 
diffeient periods ; making, perhaps, a few hannh 
at l^ ns * u P°fl possible realizations of them in o 
times. Perhaps it would be a wise, precaution" 



measure for me to say just here, that if, in doing so, 
I should seem to express some opinions, these are not 
necessarily to be taken as the opinions of the Society. 
If there be a danger of such a thing, I shall be 
obliged to act like a character in one of our more 
modern and less classical myths — “ the Mikado” — and 
to say that the opinions which I am about to express, 
in my individual capacity, in my capacity as Presi- 
dent of the University Literary Society, I here and 
now, in advance, disclaim and utterly repudiate. 

With a subject so full of poetry, I fear you would 
not be disposed to listen very complacently to a pro- 
saic analysis or comparison of the sources of mytho- 
logy, and as there is no vice more terribly visited by 
the gods than that of presumption, I have no inten- 
tion of attempting such an analysis. If you insist 
upon that, you must read Max Mliller for yourselves. 

I propose simply, as I said before, to look at a few of 
the old myths with which you are, of course, familiar, 
and then, with some degree of licence, to endeavour 
to discover analogies in modern life. I may say that 
I do not intend to “ improve” each of these myths by 
appending thereto the lengthy course of didactic 
platitudes which we are comiDg to understand by 
such terms as “wholesome lesson.” It is quite time, 
as Addison says, that “ Tables take off from the 
severity of instruction, and enforce it at the same 
time that they conceal it,” but it is often a very haz- 
ardous thing to extract from a fable its moral, and 
apply it judiciously. For example, I suppose I could 
select no more familiar and generally reputable myth 
than that of “ the man in the moon.” The old Ger- 
man story is that one Sunday morning an old man 
went out to cut wood, and returning home with his 
faggot on his back, he was met by a stately gentleman, 
who asked him if he did not knorv that Sunday on 
earth was a day of rest. “ Sunday on earth and 
Monday in heaven are the same thing to me,” irrever- 
ently replied the old man. “ Then bear your burden 
for ever,” sternly rejoined the stranger, “and as you 
value not Sunday on earth, you shall have eternal 
noon-day in heaven,” and that straightway the faceti- 
ous old faggot-bearer was transported to the moon, 
where he bears his bundle still. So there is the 
German word for the full moon, which means a fag- 
got. Now, this simple story has developed a wonder- 
ful amount of learning and discussion, in the midst 
of which, I’m afraid, the moral which I was going to 
introduce to you will be fairly strangled. I came 
upon quite an extensive collection of versions and 
opinions of this simple narrative. Tobler says the 
old sinner was given his choice of burning in the 
sun or freezing in the moon, and that he chose the 
latter. Wolf, another German writer, brings a 
woman into the story, and says the old delinquent’s 
wife is there, too, bearing a butter tub, because she 
made butter on Sunday. It is very probable that 
she did, and I would not be surprised to learn that, 
like her mother Eve, she loaded the wood on the old 
man’s back ; but all this complicates the fable. Fis- 
chart comes with a totally new theory, and says — 

“ There is to be seen in the moon a manniken who 
stole wood,” while Praetorius says that “superstitious 
people assert that the black flecks in the moon are a 



1887.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



131 



man who gathered wood on a Sabbath, and is, there- 
fore, turned into stone.” Some say he was a sheep- 
stealer, and enticed the sheep to him by a bunch of 
cabbages ; others, that he merely stole willow bows. 
Dante speaks of him as Cain. Chaucer has the lar- 
ceny theory, and pictures him — 

“ Bearing a bush of thorn is on his backe, 

NY h iche for his theft might clime so ner the heaven.” 

So Alexander Neckham, a writer in the twelfth cen- 
tury, has it, his theory being familiarly translated — 

“ See the rustic in the moon, 

How his bundle weighs him down ; 

Thus his sticks the ti uth reveal — 

It never profits man to steal.” 

Now, a great many contend that there is a dog there 
too. Shakespeare has this version in the “ Midsum- 
mer Night’s Dream,” where directions are being given 
for the play of Pyramus and Thisbe — 

“ All I have to say, 

Is to tell you that the lantern is the moon — 

Is the man in the moon ; 

This thorn bush, my thoru bush ; 

And this dog, my dog.” 

Again, in the “ Tempest,” he brings in the dog. In- 
deed, so much prominence is given to the dog, as to 
suggest whether the man was not sent there because 
he kept a dog that barked at nights and kept the 
neighbours awake. This new little theory of my own 
would obtain colour from the fact that, if ever upon 
a moonlight night you are particularly tired and 
anxious to sleep, all the dogs in your neighbourhood 
are to be seen and heard, sitting upon their haunches, 
arguing the subject out with their representative in 
the moon in loud and discordant tones. It being 
thus uncertain whether the man in the moon was 
sent there for Sabbath-breaking, for stealing, or for 
keeping a noisy dog, it becomes impossible to poiut 
the moral with that clearness of statement which 
should characterize the utterances of a public teacher. 
I may dismiss the fable with the observation that, 
perhaps, it will be well to be on the safe side, and 
equally to avoid Sabbath-breaking, stealing, and keep- 
ing noisy dogs. 

It is one thing to sit down and construct a fable to 
illustrate a truth, as iEsop and Gay doubtless did, and 
quite another to interpret a myth whose origin is lost 
in antiquity. Lord Bacon, in his preface to the series 
of fables which he groups under the title of “ The 
Wisdom of the Ancients,” says — “ It is true that 
fables in general are composed of ductile matter that 
may be drawn into great variety by a witty talent or 
an inventive genius, and be delivered of plausible 
meanings which they never contained. But this pro- 
cedure has already been carried to excess ; and great 
numbers, to procure the sanction of antiquity to their 
own notions and inventions, have miserably worsted 
and abused the fables of the ancients.” Indeed, more 
than one of the dissertations of Lord Bacon himself, 
which follow, seem distinguished rather by their 
sound philosophy and freedom of expression than by 
any exact analogy to, or natural sequence from, the 
myths explained. He says that, upon deliberate con- 
sideration, his judgment is that a “ concealed instruc- 



tion aLd allegory was originally intended in many of 
the ancient fables, the very monstrosity of many of 
them proving that they were framed to illustrate some 
truth ; for,” he says, “ certainly no mortal could, but 
for the sake of the moral it couches, invent such an 
absurd dream, so much out of the road of thought.” 
“ Thus,” he continues, “ Metis plainly signifies coun- 
sel, prudence.” By way of parenthesis, I may observe 
that when pronounced Metis, it perhaps does not as 
plainly signify prudence. That Lord Bacon’s view is 
a rational one few will question, for we know that in 
the early history of all peoples and all literatures, 
parable and metaphor occupy relatively the position 
which inductive science does at a later period. 

We know well the fable of the Sphinx, that mon- 
ster with a woman’s head and a lion’s body, who used 
to way-lay the poor Thebans, and when they failed to 
solve the mysterious riddle which she proposed to 
them, she fell upon them in their confusion and tore 
them to pieces. The Thebans, wishing to rid their 
country of so terrible a plague, offered their kingdom 
to the man who could solve her riddle, as this was the 
only way in which she could be subdued. (Edipus 
at last presented himself before her, when she pro- 
pounded the riddle : — “ What is that creature which 
has four feet, then two feet, then three feet, and is 
weakest when it has most?” (Edipus answered 
promptly — “ It is man, who first goes on all fours, 
then stands erect upon two feet, and finally grows 
old, and uses a staff as a third foot.” Her riddle 
being answered, the she monster throws herself from 
the rock and is killed. (Edipus obtained the king- 
dom, but his sad fate, and his daughter Antigone’s 
dovotion, you have in the matchless tragedies of 
Sophocles. It is improbable that any such riddle 
would have been imagined and placed in the mouth 
of the Sphinx, unless the minds of the people, among 
whom the fable arose, had been habituated to seek 
for truth in symbols and similes. Therefore, Lord 
Bacon may be right when he says that the Sphinx 
represents Science propounding perplexing questions 
to mankind, impelling to action, choice, and determi- 
nation, annexing to all her riddles the alternative 
conditions — dilaceration to those who do not solve 
them, but empire to those who do. 

Whether or not it be true that the ancient fables 
were originally intended to present morals is really not 
very material, for even if they were but the erratic 
workings of uncivilized imagination, they may still be 
lawfully employed to illustrate truth. 

Into what a sphere of poetry and romance we 
ascend if we rise to gaze upon their manifold 
divinities. As we have not before us the great 
picture of Jupiter among the gods, we cannot, of 
course, hope to breathe, even in imagination, the rare 
atmosphere of the lower heavens, but, at the mere 
mention of the classical deities, what pictures shape 
themselves in every mind ! Every class of mankind, 
and almost every feature of nature, has its appropriate 
god or goddess, and the number of feminine deities is 
sufficient to provoke some envy on our part. What 
a group they make ! Jupiter, the ruler of heaven, 
and Juno, his queen; Neptune, the god of the sea; 
blushing iEolus, the god of the winds ; Minerva, the 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[ 1887 . 



182 



goddess of wisdom and tlie liberal arts ; the lovely 
Venus, the alternately reviled and adored goddess of 
love. The spring-time was specially sacred to her, 
and, according to the poet laureate, is so still, for — 

“ lu the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnished 
dove, 

In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to 
thoughts of love.” 

Then there is Aurora, goddess of morning, and Nox 
the sable goddess of night; Vesta, goddess of the 
hearth, no statue gracing her temple, but her living 
symbol, the eternal fire upon her altar, telling of the 
light and warmth of home life ; Mars and Bellona, 
the god and goddess of war, and Pax, the god of 
peace — god and god dess of war — god of peace ; 
Apollo, god of divination and president of the muses ; 
Vulcan, the god of fire, and Pluto, the ruler of Hades 
itself. And we should not forget Mercury, who 
figures about as frequently as any of the gods. He 
was their messenger, and himself the god of merchants 
and commerce. Merchants, as a class, are, of course, 
a most highly estimable portion of the community, 
but, as a rule, they are rather prone to enjoy a joke 
at the expense of other classes who do not enjoy the 
good fortune to be merchants. The unhappy medical 
profession, sons of Aesculapius, and even some other 
extremely honest classes, are frequently made the 
targets of their trenchant wit. In their pleasantries 
there sometimes lies a covert suggestion that their 
brethren of the clergy, and of medicine, and of law, 
do not live with an eye single to the good of human- 
ity. Not in a spirit of retaliation, but merely in 
friendly seeking after truth, as philosophy has been 
defined, it becomes expedient to enquire how Mer- 
cury came to be the god of merchants. Some pretend 
it was because, with winged feet, he went from place 
to place on errands for his brother divinities ; but 
this is a most unsatisfactory solution, for it is evident 
that he must have been selected on account of his 
principal characteristic. Now, beyond the possibility 
of a doubt, his principal characteristic was that he 
stole everything that came within his reach. It was, 
according to the most authentic accounts, only a few 
hours after his birth that he displayed this distinguish- 
ing propensity, for, escaping from his cradle, he stole 
some of Apollo’s oxen, and drove them off to Pylos. 
Apollo, being the god of divination, of course de- 
tected him at once. Mercury’s poor, distracted mother 
pointed to the babe in the cradle as incapable of such 
depredation, but Apollo, nevertheless, haled him 
before Jupiter, when the young thief, hopelessly cor- 
nered, so charmed Apollo by playing upou a lyre he 
had constructed with a tortoise shell, that Apollo let 
him keep the oxen. Now, Mercury maintained the 
reputation this incident gave him to the very end of 
his history. You remember he stole Vulcan’s tools; 
he stole the trident from Neptune; he stole the 
quiver and arrows from Apollo ; he robbed Venus of 
her magic girdle; and far transcending the puny 
peculations of modern times, he even stole the sceptre 
of J upiter himself. Sometimes he stole simply for 
the fun of stealing ; for, you remember that, when 
the giant Typhon defeated Jupiter in battle and cut 



out his sinews, Mercury stole the sinews from the 
rriant and restored them to Jupiter again. Of course, 
merchants, I had nothing to do with selecting your 
patron divinity, and have no responsibility, whatever, 
in the premises. 

Of course, I take it for granted that there was no 
superfluous deity. Now, there were two goddesses of 
revenge or retribution, Ate and Nemesis ; and, yet, 
there is Anteros, a god whose special duty it is to 
avenge slighted love. I once wondered whether Ate 
and Nemesis were kept so busy with ordinary matteis 
of revenge, that they could not deal with those who 
failed to reciprocate the tender passion ; but a mo- 
ment’s consideration reveals the reason. It lies in 
the sex of Ate and Nemesis, for their visitations would 
fall almost entirely upon their mundane sisters ; man, 
as a matter of course, reciprocating all the affection 
ever bestowed upon him, and it could not be expected 
that they would deal with the offenders with sufficient 
impartiality and severity. A male god was, therefore, 
necessary to properly avenge unrequited love. 

I have not pretended to run over the deities in any- 
thing like chronological order; indeed, I have alto- 
gether omitted to mention some of the most ancient 
and venerable. The oldest of all the gods was Chaos, 
his children Ccielus and Terra, producing Saturn, the 
father of Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto. In this ad- 
vanced nineteenth century there are many who have 
gone back to Chaos as their divinity, as though, hav- 
ing exhausted the complete circuit of existence and 
thought, they were compelled to fall back upon first 
principles. 

Before passing from the deities, I must mention 
one whose worship is more popular to-day than ever 
before in the world’s history. I refer to Plutus, the 
god of wealth. He is represented as lame in his ap- 
proach, but as winged in his departure. Many will 
recognize him by this description. Jupiter is said to 
have deprived him of sight, that he might distribute 
his favours without any regard to the merits or de- 
merits of the recipients. This is the most comforting 
reflection to us, who are not possessed of his bounty, 
while those who are, will, I suppose, probably reason 
that in the nineteenth century the god Plutus has 
begun to wear glasses, and that now he does not pay 
his visits so indiscriminately as he used to. While 
he is most devotedly worshipped by the multitude, 
there is a Avide spread feeling that his lameness in 
arriving is a serious defect in a peculiarly fast age, 
and the ingenuity of man is taxed to provide artificial 
means of hastening his halting approach. Too many 
are saying to themselves — “ True, I am engaged in 
an honourable, a useful, and a necessary occupation, 
but if 1 simply pursue it steadily as I have begun, 
the tardy god of Avealth, Avitb his measured tread, 
Ayill not reach me for ten, tAventy, or thirty years.” 
So Ave haA 7 e an unwholesome straining, in almost every 
direction, to acquire wealth in defiance of the huv of 
equivalents. 

In a new country like ours, Avhen natural increment 
in values is frequently very rapid, there is the greater 
temptation to seek riches Avithout yielding any equiv- 
alent in time and labour, and our younger men will 
do well to look to it lest this mania for speculation 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



133 



1887.] 



should undermine the diligence and perseverance, 
patient courage, and unswerving integrity of purpose, 
which have been the foundation of character in those 
men who have raised our empire to her commercial 
pre-eminence. 

And, perhaps, I may here be indulged if I say a 
word to those who have wealth. The mythology, 
which is, in a random way, guiding my remarks to- 
night, contains examples of those whom even un- 
bounded riches failed to satisfy, of those in whom 
increasing wealth only created the appetite it could 
never appease. King Midas was a fabled king of 
Phrygia, renowned the world o’er for his untold 
riches. He performed some service for a friend of 
Bacchus, and in return that god told him he might 
ask whatever boon he wished. The king immediately 
asked that all things which he should touch should 
become gold. The prayer was granted, but it was not 
long before the king discovered his folly, for the food 
which he raised to his lips became gold. In his des- 
peration he again sought the god, and implored that 
his accursed gift might be withdrawn. Bacchus had 
compassion on him, and bade him go and bathe in the 
sources of the river Pactolus. He hastened and did 
so. He was saved from his fate, and the river rolled 
golden sands for ever. You rich men know better 
than I whether King Midas is confined to fable or 
has his counterpart among the living. If so, let him 
heed well the interpretation of the fable, for it is 
an interpretation more facile and unequivocal than 
any other myth is susceptible of. King Midas is 
the man of wealth, who, seeking to add fortune 
to fortune, perchance discovers that he is try- 
ing to feed with gold appetites and aspirations 
of his soul that the dull, cold metal can never 
satisfy. He craves enlargement of his mental grasp, 
expansion of his thought, widening of his horizon 
beyond mere selfish interests. He wishes to be in 
unison with all that is progressive, that is heroic, that 
is noble, in the world, but he feels that his only means 
of subsistence is his increasing fortune, and it pos- 
sesses no nourishment for cravings such as these. 
How shall he be saved from a starvation of the soul 
a thousand times worse than that which threatens 
Midas? Where is the source of the fabled river 
Pactolus in which he may bathe and be saved ? With 
authority more undoubted than that of Bacchus I can 
declare to him that the river Pactolus is the treasury 
of McGill University. There let him go with his sur- 
plus gold in liberal endowment and he will be freed. 
He will know what it means to have interests outside 
his vault and his ledger; his name will descend 
through Canadian history together with those other 
noble benefactors, whose names posterity will hold 
in grateful remembrance; while (to complete the 
simile) this grand old institution shall, even in greater 
fulness, roll forth through this country the rising 
volume of wisdom, which, a high authority assures 
us, is much better than gold. 

This same King Midas, you remember, got into 
further trouble. The arts seem to have been very 
well looked after by the deities, as every particular 
department had its patron god. From the moment 
that Mercury invented the lyre and charmed Apollo 



of his oxen, music was especially popular. Nor was 
this to be wondered at, when we remember the mar- 
vellous things accomplished by means of its spell. 
Orpheus discoursed such rapturous strains that rocks 
and trees followed him. The mere fact of rocks fol- 
lowing a perambulating musician is not in itself 
entirely remarkable — such things have occurred in 
modern times — but that trees should form a proces- 
sion after him completes an undoubted marvel. 
Rocks seem to have been, in former ages, quite sus- 
ceptible, for, at the magic sound of Amphion’s lyre, 
did not the mighty stones gather together and form 
the wall of Thebes ? Did not Orpheus defeat the 
sirens, and Arion charm the dolphin? Well, the 
gods Pan and Apollo were once engaged in a great 
musical competition on the flute and lyre, and King 
Midas was chosen as the referee. He gave his deci- 
sion in favour of Pan, whereupon Apollo showed his 
appreciation of the king’s judgment by changing his 
ears into ass’s ears. He managed for a time to hide 
his long ears under his Phrygian cap, but one day his 
servant, while cutting his hair, discovered his royal 
master’s changed appearance. The barber was op- 
pressed by his secret, and could not keep it. So 
much did it prey upon his mind, that he dug a hole 
in the ground and whispered into it — “King Midas 
has ass’s ears.” The secret was not long buried, for 
there sprang upon the spot a reed which, every time 
the wind blew upon it, published the direful news — 
“ King Midas has ass’s ears.” The history of this 
doubly unfortunate monarch well repays perusal. It 
would never do for me to sanction the modem 
apothegm that musical people are not the most har- 
monious in the world, but it is true that they some- 
times play indifferent keys, or some one among them 
happens to be a little below concert pitch, and the 
result is discord. We do not have such musical duets 
as Pan and Apollo had, but we do frequently have 
very serious musical competitions and discussions, 
and you will have noticed that some one invariably 
comes out of the competition with ass’s ears, and it 
is generally the third party who undertakes to express 
too strongly his opinion in favour of one or other of 
the contending artists or schools. And even at the 
risk of descending too much into detail, for the 
benefit of the gentlemen who have to submit to the 
weekly ordeal of listening to the clicking of the 
scissors about their ears, I will remark, en passant, 
that the man who cuts hair has not even yet learned 
how to keep secrets, but being without the imple- 
ments to dig holes in the ground, he continues to 
pour into the unwilling ears of his victims all the 
deeply-hidden mysteries of the religious, political, 
commercial, and social worlds. 

I have not, as yet, addressed any remarks specially 
to the members of our Society, and the ladies and 
gentlemen who are not members will, no doubt, par- 
don me if I briefly do so now ; not, of course, grudg- 
ing to any young man whatever benefit may accrue 
from what I am about to say. There come times in 
the lives of most men when they are, so to speak, at 
their wit’s end as to how to proceed, and, probably, 
never more so than when they begin to indulge vague 
thoughts of a change of status. At such critica 



134 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



periods it is sometimes well to have recourse to the 
lore of antiquity. 

Read Petrarch’s “Triumph of Love” (Anna Hume’s 
translation), and see how all the gods and heroes had 
similar experiences : — 

“For they appear not only men that love, 

The gods themselves do fill this myrtle grove : 

You see fair Venus caught by Vulcan’s art, 

With angry Mars. Proserpina, apart 
From Pluto ; jealous Juno, yellow-haired 
Apollo, who the young lord’s courage dared,’’ etc. 

To be candid, however, I cannot recommend the 
classic deities as paragons of excellence as regards 
courtship; indeed, some of their methods are, posi- 
tively, worthy of execration. I will select three 
typical courtships from mythology, which, I think, 
are not worthy of emulation. The first is that of 
Hercules and Omphale. Omphale was a queen of 
Lydia, and the mighty Hercules was so fond of her 
that he became her slave, as Samson did with Delilah. 
He put on her robe and walked humbly at her side, 
while she wore the lion’s skin that he had worn ; 
and, as a depth of all humiliation, he suffered himself 
to be beaten with her slipper. Now, Freshmen, it is 
probable that, in all the pride of your young man- 
hood, you are resenting the assumption on my part 
that a caution against such courtship as that is in any 
degree opportune. But you must remember that 
Hercules far excelled all your feats in the gymnasium 
and on the field. Love defies all philosophy. The 
most manly sometimes become the most effeminate. 
Intellectual power, that moved the whole world, has 
capitulated to an auburn curl tossed on the head of a 
flippant, unreasoning damsel. Beware ! There are 
some such inversions of the patriarchal order of 
things in the present day. I have not yet heard of 
any lover or husband submitting to be afflicted by 
the slipper of his adored, but I have heard, in vulgar 
parlance, of the wife wearing — not the lion’s skin, 
but what, I suppose, would correspond to it. 

(To be continued.) 



a McGill man. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



IV rittcn for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. IX. 



“ ’Tis time short pleasure now to take, 

Of little life the best to make, 

And manage wisely the last stake.”— Cowley. 

“ And now he has poured out his idle wind 
In dainty delices and lavish joys.” — Spencer. 



I love, and always shall love, the Lower St. Law- 
rence, and if my readers find me lingering over some 
bit of landscape or country drive rather more than is 
necessary for the story, I beg their forgiveness. The 
happiest days of my life and the most miserable have 
been spent among the Laurentian hills, and amid 



these aged companions I have learnt humility and 
strength. 

We were all on deck at an early hour in the morn- 
ing, and amused ourselves by looking at the sunrise, 
the river banks — and shivering. Charley came up 
to me shortly before Clooney turned out, and said 
that he feared for Clooney’s resolution, if Miss May- 
flower was on the wharf at Murray Bay. “ We must 
keep him off' the deck when we arrive,” he said. 

1 replied that if Clooney gave his word that he 
would accompany us, he would do so ; and added — 

“ What do you say if we get off at Murray Bay ? 
If we have a good time there, let us stay there ; if we 
do not, we can continue our voyage. It does not 
matter much whether or not Clooney comes with us. 
Let him enjoy himself.” 

“ Well,” said Charley, “ here he comes now. We’ll 
have another talk about this later on. Hello ! 
Clooney, how do you feel after your act of humanity 
of last night?” 

Clooney was well muffled up in a fashionable 
spring overcoat, a soft felt hat upon his head, and 
looked the very picture of a traveller who knew how 
to take care of himself. He answered Charley lightly, 
and we turned to admire the scenery. There were 
no low banks now such as we had had the night 
before. From Montreal to Quebec the shores rise 
gradually, but steadily, to a steep bank, whose con- 
tiuuity is sometimes broken by wooded ravines, 
which, with the groves sprinkling the extensive 
plateau, enhance the lovliness of the scene. As we 
approach the city the plateau grows higher, rocks 
replace the soil, and the scenery becomes wild and 
grand. Finally, the plateau merges into hills, and 
the hills become mountains, in whose valleys nestle 
little villages, their white houses and tapering church 
spires glittering in the sun. And then — 

“ High on a throne of royal state,” 

Quebec — the Gibraltar of America — swings into view. 

Later in the day, when well on our journey below 
Quebec, Charley called a council of war, at which it 
was decided to stop over at Murray Bay, and try to 
get the Mayflowers to join our Saguenay party. 

“ Clooney, old boy,” said Charley, “ you are free. 
If, by chance, you see a pretty girl at Murray Bay, 
whose company you have bad taste enough to prefer 
to ours, leave us. Jay and I will smoke the peace- 
pipe together, and, lo ! you may join us when you 
will. Ihere will always be an empty couch in our 
wigwam for you.” 

} \\ e reached Murray Bay between three and four 
o clocjc in the afternoon, and debarked. 

‘ ^ ° u lez vous un caliche 1 ” cried the cabmen with 
one voice, as we mounted the steps at the wharf, 
Charley leading. 

(< ‘‘Look out for your satchels,” called Charley, 
these rascals will take them before you know it.” 

One cabman clutched my arm and made some 
fiantic grimaces, waving his arms about like wind- 
m , ,. s : Another sprang at Clooney, who threw him- 

self into fighting attitude, dropping his valise as he 
did so. Instantly there was a scramble for it, and a 
tumbling, swearing mass fought over it, while Charley, 
p anting his portmanteau between his legs, sat down 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



135 



upon it and looked on, now encouraging Clooney in 
his efforts to recover his property, and now swearing 
in French at some urchin who tried to take him up, 
body and baggage. As for me, I followed Charley’s 
example, but with less sang froid. 

Clooney emerged from the dust of battle victorious, 
but with his coat open, his hat on the back of his 
head, and his collar and tie all awry. Amid Charley’s 
applause he joined us, and we prepared to choose our 
vehicle. Pushing the cabman aside, Charley sprang 
into the driver’s seat, having flu-ng our traps into the 
body of the caleche, and ordered us to jump in. We 
climbed in with some trepidation, and, shouting out 
“ Warren House,” Charley lashed up the sturdy 
Canadian pony and bolted up the hill before the 
cabman had recovered fiom his astonishment. 

The driver tore after us, but we out-distanced him, 
and arrived at the Warren House in grand style a 
few minutes later. Here Charley drew the animal up 
on his hind legs by sheer strength, for the animal was 
naturally as quiet as a cow, and jumped down. 

Once more Clooney and I gingerly crawled out of 
the cradle on straps, which is called a caleche in this 
country. No sooner was Charley alighted than a few 
shrieks of delight echoed from the verandah, where 
the boarders were standing watching the new arrivals. 

“ Oh ! Mr. Smithson, &c., &c. ; ” jealousy forbids 
me even now to repeat the endearing terms in which 
he was greeted, especially as he left us holding the 
satchels and looking like fools while he shook hands 
with his many friends. Then he began to introduce 
us all round to French and English, somewhat as 
follows : — 

“ Mrs. Smith, my friend Wolfe, a parrot glot — no, 
polly glot. Miss Lafraiche, Monsoon Blake, a per- 
fect French scholar, also a McGill man. Miss Jones 
(an old maid of forty-seven summers), allow me to 
introduce my friends, Blake and Wolfe, both heart- 
breakers ; look out for them. One will charm you 
with his thoughts, the other with his deeds. Mr. Blake 
has a peculiarity of dressing like a genius, as you see.” 

This was an allusion to Blake’s appearance. 

Having introduced us to enough ladies to entertain 
a regiment, Chailey vanished into the hotel to make 
arrangements for rooms and a late dinner, to both of 
which, when ready, we devoted ourselves. Charley 
seemed to know every one in the house, even the 
babies, and his coming quite extinguished some 
dandies, who, on the strength of wearing men’s ap- 
parel, which style of dress seemed to be a little scarce 
at Murray Bay just then, had been making conquest 
after conquest. However, as he knew even them, 
they did not sulk into corners and anathamatize him, 
but greeted him with effusion. Mrs. and Miss May- 
flower had gone to Cap L’aigle for a drive, and did 
not return until evening. Charley had tipped the 
head waiter to put us at their table, and we had the 
pleasure of meeting them at tea. Clooney and Edith, 
for so I will now call her, had much to say to one 
another, as I saw, and scarcely ate more than a con- 
sumptive butterfly. They did not dare to go out 
without the rest of us, and I really think they suf- 
fered more than they had ever done before in so 
short a space of time. Charley, in his good-natured 



way, seized Mrs. Mayflower after tea, and entered 
into a most spirited conversation with her, thus allow- 
ing the young people to get away together, to get over 
that most pleasing of experiences to lovers — an ex- 
planation and reconciliation. 

As for me, I took a solitary ramble by the beach, 
and if I saw a couple in the distance that resembled 
two I knew, I have no authority for saying that I 
did so. 

Charley was not the man to waste his holidays in 
idleness. He had, on the first evening, almost talked 
Mrs. Mayflower into a Saguenay trip, and was certain 
that his next conversation on the subject would be 
conclusive and satisfactory. He inaugurated a dance, 
and several picnics and drives, and introduced several 
new out-door games. He was always able to tide 
over an idle moment. 

The day after our arrival, we were lounging about 
the verandah, all amusements exhausted, when Miss 
Mayflower turned languidly to him and asked if he 
could not possibly suggest something to pass away the 
time. He rubbed his chin thoughtfully, looked about 
for inspiration, but where he could get inspiration in 
the scene was doubtful. A few lazy carters lined the 
street, and the only policeman the village could boast 
of leaned against our fence half asleep. Presently 
Charley chuckled. 

“ I have it,” he said, and bolted into the house with 
a crowd of youngsters after him to see what he would 
do, for it was sure to be something funny. 

In about a quarter of an hour he reappeared, sur- 
rounded by a group of gigglers. In his arms he held 
a long object enfolded in a black cloth. Taking his 
position in full sight of the calechemen, he set the ap- 
paratus, which resembled a photographer’s camera, on 
the ground, with its three legs extended. He was im- 
mediately surrounded, for his intense gravity betrayed 
his humorous intentions, and cautiously removing the 
black cloth brought to view a match-box, through one 
end of which a small telescope had been thrust, the 
whole being supported upon three w T alking-sticks tied 
together. A roar of laughter greeted this revelation, 
but unaffected by the mirth he waved them aside and 
amid deep silence turned the apparatus towards the 
unsuspicious calechemen. They knew the form of a 
camera, and in their self-esteem imagined at once that 
he was about to take their photographs. Laboring 
under this delusion, they assumed all sorts of un- 
natural attitudes ; one set his hat on one side of his 
matted head, folded his arms and tried to disguise the 
fact that one of his boots was a shoe. Another pre- 
sented a side view to hide a big patch, but to be taken 
in full face twisted his head over one shoulder by 
which action he was compelled to assume a hideous 
grin. Several solemn faces peeped over the fence, 
some of the younger fry mounted their caleche, and 
one old white-haired fellow actually attempted to don 
a chocolate collar. But the acme of absurdity was 
reached when the policeman hurried across the street, 
and took up his position among the calechemen. 
His hat leaned forward over one eye and every time 
he raised his hand to straighten it, a stern wave of 
Charley’s hand caused him to desist. Now, Charley 
withdrew the piece of cardboard which hid the teles- 



136 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



cope, and shouting “gruniez pas,” held it aloft. Five, 
ten seconds passed, and the grins of the men be- 
came looks of anguish. The policeman’s hat had 
reached his nose, and tilted up and down regularly 
with the contortions of that organ in endeavoring to 
keep it in place. The scene was too comical. A peal 
of silvery laughter broke the silence, and at once the 
whole verandah burst into an uncontrollable roar, amid 
which Charley gathered up the instrument and retired 
from the scene. 

Charley was instrumental in getting up a concert 
with charades, which very nearly upset the harmony 
of the whole colony. Several old ladies undertook 
to take charge of the charades, and either from mali- 
ciousness or with a view of obeying all the rules of 
etiquette, got the lovers hopelessly mixed. Clooney 
had promised to assist, as also had Miss Mayflower, so 
that they could not withdraw after the parts had been 
assigned, though both were disgusted. Miss May- 
flower was given the part of the heroine, to whom 
vigorous love was to be made by an ardent admirer of 
hers, whose name was not Blake. She had no wish to 
appear as a lover at all, while Clooney saw in the 
innocent (?) mistake of the old ladies a direct attempt 
to influence Miss Mayflower in his rival’s favor. To 
make matters worse Edith was a girl who was deter- 
mined to make a success of anything she undertook, 
and though extremely nervous and unwilling to act, 
once her word was given, she entered fully into the 
spirit of the part. 

Clooney’s moralizing on the iniquity of the stage 
and of amateur theatricals in general, were exceedingly 
interesting to me, although, when he woke me up at 
2 a.m. to deliver them, I rather tired of them. Clooney 
had to make love to another girl in a second play, and 
this led to jealous zeal on his part to succeed in his 
rendition of the extremely sentimental speeches he 
had to make. The girl’s mother, so realistic was his 
acting, had, I afterwards learnt, some notion of asking 
him his intentions. As with Clooney, so with several 
others, and more sarcasm, bitterness, and wrath was 
pent up in \\ arren’s Hotel than would have served 
to make a new Carlyle. 

At last the night of the entertainment arrived. 
Charley and I had managed to get a curtain up that 
might possibly stay up, but whose tendency was rather 
to come half way down, and stick there. \Ye painted 
scenery (“ impressionist scenery,” Charley called it,) 
all one night, laying on the paint with a white-wash 
brush The same scenes that served for a “ drawing- 
room in an uptown house,” answered, when turned 
upside down, tor a “Pass in the Hartz mountains, with 
a waterfall in the distance .” — (To be continued .) 



A PLEA FOR CLASSICS ! ! 

Arthur lived in the Townships, the particular ham- 
let does not matter, nor is it at all necessary to give 
his genealogical pedigree. He was a promising youth, 
—always promising, and is still promising— and was 
also a hard student, very hard. He could hardly study 
anything at all. His parents decided to send him to 
McGill. Arthur was deeply in love with a sweet 
damsel, with the sweet name of Jennie, and his de- 



parture was anticipated by both the young lovers with 
many forebodings. The days wore on (what they 
wear is still undecided) till the clothes of the evening 
previous to the day set down for the journey into the 
great city, and the young lovers sat on a style. This 
is the fashion in the country. They encircled each 
other in loving fashion, and talked of their past joys, 
their present fears and their future hopes. A solitary 
tear was in Jennie’s eye, and a heavy sob was on her 
lip, while away down Arthur’s throat was a dreary 
sigh. It was a picture of Hearts and Sighlences. They 
kissed each other with one long kiss, which threatened 
to be adjourned till the next meeting. Then they parted. 

II 

Arthur was at college, attending strictly to the many 
calls upon his time. He passed his primary with 
more good luck than knowledge, and was a full-fledged 
undergraduate and a very freshman. He applied 
himself to night studies assiduously, and his fevered 
brain soon became stored with curious lore. He soon 
knew all the intricacies of a straight flush, and the 
mysterious influence of a jack pot on the finances of 
a young nation. He understood thoroughly the 
pathology of alcoholic compounds, and had persever- 
ingly experimented with nicotine in its various forms. 
He was thoughtful, too, of his Jennie, and wrote her 
pretty regularly, and read her loving, sweet replies. 
In her later letters, however, he noticed a jealous, 
sorrowful tone, which he could not understand. 

Ill 

The session was over. Arthur returned to his 
father’s cot. He hastened to Jennie’s side. She re- 
ceived him coldly. Expostulations were useless. 
Explanations were in vain. Jennie was obdurate. 

“ M' hat have I done 1 ” entreated Arthur. “ Do not 
ask me,” said Jennie. And Jennie left him, and 
never saw him more. And Jennie’s people would have 
nothing more to do with Arthur. A month or so 
afterward, Jennie’s father bought another farm in 
the next county, and emigrated to the foreign shores. 
Jennie married another. About three weeks after the 
wedding, Arthur met Jennie’s brother, and after some 
hot words, the latter asked Arthur how it was that 
when he had been engaged to Jennie, he had loved 
another, and had had the cruel unkindness to write 
Jennie about it. “ It is not true,” vehemently pro- 
tested Arthur, “it is not true; who was the young 
lady any way ? ” “ Her name was Alma, I think,” 
replied Jennie’s brother ; “ but here is your letter, 
which says ‘Dear Jennie, I love Alma Mater better 
than you, and you must not blame me ; ’ that settles 
it” and off he went. 

Arthur has now to content himself with Alma. 

H. S. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

A\ e are continually asking why certain things are 
so, and refuse to accept as an answer that it is because 
they have been so. And this is the question that is 
being asked about the facilities for physical culture at 

I he University acknowledges the -necessity for such 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



137 



1887.] 



culture, and makes a praiseworthy effort for its en- 
couragement ; but the payment of the fee is looked 
upon by students in the light of a duty, to say the 
least ot it, and they consider the duty done when 
the fee is paid. 

bor the most part, situated as students are in Mon- 
treal, exercise for health is not a necessity, and certain- 
ly nothing but necessity could induce a man of tvctivo 
habits to enter a gymnasium where it is attempted to 
centre a man’s interest in swinging clubs in an ill- 
ventilated room. In a gymnasium, theory as such 
should be reduced to a minimum, and the exercise in- 
dulged in should be of a nature somewhat sturdier 
than that which is said to be so desirable in the health- 
lift department of schools for girls. 

There will be no lack of support for any gymnasium 
that offers facilities to men for exercising their muscles 
in such a way as their inclination points out, and if it 
is the inclination of the handful of men frequenting 
the McGill gymnasum to indulge in the exercise men- 
tioned, those who do not attend are surely not cen- 
surable ; and further, there is no reason why they 
should not be provided with the means of following 
their bent by indulging in an exercise that “ stiffens 
the sinews, summons up the blood,” gives precision 
of eye and accuracy of touch, and above all, which 
develops the higher qualitities of courage, generosity 
and self-control. It might be thought that such skill 
would tend to an undue use of defensive weapons, but 
self-control is inculcated equally with hardening of 
muscle. However this may be, the members of the 
lusty young faculty of Science, with a few spirits from 
Arts and Medicine, have taken to themselves the para- 
phernalia of fencing, and are rapidly making them- 
selves masters of the art. Handicapped as they are by 
supporting the movement without any external aid, 
and with no adequate quarters, they are following 
right methods and principles recommended by the best 
masters as transmitted by the pupils of Mitchell, of 
Toronto, and Baillie, of Halifax. 

As far as it goes, there is no room for improvement 
in the management of the gymnasium connected with 
the University ; but if the customary fee were expended 
in developing this movement under the supervision 
of the present efficient instructor, the object of the 
faculty would have been gained, where now it is not, 
and the men would be gratified by having the sanction 
of the Faculty in acquiring the manly art of self- 
defence, the latest and most literal applied science. 

“P.” 



BOOK AND READING CIRCLES. 

Somehow or other, it is difficult to get up a popu- 
lar taste for reading in Montreal. Public libraries, 
especially free and circulating, have often been spoken 
of, but only in partial cases has the attempt met with 
any measure of success. It seems that we shall have 
to begin in a modest way, and thus gradually work 
upward. Perhaps a simple and cheap plan, desciibcd 
to me by a friend from St. Louis, Missouri, might be 
wo 1 thy of trial, especially as it has done very well in 
that flourishing city. They have formed there a Book 



who each pay $5 a year. Through a dealer they sub- 
scribe to quarterlies, monthlies and weeklies, up to 
the total of their funds. That makes about 12 publi- 
cations in all — 3 weeklies, 2 monthlies and one quar- 
terly. These are parcelled out by the Secretary and 
prepared for circulation. On Saturday, a messenger 
is sent out to change the supply at each house. When 
each periodical has made the round of the Circle, it is 
returned to the Secretary, and fyled until the end of 
the year. An auction is then held, and every one 
desiring to procure an article read during the year, 
for a special purpose, can do so. The proceeds of the 
auction, or of fines, defray any surplus expenses of 
management. Beyond the outlay from the bookseller 
or news-dealer, the expense is slight. Some printing, 
paper wrappers and messenger’s services cover it all. 
The advantages of this little scheme are obvious, 
affording the best of current reading at a nominal 
cost. The very same plan might be applied to books, 
which can be drawn from the Cheap Libraries, now 
so much in vogue, and comprising the cream of the 
literature of the day. A weekly or semi-monthly 
meeting of the members of the Circle might also be 
suggested, in which the contents of the books read 
could be discussed, and much information obtained 
thereby. I knew of a club of less than a dozen young 
men who went together through a course of Ancient 
and Modern History from the same two text books — 
each having a copy of the Ancient, and each of the 
Modern text-book or manual. They portioned off 
their work in periods of say 20 pages — each one read- 
ing that at home, annotating, tabulating, etc., as it 
suited him, and twice a week they met to recite the 
events of the period, compare notes and sift impres- 
sions. They used maps throughout, without which 
history is only half learned. The result was that, in 
three months, these young men had mastered the an- 
nals of the world, from the creation to our day. 

John Lesperance. 



Jflc(BUl News. 



Dr. Barbour, Professor of Divinity in Yale College, 
addressed the Sunday Y..V1.C.A. meeting a few weeks 
ago. 



VISIT OF AN AMERICAN STUDENT. 

McGill, in common with the colleges in Canada and 
the United States, received a visit from one of the two 
students who are presenting the question of foreign 
missions. The gentleman who came here was Mr. J. 
N. Forman, a graduate of Princeton, and now taking 
a theological course in Princeton Seminary. He held 
seven meetings in all during a stay of two days, meet- 
ing with theological and medical students separately, 
and also with students in general, at other times. No 
visitor has excited such intense iulerest before, so that 
we may expect that much greater attention will be 
given to Christian work in heathen lands. A number 
expressed themselves as willing and desirous to bo 
and Reading Circle, consisting of twelve members, 



138 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



foreign missionaries, twenty in all, two of whom 
were medicals, who will look forward to doing a 
medical missionary’s work in the future. Others have 
been led to consider the question more earnestly, so 
that more will likely give themselves to this work. 
In Queen’s College there are thirty, and in University 
College, Toronto, fifty, and in the States and Canada 
over twelve hundred, who at the present time intend 
to be foreign missionaries. This wonderful mission- 
ary movement in the colleges must result in an immense 
amount of good, both to the churches at home and the 
heathen abroad. 



PRESENTATION. 



The famous Cook, janitor of the Medical School, 
was made the recipient of a purse last week, on the 
part of the students of the primary years in Medicine. 
The hero of the occasion received the address with 
condescension, and replied with dignity in the scholar- 
ly language subjoined, afterwards submitting to the 
ancient ceremonies of “ elevation” and “ bouncing”. 



Following are the address and Cook’s reply : — 

To Ihs Excellency , COOK, Lord Janitor of the Medical Department 
of McGill University Montreal, D.C., Grand Boiler of Bones, 
Supervisor of the Physiological and Chemical Laboratories, 
Coadjutor of the Dean of the Faculty , Sole Proprietor of the 
Cellar, time-keeper of the Beading-Boom clock, etc., etc., etc. 



May it please your Excellency , — 

The students of the primary years in Medicine, in accordance 
with a custom, time-honoured and beautiful, are here assembled 
towards the close of the session, to present your excellency with 
aii address and with a more substantial, though, in view of actual 
circumstances, paltry recognition of your excellency’s endeavours 
to maintain this Medicine Faculty on that high plane on which 
it has always stood. We recognize, in truth, that but for your 
excellency’s careful supervision, extending even to the most 
minute details, the energetic, though individual and disorganized 
efforts of your assistants -our staff of professors— would result in 
chaos. It is indeed superfluous to cite facts in proof of this as- 
sertion — where would our demonstrators be without the tow and 
bandages, our professors without chalk ? Without your excel 
lency s fatherly eye and omuipre ent hand, what empty vanity 
our lectures would be ! But these details are not what strike the 
observer most forcibly ; it is in the harmonious working of the 
immense number of your subordinates, that he recognizes the in- 
fluence of a gigantic mind ; a mind that grasps with equal facility 
a knotty problem in carpentry, the intricacies of the “spenoid” 
bone and the meaning of a negligently extended half-dollar. 

\\ e have heard with mingledsfeelings the announcement of 
your excellency s contemplated departure on a continental tour 
early in the coming summer. We anticipate with regret the de- 
parture of one whom we love and respect, and yet we view with 
joy the possibility of your excellency's meeting with janitors of 
other schools in Vienna, London and Paris, and there inter- 
changing professional opin ons on the momentous question of 
jamtorship ; on the treatment, say, of the nervous affection 
peculiar to freshmen, and recently organized professors. Few 
janitors, we believe, have their respective faculties so well 

whipped into line as your exceUency, and we hope to see a de- 
cided change tor the better in the management of these conti- 
nental schools, consequent upon your visit thereto. 

We desire your excellency to convey our respects to the ladv 
janitor, and such embryo janitors that she may, in the course of 
human events, have presented you with, and we hope that the 
accompanying offering may tend to smooth the rugged martyr’s 
path that you tiead, by showing your excellency that, at least 
we appreciate your endeavours in our behalf, and in behalf of 
the college which, thanks to you, has already to be tied by a 



rope to the pinnacle of fame to prevent its going up out of 
sight. 

C. L. Wheeler— Pres. 2nd Year . 

G. M. Campbell — Pres . 1st Year . 

W. S. England— Collectors, 2ni Year. 

Chas. P. Jento — Collectors , 1st Year . 

C. T. Noble. 

W. J. Delaney — 2nd Year. 

March 2nd, 1887. 

Gentlemen : — 

I have to thank you once more for this very substantial ex- 
pression of your unfailing appreciation of my efforts on your be- 
half in connection with the management of this institution. 
Year after year the student, who has been dunned all through 
the session for one thing or another, till his patience and his 
purse have both alike been sorely tried, still finds at the bottom 
of his pocket a stray half-dollar which he generously throws in 
to the janitor’s fund. 

Gentlemen, I can only reiterate what I said last year on a 
similar occasion, that I do all in my power to make each and 
every student at home in this college. I endeavour to give him 
every possible advantage in the prosecution of his studies, tint 
he may do credit to himself and to the college when he enters 
into the sphere of active professional life. At the same time 1 
have never lost sight of that grand maxim of the Roman Poet, 
“Mens sana in corpore sano” (a sound mind in a healthy body,) 
in accordance with which it has always been my earnest en- 
deavour to provide, to the utmost of my ability, the creature- 
comforts which are the in iispensable adjuncts to a life of hard, 
unremitting intellectual toil. In fact the National Policy holds 
good here as elsewhere ; we encourage the student and protect 
his interests. 

It is no doubt a difficult matter, gentlemen, for a person who 
occupies a position of trust, and is constantly brought into con- 
tact with a great number of people, to act always and everywhere 
to the satisfaction of everybody, and not at times to displease 
one while gratifying another. The very few complaints, how- 
ever, that have been made to me this year by students are suffi- 
cient proof that my efforts to please the majority have been as 
successful as 1 couid desire them to be. 

On the other hand it is exceedingly gratifying to myself that 
I have had no complaints to make as regards any of the students 
for defacing or injuring the building in any way, or for impro- 
per behaviour, and I must congratulate the class on its gentle- 
manly bearing throughout the whole session. And if at any 
time 1 have appeared to be hard and inexorable in the discharge 
of any of my numerous duties, remember that I indulge the 
student as far as I can, and that with me it is “for titer in modo,” 
but “ suaviter in re.” 

In conclusion, gentlemen, I hope you may all undergo the 
approaching ordeal with the success you deserve, and that you 
may equal and even excel your predecessors. May the success 
which you obtain here, attend you also in the stern battle of 
life, and, amid the all-engrossing cares of a rapidly-growing 
practice, may you never forget the pleasant halls of your Alma 
AJ ater. 



Personals. 



Wo have received the business card of Messrs. 
McDonald and Ogilvy, Architects, Omaha. These are 
both McGill science men of ’84, and great favourites 
while in college. We wish them great success. 



One day, not far from Atlanta, a young man, after 
listening to a certain preacher pound and expound the 
Scriptures tor two hours, arose and started to leave the 
church. 1 he preacher stopped short. “Young man!’ 
he said. The young man stopped. “ If you’d rather 
go to hell than to hear me preach, just go on!” “Well,” 
replied the young man, after a pause, “ I believe I’d 
rather !” and out he went. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



139 



0 ! FOOLISH HEART. 

0 ! foolish heart, that flutter so 
When he is near, 

0 ! rosy blush, that come and go 
With hope and fear, 

Why do you to the world reveal 

The love that I would fain conceal? 

0 l ears, that love to hear him speak, 

0 ! downcast eyes, 

Whose lashes droop upon each cheek, 

Nor dare to rise, 

Do you not know she sees and hears 
Soft looks and words that cost me tears? 

Be brave, mine heart, if he despise, 

Give scorn for scorn, 

Be deaf, mine ears, be blind, mine eyes— 

Yet soul why mourn ? 

My love for him is all mine own, 

She has the substance, that alone. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Why ! ” exclaimed little Johnny, when he heard 
his father telling about somebody who was looking 
after the loaves and fishes. “ that’s just what mamma 
says about Uncle Henry.” “ Says about Uncle 
Henry?” repeated his father in astonishment; “What 
do you mean ?” “ Why, pa, don’t you know,” said 

Johnny; “mamma says Uncle Henry only loafs 
and fishes.” 

“ Oh, George ! ” she exclaimed, catching her breath 
as she gazed out to sea ; “ there seems to be no limit 
to old Neptune’s broad expanse ; and the waves, George 
how playfully they gambol along the shore ! ” 

“ The waves are very foolish, dear,” said George, 
with a sigh. 

“ How foolish ? ” 

“ To gamble where there is no limit.” 

The depths of wickedness to which even a Quaker 
child can sink make one readily believe in the doctrine 
of total depravity. Two little Quakers quarreled, 
aud, after saying words to each other, one of them, in 
a tremendous burst of rage, with clenched fists and 
blazing eyes, shouted : “ Thee’s you.” The other boy 
looked at him in horrified silence. Then he solemnly 
said : “ I shall go and tell mother that thee swored.’’ 

Le Jones : “ What in the world are you doing 
Porcine ? ” Porcine : “ Cutting an account of a robbery 
out of a paper to show my wife.” Le Jones (languidly): 
“ Well, that’s a queer proceeding.” Porcine : “ Not 
at all. You see, this house was robbed while its 
owner was at church.” Le Jones (with sudden inter- 
est) : “No! You don’t mean it! Say! You haven’t 
got another copy of that paper, have you ? ” 

“ Let any one,” writes a London Times correspon- 
dent with Gen. Wolseley in Egypt, “ smoke a pipe, 
cigar or cigarette in the stables, and the camel will 
follow the smoker about, place his nose close to the 
burning tobacco, inhale the fumes with a prolonged 
sniff, swallowing the smoke ; then, throwing his head 
up, with mouth agape and eyes upturned, showing the 
bloodshot whites, will grunt a sigh of ecstasy that 
would make the fortune of a low comedian in a love 
scene.” 

“Martha, dost thou love me?” asked a Quaker 



youth of one at whose shrine his fondest heart’s 
feelings had been offered up. — “ Why, Seth,” an- 
swered she, “ we are commanded to love one another, 
are we not?” — “Ah, Martha! but dost thou regard 
me with that feeling the world calls love ?” — “ I 
hardly know what to tell thee, Seth. I have tried 
to bestow my love on all ; but I have sometimes 
thought, perhaps, that thou wast getting more than 
thy share.” 

An old lady who assumes to know all about rheu- 
matism interviewed the tormented writer of this para- 
graph, who had been a two-months sufferer, somewhat 
after this style : “ Rheumatis is a inherited disease ; 
you got this from your father or mother, didn’t yer ?” 
“ Not that I know of.” “ Then you had it from yer 
grandfather?” “ I think not.” “Then you certainly 
got it from yer great-grandfather ?” “ No ; there was 

no rheumatism known in my family history. Perhaps 
some of my ancestors may have been exposed to the 
heavy wet during the deluge.” “ Look here, sir !” ex- 
claimed the old lady, “ I didn’t come here to be 
made fun of,” and out she bounced.” 



DID’NT BLAME THEM. 

A COLLEGE PRESIDENT WHO SAMPLED HIS STUDENTS 
FAVORITE DRINK AND LIKED IT. 

( From the Boston Post.) 

When the Rev. Dr. Kirkland was president of 
Harvard College, Porter’s famous hostelry in North 
Cambridge was a favorite resort, and many a merry 
party gathered in the cold winter days and nights 
about its roaring wood fires. One of the chief 
attractions of Porter’s was the “flip,” a delectable 
compound of a decided spirituous flavor, which 
acquired a characteristic “ tone ” by being heated 
with a hot iron. The farmers and drovers who fre- 
quented the noted hostelry were not the only custom- 
ers for the flip ; the college student keenly appreciated 
its attractions, and did not hesitate to brave the coldest 
weather to enjoy them. 

Of course these practices did not escape the atten- 
tion of President Kirkland, who resolved to ascertain 
for himself the nature of the beverage which the 
students indulged in. So he went up to the old hos- 
telry and asked to see the landlord. Porter, who 
knew the president, was greatly disturbed, as he knew 
he should receive a severe rebuke from the head of 
the college for catering to the tastes of convivially- 
inclined students. “ Mr. Porter,” said Dr. Kirkland 
in a grave tone, “ I understand my young men come 
up here and drink your flip.” “Yes, sir ;” replied 
the tavern-keeper in a voice which told how he de- 
precated the expected admonition, “ they do.” “ Let 
me have some of that flip,” said the dignified president. 
Whereupon a mug of the beverage was brought out 
and was tasted by Dr. Kirkland. Then, fixing a stern 
glance upon Porter, who almost trembled under it, 
the president said : “ And my young men come out 
here and drink this stuff, do they?” “Yes, sir;” 
meekly replied the tavern-keeper. “ Well,” said Dr. 
Kirkland, draining the mug, “ I should think they 
would.” 



140 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



College Ulorlb. 



Three important libraries of deceased professors have 
lately been sold in Berlin : that of Professor Scherer, 
which was bought for 28,000 marks by an American 
university ; that of the historian Waitz, which fetched 
16,000 marks; and that of Professor Mullenhoif, which 
has been purchased for the new Germanische Seminar 
of the University of Berlin. 

By the last report of President Eliot, it appears that 
the Library of Harvard College numbers about 240,- 
000 volumes and about 233,000 pamphlets. Nearly 
90 per cent of the undergraduates now use the library, 
an increase of between 30 and 40 per cent in the past 
ten years. The cataloguing of the library is progress- 
ing so steadily that it is not impossible that the end 
of the present year will see a list of all the bound 
books, by authors, completed. In intelligence and 
hospitality of administration the Harvard College 
Library and the Boston Public Library stand easily at 
the head of the great libraries of the country; that of 
Columbia College, New York, probably not far behind. 

The new English House of Commons has reverted 
to the old type. No workingmen figure among the 
new members, whilst two of those returned to the last 
House have now disappeared — Mr. Arch, to wit, and 
Mr. Leicester. It is not surprising, therefore, to find 
that the proportion of public school and university 
men in the new House has increased. No less than 
243 members — considerably more than a third of the 
whole — were either at Oxford or Cambridge ; while, if 
graduates of London University and students ’at 
Trinity College (Dublin), Glasgow and Edinburgh are 
added, the number of university men is raised in all 
to 296. Of these, 150 were at Oxford, 93 at Cam- 
bridge, 20 at the Scotch Universities, and 16 at Trinity 
College, Dublin ; while 1 7 graduated at London. 

The Jewish Theological Seminary of New York was 
opened on January 2nd. The ceremonies included 
addresses by the president, Mr. Joseph Bluraenthal, 
Rev. S. Morals of Philadelphia, Rev. Dr. Kohut of 
New York, and several others. Already eight pupils 
have been accepted and enrolled, and this number will 
be increased as fast as the means and facilities of the 
seminary association will permit. All graduates will 
be required to have a secular collegiate education. 
Diplomas will be granted, and candidates for the dip- 
loma of labbi will be required to compose a satisfactory 
thesis on a Talmudic subject or a subject from general 
Jewish literature. Five chairs will be established, 
namely a chaii of Bible, a chair of l'almud, a chair of 
history, a chair of homiletics and a chair of philosophy. 
Rev. S. Morals has been elected to the presidency of 
the faculty. He has been over 35 years in Philadel- 
phia, and is an able and learned gentleman, and a 
thoiough exponent of the Jewish law. A permanent 
tund of $100,000 is necessary, and congregations and 
individuals can join the association by becoming 
patrons or subscribers. ° 

The modern Greeks are, in one respect at least, aim- 
ing as high as the ancient Greeks ; they are beginning 



to conquer the world — the world at any rate of the 
east — by culture. A correspondent of the Journal 
des Debats gives some account in this connection of 
the great advance which higher education in Greece 
has made of recent years. There are thirty-three 
“ gymnasia ” in the kingdom, 200 secondary schools, 
and 1,717 primary schools. These are all public; 
among the private educational establishments, the first 
place must be given to the “ Society for the Higher 
Education of Women,” in connection with which a 
lycee for girls was established a few years ago, with a 
staff of seventy-six teachers and 1,476 pupils. Greeks 
send their girls there from all parts of the east. Edu- 
cation is very liberally endowed in Greece ; and the 
sums which Greeks settled in foreign countries send 
home for this purpose are very large. One result of 
course is that the Greeks are almost entirely in posses- 
sion of the learned professions in Turkey. Illiteracy, 
too, is rare in the kingdom ; in the most out of-the-way 
hill countries you will see little scholars (says the 
correspondent from whom we are quoting) reading 
their Plutarch’s “ Lives.” 

One of the most absurd instances of ignorant aping 
of English customs on record comes from Harvard, 
where an ambitious student sent out invitations to a 
“ wine,” having heard, it is to be supposed, that such 
festivities were the proper thing at English univer- 
sities, and regaled his guests solely and uniquely upon 
iced sherry. Certain comments, however, were brought 
to his knowledge which seem to have awakened in his 
breast a doubt whether he had compassed the heights 
of the possibilities open to him in this line, and once 
more he issued cards for a “ wine.” Thirty guests 
assembled, and on this occasion the cheer consisted 
entirely of brandy. 

Determined to do his full duty as host at all hazards, 
the ambitious student began with great deliberation 
drinking with each guest separately. So far below the 
nobility of his intentions, however, was the strength 
of his wits that before he got half way round the cir- 
cle he so far confused his “ wine ” with a torchlight 
procession that he poured a glass of biandy upon his 
hair and set it on fire. The party at once resolved 
itself into an amateur fire brigade, with some difficulty 
extinguished the host, put him to bed, and sent for a 
doctor. The incident, despite its brilliant nature and 
the originality it displayed, cast a gloom over the fes- 
tivities, and the company dispersed with very little 
regard to the order of going. 

TnE comparative effects of college life upon the 
health of young men and young women are encourag- 
ing to the latter. In examining the tables of one year 
of excuses at Amherst and Yassar Colleges for absences 
on account of illness for three consecutive days and 
upwards, I found the average to each student in the 
former was 2.65, the latter 1 .76 days. Wellesley gives 
an average of 2 days to each student, but this includes 
a/l days of illness. President Seeley writes that Smith 
College claims a lower percentage than Amherst, but 
has not records to show this. The records of Presi- 
dent Bascom, of the University of Wisconsin, kept 
without the knowledge of students, in 1877, have been 
widely quoted. The ratio of excuses because of ill 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



141 



health was one woman to three men. The President 
declares that the girls improve in health while at the 
university. He adds : “ A young woman who with- 
draws herself from society, and gives herself judiciously 
to a college course, is far hotter circumstanced in refer- 
ence to health than the majority of her sex.” 

At other co-educational institutions the records of 
the health of the young women compare favorably with 
those of the young men. Indeed, I believe that college 
life presents fewer risks to the girl than to the hoy, 
inasmuch as in her case there is not the danger of being 
led into dissipations which so often with the latter 
prove disastrous to health as well as to morals and 
intellectual growth. With her, freedom from social 
exactions, regular habits, and enforced exercise (out-of- 
doors and in gymnasium), improved modes of dress, 
simple diet, the mental stimulus of her work, all tend 
to produce the combination, “a woman physically 
strong and mentally well balanced ” — the kind ot 
woman needed, wished for, hoped for, in every depart- 
ment of life. 



£orre$pon6ence. 



If a larger sum, such as $25,000 cau be raised, a 
iner and more serviceable building can be erected, 
Drobably on a better site. 

Men in the junior years, if they do their duty, may 
expect to enjoy the advantages of this College fireside 
during their course. Some of us who will not be 
so fortunate commit our share to their hands, that they 
may carry the idea to its complete realization. 

As the session is now well advanced, little more 
can be done than to make every preparation for a 
thorough canvass next fall. 

Hoping that we shall receive the cordial support of 
the Gazette, 

I am, yours sincerely, 

Jos. K. Unswokth. 

Montreal, March 9th, 1887. 



NOTICE. 




To the Editors University Gazette. 

De\r Sirs, — Possibly the slight delay in the matter 
of the proposed Y.M.C.A. building has led some to 
think that the project has been dropped. This is not 
the case, however, as such arrangements have been 
made by the Building Committee, with the Committee 
of the Board of Governors, that the scheme can nuw 
be pushed rapidly forward. The Y.M.C.A. Hall will 
be built in connection with other buildings, such as a 
dining hall and a gymnasium, which will be placed 
on the ground lying between the east wing o 
main building and the reservoir, and west ot t 
n;edical college. It will be at the south end of this 
lar^e combined building, separated from it by a wall, 
as fn a terrace, and having its own entrance and base- 
ment In the basement will be a good athletic dress- 
ing room, with baths: on the first floor a parlor and 
reading room : on the second floor a general meeting 
hall, and one or two small rooms for Bible classes and 
prayer meetings, lhe use of these looms wi no y 
any means be confined to members of the Association, 
but will be open to every member of the University , 
and will attempt to meet several of our wants, such as 
that of a proper dressing room for football and other 
sports, a pleasant social room for recreation, and 
headquarters of Christain activity in the CoUe^e 

This building will cost about ten thousand dollars 

($10 000) One thousand of this has been aiec y 
subscribed by students. The ground waits for us 
while we are getting the remaining nine thousand 1 
students will during the summer represent to thei 
friends the claims of this effort, another t ^usjind c. 
easily be raised by them. As this projeci V^tathein- 
enthusiastically taken hold of ^ 

selves, the sympathy and support of graduates an 

friends of the University may reasonably be > expect^ 
Let a friend of McGill give a round ten thousmd, an 
not only commemorate his generosity, h ^ f 30 ^ P 
many a generation of McGill men in the years to come. 



— OF — 

MCGILL UNIVERSITY. 




Prize Competition for the Best Poem on the Queen’s Jubilee, 



A Prize of Fifty Dollars will be given by the Graduates’ 
Society of McGill University for the best Poem on the Queen’s 
jubilee, to be read at the annual University Dinner on the 30th 
April, 1887. 

The following Rules will govern : 

1. The competition shall be open to any British Subject resi- 
ding in Canada or elsewhere. 

2 \11 manuscripts are to be addressed to the Secretary ol the 
Graduates’ Society, University Club, 8 University Street, and 
must be in his hands on or before the 15th April, 1887. 

3 The writer’s name must not appear on any part of the 
manuscript. Each manuscript must have a motto, which must 
also appear oil the outside of a sealed envelope containing the 

writer’s name and address. . ,, _ 

4. The Judges will be Professor Moyse, Samuel E. Dawson, 
Es<i and llev° Canon Norman, and their decision shall be final. 
The prize will be given only in case the Judges report that some 
one of the poems submitted is of sufficient merit to justify its 

being awarded. ... 

5 \11 manuscripts shall belong to the Society, which reserves 

the right besides that of reading the successful poem at the 
Annual University Dinner, of publishing the successful or any 
or all of the poems. No manuscript will therefore be returned. 

ARCH. McGOUN, Jr., 

President. 

WILFRID SKAIFE, 

Acting Secretary . 

Montreal, 26th February, 1887. 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



THE IMIOIDEIRJSr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 

BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D. B. A. IACBEAS, I.D., Proprietor, 



CRIDIFORD L ROBERTSON, 

ENGINEERS UNO MILLWRIGHTS, 

25 Bleury Street, MONTREAL. 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YACHTS and ENGINES. 



ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE, 

SAVES ON E-FOURTH OF FEEL. 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER CO. 

Capital Paid-up - - $100,000.00 

Directors: D. II. Henderson. Norman Henderson, 

Chas. H. Walters. 

Saw Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM ST. 

Branch Yard: 130 ST. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL. 

manufacturers and General Dealers in every Des- 
cription of Lumber and Timber. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— manufacturers of — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 



^NOVELTY IRON WORKS’^ 

40 to 54 Nazareth. Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



OTSTEKS -&.T A.LL HOTrES. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 



Established 1839. 

XEilE 3STITZ" IEB. 

Jpff.d w.-t CB. Z'TtC$E CbEMSST* 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock. 

ZE-'T-e xy- pen gpna.xa.anteed-- 

IF- IE. GEiLPTON 6z SONS, 

25 2 St. James Street. 

S. J. BRISSETTE. JOS. COURTOIS. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

"WHITE'S Ij-A.IVT 3, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Paper Makers, Pipes Box Manufacturers, 



■* BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.*- 



Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

-L> ©signed and Built to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 

-Hfe 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



SUT 'SHIS QTElg jH- 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 

largest Stocfi in Canada to Select from. 

S UITSael 0 VERCOA TS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

ZBTJY '2'O'U'R- 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St, , cor. of Craig St. 

Ifinc (jConfectioucry, 

Bonbons and (Chocolates 






ARTISTICALLY 



•^Engraved and Printed,*- 



— IN — 



BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 






yy 



PHILIPS SQUARE, 



MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS a ."f Mounting Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 



PREPARED BY 



W. H. CH APM AN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



Tee Burland Litho. Co., 



5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



MQNTREilX,. 



UNIVERSITY - GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond G uerin. R, A, E. Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, ’ 

AnVOCATES, 

157 ST. mAJN/CES STREET, 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Aflyocates, Barristers, Commissioners, &c„ 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Macmaster, Hotchimson, Weir Si McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

barristers, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal . 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l. 



Church, Chapleah, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOeATJES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST. f MONTREAL. 



Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. 
Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A_. PERIABD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T-A_2v£ES ST., 

(near the court housb,) 

MONTREAL. 



BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Ball*, Boxing (Cloves, 
Fencing Foils, 

IVlask*, Are. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, <&c. 

Watson & Pelton, 

53 ST. STJLPICE STREET. 





Hairdressini and Shavinc ii the Latest Style, 



QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

Si‘u£l\e£, CSouqh^, 

Perfurqety, ki\d toilet 
S^tidle^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST, 




WVIGORATINGTONIG the I 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
Engraving ^ Printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Crests, programmes 
Nonograms, &c., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



R. SHARPLET & SONS, 

3bwelL(Bi^y § Rangy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

fine gold and silver jewellery. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

A large assortment of SILVER WARE, CLOCKS, BRONZES, ana 
J'ANCV GOOD S, suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations. 

OllT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket, 
m L . also 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

335 337 St. Street, 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 

R elebrate d HoTWaWHeto 



— AND— 



Cast Bunfly Rafliators. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, { 




HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 . 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 
Grey Paper, 
St 



Itraw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, | 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes TX7"eig*lvts I£v£a,d-e to Order. 

TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application . 

Warehouse : 389 ST PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBre*oles Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA. BROWN. GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 
Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

might and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T EAMs furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 




WORKS AT 

, CORNWALL, ONT 

CAPITAL, - $250,000. 

manufactures the following grades of paper : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-cn lendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Fools aps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 



Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of (IROCFiRIES and PROVISIONS arc to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONC OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 41 QUEEN'S BLOCK," 

173 St James street, 1315 and 1317 St. Catherine Ft. 

Telephone No. 1391. Telephoue No. 1392. 

Beuthner Bros., 

Importers anil ftanufariurors* 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONTREAL. 

-HJ. ,A_. 

IMPORTER OF 

-Me CI3-AARS jM- 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr;y St\a.cLeaa.ts Mixture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



THE GENUINE 

Cook’s Friend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W. &*F. P. CURRIE. & CO. f 

lOO GHEV NUN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

• Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Clay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHIUJl CLAT, <£sc., cSco. 
JtfAnufaclurerg of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 



A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



Antiseptic Materials, Baiflaies, Etc,, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmacemical & Dispensing; Chemists, 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIlvIITEID,) 

21, 2h & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 



14 & 16 Phillips£quare, Cor. St. Catherine St., 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 



Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inh&lers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 



Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes : 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Game-ee’s Eucalvut.ol . Sanitarv TowpIs. Ladies’. 



C. ASMFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

A. 2 STD 



mm, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BIT WEISS & SON], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured, to order from England k the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 



Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer j special inducements to 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLFD FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FITRS, to whbh 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Silk IFttir, ZEEEjyts 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

IMI. SAMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 

photography »«• 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORF'S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S, 



MONTREAL. 



SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



