heMcGILL gazette 



Vol. III. — New Series. 



MONTREAL, APRIL i, 1877. 



No. 6. 



Poetry 

Canadian Politics 
Hockey 

Coffee and Pistols 
Editorial % - 
Correspondence 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

45 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 



University Examinations -----. 

The Law Faculty 

Football Affairs - 

College World- ------- 

Personal - -- -- -- - 

A New Version of an Old Song — Exchanges — Items 



PACK 

49 

50 

51 
51 

51 

52 



The McGill Gazette is published Monthly during the College Year by the Undergraduates of the University. Terms , 
$ 1.00 per annum ; Single Copies , 20 Cents. For sale at Drysdales , Dawsons , Hitts and Clark's. Subscriptions and Adver- 
tisements to be sent to the Secretary , McGill College. Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of Tales , Essays , and all suitable Literary Matter from University men. It will open 
its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications are written in a gentlemanly 
manner. 

All Matter intended for Publication must be accompanied by the Name of the Writer in a Sealed Envelope , which icill be 
opened if the Contribution is inserted , but will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

W. I). LIGHT HALL, Sec. 



M A CM ASTER, HALL & GREEHSHIELDS 
♦ ♦ + 

No 181 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

D. Macmarter John S. Hall, Jijn. J. N. Grrenshields 



— * A— 




MECHANICS’ H A-IjXj BTTILDINO, 

20G ST. JAMES STREET. 



FRANK J. KELLER, 

^ihwntr, 33.nni.stfr, f oliritor, 

Chambers, 1, 2, 3 & 4, First Floor, Up-Stairs. 

— OVER— 

CITY AND DISTRICT SAVINGS BANK, 

No. 178 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL^ 




President of the Centennial Photographic Co. 3 Philadelphia , 



AND 

ir(jotoijt‘n|i(|cii to tljc (ijticcit, 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

O 

CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER. 



YALE '72 *73, 75. 76. and 77 

HARVARD - -- -- -- -- -- - 74, 75, and 70 

PRINCETON 74, 75, and 76 

DARTMOUTH 74, 75, 76, siid 77 

McGILL - 74, *75, and 76 

WESLEYAN COLLEGE .---’75 

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE 77 

PRINCETON SEMINARY *74, 75, and 70 

ANDOVER SEMINARY 74, and 75 

PHILLIPS’ EXETER ACADEMY 74, and 75 

ABBOTT ACADEMY - - - - - 70 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 




CROWNS OUR EFFORT 

IN OFFERING THE 

BEST FITTING CLOTHING 

IN THE MARKET. 



O’B IARA cfc SON, 

19 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET. 



ULSTERS AND OTHER OVERCOATS A SPECIALTY, 

AND AT VERT LOW RATE3. 

Students -will find it to their advantage to trade here . 



TO MEDICAL MEN. 

SPECIAI.TV, 

OUTFITTING OF MEDICAL STOCKS 

COMPRISING A GOOD ASSORTMENT OF 

SHELF BOTTLES, SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, &o.» 

IN CASES AND OTDXRWjU* 

TELE PUREST OF DRUGS GIVEN AT REASONABLE PRICES, 

LAVIOLETTE & NELSON, 

chemists, 

215 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

• ( Second door west of St. Gabriel) 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books ln use at the College, 

also, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIL1 Y. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 

0 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

Standard Library Books 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 

CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

232 ST. JAMES STREET. 232 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 



HEARN & HARRISON, 

IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS O? 



STUDENTS' POCKET INK BOTTLES 




AND 



Levels and Surveying Instruments, 



NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 



Drawing Instruments, Magic Lanterns, 



Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. JAMES STREET. 



MICROSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, &c., &c„ 

SIGN OF THE ADMIRAL, 
Nos. 242 & 244 NOTRE DAME ST., 

MONTREAL. 



TheMcGILL gazette 



Vol. III. — New Series. 



MONTREAL, APRIL i, 1877. 



No. 6. 



TO LORENA. 



Lorena, like an angel in the night, 

Arrayed in robes of spotless innocence, 

Thou comest to my cares with recompense 
Of gladness like the tumult of delight. 

Which woke the woods of Eden when the sight 
Of loveliness like thine upon the sense 
Of Adam beamed. I languish looking hence 
On places by thy beauty filled with light. 

Oh ! I would give, to get one glimpse of thee, 
All joy, all gladness, all delight on earth, 

All happiness by maids to mortals given ; 

But dare not dream of what the bliss would be, 
Which, in my heart, would have celestial birth, 
Were I with thee in a terrestrial heaven. 



Semper mutant et revolvunt 
Mundus et mundana ; 

Experrecto species solvunt — 

Omnia sunt van a. 

O Juventas ! somne grate 
In te dormitamus ; 

Per rosetis tui late 
Nos tripudiamus. 

Sed accedit dies dira — 

Scimus accessura — 

Cum somniculosa lyra 
Paide quassitura. 

Non commonefaciatis, 

Est obliviscenda. 

Laeti irridete fatis, 

Fata irridenda. 

Combibete ! Propinate 
Nostrae almae matri 

Hanc gaudentes celebrate 
Frater compar fratri. 

L. E. 



CANADIAN POLITICS. 



No one, we feel certain, has ever, for one moment, ques- 
tioned the advisability of the regulation which excludes from 
the columns of the McGill Gazette all controversies con 
nected with Canadian party politics. Apart, entirely, from 
lack of space and other reasons of this nature, there are count- 
less facts which justify such a limitation of our range of 
subjects. Were we to allow discussions upon questions of 
this class, were we even to refer to them as reviewers, were 
we to touch upon them never so impartially, bad feeling 
would be the only result of any such action on our part ; 
and consequently, the rule laid down by the originators of 



the first paper issued in McGill, and studiously adhered to 
by the editors of the various years since then, has been, in 
its operation, beneficial and good. In referring, at the 
! present time, to this point, we do not desire in the slightest 
degree to depart from our previous practice, but we wish to 
make a few remarks upon Canadian politics in general, and 
to say a few words with reference to the political duties of 
University men. 

&s one of the foremost writers in this country* remarked 
in 1865, in the introductory remarks of a serial begun 
in that year : “ There exists in this community, no matter 
“ from what cause, a proneness to disparage the influence 
“ of our public men; to discredit generally the presence 
“ of high principle, and to challenge any claim to patriotic 
“ motives.” This assertion is true, in a still greater 
degree, at the present moment, and might be extended still 
further, so as to state that this spirit, exhibited by many 
to-day, applies not only to statesmen and politicians, but also 
to politics as a whole. Nothing is more common now than 
to hear persons who, in the fullness of their conceit, (and we 
might add in the depth of their ignorance) fancy themselves 
immeasurably superior to the ordinary run of mortals, sneer 
derisively at the various public questions which, from time to 
time arise, and attribute to the worthiest efforts of our 
public men, motives personal, mercenary and mean. Now, 
although in some cases these insinuations have some ground 
of justification ; although, to a certain extent, many of the 
issues which furnish matter for debate in our legislatures, 
may be frivolous and petty ; although the treatment of these 
questions by public men may be, ofttimes, the reverse of 
lofty and statesmanlike ; although, in some cases, the motives 
of our politicians may be anything but disinterested ; and 
granted that personal recrimination and party prejudice are 
far too frequently displayed, we question very much whether, 
even in view of all this, there is any real excuse for the wilful 
abstinence of any intelligent man or party of men from par- 
ticipation in the discussion and settlement of political ques- 
tions in Canada. If the range of politics has hitherto been 
confined ; if the matters which have been the subject of 
legislation in the past have not been of that lofty nature 
which they possess, or are supposed to possess, in other 
communities, it is not for any lack of such subjects. Though 
this country is comparatively young, and though we are 
debarred from meddling in European politics, still it is by 
no means the case that there are no great matters for con- 
sideration in Canada, matters furnishing scope for the display 
of most exalted genius and the most scholarly erudition, and 
which equal, if they do not indeed transcend any questions 
in politics to be found elsewhere. Let no one then say that, 
on account of a paucity of important subjects for study and 
debate, he does not deem it worth his w'hile to trouble him- 
self about Canadian affairs ; for, in the proper government of 
this country, in the conduct of her fiscal and economic inter- 
ests, in the settlement of the issues between sect and sect, 
between nationality and nationality, in fact in all Canadian 
political questions, properly so called, there is given to any 
man, no matter who he is, an arena, in which ability, intelligence 



The late Mr. Fennings Taylor. 



46 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



and statesmanship may all be exercised and brought into 
action. It is the duty of every one, and more especially of 
University men, to strive to elevate the tone of our political 
morality, and that man who, for any reason, neglects to per- 
form all the duties of a citizen, all the duties of a patriotic 
subject should be looked upon as recreant to a most sacred 
trust. 

Another matter connected with this subject is that some 
seem to suppose that in Canada alone do personalities 
and recrimination enter into politics. This is a great mis- 
take. Undoubtedly, as a nation, we are not free from this 
reproach, but to say that Canada stands alone in this respect 
is erroneous and false. In the discussions on the Eastern 
Question in England, both on the part of statesmen and in 
the press, more bitterness, more recrimination, more prejudice 
and sectional jealousy have been shown than have ever been 
displayed in any discussion in recent times in Canada. In 
the United States, politics are a thousand times lower in 
every way than in the Dominion, so that we are by no means 
peculiar or exceptional in this respect. And Canadian jour- 
nalists will be found, on the whole, to occupy relatively a 
high place, in treating public questions entirely on their 
merits, and in their endeavours to eliminate from their papers 
personalities and abusive articles. In proof of the fact that 
no special stigma attaches to Canadians on this account, we 
can refer to the most personal and vituperative encounter 
which ever took place in Canada between two journalists, 
(the quarrel of the Nation and the Mail) in which the 
squabblers were not Canadians, but the one a professor of 
the University of Oxford, and the other a graduate of the 
same institution. And more recently in Montreal, in a per- 
sonal conflict between a clergyman and a pressman, as 
pointed out by the Montreal Gazette , the parties were both 
recent arrivals from England. 



Seeing, now, that there are grave important political ques- 
tions to be solved in Canada ; that there is room for talents 
the most gifted ; in view of the fact that though our political 
morality is capable of considerable improvement, it still is. 
far from being so low as to exclude honest, statesmanlike 
effort ; and considering that there are two great parties of 
widely diffeient policies ; and that there is also scope for 
independent thought, speech and action ; what is the duty 
which, as -University men, we owe to our country? We 
maintain that, as patriotic citizens, we should use every 
means in our power to support the candidature of good men, 
and to frown upon the candidatures of bad, incompetent 
men. And by taking steps, whenever necessary, to secure the 
nomination of at least one thoroughly good candidate at 
every election, by discountenancing every attempt to drag per- 
sonalities into election contests or into the debates in our 
legislatures, by giving a free and impartial expression of our 
political opinions whenever w r e think it would be a means 
of good ; by supporting a lofty, dignified, fair and honest 
press, by performing, in fact, all those functions which ap- 
pertain to subjects of a nation such as ours is, we can do 
much to accomplish, what even the most callous must desire, 
the material and moral advancement of Canada ; the forma- 
tion, on this continent, of a nation which shall in the ages be a 
by-word for honesty, truth, justice, prosperity and freedom. 
Let this be the object of every Canadian, and no fear need be 
felt for the future of this country. We will, at no distant 
time, achieve our purpose, and render ourselves worthy our 
ancestors and their noble name, and inscribe for ourselves a 
record which shall befit a people great, glorious and free. 



HOCKEY. 



We believe, notwithstanding the repeated assertions of 
self-important wiseacres, to the effect that the press of Canada 
fail to treat public questions fairly and honestly, that in this 
respect Canadians are considerably above the average. It 
is a true saying that “ distance lends enchantment to the 
view,” and it is not difficult to explain on this principle the 
unlimited admiration of a portion of this community for 
everything foreign, press, politics and individuals, and the 
corresponding disparagement of everything Canadian and 
domestic Happily, however, this state of things is on the 
decline, and with a new generation, we may expect increased 
interest in our affairs, greater pride in our nationality, and 
more energetic efforts to ameliorate our condition in every 
possible manner. 

Again, one of the most frequent statements made in public 
and private life in this country, is to the effect that there is 
in reality no difference whatever between the two political 
parties as they at present are constituted in Canada, that it 
is merely a game of party in and party out, carried on under 
old names which have long ago lost all significance-here. 
This serious error, whether it be owing to a want of attention 
to public matters on the part of those who fall into it, or 
whether it be owing to their obtuseness and dullness, is one 
which should be removed as quickly as possible. We have 
not the space here to define the terms Liberal and Conser- 
vative, as used in Canada, but any one who regards the 
policies of the two parties for the last twenty years, cannot 
fail to observe that there is a very great meaning in the two 
terms ; that they are not mere worthless appendages, but 
that they correctly indicate the views, sentiments and motives 
of two opposite political organizations, both having one com- 
mon aim, yet utterly at variance in their opinions as to the 
means by which this end is to be gained 



On Monday afternoon, the 19th ult., the Hockey Club had 
their return match with the Montreal Club, whom they had 
before beaten. The game began at 4 30, only six of the 
Montrealers being upon the ice. These were Creighton 
(captain), Gough, Joseph, Kinghorn, C. Torrance, and 
Esdaile. The College team were Abbott (captain), 
Campbell, Nelson, Redpath, F. Torrance, Howard, Caverhill, 
and Dawson. After about ten minutes play, Kinghorn took a 
long shot at goal, which bounced off one of our men’s sticks, 
and went over Campbell’s guard. First goal for the 
Montrealer’s, who were now reinforced by Geddes. The 
game soon recommenced, and from that time till the end of 
the match neither party secured any advantage. The 
Montrealers thus won by one to nothing. Although their 
captain had beforehand protested against any infringement of 
the rules, they began by playing “ off-side,” their captain 
especially distinguishing himself. The play throughout was 
very rough on both sides. For the College Campbell kept 
goal splendidly, stopping many very difficult ones. Abbott’s 
pluck and skill gave a splendid example to his side. Of the 
rest, Redpath, Torrance and Dawson showed very good play. 
This second match of the Hockey Club is their first defeat ; 
the College, therefore, contrary to some predictions, need 
not be ashamed to own them. 



— The new University colours are white and gules. 

Scene - Sherbrooke Street ; Time — Evening; Person Jfi —Young 
Lady and Medical Student; Conversation slow. 

Y L. — “ My eyes are very w’atery this evening.*’ 

Med. (absently)— “ Nevertheless 'they are sweet ” 

Y. L. — “ Sugar and water.” 

Med. (still more absently) That’s an emetic .” 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



47 



COFFEE AND PISTOLS. 



Such is the jocular, half-sneering byword by which we 
now designate an institution which has only come to an 
end in our own day; once the only method, among gentle- 
men, of settling even the most simple and trifling difficulties 
of every-day life; but at its best, a relic of barbarism, even 
when clothed in the garb of honour, falsely so-called. And 
yet, barbarous as it may seem to us of the present day, who 
look back upon it merely as something to be wondered at, 
or even, in some points, to be admired ; yet, had we lived 
but a century ago, nothing would have ever occurred to us 
as a more just and more justifiable mode of making wrong 
right. But such is human nature; as water takes the shape 
and colour of the vessel into which it is poured, so are our 
thoughts and opinions moulded by the thoughts and opinions 
of those by whom we are surrounded, and by the circum- 
stances in which we are placed. 

In no country, with the exception, perhaps, of France, 
was duelling ever more in vogue than in our own mother- 
land, where, happily, it is now entirely extinct. But, 
though in England the combined efforts of jurists, statesmen, 
churchmen and journalists have succeeded in putting it 
down, yet, like many another old custom, it was loath to 
die. And even since the courts have regarded the killing 
of a man in a duel as a capital offence, not a few hostile 
meetings have taken place. The last notable duel in Eng- 
land was in 1852, between two Frenchmen. The last 
between Englishmen was in 1845. But though stamped out 
of existence, its spirit still lives; for, as late as 1868, a 
challenge was sent from one Englishman to another; the 
termination, however, was anything but romantic, the 
challenger being arrested and bound over to keep the peace. 

Ireland, too, has long been famous for duels and duellists. 
But France has exceeded everything. There the duello is 
used by all classes and conditions of men to redress insults 
of the most absurd and fanciful character. Editors, when 
weary of fighting with the pen, take to the swm*d, and 
generally with equal success ; for there every man is trained 
in the use of the foil. From the highest noble to the lowest 
peasant, all are ready at any moment to take that little trip 
to Vincennes, St. Germaine, or across the border into 
Switzerland, in defence of their honour. But among English- 
speaking people of the present day it is generally regarded 
in the light of a farce. 

Dr. Franklin, after moralizing on the subject, proceeds to 
tell the following story: — A gentleman in a coffee-house 
desired another to sit further from him. “ Why so?” 
“Because, sir, you smell.” “ That, sir, is an affront, and 
you must fight me.” “ I will fight you if you insist on it, 
but I don’t see how that will mend the matter; for if you 
kill me, I shall smell too; and if I kill you, you will smell, 
if possible, more than you do at present.” 

Duelling, in its strict sense, and as we understand it, had ( 
its rise early in the 16th Century, in the reign of Francis I., 
of France, when numerous duels were fought, many of which 
were fatal. During the reigns of Henry IV., Louis XIII., 
and Louis XIV., many laws were made against duelling, 
which, if they had been rigorously enforced, might have 
long ago put a stop to the practice. During the reign of 
the last two, duelling was at its height in France. 1 do not 
incline to the belief of some, who hold that Cain called his , 
brother out by a formal challenge, and that the affair was 
in reality a duel; nor do I think that we can rightly regard , 
the judicial combats of the middle ages as duels, but, on the 
contrary, believe, as I have said before, that the 16th ( 
Century saw its birth. In England, we do not hear much , 



of it until the middle of the 17th Century. It reached its 
maximum in the reign of Charles II.; in the time of 
George II T. it again broke out, and the laws against it seem 
only to have given it a greater impulse, as duellists wore 
often known to have had pardons from the king before the 
duels came off. 

The weapon first in use was the sword, and being worn 
by everybody, it was naturally whipped out on every 
occasion ; a knowledge of fencing was therefore a necessary 
part of every gentleman’s education. Next came the pistol, 
but instead of superseding the former, it became merely an 
alternative; the choice resting always with the challenged 
party. Both weapons had the most fabulous care bestowed 
on them, everything in connection with them being kept 
in the best possible condition. Many a sword and case of 
pistols has its romantic story attached to it. A good brace 
of pistols was constantly in use; if not in the service of the 
owner, then, in that of some of his friends. 

According to computation, the chances of being killed 
are about fourteen to one, and of being hit about six to 
one. “Hence,”* as says Steinmetz, “ the farce of duelling. 
Challenges have been of all kinds: from the polite and 
court o is invitation to a meeting, to the blustering threat 
of punishment ; wrathy challengers have even ventured into 
the sacred domains of poetry ; the Italians word their 
challenges with an almost Spartan-like laconicism. The 
following is a specimen : — 

“Sir, —I f your courage is equal to your iinpudenc3, you will 
meet me to night in the woods.” 

Though the principals often fought alone, yet the custom 
of arranging matters through sect 4 parties was generally 
adopted ; sometimes, too, the second.-,' took part in the fray, 
making an exceedingly agreeable quartette, especially for 
the person who dropped the handkerchief. The duties of a 
second were always arduous, as great knowledge and skill 
were required to bring matters to an amicable termination 
without compromising the dignity of one’s principal; and 
many 7 lives have been lost through ignorance or carelessness 
on the part of the seconds. 

My purpose in writing this short sketch of duelling has 
not been to recommend it to any one, but if any are so 
disposed, I would advise them to adopt the following method 
of settling their disputes : — 

A graduate of Cambridge gave auother the lie, and a 
challenge followed. The mathematical tutor of the college 
sent for the youth, who told him he must fight. 

“Why r ?” asked the mathematician. 

“ Because he gave me the lie,” said the youth. 

“ Very well, let him prove it. If he proves it, you did lie, 
and if he does not prove it, he lies. Why should you shoot 
one another? Let him prove it. — Q. E. D. 



Reading Room. — A general meeting of the students was 
held on Tuesday, March 27th, to receive the report of the 
Reading Room Committee. The Treasurer intimated that 
there was a surplus on hand of §21 odd, a statement so 
unusual for a college institution that it was heartily cheered. 
After receiving the resignation of the committee for the 
past session, the following were elected a provisional 
committee for the summer : P. D. Ro3S, R. Dawson, Holton 
Wood, J. F. Scriver, H. T. Lafleur. A vote of thanks was 
unanimously tendered to the retiring committee. 

— The Harvard students complain of not being allowed to 
enter the alcoves and take down books. The Crimson says it 
takes too long to find the “ Library Boy.” 



48 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 

ist APRIL, 1 S 77 . 



Editors for 1876-77. 

Managing Editor,' 78, D. C. McLAREN. 

79 » W. D. LIGHTHALL, Secy. ’78, W. R. SUTHERLAND, Treas. 

’77, A. JAMIESON, B A. ’78. J. ROSS 

’78, P. D. ROSS. ' 7 q, G. H. GROVES, 



A rather exaggerated report of a recent meeting of the 
Literary Society, which appeared in the Evening Star , and 
which was contradicted by an officer of the Society, has 
prompted us to consider the relation which students should 
maintain towards the city papers in the matter of College 
news. In the American universities, and at Oxford and 
Cambridge, special correspondents are employed by the 
leading journals* in the neighbourhood of these institutions. 
Nothing of this kind has ever happened in McGill, chiefly 
on account of the small quantity of interesting news. 
Nevertheless, there are students in College who are in the 
habit of furnishing items of College news to the city 
journals, gratuitously of course. Now of this, so long as it 
is properly conducted no one can complain. It maintains 
a public interest in McGill affairs, and the bounds of 
propriety are seldom or never transgressed, either by the 
Montreal papers or by the students. However, though 
there are certain collegiate affairs of a semi-public nature, 
such as football matches, concerts, &c., which one man has 
quite as good a right to report as another, there are other 
cases where it is a decided breach of propriety for any but 
the duly authorized officer to furnish information to the 
public press. As a rule, the meetings of the Literary 
Society come under the former class, and under ordinary 
circumstances, no question has been raised as to who 
reported them for the newspapers. In fact, we question 
very much if there are many members of the Society who 
have not, at some time or other, given information to the 
daily press of the Society’s meetings. But a meeting like 
the one in question, where the discussion was of no public 
interest whatever, and when the business transacted and 
the manner of its transaction were matters of private 
consideration, comes decidedly under the second head. 
Such being the case, it is wrong, emphatically wrong, for 
any officious member to expose the private affairs of the 
Society in the public press. Had the Star known the facts 
of the case this garbled report would never have been 
published, but all possible reparation was made by the 
insertion of Mr. DeSalaberrys aerial. However, we trust 
that in future great care will be exercised by University ! 
men as to how they expose their private affairs in the 1 
journals of the city. f 



In closing, as we do with this number, our short session 
of editorial life and duties, it may not be unprofitable to 
glance back at the road over which we have travelled. We 
are conscious, and none more than ourselves, that ail has 
not been done as it ought, or even might have been done; 
yet if our successors profit at all by our errors, so that they 
do not fall into the same, we shall not regret the few 
mistakes we have made; we say “few mistakes,” and our 
friends, we are sure, will bear us out in saying it. We have 
at least been successful in gaining the confidence of the 
students, so that the board of next year will not be met at 
the outset, as was the case with ourselves, by discourag- 
ing doubts on the part of those to whom they look for 
support. It has been a matter of surprise to us that greater 
interest is not taken in the paper by undergraduates; 
important questions have been continually before the 
students, and yet almost no regard seems to be paid them 
by those who have most to gain or lose according to their 
issue. We have had one instance where certain gentlemen 
who had been criticized by a letter in our columns, instead 
of replying through the same medium, inquired of us the 
name of the writer, in order that, forsooth, they might have 
it out privately with him ! This, for reasons best known to 
ourselves, we declined doing. What hopes we may have 
had of making the Gazette a financial success, are now 
among those numerous Chateaux en Espagne, which have 
succumbed to the rude breath of reality and fallen shapeless 
to the ground ; but by exercising a moderate amount of 
economy we have been enabled to keep our heads above 
water. A word now about the future, vol., IV, No. I, will 
make its appearance on October 1 st, 1877 ; it is intended to 
publish it fortnightly during the session, thus making 
twelve numbers. Little or no change will be made in the 
form of the sheet; some Have objected to the size of the 
columns, as being large and clumsy; but we can only say 
that if it has been found to be so by our readers, it is much 
more so to us on whom devolves the task of filling it, and 
that to the satisfaction of all who shall read it. Before 
bidding farewell to our friends, we desire to thank them 
all for their support, and hope that it will be as heartily 
extended to our successors in the future; we wish the 
students success in the approaching examinations, and to 
all success in life. “Not Adieu , but Au reviir." 



Certain students, who disagreed with the views which we 
expressed in reference to Theological Degrees, in our last 
number (which we know were concurred in by the large 
majority of our men), and who were unable to give utterance 
to their own opinions, either in our columns, which would 
have been open to them under the usual conditions, or else- 
where, incompetent, we say, to speak for themselv-es, sought 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



49 



them a protector, a friend and a mouth-piece, who would 
supply the want created by their timidity, and give to the 
world those ideas which they possessed, but could not 
promulgate. In their search for some one to act in loco 
parentis , these students hit upon the paragraphisl (excuse the 
term) of the W itness, — not the True Witness — and having hum- 
bly 3tated to this mighty personage the fact that they were 
misrepresented {sic) by the McGill Gazette, they invoke 
his aid. It is granted. He seizes his pen ! — they hold their 
breath! He writes! — they si and on tip toe He is finished ! 
— they kneel and thank him for his assistance. But the result of 
all this, the paragraph to which we referred, verifies the old 
saw : — Parturiunt monies, nascetur ridiculus mus , — for a more 
senseless lucubration we never yet had the ill-fortune to meet 
with. It is in the usual style of the Witness • bad English, 
venemous intention, flagrant misrepresentation and pointless 
conclusion . In fact, the only part of the paragraph worth 
noticing is the thorough appreciation which the paragraph- 
writer evinces of his own merits. We referred to “ a certain 
journal ever hostile to McGill’s interests ; " intending thereby 
the Montreal Daily Witness. The cap fitted ; the Witness wore 
it, but perceiving the inaccuracy, or rather the incompleteness 
of our allusion, it adds the epithet “ unenlightened,” and 
acknowledges the justice of the amended phrase. In fact? 
we hardly know which to despise most, the action of any 
student in rushing to a sheet like the Witness with histroubles 5 
the unconcealed malignity of the writer, or his thorough 
disregard of truth and fairness, and the exigences of English 
grammar and composition. 



Erratum. — We were in errror in stating that the recent 
controversy took place as to the power McGill should have 
of granting Theological Degrees. McGill had this power, 
but a special resolution of the governing body is necessary to 
an exercise of it, and this consent, we hope, will never be 
given. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

Editors McGill Gazette : 

Gentlemen, — In reference to your article on Theological 
Degrees, of March 1st, I think, that, although your opinion 
is held by a great majority of the students, it is an 
erroneous one, arising from a misconception of the object 
desired, and of the means of attaining it. The degree of 
B.D., as now proposed, would only be granted, to graduates 
of affiliated theological seminaries, who are also B.A. 
graduates of the University, some general exercise, such as 
a thesis, being imposed. The advantages of such a course 
are not by any means few or unimportant. A greater 
number of theological students would be induced to take a 
full Arts course than at present; they would then be 
required to take a three year course in their own theological 
college, and afterwards present themselves for the Uni- 
versity theological degree ; they would then be styled 
graduates of such and such a college, as the case might be. 
Far from ruining the University, I am disposed to regard it 
as a beneficial move. That the University would fall into 
the hands of any one sect is, on the very face of it, a fallacy; 
for the different denominations would vie with one another 
in sending men to the University ; and owing to the amount 
of work imposed, the men would be necessarily well trained 
and creditable to the University. These are, briefly, the 
facts of the case, and by giving them insertion you will 
greatly oblige, C. 



A Circular has been issued by the Graduates' Society 
calling attention to the smallness of the library fund, and 
requesting subscriptions from Graduates, for the purpose of 
increasing the revenue of this most important adjunct 10 an 
Institution like McGill. The annual revenue of the library 
is now, the circular states, about $600, and with the exception 
of the Redpath and Alexander collections, the books are of a j 
miscellaneous character. We sincerely trust that the appear j 
of the Society will meet with a generous response from all 
interested in the College. It would not be a bad idea to 
have every future Graduate pledge himself to subscribe fifty 
or one hundred dollars, within four or five years after gradu- 
ation, to the library fund. Almost every one could afford 
such a sum, and, though inconsiderable when viewed sepa- 
rately, the contributions would make a handsome total. Let 
the Class of ’77, which has inaugurated so many reforms in 
College, take the lead in this matter ! 

Graduates, who have not received the circular, may obtain 
copies by addressing Dr. Osier, 26 Beaver Hall, Montreal. 



UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS. 



—We hope the Molson Hull will be properly ventilated at the 

approaching exams. 



One of the chief objects of a college journal is to convey to 
those most interested the opinion of students on matters con- 
nected with the courses of study or the management of the 
Institution. I11 such things students are rarely able to exert 
any but a negative influence, while the authorities may oft n 
be oblivious to the true interests of the University. And 
therefore we do not think it out of place to lay before our 
readers a few thoughts concerning the examinations in Arts. 

We might not have ventured to put forth any opinion on 
the sole strength of our own feelings or wishes, but while 
turning over the pages of the Contemporary Review for March, 
the following passage appeared in an article on “ University 
Consolidation,” by the Hon. Robert Lowe : — “Any University 
which allows its own teachers virtually or actually to examine 
their own pupils is, in that respect, an evil, inasmuch as it 
palms off upon the public a biassed for an unbiassed 
tribunal.” This, the unequivocal utterance of one of the 
foremost men in Britain, forms a text on which something 
might be said with regard to McGill. The question, however, 
is a very important one, and perhaps our desires have led us 
to overestimate the benefits which a special board of exami- 
ners would confer upon our Alma Mr ter. 

There are strong obstructions and difficulties in every case 
wherever such an arrangement is suggested ; these are so 
prominent in our own case, that it is necessary to take a look 
at them ; and here, as in most enterprises, they are bound to 
be comprised in two words — money and men. The first, 




50 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



however, might be reduced considerably from ; he formidable 
proportions it assumes at the first glance. In the full course 
of study in Arts, there are eight or twelve series of exami- 
nations ; but the matriculation and exhibition examinations, 
in the first year, are conducted now by gentlemen who do not 
know the candidates, and, as for the rest of the examinations, 
we think that the Christmas examinations, which are com- 
paratively unimportant, might be left out of the question, and J 
then by awarding the exhibitions and scholarships at the 
sessional examinations, there would be only one series of j 
examinations each year which would need a special board of 
examiners, now such a board would need but three or four 
members for the space of a month. (The subjects of study, 
if rightly considered, amount to four: languages, mathematics, 
natural science, philosophy.) Surely the expense of such a 
board would not be too great for our University to bear!"* 

The second difficulty is one which we believe it would be 
troublesome to obviate, so far as our limited knowledge of j 
Canadian scholarship goes. The examiners must be men 
of high standing and unblemished name, whose knowledge is 
fresh and serviceable, and who can afford the necessary time. 1 
Where can we get them? The only men who fulfil the first 
conditions, if we are not mistaken, are the professors of 
sister Universities, and of course they could not give the 
time, unless, indeed, the system of special examiners is made 
common throughout the country, and the professors of 
various Universities simply exchange places for the time, — a! 
vain hope, it seems to us. 

Such are the difficulties, and to make clear the need of an ' 
attempt to overcome them, it is necessary to show the 1 
advantages of the state in which we wish to be. 

To the general reasons for the necessity of having special | 
examiners in any academic institution, we can add others 1 
applying more particularly to McGiiJ. The first, a compara- ! 
tively unimportant one, is that some of our Professors demand 1 
from their classes more than is given in the text books, ; e., | 
refuse to take, word for word, a proof which is surely to be j 
considered sufficient when given expressly for learners in a 
college text book. We respectfully express our dissatisfaction I 
at this, because if a man from sickness, or other cause, ^ 
absents himself from a single lecture, he is likely to lose a 
whole question at examination, although he may have his 
book-work up thoroughly. This matter, however, is of little 
account, but there is another and most dangerous evil arising 
from our professors examining their own pupils. A large 
proportion of McGill men fail in examinations, especially 
in mathematics, we believe for this reason : a great deal of 
ground is gone over during the session, and difficult papers 
are set at the examination, aud our professors have no com- 
punction in setting such papers, simply because they them- 
selves examine them ; and though a large part of the class 
may be cut off, the only remark elicited from outsiders is 
something like the following : — “ What a high-class Univer- 
sity have we here; — no child’s play to get through the 
course.” No, certainly not ! But if a special board of 
examiners were to come here, and make such an onslaught 
on McGill students, we would hear different words : — “ Gen- 
tlemen of McGill, it is evident that your class is not up to 
the mark, you are going too fast, or your matriculation 1 
standard is too low,” or something else. 

» Whatever is the cause, th-re is no doubt that it is often ! 
more than difficult to do well at McGill. In the Department 
of Science, to which these remaks are even more applicable 
than to the faculty of Arts proper, the ratio of failure to 
success in examinations is very noticeable. There is but 
one man left, in the senior year, of about a dozen freshmen 
who entered at the same time. 



Again, it is almost impossible for a professor to examine, 
with true impartiality, the papers of students whom he sees 
daily in class. It is a fact, that notone, out of every ten histo- 
rians whom the* world has seen, has been an impartial relater 
of the events which he concerns himself with ; and to compare 
small things with great, we think that it is almost impossible 
for a professor to see a man working honestly and .ably -in 
class during a whole session, without forming an unconscious 
opinion of his merit. Now we do not wish to be misunder- 
stood, our professors are as conscientious and impartial fls it 
possible for men to be, but we mean this, — a familiar name 
appears at the head of a set of answers, — if that name belong 
to one whom the examiner knows to be well up, — many a 
little slip, perhaps even a big one, will be unconsciously 
hurried over. But if the case is exactly the reverse, and the 
student known to be behindhand, his papers are examined, 
we might almost say, with a magnifying glass. 

To conclude, the advantages, concisely stated, would be 
something like these: — a higher standard of matriculation; 
less work gone over, and gone. over more thoroughly; greater 
solicitude on the part of professors concerning the standing 
of their classes; the turning out of more solid scholars, and 
therefore the increase of the reputation of the University. 

Now we may not have viewed this question fairly. The 
advantages may not be so great as we have stated ; ihe 
disadvantages, at present, not so real ; and there may be 
objections and difficulties of which we have not taken 
account. If such be the case we are doubly sorry ; first, 
because we would not like to give a false view of the ques- 
tion ; secondly, because a pleasant dream will have been 
disturbed. But we think we are mainly right. The system 
we hope for is established in many of the great public 
schools, and in some of the Universities of England, and has 
been a decided suceess. Indeed the most serious argument 
against the advisability or possibility of establishing such a 
system here, is the fact, that our Faculty and our Principal, 
who are ever watchful of McGill interests, have not made any 
attempt to institute it in our own case, although they have 
practically founded a court of special examiners for the pupils 
of our schools. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 



Querulous fault-finding is to be discountenanced at all 
times and in all places, but nowhere, perhaps, is it more out 
of place than in a College journal. However, although we do 
not for one moment wish to assume a position which could be 
mistaken for that of a critic, with unfriendly motives, we 
think that the present condition of affairs in the Faculty of 
Law justifies our noticing any anomalies we may perceive, 
and warrants us in making suggestions for the amelioration of 
this portion of the University. Firstly, as to the personnel of 
the Faculty. 

If the Professors of this Faculty attended personally to 
the duties of their position no objection could be made 
on this score, for a mere perusal of the list will satisfy 
anyone that it contains the names of the most eminent 
members of the legal profession in Montreal, and indeed in 
the Province. Unfortunately, however, whether through lack 
of time, or on account of the inadequacy of the pecuniary 
remuneration, the majority of the Professors have avoided the 
performance of their duties, and have entrusted the fulfilment 
of them to lecturers, the greater number of whom are young 
advocates, possessing neither experience nor knowledge suf- 
ficiently great to qualify them for the position which they 
hold. As a consequence of this, the work has been very 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



SI 



tisfactorily done, and the whole tone of the Faculty 
.sed. 

Now, we would suggest that, before the commence- 
ment of next session an effort be made to increase the 
efficiency of the staff. Let specialists, men of learning, 
scholarship and professional standing, be secured to deliver 
the lectures next session, and the attendance, we venture to 
predict, will be increased to such an extent as to afford 
means for the payment of such men. 

Another point in connection with this Faculty, is that the 
attendance of lecturers has been, for the past year or two, 
extremely irregular, to the great annoyance of the students, 
who find day after day, on going to lectures, that the Professor 
or lecturer, as the case may be, is absent. This is not as it 
should be When men pay their fees they have a right to 
expect some return for their money, and it is not only 
discourteous, but extremely wrong for any lecturer to absent 
himself week after week from his duties. An honourable 
exception to the above statements is the learned acting Dean 
of the Faculty, but of the remainder of the lecturers or 
Professors, with the exception of Mr. Trenholme, the remarks 
we have made are true. We hope that, as we have said, an 
endeavour will be made to increase the efficiency of this 
Faculty. 



FOOTBALL AFFAIRS. 



An adjourned meeting of the Football Club was held on 
Saturday, March 17, to consider the advisability of arranging 
for matches in the spring, and to settle some other matters. 

After the Secretary and Treasurer had made some state- 
ments relative to the affairs of the club, it was resolved to 
challenge the Argonaut Football Club, of Toronto, to a 
match game, May 5th, to be played at Toronto. 

Another important m itter settled at this meeting was 
the change of the club colours from chocolate and mauve, 
representing only the Arts faculty, to gules and white, the 
general colours of the University. Messrs. E. T. Taylor, 
H. Abbott, and P. D. Ross were appointed a committee to 
select the pattern. They have determined on stripes, as in 
the old uniform, excepting that the caps may be somewhat 
different. The only other suggestion made was to make 
the jerseys entirely gules (a sort of red), with the McGill 
shield worked on the breast. This was not considered 
advisable, however, partly because of the expense, but 
chiefly' because it would be almost indistinguishable from 
the Harvard uniform, with the wearers of which we have 
an annual match. 

Two other motions passed by the club deserve special 
mention. The first, moved by Taylor and seconded' by' 
Robertson, was to the effect that every man of the football 
team each year give in to the Secretary his height and 
weight in football uniform. This record will be a very 
interesting one when the physical qualities of the teams are 
compared with their accomplishments, and will be of use in 
settling the long-mooted question whether weight or speed 
is most effective in football. 

The other motion reads as follows: “ Moved— That a 
committee 'of three be appointed to draw up a petition to 
the Principal, to the effect that no other clubs of any kind 
may be allowed to use the playing-grounds during the 
summer.” 

[We believe the words “ of any kind ” are put in with 
reference to cows, &c.]. 

The meeting then adjourned sine die. 



Before the challenge to the Argonauts was forwarded, 
the following telegram was received by the Secretary of 
the Football Club : — 

Cannot get ground to play you this spring. Would like to arrange 
a match for the autumn. 

H. De T. Glazebrook, 

Argonaut F. B. C. 

This unwelcome news somewhat damped the ardour of 
the club, but it has been resolved to make further attempts 
to arrange a match with some Upper Canadian club. 



COLLEGE WORLD. 



— Mr. L. Cushing, ’ 79 , has been elected captain of the 
Harvard football team. 

— Harvard crew have had regular practice on the river 
since March 1 st, and are now hard at work. 

— The Princeton team has challenged Harvard. The 
match is to be played in Cambridge. 

— The University of St. Petersburgh has elected Mr. E A. 
Freeman, L L D., an honorary member. 

— The Chair of Poetry at Oxford is vacant, and a number 
of candidates have been announced. 

— The two eldest sons of President Hayes, aged twenty- 
three and twenty one respecively, are attending Harvard and 
Cornell Universities. 

— Ya’e has declined Harvard’s football challenge, because 
“ after providing for the nine and the crew, she has not men 
enough left for football.” 

- The President, Vice-president and Captain of the Har- 
vard Boat club visited New London on the 17 th ult. to 
ascertain the facilities it offered for the next annual race with 
Yale. 

— Toronto University has joined the Dominion Football 
Association, which plays English Association Rules. It is 
not improbable that, next autumn, Toronto will reverse her 
decision and play Rugby Union. 

— In answer to a letter from the Committee of the Glasgow 
University Conservative Club, requesting from Lord Beacons- 
field (then Mr. Disraeli) the consideration of the desirability 
of a second visit to the Glasgow University, a letter has been 
received by the President of the Club. It states that Lord 
Beaconsfield “is very sensible of the honour which has twice 
been conferred on him by the students, and that he would 
derive no small pleasure in revisiting their academy. He 
regrets, however, extremely that he is unable to see his was 
to visiting the University this autumn, but is happy to rememy 
ber that another year from November next has to elapse 
before his term of office as Lord Rector expires. In con- 
clusion, he can only express his warmest thanks to all 
connected with the University for the hearty welcome they 
have offered and the honour they have done him.” 



PERSONAL. 

— E. Lafleur, ’77, will be in charge of the Library during July 
and August. 

— ’77. J. A Ncwnam, at present in Bath, Eng., will return to 
college next year. 

— ’76. F. J. Herthington Bac. App. Sc., is studying in an engin- 
eer's office in London, Eng. 



52 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD SONG. 



Dedicated to the Graduating (Medical) Class of * 77 

Nigh to the sexton, who sang his song, 

Stood an old M.D., with locks hoary and long. 

His work was done ; but he thoughtfully stayed 
Till his patient's remains in the grave were laid. 

He had heard the sexton, with lips so thin, 
Exultingly cry : “ I gather them in ! ” 

And the doctor answered, in accents strong : 

“ I send them along ! I send them along ! 

“ I send them along ! For though you build 
The beds they lie in, I get them filled. 

The pills I’ve made and the physic I’ve found, 
That’s sent them at last to this burial ground. 
Mother and daughter, father and son, 

Come to my surgery one by one ; 

But come they weakly, or come they strong, 

I send them along ! I send them along ! 

“ No monarch’s laws are obeyed like my own ; 

I’m king of the sick ; and I make my throne 
On a chair by the side of the wavering life; 

And for sword of state I’ve my surgeon’s knife. 
When they ask my opinion, with anxious face, 

I gravely reply : ‘ ’Tis a serious case." 

Then; to show my opinion is never wrong, 

I send them along ! I send them along ! 

“ I send them along ! So thank me, my friend, 

That you’ve so many funerals now to attend.” 

Here the doctor paused, for a message had come 
That another new patient awaited him home. 

So he smiled as he bade the old sexton good bye, 
And he whispered him, twinkling his jovial eye, 

“ Prepare for more work with those arms so strong; 
I’ll send him along ! I’ll send him along. 



EXCHANGES. 



— The Neman Literary Magazine is very fair as regards its purely 
literary part ; but what p’easure we experienced in reading it was 
totally destroyed by such vulgarisms in its account of football 
matches, as “bucked the balL;” “ Princeton did herself proud.” 
These are particularly inexcusable in a University magazine, 
wherein a high standard is supposed and ought to be maintained. 

— The last number of the Crimson is before us, and is, as usual, 
excellent. Particularly noteworthy are two articles, “ Provincial- 
isms at Harvard ” and the “ Novel of To-day.” The usual report 
of the crew gives us to understand that they are hard at work 
training for the Annual Yale Race. The writer of “A Sang o 1 
the Spring ” has, we think, attempted too much, but deserves to 
be complimented for his success in such a difficult task. 

— We have lately received the first issues of the Colby Echo , on 
whose present promise we have no hesitation in congratulating it. 
The first thing which struck us was the beauty of a sonnet in the 
opening number ; but as we read on, we found with satisfaction 
that no less a treat awaited us in the ensuing articles. The second 
copy contains a piece of pithy advice to subscribers, which we 
would rather quote than criticise had we space. All we can say 
is, that if the Echo will always re echo in the same style, it will 
rank as one of our most interesting exchanges. 

— We have a word or two to say to our fellow students in the 
United States on the subject of football, and we would ask as many 
of our contemporaries as possible to lay the matter before them. 
Football seems at the present time to be becoming very popular 
among American Coll 3ges. Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, 
and many others have taken it up, and we doubt not, in a few years 



it will be universally played. What we wish to enforce is the 
desirability of our American cousins securing complete unanimity 
in the matter of rules of the game. The advantages of this are so 
obvious that it is needless for us to refer to them here. Many of 
the leading colleges have already adopted Rugby Union, and these 
rules will undoubtedly prove the best code extant, so we trust that 
all colleges which play the game will endeavour to conform to 
these rules. Inter-collegiate and international matches will be 
rendered much more practicable and satisfactory than at present, 
and in fact, in every way would be the more desirable. Copies of 
these rules may be had from the Secretary of the Canadian Foot- 
ball Association, Mr. R. M. Esdaile, Montreal, who will only be to 
happy to send copies to any College Club which may desire them, 
and also any other information required. 



—Which is it ‘Vide Globe Editorial for March 19tb. 

— The juniors are groaning under a great amount of mathematics. 

—The faces ot the graduating classes are 

" Sicklicd o’er with the pale cast of thought." 

— The annual meeting of the Graduates’ Society will be held 
on Monday, May 3rd. 

—Many students study very late the night before an Exam. 
This is a mistake a good night’s rest i9 invaluable. 

—The football team are not going to Toronto this spring, as 
previously supposed ; they cow think of trying to arrange a 
match in Ottawa or Hamilton. 

— It is currently reported that an assistant to the worthy 
Professor of English i9 to be appointed, and that several important 
changes will be made in the course. 

— Hamilton’s Xma9 present is not yet presented. — A freshman 
has calculated that in seventeen years the present will be made on 
time. — It is three weeks liter every year. 

— We would suggest to the learned Professor who has charge of 
the editing of the Annual Calendar, that several passages, hith- 
erto ambiguous, be altered and simplified this year. The article 
on “ Exemptions” requires improvement. 

— Two of the graduating class in Arts intend to study law, six 
adopt theology, one goes into business, aDd three are on “ the 
rugged edge *’ of uncertainty and doubt. Those who are to study 
abroad have promised us correspondence next year. 

— Our representative on the Committee of the Football Associa- 
tion has made a proposal to the effect that a Challenge Cup be 
given for competition among the various Clubs in the Dominion. 
We tyope to see this agreed to ; and feel confident that McGill will 
have a good chance for the championship. 

— It may be interesting to our classical students to learn that 
Dr. Schliemann, writing from Athens, states that, “the Mycenaean 
antiquities can leave no doubt in the mind of anyone, that the 
Right lion. W. E. Gladstone was perfectly right in maintaining 
that Homer was an Achaian.” 

—A Canadian Football Annnal, on the model of those published 
in England and Scotland, will shortly be issued. The book will 
contain reports of the various matches played, lists of Clubs, and 
best players, and also articles by prominent Football men on 
points connected with the game. McGill is represented on the 
Editorial Committee. 

—The following is an extract from a letter addressed by Sir 
Hugh Allan to Dr. G. W. Campbell, Dean of the Medical Faculty 
dated March 16th : — 

“Our Liverpool letter to-day advises us that the Board of 
“ Trade have rescinded the regulation respecting Canadian sur- 
“ geons, who are now at liberty to sign articles on their own 
“ diplomas.” 

—It ha9 long been a subject of remark that comparatively few 
graduates interest themselves in the annual election of representa- 
tive fellows— of course the Graduates’ Society will make its 
influence felt in this matter, but all, whether ‘members of the 
Graduates’ Society or not, should exercise their franchise. The 
question as to Theological Degrees may againVome up and the 
opinion of candidates on this point should be elicited. 



the McGill gazette. 




S. CARSLEY’S PRICES. 

0 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Cuffs 25 cents per pair 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Collars 15 cents each 

Gents’ White Shirts only 95 cents each 

White Shirts, very good quality $1.25 

Nightshirts $1 each 

Single-breast Wool Undershirts 48 cents 

Double-breast Wool Undershirts 75 cents 

Long Black Silk Ties . . 10 cents each 

Dogskin Driving Gloves 50 cents per pair 

Gents’ Fine Kid Gloves f 5 cents 

White Silk Handkerchiefs 20 cents 

White Cashmere Mufflers 38 cents 

Gents’ Hand-knit Socks 22 cents per pair 

CHEAF CARPETS. 

Useful Yard Wide Carpet 15 cents 

Good Hair Carpet 14 cents 

Bed-room Towels 5 cents each 

CHE-AE LOT. 

Large lots Gents’ Silk Scarfs, in black and colors, all at 25 cents each 

S. OARSLEY, 

393 NOTRE DAME ST. 

« 

G. & W. CLARKE, 

oohdlers, Stationers, 

AND 

IMPORTERS OF FANCY GOODS, 

238 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Next door to Ottawa Hotel) 

Keep constantly in stock a large assortment of 

Stationery of all kinds. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

66-6 D-ORCHESTER STREET. 



gJcflLL tLOLLEGE f EXT §0QKS, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

BE4S , I©N1BY ©F AM EISIPS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable fob Medical and other College Students. 

ALSO, ALL THE BOOKS USED IN McEACHRAN’S VETERINARY COLLECE. 



In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor Intends disposing of the 
abovo Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

SWameaSt., adjoining Wesleyan Church, 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS,' CANES, &c. 

lO PER CENT. OFF TO STUDENTS OZXTIMY 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

ps> 



(Gerts 1 ||ur )|oats, 4aps&|jloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

o 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon* and a 
varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS 

IN THEIR SEASON. 

367 2sT OTRE £>T. 



ESTABLISHED 1858. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET. 

McGIBBON & BA/BD. 

BRANCH, ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1385 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

(Comer Mansfield Street.) 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the 
Dominion to choose from at either of the above Establishments. 
o 

FRESH GOODS BY EVERY STEAMER. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 




KEMP & CO., 


LORGE & CO., 


(ESTABLISHED 1859.) 




Importers and Manufacturers of 


FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 


Jilmls, W>m, Hojgmg, 

GLOVES, &cc., Szc., 


Hatters & Furriers, 


306 Notre Dame Street, 306 

( SECOND DOOR EAST OF THE FRENCH CHURCH ,) 


WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 


UONfPXfcjB AXi. 




0 


No. 21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 


A good stock of CARTWRIGHT & WARNER’S Underclothing 
always on hand. Also, the latost novelties in Scarfs and Cravats are 
being constantly received from the best London Manufactures. 


MONTREAL. • 




SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 


ISlS 


Dissecting Cases, Pocket Cases, Cupping Cases, &c., &c. 


1$Bb 


FORCEPS— TOOTH, MIDWIFERY, DRESSING, DISSECTING, k. 


IfoNOGRAMS, »|RESTS AND A RMS, 


Knives— Dressing, Amputating, Pocket, &c. 
SCALPELS IN EBONY AND IVORY. 


VISITING AND PROFESSIONAL CARDS, 

BY 


LAN OETS - TOOTH A3STID ABSCESS. 

Catheters — Gum Elastic, Silver and Electro-Elated, dec., dec* 

4 / 


GEORGE BISHOP & Co., 


Also, Physicians supplied with Bottles, Labels, Scales, Drug?;, &c., at 
the lowest Cash Prices. 


Engravers, 

169 ST. JAMES STREET. 


JAMES GOULDEN, 

17S ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 
F. GROSS, 



®r 



(£>& 



surgical Instrument §(aker, 

690 CRAIG STREET, 

. MONTREAL. 

0 

DISSECTING INSTRUMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 
o 

Skates, Razors, and all kinds of Surgical Instruments, Ground, Set and 

Repaired 



tRnivirsifn 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

ARE HELD AS LSUAL IN THE 

IHEW ROOMS, 15 PHILIP’S SQUARE, 

ON 

IF 1 IR£E DAT E|-Vi£3FT t I3SrOS, 

To which all Students and Graduates ot the University ire cordially 
uvited. 

Students will always findjt to their inti rest to attend the Mdling 
of the Society. 

D. C. McLaren, Rec . Sec. 



'HE M( KTFFAL HFKAL1 f miMiyG’ A>D iril]s»«jrc[ CC }> VI KY. 



