Vol. XIII 



No. 4 









56 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 
Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



f[0BERT$0N, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

# 

Advocates, Barristers, Coimiiissioiiers, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. Janies St., Montreal. 

MACNIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Fkamiintlsal t lispeisiDi UfiiiH 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated* 

Drainage Tubes, ^Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalvptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 



Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTF RS 



175 St. James St., Montreal , 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



— FOR — 



DRYSDALE’S 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. Janies St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



232 ST.JAMES ST. 



JREUMCAE I VORKS, KOOKS USEE IJ\~ ART COURSE 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS TREOJ.OOICAI , ROOKS. 



D. McENTIRE & SON, 
Fine Custom Tailors. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., See., 

-^BE8T value: in town . 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 James Street, 

-A^XjSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 20th, 1890. [No. 4. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President . 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law *89, Src.-Treas . 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in-Cliief . 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 
S. W. Mack, Arts *90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law ’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science *90. 
H. Yates, B A 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. '91. 



Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Eejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co , 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 57-00 

Contributions - 00-01 

McGill News 01-03 

Societies 04 

Personals 05 

Correspondence 05 

Poetry 04-60 

Sporting 06 

Advertisements - 56-66-67-68-69-70 



Editorials 



THE MEDICAL MUSEUM. 

A student of Medicine, in the fourth year, in his 
letter published in this issue, is attempting to be 
playful over the question of the museum. If he had 
exercised reasonable diligence, he might have dis- 
covered years ago that such a valuable adjunct exist- 
ed, and that several men are known to have gained 
admission to it. The admission fee is very small and 
not such as to deter any student from the advan- 
tages of the Museum, who is really anxious to avail 
himself of the opportunities at hand. 



THE LATE DR. HOWARD. 

We are glad to see that the students in Medicine 
have not given up the project of placing a slab, as a 
mark of respect to the late Dr. Howard, in the hall, 
as we began to fear they had, from their long in- 
action. 

At a general meeting, held in Medicine last Wed- 
nesday, the matter was again taken up, and a com- 
mittee of eight men, the President, and an additional 
man from each year, were elected, and authorized to 
order a slab, and to incur expenses not exceeding one 
hundred dollars ; so that we are sure to see another 
slab in the hall, facing that to the late Dr. Holmes, 
before the end of the session. 



THE UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

The University Banquet is an accomplished fact, 
and before the month is out there promises to be the 
finest gathering of McGill representatives that has 
yet been seen in the history of the University. The 
only element that will be wanting is the Medical 
Faculty, but this defect will be remedied before 
another year. It could hardly be expected that the 
Medicals should indulge themselves to the extent of 
another dinner, the more especially since the burden 
of study falls particularly heavy upon this Faculty. 
A reunion composed of graduates, members of the 
Arts, Law, Science and Veterinary Faculties and re- 
presentatives of the Donalda department, should do 
much towards welding together all the factors in 
University life. The scheme is being well ordered ; 
every interest is fully represented, and the gradu- 
ates and undergraduates are working together in 
complete harmony. We look upon this as evidence 
of a wider and deeper interest in the things of the 
University, which will work for good and to the 
advantage of McGill. 

UNIVERSITY DEGREES. 

The old saying, ‘ there’s no royal road to learning,’ 
holds as literally true now as ever, but, nevertheless, 
the ingenuity of the time has contrived a most admir- 
able gloss, which to the popular mind will be held 
to indicate the presence of the genuine article, and 
may be obtained for one of royalty’s usual concomi- 
tants — wealth. The learned sound of the title 



58 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



‘ Doctor ’ has a great attraction for many persons who 
are led by their surroundings to set a value on that 
University training, and its consequent degrees, of 
which they have for some reason been deprived. 
Consequently there have been found universities, so- 
called, which, setting little more than monetary value 
on their degrees, have been willing to furnish the 
desired appendage of letters to any name that would 
be honored on a cheque (or even note) of from five to 
sixty dollars. It may well be said that University 
men can well afford to despise such cheap decora- 
tions, and freely allow the use of them to those who 
will condescend to wear such finery, but it must be 
borne in mind that all University degrees are usually 
held to be the index of a varying amount of know- 
ledge, and at the best, to be the stamp of a sound 
education, which in law and reason they were un- 
doubtedly held to be. The consequence is that a 
large number of ignorant and incompetent men have 
the way opened to them of securing the same appear- 
ance of honour as the learned, and either succeed in 
deceiving the public as to their real advantages, or, by 
a helpless display of ignorance, cast a universal slur 
on University training and graduates. A much more 
serious effect, however, may be easily produced, when 
some of these merely nominal universities have the 
power of conferring the degree of M. D., and with it 
the licence to practice medicine, as is not infrequent- 
ly the case, by all accounts, in the neighbouring re- 
public. In this case, the conferring of such degrees 
and powers, in very many instances is little, if at all, 
short of criminal. 

Fortunately we in Canada are not sufficiently free 
and progressive (?) as to raise such bogus universities 
as we speak of, to the discredit of our educational 
system. The leading universities of Canada are slow 
to confer degrees on any save the students they have 
instructed, and after a long course of tuition and 
severe examinations. Of our own University, at least 
it may be said, no one bears the primary degrees of 
any of her several faculties, who has not been trained 
and approved of by her many really eminent in- 
structors. We sincerely hope this will always be the 
case, and that no expansion of the University system 
will lead to the decoration of men who, no matter 
what their abilities and private attainments may be, 
must of necessity lack a great deal of the thorough 
training implied by the possession of a degree from 
a University like our own. 

UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS. 

McGill has now an Athletic Association, Football, 
Cricket, Hockey, and two Lawn Tennis Clubs. Base- 



ball and Lacrosse have been introduced, and last of 
all a Snow-Shoe Club is being talked of. The Uni- 
versity gymnasium is largely patronized by Arts 
students. Mr. Naismith’s popularity with the stu- 
dents is shown by the fact that there is often 75, and 
occasionally 100, on the floor during the hours of his 
instruction. 

Last autumn, on several occasions, games of foot- 
ball, baseball, and lacrosse were being played on the 
campus at the same time , with considerable annoyance 
and danger to all concerned. The difficulties in this 
respect are increasing each year. 

The arrangement of lectures in the Medical Faculty 
leaves no time for physical exercise. In Applied 
Science, lectures in the mornings and practical work 
in the afternoons leave no time for recreation, except 
the hour from 4 to 5, on Thursday afternoons of 
September and October, which the Faculty gave the 
students on condition that they came to lectures at 
one o’clock instead of two. 

The necessity of physical exercise, in order to put 
the body in the best condition for obtaining the best 
quality and quantity of brain work, is universally 
acknowledged. 

Students often “make time” to indulge in athletics 
by “sloping” from lectures. 

Men who have a liking for athletics are very often 
those who appreciate the lectures most, and are 
anxious to attend. At present many men are unable 
to attend all the lectures prescribed for them, and take 
physical exercise. In our opinion they are justified 
in choosing an hour’s fresh air and a game on the 
campus rather than a continuous series of lectures in 
close class-rooms followed by a dull, languid feeling 
and a craving tor excitement or stimulants, which we 
are sorry to say is often gratified. 

May not the reputation which Medical students, 
as a body, enjoy, be attributed to this cause ? 

Physical culture should receive attention from 
those in authority in all the Faculties. All give a 
theoretical assent to athletics “ in moderation ; ” but 
at the same time many object to any practical recog- 
nition of athletics. What is required is that an hour 
each day be left for recreation. 

Dr. Morgan states that Oxford University oarsmen 
were at about the average of their classes in point of 
scholarship, while Cambridge oarsmen held a better 
rank, and took more prizes than the average of their 
schoolmates. 

Haivaid statistics show that, while the average 
scholarship of the University nine is 74 per cent, of 
the athletic team 7 2 per cent, and of the crew 69 per 
cent, that of men taking no exercise is 67 per cent. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



59 



At Cornell (1874-77) the average of the rowing 
men is 70 per cent, of the baseball men 73 per cent, 
of the athletic teams 76 per cent. 

We would suggest the appointment of a committee 
to enquire into the whole subject of athletics at Mc- 
Gill and other Universities, and that they have power 
to regulate our athletics as they think advisable. 

Professors McDonald, M.D., McLeod, and Moyse 
would represent the varied interests concerned. 

The members of McGill football team probably 
spend more time on athletics than any men in the 
University, and we might expect that these men 
would have the lowest places in the examinations. 
The following are the results : — 



ANALYSIS. 



The following table is an analysis of the McGill 
University Football teams as they appear in the 
photographs in the Arts and Science Reading Room. 
The standing is taken from the annual calendars : — 





•AiRrj- 






co 




rH 


rH 


O 


rH 

rH 


£ 

"5 


•aaioip9j\[ 


rH 


rH 


rH 


lD 


lO 


rH 


CO 


co 


o 

d 

PH 


•90U8l0g 


lO 


CD 


uo 


UO 


CO 


CD 


r- 


§ 




•s;iy 




r- 


rH 


rH 


rH 


LD 


CD 


rH 

co 




H-3 © 

cS 

3 


* 

rH 








rH 


rH 




CD 




737 3 

S 2 

to 
















rH 




Q) ^ co 
n S -S3 © 



GO CO lO CD .CO 00 



d 

© 

>> 



J3 

£3 



73 

© 



© 

a 

o 



73 co 

c* »- 
o c g 

OcjO 
© fc* £3 

C Q o 



CO © CO 

u c o — 

£ *§©°| 
-=2 a 



£ 



© 



to 

*2** a 

o 2 -° 9°5 

^ a 



oo o co CO 03 



^ © £ 
a C 5 

o n-r. 

EH 2 -2 

a a 



CO CO CD CD 



• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


- 


• 


© 


rH 


CQ 


CO 


rH 


ID 


CD 


OO 


OO 


ao 


00 


S8 


CO 


OO 


OO 


OO 


oo 


ao 


OO 


ao 


rH 


rH 




rH 


r—4 


rH 


rH 



We make the following quotations from an admir- 
able paper on “ College Athletics,” by Russel A. Beg- 
low, Esq., New York City : — 

“ The rapid growth of cities, so much commented 
on of late, the tendency of city life to too little phy- 
sical activity, and the fact that College men are con- 
stantly coming in increased numbers from the cities 
of the land, and that even larger numbers go to cities 
after their studies are completed, make it indispens- 
able that they should obtain at College the greatest 
possible physical development.” 

That the athletic class in College is greatly benefited 
is shown by Dr. Sargent in Scribner for Nov. 1887, 
from measurements of 2,300 Harvard students. 

“ Dr. Morgan’s careful and minute enquiry into the 
after-health of 294 men, who rowed on Oxford and 
Cambridge crews down to 1869, shows very conclu- 
sively that the lives of these oarsmen were longer by 
several years than those of the average men, and that 
an overwhelming majority of them considered their 
health greatly improved by their early devotion to 
athletics.” 

“ Athletics prevent dissipation. Men in training 
are kept from various excesses, by many considered 
inseparable from a College career.” 

“ Athletics foster manly virtue. They give their 
devotees rare mastery of self, teach them prompt 
obedience to law. Courage, coolness, resolution, per- 
severance, unselfishness, presence of mind, executive 
power, prompt decision, manliness, must all be at the 
command of the athlete. Without any one of these 
qualities he will be incapacitated for his work. The 
utmost mastery of all his powers is especially required 
by the man who engages in the modern games of 
baseball and football. There is no better training 
ground than the athletic field for many of the quali- 
ties that enable men to do good, faithful work in the 
world.” 

“ The man who had two hours a day of active, 
eager exercise, is better fitted for work with his books 
than the man who spends those hours in lazy idleness, 
or than the weary toiler whose mind becomes sluggish 
by constant effort without relaxation.” 

“ Prof. Richards claims much virtue for athletics, 
in that by increasing the physical vigor of the athletic 
class in College, a better breed of educated men is 
produced.” 

“Athletics furnish a stimulus to exertion, and teach 
men the value of earnest, active work.” 

“Athletics promote cordiality between different Col- 
leges, and arouse a desirable competition, which cause 
the undergraduate to attain broader views than those 



60 



to which the narrow landscape of his own College is 
confined.” 

College Athletics diminish the evils of class feel- 
ing, by the association of men of all classes and de- 
partments in the different athletic organizations, and 
furnish an outlet for feeling between classes which 
otherwise might be displayed in rushing, hazing, and 
other disorders, by substituting in their place a gen- 
erous rivalry on the athletic field. 

[This is especially needful in McGill. — Eds.] 

Dr. Felix Oswald tells us that “ some of the beset- 
ting vices of youth can, with a certainty, be ascribed 
to an excess of that potential energy which finds no 
outlet in the functions of our sedentary life.” 

President Bartlett, of Dartmouth, says — “ In much 
fewer instances, and in far less aggravated modes than 
formerly, it (disorder in College) still lives on.” 
“ While College athletics have done much for good 
order, they have nowhere wholly eradicated the 
evil.” 

Professor Young (astronomer), says — “ And yet, on 
the other hand, when one compares the condition of 
a College in which this state of things prevails with 
its condition twenty-five years ago, it is very clear 
that there has been a decided gain in respect to 
morality and good order — a gain which may fairly be 
ascribed to the effect of athletic sports in providing 
a safety-valve for the superabundant physical effer- 
vescence of the young men, and in making them ob- 
serve the deleterious effects of bad habits.” 

Prof. Richards — “ The revolt against authority and 
the great disorders between classes now, occur with 
most frequency, not at Colleges which have the great- 
est number of students and the most extensive athletic 
organizations, but at Colleges in which the students 
either are not able, or are not allowed, to establish 
such organizations.” 

President Eliot, of Harvard, says — “ It is agreed 
on all hands that the increased attention given to 
physical exercise and athletic sports within the last 
twenty-five years, has been, on the whole, a great ad- 
vantage to the University ; that the average physique 
of the mass of students has been sensibly improved, 
the discipline of the College been made easier and 
more effective, the work of many zealous students 
been done with greater safety, and the ideal student 
transformed from a stooping, weak, and sickly youth, 
into one well-formed, robust, and healthy.” 

“ The times are passed, if they ever were, when 
men can maintain their highest place in life by mere 
force of intellect. It is personality that leads and 
controls. Soundness of judgment and common sense 



[ 1890 . 



is rarely consorted with feebleness and dyspepsia. 
The effectiveness of the teacher, the moving power of 
the orator, and the forceful control of a great leader, 
are referable to personality — the whole of physique, 
soul, and reason, and not to any one of them. I am 
conscious of my heterodoxy, but the ball-field is not 
so bad a place from which to choose a teacher for 
your school.” 

The names of all subscribers who are in arrears 
will be removed from the mailing list before next 
issue. 



NOTICE. 

“ The University Gazette ” will, in 
future, be issued regularly every w eek. 
It had been decided to make the paper 
one-lialf the usual size, but from the 
amount of matter offering each w T eek 
this has been found impossible, so that 
each number will contain the full six- 
teen pages as heretofore. 



iLontributions. 



BARRIE. 

I cannot lay bare to your view half the natural 
beauty of the place, nor do I here attempt to do so, but 
I have endeavored to mention a few facts about this 
locality, and have ventured to describe one or two 
scenes I have had the pleasure of beholding. 

Barrie, the County town of the County of Simcoe, 
with a population of between five and six thousand 
inhabitants, is prettily situated on the north-western 
shore of Kempenfeldt Bay, the western arm of Lake 
Simcoe. Whilst occupying all the land around the 
curve of the Bay even to the water’s edge, it also 
scatters many of its public buildings and most of its 
grandest houses on the hillside, which forms the 
natural background to this picturesque spot. During 
the warm summer months, when even the evenings 
are attended with an uncomfortable degree of heat, 
there is no finer retreat than out in the water in front 
ot the town. From the middle of the Bay, one sees 
Barrie to the best advantage. The whole town is 
spread out before the spectator, the wooded hills rise 
proudly in the rear, bearing on their gently undulat- 
ing sides stately mansions, partly concealed by thick 
foliage, and pleasure grounds clad in most refreshing, 
restful green. The Bay itself seems alive with boats 
of every description — steam-boats, excursion boats, 
pleasure yachts, sailing yachts and an endless variety 
of skiffs and graceful canoes. Thus it continues 
from the beginning to the close of the boating season. 

A tew weeks ago, I strolled eastward along the 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



61 



shore of the Bay, passing the farthest limits of the 
town, and reaching finally the foot of Kempenfeldt 
hill. This I ascended, and was amply rewarded for 
my eftort. Standing there, the words of Scott were 
borne in upon my mind with peculiar force : — 

“ And thus an airy point he won, 

Where, gleaming with the setting sun, 

One burnished sheet of living gold, 

Loch Katrine lay beneath him rolled.” 

And so it was this day. To the south, I saw the 
water, silvery until in the distance it lost itself in the 
deep shadows of the farther shore ; looking westward 
through a cluster of spruce and pine, I saw it rip- 
pling under a western breeze and reflecting a broad 
golden pathway along which the rays of the sinking 
sun rushed to meet my gaze. 

There is one other spot I would like to mention. 
Once seen it can never be forgotten. I have seen it 
at sun-rise, I have seen it at mid-day, I have seen it 
at sun -set, but I never did really see it until, late at 
night a year or so ago, when everything around was 
peaceful and quiet, and when the moon was shedding 
her light with unshrouded impartiality, I rowed 
rapidly across to the opposite shore and made my 
way up the Lover’s Creek. It is narrow, and it 
abounds with many abrupt turns, first to the right, 
then to the left. At places the tall trees, which 
line its banks, meet far up overhead, forming an 
avenue of emerald net work. As I entered the creek 
this night, the silence was unbroken save for the 
plaintive call of a solitary whip-poor-will. As I 
proceeded, even this became hushed, and the moon- 
beams, stealing silently through the luxuriant foliage 
and casting o’er the narrow stream, deep, inpenetrable 
shadows, broken here and there by flashes of silvery 
light, guided me on my onward way, filled with awe 
at the majesty of the beauty there revealed, and wrapt 
in speechless admiration of Nature’s sublimest handi- 
work. 

W ELLINGTON A. CAMERON, B. A. 



JHctBill ;New$. 



Why should the University calendar not have an 
index, or a table of contents 1 

The reading of R. S. Lea’s paper on “ Stand 
Pipes” was again postponed, on account of the small 
attendance of students. 

Wo congratulate the Faculty of Applied Science 
on the introduction of a new professor of Civil 
Engineering — into the world. 

It is rumoured that Mr. Cook, the sexton of the 
Medical School, intends to take measures to prevent 
students smoking on the streets. 

We notice that in the primary examinations in 
Medicine, out of 15 who obtained honours, six, in- 
cluding the Sutherland medalist, are football men. 

Now that a total prohibition of tobacco in the 
dissecting room has been secured, it is said Mr. Cook 
intends holding family worship every evening at ten 

o’clock. 



It was with deep sadness it was learned that Hugh 
McKercher, M.D., ’88, had died. He was practising 
his profession at Port Hope, and was winning his 
way by the same methods that gained him success 
at College. 

On Saturday last Mr. Bohrer failed to appear, and 
the class, after waiting 15 minutes, were informed 
that he had “ La Grippe.” It is a pity to disappoint 
those who were enthusiastic enough to appear on 
such a day as Saturday. It is always very difficult 
to keep up enthusiasm in anything outside of the 
regular College course. Nothing should be allowed 
to happen which will act as a damper on a move- 
ment of this nature. 

The members of the Materia Medica class who, last 
spring, neglected to go through the formality of 
passing their sessional examination, have received a 
severe shock. When they recover from their demor- 
alization they will discover that Doctor James’ 
thoroughness extends even to the examining of 
papers. 

It was a work of humanity on the part of Dr. Ross, 
to make along winter journey to St John, N. B, to 
testify to the insanity of McDonell, in the celebrated 
poisoning case. His evidence probably saved the 
man’s life. Why the Maritime Province papers 
should have dignified the Dean with the sobriquet 
“ old ” is hard to guess. 

We are informed, by the calendar for 1889-90 
that the Athletic Association has the following 

officers : — 

Vice-President J. A. Springle. 

Secretary W. M. Murray. 

Assist.-Treasurer W. J. Delaney. 

and that the Secretary of the Football Club is M. 
F. Lucas. Strange that our Secretary played against 
McGill for Toronto University. 

Those who must introduce the active principle of 
the tobacco leaf into their system, will find some way 
of doing it. Those who were wont to inhale the 
fumes were then obliged to take the drug by some 
more direct means, and now the order has gone forth 
that the practice of chewing tobacco in the dissecting 
room must be foregone. A hypodermic syringe will 
now be in demand, or a committee of Freshmen 
might be appointed to take expert evidence on the 
value of the suppository for the introduction of the 
drug. 



MEDICAL BRIEFS. 

There is a more serious air noticeable in the oper- 
ating room, since the authorities appointed a clergy- 
man as “ assistant aniesthetizer ” to the female wards. 

* 

* * 

Two of the final men have had personal experience 
of what the old gentleman means by “ a good free 
incision.” They do not seem particularly struck 
with it. 



62 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



We are informed that the Y. W. C. T. U. had 
purchased a coffee-barrel in England, and that it is to 
be placed before the ‘‘Oxford,” as a counter-attraction 
to students. 

* 

* * 

Of all the vile journals, that Mercury is the worst. 
Why, they have even been “ writing up ” that model 
of sobriety, industry and broad capacity in the fourth 
year — the man who owns “ the horse.” 

* 

* * 

The other day, cut into one of the desks, we ran 
across a sad souvenir — the name of A. L. Hamer. 
Poor Hamer : passed in honors, which, like many 
other foolish fellows, he did not live to enjoy. 

* 

* * 

At times the old gentleman in Surgery draws 
pretty heavily upon our credibility. His latest was 
the story of women with an appetite for needles, and 
into whose neighborhood it was dangerous to go for 
fear of being stuck. 

* 

* * 

Decidedly the proposed course of lectures to the 
Nurses of the M. G. H. is a move in the right direc- 
tion. If they were to hire servants to do the menial 
work, the class of nurses would become of a more 
intelligent nature. 

* 

* 5fc 

It is greatly to be regretted that the Captain of the 
Football Club should have deferred having his annual 
seizure till the Team were getting their picture “ took.” 
His face looks like a composite picture in which the 
different figures had somehow missed connection. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Buller tells a good story of a man who got 
glaucoma whenever he went to church. If the 
number of men among his own students, who invade 
him on Sunday mornings, is to be taken as a criterion, 
the worthy Doctor is in no danger from glaucoma. 

* 

* * 

It may show a great deal of nerve and a supreme 
contempt for the opinions of others, for a man to 
stalk majestically to his seat after the lecture com- 
mences, but it also betrays a tendency to the nature 
of the animal whose name is short, and whose body 
comes to a point. 

* 

* 5jc 

We wonder would it be any use protesting against 
being fired out from lectures at noon, dashing to our 
boarding house on the run, gulping down food in 
better time than at a K.R. restaurant, nearly suffoca- 
ting ourselves in the attempt to get a smoke, and get 
down to the hospital by 1 p. m. 

* 

* 5k 

We are all members of the Club House. How 
about organizing a students’ drive, supper and dance 1 
Hiring a number of caravans Avould bring the cost of 
transit down to about 25cts. per capita, and 50cts added 
would procure a fairly good supper. What a rollick- 
ing time the prospect unfolds. Of course it would 
have to be a “ stag party.” 



CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS, 1889. 
FACULTY OF ARTS. 

Examinations are held in some only of the subjects 

of THE LECTURES OF THE PRECEDING TERM. 

(OC.) OR * INDICATES AN OCCASIONAL STUDENT. 

Greek. — Fourth year— Class I. — Colcloughand Daley, equal; 
Nichols, Mack, Abbott, Bininore ; Cameron and Mathewson, 
equal. Class II., Fry and Moss, equal; Hunter, Parker, 
Elliott (Ed. A.), Tolmie ; Reid and Swanson and Henderson, 
equal. Class. III., Richardson, Walsh, Ross, Finch. Third 
year — Class I. — LeRossignol, Pattison, Gunn, Robins (Lillian 
B.), McGregor (John M). Class II., Oliver, McGregor (E. B.) ; 
Ellenwood and Tees, equal ; McLeod ; McAlpine and Pidgeon, 
equal; Hipp and Moore (Levi), equal ; Guthrie. Class III., 
Russel, Holden, Cole, Craik, Young, Hall (R. S.), Dobson. 
Second year — Class I. — Kollymer and Wood, equal ; Barron, 
Robins, Archibald, Ross (R. 0.) ; Campbell (K.) and Pritchard, 
equal. Class II., Cushing and Day, equal ; Parker, Sadler ; 
Blachford and Messenger, equal ; Read ; Hunt and Jaquays 
and McLennen, equal ; Brown and Mitchell, equal. Class III., 
Anderson and Davey and Ellicot, equal ; Colquhoun and 
Mackenzie, equal; Taylor; Jekill and Russell, equal; Car- 
michael ; Morris and Williams, equal ; Allen and Davis, equal. 
First year — Class I. — White, Fairclough, Jordan ; Gurd and 
Townsend, equal ; Mansur and Thompson, equal. Class 11. , 
James, Millar, Brown (J. T.), Gordon ; Hickson and McGerrigle, 
equal ; Allen and Hunter, equal. Class. III., Mackeracher ; 
Honeyman and Mahaffy, equal; Killaly, Ballantyne (J.), 
Stewart ; Donahue and Skeels and Stearns, equal ; Reay, Lee, 
Hodgins, Brown (C. L.) ; Coffin and MacVicar (R. M.), equal ; 
Fraser and Hutchison, equal ; Munn, Brittain; Adams (J. R.), 
and Boyd and Lewis and Smith, equal. 

Latin.— Fourth year — Class I. — Colclough and Nichols and 
Tolmie and Williams, equal ; Trenholme ; Fry and Moss, 
equal ; Macfarlane. Class II., Abbott, McDuffee and Binmore 
and Hall (Alex. R.), and Hunter and Kinghorn, equal; Parker, 
Botterell (Jeanie T.), Davidson, Robertson. Class III., Hen- 
derson and Patou, equal ; Scott. Third year — Class I., 
LeRossignol, Pattison, Hall (R. S.), Smith; MacDougall and 
Guthrie and Hall (Bessie), equal ; McGregor (E. B.), Moffatt ; 
McGregor (John M.), and Warne (Jas. F.), equal ; Ellenwood 
and MacMillan, equal; Moore (Levi), Robins (Lillian B). 
Class II., Oliver and Whyte t Geo.), equal ; MacKay, Young. 
Class III., Warne (W. A.). Second year— Class I. — Wood, 
Kollmyer, Archibald, Robins, Campbell (K.), Boright ; Barron 
and Cushing and Messenger, equal; MacDonald ; Angus and 
Tatley and Taylor, equal ; Ross (R. 0.) and Pitcher, equal. 
Class II., Raynes, Mitchell, Read, McLennen, Ross (J.), 
Lyman ; Davey and Day and Ellicott and Pritchard, equal; 
Brown and MacKeuzie, equal , Hunt and Jaquays, equal. 
Class III., Leach and Williams, equal ; Colquhoun and Parker 
and Sadler, equal; Anderson, Blachford, Davidson, Russell, 
Campbell (R.), Graham, Smyth, Flinn, Davis, Carmichael, 
Jekill. First year— Class I.— Hendrie, White, Fairclough, 
James, Seymour, Townsend. Class II., Killaly and LeRossig- 
nol, equal; McGerrigle; Hunter and Mansur, equal ; Jackson, 
Honeyman ; Botterell and Gordon, equal ; Mahaffy, Reay ; 
Gurd and Hickson and Jordan, equal; Allen and Stearns,’ 
equal. Class III., Mills, Ballantyne (J.), McKeracher ; Brown 
(C. L.), and Brown (J. T ), equal ; Millar and Thompson, 
equal; Skeels, McVicar (A.), Donahue, Hodgins, Naylor 
Brittain and Byers and Lewis and Smith, equal ; MacVicar 
(R. M.) Lee, Ireland; Adams (J. R.) and Church and 
McDonald, equal ; Coffin, Hutchison. 

Moiul Ph ilos op H y.— FGT irth year.— Class I.— Williams; 
McDougall (R.) and Sutherland, equal ; Fraser (D. J.), Abbott, 
Cameron ( J A.); Botterell (J. T.) and Davidson (P.), equal 
Scott (S.), Henderson ; McVicar and Swanson, equal. Class 
II., Kinghorn ; Mack and McGregor (A. M.), equal; Richard- 
son ; Elliott (I . A.) and Walsh, equal ; Binmore, Tolmie, 
Macfarlane ; Fry and Hall (A. R.), equal ; Mathewson and 
Parker, equal ; “Mitchell. Class III., “Judge and Taton 

*Badb^p Duff iR- T d rn ek1, Cqual ; Huuter > * Tri Pl>. *Moore’ 
Baillie, Ross, Jinch, Elliott (E. A.). ^ 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



63 



Mental Philosophy.— T hird year.— Logic.— Class I.— 
LeRossiguoi, Hendrie, Hall, R. S., Hall, B., Ellenwood, 
MacDougall. Class II., Goff, Moffat and Whyte, G., equal ; 
Oliver and Pidgeon, equal; McAlpine. Class III., Russell, 
Craik, Whyte, J. T. 

Elementary Psychology. — Second year — Class I., 
Kollmyer ; Boright and Pitcher, equal ; Barron and Monk, 
equal; Macdonald and Parker and Wood, equal; Davey; 
Archibald and McArthur and Murray, equal ; Robins and Ross, 
R. 0., equal; Mackenzie, Cushing, Tunstall, McKinley, Finn. 
Class II., Barnby, Jaquays ; Raynes and Reid, equal; 
Campbell, K., and Davidson, equal; Angus and Grisbrook, 
equal; MacLennan and Messenger, equal; Campbell, E. M., 
and Colquhoun, and Eadie, equal ; Dougall, D^vis, Allen, 
Day, Jekill; Logan and Mitchell, equal. Class III., Pritchard ; 
Carmichael and Rollit, equal ; Tatley ; Lyman and Ross, J. K., 
equal ; Burke and Russell and Sadler, equal ; Morris, Brown ; 
Burnett and Smyth, equal ; Ellicott and Hunt, equal ; Tener 
and Williams, equal ; Graham and Leach, equal ; Elliott and 
Robertson, equal ; Taylor, Anderson, Campbell, R., Blachford 
and McCoy, equal; Wilkinson, Gourlay ; Dixon and Fraser 
and Macaulay, equal ; Blunt and Sanderson, equal. 

English Literature. — First year— Class I.— James, 
Millar, LeRossiguoi, Townsend, Cleland; Hickson and Killaly. 
equal ; Naylor and White, equal. Class II., Mansur ; Gordon 
and Hutchison and Botterell, equal ; Ballantyne, J., and 
Fairclough, equal; Ireland and Jordan, equal; Adams, R., 
and Jackson and Maffy and Stearns, equal ; Munn and Reay, 
equal ; Honeyman, Hodgins ; Gurd and Hunter, equal ; Mills 
and Seymour, equal. Class III., Brittain, Skeels, McLaren, 
Lewis ; Byers and Elliott, equal ; Donahue ; Lee and 
MacDonald, equal ; Mackeracher, Smith ; Church and Gerrie, 
equal; McVicar, A., MacVicar, R., Thompson; Allen and 
Boyd, equal ; Brown J. T., MacI lines, Internoscia ; Brown, 
C. L., and Brown Jessie, and Fraser, equal ; McGerrigle and 
McLean, equal. 

French. — Second year — Class I. — Johnson, Blachford, A.C. ; 
Angus and Robins, equal; Wood, Boright; Archibald and 
Hanson, equal ; Barron and Kollmyer, equal ; Davidson ; 
Pitcher and Raynes, equal ; Campbell, R., Radford ; Campbell 
K., and Hunt and Sadler, equal. Class II., Lyman and 
Mitchell, equal'; McDonald, Blachford, H., Ross, Cushing. 
Class III., Day and Tatley, equal ; Leach and Messenger and 
Parker, equal ; Mussen, Taylor, Jaquays, Smyth, Graham, 
McCoy, Brown ; Carmichael and Flinn, equal ; Allen. First 
year — Class 1. — Jackson, LeRossignol, Honeyman, James, 
Hickson. Class II., Fairclough ; Gurd and Mansur, equal ; 
Seymour; Ballantyne, J., and Millar, equal; Lewis, A., 
Dohahue, * Boyd ; .Allen and Demers and Hodgins, equal; 
Brown, C , Jordan. Class III., Botterell and Mills, equal ; 
Lee and McVicar and Stearns, equal ; Internoscia ; Munn and 
Thompson, equal ; Killaly, Darling, Reay, McGerrigle ; Brunet 
and Skeels, equal ; Brown, J. 

German. — Second year. — Class I. — Angus, Boright, Pitcher, 
equal ; Macdonald, Campbell, R. M., Davidson, Campbell, R , 
Raynes. Class II., Tatley, Lyman. Class III., Ross, J. R., 
Leach, Williams, Jekill. First year. — Class I., Seymour, Jack- 
son, Fairclough ; Archibald and Loss, R. 0. R., equal ; Millar ; 
Reay and Botterell, equal ; Mills and LeRossignol, equal. 
Class II., Seymour, Macdonald. Class III., Lee, Coffin.* 

Hebrew. — Elementary course. — Class I. — Gourlay, Gordon, 
Cleland, McArthur, McKinley, Naismith, Ireland, Adams, R.- 
Mahaffy, Clendinnen. Class II., Burnett, Townsend, Gunn, 
Brown, Hipp, MacKenzie, Ballantyne, Logan. Class III., Me, 
Vicar, Naylor, Adams, J., Rondeau, Savignac, Sauve, Smith, 
Gerrie, Hunter, Wilkinson, Hutchison, Macaulay, Barnby, 
Chantler. Intermediate course.— Class I., Daley, J., Ross, R., 
Reid, Win., Head, G., Pritchard, Flagg. Class II., Maynard, 
M., Tener, Robertson, Maclennan. Class III., Anderson, Eadie, 
Colquhoun, Davis, Davey, St. Aubin, Caldwell, Sanderson, 
Morris, Russell, Win., Grisbrook. 



Astronomy. — Fourth year. — Class I. — Tory and Abbott, 
equal ; Parker, Elliott, J. A. ; Mathewson and Sutherland, 
equal ; McVicar, Hall, A. R. ; Hunter and Tolmie, equal ; 
Binmore, Fry, Davidson. Class II., Kinghorn, Walsh, lioss, 
J. J. Class III., Mack and Patou, equal. 

Mechanics.— Third year. —Class I.— Pattison, MacDougall ; 
Dobson and Moore, equal ; Tees and Robins, L , equal ; Ellen- 
wood and Oliver, equal; Hipp. Class II., Warne, J. F., Mof- 
fatt, McLeod, N. ; Goff and Whyte, G., and McMillan, equal ; 
Cole. Class III., McLeay, Hall, R. C., Hall, B., McGregor, 
E. B., Holden; Guthrie and Smith, equal; Warne, W. A., 
Young, Whyte, Jas. 

M athematics. — Second year. — Class I.— Robins, G. D., 
Wood, Kollmyer, Pitcher, Taylor, Flinn, Archibald. Class II., 
Pritchard, Cushing, Boright, Barron. Class III , Messenger 
and Smyth, equal ; Davy ; Carmichael and Day, equal ; Mac- 
Donald, Campbell, K. M. ; Russell and Sadler, equal ; Haynes 
and Tatley, equal ; Allen and Morris, equal ; * [Anderson, 
Angus, Davidson, Graham, Jaquays, McCoy, Mitchell, Ross, 
R. 0. R.] (* The names within the brackets are arranged 

alphabetically .) First year. — Class I., Fairclough, Brown, J. ; 
James and Smith, equal ; Townsend, Honeyman. Class II., 
Gurd and Mansur, equal ; McVicar, A., White, Gordon, Jor- 
dan, Reay, Killaly, McGerrigle, Mahaffy, LeRossignol. Class 
III., Jackson and Mclnnes, equal ; Naylor, Hickson, Brown, C., 
Munn, Seymour, J., Allen ; Stearns and Thompson, equal ; 
Ballantyne, J., Adams, J., Seymour, M. ; Boyd and Hunter, 
equal ; MacVicar, R., Brittain, Donahue, Fraser, F. C., Lee, 
Hodgins, Millar, Mills, MacKeracher, Hutchison, Internoscia, 
Byers, Ireland, Gerrie, Botterell. 

Mineralogy and Geology (in part). —Fourth year. — Class 

I. — Derick and Robertson, equal; Botterell, I., Binmore, Ab- 
bott, Hausen (occasional), Mathewson; Botterell, J. T., and 
McDougall, equal ; Fry ; Henderson and Trenholme, equal ; 
McFarlane and Scott, equal; Swanson. Class II., Cameron, 
Mack ; Kinghorn and Paton, equal ; Hall and McGregor, equal. 
Class III., Richardson; Elliott and Ross, equal; Mitchell, 
Finch. 

Zoology. — Third year. — Class I. —Smith, LeRossignol, Pat- 
tison, Warne, W., Finley, Oc., McGregor, J. M., Me Alpine, 
MacDougall, Warne, J., Hall, B., Flagg, Oc., Gunn , Cole, 
Clendinning, Oc., Kennedy, Oc., Lindsay, Oc. Class II., Mc- 
Gregor, J. B., McLeay ; Ellenwood, Moffatt, Oliver and Whyte, 
equal; Holden; Hipp and Pidgeon, equal; McMillan, Hall, 
R. S., Moore, Goff, Rorkc, Oc., Massicotte, Oc., Tees, Shaw, Oc , 
Young, Beaman, Oc., Fleming, Oc., Russell. Class III., Craik, 
Stevenson, Oc., Chantler, Oc., Lambly, Oc., Dougall, Oc., 
Lamb, Oc. 

Botany. — Second year. — Class I. — Tatley ; Barron and Pit- 
cher, equal ; Parker and McArthur,* equal ; Kollmyer; Morris, 
McKinley,* Boright, and Ross, equal; Raynes, Davidson, Mc- 
Donald, Cushing ; Carmichael and Mitchell, equal ; Read ; 
Blachford, Brown, and Russell, equal. Class II., Sanderson ;* 
Taylor and Hunt, equal ; Leach, Jekill, Mackenzie, and Camp- 
bell, K. M., equal ; Archibald and Messenger, equal ; Lyman ; 
Barnby*. and Davey, equal ; Graham and Grisbrook, equal ; 
Angus; Colquhoun, Day, Sadler, Campbell, R. F., and Logan,* 
equal ; Davis ; Jaquays and McCoy, equal ; Anderson and 
Boss, equal. Class III., Pritchard, Smyth, Tener,* Ellicott, 
Williams, Flinn, Burnett,* Eadie,* Robertson, McLennan, 
Allen, Gourlay,* McLeod. 

Chemistry. — First year.— Class I. —Smith, E. , McVicar, A. , 
Fairclough, White ; Cleland and Jordan, equal ; Patton ; James 
and LeRossiguoi. Class II., Mansur, Reay ; Brown, J. T., and 
Millar, equal; Gurd, Townsend, Elliott; Mahaffy, Munn, and 
Thompson, equal. Class III., Brittain, Hodgins, Internoscia; 
McGerrigle and Murray, equal ; Killaly, Gerrie ; Jackson and 
Kennedy, equal ; Naylor, McLean, Mclnnes, Stearns, Ballan- 
tyne, J., Seymour, M., Hutchison, Botterell, Lee, Mills ; Hick- 
son and Honeyman, equal ; McLaren, B yd, Jordan; Adams, 

J. R., and Adams, R., equal ; Ballantyne, R. ; Allen and Ire- 
land, equal ; Hunter, Donahue. Second year. — Class III., 
Messenger. 



64 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1890 



Poetry. 



For “ The Gazette. ”] 

A NEW YEAR’S EVE. 

(Translated from the German of Richter.) 

I. 

’Twas New Year’s Eve, the Earth was wrapped 
In winter’s mantle, soft and white. 

The sky was of the deepest blue, 

With stars that glistened clear and bright. 

And at the window of his room, 

An aged man with snowy hair, 

Stood gazing out with tearful eyes, 

In utter anguish and despair. 

II. 

He knew Death’s Angel soon would come— 

He glanced far back on his past life, 

But nothing save a ruined soul, 

Could he retrace— but sin and strife. 

His youth returned to him this night 
As spectres— and recalled the days 

His father guided him aright. 

And bade him shun sin’s evil ways. 

III. 

His conscience smote him sorely now, 

He found his promises unkept ; 

Unconsciously, in bitter grief 
He looked towards Heaven, and wildly wept — 
“ Oh ! Father, give me back my youth, 

Place me once more upon the way 

That leads to Virtue’s sunny paths, 

That I may change to better day.” 



X. 

He viewed, again, the charnel-house— 

The mask, with features like his own ; 

Rose up, and by his thoughts of ghosts, 

Was changed to living youth, full grown I 
He closed his eyes, he could not look, 

A thousand hot tears fell like rain. 

He softly sighed, senseless and sad^ 

Come back, youth, oh 1 come back again 1 

XI. 

And it did come, as he so wished, 

For in this lonely New Year’s night 
He had but dreamed so fearfully : 

He was a youth yet, glad and bright. 

But all his errors they were true, 

That was no fancy-fairy dream ; 

Yet he thanked God that he was young, 

For time well-spent would better him. 

XII. 

Return with him, young reader, now, 

If you stand in a devious way. 

This dreadful dream your judge shall be 
For future times, where’er you stay, 

And should you then cry out aloud, 

So full of woe— “ Youth, come again ! ” 

'Twill be too late ; no youth, alas, 

Shall come to be lived over then. 

A. G. G. 



Societies. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

Erratum. 



IV. 

But, ’twas too late, his youth was gone, 

It could not come to him again ; 

And his dear father, too, was dead, 

No more could he advise him then. 

* * * * 

V. 

He watched the will-o’-wisp that danced 
Upon the marsh in mystic ways, 

Then vanished in the churchyard near : 
lie cried — “ There are my foolish days ! ” 
A star came shooting down from Heaven, 
And glittering, fell, and disappeared. 

“ That am I,” said his aching heart, 

Remorse then pained him, and he feared. 

VI. 

Ilis glowing mind displayed to him 
Night phantoms wandering far about, 

The windmill raised its threatening arms 
As if to crush him, without doubt. 

And in the empty charnel-house 
Was seen a mask, whose very form 
Assumed his own, by slow degrees — 

His heart was filled with terror’s storm. 

VII. 

Now, in the midst of this sore strife. 

Came floating liquid notes around, 

Of New Year’s music, soft and sweet, 

As the hushed Vesper’s holy sound. 
While note to note fell on his ear, 

Far from the church-tower, solemn, slow. 
His mind grew calmer, more at ease, 

And he felt strengthened in his woe. 

VIII. 

He looked out o’er the wide, wide world, 
And out upon the blue horizon; 
lie thought of dear friends of his youth, 
All happy with a brighter vision 1 
Some teachers of all earthly things, 

Some fathers with good children blest ; 
They were all this New Year’s Eve, 

He only sat, in mind distressed. 

IX. 

With heavy sighs, and many tears, 

He cried, “Oh! I, too, might have been 
So blest and happv, and might sleep, 

E ke you my friends, in peace serene.” 

“ Oh ! pan i;ts, dear, I might have been, 

This Xt w Year s Eve, so very glad, 

Had I but lived as you had wished, 

And had obeyed you — now I’m sad.’' 



We regret that the report of the meeting of the 
Graduates’ Society was not printed when the proofs 
of our last issue were being read. We are informed 
by one who was present that the following are the 
motions which were carried : — 

“ That this meeting approves of the idea of having 
a combined dinner ; and further, that it appoints a 
committee to confer with the Undergraduates, and 
to make arrangements for carrying out the idea.” 

“ That this Society appoint, as its committee, to 
carry out the terms of the first resolution, the Presi- 
dent, Secretary, Dr. Stewart, and Prof. McLeod, and 
one lady member of this Society, to be named by the 
foregoing, and that this committee have power to 
add to its number.” 



The Delta Sigma met on Thursday, Jan. 9th. The 
debate “ Resolved, that Tree Trade is preferable to 
Protection,” was quite exciting. It was supported 
on the affir mative by Misses Botterell and Macfar- 
lane; on the negative by Misses Pitcher and Camp- 
bell. Miss Pitcher’s speech was remarkably clear 
and logical. The negative won. Miss Williams de- 
livered an able criticism. Some discussion upon the 
subject followed. 



A\ hy will not our French allies learn to spell the 
names of English and American authors as we spell 
them ourselves ? Surely we ought to know. It is 
quite a common thing to see Poe’s name written Poe, 
Franklin’s Francklin. A translation of “ Robinson 
Crusoe ” has on its title page “ By Foe.” It must be 
admitted, however, that they are improving, for they 
no longer spell Washington with a V or Wellington 
Vilainton. ® 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



65 



1890.] 



Personals. 



A. Young, ’88, App. Sc., is in Butte City, Montana. 

P. L. Naismith, ’88, App. Sc., is in Bridgeport, C.B. 

M. W. Hopkins is bridge building at Riviere du 

Loup. 

t W. Craham, ’84, App. Sc., is at present in Mt. 
Vernon, Ohio. 

F. W. Cowie, B.A.Sc., ’86, is engaged on harbour 
works at Sorel. 

R. E. Palmer, B.A.Sc., ’87, is Assistant City Engi- 
neer in Vancouver, B.C. 

Henderson, B. A., ’87 now studying Law in Toronto, 
spent the holidays in town. 

W. H. Howard, B. A. Sc., ’83, is in the Pueblo 
Smelting and Refining Co., Colorado, U. S. 

Swabey, B. A., ’86, is now a junior partner in a 
Law firm, Toronto, of which Mr. Meredith is the 
senior. 

J. Swan, B.A.Sc., and C. W. Trenholme, B.A., 

B.A.Sc., are proprietors of the Montreal Lime and 
Trading Co. 

F. F. Millar, B.A.Sc., ’84, is making bridge super- 
structure his specialty. ITe has lately become a 
benedict. 

Green, formerly App. Sc., who left and went to 
Colorada for his health, is assaying on his own 
account in Lake City, Col. 

A member of the Gazette staff met McLennan, 
M.D., ’89, last week. He is working up an excellent 
practice in Prince Edward Island. 

David Ogilvy, B.A.Sc., ’84 (of McDonald and 
Ogilvy, architects, of Omaha, Neb.), spent Christmas 
week in town visiting his old haunts. 

MacNutt, Science ’88, and Carlyle, Science ’87, 
paid a hurried visit to Canada during the holidays, 
and have since returned to their abode in Colorado. 

Dr. Osborne, of Hamilton, in the course of a busi- 
ness communication, assures us that “ The Univer- 
sity Gazette is excellently conducted.” All right, 
Osborne. 

Fred. J. Hetherington, B. A. S., writes from Santa 
Fe, Argentine Republic : “ I suppose most of my 

Montreal friends think I am dead ; but I’m simply 
too lazy to write.” 

During the last two weeks the following professors 
have been laid up with “ La Grippe ” : — Bovey, 
McLeod, Harrington, Ross, Wilkins, Johnson (W.G.), 
Macdonnell, and Chandler. 

The success of Prof. Penhallow’s mosquito pond 
and of the tennis courts as skating rinks for small 
boys and girls, suggests the possibility of a large open 
rink for larger boys and girls. 

R. McConnell, B. A., reports a mountain in the 
Rockies, Lat. 67° N, Long. 136° W, which in winter 
is warmer the higher you ascend. This is due to the 
cold winds from the Arctic flowing southward while 
the anti-trades blow from a southwesterly direction 
and at a higher level. 



The Northwestern College of Dentistry is the 
latest acquisition to the educational institutions of 
Chicago. Among the members of the faculty there 
are to be noticed the names Norman Kerr, M. D., 

C. M., Professor of Chemistry, andC. II. Long, M.D., 
C. M., Professor of Physiology and Nervous Dis- 
eases. 

The following is from the Hartford Chronicle : 

The many friends of Mr. J. G. Corbin, Bedford, 
will be glad to learn that he has had a very successful 
operation performed on his eye by his son, who is 
home on a vacation from McGill College, Montreal. 
“ Fred.” has been a pupil of the celebrated oculist, 
Dr. Buller, of Montreal, for the past year. 



(Correspondence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

I wish to call the attention of my fellow students 
to an important discovery I have made from a dili- 
gent perusal of the calender, namely, that there is in 
connection with the Medical School a Museum, in 
which “most of the usual pathological specimens are 
collected.” Would you kindly inform me what are the 
necessary steps for obtaining admission to this 
Museum. 

Fourth Year. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

The calendar of 1889 shows 243, out of 698 stu- 
dents, were Medical. Taking this as an average state 
of the case, 34 per cent, of the matter of The Gazette, 
outside matters of general interest, should be Medi- 
cal ; the remainder should be devoted to the remain- 
ing Faculties. 

An analysis of last issue, exclusive of matters of 
general interest, shows,- on the first page, 4 lines de- 
voted to Science, and 23 to Medicine. Two-thirds 
of the correspondence, 41 per cent, of the personals, 
and 5-12ths of the McGill news, are Medical. Out 
of Medicine there are evidently no “ College Poli- 
tics.” Of 7 special articles on page 43, 6 are Medi- 
cal. “ Between the Lectures ” has 2 1 Medical ! ! ! 
and 8 other items. 

This is “ the last straw that breaks the camel’s 
back,” for the driest of all dry things is a joke of 
purely technical point. 

Discontent. 



/ A good story is told of Sir John, then plain Mr. 
Macdonald. He was many years ago defending a 
criminal in the Cornwall Courts. Things were going 
dead against him, when he requested to be allowed 
to return for consultation with the prisoner. The 
request was granted and Sir John was shut in a small 
room with his client. As 'soon as they were alone 
he turned to the prisoner. “ Now,” said he, “ we 
can’t win the case, there’s a window ; I am not a 
constable.” Needless to say the man took the hint. 



66 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



THE FRESHMAN’S TIME-TABLE. 

Monday. 

On Monday, at nine, we’ve all got to appear. 

But we like it, we like it, we do ; 

It’s awfully hard if you’ve been on the beer, 

(For some of us like it, we do). 

Shepherd tells us of muscles and joints, 

And about surgery gives us some points — 

Tho’ sometimes a terrible jaw-breaker he coins, 

Still we like him, we like him, we do I 

Tuesday. 

On Tuesday, at ten, we to Botany go, 

Oh, we like it ! we like it 1 we do 1 ! 

If Penhallow would only go it more slow, 

We’d like it much better, so’d you. 

He talks of the nucleus, cell membrane, and such, 

Of Structural Botany gives us too much, 

When done taking notes, you your pencil can’t clutch, 

We don't like it, now squarely, would you? 

Wednesday. 

On Wednesday, from ten until twelve, cut and hack, 

Oh, we like it, we like it, we do! 

Some loafing because their sub’s turned on his back, 

But they like it, they like it, they do. 

Sutherland, Finley, and Birkett are there, 

So busy, they’ve scarcely a minute to spare, 

While Shepherd is hunting anomalies rare, 

Oh, we like it, we like it, we do. 

Monday to Friday. 

Oh, chemistry keeps us from twelve until one. 

But we like it, we like it, we do. 

Altho’ your poor stomach begins to feel “ gone,” 

Still, we like it, we like it, we do. 

Adhesion, cohesion, conduction of heat, 

Transmission of energy, worked up so neat, 

That we think G. P. Girdwood a hard man to beat ; 

So we like him, we like him, we do. 

Physiology lecture at four, don’t forget ! 

Oh, we like it, we like it, wo do. 

Though the roll called on time makes all the boys sweat, 
They like it ! they like it ! they do ! ! 1 
What with embryo, amnion, and fibrin ferment. 

The boys get so mixed, that they don’t know what’s meant 
By a monkey and man having common descent ; 

But they like it, they like it, they do. 

Saturday. 

Histology, two hours on Saturday morn, 

Oh, we like it, we like it, we do. 

And sometimes you wished you had never been born. 

Still, we like it, we like it, we do. 

Wilkins will come in the class-room and say — 

“ This is Squamous’ pethelium we’ve got here to day,” 
And show you a frog’s heart laid out on a tray, 

So we like him, we like him, we do 1 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

McGill vs. Victoria. 

There was a large (and decidedly partisan) crowd of 
spectators at the Victoria Rink on Monday, the 12th 
of January, to see the practice match between the 
above clubs, and although the score was very one- 
sided, being at the finish — Victoria 10 to McGill 4, 
it was a very exciting match. 

It must be remembered that the McGill boys have 
had very few practices, on account of the soft weather 
and holidays, and that the Victoria Rink is much 
larger than the Dominion, in which they practice. 

The teams, which lined up at 8 o’clock, were : — 

McGill. Position. Victoria. 

Irving Goal Jones. 

Walsh, T. N Point Crathern. 

Sinaille Cover Point Campbell (Capt.) 

Russell (Capt ) Forwards Warden. 

Holden “ Kinghorn, J. 

Fry “ 

Kinghorn, H. M “ Barton. 



W. L. Jamieson, B.A., of class ’89, acted as referee 
very acceptably to both teams. 

During most of the first half the play was entirely 
defence for McGill, and if it had not been for the 
excellent play of Walsh and Irving (the sporting 
editor of one of the morning papers, who evidently 
did not see the match, thinks differently), the score 
would have been much heavier. 

Towards the end of the half the McGill boys made 
a combined rush, and by some good team play scored 
their first game. Score — McGill 1, Victoria 5. 

In the second half McGill played up much better, 
and seemed to be getting accustomed to the rink ; 
they scored three more games, but the Victorias had 
added five games to theirs. 

After the match the two teams were invited up to 
the directors’ rooms, where a very nice supper was 
provided for them. 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

;RS foh 180 St. James Street, 

books, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



OTJK ADVERTISERS. 

PAGE, 



Armstrong k Radford, . . .69 

Ashford, C., . . . 70 

Atwater k Co., . . . .56 

Birks, H., k Co., . . . 70 

Chapleau k Co., . . . .56 

Clarke, G. W., . . . 70 

Gumming k Brewis, . . .68 

Doughty, A. G., ... 69 

Drysdale, Wm., k Co., . . .56 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., ... 56 

Featherston, A. M., . . .69 

Gerth, E. A., .... 68 

Gray, Hy. R. , . . .68 

Greenshields k Co., ... 56 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 67 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 67 

Jensen, J. L., . . . 67 

Lyman, Sons & Co., ... 67 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . 69 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . . 70 

Murray, Wm., . . . . 69 

MacBean, D. B. A., ... 68 

Me En tyre k Son, . . . .56 

McLaren, W. D., ... 70 

McMaster k Co., . . . .56 

Ness, T. W., . 67 

Nightingale, D., . . . .68 

Nordheimer k Co., . . . 70 

Notman k Son, . . . .70 

Payne Geo., .... 68 

Periard, A., . . .68 

Reid, Robert, .... 68 

Robertson k Co., . . . .56 

Ross, Hugh, .... 69 

Sharswood, W. H. F., . . 66 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . . 68 

Summerhayes k Walford, . . 69 

Tarrante, Sami., ... 69 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



67 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS. 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and chemical APPARATUS. 

S fSill $todk dor^tkptly oi| Imported 

?)fre<ft fron\ ti(e I<ekding ^kipifkdttfrefd 
of tl]e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


R0Y^L DYE Y/BRKg, 


Batten mi Tnnien, 


706 CHAIG- STREET. 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 




Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



335 GS'Z St. PiLUL Steeet, Montreal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



C elebrated Hot Water Hesters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Aik Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 




68 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

"Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT O E 

COMMING & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

, SPECIAL KATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. - Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer, 

AND 

• ■ • LEGAL STATIONER, ■ • ■ 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA U CHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery forlr of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Tie Men Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Seeures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

PESTS HAVANA CXGATtS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A, GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEOIE^GIE FAYISTE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing Skates. 

{^“Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “Victor” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each . 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each. 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired . 

[GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students . 




D, NIGHTINGALE^ 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tallies, & Billiard Supplies, 

m2 NOTRE LAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



4®” Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



69 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King. 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 



An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A . C . TROTTER, 

I 3 . O. Box 1734, - 3£cntreal. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

a®" Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 

) BUY YQTIR ( = 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 



SHOE: STORES. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK . 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 



ARMSTRONG 8 RADFORD, 

Haberdashers and Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's Wear . 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, f Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dve Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 




Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
Tlie West Enel 

HAIR-DRESSING AND HAIR - CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

Tie Place for all the Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut. &c. 



WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

| fine ff it vs amt flats, 

No. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral, ) 

MONTREAT;. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 



Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns. 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Special Discount to Students. 



70 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



wji piWN 4 g0N, 

Photographers, 

STUDEJi'TS’ PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

PRIVATE GROUPS 
: PORTRAITS OE PROFESSORS : 

COLLEGE VIE JUS, he. 

17 Bletjry Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 28 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion ' 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES , HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, T. H. LOVE, 

580 & 24 82. 1683. Manager. 



THE GEIVUXIVE 

COOK’S Hr 1 ^ I E 2^T ID 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &C. 

ObvCoir: Ltrea.1 G-en. Hospital X^la.a.raDCLa.copceia., 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 81 8 Dorchester St. , Montreal. 



44th. YEAR. : NORDHEIMER’S ESTABLISHED 1845. 

PIA.3NTOS • ANT33 • ORGAN Sf 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. (£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JAMES STREET, MOItTTIRJE.A.L. 

HENRY BIRKS 8c COT JEWELLERS, &c. 

■ a a a ■ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL £38 a nd £40 St. J a mes Street, Mon treal 

Or . W » CLAR-IliP, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. , 






I 



