Vol. VJJ1. 



jVo* 9* 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Monday , March \ 6 fh , 1885 . 





# 

CONTENTS : 


Editorials 


PAGE. 

3 - 4-5 


Societies 


Contributions 


6-7 


Correspondence 


McGill News 


7 


Personals - 


College World 


8-9 


Between the Lecg 



PAGE. 

10-11 

11 

12 

12-13 



MONTREAL : 



PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MSCM ASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

tfflDYeC^Eg*- 

Barristers , Solicitors , dh ?., 

1©2 St. James Street, 

MONTREAI,. 

DONALD MACMASTER.Q.C. M. HUTCHINSON. B.C.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. S. MtLENNAN. 

RoDertsofl, lie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

A£oatro»l, 

n. W. 'fmTfmm 

^.tlvocate, |jarrito fjommi^ioner, jjrc., 

131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. JAMES ST. 

MEDICAL works, books used ijv art course, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT BOOKS . 

Fall assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 

— <>— BEST VALUE IN TOWN.— <->— 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 1 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. James Street, 

-A.ILSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

advocates, 

Jnrmtsrs, JJtununjs, jlaliriiors, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

SffQXYTXfc 23 i&Xt, 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. 



E. JA. GERTH. 



IMPORTER OF 




Briar ami Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try Students fixture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T^-lvlES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 
MONTREAL. 




J. J. GREAVES, 

importer of all kinds of 



VfooLS, Joys, Jewelry, ^tatiojsef^y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., & c. 

816 <& 1314 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

♦|FOR STUDENTS,!* 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

vol. viil] McGill college, Montreal, march igth, i885. [No. 9. 




Dl RECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President . 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer . 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary . 

G. C. Stephen. I H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

E. P. Williams. | T. W. Lesage. 

EDITORS. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

S. Fortier. Assistant Editor-in- Chief . 

C. H. Livingstone. | W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. J. Elliot. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



E&itorials. 



We feel certain that the majority of our readers will 
rejoice when we announce, that, in all likelihood, this 
issue contains the last of the publications anent the 
late trouble between certain members of the old staif. 
In justice to Mr. Palmer and his many friends in the 
Medical Faculty we have deemed it our duty to pub- 
lish his letter. Many more letters have been received 
from those who were on the staff with him ; as we 
could not possibly afford space for their insertion, we 
have suppressed all. We trust that those, who cen- 
sure our course in this regard, will at least give us 
credit for acting, to the best of our judgment, in the 
interest of the Gazette. 



McGILL EXAMINATIONS. 

There are several alterations in the manner of con- 
ducting these which we desire to suggest. We would 
like to see the rank of the students depend more upon 
the work done by them throughout the session and 
less upon the final spurt. Such a result can be 
secured in two ways, and perhaps better still by a com- 
bination of both. These are (1) a fixed number of 
class grinds, occurring at irregular intervals throughout 
the term, and (2) the writing of essays upon portions 



of the work exacted. In the United States the ten- 
dency in the colleges, if it be reported correctly in the 
students’ journals, is more and more away from the 
system of written examinations and in the direction 
of the two methods here proposed. The first of these 
has the advantage of forcing the student to do some 
steady work at least through the session, while the 
second ensures thoroughness in his study. Our pro- 
fessors can surely be unaware of the frightful amount of 
cramming which is done in the university, or they 
would long since have taken steps to remedy an evil 
which has now grown to monstrous proportions. Of 
the danger which they incur by indulging in this vice, 
the students themselves seldom become fully aware 
until they have graduated, when looking back critically 
over their course, they ask themselves how much it 
has profited them. Too often this late examination is 
a sad one, and the saddest part of it is the knowledge, 
then first gained, of the injury done to memory by the 
all-night sweats and protracted vigils through which 
they forced themselves to pass, on the eve of exam- 
inations, in order to make up for their lack of steady 
application at earlier seasons. In return for this last- 
ing hurt to memory, they have gained high rank alone, 
though not always this. The knowledge, grasped with 
so much pain, has remained but momentarily, and the 
result of such an investigation is often that the once 
well crammed student turns again to the books he be- 
lieved himself master of, and begins anew to conquer 
them, but now, in the light of his experience, forces 
his brain to no stupendous undertaking, seeking rather 
to assimulate thoroughly what he gathers with care, 
and striving to tone his intellect to its former lofty 
pitch. There are many promising young minds com- 
ing up every year to McGill ; how intolerable will it 
be, if a large number of these share the fate of so many 
of their predecessors ! And, if so, will the fault be 
wholly theirs? Will not a share of the responsibility 
rest upon the shoulders of those who maintain a sys- 
tem which is constantly producing such lamentable 
results? It is not now, as once, when the written 
examination was generally accepted as the best test of 
a candidate’s knowledge and one of the most powerful 
stimulants to his ambition. Other systems, among 
them those we have mentioned, are being introduced 
elsewhere and with sucsess. Why should nothing new 
be attempted here ? 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



AN ENGINEERS’ CLUB. 

So far as we know, no attempt has been made to 
organize an engineers’ club in Montreal. Certainly 
none exists. This is surprising when we consider the 
large number of societies that flourish around us and 
the benefits they are bestowing upon the members 
composing them. To say that it shows the superior 
judgment of engineers, would be far from the truth. 
That they excel as a body in this particular faculty is 
undoubtedly true, but it is equally so that they have 
shown an apathy in this regard that is culpable. It is 
to be hoped that it may not long be said, that the city 
which was honored as the place' of meeting of the 
British scientists and engineers cannot lay claim to 
having a solitary engineering club. The obstacle in 
the way is not the want of talented men ; for of these 
the profession has its share. At least five engineers in 
Montreal are members of the American Association of 
Civil Engineers. This shows that all are not averse to 
union for purposes of mutual benefit. New York, 
however, is far from Montreal, and but a very few 
from this Province can attend the meetings. It seems 
to us that it would be wise for our members to imitate 
the example of their brethren in the United States, 
who have organized themselves into one or more so- 
cieties in every State of the Union ; the greater part 
being more local than general and independent of the 
larger associations. In order to raise the status of their 
profession as well as for purposes of self-improvement, 
it is desirable that the mechanical, mining and civil 
engineers of the Province of Quebec should unite. 
Were this impracticable, Montreal and its vicinity 
ought to take the initiative. 

We will be candid euougu to state that we are in 
part prompted by selfish aims in advocating this mat- 
ter. We have the interests of the Faculty of Applied 
Science to protect and can readily realize the advan- 
tages that would accrue to its students were they al- 
lowed to form the sub-stratum of a club of Montreal 
engineers. The students would not only profit by the 
papers read and the discussions ensuing, but would 
also be brought into more closer relationship with the 
older and more talented members of their chosen pro- 
fession who are of all others the men best able to assist 
them in the most trying period of their lives. 

Up to the present few outsiders have taken any in- 
terest in the young men, in our engineering school, 
who are striving to fit themselves for lives of useful- 
ness. To these uninterested outsiders, we would say, 
be more generous. You cannot afford to ignore us. 
If the Faculty progresses as rapidly in the future as it 
has done in the past ten years, in ten years more, a 
arge part of the important engineering works of 



Canada will be in the hands of its graduates. By giv- 
ing us the cold shoulder now, you may retard but can- 
not prevent us from establishing in time a reputation. 

Last year the students had the pleasure of listening 
to a course of lectures delivered by men unconnected 
with the college, unless in so far as an interest in its 
welfare is concerned. Our thanks are due to Messrs. 
Peterson, Kennedy, Bateman, Taylor and others for 
their interesting lectures. It is to be regretted that 
nothing has been done in this direction during the 
present session. We would ask the undergraduates who 
intend returning next fall to do what they can towards 
the fulfilment of this object. It would be well also, 
in the event of failure in establishing an engineers’ 
club in the city, to form one in connection with the 
college and invite the old and tried friends, as well as 
graduates of the Science Faculty, to deliver lectures or 
read papers. At present' comparatively few Science 
students belong to any literary society. The number 
is sufficiently large to support one of their own. 



TIIE PRELIMINARY BAR EXAMINATION. 

Because of the enforcement of this examination, 
our lawyers pose as public benefactors, alleging that by 
it the) prevent men of no education from obtaining a po- 
sition in which their ignorance would be dangerous to 
the property or rights of others, who might be induced 
to confide in them. As theory this sounds well ; in 
reality it is nothing but claptrap, part of the stage 
garniture by which the liberal professions are con- 
tinually imposing upon the credulous. If the bar 
really aimed at excluding all but trained intellects from 
the practice of law, they would accept as equivalent 
to the preliminary examination, or even would insist 
upon the candidate’s possessing, a university degree. 
By refusing to do this, they show the hollowness of 
their position. The real raison d'etre of the prelimi- 
nary examination is the belief that it is an obstacle 
which diminishes the number and retards the course 
of, would-be lawyers. Protection to the public there 
is none, as the most superficial acquaintance with 
those who have conquered the ordeal will prove. By 
fair, or other, means the charlatan and the unscrupu- 
lous can always manage to surmount this barrier, from 
before which the learned and modest are sometimes 
forced to retire. The examination itself is of such a 
nature that though sufficient knowledge to pass it 
may be gained from a tutor in a few weeks, the chances 
are against the candidate’s success, unless he has a 
power of quick thinking such as is by no means com- 
mon. The range covered is large, the time short, the 
questions of all degrees of complexity. Some can be 



1885.] 



McGill university gazette. 



5 



replied to without hesitation ; others, to answer them 
properly, require hours of thought, amd the utmost 
accuracy of expression. Many philosophical problems 
seem set to give the examiners an excuse for rejecting 
a candidate, as for example when questions are put to 
which various or even opposite answers may be given, 
according as the examinee belongs to one or other 
school of thought. To what extent prejudice is 
allowed to govern the board of examiners we know 
not, but rumor assigns it a large importance, and 
makes even graver charges. But aside from this the 
examination in its present from is objectionable in the 
extreme, as affording no protection to the public and 
occasionally excluding meritorious men from the pur- 
suit of their chosen profession. This examination, 
moreover, is not only in itself a bad thing; the prin- 
ciple which underlies it is pernicious. By what right 
has this body arrogated to itself the power of placing 
obstacles in the way of a man’s pursuit ? Law, no- 
doubt, they have on their side, but what right have 
they in equity ? In answer we are assured in stereo- 
typed phrases that they have been entrusted with this 
power for the public good. Very well then, let them 
insist for the public good that aspirants for the conn 
sellor’s dignity undergo the severest test of their 
technical knowledge. We would not object to this, 
for it i- conceivable that such an examination may be 
for the public good, though there are many who would 
question it. But what right has this body to attempt 
to lessen the number of their competitors by placing 
an unnecessary obstacle in their way ? In what a 
Pharisaic spirit do they do this ! They insist upon a 
man’s acquiring certain kinds of knowledge, the utility 
of some of which is even now being generally ques- 
tioned. They claim a fictitious superiority over the rest 
of men assuming that unless a man’s general education 
be of a certain form, he is unfitted no matter how great 
liis technical skill, for the profession of law. They thus 
maintain a principle which is contrary to the republi- 
can spirit of this country, and one too which is 
economically unsound, since it restricts freedom of 
competition. In the Middle Ages all trades and pro- 
fessions were thus hampered, but one by one, suc- 
cumbing to the influence of enlightened opinion, the 
guilds were deprived of their exclusive privileges. 
Some fine day our lawyers and doctors will be depriv- 
ed in turn of their power to exclude whom they please 
from the practice of medicine and law. The day may 
be long delayed, but the longer it is put oif, the more 
thorough will be the change. Our physicians and 
counsellors will do well to ponder this truth, for it 
is not improbable that the humbling will come in 
their own day. 



EXAMINATIONS IN APPLIED SCIENCE. 

The Sessional Examinations are approaching. To 
the rapid thinkers, and not necessarily to the most 
meritorious, will be assigned the first places with 
honors, while those who have worked equally, if not 
more diligently, will be lowered, through their de- 
ficiency in this particular faculty, into the second, or 
third classes. In regard to the non-workers, we have 
not a word to say as they have not a shadow of a 
chance to obtain a pass. We have no desire to under- 
rate rapid thinking. To the lawyer and politician it 
is essential to success. It seems, however, to be dif- 
ferent in the case of the engineer. Accuracy and 
comprehensiveness are more useful qualities to the 
latter. Ample time is usually given him to form 
conclusions, and his success will depend upon their 
degree of correctness. 

We think it is asking too much of a student-in- 
training to require him to calculate the stresses in all 
the members of a bridge of 100-ft. span in about 
twenty minutes. Some few can do it, but it by no 
means follows that they will rank highest in the prac- 
tice of their profession. Human life is too precious 
to be sacrificed through hastily-formed opinions on 
the part of the engineer. The traveling public desire 
him to be careful and accurate rather than hasty and 
rapid. 



Mr. L. — “ I have a severe cold in my throat.” 

Mr. P. — “ Well, I have just as bad a one in my 
head.” 

Mr. L. — “ Queer, is’nt it, how it always strikes the 
weak, spot V 1 

Classical Lecture Room. Prof : — “ Is Mr. R. still 
ceger ” ? Soph, in back seat : — “ No Sir, he’s sick.” 

Law Prof. — “What constitutes burglary 2” Student — 
“There must be a breaking.” Prof. — “ Then if a man 
enters a door and takes a dollar from your vest pocket 

in the hall, would that be burglary V' Student “ Yes, 

sir : because that would break me.” — Adelphian . 

Important Passenger . — “ Say, pilot, what’s the boat 
stopped for ? ” 

Pilot . — “ Too much fog.” 

L P . — “ But I can see blue sky overhead.” 

Pilot. — “Wal, ’til the biler busts, we ain’t a-goin’ 
that way.” — Life. 

The London Globe is authority for the statement 
that at an examination of Woolwich students the fol- 
lowing answers were given to the question : “ Give 
the meanings of “ abiit, excessit, erupit, evasit 

Abiit — He went out to dine. 

Excessit. — He took more than was good for him. 

Erupit. — It violently disagreed with him. 

Evasit. — He put it down to the salmon. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



THE SAILOR’S RETURN. 

4 

( Translated from Mine. Desbordes-Valmore. ) 

“ Ho! Children have your piercing eyes 
Between the billows and the skies 
Marked a white sail that neared the land? 

Its cloth was woven by my hand ; 

And, if the truth from dreams I learn, 

Ere winter comes, it will return.” 

tl Yes ! while we watched the tempest’s shock 
But lately from a barren rock, 

We marked a sail, bereft of mast, 

Hurl’d thither by the angry blast.” 

“ Ho ! sailors’ bairns,” the maiden cried, 

“ Whose fathers on the ocean ride, 

Shout, for your cries may pierce the gale, 

And reach the pilot of some sail : 

When the red lightning lit the sky, 

Saw ye our tricolor on high ?” 

“ No I from yon foreland bleak and bare, 

Our eyes distinguished in the glare 
A wreck that plunged across the seas, 

With one who prayed upon his knees.” 

“ Faithful and true, ’tis he ! ’tis he ! 

Thus in my dreams he seemed to be. 

Run, children, quickly to the shore, 

Make sure ’tis he, come back once more. 
Blinded with tears, I fear mine eyes 
Will see him — only in the skies.” 

11 Alas ! the thunderbolt that crashed, 

His body on the rocks has dashed. 

Perchance, it still retains some breath, 

Come I let us soothe the hour of death.” 

The children sped — but strove in vain 
To wake the corpse to life again. 

<Twas he : they called his promised bride : 

She, kneeling by her lover’s side, 

Kissed on his hand, now stiff and cold, 

Her gift, their bond, a ring of gold. 

How calmly now they sleep at last, 

Serenely sheltered from the blast ! 

No storms hereafter they will brave, 

Dead — but united in the grave. 

GEO. MURRAY. 



itontributions. 



THE LITERATURE OF THE DAY. 

The man is dead who said, “ Let me make the songs 
of a country, and I care not who makes its laws. ” 
Had he lived now he would assuredly have thought 
we were in a bad way. There is plenty of law. 
Over-legislation is gradually eating away those “ glo- 
rious charters” to the key-note of which so many 
national songs were pitched. We are all in danger of 
falling into gross hypocrisy and a condition of immor- 
ality, the usual result of strenuous efforts to make 
mankind virtuous by Act of Parliament. And our 
songs ? It is best to say at once that we have none 
that take the place of what were once known as ballads. 
If we once acknowledge that there is anything to take 
their place, we should bow our heads in shame before 



the window of every music publisher. There still 
remain on the barrels of a few street-organs primitive 
tunes, which suggest to some of us words which, if 
their rhythm was faulty, still had a patriotic flash ; 
or, if their poetry was defective, at least, expressed a 
tender sentiment. They have been superseded by 
utterly vulgar inanity, where there is not the slightest 
effort to observe more than even the poorest semblance 
of rhyme, while the meaning is confined to a jargon 
of slang. 

If we turn to the current fictional literature, we 
find conditions not altogether dissimilar. I here is no 
abatement in the publication of novels, intended to 
supply the increasing demand of languid readers for a 
new sensation. The supply is almost boundless. 
Idle women, who hear of great successes, and think 
they have some faculty for story-telling, are suddenly 
touched with ambition to make a reputation. They 
have stored their minds with most of the previous 
romances of bigamy, adultery, cruelty, and secret 
murder, which are likely to furnish hints for a new 
plot, (which means bigamy, adultery, cruelty, and 
secret murder, in rather different relations), and 
straightway they dash into a volume, with a deter- 
mination not to stand particular about composition, or 
to trouble themselves unduly with parts of speech. 
If the authoress belongs to the 4 4 superior class,” or is 
a lady by right, she often affects a story about her 
humbler fellow- creatures, and revels in depicting 
scenes of low-life, of which she is as ignorant as she 
is of the domestic economy of Timbuctoo. Should 
she belong to the middle-class, or to that section of 
the middle-alass, which is on the edge of “ Society,” 
and always appears painfully anxious to shuffle a 
little further into the enchanted ground, she will have 
nothing to do (except incidentally) with any character 
below a curate, but gives us a picture of the aristocracy 
in all its enviable infamy. There are shoals of such 
books published every year. 

Amidst such a stupendous issue of trash, it cannot 
be wondered at that sound and healthy fiction, the 
result of patient work and conscientious study, is 
often unnoted. All depends upon the accidental 
companionship of a new book. Some of our few 
good modern novels have fallen almost dead, blighted 
by the feverish demand for a story of the foul or 
fleshly school of fiction which has been issued at the 
same time, or for the subtle animalism which dis- 
tinguishes the books of certain popular authoresses, of 
whom it is most charitable to think that they are 
unable, even faintly, to realize the full meaning of 
their licentious suggestions and their bold indulgence 
in the language of lust. There is no need to specify 
even the latest examples of this “ fleshly school,” 
which is more dangerous, because more insidious, than 
the courser animalism and more obvious vice-painting 
of the novels of the Georgian era. Every family 
which reads indiscriminately the “ new novels,” must 
have had many volumes which any decently sensitive 
father would be shocked to place in his daughter’s 
hands, which any delicate-minded husband would 
send out of the reach of a young and modest wife, 
which no gentleman should suffer to contaminate a 
lady in whose mental purity he thoroughly believed. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1885.] 



The truth is, that the father of the family seldom reads 
the books at all. He probably characterizes them all 
as “ trash,” and shrugs his shoulders with the reflection 
that women like occasionally to amuse themselves 
with rubbish of the kind. If he would take the 
trouble to sit down, and quietly go through a volume 
here and there, he would become a wiser, if not a 
better man, and perhaps more stringent conditions 
insist upon. Time was, when certain books were 
regarded as being tabooed to the daughters of a house- 
hold, while even the sons were not avowedly permitted 
to read them until they had left school. “ Don Juan,” 
“ Roderick Random,” “ Tom Jones ” how innocent 
they are, not even excepting “ Don Juan,” beside the 
half-concealed carnality pretending to be inevitable 
sentiment, which characterizes the modern novel. 
Yet respectable middle-aged censors still regard these 
books as the only volumes necessarily expurgated 
from the family catalogue, even though they may 
themselves delight in the wit, the graphic power, and 
even the moral purpose that the works of Fielding 
display, qualities not altogether absent, either from 
the stories of Smollett, coarse as they are. The only 
hope is that a large number of the readers of the books 
of the carnalities do not fully understand the language 
of depravity ; but a perusal of the most modern 
examples, especially of those written by women, so 
greatly diminishes even this excuse for indifference 
that the only effectual remedy will be to wholly 
exclude them from the family. 



THE OCEAN. 

Tom Moore may regard with fondest emotion 
The oily, green swells of the wide spreading sea, 

And write the most charming of songs to the ocean 
While snug in his room by a fire after tea ; 

But I, who have tossed on the raging Atlantic, 

Eight blustering days, can affirm for my part 

That the waves, although tashedinto passion quite frantic, 

Affected my stomach but never mv heart. 

ATTIE. 



Clergyman : " No, my dear, it is impossible to 
preach any kind of a sermon to such a congregation of 
asses.” Young lady : “ And that is why you call them 
'Dear beloved brethren’ ?” 

“You have fifdy cends sharged on my pill for a 
bath,” he said to the hotel cashier at Long Branch. 
Well, isn’t that correct 1 ” “ No, sare,” replied the dis- 

putes “dot is nod korrect — none of my families ever 
take a bath.” The amount was scratched off. 

Lass-etude — Mashing. 

“ What is the meaning of that red line above the 
fourth story of your house V 1 asked a stranger of a man 
near Pittsburg. “ That is a water mark. That 
mark shows how high the water was during the great 
overflow about a year ago.” “ Impossible ! If the 
water had been that high the whole town would have 
been swept away.” “ The water never was that high. 
It only came up to the first-story window, but the 
cursed boys rubbed it out three or four times, so I put 
it up there where they can’t get at it. It takes a 
smart man to circumvent those boys.” — Texas Siftings. 



IttciBiU News. 



Notes. — There are about 100 in the graduating 
classes of the University this year. This session 
McGill, independent of affiliated colleges, has 525 
students, and 43 professors and lecturers. Three 
new professors are about to be added to the Arts 
Faculty. 

The Janitors. — The janitor of the Redpath Mu- 
seum is now compelled to guard the gas meters during 
lecture hours as some artful maiden has discovered 
where and how to check the intensity of the light in 
the class rooms. — The janitor of the medical building 
has prepared a bag of ten liters capacity for his sp T ing 
collections. First sense then cents. 

We are unwilling to allow the session to close with- 
out acknowledging the valuable assistance that has 
been rendered us by A. Weir, ’86 Science, and we 
congratulate the shareholders in appointing him an 
editor for next year. It is pleasing to us who are 
about to withdraw our names from the college journal 
and our No. 10’s from the college halls to think that 
the work will be taken up by so competent a suc- 
cessor. 

Our Mining Engineers are in hot water. The an- 
nouncement was recently made that the gold medal 
awarded by the members of the B. S. A. would be 
given this spring to the successful candidate among 
the mining students. The competition will be keen 
as the men are about equally matched. We would 
say to one and all “ rush hef up.” To the one who 
wins we promise a merry bouncing and to those 
who succumb decent burial. Tel est le sort de 
Vhomme. 

Progress. — A report, which we surmise is true, has 
reached the editors of the Gazette , to the effect that a 
Sabbath School has been lately organized in connec- 
tion with the Arts and Science Reading Room. This 
new institution is said to be in a flourishing condi- 
tion. The attendance on the classes is large, the 
teachers are most efficient, accomplished in story- 
telling, and well qualified by long experience to lead 
their youthful disciples in the way in which they 
should not go. Collections are in future to be taken 
up, and are in part to be devoted to the support of a 
Missionary S. S. in the Medical Reading Room. 

Reforms. — Arrangements, we understand, are being 
made to extend the precincts of the Arts Reading 
room. An ante-room is to be built in which billiard 
and other gaming tables, sofas, and reclining chairs 
for the use of patrons, are to be placed. This and the 
reading department will be in charge of a boxing 
master, whose special functions will be to light cigars, 
pipes, etc., quell riots, induce persons to sit on chairs 
rather than tables, and forcibly eject all such as 
shall indulge in political and other discussions. In 
the old room, ventilators are to be placed for the pur- 
pose of carrying off the surplus smoke, and thus pre- 
vent the frequent collisions that are now wont to 
occur in the gloom. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



THE DEAD PRISONER. 

{Translated from Victor Hugo. 

“Ye paths ! where grass is waving green — 

Ye woods and dales ! thou dark ravine ! 

Why sad and silent, I implore ? ” 

“ One who came hither, comes no more ! ” 

Old mansion 1 wherefore art thou shut, 

While tall rank weeds thy garden glut ? 

Where do thy Master s footsteps stray ? ” 

“ He is not here— I cannot say.” 

u Dog! watch the dwelling.” “ All is barred. 

And naught is left for me to guard.” 

“ Child thou dost weep.” “ My Sire I mourn,” 

“ Thou, Woman, too.” “ I am. forlorn !” 

“ Where is the Master gone ? Ye Waves, 

Whose moan along the seashore raves ; 

Whence come ye?” “ From a dungeon’s gloom.’ 

“ Your freight ? ” “A tenant for the tomb ! ” 

GEO. MURRAY. 



College 13Uorl6. 



Queen’s College, Kingston, has 242 students in 
Arts and Science. 

The leading jurist of Japan is a graduate of the 
University of Michigan. 

It is said there are 3,000 graduates in N.Y. city 
who cannot earn a living. 

Columbia is the wealthiest college in America, her 
endowment is $5,000,000. 

More than a fourth of the students in German 
universities are Americans. 

Nine young ladies lately received the degree of A. 
B. from the Royal University of Ireland. 

Miss Baxter, at her death, bequeathed the sum of 
£135.000 to rebuild and endow Dundee University. 

Individual tugs-of-war, with unlimited weights, 
have been added to the list of events in the winter 
games at Yale. 

Two graduates of the Institute of Technology won 
the second prize, $3,000, for designs for the new Boston 
public library. 

The first prize for English composition in Yale 
College was lately taken by Mr. Van Phan Lee, a 
Chinese student. 

President Eliot of Harvard University has been 
elected president of the national senate of the Phi Beta 
Kappa Fraternity. 

The library of Petrarchian and Icelandic literature 
collected by Prof. Fiske of Cornell, is one of the finest 
of its kind in this country. 

Yassar College has received a sum of money for a 
fund to provide prizes for the best essays on Shake- 
speare, or the Elizabethan period. 

The University of Michigan will have the largest 
observatory dome in the world, its weight being ten 
tons, and its diameter 45 feet 4 inches. 



Connell University has devoted $155,000, from 
the University funds, for the establishment of thirty- 
six new scholarships and seven fellowships. 

Adelbert College, in Cleveland, has declared in 
favor of co education. The action has caused a revolt, 
and eighty students have refused to attend examinations. 

The first successful candidate for the degree of 
Doctor of Science at the University of London was a 
Hindoo gentleman ; the second was Mrs. Sophia 
Bryant. * 

Princeton theological seminary has buildings, 
grounds and library valued at $470,000, and an 
endowment fund of $1,532,924, with an income last 
year of $66,398. 

The recent sale of the Duke of WeUington’s Library 
is declared to be the greatest book sale on record. It 
continued for over a month, and the total receipts 
were some $850,000. 

A good college paper is worth more for the moral 
and gentlemanly tone of college life than a whole 
library of by-laws and an army of faculty spies. — 
N. Y. Independent. 

The most heavily endowed colleges in the United 
States are the following Columbia $5,000,000 ; 
John Hopkins’ $4,008,000 ; Harvard $3,800,000 ; 
$1,800,000 ; Connell $1,400,000. 

By a new regulation of the Harvard faculty, an 
average of 50 per cent, in all subjects will be necessary 
for promotion, and also 50 per cent, to work off a con- 
dition. The passing mark of 40 remains as before. — 
Badger. 

The treasurer of Harvard University reports that 
the total income last year was $680,850. The total 
gifts for the year were $258,438, making the receipts 
$1,420,339. The total value of productive propertv is 
$4,803,938. 

There is in the United States one daily newspaper 
to every 10,000 inhabitants. The At/ienaium is aston- 
ished at this discovery : and well it may be, since in 
Great Britain and Ireland the proportion is one to 
about 120,000. 

The plan of arbitration between the Faculty and 
students, which has already been so successfully tried 
at some colleges, is about to be inaugurated at Harvard, 
and members of the conference committee are now 
being chosen by the students. 

Sixty Harvard Freshmen have abandoned their 
Latin, eighty their Greek, and one hundred their 
mathematics. None of them, however, have dropped 
their base-ball or boating, and college culture is there- 
fore safe. — University Monthly. 

Y assar College is in great need of an endowment 
fund, and their is much trouble in the board of trustees 
on account of the financial state of the college. It is 
said that the present policy of the institution will 
involve a debt of $24,000 on June 1. 

1 he history of college journalism begins with the 
Dartmouth Gazette, which was lirst issued in the year 
1810 ; and it is a noteworthy fact that Daniel Webster 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



1885.] 



lent his first literary efforts to this college journal. 
To-day, there are fully two hundred college papers 
regularly published. 

Alexandre Dumas recently testified before a com- 
mission of authors, to which an infuriated scribbler had 
summoned him, that his adversary had handed him a 
manuscript to revise, and that he had accordingly re- 
vised it to the best of his ability, leaving in it only 
forty lines of the original. 

Earth Movements. — A series of levels established 
along the Baltic in 1750 have shown that since that 
time the northern part of Sweden has risen seven feet, 
the elevation growing less southward until a point is 
reached which remains at the same level. On the south- 
ern side of the Baltic the land has been as steadily 
sinking. 



According to the Harvard Crimson the minimum 
annual expenses of a student at the great American 
Colleges are as follows Harvard, $475 ; Yale, $425 ; 
Amherst, Williams and colleges of like standing $375. 
Tuition fees at Harvard are $150 ; at Yale, $140*; at 
Amherst, $100 ; at Collumbia, $200; at Williams and 
Princeton, $75. 

The Melbourne Spectator has this apt advice forci- 
bly expressed to correspondents : 

“ When writing an article for the press. 

Whether prose or verse, just try 
To utter your thoughts in the fewest words. 

And let them be crisp and dry ; 

And when it is finished, and you suppose 
It is done exactly brown, 

Just look it over again, and then— 

Boil it down.” 

[The Gazette heartily endorses the above, and wishes 
to remark, that were some correspondents to “ boil 
down ” their communications they would be surprised 
to find that the process would result often in entire 
evaporation, or kt least in yielding residues whose 
strengths are but increased by the concentration. — Ed.] 

Goldwin Smith states that Cornell University, with 
its endowment of $10,000,000, threatens to become 
the University for Ontario. 

The elegant, titled Sir Thomas Haut Ton 
Fell in love with the only fair daughter 
Of an oleomargarine maker, and won 
Her affections by swearing his honor upon, 

That he never would have any but her. 

Alas ! he repented the pun at his ease ; 

They were wed, and, as she had the dollars, 

He must smile when addressed as “ My Lard,” or 
u Your Grease ” ; 

When a daughter came, even, the joke didn’t cease, 

But they marked Margar-ineon her collars. 

Harper's Bazar . 

Unfortunate Vassar. — That harm as well as good 
may come from too frequent mention in the news- 
papers, no one will deny. Vassar College, the pioneer 
college for women, is an instance where much real 
harm has come from a cheap newspaper notoriety due 
to this very fact that it was the first in the field to 



afford collegiate instruction for the weaker sex. How 
the college is suffering from the cause may be learned 
from the following, which an exchange prints : 

“ The gibes and jests at the expense of Vassar col- 
lege and Vassar college girls, which thoughtless par- 
agraphed and would-be humorists produce with tire- 
some redundance, while not establishing the reputation 
of the authors as wits, are said to be having a disastrous 
effect upon the college itself. One of the Vassar pro- 
fessors is quoted by a New York paper as saying that 
the college has not more than half the students it had 
ten years ago. and the cause of the tailing off he ascribes 
to the fact that the college and its students have 
become a standing target for the small wits of the 
country. “Vassar,” says the professor, “has become a 
thing to poke fun at. Half the new jokes about the 
girls are put upon Vassar students. Their doings are 
ridiculed, exaggerated, falsified, and the very name of 
Vassar is a synonym for feminine foolishness. The 
consequence is that girls are beginning to dislike to go 
there. I wouldn’t be surprised to see the doors of tho 
college shut in five years more. The newspaper para- 
graphed will have done it.” 

German Students as seen at Heidelberg Lectures. 

The following interesting glance at an important 
phase of German University life is taken from the 
columns of the Amherst Student : 

“ It is interesting to watch the students as they 
gather. The lecture never begins before a quarter 
past the hour, and during that time the students straggle 
in, one by one. Each has an enamelled cloth or lea- 
ther pocket, in which he carries his papers and books 
for taking notes. He leisurely hangs up his hat and 
coat, spreads out his papers, and takes from his pocket an 
inkstand and a common steel pen. The blackened 
desks and streaked floors give ample proof of the 
catastrophes that have overtaken these inkstands in 
times past. An American stylograph would be an 
untold blessing to the German student, and somebody 
will undoubtedly make a great fortune by introducing 
that instrument of comfort and safety, unless, indeed, 
the conservatism of the Germans should resent and 
refuse such an improvement. After the student has 
made his preparation for work he chats with his fellows 
till the professor comes. The professor is always 
greeted by applause, or by a rising in the seats. He 
comes in on a walk that borders on a- run ; begins to 
talk almost before he reaches his box, and often before 
he has taken off his coat or his gloves. The manner of 
lecturing is as varied as the individuality of the lecturer. 
A few sit quietly and read written lectures, some speak 
with few notes, and some with no notes at all. Few make 
any attempt at oratorical effect, and as the students’ eyes 
are generally on the note books, such an attempt would 
be largely wasted. One lecturer, who is quite near sight- 
ed, lays his manuscript on the high desk before him, 
over which only the top of his head is visible to the 
students, and reads steadily, or putting his hands in 
his pockets lounges back in his pulpit, where he is only 
visible to those at the side. Almost all the lecturers 
drop the voice two or three words before the close of 
the sentence, which renders it difficult to follow 
them.” 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



ALDHELM. 

He sits on the rustic bridge 
Midway from either shore, 

And his blue eyes flash, and his flaxen hair 
Sweeps o’er his harp as he calls to prayer 
The people passing o’er. 

His song is like the song of a bird 
That sings to its nested mate : 

Hope and love and joy are his theme, 

And grief and despair and haste 
Are to him but a horrid dream. 

He strikes his harp and the notes that are heard 
Enchant the ear like a loved one’s wocd. 

The breeze that sweeps o’er the bending grain, 

And the scent of the flowers in the field, 

And the dancing foam on the swirling stream, 

And the distant rapid’s roar 
Are gathered into the magic strain 
And over the woodland pealed, 

Till the listening throng to the music yield 
And follow the monk to the chapel door 
And kneel on the rush strewn floor. 

Altie. 



Societies. 



McGill Medical Society. 

The tenth regular meeting of the above society for 
the winter session ’84 — >5 was held this evening, 
there being 18 members present. The chair was taken 
by the President, Dr. Stewart, at 8.30. 

Dr. Mills read a very interesting report on “ Physio- 
gical Laboratories,” in which he drew attention to the 
beneficial effect such institutions had in advancing the 
science of medicine, and impressed upon the members 
present the advisability of not looking upon the 
results of the patient research of those, who had de- 
voted their labors to the strictly scientific investigation 
of physiological phenomena, in too utilitarian a light ; 
but rather to consider study of this nature as tending 
to broaden their mental horizon and educate them, at 
least, up to such a point as would stimulate them to be 
on the qui vive for any discourses which would help to 
make the practice of medicine more rational and 
scientific and less empirical than at present. 

Dr. Ruttan stated that in his opinion the study of 
the primary subjects was the best gymnasium for the 
training of those faculties of observation so highly 
requisite in the successful practitioner of to-day. 

Medical Society. 

Probably the most successful meeting in the annals 
of this society was held last Saturday evening at No. 
16 Philip’s square. The chair was occupied by the 
president, Dr. Stewart, and every available chair, win- 
dow, seat and rail was pressed into service to accomo- 
date the 57 members who were present. 

The paper of the evening was entitled “ Some hints ; 
to those about to graduate,” and when Dr. Stewart 
rose to deliver it he was greeted by such a round of 
applause as told plainer than words how popular the 
lecturer was among the medicals. 

The lecturer was listened to with the greatest atten- I 
tion throughout and at the close of his able essay, the I 
vice-president, Mr. McGannon, in a few well chosen > 



words stated, that although a by law existed precluding 
a vote of thanks being tendered, yet he felt sure he 
was voicing the sentiments of those present when he 
stated that the meeting had heard Dr. Stewart’s ad- 
dress with the greatest pleasure and profit and felt how 
great a debt of gratitude was due him for the interest 
he had taken in the society during the past year, and 
hoped that he might be prevailed upon to accept the 
presidency of the society next year. Dr. Mills and 
Dr. Stephen were present and made some interesting 
remarks on continental society. The meeting adjourned 
until the second Thursday in April. 

Student’s Y. M. C. A. 

The first annual meeting of the College Young 
Men’s Christian Association was held on Saturday even- 
ing, February 28, in the building of the city Y. M. C. 
A. Although the association was organized only last 
Spring, it has now become one of the institutions of 
the college. The growth has been very rapid, as the 
report of the Membership Committee showed that the 
present membership is between 60 and 70, which is 
a decided increase upon the 15 or 20 who were on the 
roll last Spring. This report said further that oppo- 
sition and prejudice against the association seemed to 
be dying out as its aims and character became known. 
As our association is one of 200 college associations, 
with a limited number of these, including all the 
Canadian colleges, correspondence has been opened, 
which will have in the future a stimulating effect upon 
all concerned. 

As to next year it is expected that the social 
evenings of the members spent together, will be the 
beginning of an intercourse between the students and 
the citizens who have hitherto refrained from opening 
their homes to college men. Altogether the report of 
the year was most encouraging and all voiced the 
leader of the Sunday meetings who, in reviewing the 
year, said that there were no more appropriate word 
for us than “ The Lord hath done great things for us 
whereof we are glad.” The very great interest and 
kindness of the Montreal Y. M. C. A. was recognized 
by a standing vote of thanks. The following are the 
officers for the coming year : president, N. E. Kendall ; 
vice-president, J. K. Unsworth ; rec.-secretary, W. G. 
Stewart; cor.-secretary, J. W. McOiat; treasurer, G. 
F. Lewis. Sunday meetings at 4.30 p. m., will be 
continued to April 12th. 

Undergraduates Literary Society. 

The closing meeting of the society for the present 
session was held on Friday, March 6th. As an evidence 
of his continued interest in the society, Professor 
Moyse attended unexpectedly, and was prevailed on 
to preside. The programme was then proceeded with, 
Mr. A. B. Clements reading a startling paper on the 
subject of “ wooing,” the psychological features of 
which may have resulted from theory, but bore a 
strong resemblance to experience. Then came a read- 
ing from Shakspeare by Mr. Colquhoun, after which 
the debate for the evening “ Resolved that Ireland 
should have Home Rule” followed. Upon the affir- 
mative side the speakers were Messrs. A. P. Solandt, 
T. Macallum, and F. Pedley, upon the negative 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Messrs. R. B. O’Sullivan, E. E. Braithwaite and R. 
B. Henderson. The discussion was ably maintained 
on both sides, Mr. Pedley’s being the most eloquent 
speech, while Mr. Solandt’s evinced more thought on 
the subject. The arguments were good, but a little 
more might have been made of what forms Homo 
Rule could take. The debate was decided in favor of 
the negative side. Mr. Hugh S. McLennan, who was 
appointed critic in the early part of the evening, read 
an able paper setting forth the most striking features 
of the debate. Being called on, Professor Moyse made 
some remarks upon the question which he treated in 
a calm, moderate manner, and his speech was loudly 
applauded. Upon motion of Mr. Topp, seconded by 
Mr. Paterson, it was decided to adjourn the meetings 
of the society till next session. 

A vote of thanks to Professor Moyse for his atten- 
dance and for his kindness in presiding was moved by 
the President, and passed with three cheers for the 
popular professor After a motion of thanks to the 
retiring President the meeting adjourned. 

McGill University Athletic Association. 

The first annual meeting of the McGill University 
Athletic Association was held in the William Molson 
Hall on Friday evening, February 27th, Sir William 
Dawson, President, in the chair. The meeting was 
called to order by the chairman at twenty minutes 
past eight. The Secretary then read his Annual 
Report showing that the Association was in an emin- 
ently flourishing condition with a membership list of 
three hundred and six (306), which representation, 
though small when we take into consideration the 
total number of students attending the different 
faculties of McGill, yet shows that the result on the 
whole of the first annual field meeting of the Association 
was highly satisfactory. The Treasurer’s Report on 
the financial affairs of the Society is one which few 
Treasurers of College Athletic Associations can boast 
of, namely a handsome surplus of about two hundred 
and ten ($210.) dollars, which speaks very forcibly for 
the hearty *nd united manner in which the McGill 
undergraduates have supported this Association. The 
following gentlemen are the officers of the McGill 
Athletic Association for the coming session of 1885-6 : — 
Sir William Dawson, President ; Mr. C. W. Wilson, 
Vice-President; Mr. E. De F. Holden, Secretary; 
Prof. C. H. McLeod, Treasurer ; and Mr. C. P. Brown, 
Assistant-Treasurer. Several motions were then 
brought up before the meeting which called forth 
quite a series of lengthy discussions. The business of 
the evening being finished, the meeting was brought to 
a close by a motion of adjournment moved by Mr. 
Johnson. 

E. De F. Holden, 

Sec., McG. U. A. A. 



Prof, of Political Science : “ Mr P.— suppose you 
discover that a quantity of dynamite is placed beneath 
your dining room, and you w r ere to be blown up at 
your usual dinner hour, what would you do to frustrate 
the conspirators?” 



THEN— NOW. 

Only a hand at parting, 
Only a kiss and blush, 
Only my heart and Grade's 
Paralyzed with a rush. 

• • • • 
Only a “ hand ” at poker, 
Only a “ royal flush,” 
Only my chips and aces, 
Paralyzed with a rush. 



Itorresportbence. 



We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinion s 
expressed by correspondents. — Editors. 

To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette : 

Dear Sirs. — I cannot ask your indulgence for so 
much space as would suffice me to consider seriatim 
the various charges which Mr. Turner has spun out 
against me in the “ pithy ” letter which appeared in 
your last number, nor am I by any means satisfied 
that accusations made by Mr. Turner need any reply. 
As however there is doubtless some truth in the adage 
that “ if you throw enough mud some of it is sure 
to stick,” permit me briefly to place before the college 
public the other side of the question, and correct a few 
of the errors under which Mr. Turner is pleased to 
labor. 

My ignorance uf journalistic etiquette has led me 
into the error of supposing the publication by an 
editor of an anonymous correspondent’s name to be an 
unprecedented and unwarrantable proceeding, but I 
shall, of course, submit to Mr. Turner’s wider ex- 
perience in such matters, and hesitate before I accuse 
so pronounced a champion of the * manly ’ and the 
4 honest ’ of a course of action vulgarly considered a 
breach of trust. Before I had written the letter which 
has so exercised Mr. Turner, I told him plainly the 
course I intended to pursue, so that amongst the 
various reasons which I had for adopting a nom de 
plume the hope of “shielding myself” from a pre- 
sumable attack could scarcely have been one. 

The unpardonable insult which Mr. Turner offers 
the Medical Faculty is based upon an inter wiew be- 
tween myself and a medical professor which exists 
solely in Mr. Turner’s imagination: it is entirely un- 
true that I have held any communication whatever 
with any professor upon the subject of The Gazette ; in 
coining the conversation which is supposed to have 
taken place upon that occasion let us hope that he is 
measuring the intelligence as well as the honor of the 
Faculty by a canon of his own fashioning. 

It is again untrue that I “ had placed my resignation 
in the hands of the directors ” before the publication 
jf my letter, either in writing or otherwise, or that I 
in any sense whatever “ seized upon the managing 
editorship ” of the issue which contained it, and though 
I must plead guilty to the heinous crime of taking the 
copy to the printer, and to the atrocity of actually 
reading some of the proofs, yet there are extenuating 
circumstances, which none are aware of better than 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



yourselves, Messrs. Editors, at whose request these enor- 
mities were committed. I would not of course accuse 
Mr. Turner of independently discovering any but a 
sinister motive in the most trilling act of gratuitous 
courtesy, yet when I ask him to believe that my pole 
of the “ willing horse ” was played at the solicitations 
of my associate-editors, and in the belief that, unless I 
(not from my especial competency, but because the 
rest of the editors were incapacitated by other work) 
undertook the task, the next issue of the Gazette 
would make a still later appearance than its wont — 
when I ask him to believe this, I hope he will strain 
his lively and elastic imagination to the utmost, to 
grasp so incredible a fact. Charges of dishonesty 
and falsehood might, seeing their source, have been 
suffered to pass unheeded, but when Mr. Turner 
accuses me of going out of my way to work him an 
evil, forbearance ceases to be a virtue. 

But after all, w r hen we have waded through some 
two or three columns of most interesting, if irrelevant 
matter, we do not reach any denial of the main state- 
ment in the letter signed “X.” Mr. Turner does not 
deny specifically that the editorials in No. 5 were un- 
seen by his fellow editors, and when he states that the 
editorial in No. 6 was actually seen by as many as 3 
out of a board of 7 editors he omits the important 
qualification that truth should have demanded, namely 
that even these 3 saw it in a state of corrected proof, 
and at a stage when they could hardly have been kept 
out of the columns of The Gazette. 

But these are matters -which can have no sort of in- 
terest for the general public : the subject must be well- 
worn by this time, and in asking you to insert the 
above in your columns I can promise you at least that 
it is the last you will hear on this topic from 

yours truly, 

Guy F. Palmer. 



Personals. 



G. F. Calder, '85 Arts, who was prostrated some 
weeks ago with typhoid fever, is convalescent. 

<R F. Dowling, M.D. ’75, has been lately elected on 
the Liberal ticket for Renfrew, Ont., with a majority 
of over 700. 

Joseph C. Carran, B.C.L. ’62, has just distinguished 
himself in the Dominion Parliament by making a 
brilliant speech on the Budget. 

Mr. A. B. Osborne, ’85, Medicine, is rapidly recov- 
ering from the severe attack of pneumonia, by which 
he was prostrated a short time ago. 

Mr. G. H. Raymond, B.A. who went home at 
Christmas on account of illness, has returned to the 
city, and has again resumed his studies in the Medical 
college. • 

R. J. B. Howard, B.A., M.D., Gold Medallist in 
Natural Science 79, and in Medicine ’82, has lately 
passed, in London Eng., the examinations admitting 
him to the degree of M.R.C.S. His papers have re- 
ceived most honourable mention. 



[ 1885 . 



HER BROTHER. 

Who, when I call upon my dove, 

Sits by the register above 
And listens to our tales of love ? 

Her brother. 

Who, ere my last sweet call was o’er, 

Had water lugged around the door, 

Where ice soon formed an inch or more ? 

Her brothei. 

Whose soul will shady Tartarus claim 
For all my sinful oaths profane, 

When sliding down those steps I came? 

Her Brother’s. 

lllini . 



Between the Lectures. 



Mr. P — . “ Well 1 think I should dine-a-mite earlier.” 
— Phi Rhonian. 

“ Yes Sir,” said Phinzy, “ it was funny enough to 
make a donkey laugh. I laughed till I cried.” — Ex . 

Some one has ascertained that the man who finds a 
pocket-book with cash in it doesn’t look in a paper for 
three weeks. 

“ Miss Florence, do you love beasts?” “Am I 
to consider that as a proposal, sir ? ” was the lady’s 
quick retort. 

Student (translating) — “ And er — the — er — he — er 
— went — er — ” Professor— “ Don’t laugh, gentlemen, 
to err is human.” 

Stern Parent. — “Another bad report, my son!” 
“Yes, father ; I think you had best talk to the Prof., 
or he will keep on doing it.” 

A lady playfully condemning the wearing of -whiskers 
and mustaches, declared : “ It is one of the fashions I 
invariably set my face against.” 

“ Don’t trouble yourself to stretch your mouth any 
wider,” said a dentist to his patient, “ I intend to 
stand outside to draw your teeth.” 

Prof, (to class in mineralogy) : “ Can you recall a 
mineral occurring in the liquid from ?” Philosophical 
student : “ Milk, because it comes in quarts .” — Ex. 

Twenty-one freshmen were lately suspended in a 
Welsh college because a professor could not find out 
who placed a tin tack in his tricycle seat, business end 
up. — Ex. 

A little boy, who had been used to receiving his 
elder brother’s old toys and clothes, recently remarked : 
“ Ma, shall I have to marry his widow when he 
dies?” — 

Young lady (innocently to gentleman) : “ I wish I 
could get one of those Freshmen to plant in my gar- 
den ! I do so want something green.” Blushes from 
Freshie. 

“ Why,” asked Pat one day, “ why was Balaam a 
first-class astronomer ? ” 1 he other man gave it up, of 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



course. 44 Sure,” said Pat, “ ’twas because he had no 
trouble in finding an ass to void.” 

Professor (who is standing in the rear of a model, 
turning a crank) : “ Now, gentlemen, this wheel, you 
see, is the driver, and that the follower ; and behind 
them is a crank.” Prolonged applause. 

Here is a problem for our philosophers “ Don’t 
you think that if things were otherwise than they 
would be it they were not as they are, they might be 
otherwise than they could have been if they were not 
thusly ? ” 

“ Why is it, pa, that they call them commencement 
exercises, when they are really the last exercises ?” said 
a young hopeful who had just witnessed the closing 
scenes of a temale seminary. 44 Because, my son, the 
girls do not begin to learn anything until after they 
graduate.” 

George Eliot did not care a great deal for jokes, 
but she always relished that which referred to one of 
her own volumes. It is the well-known story about 
an ignorant English bookseller who put up the notice : 

“ Mill on the Floss ; Ditto on Political Economy.” 

Carlyle wrote, 44 to-day is not yesterday.” Pro- 
bably the great philosopher conceived the gorgeously 
beautiful original thought, while sitting on the bed in 
the morning, yawning as though trying to swallow the 
room, and feeling his head to see if it was small 
enough to fit his hat. 

Scene, English Class Room. Prof. — “ Mr. Smith, 
define a vowel. ” Mr. Smith does so. Prof. — 44 Mr. 
Jones, what is a consonant?” Jones (aside to Smith) — 
tell me. Smith tells him and Jones says glibly “ a 
consonant’s a letter that can not be sounded without 
the aid of a vowel.” Prof. — As an example, gentle- 
men, Mr. Smith is a vowel and Mr. Jones a conso- 
nant. 

“ What are you waiting for ?” said a lawyer to an 
Indian who had paid him money. “ Receipt,” said 
the Indian. “ A receipt ?” said the lawyer, “ what do 
you know about a receipt ? Tell me the nature of one, 
and I will give it to you.” 44 Spose mabe me die ; me 
go to Heben ; me find the gate locked ; me see ’postle 
Peter; he say, 4 Kiser, what do you want?’ Me say, 

4 Want to go in.’ He say, 4 You pay A that money ?’ 
What me do ? I hab no receipt; hab to hunt all ober 
Hades to find you.” He got his receipt. 



A FORECAST OF THE EXAMS. 

In view of the nearness of the approaching exami- 
nations in the Faculty of Medicine, the Patent-Uni- 
versal-Grinder, a hireling of the Gazette, has, in ac- 
cordance with an ancient custom, set the following 
papers : 

Theory and Practice of Medicine. 

1. Name, if possible, two diseases, the treatment of 
which by citrate of potash would be inappropriate. 

2. Explain the treatment of rickets by heroic doses 
of salicylate of soda. Would you advise the patient 



to say his prayers on his rachitic rosary before proceed- 
ing to inflict the treatment ? 

3. What are the methods employed (A) by Koch, 
(B)by Mills for demonstrating the Bacillus Hysteria 
under the microscope ? How is it distinguished from 
that of Cerebral Hemorrhage ? 

4. A patient, aged 93 (female), has pneumonia of 
the right base, tubercular peritonitis with symptoms of 
perforation, cancer of the liver, and acute Brights, but 
in other respects she is fairly healthy. She is taken 
suddenly ill, however, and two days later has profuse 
epistaxis with some loss of appetite. How would you 
proceed to show that it was a case of cholera infantum, 
stating the chief points you would attend to in making 
a differential diagnosis from popliteal aneurism ? 

Principles and Practice of Surgery. 

1. Mention the chief uses of the laryngoscope in 
detecting foreign bodies in the duodenum. 

2. Name in order the structures removed in the 
performance of a Clean shave. 

3. If a man were to happen to bleed to death from 
epistaxis, what would you do if you came too late ? 

Medical Jurisprudence. 

1. Explain how bricks and stones, obeying gravity, 
may cause death by fire. 

2. If a man’s third wife is 20 years old, and if he 
has survived a full course of Medical Jurisprudence, 
and has been asked to insure his life in two American 
companies, what is his expectation of life ? Would you 
ask any further questions before refusing to recom- 
mend the risk ? 

3. By what signs would you tell when a man was 
bored to death? How does this affect (a) post-mortem 
rigidity (b) his chance of a happy hereafter? 

Pathology. 

1. What did the police say when I and my friend 
Hoppe-Seyler and other physiologists painted Stras- 
bourg pikro-carmine (a) to me, ( b ) to poor Hoppe, (c) 
to the other physiologists ? Why ? 

2. Give a complete list of the things you never heard 
of before I lectured on Pathology. 

3. Show by a diagram what I think about things in 
general. 



EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

FACULTY OF ARTS. 



Zooloc/y . 

I IME •••••. 8 minutes. 

1. Given Adam illustrate by four horizontal lines his 
connection with a bearded Gasteropod . 

•2. Give the genealogy of a Lamelli branchiate to four 
decimal places and state the position of this class in 
the legislature of the Province Macklusky. 

3. If Sir Lancelet was a knight under Kin" Arthur 
show by a diagram that the Amphioxus is a species 
of Englishman found in the Isle of Man. 



14 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



4. Given one of th* neighbours of the Eozoon Cana- 
dense show by reference to the femur of a cuttle- 
fish or the antennae of an Echinus that they kept 
up telegraphic communications. 

5. From the fibula of an amoeba, the trochanter of an 
infusorian, the siphuncle of a wasp, the pallial line 
of an alligator, and the ctenaphore of an elephant 
construct a mule. 

6. Show (1) your relativity to a giraffe, and (2) your 
declivity from an oyster, stating in what era you 
received legs. 



THE CALENDAR 

Time All Session . 

1. Show by logarithms that you are not allowed to 
take exemptions from subjects in which you are 
sure to be plucked. Solve the formula on which 
this rule is based. 

2. Calculate the angular divergence between a man 
awaiting the conference of his degree and the man 
who entered with him as a freshman but who is not 
yet a sophomore, and show that it corresponds to 
186°. 

3. Quote any paragraph in the calendar and show by 
a month’s study that it is inexplicable. 

4. Explain the value of gowns in identifications. 

5. Show that fines are absurd, and that therefore 
boarding mistresses should institute them as means 
of forcing students to come to dinner. 

6. Prove that, as exams, passed : supplimental : : cel- 
luloid cuffs : 30 per cent. 



MECHANICS. 

1. Let the course of B. A. be an inclined plane, 
prove that as the height of the passing standard is 
to the length of the course, so is the number of 
nights you spend at the Academy to the amount 
of your mental force exerted, and that the resultant 
is at right angles to your expectations. 

2. Prove that the moment of your entrance into the 
Molson Hall, is to the resistance of your feathers, 
as the velocity of your quill is to the pendulum- 
like motions of your crib. 

3. Give a diagram of the force of specific gravity on 
Beaver Hall hill, 

4. What do you know about pumps ; where did you 
see one last? If the fluid pumped was XXX 
calculate its brain pressure. 

5. Imagine yourself revolving in “watch-hands” direc- 
tion about a fixed centre, compose your forces and 
give a brief sketch of your surroundings. 

6. Equilibrate yourself on a dynimite cartridge; 
become excited ; expatiate upon your position ; and 
finally, calculate your projectility. 



THE 



^aijitariura or J[ome jjo^pital. 



(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,) 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical advisers. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

Me* Q3T Mrs, gTRQJfQj 

IS TTo=LlTrersit3r Street, 

MONTREAL. 



IB TTY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

MmterssndFurriers, 

233 Jfoire Dame Birsei. 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie « McGILL ” H for Sale. 



£hc UXouavctx J'hivt gmpovium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 ht. James Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves, Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER,— FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this AdVt will Get io f. c. Disc. 



McGill university gazette. 



^Central DDr-u.g' Stored 

W, H. CHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL jS HEM 1ST, ^NG,, 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OF CRAIG &s BTilBTJIRY STS. 

PHOTOGE/APHT. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHA YES & WA LFORD 'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W A LFORD 'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Streer. 

RjiCHELJEU H ID IEL, 

I. B. DUR0CHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

mqnxretax*. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL IS THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McQILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO,, 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St. Catherine St., 

MOUTKEAL. 

Mc&iff 

University Gazette, 

Publisheb 1st anb 15th of the month. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl unit dollar ftanafarlarrro, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlunjital Jnslrurarnls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 



AN INSPECTION INVITEI*. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpel, 

CBY WEISS & SOFT,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Subscription , - - - $ 1 . 00 . 



PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 



Hals Blesses and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 



Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Late of London, England, 




31 -BEAUER HALE. 



THE 

j,jiirlai)<l ^iUiojJraphic fjo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KIND Hi 



^ LARGE ASSORTMENT 



Scotch ■ anil JJrench 






Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 



Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash: 

Removable Qollar^ anJ 

FOR OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HEEETOEOEE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



Engraving and Fine Printing 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS OAKDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



IrMioto-Eng-vavirig-, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

PROCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

Iii till their gevernl branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

/VlENU PaHDS, pRESTS, /WONOGR AMS, jBuSINESS piES 
SjC., Sje, 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



