Vol. XIII 



No. 5 











72 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

AWOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

R, A. E- Greenshields. 



J. N. Greenshields. 



Edmond Guerin. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



ATWATER & M ACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k WlcLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

117 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



. MbEHTYRE & son 



Fine Custom Tailors. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Antiseptic Materials, Banflaps, Etc., 

manufactured and imported by 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Plianuacentical & Dispensing Clemists, 

74 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, # 
Bandages, Plaster Pans. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, _ . . 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, ^Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 

H EADQUARTER S 



—FOR— 



School and College Text Boohs ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 



Jf WEiPICAE WORKS, BOOKS USED /.V ART COURSE 
SCIEJS'CE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOMj O UICAI, BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. See., Sec., 

^ BEHT YA1.UE I IV TOWN-,-. 



Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. .T rimes Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. xiii.] McGill college, Montreal, januaby 27th, i 89 o. [No. 5. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President . 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts '90. 

Peers Davidson, Law *92. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, Science ’90. 



EDITORS. 



J. A. MacPhail, 
Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 



B.A., Editor -in- Chief. 

F. W. Hibbard, B.A., Law *91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. Yates, B A. 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. ’91. 



Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 

Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 73-75 

Contributions - 76 

McGill News 76-77 

Societies 77 

Personals 78 

Correspondence 78-79 

Sporting 79-80 

Exchanges 80 

Between the Lectures 80-81 

College World 82 



Editorials 



FACULTY OF LAW. 

A year or two ago some severe strictures were 
passed upon the Faculty of Law in the columns of 
The Gazette. Without entering into the merits of 
a past discussion, it may be noted that the articles of 
that time were made use of by the late Secretary of 
the Bar in the attack which he made upon the rights 
and character of this University through its Law 
Faculty. It may also be noted that within the last 



two years there has been a greater degree of regu- 
larity and care in the matter of lectures and exami- 
nations. Unquestionably, the Faculty of Law has 
been, to a great extent, overshadowed in interest by 
the rapid development and demands arising out of a 
yearly increasing number of students, that have been 
the fortunate lot of the other Faculties of the 
University. It must, however, never be lost sight 
of that the position which the University, and the 
English-speaking portion of the community, gener- 
ally, take in this Province as regards representation 
in one of the foremost and most important of the 
professions, will largely depend on McGill’s Faculty 
of Law. This fact, and the further necessity of 
maintaining the prestige of an honourable list of 
graduates, seems to be well realized by the professors 
of the Faculty, and their efforts, in spite of meagre 
remuneration, a small number of students, and the 
very limited English field of this Province, from 
which they may as yet hope to draw, are worthy of 
great credit. Much more at their hands, than is at 
present being accomplished, can hardly be looked 
for until the Faculty has secured several crying 
necessities. Foremost among these needs are : A 
building, containing library and lecture-rooms, of its 
own within easy reach of the offices down-town, and, 
at least, two professors to give their entire time to 
the work of the Faculty, and the use and needs of 
the library. So equipped, there is but little or no 
reason why our Faculty of Law should not become 
the foremost training school of legal culture in the 
country, and attract to itself, not only the greater 
number of aspirants to the Bar in this Province, but 
students and graduates from other Faculties and from 
other Provinces, seeking that broader, and still useful, 
basis of learning that comes from a knowledge of 
jurisprudence, and especially of its three greatest 
forms as, of necessity, concurrently taught in Quebec. 
It, of course, goes without saying, that in order to 
accomplish this, the Faculty will require a consider- 
able endowment. But surely the generosity that 
has afforded the means of greater and better literary 
training, and has advanced Science in all its depart- 
ments, will shortly recognize the importance of 
training men for a profession which fills so large 
and important a place in our political and social 
life. 




74 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE LITERARY SOCIETY. 

We publish in this issue a carefully -written letter 
dealing with the relations existing between the Lit- 
erary Society and the Faculty of Arts, and we also 
subjoin a list of the subjects proposed for debate, 
with those italicised which have been objected to. 
Doubtless the Arts’ Faculty has a good reason for its 
action, but the general opinion seems to be that, by 
their action, they are giving undue value to the re- 
sults of these debates. An unpleasant feeling of 
restraint is created, and without depreciating their 
value in any way, we do not believe the future of the 
University or the country would be materially affected 
by the decisions which the Literary Society might 
arrive at respecting such vexed questions as the execu- 
tion of Riel, and the problematic value to a nation of 
Freemasonry. At present this is the only jar be- 
tween students and teachers, and it is a pity it exists, 
the more especially since a little sweetness on both 
sides would remove the difficulty. 

The following is a list of the subjects proposed for 
debate, those in italics being the ones objected to by 
the Faculty : — 

Is Electricity destined to supplant steam as a motor ? 

Is the theory of Evolution corroborated by nature ? 

Will the culminating point in the civilization of the nine- 
teenth century be reached by woman ? 

Is the National Policy a failure ? 

Is Arbitration destined to become the general method of set- 
tling international disputes ? 

Is Imperial Federation practicable ? 

Is Annexaiion preferable to Independence ? 

Is Great Britain, with her possessions, the most powerful 
nation on the globe ? 

Is Freemasonry inimical to a country's interests ? 

Is a nation’s Literature affected by its form of government ? 

Resolved — “ Tis better to have loved and lost than never to 
have loved at all.” 

Should judges be Elected by the people ? 

Should Reading and Writing be made a requirement for suf- 
frage in the case of all new voters ? 

Should Suffrage be given to women <n the same conditions as 
it is given to men ? 

Was the Execution of Louis Riel unjust ? 

Do Inventions improve the condition of the labouring 
classes ? 

Should Military Training be provided for the students of 
McGill ? 

Is Co-education 'practicable and desirable ? 

Is the Ameiican Continent destined to form one crrpnt 
nation ? 

Should all Monopolies, Trusts, and Combines, so-called, be 
declared illegal ? 

Is Independence preferable to the present relations with 
Great Britain! 

Should the Sale of Tobacco to all persons under twenty-one 
years of age be prohibited ? 

Ought Secret Societies to be abolished ? 

Should the Chinese be accorded those privileges on this Con- 
tinent which are given to other foreigners ? 



[1890. 



Are all men in America born free and equal ? 

Can the welfare of the Canadian people be best promoted 
by Annexation ? 

Is Church Property justly exempted from taxation? 

Is the world growing better ? 

Is Raffling an objectionable method of raising money ? 

Are Card-playing and Dancing inconsistent with a Christian 
life ? 

Is Theatre-going to be condemned ? 

Is an hereditary Upper House a standing menace to the rights 
of the people ? 

Does a large Standing Army tend to insure peace ? 

Ought the Manufacture and Importation of Alcoholic bever- 
ages to be prohibited ? 

Is the National Policy conducive to the formation of mono- 
polies ? 

Do the Universities of America afford a better chance for an 
Education than those of Great Britain ? 

Is the Granting of Subsidies by a Government unwise ? 

Should an Agricultural Department be Established in con- 
nection with McGill ? 

Is the present Canadian Administration corrupt ? 

Ought the Running of Street Cars on the Sabbath to be pro- 
hibited ? 

Is Annexation preferable to the present relations with Great 
Britain ? 

Should Taxes be levied on personal property ? 

Should the Government assume control of railways? 

Is a Two Cent Postal Rate desirable ? 

Ought Marriage with a Deceased Wife’s Sister to be 
legalized ? 

Has more progress been made since the Sixteenth Century 
than during all previous time ? 

Is the period of Great Orators past? 

Is the possession of a lively imagination a great misfortune ? 

Is a city a better place for a University than the country ? 

Do learned societies have greater influence in forming the 
literary character of a nation than individuals ? 

Do parents exercise greater influence than teachers in forming 
the character of the young ? 

Does the pulpit afford a better field for eloquence than the 
bar ? 

Is the Nineteenth Century especially favourable to the pro- 
gress of Christianity ? 

Is it expedient that a new Extradition Treaty be formed be- 
tween the United States and Canada? 

Ought Canada to have the right of Negotiating her own 
Treaties ? 

Should there be a change in our Divorce Laws ? 

Are Women unjustly treated by Canadian Law ? 

Is the National l ) ol icy disadvantageous to the labouring classes? 

Is India destined to become the leading nation of the Eastern 
world i 



Do we stand in need of a Dress Reform ? 

Mas the Policy of the British Government towards Ireland 
been unjust ? 



Aie the Poles justified in endeavouring to regain their 
national freedom ? ° ° U1U1 

Is the permanent connection of the British Colonies desirable ? 
Have the effects of the French Revolution been beneficial * 

country^ eXiStC11Ce ° f the HoUSe of Lords beneficial to the 

Is Cremation preferable to Burial ? 



2r s ::?G2t:Zn t !^ tkc same ian ^*> ^ 

Would a course in Arts be beneficial to the farmer ? 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



75 



THE UNIVERSITY Y.M.C.A. 

There are few, if, indeed, there are any, men in 
McGill who have not heard of the University Chris- 
tian Association. Yet, there may he many who, up 
to the present, are unacquainted with the Building 
movement now before that Society. This movement 
was begun four years ago, and was, in a measure, suc- 
cessful. That a building is needed, is evident to 
every one who knows of the requirements for the 
successful operation of any organization. This need 
is recognized by the Governors of McGill, who have 
kindly granted, on the College grounds, a site less or 
more conspicuous, as the funds raised come up to or 
exceed a certain amount. Not only has the move- 
ment been supported, and the need recognized by 
the Board of Governors, but a few friends in the city 
have promised $1,200, while the students themselves 
have subscribed $1,000. As yet, no definite plans of 
the building have been made, but it is intended that 
it will contain a Parlor and Reading Room, a large 
hall for meetings, two or three smaller rooms, in which 
Bible classes and the various Societies and Clubs of 
McGill could be convened. That such buildings are 
of great benefit to a University, one need only look 
to the record of Princeton, Yale, and Toronto Uni- 
versities. It is proposed to call upon every student 
now in College for aid in this work of building. We 
are assured if the students show themselves thoroughly 
interested in this affair, that they will receive sub- 
stantial support from friends of the University. Cir- 
cular letters are being sent to graduates in Canada 
and the United States, appealing to them for aid. 
Should graduates and students alike do their part, it 
would be a question of months, and not of years, be- 
fore the Society would get into its College home. 

In this article we appeal chiefly to the students 
under the various Faculties, and hope that, when 
solicitations are presented, a substantial evidence of 
helpfulness may be received from all. 



THE CORPORATION MEETING. 

The Corporation meeting of the University was 
held on Wednesday, and the annual report was sub- 
mitted. It will be given more fully in the next 
issue. It dealt exhaustively with every branch of 
the Collegiate work, and in every instance substantial 
advance was shown. The number of students has 
increased, the funds for the educational work have 
been materially added to, and new improvements are 
proposed. Yet McGill needs many things, and the 
need is a mark of her progress. As it has been aptly 
stated, the University is in the position of an over- 



grown child, for whose increased wants new means 
will have to be provided. The Governors, with the 
facilities at their disposal, have done and are doing 
a noble work, and their accomplishments are only 
limited by their means. Several points of radical 
importance were touched up, each one of which will 
receive further attention, but those in authority may 
be assured that they will receive unbounded sym- 
pathy from the students and all the other friends of 
the University. 



“ Discontent,”, in a letter published in last issue, 
shows from the number of students in the University 
that 34 per cent, of the Gazette only should be 
dovoted to the Faculty of Medicine. If “ Discontent ” 
would examine our subscription list, as he may do> 
he will find that more than 34 per cent, of the support 
comes from that Faculty, and that the space is not 
unfairly allotted, except in so far as more attention 
is given to some elements in comparison with the 
support they yield to the College paper. The Gazette 
is conducted on business principles. 



The Students of Medicine are sensible and prac- 
tical. Instead of indulging in querulous complaining 
because the University Gazette did not meet their 
views, they called a public meeting, and stated the 
case fairly and openly to the directors, with the 
suggestions they had to offer. These suggestions 
were carried out ; then the students came forward 
with one hundred and fifty additional subscriptions, 
took a hand themselves, and now they have a paper 
to their liking. 



The Medical Society, at a meeting held on Saturday 
night, purchased eight shares in the University 
Gazette, for the purpose of endowing the Medical 
Faculty. The chief objection alleged against the 
constitution of The Gazette is that the ownership 
tends to pass out of the hands of the Undergraduates, 
and we have always urged the students to purchase 
shares, singly or severally, and transfer them to the 
class that is to follow. The Medical Society has done 
a sensible thing, and other similar societies might 
take a hint from its action. 



Deep sympathy will be felt for Dr. Roddick in his 
bereavement, by death, of his wife, which occurred 
on Tuesday last. Every student will join in sincere 
sorrow at the loss that has come to one of their most 
valued teachers. 



76 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Contributions. 



HOLIDAY M USINGS. 

“ Ce qui nous charme s’en va, 

Et ce qui nous peine reste. 

La rose vit une lieure, 

Et le cypres cent ans.” 

Such gloomy doctrine may seem true to the grey- 
lived mortals who return Imagination’s friendly over- 
tures with a frown, but not to those among us who 
are wise enough to entertain her as a welcome guest, 
to revel in her gay allurements, and hang her fairy 
pictures in memory’s hall. 

We have all met people who saw life only on its 
prosy side, to whom — 

“ A primrose by the river’s brim, 

A yellow primrose was to him — 

And it was nothing more.” 

Yes, we have met them and pitied them, almost as 
much as we pity the blind. 

In this much abused old world of ours there are 
thousands of things which, if only seen through 
Fancy’s rose-coloured spectacles, would make, even 
the humblest life, one long, happy, carnival time. 

The very words “ buttercups and daisies,” carry us 
back to childhood, and once more we are straying 
through shady lanes, and our pinafores are filled with 
pretty gold and white treasures. 

A strain of martial music brings a vivid panorama 
of battles lost and won before our eyes, and we feel 
as if we, too, were rushing on to victory — or the 
grave. 

There is always some string in memory’s harp will- 
ing to yield a ready answer to “ Auld Lang Syne,” 
and the New Year’s merry-making at the old home- 
stead comes back to us ; the old chimney-piece once 
more wears its festive robe of holly and mistletoe, 
and all faces smile a welcome to us. And as the 
words — 

“ And here’s a band my trusty frien’, 

And gie’s a baud o’ tbine,” etc., 

are borne to us, we almost feel a hearty “ grip” of 
the dear old friends. 

But the brightest, and most far-reaching of all 
Fancy’s pictures are those she paints on the heavens 
above us. Often, while the sun is vanishing through 
the golden gates of the West, we amuse ourselves 
“cloud gazing.” Then the clouds are no longer such 
to us, but begin to form themselves into strange coun- 
tries, beautiful lakes, and islands, and bonnie Scot- 
land, with her glens and heathered hills. 

Rome and Venice, with their art and romance, and 
Paris, the ever gay and delightful, vie with each other 
in charming us. Till presently, dark clouds, jealous 
of our enchantment, come rolling slowly onward, and 
all our lovely fairy creations are lost in the darkness 
of night. 

Lost — Surely not lost, since the memory of them 
still lingers with us. But even if they be forever 
gone, we have ample compensation given us, for over 
our hidden treasures spring the “ forget-me-nots of 
the angels,” and, if by chance, one star in the East 
shines with greater glory than the rest, we are re- 



minded of a story, old as Christianity, yet ever new. 
All the intervening centuries are swept away as if 
they had never been, and, clasping Imagination’s 
hand tightly in ours, lest in an unguarded moment 
she should escape us, with hurrying steps we follow 
the three wise men of the East towards Bethlehem. 
When the guiding-star stands still we pause with 
bated breath, and then enter the stable. There we 
behold a picture which will never fade while memory 
lasts. 

In a dreamy way we notice all the surroundings. 
We see the dumb brutes affording with their breath 
the warmth which cold humanity denies, we see the 
aged foster-father and the young mother, but our one 
overwhelming feeling is affection for the tender 
blossom who lies on the pallet of straw before us. 
We note the pretty curls that cluster lovingly around 
His brow, as if proudly conscious of the holiness of 
their resting-place, and the dainty cheeks in which 
snow-flake and rose-leaf harmoniously blend. 

Then, with eyes blinded by tears, and though we 
have neither gold, frankincense, nor myrrh to offer, 
i we at last venture to approach, and, while our hearts 
gladly echo the angels’ “ Gloria in excelsis Deo,” 
we stoop and kiss the hand which holds the destiny 
of this wide, wide world clasped in its tiny palm. 

“ Thistle.” 



JRFIctBlll News. 



The Dean of the Faculty of Law is now to wear the 
silk and carry a red bag. This is a matter of con- 
gratulation to Q. C’s. in general rather than to the 
Dean. 

The thanks of the Reading Room Committee are 
tendered to Prof. Darey for copies of the Parisian 
journal Les Annales. 

A tramp to the Athletic Club House, of which all 
students are members, was announced for Saturday 
afternoon, a full account of which will appear in 
the next issue. 



UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

I he general dinner committee of graduates and 
undergraduates have met several times, and almost 
completed the preliminary matters connected with 
the dinner. It is to be held on the 7th February, in 
the V indsor. 1 he tickets will be out in a day or 
two ; and, in view of the new character of this din- 
ner, its distinguished guests, etc., from two to three 
hundred of McGill’s men and women are expected to 
attend. A fuller announcement will be made in the 
following number. 



MEDICAL BRIEFS. 

Ward 31 is hardly recognizable since it has come 
out from the plasterers’ and tinters’ hands. Some of 

the other wards would not suffer from a like treat- 
ment. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



77 



The “ babies of class 90'” were amusing themselves 

lately by throwing Hour bags at each other. 

* 

o . * * 

33 below zero is hard on Englishmen. Their en- 
larged ears demonstrated that our climate was not to 
be sneezed at. 

* 

* * 

We used to think that the late Dean was fairly 
rapid in his lectures, but it takes his successor to give 
the boys writers’ cramps. 

* 

One of the professors was to have lectured Wed- 
nesday fortnight on the epidemic, but the Grippe got 

there a day ahead, and he had to give in. 

* 

>k ± 

If Dr. Sutherland was slow at starting his trep- 
hining operation, the excellent result was a decided 

triumph for his accurate and clear diagnosis. 

* 

* * 

There is not a man in his final years who will not 
look on Dr. Roddick’s recent trouble as a personal 
misfortune. There is no professor more beloved in 
McGill to-day. 

* 

* * , 
Some miscreant stole one of the house-surgeon s 

chairs at Monday’s clinic. The water-coil was, how- 
ever, only 4 feet high, so that the incouvenience was 
not seriously felt. 

* 

* * 

It is too bad that the song which the valedictorian 
sang at the Bleury Street party has been lost to 
history. It is said to have been composed in the 
spirit of the moment. 

* 

* * 

It is rumored that the final men are to be photo- 
graphed, in the reverse of alphabethical order ; so 
that time may be given for the side lights of some of 
the members to develop. 

* 

* * 

Originality, in its way, is a rare and valuable 
quality ; but when applied by the house-surgeons in 
their French discourses to unoffending out-door 

patients, it is very perplexiug — to the patients. 

* 

* * 

Human anatomy can not yet be classed as a popular 
study. One patient pointed to his man-sterni as 
the site of a pain in his stomach, and another to his 
sigmoid flexure as the seat of severe heart pains. 

Nix Forstay. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Whether it is that the air is so filled with feathers 
which the Christmas examinations have set in motion 
as to obscure the stray items of interest that may like- 
wise be floating around, or whether it is that “ La 
Grippe ” has spread a sudden cloud of uneventful- 
ness over student-life ; certainly there is but little 
news to chronicle from the Donalda Department in 
this issue. Perhaps both causes have combined. Ex- 
aminations are never without results, and the Depart- 
ment lias its sick-list. Rumors of future entertain- 
ments are circulating, and it is said that a Sophomorial 



jollification is to take place towards the end of Jan- 
uary. 

A very modern fossil was discovered by the Geo- 
logy class on Tuesday last while engaged in the study 
of the Devonian period. It was disposed of by the 
finder in a manner which assures of its absolute 
future safety. Perhaps some unfortunate, missing 
the companion of his student hours, may be com- 
forted by the knowledge that it has found a legit- 
mate resting place in the museum collection. — (It was 
a pipe.) 

The Ladies class in Astronomy (fourth year) showed 
during the past session, an attendance roll of 100 per 
cent. (Needless to say that there is a reason in the 
background.) 

Miss McFee, B.A., ’88, again frequents her Alma 
Mater as an occasional student. We would remind her 
that the Delta Sigma is always ready to extend a 
welcome to its old members. 



Societies. 



The following have been appointed members of the 
special committee of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society during the present session : H. M. King- 

horn, 4th Arts ; A. H. Hawkins, 4th Science ; G. W. 
McDougall, 3rd Arts; Honeyman, 1st Arts, C. P. 
Ryan, 1st Law. 

An Inter-Collegiate Debate by representative 
speakers from the Diocesan, Wesleyan, Presbyterian 
and Congregational Colleges will be held in the Con- 
vocation Hall of the Congregational College, on 
Friday evening, the 31st January. In addition to 
the Debate, an interesting programme has been ar- 
ranged, including an essay by R. J. MacDougall, who 
will represent the McGill Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting was held on Thursday, Jan. 
16th. The chief item on the programme was an es- 
say by Miss Derick on “ Heroes of the African 
Mission Field.” A grand theme and ably treated. 
Miss Lyman read a story and Miss Mills a short 
poem. 



GLEE CLUB. 

The Ladies’ Glee Club has been progressing well 
under the management of its present energetic com- 
mittee. Through the kindness of a friend and of 
the Principal, the services of Mr. Bohrer as instruc- 
tor were secured early in November. Since then 
weekly practises have been held in the museum, the 
voices having been classified in parts (sopranos and 
altos.) The membership roll has increased to 46. 

There is in process of formation an Inner Glee 
Club, the members of which are to take private les- 
sons from Mr. Bohrer for the purpose of leading in 
the general meetings of the club. Its members are 
to assemble at Mr. Bohrer’s house every Thursday. 



78 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



1890.] 



Personals. 



Ambrose Reade, 3rd year Law student, went to To- 
ronto for his “ Grippe.” 

Mrs. Ross, who was for three years a member of 
the class of ’88, is passing the winter at the Windsor. 

A. E. Harvey, 3rd year Law, is reported seriously 
ill. We trust it is no worse than “ Grippe’s ” hard 
one. 

We are yet in hopes of hearing from D. H. 
Girouard, 3rd year Law. Possibly the prevalent has 
him. 

G. A. Addy, Med. ’90, was elected to represent 
Medicine at the annual dinner of Bishop’s Medical 
School. 

Every student will sympathize with Professor 
Penhallow, the death of whose father has recently 
been learned. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc., has returned to his old 
journalistic habits, and we, as a part of Montreal, re- 
joice in his return. 

ierguson, Law ’88, who passed his final bar with 
so much distinction, is associated in practice with 
Mr. Cruickshank. 

A. I. Mader, Med. ’9 1 , is lying ill in Strong’s Hos- 
pital, with Otitis Media. All the boys hope to see 
him out again soon, completely recovered. 

The Gazette extends its warmest congratulations 
to Greenshields, B.A., B.C.L. ; on the occasion of his 
marriage to Miss Gooderham, of Toronto. 

We sincerely sympathize with W. F. Hamilton, 
first year medicine, whose father, Hon. Robert Hamil- 
ton, of Peterborough, died on last Saturday. 

It was with much warmth of the palmar surfaces 
that Dr. Johnston was greeted on Thursday, when he 
made his first appearance since his illness, to lecture 
to the class in Pathology. 

It is feared thal L. P. McDuffee, of the fourth year 
Aits, will be unable to resume his studies this session. 
For several weeks he has been confined to his room 
by a severe attack of rheumatism. 

Students whose duties take them to the dissecting 
room, missed the hearty presence of Dr. Sutherland 
last week. He was confined to the house with an 
attack of pneumonia. He would have been even 
more severely missed if Dr. Finley and Dr. Birkett 
had not been so well able to meet the earnest solici- 
tations of the Freshmen for “Grinds,” “Demonstra- 
tions,” and “ Certifys.” 



CDorresponbence. 



Editors University Gazette : 

There seems to be an idea prevalent at head- 
quarters that Ihe University Gazette should be 
made simply a newspaper, or in other words “ a re- 
cord of the events occurring in one’s college course.” 
To a limited extent this is desirable. But every col- 
lege paper should also aim at distinction in the do- 



main of literature. The personals, the jests of the 
dissecting room, or the chronological reports of soci- 
ety meetings may be of some interest to the few con- 
cerned ; but by the public, and especially by the 
students of the institutions, who are often undecided 
at what place to complete their education, they are 
little noticed. Among strangers the efficiency of a 
college is judged largely by the journalistic efforts of 
its students. News items, etc. afford no good oppor- 
tunity for such a test. 

Ability to think for one’s self and facility of ex- 
pression should be the two most important results of 
an university training. The occasional class essay 
affords but a very limited scope for the display of 
literary powers ; nor is it calculated to produce that 
originality of thought and literary finish which would 
be sought for the public print. 

To meet this want, 1 consider to be one of the 
most important objects of a college publication. And 
certainly among the hundreds of students who attend 
McGill, there may be found those, who, with respect 
to thought and style would be able to compete suc- 
cessfully with the students of any other university on 
the continent. 

Nor should contributions of this kind be confined 
to the undergraduates. Among our most prominent 
doctors, lawyers and ministers, among our most 
eminent judges and statesmen, among even the lead- 
ers of great political parties are to be found men who 
were educated at McGill. Articles by such men 
would be welcomed by the students, and would cause 
them to take greater pride in their Alma Mater. 

And lastly, why should we not hear from our pro- 
fessors 1 In a large university like McGill it is im- 
possible for them to exert on the students that in- 
fluence which comes from intimate acquaintance, an 
advantage belonging to much smaller institutions. 
Occasionally, indeed, they give paternal advice to the 
members of some college society. But if, through 
the columns of The Gazette, they would employ 
their wisdom in treating of matters of interest to 
students generally, would not the friendly feeling be- 
tween professors and undergraduates be materially 
strengthened 1 J 

In addition to the benefit which would undoubted- 
ly accrue to the students and to the college from the 
following out of these suggestions, The University 
Gazette would become far more interesting to the 
majority of its subscribers. 

Winfred. 



oUUI±jT1. 

Editors University Gazette : 

With the success of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society during the past term, we have no reason to 
be dissatisfied, in spite of the unpleasant restrictions 
under which it sutlers In its management the Gen- 
eral and Special Committees have displayed judg- 
ment and ability ; and the attendance, though not up 
to our greatest expectation, has been good. Under 
the Presidency of Mr. Davidson, numerous reforms 
have taken place, and others proposed. At the be- 
ginning of the year there was evinced a determina- 



1890.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 79 

tion and enthusiasm, the effects of which are to he 



seen in the new constitution, in the petition about to 
be laid before the Curpo ration, and in the debates 
which have been successfully held. 

The new constitution is the completion of a work 
commenced some years ago. Several changes have 
been made, placing the Society on a more independ- 
ent financial footing, and also more closely defining 
the duties of the committees, though thev do not 
materially alter the nature of the Society. The mode 
of procedure in debates has been slightly changed, 
and the rules of order considerably extended. The 
constitution, by-laws, and rules of order will appear 
in small pamphlet form, with a chronological list of 
officers, at the end. 

Those who have followed, with any interest, the 
proceedings of this Society, will doubtless remember 
that last year a petition for the withdrawal of certain 
rules, deemed detrimental to the Society’s efficiency, 
was sent to the Faculty of Arts, and was returned 
with the answer that — “at present it is inexpedient 
to alter the rules now in force.” This petition, with 
little variation, is to be laid before the Corporation 
at its next meeting. 

The ignorant may ask what are the rules so burden- 
some to us 1 The most important is that necessitating 
the submission of all subjects to the approval of the 
Principal at least two weeks before they are to be 
debated upon. What is the result] All subjects 
which have any live interest are struck out ; any sub- 
ject which could arouse the interest of hearers as well 
as speakers is vetoed. In our opinion, it is the aim 
of College life to train one to use the knowledge 
acquired in the class-room in the great events of 
life. 

But if we are to be denied the privilege of discus- 
sing the great issues, not in Canada, but in the other 
Colonies of Britain, and even Britain herself, how 
are we to attain the knowledge necessary in the 
great field of politics 1 

For fear we should turn out violent partisans or 
lest the published reports of our meeting should 
create a bad impression on the minds of McGill’s 
moneyed friends, we are to discuss nought but ques- 
tions a century old, or the advisability of sending an 
expedition for the discovery of Utopia or the City 
of the Sun. 

Mr. Mack, the chairman of the Special Committee, 
has had the disappointment of seeing fifteen subjects 
struck off a list, because they referred to matters now 
or recently attracting the countries’ attention. But 
it is sincerely hoped that the Corporation will view 
this matter in a different light than did the Faculty 
of Arts. 

Thero is one other matter on which we wish to 
touch — that is, the proposed Inter-collegiate Debate, 
which is indefinitely postponed. The Philosophical 
and Literary Society of the Presbyterian College 
accepted our challenge to a public debate early in 
December, and before the examinations all arrange- 
ments were made. As was natural, the speakers 
chosen by our meeting read and studied their subject 
not a little during the holidays and after College 
recommenced. 



But what was their consternation when a note was 
received requesting an “ indefinite postponement,” in 
reality, a cancellation of the debate. 

Now we hear that the same Society has accepted, 
and we suppose intends to accept, an invitation to 
debate in the Congregational College on the evening 
of the seventeenth. Perhaps some learned student of 
philosophy can explain to us the process of reasoning 
that Society will go through to create a sense of hav- 
ing acted generously. Henceforth, our Society will 
conduct itself with more dignity in intercourse 
with the Philosophic and Literary Society just men- 
tioned. 

We trust, however, that, in spite of our failure 
with one Society, we shall be able to arrange a 
public debate for some future occasion, which will, 
we have no doubt, increase the interest of outsiders 
in our Society by bringing it more prominently into 
their notice. 

We hope we have not been sufficiently lengthy 
to draw upon our heads the ire of that courteous 
censor of the ladies, who deems the events of the 
Medical Faculty the only circumstances worth record- 
ing in The University Gazette. 

Wydown. 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

Arts vs. Science. 

The above match, the first of the Inter-faculty 
championships, took place on Wednesday evening, 
and proved to be one of the most exciting matches 
that has been witnessed this year. 

It resulted in a victory for Science by four goals 
to one, but the play was very close all through. 

The teams were as follows : — 

Science. Position. Arts. 

Drummond Goal Donahue. 

Swaille Point Smyth. 

Piuk Cover Point Meighen. 

Russell (Capt.) Forwards Kinghorn (Capt. 

Jamieson “ Fraser. 

Bickerdike “ Fry. 

Walker “ McDougall. 

Mattice “ Walsh (W. E.) 

D. B. Holden, B.A., acted as referee. 

In the first half Science got the best of the face, 
and rushed the puck up to the Arts’ goal, where it 
looked for a few miuutes as if they would score, but 
Donahue relieved his charge, and the puck was trans- 
ferred to the opposite end of the rink, where, after a 
good deal of shooting, Fraser took the first game of 
the match for Arts. Time, 5 minutes. 

In the second game Arts seemed to have the best 
of the play, but after a time the puck was rushed 
up to the Arts’ goal, where the goal-keeper accident- 
ally knocjtfd it through. Time, 7 minutes. Score, 
one all. 

From this to the end of the first half the play was 
about even, and very fast, no more games being 
scored. 



80 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



In the second half Science played up much faster, 
Bickerdike, Russell, and Pink, in turn, scoring. To- 
wards the end of the match, Meighen received an 
accidental blow on the nose, which stopped the play 
for a short time, but there was no rough, and very 
little off-side, play during the match. 

Next Wednesday Science plays off with Medicine, 
to decide the College championship for this session ; 
there is sure to be very fast play, and a large crowd 
ought to come down and see the match. 

McGill Junior Hockey Club. 

The McGill Hockey Club, encouraged by the suc- 
cess of the Junior team in Football, have entered a 
team for the Junior Hockey championship, and great 
hopes are entertained that, with the large number 
of players we have this winter, a team can be chosen 
that will give a good account of itself. 

At a general meeting of the Club, held last Satur- 
day, Lee Walker, Med. ’93, was elected captain of 
the Junior team. 



Exchanges. 

The Christmas number of the Argosy is very credit- 
able to Sackville College, and bears with it a holiday 
flavor of a very pleasurable kind. The number is 
strong in contributions, rather than in material ema- 
nating from the College halls. 

The Student , that comes to us weekly and regu- 
larly from Edinburgh, is rich in the news all like to 
hear from the old University. On several occasions 
we have expressed appreciation and approval of this 
paper, and it still merits the same commendation. 

We have frequent occasion to recommend the Owl , 
the organ of the Ottawa College students, for its ex- 
cellent managemeut and business methods. The 
Christmas number affords us another opportunity of 
expressing appreciation of a paper creditable to Cana- 
dian Colleges. 

The Portfolio, published by the young ladies of 
Hamilton College, has some good editorial writing, 
and recommends the reading of Milton’s Ode on the 
“Morning of Christ’s Nativity” as an appropriate 
exercise of Christmas Day. We consider the 
“ Locals” a valuable source of information on femi- 
nine habits. 

What has become of ’ Varsity ? Not a number has 
reached the sanctum this year, but instead, a rumour 
that its publication would be discontinued. If this 
is the case, it is only another proof of the downward 
progress of Canadian college institutions, leaving no 
charm about a University course except the hard, 
bare facts, that are gained from books and lectures. 

The Acadia Athenaeum, published at the University 
of Acadia College, Wolfville, N.S., has a serious dis- 
cusoion on the problem of aiding students in their 
struggle for an education, and without detracting from 
their independence. It recommends the establishment 
of an employment bureau, by a committee, to whom 
business men might apply who wished to secure the 
services of young men during the summer months. 



The Presbyterian College Journal is worthy of the 
Presbyterian Church, and appeals to a constituency 
far beyond the College walls ; it is really an organ of 
the Church, and of value to every member of it. If. 
shows the students, w ho are one day to be pastors, as 
young men of talent, and of earnest, goodly lives. 
The opening Sermon is one which even a hurried 
editor found time to read, and perhaps to appreciate, 
the dissertation on the Sixty-seventh Psalm — 

“ God bless and pity us.” 

“ Shine on us with Thy face,” shows a deep, spiritual 
perception of the meaning of that penitential poem, 
in which believers ask for pity, with a true sense of 
their sin, with grief and hatred of it, and an appre- 
hension of the mercy of God, to whom they appeal 
in confidence and with hope. The “Talks about 
Books” are so palpably written from one standpoint, 
that they are useless ; literary criticism was long ago 
emancipated from the restraints the writer seeks to 
impose upon himself. We do not know what value 
to assign to his pathological theories, being ignorant 
of his scientific attainments, but we are assured by 
the Medical Editors that his explanation of the causa- 
tion of disease is not generally accepted. He affirms 
that “ Neither God nor man ever made the disease 
germs that fill the atmosphere. God created some- 
thing which sin converted into a disease germ.” 
This is an evolutionary doctrine with a vengeance. 
These germs are living, and if God did not create all 
life perhaps the Journal's reviewer will explain their 
origin. If Darwin has fumbled at the knot, this new 
evolutionist has made a clean cut at it. 



Between the Lectures. 



AN INSPIRATION. 

Speak ! Oh lovely Ann Eliza with a terrible coryza* 

And a wheezing respiration lull of sighs and husky moans, 

With a constant lachrymation and a nasal intonation, 

From catarrhal inflammation o’er the turbinated brain. 

Why! thou young and happy m tiden, is thv conversation laden 
With a copious addition of abortive t’s and d’s ? 

And from whence did vou derive a red and swollen conjunctiva, 
And a frequent inclination to incontinently moan? 

Is this malady outrageous that you >uffcr from contagious, 
Epidemic or endemic ? fell from whe ice the thing arose, 
vV here it s place ot incubation, what it’s future destination, 
opake the lovely Ann Eliza, smiling sweetly, 44 No one nose ! ” 

Who threw the rubber ? E ^ M 

Who stole the “ dish ” from Germany ? 

Where has Shorty’s “ Bear-skin” gone to ? 

“ But their eyes are too small ” — what? Rats. 

What happened the King? Surely the matter 
shall be enquired in to. 

Who is the Freshman who thinks the Trapezius is 
attached to the Cerebrum ? 

Corbin must have gone on an occulistic tour. If 
he walks, it don’t cost much. 

Who has the spastic gait ? Read Flint on Primary 
lateral Sclerosis, page 759. Then guess. 

Some one suggested a phonograph to redeliver 
Prof. D dson’s lectures at “ irritable ” speed. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



81 



Who is the professor that runs a three-legged 
pointer over the held and wins the race ? 

Who is the professor who is hunting for brains'? 
(in the cadaver, though, let it be understood). 

To the “ Dean ” of the first year : “ Where did 
you get that McGinty hat 1 ” ( Vide N. Y. Mercury. ) 

The Dean of the Science Faculty advises his class 
to hurry up and have the “ Grippe,” and get to work. 

It is currently reported that a student, at present 
in College, intends joining the homeopathic fra- 
ternity. 

Cruet stands are at a premium. If you don’t 
think so, ask the fellows who recently bought one — 
at $8 apiece. 

There is a rumour afloat that the next Histology 
demonstration will include some “ Influenza microbes” 
— home manufacture. 

Several very interesting raffles took place last week. 
This is a convenient way of obtaining and disposing 
of cast-off text-books. 

A certain man has resurrected the Antiphlogistic 
treatment, and makes Science victims of “ Grip ” 
eat calomel by the peck. 

It is a long lane that has no turning. Dr. Stewart 
has called the roll in the chemical therapeutics lecture 
and some men were found wanting. 

An ingenious Sophomore suggested compression of 
the carotid artery in pulmonary hemorrhage. Rumor 
says that the good Shepherd turned blue no 
wonder. 

We sympathize with 0. Rexford, 4th year App. 
Sc., who was unable to have his picture taken with 
the football team, on account of a severe attack of 
“La Grippe.” 

“ What a lucky fellow you are ! Surely you must 
have been born with a rose in your lips and a night- 
ingale singing on the top of your head ! ” said a 
scoffer to the sweet singer of the first year. 

It is respectfully suggested to certain third-year 
men that they subscribe for a placard with the 
legend — “Gambling and games of chance strictly 
forbidden” — to be placed in a conspicuous place in 
the Reading-room. 

Mackenzie, of the first year, went to Florida for 
Christmas vacations to hunt alligators, and has not 
since been seen around the scenes of his former 
labours. Some one suggests he has got the gDp 
from the alligator’s jaw. 

The inventive genius who will bring out a portable 
pocket spittoon, will receive the undying gratitude of 
those masticators of the obnoxious weed who have been 
denied their favourite pastime of shooting at bull s 
eyes on the dissecting room floor. 

To the great astonishment of the senior Meds., 
John L. Sullivan and other noted characters m the 
pugilistic line, have decided on taking a spccia 
course on Surgery. There is great doubt, however, 



in the professor’s mind as to the advisability of im- 
parting valuable views, such as he possesses on Sur- 
gery, to gentlemen of such notorious dispositions. 

A certain student considers the remark that “ vol- 
canic rocks resemble doughnuts ” a base insinuation 
against the culinary operations of the household to 
which the speaker belongs. 

(We do not understand this allegation.) 

The curious aping of “ English, you know,” has 
even penetrated to this most plebian college. The 
other day we ran across a youth whom we had known 
four years ago as a rough-and-tumble youngster, full 
of fun and empty of conceit. He was dressed very 
“ heavy English,” and on our enquiring as to what 
he had been doing with himself, assured us that he 
had been “ ovah to Edinburgh faw a yeah, doncher 
know.” 

Philosophers say “ Appetite is the sensation arising 
from the recurrent wants of animal life.” 

Physicists say “Out of nothing nothing comes.” 

Mineralogists say “ Apatite is a phosphate of lime, 
with small quantities of fluoride or chloride of lime.” 

Ignoramus wants some reader to supply the “missing 
link,” connecting the nothingness of a want with the 
very palpable apatite of commerce. 

A Dublin car-driver tells the following good story 
of his first acquaintance with an English High Church : 

“ I wuz walkin’ along the shtreet wan Sunday morn- 
in’, and turned into the first church 1 sees. No sooner 
wuz I inside the door whin the praste he calls out 
< 0 Lord, hev marcy on uz ! ’ and the paples around 
sez, ‘ 0 Lord, presarve uz ! ’ Faix,” sez I, lookin’ 
shtrate at thim, “ Did yez niver see a man from Dublin 
before ?” 

The following erudite problem has been sent in, 
written on paper savoring strongly of sea salt 

Here is an interesting physiological fact, which we 
would like to see explained : Of the presidents of 
the first year, for some years back, there have been 
more Maritime Province men than any other. Why 
is this 1 

Some one suggests the following : 

(a) A president must be a man of brains. 
fb ) Fish is a recognized brain food. 

The freshmen can doubtless come to a conclusion, 
which will reconcile these two facts. 

Editors of the University Gazette : — 

The wedding of two Arts’ graduates of McGill, the 
first event of the kind in the history of the Univer- 
sity, which took place a year ago, induced one of 
the professors to become responsible for a conundrum 
to the effect that one bachelor married another, one 
of whom never was a bachelor, and never can be one, 
yet both are bachelors still. In a reply to congratu- 
lations about her son and heir, the lady-bachelor 
herself says— “ I have taken my new degree of M A.” 
To prevent the professorial chairs from mono- 
polizing the wit of the University, I enclose you 
the joke. 

Yours, etc., 

M. P. M. 



82 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



College lilorlb. 



There are 33 women now studying at the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology. 

At the second examination in Medicine held lately 
at Bombay, a lady, Miss Alice Mackenzie, was at the 
head of the list of successful candidates. 

Miss Emily Stevenson, one of the chief workers on 
the index of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, is a Newn- 
ham girl, who took honors in the moral science 
tripos. 

Russia has fixed doctors’ charges. Physicians 
making $450 per year will get 45 cents per visit; 
others 25 cents. In country towns 10 cents is the 
usual charge. 

Here she is again ! A young lady stands first in the 
competition for the six $800 scholarships at Cornell 
University. What’s the matter Avith the young men 
of this day and generation 1 

In Bates College, Lewiston, Me., the Freshman 
class this year numbers fifty-two, of Avhom thirteen 
are ladies. This excellent co-educational institution 
is increasing every year in numbers and improving 
in scholarship. 

Mrs. Millicent Garrett FaAvcett and her daughter 
have made a joint present of £400 to the National 
Association for supplying Female Medical Aid to the 
Women of India, the money to be spent in founding 
two scholarships for native female medical students, 
one in Calcutta and one in Bombay. 

The Kentucky University at Lexington, has just 
opened its doors to women, owing to the elforts of 
the Kentucky Equal Rights Association. It has now 
twenty young Avomen enrolled. The Southern 
Journal says: “The professors are loud in praise of 
the new students, both as regards their capabilities 
and application.” 

Students of the University of Pennsylvania are 
petitioning against the proposed admission of Avomen. 
This is a striking contrast to the chivalrous behavior of 
the young men at the great English Universities, Avho 
turned out in crowds to cheer Miss Helen Gladstone 
and the girl students, when it was announced that 
women Avould henceforth be admitted to the Univer- 
sity examinations. 

Miss Cornelia Sorabji, a Parsee lady from Bombay, 
has lately entered upon residence at Somerville Hall, 
Oxford, as a student. Miss Sorabji is already a B. A. 
of the Bombay University, and has for some time held 
the position of English lecturer at the college at 
Ahmedabad, lecturing to male students in their first, 
second and third year. She intends during the tAvo 
years she remains at Oxford to read for honors in 
English literature. 

The thirty-tAvo Canadians at Harvard, including 
professors as Avell as students, have recently organized 
themselves into a club. Its object is to promote the 
interests of Canadians who are already at the Univer- 
sity, and also of those Avho may hereafter enter from 
the Dominion. C. W. Colby, Shakspere Gold Medal- 
ist, Arts ’87, is vice-president. We are glad to learn 



that the success, Avhich rewarded him at McGill, still 
smiles upon his efforts. During his three years at 
Harvard, he has Avon felloAvships amounting to over 
$ 1 ,500. Colby intends shortly to prosecute his studies 
in Europe. 

In Russia it has been discovered that female 
medical students often develop revolutionary political 
opinions, “ sentiments umvorthy of their sex,” in the 
vieAV of government, and the new minister of public 
instruction announces a set of regulations for putting 
things in order. First, no medical degree is to be con- 
ferred in Russia on a Avoman Avho has made her 
studies abroad. This Avill do aAvay Avith the Russian 
women students Avho hoav study at Berne and Zurich. 
Secondly, no Russian Avoman is to be admitted to a 
medical degree entitling her to practice publicly until 
she is forty years old. Until that age she may only 
practice as a nurse in hospitable and charitable insti- 
tutions. 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

ERS F0R 180 St. James Street, 

books, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



OTJR ADVERTISERS. 

PAGE. 



Armstrong k Radford, . . .85 

Ashford, C., . . . 86 

Atwater k Co., . . . .72 

Birks, H., k Co., ... 86 

Chapleau & Co., . . . .72 

Clarke, G. W., . . . 86 

Cumming k Brewis, . . .84 

Doughty, A. G., 85 

Drysdale, Wm., k Co., . . .72 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., ... 72 

Featherston, A. M., . . .85 

Gerth, E. A., .... 84 

Gray, Hy. R., . . .84 

Greenshields k Co., ... 72 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 83 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 83 

Jensen, J. L., . , . 83 

Lyman, Sons k Co., ... 83 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . # 85 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . . 86 

Murray, Wm., . . . 85 

MacBean, D. B. A., ... 84 

Me Eli tyre k Son, . . . .72 

McLaren, W. D., . . . 86 

McMaster k Co., ... 72 

Ness, T. W, . . . . 83 

Nightingale, D., . . . .84 

Nordheimer & Co., ... 86 

Notman k Son, . . . .86 

Payne Geo., .... 84 

Periard, A., . . . _ g 4 

Reid, Robert, . . . . 84 

Robertson k Co., . . . .72 

Ross, Hugh, . . . . * 85 

Sharswood, W. H. F., . . .82 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . # g 4 

Summerhayes k Walford, . # 85 

Tarrante, Sami., . . . 85 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



83 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS’ 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type- writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 



R0Y/1D DYE V70RKS, 

706 CRAIG- STREET. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

jnd: chemical apparatus. 

$ tfull $to6k doi)^tki|tly oil Ski]d, Iniported 
Dii'edt ffon\ tl\e I<eadii)£* ^Iknufadtufefd 
of tl\e WoiTd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

aai Furriers, 

229 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 




E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



385 c$3 387 St. BP-A-txh, Street, Montreal 



stoves, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebruteo Hot Whter Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—^•Wholesale Manufacturers* — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



84 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Plioto^raiifiic Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

CUMMING & BREWIS 

117 and. 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL KATES TO STUDENTS. 



A. PEREARD, 




AND 



• • ■ LEGAL STATIONER, • ■ ■ 

2 3 ST. JAMES STREET, 



Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



(Near the Court House,) 



MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

( CORNER LA GA U CHETIEIIE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING . 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Fnrnitnre. 



Tie Modem Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Joot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 
Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 



Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“BRUNO” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Victor ” Banjo. 

Guitars urith Patent Head 
from $5 to $ 50 each . 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each. 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired . 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 



N.B. — Special discount to 
Students. 




E- A. GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEOFGE PAYNE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Blewy Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of tlie Pennine Racing Skates. 

tSPRepairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tattles, & Billiard Supplies, 

m2 NOTRE LAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



85 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

3P. O- Box 1734, - ^Eontrea,l- 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

f&r Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



i BPT Tf OXJI* ( J 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK. 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 



ARMSTRONG 8 RADFORD, 

HaMastim anfi Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's W ear . 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 

\YM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffiwe ifxm amt pat^ 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

(Opposite the English Cathedral,) 

MONTREAT,. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 




1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



The West Enel 

HAIR -DRESSING ADD HAIR - CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as tliis Louse has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Special Discount to Students. 



86 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



WJi N«WN § « 



Photographers, 

STUDENTS’ PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

: : : : PRIVATE GROUPS 

: PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 

COEEEGE VIEW'S, Sfc. 



THE GENUINE 

COOK’S PRIE1TD 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 Bletjry Street, 



MONTREAL. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 28 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion ! 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, T. H. LOVE, 

580 Sl 2482. 1683. Manager. 



O. -A-SIEIIFOIE^ID, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

l^Eontreal Hospital 2 =J Ih_strzDn.a.copceisi, 25c. 

C. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 818 Dorchester St., Montreal. 



44th YEAR. NORDHEIMER’S: ESTABLISHED 1845. 

FIATVOS • • ORGANS 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JTA.IMIES STREET, IMIOTYTTETT! a t ■ 

HENRY B1RKS & CO. J EWELLERS, 

■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c. 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

236 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St . James St reet, Montreal. 

G» W - C. I j AIMv E, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, . Art Metal Ware, • Fine Leather Goods 

ALL KINDS OF KICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 




