The McGill Gazette. 



VOL. Y. VVEDNPISDaY, OCTOBER, 16 th, 1878. No. 1. 



CO N T 

SALUTATORY i ' 

EDITORIAL 2 

A CHRISTMAS CAROI 3 

EDUCATION 3 ! 

FOUNDER’S FESTIVAI 6 

OXFORD IN 1770 7 

CORRESPONDENCE 7 ' 



NTS. 

SPORTING NEWS 8 

PERSONALS 9 

EXCHANGES 9 

OTHER COLLEGES 10 

CLIPPINGS n 

ITEMS 11 



Terms. — /Single Subscrijttion, $1.00 per annum , in advance. Simile numbers, 20 cents . 

For sale at Dawson Bros.'s, Hill's, Drysdalc's, Ashford's and Me Adam's. 

Address, “THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1759, Montreal. 



Professional and Visiting Cards, Arms, Crests and Monograms, 

AND 

“THE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,” 



AT 

J. 1). SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 

College Society Cards and Badges a specialty. Patronage solicited. 



MACMASTER, HALL & GREEN SH IELDS 
Advocates, Barristers, &c., 

No. 181 St. James Street, Montreal. 

L>. Macmaster. John S. Hall, Jun. J . N. Greens hiblds 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

H^TXEnS -A.KTID FURRIERS, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 

GET YOUR HAIR GUT AT HILL’S, 

Queen's Hall Block , - - 1321 St. Catherine St. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 
FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 

Those con tem plat ing.a tour to tropical climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. James 
St., Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRAVERS, 

169 SX. J-A-lVLES ST., 

MONTREAL. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 St. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St 

GOULDEN' S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure for Neuralgic pains in 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, «tc. 

Neuralgine is of great service jin improving weak digestion 
loss of appetite, <fcc 



GENTLEMEN’ S Coats, Pants, fy-c., 
Beautifully Cleaned or Dyed and Pressed 
without shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

706 CRAIG ST., near Victoria Square. 
FIIO TO G R JL C 1 J H AT. 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. ARLESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 




11 



The McGill Gazette. 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET, 

McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

STATIONERY OP ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

Also, allthe Hooks used in McEachran’s Veterinary College. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Hooks, cheap for Cash. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 

Photographers to the Queen , 

17 and 19 BLEURV STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



GROSS’ 

Newly Improved 

Shoulder' rlf races 

OR 

CHEST EXPANDERS, 

Before for 

Wearing. Ladies, Gentlemen or Children, Wearing 

manufactured at the 

CANADA XRTJSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Street. (Established 1856.) 





McGill College Text Books. 



DAWSON BROS. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE, 

ALSO, 



F. GROSS , 

Surgical Iustrument Maker, Inventor and Manufacturer of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross’ 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, &c. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 



A large assortment of Rubber Good)*, Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymnasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clubs, Rheumatic Chains and Belts, 
itc., alwava on hand. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles done with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 



FURS, HATS AND CAPS. 

JOB C. THOMPSON & 00., 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, unci Importers of English Hats , 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which j 
we sell at the very lowest price. We mark all Goods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

Our system works well, as the Public have shown by 
their extensive support since we re* commenced business. 

416 & 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 



STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 

Students’ Note Books, 

Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

159 St. James Street. 

H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 

BANKERS, 

AND 

Kxctiang*e Brokers, 

149 St. James Street, 



Established 1835. 



MONTREAL. 



SUBSCRIBE FOR 

“THE McGILL GAZETTE,” 

$1.00 per Annum , in Advance . 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, Wednesday, October i(j, 1878. 



SALUTATORY. 

r jMIE enforced suspension of the College paper 
during the long vacation would seem to 
render it fittiag that we should make our 
bow on re-appearance, not as the familiar nod 




manner of the formal salute with which we 
honour new acquaintances. As the time for 
publication of the opening number came near, 
we were, to some extent, anxious as to the ad- 
visability of the continuance of the journal, 
but balancing the very evident advantages 
which accrue to the students of a university 
from the possessi jii of an organ in which to 
publish their opinions and chronicle their 
<’oings, and through which to air their griev- 
ances, and the somewhat listless apathy 
characteristic of the reception of previous 
journalistic efforts at McGill, we came to the 
conclusion that, on the whole, it was expedient 
that the McGill Gazette should begone on with. 

o 

We do not desire to moralize upon the duties 
of the students towai’ds the College journal. 
They should, and, we have no doubt will, sup- 
port it, not only with pecuniary aid but also 
with literary assistance. In so doing, we may 
remark, they not only act in the interests of 
the paper, but they al-o make use of an op- 
portunity, than which none better could be 
afforded, of acquiring fluency in composi- 
tion, grace of style and familiarity with jour- 
nalistic effort. As we remarked, we do not 
propose to p reach a sermon on these responsi- 
bilities. They are evident ; we know they 
will be acknowledged, and we trust they will 
be discharged. 

But whilst the students owe something to 
the College journal, the editors are by no 
means devoid of corresponding liabilities to 
the readers of the paper. We thoroughly 
u nderstand that this is the case, and we shall 



endeavour to fulfil our part of the obligation. 
It will be the aim of the editors to produce 
a College newspaper, in the best sense 
of the term, and here the question very 
naturally arises: What is the province of 

such a journal? In the first place we shall 
essay to represent as carefully as possi- 
ble University opinion on the various topics 
upon which that opinion should be ex- 
pressed. W j shall be the medium for the 
interchange of ideas on the part of correspon- 
dents on subjects of import to the University, 
and we will be happy to be able to assist the 
. publication of the literary productions of our 
! own students. Be it understood, however, that 
we do not propose to print every sentimen- 
tal ballad to which a burning muse shall 
give vent, nor to allow our columns to be 
taken up, as many College papers are, with 
articles of no special interest to University 
men, and often of no interest whatever to any 
human beings. Articles on University sub- 
jects, communications on topics affecting Col- 
lege men, items regarding Colleges and 
students, will always be gladly received, and 
we doubt not but that if McGill men 
write frequently and carefully we will be en- 
abled to do credit to our alma mater. Our 
airn, in one word, is to publish a thoroughly 
representative McGill College newspaper, and 
to that end the best energies of the editorial 
staff will be devoted. To the students of Mc- 
Gill we look for that assistance, earnest co- 
operation, and liberal contribution, which we 
think we are justified in expecting. 

It his been the practice in previous years to 
refer to events which have transpired during 
the long vacation in the leading article in each 
initial number. We shall not continue this cus- 
tom this year, but will mention these matters 
in other parts of the issue. We desire for the 
pi’esent merely to invite the aid of our fellow 
students, to crave their indulgence, and to 
assure them that whether our efforts may or 



o 



The McGill Gazette . 



may not be entirely successful, we have un- 
dertaken our task not without some experi- 
ence, certainly aware of the difficulties which 
surround us, and assuredly with an honest 
intention to serve the interests of McGill. 



To the Freshmen we would say a word. It 
is this : Your contributions to our columns 

will he gladly welcomed, and inserted if at all 
suitable. Write when you have something to 
write about, and be convinced that a lenient 
criticism will be extended to your efforts. 



Fair Harvard visits Montreal shortly. 
McGill men have been hospitable enough in 
the past, and we feel confident that our visi- 
tors, who have treated us most generously at 
Cambridge, will be right royally entertained. 



A Letter from a graduate appears in another 
column advocating the abolition of theFounder’s 
Festival, and the substitution in its stead of a 
University dinner. The latter we should like 
very much to see, and, whether the Founder’s 
F estival be dropped or not, we trust that some 
endeavour will be made to call all the alumni 
together to consider the subject. The Liter- 
ary Society might move in the matter. 



The election of office-bearers for the Uni- 
versity Literary Society will take place at the 
Annual Meeting held this month. Without 
desiring to cast any reflections upon the 
selections made in previous years, we would 
urge upon the members the necessity of their 
making a careful choice. The Society is the 
oldest of the University societies, and the one 
which has done the best work, and it is to be 
hoped that influential graduates will be willing 
to serve faithfully, if elected, to positions. Some 
years ago it was the practice for the Arts 
students to form a “ ticket,” which was always 
successfully carried. We would not counsel a 
revival of this custom, with reference to all the 



offices ; but it is desirable that those who hold 
positions, usually filled by Arts men, should be 
selected as far as possible by those whom they 
represent. The second Vice-President, the 
Recording Secretary, and one member of the 
Council, have always been Arts students, 
and we hope that good representatives will be 
found, although we have had no reason to com- 
plain of past selections for these posts. 

Many great and important changes have 
taken place in connection with the University 
since our last appearance, which are deserving of 
a more than a passing notice. Chief among 
these we would refer to the making of the long 
expected change in regard to the Department 
<^f Applied Science, hastened no doubt by the 
exertions of its present Dean. Owing principal- 
ly to the insufficient number of its professors 
and the shortness of its course, this important 
department of Arts has never had full justice 
done it, and its students have had to perform 
an extraordinary amount of work in order to 
complete their course in the allotted time. 
This year, however, every thing has been 
altered, and altered we trust, to the advan- 
tage of the College. The Department has risen 
to the dignity of a separate faculty, the number 
of its professors augmented, and a four years 
course taken the place of its whilom three. 

Mr. G H. Chandler, B. A., who enters upon 
his duties as lecturer in mathematics and 
mathematical physics, is a graduate of the 
University, and like Prof. Duff, whose place he 
fills in arts, obtained the mathematical gold 
medal on graduation. The College authorities 
have always been fortunate in the choice of 
their professors, and that this one has not been 
otherwise, the comments of the students who 
attend Prof. Chandler’s lectures, show most 
plainly. We deem it unnecessary to moralize 
upon the wisdom of such a change, for its 
advantages and utility are apparent to all, and 
when the proposed building for the new 
faculty is ei’ected, we do not doubt but that 



The McGill Gazette , 



3 



the numbers of students taking that course 

o 

will be trebled, and that it shall attain for 
itself a name equal to that held by either 
Medicine or Law. 

The Library of the College has also suffered 
a change, rendered necessary by recent muni- 
ficent bequests, and the continued donations of 
the College Book Club. The lengthening of 
the alcoves has resulted in the formation of 
little rooms, but whether the appeai'ance of 
the building has been improved thereby, wc 
cannot say until the books have been fully 
arranged on the shelves. 

The re-arrangement of the books is still 
going on, but we believe the subject catalogue 
is now far enough advanced to be of use. It 
was proposed during vacation by several of 
the students to plant some ivy at the west end 
of the Arts building, but owing to the sensi- 
tiveness of this plant, and the severity of our 
winters, the proposition had unfortunately to 
fall through. We miss William, our worthy 
janitor’s assistant, who, on clit, has be- 
come a Benedict, and gone to Manitoba, where 
may prosperity attend him. Little else of 
change is to be observed. The College still 
presents the same old familiar appearance, 
while the grounds, cared for by the Faculty, 
are in the very best condition for Foot 
ball. 

000 

ADIEU. 



His Excellency the Earl of Dufferin leaves 
Canada on Saturday ; followed, it is superfluous 
to say, by the heartfelt “ God-speeds ” of every 
inhabitant of the Dominion; but regretted and 
loved bv none more sincerely than by those 
who are able to appreciate the Macsenas-like 
patronage extended by the noble Earl to Arts, 
Literature and Science. Canada owes to Lord 
Dufferin a debt not soon to be forgotten. God 
bless him 1 



THREE FRESHMEN. 



A CHRISTMAS CAROL. 



Three Freshmen strutted up into the hall — 

Up into the hall as the clock struck nine ; 

Each thought of the points that he couldn’t recall, 
And the Prof, in his specks looked grimly benign ; 
For Fresh, must swot and Junior must cram, 

And professors on both, like wolves on a lamb, 

Come down with a terrible thinning. 

Three cribs came out of three innocent sleeves — 

Three papers slid down on the tables of wood ; 

But the way that the questions were not in the leaves, 
Was very much stranger than “Edwin Drood.”* 

For Soph, may crib, and Fresh, may cram, 

But the Prof, can distinguish the goat from the lamb, 
And knows how to manage his thinning. 

Three birds we style by the title “pluckee,” 

Walked out of the hall with a sorrowful smile, 

And the Prof, glared over his specks in glee, 

At those he knew had succumbed to his guile : 

For Fresh, may crib, and Junior may cram, 

But to the Professor he’s only a lamb 

That Heaven intended for thinning. 

♦The Mystery of Edwin]Drood— l3ickem 
000 

EDUCATION. 



(A Paper read before the University Literary Society, Octo- 
ber, 1878, by Mr. Hall.) 

In laying before you this evening a few 
thoughts, I would ask your forbearance with 
the subject I have chosen. It is that of a 
plea for education. 

So much has been written upon the subject 
that it may seem to have been exhausted. Its 
importance and advantages, however, will 
permit of their repetition. 

No doubt, to most of you here these have 
been fully realized ; but if, by calling attention 
to the subject again, more enthusiasm and 
earnestness can be awakened in its study, a 
good purpose will have been served. 

Within the past century the advancement 
and development of the people of the world in 
civilization, in ideas of government, in thought, 
in knowledge, in fact in every department, 
has been rapid — almost abnormal ; it has been 
greater than that of any previous century, and 
perhaps of many centuries taken together. 

The various strains (if I may u«e the word) 
in this development have been correspondingly 
great in proportion to its rapidity. We have 



4 



The McGill Gazette. 



to guard against its being greater than can be 
borne. 

It will not be necessary to discuss the 
merits of the development, or to plead its 
benefits, or to dilate upon its bad effects. It 
will be quite sufficient to bear in mind the 
fact, and then consider by what means it can 
be borne and preserved. At least it should 
be our object to prevent anything in the 
nature of a retrograde movement, or permit the 
present development to cause injury. We 
should provide for it a staple basis, whence 
secure as to the present it might advance in 
the future. In considering this development, 
there is at least one prominent feature which 
commands our attention, and that is, to what 
extent, is our safety and existence imperilled, 
or to what extent will they be, by the future 
progress of our age ? 

Our safety and existence will depend upon 
our government, and the government upon 
our ability, our intelligence, our education. 

For the purpose of discussion we may 
divide the question of government into two 
heads, the one social or political and the other 
that of the individual. Though the qualities 
of the latter are included in the former, the 
general exercise of the two differ slightly; while 
the illustrations and experience from political 
government, being more conspicuous, will bene- 
fit us in dealing with questions affecting the 
government of the individual. 

In enquiring into the ordinary present 
political government we must briefly notice 
its growth and change ; a change from people 
governed by one or a few, to that of a people 
governed by a representative or chosen body : 
a change from government by force or arms to 
that by reason and persuasion. 

In early days, one might say, the populace 
obe\ ed through fear. The ruler ordered, and his 
orders were obeyed. He had under his control a 
body to compel obedience if necessary. Many 
persons in those days, viewing the character of 
the subjects or individuals, no doubt thought 
and believed, that only by sm h compulsion could 
order be sustained, and the common safety of all 
secured. 

No doubt they also thought that any change 
in that order of government implied insecurity 
and lawlessness,— in other words, that the 
people could not be governed by themselves, 
by their own intelligence ; that the moment 
the idea of fear were removed, the people could 



not be restrained, and the weaker individuals 
would be crushed. 

Time and the growth of the intelligence of 
the people has worked a change. The number 
of the governing body has been increased. 
They are chosen by the people. The people 
obey through reason. They have become edu- 
cated in the principles of social government. 
These principles have been made a study, and 
the best of them have been grouped together to 
foim a constitution because they are good. In 
this all have joined, and all are mutually bound 
to maintain it. Some of these principles may be 
found injurious in theirworking; if so the injury 
is usually borne, and if necessary a remedy 
sought by the method which first set the original 
principle working. 

The alarmists of old who thought the}" saw 
destruction and annihilation in this change of 
mode of government, would be perhaps con- 
founded in seeing its realization. It has been 
realized, but only through the education and 
intelligence of the people. It has even passed 
through many crises. 

We have lately seen in the United States 
in this respect as great a crisis as can be 
imagined. The people of that country were 
divided into two great, and what is a more 
important circumstance, evenly divided parties; 
each struggling for ascendancy and the acqui- 
sition of the greatest position, the Presidential 
seat. They each were imbued with the highest 
motives that could impel men, — patriotism and 
the desire to secure what they c< nsidered 
right and good for the government. (I of 
course in a general view lose sight, as I think 
ought to be done, cf the evil motives 
attributed to each party.) 

We have seen this struggle close and the 
excitement of the people subside ; though easy 
it might have been to have thrown the 
country into a civil strife. No violence or 
force was used, and each party accepted the 
situation, and the government of the country 
went on. 

In I ranee, too, quite recently we had a 
similar illustration. There appeared a deadlock 
in the political machinery of the country. A 
revolution seemed imminent, but was averted ; 
though in the case of this country we know it 
would have been a very easy matter to have 
plunged the country into civil strife. 

In both these cases the intelligence, and 
education of the people in the principles of 



The McGill Gazette. 



5 



government rose supreme, and the existence 
and safety of the community was secured. 

To pass now to the discussion of the 
government of the individual members of the 
community, we enter a wide and more difficult 
field. 

To discuss by what motives men are 
governed in their actions, or on what principles 
they obey, would be unnecessary for my 
present purpose. All we require to investigate 
is whether there has been any change in the 
basis of motives, and what we may fear from its 
results, or how such a change can be directed 
by education. It may be safely stated that a 
general motive has been a religious one. A 
man’s conduct has been guided by his religion; as 
revealed to him, or taught to him by one who 
has made the matter a study. A man has 
done right because he believed it to be right, 
and because in doirnj wrong he would suffer 
punishment in this life or in a life to come. It 
is in the shifting of the nature, or order of this 
punishment that to some our common safety 
and existence is threatened. 

We had in earlier clays a very strong 
definition of this punishment, or hell. The 
definitivjn was taken from the Bible, but 
through its many expositors the definition has 
been subject to changes. Some men have 
denied, some have modified its previously 
defined character ; these latter, too, among 
theologians. Recently we heard its awful 
character, being questioned by an able theolo- 
gian in Toronto, officially in his church, and 
its previously conceived nature modified. 
Other theologians have discussed it both here 
and in the United States, while quite recently 
the subject has caused a marked interest, 
from two sermons delivered at orthodox 
Westminster Abbey. Is this discussion going 
to prove dangerous in its results, can these be 
avoided, or is there any cause of alarm ? 

As to the result of the discussion, I was 
much struck with a story, related by way of 
satirical argument, which appeared in one of 
our newspapers a few mornings ago. The 
story related a conversation between two 
negroes. One of them purported to read from 
a newspaper a statement to the effect that 
there was no hell ; the other, after a few 
remarks, expressed an opinion that if such 
were the case, every second house would be a 
court house with jails between them. Such 
an argument appears to be the only one the 



alarmists can use, and is shown in its full 
force. The two negroes are uneducated men. 
It is they alone whom the alarmists fear. 
Abolish hell with all its old concomitants, and 
all security is gone. I he country will be filled 
with lawless men. They have only 1 een kept 
within bounds, through fear; remove this and 
all is gone. 

But these men are only the unfortunate 
ignorant ones, and hell or punishment is not to 
be abolished. Its character may be changed. 
The educated have already admitted the change. 
They have be< n doing right, not through fear, 
but from reason. It is the knowledge ac quired 
by education, and by religion if you will, that 
causes them to do right, because of the ill results 
that would follow to their fellowmen, and the 
punishment or ill they would suffer themselves. 
If, then, there is nothing to fear from the edu- 
cated, the remedy as to danger from the un- 
educated is known. Educate them in the 
principles of government ; give them enlighten- 
ment. The mind well trained or moved to 
thought is all that is wanted. With this, too, 
their road through life will be easier. They 
will have risen from a state of bondage or 
slavery, from a state wherein their action was 
guided by fear, to a state of freedom, — to a 
state wherein their action will be guided by 
intelligence. 

There is much yet which might be said on 
the particular advantages accruing to the 
individual from education. 

It is a very difficult thing to define 
education and its limit, or how far study 
may be necessary. 

The age is one of division of labor, and 
many are prone to neglect a study, because 
attainment in it seems impossible. 

The age is also (if one may use the word) 
too precocious. Young men are too eager 
to enter active life in satisfaction of 
those desires which are too often of empty 
enjoyment. In active life the young man is 
thrown on his own resources, in too many 
cases, with an undeveloped mind, immature 
powers of judgment, and lacking power of 
discretion. He may break down and become 
a failure, he may succeed and attain his end, 
but yet what enjoyment has he there propor- 
tionately to what he might have had ? 

We all agree in placing the limit of edu- 
cation at least at school. After this we differ. 

The young man entering mercantile life 



6 



The McGill Gazette. 



sees no necessity in further education. He 
admits the necessity only in case of persons 
seeking a profession 

The early stages of each life differ but 
little. Both the professional man and the 
merchant have their bread to earn, and the 
time of each is generally devoted to the 
special pursuit he has chosen towards his 
maintenance. 

For the professional man then — and we j 
may say the same of any other — education 
should not end at school. Here only elemen- * 
tary knowledge or details of subjects, often 
too tedious in themselves, are learnt, and this, 
too, from persons teaching various subjects. 

The limit should at least be placed at the 
ordinary University education, or where the 
mind has been moved to thought itself. One 
may safely say all in this country can afford 
University education. Here the student first 
realizes the benefit of his school or elementary 
training ; subjects, too, now become more inte- 
resting. They are laid before him in all their 
range and in relation to one another. Here, 
too, his instructors are men devoted to their 
special subject ; they lay the subject before 
him in such a way as to awaken thought. 
And though the student may not be able to 
acquire or may not have acquired complete 
success in all or any subjects his mind 
will have received a healthy exercise ; his 
powers of mind will have been awakened ; 
the mind will have been stored with food, from 
which in hours of leisure he may draw upon. 
And it is this store which appears to me to be 
of the most advantage, and one in which all 
may join, whether merchant or professional. 

When one takes a slight survey of the 
world and nature, and sees the hours of leisure 
and ease frittered away ; when we see retired 
merchants, men of wealth, or those in declining 
years, pining a life away with almost sterile 
minds waiting for the last moment; and when 
we see nature, science and truth asking and 
awaiting in vain their several investigators, we 
may well seek some means to bring the laborers 
to the vineyard. 

Give every one an education — a mind 
awakened to the sense of its responsibility, 
incited to thought, pushed out of its narrow- 
ness, and incited to investigation. He will 
thus, in the ordinary course of events, be able 
to cope with questions that may arise. He 
will make a better component part of the govern- 



ing body ; he will be a better member of society. 
As an individual he will be happier. No matter 
whether merchant or professional, in hours of 
leisure or in declining years, incapable in many 
ways having laid by a store, he may draw 
upon it for food, and be of service to his fellow- 
men in investigating and following up the many 
hidden paths of knowledge. And at last he 
will have found, without investigating into the 
future, that this life has been worth living for ; 
and not without a purpose he will have assist- 
ed no matter how little, in any development or 
advancement in the world there may be, and 
by his own intelligence will be able to bear it 
and cause it to be borne by others without a 
break or without the security of the community 
being imperilled. 

000 

FOUNDER’S FESTIVAL. 

Air— “ Slave Chase.” 

Come sing we now right merrily the praise of old McGill, 

To the honour of its Founder, full bumpers let us fill, 

Let all our voices join, his merits to extol, 

Who to Academus’ shades has left free access to us all ; 

Nay ! let there none be lacking whilst thus our praises ring — 
But let each one a loyal heart to Alina Mater bring ; 

Chorus — 

For ne’er inside our honoured walls has he a place to fill, 

Who brings not fame and credit to the Founder of McGill . 

But once a year we gather and celebrate the day, 

In song, good cheer and gladness, and hearty student’s lay ; 
Old friends we meet and welcome back, with jovial hearts 
once more, 

For they bring to fond remembrance the happy days of yore. 
So the day we e’er shall cherish, which unites us to the past ; 
And in the hearts and minds of all, long may its memories last ; 

Chorus — 

But n’er inside our honoured walls has he a place to fill, 

Who brings not fame and credit to the Founder of McGill. 

Then in three hearty ringing cheers our voices we’ll upraise, 
And sound the honour of McGill and our old Founder’s praise ; 
Wide may all our Collegians’ fame abound thro’ out the land ; 
And may our friends both far and near extend a bounteous 
hand ; 

That the students of some future years may richer blessings 
reap, 

And worthier of our Founder his festal day may keep ; 

Chorus — 

But n’er inside our honoured walls has he a place to fill, 

Who brings not fame and credit to the Founder of McGill . 



The McGill Gazette . 



7 



OXFORD LIFE IN 1770. 



The London Quarterly in a review of the 
life of Martin Joseph Routh, the venerable 
President of Magdalen College, Oxford, gives 
the following picture of life at that University 
in 1770 : 

“The University life of 1770 presented even 
a greater contrast. The undergraduates rose 
early, but spent their daj r s in idleness. Practi- 
cally, the Colleges were without discipline. 
Tutors gave no lectures. It is difficult to 
divine how a studiously-disposed youth was to 
learn anything. ‘ I should like to read some 
Greek,’ said John Miller, of Worcester, to his 
tutor, some thirty years later. ‘ Well, and 
what do you want to read ? ’ ‘ Some Sopho- 

cles.’ ‘ Then come to-morrow morning at nine 
o’clock.’ He went, and read a hundred lines ; J 
but could never again effect an entrance. This 
state of things was effectually remedied by the 
Examination Statute and by the publication 
of the class-list ; but neither came into effect 
till the year 1801. The dinner-hour was 2 ; 
and for an hour previous, the impatient shout 
of ‘ Tonsor ! tonsor ! ’ was to be heard from 
every casement. The study, or inner room, 
was reserved for the ‘ powdering.’ Blue coats 
studded with bright buttons, shorts and 
buckles, was the established costume. A pas- 
sage from Scripture was read during dinner. 
At 8, all supped on broiled bones and beer. 
There was not to be seen till long after a 
carpet in a single Oxford common-room. What 
need to add that undergraduates were without 
carpets ? The ‘ dons ’ frequented some adjoin- 
ing tavern or coffee-house. Mr. Wyatt’s pre- 
mises in High Sti-eet (known at that time as 
* Tom’s Coffee House ’) were the favorite resort 
of seniors and juniors alike. The undergradu- 
ates drank and smoked in the front room 
below, as well as in the large room overhead 
which looks down on the street. The older 
men, the choice spirits of the University, form- 
ed themselves into a club which met in a small 
inner apartment on the ground-floor (remem- 
bered as ‘the House of Lords’), where they 
also regaled themselves with pipes, beer and 
wine. The ballot boxes of the club are pre- 
served, and the ancient Chippendale chairs 
(thanks to the taste of their present owner) 

V 



still stand against the walls. Drunkenness was, 
unquestionably, at that time, the prevailing 
vice of Oxford. Irreligion reigned ; not un- 
rebuked, indeed, yet not frowned down, either. 
It would be only too easy to produce anecdotes 
in illustration of both statements. Should it 
not be remembered, when such discreditable 
details are brought before our notice, that our 
Universities perforce at all times reflect! the 
manners and spirit of the age ; and that it is 
unreasonable to isolate the Oxford of 1770 from 
the England of the same period ? The latter 
part of the eighteenth century was a coarse 
time everywhere ; and the low standard which 
prevailed in Church matters outside the Uni- 
versity is but too notorious. Only because her 
lofty traditions and rare opportunities set her 
on a pinnacle apart, does the Oxford of those 
days occasion astonishment and displeasure.” 

ooo 

CORRESPONDENCE. 



To The Editor of the McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sir, — I believe that it is proposed by 
some to continue the Founder’s Festival this 
yeai'. In my opinion, and in that of many 
others, this Institution should be abandoned. 
It is costly and expensive ; its arrangement is 
troublesome, and when it is gotten up, nobody 
enjoys it save a few fossilized old maids and 
sundry conceited graduates, proud to display 
their robes. The students, as a rule, do not 
patronize the show, although they subscribe as 
a matter of duty, and I hold that it is not 
right to ask a man to pay two dollars for the 
double privilege of enjoying ice-cream and 
coffee, combined with a little third-class music. 
If we want to have a festival in which the 
students will really join, let us celebrate the 
day with a ball, or better still, with a grand 
dinner, at which both graduates and under- 
graduates will attend. In conclusion, I will 
withdraw my proposition if any three alumni 
will come out over their signatures and declare 
that they ever really enjoyed a Founder’s Fes- 
tival. My recollections of those I was com- 
pelled to attend are of a very dismal character. 

Yours truly, 

Graduate. 



8 



The McGill Gazette. 



SPORTING. 



FOOT BALL. 

It is to be regretted that many of the best 
men on last year’s team have left the Uni- 
versity. Ross, Scriver, Nelson, Rogers, the 
Taylors, Torrance and Abbott, men who had 
often done yeoman service on the foot ball 
held, are not with us this Session. The team 
has thus been considerably weakened, yet 
we trust that the men who remain and those 
who have come to College this fall will, 
by zealous practice and careful training, make 
up for the loss which the club has sustained. 
We regret that there are rumours of slight 
jealousies existing in the club and we would 
urge upon the members the sinking of such 
feelings, and hearty co-cperation for the 
season’s play. We do not imagine that the 
team will be as strong this year as it was either 
in 76 or in;77,but our players should remember 
that McGill has defeated the town for four 
successive years, and should try to sustain the ! 
honour of the college. We would impress 
upon the Freshmen the advisability of their 
practising foot ball. They may not be able 
to excel in their first season, but they must 
look a year or two ahead. The team should be 
at once put in training. Every man who can 
play should be up at practice, as the team can 
only play together when there is a team to 
oppose them. The Captain’s duty is to see to 
this, and we sincerely trust that no match 
will be attempted unless the men are in fair 
practice and good condition. 

The foot ball season opens to-morrow with 
the annual match between the Freshmen and 
the High School. A good game is expected, and 
as the several upper classes have always won this 
match when in their Freshman year, it behoves 
the class of 62 to do their utmost, and endeav- 
our if possible to follow in the steps of their 
predecessors. That the match will be played 
to a successful issue we have no doubt, for the 
College team have had considerable practice 
lately, playing on several occasions against all 



comers, and, although not always successful 
owing, doubtless, to the weight and size 
of their opponents, they have shown that 
they are at least capable of making vigourous 
efforts to obtain a victory, and where the 
desparity is much lessened they will give an 
excellent account of themselves. The follow- 
ing compose the team : Skaife (Capt.), Rielle, 

Green, Thomas, Stirling, Belcher, Chaffee, 
Cains, Fry, Reid, Hague, Shipperley, Cock- 
field, Low, and Gnaedinger. 

CRICKET AND BASE BALL. 

During the summer there was constant 
practice at cricket, and a little at base ball, 
which is, unfortunately, perhaps, a rai’e sight to 
our Lower Canadian eyes. Cricket is a game 
the season for which fills our vacation, on which 
account it can hardly be made a regular College 
game; and although the club which was formed 
in the spring acted as a stimulus to those 
of the students who prefer it above foot ball, 
the practice was after June kept up only 
by those who reside in town and who mainly 
composed the eleven which played in its 
matches. Base ball had many admirers among 
the Medicals, and those of them who took the 
Summer Course took this occasion to enjoy 
themselves with their own especial game. 
Matches of both clubs were played, but the 
defeats about balanced the victories. 

THE ANNUAL SPORTS. 

At a general meeting of the Ai'ts and Science 
students held last week, the following gentle- 
men were chosen to represent them on the 
Committee of Management for the Athletic 
Sports : Holton H. Wood, 79 ; R. J. B. Howard, 
79; W. C. Skaife, ’80 (Sc.) ; and F. Weir, ’8L 
llie Medicals have chosen Messrs. Sutherland 
and McCulley, and Messrs. Atwater, McGibbon 
and Lane, will represent Law. 

I he day fixed for the sports to come off is 
Wednesday October 23rd. Below we give the 
list of games as decided upon by the Com- 
mittee :* 

MORNING. 

1. Kicking the Foot ball 

2. Running Jump (without weights). 

3. Putting weight. 

4. Running Hop Step and Jump. 

5. Throwing Cricket Ball. 

6. Running High Jump. 



The McGill Gazette , 



9 



AFTERNOON. 

1. Half Mile. 

2. Hurdle Race (120 yards). 

3. Walking Race. 

4. 100 Yards (1st heat), 
o. Relief Race. 

6. 100 Yards (2nd heat). 

7. Mile 

8. Quarter Mile (championship of University). 

0. Tug of War (Medical vs. Sister Faculties). 

10. Steeple Chase. 

Nos. 7 and 8 of the afternoon programme 
are open only to undergraduates of McGill. 
The others to all students (partial or regular) 
of McGill, or any other recognized University. 

ooo 

PERSONALS. 

A. McGoun, B.A., B.C.L., is wintering in 
Paris. 

A D. Taylor, B.A., B.C.L., is doing like- 
wise. 

’78 E. T. Taylor, B. A., is in the Military Col- 
lege, Kingston 

’78 F. Torrance, B A., is in the Agricultural 
College, Guelph. 

’74 Win. Ewing, M. D , is practising in 
Hawkesbury, P. Q. 

’75 J. A. Jamieson, M.D., is practising his 
profession in Howick, P. Q. 

’77 J. C. McCorkill, B.C.L., is practising law 
inMontrealas partner of F. J. Keller, B.C.L , ’69. 

’75 Hugh A. Bain, M.D., is surgeon on one 
of the largest vessels of the Royal Mail Line 
between Montreal and Liverpool. 

’76 C. N. Stevenson, M.D., is practising in 
the citv, having returned from L’Orignal 
where he has been residing since ’76. 

’81 John H. Rogers, holds the lucrative post 
of Principal of Lacolle Academy. He intends 
returning next year and entering '82. 

’69 Mr.Frank J. Keller, B.C.L., was married 
on the 10th inst., to Miss Miles, of Quebec. 
We tender the happy couple our felicitations. 

’80 Sidney Hunton, who obtained the Gil- 
christ Scholarship, has gone home to pursue 
his studies at London University according to 
its requirements. 

’74 Dav. Rodger was in Montreal this 
summer for a few days, and has now returned 
to the North-West, where he is engaged in 
subduing the primoeVal wilderness with the 
theodolite and chain. 



OUR EXCHANGES. 



The Harvard Advocate we heartily con- 
gratulate upon its initial number. ‘ The Week,’ 
which has always been a pleasing feature, is 
especially well conducted. Its review of the 
doings of Harvard during vacation is very 
nicely conceived, and the tribute to the Class 
of ’78 well deserved and gracefully tendered. 

“ Two Freshmen ” is rather mediocre, and “ A 
Blighted Hope ” neither witty nor interesting, 
but the remainder of the reading matter, both 
] toe try and prose, ranks decidedly above the 
average. The tout ensemble of the paper is 
very creditable to “ Fair Harvard,” and an en- 
tire absence of that vulgarity and twaddle 
which form the staple of so many American 
College papers is only what we expect from 
our Cambridge contemporary. 

The Crimson is more lively and newsy 
than the Advocate and a comparison of 
the first numbers of each would, we think, 
result in a verdict in favour of the Crimson, 
Its rebuke to the bombastic spread-eagleism 
of the New York Aldermen, on the occasion of 
the return of the Columbia crew from Henley, 
is to the point ; although, as the Crimson re- 
marks, the sentiment among College men is 
that* the Columbiaboys have done a big thing.” 
The poetry of the Ci'imson is pretty, and the 
subjects of the poems unhackneyed. “Thoughts 
on returning to College ” are cleverly expres- 
sed, and the concluding thought we would re- 
commend to that class of our own men which 
affects an intense superiority over their junior 
confreres. “ Well, we have all been Freshmen 
once, so we should look with kindness upon 
those who are now in that condition,” “ Th e 
‘‘ Waiters” is below par; “Prosiness” good; the 
“ Sporting Coluirfn,” a capital institution, and 
“ Brevities” fairly interesting. 

The Bowdoin Orient, bar the rather gaudy 
cover — requires little notice. The contents 
of the number before us are intensely local — 
not such an unpardonable fault, however,— and 



IO 



The McGill Gazette . 



the Orient cannot in reason expect its ex- 
changes to pass an opinion on the accounts of 
concerts, class-day exercises, and the puerile 
antics of its students, all of which are care- 
fully recorded. 

Were we to derive our impressions of 
Bowdoin from the perusal of “ The Burial of 
Analytics,” we should inevitably set it down as 
an asylum for those of disordered mind, or as 
a refuge for crazy school -boys. “The burial,’’ 
the Orient says, “ was expected to be ‘ quite 
an occasion.’” “Freshmen grotesquely attired,’’ 
“howling vespilliones,” “the war dance,” “lugu- 
brious incantations,” are expressions used in 
the article which cause the uninitiated toinquire. 
What is this burial ? It must be something 
extraordinary, for the Orient felicitates the 
Class on the success of the exercises. As far as 
we can judge, the Bowdoin students are given, 
on certain occasions, to a habit of making 
ridiculous exhibitions of themselves, and we 
shall continue to think so until we ascertain 
the reason for the infantile capers to which we 
have referred. 

The Dartmouth appears to better advan- 
tage this year than in the days gone by. Its 
poetry, however, is still peculiarly sentimental, 
and we would advise our contemporary not to 
foster the struggling poetaster, whose “Close of 
Day” is the one bad feature of the issue of Sept. 
19th. To make use of the words of this 
genius: 

“ If we’d but set aside each day so brief 
To rescue others from the path they plod.” 

We feel convinced that it would be well spent 
time were the editors of the Dartmouth to 

“ To set aside one day so brief.” 

and endeavour in that time to persuade this ex- 
cruciating poet to abandon this branch of liter- 
ary enterprise. Otherwise, the Dartmouth is 
neatly gotten up, though we might suggest that 
a better arrangement of its “locals” is possible. 

The Yale Record is readable enough, the 
principal feature being a super-abundance of 



pithy items. The exchange column is well 
written, and although the Record is hardly up 
to the standard of the Harvard papers, it yet 
bears evidences of being carefully edited. 

ooo 

OTHER COLLEGES. 

— o — 

106 Freshmen this year at Princeton. 

Lafayette College Freshmen number 80. 

The Wellesley campus contains 300 acres. 

American college song — “ Hail Columbia.’ 

President Raymond, of Vassar College, is 
dead. 

The Harvard gymnasium when finished will 
have cost $50,000. 

Coloured students are debarred from entering 
the Medical School at Columbia. 

A Harvard professor was drowned at Cape 
May this summer while bathing. 

Miss Kate A. Sanborn, the authoress and 
lecturer, is lecturing at Dartmouth. 

Yale mourns the death of one of her crew 
who was drowned during vacation. 

With an income of $1,000,000 Oxford ex- 
pends $500,000 in scholarships and fellowships. 

There are 233 Freshmen at Harvard, 198 
having passed in June and 35 more in Sep- 
tember. 

Twenty-six ladies graduated at the last 
Commencement of the New York Medical 
College for Women. 

99 Freshmen entered at Amherst. The Base 
Ball Association will manage a course of lec- 
tures during the winter. 

The Yale Literary Magazine offers a gold 
medal, valued at twenty-five dollars, for the 
best-written essay. 

The Yale Record says: “The present 

Freshman class is said to be the biggest and 
cheekiest class ever seen ’neath the elms.” 
Brace, Sophs ! ! 



The McGill Gazette , 



1 1 



The Dartmouth bewails the abolition of 
< cane-rushing,’ and thinks it should be revived 
for the good of the College. 

At Yale any upper-Classman detected mo- 
lesting a Freshman is to be dropped into the 
next lower Class, no matter how high his 

standing. 

© 

The Dartmouth says: By a new rule of 

the Athletic Association, any man in order to 
take a p>ize, must beat any previous record 
he has made. 

Trinity College claims to have a man who 
has made the best amateur running broad 
jump on record. Distance, 20 feet 11 inches. 
We are tolerably certain that this jump has 
been beaten in Montreal. 

Colby ’82 numbers 60 members, three of 
whom are ladies. Thirty-two of the Class 
have joined the Young Men’s Christian Asso- 
ciation of the College. We wonder — but never 
mind, it mightn’t be proper to enquire. — 
Dartmouth. 

Thirty-seven of the class of 80’ aspire to be 
Cornell Era editors. The Era assures them 
that there is absolutely nothing to do, and 
that past history shows that every editor re- 
tires with a comfortable fortune at the end of 
his term of office. 

A Cornell graduate affirms, in the New 
York Tribune, that his annual expenses while 
in College were thirty-four dollars and six 
cents for board, and one dollar and fifty cents 
for washing. The quantity of “ boiled linen ” 
worn at Cornell must be enormous. 

000 

CLIPPINGS. 



There was nothing but a plain slab at the 
head of the mound, but the simple inscription 
up >n it tells its own sad story : “ He was um- 
pire in a close game !” — Ex. 



One does not desire to be personal, but if 
the young man who sat in the chair where a 
lady had left a dish of maple sugar to cool at 
the festival the other evening will return the 
saucer he will save himself further trouble. — 
Ex. 

Scene, — Recitation room in Natural History 
Instructor. — “Mr. X., — Have you ever put your 
head down on auv one’s breast and listened to 
the heart-beats as Huxley describes them ?” 
Mr. X. (blushing) — “Yes, sir.” Class woods 
up. — Ex. 

This comes from Michigan University : 
Senioress translating : “ Wir sind von keinem 
Mannes Herzen sicher.” " We are sure of 
every man’s heart.” Prof. — “ Not correct. 
Try again.” Senioress. — “ We are safe in every 
man’s heart.” Prof. — “ Hardly.” Senioress 
i (blushing). — “ We are sure of no man’s heart.” 
Prof. — “ Correct.” — Ex. 

ooo 

ITEMS. 



Lots of “ bobbies ” will be wanted at the 
games. 

Second year men have no lectures in Mathe- 
matics until the middle of November. 

Science students had to send in a report of 
| the work they were engaged in during the 
summer. 

Students are requested to attend the 
morning practices in Football with the Brit- 
annias. 

Class Offiicers of ’82, President, A. B. 
Chaffee, jr. ; Secretary, N. T. Rielle; Captain, 
L. Skaife. 

A. McGibbon, Jr., ’81, was chosen to act 

on the Foot Ball Committee in place of R. J. B. 

Howard ’79, who resigned. 

© 

A large number of last year’s law students 
have left the University to attend the law 
course of the branch of Laval University 
lately established in Montreal. 



The McGill Gazette . 



1 2 



Founder’s Festival Committee : — Law, C. T. 
Fleet, A. W. Atwater. Arts, R. J. B. Howard, 
W. W. Redpath. Science and Medicine have 
not yet elected their representatives. 

In the Reading Room the other afternoon 
we observed an Arts Freshman deeply inter- 
ested in an article on “ Food for Infants,” 
which appeared in one of the morning papers. 
Comment is needless. 

Harvard comes here on the 20th inst. to 
play a team representing Montreal, picked 
from the University, Montreal, and Britannia 
Clubs, it having been wisely decided to have 
no Harvard vs. McGill match this autumn. 

Reading Room Committee : — H. Wood, ’79, 
Chairman ; R. J. B. Howard, ’79, Secretary ; 
H. J. Bull, ’80, Treasurer ; W. H. C. Skaife, 
’80, (Sc.); J. C. O’Dwyer, ’80, (Sc.); A. Fal- 
coner, ’81 ; F. Weir, ’81 ; N. T. Rielle, ’82. 

There is some talk of establishing “ Moot 
Courts” in connection with the Law School. 
The project has received the approbation of 
nearly all the students, and the professors 
look, it is said, with favour on the scheme. 

A Third Year Science man complains that 
the Professor in Geology misapplies terms. 
This arises from the fact that the Professor 
had occasion to apply the term Grit to a certan 
rock. Being impressed with the righteous- 
ness of the Liberal cause, the politically en- 
thusiastic student thinks the term Reform 
would at once be more correct and courteous. 

Prof, in Philosophy. — “ Can you state, Mr. 
Blank, which of the two fundamental prob- 
lems of Philosophy, namely, that of knowing 
and that of being (the latter being equivalent 
to existence), precedes the other ?” Mr. Blank. 
— “ That of existence.” Prof. — “ Why do you 
think so, Mr. Blank ?” Mr. Blank. — “Well, 
because you must exist before you can know 
it.” Prof. — “ Very true, Mr. Blank.” 

Psychology Lecture-room . — Prof. — “ Mr. F. — 
Do you think you could give me, from your 
own personal knowledge or experience, an ex- 



ample of the Soft or pleasant sensation ot 
touch amounting almost to an intoxication ?” 
Mr. F. — “ The contact of two pair of lips, sir !” 
Then there were murmurs of “Yum, yum!” 
“ Oh ! hold me, George !” And that Soph, 
resumed his seat, remarking sarcastically : 
“ Ask me something easier.” 

It is not improbable that our future 
Governor-General, the Marquis of Lome, will 
be invited to attend the Founder’s Festival. 
Unless the Graduates’ Society wish to convey 
to the Marquis the impression that McGill 
alumni are wont to consider funeral exercises 
fun and enjoy meut, we would suggest that 
either the plan of the solemn ceremony of the 
past be changed, or we be allowed to mourn 
in secret, unlooked at by inquisitive royalty. 

In the recent electoral contest, it is pleas- 
ant to notice that several McGill men dis- 
tinguished themselves as speakers in Montreal 
and in the neighbouring constituencies. D. 
Macmaster, B.C.L.; C.P. Davidson, M.A. D.C.L.; 
N. W. Trenholme, M. A , B. C. L.; Russ Wood 
Huntington, B C.L.; R. D. McGibbon, B.A.; and 
J. N. Greenshields,B.C.L., took an active part in 
the discussions. We believe we are correct in 
affirming that every one of these gentlemen 
began in the University Literary Society. 

Lecturer Archibald, the popular Registrar 
of the Law Fateulty, on meeting his classes for 
the first time this Session, referred to the fact 
that the McGill Law School had this year a 
rival institution in the Faculty of Law of 
Laval University, lately established in Montreal 
This should nerve the students of McGill to 
harder and more attentive study ; as for the 
Faculty, the learned gentleman remarked that 
although strict and invariable punctuality 
was not to be expected from gentlemen en- 
gaged in active practice, the professors would 
endeavour to be as regular in their attendance 
as possible, and he trusted that, in a generous 
and fraternal competition with Laval, McGill 
would not be outstripped. These remarks 
were received with applause. 



The McGill Gazette , 



in 



EDITORIAL NOTICE. 



The McGill Gazette is published Monthly during the College Year by the Undergraduates of the 
University . Terms , $ 1.00 per Annum ; Single Copies , 20 Cents, Subscriptions and Advertisements to be 
sent to the Business Manager ^ Box 1 , 759 . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , Box , 1 , 759 . 

The Gazette requests contributions of all suitable literary matter from University men. It will 
open its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications a*~e wiitten 
in a gentlemanly mhnner. 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a sealed envelope , 
zvhich will be opened if the contribution is inserted , but will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly 
adhered to. 



U niversity A thletic Sports , 

TO BE HELD ON THE 

COLLEGE GROUNDS, 

T H XT E, S DAY, OOT. 24th. 

Committee : 

W. R. Sutherland. 

O. J. McCulley. 

R. J. B. Howard. 

Holton Wood. 

Frank Weir. 

W. Skaife. 

Campbell Lane. 

A. W. Atwater, B. A. 

R. D. McGibbon, B. A. 

Competition open to Students of recognized Universities. 
Intending competitors must hand in their names to any of 
the Committee before the day of the games. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

ON 

FRIDAY E VENI 1ST G- S , 

I to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



THE STUDENTS OF McGILL COLLEGE 

are invited to Inspect the stock of GENTS’ 
FURNISHINGS at 

THE RECOLLET HOUSE. 

Prices right, and value without a doubt. 

BROWN & CLAGGET, 

Corner Notre Dame & St. Helen Sts. 

N.B. — A First-class Tailoring Department a specialty 
with us. B. & C. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 



BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1876 
1,385 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

[Corner Mansfield Street,] 

MeGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the Domin ion 
to choose from at either of the above establishments. 

Fresh Goods by every Steamer . 



BOOTS ! BOOTS I 

ESTABLISHED 1857, 
for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A. DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St. 



TURKISH BATFT 

140 lYEOKTIGiXJE STREET 

(OFF DORCHESTER STREET), 

Near the Windsor Hotel. 

Large and Complete. — One of the Finest in the World. 

HOURS: — Gentlemen 6 to 9 a.m., uud 2 to 10 p.m. Ladies 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. 

Open Sunday Morningn for Gentlemeu. 



T. COOK, Proprietor. 



IV 



The McGill Gazette . 



CHARLES Me ADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Chromos , Steel Plate 
Pictures , Fancy Goods , 4*c., t^c. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Squaie, 

Near Zion Church, MONTREAL. 

Honourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arts, Edinburgh. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Street. 

Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St., Montreal. 
OYSTERS, G-AME, FISH, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 12 to 3. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE ROOMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 

HENRY DUNNE. 



The Medical Hall 

St. James Street. 

Branch : Branch : 

Phillips’ Square, ana Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies. 

McGill College Text Books, 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their Iar<*e 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always In Stock at Lowest Prices. 

CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

332 ST. J-A-MES STEEET, 232 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
d±T ASHFORD’S 

t>i6J DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School 
MONTREAL. 



W. SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents’ Fur Ci ats, Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 



R. SHARPLEY k SONS’ 

Emporium for Out-door and other Games , 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Voot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle, Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, &c. 

Jewellery and Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and' Silver Timing Watches, 

Jewellery of all descriptions, 

Silver and Electro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
an endless assortment of other goods suitable for 

PRESENTATIONS. 

R. SHARPLEY 8c SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET 



CHAS. M. ALEXANDER, 

CONFECTIONER. 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts, Dinner and Supper Parties 
Supplied. 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 

LO RGE & CO., 

First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL , 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 



Choice Cut f lowers Deceived Daily. 

Floral Decorations of every description at the Boston Floral Mart. 
1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 

I Prom P t aUen,i011 to all orders by Mail or Telegraph. 

WM. RILEY, Agent. 



