Vol. XII 



No. 5 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers : Exchange Bank ISuilding, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic laterals, Banflaies, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Ptormacentical & Dispensing demists, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



NIACWIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR L McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. g. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



147 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbollzed, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

School aid College Text Bools ! 



DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE [CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Iain street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. J" JLIMIIES ST 



JtlEUICAL WORKS, ROOKS IS Kit IJV ART COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock aid Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books* &c., Ac ., 

1 ® -EJST V ALTJ E IN TOWN ^ , 

Stylo graphic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

23^ ^t. «X ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 15th, 1888. [No. 5. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts *90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 



Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Editor-in-Chief. 
J. A. MacPhail, B.A. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, B.A., Law *89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 51-52 

Contributions 52-55 

Personals 55 

Poetry 56, 58 

McGill News 56-58 

Societies 58-60 

Exchanges 01 

Between the Lectures 61 

College World 61-62 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 



The sixth number of the “ University Gazette ” will 
contain a poem, addressed to the Students of McGill, of 
both sexes, by Mrs. Curzon, author of “ Laura Secord 
and other Poems.” 



Editorials. 



THE MEDICAL DINNER. 

This year’s Medical dinner owes its success chiefly 
to the oneness of mind with which it was arranged 
and carried out. Footing is dead and buried, the 
breach between the years is healed, and there is a 
general consent as to the advantages of an annual 
reunion. In the case of the first year the assent was 



chiefly passive, and not nearly enough of the mem- 
bers patronised the dinner; the representation was 
largest in the final years, showing clearly that it takes 
the students a year or two to wake up to a proper con- 
ception of the advantages of a Faculty dinner. This 
year’s dinner was somewhat informal, and, indeed, 
lost nothing by the good fellowship that prevailed. 
One of the most pleasing features in connection with 
it was the entire absence of such unpleasant incidents 
as sometimes mar the re-union of students. 



THE HARVARD “ FAST SET.” 

In a recent number of the North American Review , 
Aleck Quest gives an article on the “ Fast Set at 
Harvard.” 

He gives us to understand that the Harvard author- 
ities endeavour rather to conceal the faults of the 
college than to correct them. The Faculty has estab- 
lished, what we think reasonable, that there is little 
loss to brain through the use of muscle, and that since 
gymnastics and sports have come into high repute in 
the University, the students have shown improved 
mental capacity. 

Within reasonable limits athletics improve the 
mind. We need not go far from our own campus, in 
“ off” hours, to find those who lead in examina- 
tions. 

Aleck Quest finds some difficulty in defining the 
term “ Fast,” but he gets over the difficulty by taking 
the Harvard man’s own definition. He says — “ To 
be fast in the Harvard sense, is to run the scale of 
‘ manly pleasures,’ and then jump the border and 
plunge into the bubbling stream of dissipation.” We 
will forgive him the mixed metaphor, and accept his 
definition. 

He proceeds to say that the fastest of the fast set 
professes to be a gentleman, though he insult ladies, 
indulge in street rows, and cheat at cards. In fact, 
he makes out a very strong case, though, after all, his 
reasoning is useless, for just so much as a man is fast, 
just so much is he not a gentleman, a fortiori, from 
the definition of the word. 

To condense his remarks on the fast set at Harvard, 
it may be said that it is composed of rich men and 
their satellites, who ride through college on a “coach,” 
if they are not thrown out by the way. They spend 



52 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888 



from $5,000 to $10,000 per annum in every extrava- 
gance and vice, not least among which is poker play- 
ing. So extensive a hold has the spirit of gambling 
obtained in Harvard, that one of the instructors of 
the college calls poker playing “ the bane of Harvard.” 
Poker has attached rich and poor, and seems to be 
indulged in at every opportunity, and far into the 
night. One man at Harvard, a theological student — 
take this to heart, O ! ye Theologs. — is so far gone in 
iniquity, that he divides his time between playing 
poker and attending prayer meetings. 

“ One of the Fast Set ” answers Mr. Quest in the 
December number of the same magazine. This writer 
does not attempt to justify the “ fast set,” but he is 
unwilling to have it thought that it tinges the college 
so much as Mr. Quest says, or that the College Faculty 
are in any way blameworthy. 

He says that every college is an epitome of the 
world, and has its “ fast set” as the world has. It is 
not college nature or freedom, but human nature that 
is to blame, and he adds that the “ fast ” man often 
grows up a good husband and a good member of 
society. 

He denies that the vulgarity and shamelessness 
that Quest speaks of exists in the Harvard “ fast set ” 
to any extent, and affirms that such men as demon- 
strate such traits are shunned. He also denies that 
poker is so prevalent as his opponent says, or that 
cheating is a common resort. 

We may sum up his motive for reply in a sen- 
tence — “ I do not, for one moment, admit that Har- 
vard undergraduates are blacker than any other 
undergraduates.” 



Contributions. 



AN ENQUIRY INTO THE ALLEGED ANTI- 
POETIC TENDENCIES OF THE AGE. 

II. 

Many of those who restrict the domain of poetry 
are fain to admit, that religion and politics, in their 
highest sense, are legitimate sources of inspiration ; 
but they stipulate for pure religion, not sectarianism, 
and for Catholic and national politics, not for party 
warfare. This being conceded — and that poetry 
should enter within these precincts solely in search 
of, and for the promulgation of, truth — they would, 
nevertheless, shut the door of science against it. 
Within this they will on no account suffer it to enter. 
“ The scholar,” says Madame de Stael, “ has nothing 
to say to the poet, the poet to the naturalist.” It has 
been said that — “Poetry and Science are two rival 
“ and hostile powers. Whenever anything has been 



“ reduced to matter of science, its poetical character 
“ is extinguished ; it ceases to appeal to any passion 
“ or affection. What was veneration or terror, reli- 
“ gion or superstition, becomes satisfied and unim- 
“ passioned intelligence. Imagination is dethroned 
“ there ; its creative power abolished and destroyed. 
“ Even mere wonder, the lowest of all the imagina- 
“ tive states of mind, ceases, when the scientific com- 
“ prehension is complete ; for, of course, when under- 
“ stood, no one thing is really more wonderful than 
“ another. The tendency of science is to reduce and 
“ level ; the tendency of poetry is to magnify and 
“ exalt. Each, therefore, has its proper and peculiar 
“ ground. They cannot act in concert. In other 
“ words, it is impossible to treat any subject scientifi- 
“ cally and poetically.” 

But these writers fall into a great mistake. Any 
one must have studied “ the great truths of science” 
to little purpose, who can talk of the “ satisfied and 
unimpassioned intelligence” with Avhich he compre- 
hends them. These truths, even the very least of 
them, are of sublimest import ; and it is not after 
such a manner that those who have most studied, and 
who know most of the ever wondrous, ever new, 
revelations of science, would think it fitting for the 
humble spirit — humble in the bitterness of the high- 
est knowledge — to speak either of the known or un- 
known agencies of the Indefinilude. 

Poetry may and must treat of the truths of science, 
wherever it suits its purpose to do so, or it abdicates 
a portion of its prerogative. We must acknowledge 
that the withdrawal by science of the veil from crea- 
tion’s face, though it may deprive fancy of some fila- 
gree adornments, robs imagination of nothing. The 
rainbow has venerable associations, when we think 
upon it as the sign of the covenant : — 

“ We tliiuk its jubilee to keep, 

The first-made anthems rang, 

On earth, delivered from the deep, 

And the first poet sang.” 

But science, which shows us the secret wonders of its 
mechanism, adds a new delight to its contemplation, 
without depriving it of this. We acknowledge the 
simplicity, the grandeur, the majesty, of the “material 
law,” which is obeyed in its formation. We find that 
law to be, not cold, but warm and fruitful, producing 
invariable and inevitable results from the same causes. 
We see that both the cause and the effect are proofs 
of infinite wisdom and divine goodness, filling all 
nature with things of beauty, of which the contem- 
plation increases our enjoyment and exalts our souls, 
and makes us fitted to be true men in this world, and 
to mount in the scale of creation in the next to a state 
of a higher intelligence, purer love, and more certain 
happiness. 

The planets are not less the “ poetry of heaven ” 
because astrology is defunct. They do not the less 
loudly chant to the devout soul, in the silence and in 
the splendour of the midnight, that “ the hand that 
made them is divine,” because we believe them to be, 
like the kindred planet in which we live and move, 
the abode of myriads of immortal spirits, playing 
their allotted part in the mighty progression of the 



1888 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



53 



universe. The stars, scattered in such seeming con- 
fusion over space, are not less poetical, because we, 
by the aid of science, have discovered order amidst 
apparent disorder, because we have grasped the 
majestic secret of gravitation, and beheld the simpli- 
city and universality of the law which upholds and 
regulates them in all the complication of their har- 
mony. The white, fleecy cloud on the far verge of 
space, does not become unpoetical when we know it 
is a universe. No ! poetry is not inimical to science, 
nor is science hostile to poetry. Poetry is universal. 
It includes every subject ; and can no more be re- 
stricted in its range than the Intellect, the Hope, and 
the Faith of man, of which it is the grandest exponent 
and the most sublime expression — making Intellect 
more intellectual, Hope more hopeful, and Religion 
more religious. 

If we enquire into the subject of the duties of the 
poet in the present age — we should first consider what 
the age is ; what are its desires and aspirations ; what 
its characteristics ; and at what point of human de- 
velopment it actually stands. That the age is utili- 
tarian most men assert. Let us enquire what the 
word means. Bentham either invented it for his 
philosophy, or it was fastened upon him by others. 
In either case it is a good word, if the meaning be not 
unduly restricted. Some men are such strict utili- 
tarians, that in the furnishing of a house (especially 
for other people) they would exclude the ornamental. 
They would have the kitchen-poker, the chair, the 
table, and the bed, the carpet, and perhaps the cur- 
tains , but not the picture, nor the bust, nor the 
poem, nor the play, nor the novel. These are a small 
class only. Utilitarianism is a much better thing 
than they would make it. This class of people are 
rarely met with in private life, and if they preach 
such a doctrine, they rarely practise it. We some- 
times hear of them in the House of Commons, where 
money is begrudged for every purpose tending to the 
advancement of art, or literature, or the encourage- 
ment of those who excel in them. But individual 
men are generally ashamed of such a restriction to 
their idea of utility. True utility by no means ex- 
cludes the ornamental. It does not consider man as 
an animal only, but as a being with an immortal soul. 
It is not sufficient that we should gain victories over 
time, and space, and the obstruction of matter ; but 
the mind has its cravings as well as the body, which 
must be satisfied. Utilitarianism of this kind is essen- 
tially popular and philanthropic. Science, by increas- 
ing the physical comforts of mankind, is preparing 
the way for mental blessings and mental progress, to 
an extent which, to some minds, seems Utopian to 
imagine, but which will be realised, nevertheless. 
All our physical conquests over matter are proofs and 
results of mental energies, working to various ends, 
and all of them, we cannot doubt, though we may 
not yet understand, to ultimate spiritual, as well as 
physical, good. The utilitarian who confines utility 
to merely physical advantage, may deny, in a great 
degree, the usefulness of literature, and wholly deny 
the usefulness of poetry. Believing it to be founded 
on fiction, he may say he will have none of it, and 
turn his mind to the contemplation of his money- 



bags. But there are better and truer utilitarians than 
the men of this class, who can see a good, and conse- 
quently a beauty, in every manifestation of the human 
intellect. To utilitarians who believe this, poetry 
has as great a claim to respect as science or religion — 
provided always it be True poetry. 

It follows from the utilitarianism of the age — if 
this be a correct definition of it — that it is an earnest 
age ; for, if facts be stubborn things, utility i3 an 
earnest and a thoughtful thing, and the man who 
would exert any influence over such an age, must 
himself be thoroughly and hopefully in earnest. 

Our living authors should remember that the great 
minds of the past preach to us evermore. By a 
divine privilege, we are enabled to converse with the 
mighty men who went before us. Their words and 
thoughts are perpetuated for our consolation, our in- 
struction, and our guidance. We weep for the sor- 
rows, rejoice for the gladness, tremble with the fears, 
and glow with the hopes, of departed centuries. And 
if our living writers will not fulfil their high functions 
in as good a spirit as these, they are unworthy of the 
high place that would otherwise have been set apart 
for them. Hence the arduous task reserved for all 
writers, and more especially for the poet, in the pre- 
sent day — for men who would reflect the age, and yet 
be in advance of it ; who would be of sympathies 
with it, and yet beyond it ; who would give it the 
blossoms of their intellect with a full certainty that 
those blossoms, fair and flowery to this age, would be 
fruit to the ages which are to follow it. 

To think that, because we are a practical people, 
living in a practical age, that we shall no more find 
pleasure in the varied beauty of nature, animate and 
inanimate ; that the beams of the sun, or the mental 
sunshine of bright faces, shall fill us no more with 
delight ; that love, or hopes, or joys, or sorrows, shall 
no more affect us ; or that poetry, which refines and 
spiritualizes all these, shall be extinguished by the 
progress of civilization, is mere lunacy. As civiliza- 
tion increases, the world will, doubtless, become more 
difficult to please in poetry. The wiser men grow, 
the less aptitude will they exhibit for being put off 
with shadows instead of realities. But poetry itself, 
purified and exalted, will all the more purify and 
exalt mankind. Those who speak great truths from 
their fulness of heart, and enshrine them in noble 
words set to the music which stirs the blood, will 
never want listeners. The poets who would do that 
have an arduous but noble task. Such poets need 
not fear that they have fallen upon evil times for 
their vocation ; if they be but in earnest with it, and 
will not make it their pastime, but the business and 
recompense of their lives. Let them put on their 
singing robes cheerily in the face of heaven and 
nature, and wear them in a trustful and patient spirit, 
and speak that which is in them for the advancement 
of their kind, and the glory of their Creator, and there 
will be no risk that they will be allowed to sing in 
the wilderness, “ no man listening to them.” 

Such men die not ; neither do they cease. Their 
example, their deeds are vital, and for all time beget 
a kindred greatness. 

Henry Mott. 



54 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



VOX HUMANA. 

Having assisted my Jehu to deposit a large trunk in 
the front of his vehicle, and having, moreover, warned 
him that a certain box, with which I entrusted him, 
was to be kept •* This-side-up, with care,” I climbed in 
myself, and, leaning back, indulged in meditation. 

I had been abroad for ten years, and as 1 was 
whirled homeward, across the country, from the 
Pacific coast, past fathomless ravines and snow- 
capped peaks, past mighty rivers and trackless forests, 
past wide prairie lands, and mountains whose heads 
were heavy with age ere Alps and Himalayas saw the 
light, I had felt that not for all the kingdoms of 
Europe and Asia could I exchange my native land, 
which would one day be a queen among nations, 
when their glory, like that of Greece and Rome, had 
faded aAvay. One reason that had decided my return 
was a longing to see again my friend, my school-boy, 
college and manhood’s friend, who now occupied the 
corner in my old bachelor heart not devoted to my- 
self. As I drove towards his home, I wondered if 
he would be surprised to see me, if his children had 
grown past recognition, if his wife was still the good- 
looking girl she used to be, and what was his last 
collecting fad. For you must know that he possessed 
all the attributes of a successful collector, being 
enquiring, scientific, and methodical, and endowed 
with a fair share of this world’s goods. During his 
college life, his rooms resembled a small museum, 
filled as they were with rocks, fossils, shells, photos, 
and Indian curiosities, all neatly labeled. 

Although the partner of his joys and sorrows was 
not of this scientific turn, his children were. The 
girls collected dolls, buttons, hair, recipes, botanical 
specimens, and crotchet patterns ; the boys, every- 
thing in the organic and inorganic worlds, from 
marbles to monkeys — indeed, from the “ this-side-up” 
box, held so gingerly by cabby, peeped forth the 
wistful, little, dark countenance of a living represen- 
tative of the order Quadrumana, destined to take his 
place in their menagerie. The aforesaid trunk also 
contained a number of foreign nick-nacks that I 
thought might please my friend, and some pretty 
Eastern stulfs chosen with a view to attract the femi- 
nine eye. ' 

When we alighted at the handsome cut-stone man- 
sion on .Sherbrooke street, I was informed by the 
housemaid, in freezing accents, that neither the master 
nor the missis was at home. Did she take me for an 
agent, or, seeing my little companion, for an organ- 
grinder 1 I cannot tell. But, fortunately, “ the 
master” appeared, and, suffice it to say, that the greet- 
ing between us convinced her that I was neither one 
nor the other. I soon succeeded in making friends 
with the young people, assisted, of course, by the 
contents of trunk and box. My friend’s wife, too, 
who looked quite as pretty as of yore, if somewhat 
older, welcomed me with sincere cordiality. They 
would not hear of my returning to the Windsor, as I 
had intended. “ No, no, old boy, you must stay with 
us for a while ; we’ll transform you, in less than no 
time, from the scandalous old Hindu you look, to a 
respectable Canadian. 



So after dinner, when the boys had been despatched 
for my valise, and the ladies had mysteriously disap- 
peared, my friend and I repaired to the comfortable 
library to enjoy a talk. Times had gone well with 
him during my absence ; his gallery of paintings was 
unrivalled in the city ; literary men sought the library 
for books they could nowhere else procure ; his eldest 
son had carried off the gold medal in Natural Science 
at McGill ; this and much more he told me, and 
much he did not tell me also ; for I knew that not a 
day passed in which he failed to employ his wealth 
in easing the burden of some less fortunate brother. 
But still I waited expectantly, and at last it came. 

“ Now, old boy, if you are not too tired, I want 
you to come and hear my collection of voices.” 

I thought I did not hear his voice aright, but un- 
certain whether to prepare for table-rapping, ventrilo- 
quists, or ghosts, followed upstairs into a room con- 
taining a curious-looking machine mounted on an 
escritoir. At the back of the escritoir, protected by 
glass doors, were a number of pigeon-holes, labeled, 
and containing large envelopes. 

Among the labels that caught my eye were : — 
Politics, Stage, Miscellaneous, Literati, Musical. 
My host selected some of the envelopes, seated him- 
self in front of the machine, smiled wickedly, and 
intimated that the circus was about to begin. 

“ Thunder and lightning ! ” cried I, “ what do you 
intend to do with that concern 1 ” (the table-rapping 
theory was uppermost in my mind). 

“Listen, my dear fellow, listen,” he replied, taking 
a sheet of something from an envelope and placing it 
in the instrument ; so I listened ; and I heard a slight 
click, as of machinery in motion, then a voice, a low, 
sepulchral ghoul-like voice ; and it said — 

“ The skeletons tall from the churchyard rise, 

And strange is the sound of the night wind’s sighs ; 

Each man looks brave with a fleshless chin, 

The maidens dance with the wickedest grin. 

They clatter behind— they grip, they snatch, 

The living may run, but the dead can catch.” 

By this time ghosts had gained the day, and jump- 
ing up, I begged my host, who was enjoying my con- 
sternation, to explain. 

“ Ha, ha,” said he, “ this is what comes of gadding 
round in savage lands ; just fancy his not knowing 
about the Edison Phonograph ! Look,” he continued, 
as I approached to examine the strange contrivance, 

“ you see this flat circular disc with a spiral groove ? 
Here above it is a vibrating plate with a mouth-piece 
on the face, and a needle or tracing point beneath. 
You place a sheet of copper foil or wax on the disc, 
and then speak into the mouth-piece. The waves of 
sound cause the plate to vibrate, motion is communi- 
cated to the needle, and if you set the clockwork 
going, the surface of the flexible foil on the disc is 
brought into contact with the point, which makes 
various impressions upon it according to the different 
sounds. When you have dictated all you wish, you 
can take out the plate and stop the machinery.” 

“But,” said I, “you did not do that just now ; I 
believe you are a ventriloquist, and are trying to hoax 
your poor old chum.” 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



55 



“ Nonsense,” was the reply, “don’t you see that 
any time you want to reproduce your work, you have 
only to replace tho wax plate (we find wax better 
than copper), so that the point is at the beginning of 
the tracing it has made ; then, if you turn on the 
clockwork, the stylus passes again over the groove, 
motion is communicated to it, and through an elastic 
pad, to the upper plate, causing it to vibrate in ex- 
actly the same manner as when the words were 
spoken. This tube in the mouth-piece serves to con- 
centrate the waves of sound as they pass out. Mow ! 
comprenez-vous ? ” 

I must confess that I hardly did. This explana- 
tion, so glibly rattled off, was about as intelligible to 
me as Chinese. 

“ Have you had it long 1 ” 1 ventured. 

“ Six months and five days,” he answered. “ I got 
my first three years ago, but this has all the latest 
improvements. That voice you have just heard be- 
longs to an undertaker, quite a character, whose ap- 
pearance and disposition are in keeping with his 
trade ; here is a Hibernian client of mine that is not 
so lugubrious.” 

He inserted another sheet of foil, and we heard — 

“ Shure, thin, oi’ll talk into your ould machine, 
and welcome, sorr ; all the same, Oi belave it’s no 
mortal has bewitched the little spakin’ cratur.” 

I listened with great interest to some two or three 
dozen voices — male and female — gruff and unctious, 
insinuating and shrill. Although they did sound a 
little unnatural, words, tone, and modulation were 
distinct, especially in those of low pitch. “ Saw my 
leg off” was rendered by three medical students with 
good effect. The nasal twang of a Yankee delivered 
the following, which had reference to some fishery 
treaty between Uncle Sam and ourselves : — 

“ Deal gently with an herring race, 

Canada, my Canada ; 

Put up your sword-fish in its place, 

Canada, my Canada ; 
if for reprisal you would sue, 

Just turn the other cheek, please do, 

And take a Yankee smack or two, 

Canada, my Canada.” 

There was a song from Albani, and a short speech, 
delivered in somewhat sqeaky tones, by the veteran 
Premier, whose characteristic features loomed from 
out a frame on the wall. The street cries, from “ Bon 
bledain bouilli” to “Teen ware to mend,” had all 
been procured by my host in some way known only 
to himself, and many of these were repeated for my 
benefit. The compartment marked Literati was in- 
tensely interesting, being filled with original opinions 
and verses from the mouths of Canadian authors. 

But at length, one by one, the young people 
trooped into the room ; the “ baby,” a fair-haired 
little maid of nine years, putting one arm coaxingly 
around her father, handed him a sheet of wax and 
begged him to place it in the phonograph. He pre- 
pared to do so, while the children, for some un- 
known cause, seemed to have great difficulty in re- 
straining their mirth. And (did my ears deceive 
me) a peculiar, deep-toned, sleepy voice I could not 



fail to recognize as my own, declared that I would 
not stand this any longer, that I was tired and wanted 
to go to bed. My host looked rather mystified, while 
the children fairly roared. Then one bright-eyed 
little rogue came up, and standing before me in an 
attitude of penitence, demurely asked my pardon. 
“ You see,” he added, pleadingly, “ your voice is so 
easy to imitate, and we knew you would come up to 
hear it.” And as I assured the boy that “ I was 
planning a swift and terrible revenge for their dia- 
bolical plot,” I thought that not the least enviable of 
my friend’s collections was that which might be 
labeled “olive branches.” 

Montreal. Dactyl. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

V. 

Newton. — One of the Fathers of the Church of 
Science. 

Night. — Day’s Viceroy whilst he visits his subjects 
on the other side of the island. 

Opinion. — The focus of thought. 

Palace. — The car of a balloon, whose occupants look 
down upon those who pay for the gas. 

Patronage. — Condescension instead of Justice. 

Pauper. — One of the crew thrown overboard to 
lighten the ship. 

Pawnbroker. — A man who holds your coat while 
you fight. 

Pedantry Learning’s court -dress brought into 

every-day wear. 

Pen. — The plough with which the field of Truth is 
cultivated. 

Policeman. — A person hired by careless gardeners to 
collect the weeds. 

Power. — The consciousness of God. 

Plough. — One of the keys of Nature’s laboratory. 

Pride. — Self viewed through a microscope. 

Q. 



Personals. 



W. H. Turner, ’84, has decided to remain in town 
and study law. 

R. B. O’Sullivan, B.A., ’86, is studying Dentistry 
in Philadelphia. 

Frank Pedley, B.A., ’86, is studying law, and will 
conclude his study in Toronto. 

“A young man by the name of Calder” still con 
tinues to conduct the Lachute Watchman. 

Mr. McOuat, who has so successfully conducted the 
Lachute Academy, was married this summer. 

C. P. Brown, Science ’86, has finished his railway 
construction and is coming to Montreal — presumably 
not by his own line. 



56 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



FLOWERS FROM THE GREEK ANTHOLOGY. 

The Epitaph of Plato. 

(Spensippus.) 

Here in earth’s bosom Plato’s body lies— 

His soul is with Immortals in the skies. 

Epitaph of Euripides* 

(Ion.) 

This stone, designed thy monument to be, 
Derives its fame, Euripides, from thee. 



The Epitaph of Lais. 

( Antipater .) 

Bright as Pirene’s wave, a woman bred 
In sea-girt Corinth, Lais, here lies dead. 

Softer than Cytherea, life she pass’d 
’Mid gold and splendour, loving to the last. 

An earthly Goddess, she enthrall’d a host 
Of Princes, more than Tyndaris could boast. 

Vast wealth they lavish’d on her beauty’s bloom: 
The crocus now springs fragrant from her tomb, 
Her bones are steep’d in balm, and perfum’d air 
Breathes from each ringlet of her glossy hair. 

For her the Foam-born wept with streaming eyes, 
For her sweet Eros utter’d plaintive cries, 

And, if base gold her kisses had not bought, 
Greece had for Lais, as for Helen, fought. 



The Tomb of Lais. 

( Agathias .) 

By the road’s side, near Ephyr6, 1 came 
Upon a tomb inscribed with Lais’ name. 

“ All hail, 0 Queen ! ” with tears I said, “ thy lot 
Doth stir my pity, though I knew it not : 

Young hearts once ached for thee— but now, behold, 
Thy splendour sleeps forgotten in the mould ! ” 

The Mirror of Lais. 

(Plato.) 

I, Lais, once of Hellas the delight, 

To Venus dedicate my mirror bright: 

What now I am, I do not care to see — 

What once I was, I ne’er again can be I 



The Garland. 

(Rufinus.) 

This fragrant garland, that my fingers wove 
From beauteous flowers, I send to thee, my love— 
Lilies, anemones, and rosebuds wet 
Blend with Narcissus and blue violet. 

Wear them : but cease from arrogance, fair maid, 
Like them, thou bloomest, and like them, must fade. 



On a Small Bath. 

( Damocharis , the Panunarian.) 

Wherefore little things despise? 
Beauty often in them lies : 

Even Cytherea’s joy, 

Cupid, was a little boy. 



The Love-Chase. 

(Callimachus.) 

Mark how the hunter tracks through frost and snow 
Each airy footprint of the mountain doe, 

But, if some comrade of the chase should say, 

“ Your deer is struck,” he scorns the fallen prey : 
Such is my passion— that which conquered lies 
It leaves behind, to follow that which flies. 



Diogenes to Charon. 

(Leonidas.) 

Servant of Pluto ! thou, whose livid bark 
Sails o’er these waters desolate and dark, 

Thou hast full cargo— ghostly shapes of gloom — 

Still, for Diogenes, the Dog, find room. 

A flask, a wallet, and the cloak I wear, 

These, with an obolus to pay my fare, 

Are my sole property ; my life is done— 

I leave behind me nought beneath the sun. 

Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



ftlcfcill News. 



The third of Sir Win. and Lady Dawson’s recep- 
tions for student members of the Y.M.C.A., was given 
last Saturday. 

The examination in botany, for students in medi- 
cine of the first year, is being held to-day in the 
Molson Hall. 

Additional apparatus is being procured for the teach- 
ing of physiological botany, to be used after Christmas 
in all the classes. 

C. A. Barnard has been appointed valedictorian for 
the graduating class in Law, and J. Robertson for the 
class in the Arts Faculty. 

At a Students’ meeting of the Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers, held on Thursday last, J. P. Tuplin, 
Science ’8.1, read a paper on “Locomotive Construc- 
tion.” 

Dr. Harrington’s prize for the best collection of 
specimens made on the day of the Geological Excur- 
sion to Lachute, has been awarded to W. E. Deeks, 
Arts '89. 

Mr. Sproule’s prize for levelling was competed for 
by the students of the third year, in the Faculty of 
Science, and awarded to G. H. Mooney, Science ’90, 
a mechanical student at that. 

The bad gas that for some days last week permeated 
the whole city, invaded even the sanctity of the medi- 
cal building, and furnished the slopers with a good 
excuse for absence, viz., bronchitis. 

C. H. Livingstone, B.A., ’86, is to the front again. 
He is offering for competition to the students of the 
Maritime provinces the “Coster Memorial Prize,” to 
be awarded to the student of any year who passes the 
best sessional examination in April, 1889. In future 
years it will be confined to members of the first year. 
The prize is valuable — a copy of Chambers’ Encyclo- 
pedia. 

The latest and most valuable addition to the college 
library is the published collection of the works of Dr. 
Engelman, one of the greatest American Botanists. 
It consists of monographs published at different times, 
and collected by Professor Jealease, of St. Louis. The 
work is not easily procurable, on account of its rarity 
and value, and its purchase is another indication 
of the progress of the department of botanv at 
McGill. • J 

It is understood that the committee on the Carni- 
val Fancy Drive have invited the medical students to 
participate in the demonstration. Those of the 
Science Faculty who participated in the last drive, 
attracted considerable attention from the spectators 
by their car. The students seem inclined to repeat 
the experiment, as it furnishes amusement for them- 
selves and the citizens, and tends to bring both into 
closer connection. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



57 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Mrs. Harrington entertained the members of the 
Delta Sigma Society at her residence, on Saturday, 
the 8th inst. A most enjoyable afternoon was passed 
by those present. 

OUR GIRLS’ SONG. 

We are merry college lassies, 

But we'd have you understand. 

That our frolics do not hinder 
Any work we have in hand. 

We’ve a Delta Sig. Society, 

And a Theo Dora, too, 

And we also have a paper. 

Which we help to carry through. 

Then we have debates and essays, 

And on “ Gossip” we have “ Ruynes,” 

With a “Derick” to uplift us 
And a “ Squire” to check the strains. 

With a “Monk” and “Abbott” listening, 

And a “Baillie” to attend ; 

With a Finley and a Botterell 
Just to make a happy end. 

Then McGregor and MacFarlane, 

With our scrapbooks on their minds, 

Helped by Campbell and by Lyman, 

Henderson and Whitehead kind. 

Don’t you think the Chinese Mission 
Will be honestly put through, 

With such earnest, loving women 
To attend to poor Ah-Foo ? 

Let us “Reid” the cheering message 
From the Class of ’89 ; 

With the Glee Club made so charming 
By the songs of “ Auld Lang Syne.” 

Then three cheers for the Donalda, 

May their brilliant work shine brig it 
On the coming Freshmen’s pathway — 

And to noblest aims incite. 

Give three cheers for the Professors, 

For the Principal and friends. 

Who have lent us their assistance 
To accomplish all our ends. 

Anda “ tiger” for Sir Donald, 

Who has done the lion’s part, 

He will ever have a corner 
Deep in each girl-graduate’s heart. 

Give a cheer for Alma Mater, 

Now her doors are open wide 
May the rich, both men and women, 

For her many wants provide, 

May the flag of British freedom 
Ever o’er her be unfurled. 

And her merry lads and lassies 
Be admired of all the world. 



THE MEDICAL DINNER. 

The annual medical dinner for 1888 was held at 
the Windsor Hotel, on the evening of Thursday, 29th 
November, and received a very general support and 
appreciation from the students. “Abundance of mater- 
ial,” as the calendar says, was provided by the Wind- 
sor’s chef, and served up in such a way as only the 
Cook of the medical school can excel. 

The presidency was held by Mr. J. A. Creasor, B.A. 
Med. ’89, and he was supported by Messrs. W. S. 
England, M. W. Murray and John Clark, as vice-pre- 
sidents. On the right of the chairman were Sir Win. 
Dawson, Mr. John S. Hall, Q.C , M.P.P.; Dr. King- 
ston; dean of Victoria Medical school ; Prof. Alex. 
Johnson, dean of the Faculty of Arts; Dr. Beers, Dr. 
Ross, Dr. Shepherd, Dr. Gardner, Dr. Stewart, Dr. 
Mills, and Dr. Kirkpatrick ; and on his left were 
Dr. R. P. Howard, dean of the Faculty of Medicine ; 
Dr. Campbell, dean of Bishop’s ; Rev. Professor J. 
Clark Murray, who represented the ladies of the 
Donalda Department ; Dr. McCallum, Dr. Girdwood, 



Dr. Roddick, Dr. J. C. Cameron, Dr. Wilkins, Dr. 
Bell, Dr. Ruttan, Dr. Sterling, Dr. J. H. Bell, Dr. 
Springle, Dr. Potts, Dr. Haentschell, Dr. Blackader, 
and Dr. McGannon, of Brockville. 

The Secretary read letters of regret, at their inabil- 
ity to be present, from the Governor-General, the 
deans of Trinity, Western, Toronto, Laval and Pennsyl- 
vania Medical schools, and from Dr. Osier. The repre- 
sentative from Bishop’s college was Mr. C. A. Lachlan; 
Toronto, Mr. M. Reid ; from Trinity, Mr. J. R. 
McCabe ; from Queen’s, Mr. W. C. David ; and Laval 
had also a representative. The Science Faculty was 
represented by Mr. P. L. Naismith ; Arts by Mr. L. 
P. Duffee, and Law by Mr. C. A. Barnard. The 
arrangement of the tables was most attractive. They 
were profusely decorated with smilax, cut roses, and 
potted plants, amid which soft lights gave out a many- 
colored glow. When the last course had been dis- 
posed of, the men grouped themselves according to 
their liking, and the speechmaking began by the pro- 
posal of the toasts to “ The Queen,” “ The Governor- 
General,” “The President of the United States,” 
which were drunk with the usual enthusiasm to the 
strains of appropriate music, furnished by an effective 
and well-balanced orchestra 

Mr. C. L. Wheeler then proposed the toast of 
“ McGill University,” in a speech rich in well-rounded 
periods. “ Speaking to an American ” — (cheers) — on 
the relative educational advantages of American and 
Canadian institutions, he held that the balance lay 
entirely in Canada. While the United States has a 
population ten times that of Canada, it cannot bring 
forth twenty such geologists as Sir Wm. Dawson and 
Sterry Hunt, ten metaphysicians like Murray, ten 
pathologists like Osier, ten physiologists like Mills, 
ten oculists like Buller, ten physicians like Howard, 
or ten political speakers like Beers. The mind might 
be compared to a ship, of which science was the engine 
and religion the rudder. Without the engine it would 
drift on the shoals and shallows of ignorance, and 
without religion it would rock eternally on the bil- 
lows of superstition. Sir Wm. Dawson, the princi- 
pal, had fed the engine while he kept a firm hand on 
the tiller, showing that there was no antagonism be- 
tween the two, and had planted for McGill the red 
and white banner in the front rank of the world’s 
universities. 

The toast was drunk amidst enthusiastic cheering, 
and it was some minutes before Sir William Dawson 
could reply. He was speaking, he said, for the Uni- 
versity, and to it, for the students were important 
members of the body, and to them he looked to carry 
on the work of the university in a country whose his- 
tory lay in the future. He was proud of the Faculty 
of Medicine, he was proud of its graduates and stu- 
dents ; men destined to carry on its honor and glory 
and to increase its power for good. McGill had now 
fifty per cent, more than any other Canadian college. 
In Arts there were 307 students, which was double 
the number of five years ago. There were more lady 
students than in all other Canadian colleges taken 
together ; they were Arts students, and the better 
part of them. Educated women were the best 
friends and tended to elevate the medical profession. 



58 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



Four years of medical study was a hard pull and 
often a struggle of agony, but it was a great deal to 
endure hardness. If in the old days there was less to 
learn it was harder to learn it; the students were 
coming up better equipped, many of them graduates 
in Arts in spite of the barbarous law compelling a 
Bachelor of Arts to pass a school boy examination — a 
law they had been fighting, and would fight to the 
end. The principal drew an amusing picture of the 
state of affairs that existed when he came to the uni- 
versity in 1805. He congratulated them on their 
joining that honorable profession, so noble and impor- 
tant to humanity ; the time was coming when the 
career of a medical man would be world wide, with 
one system of registration for all civilized countries, 
united in one great medical reciprocity. As a teacher 
of natural history he would show them a specimen — 
their own dean — whom he had known as a young 
man, studious and determined to succeed, gentle and 
genial in manner, until he occupied the highest 
position open in Canadian medical life. He urged the 
students to retain clear heads for hard work, and make 
a diligent, conscientious, earnest effort in their study 
and in their profession. 

Mr. Delaney introduced a song, “ The Owl,” in his 
rich baritone voice, and Mr. M. W. Murray proposed 
the toast of “ Our Sister Universities.” Dr. Hingston 
responded on behalf of Victoria University, and Dr. 
Campbell for Bishop’s college ; Mr. Reid replied on 
behalf of Toronto Medical School, Mr. McCabe for 
Trinity, Mr. David for Queen’s, Mr. Bedard, in French, 
for Victoria, Mr. Lachlan for Bishop’s, and a gentle- 
man for Laval from that school. 

Mr. A. A. McLellan sang most acceptably, and then 
Mr. G. Campbell, in a thoughtful speech, proposed 
“ The Dean and Professors.” It was drunk with 
cheers, and in reply Dr. Howard acknowledged the 
compliment. When Dr. Mills arose he was greeted 
with hearty cheering, and he made a characteristic, 
earnest speech ; he paid a noble tribute to the friend 
of his younger days and his predecessor in the class 
of physiology, Dr. Osier, and proposed that a congratu- 
latory telegram be forwarded to him on his appoint- 
ment to the Chair of Medicine in the John Hopkins 
University. 

Mr. England proposed “ Our Hospital ; ” it was 
responded to by Dr. James Bell, and then Mr. 
Wheeler sang, in his fine deep bass voice, a well- 
received piece. Another feature in the musical part 
of the evening was the singing of Mr. McKirtney, in 
a light tenor voice, that promises well for music at 
McGill. 

“ Our Benefactors ” was proposed by Mr. Bisset, and 
“ The class of ’89 ” by Mr. Clarke. It was responded to 
by Mr. Gemmill. “ The Ladies ” were toasted, and then 
“The President,” and the dinner for 1888 was over. 

The committee in charge of the arrangements was 
as follows : Chairman, A. D. Holmes, ’89 ; hon. sec- 
retary, Jas. Bell, M D. ; secretary, C. P. Jen to, '90; 
treasurer, H. B. Yates, B.A., ’92; R. P. Howard, 
M.D.; G. h. Fenwick, M.D.; W. M. Gardner, M.D.; R. 
J. B. Howard, M.D. ; R. F. Ruttan, M.D. ; W. S. Eng- 
land, ’89; M. W. Murray, ’90 ; John Clark, ’91; W. A. 
Brown, ’91 ; and Du. V. Jack, ’92. 



CHARGE OF THE SOPH. BRIGADE 

I. 

Half-a-day, half-a-day, 

Half-a-day onward ; 

Up to the Alolson Hall 

Strode the half-hundred. 

“ Forward the Soph. Brigade V 9 
Straight for their work they made, 

Into the Alolson Hall 
Strode the half-hundred. 

II. 

•* Forward the Soph. Brigade ! ,# 

Was there a man dismayed? 

No, tho’ each student made 
Errors and blundered. 

Theirs not to make reply, 

Theirs not to reason why. 

Theirs but to write or die ; 

Up to the Alolson Hall 
Strode the half-hundred. 

III. 

J— hns— n to right of them. 

D— r— y to left of them, 

C— rn— sh in front of them, 

Scanning them o’er. 

Stormed at with Q*s? pell-mell, 

Boldly they wrote and well, 

Up in the Alolson Hall, 

Right in the sight of all. 

Wrote the brave Soph’more. 

IV. 

Dipped all their pens in ink, 

Dipped, as they paused to think, 

Penning an answer there, 

Charging the questions till 
Even “Pat” wondered. 

Plunged deep in mental smoke, 

Right thro’ the line they broke. 

Alood and dilemma 
Reeled at their inky stroke, 

Shattered and sundered. 

Then they strode back, but not— 

Not the half-hundred. 

V. 

D— r— y to right of them, 

J— hns— n to left of them, 

C— rn— sh behind them. 

Volleyed and thundered ; 

Stormed at with Q’s? pell-mell, 

Undergrad, and partial fell ; 

They that had writ so well 
Came from the Alolson Hall, 

Out of the mouth of —well, 

All that was left of them, 

Of the half-hundred. 

VI. 

When can their glory fade? 

Oh I the wild work they made I 
Even “ Pat” wondered. 

Honor the Sophomore ! 

Now he’s a Soph, no more, 

Noble half-hundred. 

JOHLE JOHKK. 



Societies. 



TIIEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Theo Dora Society held one of its most enjoy- 
able meetings on Tuesday, Nov. 27th. The mission 
fields under consideration were the Fiji and Sandwich 
Islands, treated respectively by Miss Moffat and Miss 
Baillie. The papers were good in themselves, and 
the essayists worked under special advantages. At 
an “ At Home,” given to the Society by Lady Daw- 
son, on Saturday afternoon, Nov. 24th, the Principal 
had already roused the attention of the members by 
furnishing much information respecting these islands, 
and illustrating his remarks with many curious articles 
obtained there. Miss Williams read a poem, and 
Miss Monk a short story. The meetings are now 
regularly opened and closed with singing. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



59 



1888 .] 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The 5tli regular meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held in the 2nd year class-room, on 
Thursday, the Gth instant. The attendance was re- 
mark ably good. Three of the honorary members were 
present Mrs. Harrington, Mrs. Murray, and Mrs. 
Penhallow — all of whom received a special welcome 
from the President. During the business part of the 
meeting, which preceded the debate, it was decided 
to have all work done after Christmas centre round 
one subject — viz., the “Renaissance.” Great satis- 
faction is expected from this new arrangement. The 
debate under discussion — “Resolved, that women 
should vote” — was then opened by Miss Derick with, 
perhaps, the most eloquent speech ever delivered 
from the Delta Sigma platform. She was supported 
by Miss Pitcher, while the negative side was upheld 
by Misses Robinson and Campbell. The vote was 
unanimously in favour of the affirmative. 

Miss Botterell acted as critic. 

An artistic reading from Miss Monk followed, and 
the Glee Club closed the programme with a song. 



THE LAW FACULTY MOOT COURT. 

On Thursday, the 7th instant, argument was heard 
before Professor Archibald on an indictment laid 
against a prisoner, under section 88 of the Larceny 
Act, relating “ to bringing stolen money into Canada.” 

It was proven at the trial that money was taken 
under such circumstances as would be larceny in 
Canada, if the money had been taken here, but no 
proof was offered as to what the law of larceny was 
where the money was taken. 

The Court, in summing up the arguments of coun- 
sel, dwelt strongly upon the fact that, by law, a judge 
was not presumed to know the foreign law, and that 
accordingly proof must be made of that law, or other- 
wise the conviction of a foreigner under such an in- 
• dictment might lead to serious international compli- 
cations. 

Counsel for the prosecution were Messrs. Harvey, 
Girouard, and Hatchet; and for the defence, Messrs. 
England, Topp, and Geoffrion. 

On the same day Messrs. Barnard and Girouard 
argued a very complicated case on the demand of 
heirs for a partition in a succession, when Professor 
Fortin presided, and rendered a very elaborate and 
comprehensive decision. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The fifth regular meeting of this Society was held 
in the Upper Lecture Theatre of the College, at 8 p.m. 
on Saturday, Nov. 24th, the President, Mr. G. G. 
Campbell, in the chair. Dr. R. J. B. Howard had a 
very appreciative audience, in about 100 members of 
the Society, who listened to his address. While Dr. 
Howard regretted having lost some very interesting 
notes taken during his stay abroad, yet he had to 
forewarn the Society that his “ Notes on Some Famous 
Teachers ” were “not short.” The doctor began his 
address by describing his first arrival at the London 



Hospital in 1882, and was soon portraying, in a most 
interesting manner, the different great teachers under 
whom he worked. He drew vivid pictures of such 
men as Jonathan Hutchinson, Andrew Clarke, Fred- 
erick Troves, Morell Mackenzie, and Joseph Lyster, 
while their branches and modes of teaching were 
lightly touched upon, details only being given on the 
definition of Lesion by Sutton. . 

Students going across were strongly enjoined not 
to miss hearing Jonathan Hutchinson. 

At Berlin, in 1884, Doctor Howard came in contact 
with Bergmann, Bowmann, and Virchow, and gave 
strong evidence of the enormous amount of anatomi- 
cal work open to the students, and surgical work done 
by the professors. 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

During the football season a notice was posted 
announcing a visit from Stagg and Reynolds, of the 
Yale Association. The delegates failed to appear 
until Saturday, the 1st instant, when Mr. Stagg made 
his happy apology for not appearing “on deck” at 
the call of the International Committee. “ He had 
got playing football,” he said. As he grasped our 
hands in greeting, we thought if the same hand 
reached after us on the field, it would be the Jersey’s 
fault if we got away with the ball. A meeting of 
welcome was held in the Molson Hall on Saturday 
evening, and on Sunday afternoon the delegates ad- 
dressed the usual students’ meeting. 

On Saturday evening they gave an account of the 
work of the Yale Y.M.C.A., describing the meetings 
in their Association building, Dwight Hall, and urged 
the importance of a house for our own work here at 
McGill. 

Sir William Dawson was on the platform, and said 
he hoped yet to see a McGill Y.M.C.A. building. 

Messrs. Stagg and Reynolds spoke again on Sun- 
day afternoon. Stagg said he thought the same three 
qualities were necessary for a good Christian as for a 
good athlete, namely — enthusiasm, perseverance, and 
hard work, and spoke shortly on each. Mr. Reynolds 
spoke of many features of Christian work in college 
to-day, and many means of carrying it on. His 
thoughts were very suggestive. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The last meeting of this society for the present 
term was held on the evening of Nov. 30, Mr. Truell, 
the president, occupying the chair. In place of the 
ordinary programme, an address, according to the usual 
custom, was delivered by the learned professor of 
English, Mr. Moyse. Prof. Moyse touched upon the 
relations existing between students and professors, 
stating that it was one of amity, not, as commonly 
supposed by many persons, that of task-master and 
slave. He proceeded to show that universities were 
not intended to produce genuises, but had an aim of 
a two-fold nature, viz., to create capability of knowing 
and of feeling, and he considered the Literary Society 
as one of the most efficient aids of the University in 
the accomplishment of their object. In his own col- 



60 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



lege life the debating society had been a social oasis. 
Then came an exceedingly amusing description of the 
old room in which they met, and the different speakers. 
The neophytes looked upon the seniors with wonder 
and awe — until they knew them. The stammering 
and hesitancy of the freshman was made a subject of 
merriment, while the “speaker voluble” and “speaker 
sarcastic” were comically satirized. He then touched 
upon a point which he considered most helpful to 
unity in college life, viz., that of college residences, 
at the same time expressing the hope that this impor- 
tant element in university life would not long be 
wanting in McGill, and supporting his remarks from 
one of Mr. Clough’s letters. The study of ancient 
languages was ably upheld, the speaker showing that 
in the study of our own language we must go back to 
its beginning, thus tracing its source to ancient, not 
dead, language. For a university Mr. Moyse affirmed 
there was but one foundation — that of intellectual 
force. 

After dwelling at some length on the methods of 
universities and the physical side of college life, the 
able professor brought his excellent address to a close 
by advising the members to make their choice of life 
according to their instincts, and to have an aim high 
above their present condition. 



THE UNIVERSITY GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

At the meeting of the Graduates’ Society, in the 
University Club, on Friday, Dec. 7, Mr. Selkirk Cross 
read a paper on the Constitution of McGill College. 

The lecturer reviewed the history of the University, 
and the difficulties with which it had to contend, and 
which it so successfully overcame ; the litigations in 
connection with the bequest of the late Mr. McGill ; 
the struggles for existence after the granting of the 
charter by George IV. in 1821, and finally the present 
charter granted in 1852. Under this the property and 
entire contents of the college, including the appoint- 
ments of the Professors, had been vested in fifteen Gov- 
ernors, who filled all vacancies on their own board, and 
held office for life. McGill was formed more after the 
model of Scotch than English Universities. A bill 
recently before the Imperial Parliament to amend the 
government of Scotch Universities was discussed, and 
it showed that the amendments proposed were formed 
with a view to carrying out in very large part the 
ideas of Sir William Hamilton, who wrote extensively 
on the subject about the year 1836. The conclusion 
arrived at from the comparison thus made was that the 
Constitution of McGill approached more nearly to 
the ideas entertained by Sir William Hamilton, than 
to those of the Scottish University itself. In conclu- 
sion the lecturer stated that though the University of 
Oxford claimed to have been founded in 872, that of 
Paris about 1109, and Harvard in 1636, McGill which 
could show pedigree only from 1821, need not suffer 
by comparison with its older sisters. 

Mr. J. R. Dougall said the proposed change would 
be more evolutionary than revolutionary. 

Dr. Kelley advocated such a change in the constitu- 
tion of the Board as would give the graduates a greater 
influence. In Cornell University at Ithaca, U.S., the 



graduates elected five out of fifteen members. He 
thought that the faculties were too strongly represent- 
ed. Difficulties had been thrown in the way of the 
election of the late Mr. Ramsay, but he had been of 
much administrative value. Mr. Hutchison said he 
agreed with Dr. Kelley that some changes were neces- 
sary, and they could be introduced without injuring 
the constitution. The graduates on the board of gov- 
ernors did not represent the graduates in the corpora- 
tion, and when there was any conflict they had to de- 
fend the interests of their constituents. The graduates 
should have a larger representation in the corporation 
and on the governing board. A board appointed by 
themselves as at present was without parallel. Though 
the appointments had been good the system must end 
in trouble, although, as Sir W. Dawson had said, it 
had worked well for thirty years. The two bodies, 
corporation and governors, should be wholly separated. 
McGill was handicapped to a great extent by Toronto, 
Queen’s, Lennoxville and Laval. Mr. England said : 
“A fair and friendly discussion can never damage any 
cause, and those who would construe it as an indict- 
ment would take it to mean the direct opposite of what 
I consider the intention of this meeting. I have no 
fault to find with our present Governors. I think 
every appointment to that board has been good, and 
has tended to conserve the best interest of the Uni- 
versity. But I must take exception to essayist’s refer- 
ence to Sir Win. Hamilton. To construe Sir Wm. 
Hamilton’s articles on University Reform it is neces- 
sary to consider the situation of the Scottish University 
at the time. They were governed by the Senators 
Academies, i.e., the whole body of the professors, who 
elected new professors when vacancies occurred to all 
the chairs that were under the patronages of the Uni- 
versity. Thus they were self-elective. Now Sir Wm. 
Hamilton desired these conditions for a governing 
body: 1. That they should be a small extra-academ- 

ical body, I think he said 7 or 9 members. 2. That 
they should be elective, subject to the approval of 
some independent authority, for example, the Crown. 
3. That they should be elected for a certain period, 
and so constituted that if their services proved bene- 
ficial they could be re-elected. I cannot find Sir Wm. 
Hamilton in the least degree justifying a self-elective 
body. On the contrary, he objected to the Senatus 
Academicus for the reason that it was self-elective. 

Mr. J. S. Hall, M.P.P., said McGill needed money 
and a larger population to feed the University. The 
Graduates’ Society, formed twelve years ago, to give 
united expression to what they deemed the interests of 
their Alma Mater , had done good service, and had 
succeeded in getting one of their number on the 
Board of Governors. An examination of the charter 
led him to the conclusion that it was not theoretically 
a good one, but, in view of circumstances, was probably 
the best that could have been adopted. But a process 
of reforming evolution was required, and a calm dis- 
cussion of the subject necessary, and not a condemna- 
tion of the charter in toto. 



A bore is a person who spends so much time talk- 
ing about himself that you can’t talk about yourself. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



61 



Exchanges. 



The Epsomian is an 'English paper ; it abounds 
in statistics and athletic notes. 

From the Atlantis we gather that the previous 
editorial board had discussed, to some extent, Uni- 
versity affairs, and that the present board disclaims 
their action ; it would be interesting to know on what 
ground. 



Between the Lectures. 



Said Major B. 

To Mrs. T. 

“I loved in vain ; she jilted me ; 

She’s dead now. I forgive her.” 
“Ah !” she replied, 

And gently sighed. 

“I sympathize with you,” she cried, 

Her tears flowed like a river. 

“ Oh ! can it be 
That you, like me, 

Were disappointed, Mrs. T.? 

I hope he’s dead ; he orter.” 
“Not quite ” she said, 

“He isn’t dead , 

But he’s my house’s lord and head, 

1 married him, in short, sir.” 



She (indignantly): “masher !” 

He (tenderly): u ma cliere!” 

The “ Editor” has two failings — he makes big pills 
and talks in surgerv lecture. 

O 4/ 

It is hard to tell who look the most profound dur- 
ing operations at the Hospital — the professors or the 
freshmen. 

An Irishman was recently heard to declare that the 
present state of affairs was “enough to make a man 
commit suicide, or perish in the attempt.” 

Wife — “Don't eat so fast, glutton; your avidity 
takes away my appetite.” 

Husband — (between bites) — “Mine too, my love.” 

Professor of Mathematics — u If I were on an in- 
clined plane, and no friction came into play to create 
a resistance, what would be the consequence ? ” 

Student — “ No consequence whatever, sir.” 

N.B. — Student was plucked. 

“Well,” panted Paterfamilias, as he hacked frantic- 
ally at a veteran fowl, which scooted round the dish 
in playful derision of his efforts, “I consider our 
butcher the most kind-hearted man in town ; anyone 
else would have killed this bird ten years ago.” 

A three-year-old little girl was taught to close her 
evening prayer, during the temporary absence of her 
father, with “and please watch over my papa.” It 
sounded very sweet, but the mother’s amusement may 
be imagined when she added : “And you’d better 
keep an eye on mamma, too 1” 

When Professor K reached the rostrum for 

prayers, he found his watch two minutes slower, and 



himself much later, than he expected. Looking at 
his watch he exclaimed — “I shall have no faith in my 
watch after this.” “It is not faith, but works you 
need,” was the quick response of Professor J 

In a certain city not far from here, there dwell a 
pastry cook and an undertaker, both rejoicing in the 
name of Rogers. The other day one of the residents 
horrified his wife by bringing home a friend to din- 
ner on washing-day. “What shall I do,” she cried. 
“I know ! I shall telephone to Rogers to send up a 
shell, and we can fill it with jam.” Twenty minutes 
later a funereal-looking vehicle drew up at the steps, 
and deposited thereupon a coffin. They had hard 
woi'k persuading the guest to remain. 



College "ftlorlb. 



Of the 1,494 convicts in Joliet Penitentiary, 129 
are college graduates. 

Harvard professors are given a year’s vacation with 
full pay, every seventh year. 

The Vassar girls are to have a new gymnasium, 
costing $25,000. Oh ! happy Vassarites ! 

Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain) has received the 
degree of Master of Arts from Yale University. 

Cornell has tried the plan of having Monday for a 
holiday instead of Saturday, and they call it a success. 

Among the 559 women, who have graduated from 
the fourteen leading women’s colleges and seminaries 
in the United States, only 177 are married ! 

The Empress of Japan has established a college for 
women, to be superintended by a committee of foreign 
ladies. Two of these are American, two English, and 
the other two French and German respectively. 

Wellesley College has refused many students from 
lack of room. The attendance now is over seven 
hundred. Smith College has 450 names on its roll- 
book. There are over twelve hundred students at 
Cornell. 

Among the scholars of all nations who were hon- 
oured recently by the doctor’s degree from the Uni- 
versity of Bologna, were the following Americans , — 
James Russell Lowell, David Dudley Field, Prof. 
Adams, and Prof. Agassiz. 

The Rev. Mr. Wilson, the new Warden of Keble 
College, Oxford, is said to be a man of very strong 
will and great energy. He is a Ritualist of the most 
advanced type, and is regarded highly as a preacher 
both in London and Oxford. 

Active steps are now being taken to build a gym- 
nasium on the University grounds, Toronto. About 
$3,000 has been already promised, and with an ener- 
getic canvass among graduates and others, it is believed 
that a large sum will be raised. The new building 
for the Biological and Physiological Department is 
rapidly approaching completion. It is a handsome 
three- storey, grey stone structure, and will be in 
keeping with the main University building. 



62 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



Some of the slogans of the American colleges are 
as follows : — 

Harvard — Rah, rah, rah ; rah, rah, rah ; rah, rah, 
rah ! Harvard ! 

Tale — Rah, rah, rah ; Rah, rah, rah ; Rah, rah, rah ! 
Ya-a-le ! 

Dartmouth — Wah, Hoo, Wall ; Wah, Hoo, Rah ; 
Dar-d-d — Dartmouth ! ! Tiger. 

Princeton — Rah, rah, rah ; S-s-s-t, boom, th-h-h ! ! 

Union — Rah, rah, rah ; U-n-i-o-n, hikah, hikah, 
hikah ! 

Cornell — Cor-nell ! I yell, yell, yell ! Cornell ! ! ! 

Madison — Zip, rah, mad ; zip, rah, mad ; zip, rah, 
Madison ! 

Wooster — W-oo— ster ! Bang ! ! 

Adelbert — Rah, rah, rah ; ski-yi-yi ; A-d-e-1- 
b-e-r-t ! 

Dickinson — Hip, rah, bus, bis ; Dickinson-en-sis ! 

Boston University — Boston, Boston, bub-a-bub-a- 
bub ; Boston Varsity, varsity ; rah, rah, rah ! ! 

Rutgers — Rah, rah, rah : bow-wow-wow. 

What is McGill’s slogan 1 We should have one ; 
in fact we know there are several. Let us select the 
best. For the purpose of doing so we offer The 
Gazette for the rest of the year for the best slogan 
sent in by January 1. 

Professor Roberts contributed the following charm- 
ing little poem to a recent number of The ’ Varsity : 

MY TREES. 

At evening, when the winds are still, 

And wide the yellowing landscape glows, 

My fir-woods on the lonely hill 
Are crowned with sun and loud with crows. 

Their flocks throng down the open sky 
From far, salt flats and sedgy seas. 

Then dusk and dew-fall quench the cry, — 

So caltn a home is in my trees. 

At morning, when the young wind swings 
The green, slim tops aud branches higli, 

Out-puffs a noisy whirl of wings, 

Dispersing up the empty sky. 

In this dear refuge no roof stops 

The skyward pinion winnowing through. 

My trees shut out the world, — their tops 
Are open to the infinite blue. 

Charles G. D. Roberts. 



CRAHAM BROS., 

Shirt Mata aid lea’s Furnisliers, 

NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

WA.TEE. 

PEBFECT WOBK. 

PBOlvIPT PELIVEPT. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

=== ) TTQ^ETR (=== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SKOB STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN ; 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. Of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

Address : 

30 ST. vTOHUST STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 dc 387 St. Steeet, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SPATES. 



GURNEY’S 



H elebrateo 




Cast Bundy Radiators. 



-•{-Wholesale Manufacturers *— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
(jLngi’BYing Jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Cards, Crests, programmes, 
plonograms, See., See. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

PHTE HA7AITA OIGfA^iS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

EL 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Blewry Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

: and: chemical apparatus. 

S ^ull $todk dor^tkntly oi) Imported 

f)irtdt from tl\e Reading JVIknufkrttfrei^ 
of tl\e Wortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

* Mr * * * * *** ****** * * * * * 

m [ j h oto g r a p h e r s 

* * (|r^ ~* ****** *~ * ~* — ******** 

Jfevo Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

IT BLEURY STREET. 



THE GKiNUIiVE 

COOK’S Peient 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LILIITEP.) 



21, 21\ & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD'S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHSAP FOB CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 fiND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




1350 and 1353 1TOTRE BAMS ST., COHXTSB. McCILL. 

The only Strictly Fii’st.-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

CLOTHIN C3-, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweetls of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

**“ SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




