Rel 



1 1 \ 



ath- 



i » » » \ 



"it- 



teULL W'w. 

APR o 7 



77ie McGill 



Fortnightly Review 



An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinv 



inn 



Vol. II No. 7 



PRICE 10 Cents 



Thursday, March 10, 1927 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 



Sermon Vincent Starr 

Student Government at McGill F. R. Scott 

“Loyalties” 

Diamonds T.T. 

The Slippery Years H. W. Johnston 



Proud Cellist 

Lucifus Enamoured 

Twilight 

BOOKS 

Testament 



. Bernard March 
Leo Kennedy 
. . . Edgar Stewart 

A. J. M. Smith 



EDITORIAL 

W ILL the desire to display the University be- 
fore the public never cease? The conception 
of student activities now prevalent at McGill 
seems to involve each society in at least one 
public perfomance per year. No longer are man- 
dolin players, members of the band and other “artists” 
content with the mere enjoyment of their particular 
activity within the University; no, they must compete 
with the professional world, and go down into the city 
to show the amazed populace just what clever people 
the McGill students really are. The latest example of 
this urge to publicity occurred on “McGill University 
Night,” when no less than one hundred undergraduates 
took part in a radio broadcasting entertainment. The 
“delighted fans,” with ears glued to their instruments 
in order to hear the “college boys,” were given such 
treats as “By the Watermelon Vine” by the Band, 
“Breezing along with the Breeze” by the Mandolin 
Club, a short history of McGill by a member of the 
Band, and a talk on Intercollegiate Athletics by Coach 
Shaughnessy, — the whole introduced by the inevi- 
table McGill yell. 

Sheer rubbish, the whole performance. And because 
rubbish, harmful therefore to McGill; no University 
will ever conquer by that sort of stooping. But the 
supreme piece of rubbish — to give it the mildest name 
possible — was afforded by the talk on Athletics by 
Coach Shaughnessy. “Take that coon-skin coat off 
your son,” he told the public on behalf of McGill, 
“and put him in moleskin breeches. Let him learn to 
prefer the odour of clean fresh air and the honest 
perspiration of the gridiron to the subtle perfumes of 
the dance halls. Let him learn to enjoy the plaudits of 
the spectators, earned by his own efforts against 
strong opposition, to the jazz music of the modern 
orchestra.” 

With Mr. Shaughnessy’s desire to get more football 



players we have no quarrel, for we understand he is the 
professional coach of the senior football team. But 
we should like to know on what authority he thus 
lectures the public in the name of the University, and 
why his ideas on athletics, couched in dance-hall lan- 
guage, should be put forward as McGill’s. “The 
plaudits of the spectators,” have we not already too 
much of that motive in our big athletic spectacles? 
So too one realizes the dangers of athleticism when Mr. 
Shaughnessy pats the professors on the back for not 
plucking a student because he turns out for the football 
team, and for being willing to give the football squad 
extra lessons to make up for lectures that have been lost 
through practices; “as a result,” he remarks frankly, 
“the players have a feeling of respect and affection for 
their tutors that could not be secured in any other way." 
Is that to be the relationship between sport and learning 
at McGill — a 4 we’ll-like-you-if-vou-don’t-bother-us 
attitude' ? If so, the sooner we retire from intercol- 
legiate athletics the better it will be for higher education 
in Canada. 

* * * 

H AVING waited long and patiently, and with 
some misgivings, for The McGill Martlet , we 
were a little surprised to find ourselves depicted 
in one of its cartoons as joining in the general shout of 
welcome upon its arrival. It is not our habit to wel- 
come new activities at McGill until we are satisfied that 
they fill a real want and fill it really well. The first 
number of the Martlet , in our opinion, deserves wel- 
come on neither of these grounds. 

The plea of the editors, that McGill has been in need 
of a humorous publication for a long time as a medium 
for displaying the talent of our “artists and comic-writ- 
ers on the campus,” is one which we consider not prov- 
en. The Daily , although primarily a newspaper, does 
unquestionably provide an adequate outlet for the type 
of humour with which the Martlet evidently intends 



50 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



to fill its columns. The exchange jokes in the Martlet 
are no better than those in the Daily; the two anecdotes 
by Mr. Shaughnessy entitled Reminiscences, Mr. 
Genest’s Interview with Stephen Leacock and Mr. 
Packard's Critic Critturs would not look in the least out 
of place on the second page of the Daily, which gen- 
erally includes articles of equal merit. The cartoonists, 
it is true, might not find a home were it not for the 
Martlet; but is their work, as seen in this first number, 
a justification for a new magazine? Dr. Leacock’s ar- 
ticle on Colleges and Humour might very well have 
come to us. No, it is impossible to believe that the Mart- 
let will come as a relief to overflowing "artists.” It is 
much more likely to become a burden to lean editors. 

However one could forgive this overlapping readily 
enough if only the Martlet were humorous. Of genuine 
humour one can scarcely have too much; certainly a 
little of it is necessary to the well-being of a University. 
But these common or garden chestnuts, which can be 
found in any magazine or newspaper in this country — 
why need they be published at McGill? Dancing and 
kissing and cars — these have become more boring 
than the French triangle; yet they saturate the Martlet. 
Do these represent the "high standard of thought” 
which the editors promise us? Of all the jokes in this 
issue, about five refer to college life, none to McGill. 
There is some attempted verse on the senior’s gowns 
(which no school magazine would stoop to print) but 
outside of that — nothing but the name of Dr. Leacock 
to remind us that this is not the Dakota Dogwash or 
the Tennessee Tit-Bits. Frankly, we are not amused. 

The only joke to be found in these forty unhappy 
pages is that the editors had not the wit to see them- 
selves and their paper completely satirized in Dr. Lea- 
cock’s article. And to think that this is going across 
Canada, bearing the name McGill 



Sermon 

STRIPLINGS all of you, 

Listen to me: 

I would not have you do, 

But be. 

Project no tomorrow, 

Treasure the now — 

The sum of all experience 
Sans why, sans how. 

Whittle the universe 
Down to an I ; 

Act, not rehearse; 

Affirm, not deny. 

Take with your two hands 
What you desire 
Before the cold sands 
Quench your brave fire 

And sully your loving 
Beyond hope of laving, 

Till what you are having 
Is worth but the leaving. 

Vincent Starr 



Student Government at McGill 

F. R. Scott 

I 

T HE debate held recently by the Litarary and 
Debating Society upon the motion “Resolved 
that the Students’ Council be abolished” was of 
more than passing interest. It revealed quite clearly, as 
did also the previous letters and editorials in the Daily, 
that a large body of opinion within McGill today is 
critical of what may be called our political framework, 
our constitution. The time is indeed ripe for a revision 
of our position in the light of present problems. A veri- 
table revolution in the character of college politics has 
been effected within the last twenty years. Organ- 
ised student activities have increased enormously since 
1908, the year in which the principle of central- 
ised control was adopted by the inauguration of the 
first Students’ Council, and with every increase in 
activity has come a corresponding increase in centralisa- 
tion and its attendant evils until today we have a small 
body of nine men responsible for the financial stability 
of some twenty clubs and societies, and handling any- 
thing up to $75,000 per annum. Such a state of af- 
fairs is dangerous and undesirable on the face of it. It 
does not need to be attacked: rather it calls for an 

apology. This article is written in the belief that only 
by altering and amending our constitution to remedy 
obvious evils and to check unfortunate developments 
can student activities at McGill be placed upon a heal- 
thy, vigorous and rational basis. 

The reasons for the adoption of centralised control 
in 1 908 are not without their interest today. The fol- 
lowing paragraphs are reprinted from the Annual of 
1910; they indicate the attitude of the authorities 
and responsible students towards the then existing 
form of student organization. 

The Students’ Society of McGill University, better known in 
its executive committee the Students’ Council, was called into 
existence by a vote of Corporation on April 27th 1908. 

Likes most new forms of government its raison d’être was 
found in abuses. The students had been brought into disrepute 
with the public; their failure to meet their creditors in undergradu- 
ate enterprises, and their apparent acquiescence in the charges of 
vandalism which were periodically brought against them, rendered 
absolute the necessity of reform. The occurrences on Theatre Night 
of 1906 gave a decided impetus to the movement, for it was then 
made clear that some means must be adopted to protect the stu- 
dent body from the adverse criticism following the acts of an irres- 
ponsible few. A committee was appointed by the old Alma Mater 
Society to seek wherein the then prevailing régime was at fault 
and to propose a remedy. 

The committee reported in favour of abolishing the Alma 
Mater Society. Its membership was so considerable there was no 
individual responsibility; it was too cumbersome for an executive, 
and had little or no prestige because another and less represen- 
tative body administered the student finances. The committee 
proposed a small executive to transact all student affairs, and to 
act as a Court of Honour.. .After two years labour by different 
committees, and some hesitation on the part of Corporation, the 
reforms were sanctioned and embodied in what is now the constitu- 
tion of the Students’ Society. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



SI 



It will be seen from a reading of the above article 
that our present constitution was not drawn up with 
the aim of developing the best type of activity within 
the University, but simply in order to protect people 
outside the University from violence or financial loss 
occasioned by the undergraduates. It is submitted that 
these reasons are not in themselves a justification for 
any political system which, must always aim at some- 
thing higher than the mere remedying of abuses. 

II 

What is the present constitution of the Students’ 
Society.'’ Probably not one student in a hundred could 
answer the question. His ignorance cannot be taken as 
proof that the constitution is a good one; it merely 
shows that the majority take their government for 
granted. Yet the character of the political framework 
cannot fail to influence the character of those who live 
and work under it. For this reason the present student 
organization must be described. Though curious, it is 
fortunately not complicated. There is first the Stu- 
dents’ Society, consisting of all male undergraduates 
who pay their universal fee. It has four officers, a 
President, Vice-President, a salaried Secretary-Treas- 
urer and a Comptroller. It holds an annual meeting in 
October and a semi-annual meeting in March; outside 
of these two occasions it never meets, unless specially 
summoned for particular purposes. In theory it is the 
seat of sovereignty, the general legislative assembly of 
the student body. 

The real authority, however, is wielded by a body 
of nine called the Students’ Executive Council, elected 
outside the Students’ Society meetings and holding 
office for one year. It occupies a position for which it 
would be difficult to find a parallel, unless we look 
to the Board of Directors of a joint stock company. It 
is vested with the entire executive authority of the 
Students’ Society (thus making the four officers of 
that society a purely nominal body with no executive 
duties) ; yet it is not removable at the will of that 
society, nor, under the constitution, in any way res- 
ponsible to it. A motion passed at a Students’ Society 
meeting may make recommendations, but cannot give 
orders, to the Council. In serene and secure isolation, it 
meets whenever it sees fit to transact “such business as 
it is its duty to perform.’’ This business, according to 
the clauses of the present constitution, covers nearly 
every branch of student activity. The Council wields, 
as has been said, the executive authority of a theoretical 
sovereign assembly with which it has no essential con- 
nection. It is the only recognised medium, outside of 
the Athletic Board, between the Students on the one 
hand and the University authorities and the general 
public on the other. It acts as a court before which any 
student may be called to account for a misdemeanour. 
The management and control of the Daily are in its 
hands through the Editor-in-Chief of the Daily, who 
sits on the Council. It also “manages and controls’’ the 
McGill Union and all matters pertaining thereto, as 
clubs, cafeteria, etc., through the President of the Union 
who is a member of the Council. It receives $7.00 as 
a compulsory fee from each undergraduate, of which 
it keeps $1.50 for itself and distributes the remainder 
to the organizations which should receive it. ($3.00 
to the Union, $1.50 to the Daily and $1.00 to the 
undergraduate society) ; all such bodies so receiving 
money from the Council must render it an annual 
account, and their books are open to its inspection and 



audit. Any other clubs or societies which affiliate 
themselves with the Council, and place their funds 
under its control, are called “special committees” of 
the Students’ Society: in actual practice they arc 

“special committees” of the Council only. There arc 
now 16 different student activities, ranging from de- 
bating to rooting, which have placed themselves under 
the financial control of the Council. It is settled practice 
for these affiliated clubs to receive at the beginning of 
the year such monies as the Council may be induced 
to give them, and they turn in at the end of the year 
whatever profit or loss they may have made. Finally 
the Council constitutes a committee on student social 
functions, and all undergraduate bodies desiring to 
hold any entertainment in the Union or other Univer- 
sity building must make application to this committee. 

In addition to the Students' Society and the Stu- 
dents’ Executive Council there is the Athletic Board 
which was created in 1923 to look after everything 
connected with University Athletics. Its formation re- 
moved from the Students’ Council the whole burden 
of athletic control. As the present article does not 
pretend to discuss the question of athletics at McGill 
nothing further need be said in this regard; but it i« 
important to note that the existence of the Board 
renders considerably easier the task of reform in other 
branches of student activity. 

Even a cursory glance at our constitution makes it 
evident that we are living under a form of State Social- 
ism. All the essential ingredients are here: the capital 
levy, a bureaucracy, nationalisation. It is amusing to 
reflect that in so unfailing a centre of conservatism as 
McGill every undergraduate forms part of and works 
through a socialist organization. The nationalisation 
of student activities, though not compulsory, is very 
nearly complete; all the major activities have become 
“special committees.” The Students’ Council forms a 
central committee of collection and distribution; if one 
club loses money through bad management, excessive 
activity or otherwise, the deficit is made up by taking 
the necessary amount from the pooled profits of the 
other societies. This is the principle for which the 
miners fought in the last strike in Great Britain, and 
for which they were called fools by our business men 
and traitors by our patriots. It is not contended that 
the miners were wrong — far from it. But it is con- 
tended that the defenders of the present system at Mc- 
Gill are wrong, because the same principles do not ap- 
ply to both student activities and mining. The one is 
(or should be) an intellectual recreation for under- 
graduates, the other a means of subsistence for com- 
munities. The objects for which they both exist are 
not the same. 

What is the end for which student activities exist? 
This question is fundamental, for he who would en- 
quire about the best form of state, as the father of 
political science long ago informed us, ought first to 
determine which is the most desirable life. It is sub- 
mitted that the end for which student activities exist 
is to teach the individual undergraduate responsibility 
and leadership, and to give him opportunities for self- 
expression and self-development which are not obtain- 
able from his purely academic work. Individual devel- 
opment — that is the prime concern of extra-curricular 
activity as it is of education in general. That constitu- 
tion is good, therefore, which permits of the attain- 
ment of this end, that one is bad which prevents or 
hampers its attainment. In other words, and speaking 



52 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



in general terms, that constitution is good in which 
authority is widely distributed so that many individ- 
uals have a chance of exercising it; that one is bad in 
which the few only are entrusted with control. The 
aim of the constitution should be, not to foster activ- 
ities qua activities, but to leave room for as large a 
degree of individual development as possible. 

The present constitution clearly does not achieve this. 
It is far too centralised. True, no society need become 
the ward of the central organisation unless it wants to, 
but the Council is a benevolent mother, and the bogey 
of financial difficulty is so easily dispelled by clutching 
at her apron strings that very few societies care to walk 
by themselves. Dependence and not independence is the 
inevitable consequence. A twofold evil results. On the 
one hand the executive of the dependent society is not 
quite free, for he who pays the piper calls the tune. It 
is divested of just that extra degree of responsibility 
which it ought to bear, and which ought to be a res- 
training influence on the extent of its activities. And on 
the other hand the Students’ Council, being as it is the 
ultimate guarantor of innumerable liabilities, is com- 
pelled to judge all student activities by the amount of 
their profits. A fair balance sheet must be presented 
each year at all costs. So the commercial standards 
enter in, and a reliable money-making venture like the 
Red and White Revue becomes almost a necessity and 
is strongly backed, while a risky undertaking like the 
Players’ Club can quite properly carry on with a small 
grant. 

Ill 

There remains the final question: what form is the 
new constitution to take? The plan which follows is 
not intended to be a complete answer to the question, 
for a satisfactory solution could result only from the 
consultations of a committee of experts. It does, how- 
ever, lay down certain general principles as a basis for 
reform. 

It is admitted that some form of a central executive 
body is necessary. But we already have all that is need- 
ed in the now emasculated executive of the Students' 
Society. President, Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer 
and Comptroller — there is the nucleus of our central 
body. Restore to them the duties that properly belong 
to them. The Comptroller, at present appointed by the 
University on the recommendation of the Council, 
might profitably b? replaced by an elected undergradu- 
ate. That would give us three student members and the 
salaried (?) Secretary-Treasurer. No more would be 
required for the performance of the small degree of 
work that would be left to them. 

The Students’ Council, and all the centralisation 
and business efficiency that it stands for, may with ad- 
vantage be relegated to limbo (defined in the O. E. D. 
as a “region on the border of hell where pre-Christian 
just men & unbaptized infants are confined.”) The 
release of these nine trained executives should prove 
of great benefit to whichever student activities have the 
good fortune to absorb them. 

Henceforth, all clubs and societies of every character 
are to stand on their own feet. If they cannot keep go- 
ing, so much the better; they are obviously not wanted. 
Good riddance might thus be made of much bad rub- 
bish. We need not fear that large debts will be incurred 
by independent clubs, and the University forced to pay 
them for the sake of McGill's good name; each dub 



will know that it must cut its suit according to its 
cloth. Individual students and Montreal merchants 
may be trusted to look after their own interests. At 
anyrate it is a small risk for the University to take 
for the welfare of the undergraduates at large. 

In the independence of the various societies lies the 
chief benefit of the new scheme. Independence involves 
the spreading of responsibility, the training of more 
men. At present only a very few positions occupied by 
students involve any real responsibility, and those po- 
sitions throw far too heavy a burden of work upon the 
men who are willing to fill them. Independence would 
act as an immediate check upon activities in general — 
an obvious advantage; it would also allow for the 
natural death of societies which had served their turn. 
It would permit the Daily once more to represent a 
point of view, perhaps even a body of opinion. It 
would tend to kill the ‘big stunt’, and to confine 
activities within reasonable limits. It would eliminate 
the commercial spirit, and enable us to restore the qual- 
itative criterion. It might in time reduce the universal 
fee; students could then spend their money on whatever 
society they chose. It would destroy the student social 
state, and allow us to return to a condition of healthy 
individualism. If experience showed that some activ- 
ities, essential to student welfare, had to be subsidized, 
as for example the Lit., this could be done by the cen- 
tral executive, but such assistance of course would be 
given very sparingly. The addition of a club's name to 
the subsidy list should involve an amendment to the 
constitution and a two-thirds majority vote at a 
Students’ Society meeting. 

The management of the Union presents some extra 
difficulties. It is almost impossible to make it run at 
a profit on a compulsory fee of only $3.00. The 
University, it is suggested, should undertake either the 
entire financial control (there seems no reason why 
harassed students should spend hours of their time 
trying to manage so large and essential an institution) 
or else responsibility for whatever annual deficit may 
occur. If this cannot be done, the best solution would 
probably be to appropriate some money from the un- 
dergraduate societies, as was suggested last year. 

It is an open question whether the central executive 
body would still need the entire fee of $1.50 which 
at present goes to the Council. Probably it would have 
to remain, though much could be saved by dropping 
such luxuries as the Students’ Directory and the Em- 
ployment Bureiu — legacies from a previous over-ef- 
ficient Council. 

Such in outline is the form that the new constitution 
should take. Decentralisation and autonomy must be 
its guiding principles. The Students’ Society under this 
system would find itself with little to do. Its president 
would be still the official head of the student body. 
But its executive would not be another Students’ 
Council, for it will have only a small amount of 
money to handle, no subordinate clubs to supervise, 
and, mirabile dictu, it will be directly responsible to 
the society whose authority it wields. The students 
themselves will then decide whether money is to be 
spent on this or that project — they will not have to 
wait till a balance sheet is presented at the end of the 
year to record their tardy praise or disapproval. 

It is hoped that those interested in reform will ex- 
press their views on the above proposals, in order that 
all shades of opinion may be heard. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



53 



“Loyalties * * 

March 5th & 7th 1927. 

(By Our Special Correspondent) 

T HE Players’ Club, actually performing in Moyse 
Hall, and before a large audience! Incredible! 
Yet so it was. 

A final justification, if that were needed. 

Loyalties — how they clash! Loyalty to one's race, 
one’s host, one’s club, one's old school, one’s profession, 
one’s wife, one’s husband. 

Loyalty — to McGill, to the drama, to the under- 
graduates, to the faculty, to the authorities, to freedom 
of speech, to one’s original stand 

It is only the little loyalties that conflict. 

A vastly interesting subject for a play. And quite the 
most praiseworthy performance ever staged by the Mc- 
Gill Players’ Club. 

The acting on the whole was distinctly good. The 
men outshone the ladies, but then Loyalties is decidedly 
a man’s play. Miss Gertrude Lerner as Mabel was 
more effective in her acting than in her speaking, yet 
she carried off very creditably a part of a type that ama- 
teurs always find difficult. Margaret Orme (Mrs. K. F. 
Pinhey) might have been even more skittish, more ir- 
repressible, for her comic relief was needed in greater 
measure. Mr. D. Denny was an excellent de Levis, 
proud, reserved, bitter; his performance could scarcely 
have been bettered. The other outstanding piece of 
acting was that of Mr. R. S. Eve, who contrived to 
make his two small parts give a very great deal of en- 
joyment to the audience. It is to be hoped that he will 
be let loose in a larger rôle next year. Mr. D. G. Massy- 
Beresford’s interpretation of Captain Dancy was a pos- 
sible one, though it failed to give that unfortunate 
youth the degree of recklessness and daring that one 
likes to attribute to him. Mr. C. G. G. Wainman and 
Mr. F. R. Terroux filled the parts of General Canynge 
and Charles Winsor with ease and dignity, and Messrs. 
J. Scott and H. E. Sise instilled the proper measure of 
personality into three minor characters. 

Altogether, an achievement, and McGill may now 
feel herself part of the Little Theatre movement in 
Canada. 

The only jarring note, the only Red 0 White Revue 
touch, was afforded by the startling McGill blazers 
and the comic caps worn by the girls who were usher- 
ing. One shuddered 

* * * 

Diamonds 

Did some immense and shallow-crusted sun 
Spend ponderous aeons 
In isolate labour 

Fashioning your bright hardness? 

How well you look around that woman’s neck! 

r. r. 



The Slippery Years 

H. W. Johnston 

A LAS! The Slippery Years. 

Well may you ask, O descendant of Postume, 
"What befell, Peterson being Principal, ere the 
years fled by thus rapidly! When first in fear I entered 
the lamented halls of the Arts building, Freshmen pet- 
ted not, either did they neck, yet they wore no badge 
of servitude. It was not necessary. They walked 
delicately, for then were the eyes of the Sophomores 
as sharp as their tongues and their memories as long 
as their arms. Tradition had it that Logic was com- 
pulsory, not for the edification of the Sophomores, but 
for the confounding of Freshmen, and woe betide the 
urchin whose voice was raised inauspiciously in the 
smoking room. If he commented upon the ephemeral 
usage of his day, he was taken to pieces by some second- 
year man from a stuffed horsehair settee in the Arts 
lounge. 

Yes, we had a station in life in those days, and the 
Sophomores deigned not even to expound it but ex- 
acted suitable sanctions for our misdeeds. But for an an- 
cient custom, now fallen into disuse, our lot had been 
hard. Happily for us, each Senior and Junior used to 
select one or more children to go with him. as Marlowe 
hath it, qui mihi discipulus. and thus instruct his chos- 
en chelas in reverence due to the sacred cows and 
gurus of our time. We were taught to play on the scrub 
teams if found worthy, and to cheer mightily from the 
bleachers under one Gray Masson, a most pragmatical 
Miner with a truculent eye, a malevolent wit and lungs 
of fine brass. Grave were the perils in store for any 
student, not having attained the amatory privileges 
reserved for the Junior year, who ventured to “fuss.” 
One fine Saturday a certain stout lad, a Science gradu- 
ate then in Architecture III and so not at all a Junior, 
appeared in the grand stand. Gray, inspecting the seats 
for such sinners at half time, trotted back to the fold 
with unholy glee. “One, two, three,” he sniggered, 
Henery Peck! WHO is that you are with? Is she your 
Wife? Does she know that you DRINK? Oh, yes!” 
The welkin rang with the servile chorus of our mirth. 
Myself I recall but one such lapse. I went to a fancy 
dress ball in my freshman year, in a private house at 
that. All went well till midnight tinkled on the West- 
minster Chimes and off came my mask to a chorus of 
“Freshie, Freshie Freshie.” Yes, I left after supper. 

There were few dances in those days, the Alma 
Mater, the Junior Dance (not Prom, please) and Con- 
vocation. The Plumbers’ Ball was not in vogue. A 
Freshman had the same right of entree as a skunk or 
— but I thank Heaven I have risen above prejudice 
whether racial, religious or prismatic. For Freshie was 
reserved the time honoured Conversât, with a label 
written by the august hand of Frank Common in the 
“Y” (we were more candid then, and proclaimed hy- 
pocritically in close harmony that we were McGill 
Y. M. C. A. in spite of all opinion to the contrary). 
Alas, how are the mighty fallen! for Frank Common 
now acts as midwife to corporations in their birth- 
throes, and I feel sure accepts his fabulous honorariums 
(or should it be honoraria?) with averted face. Later 
on there were skating parties, the First year being herd- 
ed with the Fourth for decency's sake. Not until See 



54 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



ond Year were we permitted to meet our erstwhile tor- 
mentors in open rink. Last item of all in these sacred 
rites, the mystic letters "S. H. H ." It was all too short 
to "Ethel’s" door. Sometimes I think the present Co- 
ed — why did our forbears abandon the high-sounding 
“Donalda" — is prettier. Past peradventure she under- 
stands more about exterior decorating, but the girls of 
my day were not less skilfull. They knew that success- 
ful publicity is based on an appeal to the imagination. 

We had our notions, too. The collegiate style was 
really collegiate then. There was Jack Hall’s Pipe, 
stuck in one corner of his mouth while the other exuded 
pure vitriol for the unwary. Our collars, too! I# found 
one, rummaging, "Crook Unlimited, 2 Think 
of it! Green hats of a weighty felt, or, for the luxurious, 
velours with a partridge feather. No pull-overs, either, 
but turtle necks with a true shaker stitch, and, for the 
luxuriant Sophomore, a shield with most unheraldic 
black martlets. The more martial of us bedizened our- 
selves with the then unfamiliar khaki of the C. O. T. C. 
under "Count" McKergow, who was reputed to deal 
in art magic and to have learned "Thermo" by unholy 
colloquy w r ith the Evil One. No hint then of Gym- 
dodging, because the spirit of Tait MacKenzie had not 
yet made the corpore sano a prerequisite to the mens 
sana . Far from it. We had an Arts company under 
Harold Hemming, whose staff gorget patches were 
still unbudded, and a Science company under the genial, 
red-faced Helmer, doomed to fall amongst the first 
Canadian gunners at St. Julien. "No conscripts and 
no slackers!" was our motto, and the way of the un- 
willing was down and out. A cadet training gained 
me the unmerited grade of corporal, and to my horror 
I was bidden instruct my fellow neophytes in fixing 
that most horrible weapon, the Ross bayonet. Like the 
Lancashire lad, I "wopped an aht and popped un on e 
moozle" — but let us draw a veil over what followed. 

Another pet hobby was the "Daily." The rag was 
young then, when we were all imps together, and to 
serve on its staff was an honour. No free movies then 
— there were none. The Fortnightly had come and 
gone, the Martlet had lingered a space, even the Univer- 
sity Magazine had gone the way of all quarterlies. But 
the Daily! That we felt would never die! It was our 
paper; whether we scrawled "stories" in the Union 
(then not so shop-worn) or dropped into the Daily 
post-box the doomed offspring of our imagination, it 
was ours, and we read it from end to end. Woe be to 
him who split his infinitives or misplaced his epithets! 
Greater woe to him who aired views suited for the 
more transient medium of pipe smoke. An avenger, 
probably one’s bench mate, or an office-holder would 
arise and rend the offender. None of your "don’t shoot 
the pianist" wails of present-day officialdom, but red- 
hot scalding censure in the best vein of Hansard ad- 
dressed to "your honorable co-respondent whose intel- 
ligence is only equalled by his ignorance — ." In my 
second year, an unhappy love of rhythm tempted me 
into verse, needless to add against the Freshmen. Twen- 
ty answers, one by the doughty T. J. K., and all in 
verse resulted. Asbestos not being adapted for jour- 
nalism, the "Daily" declined to print more than four 
of the answers, but I recall being censured by half of 
my year for leaving any loopholes at all. Tempora 
mutantur et nosque in illis . 



Electioneering wâs a different business then. Execu- 
tives did not "sell" their clubs to the student body. 
The student body asked humbly to be admitted. Not 
to apply in your Freshman year rendered election 
doubtful in your second. He who would not when he 
might was deemed unworthy forever. The council, 
too, was a novelty. Years of deficits, of hand-to-mouth 
borrowings, and to be honest some rather unwhole- 
some encounters with the police (even in my time I 
recall Laval visiting us and offering to fight the police 
any day we liked) led to the authorities none too grace- 
fully shovelling off the worries upon our shoulders. It 
seems strange to find the change in these times. Well 
do I recall standing spellbound in the old Arts reading 
room, while "Art" Mathewson (now for his sins an 
Alderman declaimed forcibly if precariously from a 
sloping reading desk amid the crumpled ruins of the 

"Gazette," "Now you f censored) Freshies ." But it 

is time to draw the veil. 

Football was in its heydey then and Shag was, well — 
Shag, by whom his satellites swore and at whom he 
in return swore most impartially. Strange is it not, that 
of the entire university few besides Shag and Old Tom 
Graydon still pursue unchanged their ways despite the 
vanished snows of yesteryear. "Dad" Lamb, one year 
ahead of me, dealt summarily by medical freshmen and 
executed vengeance on a Sophomore who dared to wear 
a moustache — reserved then with spats, canes and 
fussing for the junior year. The wretch was shaved as 
to the centre of his head. One half of his cranium 
was dyed red, the other a toxic green, and a shampoo 
of venerable eggs allowed to dry in situ. 

We had demigods in those days, Dean Moyse who 
rendered "Alouette" at freshman rally or football 
smoker (no vicarious hospitality then, thank you!) 
and old "Trid" Davies, peace to his ashes! "Thumb's 
giving out, gentlemen. Gout, gentlemen, penaltv of ad- 
vancing years. No use gentlemen — see you next Thurs- 
day!" Thus "Trid," and so away to partake of that 
mystical "coffee" with which he was wont to while 
away tuition in his crammers’ shop. "Polly" Lafleur 
was the idol of the literati; in those days there was no 
one to hamper theatricals or expose the dramatic naked- 
ness of Honours English. 

But alas, this is becoming an homeric catalogue of 
ships which have long since foundered, or hoisted ad- 
mirals’ bunting or been wafted into other channels 
where they now ride at anchor upon the pictured wa- 
ters. Suffice it that for my sins I fell from the company 
of the angels and became a plumber. Not all at once, 
but gradually and by degrees, like Mr. Belloc’s little 
boy and the lion. I delivered myself to "Buntv" Mac- 
Leod who began to make an engineer of me. We had a 
difference of opinion with some other Nordics at the 
time, so H. M. Government completed the job and I 
found to my bewilderment that "When you’re a Sap- 
per — You Sap!" When the last trench was filled in, 
I came back, to find things sadly altered, but that, O 
descendant of Postume, is another story. Perhaps some 
day I may be moved to tell it; in the meantime let us 
sing for old sake’s sake. 

" Gaudeamus igitur, juvenes dum suwus 

Post jucundam juventutem 

Post molestam senectutem 

Nos habebit humus” 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



55 



Proud Cellist 

ARE there quiverings 
Of flesh and blood, 

Like taut strings 
And hollow wood 

Stirring to fragile 
Form, that lingers 
Beneath my agile 
Bow and fingers? 

In no woman 
Is love lent 
So beautiful an 
Instrument. 

None so lovely 
In her moving, 

None so wholly 
Lost in loving. 

A low note dying, and 
Yet not dead. 

Is a lover’s hand 
Uncomforted. 

A low note dying, and 
Sunk to rest 
Is a lover’s hand 
Still, on a breast. 

Bernard March 



Lucifus Enamoured 

Leo Kennedy 

I N a niche of the wall beyond the Toy Shop counter 
stood a wooden effigy of the Virgin, with folded 
hands. The Toy Master filled daily a glass vase 
with flowers and fair water, and set it before the little 
feet; at dusk he brought a vigil light to dance eerily 
within a blue transparent jar. When grey and black 
shadows merged to purple, in all the crooked Toy Shop 
was no light but this wild suppliant in a blue shell, 
and the pure moonlight that on some nights sprawled 
on the floor. Stefan the Clown sturdy gentleman, took 
no heed of these things, having concern only for his 
plump person and the Dutch Doll with yellow braids 
of hair. Karl and Topper, colonels of hussars and light 
foot respectively, had not mind above the parading of 
wooden regiments on shelves, and the ogling of wen- 
ches in doll houses. The Khan of all China sat in the 
long night as in the day, dreaming of far away gardens 
with sapphire lakes, and almond-blossoms falling in a 
scented shower about cherry-mouthed women who 
plucked upon stringed instruments and sang: “Ah, tee 
la so.” The yellow-clad, yellow-faced Khan, because of 
desires that he might not satisfy was come to an end 
of his weariness: the small heart of him dry and 
shrunken as a pea, rattled if you shook him. That 
crimson and orange pagoda with brass bells and a 
blinking Bhudda called to him faintly across the world. 
It was his ineffable tragedy that he could not hear. As 
the Woolen Elephant said of him, with a mind on 
other things: “Pooh, he is deaf and far too old.” 

Only Lucifus the Puppet had the shadow of a soul, 
and it was blue and shaped like a candle flame. Little 



Lucifus knew nothing of this; he did not know that he 
was a Puppet and that things happened inside him, 
making him feel thus, or thus. He was not aware of 
being an extraordinary puppet in this respect. The 
stupid gaping monsters who regarded him in the day : 
tall monsters with little monsters holding to their 
hands: these crowed or screamed as the fit took them. 
Obedient to the hidden motions of the Toy Master 
who resembled these creatures but had sensibilities, Lu- 
cifus jogged his hands and flapped his legs and wagged 
his head right, left, and down, his controlling wires 
making a sharp click, click. Lucifus did not hate these 
people or even try to understand them: he jogged and 
flapped and wagged for their delectation when the need 
was — other than that he did not think of them at 
all. His soul was blue and shaped like a candle flame, 
and this no doubt brought him one night swaggering 
along the counter and through the stirring shadows to 
that statue of the Mother of God. Little Lucifus stoop- 
ed and doffed his busby as he had seen the Toy Master 
doff his velvet cap. “Lady” said Lucifus: “it is a dear 
night, and presently there will be a moon.” 

He smiled a little. “What is that curious blue woman 
that dances before you at night, all night? I have re- 
marked her with strange movings in my sawdust. It is 
as though, as though she were within me, dancing, dan- 
cing. She is very beautiful to dance at your quiet feet. 
Lady, not from a desire for private betterment do I do 
this, but because though I am a Puppet to dance for 
the world's pleasure and do not know what it is all 
about, yet do I know that you are holy and lovely and 
kind, and here is my all, a poor gift. ” 

He thrust one painted hand within his breast and 
drew from there a small blue, moving thing, and laid 
it with little gaspings of his breath beside the candle; 
the moonlight being now come, dabbled his face to 
a chalky whiteness. 

“O” said Lucifus: “O.” And the wooden Virgin 
with eyes and mouth always tender, always kind, look- 
ed at him over her folded hands. 

“O” gasped the Puppet: “it is a lie, Lady, I am like 
all the world. If there is no desire rampant there is 
one slumberous, and I am not better than anyone. And 
since the strange dancing is gone out of me I know that 
I would have it again, or rather the blue flickering 
woman who watches with you. She is a spiritual de- 
light — but what is spiritual — and loveliest of my 
world as you are loveliest of your place. She dances — 
and her dancing is a song that plays upon my poor 
emotions. She is warm light in all the dark of here, 
and even the moon’s great kiss is cold and unsatisfying. 

A faintness is upon me, and I would have you know 
too, that my name is a lie: 1 was earliest called little 
Adam and I suppose I am an allegory. But you are 
Mother of all the World, and for the gratification of 
my desire, Adam will speak fairer than Lucifus. O, 
Lady, your smile is always the same smile, and you, as 
I now see, the Mother of God: and that swift blue 
woman at your feet is the twin of my gift to you.” 

Now Little Lucifus, or as he says, Adam, reeled in 
a great whirlpool of the Toy Shop as it seemed, and 
sprawled with his stuffed arms widecast. And in that 
trembling moment when the Soldiers, the Dutch Doll 
and Stefan, the Elephant, the Khan and all, tumbled in 
a kaleidoscope across his eyes, the flame in the blue jar 
sprang widely, wavered, and was extinguished, with a 
thin trickle of smoke where it had been. The soul of 



•y 



56 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



the Puppet danced into the empty jar with a certain 
humble merriment, and the wooden Virgin smiled, 
smiled gravely. 

* * * 

Now' this is the last that 1 know of Little Lucifus 
called Adam. 



Twilight 

By Edgar Stewart 

A T set of sun the Traveller approached the top of 
the hill. He was wearied, for it had been a hot 
day and he had come far. He was dusty, too, for 
much of his journey had lain along high routes; and 
now, picking his way up a grassy track to where he 
could see the four lone pines capping the hill, he was 
inclined to entertain doubts. The Traveller was al- 
ways of a contemplative mood, but now his contem- 
plations had a shadowy tinge. He began to question 
the goodness of things, to ask himself why he was 
faring thus along his appointed road, to ponder upon 
the uselessness of endeavour and the relentless fulfil- 
ment of destiny. 

Reaching the top he sat himself down, fatigued by 
the ascent, under the pines as they murmured their 
plaintive song wafted by the sunset breeze. The sun's 
rim was touching the western horizon as he gazed forth 
to refresh his soul with what he saw. 

From his lofty seat the valley fell away in an ir- 
regular checker-board of greens and browns. On the 
opposite side the land again rose into sheep-pasturing 
downland, crowned at intervals with clumps of fir- 
trees. Down the valley meandered a winding stream; 
here and there a white road flashed, following its 
course up into the hills beyond. Up there the light 
had already failed, so that a deepening purple outline 
was all that was distinguishable. The Traveller’s 
eyes dwelt lovingly on the valley, and well they might, 
for it was one of the loveliest in the whole Kingdom. 
Dotted along the road at varying intervals were farm 
houses and barns with their attendant cottages, bow- 
ered in old trees, and those gifted with excellent sight 
could discern the labourers returning thither from their 
work in the fields. 

How peaceful this sunset world was! From the 
village out of sight on his right hand up to the looming 
hills on his left this valley seemed the haunt of perfect 
repose. The very sounds were sleepy, plaintive, cal- 
culated to fill the mind with the bittersweet of reminis- 
cence. A faint lulling tinkle-tinkle came across from 
the sheep-folds on the opposite downs; down below 
the peewits on their last foraging flight uttered their 
melancholy call; overhead the four lone pines sighed. 
The scent of midsummer clover was all around the 
Traveller. He sighed. 

His gaze strayed over the landscape, now attracted by 
the glare of a farm window reflecting the ruddy sunset, 
now roaming idly over copse and pasture, lush-meadow 
and orchard. Presently his eyes ceased wandering, be- 
coming fixed on the vanishing purple hills. But he did 
not see these purple hills as they blended with the hori- 
zon and as the glare of red beyond them died. He was 
lost in thought, wrapped in the aching sweetness of it 
all. 

Just as a draught of some old French wine removes 
for a time the worries of a busy world, so the content 



of this scene flowed round the Traveller and imbued 
him with its repose. His mind had wandered back to 
far-off happy days, days of his youth. 

The last gash of red was dissolving in the west, the 
evening mists had spread from the stream over the 
lush-meadows, and the first stars had begun to punc- 
ture the purple vault, when the Traveller sighed a 
deep sigh, took up his staff, and walked down a wind- 
ing lane to the village inn where he could rest his limbs 
and refresh his body. And in his heart was that seren- 
ity which only those can know who live with Nature 
with no thought of the morrow. 



BOOKS 

ENOUGH ROPE 

(By Dorothy Parker . New York. Boni ft Liveright. 
$ 2 . 00 ) 

T HESE verses are not poetry, but then they do 
not try to be. Mrs. Parker knows what is meant 
by the term ‘Tight verse;" she understands her 
limits and keeps well within them. Nobody who 
achieves this is ever unpleasing. And "Enough Rope," 
though light, escapes being trivial. That vein of 
cheery sophistication which we have learnt to expect 
from modern America runs through these pages, so that 
although the subject is primarily, of course, love, the 
manner of treatment is refreshingly unsentimental. 

* * * 

Testament 

IT is along the seamed and gnarled 
And long-dead river-beds 
I take my way — I, molten, 

Moulded, hardened into stone, 

Rifted with ripples, seamed with sand, 

Myself more sun-baked, sallow-seamed, 

With sand and little fine grey dust 
In eyes and mouth and matted hair, 

Than any god of the desert 
Brooding with unwinking eyes 
The cactus and the prickly pear. 

Was it an old poet spoke of wells 
And green and grass and juicy trees? 

April has the sound of silver bells 
Or a certain misremembered voice 
Calling to me out of a child’s heaven .... 

There is madness in that thought. 

I'm for the desert and the desolation. 

I have kissed my hands to distant trees 
And to the girls with pitchers 
Waiting at the well, 

And I am set upon a pilgrimage 
Seeking a more difficult beauty 
Unheartened by even the most faint mirage. 

I am not I, but a generation 
Communicant with trickling sand 
And grey and yellow desert stone — 

The blood and body of our unknown god. 

A.J.M.Smith 



