Vol. XI 



No. 10 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 






UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers : Exchange Rank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J.N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R, A. E* Greenshields. 

fjOBERTSON, FLEET i FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JYZVIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR l McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



Mbit Materials, Baidaiss, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
PlanmiH i Disptisiif Cltiiils, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

School al College Text Boohs ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

-A.cLttoc ates, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 4 Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(near the court-house,) 



.TIE 1)1 CAL WORKS, BOOKS USED 1JV ART COURSE , 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock aid Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

— best yaluje in t o w tv , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 



MONTREAL. 



Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Yol. XI.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 27th, 1888. [No. 10. 



Uniinrsitj 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas 
A. Drummond, Science *88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts *88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts '90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts *88., Asst . Editor-in-Chief . 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. *89. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. '89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science *88. 

Blanche B. Evans, *88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 115-116 

Poetry 116, 117, 123, 125 

Contributions 117-122 

McGill News 123 

Societies 123-124 

Sporting 124 

Personals 124 

Exchanges 124 

College News 125-126 



Editorials. 



THE LAW LECTURES. 

There remain two only of these courses which we 
have not criticised. We trust that the spirit in which 
our criticisms have been conducted has commended 
them to all fair-minded men. We have endeavored 
to do our duty independent of all side issues raised 
by prejudice and short-sighted, selfish motives, and 
having faith in McGill are willing to be judged by 
the course of her future development. The two 
courses not yet discussed are those put down in the 



calendar under Civil and Commercial Law and Civil 
Procedure. 

The first of these courses deals with a branch of 
legal study of vast importance ; it embraces questions 
which no student of law can afford to examine care- 
lessly, but upon which he must bestow careful, think- 
ing work. His knowledge of commercial law will, in 
a community such as ours, form the chief part of his 
stock-in-trade when admitted to practice. How is 
this subject treated at McGill 1 In beginning this 
series of articles we complained that actual teaching 
was not done. Some professors, and apparently the 
present race of students, seem to have come to the 
conclusion that teaching belongs only to the ordinary 
school ; that it is much too humble to engage the 
attention of college professors and college students. 
It would appear that the proper thing in a college is 
for the professor to lecture — that is, to roll off sublime 
truths of law in involved sentences, and not to dis- 
play the slightest disposition to descend to details or 
explanation, and that the student’s duty is to listen 
listlessly in certain positions known to the initiated, 
but never to become either curious or inquisitive. 
Now, all this may look very well to the uninitiated, 
and may, perhaps, contribute to the good opinion 
both professors and students entertain of themselves ; 
but it don’t pay. 

To return, however, to the course of lectures under 
discussion. The lecturer is, par example, a student, 
and besides eminently conscientious in his work ; he 
is a clear thinker ; he reads many authors upon his 
subject and digests them all ; his lectures consist of 
a fairly well arranged enumeration of principles and 
opinions arranged with no regard whatever as to 
narration, but which follow each other with monot- 
onous exactness, leaving the whole connexity of the 
subject to be filled in by the hearer. These lectures 
are read off, to put it mildly, at a very rapid rate, 
and the student who tries to take them down has not 
time to exercise thought on the subject matter at all, 
but is puffing through a shower of words that, for the 
time being, convey about as much meaning as would 
the same quantity of Sanscrit. There is scarcely a 
sentence in these lectures which is not pregnant 
with some principle of law. Were the course printed 
and put in the hands of the students it would be in- 
valuable to them. We know of no better arranged or 



116 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



more exact summary of principles of the subjects 
treated than is this course. 

"Where, then, is the difficulty ? In this, as we have 
already intimated : Here is a professor endeavoring 
to give off in a very limited number of lectures, not 
the outlines of a subject, hut a full, though admirably 
condensed exposition of the whole subject under con- 
sideration. There are two methods by which the evil 
may be cured, either of which would make this course 
an excellent one. The first we have already suggested : 
it is to have the course of lectures printed and placed 
in the hands of the students. The time allotted for 
the lecture might then be profitably employed in ex- 
plaining difficulties and in applying principles. 
There would be no danger of the course growing old 
in the hands of the present lecturer, who, doubtless, 
would encounter little difficulty in engrafting into 
the course such changes as later legislation and decis- 
ions of the court might introduce. 

There is yet another remedy, which, however, in 
view of recent events and arguments we refer to with 
some diffidence. It would be, nevertheless, an effect- 
ual and a sure cure for the trouble complained of in 
such a course as this : it is give more lectures. 

We shall be obliged to defer the discussion of Civil 
Procedure to another issue. 



A NEW LAW PROFESSOR. 

The vacancy created in the teaching staff of the law 
school by the death of the late Dr. Kerr is, we under- 
stand, about to be filled by the appointment of Mr. 
Arch. McGoun, jun., B.A. ’76 and B. C. L. ’78. It 
is not yet decided what chair the new professor will 
take, but it is probable that there will be a redistri- 
bution. We are of opinion that no more wise choice 
could have been made. Mr. McGoun is a young man, 
earnest and painstaking in everything he undertakes. 
Being a young man, his professional duties are not so 
burdensome as to prevent him from devoting a good 
share of his time to the work of the college. He is 
fond of study, and we should say, of literary pursuits. 

At the last election of Representative Fellows we 
considered it our duty to oppose Mr. McGoun, who 
was a candidate for that position. In view of the 
position of affairs at Corporation, we are still of opin- 
ion that we acted for the best in that opposition, and 
are just as strongly of the opinion now that there 
is not an available man among our law graduates who 
will fill a professor’s chair with more benefit to the 
school itself, with more advantage to its students, or 
with more acceptance to the graduates at large. 

We heartily congratulate Mr. McGoun upon the 
honor of being selected for this position, and the school 



upon securing the services of one of its graduates who 
is so admirably fitted for the position. 



A WORD OF WELCOME. 

It may not be generally known that another insti- 
tution for the higher education of young women has 
requested and obtained permission to become one of 
the sisterhood of Colleges, which cluster around our 
Alma Mater. 

We refer to the Trafalgar Institute, Simpson street, 
Montreal. 

With a competent staff, it is the intention of this 
school to give a thorough practical education, up to 
the standard of University matriculation. 

The Gazette has great pleasure in wishing it every 
success, and with a board of trustees, among whom 
are numbered Sir Donald A. Smith and Sir W. Daw- 
son, and with such a proficient principal as Miss 
Grace Fairley, M. A., Edinburgh, there is every reason 
to hope for success. 



Poetry. 



DESCARTES AND HUXLEY. 

The breath of summer stirred her hair. 

And swept a tress athwart his cheek, 

And as his warm blood met it there 
He had it in his heart to speak, 

For something in the soft caress 
Of that gold ringlet unconfined. 

Filled him with longing to possess, 

And whispered that the maid was kind. 

An open book lay on her knee, 

And both its pages closely scanned. 

It was no ornate poesy, 

No novel from a master hand ; 

*Twas full of scientific lore 
And unto strange conclusions led, 

The book that they were leaning o’er, 

The youth and maiden, head to head. 

She read: “ Brute animals are mere 
Machines, devoid of consciousness. 

They do not love, nor hate, nor fear, 

Experience pleasure nor distress; 

And man ; no more than this is he : 

Let him not boast his intellect ; 

In thought, in act he is not free, — 

External forces him direct.” 

She closed the book and veiled her eyes, 

Soft lashes wooed each downy cheek. 

He gazed and thought: “ In Paradise 
Surely the sprites a truant seek.” 

Then spake the maiden dreamily 
And asked : ” Can these stern words be true ? 
Are we automata, or free, 

Or good or bad to know and do ? ” 

Swiftly he answered — still the tress 
«« ^rL a *P st ik* s °heek, they sat so near, — 

H hat others are, we can but guess, 

But, with ourselves, the truth is clear. 

I he Jove for thee within my heart, 

I he joy I know when thou art nigh, 
n °t a paltry, force-ruled part 
Of some complex machinery. 

" m|? e l° ve ,°f mother for her child, 

Ihe creed of an eternal soul, 

Dow can such things be reconciled 
ilh^ credence in mere force-control? 

What force external to the mind 
Can cause sublime self-sacrifice ? 

Ah, no 1 methinks that human kind 
Is not some well-made, dead device. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



117 



And yet”— the tress against his cheek 
it Made his once timid heart grow bold — 

Even at this moment, as I speak, 

I am by beauty’s force controlled. 

A mere automaton am I, 

Obedient to Dame Nature’s laws. 

And if I kiss thee thus, dear, why, 

Thou must not blame me, but the cause.” 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Contributions. 

A COUNTRY BOY. 

[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER VIII. — ( Continued .) 



There was not a house for miles around, except 
that of the hunter. It stood on a bluff, at whose base 
a little trout stream wound its crystal way. On the 
other side of the stream the forest swallowed up culti- 
vation, and every year crept downwards to the stream 
by means of its underbrush. Bears and deer were 
the large game in the wood, partridges made their 
home in the intervales, and in the spring and autumn 
the rank grasses of the marshes hid the duck. On 
the way to the lakes there were two such marshes, 
that in olden times the beavers had turned into lily- 
gemmed ponds, and in commemoration of this the 
two were known to hunters as the Beaver Meadows. 

Not that the name was much used, for few, indeed, 
were the men whose feet had echoed on the banks of 
the lakes, or whose paddle had stirred the waters 
thereof. 

After the meadows are crossed, there is a declivity 
of some height which, when surmounted, introduces 
the traveller to a wild and rocky scene, with a stream 
gurgling through it ; and if he follow this stream, he 
will at last find himself standing by an arm of the 
largest of the lakes, the spruces bending above his 
head, and, perhaps, hiding the crested king-bird or 
the loon, as it pipes its doleful cry. If he launch his 
canoe and take a few strokes with his paddle, he will 
find himself floating upon the cloud-reflecting bosom 
of Bow Lake, the forest-plumed hills standing guard 
around its sleep, and the eternal sky its canopy. 

It was to this lake that Peter, Harry, and Charley 
were going, with Tom for guide, that May morning. 

Long before the meadows were reached, Charley 
and Harry were tired of their bundles. Early in the 
march Charley, who had brought a magnificent rifle, 
“ in case there was any game,” had “chummed up,” as 
he called it, with Tom. The hunter had examined 
the weapon with evident pleasure, but expressed sur- 
prise that Charley should take it with him on an ex- 
cursion at that time of the year. 

“ Oh ! well,” said Charley, “ we can fire at bottles, 
if we can’t do anything else.” 

“ Do you know 1 where are you going to get 

the bottles 1 ” asked Tom, quickly, with a tone of sur- 
prise and alarm in his voice. 



“Ho! ho!” said Peter; “none of that, Tom. I 
thought you had given up touching the flowing 
bowl?” 

Tom laughed till his sides shook at this witticism, 
and Harry, laughing at Tom, and not watching where 
he was going, caught his foot in a log and tumbled 
headlong, scattering pots and pans and blankets, in 
wild confusion, over the ground. He picked himself 
up and sat down on the log, looking disconsolately 
about him. Then he heaved a sigh. 

“ Thank goodness,” he said, “ I’ve got the bundles 
off my shoulders for a few minutes. Whew ! how 
that strap cut me ! ” 

The providential halt was not objected to by the 
others. Charley slipped his burdens from his shoul- 
ders, cocked his gun and looked around, while Peter, 
throwing himself at full length — and a good long 
length it was — on the ground, lit a cigarette, and 
stared at the sky through the interlacing boughs. 
Tom was busy cutting a plug of tobacco and ramming 
it into a black pipe, with blacker fingers. He had 
had the heaviest burden of all — a Rice Lake canoe — 
but his sturdy frame had scarcely bent under it. 

After a few minutes’ rest the march was resumed, 
and after floundering through the meadows, up the 
hill, and down the valley by the gurgling brook, the 
party arrived at the bay previously alluded to. The 
canoe was a large one, capable of containing four, but 
it was not deemed advisable to put the baggage in ; 
so it was left upon the shore, to be taken to the camp 
when the site should have been selected. 

It was nearly ten o’clock when the party reached 
the lake, and twelve before the camp was in proper 
order. As soon a3 the last peg of the tent had been 
driven, Charley carefully unpacked a hand valise he 
had brought with him, and produced a looking-glass, 
a comb and brush, a cake of perfumed soap, and a 
towel. With these in his hand he made his way to 
the brink of the water, and proceeded to wash the 
dust of travel from his face and hands 

Peter and Harry looked at one another. They 
could forgive the soap and towel, but when Charley 
carefully wet his hair, parted and combed it, looking 
meanwhile in the glass to satisfy himself as to the 
success of his labor, they burst out laughing. 

“ Did your sisters pack that valise for you 1 ” asked 
Harry. 

“ Never you mind my sisters,” responded Charley. 
“ I believe a fellow should look just as well for his 
own sake as for anybody else’s.” 

“ Say, Tom, don’t you want to comb your hair ? ” 

Tom laughed, and peeped at himself in the mirror. 
It would have needed a buck-saw to comb the tangles 
out of his hair. 

All day long the party fished from the boat and 
the shore. The author was not one of the party, and 
does not feel called upon to lie for them ; they caught 
under a dozen fish, but all large. In the evening, 
somewhat disgusted, they sat about the fire — for the 
cold of winter was not yet driven from the woods — 
smoking their pipes and spinning yarns. Tom, who 
had got his bark canoe from its quarters, called out to 
Charley as he approached the shore, telling him if he 
wanted to see a good place for ducks, to get in the 



118 UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1888. 



canoe. Charley eagerly did so when Tom came ashore, 
and the two disappeared from the sight of their lazier 
companions. 

Tom was fidgetty. He talked upon all kinds of 
subjects, always working round to Charley’s rifle in 
the end. 

“ Did you see anything to shoot yet, Mister Charles V' 
he asked. 

“ Not yet.” 

“ Did you bring any bottles with you to shoot at ? ” 

“There are none in the boat, if that’s what you 
mean,” said Charley, somewhat angrily, for he thought 
Tom was quizzing him. “ But 1 think we shall find 
all the game we want.” 

This was bravado, hut its effect upon Tom was 
curious. He stopped paddling and leaned forward, 
looking Charley full in the face. After a close 
scrutiny, he said — 

“ \ ou’ll be a friend of Peter’s, I suppose ? ” 

“Yes,” said Charley, his curiosity aroused. 

“ Did he come here after land game ? ” asked Tom, 
anxiously. 

“ The brute,” thought Charley ; “ he knows there’s 
game here, and yet is so precious stingy he doesn’t 
want to give any fellow a chance.” Aloud, he said — 
“ Why do you ask ? ” 

“Because,” said Tom, gravely, “some bottles is 
uncommonly hard to break, and they cut the fingers 
sometimes.” 

“ Why the mischief do you always talk about 
bottles? ” asked Charley. « If it’s a drink you want, 
come ashore with me and you shall have it.” 

Tom pulled ashore with alacrity, and Charley was 
true to his promise. Then Tom made known his 
intention of going home. As he paddled away into 
the darkness, he called out 

“I wouldn’t go to the far lake, gentlemen; there’s 
no fishin’ nor shootin’ there.” 

Merrily blazed the fire around which the young 
men lay, and the waters of the lake leapt ruddily in 
the circle of its light. Beyond this circle the dark- 
ness was intense, and seemed to have silenced even 
the chatter-box leaves. There was something painful 
in the stillness, till all at once Harry broke out into 
a merry song, that echoed and re-echoed from forest 
and hill. The others joined in, and for the first time, 
perhaps, the slumber of the lake was disturbed by a 
college glee. 

Ihey sang until they were hoarse, and then re- 
sumed their smoking. Pretty soon Charley looked at 
his watch. It marked eleven o’clock. 

“ Rook here, boys,” he said, “ the mosquitoes have 
found us out, and it’s late. I vote we make a smudge 
in the tent, and then go to sleep. We’ve to be up at 
five.” 

So said, so done. The tent was cleared of mos- 
quitoes, and the boys retired. 

Charley, the first to suggest sleeping, did not go to 
sleep. A strange nervousness, in no way associated 
with fear, had come over him, and he could not sleep. 
Hour after hour he tossed and rolled about in his 
blanket, thinking of Tom and all kinds of things : 
What did Tom mean by talking of bottles so much ? 
And why did he seem so anxious to protect the game? 



Surely there was enough for all ! How kind of him 
to tell them to keep away from the far lake These 
and other thoughts occupied his mind until he tired 
of the tent, and feeling cold, determined to go out- 
side and replenish the fire which, he could see, was 
down to the embers. 

“ Phew ! ” he said, as he stepped outside, ‘ ’tis a 
nipping and an eager air,’ as Shakespeare has it. Poor 
Shakespeare! 1906 ways of spelling his name! 
What a chance for forgers ! ” 

He could find no brushwood in the immediate 
neighborhood of the camp, so he wandered off a short 
distance in search of some. As he was returning he 
heard through the silence, or thought he heard, a 
voice far out on the water. Dropping bis bundle, he 
listened. 

There were several voices, and one seemed familiar. 
They were not loud, but the intense stillness and the 
uniform humidity of the air over the lake, assisted in 
making them heard farther than would have been 
possible under ordinary circumstances. 

“ Bottles again, by all that’s glorious ! ” he said to 
himself, as he listened. “Am I a ‘ samnombulist,’ or 
am I in a bottling factory ? ” 

“ I tell yer,” the familiar voice said, “ they’ve found 
ye out. They’re always talking of bottles, bottles, 
bottles, and game ! Whoever heard of game here in 
May ? ” 

“ Thank you,” said Charley, “ that’s one for me.” 

“And then,” continued the distant speaker, “if 
ever I say bottle, they say whiskey.” 

“Snip and snap,” said Charley. 

“ Who the devil are they?” asked another voice. 

“ Peter Simson and two college fellers.” 

“ Simson ! D n you, why didn’t you tell me 

that before? Row me ashore to him. Row me ashore, 

I say ! ” 

The voice was loud and angry, and, though the boat 
was evidently getting farther away, rose higher than 
any of the others — 

“ Come, give me a paddle,” it continued. “ I’ve an 
account to settle with him, and there’s no better 
place in the world for the reckoning than this.” 

Here a third voice interposed, and, though Charley 
could not catch all the words, it seemed to be trying 
to calm the last speaker. The voices sunk very low 
after that, and Charley could not comprehend any of 
them. He hurried back to camp with his firewood, 
and piled it upon the fire until the flames leapt high, 
and the scene for yards around was as bright as day. 

He looked across the waters, but there was no sign 
of a, boat there, so he concluded that it had continued 
on its way. At the same time he kept a strict watch 
and a roaring fire. He did not waken his companions, 
for he wanted to think the matter over alone first. 
He thought and thought, and thought so deeply that 
he fell asleep, and only woke when he heard Peter’s 
merry voice in his ears, calling on him to wake up, 
as it was breakfast time, and the sun about to rise. 

Ihe young men fished all morning without any 
vep y g rea t success, and in the afternoon Harry said 
they had better explore the far lake in spite of Tom’s 
advice. . Charley did not oppose the suggestion, as he 
was curious to know something more of the mysterious 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



119 



voices, and suspected that the excursion would help 
him to do so. 

“ For goodness sake, leave that rifle behind !” said 
Peter, as Charley was putting the weapon in the 
boat. 

“ Say, Charley,” called Harry from where he was 
fishing, “ I’ve baited my hook with a piece of your 
soap ; you don’t mind, do you 1 ” 

Charley paid no attention to either, though, when 
Peter suggested trolling the hair-brush behind the 
canoe, he did say something not polite. He sat in 
the canoe with the gun between his knees, looking 
eagerly forward among the trees that lined the shores. 
Suddenly ho cried — 

“ Hush ! back-water ! I see a crow, I think, in 
the trees on that point.” 

Peter laughed, as Charley blazed away, at about 
three hundred yards’ range, at an inoffensive king- 
bird, which, strange to say, did not move. Charley 
grew excited, and fired again as the boat drew nearer, 
with the same result. Finally, he demanded to be 
put ashore, and, when landed, crawled immediately 
under the tree on which the bird sat, and, taking 
careful aim, fired at it. The bird sat still, and he got 
down on one knee, and rested his arm on the other, 
and, at a distance of about five yards from the bird, 
fired for the fourth time. The bird had awakened to 
the knowledge that Charley was trying to kill it, and 
flew leisurely away. 

“ Confound you,” shouted Charley after it, “ if you 
come back I’ll blow your brains out ! ” 

A roar of laughter from his companions greeted 
this remark, and recognizing the absurdity of his 
threat, after his futile efforts to kill the bird, Charley 
laughed also. 

After dexterous paddling through a series of rapids, 
the canoeists emerged into a second narrower and 
smaller, lake which they traversed swiftly, and then 
the third, or highest, lake lay spread out before them, 
with a number of islands in the middle of it. 

They got out their rods and fished for some time in 
vain. Then Harry suggested trolling, which they 
adopted with better success. They paddled among 
the islands and along the main shores, under the 
shaggy trees, until they had well-nigh investigated 
every corner of the lake. At one place they came 
across a creek, or rather a stream, of considerable size, 
and, landing, got out their rods for a little trout fish- 
ing. They followed the stream up for several hun- 
dred yards, when Charley, who was ahead, fired his 
gun. 

“ I got something that time,” he said, as a little 
creature of some sort scrambled through the bushes, 
with him in pursuit, followed by the others. 

“By Jove, boys, it’s a dog,” said Charley, bending 
over the body of the dying animal. “ There must be 
an owner somewhere about.” 

“ Hello ! ” shouted Harry, “ is there anyone 
about 1 ” 

There was no answer, so the party began exploring 
the district, and soon stumbled upon a rude “ caban ” 
of logs. The door was locked, but they looked 
through the cracks and saw a number of utensils, 
among them a “ worm ” condenser. 



“ Hurrah ! ” said Charley, “ there are my bottles at 
last.” 

So they were. The floor was littered with them 

“ Is this a sugaring house 1 ” he asked ; “ and why 
didn’t Tom bring us here 1 It’s better quarters than 
the tent.” 

“ It’s a still,” replied Peter, “ and Tom did not 
want us to know about it. That accounts for his 
anxiety about bottles, and his advice that there was 
no fishing in this lake.” 

“ And accounts for the voices I heard last night,” 
added Charley. 

“ Voices ! What voices 1 ” said his companions. 

So he told them of what he had heard the night 
before. When he got to the part where the grudge 
against Peter was declared, Peter started up. 

“ Who could it have been 1 ?” he asked. And then 
he stopped. His own heart told him. There could 
be only one man living who could feel so incensed 
against him, and that was Bolton Tilton. And yet 
to be angry, Bolton must have been told of his con- 
duct, probably Lizzie’s version of it. 

They broke open the door, and thoroughly investi- 
gated the place. A deliberation as to what should be 
done with the still, resulted in a compromise between 
leaving it alone and telling the authorities, and it was 
broken by themselves. While Peter was lifting an 
old coat from a bench a few letters dropped from it, 
which he looked at before replacing them. One 
caught his attention. It was in a scrawly hand, and 
ill-constructed. He glanced over it rapidly. It was 
dated several months back, and was from Hal Tilton. 
After giving a short account of the progress of the 
now defunct company, it had a reference that set 
Peter thinking. This was to the effect that Hal was 
very grateful to Bolton for getting his father to sign 
the document, and asking permission now to write 
old Mr. Tilton a frank letter of thanks. “ I cannot 
understand,” it continued, “ why brother should ob- 
ject, as you say he does, to having the matter alluded 
to.” 

On the return journey to the camp, Peter was very 
thoughtful. He could not understand why Hal and 
Bolton should correspond, nor why Mr. Tilton should 
object to having so important a matter as his con- 
nection with the Patent Drill Company, alluded to 
in a perfectly private letter. He recalled to mind the 
words of Mr. Tilton when confronted with the law- 
yers, and the hesitation with which he accepted the 
signature as his own. Slowly a suspicion forced itself 
upon him that there was something crooked about the 
matter, and the thought of forgery, which had occur- 
red to him before in connection with Hal, recurred to 
his mind, but now in connection with Bolton. 

He said nothing of this to his companions, and 
when, a day or two later, they returned to Prankville 
with a large string of fish, the expedition was voted 
a thorough success, in which opinion Peter fully con- 
curred. 

The next day was the Queen’s birthday, and the 
three decided to remain over to see the amusements 
that were to be indulged in. 

(To be continued.) 



120 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



“EVANGELINE.” 

(Continued from last issue.) 

With the poet this must have been a secondary 
consideration, because he has confessedly stated, that 
his New England tragedies were written for the 
moral that they teach. And herein lies their strength 
and attractiveness. Who that has read the story of 
Evangeline has ever forgotten it? Who has not felt 
his deeper nature thrilled and elevated by its perusal, 
and does not the memory of it continue to he a 
purifying portion of the experiences of the heart. 

The reader of this enchanting story must perforce 
enter into full sympathy with the beautiful heroine 
and her thrilling experiences. And this all the more, 
because of the intense reality with which the incidents 
of her fruitless wanderings are depicted. Scenes of 
primeval forest, prairie, and river are sketched with 
such a masterly and sympathetic hand, and in such a 
manner, as to be not only truly sublime in their de- 
scription, but nature herself seems to be drawn into 
sympathy with the story, and to breathe a sweet sad- 
ness throughout, whether by the smiling pictures of 
the sunny lakes of the Atchafalaya, or the disconsolate 
wail of the vast forests of Acadia. 

The probabilty of the course of conduct taken by 
Evangeline is to be questioned, and indeed it may 
not be too much to say that it is so over-wrought as 
to give the story an unreal aspect. 

The pure, strong love of the maiden, which led her 
to seek persistently for her wandering lover, is an 
example of the steadfastness of the heart affections of 
a true woman. And so far, many heroines of a similar 
type are to be found, alike in the pages of history 
or in the daily walks of life. But the great force of 
her character, and the most exalting lesson to be 
drawn thereform, is that of patient and uncomplain- 
ing submission to the Divine will. The heartrending 
scenes and bitter disappointment and sorrows which 
she underwent, instead of crushing out her life, 
proved to be cleansing fires, which consumed the dross 
of her natural affections and desires, and caused her 
to emerge therefrom purified and sanctified ; with a 
mind mistrustful of earthly things and living in the 
unseen and enternal. The poet’s own words here 
must be quoted, to picture the transforming influence 
her sorrows had upon her. Referring to her chastened 
love for Gabriel, he says : — 

“ So was her love diffused, but like to some odorous spices, 
Suffered no waste nor loss, tho’ filling the air with aroma. 
Other hope had she none, nor wish in life, but to follow 
Meekly, with reverent steps, the sacred feet of her Saviour.” 

And how closely her life became conformed to that 
of her Master, may be seen in her last utterance, as 
she pressed the lifeless head of the dead form of her 
lover to her bosom, 

“ Meekly she buried her own, and murmured, Father I thank thee.’' 

Here the poet teaches a deeper lesson for man to 
learn than passive, uncomplaining submission to 
Providence — even thankfulness in the face of heart- 
rending sorrow and bereavement. 

The story of Evangeline is an idyl of the heart, not 
only dear to the people of the American continent, 
on account of the master sketches of “ new world ” 



scenery and early colonial life ; but dear also to the 
English speaking race in a not much less degree on 
account of its endearing and elevating influences. 

None of the other characters in the poem are 
feeble ; indeed, they all stand out strong and clear and 
lifelike against the picturesque back ground, which 
throws them into greater relief. The jovial and 
placid nature of Benedict Belfontaine, the father of 
Evangeline ; the impulsive Bazil, the blacksmith , 
the village lawyer, and the faithful parish priest, are 
all characters which teach valuable lessons. 

With regard to the rank of this poem amongst Mr. 
Longfellow’s works, it must certainly take a very high 
place ; perhaps, after Hiawatha, which is a purely 
national production, Evangeline takes the next posi- 
tion, and it, too, on account of its description of 
American scenery, will always remain closely identi- 
fied with the literature proper of the American nation, 
and for that reason, in addition to its intrinsic value 
from a poetical stand-point, will bear the test of 
adverse criticism, and live and hold its own in the 
American world of letters. 

Much has been said and written against the use of 
the hexameter in English verse, and yet who can deny 
the beauty and pliability of this measure in Evange- 
line. It flows naturally, and with rich melody from 
Mr. Longfellow’s pen, and is not necessarily unwieldy 
and distasteful, as some writers would have us believe. 
Indeed, so adapted to all moods and forms of expres- 
sion does it become in the hands of this poet, that if 
the poem were written in any other measure than this, 
much of its charm would be gone, at any rate for the 
general reader. It would be no longer “ Evangeline.” 
Could the dark eyes of that maiden be more vividly 
drawn than in the lines : — 



“ Black were her eyes as the berry that grows on the thorn by the 
way side. 

Black, yet how softly they gleamed beneath the brown shade of 
her tresses 1 ” 



Could nature be depicted with greater beauty than 
as follows : — 



“ Silently, one by one, in the infinite meadows of heaven. 
Blossomed the lovely stars, the forget-me-nots of the angels.” 

Many more delightful passages might be quoted, but 
it is unnecesssary. Mr. Longfellow is particularly 
happy in his use of figures of speech, and deals them 
out with a lavish hand ; always fresh and striking do 
they appear, and although many of them may be old, 
yet their beautiful setting makes them appear all the 
more attractive, because the reader recognizes them 
as old friends. 

The true test of the success of any literary produc- 
tion is the manner of its reception by the public at 
large, and judged from this standpoint, the popularity 
of “ Evangeline ” places it in the first rank amongst 
recent poetical productions. 



SOCIAL LIFE OF YASSAR COLLEGE. 

The social life of Yassar is many-sided. In it are 
found all phases, from the formal meetings of the 
Philalethean Society, the Dickens, and Shakespeare 
Clubs, “ Qui Vive” and “ T. and M.,” to the cosy 
and informal gatherings in the students’ rooms. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



121 



1888 .] 



Between these two extremes come the semi-monthly 
meetings of the three chapters of the Philalethean 
Society, Alpha, Beta and Delta, the entertainments of 
which are chiefly literary, dramatic and musical. 
Among the members of the different chapters there is 
any amount ol rivalry, as each loyal Alphan, Betan 
and Deltan thinks it his duty to induce as many new 
students as possible to join his chapter. The popu- 
larity of a chapter differs greatly from year to year, 
owing largely to the number of upper classmen who 
belong to it, and who are able to get up interesting 
meetings. What may be the most popular chapter 
one year sinks to insignificance the next, when ten or 
fifteen seniors drop from its roll-call. 

Four times a year, however, all rivalry is laid aside, 
when the whole Philalethean society comes together 
to witness a Hall Play. 

A Phil., or Hall Play, as it is called, is one of the 
most interesting events in our social life. 

There has always been an unusual amount of dram- 
atic talent among the students, and each year some 
new “star” appears to fill the place of a departed 
senior, whose loss seemed irreparable. Each year, 
too, the standard of our Hall Plays is gradually ris- 
ing. “ The Private Secretary,” “ Pygmalion and 
Galatea,” “ The Taming of the Shrew,” and “ Mer- 
chant of Venice,” have been well presented within 
the last two years. A committee is appointed to 
choose the play, to assign the parts, to attend the re- 
hearsals, and to act as stage managers, and it seems 
but fair to our committees to say that admirable work 
is done in this direction. 

Another general meeting of the Philalethean Soci- 
ety is held annually in December, and to this the 
students are allowed to invite any friends whom they 
choose. It is the anniversary of the founding of the 
society, and is celebrated by a lecture in the chapel, 
followed by a collation and dancing. 

Another occasion on which the outside world is 
allowed a glimpse into our college life is Founder’s 
Day, which is celebrated in May, in much the same 
way as Philalethean Day. 

In no way is more encouragement given to the 
social life of the College, or more particularly of one 
class, than by the Senior Parlor. This is a room de- 
voted exclusively to the use of the Seniors and their 
friends. It is beautifully furnished by the class, each 
member contributing some article of furniture, a pic- 
ture, or a piece of bric-^-brac, and each year the result 
leads us to think that no improvement is possible. 
Yet each year the parlor is different from that of the 
preceding year, and more beautiful. 

Besides the piano, which is a constant source of 
pleasure to the musical members of the class, our 
literary class-mates may find the daily papers and 
most of the leading periodicals in this attractive 
room. 

By anyone who wishes to gain an insight into the 
social life of Vassar’s more advanced students, a visit 
to the Senior Parlor should not be omitted. 

S. G. Chester, '88. 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 



INDIAN ELOQUENCE. 



“ Ye say their cone-like cabins 
That clustered o’er the vale, 

Have disappeared as withered leaves 
Before the autumn’s gale ; 

But their memory liveth on your hills, 

Their baptism on your shore ; 

Y our everlasting rivers speak 
Their dialect of yore.” 

— Mrs. Sigourney. 



A few suns more, and the Indian will live only in 
history. A few cycles, and that history will be col- 
oured with the mellow, romantic light in which Time 
robes the past, and contrasted with the then present 
wealth and splendour of the country, may seem so 
improbable as to elicit from the historian a philo- 
sophic doubt of its authenticity. The period may 
even arrive when the same uncertainty which hangs 
over the heroic days of every people may attend its 
records, and the stirring deeds of the battle field and 
council-fire may be regarded as attractive fictions, or, 
at the best, as beautiful exaggerations. 

This is but in the nature of things. Actions always 
lose their reality and distinctness in the perspective 
of ages ; time is their charnel-house, and no memori- 
als are so likely to be forgotten as those of conquered 
nations. Of the Angles and Saxons little more than 
a name has survived, and the Indian may meet no 
better fate. Even though our own history is envel- 
oped in theirs, it is somewhat to be feared that, from 
neglect, the valuable cover will be suffered to decay, 
and care be bestowed on the more precious contents. 
“ Be it »o,” exclaim some ; “ what pleasure or profit 
is to be derived from the remembrance ? ” Let the 
wild legends be forgotten. They are but exhibitions 
of savage life teeming with disgusting excess and 
brutal passion. They portray man in no interesting 
light, for with every redeeming trait, there rises some 
revolting characteristic in horrid contrast. Was he 
grateful? So was his revenge bloody. Was he 
brave? So was he treacherous. Was he generous? 
So was he crafty and cruel. 

But a more philosophic mind would say, No ! he 
presents a part of the panorama of humanity, and his 
extermination is an embodiment of a great principle — 
the retreat of the children of the wilderness before 
the wave of civilization ; hence arises a deep interest 
in his fortune which should induce us to preserve, 
carefully and faithfully, the most trifling record of 
his greatness or his degradation. At a time when 
barbarous nations elsewhere had lost their primitive 
purity, we find him the only true child of nature — 
the best specimen of man in his native simplicity. 
We should remember him as a study of “ human na- 
ture ; ” as an instance of a strange mixture of good 
and evil passions. We perceive in him fine emotions 
of feeling and delicacy and unrestrained systematic 
cruelty, grandeur of spirit and hypocritical cunning, 
genuine courage and fiendish treachery. He was like 
some beautiful spar, part of which is regular, clear 
and sparkling, while a portion, impregnated with 
clay, is dark and forbidding. 

But above all, as being an engrossing subject, as 



122 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



coming to us as the only relic of the literature of the 
aborigines, and the most perfect emblem of their 
character, their glory and their intellect, we should 
cherish the remains of their oratory. In these we 
see developed the motives which animated .their 
actions, and the light and shadows of their very soul. 
The iron encasement of apparent apathy in Avhich 
the savage had fortified himself, impenetrable at or- 
dinary moments, is laid aside in the council room. 
The genius of eloquence burst the swathing bands of 
custom, and the Indian stands forth accessible, 
natural and legible. We commune with him, listen 
to his complaints, understand, appreciate, and even 
feel his injuries. 

As Indian eloquence is a key to the character, so is 
it a noble monument of their literature. Oratory sel- 
dom finds a more auspicious field. A wild people, 
and region of thought, forbade feebleness ; unculti- 
vated, but intelligent and sensitive, a purity of idea 
chastely combined with energy of expression, ready 
fluency and imagery how exquisitely delicate, now 
soaring to the sublime ; all united to rival the efforts 
of any ancient or modern orator. 

What can be imagined more impressive than a war- 
rior rising in council to address those who bore the 
same scarred marks of their title to fame and the 
chieftanship ? I he dignified stature, the easv repose 
ot limbs, the graceful gesture, the dark speaking eye, 
excite equal admiration and expectation. We would 
anticipate eloquence from an Indian. He has anim- 
ating remembrances— a poverty of language, which 
exacts rich and apposite metaphorical allusions, even 
for ordinary conversation — a mind which, like his 
body, has never been trammelled and mechanised by 
the formalities of society, and passions which, from 
the very outward restraint imposed upon them, burnt 
more fiercely within. There is a mine of truth in the 
reply of Red Jacket, when called a warrior. “A 
warrior ! said he, “ I am an orator. I was born an 
orator.” 

There are not many speeches remaining on record, 
.but even in this small number there is such a rich 
yet varied view of all the characteristics of true elo- 
quence, that we even rise from their perusal with re- 
gret that so few have been preserved. Nowhere can 
be found a poetic thought clothed in more captivating 
simplicity of expression than in the answer of 
Tecumseh to Governor Harrison, in the conference at 
Vincennes. It contains a high moral rebuke, and a 
sarcasm heightened in effect by an evident conscious- 
ness of loftiness above the reach of insult. At the 
close of his address he found that no chair had been 
placed for him, a neglect which Governor Harrision 
ordered to be remedied as soon as discovered. 
Suspecting, perhaps, that it was more an affront than 
a mistake, with an air of dignity, elevated almost to 
haughtiness, he declined the seat, proferred with the 
words, “Your father requests you to take a chair,” 
and answered, as he calmly disposed himself upon the 
ground : “ My father ! ” The sun is my father and 
the earth is my mother. I will repose upon her 
bosom.” 

As they excelled in the beautiful, so also they 
possessed a nice sense of the ridiculous. There is a 



clever strain of irony, united with the sharpest taunt, 
in the speech of Garangula to De la Barre, the Gov- 
ernor of Canada, when that crafty Frenchman met his 
tribe in council for the purpose of obtaining peace 
and reparation for past injuries. The European at- 
tempted to overawe the savage by threats, which he 
well knew he had not the power to execute. Garangula, 
who was also well aware of the weakness, replied, 
“ Yonondia, you must have believed, when you left 
Quebec, that the sun had burnt up all the forests 
which render our country inaccessible to the French, 
or that the lakes had so overflowed their banks that 
they had surrounded our castles, and that it was im- 
possible for us to get out of them. Yes, surely you 
must have dreamed so, and curiosity to see so great a 
wonder has brought you so far. Hear, Yonondia ! 
Our women had taken their clubs, our children and 
old men had carried their bows and arrows into the 
heart of your camp, if our warriors had not disarmed 
them and kept them back, when your messenger came 
to our castle.” 

Qo. 



JOHN BURROUGHS’ “FRESH FIELDS.” 

“ I he most intimate and sympathetic interpreter of 
nature since Thoreau.” So runs a recent notice of 
John Burroughs. At the first glance it seemed odd 
to me that Burroughs should be classed with Thoreau 
I thought of Thoreau the philosopher rather than 
Thoreau the naturalist ; but the next minute I remem- 
bered his close acquaintance with the world of nature, 
or at least that part of it within walking reach of his 
famous Walden, whose rippling surface and stony 
shore seemed part and parcel of his very existence. 
Still there seems a wide difference between the two 
men. Burroughs is full of an intensely human sym- 
pathy that you miss in Thoreau. The Concord her- 
mit may give you the philosophy of nature, but the 
writer of Fresh Fields and Winter Sunshine gives you 
her sweetest poetry. 

lor one who has been sated with sensational liter- 
ature, or wearied with “ hard ” reading, I can imagine 
no more grateful, refreshing task than a walk with 
John Burroughs through Fresh Fields. He can talk 
without tiring you, for whole pages at a time, of 
green grass and sweet flowers, of the robin’s song, and 
the wren s nest, of the sting of a nettle and the petals 
of a pond lily, his delicate touch adding beauty to 
each theme. When he devotes a whole chapter to a 
mnt for the nightingale, you cannot fail to follow 
every step with eager interest, and are conscious of a 
feeling of genuine disappointment when the end is 
reached, and no nightingale has been found. He is 
the gentlest ot guides, and leads you on over hill and 
V 1 e y> t>y sea and stream, at an easy, restful pace. 
You are pleased and refreshed, never wearied or of- 
ended, unless, indeed, you take exception to his 
Carly le-worship, which crops up everywhere. 

_. !\ s ] 101 .^’ as so ^ ne °ne has felicitously said, “ Fresh 
Fields is like a drink of spring water on a hot summer 
day.” 

Montreal. FRIT< 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



123 



[For the Gazette.] 

THE POWER OF PLEASANT MEMORIES. 

Low drooping o’er my care this afternoon, 

With downward aspect, sombre as the air 
That slept around me, echoes of despair 
Passed through my thoughts, and put them out of time, 
Strong hope, of man the blessing and the dower. 

With the calm will to fashion dreams, which roso 
Instinct with mental splendour and repose, 

Seemed shorn of their consolatory power. 

Thus, as I sat, with melancholy face, 

Resisting sadness with a faint endeavour, 

* A thing of beauty is a joy for ever,”— 

That verse of mirth melody and grace. 

Flashed through my darkened spirit, like the smile 
Of sudden sunlight o’er a solemn pile. 

As from her trance upleaps the joyous Spring, 

Like a young virgin on her bridal morn, 

Flushed with expanding glories newly born, 

While earth and air with merry greeting ring, 

And Nature, strengthened by her rest, is rife 
With fascinating purity and gladness:— 

So did my fancy, from its days of sadness, 

Start into active and delightful life. 

Straightway I stood amid the classic glooms 

Flung from the lavish pencil of young Keats, — 

Realms of immortal shapes, of mingled sweets, 
Uncloying music, and unfading blooms, 

The shadows of creation, which the boy 

Nursed in his soul, and watched with silent joy. 

Not one, hut legion, were the forms and places, 

Laughing and lovely, solemn and serene, 

Which came with all their wonders and their graces, 

From Memory’s treasure-halls where they had been 
Hoarded with miser passion. Spenser’s sheen. 

And grandeur of romance; great Shakespeare’s muse, 
That holds all human sympathies between 
The folding of her pinion so ; Milton’s hues 
Stolen from the deathless amaranths of Heaven 
And woven in his own seraphic song, — 

These to my wakened faculties were given, 

An ever-shifting, ever-pleasing thing ; 

Until I stood enraptured, and alone. 

In a strange world of beauty, boundless, and my own. 

Quevedo. 



JttcfciU News. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting was held on 
Thursday, 8th March, at 4 p.m., the subject of debate 
being, “ Does National Character descend from Age to 
Age 1 ?” Miss McLea was leader of the affirmative, 
Miss Hall of the negative. Owing to the absence of 
Miss Smith and Miss Power, the former through ill- 
ness, Misses Murray and Abbott were elected by 
ballot to fill their places. It was noticed that 
those who spoke without preparation were almost as 
fluent as the appointed debaters. The vote was in 
favour of the negative. Misses Reid and J. Botterell 
gave entertaining readings, and after an interesting 
general discussion, the meeting adjourned. 



THE THEO DORA. 

On Tuesday, March 6th, the members of this Society 
met to consider the progress of Missions in Africa. 
An admirable paper was read by Miss Derrick, the 
President, on “ Africa;” the other essays being “ The 
Women of Africa,” by Miss McFarlane, and “The 
Life of Bishop Hannington,” by Miss J. Botterell. 
Readings were given by Misses Bailiie and Mattice. 
Among the several foreign mission fields about which 



the members of the Theo Dora have read and written, 
Africa is perhaps the ono in which the greatest perils 
and difficulties are to be encountered. This fact, and 
the veil of mystery which envelopes the “ Dark 
Continent,” served only to increase the interest 
evinced by our missionary students in the meeting, 
which was pronounced one of the most successful that 
had yet been held. 



Societies. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The last meeting of this society was held on the 16th 
of March, when Dr. Murray addressed the students on 
the relations existing between such societies and the 
university. He began by discussing the functions of 
the university education, and how it is manifested to 
the receptive and active conditions of mind The plea 
of conservative educationists is that the old systems 
appeal to the active phase and that in science teaching 
the receptive capacities alone are deepened. This is 
true, if science consists merely in facts ; but if one goes 
into the field, with box and hammer, and solves the 
problem locked up in flower and stone, he has means 
of intellectual culture as potent as if he were inves- 
tigating the abstractions of astrology or heraldry. 
Special stress was laid upon orderly thinking, and as 
a means towards this, writing was encouraged. The 
exaggerated advice of Jean Paul Richter was endorsed 
to some extent that “ 30 years of reading do not equal 
six months writing.” The whole tone of this intro- 
duction was the importance of encouraging the intel- 
lectual activities. The rest of the leeture was a fine 
plea to the students for a recognition of the high 
responsibility devolving upon them in virtue of their 
manhood. 

In the old schools, disputations were held as a part 
of the course ; in these days literary societies take their 
place, the students themselves assuming the responsi- 
bility. The doctor confessed that even though he had 
studied under men of European reputation he had 
received more benefit from societies, in the culture 
obtained by readiness in thought, arranging ideas, 
quickly seeing a falsity, and coming in contact and 
conflict with fellowmen. But another value is in the 
responsibility they create, and this should be encourag- 
ed in every university. In the schools of Plato and 
Aristotle the discipline was entirely in the hands of 
students. At Bologna, even, the fees were fixed by 
students, and the patronage was largely in their hands ; 
they elected professors and agreed with “ masters ” 
and “ doctors,” as to the value of their services. 
This system holds even yet in some Scotch universities ; 
“ stint masters ” assess the fees, censors keep the roll 
book, one-third of the corporation is appointed, and 
the Lord Rector declared by the students. How 
faithfully they discharge their task is seen in the fact 
that no man, however great, can receive a more coveted 
position than Lord Rector. In many colleges secret 
societies have sprung up, and have acquired an influ- 
ence that should be shared by all. A college is not a 
school. Men should have thrown upon them the 



124 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



charge of their conduct and study, and allowed the 
liberty of shaping their course and avoiding uncon- 
genial subjects. Societies tend to do this, to develop 
respect for orderly government and constitutional 
procedure, to influence opinion by an appeal to reason 
and conscience, to form tendencies which will grow into 
the widest political habit, the only safeguard against 
political adventurers among a free people. 

The students expressed their thanks, and took leave 
of Dr. Murray amid an uproar of cheering. The closing 
exercises were then begun ; votes of thanks were 
conveyed to the retiring president, J. A. MacPhail, 
and officers ; members of the class of ’88 committed 
the society in feeling words to the loving care of the 
junior years , among the speakers were Pedley, Mc- 
Callum, Mass6, Bryson, Truelle, Le Rossignol, Dav, 
Deeks, Garth, Topp, B.A. 



Sporting. 



\ 

The hockey season has just come to a close, and has 
been rather unsuccessful for McGill. It is hardly 
fair to attribute the cause to inferior ability among 
the men. Mr. Shanks is without doubt the fines'? 
goal keeper in any of the city clubs, two of which, in 
the early part of the season, were earnestly seeking 
after his services. Mr. Wm. Hamilton, seeing the 
College club in difficulty, although very hard pressed 
for time, again donned his skates in the interest of 
the sports of his Alma Mater. 

Captain Lucas has also worked very hard for his 
team. The office of captaining a losing team is by no 
means an enviable position, entailing the expenditure 
of a lot of time. 

Any of these men would be worthy of the best 
club in the city, but chose rather not to prosper at the 
expense of their college. This is the spirit we would 
like to see influencing the actions of every McGill 
student. 

The club has to work against many difficulties ; for 
instance, last season the team started out with new 
men who worked hard, and the end of the winter 
found them in good condition and playing well to- 
gether. This season two of those men present them- 
selves upon the ice, and the rest of the team are to 
be picked from the ranks of the hockey freshmen. At 
the close of this winter the boys are playing much 
better together ; and so, from year to year the same 
thing occurs over and over again. Now, what has 
become of these men 1 They are mostly busily 
en o a o e d in their work, and assert that they cannot 
afford the time to play hockey. 

The truth is, if the matter were better understood, 
almost every student, no matter how busily employed, 
could engage most advantageously in some sport, both 
physically and hence mentally, and why should this 
sport not be hockey 1 It is lively and bracing, requir- 
ing pluck and daring, and calls forth all the manliness 
there is in a man. And the time that hockey calls for is 
but a very small fraction of the time spent in idleness. 

We will venture to say that out of the 500 students 
attending lectures in McGill a team could be formed 
which could virtually wipe out any team in the 



Dominion. And why should we not ? As it is, the 
reputation of the college is left to a few plucky men 
who, like little David of old, go out to do battle with 
the giants. 

Again, the club experienced difficulty in arranging 
a practice hour to suit all its members. Those of the 
medical faculty found the hours very unsatisfactory, 
usually conflicting with their lectures, and although a 
few considered the practice the more important of the 
two, yet it is hardly just to expect a man to slope his 
lecture in order to be present at a practice. Thus a 
team practice, so needful to the success of any club, 
is a rare thing with the McGill hockey players. It 
will thus be seen that our men have been playing 
against heavy odds, and deserve more of our praise 
than if they had been successful in all their matches. 
It is an easy thing to find men by the score who are 
willing to shoulder their stick and their skates and 
tramp through sleet and slush to every practice if the 
prospects of winning are bright and on their side, but 
men who will go on the ice with nothing but the cer- 
tainty of defeat staring them in the face, rather than 
to allow an old college institution to fall through, are 
grit to the backbone. 



Personals. 



“Jim” Pedley, *84, was married the other day at 
Georgetown, Ont. May it never occur again. 

Dr. J.H. Darey, M.A., M.D., is practising in Granger, 
Minn., having removed there from Cresco, la. 

Dr. C. J. Edgar, ’87, is practising at Inverness, Que. 
A local paper of that place speaks in high terms of 
the Doctor. 

John P. Gerrie, Arts, ’87, has received and accepted 
a call to become pastor of Stratford, Ont., Congrega- 
tional Church. ° 

We heard from Goff, late of Arts, ’88, the other 
day. He is doing well, and wishes to exchange 
phisogs. with the gi’aduating boys. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, ’85, (the phonetic) 
graduated from the University Gazette to the 
Toronto Empire. Ah, brethren ! what are before we ? 



Exchanges. 



A very welcome visitor is The Atlantis . The liter- 
ary character of the article on Geoffrey Chaucer is very 
good. We would advise dropping the tobacco adver- 
tisements now found at bottom of each page. 

Bright and chatty, The Sunbeam comes. An article 
entitled “ Patience on a Monument ” draws attention 
to the fact that the energy of advertisers has spoiled 
much of the natural scenery of our country by odious 
invitations to buy only “ T & B Myrtle Navy ” or 
“Use Wistar’s lung Balsam.” Sentiment departs 
when the bill-stickers appear. 



I wuy iUIIU VY Uiy . —— U llXV&VSlZll 

Monthly , Queen's College Journal, Dalhousie Gazette 
Acta Victoriana, Bates College Student, The Tufto- 
man, The Portfolio . 



1888.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



125 



STUDENT'S REMINISCENCES. 




I. 

Oh ! don't you love the noises 
We heard when we were boyses? 

The tied-up watoh dog baying, 

To the silver moon is saying : 

♦Boo woo — — woo ! 

n. 

From pussy-cats mi— ewing 
I fear a fight is brewing; 

Their eyes with fire are lighting ; 

Ah 1 listen to them fighting : 

Row row row— mi— e — a h ou. 

in. 

Now bright Aurora peeping 
Is o'er the mountain creeping. 

And this the cocks are showing, 

So cheerily they’re crowing: 

Uh— uh— uh— uh— uh eh. 

IV. 

The sun is rising brightly, 

And all the world seems sprightly ; 

The hens around the stack'll 
Quite soon begin to cackle : 

Tuc — tuc— tuc— tuc— te — oah-cah. 

V. 

There is no fowl that's nobler 
Than the old-time turkey gobbler; 

As round he struts so proudly. 

His cry is ringing loudly : 

Beloobeloobeloobeloobeloobeloobeloo. 

VI. 

Far over in the meadow 
The calf not lately fed, oh ! 

Is to its mother calling, 

And piteously bawling 

Ba w, ba w. 

VII. 

Thus we recall the noises 
We heard when we were boyses ; 

And though you are not near them 
We’d like to let you hear them : 

Full chorus. 

•Chorus for this verse and the others pretty much ad lib. 



College News. 



There are 365 colleges in the U. S. 

Harvard received almost $1,000,000 last year. 

George Bancroft, the historian, is one of four sur- 
vivors of the class of 1817 of Harvard. 

Amherst has conferred the degree of LL.D. on Prof. 
Drummond of Edinburgh University. 

There is an advance of five per cent, in college 
attendance in the United States this year. 

Volapuk,the universal language, was invented eight 
years ago by the Rev. C. Schleyer, a German priest. 

Columbia has abolished the marking system and the 
students are now striving to have attendance at Chapel 
made voluntary. 

Since 1860 one-third of the Colleges in the United 
States have expended over $1,000,000 in providing 
physical training. 



The Freshmen and Sophomores of McGill College 
had a fight during a lecture, as to which class should 
have the front seats . — Cornell Era. 

A class of over one hundred are taking Loisette’s 
system of memory training, or ‘shorthand of the 
mind,’ at the University of Michigan. 

The Sophomores of a Western College have got 
themselves into trouble by painting all over the seats 
devoted to the Freshmen, “ Just for greens.” 

Dr. Sargent has offered $1,600 in prizes to persons 
of either sex who will approach the nearest to perfect 
physical development. The offer remains open until 
June 1, 1899. 

A professor in Montreal has set himself to work and 
has now mastered twelve languages, and yet we don’t 
imagine he dares to open his mouth when his wife 
wants to know why he stayed out so late — Bowman- 
ville Sun. 

The height of absurdity in the honorary-degree- 
conferring craze has been reached in the case of U. S. 
Secretary of State Bayard. The degree of LL.D. has 
been conferred on him successively by Yale, Harvard, 
and Dartmouth ! 

The graduating class in the Presbyterian College of 
this city, is well filled this year, numbering some 
twelve or thirteen members. Six of these are taking 
the honor course, with the view of proceeding to the 
degree of B.D. in course. 

The Methodist Church of Canada has at present 
eight of its ministers, graduates of Victoria University, 
engaged in educational and missionary work in Japan. 
On Monday, Januaiy 23rd, Rev. Eber Crummy, B.A., 
B.Sc., left Ottawa for Tokio, Japan. 

Yale and Harvard have each a revenue of $18,000 
from athletics. The Hemenway gymnasium at Har- 
vard cost $110,000; Yale’s, $125,000; Amherst’s, 
$65,000; Columbia’s, $156,000; Leigh’s, $40,000; 
Princeton’s, $40,000; Cornell’s, $40,000; Dartmouth’s, 
$25,000 ; William’s, $80,000. 

Principal Anderson, of Prince of Wales College, 
P. E. 1., has recently received the honorary degree of 
LL.D , from McGill College, Montreal. Dr. Ander- 
son’s well-known scholarly attainments and his valuable 
service as an educationist, merit the mark of apprecia- 
tion by which McGill has honored itself in honoring 
him . — Dalhousie Gazette. 

Maria Mitchell, the celebrated Professor of Astro- 
nomy at Vassar College, is seventy ) r ears of age. She 
is the discoverer of eight comets, the discovery of one 
of which gained her a gold medal from the King of 
Denmark, and it is said that when she was a girl of 
eleven she made an accurate record of a lunar eclipse. 
She has received the degree of LL.D., from three 
different institutions. 

A Methodist College is being built in Winnipeg 
which is expected to be opened early next year. The 
system of higher education in Manitoba is much like 
our prospective Confederation scheme in Ontario. 



126 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



There are already three colleges in Winnipeg, whose 
degree conferring power is vested in a council of ex- 
aminers, consisting of an equal number of professors 
from each college. The three colleges already there 
are the French, the Presbyterian and the Episcopa- 
lian. In each of these there are from fifty to seven- 
ty-five students and five or six professors. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o : 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

:o: 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A.g-eM.ts for Montreal a.n.c3. 'Vicin.itsr- 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and Billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths. &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 



Special to the Doctors and Students ! 



THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 



= ) BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 




UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 




* * * -tt * •* _j* * if Jf * * **_•*•** 

hotographers 

_ * * * * * * * * *■ * ■* * * * 



Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts made to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO THE STUDENTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 



Jferu Beale of 'Prices this year 
for Student s. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OB NEW YOBK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, ------ $115,000,000 

Surplus, ------ 16,000,000 

The MUTUAL of Hew York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 

FA YETTE BliOWJV, Gen. Manager. 

176S NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 387 St. Steeet, 3^02Stti5E^.l. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



H elebbuteo Hut Water H eaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— ^-Wholesale Manufacturers* — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

XZZEOSnES-S - IB. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

(j^ngijaYing ^ Pointing 
(Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

Invitations, Gards, GFests, Jpogrammes 
JjdonogFams, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

PESTS OIQARS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extm Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-h{c PHOTOGRAPHY fr«- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
JL CHEM ICAL A PPARATUS. 

tfull $todk dogdtkgtly og Sikgd, Imported 
f)fredt froir\ tt\e I<ekdig^ ^lkgufkrturt^d 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Iain Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



THE GENUINE 

OooiEf’S P JiiEirri 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 21\ & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re- finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders f:>r work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK , STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS * SON,) 

CHEAP FOR GASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

I^IOITTRE^lL. 




Comer I^EcC-ill a,rrd. ILTotre ZDa.rrre Streets, 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA OF 

READY-MADE CLOTHINC, 

— CONSISTING OF— 

Overcoats, Suits, Boy's 6 Children’s Clothing, Hats, Caps & Gentlemen's Furnishings, 

CUSTOM DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY. STUDENTS USUAL iNT. 

2vfa.il Orders receive special attention. 




