VOL. I. 



MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 24, 1892. 



No. 3 



CON TENTS. 



PAGE 

Editorial Comments 31 

Notes on Modern Medical Education and Recent 

Medical Legislation 32 

The University Lecture 33 

The Career of Dr. Adami 35 

Dans la Paroisse de Grand Brute (Song) 36 

Notes on Universities 36 

Alfred Tennyson 37 

Eights' Week at Oxford 39 

All Italia (Poetry) 39 



PAGE 

The Absent Student to his Love (Poetry) 39 



'Varsity Match 39 

Societies 40 

Class Reports 44 

Comp. Med 44 

Woman’s “ Writes” 44 

Medicine 45 

Law 45 

Personals 46 



McGill university i 
ARCHIVES 



ACC. NO. y 

3mA 



REF. 



fUotttreal : 

PRINTED BY JOHN LOVELL & SON 23 AND 25 ST. NICHOLAS STREET. 

1892. 




FIKE AMEMICAK ©BITARS 



In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and“DOBSON” 



Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B. — Special discount to Students. 



Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 

Carbutt’8 dry Plates and Films. 1 5x7 Folding Kodak $57 50 

Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 1 4x5 “ “ 52 50 

Prosch Triplex Shutters. 1 4x5 Hawkeye Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

Prosch Flash Lamps. 1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

New York Aritso Paper. 1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 

Peerless Blue Paper. 1 A “ “ 8 50 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H, CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. MOfltreul. 




To buy their Winter supply of 



NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

New Goods arriving: daily at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2216 St. Catherine Street, 

Foot of Victoria, 



ZE^IEIMIIIIsr G-TOlsT 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 

===== 1892 
MODE-L 
CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard- 

SPACKMAN & CO., 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO., 




BOOTS 



I keep a good boot, suitable for fall 
wear, and one that will ; last well 
and sell it to students for $3*00. 

CALL XLsT ALTL S EL IT- 

A* M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherin e 

- CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 



Suits for GYMNASIUM of field. 

- Running Shoes, etc. 

ALBERT DEMERS. 

338 St. James Street, 

NEARLY OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



300 St. James St., Montreal. 



Arlthow our Rates to 
Students ate 
U Low, 

# We give them the best In 
9 Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman Sc Son, 17BleurySt. 




/WcGllsb FORTNIGHTfey. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature University Thought and Events. 



Vol. I. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 24, 1892. No. 3. 



-^EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Gordon \V. MacDougall, B.A. (Law *94), Editor-in-chief. 

W. M. MacKeracher, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. ’93). 



^BUSINESS BOARDS 



H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman. 

E. J. MacIvbr (Arts ’93), Secretary. 

J. Feathbrston (Science *93). Peeks Davidson, B.A. (Law ’93). 

F. A. Bottbrell (Donalda *95). Glen CAMPBELL’(Comp. Med. *93). 



The McGill Fori nightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1 oo, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Bookseller. Price, iocsnts. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



eoiTOfliAi coyyjeKTS. 

On the 24th October, in the Sheldonian Theatre, Ox- 
ford, Mr. Gladstone inaugurated a lectureship estab- 
lished by Professor Romanes, of Christ Church- The 
following quotation from his lecture, which was in the 
University, will be interesting to us all. Referring to 
the Universities he said : — “ The chief dangers before 
them were probably two — one was that in research, 
considered as apart from their teaching office, they 
should relax and consequently dwindle ; the other, that 
under an undue pressure from without they should lean 
for ever so little to that theory of education which tried 
to construct 4 machines of so many horse powe> rather 
than, to form character , and to rear into true excellence 
that marvellous creature called man ’ — and should seek 
to prepare for success in life instead of securing that a 
man shall always be greater than his work, and never 
bounded by it.” 

What Mr. Gladstone considers as among the chief 
dangers threatening the Universitylife and the efficiency 
of University teaching in the Mother Country may also 
with more probable cause be deemed by the Cana- 
dian and American Universities as among the factors 
tending to a deterioration of educational standards con- 
sidered from a purely intellectual but rational point of 
view. As to the first danger considered by the famous 
lecturer, namely, the danger of relaxation followed by a 
consequent dwindling in the results to be obtained in 
the realms of research, the Canadian Universities have 
not got perhaps so much cause for fear as the more 
ancient bodies, such as Oxford. 



Ours is a new life, ascompared with the ancient 
institutions on the other side of the Atlantic. 

Experience and opportunity, scientific appliances and 
financial support to enable our educational leaders to 
carry on original labors in hitherto unexplored regions 
of scientific and philophical research are by comparison 
in a great measure wanting. 

Our seats of learning have been without exception 
the result of a steady growth from small beginnings. 
With us the advance in this field has perhaps been al- 
most entirely confined to the so-called “realms of 
science/’ i.e., to the development of positive knowledge 
in the study of the natural sciences, and from the posi- 
tion already attained a retrograde is hardly probable 
or possible. The field is vast, the laborers are few, and 
the results to be obtained are so striking as to naturally 
tempt the ambitious student. 

But if we come to consider the second danger men- 
tioned by Mr. Gladstone — 44 that our theory of education 
should tend to construct machines of so many horse- 
power rather than to form character and rear into ex- 
cellence that marvellous creature — man,” what is our 
position in this respect ? 

Do we not find this tendency more prevalent and 
conspicuous in America than in the older world ? 

Do we not find it especially prominent in the new 
creations formed all over the country to afford a so- 
called “ University education ? ” 

Truly the plea for a 44 practical ” training is a strong 
one, but are we not only too apt, in trying to create a 
standard of knowledge having as its strongest recom- 
mendation its high degree of 44 practicability,” to over- 
look the higher function of a University and the train- 
ing to be there obtained, namely, the formation of strong 
characters, and the development of the many different 
sides of a man’s intellectual nature which will enable 
him to take his position in society as 44 a man of many 
parts,” as a man of culture ? 



The University lecture has now come to be recog 
nized as one of the m ost prominent land marks of the 
College session. 

Occurring as it does at practically the same period 
of each year it has come to be looked forward to and 
considered as the enunciation of the Faculty through 
its representative of what it considers to be the matter 
uppermost and most important for the consideration of 
the students at large. 

This year, to a certain extent, a departure has been 
been made, but the subject as presented by the worthy 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



32 

lecturer has also a most important connection with our 
University as showing what the accumulated growth 
and experience of centuries has done in the formation of 
one of the greatest teaching bodies of the world. 

The enlargement of our experience and the extension 
of our range of vision is always valuable as enabling us 
to see more clearly what our strong points are, and also 
by comparison to more clearly distinguish those of our 
deficiencies which need strengthening or a change of 
treatment. 

One is only too naturally inclined to “ Provincialism,” 
and a glimpse into the educational life and organization 
of the colleges of the Old World is one of the most effect- 
ive means of guarding against the common disposition. 



The Graduates of McGill, settled in the Ottawa Dis- 
trict, and members of the “Ottawa Valley Graduates 
Society,” have been communicated with by the managers 
of the Fortnightly, and a cordial invitation has been 
given them to identify themselves with the University 
publication. McGill’s famous sons are never so far 
removed as not to feel the influence of “the ties that 
bind,” and the invitation has been heartily responded 
to. A score of copies have been forwarded for distri- 
bution to Dr. Ami, one of the foremost among its mem- 
bers. Communications of a congratulatory nature have 
already been received, and other contributions of a lite- 
rary character are expected, with reports of the various 
meetings and accounts of their further progress. Col- 
lege life and identification with college interests should 
not and does not end with graduation. 



Notes on Modern Medical Education and 
recent Medical Legislation. 

“ I entertain a very strong conviction that anyone 
who adds to medical education one iota or tittle beyond 
what is absolutely necessary is guilty of a very grave 
offence.” 

These words were spoken by Tlios. Huxley in the 
course of an address to the Students of the Faculty of 
Medicine of University College, London, in 1870. The 
strong conviction entertained by Prof. Huxley on this 
question has been shared by a large majority of those 
engaged in the education of Medical Students. The 
question then naturally arises, why have new subjects 
and new departments to old subjects been added to 
the medical curriculum every year since 1870? 

It is perhaps in the Primary subjects that most 
change and expansion is to be observed, as these sub- 
jects are more progressive. The advances made of 
recent years in the subjects of Pathology, Physiology 
and Medical Chemistry are so important and so exten- 
sive, that the expansion of these subjects alone has 
more than doubled the scope of the scientific or 
abstract side of the medical curriculum. The introduc- 
tion of asepsis as the basis of modern surgery has 
enabled the operator to reach with comparative safety 
organs and tissues that ten years ago were invariably 
left untouched by the knife. The result of this advance 
of surgery has been to necessitate a more accurate 
knowledge of anatomy, and as a consequence more 



careful and thorough dissecting. Besides all this, 
Pharmacology has become more scientific, has indeed 
come into existence, and with it new methods, new 
alkaloids, new instruments and appliances of all sorts 
have been added to the armament of the physician. 

We hold to-day then ideas altogether different from 
those held in 1870 regarding “what is absolutely 
necessary ” for a medical education. The extent of the 
requirements gradually increased, and the subjects 
became so difficult, that a change in methods of teach- 
ing became imperative if the time at the disposal of 
student and professor remained limited to three or four 
sessions. Perhaps the most important alteration in the 
mode of imparting a medical education that has occur- 
red since Professor Huxley gave his address to the 
students of London has been a fuller recognition of the 
necessity of laboratory training and clinical work in- 
stead of lectures and books. This advance in teaching 
sends the student to nature as the source of informa- 
tion instead of to written or spoken authority ; he ob- 
serves the constancy of natural laws in the chemical 
laboratory, the necessity for accurate observation and 
careful reasoning on what he sees in the Physiological 
and Pathological laboratories and in the observation of 
cases in the wards of the hospital. This substitution 
of laboratory and clinical work instead of didactic lec- 
tures has been a great advance in Medical education. 
It has implanted the scientific habit of thought in the 
minds of students, and thus given them a more thorough 
education for their profession. This laboratory work 
has also increased, and its extension has resulted in 
confining the student to the college and often to ill ven- 
tilated rooms, not only during the hours of daylight 
but often for several hours at night. It began also to 
replace reading by occupying most of the limited time 
at the student’s disposal. 

What is absolutely necessary for a medical education 
became then so estensive that to avoid overworking 
the student, either valuable knowledge and training 
had to be omitted from the curriculum, or the time 
spent in acquiring a medical education had to be 
extended. Those schools wishing for well filled class 
rooms and large graduating classes cut down their 
courses, or did not advance with the progress of 
medici lie. Those schools, on the other hand, whose 
professors were abreast of the time, and desired only 
to keep up a high standard of excellence on the 
part of those going out with their degree, found that 
more time was essential, and little by little have in 
creased the time required for their degree. 

It is a matter of considerable interest to observe the 
methods adopted by different schools and licensing 
bodies to meet the requirements of a modern Medical 
education. McGill was the first medical school in 
America to insist on four years study from every stu- 
dent and was the first (in 1884) to make our summer 
sessions compulsory in addition to the four winter ses- 
sions. On her recommendation very largely, the 
Ontario Medical Council has now raised the standard 
and increased the time required for the License of that 
province, It is therefore a little unkind on the part of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



33 



the McGill Fortnightly to criticise the details of the 
new Ontario Medical Act. The licensing bodies in Catr 
ada have all felt more or less acutely the wave of pro- 
gress in medical education, and are now following in 
lines laid down by our own medical school, and attempt- 
ing in various ways to combine a protective system 
with a higher standard of qualification. 

How they are trying to accomplish this will be taken 
up in a subsequent number of the Fortnightly. 

^he VLnivztzity Tieeture. 

The McGill Animal University Lecture was delivered 
on Friday last, Nov. 18th, in the William Molson Hall, 
by Dr. Johnson, vice-principal, who chose for his 
subject “A Professor’s Vacation,” dealing with his 
late holiday on the European continent. Mr. J. H. R. 
Molson presided, and the other members of the Univer- 
sity present were : — Fellows, Rev. Dr. Cornish, Rev. 
Dr. MacVicar, Rev. Dr. Barbour, Messrs. H. T. Bovey 
and T. Wesley Mills; acting secretary, Mr. J. W. 
Brakenridge ; officers of instruction, Messrs. P. J. 
Darey, A. J. Eaton, J. Cox, C. A. Carus-Wilson, J. T. 
Nicholson, P. T. Lafleur, F. D. Adams ; sessional 
lecturers in arts, Messrs- J. L- Day, H- M. Tory, N. N. 
Evans and L- R- Gregor. Revs. Dr. Scrimger and Dr. 
Shaw were also in attendance, as was likewise Bishop 
Bond. 

Immediately upon the members of the University 
taking their seats, the chairman called upon Dr. 
Johnson to deliver his lecture, which occupied close 
upon an hour, and during the delivery of which he 
was frequently applauded. 

Dr. Johnson began by saying that Sir William 
Dawson had suggested to him that he might use the 
material collected during his recent visit to Europe as 
a subject for the Annual University Lecture. On 
reflection, it had, he said, seemed to him that a general 
account of his visit might be useful, at any rate, as 
suggestive of a mode by which greater opportunities 
and inducements might at some future time be offered 
to its professors for the acquisition of the most recent 
additions to knowledge and for original investigation. 
The sketches I present, said the popular lecturer, will 
best point their own moral. 

THE DUBLIN TERCENTENARY, 

whose celebration was appointed for the beginning of 
July, was the original and sole cause of my trans- 
Atlantic trip. But it fortunately happened that I was 
enabled, without neglect of duty, to leave in the middle 
of April, a fortnight before the session ended. It was 
the gain of this fortnight that enabled me to visit 
Rome before the unhealthy season, and afterwards to 
get to Athens before the heat was unendurable. 

It will be convenient to put what I have to say in 
connection with the Dublin tercentenary first. There 
are many ways in which it may be treated. A delegate, 
from France, has published his account in a French 
periodical which I have seen, and in it the historical 
element enters most largely. 

J prefer, however, instead to treat it more directly 



from the educational point of view and to explain the 
secret of the high standing of Dublin in this aspect 
after three centuries of existence. The whole secret 
consists in the 

METHOD OF CHOOSING PROFESSORS AND LECTURERS. 

In this method Dublin has succeeded in reconciling 
the ambition of graduates with the efficiency of the 
University. 

The learned professor then proceeded to draw the 
necessary distinction between “ professor ” and “lec- 
turer,” with the duties of each, their method of appoint- 
ment, and the value of the latter to the University and 
the senior professor whose labors they share. 

After a sketch of his route, via Gibraltar, to Genoa 
and Rome, he described points of interest at Athens, 
the Theatre of Dionysos, the iEgora, the Pnyx, the 
^Eropagus, alluding to some events connected with 
them, the performance of dramas, political abuse, the 
discussions of philosophers, the visit of St. Paul, etc. 

After an extended reference to the Theatre of Diony- 
sos, past and present, the lecturer went on : 

Let us go back to the spectators in the theatre ; 
spectators or legislators whichever you please to call 
them. In this double capacity it was natural that 
politics should enter largely into their amusements, 
and Aristophanes certainly gave them an ample supply, 
and he didn’t treat the politicians gently. Horace tells 
us that he used to censure any bad man or “ boodler ” 
vialus ant fur with a good deal of freedom, viulta cum 
libertate . Of this there can be no question. He took 
liberties with their characters and in his suggestions 
for their punishment that even in these days of the 
liberty of the press might surprise us. In the play of 
the “Knights” attacking the great political party- 
leader of the day, the prime minister, if he may be so 
called, Cleon, and accusing him of dishonesty in deal- 
ing with the public funds before the very men whose 
votes kept him in power, there is a part where the 
chorus begins with Paie , paic ton panourgon , etc., 
which is translated by Frere thus : 

‘‘Close around him, and confound him, the confounder of us 
all, 

“Pelt-him, pummel him, and maul him, rummage, ransack } 
overhaul him, 

“ Overbear him and out-bawl him ; bear him down and bring 
him under, 

“ Bellow like a burst of thunder, robber ! harpy ! sink of plun- 
der ! 

“Rogue and villain! rogue and cheat! rogue and villain, I 
repeat. 

£ ‘ Oftener than I can repeat it, has the rogue and villain cheated.’* 

And again, further on, beginning with the words 
“ O miare kai bdelure,” which Frere translates : — 

“ Dark and unsearchably profound abyss 
“ Gulf of unfathomable 
“ Baseness and iniquity ! 

“ Miracle of immense 
“ Intense impudence, 

“ Every court, every hall, 

“Juries and assemblies, all 
i4 Are stunned to death, deafened all 
Whilst you bawl. 



34 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ The bench and bar, 

“ Ring and jar.” 

* * * * • # 

“Whilst we 

“Scorn and hate, execrate, abominate 
“Thee the brawler and embroiler of the nation and the 
State. 0 

There were no newspapers in those days, but it looks 
as if Aristophanes felt the want and did his best to 
supply what was lacking. 

Dr. Johnson then dwelt on the pleasure and benefit 
to be derived from a visit to these classic lands. 

He mentioned the various English schools in Athens 
for classical studies, and their importance, then pro- 
ceeding to a consideration of the British Association 
and its meetings. 

“ The annual meeting of this Association frequently 
takes place at a time that is inconvenient for those 
whose duties begin so early in the autumn as ours in 
this University. In 1889, for example, I was in Eng- 
land, and could have attended, only that the week of 
meeting coincided with the beginning of our session- 
This year, however, it was earlier than usual, and I 
prolonged my stay a month more than I originally in- 
tended, in order to get the advantage of it. Of course, 
my chief object was to be present at the meetings of 
Section A, that for Mathematical and Physical Science. 
I thought, too, that I might go occasionally to some of 
the other sections ; but I found so much of the highest 
interest in my own that I was unable to leave it even 
once. I am not going to dwell on the work of the sec- 
tion. But I think it may be well to try to remove a 
misconception that I believe exists in many minds as 
regards the special objects of the British Association. 
No distinction appears to me made between it and other 
scientific societies, such, for example, as the Royal 
Societies of London or Edinburgh. It is, of course, a 
scientific association where scientific papers are read 
and discussed, and in that respect like them. A great 
difference, however, is indicated in the fact, that while 
others always meet in the same place, it moves about, 
never holding two meetings in the same place except 
after long intervals. This is done that it may attain 
two objects which the Association keeps in view, and 
which are additional to those ot the ordinary local socie- 
ties, viz.: 1, the promotion of intercourse among scien- 
tific men in general as distinguished from those of a 
particular locality ; 2, to excite and promote a desire 
for scientific knowledge among the public. It is these 
last two objects that are overlooked or misunderstood 
not only here but in Great Britain itself, and that have 
caused some discussion there latterly. It seeks to attain 
them by admitting as members of the Association not 
merely scientific men, but all interested in science. It 
cannot impose an entrance examination for this pur- 
pose. The sole test is, therefore, the payment of the 
annual fee. For the benefit of these members there are 
special lectures to them only, as well as the admission 
to the sectional meetings. There is always one lecture 
to which the public are admitted on payment of a 
trifling fee. The distinction between meetings that are 
exclusively for scientific men and those to which others 
also are admitted is by no means new. It is as old a t 



least as the time of Aristotle, who delivered his esoteric 
lectures to a chosen few in the morning, and his exoteric 
lectures to a more promiscuous gathering in the after- 
noon. The promotion of social intercourse among the 
members, scientific and non-scientific, is sought by 
means of conversaziones and excursions.” 

The lecturer then proceeded to remove the general 
misapprehension as to the nature of these conversa- 
ziones, and showed their value to the scientific man as 
affording him opportunities of meeting socially the 
great men of the period distinguished in the various 
branches. He then advocated strongly a meeting of 
the British Association in Canada in *1895. 

In his own words : 

“Speaking of my regret to a well known member, 
the thought was suggested that the Association might 
be induced to visit Canada again soon, and I proceeded 
to make enquiries fora visit in the year 1895 among 
the members individually, taking them as I casually 
met them, in order to test the general feeling. To my 
great delight, I received favorable replies in ever} 7 case 
but one. The one exception was going to Chicago in 
1893. I may say that 1895 is the earliest possible year, 
since meetings are appointed for 1893 and ^94 at 
Nottingham and Oxford respectively. I found there was 
apparently no chance of their coming to Montreal after 
so short an interval as 1 1 years, but the suggestion of 
Toronto met with approval. The individual replies 
only confirmed an opinion expressed to me by one who 
was very likely to know the general feeling as well as 
it could be known without formal enquiry. Since my 
return I have written to some of the leading educational 
and scientific men in Toronto, and the suggestion was, 
as might be expected from the reputation of Toronto, 
warmly taken up, and now I am happy to be able to 
state that the Canadian Institute has resolved to take 
steps preparatory to sending an invitation to the 
British Association to meet in Toronto in 1895. They 
will give this invitation in their own name, but they 
give it not for themselves alone, nor for Toronto alone, 
but for all Canada, just as the Natural History Society 
in this city did in 1884. And as the invitation of the 
Natural History Society {was endorsed and supported 
not only by Montreal but by all Canada, so I feel sure 
it will be in this case. The benefit will be to all 
Canada, and not to one locality. I may say more, the 
advantages will extend not merely to Canada, but to 
all English-speaking America. Who does not remem- 
ber that in 1884 the Americans came to the British 
association and the British went to the American 
association, and all worked heartily together in the 
common cause of science and in the practical recogni- 
tion of the unity of the race. Was this not really an 
initial step towards establishing that Anglo-Saxon 
Olympiad which is being discussed in the magazine 
whose object would be, like that of the Olympic games 
among the Hellenes, to recognize and further a feeling 
of common nationality by race, if not by government 
But the Canadian Institute deos this in the expectation 
that it will be aided from every quarter of Canada, and 
not least from this city in which so much of the power 
and energy of Canada is centred. When I say this 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



35 



city, may I not include this University also, for the 
same power and energy which have made the city 
eminent have created and fostered the university also ; 
and to promote its interests still further dhey will do 
well indeed if they support the invitation to the British 
association to the utmost of their ability. A second 
visit to Canada would, in all probability, lead to regular 
visits at stated intervals, and this for an association 
which originally contemplated the British isles as its 
limits implies the practical reduction of the Atlantic 
to the same category as the Irish channel. It implies 
still more. If ever the Anglo-Saxon Olympiad be 
really established, though it may begin in England 
yet it will naturally tend to the most central point, the 
most convenient for the whole race, and where will 
that be in the future, if not in Canada ? 

In proposing a vote of thanks to Dr. Johnson, which 
was heartily accorded, the Chairman referred with 
regret to the absence of Sir William Dawson, and 
expressed the hope that the trip he proposed taking to 
the Southern States in a few days would restore him 
to health and strength. 

%hz Career of *Di\ Tidami, Professor of 
Pathology. 

J. George Adami, M.A., M.D. (Cantab.), M.R.C.S., is 
the son of the late Mr. J. G. Adami of Ashton House, 
Ashton-upon-Mersey Cheshire, and of Manchester. 
He was born in January, 1862, and is now only in his 
thirty-first year. I11 October, 1878, he entered Owens 
College, where he spent two years, the first in the Arts 
department, and the second in the Science department. 
In 1880 he become a pensioner of Christ’s College, 
Cambridge, having passed through the general courses 
of Professors Roscoe, Balfour Stewart, Williamson and 
Milnes Marshall In June, 1881, he was elected scholar 
of Christ’s College, and in the following J une gained a 
First class in the First part of the Natural Sciences 
Tripos. In June, 1884, he obtained a first class in the 
second or advanced part of the same Tripos in the 
subjects Human Anatomy and Physiology. Return- 
ing for a few months to Manchester, he attended the 
courses in Human Anatomy and Physiology under 
Professors Watson and Gangee, and in January, 1885, 
having been elected to a Bachelor Travelling-Scholar- 
ship by the Master and Fellows of Christ College, Cam- 
bridge, he proceeded to Germany, and there spent eight 
months in the laboratory of Professor Heidenhain at 
Breslau, making observations upon the physiology of 
the kidney, which were afterwards published in the 
Journal of Physiology , and for which he was awarded 
the Darwin prize by Owens College. In October, 
1886, he re-entered the Manchester Medical School 
to complete his professional studies. Here he gained 
the prizes in Pathology and Surgical Pathology, and 
also obtained the diploma M.R.C.S.) Member of 
the Royal College of Surgeons, England, in 1887. 
Immediately after this, he proceeded to Cambridge, 
having been asked by Professor Roy to act as his assis 
tant during the Long Vacation Term, I11 September* 
1887, he was appointed House Physician at the Mna- 



chester Royal Infirmary, under Drs. Morgan. Dresch- 
feld and Ross. At the termination of his tenure of this 
office, he was appointed Demonstrator of Pathology at 
Cambridge, receiving at the same time an offer from 
Professor Heidenhain, that he should become his 
“Assistant Professor” or Demonstrator, to which he 
did not see his way clear to accept. Besides demon- 
strating thrice weekly in the two courses given annually 
(extending over eight months), his duties at Cambridge 
included the delivery of lectures upon Morbid Anatomy 
and Bacteriology, as well as Advanced Pathology. 
Much of his tfeie was further devoted to original 
research, especially to a long series of observations, in 
association with Professor Roy upon conditions affect- 
ing the Mamalian Heart. Certain of the results gained 
from those observations have already appeared in the 
British Medical Journal the Practitioner , etc., etc. The 
greater part are still unpublished, but will appear 
shortly. In 1889 the Pathological Department at 
Cambridge underwent great extension ; new premises 
were assigned to it, adapted to the needs of teaching 
and research, so that at the present moment, the 
u Cambridge Pathological Laboratory” is the largest 
and best equipped in England, devoted entirely to 
pathological teaching and research. Through these 
extensions, in the arrangements of which Dr. Adami 
took an active part, he gained an invaluable experience 
in the needs of such a laboratory and of the way in 
which such needs may be met. In October, 1890, he 
was elected John Lucas Walker student in Pathology 
of the University of Cambridge, an appointment which 
deprived him of his demonstratorship, while permitting 
him to work in other laboratories. In consequence he 
went to Pans early in November, to the laboratory of 
Professor Metchinkoff, at the Institut Pasteur, and 
then proceeded to investigate the part played by the 
central nervous system in the development of fever 
produced by the products of growth of pathogenic 
bacteria. At the same time, he took the opportunity 
of attending the course given by one of the greatest 
and most suggestive teachers of Bacteriology of the 
present day, Dr. Roux, and was led, for several reasons, 
to make careful and extensive notes of the arrange- 
ments and equipment of the Institut Pasteur. In 
March, 1891, he was elected Fellow of Jesus College, 
Cambridge, and the same year delivered a course of 
lectures in advanced Bacteriology, also another course 
on practical work in same subject, in association with 
Mr. Hankin. Dr. Adami has also been a prolific writer 
upon various correlated Medical subjects. 

He is welcomed to McGill as another valuable mem- 
ber of the eminent teaching-staff of the Faculty of 
Medecine. 



Dans la Paroisse de Grand Brule. 

1. 

Dans la paroisse de Grand Brule 
De place w’ere I was born in, 

In fifty six, de mont’ was May 
’Bout ’alf pas’ five one mornin' ; 

I w r as de firs’ one in de crowd 
Of h ’eighteen, nineteen — twenty, 



McGill fortnightly. 



3<3 



Dat make my fadder hawful proud 
For see his childs so plenty. 

II. 

W’en I go hup for make my law' 

I don’ go hon Laval, sir, 

Dat make me row wid my papa 
Mats ga, ga m'est cgal, sir. 

Bagosh ! I soon make hup my min’, 

De h’ English, dais de knowledge 
An’ dats de reason dat you fin* 

Me ’ere, on McGill College. 

III. 

t 

My gran’modder she halways say — 

"Er name’s Malvina Claire, 

“Jean Louis Pouliot, you’ll don’ forgot, 

You’re enfant de ton pc re ! 

Your fadder ’e’s no gentleman, 

’E work one day to h ’odder, 

’E pay ’es way so long ’e can. 

An’ den ’e never bodder.” 

IV. 

Papa say, (l Well, dose boys more swell 
On McGill dan Laval, sir,” 

I’ll not care, me, for compagnie 
Or, ga , ga m'est eg at, sir,) 

“ Dat Hel, Hel, B’s de bes’ degree 
For push your tree of knowledge,” 

But jus’ as well’s de B. C. Hel 
We get on McGill College. 

V. 

I ’ope for get my gown some day, 

Den I’ll ’ang out my shingle 
1 11 marry Philom&ne Barr£, — 

De gal she’s no good single. 

I’ll stump de country hup an’ down 
1’il make de ’lection speeches 
Mol* hevery year you’ll see me roun’ 

In broadcloth coat and breeches. 

VI. 

My holdes’ son I guess ’e’ll went 
To college at Laval, sir, 

Dat make de hoP man pleasuremeut. 

Et ga , ga m'est cgal , sir — 

’Urrah, ’Urrah, jus’ one more coup 
To w r et de tree of knowledge. 

’Ere’s luck to you w’en you get t’rough 
No matter w’at your college ! 

Wm. McLennan. 

Note— The foregoing has been accepted by the Faculty of Law as their 
Faculty song to be published in the New McGill Song Book. 

Notes On Unioersities. 

Every University has its good points and its bac 1 . 
points, whether as regards its government, its exeeu 
tive, or its student life. The mention of a few of these 
in what follows will be profitable, and might be inter- 
esting. 

To begin with government, the form is very various. 
We may have government by the state, as in many 
Continental universities ; government by a body of 
eminent citizens, as at McGill, and at some colleges in 
Great Britain ; government by a Senate of professors 
accountable to a University Court corresponding very 



much to Corporation here, as in the Scottish Universi- 
ties ; or government by a Senate consisting of Chan 
cellor, Vice Chancellor and graduates, as at Oxford and 
Cambridge. All these systems are perfectly capable of 
producing excellent results. The student probably 
benefits most by the Continental system. The very 
high remuneration of the professors in the Scottish 
Universities seems to indicate that government by the 
professors is largely for the professors. The Oxford 
and Cambridge system is probably capable of the 
highest results from every point of view, while the 
chief advantages of government by highly respected 
and frequently opulent citizens are the securing for the 
University of frequent benefactions to, and sometimes 
munificent patrons of learning, and a large amount of 
excellent financing capacity. 

Before inquiring into the possible good or bad points 
of the executive or officers of instruction of a Univer- 
sity, it is necessary to define the duties of these. 
Without at present attempting to indicate the true 
functions of a University, which must be different in 
different countries as depending on each educational 
system as a whole, we shall probably not overestimate 
the character of these functions if we assign to every 
member of the University staff the following threefold 
category of duties or privileges. 

First, he must be an example to his pupils of a true 
gentleman and a good citizen. One of the main reasons 
why a man comes up to the University is to learn in a 
more extended way the usages of the world he lives in. 
At no time of life are manners, whether good or bad, so 
easily cultivated as at this period ; and if the student 
has any admiration for his teachers, he wdll insensibly 
model himself after them, not merely in ways of think- 
ing, but also [in modes of acting. For this reason 
loyalty to existing State Institutions ought to be a 
characteristic of the University teacher, as it is mani- 
festly unfair to use a high position in the University 
to inoculate advanced political beliefs in minds so sus- 
ceptible and so impatient of imperfections and without 
that salutary knowledge of the humanly possible which 
experience alone can bring. 

Next, it is the privilege of the University lecturer to 
be the guide of his scholars in their search after truth. 
He either points the finger to the thoughts of the 
greatest minds of the race, or he gives his own judg- 
ments, as a man of eminence in the world of learning 
should, on the questions occupying the minds of the 
day, or on the- latest secrets w r rested from Nature’s 
fathomless store. His erudition in his subject must 
therefore be profound and his critical acumen cultivated 
.o the highest degree. 

Lastly, every member of the staff ought, as Dr. John- 
ston insisted at the University lecture the other day, to 
be himself an original thinker or investigator, adding 
his contribution to the world’s w T ealth of thought, or 
endeavoring to question Nature successfully. 

The characteristics of the staff in respect of the last 
two points determine whether a University is in the 
highest sense a centre of light and learning, or merely 
an establishment where bundles of elementary facts are 



McGill fortnightly. 



37 



=* - 

handed out in regulation doses every day. And in 
regard to this, it is perfectly obvious, in view of the 
enormous extension which human knowledge, has now 
assumed, and of the large proportion of this which 
must be professed by a University of high standing, 
that the number of the teaching staff is a preponderat- 
ing factor in determining the efficiency of the Univer- 
sity. On this score, both the Scottish Universities and 
McGill have much to learn from the great Continental 
Universities. I may cite as an instance that the 
University of Berlin has a staff of 250 professors and 
lecturers who deliver annually 690 courses of lectures 
and have seven journals devoted to the publication of 
the original work done by the teachers and scholars of 
the University alone. So far as I know, the McGill 
Fortnightly is the only journal we have ; and its 
contributions are hardly of the epoch-making character 
of those just mentioned. 

Student life in Germany, England and Scotland, so 
far as the writer has .seen it, while possessing of course 
many of the same essential features, differs much in the 
matter of social intercourse. 

In neither Germany nor Scotland do the Universities 
afford such opportunities for intercommunication among 
the students as do Oxford and Cambridge. In Scotland 
the students live in solitary rooms, and see very little of 
each other outside the class room or laboratory. This 
undesirable state of things has now, however, some 
chance of being remedied by the recent establishment 
of a University Union Society , with a handsome building 
containing a large hall for debates and meetings, 
luncheon, smoking and reading rooms, a library and 
large gymnasium for the use of students paying a small 
subscription ; as also of a Students' Representative 
Council' which was founded in 1884 in Edinburgh, and 
which has now also been initiated in the other three 
Scottish Universities. The aims of the Council are : 

To represent the students in matters affecting their 
interests ; 2, to afford a recognized means of commu- 
nication between the students and the University 
authorities ; and 3, to promote social life and academic 
unity among the students. The Council is elected 
annually at the beginning of the winter session, partly 
by the students of the different faculties and partly by 
the recognized students’ societies. Meetings are held 
every month during the winter session, and the business 
then decided on is carried out by a committee con. 
sisting of 15 members. This Representative Council 
has been found to fill a long felt need, and has turned 
out an unqualified success. It may be that such a 
representative body of students might with advantage 
be elected at McGill. The establishment of luncheon 
rooms for students is a very real necessity here, and the 
writer is of opinion that such rooms could be worked, 
and a reasonably cheap and very good midday meal 
supplied to students through the instrumentality of 
such a representative council, who would hire a caterer 
to contract to supply the table and to provide waiters 
and plate, as is done in the Casino of the Teehnisehe 
Hochschuleat Berlin. It will be found on inquiry that 
with rent free rooms, the matter is perfectly sound as a 
commercial undertaking. 



In Germany the students are bonded together socially, 
as is well known in fencing corps ; these are clubs, con- 
sisting of men hailing from the same parts of Germany, 
who meet together for convivial and other purposes. 
At these meetings they drink each other’s healths or slit 
each other’s noses with the greatest possible amount 
of ceremony. The quantity of beer that German stu- 
dents drink has been much talked of ; but the writer 
would be inclined to say that their drinking is in the 
long run much less harmful than that of quite a large 
number of men at the English and Scottish Universi- 
ties. The mild beer which is drunk is very much a 
secondary consideration, and the writer has passed some 
very pleasant evenings with the Mecklenburghers at 
Berlin, where the entertainment was often of a highly 
intellectual kind, consisting as it did of recitations or 
prepared speeches of one kind or another, very fre- 
quently with a splendid extempore accompaniment on 
the piano by the acknowledged musician of the club. 

The ideal student life is with some slight modifica- 
tions probably that exemplified at the great English 
Universities ; and this is what we ought to look for- 
ward to for our University. So long, however, as the 
construction and endowment of Halls for McGill stu- 
dents to reside together in, as at Oxford and Cambridge, 
is unattainable, the best substitute we can have is a 
common luncheon or dining and news room, together 
with a series of entertainments, such as concerts, walk- 
ing parties, debates, and so forth, organized and car- 
ried on by a Students Representative Council. 

John T. Nicolson. 



Alfred 'TUenn^son. 

Of al/ power, that of poetry is the least susceptible of 
abuse. Great bodily strength, the possession of politi- 
cal authority, wealth, and even talent, bring with them 
their temptations. They present themselves as the 
ministers and slaves of selfishness— point the road to 
personal gratification at the expense of others ; and 
very often the mere fact of their possession alienates 
man from his brotherly feelings towards his fellow-man, 
and makes him either the petty tyrant of his narrow 
field or the destroyer of the welfare and hopes of 
nations. 

It is not so with poetry as a power. Poetry is its 
own conscience ; and the security for its being subser- 
vient to the interests of humanity lies in its own nature 
and tendencies. I do not call the talent of verse-making 
poetry ; that, like other descriptions of talent, may be 
perverted to purposes of licentiousness or tyranny ; but 
the perception of the beautiful and sublime in nature, 
the strong response to them in inward emotion, and 
facility of melodious utterance of that which is felt, so 
that the hearts of others are touched thereby : that is 
poetry. So long as it retains any title to that charac- 
ter, its tendency is to refine, purify, expand, and 
elevate ; and whenever, therefore, you discover a true 
poet, there you find also, in as far as he is a poet, a 
friend of humanity, and an advocate (even uncon- 
sciously) of its rights, enjoyments and progress. 

It is not possible, within the limits of the present 



38 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



paper, to do justice to my subject, although if any 
modern poet could divert one into a lengthened criti 
cism, it would be Alfred Tennyson. I cannot speak of 
his master-pieces, “ In Meinoriam,” “The Princess,” 
and the “ Idylls of the King,” but I confine myself to 
his publication of two small volumes of minor poems, in 
1843, in which there is so much which ministers to 
excitement and enjoyment, which stimulates thought 
and satisfies the sense of beauty, that one would like 10 
go at large into the process by which those results are 
realized, and be thankful to whoever would riddle me 
the how and the why ” of such influences. The writ- 
ings of Tennyson are peculiar in their character, as 
they are rich and fruitful in their results. There are in 
them most remarkable combinations. He scarcely 
touches the slightest subject without some glimpse ofa 
profound philosophy, nor the remotest fancy without 
some vein of literal reality. The visible and the invis- 
ible commingle together. He is ever evincing qualities 
which seem contrasted, but exist in harmonious union. 
There are in his writings the suggestions of abstruse 
speculations, a homely pathos, genial humor, and the 
fine wit which is wisdom. He is metaphysical ; full of 
“ obstinate questionings,” nice discrimination, and keen 
observance of character. He is most melodious ; his 
versification distinguished sometimes by its Doric sim- 
plicity, at others by its rich variety and a thick luscious- 
ness of melody, which almost seems to clog while it 
gratifies. His scenic power not merely delineates the 
external, but derives it from the internal, and informs 
any collection of external objects with the sentiment he 
designs to express. All have their meaning ; they are 
so many emblems, and of this w T orld thought is the 
creator, making it, like a God, in his ow r n image, every 
thing shadowing forth his nature and revealing his 
attributes. Even the compositions which he has sup- 
pressed — those which appear in his first edition, but 
have been omitted in the ‘second — are so full of truth 
and beauty that they alone would make a reputation. 
They are of themselves sufficient to demonstrate the 
poet, and though in his fastidiousness he rejected them, 
the world will not willingly let them die. He can 
afford to throw away pearls ; but they are treasures to 
all else. Under all variety of circumstances — in the 
rapidity of travel or the seclusion of solitude, when 
thought requires stimulus or sorrow needs consolation, 
when satiated with nature’s loveliness or wearied with 
mental exertion, whether “ in the populous city pent” 
or hearing iC the roaring of the sea,” I know 7 of no time 
or circumstance in which the poems of Tennyson are not 
welcome companion. 

He very clearly defined his politics, at the end of the 
first volume of the edition referred to, in pieces written 
about the period of the Reform agitation, the years 
1 832-33. It matters little if we are but partially in 
sympathy with his political principles. The particular 
opinions of the poet are of little consequence, because 
in so far as he is# poet , he cannot but, by the necessity 
of his poetical nature, be subservient to the sacred 
cause of human freedom. 

Tennyson liked a freedom which was not in extremes, 
I like the extreme of freedom as contrasted w 7 ith 



despotism ; but let him tell his own tale, and even in 
his picture of it, the freedom which he desiderates is a 
grand and superb thing. 

“ Of old sat Freedom on the heights, 

The thunders breaking at her feet ; 

Above her shook the starry lights ; 

She heard the torrents meet. 

Within her place she did rejoice, 

Self-gathered in her prophet mind ; 

Rut fragments of her mighty voice 
Came rolling on the wind. 

Then stept she down through town and field, 

To mingle with the human race, 

And part by part to men revealed 
The fulness of her face. 

Grave mother of majestic works, 

From the isle-altar gazing down, 

Who, god -like, grasps the triple forks 
And king like wears the crown. 

Her open eyes desire the truth, 

The wisdom of a thousand years 
Is in them, May perpetual youth 
Keep dry their light from tears ; 

That her fair form may stand and shine, 

Make bright our days and light our dreams, 

Turning to scorn with lips divine 
The falsehood of extremes.” 

Such is freedom and her influence. Her birth-place 
was among the mountains, her early dwelling, “ on the 
heights.” These w T ho have had such advantages have 
defied their oppressors. She comes thence through 
fields and towns, partially revealing the glory of her 
countenance, and men’s throbbing hearts answ r er to 
the revelation. Disgusted by certain tendencies then 
manifested, he thus declares the impulse of his nature 
to seek even a despotism where there is a certain range 
of free thought and speech, with external means and 
appliances of good, in preference to staying in a 
country where independence of thought should be 
altogether overborne and trampled down by the intol- 
erance of the majority. 

“ You ask me, why, though ill at ease, 

Within this region I subsist, 

Whose spirits fail within the mist, 

And languish for the purple seas? 

It is the land that freemen till, 

That sober-suited Freedom chose, 

The land where, girt with friends or foe >, 

A man may speak the thing he will ; 

A land of settled government, 

A land of just and old renown, 

Where Freedom slowly broaden; down, 

From precedent to precedent ; 

Where faction seldom gathers head, 

But by degrees by fulness wrought, 

The strength of some diffusive thought 
Hath time and space to work and spread. 

Should banded unions persecute 
Opinion, and induce a time 
When single thought is civil crime, 

And individual freedom mute ;j 



McGill fortnightly. 



39 



Though Power should make from land to land 
The name of Britain trebly great 
Though every channel of the state 
Should almost choke with golden sand— 

^ et waft me from the harbour-mouth, 

Wild wind ! I seek a warmer sky, 

And I will see before I die 
The palms and temples of the South.” 

( Continued .) 



II. M, 



"Eight's’ TClcek af ©%ford. 

The final day of the week’s races had come, and 
hundreds of people left London, as I did, by the Express 
from Paddington, to see the momentous question 
decided as to who should hold the coveted position of 
head of the river for the coming year. 

During luncheon I was initiated into the mysteries 
of Oxford boat-racing by my hosts, University College 
men, whose slender appetites shamed my tourist one, 
until I learned they were in training to “ run with ” 
their boat and join the wild and howling multitude, 
which I afterwards saw following the different crews to 
encourage them by their shouts. Magdalen had the 
day before “bumped” Brasenose, and attained first 
place. Would they keep it in to-day’s race ? 

The system of boat-racing in vogue on the Thames 
where the narrow body of water does not allow two 
boats to row abreast is both unique and puzzling to a 
stranger. 

The twenty-three college crews which took part 
were divided twelve in each race — Merton leading one 
and bringing up the rear in the other. At Iffiey Lock, 
the starting point, the boats are ranged in line, at 
equal distances one behind the other. The course is 
about a mile to Folly Bridge, the finishing point, and 
the object of each crew is to overtake and with their 
boat “ bump” the stern of the boat ahead, which then, 
in the list of college crews kept, goes down one place, 
the crew which “ bumped ” them stepping up. 

Hurriedly finishing our coffee and cigarettes, as my 
friends had to get into running costume, we hastened 
through the broad and beautiful walks of Christ Church 
Meadows, shaded by great spreading elm-trees to 
the banks of the classic Isis. 

The .scene was one of gaiety and beauty hardly sur- 
passed by that of Henley Regatta. On the Oxford- 
shire side of the river, which is rather wider here than 
I expected, were moored to the bank the “ barges, ” 
large, flat-bottomed boats which belong to the different 
colleges, and serve on ordinary occasions as floating 
club houses. 

For the “ Eighty,” they are very gaily decorated 
with the colors of their college, and numerous flags ; 
below are bands of music to enliven the periods of 
waiting, and their upper decks are crowded with 
on-lookers, the friends and relations of the men of 
that particular college. 

The river is a constant scene of animation, shells 
fully manned awaiting the summons to the starting 
point, boys in scant apparel poling boat- loads of spec- 
tators from one bank to the other, while dogs, and 



occasionally men, entertain and amuse 11s by their 
aquatic feats. 

One must enjoy to the full the model surroundings 
and charming views of the fresh May landscape, for the 
race itself is rather disappointing. Little of it can be 
seen owing to the curves of the river and the barges 
moored above and below us ; but when the procession 
of boats passes our barge, a great shout is raised, for 
the crew in blue and gold has " bumped ” Merton, and 
“ Unio ” is up a place. 

Now all is over. Le roi est viort. Vive le roi ! and 
amid loud hurrahs and deafening sounds of ” the 
rattle,” Magdalen is hailed as Head of the River. 

♦ H. I. B. 



All Italia. 

Ricordo con dolor quel giorno afflitto, 

Oh rimembranze triste e tristi guai ! 

Quando inconscio, da te m’allontanai 
Paese caro a me, me derelitto ! 

Etal qual Pirro, quando fu sconfitto, 

Indegno del baglior d'Ttali rai ; 

Vergognoso io piausie sospirai, 

Quantunque mi partii col core invitto. 

L’onde furiose mi portaron via 

Da te, Napoli bella ! lembo del cielo ! 

Da te giardino caro, O Italia mia ! 

Nel Canada, dove il perpetuo gelo 
Diaccia il mio core ; n£, meno di pria, 

Vederti sempre ed ammirarti anelo. 

Girolamo Internoscia. 

Montreal, 15 November, 1892. 



The Absent Student to his Lone. 

0 joy of my heart, O delight of my eyes, 

The gracious, the lovely, the queenly, the wise, 

The pride of the land, the renowned among men, 

How I long to return to thee, darling, again ! 

A glorious course thou hast ordered for me, 

To my hopes thou hast offered a lofty degree, 

Thou hast opened the treasures of time to my ken ; 
How I long to return to thee, darling, again ! 

Each morning beheld me ascend to thy shrine, 

Each evening returned and attested me thine ; 

As the eagle his nest, as the lion his den, 

1 have sought thine abode and will seek it again. 

You have mansions palatial, profusion of wealth, 

You reside in a quarter that’s good for the health ; 

Tho’ you numbered your suitors one thousand and ten, 
You favored my suit, I will suit you again. 

I swore to observe you, and meant it, I think ; 

I swore it on paper and signed it in ink : 

You have asked me next week to a sup , darling, then 
I’ll return to my dear Alma Mater again. 

Cap’n Goun. 



UarsitT? TSafeh. 

On Wednesday evening, November 9th, the Univer- 
sity team, accompanied by their faithful manager, J. U- 
Walker, Med. ’93, and two solitary but irrepressible 
admirers, left the Bonaventure Depot for Toronto in 



Mcgill Fortnightly. 



40 



company with the Montreal team, to play our annual 
match with “ Varsity/ ’ 

This match, now come to be considered as an annual 
fixture, has been looked forward to with a certain 
amount of expectanc}^ and hopeful confidence by all the 
members of the team and those interested. 

Some fourteen matches have been played, we believe, 
by the opposing teams of the two universities, and the 
score now stands in our favor by a majority of one, 
which the draw of last Thanksgiving day accordingly 
does not alter. 

Unfortunately the railways did not see their way 
clear to give the club the rates which one would 
naturally have expected, and this alone accounts for 
the small number of men who accompanied the team 
on their journey West. 

The journey up was an uneventful one, and the men 
were both surprised and disgusted on arriving to find 
Mother Earth coated to the extent of some four inches 
with the “ beautiful. *’ 

The match was played on the Varsity lawn at 10.30 
a.m., in order to give the members of the team an 
opportunity of afterwards witnessing the Osgoode Hall 
Montreal Match for the Canadian championship. 

The two teams lined up as follows : — 

McGill, Varsity. 

Brunell Back McQuarrie 

Donahue ) ( W. Gilmour 

Gaudet J ( (Capt.) Bunting 

Jacques Quarter Bond 

^ x f LaiJlaw 

MacDougall (Capt)... ) | Barr 

I | Porter 

1 - Wings -j Clayes 

I I W. Lash 

J I Williams 

, . I White 

Pnmrose ^ 

Guthrie | 

Yates y Scrimmage. 

Dunlop | 

Barclay J 

Referee— Bayley, Toronto ; umpire— R. Moss ; goal judges— 
Grantham and Montgomery. 

McGill won the toss, and MacDougall decided to 
play up the field with sun in rear, the wind which after- 
wards sprang up not having declared itself. 

Varsity kicked off with a long drive down field, 
which was promptly returned by Gaudet. 

Scrimmages ensued, both sides with difficulty keep- 
ing their footing owing to the bad condition of the 
ground ; and we may say here, that in this respect Mc- 
Gill has a certain amount of cause for complaint, as 
neither touch, goal, or 25 yd. lines were in any way dis- 
tinguishable — a decided disadvantage to a visiting 
team. 

Shortly after kick off, Varsity obtained a penalty goal 
from an alleged piece of offside play on the part of 
McGill, and Gilmour also secured a touch. 

The score at the end of the first half stood 9-1 in Var- 
sity’s favor. 

In the second half, McGill woke up wonderfully, as 
usual, and with the wind in their favor commenced to 
pile up the score. 

Two rouges in quick succession followed by a touch 



Tetreau . 
McFarlane . 

White 

Rankin . . . . 



. Kingstone 
. McMullen 
. . . Vickers 



by MacFarlane tied the score, and the annual match of 
’92 ended as did that of ’86, in a draw. 

The team was afterwards hospitably entertained at 
dinner by the Toronto men. 

Felicitous speeches were made by the captains of the 
opposing teams, and McGill left for home by the 9.35 
p.m. train. 



Our second travelled to Quebec for the second time 
on Friday last, Nov. 18th, to play for the Intermediate 
Championship, final tie, both Quebec and McGill hav- 
ing previously defeated all comers. 

The match took place on the historic Plains of 
Abraham, before a large crowd. 

Teams were as follows : — 

Crescent. Position. McGill. 

W. Pugh Back Brunelle 

R. Davidson ) c Lynch 

Home r Halfback. -J Baker 

Stocking J ( Leslie 

Shaw Quarter Shaw 

_ . , 1 f Tees 

, ff^th | j Draper 

^ ats / ? n L wimrs J Walker 

Davidson [ 8 Anderson 

Blcke11 | I Cowan 

J l Coburn 

Price ] f 

?_ eatt _y I | Drum (Capt 

y Forwards. { 

1 j Fetherstone 

Angus 



Henderson 
Brodie .... 
Adair .... 
Salter 



Forwards. 

1 

Referee — Mr. H. C. Macfarlane, Sherbrooke. 

Crescents won the toss, and selected to play down hill. 
McGill started off well. After a few minutes play 
Baker kicked over the line from which Draper secured 
a touch and Eynch kicked a goal. 

The score at the end of the first half stood 6-1 in Mc- 
Gill’s favor. 

In second half Crescents worked the ball up, Smith 
getting in r or a touch. 

By this time it was getting dark, and the crowd grew 
excited and crowded on to the field, greatly hindering 
the men. Another touch was obtained by Davidson 
by a dodgy run through the spectators. Final score 
was 15-6 in Crescents’ favor. 

By this victory the Crescents gain the Intermediate 
Championship of the Province. Our plucky second 
returned by the evening train, beaten, but not a bit 
crestfallen owing to their defeat. 



%he Theodora Soeiet^. 

The Theodora Missionary meeting, Y.W.C.A., for 
November was held on Thursday, the 17th, at 4 o’clock. 
The subject “ Medical Missions,” had been selected by 
the Committee for this meeting, but this was changed 
for “Zenana Work,” when it was found that Miss 
Edith Sugden, who has been for some time in India, 
was in town, and would be able to speak to the Associa- 
tion at this time. Miss Sugden spoke of the great need 
of medical aid in India ; there, as in some of the other 
countries, the favorite remedies for all diseases beino- 
cuttmg and burning, while the specific for fever is to 
force three or four long splinters under the thumb- 



McGILL fortnightly. 



nails, “ to drive out the evil spirits” from the patient. 
Among the women alone, from 35 to 45 per cent, die 
for lack of proper treatment. 

One of the most noticeable things about the women 
of India is the utter absence of joy from their lives. 
During the time that Miss Sudgen had been in India, 
she had never seen a Hindu woman smile or heard her 
laugh. And the same thing was true of the children. 
In the school under Miss Sud gen’s charge were 60 
pupils, and not one of these girls ever played or 
laughed. “ And it is not only these, but think of the 
twenty-three million widows of India, of whom it 
requires one hundred to equal the value of a cow.” It 
is possible after a time to get a Hindu woman to come 
to the Missionary’s house, but a Mussulman woman is 
never allowed to do so. Miss Sudgen told of an inci- 
dent which had come under her own notice: A Mus- 

sulman father said one day to his wife, “ That person 
has lived long enough.” One of the Bible women was 
within hearing, and entered the house to find who the 
“person” might be. She discovered that he referred 
to his little daughter, a child of five years, and heard 
him direct the mother to put poison in the child’s 
food. But the “person” also heard, and that night 
refused her food. 

They waited for a few days, until she had forgotten 
the remark, and then it seems that the father brought 
home poisoned sweet-meats, and gave them to the little 
girl, and, of course, his purpose was soon accomplished. 
The mother, speaking to the Bible-woman afterwards, 
said, “ O, it is just as well. She will not have to live 
the life I have lived, now-” 

After Miss Sugden’s address, a letter from Mrs. F. W. 
Read, written from Catumbella, West Africa, was read. 
It gave the welcome news of the safe arrival of Mr. 
Read and herself at the African coast on August 15th, 
and their hope of reaching Cisamba about Sept. 8th. 
The long journey had been a safe and pleasant one, and 
they were glad and thankful that “ So he had brought 
them to the haven where they would be.” 

The meeting was closed with prayer by MissSugdert. 

TDe©ill ftf^edieal Zoeiel^ 

A meeting of the McGill Medical Society was held on 
Saturday evening, November 12th, in the upper lecture 
room of the Medical College. The President occupied 
the chair, and there were present a large number of 
students. 

Professor Paul T. Lafleur, M.A., of the Faculty of 
Arts, read a paper on “ Empiricism.” The subject was 
treated in an able manner, though one that requires a 
course of lectures to thoroughly exhaust ; yet the history 
of Empiricism, the arguments for and against the Em- 
pirical school of thought, the direct bearing the sub- 
ject has upon Medicine were thoroughly gone into and 
placed before the meeting in an attractive manner. 

A fact of especial interest was mentioned by the lec- 
turer, namely, the presence of an Empirical school of 
Medicine among the Indians of South America and the 
treatment and cures practised by the school. 

At the conclusion of the lecture, a hearty vote of 



4 * 



thanks was tendered to Professor Lafleur, proposed by 
Mr. W. E- Deeks, seconded by Mr. H. M. Kinghorn- 
In reply Mr. Lafleur thanked the students for the 
reception they had given him, and in a few happy 
remarks touched upon the University spirit which he 
would be pleased to see increased among the students. 

The meeting then adjourned. 



USontreal T9eterina liHedieal Sssoeia- 
Hon. 

What was perhaps one of the most successful meet* 
ings in the history of the Society was held on Thursday 
the 10th. The president, Dr. Mills, occupied . the chair. 
The Hon. Pres. Dr. D. McEachran, Dr. Johnson, 
Prof. Adami and a large attendance of students were 
entertained by a very able paper on Texas Fever by 
Mr. Brainerd. The essayist treated his subject very 
fully; sketched the history, etiology, symptomatology, 
etc. The different theories that have been advanced to 
explain the method of propagation were dealt with.. 
One in particular, in which at the present day most 
faith is placed, is very interesting. It says that the 
cattle of the South where the disease is prevalent are 
infested by a species of Acarida, which appears to act as 
an intermediatory agent between the diseased and the 
healthy animal, these ticks in some unaccountable 
manner, probably by sucking the blood of animals, get 
the virus in their own system. 

When the diseased animal is taken North for trans- 
portation, the ticks fall on the pastures and convert a 
healthy region into an infected one. The native cattle 
swallow these in feeding off the pasture, and the dis- 
ease is produced in them. Having discussed the 
disease from a financial and legislative point, the 
essayist pointed out that our pathological knowledge 
was in large part due to the investigation of one of our, 
former graduates. Dr. P. Paquin, editor of the 
Bacteriological World and director of the patho- 
logical laboratory of the University of Illinois. He 
pointed out that it was a parasitic disease, and discov 
ered the micro-organism in the red blood cells. This 
paper was well discussed by the President, Honorary 
President and Dr. Johnson. The immunity of northern 
cattle, the so-called fever line, the true pathology and 
other points of interest were discussed. The Hon. 
President pointed out that our Canadian winter was the 
best safeguard against the inroads of the disease. 

Mr. A. W. Tracy reported a case of scarcoptes equi, 
that had been treated by him during the summer. His - 
method proved to be eminently successful, and 
received the approval of the meeting. 

Dr. Johnson exhibited a series of microscopic speci- 
mens, demonstrating the similarity and distinction 
between those two diseases that have recently gained 
.so much notoriety— the Canadian Pleuro Pneumonia and 
Contagious Pleuro Pneumonia ; the pathology of these 
two conditions is much more dissimilar than the 
nomenclature, which was ably demonstrated. Yet the 
veterinarians in connection with the English department 
of Agriculture ignored both nomenclature, and path- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ology, and called what was a simple sporadic pneu 
monia the contagious form. 

Society for the Study of Comparatioe 
Psychology. 

That everybodies’ anticipations were realized goes 
without saying to those who had the good fortune to 
be present at the meeting of the above Society on 
Monday the 13th. Judging from the large attendance, 
a forecast of the evening’s programme had evidently 
been breathed abroad. Suffice to say that the names 
of such men as Campbell or Cleaves was enough to 
make even the most indefatigable plugger close his 
books to attend the meeting, conscious that therein he 
would attain more information than by the ordinary 
routine. I11 procuring the voice of the Society with 
reference to the prizes that should be given for 
essays, several new stars were discovered, veritable 
diamonds in the rough, who when properly polished 
will shine in the light they will cast on Comparative 
Psychology. We trust that they will devote some of 
the high class ability they give ample evidence of in the 
furtherance of the Society’s projects. 

Mr. Campbell read a paper, in which he compared 
the mental scope of the animal mind with that of the 
human infant. His thesis was characterized through- 
out the deeply weighed evidence and carefully con- 
strued deductions. Illustrated as it was by personal 
observations and their analysis, it proved to be a 
source of great interest and the subject of considerable 
discussion. It was in fact a valuable contribution to 
the Society. 

Mr. A. S. Cleaves followed, if not in the same line of 
reasoning it was with the same end in view. His sub. 
ject was Animal Intelligence ; he drew his inferences 
from personal observations, and presented his conclu- 
sions only after careful deliberation. The subject 
matter was taken chiefly from exhibitions of reasoning 
power in the horse. His thesis was in part intended 
to ameliorate their social scale, as well as to minimize 
human injustice. His style of delivery was in harmony 
with the general tenor of the paper. 

Both papers were highly approved of, not alone for 
their compositional merit which was exceptional, but 
also because they were the personification of what the 
ociety requires of its members, viz. : — personal obser- 
vation and original research. 



McGill Y.M.C.A. 

Last Saturday evening the Students of the various 
Faculties of the University assembled in the Molson* 
Hall to listen to a lecture from Professor Cameron of 
the Faculty of Medicine. 

The lecture, which was entitled “ The Development of 
Man from the Standpoint of Heredity,” was held unde r 
the auspices of the Social Purity Committee of the 
above Society. The subject was treated in an emin- 
ently suggestive, practical and scientific manner. The 
progressive development of the human organism was 



compared with the similar evolution which has taken 
place in the departments of Sociology and Theology. 
True Science and true Theology do not conflict ; only 
a bigoted and stunted Theology and a pseudo-Science 
are incompatible. Science and Theology in the proper 
sense of the terms, arguing from different premises, 
arrive at one and the same conclusion. The lecturer 
next proceeded to discuss some of the cardinal features 
of embryology, pointing out the influence of disease, 
heredity and acquired habits in the development of 
Man. From this he pointed out the lessons to be 
learnt: the duty of Man to himself and his fellow- 
creatures ; the need of charity ; the evil of Phariseeism , 
and the necessity of a more enlightened treatment of 
the so-called criminal classes. 

He next drew attention to the bearing in which the 
principles he laid down had towards many of the 
vital issues of the day, such as the Labor question, 
socialism, politics and so on. 

The proposition thet “ all men are born equal,’ upon 
which so many of our modern theories rest, was show 11 
to be based upon a fallacy. All men were not born equal 
and were never intended to be so, and, more than that, 
no two men were born exactly alike. We should ex. 
amine, therefore, the foundation upon which these 
superstructures are built. Man came into the world 
with a certain potentiality. His actuality depended 
upon his inherent tendencies, his environment and his 
own effort. He should strive to approximate as closely 
as possible his actuality to his potentiality. Continued 
striving to reach the ideal was to be aimed at. 

Mr. H. N. Goff, j B . A. ,pressdent of the Societyoccupied 
the chair, and at the close of the lecture a very hearty 
vote of thanks was accorded to Professor Cameron 
for his very able and instructive lecture, with which 
all were delighted. 



Moot Court Debating Society, 

The court “ sat’ 1 for the first time on the 16th inst., 
for the purpose of the hearing of the case proposed by 
C. A. Geoffrion, Q.C., Professor of the law of con- 
tracts. Mr- Geoffrion was unfortunately unable to 
act as judge on this occasion, and his position was ably 
filled by Prof. McGown. 

Counsel for Plaintiff, Defendant and intervening 
party were five in number, Messrs. Johnson, Harwood, 
Glass, Curran and Jones. 

The arguments on behalf of the different parties were 
carefully presented, and turned on the responsibility of 
the surety, combined with the law affecting subroga- 
tion. 

After the subject had been thoroughly thrashed out 
by counsel, the learned Judge took the matter en deli - 
bere , and judgment is aw r aited with interest. 



Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

The fifth meeting of the Society for the session was 
held on the nth of November, and w r as largely attended, 
as indeed all the meetings this year have been. Mr. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



43 



Donahue was unavoidably absent, but Mr. Graham 
made a model chairman for the evening. 

Mr. Dresser brought up his motion to treat Scrip 
tural quotations in debates merely in their literary and 
philosophical aspect. This brought out considerable 
discussion, and it was finally agreed to exclude all 
quotations from the Bible as proofs. 

It was decided to ask Dr. Murray, and in case of his 
inability, Prof. Cox, to deliver the closing semi-annual 
address. Mr. Duclos read an essay on the character of 
Cromwell, and Mr. Walker gave a reading. 

A song by the meeting then enlivened the proceed- 
ings and prepared the members for the debate on 
whether England is rising as a nation or not. 

Messrs. A. MacVicar, Moffat and Botterell spoke 
well for the affirmative, but the meeting decided that 
Messrs. Farnsworth, Garret and Howard had the better 
of the debate. Mr. Mansur acted as critic for the even 
ing. It was decided to hold the closing meeting on 
the 25th inst. 

The next meeting was held on the evening of the 
1 8th, the President in the Chair. After the transaction 
of some minor 4 items of business, Mr. J. W. H. Hick- 
son read a studied essay favorable to the extension of 
the franchise to women, and Mr. Mahaffy sang “ No, 
Sir,” much to the appreciation of the audience. The 
debate discussed the question whether Home Rule 
would be beneficial to Ireland or not. Messrs. Gordon, 
Cleland and Connor spoke in favor of the affirma- 
tive, and Messrs. Honeyman, Davis and Edgar for 
the negative. The speeches on both sides were able 
and lively, but the meeting decided in favor of the 
affirmative. 



Science Jottings. 

Rah Ree Rye 
K. C. Y. 

Log tan 0 
Fac. App. Sci. 

We are pleased to observe that the popular bearer o{ 
the War President’s great patronymic has secured a 
work in four volumes entitled “ Modern Steam Practice 
and Engineering.” 

It is currently rumored that he intends to place the 
work in the library for the convenience of his class- 
mates. 

Now that Science has such conveniently located bul- 
letin boards, no student should neglect to keep himself 
well informed of their contents. 

Prof. Nicolsm is busily engaged in setting up the 
new engine in the Themco Lab., which will be one of 
the best of its kind in the world and of great I enefit to 
the Students. 

Fortune smiled on the App. Sc. Reading Room last 
week. The committee realized handsome proceeds 
from the sale of periodicals on Thursday, and are grate 
fully indebted to Prof. Bovey for presenting them with 
several new and attractive pieces of furniture, 



So great was the grief of a certain gentleman (of no 
mean Rank in the first foot-ball team) over the result of 
the recent match at Toronto, that he has sacrificed on- 
the tonsorial altar those familiar appendages which 
once adorned his genial face. 

A deplorable illustration of the ignorance of the 
masses was furnished by students of a sister faculty 
during the recent survey near the Medical Building. 
Attracted by the instruments, a large number of youths 
grouped themselves artistically in front of what they 
fondly imagined were cameras. Judging from those 
present, it seems that a student must have reached his 
third year in that Faculty before he can distinguish be- 
tween a camera and a transit. 

The zoology lecturer has met a long felt want, by in- 
troducing a word for the shadowy promise seen on the 
upper lips of L-rin-th and Bl-ck-ti. They answer ex 
actly to his definition of a “ cilia .” 



The Testing Laboratories. 

The Testing Laboratories are by no means the least 
instructive of the varied departments of the Engineering 
building. That for the testing of cement is in full 
operation, and much information is being elicited as to 
the properties and strength of the different brands of 
cement under the actual conditions to be met with in 
practice. The results are carefully tabulated for future 
reference. 

By means of the Emery and Buckton machines, tests 
are being made on all materials of construction, their 
behaviour under stress indicating how they should be 
employed in structures. At present, under the direc- 
tion of Prof. Bovey, an exhaustive series of experiments 
is being made on the resistance to drawing of nails 
driven in different kinds of wood. This is an undevel- 
oped subject, and it is to be hoped that the results of 
the present experiments will be published for the 
| benefit of the profession. Elaborate experiments have 
also been made by Prof. Bovey, assisted by the fourth 
year civil class, to test the strength and quality of the 
car axle broken in the well known St. Joseph Levis 
accident on the I.G.R. 

A point of great importance brought out at the 
evidence in the trial re this accident is the fact that 
wide temperatures prevailing in cold climates like 
Canada during winter largely increase the tendency of 
axles to fracture ; in fact, it has been shown that the 
resistance of fracture at 100 0 is very often three times 
as great as that at a low temperature. The subject of 
the effect of variations of temperature on the strength 
of axles still requires thorough investigation, and it is 
hoped that these experiments will be carried out in the 
McGill College Laboratory at an early date. 

Arts News. 

Mr. Chas. Mansur has been elected to represent the 
students in Arts at the Medical dinner. 

Mr. J. R. Dobson, B.A., Captain of the Arts tug-of* 



44 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



war team, has been presented by the Athletic Associa- 
tion with the same prize as was received by the men. 



In the matter of class pins, the Third and Fourth Years 
both deferred in favor of the consideration of a Faculty 
pin. The “ Faculty ” deferred in favor of a University 
pin. Mr. Donahue and Mr. Boyd were elected as a 
representation. 



It has been rumored that the studious members of 
the Fourth Year have patented an invention for dead- 
ening sound in the Library. Wherefore let all rejoice. 

Heard by a Donadda. 

Student (in confidential tones) to a solitary feline at 
the door of his boarding-house: “ Pussy, be off, or 
we’ll have hash for breakfast to morrow. ” 



Since Medicine has decided not to hold a university 
dinner, Arts is endeavoring to join with Law and 
Science, and hold as near as possible an approach to 
it. 



The following is reported from the Third Year, et hoc 
scio : 

‘‘ Primaque par adeo lanugo senectae,” 

Read the cultured and learned Mr. F r. 

And, turning to Swifty, remarked, “ I suspect I 
Begin to despise my old razor.” 

But compassion appeared in the doctor’s frown, 
And his face it grew brighter and brisker, 

As he, seeing the lips of the class hang down , 

Said, “ the wind doesn’t blow through your — ” 



As the Lecturer in Greek was entering his class room 
a short time ago, he was greeted with the announce- 
ment, shouted in full chorus : ‘‘The festal day has 
come.” 



Fro / . of Mathematics (to Student without a gown 
returning to the elass room for a book he had forgotten). 

— “ Hm ! The Public are coming and taking the 
students’ books.” 



In Hebrew Class— “ Go through the first form of 
this verb, Mr. G— re, you eat." 



“ It is certainly a fine opening for a young man so 
situated who wishes to go to college. ” 

“What is that?” 

“ Milton Street.’* 



” Ars longa vita brevis est, ” 

The Latin poet sung ; 

And tho’ some sages say it’s best 
To go it while you’re young, 

The man who lives too fast, I say, 

And goes it over strong, 

Will feel on declaration day, 

“ Life’s short and Arts is long.” 

Student slumbers. 

Professor enlarges upon the impossibility of ex- 
plaining the cause of such varied associations in 
different individuals. “ For instance, if I pronounce 
the word WAKE, how diverse will be the redintegration 
among the members of this class.” 

Query — Was the professgr actuated by malice pre- 
pen se\i 



Comp- Medicine Class Reports 

R. N. Walsh, D.V.S. ’90, was in town last week, and 
made the boys of 6 and 8 Union ave. a pleasant call. 

A. J. Ewing is at present laid up with an attack of 
appendicitis, but we hope that a few days will see him 
again among us recovered. It is rumorel that his 
present illness was due to nervous prostration brought 
on by trying to see the point in the famous “ tug-of-war 
poem ” of the last Fortnightly, but we are glad to 
say that it is but a rumor. 

“ The Hoosier boy” has at last put in an appear- 
ance, and again taken his place with the Class of ’93. 
We are pleased to know that he stayed long enough in 
Indiana to put in a good solid Democratic vote. 

Frank H. Miller, V.S. ’87 (Montreal Vet. College), 
formerly of Granby, Que., at present of Burlington, 
Vt, left on Nov. 15th for Berlin, Germany. Here he 
intends to take an advanced course in bacteriology and 
pathology. 

The Vets, have got a Faculty Song, and a 
good one it is, too ; much credit is due to Mr. French, 
the author, for his ability in composing both words 
and music. 

Fred. Walsh is at present in the General Hospital, 
suffering from bursitis of the knee joint, and was 
operated upon by Dr. J. Bell, on Friday last. We hope 
that Fred, will soon return to us in good health and 
as strong as ever. 

c. M. Higginson, D.V.S. ’91, made us a brief call on 
the 1 8th. Having a large practice in St. Albans, Vt , 
his stay was limited. 



Woman's “ Writes ” 

Chemical Laboratory, Thursday afternoon. 

What is this in bright array ? 

Wanted, from the Donaldas, past or present, a 
poetess who will compose an ode in their honor, which 
being set to music in the new McGill Song Book will 
bring her immortal fame. Anyone having inspira- 
tions may apply to Musical Committee. 



Who will call ? 

“ I,” say they all, 

“ With my bow and smile 
I will call.” 

Special to Arts ’93. 

The Caesars’ 

“At Home” 

C hursday. April ^th, i8qt from 2 to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



‘'Howe’er it be, it seems to me,” it would be pru- 
dent to find out something about these Caesars before 
we call. Those in favor of this motion please signify 
in the usual way. 

TDedieal ©lass Imports. 

Dr. Lafleur has just concluded an excellent course 
of lectures on diseases of the nervous system- Special 
symptoms referable to cerebro-spinal disturbances will 
be demonstrated during the month of March, 1893. 

* * * * * * * * 

An excellent report of the Montreal General Hospital 
has just been published. It reflects great credit upon 
Dr. Hamilton, Medical Superintendent, who has sup- 
plied some valuable statistics and information. One 
interesting item may be noticed. For the year ending 
April 30th, 1892, no less than 280 Irish were treated, 
whereas England contributed only 465, and Scotland 
1 15. The disproportion between English and Irish 
patients only too clearly shows how the population of 

the Emerald Isle must be dwindling away. 

*****;}?** 

The Medical Dinner, to be held in the Windsor 
Hotel on Thursday evening, Dec. 1st prox., is creating 
a vast amount of interest among the four years. It 
is expected that a greater number will be present than 
on previous occasions. The Committee is indefatig- 
able in its exertions to make the banquet a success. 
Representatives from the various Faculties will attend. 

*:f:****** 

The Board of Management of the General Hospital, 
recognizing the fact that 4th year Medicals are pre- 
eminently hard workers, has closed the wards on 
Sundays. Prayer books are now in order for final men. 

As briefly mentioned in the last issue of the Fort- 
nightly, Dr. George Ross passed peacefully away on 
Tuesday evening last, Nov. 8th. Shortly after this, the 
flag from the main University building was seen at 
half mast, and in the medical building was posted a 
bulletin, signed by the Dean of the Faculty, announ- 
cing the sad fact. At 2 o’clock in the afternoon of 
Wednesday, a general meeting of the Students of the 
Faculty was convened, when references were made to 
the great loss sustained by the University in the 
demise at so early an age of so distinguished a pro- 
fessor. Mr. R. H. Phillimore, of the final year, dwelt 
at some length upon the record of the late vice-Dean, 
not only as a great clinician, but as a contributoj 
whose productions ranked amongst the most valued in 
medical literature. At the conclusion, it was unani- 
mously decided to send to the home of the deceased 
professor a floral tribute, and also to drape the medical 
building upon the day of the funeral. 

The gentlemen on the Dinner Committee report 
subscriptions coming in rapidly, also that Windsor 
cigars are first rate. 

In the match played on Thanksgiving day between 
the Brits and Royal Military College, which after 



45 

being closely contested resulted in a draw, Mr. J. 
Barclay, of the first year Medicine, did some rattling 
good work on the Britannia’s forwards. 

The following is one of the accurate notes of an 
enthusiastic histologist of the Freshman class accom- 
panying an artistic drawing in various colors : “ Leu- 

coeytogenous Tissue from Mesogastrium of Trichoee- 
phalus Dispar, illustrating mode of formation of 
Lieberkiihnian follicles ” ! ! ! 

Professor (arranging to meet his classes) said : The 
first half as far as “ Manchester” would come Tuesday, 
and the second half as far as “York ” would come on 
Thursday. Gentlemen ! I notice that the class is very 
geographically divided. 

Dr. Cameron has consented to lecture on Wednes- 
days, from 5 to 6 in the evening instead of Tuesdays as 
heretofore, so as to allow as many as can avail 
themselves of the gymnasium. 



Legal Briefs. 

The old political way-cry of “ Give us back our eleven 
days,” inaugurated after the change in the yearly 
calendar during the time of the Georges, has been 
appropriated by the Students in Law. 

Professors who are forced to begin lectures on the 
5th of November instead of the 3rd of October must 
manage an extension of time before the “ day of final 
reckoning ” or expect the customary little rebellion 
which usually results. Of course it is all a matter of 
evidence. 

Murray has filed his “ ultimatum.” Either Mother 
Toodles candy kitchen with pea-nut stand attachment 
must go, or the posiiton of janitor in chief will be de- 
clared vacant. 

A box is being designed to hold “ that idea.” The 
danger of unlawful appropriation was altogether too 
serious to allow it the “ free exercise of its ancient 
liberties.” 

G s is preparing an annotated Genealogical tree 

of the Lindley family. Diligent search is being made 
for a missing son. 

Enthusiastic junior (whose legal objections have 
been repeatedly over ruled by the Court ) — May it 
please the Court.-— Am I to understand that your Honor 
considers me an ordinary imbecile or a whole asylum 
in myself ? 

By the Court — A question for the jury, my young 
friend. The Court cannot rule on questions of fact . 

Among the “ nice points in evidence ” distinguished 
the other evening was a vision of red and black. 

Prof. A. answers categorically that it probably did 
not know he was there. 

The last term of the self-constituted Court of Review 
“ went up in smoke,” while at the same time very few 
of the arguments “ went down.” 



46 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



It is commonly believed that of all persons the 
Law Students are most guilty of an unnecessary ver- 
bosity on all occasions and opportunities that may 
arise. The following specimen appeared on a postal 
card issuing from the Arts Building, and transfers part 
of the onus to the broad shoulders and stout muscles 
of the winners of the Tug of War. 

Carus Pater : — 

The exigencies of a residence of several months 
duration in the crowded districts of civilization and 
centres of higher intellectual and physical develop- 
ment demand expenditures to an unanticipated ex- 
tent. Those important and extensive allotments orig- 
inally designed for the remuneration of the proprie- 
tress of my temporary domicile have, I deeply regret, 
been seriously encroached upon and well nigh annihi- 
lated by the necessities of recreative indulgence or 
social participations. Accordingly with respectful 
acknowledgments of my culpable extravagance I am 
compelled to request a speedy and celeri tous reply, 
accompanied by an amount of sufficient magnitude to 
liquidate the requisitions herewith enclosed. Or in 
Horace’s beautifully simple yet forcible language I 
might express myself : — 

Se?ime som mo Moni. Sine qua non viverc possum . 

W Y D O W N. 



Dolor Patris. 

Then the father grim and growly 
Reached up for the closet peg 
Where there hung the pants of Johnnie 
Large in waistlet long in leg. 

“ Ugh ! ” he growled, *• I like this business ; 
Things have changed around somehow : 
Erstwhile papa’s pants fit Johnnie, 

Johnnie’s pants fit papa now.” 



Two Hands 

Last night I held her hand in mine, 
Her hand so slender and divine 
Endowed with all the graces. 

But now another hand I hold 
A hand well worth its weight in gold 
Just think of it four aces. 



We had hoped to publish in this issue the opposition 
filed by Mrs. Morley in the famous “ eat ease ” in the 
Magistrates Court. We find, however, that the record 
has been placed under lock and key until the 9 th of 
December, when the case comes up for P. & H The 
fate of the numerous “pussies” is therefore still unde 
c.ded. Their lot has so far been full of bitterness they 
hiving been already twice evicted from St. I ouis Z 
Mile End and Maisonnenve. 



As to whether they are saisissable or not can n 
haps be best answered by the bailiffs interested. T 
proces- verbal of seizure however deser.bes them 
length, and carefully divides them into the two groi 
of tortoise-shells and Thomas’es. 



^Personals, 



Dr R. Tait McKenzie (of the M. G- H.) is, we regret 
to learn, indisposed. We look for his sleepy recovery 

Mr. Craik, B.A. ’92, has been settled at Waterville. 

Mr. John A. Nicholson, B.A. 1886, for some time 
superintendent of Education for the province of Prince 
Edward Island, is now the principal of Cote St. An- 
toine Academy. 

The marriage of Mr. Blatchford, B.A. ’92, is re- 
ported. 

Mr. H. C. Sutherland, B.A. ’90, has been inducted 
into the pastorship of a flourishing congregation in 
Carman, Manitoba. 

Dr. W. E- Inksetter, ’90, who was one of the 
M. G. H. house surgeons in 1890-1891, has just finished 
a year of study in Great Britain, and now has accepted 
the position of Parish Medical Officer, of Ronsay, 
Orkney, Scotland, for one year. 

Drs. W. D. Smith, ’90, W. A. Farwell, 1891, and 
Howard Kemp, 1890, are practising at Sherbrooke, 
Que. 

Dr. E. A. Robertson, B. A., has returned from a 6 
months visit to the British Schools to take up practice 
in his home, Lennoxville, Que. 

E. H. Hamilton, a former football captain, chemist 
for the Bergen Pt. Chemical Co , New Jersey. 

C. B Kingston, Sc. ’92, has left to fill a position in 
Colorado. 



J. K. Addie, Sc. 89, is town engineer for Sher- 
brooke, P.Q., and is said to have a good surveying 
practice. 

(1. vS. Smith, Sc. ’92, has been appointed assistant 
to Prof. Nicolson. 



H. M. Ramsay, Sc. ’91, is in the employ of the 
Pennsylvania Ry. 






tj • • , « . v scLLitru. in 

mush Columbia after his year in England and Scot- 
land. 



E. J. Bullman, Sc. ’91, is on H. M. S. “ Galnare ” 

engaged in coast survey work in the Gulf of St. Law- 
rence. - 



Montana, is said to have a good thing there * 

We are pleased to learn that Mr. E. S. Mattice, App. 
be. 90, has been appointed one of the Govt E11 
gineers on the Cornwall Canal. 






oy, is at pres 
waterworks of Denver, Colorado. 

Exhibition anS ’ S S r ,’ 9 V h ° WaS awarded the “ Greff 
Leipzig Sch ° larsh,p ; ,S stud y in S chemistry in 



R- E. Palmer, BSc., is one of British 
most promising civil engineers. 



Columbia's 



47 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




‘ THE BOYS ” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

* GKLO"V~!ES b 

AT THE 

Paris K'd Glov<? Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Catherine Street. 

■. c.mrs a aa» 

MEDALS j^OR SPORTS. 

Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hand 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises. 

LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 




Moijtoi pyiuLiips & co., 



STATIONERS, 

BlanH BooK Wafers and Printers 

1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



Tt- HEMSLEY, 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 



AGENTS FOR 



MIIEIR/S 

Hair Dressing Palace- 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Combs . ( Razors . Strops, 
(Perfumery and (Toilet 

Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

SEASON 1592*95. 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, Friezes, Sc. 

IS NOW COMPLETE. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

NR— DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship, 

Silk Lining, $36.00, 

... INSPECTION INVITED- 

WM. F/VRQUFtflrFJSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



WRITING MACHINE. 



What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZINA, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets $1.00. 



Mansen Moullln’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities • 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 

a wefliCAN puR g yroiie. 

> 21 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one in the city to buy 
furs and have repairing done. 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with us than with any other Furrier in Montreal. 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Grand Smoking Concert 

UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE 

McGILL UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL CLUB, 

To be held in the 

FRASER INSTITUTE HALL, 

On Wednesday Eo’ng. Nod. 30th, 

AT 8 O'CLOCK. 

All attend. University Songs and Sayings. Tickets may be ob- 
tained from any of the Committee. Price, 25c. 



• 9 




SNs38|§ safe m ^ •— ^ ■'■•-*" “' 



Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



TO THE 

McGill University Building. 

Royal Victoria Hospital. 

Board ot Trade Building. 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTTS. CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

INTO, 11 Hospital Street, 
MONTREAL. 



J. B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster, B.C.L. 

ARCHIBALD 3c FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 

181 St. James Street, 

Telephone 1880. * MONTREAL. 

Cable Address, “ Archfost.” - 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Adooeates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET. 

JCONTREAL. 



Surgical ins truments 

arid GherniGal /Apparatus. 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . . 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 St. Paul Street. 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown. 



Selkirk Cross. 

W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BROWM 8 SHARP, 

Advocates, Barristers and Solicitors. 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

ADVOCATES, BARRISTERS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. ROBERT D. McGlBBON, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 

imsiTMT & FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

15*7 St. Jamies Street, 

IMI o u T IL IE A. L . 



CROUP Photos, Combination or direct, 
UIWU r form one of our specialties— first 
• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & CO., 1 Bleury Street. 








§^2 4- AT — s -vg) 

§£ MUAMH ai HABBISOK, s § 

^ 1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. | 



w. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

100 CREY NUN STREET, 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tods, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs. 

. A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 




SIMPSON, HALL, MILLER tfc OO., 

16 and 18 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 

Manufacturers of the Finest Quality EieOtF&^Piated Ware* And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons* Etc. 

A. J. WHIMBE Y, Manager. 



FURNITURE 



— FOE — 



Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON, 

652 CRAIG STREET. 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



$2-75, 3.5(1, 4.00 PER PAIR. : • 

•*. Just the thins for Students. 

Win. F. SflAROON, 

t 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 

It goes without saying that J 

- WALFORDS 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St,, Montreal. 



MILLS, 

Furrier 8c Hatter, 



ST. CATHERINE ST. f 



2nd door West of Peel. 



e. a- gertH, 



DIRECT IMPORTER OP HIGH CLASS 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for Rynasi Frbre« 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETTES. 

Smoke Eerth’s Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
best assorted stock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Bleury. 



Established 1859. 

HENRY G-~RJl.1T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied wit 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 







MAKA6EB7 136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 

Branches all over the City. Telephones : Bell, 666 and 1745. 




^ y » _ _ _ 

IT IS THE CHOICEST SMOKING TOBACCO THAT EXPERIENCE 
CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MONEY CAN BUY 

MIXTURE SZMZQIKIIYTG- TOBACCO: 

P. E. MORRIS, Tobacconist, 208 St. James St. 



