jVo. 4» 



Vof. VJJJ. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Thursday , January i st, 1885. 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials 3-4 

Contributions 5-8 

McGill News 9-10 

College World 10-11 



PAGE. 

Between the Lectures - 11-12 

Personals 12 

Correspondence 12-14 

Advertisements - - - - 2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

printed by the burland lithographic company. 



1885 . 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR,. 

^ 7 IDV 0 C 7 ITE^ 

Barristers, Solicitors, &g„ 

1©2 St. James Street, 

MONTREAl.. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q C. M. HUTCHINSON; B.C.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. S. MtLENNAN. 

RoDertsoD, lie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

%. w. 

^.ilvocate, Ijarri&er (Jjommi^ioner, Jrc., 

131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 







si 



t 



t f 



? T 






DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 

MEDICAL WORKS, HOOKS l SKIP MJ\* A HT COURSE, 
SCiEJYCE TEXT HOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT HOOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

— <>■ — BEST VALUE I2ST TOWN. — <v- 

Stylograph ic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 1 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St- Tajao.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

JBarmbrs, JUIornmjs, jloliniors, &q. t 

" Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

month&ai.. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. 



IE. A.. G-ERTHI. 



IMPORTER OP 




Briar an«l Meerschaum Pipes, 



SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try Students 2v£i:st*u.re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And. Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T^lvlES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 
MONTREAL. 




J. J. GREAVES, 

IMPORTER OP ALL KINDS OF 

V/ools, Joy?, Jewelry, ^tatio^e^y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 & 1344 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 

yiFOR STUDENTS , %+ 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. VIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 1st, 1885. [No. 4. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey II. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President. 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary. 

J. W. McMeekin, H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

A. B. Osborne, T. W. Lesage. 



editors. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in- Cli ie f. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. A.E. Greenshields,B.A. 

S. Fortier. 



G. F. Palmer. 

C. H. Livingstone. 
T. Haytiiorne, B. A. 



The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



Editorials. 



THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

We ask our readers’ careful attention to the letter of 
B. C. L., which appears in this issue. The Faculty of 
Law has long been in a most unsatisfactory condition, 
so much so that we are informed the Quebec Govern- 
ment has made representations respecting it to the 
Corporation. We readily admit that the Ministry may 
have been prompted to this action by enemies of the 
University, but, even so, their being able to remon- 
strate at all, shows how grave is the cause of complaint 
against the methods of the Faculty. It would be deal- 
ing that Faculty a death-blow should the Government 
decline continuing to shorten the apprenticeship of its 
graduates. Yet no one can doubt that this will be the 
next step, unless speedy improvement becomes mani- 
fest. B. C. L., who writes in a spirit of uttermost 
friendliness and loyalty, makes several suggestious for 
such improvement,, and we trust that these will meet 
that consideration from the authorities which they 
undoubtedly deserve. 



THE FOOTING. 

Of late years there has been great difficulty in per- 
suading the Freshmen in Medicine to pay their foot- 
ing, and now the time seems to have come for its abol- 



ishment. We notice this with some regret, for, in 
principle, the payment of this initiatory fee is not alto- 
gether a bad thing. The students of any faculty may 
be regarded, for social purposes as a sort of club for 
admission to which a small charge may justifiably be 
exacted. The benefit of the payment, too, accompanies 
the student through his whole course, for the dinner 
of each year is the better for the money which the 
footing yields. In reality,, therefore, the question of 
footing comes to be one of the desirability of commut- 
ing a fraction of each year’s subscription by a single 
payment in the first year. Unfortunately, the Fresh- 
men cannot be brought to see the matter in this light, 
and it seems scarcely wise to continue a practice which 
they look upon as an imposition. We therefore counsel 
the students to come to an agreement not to demand 
the footing next year. 



LADIES FIRST. 

We heartily congratulate the ladies upon the success 
which has attended their first examination in McGill. 
That success was not wholly unexpected, it is only 
another evidence of the effect of concentration and 
industry. Our lazy Freshmen may well take a lesson 
from their rivals. No longer will it be safe for them 
to divide their energies between hockey, football, the 
regular course, and the private lines of reading which 
most first yea<r students lay out for themselves. 
Steady application must now be the rule if the men 
are to hold their own. This examination has been an 
awakening, and they will’ make a better fight next 
April. It will not do to be too confident though, for 
no doubt the ladies will struggle hard for a fair share 
of the honors. 

One unaccountable thing has been the vacillation 
of the Faculty, who publicly announced that the 
ladies would not be ranked with the other students 
and afterwards gave no intimation of a change in their 
determination until the examinations were over. An 
explanation of this variation of purpose will be eagerly 
looked for. 

McGILL GOVERNMENT. 

As will be seen elsewhere, two new Governors have 
been appointed. They are men in every sense estim- 
able, whose connection with the University cannot 
but be creditable to it. Yet we are not satisfied. 
If these gentlemen were graduates, or held honorary or 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



ad eundem degrees from McGill, none would rejoice 
more than we at their appointment. But it does seem 
as if the policy which, under necessity, sought the mem- 
bers of tire governing body from outsiders thirty years 
ago, should now be laid aside when the College counts 
among its graduates some of the foremost citizens of 
Montreal, men of years and wealth and influence. 
These must surely feel a warmer feeling for McGill 
and be bound to it by a stronger tie than aliens, who 
never heard its name until they settled in this city. 
It is true these gentlemen, being clergymen, may be 
supposed to have more leisure than most, but it is 
also to be remembered that the board of governors 
deals with nothing outside of finance ; and surely 
our prominent lawyers and physicians may be adjudged 
better men of business than clergymen, however able 
these may be in other respects. In truth, the late 
appointments are of a piece with the old time policy 
of the authorities, a policy which ever aims at es- 
tranging the graduates and supplying the place they 
should occupy with any outsiders who are likely to 
harmonise with those ideas in accordance with which 
the University has always been governed. Thus among 
the governors there is but one graduate, and we all know 
how bitter was the struggle which eventually gained him 
his seat. In the corporation, with the exception of 
the representative fellows and heads of affiliated 
colleges, the members are either governors or their 
appointees, men who, when important questions are 
to be decided, invariably either vote with the governors 
or do not vote at all. Even among the heads of the 
affiliated colleges there are some who blindly follow 
the lead of the autocratic governors. And there is no 
check upon these men, they are irresponsible, meeting 
with closed doors, deciding questions of public interest 
without ever a thought as to what the public may wish. 
No stranger observing these things would suppose 
that these two bodies claimed to be administering a 
public trust. But how can this state of affairs be 
remedied? There appears but one way. The gover- 
nors must be forced by well directed public opinion 
to give the graduates that importance in the manage- 
ment of the college which the alumni of every other 
University have. There is nothing which the pros- 
perous business man of this county stands in such awe 
of as the opinion of his neighbors. Let the most 
stubborn man see a steadily growing general impression 
unfavorable to himself or any of his actions, and he 
will soon repent him of his obstinacy. Here then is 
a strong point for the graduates. If they will combine 
and use the means at their disposal for stirring up a 
public agitation, the governors will be forced to give 
way. They meet with closed doors, a sure evidence 



of one of two things, either they are ashamed of their 
proceedings or they dread the check which a public 
scrutiny would impose upon them. First then they 
should be forced to admit the press to their delibera- 
tions, after which attention may more easily be drawn 
to their anomalous constitution, to the excessively 
small share in the government which is allotted to 
the graduates, the very men who are most interested 
in it. The question in its broader aspects is really 
as to whether the University is to become a great 
centre of educational influence or remain, as now, 
in partial obscurity, contenting itself with instructing 
those students which certain favorable circumstances 
happen to bring it. These circumstances are essen- 
tially transitory. McGill’s Science Faculty will 
not always be the only one. The Law Faculty once 
stood alone, but now it is being eclipsed by Laval. 
Already the Medical Faculty has powerful rivals, 
and they seem to grow in power. In Arts the 
majority of the undergraduates are theological stud nts 
in training at the various divinity schools of the city, 
and it is doubtful if even these will not be drawn 
away by Ontario’s Consolidated University. If McGill 
is to be saved, it must display vastly more energy. 
It seems now to be retrograding, and the authorities 
are languidly apathetic. A stimulus must be supplied, 

and apparently the graduates alone can supply it. 
Let them assert themselves.' Once they have gained 
a strong position among the governors and in the cor- 
poration, they can turn their attention and direct their 
strength towards pushing McGill on. Money can be 
had, if sufficient effort be made, and lack of money, if 
the government be zealous, could alone check progress. 
Let it be repeated, however, that there must be an 
infusion of new blood. The time is now ripe to force 
that infusion, and to do so only requires concerted 
action upon the part of the graduates. If they let the 
opportunity pass, they deserves to remain as a body 
insignificant. 



RONDEAXJ. 

translated from jf.han FROISSART ( 1335 - 1410 .) 

Come back, sweet friend, too long thou art away, 

My heart is pained while thou dost absent stay ; 

I yearn for thee each moment of the day, 

Come back, sweet friend, too long tbou art away. 

For till thou comes t-wherefore then delay? 

I have not any one to make me gay ; 

Come back, sweet friend, too long thou art away, 

My heart is pained when thou dost absent stay. 

Geo. Murray. 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



iLontributions. 



FEDERATION OF THE EMPIRE.* 



But I go further and say that our Canadian manu- 
factures would be actually stimulated, to supply the 
English market with a gre it deal that is now supplied 
by the United States. The United States now send 
to England $22,500,000 of the following articles : 
Agricultural Implements, Carriages, Boots and shoes 
and other leather manufactures, butter, cheese, pre- 
served meats, Sewing machines, Furniture and other 
small manufactures of which the same is true. 

To sum up then, if the United States were induced 
by the policy indicated, to give us free trade, we would 
have a market of 50,000,000 in addition to the other 
markets of the world. If they were not, we should 
have a monopoly of a market of 307,000,000 persons 
in our own Empire, for our Agricultural, Animal, 
Forest, Fish and Mineral produce, and for certain 
classes of manufactures. Sixty percent, of our manu- 
factures would be stimulated, 77 per cent, would be 
beneficially affected if at all, and the rest would have 
cheaper raw material. Thir would indeed be literally 
millions upon millions to the wealth of Canada. I 
cannot pretend to estimate it, it would be limited only 
by the very utmost degree of our Producing power. 
In short then looking at the matter in every light, 
Canada has a great deal to gain by the acceptance of 
this scheme. 

But is England likely to adopt this policy ] I ven- 
ture to say that it is likely. If once attention be 
closely drawn to the number, value and extent of her 
colonial possessions, she would adopt any policy that 
would secure them permanently to her. There are a 
thousand reasons why she should : and the subject has 
only to be agitated and discussed to bring this out. 
We shall of course be told that England is committed 
to free trade, that nothing will induce her to depart 
from it. Well these general assumptions are really of 
very little value. I have yet to learn that England is 
irrevocably committed to anything. One thing is 
certain : England knows that however good a thing 

her free trade policy has been, it is only half as good as 
universal free trade, and this apart from the Colonial 
question altogether, might go a long way towards induc- 
ing her to adopt this policy. There is no doubt that 
England desires universal free trade. It is true some 
oroakers say that in that event England would lose a 
gread deal of the cotton trade with China an t d Japan, 
in favor of the United States. But I do not believe 
it. So long as she has her colonies she must have her 
splendid mercantile marine. And so long as she has 
her commercial fleet, it will be impossible for any 
nation to dislodge her from foreign markets, and par- 
ticularly for a nation that has destroyed its shipping 
so that only 16.3 p.c. of its own commerce is in its 
own ships. It will long continue cheaper to transport 
mw cotton by water to England for the East, than by 
rail to the manufacturers of the Eastern States and by 
rail to the Pacific coast, and thence by sea to China 
and Japan. And if the United States could not com- 

• President* a Annual Address to University Literary Society. 



pete with British India, which is a cotton-growing 
country where labor is and will remain infinitely 
cheaper than in America, which is only twelve days 
water transit from China. Indeed to suppose that 
England will lose her foreign trade is as chimerical as 
the scare got up a few years ago, that her coal mines 
would become exhausted. It was found on looking 
into the latter question, that they probably would, 
but it would take some thousands if not millions of 
years for it to happen. And I think Englishmen 
have been able to sleep comfortably under the pros- 
pect. But after all this is low ground to take. The 
truth is that mankind would be benefited if obstructions 
to trade and intercourse between all nations were 
removed. And it is one of the chief recommendations 
of the policy 1 am now advocating that it would afford 
one of the strongest inducements to all nations to take 
the fetters of their intercourse with one another. 

The question really is How would England be 
affected if the protective nations did not adopt that 
alternative, if they maintained their protective tariffs. 
Well, in this case the benefit would undoubtedly be 
primarily to the colonies. But looking at this ques- 
tion purely from an English standpoint, would it not 
itself abundantly repay her] We know that with no 
discrimination in their favour, already trade with the 
colonies advances much more rapidly than trade with 
foreign countries, and possess elements of permanency 
that the latter does not. The exports to foreign coun 
tries in 1855 were ^87,000,000, in 1882, ,£214,000, 
000, an advance of 246 per cent-, the exports to the 
colonies in 1855 were £28,000,000 in 1882, £92,000,- 
000, an advance of 328 per cent. Again the colonies 
are a much more valuable market per head of popula- 
tion. The following nations are her largest foreign 
customers, and I shall give the exports to each of them 
in 1882, per head of their respective populations pla- 
cing the produce of the United Kingdom in the first 
column, and the total export in the second : 

Per Head, Per Head. 



Foreign Countries. 


Import Prod. U. K. 


Total from l 


United States 

Germany 




£0.74 




0.67 


France 




0.79 


Holland 


2.25 


3.89 


Belgium 


146 


2.73 


Russia . . . 


0.05 


0.08 


Italy 


0.23 


0.26 


Spain, Colonies 




0-29 


Channel Islands 


6.57 


8.94 


Canada 


2.10 


3.31 


Newfoundland 


3.28 


3.75 


South Africa, Natal . . 


.. 3.74 


4.06 


Cape of Good Hope 




8.95 


Australia 




10.36 



It will be seen, then, that the lowest of the colonies, 
which I am sorry to say is Canada, is more than three 
times as good a customer, relatively to population, as 
the United States ; that the colonies generally are 
from three to twelve times as good customers as Eng- 
land’s three largest foreign customers ; and that the only 
foreign countries that compare with the colonies are 
Holland and Belgium, which are almost free trade 
countries, Holland’s import duties being insignificant, 
and Belgium’s very low. If, therefore, trade with the 
colonies were properly fostered, it would take but 
little time for it; to equal, and even to exceed, foreign 
trade. Again, the colonies situated in every quarter 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



of the globe are, for the most part, new countries, 
with immense undeveloped resources. 

If, then, British enterprise were directed to the 
colonies, the possibilities of the expansion of their 
trade, their wealth, are absolutely unlimited. And 
this could only be done if the people of these colonies 
were brought officially into the closest connection with 
the capitalists and people of the mother country. 

It may nevertheless be true that, for a limited time, 
the price or imported food into England would slight- 
ly increase. To the vast majority of the people this 
would entail but slight inconvenience, and that only 
temporary, and would be in some measure offset by a 
repeal of the present duties on tea, coffee and cocoa 
imported from the colonies : which are pretty heavy ; 
and the question is merely whether they are willing 
to put up with such inconvenience for the accomplish- 
ment of the object contemplated by this policy. The 
English people have been called upon to make great 
sacrifices before now, and for less worthy objects than 
to build up their great Empire. They have sub- 
mitted to heavy burdens of taxation for the carrying 
on of costly wars. Could they not bear something in 
the interests of their fellow- subjects beyond the seas'? 
It would be only the investment of a prudent man, 
sure to make a handsome return in the future. In 
building up their colonies they would be providing a 
sure market for their future products ; not trusting 
blindly to the chance good- will or enlightenment of 
foreign nations for the removal of restrictions on 
trade, but with the certainty that no restrictions would 
ever be imposed. They would, in fact, be laying up 
for themselves and for their children a heritage richer 
and more glorious than they could look forward to in 
any other way. 

And at the same time as they were doing this, they 
would be wiping out their national debt out of the 
enormous revenues this system would bring into the 
coffers of the government. So that by the time other 
nations would have begun to think about combinations 
to offset their power, they would he relieved of the 
great bulk of their present taxation, and would have 
all the greater advantage over all competitors. 

But what is supposed to attach the people of Eng- 
land peculiarly to their system of free trade, is that in 
the past it prevented and relieved distress. Suppose, 
however, they can be satisfied that there is another 
and a better way in which distress may be prevented 
and relieved. I have said that the majority of the 
people might have some temporary inconvenience. 
But it is possible ihere might be a fraction of the 
people upon whom it would bring a measure almost 
of distress. Well it is the interest of these people 
more than any others that this scheme may be said to 
have been devised. For, for those who are so ill of, 
sp near starvation point that even a slight increase in 
the price of food would bring them into distress, 
surely the sooner they leave their present homes and 
take up a homestead in ote of the Biitish colonies, the 
better for all concerned. In this view, a slight hard- 
ship would be a blessing to mankind ; for it would 
induce those who are now on the very verge of 
indigence to remove to those parts of the world where 
they are most wanted, and thus relieve the over pres- 



sure of population at home. For it is an ^sential 
part of a scheme for the consolidation of the Empne, 
that no distress would be permitted, emigration (then 
it would be merely Migration) would be a stimulation 
to a degree that would effectually remove any possi- 
bility of hunger and want at home. And the removal 
of these people would simply be to provide a better 
market for all England produces, in a country where 
they would be able to make something with which 
to pay for what they consumed. And we have seen 
that every Canadian colonists is worth three Americans 
to the English producer. 

Nor must we forget that the interests ot some of the 
chief industries of the United Kingdom are identical 
with our own in this matter ; and especially the agri- 
cultural interest. We know with how much difficulty 
the members of the Anti-Corn Law League persuaded 
the agriculturists of England to consent to the aboli- 
tion of duties on farm produce. We could therefore 
count on the hearty co-operation of the farmers of the 
mother country who form, I need not tell you, one ot 
the most important elements in the population. And 
this is the class to whom an extension of the suffrage 
is just being given in the new Franchise Bill. By 
the assimilation of the County and Borough Franchise, 
2,000,000 voters chiefly in the rural constituencies, 
have been added to the Parliamentary electors. And 
those are the men whose interests are enlisted on our 
side in the endeavor, until we can get reciprocity 
from other nations, to keep the British markets for 
the British people. 

But I think we may with confidence leave the 
English side of the question to the English people. 
I believe it has to come to this, that an Imperial Fede- 
ration must at the outset be accompanied with an 
Imperial Customs Union. And I have no fear but 
that when the English people take hold seriously of 
this question, and make up their minds that the* thing 
should be done, the difficulties will rapidly vanish 
away. 

And now but one word in closing, Lord Roseberry 
in addressing the Trades Union Congress at Aberdeen, 
told them that the Franchis bill was of small import- 
ance in comparison with the question of Imperial 
Federation. In the same way I am convinced that 
the question of free trade itself is of small importance 
in comparison with this. Mr. Bourne announced 
himself a free trader I am myself a Free trader, — 
even ia the elegant language of Canadian politics a 
jug handle free, believing economically free trade is 
the bes*. system even if adopted only on one side. 
But just as there are times in domestic life when con- 
sideration of economy are of secondary importance, so 
in national affairs, there are occasions when economic 
considerations sink into comparative insignificance. 
And this is one of these cases. I believe indeed that 
in the long run it will be true economic policy for 
England to establish a world — wide consolidated Em- 
pire, even though at the expense of some immediate 
sacrifice. For every interest of civilization will be 
greatly promoted by a grand far-reaching scheme by 
which so many of what must be the great nations of 
the future shall be brought into relaxtions with one 
another of the closest and most enduring character. 



1885.] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 7 



And we Canadians shall be recreant to our trust if we 
do not do our part to forward so grand, so sublime a 
scheme ; if we pursue the shortsighted policy of 
allowing to slip from our grasp the joint heritage 
we have with all our fellow subjects in possessions 
that dot every sea, that extend vastly over every con- 
tinent, spreading the exalted civilization of our race 
into the remotest corners of the world. 

BORES. 

Not the bore of a gun — nothing half so polished or 
indispensable as that very necessary adjunct to the 
weapon, without which the sporting undergrad, fails 
to find perfect felicity in the long vacation — but all 
kinds of the human bore, the wearying, disagreeable, 
or otherwise objectionable individuals who, in a greater 
or less degree, infest the lives of all of us from youth 
to age ; the bane of our childhood, the dread of our 
boyhood, and one of the greatest of our afflictions in 
after years — these are now my theme. 

Their name is legion, their variety endless, and to 
be brought in contact with them (and none of us es- 
cape the infliction) is utter weariness of spirit, and 
creates in the victim a wild desire to bring the trouble- 
some one to a sudden and violent end. Though dif- 
fering in many respects, one peculiarity is common to 
them all — namely : No shaft of satire, however broad, 
or however well sped, will penetrate the plate armor 
of their hopeless stupidity ; no hint, inuendo, or lam- 
poon, no matter how palpably pointing to himself, 
could make the bore understand that he might pos- 
sibly be the subject of it, and nothing but the plain- 
est of English, spoken in the plainest -manner, will 
convince one of these creatures that he could be any- 
thing but the pleasantest of companions, and even after 
you have told him in unmistakeable terms that he is 
— what he is — he is ready to confer plenary absolution 
upon you, should you, in a weak moment, show 
qualms of conscience for having offended him. 

Place aux dames. 

I irst, for a few varieties of the bore feminine. Who 
does not know the old family servant who “ nussed 
you when you was a baby ?” Which of us, out of re- 
spect for the faithful old creature will not submissively 
listen to the oft-repeated tale, though having heard it 
weekly— we had almost said daily — for eighteen or 
twenty years, it does become monotonous. 

Which of us, during our collegiate career, has not 
encountered the garrulous and irrepressible landlady, 
who has eagerly seized every opportunity of pouring 
into our unwilling ears her story of other and better 
days, who will enter your room, “ thinking you was 
out,” and, door-handle in hand, ruthlessly interrupt 
and retard your pursuit of knowledge ? 

Then every one knows the old, young lady of so- 
ciety, who will not remember that thirty-five summers 
have passed over her already thinning hair, and who 
still tries to be a giddy, gushing young thing ; and the 
fond and floating mother, who will extort admiration 
for her very common-place offspring? 

But the most saddening thing of all is to worship 
some lovely creature from afar, to gaze by stealth upon 
her bewitching face, to rise early, and late take rest, 



until you find a friend able and willing to effect for 
you an introduction to your idol, and then, when you 
are, figuratively, at the feet of your fair divinity, you 
find the knowledge slowly, but surely, forced upon 
you that your adored one’s hair covers a brain net 
sufficiently large to serve a good-sized, intellectual 
flea ; that the fair form is but an empty casket. Oh ! 
hollow ! hollow ! hollow ! In short, a month’s ac- 
quaintance with her will show you another variation 
of the female bore, a pretty one ’t’is truebut, never- 
theless, a veritable, unmitigated, hopeless bore. 

Turn we now to the male animals of this species of 
bete-noir , and the puzzle is where to begin — where 
end. 

The first who presents himself to our memory is the 
jovial, sociable, loud individual, who slaps you on the 
back until you wonder whether your veribrae will 
hold out, and wrings your hand until the joints crack ; 
who calls you “ old man ” and “ dear boy ” in a sten- 
torian voice, the very tones of which would shatter the 
nerves of sensitive persons ; who proclaims his senti- 
ments on the house-tops and declares his opinions to 
the four winds of heaven ; who will apostrophise you 
as the best fellow in the world and the truest friend 
he has, while you stand shuddering by, trying to re- 
press the guilty wish that the earth would open and 
swallow him. 

One of the most disgust-inspiring individuals is the 
religious bore, the man who, in a half-whisper, will 
ask you if 4< you are saved,” or, “ if your heart is given 
to the good cause,” or some such posing question. If 
in a humorous frame of mind, you will reply, “ give 
it up,” or “ ask me something easy,” but, suppose 
you are not, will you glance stealthily at the window 
and murderously wonder whether it would kill him 
much to throw him out ? Echo answers, yes. In this 
connection we cannot banish from our thoughts the 
remembrance of the many weary hours of childhood 
and youth when we have been compelled to listen 
Sunday after Sunday to the dreaiy platitudes of some 
person, who had about as much vocation for the pulpit 
as the Sultan of Turkey. Fortunately for us all, this 
species of boredom, at any rate, may cease with youth. 

Next in the list comes the bore with a grievance, the 
man who will expatiate hour after hour upon some real 
or fancied wrong of which he imagines himself the 
victim, who will button-hole you at the most incon- 
venient times and will nobly sustain his well-known 
reputation for being the rival of the Ancient Mariner 
in relating “ dreary tales of woe.” In presence of 
such an one 'a dull horror fastens upon you, and you 
begin seriously to wonder whether it would be more 
comfortable to commit suicide by hanging or per six- 
shooter. Then how often do we cross the path of the 
pedantic prig, who is crammed so full of erudition that 
to save an explosion, he is constantly obliged to let off 
the steam of wisdom which overcrowds his brain. Then 
there is the practical joke bore, who has always some 
doubtful story to relate of how cleverly he has scared 
men, women and children half-out of their wits. 

Lastly come the vocalizing bore, who fancies him- 
self a Simms Reeves, and the amateur acting bore, 
whose Hamlet is, in his own estimation far before that 
of either Salvini or Irving; the political bore, the 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



scandalizing bore (a hydra-headed monster this), the 
poetical and the punning bore, and still we could con- 
tinue to swell the list. But we must end somewhere, 
and we do so here wishing that each and all of us may 
find from these common pests a good deliverance. 



MONTCALM AND WOLFE. 

The two volumes of this work are now before the 
public, and are as we should expect from their distin- 
guished author, Dr. Parkman, a most valuable contri- 
bution to Canadian history. In view of the impor- 
tance of this work, as well as of all the works of the 
author, on whom our own University cheerfully be- 
stowed its highest degree, it may not be out of place 
to try and set forth its chief contents in one or two 
short articles. 

The work cannot be two highly valued by Canadians ; 
in it they have not only a most readable and fascinat- 
ing, but also an exceedingly reliable account of that 
part of the history of Canada with which it deals. 
The preface shows the extraordinary pains taken to 
know all that could be known on the subject. The 
amount of published and unpublished materials ex- 
amined is simply prodigious. Nor has our author 
been satisfied with all he could find written in France, 
England and America; to give reality and life to his 
work he has visited and made careful observations of 
every spot where any of the important events which 
he undertakes to describe have taken place. “ In 
short,” he says, “ the subject has been studied as much 
from life and in the open air as at the library table.” 
Except in a collateral way, the work is confined to a 
period of fifteen years, from 1748 to 1763, and deals 
with the question, which, in the words of the author, 
was “ the most momentous and far-reaching one ever 
brought to issue on this continent, namely, 4 Shall 
France remain here or shall she not? ’ ” 

In this article only two topics will be referred to, — 
the position of the French and English in America 
at the beginning of the period, and the Acadian 
question. 

As to the territory which France claimed to be the 
owner of, she may be said to have been all-powerful. 
With the exception of the strip of country between the 
Alleghany Mountains and the Atlantic ocean, Acadia, 
and a few ill-defined possessions around the Hudson 
Bay, she owned all North America beyond the Gulf 
of Mexico. The two great gateways of this vast region, 
the St. Lawrence and Mississippi rivers, were also in 
her hands ; in the North' she had Canada, and in the 
South, Louisiana. There was one particular, however, 
in which France fell wofully short, and that was 
population. An extensive territory she had, but men 
and women with whom to people this territory she had 
not. It is estimated that in all her dominions the 
whole white population did not much exceed 80,000, 
a result largely owing to France’s exclusive system of 
colonizing ; for it must be remembered that she did 
not admit into her colonies any and every one, but • 
only those of her own religious faith. 

With England matters were the reverse. Compared 
with France her territory was small, but her popula- 
tion very large. Her chief possessions lay along the 



Atlantic on the east side of the Alleghanies, which 
are set down as containing about 1,160,000 people. 
Of the thirteen colonies which were planted here, four 
may be mentioned as being the most important, — 
Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York. 
All the thirteen bore a resemblance to one another, 
each had legislatures elected by the people and a basis 
of English law ; still they were not as much alike as 
could be wished. No real confederation existed be- 
tween them, each colony refusing to interest herself 
beyond her own immediate boundaries. The repre- 
sentatives of the people, too, were often at feud with 
the governors, who with two exceptions were appointed 
either by the Crown or by a feudal proprietor. In 
Canada, on the other hand, there was no popular 
legislature to interfere with the commands of the cen- 
tral authority. 

Thus did France and England engage in a war 
which the author describes as 44 the strife of a united 
and concentrated few against a divided and discordant 
many; a strife of the past against the future ; of the 
old against the new ; of moral and intellectual torpor 
against moral and intellectual life ; of barren absolut- 
ism against a liberty, crude, incoherent and chaotic, yet 
full of prolific vitality.” 

In order to form correct opinions concerning our 
second topic, 44 the expulsion of the Acadians,” we must 
hold intercourse with some such author as Parkman. 
It will not do to allow Longfellow’s 44 Evangeline ” to 
be our guide on the subject; for we know that that 
poem is decidedly anti-British, and that such a spirit 
is only excusable on the ground that a close adherence 
to facts would have given the author less scope for 
sentiment and pathos, the qualities of the poem which 
caused a distinguished critic to so justly call it an 
44 Idyll of the heart.” The punishment of exile, in 
the end inflicted on the Acadians, was so great, that 
we are apt to hastily condemn those who inflicted it. 

A careful study of facts, however, will place the mat- 
ter in a truer light, and will show that the provoca- 
tion to such a penalty was by no means slight. 

In this necessarily short account we can merely 
mention facts which are very thoroughly substantiated 
and explained by Mr. Parkman. In 1710 Acadia was 
conquered by General Nicholson and three years after 
regularly given up to the British by the treaty of 
Utrecht. This treaty allowed the French to remain 
in the country and to have the free exercises of their 
religion so far as compatible with the laws of Great 
Britain, provided that they would acknowledge them- 
selves to be subjects of the British. Those who did 
not wish to comply with the terms had a year allowed 
them during which they could leave. Though nearly 
all remained, yet it was not till seventeen years after 
the treaty that they could be induced to take the oath 
of allegiance ; and when war again broke out in 1745, 
they showed to what extent they were faithful to their 
new vows. Many of them remained neutral, others 
actually took up arms in behalf of the French, while 
others gave them what indirect assistance they could 
by information and supplies. The peace of Aix-la- 
Chapelle brought the war but not the opposition of 
the French to a close. 

The authorities both in Old and New France did 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1885 .] 



what they could to maintain a determined and syste- 
matic hostility, their chief agents in Acadia being the 
clergy who were incessant in their efforts to keep°their 
fellow countrymen faithful to King Louis XV. A 
second plan was to induce the Acadians to remove to 
countries under French rule, such as Isle St. Jean and 
Cape Breton, and also to stir up the Indians to attack 
the English. Certainly one feature of all these plans 
was that they were to be carried on secretly and with- 
out the knowledge of the English. What prompted 
this unfaithfulness and disobedience w<is the natural 
desire to win back Acadia, and not any ill treatment 
on the part of the English ; for it is shown beyond a 
doubt, even from French sources, that the rule of the 
English was more mild than harsh. Indeed, they are 
accused of being lenient from policy, in order to secure 
the goodwill of the Indians, and some speak of their 
easy and conciliatory system as the one most detrimen- 
tal to the French cause 

Thus did the Acadians persist in working wrong to 
the English ; far from abating their enmity, they grew 
more and more dangerous. They were again asked to 
take an oath of unconditional allegiance to King 
George. This they refused, and the English Governor 
took steps to have them removed from the province. 

( To b z continued.) 



TFlcSill Keuis. 

The Medical Dinner. 

( Report continued .) 

Among the professors who rose to reply in response 
to repeated calls were Dr. Gird wood who in expressing 
the pleasure which it gave the professors to meet the 
undergraduates at their annual dinner, made some 
witty allusions to the design on the card uttering a 
hope that the skull figured there might not be symbolic 
of “ Death in the Pot,’* and having made some remarks 
in favor of the Higher Education of Women was fol- 
lowed by Drs. Mills, Shepherd, and Wilkins, who 
were enthusiastically received. 

Mr. J. W. McMeekin proposed in a humerous and 
loudly applauded speech the next toast, that of Our 
Hospitals. In eulogizing the advantages of the Mon- 
treal General Hospital “ where,’’ he gave us his serious 
opinion, u many patients get better in spite of the 
treatment ” he called attention to the many and marked 
improvements recently added to facilitate the courses 
in clinical medicine and surgery. 

Mr. Andrew Robertson in response regretted the 
insufficient accommodations for patients in the general 
Hospital, but announced the news that a site has 
already been obtained for additional buildings which, 
after certain pecuniary obstacles had been overcome, 
might be soon expected to supplement the existing 
ones. He hoped that the higher education of women 
would have a benelicial effect in producing a superior 
class of nurses, and closed his remarks with an apt 
quotation from Walter Scott. 

His speech was followed by a capital song (a parody 
on an air from “ patience”) by Mr. Orton. “ Sister 
Universities ” was then given in a short speech by Mr. 



H. E. Kendall who extended a hearty welcome to such 
of our guestsas represented other universties. 

In an eloquent reply the Rev. E. J. Hill traced the 
analogies that exist between his own alma mater — 
Edinburgh University and McGill. It was the pride 
that his fellow students took in their university that 
had raised it to the standard of excellence which it 
occupied then and to-day ; let a similar love and pride 
among McGill undergraduates characterise their actions 
towards the Canadian University. He closed by urging 
the necessity for a more complete pecuniary equipment 
of the chairs in the Medical Faculty. 

Other responses were made by Mr. Gray of the 
Toronto School of Medicine who attributed the cor- 
diality of the present intercollegiate courtesies to the 
presence of a large number of Ontario students among 
the McGill Undergraduates, and after an allusion to 
the advantages possessed by the medical students of 
Montreal in the Superior (?) police supervision in 
vogue here, gave place to Messrs. Lyndsay, of the 
Trinity School of Medicine, Toronto ; Houle, Laval ; 
Grandpr^, Victoria ; and England, Bishop’s Coll ge. 

These gentlemen were followed by another part song 
“ Oh, who will o’er the downs so free ” by the glee 
club. 

The toast of the il Graduates ” was then proposed by 
Mr. G. C. Stephens in a short speech, and responded 
to by Dr. Rodgers, who contrasted the Annual Din- 
ners celebrated in his day with the present one. He 
echoed the sentiments expressed by the Dean, that it 
was the duty of graduates, as well as undergraduates, 
to work together to promote the interests of the Uni- 
versity, and called attention to the fact that many of 
the students of past times were Professors of the 
Faculty to-day — a fact, he remarked, that should be a 
stimulus to the labours of all undergraduates. 

This was followed by a duet, with guitar accompani- 
ment, rendered in an excellent manner by Messrs. 
Ferguson and Pomeroy, who fully deserved the tncore 
which they received. 

Dr. Shepherd then proposed the “ Class of ’85.” He 
explained that it was a theme which he should be 
peculiarly fitted to do justice to, as he had been con- 
nected with that class more than with any other, and, 
after mentioning as a cause for congratulation the in- 
creasd, instead of decrease, in numbers, which the 
system of a four years’ course, with compulsory sum- 
mer session attendance had induced, concluded with a 
cordial hope that the class would “ weather the March 
gales of 1885.” 

Mr. M. C. McGannon responded in behalf of ’85 in 
an exceedingly eloquent and graceful speech. He 
traced the history of the class from its first year to the 
present day ; described the aspirations with which they 
met together for the first time, the unanimous agree- 
ment that an M.D.,C.M. was the summum bonum 

their motives being probably as many and varied as 
their numbers and characters, that while some saw in- 
cident to that degree a life of ease and enjoyment, 
others took it but as a rung in the ladder of ambition 
and wealth, while others again for the higher reason 
that “ nothing so nearly pertains to the gods as to 
relieve suffering.” In proceeding with the annals of 
the class he alluded to its agency in rectifying the de- 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



fects in the chair of Materia Medica, and made a touch- 
ing reference to the loss that the Faculty had sustained 
in the deaths of two of its oldest members. He con- 
cluded by a graphic contrast between the former din- 
ners and those of the last three years upon which the 
Faculty have shed the lustre of their presence. The 
Glee Club again followed with a song, “ The Soldiers’ 
Farewell,” which elicited some well-deserved ap- 
plause. 

The “ Freshmen ” were then proposed by I)r. Stewart 
and their importance to the college as a class of the 
gentlemen who annually * go, to leave mama and see 
the show ’ was demonstrated. F rom the unprecedented 
numbers of the present class he augured a brilliant 
outlook for the prospects of McGill, and after some 
good advice as to the object and direction of their 
reading, pointing out that it should tend to a wider 
knowledge of medical research than would barely suf- 
fice to enable them to scrape through their examinations 
the toast was responded by Mr. Holden. After return- 
ing thanks for the complimentary reception of the toast 
Mr, Holden expressed the feelings of all the students 
preseut, we are convinced, by a strong advocation of 
the merits of a university Dining Hall, the want of 
which, he contended robbed the daily intercourse of 
students of much of that sociable character which it 
should possess. After a passing tribute to the advan- 
tages to be gained from a more complete interest in 
College sports, especially football, and also from the 
Medical Society, he referred to the lack of interest 
which appeared to be taken in the College Journal, *a 
neglect which he advised the students to rectify. 

A song “ Down among the dead men ” by Mr. Ellis 
then succeeded and was warmly applauded. 

The “ Ladies ” were then proposed in a short speech 
by Mr. N. D. Gunne. Mr. Christie in offering himself as 
their champion, showed that their admission into 
McGill marked an era in her annals, and deprecated 
any apprehension as to their showing any superiority 
in their final examinations, asserting a strong conviction 
that they would long ere that time be “wooed from 
scientific to domestic felicity.” 

After another song “ Fairy Moonlight ” by the choir, 
the u Press ” was proposed in a short speech by Mr. 
W. D. T. Ferguson who found however none of the 
representatives of the Third Estate left to respond. 
After some remarks by delegates from the various other 
faculties of the University (which the somnolency of 
our reporter did not admit of his recording), and votes 
of thanks to the “Chairman” and “ Committee” a very 
pleasant evening was brought to a close. 



The Revs. Canon Norman and Jas. Barclay have 
lately been appointed Governors. 

The \. M. C. A. young man s letter which appeared 
in our second issue was, it appears, a private one, and 
not intended for publication. It was sent to an aged 
friend in Liverpool who indiscreetly gave it to the 
Y. M. C. A. paper of that place. 

Our College Y. M. C. A. is expecting a visit from 
Mr. C. K. Ober, the Assistant College Secretary of the 
International Committee Y. M. C. A. New York. He 



is expected here for January 11th and 12th. Mr. 
Ober is an old student of William’s College : and 
is said to be a good speaker, a good organizer, and a 
thorough student’s man, so that a visit from him is 
looked forward to with pleasure. 

Further notice will be out later. 



College Ulorlb. 



A new elective in political economy is to be given 
the seniors of Amherst in the winter term, consisting 
of lectures on the tariff and “ Modern Socialism.” 

The eightly-third annual catalogue of Bowdoin Col- 
lege for the academical year 1884--5,just issued, shows 
the number of undergraduates for the year as follows : 
Seniors, 29, with one taking special studies ; juniors, 
20; sophomores, 31, freshmen, 32. 

The chair in the Sheffield Scientific School at Yale 
made vacant by the death of Professor Norton, has 
been filled by the appointment of Professor Dubois, 
while the latter’s place as professor of dynamical en- 
gineering is now occupied by Professor Charles B. 
Richards. 

A new biological school has been opened in connec- 
tion with the University of Pennsylvania at Philadel- 
phia, in a building thoroughly fitted up for the re- 
searches belonging to that field of science, and under 
the direction of Dr. Joseph Leidy, the eminent 
American biologist. 

Hon. P. T. Barnuin has presented to the city of 
Bridgeport, Conn., the sum of $1000, to be known as 
the Barnum Fund, the annual income from which is 
to be used in the purchase of tw T o gold medals, to be 
presented to the two students of the Bridgeport High 
School v r ho shall write and publicly pronounce the 
best two English orations. 

The first convivium ever held in Trinity College, 
Hartford, Conn., took place recently in the college 
commons. Everything was done to make the occasion 
resemble an ancient Roman banquet as nearly as pos- 
sible. The guests were attired in flowing white togas 
and presented a very imposing sight as they sat at, the 
tables. Speeches were made on the Latin authors! 

The San Francisco Alta speaks bitterly of the Uni- 
versity of California, saying that it has not half as 
many students as it ought to have, that the grounds 
are insufficient and neglected, and that there is lack of 
authority, lack of government, lack of discipline 
throughout. It seems to attribute these evils to the 
intrusion of politics into the management of the in 
stitution. 

A writer in the Popular Science Monthly says that 
the “ practice ot taking tea or coffee by students in 
order to work at night is downright madness, especially 
when preparing for an examination. More than half 
of the cases of break-down, loss of memory, fainting 
etc., which occur during severe examinations, and far 
more frequently than is commonly known, are due to 
this. Sleep is the rest of the brain ; to rob the brain 
of its necessary rest is cerebral suicide.” 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



The catalogue of the Yale divinity school shows 107 
students — 10 graduates, 35 seniors, 34 middlers and 
27 juniors. Special lectures will be given this year by 
Rev. Dr. Storrs, of Brooklyn ; Rev. Dr. John Hall 
and Rev. Dr. Tyler, of New York ; Rev. Dr. Burton, 
of Hartford ; Professors Phelps, of Andover, and 
Professors Ladd and Sanford, of Yale. Rev. John 
E. Russell has been appointed to the chair of New 
Testament Biblical Theology. 

^ Mr. E. R. Gould, B.A., a recent graduate of Victoria 
University, has been appointed professor of political 
science and history in the State University, Washing- 
ton, D. C. Canadians seem to win honor more easily 
abroad than at home, though competition is as severe 
and requirement as enacting as anywhere else. “ The 
powers that be,” seem to prefer English importations. 
We trust that the day has gone by, however, when 
native industry and talent do not count for anything. 

A discussion of the Greek question which should be 
memorable will take place in New York next month. 
On the evening of Tuesday, Feb. 24, President Eliot 
will address the Nineteenth Century Club on the 
important step lately taken by Harvard College in 
making the study of the classics elective to students in 
all classes. The debate following the exposition of 
President Eliot’s views will be participated in by Presi- 
dent Porter of Yale and President McCosh of Prince- 
ton. 

The Senate of the University of Toronto having 
affirmed by resolution the expediency of creating in 
the Arts’ curriculum a department of political science, 
steps are being taken with a view to making the neces- 
sary changes to bring it into effect. The course, as it 
at present exists under the head of “ Civil Polity,” is 
most meagre and imperfect, and forms only a very 
subordinate adjunct in the final years to the depart- 
ment of mental and moral science. It is now proposed 
to make the course a comprehensive three-year one, 
and thus to encourage the study of a science which de- 
serves more attention than it has hitherto received. In 
doing this, Toronto University will only be following 
in the steps of the great American universities, in all 
of which chairs of political science exist. 

The Brown university catalogue, just issued, shows 
the total number of students to be 248, or twelve less 
than hist year. The loss is wholly in the sophomore 
class ; the number of juniors is the same, while the 
senior and freshmen classes show an increase. The 
number of special-course students is unusually large, 
twenty-three, against twelve last year, which is due 
partially to the faculty’s strict enforcement of the rule 
adopted last spring, that a student failing in an exam- 
ination shall not be considered as candidate for a de- 
gree until the examination has been made up. The 
curriculum is substantially the same. An additional 
French elective is offered in the first half of the senior 
year, so that French may now be studied three years. 
There is an additional elective in English literature in 
the second half of the senior year, and also a course in 
meteorology. Dr. Guild reports that 7200 volumes 
have been added to the library during the year, against 
1750 last year. The library now numbers 62,000 
bound volumes, besides many pamphlets. 



Between the tectu $. 



The Captious Critic. 

We commend the following pamphlets to the notice 
of the R. R. Committee. 

Bear Hunting at Lake Tarniscaming . By Father 
Mig, missionary to the Longfeet Indians near the 
source of the Ottawa. 

As a literary production it is not equal to the 
Author’s formers works, there being too frequent a 
use of adjectives and adverbs. The narratives, are, 
however, entertaining. 

Ten Years at McGill . By Shamus O’Brien, the cele- 
brated author of Skip the G utter , — Meet me on the 
Plains of Philippi, etc. 

This writer is two well known to need any com- 
ment from us. We may say, eii passant , that the 
pamphlet before us was specially prepared for the 
guidance of Seniors. Freshmen would not, we think, 
be benefitted by its perusal. 

The following papers are likely to appear in the 
Gazette. 

Down Microscopically Considered. From the Ger- 
man of Kerr (]) Gale. 

Biliousness ; Its Cause and Cure. By W. Lo-Chead. 
What A Football Cost Me. By Flip Rob’son. 
Lowering the Centre of Gravity in Tugs of War. By 
Tom, the Son of Gunnion. 

Screech Owls; Wingless and Featherless. A new 
Species. By Hannibal Darray. 

Tutor, to Freshman. — “ Mr. T., what is a spherical 
angle ? ” 

Mr. T. — “ An angle formed by the intersection of 
two spheres.” 

Tutor. — “ Mr. T., your answer is incorrect.” 

Mr. T. of ter long silence — “ I accept, your cor- 
rection.” — Ex. 

The Harvard Faculty has drawn up and published 
a series of statements relating to the cruelties and 
abuses of foot-ball with a view to its abolishment. 
Strange how tender-hearted and thougtful Faculties 
are ! If it were not for occasions like this, students 
would appreciate it. — Cynic. 

'J here was a young girl in Pate hog ue, 

Who owned such a sweet little dogue, 

She made him a sacque 
Which protected his bacque 
From the sun and the rain and the fogue. 

But, alas, for this sweet little dogue, 

While crossing a brook on a logue 
With a sneeze and a cough, 

He rolled suddenly ough, 

And was frightened to death by a frogue. 

• • • • • • • 

Then this maid of Eastern Long Island, 

Jumped hurriedly off from the hisland, 

Into mud soft as dough, 

{She was heavy and slough) 

So she never got back to the drisland. 

• • * * * * 

But the Patchoguers planted a tree called the yew, 

Which waves o’er the muid— and her little dog, tew. 

— Adelphian. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



Professor — “ What is fraud 1 ” Student — “ Taking 
willful advantage of a person’s ignorance.” Professor 
— “ Give an example.” Student — “ Why — er — er — 
one of your examinations.” — Ex. 

“ An old medical friend of ours, having occasion to 
le«ve his country practice for a few days, engaged as 
his locum tenens a young fellow just fresh from col- 
lege. Upon his return he enquired of young Sawbones 
what fresh cases had come in. 

“ Oh, nothing of importance,” was the reply, “ ex- 
cept a birth.” 

“ And how did you succeed with that 1 ” 

“ Well, the woman died, and the child died, but I 
think I'll save the old man yet /” 

Professor to Student leaving the room, “ Sir, if you 
leave the room before the hour is up 1 must mark you 
absent. What is your name, Sir V Student, “ You 
will see on the roll book, Professor.”--- [Exit. Student.] 
There is a metre prosaic, dactylic, 

There is a metre for laugh and for mo in, 

But the metre whi h is never prosaic, 

Is the “ Meet her by moonlight, alone.” 

A St. Louis editor received in his morning mail, by 
mistake, proof sheets intended for the employes of a 
religious publication house. After glancing over them 
he rushed to the sub-editor, yelling, “ Why in the 
world didn’t you get a report of that big flood ; even 
that slow old religious paper across the way is ahead 
of you. Send out your force for full particulars, 
only one family saved. Interview the old man, his 
name is Noah.” 



Personals. 



Dr. L. L). Loss ’84 will return shortly to the city 
after an extended tour through the Eastern Districts 
of London, Eng. It is reported that he was once 
surprised in one of the hospitals, whither he had un- 
wittingly v r andered, having mistaken it for the West- 
minster Aquarium. 

We deeply regret to hear of the death, from typhoid 
fever, of Dr. Archibald Macl eod, late of New West- 
minster, British Columbia. Dr. MacLeod was a native 
of Orwell, Prince Edward Island, and graduated in 
Arts at this University in ’81, and in Medicine in ’83, 
being one of the most promising men of his lass. 



itorresponbence. 



Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — At this time wdien our University may 
be said to have emerged from its earlier stage and to 
have established itself on firm foundations it is well 
that attention should be drawn to those points in which 
we are still weak in order that the necessary remedies 
may be applied and a symmetrical advancement secured. 
1 am confident that the authorities with their wonted 
good sense and liberal-mindedness will take in good 
part all complaints and suggestions offered by well- 
wishers of the institution in a friendly spirit ; and not 
only this, but will, \o the limit of their means, make 
ever} 7 effort to remove the causes of such complaints, if 



they find the latter to be w 7 ell founded. If further 
progress is to be made by the University as a whole, 

1 if the good reputation which we are beginning to enjoy, 
not only on this -Continent, but in Europe, is to be 
maintained, we must see that no department be allowed 
to lag behind the rest. In the Faculty of Arts, al- 
though there is much room for improvement, about as 
good a course is offered as could possibly be expected 
with the means at present at the disposal of the College. 
The Faculty of Medicine needs no comment ; while 
! the Faculty of Applied Science is only awaiting further 
grants to become all that its originator expected. Con- 
( cerning the Faculty of Law I wish to speak a little 
' more at length. It seems to me that of late years, at 
all events, too little attention has been given to the 
affairs of this Faculy. I have not noticed that the 
Principal has been much given in his periodical ad- 
dresses to dealing with the state of this department of 
the University ; on the contrary he seems to ignore it 
altogether. Now it cannot be denied that the condition 
of the Faculty of Law is by no means what it should 
be, nor is there any use in trying to hide the fact 
that the B.C. L. course is looked upon by the average 
student with considerable contempt. What are the 
causes of this state of affairs, and what remedies are 
possible under the circumstances 1 The lectures, which 
begin somewhere between the 1st October and Christ- 
mas, are given in what must be considered a most 
slovenly manner. What are known as “slopes” are 
far too frequent to show a healthy condition of things. 
A slope takes place whenever a lecturer is more than 
ten minutes late, and when it is considered that they 
average at the very least one or two a week, a very 
vivid idea of the regularity and punctuality of the 
Professors will be obtained. The lectures are them- 
selves, in many cases, not such as one would expect in 
a great University like McGill. Among the Professors 
are some of the ablest men at the bar, but still some of 
them do not seem to care to take the trouble to make 
their lectures worthy of them, or to prevent them from 
getting ludicrously behind the times. Some of the 
lectures are antiquated and partially useless, others 
utterly inadequate. There is no enthusiasm about the 
work ; apparently nothing but apathy. The number 
of students has been gradually dwindling, and even 
English speaking students prefer to to go to Laval. Of 
course it is seemingly a very thankless task to lecture 
without a good monetary remuneration, and the McGill 
Law Faculty cannot give very much. Having little or 
no endowment it has to depend mainly on the revenue 
derived from the students’ fees, and this, of late years, 
has not amounted to very much. But that there are 
so few students is due in no small degree, in my 
opinion, to the Professors themselves. Let them work 
first without thought of the* remuneration, and make 
the course what it ought to be, and they will soon find 
that their self-sacrifice will meet with adequate reward. 
When a lawyer accepts the position of Professor he 
should make up his mind to enter into the work for 
its own sake and for the honour of the position ; and if 
he is not possessed of this spirit, the sooner he resigns 
the better for himself and the College at large. At 
present the lectures are given between the hours of 
four and six in the afternoon, and we know that it is 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



often very inconvenient for a lawyer to leave his work at 
such an hour. Nevertheless the Professors ought to j 
make it a point to be punctual, and, except on the rarest 
occasions, make everything give way to this duty. In 
order to make the work easier and the Professors more 
attentive to their duty I recommend the adoption of 
the plan followed at Laval. There the lecturers are 
paid live dollars a lecture, and an accurate list of at- 
tendance is kept. This rule has, it is needless to say, a 
very stimulating etfect. In the second place, the whole 
session is divided into three terms, and so many Pro- 
fessors allotted to each term. Each Professor lectures 
every day during his term, and his work is then over 
for a year. This has the effect of making the lecturers 
more punctual, and of making the students more in- 
terested in their work. At present, for instance, a 
lecture is given on Roman law in McGill once a week, 
or on an average about four lectures a month for three 
months. At Laval the same subject is taken up every 
day, Saturday included, for the same number ot months. 
In other words six times as much work is expended 
on this subject at Laval as at McGill. And so with 
the other subjects. Everyone will recognize that one 
hour a week is far too little lor Roman Law ; and the 
shame is the greater because our Prolessor ol Roman 
Law knows more about his subject than, perhaps, any 
other person in Canada. Again, the length .of the 
session is too short. I can see no earthly reason 
why it should not be prolonged so as to close at the 
same time as that in the Faculty of Arts. It might 
then be divided into three terms as follows : the first 
from October till Christmas, the second irom 1st Jan- 
uary till the middle of February, and the third irom 
the middle or end of February till the end ol March. 
The examinations for the whole session could be held 
in April- and the Convocation take place at the same 
time as the Arts one. If these changes were carried 
out I have not the slightest doubt but that the reputa- 
tion of the Faculty would rapidly rise, because a 
sounder course would be afforded, while at the same 
the Professors would find their labour much less 
yours etc. 

* P>- C. L. 



onerous. 



Editors McGdl Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs : — It has always been the peculiar boast 
of McGill Medical College that it presented unrivalled 
facilities for the study of anatomy, and that its course 
in this subject was not equalled on this Continent. 1 He 
demonstrators have been most painstaking and efficient, 
and the mode of conducting the work tended to inspire 
the student with a zeal worthy of the subject. YV lule 
encouraged to work independently and observant- 
ly, and while having his work carefully examined and 
his knowledge of it thoroughly tested, his labour was 
much lightened, and his interest stimulated, by frequent 
and able demonstrations on the important organs, 
viscera, etc. From personal experience I know that 
last year the demonstrations were frequent, able, ana 
instructive, and during the Christmas holidays there 
were more demonstrations than during t e w 10 e p e 

sent session. . . , 

This present session (for some unexplained reason) 

things are not as they were, and the anatomy room is 



fast losing its reputation for pre-eminence, particularly 
among those who are most interested in its efficiency 
viz, the students of the Primary Class. 

The feeling is wide-spread among them, and the 
greatest dissatisfaction prevails, that while the facilities 
are still unrivalled, there is a great decline in the 
quality of the teaching in the Dissecting-room, so that 
students are forced to trust for much of their know- 
ledge of the subject to the lectures on Anatomy. 

There is a lack of interest displayed by certain of the 
demonstrators which, aside from the direct injury 
suffered from the consequent carelessness and neglect, 
has a very injurious moral influence — particularly on 
first-year students. 

When a demonstrator accepts the following as the 
boundaries of the Popliteal space — It is bounded 
above by Hunter’s Canal, below by the Popliteus 
Muscle;” or devotes ten minutes to “grinding” six 
men on the whole dissection of the leg ; or after telling 
a student to go home and read his work because he 
missed a “catch” question, says, in an aside, I he 
fact is I have not read up the ‘abdomen’ this year and 
don’t know it very well,” he is, to put it mildly, grossly 
careless, and displays a spirit unworthy of his position. 
The above instances are but a few among many similar 
ones ; and students are constantly complaining of the 
impossibility of getting proper demonstrations or 
thorough “ grinds” and it is often, only after consider- 
able waiting, that even these “ grinds ” are obtained 
owing to absence of demonstaators. 

During the present session, there have been not 
more that half a dozen class demonstrations, and not 
one during the holidays, which is a bad showing com- 
pared with last year. 

When grievances thus exist (and that they are real I 
fear will not be shewn on the 18th March, next) it is 
but proper that the students who are most interested, 
should give expression to them and strive to have them 
removed. 

I hope it will not appear that I have endeavoured to 
lower the reputation of our school ; for I believe it 
will ever maintain the position of pre-eminence which 
it has attained by fifty years of thorough high-standard 
work attested to by able graduates the * orld over. 

Neither am I to be understood as wishing to be per- 
sonal in this matter. But I do protest against the 
mea^reness of demonstrations ; the lack of enthusiasm 
and energy, diffusing itself throughout the whole class ; 
the careless inspection of- work ; the lack of thorough- 
"rinds ;” and the inefficient assistance ren- 



ness in > . . ,. 

dered the oft puzzled student of anatomy, in the disect- 
in fr room during the present session. 

To avoid personality it is impossible to more than 
refer thus generally to the management, etc. of the 
room ; at the same time these remarks do not apply to 
all the demonstrators, some of whom are most pains- 
taking and efficient ; but let whom the cap fits wear 
it. — Yours, etc., 

Primary Student. 



To the Editors of the McGill College Gazette ; 

Si rs> Partly in appreciation of the “ Denial” which 

headed your last issue, and partly in response to the 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885, 



solicitations of my friends, I have been tempted to 
hurtle a certain amount of verbal canister into the 
camp of the enemy, and, like “ Veritas,” to treat } r our 
readers with a short narrative of facts. 

In good sooth, my steel (pen) might well grow rusty 
whilst parrying flv-bites ; but, Habct et musca splenum, 
and as frequency of attack from even this description 
of enemy, might in time prove injurious, I deem it my 
duty to fire with the torch of veracity the filthy heap 
af personal slander and hollow argument that has been 
accumulating in your journal since its first publication. 
And, first, the election case, so much ranted about in 
your last by a' “ flower,” doubtless of the natural family 
Legiaceoe-Falsandria, Mentirigynia , as you will ob- 
serve, a hybrid pure and simple; but though the ma- 
terial is such as would have delighted either the pencil 
of Hogarth, or the pen of Swift, I shall forego ridicule 
as being no argument, and dispose of the subject in a 
few* words. Let me assure you, Mr. Legal Exponent, 
that were you to quote 37 Viet . “ from early morn 
till dewy eve ” to the responsible majority of students 
who acted so decisively in the matter, you would not 
then have convinced them that they had acted WTongly 
or unjustly. Truly he must be a lusus naturae who 
would question the act of an assembly, possessing at 
least an approximation to his own amount of intelli- 
gence. Having no constitution of our own, we are not 
compelled to adopt any other, and thereb\ r to sacrifice 
justice to a Parliamentary rule. Were all the abuses 
removed, liberties gained or wrongs rectified, which we 
find recorded in history, effected through the instru- 
mentality of Parliamentary rules? And that there was 
an existent wrong requiring active remedial measures, 
was, I think, sufficiently well pointed out in the letter 
from “ Veritas.” 

Again, in a Report of the Medical Dinner some 
false-jawed jack-daw has in a parrot-locutory style, de- 
monstration a double ignorance by charging me with 
having used a non-current geological term ; firstly, in 
attributing to a man of such personal merit as Sir 
William Dawson, so gross a breach of gentlemanly 
conduct as to laugh at a mistake, and secondly, in 
evidently being himself unacquainted with the terms 
employed. 

For though unpremeditated I fortunately remember 
the words used and they will speak for themselves — 

Eozoic, Paleozoic, Syenite and Diolite — 

The Gospel of Ananias I “ pass-over” as this scrip- 
tural character has only perpetuated his special faculty 
for departing from the truth. As for our “ Captious 
Critic,” it is at once apparent that he is less “captious” 
than factious and much more factious than he is in- 
telligent. Even my Report of a Case of Eczema read 
before the society, must needs be announced in the 
Gazette as Ecyema — but this of course was a mis-print. 
In conclusion, let me agree with the “flowery” corres- 
podent that a precedent has been established not as ho 
would have it — that justice is to be fenced in by such 
means as a parliamentary rule and slabs of Etiquette 
but that for the future, no faction however immaculate 
be its linen or how tinselled its crust shall ever over- 
ride the intelligence and common sense of McGill 
University. 

F. Harkin. 



THE 

$ai|itarium op ]Jome ]Jo^pifaJ, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,; 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical attendance. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to # 

qjs 3 tofrss- STRONG, 

15 TTa^I-^ersitsr Street, 

MONTREAL 



BUT YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

OOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HstterssndFurriers; 

232 Jfoire 33 err. £ Street . 



FUR COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGILL ” liibbon for Hnlc. 

. 2?Ite Hfcotmvcfc jpliivt gmpovium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 »t. .James Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OP 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery. Ties, Gloves, Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER -FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv't will Get xo p. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



-M< Central IDriag- Stored 
W, H. CHAPMAN, 

j-’HARMACEUTICAL P H E M 1ST, En G. , 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drug3 only used. 

COR. OR CRAIG &c BLETJRY STS. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS . 1 Bleury street. 

RKHEL3EU HiBIEL, 

I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques CartierSquare, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAI.. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL IS THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McGill COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO., 

-McflTUR 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St Catherine St., 

MOUTKEAL. 

Mc&ilt 

University Gazette, 

Published 1st and 15th of the Jflonth. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Tailors? 

jlljirl mtb Collar fUanufarlurors, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques. Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jSnrgirnl f|nslriniiBitls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTKD DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORDS 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpels. 

CBY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

678* AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



Subscription , - - - $ 1 . 00 . 



PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 



CT. UVEA-ZERIZECIN", 

Dresser and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
II02TTBEAL. 



Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Late of London, England, 



Fashionable Tailor, 



31 BEAUER HALL. 



THE 

|jiirlai|(l ^itl|o|raphic ( s ]o‘y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing * 

ALL K I IN D H 



K-d LARGE ASSORTMENT OF&w 



Engraving and Fine Printing. 



Scotch anil jVench 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed o n 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 




BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 

Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

Removable (ijollarg anil ^uff$ 

FOE. OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

Q00KS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

PROCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all tlieir sever;* 1 branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

special designs made for 

Menu Pards, Prests, /Wonograms, Business Pies 

S;c., $c., 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

| Embossed and Illuminated. 




