
r>i ir> 



: - 



TheMcGILL GAZETTE 



VOL. III. 



NOVEMBER 15th, lfc76. EXTRA NUMBER. 



THE FOUNDER’S FESTIVAL 



After the lapse of five years this greatest event of our 
session has been restored, and with even more than its 
tormer brightness and splendour, as the brilliant assembly of 
last Friday evening can testify. It was, without doubt, a 
success, owing to the indefatigable efforts of the Graduates' 
Society, to whom and the Committee of Management much 
praise is due for the truly able manner in which the proceed- 
ings were conducted. The evening was cloudy and threat- 
ened rain, but this darkness only increased the brilliancy of 
the display of Chinese lanterns on the trees, and the bright 
electric light which threw its rays far down the avenue. 
Arriving at the college, the gentlemen were ushered into 
class-room No. i, which, for the occasion, had been trans- 
formed into a dressing-room, while the faculty-room was made 
to do duty in the same capacity for the ladies. The students’ 
box-lobby had been partitioned off by a flag, bearing the 
totally irrelevant inscription, “ Missions.” We suppose that 
contributions had been levied from the various city Sunday- 
schools ; but, however that may be, it certainly served its 
purpose satisfactorily. 

Over the front door (on the inner side, of course), was 
,L Au revoir ,” to the left of it Gliick auf ,” and to the 
right “Welcome.” The walls all around were tastefully 
decorated with flowers and evergreens. The reading-room 
served as a small dining-room, and, being comparatively out 
of the way, was much frequented by students during the 
evening. 'The museum was found to be the resort of many 
young couples, who, finding it rather warm, generally made 
their way into the shell-room, there to enjoy the beauties of 
nature, and amuse themselves in other innocent ways. Pro- 
ceeding to the Molson Hall, we found the library full to 
overflowing. At the upper end of it was a well-loaded table, 
while at the other end, where there is usually a door, was 
another refreshment booth shrouded in flags and evergreens, 
the effect of which was simply magnificent. In some of the 
alcoves were microscopes, for which we have to thank Dr. 
Osier ; and many were the bevies of young folks, and old too, 
there congregated. We cannot forbear again mentioning the 
decorations. On all the tables were vases full of beautiful 
flowers, which, we believe, tie committee procured in Boston ; 
upstairs the pillars were twined round with evergreens, and 
wreaths were hanging everywhere. The platform had been 
raised about two feet for the evening’s performances. Speak- 
ing to one of the older graduates, he gave it as his opinion 
that this was one of the most successful gatherings of the 
kind he had ever witnessed ; and we can only hope that next 
year it will be equally, if not more successful. After our re- 
ception we passed into the hall, in which were assembled the 
cream of Montreal society. Here, there and everywhere, 
swept the gowns of our classmates, intermingled with brilliant 
hoods and elegant toilettes. In conversation, en promenade , 
listening to the music, hurrying to meet a partner, grouped 
and separate, all felt at every moment that the evening was a 
thoroughly enjoyable one. 

The evening’s proceedings opened with the customary 
oration from the President of the Graduates Society, Mr. 



R. A. Ramsay, B.A.. B.C.L. The speaker gave a short ac- 
count of the life of James McGill ; the progress of the Univer- 
sity and its present status He traced its history through the 
early legal and later financial troubles, ending in a few re- 
marks about the Graduates Society, and the extension of a 
hearty welcome to its guests, there present. 

The programme was quite varied. The members of the 
Glee Club show evidences of careful training, their time, phras- 
ing and expression in the various glees allotted to them being 
remarkably good. The club possesses some line bass voices; 
and in the quartette, “ Integer Vitae,” we think we discovered 
the germ of what, with cultivation, will prove a sweet, though 
not powerful, tenor. We hope, as the season advances, and 
each one becomes more accustomed to his work, to find a 
I general improvement in quality of tone. But where all 
candidates are accepted, and none refused, only time and 
diligent practice can accomplish this. 

We think we have scarcely heard a better amateur flautist 
than Mr Quinones ; he fingers his florid passages with 
extreme brilliancy and precision, and though at times just a 
trifle flat, he plays his adagios as though his instrument were 
a violin. Strangely enough most of the audience did not 
seem to pay the least attention to his performance, a slight 
which, though unmeant, could hardly fail to sting the sensi- 
tive part of his nature. We hope we may hear him again — 
—.nd also that beautiful carol, “ Good King WinctsUs - 

.he Club Concert, which, we understand, is to take place about 
February next. 

As regards the lady soloist of the evening, without being 
harsh, we regret to say that we are extremely disappointed ; 
and it is with a sigh we wonder when the “music loving’ 
\sic) population of Montreal will become a discriminating 
jne. Madame Vincent possesses a magnificent organ, but 
when she shall have placed herself under a severe course of 
instruction, and learnt that there are such simple things 
necessary to a vocalist as time, tune and execution, we shall 
be happy to hear her again. By a total disregard of her 
score and her accompanist (whom, though amateur, we 
ielieve to be a conscientious musician), and a miraculous 
^inversion of crotchets and the genus quaver into semibreves, 
Madame Vincent succeeded in proving to us the quality of 
iier voice, but not that it was Donizetti’s charming cavatina 
she was singing. Her rendering went better in the two 
ballads, bur even thereby hangs a drawback. Madame 
Vincent, before she can be heard with pleasure, must practice 
enunciation, and learn not to turn open it.dian vowels into 
deeper gutturals than even the German language can produce. 

“ Dame Durden,” the Glee Club’s last morceau , proved a 
decided success, encored as it was, over and over again, by 
the whole assembly. We would not forget to sound a note 
of commendation and thanks for the pleasant promenade 
music furnished by Herr Gruenwald’s orchestra. 

Not the least agreeable little episode was the reception of 
a large and beautiful bouquet during the performance of 
“ Winceslas.” Mr. Houghton analyzed it, and presented to 
each of the club members an elegant bud, without, by any 
means, exhausting its store of fragrance and color. 

During the intervals, the stream of pleasure frequently 
eddied off into the library, museum or reading room, filling 



io 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



the corners of those sober old places with echoes of silken 
rustle and gay chat. Spirits of Ichthyosauri ! Manes of 
osseous Mammoths ! seldom has your long sleep been broken 
by so pleasant an interruption. Did it not make you envy 
for once these later beings ? Did you not regret your 
Cenzoic existence ? We are sure you would gladly have 
resigned the dignity of ages for a single hour of human life. 
And you, O great, grave authors ! did you not stir on your 
shelves? Was Herodotus taking notes for a Tenth Book? 
Was Tacitus comparing the elder Teutons with their white- 
chokered descendants ? Was Macaulay re-loading his in- 
exhaustable memory ? We can fancy the grim chuckles of 
all three as they jotted down the manners and customs of 
the (soon-to-be) ancient Canadians. 

Pardon our reverie We return to consciousness, just in 
time to hear another glue, take a final promenade, and depart 
to the already crowding cloak-rooms, before the real crush is 
upon us. Good-bye. Honorable James! Farewell, William ! 
We sincerely wish you many happy returns of the day. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



The adjourned annual meeting of the above Society came 
ofi'on the evening of Thursday, November 9th. Some few 
weeks previous to this a few members had brought forward a 
motion of dissolution ; it was to have been again proposed at 
the animal meeting, but the feeling .against it was so strong 
that nothing was said about it. The best method of working 
the Society was discussed. The meetings are henceforward 
to be held only semi-monthly, two out of every three evenings 
to be devoted to the regular debate, and the third to be 
sin. ply an informal and somewhat social meeting to discuss 
any literary topic. The retiring President, Mr. D. Mac- 
Master, B.C.L., made a few appropriate remarks on the occa- 
sion, and we can only say that the Society ought to be deeply 
indebted to this gentleman for the noble way in which he has 
upheld it, steadily persevering against many and great diffi- 
culties. The officers for ’76-*77 are : — President, Mr. F. J. 
Keller, B.C L. ; 1st Vice-President, Mr. C. L. De Salaberry ; 
2nd Vice-President, Mr. R. D. YPGibbon ; Corresponding 
Secretary, Mr. A. M'Gowan, B.A. ; Recording Secretary, Mr. 
F. D. Monk ; Treasurer, Mr, H. H. Lyman, B.A. ; Coun- 
cillors, Messrs. D. MacMaster, B.O.L . M. Hutchinson, B.C.L., 
R. Huntington, B.A., H. T. Duffy, B.A. , R. Robertson and 
J. Ross. We wish to urge the claims of this Society upon the 
students, knowing, from our own experience, how much good 
can be derived from it; and as the meetings are to be fort- 
nightly, we are sure that everyone can easily attend without 
any inconvenience to himself. 



BASE BALL MATCH 



The match between the Saints and Sinners came off on the 
.morning of Saturday, October 28th, and w as won by the latter. 
The score was as follows (only five innings being played) : 

Medicals - -8 3 5 7 5 = 28 

Theologs. - - 4 3 1 1 4 = I S 

On the side of the Theologs, Bail lie, Boudreau and Cruchet 
played w ? ell ; and Scott, Kidd, Rutherford and J. Church, of 
the Medicals. Mr. Gibson acted as umpire, and Messrs. 
Klock and Baynes, as scorers, respectively for the Sinners and 
Saints. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



15th NOVEMBER, 1876. 





Editors for 


1876 - 77 . 


’ 77 * 


A. JAMIESON, B.A. 


'78, J. ROSS. 


’78. 


d. e. McLaren. 


’78, P. D. ROSS. 


79t 


\V. R. SUTHERLAND. 


*79, VV. I). LIGHTHALL. 






’79, G. H. GROVES, 


W. D. 


LIGHTHALL, Secy. 


W. R. SUTHERLAND, Treat. 


. 



Having started with the intention of making the Gazette 
subservient, as far as possible, to College interests, to carry 
out this plan, we have thought proper to issue an extra, 
reporting the numerous events of importance that have occur- 
red within the last two weeks. To report these in our 
December number would be preposterous, and would, besides, 
crowd out a quantity of other and more interesting reading 
matter. Learning by the expeiience of our predecessors, we 
have made our paper this year a monthly, and we hope that 
this sheet will be but a foretaste of better things, as we intend 
publishing one or tw'o full semi monthly numbers after Christ- 
mas; to enable us to do which, we look for the hearty 
support of the students. 

As will be seen, there is a blank in our Editorial Staff, 
owing to Mr. ITemvood’s bereavement, which has compelled 
him to resign this position. We are sure all the students who 
were acquainted with Mr. Henwood will, with us, extend him 
their sympathy. We hope, however, to see him back again 
next year, and w ? e can assure him a hearty welcome. 



Errata. — Some of the seemingly unavoidable typographi- 
cal eirors in our last issue were so ludicrous (not to say 
nonsensical) that w'e feel compelled to make the necessary 
corrections For “professional” (in the third editorial), read 
“professorial.” In the account of the spoits, for ‘‘yards” 
(kicking the football), read “feet;” for “ 35J” seconds (mile 
race), read “ 53J ;” and for ‘*15” seconds (quarter mile), 
read “ 2 ” seconds. 



A doctor being called to see a lady patient the other day, 
told her she needed rest. “ But, Doctor.” said she, “ look at 
my tongue.” “Oh ! that needs rest too,” he replied. 

;< T am afraid you’ll come to want,” said an old lady to a 
young gentleman. “ I have come to want already,” was the 
reply ; “ I want your daughter.” The old lady opened her 
eyes. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



1 1 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

To the Editors of McGill Gazette. 

Gentlemen, — We have every reason to congratulate our- 
selves on the great success of our athletic sports. They 
would, as Dr. Dawson justly remarked, throw credit on any 
University. But I think it would sound better in the ears of 
your readers if the error made in your last issue as regards 
the time of the championship race were corrected in your 
next We all left the grounds with feelings of enjoyment and 
pleasure, unalloyed by but one unpleasant thought, and that 
was the injustice done to H. O’Heir in debarring him from 
the prize which he so fairly won. If he were ineligible to 
compete for any of the prizes, was it not the duty of the com- 
mittee to find this out before he entered his name? Was it 
fair to allow him to compete, and then withhold from him the 
prize ? I have been informed through your columns that the 
Gazette is intended to be a means of righting any grievance 
that may arise, and under this conviction I have been bold 
enough to express what I believe to be the general opinion 
of the students, hoping that every reader, concerned or un- 
concerned, will take it only in the light intended by the writer, 

An Undergraduate. 

[In reference to the above, we may state that, not being 
fully conversant with the reasons that led the management to 
exclude Mr. O’Heir, we shall leave it to any of the committee 
to explain through our columns, which we have no doubt they 
will be able to do to the satisfaction of all. We had already 
intended correcting the mistakes in our account of the sports. 
— [Eds. McG. G.] 



THE FOOT-BALL MATCHES. 



On the 28th of October, ‘ Canada’ and * Harvard’ faced each 
other on the foot ball field for the second time. The ma'ch 
was expected to be well contested, and although the Canadian 
team was not so strong as it might have been, (owing to 
Hamilton’s failure in sending its quota) yet it was thought to 
be more than a match for Harvard : which turned out to 
be a miserable delusion. The ball was kicked off at 
three o’clock, and in a few minutes came down to the Canadian 
goals, where it remained during almost the whole first half of 
the game. The Harvard men were well captained, knew their 
positions and always played together ; ours went half-a-dozen 
strong into the scrimmages to shove against one opponent ; 
followed up the ball leisurely, and captained themselves. 

Still though overmatched as a team, their individual play 
was very good; Perram worked like a hero, and was well 
backed by Molson, Scriver and one of the London men 
Their efforts were, nevertheless, in vain ; about fifteen minutes 
after play began, Seamans sent the ball flying through goals 
like a rocket. During the remainder of the first three-quarters 
of an hour. ‘ Harvard ’ had altogether the best of it, taking 
another goal (kicked by Whiting) and a touch down, besides 
rouges. 

The last half time the Canadians seemed to be better 
acquainted with each other, and played a far stronger game. 
The tackling was sharp, and did not afford much scope for 
good runs, but Perram for Canada, and Herrick for the visitors, 
made some spirited dashes, and were heartily cheered by the 
numerous spectators. During the rest of the day, ‘ Canada ’ 



tried in vain to retrieve her fallen fortunes but when her men 
left the field, it was with the consciousness of having been 
well beaten. 

The victors were entertained the same evening at the 
Carlton, but the gathering broke up somewhat early, as the 
1 Harvards’ were engaged to play 4 McGill ’ on Monday, and 
some of the Ontario men had to return at once. 

It is a much pleasanter duty to record the 4 McGill ’ vs, 
4 Harvard’ match of the following Monday. Those who knew 
that the McGill Club had but thirty five members (half of them 
Freshmen), that there had been little or no practice during 
the previous fortnight, and that only three of its men had been 
placed on the ‘ All Canada’ team, were loud in deprecating the 
folly of playing one which had so lately beaten the fifteen 
best (?) players of Canada. Our men were themselves some- 
what nervous over the prospect, wondering how many goals 
4 Harvard’ would take, and whether they might not get dis- 
gusted before the match was over, and leave without playing 
it out. 

Before the ball was placed, a race came off between Messrs. 
Herrick of Cambridge, and Summerhayes of Montreal. 
Herrick had a two yards start, but did not seem to need it. for 
in the first heat he came in more than that distance ahead of 
his opponent. In the second, Summerhayes made an excellent 
start, and at about half-way to the winning post, they were 
running even, when suddenly Herrick fell out, and it was 
found that he had badly injured his leg ; the race was thus 
left to Summerhayes, who ran the last heat alone. Phis 
unfortunate accident debarred Herrick from playing in the 
match, and Mr. Russell, accordingly, took his place. 

At a quarter-past eleven play began, and to the surprise of 
most on the ground, the ball did not seem to have any parti- 
cular liking for the McGill goals. The play grew warm about 
the middle of the field, and the fine tackling of our players, 
which had been noticed in the ‘ Town and Gown ’ match, was 
even better here ; a man could hardly touch the ball but half- 
a-dozen were on him at once. All the McGill men forward 
played most pluckily, McGibbon, J. F. Scriver and Foster, 
deserving special notice ; among the backs. Rogers, Nelson 
and Taylor, played very well. About ten minutes after the 
ball had been kicked off, a foul throw from touch gave the 
Harvards a chance and they rushed it down the field ; Nelson 
touched it down behind goals, but the 4 Harvards’ claimed it. 
The matter was referred to the umpires, who decided in favor 
of ’ McGill the ball was then run out and sent well up the 
field, and both sides were soon hard at work again, when an 
untoward event happened which threatened to put an end to 
the match. Whiting, the 4 Harvard ’ c ipiain. a very heavy man, 
get hold of the. ball, and after passing two or three of his 
opponents, was tackled by A. D. Taylor ; he slipped at the 
same moment and fell heavily, breaking the fibula about an 
inch above the ankle. Dr Campbell, who happened to be 
on the grounds, did ail that was possible for him under the 
circumstances. This checked the play for a while, but it was 
decided to proceed with the game, 4 McGill ’ offering to put off 
one of her men, but * Harvard ’ would not hear of it, and lost 
nothing by her generosity. During the remainder of the first 
half-time no advantage was gained by either side, and time 
was called leaving 1 McGill ’ ahead, with three touges against 
two for 4 Harvard :’ in the same time, the proceeding Saturday, 
‘AH Canada’ had lost two games, one touch and several rouges . 

Play again commenced, no longer finding the 4 McGill ’ men 
4 ‘ shaking in their shoes.” but elated with the successful stand 
they had made, and resolved to do their best to secure at least 
a draw ; they could hope to do little more, as it had been 
arranged by the captains before the match, that the decision 
would depend only on the number of goals taken. For some 



12 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



time the game was even, but a spirited effort by ‘ Harvard’ 
drove our men up the field ; then commenced a favorite dodge 
among the visitors, viz., picking up the ball, and passing it 
back among themselves until one of them had a chance for 
a drop at goals. This was only too successful; Seamans 
caught it, and in another moment sent it sailing through the 
air thirty feet above our bar : thus a game was scored for 
* Harvard.’ the only decisive advantage secured by either side 
during the whole match. Never mind ! — 

“ What though the field be lost, 

“ All is not lost * the unconquerable will 
******* 

“ And courage never to submit or yield, 

“ And what is else not to be overcome.” 

Next year we hope to send a team to Cambridge, and if it 
trains faithfully and we manage to get more of our students 
interested in foot-ball, we may be able to make ‘ Harvard ’ work 
harder for victory than she has done for years past. Such 
a defeat as we have just sustained is an earnest of future 
success. Before this match our Bostonian foes had beaten us 
twice, by two goals each time ; 1 Montreal ’ once, by two goals ; 

4 All-Canada,’ first by one goal, then by two. The game we 
have just played is a curious instance of what discipline and 
mutual reliance will accomplish, contrasted with the efforts of i annual festivity, 
a mere aggregation of good players. For £ McGill,’ besides! Succeeding thi 



MEDICAL FOOTING SUPPER. 



The evening of Friday, October 27th, was the time ap- 
pointed for the annual footing dinner of the Sinners ” (as 
the medical students are termed by our facetious brothers, 
the students in Arts, in contradistinction to the students of 
Theology, whom they denominate “ Saints 4 ’), and the manner 
in which they responded to the invitations of the committee 
premised that the dinner would be a success (as it was) so 
far as numbers were concerned. 

The menu well sustained the wide spread reputation of 
Host Martin ; and at nine o’clock the chair was taken and 
ably filled by A. C. Fraser, ’77. After the various viands 
had been discussed, and cigars comfortably lighted, the toasts 
of the evening commenced 

The first was, of course, “ The Queen,” followed by the 
National Anthem, heartily sung by all. The next was 
“ Alma Mater.” as a response to which the Chairman sang 
the well known song of that name. 

The toast of “ Dean and Professois” met with the enthu- 
siasm that it always elicits, showing the lvgh esteem in which 
they are held by the undergraduates, who, at the same time, 
regret that they cannot be induced to participate in this 



0 this came “ The Montreal General Hospital 
the men above-named, L. Campbell played well, and Robertson, | and Dr. Cameron, on rising to respond, was received with 
as captain, did his duty thoroughly in spite of grumblings from T1 

players discontented with their positions. 

After the game, both teams and a good many of their friends 
met at the Carlton for lunch, in accordance with an invita- 
tion of the McGill Club. As it was two o’clock before they sat 
down and many of the strangers left by the three o’clock train, 
there did not appear to be much time for enjoyment. How’ 



three times three. He spoke of the Hospital as being “ open 
to all creeds and stations, and that all received the same 
attention and care ; that all the officers of the Hospital were 
ever ready, willing, and only too happy to assist the students 
in the prosecution of their arduous duties.” 

“Our Sister Universities” was ably handled in a purely 
I I _ | original manner by a strong advocate of the temperance cause 

ever seven or eight of the ‘ Harvards ’ decided" to stop over tiil j from Mrwburnville, and in which he was seconded by the 
luesday ; and those of ourselves who had gone to see the : pride of the 



others off, soon returned. Unfortunately The heat of the 
morning’s sun had somewhat effected our sporting editor, and 
although he has dim memories of various toasts, he finds it 
impossible to commit his reminiscences to paper in an intel- 
ligible form. Our general manager also attended, but got 
into a veiy interesting political discussion with a gentleman 
from Harvard, and took no notice of surrounding events, 
particularly as the lunch was very quiet. 



UNIVERSITY LECTURE. 



Thursday last, 
a truly prolific 



This, our Annual Lecture, was delivered on 
November 9th, by Dr. Dawson. The subject, 
one, viz., “ Student Life in Canada,” was well handled, and 
showed evidence of much thought and careful preparation. 
Although the lectuie can hardly be said to have partaken of 



pride of the Sophomores, who said that he here felt it incum- 
bent upon him to. remark “that any man who did not attend 
the footing dinner was unfit to go forth into the battle of life.” 

The toast of “ Sister Faculties” was responded to by one 
who, no doubt, from his flow of eloquence, will be a bright 
meteor in the legal firmament. 

“The Ladies” found a noble champion in Mr. Lane, and 
we feel sure that if he manifests the same zeal in his future 
career with which he espoused the toast entrusted to his care, 
he need have no apprehension as to his success in the wide 
field of labor. 

“Our Next Merry Meeting” brought to his feet Mr. 
McEvenue, who with a few well-chosen remarks depicted the 
pleasures to be anticipated at the next merry meeting, and said 
' that during his collegiate career he would always strive to see 
maintained the old and time-honoured footing dinner. 

Me cannot close without thanking the gentlemen of the 
city press, Messrs. King and Mills, for contributing so much 



. ~ . / - ui to the success of the evening’s mirth, and would also hint to 

a University character, inasmuch as it referred mainly to Arts j Glee Club that, judging from Messrs. Brown and ‘ uther- 
students, yet we feel sure that our numerous Medical friends I lancl ’ s duett > these gentlemen should be offered large induce- 
who attended must have derived much benefit from it, the j ments to join that select few. 

principles djscussed being of a very widely extended nature, j ^ Ir * Quinones deserves the hearty thanks of all for the flute 



Our limited space prevents us giving an extended report. 



It is reported that Cook, the medical janitor, had a strange 
and mysterious dream the other night. He dreamt of a fast- 
flowing stream, adown which were floating innumerable 
subjects, so thick and fast that he could scarcely haul them, 
in. Prices were ranging from 5 to 25 cts. per extremity. But, •’ 
alas ! he awoke and found it was a dream. 



solo he so kindly favored the company with ; it is needless to 
| fay tlla t he was heartily applauded and encored. The meet- 
ing broke up at a late hour, all being highly pleased with the 
1 success of the evening’s entertainment. 



Harvard 



EXCHANGES. 

Cornell Eeview, Cornell Era, q'ufi’j 



. Advocate, Cornell A, view, Cornell Era, Tuft’s Colleian . 
Cen t ral Collegian, Dartmouth, Queen’s College Journal, Omaha UUk 
School, Ontario Journal oj Education , Harvard Lampoon, 



