Vol. X 



No. 3 




Printed by the Borland Lith. Co., Montreal. 









UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF LTIEW YORK 
ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly - $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New tort is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the test record, 

ACENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

1762 ISTOTTR.IB STREET, 



MOITTHE^L. 



WEDDING CARDS, 



VISITING CARDS, 



MENU CARDS, 



RECEPTION CARDS, 
INVITATION CARDS. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 «fc 9 Bleury St., MONTREAL.. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

iam: c hemical apparatus. 

® fSill Btodk dop£tkritly op ftkpd, Imported 
f)irtdt ffoip tl\e leading JVI'apufkdturt^d 
of tl)e Wortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



TSfcM, 8 @SS & I 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT AMES ST. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

•*■»*•»****■»*» 

t Photographers 

* * * * * * * * * * M * * * * * * * * * 

Beale of Trices this year 
for Bindenzs. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



JtlEUICAL WORKS, ROOKS USEJI /JV ART COURSE, 
SCIEJX'CE TEXT HOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS . 

Foil assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 

-•-MB ZEST VALUE LLT TOWTSTi— *- 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Ta.m3.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. x.] McGill college, Montreal, November it™, i886. [No. 3. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John II. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CO N TE NTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 31-32 

Poetry 32, 34, 37, 38 

Contributions 32-38 

McGill News 39 

Societies 39-40 

Sporting 40-41 

Personals 41 

Between the Lectures 42 

College World - 42 

Obituaries 43 

Correspondence 43-44 



Editorials. 



We direct the attention of all contributors and cor- 
respondents of the University Gazette, to the notice 
that all matter intended for publication must be 
accompained by the name of the author. In future 
this rule will be strictly adhered to. We would urge 
upon our friends to send in their contributions as 
early as possible, so that the publication may not be 
delayed. 



THE PROPOSED UNIVERSITY UNION. 

A movement has lately been set going by the Com- 
mittee of the Graduates’ Society for the formation of 
a University Union which shall include all those 
societies which express a desire to join, and which con- 
form to the rules laid down. At the annual meeting 
of the Graduates’ Society last spring, the matter was 
broached and the meeting adjourned, in order to give 
an opportunity for some scheme of the kind being 
carried out. A sub-committee lately appointed by 
the executive of the Graduates’ Society, prepared a con- 
stitution which was read at the annual meeting of the 
Literary Society a week or so ago, and that meeting 
also adjourned, with the same purpose as the annual 
meeting of the Graduates’ Society. The object of the 
proposed Union is to allow of graduates paying one 
subscription for the several societies, instead of being 
bothered, as at present, by half a dozen honorary 
treasurers soliciting as many different subscriptions. 
Since the formation of the Club, it has been felt that 
there are too many University societies for such a 
small number of graduates as there are in the city, and 
it was the wish to lessen this evil which led the 
Graduates’ Society to take the matter in hand. It is 
rather doubtful, however, whether this movement will 
be successful, because it seems to aggravate tbe evil 
which it is intended to remedy. It is felt that in 
forming a Union of this kind, we shall be practically 
creating a new additional society. It is also thought 
in some quarters that the Club would be giving more 
by joining the Union than it would gain. We do not 
ourselves agree with this view ; but perhaps it might 
be just as well to wait until next year, when we shall 
know whether the Club is going to be the success that 
we all hope. 

Our own opinion is, that the object in view might 
perhaps be just as well attained by a complete amal- 
gamation of the Club and the Graduates’ Society, if 
the constitution of the latter could be amended so as 
to include all the members of the former. This would 
reduce the number of societies by one, and would 
strengthen the Club. This plan, too, however involves 
difficulties, and it will require much thought and 
judgment before any practical scheme can be evolved. 
Still, when all are so desirous of effecting the same 
commendable object, it cannot be but that some method 
will soon be arrived at satisfactory to all concerned. 



32 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

Last year this paper urged upon the graduates of 
the University, upon the University authorities and 
upon all friends of the Faculty of Law, the necessity 
there was of placing it in such a position as would enable 
it to perform its work more efficiently. Qur appeal 
has not been altogether in vain. The professors 
promptly responded to the call, saw the force of our 
position and did what they could to remedy defects. 
But, unfortunately, what they could do was hut little. 
They have made a change in the course of lectures, 
a change decidedly for the better. The change made 
in the hours for lectures may be an improvement on 
last year, but is so slight that we see little in it to 
congratulate ourselves upon. The reason assigned for 
not having some of the lectures delivered in the morn- 
ing was not such as a strong faculty would consider 
for a moment, in fact was not such as would lead us to 
hope that the Faculty looked forward with any very 
bright hopes to better days. We must confess to some 
disappointment ; we had hoped for more decided 
changes, after listening to the speech of Prof. Archi- 
bald at the Law dinner last year. But the professors 
are not to blame ; they have, almost without exception, 
examined our complaints with a candour both praise- 
worthy and encouraging, and have endeavoured, so 
far as they had the power, to improve the condition 
of the school. 

The great want is that of money. The other Facul- 
ties of the University have found liberal benefactors ; 
this one none. Surely our people cannot be alive to 
the importance of this school. 

We look to the Graduates’ Society to continue their 
exertions in behalf of the Faculty of Law. We be- 
lieve that, as a result of an energetic and a persistent 
effoit on the part of that Society, funds may be raised 
for the endowment of Chairs in this Faculty, which 
will enable the able body of men who are now on its 
Piofessorial staff to devote more time to their teaching 
duties, to lengthen the session, to put a well-equipped 
library within the reach of the students, and to pro- 
vide a suitable building for the lectures. The recent 
change in the regulations of the Bar regarding admis- 
sion to practice, in themselves demand a longer course 
of lectures, if the degree in Law in McGill is to be of 
any service to future candidates. But a higher motive 
than this even, should spur us to exert ourselves. The 
school is, as it now exists, no credit to the University ; 
it will not bear comparison with the other Faculties. ’ 

. T ^ ere are man y graduates in the city now practis- 
ing Law, who owe much to this school. That they 
are ungrateful we do not believe ; that they hold its 
future as of little importance is not conceivable. How 



much money can be raised from among these men, 
and can no sympathy be enlisted outside them 1 
We look to the Graduates’ Society to keep this mat- 
ter before the public until success shall reward their 
exertions. 

Contributions. 



A SIMILE. 

( From V. Hugo's “ Let Rayons et les Ombres,") 

As in the stagnant waters of a moat, 

So in man’s soul two aspects we may note : 

The sky, that flecks the surface, as we gaze, 

With all its shadows, and with all its rays. 

And, next, the depth — dark, silent, and unclean — 
Where hideous reptiles cluster, dimly seen 1 

Geo. Murray. 



a McGill man. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. III. 

“ There are living human faces which, independently of mere 
physical beauty, charm and enthral us more than the most per- 
fect lineaments which Greek sculptor ever lent to a marble face ; 
there are key-notes in the thrilling human voice, simply uttered,’ 
which can haunt the heart, rouse the passions, lull rampant 
multitudes, shake into dust the thrones of guarded kings, and 
effect more wonders than ever yet have been wrought by the 
most artful chorus or the deftest quill.” 



as we were warning one aiternoon on Sherbrooke 
street, enjoying the beautifully clear autumn weather 
and viewing the people in their carriages, Blake sud- 
denly asked me, “ Do you know who that young lady 
is who has just driven past 1 ” He might a° well 
have asked the lamp-post as me for information about 
any young lady in Montreal ; still, I gazed in the 
direction indicated, and recognized a young lady 
whom, in our walks, we had frequently met, drivin" 
a pair of fine-looking horses. “ I don’t know who it 
is,” I replied, and forthwith dismissed the subject 
from my mind. On several subsequent occasions 
Clooney expressed his desire of knowing who the 
young lady was, but I thought nothing of it, and 
credited his exclamations to mere idle curiosity. I 
noticed about this time that my friend began to be 
more thoughtful, and as we sat of evenings readin" I 
frequently observed him sitting with his hand under 
Ins chin and a far-away look on his face, as if he 
weie inking of a lost friend, or some person as far 
awny, at lenst, as Nova Scotia. By an evident effort 
of will he would brace himself again to work, and 
lenew the attack on the algebraic difficulty or the 
puzzling Latin author which he might have before 
nm. He was beginning to feel lonely, although he 
had certainly enough friends amongst the fellows at 
college, and was quite gay and full of fun when' any 
them came up to our rooms. Brown, amongst 

w fi h nt/ en ° a n 6 t0 See him ’ and on Sundays 
we used generally to call at his place and all 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



33 



three of us take a walk round the mountain. To 
be obliged to spend Sunday in a boarding-house, 
especially in the City of Montreal, is about the 
most miserable thing which can be imagined. I am 
a kind of fellow who never makes friends, and 
can get along pretty well without them. At that 
time I knew no one, I may say, in Montreal, and 
consequently did not receive invitations to dinner or 
tea on Sundays, as a great many other men did. 
Neither did Blake know anyone, so that we spent 
Sunday together. I made a rule of rising between 
eleven and twelve, and very often went without my 
breakfast lest I should have no appetite for my din- 
ner, which came on punctually at one. Blake religi- 
ously went to church morning and evening, as all 
respectable and well-brought-up youths should. I 
went in the evening, as a rule, more because it was a 
change of scene, and helped to pass away the time, 
than for any other reason. Like a certain famous 
lawyer, “ I belonged to no church, but was an honor- 
ary member of them all.” Sunday was the great day 
with us for reading novels and writing letters, and 
also for paying and reciving calls. I am afraid the 
respectable reader who spends his Sunday in the 
bosom of his happy family, will be very much shocked 
at this confession. He thinks, probably, that this 
was a terrible way of spending the first day of the 
week. He will be more shocked to know that stu- 
dents have even been known to play cards on Sun- 
day, and worse still, to play for money. Some, of 
course, attend Sunday school, and some take part in 
religious exercises at the Young Men’s Christian 
Association, but the great majority do nothing of the 
kind. When I get a wife and a comfortable house I 
intend to inaugurate a new mission in Montreal. 
There are at present missions of all kinds for girls ; 
there is the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Servant Girls, there is the Ybung Women’s Associa- 
tion, there is the W. C. Temperance Union, there are 
evening schools where dancing and cookery are 
taught, there are homes and refuges of all sorts super- 
intended by good and kind people. I think it is 
now time that some attention were given to the young 
men of the city, and I accordingly propose to found 
an association for asking students who are strangers 
in the city out to dine on Sundays, and, in fact, for 
doing the good Samaritan to them generally. How 
even I should have appreciated in those days an invi- 
tation to dinner on Sundays and a walk with the 
young ladies in the afternoon. It wasn’t that Mrs. 
Slitherum didn’t feed us well enough, but it was just 
that it would have done one good to partake for one 
day in the week of the feeling of being in a home. 

I said that I noticed that Blake was beginning to 
feel lonely, and so he was. Especially of a Sunday 
afternoon, as the shadows deepened, and the stillness 
of the day of rest increased, his heart longed with an 
inexpressible want ; he became subject to day-dreams, 
and 1 have even seen his eyes suffused with tears. I 
rallied him as much as possible, and had great fear 
that he was in for a fit of sickness. And sure enough 
he was, although it was only love sickness — he was 
in a state of predisposition to that fatal malady. He 
was not then in love, but he was on the very verge 



of that state, gradually sinking, as it were, into the 
pond. I have a theory that the fact of one’s falling 
in love depends little or nothing upon the object who 
is supposed to give rise to the sacred passion ; I be- 
lieve it depends to the greatest extent upon the con- 
dition in which the subject happens to be at the par- 
ticular epoch, and, though one is more naturally 
attracted towards a young and handsome or pretty 
person than towards an old and decrepit one, still, if 
the former were not present, I have not the slightest 
doubt but that we should be equally infatuated with 
the latter. Well, then, I consider that Blake’s mental 
and physical system was at that period in a state pre- 
disposed to love, and that was the reason that he was 
thus smitten down at such an early age. I first found 
the secret out one evening that Brown, himself, and 
myself were at a concert together in the Queen’s Hall. 
Shortly after we were seated a young lady, accom 
panied by an elderly person, evidently her mother, 
entered and took her seat immediately behind us. 
Blake did not seem to notice them particularly when 
they came in, but after a short time the young lady 
said something to her mother, and when he heard her 
voice he blushed slightly and gave a perceptible start. 
This made me suspicious, and by a little manoeuvering 
I looked behind to see if I knew who the people were, 
when I recognized our friend who drove the nice 
horses, and who had excited Clooney’s curiosity on 
Sherbrooke street. Leaning over, 1 whispered in 
Brown’s ear, and asked him if he knew who they 
were, and he told me that it was Mrs. Mayflower and 
her daughter, Miss Edith Josephine Mayflower. That 
night, when we went home, I chaffed Blake about the 
young lady, and he there and then confessed to me 
that he was in love with her, and would give worlds 
to have an introduction. He had never spoken to 
her, and had never heard her speak until that even- 
ing, when her voice seemed to send a thrill of plea- 
sure through his veins and to overpower his whole 
nature. He told me that when she came into the 
hall that evening he had not noticed her, but that the 
minute she spoke he knew she was there, although he 
had never heard her voice before. This was some- 
what of an hallucination on his part, I feel sure, 
although he sticks persistently to his statement. I 
told him the young lady’s name, and gave him some 
sound advice about sticking to his work and not mind- 
ing the girls, because I knew that nothing would 
prove so ruinous to his career at college as a love 
affair. To read for honours in mathematics and at 
the same time be over head and ears in love is, per- 
haps, the most impossible task which any young man 
could have cut out for him. The society man never 
was and never will be a success at college. Blake 
took my warning in good part, but I imagine the only 
effect it had was to make him a little more reticent 
with me about his feelings. 

We had now settled down to work, and were even 
beginning to think a little about the Christmas exami- 
nations. The Sports day had come and gone, and all 
the fellows were sticking closer to their books. 
Neither of us had taken any part in the Sports, but 
Cutler, a medical, who boarded in the same house, 
had, and I blessed him for it. He took it into his 



34 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



head to train for the walking match, and every morn- 
in", for three weeks or a month, I could hear him in 
his room, at about half-past five, going through gym- 
nastic exercises of a very vigorous kind before going 
out for his usual turn on the college grounds. I 
could hear, “one, two, three,” thump, “four, five, 
six,” thump, as he imitated Barnjum with the bar- 
bells or the clubs. I really think he would have won 
the race had he not gone in for refusing different 
kinds of food for about a week beforehand. The 
consequence of his abstinence was that he nearly 
fainted on the field, and narrowly escaped a con- 
sumption. 

For many years it has been the custom for the 
students to attend the Academy on the evening of the 
Sports, and to have a procession through the streets 
afterwards, singing and extinguishing lamps, and 
annoying the police generally. There are some who 
decry this custom, and heap abuse upon the students 
for being young and having some fun in them. Staid 
old citizens think such performances disgraceful and 
ungentlemanly, and so on ; they naturally dislike to 
be awakened by discordant noises under their win- 
dows ; they forget the time when they were young 
themselves, and perhaps it is just as well that they 
do. I do not wish to be thought an upholder of un 
gentlemanly conduct, even though the accused be 
students, but I like to see students with some student 
life among them. When I was at college I always 
took part in these proceedings, and I seldom saw an 
ungentlemanly act performed. I know some of the 
papers delighted to make editorial comments in the 
homily style on our conduct, and one vinegar-visaged 
reporter in especial was wont to freely give vent to his 
splenetic displeasure at seeing anyone daring to be 
cheerful, by exaggerating our misdeeds and calling us 
in effect cads. Of late years some things have been 
done which ought not to have been done, but there 
is no denying that the papers have been too ready to 
make mountains out of mole-hills. 

That year the chief feature of the proceedings was 
a grand serenade which we made on one of the young 
ladys’ boarding-schools in the vicinity of Sherbrooke 
street. As we were marching up Bleury street we 
passed a house which was being repaired, and seeing 
a ladder leaning against the wall, Blake, myself, and 
some others took it into our heads that it might prove 
useful to us later on, and we accordingly carried it 
with us on our way rejoicing. On arriving at Mrs. 
Snorter’s boarding-school we placed the ladder in 
position, and prevailed on Cutler, who had a horn 
with him and was making an infernal noise, to mount 
to a window which we surmised to belong to the 
young ladys’ sleeping apartments. The minute Cut- 
ler put his foot on the window sill we removed the 
ladder for the sake of mischief, and he was left hold- 
ing on by the window. He gently lowered the win- 
dow, which happened to be unclosed, and, inserting 
his horn, gave a blast diabolical enough to have raised 
half the dead on the other side of the mountain. 
Shrieks and stampeding were heard inside, and Cut- 
ler turned to implore us to put up the ladder and let 
him down, but by this time a policeman was seen 
approaching, and we took our departure, taking care, 



however, to carry the ladder with us. We had not 
forgotten his early-morning exercises over oui heads, 
and the disturbance to our sleep which he caused, and 
we were determined to have some revenge. 

(To be continued .) 



AN ALLEGORY. 



A torrent from the rugged hills 
Came bounding to the plains below, 
a rtri shook his white arms at the mills, 



Mad were his f reaks. Like frightened chase, 
Down many a lonely glen he sprung, 

And o’er a great cliff’s swarthy face, 

A fluttering silver curtain hung. 



He thundered on a thousand crags 
And gnawed the banks his tide that hemmed. 
Or, creeping, scarcely stirred the flags, 

ur:*U 1 cs enmhrA nnols WfiTfi ffemmecl. 



He murmured even in the plain, 

And, wasting strength where er he passed, 

Seemed fated that he should remain 
A mountain torrent to the last. 

But soon he met a crystal brook. 

Slow winding through a lovely glade, 

With many a romantic nook 
Beneath the maples’ dancing shade. 

Throughout a rolling plain it wound, 

And made a garden of a waste. 

And all who drank its waters found 
Them cool and grateful to the taste. 

Checked was the torrent’s reckless course, 

And. widening out, both silently 
Flowed onward, with majestic force, 

A mighty river, to the sea. 

Arthur Weir. 



MENTAL SLAVERY AND MENTAL FREEDOM. 

I. 

Mental Slavery — the words are a fearful combina- 
tion. Freedom has been bunted through the world, 
and is ever exposed to insult and injury. It has been 
crushed by conquest ; frowned from courts ; expelled 
from colleges ; scorned out of society ; flogged in 
schools; and anathematised in churches. Mind is 
her last asylum; and if freedom quail there, what 
becomes of the hope of the world, or the worth of 
human nature? 

The association of “mind” with “liberty” may 
almost be called natural or instinctive ; the one term 
suggests the other. To think of mind is to think of 
freedom ; it occurs as readily as in connection with 
whatever in nature is most expansive and universal. 
We use the phrase “free as the mind” in the same 
way as we speak of being “ free as the air.” And 
the analogy holds beyond that first association ; for 
both air and water may stagnate, and, instead of be- 
coming elements of life and enjoyment, be rendered 
sources of disease, pestilence, and death ; but even 
these are only feeble types of the miseries which 
result from a stagnation of thought, and the evils 
inflicted on society when its mind is subject to the 
curse of slavery. So intimate is this connection, that 
even the philosophical doctrine which traces the laws 
of mind and of thought — for they, like all existences, 
have laws by which their powers are developed and 
their results produced — even that has been prejudiced 



1886.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



35 



by the unhappy choice of such a term as “ philoso- 
phical necessity,” there being a recoil from the appli- 
cation of the word “ necessity” to such an operation 
as that of thought; a disposition to assert freedom 
even in a sense incompatible with the existence of 
law and the harmonious connection of cause and 
effect. 

This instinctive attachment to the union of ment- 
ality with liberty is warranted by experience. No- 
thing can be done for a people who are mentally 
enslaved. The wisest and most liberal institutions 
may be established by some great legislator, but the 
grovelling spirit of the people will take away all the 
power of such institutions, perverting and bringing 
them down to their own sordidness. You may con- 
quer freedom for such a country from external force ; 
but even when the invader has been resisted, or when, 
by some Brutus or Cassius, the tyrant has been struck 
down to the earth, the innate slavery will be found 
too much for the external emancipation ; still will 
chains be sought and worn, nor is there any hope of 
redemption for a nation, or prospect of progress for 
the world, except as intellect can be aroused to assert 
its own dignity, claim its rightful province of investi- 
gation, and pursue its career of independent exami- 
nation and individual conclusion. 

There are various states which alike belong to this 
general description of “ mental slavery.” It exists 
wherever any topic of thought is, what they call in 
Tahiti, “ tabooed , ” a phrase which, attention drawn 
towards that distant region, has rendered not un- 
familiar. Certain ruling classes in society have placed 
a religious restriction around particular objects of 
thought ; they have warned the popular mind from 
off these regions, in order that they might the more 
effectually subdue it into subserviency to their own 
dictates. Whoever submits to be debarred from the 
investigation of any object of human interest, thereby 
confesses himself a slave — a mental slave. So also is 
that large class of people who, in a country like this, 
divided into parties, are so often found playing the 
game of “ Follow my leader ” — men who look not at 
principles, but persons ; pinning their faith upon 
the sleeve of some one individual who has managed 
to ingratiate himself with them ; who denounce what 
he denounces, and praise what he praises ; who look 
to him as a kind of fugleman, by whom it must be 
determined whether they shall shout or remain silent, 
whether they shall clamour for this or for that ; who 
investigate not the principles upon which measures 
are founded, or the results to which they may lead, 
but who think it enough that the master has said that 
such measures must be adopted, thus making them- 
selves his “ tools ” in the very worst sense of that 
word — following him wherever he may choose to lead, 
and elevating him upon their shoulders, it may be 
into the possession of an authority, from which, when 
attained, he will look down with scorn upon those 
who have placed him there, becoming a far greater 
tyrant than those whom they have enabled him to 
supersede and displace. 

Nor is this the only way in which the mind is 
debased, and the human spirit degraded. Not only 
the tools themselves, but the tool-user, is often caught 



in this net; for as he consulted their prejudices to 
gain his influence, so must he continue to study them 
in order to maintain his ascendancy. If they dare 
not say their souls are their own, so he in his turn is 
reduced to have them become, as it were, his soul, so 
long as he requires their aid. He has to look closely 
to his words, lest he offend them ; he is obliged to 
think what will please them, rather than what is true, 
just, and right in itself. He has to endeavour to 
extend his influence, although it be by the compro- 
mise of their dearest interests, and the sacrifice ot 
their truest principles. It is necessary that he should 
look to the right hand and the left, and often forego 
the support of, and sometimes even have to denounce, 
measures which he believes to be most wise and de- 
sirable ; and thus cajoling his own conscience, he 
bows his neck to a yoke, while he is, in appearance, 
wielding a sceptre. As they disgrace themselves by 
playing the game of “ Follow my leader,” the leader 
himself plunges yet more deeply into the mire, by 
practising the far more despicable game of following 
his followers. 

What catch-words have been employed to impose 
upon men, and frighten them from investigation ! In 
what different ways have they endeavoured to recon- 
cile themselves to foregoing the exercise of some 
faculty of their minds on topics that well deserve and 
demand the exercise of all their intellectual energies ! 
Dr. Watts, for example, entertained a profound ven- 
eration for John Locke. He wrote an ode, in which 
he placed the spirit of that great writer in the celes- 
tial regions ; but after this description of the soul of 
John Locke in heaven, he recollected that his great 
favourite was, unfortunately, a heretic, and did not 
believe in certain doctrines professed by the theo- 
logical school to which the doctor himself belonged, 
and which by them are deemed essential to salvation. 
To obviate the difficulty he stretched his poetic license 
a little farther, and actually converted the soul of 
John Locke to orthodoxy after death had dismissed 
him from the visible to the invisible world. Now, 
Dr. Watts was a man who, upon other topics than 
that of theology, gave proof of possessing a better 
spirit than this would indicate. 

Good principles, and just in their origin, becoming 
perverted or unmeaning in the lapse of time, have 
sometimes enslaved even great minds. There was a 
period when the people of England were most reason- 
ably and justly attached to their sovereign ; when the 
people and the crown were united against the baronial 
aristocracy ; and in that alliance, offensive and defen- 
sive, they were paving the way for a greater enjoy- 
ment of political freedom. Hence sprang that fervent 
loyalty, of which tyrannical sovereigns subsequently 
took advantage, and which became a conventionalism 
to such an extent, that the cavaliers who followed the 
standard of Charles I. declared they would fight to 
death for the crown, even though it were only stuck 
upon a thorn bush. This reverence for royalty 
affected strongly even the mind of such a man as 
Lord Bacon. He could see truth clearly on other 
subjects, at a period when it had been obscured by 
the jargon of the schools, and he prepared the way 
for those wonderful advances which have since been 



36 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



made in science ; but while his eye was so keen for 
the perception of those maxims of freedom, justice, 
and policy which belong to social life, yet he spoke 
with the folly of a child of the acquirements of sove- 
reigns. But what station is exempt from the influ- 
ences which reduce to mental slavery ? 

One of the influences of mental slavery is that 
which affects the literature of the country. This is, 
perhaps, a form of the evil more important than any 
other, because it is more insidious. It corrupts the 
intellectual air we breathe ; penetrating into the 
thoughts, and coming upon us unawares. Political 
slavery and external bondage give some warning, and 
may be guarded against, resisted, and thrown off ; but 
the mental slavery which is conveyed by books infuses 
itself into minds as corrupt air does into the physical 
frame, rendering them feeble, inert, incapable of 
helping themselves, and undesirous of assistance from 
others. 



There is a remarkable instance in English literature 
of the embodiment in an individual of this mental 
slavery. We very often hear Dr. Johnson spoken of 
as the “great moralist.” He is held up to veneration 
by those who desire to affect the mind in a particular 
way, and would have it grow within certain restric- 
tions, but not attain to any very high decree of 
stiength or the fullness of its maturity. Johnson was 
just the man for this purpose. Notwithstanding the 
praises which have been heaped upon him by those 
who might have been expected to look at literature a 
little more philosophically ; even as a critic, Dr. John- 
son was an impersonation of whatever is most preju- 
diced, narrow, gross, and grovelling, in the vulgarest 
poxtion of the British intellect. He appeared to be 
great, merely because he gave back in high-soundin" 
words what the ignorant thought in plainer terms'" 
And what was he in reality? What truth did he 
elucidate, or what error explode ? What dying super- 
stition was there in religion and politics, the exist- 
ence of which he did not endeavour to uphold? He 
was a Jacobite when Jacobitism was all but worn out 
One of the last who held allegiance to the house of 
otuart, ho was one of the first of its adherents who 
accepted a pension from, and rendered Tory loyalty 
to, the Hanoverian intruder. He was a believer in 
gfiosts when every one else began to smile at the very 
idea ; nay , he was even a ghost-seer, or rather a "host- 
earer himself ; seriously and gravely recording that 
about the time of his mother’s deathf at midni °ht he 
heard aery— “Sam! Sam! Sam ! ’’-three times over, 
though nothing came of it.” He was so narrow in 
his chanties, that he sets it down as a great act of 
Christian feeling, that one day when he had partaken 
o the sacrament at church he gave an old woman 
half-a-crown, “ although he saw she had Hart's hymns 
in her hands ’’-the evangelical hymn-book of the 
period. And over his whole course of life there was 
the gloom of that fear of death which superstition 
nounshed in him, ever growing more and more ter- 
rible, leaving his name at last 



lo point a moral and adorn a tale,” 

to be a watch-word to those who would tie peonl 
worn-out superstitions, and make them dwell in 



shadow of things gone by, regarding the rising of the 
sun, whether of thought or political liberty, as owls 
and bats do the appearance of the luminary, which 
sheds joy and brightness over all creation. 

I have dwelt long upon this instance, because by 
the books of a people the mind is either nourished or 
poisoned. There is no better method of invigorating 
the mental powers, or rearing the soul to maturity, 
than the companionship of books written in a pure, 
free, and lofty spirit. The warning of Cassius was 
well founded — 

“ Let noble minds keep ever with their like.” 

What had Brutus to do with companionship to 
Cmsar ? The true and free intellect will have its 
chosen familiarity with books of kindred spirit; de- 
lighting to wander with More in his Utopia, where he 
found refuge from the oppression of his time, and 
indulged in the anticipation of what society should 
some day become, — luxuriating with universal Shake- 
speare in the world at large, with men of all ranks 
and characters, in their diversities, forming the loftiest 
and truest harmony, — ascending with Milton to 
“ breathe empyrean air,” and look down on the 
world from an elevation to which they alone can 
attain who dwell in an atmosphere of truth, seeing 
how clear and bright all things are, viewed through 
that transparent and elevated medium, — consorting 
with such philosophers as Akenside, in his first 
aspiration endeavouring to “ breathe the soul of Plato 
into British verse ; ” — and recreating himself with the 
lyrical strains of Burns, or the true-hearted Robert 
Nicoll. Let but the spirit of such men as these 
encompass the votary of mental freedom, and he will 
live to some purpose in the world. If these are his 
literary tastes, his political principles will not be for 
measures which would lay the country prostrate at the 
feet of a grasping, aristocratical clique. 

But an attempt to affect the permanent mental 
thraldom of a nation cannot ultimately succeed. To 
enslave the mind and thought of a country is a 
gigantic enterprise, and those who would embark in 
it would be sure eventually to find themselves mis- 
taken. Imagine an attempt to enslave the mind of 
England ! That mind which showed its power in 
the very commencement of her history; which, in 
their Saxon ancestors, prevailed over the feeble 
Aborigines, and made itself national — which quailed 
not before subsequent conquests, but subdued the 
conquerors themselves; which, in Wickliffe and 
Chaucer, created from a chaos of words the grand 
language of the country — so capable of all modes of 
expiession, the utmost depth of sensation, the most 
feivent glow of poetry ; which won at so early a 
penod a then unrivalled freedom of institutions, and 
the genn of the representative system, while the rest 
° i . l - iro P e struggled under the yoke of feudalism ; 
which rebelled against despotism over conscience, 
and so reformed itself, even before the outward adop- 
tion of the Protestant Reformation ; nor quietly bore 
even that as a yoke when it also became a domina- 
ion , which kindled up in the Elizabethan era that 
magnificent constellation of poets and philosophers, 
w ose light will beam upon the world through long 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



37 



coming ages ; which has originated the most ingenious 
mechanical inventions, and applied them to the use- 
ful arts of life, laying, as it Avere, a foundation for the 
future prosperity of the country in its wealth, and 
subduing the earth to the good of humanity ; which, 
even now, in spite of all difficulties and obstacles, of 
all cant and conventionalism, heaves and throbs with 
the birth of new forms of civilization, better adapted 
to the wants of human nature, which, in due time, 
will give them vitality, and cherish them to maturity, 
thus asserting the worth of its own freedom, and the 
extent of its powers. Enslave that mind ! Could 
that be done, we might well say, that 

“The pillar’d firmament is rottenness, 

And earth’s base built on stubble 1 ” 

— H. M. 

{To be continued.) 



FEMAL(E) [NOT FLAME] COLORATION. 



I. 

A gay co-ed. came tripping 
Adown the college stair, 

Her smiling face was crimson 
As the comb that turkeys wear. 

When asked whence came those blushes, 

The blow-pipe, ’twas, she said, 

She found that when she blew it 
It always made her red. 

II. 

This same co-ed. sat reading, 

In solemn midnight hush ; 

Upon her lap a “ Dana,” 

Close by her side a “ Brush.” 

And, strange to say, whenever 
She read these text-books o’er, 

They did not make her redder, 

But bluer than before. 

“ Sister Mary.” 



“ VARIOUS GIRLS.” 

In these times of reform when women are seeking 
and obtaining their proper positions in life, and, 
when “ what shall be done with Mary 1 ” is just as 
much a topic of family discussion as “ what shall be 
done with John V in these times of improvement, 
invention and bustle, when the world is turned up- 
side down in its maddening career, there is one object 
which remains the same, and that is the “typical school 
girl.” But this same “ typical school girl” is cast in 
various moulds, and it is with these moulds that we 
are all familiar, as we each in days gone by represented 
one of them. 

Do we not all remember, perhaps with a little sigh 
of regret because we were not so, “ the studious girl,” 
who, as head of the class, was the living model and 
walking precept of all her schoolmates? Her title as 
“ Head girl”, was the crown she wore on her graceful 
head, and the sceptre she swayed was that of “ know- 
ledge.” Her lithe, thin figure was surmounted by a 
face unusually thoughtful for “ one so young f with 
deep penetrating eyes that seemed to read your inner- 
most thoughts, but which at times could beam with 
unwonted merriment — when “With counterfeited 
glee, she laughed at all the teacher’s jokes, for rarely 
a joke had he.” From her throne she looked down 
on us, poor unfortunates below her, who having the 



little knowledge, which proverbially “ is a dangerous 
thing,” and having neither the ambition nor the 
courage to attain that quantity which puts one out of 
danger, were compelled constantly to refer to her as 
our consulting oracle of wisdom. 

Her friend and companion was a rather thin me- 
dium sized girl, with sharp black eyes, low forehead, 
smooth hair, thin pursed up lips and a little short 
nose. Her slender figure was encased in a gown of 
scrupulous neatness ; partially covering this was a 
spotless white apron pinned up at the top with a 
small gold brooch. Around her neck was a collar of 
immaculate purity and stiffness. A self-satisfied air 
rested on her countenance, and during intermission, 
whilst busy talking, she imparts to her friend, with a 
good-humoured sense of superiority, “that she never 
seen such a lot of girls in her life, so rough and un- 
tidy.” Do we not recognize her as forming one of 
the embryos of Lea’s greatness, namely, “ An old 
maid.” 

Then there was the girl who always sat at the foot 
of the class, who minus various buttons, and plus a 
good many pins, most noticeable of all being a large 
one fastening her collar at the back, which being al- 
ways limp had a natural tendency to lie down, which 
her hair had not. She, with a good-natured smile 
used to come sailing in late nearly every morning, 
and when reprimanded and told to stay in after 
school, always accepted it in a most resigned and 
patient manner. She, it was, who forgot nearly every- 
thing, lent all she had, and borrowed in a reckless 
manner, pins and pencils, paper and ink, always, of 
course, with the intention of returning, which was sel- 
dom, “ comme les beaux jours.” Her friendship was 
not to be despised, as her heart was unlimited, and 
she was the ready sympathizer of all — “We may smile 
at the remembrance of such girls as these, but they 
can never excite our anger ; they are usually on the 
best terms with themselves, and it follows almost as a 
matter of course, in good humour with everyone about 
them.” 

Even now we call to mind “ The amiable girl,” at 
which remembrance a thousand happy memories rush 
into our thoughts at once — and we see her standing 
before us, her kindly face beaming with gentleness, 
goodness and truth. The ready sympathizer and 
friend of all, listening with a kind and attentive ear 
to all tales of real and imaginary wrongs, yet with the 
good sense and tact never to repeat what she hears, 
for she has learned the adage “ silence is golden,” and 
puts it into practice. 

“ She was not fair, but in her face 
There was a purity of soul 
That gave each feature perfect grace 
Lift up, and beautified the whole.” 

“ Her laugh was low and often heard, 

Her smile, soon woke, most passing sweet; 

Her sympathies went quickly forth, 

Another joy or woe to meet.” 

Naturally clever, yet she did not seek to outshine 
her companions, but was satisfied to remain about the 
middle of the class, and seemed what she was, “ the 
connecting link ” between the “ head ” and “ foot ” 
girls. 



38 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



In the happiest and best spent lives there is always a 
sigh of regret for “what might have been.” What would 
we not give if we could only re-live a few of the hours 
that are gone, if only, to place a few bright spots 
in the schoolgirl life of her whom we all snubbed. 
For every schoolgirl knows that as there is “ a black 
sheep in every flock” so there is “ an outcast” in every 
class. Her society was never sought, and she being 
too timid to presume her own on anyone, was allowed 
to spend her time alone, to eat her lunch in solitude, 
and pass the hours of recreation in study. Ho one 
saw or pretended to see the longing, hungry looks she 
gave after us and our boon companions as we went off 
to have a good game of “tag” or “ mossy.” Ah me! 
if we could only have known the pleasure it would 
have aftorded, would we not have broken the ring of 
our charmed circle, and asked her in? 

Then there was the “ Flirt,” a creation which our 
mothers would lead us to believe was a very recent 
one, and was “never known when they were youn<*.” 
But our mothers must be getting very old, or their 
memories very poor, for we have evidence of her ex- 
istence, very far back in history. 

People’s ideas of a flirt differ very much, and were 
we to attempt to describe these ideas, the number and 
variety of them would fill volumes. But our “school- 
girl flirt,” as we remember her, was not a bad sort of a 
girl, and one whom we all liked, if we did not respect. 
Bather nice-looking, naturally clever, but too much 
otherwise engaged to devote much time to study. 
Pressed well and with a certain amount of dash and 
go-aheadedness in her, which if devoted to a better 

cause, would have stood her more real good in after 
lite. 

Grown up before her time, she never was a girl, but 
from a child was suddenly transformed into a “youn^ 
ady aped her elders in many ways— talked of the 
latest styles, the splendid novels, and spent her time 
and energy m writing notes to, and entertaining on the 
sly, some mysterious youth of the opposite sex, who, 
if «uided by her report would lead one to believe, was 
a modern Alexander ’’ with no more worlds to con- 

and 0 onqZ\tr S faal energies t0 overooffie 



Afal 9 h Love •' what art thou Love ? a wicked thin°- 
Making green misses spoil their work at school 
a melancholy man cross-garterine ? 

Orave ripe-faced wisdom made an April fool ?” 

“ A youngster tilting at a wedding riii* i 
A sinner sitting on a cuttie stool ! ° ' 

rr i ^ Fe T l r T dil - 1 f! ld de Something in a hovel 
Helping Matilda Rose to make a novel ?” 

we^ended 6 ^”^ 8 PaS ‘ "P’ just ' vhe “ P»IW 

and to came .7*?“ • ' 

agitation one of hot Lfcd “pped/aSd 

to P ,ck 11 U P> the whole went with a ban" at 
whtch everybody started, and the teacher looking 
asked wliat she meant comino* in ° 

a noise 1 « I couldn't heb, 1 and makm S such 
ancholy, whinln" voice iC, ! f 1 P ied - itt a “«1- 
I missed the stre°et™r and I had to ‘V tarl “?. “d 
so far, and I forgot my XancndT U was 

books were going to fall.” She is told to takTJS 



credit for being late, and another for making such a 
disturbance. And as her schoolgirl life goes on from 
Monday to Saturday, and from September to July, she 
is always late, always in trouble. Can’t do this because 
it is too hard, and because she never has tried. Al- 
ways complaining — she must have been born on Sat- 
urday. When asked to do anything for a friend, she 
replied, “ she would like to ever so much, but had no 
time.” 

Ho one liked her very much, of which fact she was 
cognizant, and she often said so herself. Ho one at- 
tempted to deny it, for it is a peculiarity of school- 
girls to make no denial of what appears to them “self- 
evident truth.” Perhaps had she only stopped to 
think how very disagreeable she was making it for 
herself and those around her, she would have tried to 
be more agreeable, but it is one of the adjuncts of 
grumblers never to think. 

But as time will not permit that I should detain 
you longer by attempting to describe any more of the 
peculiarities which distinguish “ Various girls.” I 
shall bring this brief essay to a close, and if in any of 
these sketches we should detect anything of ourselves, 
let us for a moment pause and consider whether these 
traits are what our best thoughts commend as funda- 
mental principles for our riper and nobler characters. 

“No angel, but a dearer being, all dipt 
In angel instincts, breathing Paradise 

Interpreter between the gods and men.” 

“ Let her make herself her own 

To give or keep, to live and learn and be 

All that not harms distinctive womanhood.” 



That is a woman 
You’re none.” 



Be that you are 
if you be more 



A Lady Undergraduate. 



[For the University Gazette.] 

LINES SUGGESTED BY READING “ THE CHILDREN OF THE 
LORD’S SUPPER.” 



nl h ™SL dcr j hls day f S om childhood’s sacred asylum 
OM h™ i d downwar< b and deeper in Age’s chill valley 
TTn tn hnw** ye come,— too soon 1 and long to turn backward 
oG? hid tops again, to the sun-illumined, where judgment 

fc vmiVer f t be l° re you i Pardon, clad l^e a mother. 

1 e you her hand to kiss, and the loving heart was forgiven. ,, 

Longfellow. 

C Co1fict°n^w h r 0 [ r ? gme *u ts . 0 u f thoughts that have vanished, 
collect now resolves that have pass’d with vour vouth 

VvZnvo^liv-H T? ld pre , sent those memories vanfshnd,’ 

' v henjou hv d Heaven’s ensample of love and of truth. 

S "a i^ h o an hour from your ,oad °f toil, trouble and sorrow 
Tldnk of alMhp? U °7 the bright dreams of thfpastr 
From thi .nvot frC i e f fa . nc,e8 y0 ? were then fast to borrow 
rrorn the mystical future, and to change them as fast. 

F w?iK i?e you turn’d frightened, and away fled in terror 
And'from^orrow h son & your youth-blood was rife 

T» l»k down and 

°Vhi*oh y “o"irK aTC!!; ‘h*t fervid devotion. 

Do the dark waves of hnf I °V he ,n . n °? ent child? 

Never rush o’ Ll hat ®» . of SI ". indiscretion, 
ever rusn o er your soul m a turbulence wild ? 

T 'A n eTrue m andThe n, goTof he time ^ at has vanished. 

In sympathy sweet anrf d w ifK y0U V earller days ’ 

Yon m.v > ,„':3 t .“l 1 n ri b e f^SK t ,„ e n*n r v n, ^i 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



39 



fflclBiU News. 



NOT FAIR. 

French Professor (to Young Lady Student who 
enters the lecture room ten minutes behind time) 

“ Miss , how do you come to be so late? ” 

Y. L. S. — “I was studying rhetoric, Dr. , and 

I did not hear the bell ring.” 

F. P. “ And so you took French leave, eh?” 

Y. L. S. ( sotto voce) “No, I was robbing Peter to 
pay Paul." 



OUR LADY UNDERGRADUATES AS 
CHEMISTS. 

Our chemical laboratory has been rubbing its eyes 
very briskly of late, and wondering what has diverted 
this easy-going, busy old world out of its sing-song 
way. Ladies — yes, truly ! ladies fair and maidenly 
have invaded its ancient and sacred precincts, to grace 
it as it never was before. It now experiences new 
sights and unfamiliar sounds, and wonders, as it 
listens ; what do they mean, as they exclaim — “ What 
dear little pots !” (alias crucibles in vulgar parlance) 
“ Such cute flasks !” “ See my sweet little test tubes !” 
“ Oh, did you ever see such funny things !” or shud- 
ders as “ 0 look out ; it is beginning to explode !” or, 
“ I think you are real mean not to wait until I begin !” 
When things do go off with a bang, as is liable with 
any one, they are all convulsed with laughter, and 
quickly gather round to examine and discuss the 
“ bang.” 

When results do not come out as the books pre- 
dict, these fair chemists declare the books at fault, 
or else with true womanly instinct, and it is a most 
excellent trait, they persevere stubbornly until at last 
they succeed. 

“ Oh look, see ! do come and see !” is a favorite 
call, as some one makes a new and startling discovery 
in the chemical world, and all flock around, amazed 
and intensely interested in the new-found wonder. 

We are very glad to see these new faces within 
these rooms, formerly haunted only by the uninter- 
esting, steady, go- as-you-please male student. We are 
sure they will succeed, as, naturally skilled in the art 
of cleanliness, an art most indispensable in chemical 
work, they will put to shame their astonished male 
colleague, as he gazes on their neatly- arranged chemi- 
cals and scrupulously clean tables. Hidden behind 
great roomy aprons, which cover even their sleeves, 
they look the very embodiment of scientific searchers, 
and from out behind these voluminous coverings we 
will look for new revelations in this branch of scien- 
tific investigation. 

Hoping they will not burn and stain their pretty 
hands with those horrid acids, or, worse still, mar 
their comely faces with unseemly explosives, we trust 
they will enjoy and fully appreciate their new branch 
of study. 

LECTURE OF MR. BARNETT. 

The Faculty of Applied Science, and many others 
interested in engineering work, were favored with an 



excellent lecture by Mr. Barnett, of Port Hope, on 
“ The Theory and Mechanism of Continuous Brakes.” 
This gentleman has paid much attention to this very 
valuable part of railroad mechanism, and had the 
honor of presiding over a committee of experts ap- 
pointed by the American Government to examine and 
report on the best methods and systems of brakes. 
His lecture was very interesting, concise and clear, 
and at the close a hearty vote of thanks was tendered 
him for his kindness. 



Dr. Harrington took the class on Geology out to 
Lachute on Saturday, Oct. 30th. After going over as 
much of the local geology as possible, the boys had 
dinner at “ the Windsor ” of the place, — the Dr. hav- 
ing thoughtfully remembered the physical needs of 
his students while catering to their mental improve- 
ment. Wilson’s paper mill was gone through in the 
afternoon. The early evening was devoted to seeing 
the lions of the town. On the homeward run each 
station was serenaded, so that people might know that 
McGill holds Halloween. Three of the party have to 
thank some of the fair inhabitants of Lachute for a 
most hospitable supper. J. W. McOuat, B.A., ’87, 
met the class at the station and acted as guide. 

On Saturday, Oct. 23rd, Sir William, accompanied 
by thirteen of the Geology class and Eric Harrington, 
Esq., visited Point Claire and St. Annes. The new 
C.P.R. cuttings at the latter place have opened new 
fields for observation, and may change the ideas at 
present current about the local geology. The boys 
coming home on the train were, in the language of a 
fellow-traveller, “ very hilarious.” 

The semi-annual business meeting of the College 
Y.M.C.A. will be held in No. 1 Class Room on Satur 
day evening next, 20th inst., at 7.30. Important 
business relating to the proposed building and other 
matters will be brought before the meeting. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this Society, held on the 5th 
November, was attended by the following : Messrs. R. 
C. Smith, Doherty, Oughtred, Brooke, Murray, Ritchie 
Turner, Murphy, Unsworth, Mackie, S. Cross and 
Fry. Mr. R. C. Smith, the new president, occupied 
the chair for the first time. It was decided, after a 
short discussion, that a Dinner be held this Session, 
but the date was left for future consideration. The 
committee had discussed the desirability of getting up 
a series of lectures. Mr. James Russell Lowell was 
mentioned as one who might be induced to deliver 
one. The meeting did not appear to be in favour of 
committing the Society to the series, but instructed the 
committee to find out whether Mr. Lowell would 
come on, and the cost of his lecture, and that of 
others. 

“ Would a double standard of currency be prefer- 
able to one of gold ? ” formed the subject of the debate, 
upon which Mr. W. F. Ritchie led off in the affirmative. 



40 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 .- 



He was supported by Mr. S. Cross, and opposed by 
Messrs. Mackie and Unsworth. The affirmative basec. 
their argument upon the scarcity of gold and its con- 
sequent appreciation, trying at the same time to show 
that the fluctuation in the relative value of gold and 
silver is comparatively small. The opposition main- 
tained that the fluctuation is considerable, or rather 
that the difference in value is constantly increasing, 
and that the impossibility of keeping relative value as 
fixed by law the same as that put upon them by the 
public, is a disturbing element in business, and an 
injustice to the wage earning class in particular. The 
United States Trade Dollar received the usual amount 
of abuse. The question was almost unaimously de- 
cided in the negative. 

Messrs. Charles Barnard, Patterson and Topp were 
nominated as members. 

At the usual weekly meeting on the 12th inst., the 
president, Mr. R. C. Smith, presided. The following 
new members were elected: Messrs. Charles A. 

Barnard, F. Topp and Wm. Patterson. 

A very spirited debate took place on the question 
of the establishment of a Labour Bureau. Messrs. W. 
H* Turner and C. J . Doherty upholding the affirma- 
tive, and Messrs. McGoun, J. K. Unsworth and J. R. 
Murray, the negative. The decision of the meeting 
was in favour of the affirmative. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

At the meeting on Friday, October 29th, R. B. 

lenderson, the president, occupied the chair, twenty 
members being present. After a good deal of minoi 
business, the question of having a piano was brought 
up— this was held over for consideration. Mr. S °R 
Brown’s recitation was the chief point in the evening’s 
programme : nothing better has been heard by the 
Society for years. J. A. McPhail sustained the nega- 
tive side on that most amusing subject,— “ Resolved 
that a course in Science is preferable to one in Arts.’’ 
His speech was the only one worthy of the name, 
though Mr. Hunter is to be congratulated on his first 
attempt The meeting, by a vote of three to none, 
decided in favour of the affirmative. 

At the meeting on November 5th, the Secretary 
read a communication from the Literary and Scientific 
Society, University of Toronto, as to the advisability 
of arranging intercollegiate debates. A committee was 
appointed to consider and report. The Society decided 
to piocure a piano for one month. 

Essay “ Is there not an incompatibility between 

HumaT? ?- Liberty and the State of 

gSTin 8 ^ /Sf- t0 Say > its author waa Mr. 

s^n- Soni'sVTvi ,iT ie L u ttle ° f Xaseb U” Naismith 
sang Song 88, aided by a chorus. “ Is Capital Punish- 
ment a Justifiable Principle.” Hall Naismith 
Charters, on the affiirmative, were opposed by Gerrie > 
Mason, Robinson. Decision was in favour of affirmative’ 

amid a° soT- and the 

o* 



At the meeting on Friday, November 12th, 
decided to ask the Faculty’s permission to ol 
piano. A committee, among the members of 



were Johnson, Pedley, and Eliot, was appointed to try 
and make the programme more interesting. J. A. 
McPhail’s Essay was on “Education.” A. R. John- 
son read to the members. 

“ Is prohibition a justifiable principle ? ” Messrs. 
Duke, Moore, and Sutherland, were successful in 
saying “Aye ” : while Messrs. Henderson, Truell, and 
Paton, spoke against the question. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

A very successful and well attended meeting of this 
Society, was held on the 2nd November, ’86, in the 
Donalda Reading Room. 

The president, Miss Simpson, made a short address, 
heartily welcoming the new members. After import- 
ant business matters had been discussed, a very amus- 
ing paper entitled “ Various Girls” was read, followed 
by an interesting sketch of the life of Samuel Lover, 
enlivened by selections from his works. 

Octavia G. Ritchie, 

Sec. -Treasurer. 



Sporting. 



McGILL’S TRIP TO KINGSTON. 

I was apprised of this excursion Friday morning, 
the 5th inst., and lost no time making arrangements 
to join the gallant fifteen, that, confident of victory, 
set out that evening for Upper Canada. We made a 
pleasant run to Sharbot Lake, and then took the 
“K. and P.” for Kingston. It was here the trip 
began to be interesting. The men were not tired and 
Capt. Macdonnell, who behaved like a brick all 
through the excursion, turned out the lights and 
requested the team to wrap itself in slumber. But 
you couldn’t sleep on that road even if Professor 

was lecturing on Ph y, the cars rock so. 

Several waggish gentlemen, imagining they were still 
on the C. P. R, informed the conductor that “they 
were not used to such luxury” and called his attention 
' 0 bow “high they were living” and also ordered 
<ugo helps of “good grub galore.” Others wished to 
enow why there was no track on the road, and amused 
themselves with a couple of banjos and vocal imitations 
of the air-brakes which is done by hissing gently, and 
a ength, the name of one of the team’s forwards, thus : 

“ H — U — G — H — E — S — s S !” 



The boys were consequently somewhat fatigued 
w ien eyaruved at Kingston at 6.30 a.m. and imme- 
c lately went to bed. In the morning, I went with a 
party to visit the Penitentiary, and there stole a door- 
knob, which is a really remarkable feat when you 
consider the site of the theft. In the afternoon the 
footbaB match came off, but I shall spare my readers 
le e ai s of this massacre, which terminated in our 
favour by 10 points to 1. 

J^ t0 ° k the evenin S train for Ottawa, and the 
6r *i™ 30 SOrry that he Sent a man down to 
blnflfi f„ lnin , incidently collected an unpaid 
bill for five dollars from an absent-minded excursion- 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



41 



ist. Having completed the 47 miles between King- 
ston and Sharbot Lake in the phenomenal time of 
lour hours and a half, we were obliged to await the 
C.P.R. train for two hours. I was completely tired 
out, and suggested to a friend that we should drop 
off at some intermediate station and go to bed. He 
agreed, and we left the team at Perth, were we stayed 
very comfortably three days. Here we met a few 
old acquaintances. Mine went back on me — dead ! 
They had heard that I was a medical student, and 
my expostulations to the effect that I recognized my 
position and studied as little as possible, fell on un- 
heeding ears. I broke up completely on being re- 
quested to send back some old photographs. My 
friend was luckier, and omitted to state our occupation 
till wo had lunched with his acquaintances — Great 
head, my friend ! Perth is a solid, placid old spot, 
and very rich. You can’t throw a brick there without 
busting the zygoma of an heiress. Just before we 
left we called on Dr. Grant, of McGill, ’67, who wel- 
comed us with open arms, and treated us so well that 
we shed tears of joy on his shoulder. He shocked us 
very m'uch by referring to our revered professors as 
“the boys.” We left Perth Tuesday afternoon at 
three o’clock, and arrived in Montreal to learn that the 
match with Ottawa had been postponed, but that the 
team had spent a pleasant day, visiting the libraries 
and museums of the Capital. 

T. E. Goodwin. 



The University cricketers Fredericton defeated the I. 
S. C. team yesterday afternoon, in one inning. The 
military scored 9 in the first inning, and 39 in the second, 
while the University boys made 69 in one inning. 
Capt. O’Neill, R. A. of Halifax, played with the milita- 
ry, scoring 1 run in the first inning, and 15 in the 
second. Q. M. Sergt. Walker scored 1 1 in the second 
inning. For the University, Fowler and Stewart Skin- 
ner both made double figures. 



Personals. 



Alick. Richardson, Arts, ’83, spent his holidays 
here this summer. 

Wm. Hall, ’87, has been appointed chairman of the 
coming Annual Medical Dinner. 

Charley Bland, Arts, ’83, has been ordained a 
minister in the Methodist Church. 

J. Boyd, ’87, was the representative to the Annual 
Dinner of the Trinity Medical Students. 

Sam. Fortier, Science, ’85, is at engineering work 
in the employ of the New Water Company, Denver. 

E. P. Mathewson, Science, ’85, is assayer for the 
Pueblo Smelting and Refining Company, of Pueblo, 
Col. 

Albert Haldimand, who dropped out at the end 
of his second year in ’83, has returned to finish his 
course. 

C. H. Livingston, B.A., ’86, is attending Columbia 
University. We understand he is taking a course in 
Natural Science. 



Geordie Wright, Arts, ’84, has been killing fish and 
amusing himself in the intervals of “no bites” by 
reading the Code. 

Dolard Larivikre, Arts, ’84, is rector of L’Eglise 
du Redempteur in this city, and a lecturer in the 
Diocesan College. 

T. A. Woodruff, ’87, Medicine, was the McGill re- 
presentative at the Annual Dinner of the students of 
Toronto Medical School. 

Drummond, Science, ’82, is at Kamloops, B.C., and 
drops round occasionally to smoke a pipe with Tren- 
holme, Science, ’85, and Harry Hamilton. 

J. Mabon, Arts, ’84, is imparting mental philosophy 
and moral suasion — a large stock of which he laid in at 
McGill — to the boys of an academy at Inverness, Que. 

“ Our Jim” Pedley, Arts, ’84, who was the Blake 
of the Undergraduates’ Literary Society in its early 
days, has been electrifying Winnipeg audiences this 
summer. 

Bobby Kirkpatrick, Arts, ’84, and Medicine, ’86, 
bosses the ambulance of the Montreal General 
Hospital. He was sitting up in front the other day 
and the axle broke down — small blame to it. 

Percy Brown, Science, ’85, dropped into the editorial 
sanctum last week, and perpetrated some of his charac- 
teristic puns : notwithstanding, we were delighted to 
see his manly form, and overlooked his levity. 

E. J. Wood, M.D., C.M., ’83, was in town last week. 
He was on his way back from Europe, where he has 
been passing the summer studying the eye and ear. 
He intends practising his specialty in St. Paul, Minn. 

Dr. J. J. Marston, who hails from near Ottawa, 
Ont., is a graduate of McGill for the year 1863. 
Shortly after this he left for the States and joined 
the army as surgeon, a position he held for twenty 
years, most of which were put in at Fort Laramie. 
Three years ago he settled in Cheyenne and started 
practising. Needless to say the doctor’s practice has 
continued to grow from the first, until now he is one 
of the most prominent and popular physicians in the 
city, respected by all its citizens for his many good 
qualities of head and heart. 



OH, FOR A MAN. 

“ Oh, for a man ! the clear voice sang, 

And through the church the echo rang. 

‘ ‘Oh, for a man !” she sang again — 

How could such sweetness plead in vain ? 

The bad boys griuned across the aisles, 

The deacon’s frowns were turned to smiles. 

The singer’s cheek turned deepest pink — 

At base and tenor’s deepest wink. 

The girls that bore the alto part 
Then took the strain with all their heart’; 

“ Oh, for a man, a man, a man ” — 

And then the full voiced choir began 

To sing with all their might and main 
The finis to the girl’s refrain ; 

“ Oh, for a mansion in the skies, 

A man— a mansion in the skies.” 



42 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Between the Lectures. 



A TALE OF TWO FINGERS. 

He took “two fingers ” before lie went, 

To brace liis nerves a bit ; 

On hunting woodcock was he bent, 

And limited away with grit : 

But the liquor muddled his whirling brain, 
As liquor will often do, 

And the gun went off in a moment vain, 
And it took two fingers, too ! 



A lady and gentleman accidentally touched each 
other’s feet under the table. “Secret telegraphy,” 
said she. “ Communion of soles,” said he. 

Five million needles recently sank with an ocean 
steamer to the bottom of the sea. We hope the mer- 
maids will take the hint and make themselves some 
clothes. 

“ Why does that old man wear a wig, I wonder ? ” 
said an English girl to her cockney beau, who thought- 
fully responded, “ He probably wears it to make him 
wigorous.” 

A citizen of Galveston, scared by Wiggins’ earth- 
quake predictions, sent his two half-grown boys to a 
friend in the country. A few days later the friend 
wrote him : — “ Hear Sir, — Please take your boys back 
and send us the earthquake. 

“ Hoes your husband write his own stories or does 
he keep an amanuensis 1 ” “ He does all the writing 

himself.” “I should think he would find it so much 
easier to have an amenuensis, and he is well able to 
affoid one. “ Ihats true, but he is of so genial and 
kindly a disposition that he could never dictate to 
anyone.” 

Thought Some had been Ordered. — Mr. Isaacstein 
(at spiritualistic stance) : Tell me how was de cloth- 

ing piznsss up there 1 

Hisembodied Spirit : We wear only angel’s clothes 

up here. 

. Mr- I. : Shimminy Christmas, an’ I ain’t got none 
in shtock. 0 

A Christian clergyman, says The Hebrew Standard , 
once went to an orthodox synagogue with a Jewish 
friend. He listened to the congregation chanting 
Mizinar LBavid with usual congregational dis- 
cord, and was told by his Jewish friend that it was 
sung to the same tune in the days of Bavid “ Ah ' ” 
said the clergyman with a sigh of relief, “ that accounts 

javelin at Da V v e id°” tenWOndered Why Saul thre » his 

The Great Progress op Education. “ Well sir 

education is making wonderful strides just now ” 
observed Ebenezer Jones. 

“Ah!” replied Zebedee Smith. 

Snnbnrm 811 ' ^ “ ' , The Yale riesll men have run the 
Sophomores against a tarred fence, the new men at 

Bartmouth have won in the ‘ tug of war,’ and the 

Iieshman class at Columbia were victorious in the 

cane rush, after tearing the clothes from their oppo- 



nents’ backs, blacking numbers of eyes, and breaking 
several noses.” 

“You call such occurrences wonderful strides in 
education, do you 1 ” 

u Undoubtedly. Why, heretofore the Sophomores 
have uniformly been successful in these contests.” — 
Pittsburg Chronicle Telegraph. 



College LUorl6. 

There are thirteen women in the new class in the 
Harvard annex this year. 

More than 100 of the 160 girls in the Freshmen 
Class of Wellesley College are members of the church. 

The matriculation and bursary examinations for Bal- 
housie college, commenced on Thursday, the 14th of 
October. 

The N. B. University eleven, defeated the Wood- 
stock club, at Hartland on Friday, October 15th, by 
an innings and 33 tuds. Woodstock made 14 in their 
first innings and 23 in the second. The students rolled 
up 70 in one innings. 

t It is quite likely that the property of the Chicago 
University, whose trustees have given up the institu- 
tion, unable to clear oft the debt of §300,000 hanging 
over it, will pass into the hands of Archbishop Feehan, 
who "will convert the place into a theological seminary. 

1 he Manitoba College Literary Society held its first 
open meeting on October 15th in the college, beginning 
at 8 o’clock. Hr. Bryce, the president of the society 
delivered an address, and the prizes won last year were 
presented. The entertainment concluded with an 
interesting literary and musical programme. 

Owing to the lameness resulting from a sprain re- 
ceived five weeks ago, President Warren of Boston 
University (Methodist), has requested leave of absence 
two or tree weeks for restand recuperation. As the 
School of Theology will not open until November 3, 
tins will not interfere with his teaching duties. 

Among the several foreign students at Lincoln 
University there are two Coreans. One of them, 
P. Q. Soli, is the son of a prince of second rank. The 
other calls himself Mr. Willie. They are here to re- 
ceive a Christian education. Both are earnest men, 
and making rapid progress in the English language. 

Br. Almon Brooks, of Chicago, has taken a suit 
against Harvard College for §50,000, on behalf of his 
son, 4 rancis R. Brooks, who was seriously injured by 
a chemical experiment made in the college under the 
ncctions of his professor. Mr. Brooks’ face was per- 
manently disfigured by sulphuric acid, and his father 
claims that the professor was to blame. Br. Brooks 
sa)s, I intend to show the public the ignorance and 
careiessness which exist in that pretentious institution.” 
Whether he will succeed in doing so remains to be seen. 
Harvard is the centre of the philosophical school of 
Christianity, which is altogether too good to need sal- 
vation by iaith m the atonement of Christ, and too 
learned to accept so “crude” a doctrine. It would 
not be surprising to learn that there was a good deal 
o superficiality about such an institution. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



43 



OBITUARIES. 

W e are sure that all the professors and students who 
frequent the museum, will feel sincere sympathy for 
Mr. Edward Ardley, who last week suffered a great 
loss by the death of his wife from pneumonia. Edward 
is the caretaker of the museum, and every one notes 
the extreme cleanliness and order in which it is kept, 
and appreciates his willingness to oblige at all times. 
He will feel his loss all the more keenly as she was 
still a young woman, the mother of five young child- 
ren, who are thus left motherless when most they 
need her kind care. 

We regret to announce in this issue the death of 
Mr. John L. Duffet, student in Medicine at McGill, 
which took place at his home at Kinnear’s Mills, Que., 
on the 20th July last. Mr. Duffet entered upon the 
study of Medicine in ’82, passing his primary examina- 
tion with honors in ’84. He attended the session of 
’84-85, but with gradually failing health. In March, 
’87, he had an attack of acute bronchitis which ter- 
minated in phthisis. In the fall of that year he went 
to Colorado. The benefit to his health was only tem- 
porary, and he returned home, very much emaciated 
in June last, his death taking place a few weeks later. 

Mr. Duffet was a diligent student, possessing good 
talent and amiable qualities ; and his untimely death 
will be heard of with regret by his class mates of ’86. 



fcorresponbence. 



ENCOURAGEMENT OF CANADIAN 
LITERATURE. 

To the Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — Having read much recently in the 
papers about the causes of the stagnant condition of 
Canadian literature, I thought of suggesting through 
your columns a plan which came into my head when 
thinking over the matter. The plan consists of the 
formation of an Author’s Society, whose chief object 
shall be the publication of works by its members. It 
is generally recognized that the non-existence of a 
Canadian literature arises largely from causes of an 
economic nature, and that if we could create a market, 
literary productions would soon be forthcoming. Such 
a market, I think, an Author’s Society would soon open 
up. Another trouble is that in Canada we have few 
men of literary tastes, who have means and leisure to 
risk in literary speculations. I think the creation of 
such a Society would also meet this difficulty. Suppose 
four hundred members should join from the whole of 
Canada, at a subscription of, say, ten dollars a year. 
This would give four thousand dollars a year income, 
to be administered by the committee. Each member 
should have the right of sending in one or more of 
his works, which he is desirous of publishing. The 
committee should then choose a certain number of 
the best, and publish as many as they can afford to, a 
new choice taking place every year. Arrangements 
of a uniform nature should of course be made with 
the author, all risk, however, lying with the Society. 



Each member of the Society should receive copies of 
the books published, and would thus in any case get 
some return for his subscription. If the committee 
made wise and impartial selections, the Society 
would probably make a profit, and would gradually be 
able to publish more works. They might after a while, 
in addition, publish a magazine which would be a 
credit to our young country. 

This suggestion may strike others as of an entirely 
visionary and unpractical nature, and of course in this 
practical age we cannot afford time to examine vision- 
ary schemes ; but should it commend itself to any of 
your readers, I hope that they will give expression to 
their approval. 

I remain, 

Dear Sirs, 

Yours truly, 

J. Ralph Murray. 



Y. M. C. A. BUILDING. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — In the circular sent out by the Y.M. 
C.A., relative to the proposed building, it was men- 
tioned that the Toronto men, after some months’ use, 
speak with enthusiasm of their new building, which 
was opened only last spring. With your permission 
I would like to give some extracts from letters received 
from Toronto, which will illustrate and substantiate 
the statement. 

“ Once we were homeless ; now we have a local 
habitation and a name. The time has gone by, when 
men could be at the University for months without 
knowing of our existence. We nearly all agree in 
wondering how we managed to do our work without 
a building devoted entirely to association purposes.” 

“ Our meetings are now held in quietness and comfort. 
The numbers at our prayer meeting on Thursday will 
double during the year. Will they not naturally be 
better attended with carpeted rooms and a grate fire 1 ” 
“ The building has led to the stirring up of the Chris- 
tian men of the University and created a strong bond 
between them. It has also improved our singing by 
regular singing practices. W e have now nine good 
training classes % at work, and a tenth ready to be 
organized. Arrangements have been made for holding 
a series of missionary concerts.” “We have ordered 
chess and draught boards. It is our intention here- 
after to open the building on Sunday. It will be a 
pleasant place in which to take refuge from the ordin- 
ary boarding house. If other societies desire to use 
the building we are glad to allow them, requiring only 
a fair rental. We secured this fall the addresses, 
terms, conditions, description, etc., of about 60 good 
boarding-houses, and helped over 100 men to find 
pleasant homes.” 

“ It is not so much what the building is as what 
we see it can be made to be. We all feel strongly re- 
garding the inexpressible advantages that have follow- 
ed our successful scheme.” 

“ Now about the finances, you need anticipate no 
trouble. You will have a little, of course, but nothing 
to signify. Zeal and prayer are the two essentials. If 
the students are once thoroughly incited — if they mean 



44 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



business, then there can be no doubt about the final 
issue. I feel confident that in a few months you will 
be able to get out a programme with a similar state- 
ment on it as on ours : ‘ The Lord hath done great 

things for us whereof we are glad.’ ” 

I hope that the above extracts have not been too 
numerous : I could not refrain from giving them all, 
because they come from men who have actually ex- 
perienced the benefits which we may fairly expect will 
follow the erection of a building at McGill. 

Yours sincerely, 

Jos. K. Unsworth. 



TROJANS AND THE NEW BRIDGE. 

Mr. Editor : — 

Dear Sir, — In your last issue, “ Student in Applied 
Science,” notes the intended visit to the new Lachine 
Bridge, of a party of Troy Students. May I make 
known through your valuable paper that these gentle- 
men, after making an arrangement with a representa- 
tive of the Bridge Company, to meet them at the train, 
never turned up. It is supposed they attended the 
Hunt Club Steeplechases in preference. 

Could not a special horse race be planned for our 
students, “together with one of our professors to explain 
any points,” in order to emulate our Trojan friends’ 
example. 

Y ours, 

McGill College, 2nd November, ’86. Veritas. 



THE IMICmiEHTIH 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL, 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 



BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “ Hydro- '1 hera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure, ’ ’ and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D, B, A, MACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

-nit NOVELTY IRON WORKS ^ 

40 to 54 Nazareth. Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 

CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 

CTSTEBS -A-T -A-XjXj KOXTBS. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

18X9. 

ZEE. 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and JPure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PEIiS kept in Stock- 

Eve xy peaa. 0ytjLa.ra.2a.tee 5 .. 

IF 1 . F3. GEAFTCN Sz SOFTS, 

Q52 St. Janies Street. 

S. J. BRISSETTE JOS. COURTOIS. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

"W” HITE’S Xj-A-ESTIE, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery fob Paper Makers, Paper Box Manufacturers, 



"S' BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.*- 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery . 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

Designed and BuUt to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 




CLOTHIER 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 



Largest Stoofi in Canada to Seleat from. 



Suits aelOverco ATS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



BTJ'X" YOTJB 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St„ cor. of Craig St. 

fpne (Confectionery, 

U oNBQNS and C HOCOLATES 




ARTISTICALLY 

•^Engraved and Printed,*- 

— IN — 

BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 







77 



PHILIPS SQU ARE, MONTREAL, 

STAINING FLUIDS “? Moitim Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



The Burl and Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



MONTREAL, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - MONTREAL 
J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

IjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

AOVOCATE8, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET 

Atwater, Cross & Mackie, 

AflTocales, Barristers, Comissioners, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

Maciaster, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan, 

ABVOGATSS, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal . 

DONALD MACMASTKR. Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. P. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C, JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Booksellei, Publisher, Importei & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(near the court house,) 

UVEOITTie.IE.A.ll. 



IFA-ULLMIIEIR/’S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

8Tu£l\e^, Con|b,s', %iboi‘s, 
Perfumery, Arid Toilet 
SYtidle^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Invitations, Cards, GFests, programmes, 
Jtfonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 




BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing; Foils, 
Masks, &C. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 



Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, <fcc. 





53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



-> 2^ ID X JEp 

Hairdressing and Shaving in the Latest Style, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK. ... 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

<5bwellei^y ^ Rangy Goods. 

every description of 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 



FA l\Tr V r/iAnc HKVJM61LS, C 

FANC 1 GOODS, suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations . 



OUT-BOOR GAI?IES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



0 



u M V ERSIT Y GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3SS 387 St. Paul Steeet, Moktoe^l. 

Wholesale Manufacturers 

STOVES, 



GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



(I elebbuteo Hot Water Heaters 



—AND— 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 



Paper Manufacturers, { 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE. P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 
Grey Paper, 
SI 



traw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper, 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, 

Roofing Felt, 

Special Sizes a,acLd. T*7" eights .cLe to Order. 

V TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun's Building, 

21 and 23 DeBreM>le» Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 




WORKS AT 
, CORNWALL, ONT 
CiLPITiLL, - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

Freight and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c, 

T eams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE t WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 
l r 7'3 St James Street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



“ QUEEN S BLOCK,” 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St., 
Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

Importers mt ft ffmuifariuraV Jtjjsutet 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONTREAL. 

_ IE. _A_. GERTH, 

IMPORTER OF 

-Me CIGARS JN- 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

St-u.d-e30.ts 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $ 1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 





UNIVEESITY GAZETTE, 



THfcJ GENUINE 

COOK’S FRIEUD 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W, & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

loo GREV NUN 8TREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Roman Cement, 

Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, 
Whiting, 

Plaster Paris, 

- Portland Cement, Borax, 

CIXIXT.A. CLii-T, sScc., <Scc. 

JManufacliirers or 



Chimney Tops, 

Vent Linings, 

Flue Covers, 
Fire Bricks, 
Fire Clay, 



Antiseptic Materials, Baidaks, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing; Chemists, 



BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 
TELEPHONE No, 580, 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(Xj X XX X XME X> , 

21, 21\ & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H LOVE, Managing Director. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine Si, 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
_ All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 



Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. • 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 



Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 



Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ■ 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges! 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’ 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 



Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to* 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned* and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application.' 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Si Lis: -austid IEUttir, IETAts 

PROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

"W- 3YC- S-A-^ETJ’EXj, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



-Hi: PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

CB-ST WEISS & SON"], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL R ATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



