ëryt.1 VAIVURSITT 
NOV 4 1926 
LIBRARY 



Redpath Library- 



^ Y’T^X- 



The McGill 



Fortnightly Review 

Art Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. II No. 1 



PRICE 10 Cents 



Wednesday, November 3, 1926 



EDITORIAL 

Theolog at the Symphony. 
Hamlet in Modern Dress. . 
Sweeney Comes to McGill 
Black Bottom 

Song 



CONTENTS 



s. 

A. J. M. Smith 
F. R. S. 
Leo Kennedy 
Leo Kennedy 



Trivium 

The Genteel Tradition 

Leda • 

BOOKS 



Tailpiece 



. . Norman Studer 
A. J. M. Smith 



Vincent Starr 



EDITORIA L 

T HE Editors present their compliments to the 
McGill public, and beg leave to introduce Vol. 
II of The McGill Fortnightly Review. 

• * * * 



I T is interesting to see how the movement towards 
independent journalism at universities grows apace. 
We see in The New Student for October 27th that 
a new “independent publication of criticism and 
opinion,” called The Faun, has been started at the 
University of North Carolina. We do not know 
whether the editors of The Faun have ever heard of 
The McGill Fortnightly Review, but their sub-title 
is significant in that it denotes a general tendency in 
undergraduate journalism. 

It is quite natural that a paper linanced by and 
managed under the auspices of a student body should 
represent the views of the bureaucracy of the student 
society. It is also natural that there should occasion- 
ally be a dissident opinion. Such opinion could never 
find full expression in the official daily paper or mag- 
azine. It is therefore just that besides the regular 
publication there should be a vehicle for independent 
criticism. We do not wish to imply that there ought 
to arise something in the nature of a Parliamentary 
Opposition, which would disagree on principle with 
every act of the students’ council. Rather ought 
there to exist a magazine containing all shades of 
opinion, some of which would condone and others 
fearlessly condemn where necessary. At the same 
time an independent journal must strive for superior 
literary quality and a greater diversity of interests, 
for by its very nature the ordinary campus paper 
must occasionally sacrifice quality to the necessity 
of reporting all local news ol any importance at all. 
There is certainly a place for both types of journalism 
in a University. 



I T is a relief to have done with talk of the new 
Arts Building, its glories and its greatness. 
We share with the general public the satisfaction 
of feeling that the Arts Faculty has at last got safe, 
comfortable and adequately roomy quarters. The 
new building has preserved in its external appearance 
the traditional dignity and simplicity of the old, 
and the interior, though somewhat rococo in patches, 
and scarcely suggestive of meditation or study, has 
at least an air of stateliness that atones for the minor 
defects. But we are unable to understand an attitude 
of mind, much in evidence during the graduates’ 
reunion, which sees in the fact of a new pile of masonry 
a proof that McGill has advanced yet further along 
the path of education. It would be platitudinous 
to remark that no buildings can make a University 
any more than a salary can make a professor; yet the 
platitude would seem to be in need of emphasis when 
one reads in the columns of our respected contemporary, 
the Daily, such remarks as this: “With so fine a 
building to work in there is no reason why McGill 
College should not now prosper even more greatly 
than she has in the past, and why her graduates should 
not rise to even greater fame then they have in the 
past.” Nor will we be accused ol trying to curry favour 
with the staff if we gently disagree with the statement 
that “McGILL NEEDS A GYMNASIUM (sic) 
almost as much as she needs professors.” 

There is no doubt that a gymnasium would be a 
good thing; it is arguable that new playing 
fields would be a better thing. This is beside the point. 
What must be combated at McGill is this faith in 
mere acres of “plant.” To certain people, if the number 
of students is not increasing annually, if contractors 
are not excavating on the campus, if courses on this, 
that and the other newfangled subject are not being 
inaugurated, McGill is not progressing. Judged by 
the standards of big business, this view is doubtless 
correct. Unfortunately those standards are inapplic- 
able to a University; if they were, the wealthiest city 
could secure the finest University without difficulty. 






2 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



C ANADIAN “Book Week” was interesting in that 
it showed clearly the attitude of our general 
public towards literature. Once a year books are 
to be brought as a trade commodity which should 
receive its due modicum of support along with our 
other manufactures. A Canadian book is to be valued 
per se apart from its contents or contribution to life. 
Where literature is known and understood as an in- 
tegral part of civilized life these Chautauqua appeals 
are unecessary. It is useless, however, to insist on 
the crudity of the point of view displayed when 
motherhood is recognized asworthy of similar support. 

All this however is not to say that Canadian “Book 
Week” is devoid of utility. There are men in Canada 
who feel their lives not misspent in the cultivation 
of the art of writing and they are dependent for their 
livelihood on the sale of their books, no matter how 
they may be brought. Recognition and understanding 
will come later. 

A criticism sometimes levelled at this “week” 
associates it with the cunning of publishers intent 
on a greater turnover. Why not? These invidious dis- 
tinctions are beyond us. 



# # # # 



W E would again invite from our readers literary 
contributions on any topic and in any form 
that they may care to choose. Manuscripts 
should be sent to The Managing Editor, McGill 
Fortnightly Review, 282 St. Antoine Street, Montreal. 
Unused articles will be returned. 



Theolog at the Symphony 

W ITHOUT a word of warning he was swept away 
A million leagues beyond the concert room, 
Whirling in some young god’s absurd child- 

play- 

A dislocated shuttle on an automatic loom. 

High to an audible crescendo 
Of jade and agate stars he swung; 

And in a sudden dark diminuendo 

With flying coat-tails he was flung 

Down such deep ebony abysses 

Of cello and bass violin 

That the inverted sound of sucking kisses 

Became, with time, the symbol of a sin. 

But after Purgatorial damnation 
A golden hoop began to roll 
An aureole of final consummation — 

Predestined Paradise for Presbyterian soul. 

Up silver spirals and a golden wire 
The resurrected curve moved on. 

But when he thought one centimetre higher 
Must cut the corns of God, the moving curve was gone. 

The well-bred audience clapped its well-kept claws. 
The baton-wielder bowed, acknowledging applause. 

S. 



Hamlet in Modern Dress 

A. J. M. Smith 
I 

H AMLET, lean and lank and mournful, pacing 
in sombre black through the ruins of his world, 
and pausing awhile to make a brief in his note- 
book of the endless cogitations that trouble his brain. 

Hamlet looking at the corpse-strewn stage and 
finding it a waste land, then wearily analysing his 
reactions. Hamlet almost committing suicide in the 
stream of consciousness, and yet calling to the im- 
pressed listeners on the bank in a voice that has the 
accents of greatness. 

Hamlet seeking emotional relief in coarse and 
bitter ribaldries. Hamlet becoming almost unintelligible. 
Hamlet in modern dress. T. S. Eliot. 

You are riding a roundabout, we shall return to this. 

II 

What at first sight is most striking about the poems 
of T.S. Eliot is not their intellectual subtlety — though 
they possess this in full measure — nor their mordant 
wit, but their rejection of a conscious intellectual 
sequence of ideas in favour of a subconscious emotional 
one. The result is an obscurity due to the conjunction 
of seemingly unrelated ideas which ar*> associated 
in the mind of the poet because they evoke similar 
or related emotions in him, emotions, however, 
whose mutual relationship is not made clear to the 
reader. 

As Mr. Leonard Woolf has put it: “The distinguish- 
ing feature of modem obscurity is .... that every 
sentence is quite easy to understand in itself, and 
yet its meaning and its connection with the sentence 
before and after it escapes one.. .The reader’s diff- 
iculty comes from his inability to follow the writer’s 
transitions.” 

On the face of it, this looks as if such a writer were 
deliberately flouting the accepted standards of good 
writing which enjoin clarity and coherence as classic 
virtues. Accustomed to expect a purely logical se- 
quence, even in a pcem, we are prone to approach 
such work as this from the wrong angle — to view it 
from the intellectual rather than from the emotional 
standpoint. This is the mistake of Mr. Middleton 
Murry, and it has led him into such manifest ab- 
surdities as to declare that The Waste Land is a failure 
because it is over-inlellectualized. Just the opposite is 
true. The poem is strung together not upon a logical 
or intellectual thread at all: it is merely a stream of 
associations, many of them flowing from the sub- 
conscious. Mr. I. A. Williams expressed it accurately 
when he wrote: “The items are united by the accord, 
contrast and interaction of their emotional effects, 
not by an intellectual scheme that analysis must 
work out.” Regarded thus, as having an emotional 
logic of its own, a sort of non-Euclidian geometry 
of strutcure, this method is seen to be the only one 
completely suitable as an expression of the effect of 
disintegration upon a sensitive mind. How better 
portray disintegration— and this is what Mr. Eliot 
has set himself to do — than by splintered images 
and broken sequences? 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



3 



III 

The Waste Land is the application on an extended 
scale of Mr. Eliot’s method to the two great problems 
of today: The decay of Western civilization, and 

the rationalization of sex. His approach is charac- 
teristically indirect, through literature and through 
symbolism. By means of the fertility rites interpreted 
in The Golden Bough, and the reading of the Grail 
legend furnished by Miss Jessie L. Weston in her 
book, From Ritual to Romance, the poet has symbolized 
the modern quest for spirituality as the journey of 
the knight through the Waste Land seeking the Grail. 
The lance and chalice, according to Miss Weston, 
are sexual symbols, while the discovery of the cup 
is to be the signal for the revival of the Waste Land. 
Until that time comes it must remain a country of 
perpetual drouth: no rain ever falls, the wells are 
dry, green things are all withered, even the animals 
and people have become sterile. 

For Mr. Eliot, the Waste Land is a symbol of spir- 
itual drouth. Half the poem is set in the dim magic 
land of the Grail legend and half in the desert of 
modem London. The transition between the two 
scenes is frequent and sudden. Memory and subcon- 
scious association play their part in the introduction 
of intellectually unrelated motifs. Often the tcne or 
the scene is changed suddenly and violently for the 
purpose of contrast, or often to provide emotional 
relief. Whenever anything in the piece reminds the 
poet of a line from any other poem, he inserts it at 
once, a note at the back acknowledging the fact. 

From the poem it is clear that for Mr. Eliot, civil- 
ization is frustration and modem life docmed to a 
hopeless sterility. But it is in his own mind that the 
waste land really exists. He is always the explorer 
of his inner se f, and is overcome by an immense and 
bitter disillusionment, a conviction of the helplessness 
and futility of all effort, because he can find there 
nothing that will provide an antidote for the poison 
of civilization. It is the story of Hamlet over again: 
the theme, with variations. For Mr. Eliot, too, the 
time is out of joint. He, likewise, has hearkened to 
spiritual voices, and is impotent to obey. In all his 
most characteristic poems we shall find, as Goethe 
found in Hamlet: “A beautiful, pure, and most moral 
nature without the strength of nerve which makes the 
hero, (sinking) beneath a burden which it can neither 
bear nor throw off.” Thus Mr. Prufrock is tortured 
by the aimlessness of life and the creaking approach 
of old age. So, in the Rhapsody on a Windy Night 
the poet prepares for life, “the last twist of the knife.” 

IV 

That first key-note, “ ’Tis bitter cold, and 1 am 
sick at heart” is as appropriate in Mr. Eliot’s London 
as on the battlements at Elsinore. There is in Hamlet 
the same emphasis upon certain aspects of futility, 
sterility, death, corruption and mental torture that 
are striking in Gerontion and The Waste Land. 

Indeed there is in these poems, as in the play, an 
air of madness just around the corner. Hamlet’s “mad- 
ness,” like that which lurks in Mr. Eliot, is a little less 
than madness and something more than feigned. Ham- 
let’s repetitions of phrase, his puns, irrelevancies, his 
sudden coarsenesses are, like the violent contrasts, 
the rank imagery and the deep obscurity of The Waste 
Land, “not part of a deliberate plan ot dissimulation, 
but a form of emotional relief.” Here, I think, in a 



phrase from Mr. Eliot’s essay, Hamlet and his Problems, 
is the correct explanation of what many have found 
so puzzling and so annoying in these poems: the drag- 
ging in of obscure quotation; the sudden reductio of 
all things ad absurdum, as when, for example, after 
a beautiful and terrible passage, the poet suddenly 
bursts into ribald song: 

Frisch weht der Wind 
Der Heimat zu, 

Mein Irisch Kind 
Wo weilest du? — 

and, finally, that use of contrast where a formal beauty 
is placed in juxtaposition with a psychological obscenity 
and welded into something at once horrible and beauti- 
ful. 

To dig this last channel of relief is an accomplish- 
ment essentially Hamletesque, and the possession 
of the power to unite beauty and ugliness to form a 
new and more strangely beautiful quality is one of 
the surest marks of the great poet. A great poet 
does not have to possess this ability, but all who 
have possessed it have been great poets — Shakespeare, 
Webster, Donne, Mr. Eliot. Poe falls short of great- 
ness just by how much he failed to achieve this syn- 
thesis. Mr. Eliot achieves it time and again. Consider 
these lines from The Waste Land: 

A rat crept softly through the vegetation 
Dragging its slimy belly on the bank 
While 1 was fishing in the dull canal 
On a winter evening round behind the gashouse 
Musing upon the king my brother’s wreck 
And on the king my father’s death before him. 
White bodies, naked on the low damp ground 
And bones cast in a little low dry garret, 

Rattled by the rat’s foot only, year to year. 

This, surely, is Hamlet: that young prince whose 
images were of the sun breeding maggots in a dead 
dog, “a god kissing carrion — Have you a daughter? — 
let her not walk i’ the sun:” that distracted railer who, 
when asked where the body of Polonius lay, answered, 
“If you find him not within this month, you shall 
nose him as you go into the lobby:” who spoke of a 
“certain convocation of politic worms,” and who 
made it abundantly clear how a king might go a 
progress through the guts of a beggar. 

Mr. Eliot dwells repeatedly on such churchyard 
images. Like Shelley with his stars and towers and 
fountains and winding rivers, he has his few ruling 
symbols. But they are all symbols of decay and 
sterility, of the coming of old age and the disintegra- 
tion that comes after death: bones picked dry, “ra*s’ 
feet over broken glass in our dry cellar,” a “broken 
spring in a factory yard,” rust, yellow fog, yellow 
smoke. Water is the symbol of spiritual life. Mr. 
Prufrock and Gerontion both dream of white foam 
blowing over the water as a symbol of their need. 
Gerontion is the tragedy of “an old man in a dry 
month. .. waiting for rain.” In The Waste Land no 
rain ever falls, no water is met with. 

The accent of helplessness, of futility, of despair 
bordering on hysteria has never been so perfectly 
expressed as in certain passages of Mr. Eliot’s poetry, 
passages that are the complete expression of a de- 
cadence that is fascinated by the analysis of its own 
falling off. These poems run sniffing from post to post 
like a dog, and exert a spell to which we succumb for 
reasons that we hesitate to make clear. 

What has occurred is that, being unable to find 
within himself a remedy for our present discontent 



4 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Mr. Eliot has given way to despair. Civilization is 
frustration, spiritual life is drying up: that is his 
reiterated cry. Icarus has crashed: Bertrand Russel 

has drawn a picture of the resulting chaos, Mr. Eliot 
has analysed the emotional reactions of a jeune homme 
spirituel. Life, to Mr. Eliot, is too weary, too hope- 
less to be taken quite seriously. An analytical irony 
is the only refuge. “Let us,” he may not unfairly be 
imagined as addressing his muse, “let us differentiate 
the universe, and observe carefully the process of 
disintegration; let us assemble impressions and ass- 
ociated emotions, not bothering too much to preserve 
the consequential thread by which they are related; 
let us trace their effect among the nerves; we will 
employ the scalpel and pry within the skull, and 
shall discover whether the brain is really as dessicated 
as one might suppose; we will epitomise ash heaps 
and shall find beauty more beautiful by contrast.” 
Mr. Eliot’s last poem. The Hollow Men (1925), 
has not even this much of faith. It tapers off to noth- 
ing, with lines unfinished, and a dismal chorus at the 
end: 

This is the way the world ends 
This is the way the world ends 
This is the way the world ends 
Not with a bang but a whimper. 
Unfortunately, it is true. 

It is the voice of the Hamlet de nos jours — Hamlet 
in modem dress. 



Sweeney Comes to McGill 

(With apologies to Mr.Eliot) 

T HE night’s unconsciousness abates 
As Sweeney’s college day begins. 

The fifty thousand dollar gates 
Give promise of more startling sins. 

He treads the shiny marble halls, 

Nods at a pink and powdered doll. 

A furtive memory recalls 

The Mount Royal, Childs, the Capitol. 

A waning vertebrate extols 

The virtues of forgotten bards, 

But Sweeney deals in rigmaroles, 

Thumbing an oily pack of cards. 

“.. The Greeks achieved the only fame...” 

His Daily rustles, out of sight. 

“. . . and Shakespere had a moral aim. ...” 

Winks at the flapper on his right. 

Obediently he writes, and notes 
That someone died at 33, 

Then draws a fleet of crazy boats 
Over a wide and inky sea. 

The urgent academic ooze 

Glazes the round, cherubic eyes, 

Till Jew and Gentile interfuse 

In one astounding compromise, 

The furious games are fought and won, 

The Thundering Thousands come and go. 

Upon St. James Street shines the sun, 

And Ottawa reflects the glow. 

F. R. S. 



Black Bottom 

Leo Kennedy 

P ETER van Waffle paused in his obscure and 
sinful denunciation of his contemporary, one 
Henken Hoofer, long enough for the reporter 
carefully concealed beyond the carved jade and cairn- 
gorm screen with citrine embossings, to write in a 
dazzling blaze of journalese the end of what had gone 
before. Peter van Waffle sighed, inhaled gustily at 
the stem of his cigarette holder fashioned from old 
jagdaddah and grained peridot, then sipped absently 
at a stein, burnished and pewter-lidded, suggesting 
the vaguery these things do the sweet, al- 

mond-eyes, pale-bosomed sylphs of the older Rhine. 

It was a way he had. . . .naive, and reminiscent 
of that prince of tavern sots, Henken Hoofer. He 
said this himself. He screamed it in a thunder of rhe- 
torical excellence, keeping time the while with his 
beer mug on the table. He was no end of a musical 
critic. The reporter behind the screen with the cit- 
rine trimmings muttered unintelligibly. It was a 
way he had too. Five nights a week Van Waffle held 
forth in this tavern, and a larger public hungered 
for his words than might be accommodated. Hence 
the journalist. Hence all this business beyond a 
sceen. Waffle said: 

“Hoofer is a black hound and the father of mauve 
kittens. He has one blue eye and one green, but that 
does not help him. He writes like a half-asphyxiated 
wetnurse, or Aldous Huxley. I myself have reminded 
him of this, but you must not tell anyone. He has 
no complex worth mentioning, he does not know the 
higher steps of Dr. Freud, he has only one copy of 
Jurgen.” One copy of Jurgen\ Free Verse and the 
God of the Christians! One copy of Jurgen\ They 
considered each, each grim-mouthed. It was a way 
they had. 

Woffle, or rather the soul of Woffle was a weird 
business. It was pothered by Greenwich Village 
music and given to locomonical and pertebroning 
quaverings. A form of delirium tremens. He would 
scream suddenly in the night, and rush out in a tall 
hat and shift; at one time he did without the hat. 
That was Wuffle all over. He was, or he wasn’t. . . . 
things didn’t matter. He loved life and appetite, 
yet lived without property, other than his brasses, 
his complex, and of course, nineteen thumbed copies 
of Jurgen, bound most lasciviously. 

Nature, that discerning lady, had it to her thought 
that he should lay bricks, or lend money at a small 
interest, or marry, or do some wise thing; rather did 
he read Dreiser, and be a near-intellectual. Anyhow, 
since the philandering of Lao Tee Lao has there been 
one that has at some time fulfilled his destiny, and 
wrought the work suited to his hands? 

A devious, diagnostic understanding of this Wevvle 
is desired, if you would follow his adventures intel- 
ligently. The soul of the man is bare as brass, and 
those small scratches tantamount to the wrinkles on 
the male rhinoceros are very divulging. I mean, 
you can read quite a lot in them. You see: 

Waffles had finished with Hoofer, and his gallery 
sat, gaping politely. Waffles liked people to gape. 
It calmed his subconscious. It made him feel good. 
He nodded his great head in that benign way, and 
fingered the double goatee that was beloved of all 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



5 



the lady messiahs. Wuffle said: “Well. ...” and sat 
down again. The company rubbed a great many 
salamanders. They said: “Prosit” and beamed. . . 
Waffles rose. He swayed uneasily, and said: 

“It is no small thing I do. Gentlemen, I leave you, 
I leave you, and you must settle with the manage- 
ment. Tonight it is all over, or should be anyhow. 
You will see ” 

He went out alone, and they considered his rounded 
back with disfavor. They understood him if you don’t. 

He lived in a distant part of that place. Yellow, 
and black and dark blue taxicabs rushed past him 
on his way, hooting in a sad derision. He passed one 
parked roadster on a quiet street: the seat held two 
occupants, both very young. The lights were dimmed; 
in that still twilight he saw two sleek heads held 
close together. They were discussing theology. 

The man squinted thoughtfully down his nose and 
turned soft eyes inward. Inside was the man that no- 
body knew. The man nobody knew. . . . knew. . . . 
He did not want anyone to know anything. It was 
his secret. Then he thought he would polish up his 
latest compromises with paganism. He did not tell 
anyone why they should compromise paganism or 
anything else. That was another secret he shared 
with Waffles. Waffles walked on. Drunken lampposts 
reeled past, shedding vague shadows and obscene 
colors; a wooden Indian before a tobacconist’s grinn- 
ed in fellowship and made a long nose. He slashed 
its headdress with his stick. God, what was the matt- 
er with the world? . . .War, pestilence, the exorbitant 
price of unmentionable commodities, Edith Sitwell, 
and primitives with one copy of Jurgen. That was 
it. He paused on a curbstone to rail at fate and curse 
the Hoofer. He said He was on a strange street, 
a new train of thought. Streets .... long wriggly 
things you went along .... they never went along 
you .... queer, what? Streets had two sides and a 
bottom; no top. 

Why? He cried suddenly: 

“Canaille! you have no tops to your streets! Your 
houses have tops, your bottles, your ash cans, coffins, 
markets, gallows, cursory publications, hats, vale- 
tudinary mouths, and pelminiseri, not to mention 
the zaffre-hued sorceries you entice to your homes. 
Can you deny it?” He glared about him. He was 
on a pier of the riverfront. A quiet breeze blew his 
long hair; in such moonlight as was there his velvet 
coat shone sleek as a cat. One of Van Vechten’s cats. 
He stamped his feet. He repeated: “Will you deny it?” 

Someone spoke with a honeyed voice: — “Dirty 
Dutchman, Dirty Dutchman,” Waffle heard. “I am 
not Dutch! My people were on the Wallflower!” 
Peter roared, and stopped, to simper. It was quite 
a good pun, he reflected. Something to spring on 
those sots in the tavern. He dreamed. . “That is 
probably true,” the voice went on bitterly, “but you 
are very dirty at all events. Very.” From the squir- 
ming shadows, one came that grappled suddenly 
with Peter. He fought, recovering his sobriety, but 
that was too late. In a moment he swung from his 
feet and hurtled down. 

As he meditated on the dark water hastening to 
meet him. Waffle had strange thoughts. He thought: 
“O, my feet are firmly on soil but that is no salvation. 



There has come a loosening of everything; the sea 
is overhead, it falls on me! I have lived a long life, 
with beer and sorrows, but now that’s of no conse- 
quence. For, this one mad moment, all my labour 
has merited. This hour when the world falls on me 
is sweet.” But when he landed with his head upon 
the water, he thought otherwise and gasped. Albeit, 
there was a great mourning in the heart of Waffle 
when there played on his subconscious the thought 
that he might die; and when the assailant on the 
wharf above bawled down a confirmation of this, 
it did not help much. He said: “(Splutter) Why 

have you done this thing, and in what manner will 
it profit you? What is your house, and are you a 
Klansman? If you are married or even have children, 
there is a dotted line for these things. It will be a 
good thing if you will throw me the rope that is there ; 
this water is cold, and boggles clear thought, and 
besides, my name is Peter van Waffle.” What moon- 
light there had been was fallen into the water, and 
shimmered below at a considerable depth. It fright- 
ened him. He thought fitfully of his collections, 
his Jurgens. Then his cosmos fully grasped, and he 
whimpered. The man said : “Yes: and mine is Hoofer.” 

“I think,” Waffle ventured, “That I have heard 
of you.” “Yes,” soothed Hoofer, sitting on the pier’s 
edge and swinging his legs, “and I had long desired 
to dispute your conclusions of me. Now my eyes, 
they are both blue, you know” “I did not, but, 
I am pleased. And your children, I suppose, are not 
extravagantly coloured after all. I yield all this; but 
you will please to throw me a rope I have mentioned, 
for the temperature here is lower than at your place.” 
“Now that is odd,” mused Hoofer, “when I was young 
they thought otherwise. It was some silly delusion 
of a low temperature and high altitude, I think.” 
“Yes, yes,” Waffle put in peevishly, “I know all about 
that. But there is no mention of cold water in quan- 
tity. Now that rope is just beside you, and would 
be of great help. I will listen to anything you say 
on temperatures when I am out of here.” His torm- 
entor nodded. “This water,” the bather insisted 
with rattling jaws, “is dam’ cold. And I am not so 
young as I was. Nor,” he added with conviction, 
“is my blood as warm as it was when I was younger 
than I am now. So for Kelly’s sake throw me that, 
and I will take back all that I have said or intended 
to”. “My eyes and the color of my family may annoy 
you, but you must admit my poetics. I am poetic- 
ally just. All my life has been hot water because of 
your venom and indigestion, now I have pushed you 
into cold.” Peter writhed and his head went under 
again. His complex was sodden and that 
soul I have mentioned as being in his care was rapid- 
ly blackening from the thoughts in his heart. Henken 
knelt, and bending as far as he could to the wet poet, 
mewled sentimentally. Then he picked up a barge 
pole that was there and thrust his man under till 
he drowned. 

That is all. He left the barge pole where he had 
found it, and went from that place. He threw the 
false goatee into the water. He kept the bowler on 
his head and wore it for many years after. When 
he passed up a street the two persons were still dis- 
cussing theology. It may have been the question- 
able virtues of the Septuagint by that time, but as 
he did not tell me I cannot say for certain. Anyhow, 
it does not matter very much. 



6 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Song 

S INCE of a splendour that you have 
They are come sighing, to your door 

All the young men 

Will voices sadly amorous 
High deeds, or riches clamorous 
Avail them, then? 

Or . . .would you hear earth’s lost music , 

And all the tears that are 
The rattle of the rain; and those old things, 
Fleeting in the mystic twilight of a wood, 
Horned, nameless, with the little hoofs of goats 

So in some verses one will bring 
Blind pagans sing and dryads dance, 

While an elf trips: 

Besotted Bacchus pours his wines 
In cups of gold from fairy mines, 

Wooing your lips. . 

Leo Kennedy 



Trivium 

M ASSES heard the great Houdini, 
Masses shouted for the Queeme. 
Did you ever see such asses 
As the educated masses? 



The Genteel Tradition in Education 

Norman Studer 



Mr. Studer, who is editor of The New Student, has sent 
The McGill Fortnightly Review this article which is the 
opening chapter of a book which he hopes to publish in the 
near future dealing with the new student movement. Al- 
though the article disctisses early education in the United 
States it is not without interest to the C anadian student. 
A consideration of some similar aspects of Canadian educa- 
tion, with a view of tracing the origins of present tendencies 
in Canadian Universities, would be welcomed in these 
columns. 



U NFORTUNATELY a great deal of modern 
criticism of our schools and colleges is ineffectual 
because it is too short-sighted. So many of our 
critics look upon the educational problem as having 
suddenly spung into existence the day before yesterday. 
Lacking 7 the proper historical perspective we write 
reams and reams on our “educational problems, 
and get nowhere. We must re-examine our education, 
find out what stock of educational ideas the colonists 
originally brought from Europe; measure the impact 
of pioneer life upon the classroom; trace the gradual 
evolution down to the present moment. 



Let us briefly examine the early American college. 
In it we find influences that still linger on the campus. 
Changed as the modern college is, we will recognize in 
it traces of the older educational scheme. 

Until the middle of the nineteenth century, college 
education in America consisted of the narrow, tra- 
ditional drill in mathematics, classics and theology 
which Europe inherited from the Renaissance. It was 
a complete and rigid system, contrasting strangely 
with the elastic, tentative pioneer spirit. It engaged 
the learner by its traditional authority and the pres- 
tige it gave him in society rather than by any ability 
to seduce his youthful imagination with living ideas 
and sharpen his appetite for insight into the “bloom- 
ing, buzzing confusion” that actual life presents 
everywhere. 

Here as elsewhere in history men had cherished a 
formula that had lost its magic. Once the elements 
of this formula, Puritanism and the classical literatures, 
had been truly educative, leading out men's minds 
from the cramp of medieval absolutism, releasing 
powerful jets of intellectual energy. Protestantism 
had educated Luther and his followers because it 
broke through the encrustation of ecclesiastical monop- 
oly and gave rein to private spiritual enterprise. So 
the literature of Greece and Rome had freed Erasmus 
and Rabelais. • With classical weapons they overthrew 
the quiddities and hair-splittings of schoolmen. But 
by a mad caprice of fate these disciplines have enslaved 
American education. Wherever ecclesiastical control 
is supreme today, free thought is impossible in scient- 
ific fields; there professors must battle for the right to 
teach as they think and students are in revolt against 
compulsory chapel services. The classics, degenerating 
into mere exercises in “constructions”, have needed to 
be relegated to the background. 

This imported curriculum was of a piece with the 
borrowed English culture which persisted in America 
long after the revolution. Higher education was or- 
iginally monopolised by a learned aristocracy and the 
“leveling” processes that went on in the young 
nation were bitterly opposed by the college-bred. 
“How this class,” wrote James Parton, biographer 
of Andrew Jackson, “hugged their gentilities, geneal- 
ogies, conservatisms and all of the other antiquated 
and effeminate nonsense, of which Europe is beginn- 
ing to be ashamed, and is prepared to cast off as a 
tawdry and ragged old cloak.” The students at 
Harvard, setting fire to an effigy of Andrew Jackson 
symbolized the rift between the Old America and the 
New. 

Contemporary critics have pointed out how this 
rift continued to separate cultured America from 
practical America, even down to the present day. It 
is the antithesis, described by Van Wyck Brooks, 
between Highbrow and Lowbrow, between the life 
of thought and the life of action. On an upper level 
America has produced the gloomy Calvinistic philos- 
ophy of Jonathan Edwards which eventually flowered 
in the pure, ethereal transcendentalism of Emerson. 
This is not a growth of the American soil, it is essentially 
European, and its old world counterpart is easily 
identified. The same may be said of the writings of 
Longfellow, Washington Irving and Bryant. The 
tendency of this culture has been to draw farther and 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



7 



farther away from the sweat and the grime of living 
and embalm itself in the bloodless and static phil- 
osophical systems woven in monastic college retreats. 
Santayana has aptly called it the “genteel tradition.” 

On the lower level burgeoned the aggressive life 
of the market place, explosively active and abjectly 
worshipful of the Bitch Goddess Success. Benjamin 
Franklin was perhaps a father of the line. Its leading 
practitioners were those ruthless Generals of Industry 
who built our railways, dug the canals, corrupted 
legislatures and reared the skyscrapers of our indus- 
trial world. By the need of subduing the wilderness our 
pioneers were moulded to a narrow purpose; the 
“acquisitive” instinct was supreme. They fixed on 
our nation a preoccupation for getting and spending 
which has long outlived its usefulness. 

When America began to expand beyond the Alle- 
ghenies the pioneer tradition which the unlettered 
Andrew Jackson personified, became ascendent, and 
the colleges were becalmed outside the main current 
of affairs. Power was in the crude hands of backwoods- 
men and farmers, or the cunning ones of the newly 
rich who were beginning to take the place of the old 
aristocracy. In this bustling atmosphere the old 
aristocratic education was useless. Henry Adams in 
his autobiography tells how valueless a Harvard 
education had come to be in the period before the 
Civil War: “Harvard College as far as it educated at 
all was a mild and liberal school which sent young 
men into the world with all they needed to make 
respectable citizens and somewhat of what they 
wanted to make useful ones. Leaders of men it never 
tried to make. Its ideals were altogether different. 
The Unitarian clergy had given the college a character 
of moderation, judgment and restraint, excellent 
traits which the college attained with singular success, 
so that its graduates could commonly be recognized 
by the stamp, but such a character rarely lent itself 
to autobiography. In effect, the school created a 
type, but not a will. Four years at Harvard College, 
if successful, resulted in an autobiographical blank, 
a mind on which only a water mark had been stamped.” 
“.. In essentials, like religion, ethics, philosophy; 
in the concepts of all sciences, except, perhaps, math- 
ematics, the American boy stood nearer the year 
one than the year 1900.” 

The effect, when men confronted life with the 
inadequate tools of the old college in a century when 
old things were swiftly passing away, was disastrous. 
Henry Adams, twenty years after his graduation, 
was still paying for the tragic parochialism of his 
education, when, visiting the World’s Fair at Chicago, 
he stood before the exhibit of steam engines and 
dynamos: symbols of the spirit of the New America. 
There in Chicago men hesitated prayerfully before 
strange inventions, absorbing a delayed education 
in the mechanical energies that were transforming 
the very social fabric of America. Bewildered, they 
“had no choice but to sit down on the steps and brood 
as they had never brooded on the benches of Harvard 
College, either as students or professors, aghast at 
what they had said and done all these years, and 
still more ashamed of the childlike ignorance and 
babbling futility of the society that let them sav and 
do it.” 

It is perhaps unjust to berate the early colleges for 
a moldy stock of ideas. The good men who founded 
them had primarily religious ends in view. They 



wanted their institutions to prepare a pathway through 
the wilderness for the Lord. The moral obligation 
was to be Godly rather than intelligent. Consequently 
discipline was severe and religious doubt practically 
unheard of. Students were forced to attend chapel 
daily and hear two sermons on the Sabbath. These 
learners were kept at an appropriately respectful 
distance from their teachers at all times. The latter 
were righteous and austere men, compensating in 
sanctity for what they lacked in scholarship. The 
president was invariably a minister of the gospel, 
a rigorous and shrewdly practical man who gave 
required senior courses in the Evidence of Christianity. 
On the authority of William James we are told that 
these classes were edified rather than awakened and 
that they left college with their “generous, youthful 
impulse to reflect on the world and our position in 
it rather dampened than encouraged and stimulated 
by the lifeless discussions and flabby formulas they 
had to commit to memory.” 

The learners performed dutifully enough in this 
puritanic atmosphere. The few who realized its 
shortcomings buried their complaints in autobiograph- 
ies for posterity’s ears. Much of the energy of youth 
was sublimated in horseplay — the interminable and 
often bloody bouts between town and gown. For the 
contemplative student there was the literary society 
with its Websterian fledglings and the literary magazine 
which printed highly philosophical and ennobling 
disquisitions on “The Mission of Beauty,” “Chivalry,” 
“Utility and Beauty” and kindred topics. If there 
ever was insurgency it was provoked by rancid com- 
mons butter or an over-severe penalty for cribbing. 
In 1856 John Fiske narrowly averted dismissal from 
Harvard for his agnostic views — but that event sig- 
nalized the birth of a new era in higher education. 



Leda 

A S Leda lay dreaming 

By the still, sad stream 
In the gold of the gleaming 
Last sunbeam, 

A whiteness grew 
Out of the crisp air; 

A white bird flew 
To her bosom bare. 

The white wings of a swan 
Hovered over her dream 
That became a dream of dawn: 

An inward gleam 
Of beauty shone, 

Piercing her white body 
As the colour of dawn 
Pierces the sky. 

Ar.d suddenly tall Troy 
Pushed troubled towers 
Into a flaming sky; 

And there was blood upon the flowers 

Where wandered one 

Whose swan-like loveliness 

Made old men young 

And filled the young with bitterness. 

A. J. M. Smith 



8 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



BOOKS 



THE WORLD OF WILLIAM CLISSOLD 

(by H. G. Wells. 2 vols; Doran: $5.00) 

M R. Wells, the propagandist, drives another nail 
into the coffin of Mr. Wells, the artist. 



THE BIRTH OF THE GODS 

(by Dmitri Merezhkovsky. E. P. Dutton & Co. New York, $2.00) 

H ERE is a novel somewhat in the style of Gustave 
Flaubert, or better, the German Georg Eberts. 
It is romantic realism. Merezhkovsky has given us 
a pretty story of town life in ancient Crete. A quite 
different impression is given from that of Professor 
Glotz’s more sober account of the antique civilization 
on this Aegean island. Of course, after the archae- 
ological investigations of Sir Arthur Evans and others, 
Crete was bound to become a fad and Monsieur Mer- 
ezhkovsky has climbed on the crest of the wave. I think 
after all that I prefer Glotz as diluted by such hand- 
maidens of science as H.G. Wells and Hendrik W illem 
van Loon. This preference may be due to an inherent 
dislike of romantic realism, but I rather suspect that 
it is caused by my distrust of fiction as a vehicle for 
religious propaganda. Our Russian author, a staunch 
Czarist and churchman-a refugee in Paris by the way~ 
has worked out a beautiful theory, which could not 
possibly be historically supported, that the Cretan 
cult of the bull, the heifer and the minotaur was gen- 
erating within itself elements friendly to Christ- 
ianity. This is an ingenious theory, but only a 
theory. We must object, however, when he makes 
his martyrs die with a consciousness of dying for a 
cult which was to spring up in far-away Judaea 
several centuries later. Why could he not have them 
as simply martyrs for a new world order in which 
there would be no such abominations as were the 
delight of that early age? . , , 

Nevertheless, the book is not in the least tiresome, 
and we are all bound to be amused by the > personal 
descriptions of kings, priestesses and “Bees,” as well 
as the grotesque manlike bulls and mmotaurish men 
One cannot avoid genuine laughter over the visit oi 
Tutankhamon to Crete, and especially his strange 
infatuation for that cosmetically decorated creature 
Eranna. In fact, there is a really clever dialogue where 
the Eranna episode is recounted. 



BOLSHEVISM IN AMERICAN LABOR UNIONS 

(by John A. Dyche. Boni & Liveright, New York , $2.00) 

T HIS is one of the least informing books on eco- 
nomics Boni & Liveright have ever published. 
It was intended, without doubt, to sell on the 
strength of its sensational title. The fact is that the 
author seems to have a most hazy notion of what 
bolshevism is. He uses the term to cover practically 
all trade-union activities in the industry in which 
he is interested. This industry is the clothing manufact- 
uring entreprises of New York City, a concentration 
of interest not hinted at in the title. 

John A. Dyche is an employer of labor in the cloth- 
ing business, and he aims at showing his workers 
the absurdity of being bolshevist. This might be 
very creditable, especially if he distinguished between 
bolshevism and the indefinite radicalism of the New 
York clothing workers, who seek agreements limiting 
the number of apprentices in the trade — surely a policy 
far from the bolshevist tenets. 

Dyche is himself a Jew, but he claims to be 
Americanized. He knows that the majority of his work- 
ers are Jews and that they are immigrants. So, he 
borrows the word, “Yiddish,” which means the Judeo- 
German language, and uses it as a generic term for 
Jewish immigrants. Then he sets to and belabours 
the bolshevik Yiddish workers. Why, being an in- 
dustrialist, he thus attacks his own people is not so 
clear. At least it is very uncharitable and is always 
a dangerous thing to do in an intolerant country, 
as is his adopted land. 



THE OLD OLIGARCH 

(Basil Blackwell, Oxford) 

T HE Old Oligarch, (being the constitution of the 
Athenians ascribed to Xenophon), translated 
with an introduction by James A. Petch, M.A., 
(Basil Blackwell, Oxford.) . , , 

It is refreshing to find, no matter how far back 
one has to go in the history of the world, a po- 
litical partizan who (admitting of course that his 
opponents are rascals) does not claim that his party 
will be the salvation of the state and will morally 
regenerate his fallen land. The Old Oligarch would 
like his party in power, but he recognizes that the 
commons know on which side their bread is buttered 
when they keep to the democracy. And he goes on 
to «how why. From an historical and literary stand- 
point it is not worth a chapter of Thucydides, but it 
is interesting — for sometimes, though rarely, a political 
pamphlet can be interesting. 



ZULEIKA DOBSON 

(by Max Beerbohm. Modern Library, $1.00) 

T HE Modern Library (whose books are carried in 
this country by The MacMillan Co.) have 
again shown their catholicity of taste by adding 
this volume to their collection of works by modern 
authors. Zuleika Dobson lives in the imagination 
as a magnificent achievement in the realm of the 
burlesque; to read it is to realize the great artistic 
possibilities of this particular literary form, which 
we know too often as mere slap-stick comedy. Who 
could drown the entire undergraduate body of a 
University with such chivalry, such solemnity, such 
splendid generosity as Mr. Beerbohm? 



Tailpiece 



P OOR little wistful Poem, 
Tagging in after the others, 
What are you all about? 
Have you a meaning and moral? 
Have you a purpose? 



Jo? 

Jod help you! ^ 

Yhat — what would the English Department 
>ay of such a song? 

3 Vincent Starr 



