
Montreal, October 27, 1893 



PACK 

Sports Night at the Queen's 37 

Tri-Faculty Night — Law, Arts, 
Science 37 

Legal Briefs 39 

Medical Class Reports 39 

Arts Notes 39 

Feathers from the East Wing 40 

Saturday's Excursion 40 

Science Jottings 41 

Olla Podrida 41 



McGILL UNIVERSITY 
ARCHIVES 



ACC. NO. 

n>l 



REF. 



•PAGE 



Editorial Comments 25 

Students on the Campus 26 

Contributions 29 

In my Easy Chair 29 

Our Drama 30 

The Union and Towards It 32 

Poetry 34 

Societies 34 

Class Reports 35 

Medical Notes 35 













Ffi 



me 



ITALIAN MANDOLINES 
• ' AMERICAN GUITARS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“ STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 



“DOBSON” . . . 



.0onjos 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything in the 
Musical Line . 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



KODAKS 



and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 
PRICES : $6 to $75- 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

Montreal Photographic Supply* 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada: — Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



Special Oases of McGill 
Drawing Instruments 



Opticians, 

258 ST. JAMES ST. 

Two doors east of McGill 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 

D. DRYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 




High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, 



Ager*t for Storrett’s Tools. Telephone 169 . 

E. A. GERTH, STUDE NTS' HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block 
MONTREAL. : : 

op High-Class Havana Cigars 

Try Gerth's Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kynazi Freres’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty. 

J. H. CHAPMAH, 

2294 St* Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 



Bell Telephone, 4390. 



MONTREAL- 



Munroe Bros.. 



▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ 



To our Patrons: 

beg to inform our customers that Mr. W. 
Ill W. Armstrong having retired from the 
firm of Armstrong & Munroe, the new 
firm will henceforth be known as Munroe Bros. 
We will carry complete lines of every article 

required Gcnts » Furnishings, “? we 

respect- - 2 ! fully so- 

licit a continuance of the patronage so generously 
accorded us in the past. 

Yours respectfully, 

2246 St. Catherine St. MUNROE BROS. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



.17 Bleury Street 



TELEPHONES. 



Warehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 




SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



'Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T W NESS & CO 749Cra * st - 

/ . W. #VCOO Oi Gl/., MONTREAL 




fAQG\hh FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. II. MONTREAL, OCTOBER 27, 1893. No. 2 




Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A , (Law *95) F. A. Wilkin, (Science ’95) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y ™ H ( (Comp. Med. and Vet 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) ' ’ ' l Science *94. 



EBUSINESS BOARDS 



ant and helpful to him.” You are not expected to do 
more than what is reasonable, but you are expected to 
keep up your end of the log. McGill is part and par- 
cel of Great Britain, so that it is perfectly natural for her 
to expect every nun to do his duty. So “ all hands to the 
pumps,” boys, and let us make this year one of the best 
our University has ever seen, not because we have a few 
bright and shining lights, but because every under- 
graduate of our University is imbued with a spirit of 
cheerful helpfulness that will share the labour and 
lighten the burden of those who have the heavy end of 
the log to carry. 



Frank J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrbll, (Donalda *95) H, M. Mackay, B.A., (Science ’94) 

C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) H. R. Cleveland, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc.) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

1 he annual subscription is ji.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. RenouPs, Win. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street. Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



OUR DUTY. 

Our College Session is now in full swing and every- 
thing in working order. We as undergraduates of a 
well-ordered University have elected our officers to 
their positions of honour, thereby declaring our trust in 
them and our confidence in their ability to fulfil the 
duties of those offices with credit to the various bodies 
who have elected them ; at the same time, we feel 
they will do credit to our Alma Mater. They have 
been chosen with thoughtful judgment as being the best 
fitted to accomplish that which is required of them in 
their respective departments. 

So far we have done well and wish them every suc- 
cess ; but, just as the greatest general that ever lived 
could never have won a battle without the help of every 
private in the ranks, so we cannot expect our chosen 
leaders, good men and all as they are, to make their 
undertakings successful if every man amongst us does 
not contribute his share of work. We can all have a 
hatchet , though we are not all George Washingtons. 
For every one that has ten talents how many there are 
with only one ! Don’t underestimate the assistance you 
can give because it is small ; as Shakspeare has it : 
u Heavens make our presence and our practices pleas- 



L’UNION FAIT LA FORCE. 

The question of University feeling in McGill, as 
opposed to a faculty or class feeling, is one which is 
yearly growing in favour with McGill students. It has, 
however, more than once been hinted that such a sen- 
timent is dreamy and impracticable, and that those who 
advocate the importance of it are indulging in what 
might be termed college cant. The following extract 
taken from the Red and B.ue , the paper of the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, goes far to prove that there 
is something in reality in this feeling, and that its im- 
portance is recognized in other colleges besides our 
own : — 

“ We extend a hearty greeting to the freshmen, and 
urge upon them their responsibility as Pennsylvania 
men to further her interests in all ways as far as within 
them lies. Let them act together, keep class rivalry 
subservient to Varsity spirit, and support University 
institutions. The outcome of this will be an ever 
increasing college spirit, which will augur well for suc- 
cess in all ways,” 

We can only add our hearty assent to the thought 
conveyed in this paragraph, and assure our readers that 
even at the expense of a little ridicule the Fort- 
nightly aims at extending among McGill students 
a living, real, and practicable “ University feeling.” 



GOOD TASTE. 

Although the duties and responsibilities of the Edit- 
orial staff of this paper have never been clearly defined, 
yet the fact that to them is entrusted the issuing of a 
paper, which is designed to give expression to the feel- 
ings of McGill students, as well as to record matters of 
general college interest, entails upon them certain duties 
and responsibilities. 

One of these duties is to suggest anything which may 



26 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



appear to them to tend towards the welfare of their 
readers. 

In most Colleges, McGill included, there are always 
certain vague notions- regarding customs which .should 
be followed. These are more in the form of general prin- 
ciples, as, for example, the feeling, prompted by a natural 
esprit de corps , that, if on any occasion disputes should 
arise between the undergraduates, such disagree- 
ments should be kept strictly within the College walls, 
and not aired for the benefit of the public. We might 
extend this further and say that a justifiable pride 
should cause our undergraduates to endeavour invari- 
ably, as far as possible to present to the public an unbro- 
ken front, and to keep all symptoms of internal dissension 
out of sight of the public. This idea, we think, has a 
hazy existence among us, but it unfortunately happens 
that it is frequently overlooked, 

Almost as sure as any trouble or cause of disagree- 
ment arises between the students of the different Facul- 
ties, some enterprising reporter springs up, who in- 
veigles a report from a student on one side of the dispute 
or the other, and this gives him matter for an amusing 
article which invariably puts us all in a most ridiculous 
light. We may blame the reporter for this, but it is not 
his fault ; that is the way he makes his living ; we and 
we alone are to blame for our lack of amour propre. 

Annoying as this is, it is surely much more so to find 
that some of our own students, of course unthinkingly, 
rush at once into print and endeavour to fight the matter 
out before the reading public. 

This appears to us to be both most impolitic and very 
bad “ form.'’ Surely there is no necessity for it. 

It should be remembered that student-politics, which 
are and should be to us most important, are of little or 
no interest to the newspaper public ; and when letters 
appear from the students on College matters, they 
are generally passed over in contempt, or read with the 
same amused interest which often tempts elderly 
gentlemen to stop and watch two small boys fighting 
in the street. 

If any unfortunate event should cause dissension 
among the governing body of McGill or among the 
Faculties themselves, every effort would be made, we 
venture to say, to keep it as far away as possible from 
public knowledge. 

We feel certain that if the students themselves think 
over the matter quietly they will come to the con- 
clusion that it would be to the advantage of their Col- 
lege as well as themselves, if it were distinctly under- 
stood by all of us, that, when any dispute or faculty an- 
tagonism springs up, every endeavour should be made 
to keep it within the College gates. 

If any one wishes to give expression to his opinion 
on college matters, .the columns of the Fortnightly 
are open for publication of all letters which are written 
in moderate language. 



A UNION CLUB FOR McGILL. 

We call the special attention of all students and 
friends of McGill to the article in this issue from the 



pen of Dr. J. G. Adami, the Professor of Pathology. It 
comes quite apropos. The scheme which he advocates 
so heartily is one that should meet with the commen- 
dation of all lovers of the University. 

Our buildings are so scattered, and there are so few 
opportunities for intimacy between the students of the 
different departments, except upon the campus, that it 
is difficult for them to realize that they form parts of an 
organic whole. This is an evil to be found in every 
institution where there are no College dormitories, and 
the students are compelled to lodge out, as is the custom 
in the Scottish Universities. The action and re-action 
of mind upon mind, the rubbing off of useless corners 
and the resulting polish, are after all perhaps the chief 
advantages to be gained from University life. The 
training tells in after life even more than the subject- 
matter taught. Men should be taught how to think. 
Any scheme by which our students can be brought into 
closer relation one with another merits the serious atten- 
tion of all lovers of education. A healthy rivalry will 
be instituted, broader and more liberal views will be 
reached, and the happiest results will follow, — results 
which will be of far-reaching character and of lasting 
benefit not merely to the students but to the country at 
large. 

STUDENTS ON THE CAMPUS. 

Friday, the 20th instant, was a gala day at Old 
McGill, for on that day the University Athletic Associa- 
tion held the most successful field meeting that has 
ever been held by the students of our Alma Mater . 
The day was glorious ; just such a day as the Com- 
mittee and the Students in general had been wishing 
for, and had been beseeching “ Steve 99 to send them. 
The sun looked down from a clear blue sky, and yet 
it was not so warm that even the contestants w T ere 
inconvenienced. It would have been hard to have 
remained iu-doors to study on such an ideal day, even 
though there had been no special attraction outside, 
so it was not surprising .that McGill, almost to a man, 
spent the day on the campus. The friends of the 
students were present in large numbers as well. The 
oldest graduate does not remember when so large a 
crowd of spectators assembled at any time in the past 
on the College grounds, to watch the sports. Every spot 
from which the contests could be seen with advantage 
was taken possession of early in the afternoon, and was 
not vacated until the rush began for the Molson Hall 
after the last event. The small-boy was there in full 
force, and caused much trouble to the Committee and 
to the representatives of u the finest/ * who kindly 
favored the Committee with their valuable assistance. 
He mounted the fence, covered the roof of the dressing- 
house, climbed into the trees, and all too frequently tres- 
passed upon the forbidden ground within the ropes. But 
wherever he was, he yelled like — well — like the small- 
boy ; and that is pretty bad. Of course, everj ? body 
else did not signify their approval in whispers, we 
must remember. But the enthusiasm was not confined 
to the undergraduates and the kindergarten, for if 
these were interested, “ so were their sisters, and their 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



27 



cousins, and their aunts,” — to quote from a classic 
writer ; and we saw several of our grave and rev- 
erend professors showing signs of keen interest as 
well. 

There was plenty to be interested in. The hard- 
working Committee had arranged everything that they 
believed would tend to make the meeting a complete 
success. The events of the day fully realized their 
hopes. The Officers and Committee of the Association 
deserve the sincere thanks of all the Students. Their 
position was no sinecure, neither before the 20th nor 
during that day, though some of their classmates may 
have felt a touch of envy as they gazed upon the 
favored few within the ropes, who walked about 
sporting their badges and walking-sticks with an air 
of proper dignity. 

I11 the last number of the Fortnightly, the Secre- 
tary of the Association requested that a large number of 
students should enter the different events, and expressed 
a wish that several records might be broken. His 
request was heartily complied with ; as many as four- 
teen having entered for a single event, while in each of 
several contests there were from six to ten contestants. 
Moreover, several college records were broken, though 
the track was not really in good condition. Brown, of 
Arts, threw the 56 lbs. weight 1 ft. 1^ in. farther that it 
had been thrown in any former contest on the campus, 
making a new record of 22 ft. 7^ in. McDougall, 
of Medicine, put the shot 35 ft. 9 in., beating the former 
record by 1 ft. 8)4 inches. Barbour, of -Science, ran 
the half mile in 2 minutes, 2 1 sec., and Molson in 2 
mins. 3 sec., beating the old record by 3- sec. Tees, 
of Medicine, lowered the quarter-mile by 1 i sec. with 
Barbour only ^ sec. behind. In the Bicycle Race 
(first heat), Coussirat, of Arts, ran the mile in 3 mins., 
12)4 sec., the record having stood up to his perform- 
ance at 3 min., 20? sec. Robins, of Medicine, lowered 
the record in the mile walk to 8 min., 8! sec. 

The Inter-Faculty trophy was won by the Faculty 
of Medicine with 47 points out of a possible 95 ; Science 
won second place, Arts third, and Law fourth. Mr- 
Campbell, of Medicine, won the Individual trophy with 
13 points, having won four first prizes and one third* 
Tees, of Medicine, had 9 points to his credit ; Brown 
(Arts), seven points; Barber (Sci.), seven points; 
and McDougall (Medicine), six points. 

The following is the result of the different events : 

Kicking foot-ball— 1, J. H. Dunlop (Law); 2, G. 
H. Mathewson, B.A. (Med.) ; 3, G. W. MacDougall, 
B.A. (Law). Place kick, 129 ft.; drop kick, 129 ft. 
4 in. 

Throwing Hammer (16 lbs.) — 1, McDougall (Med.) ; 
2, Brown (Arts) ; 3, Baskin (Med.). 71 ft. 5*4 in. 

Running Broad Jump— 1, Campbell (Med.); 2, 
Killaly, B.A. (Sci.) ; 3, Tees, B.A. (Med.), 19 ft. 7 in. 

Throwing Heavy Weight— 1, Brown (Arts), 22 ft. 
7)4 in. ; 2, Pee vor (Arts), 21 ft. 7 in. ; 3, Basken (Med). 
Record broken. 

Throwing Cricket Ball — 1, Robertson (Med.), 97 
yds. ; 2, Donkin (Sci.), 96 yds. ; 3, Boucher (Med.). 



Hurdle Race (First heat) — 1, Tees (Med.) ; 2, Pep 
pers. (Second heat) — 1, Campbell (Med.) ; 2. Killaly 
(Sci.). 

Putting Shot (16 lbs.)— 1, McDougall (Med.), 35 ft. 
9 in. ; 2, Brown (Arts), 33 ft. 4)4 in. ; 3, Knapp (Med.). 
Record broken. 

High Jump— 1, Killaly (Sci.) ; 2, Bruce (Arts) ; 3, 
Campbell (Med.), 5 ft. 3 in. 

100 yds. (First heat) — 1, Campbell (Med.) ; 2, Bruce 
(Arts). (Second heat) — 1, Tees (Med.) ; 2, Irvine 
(Med). (Third heat) — 1, Curran (Med.) ; 2, Halpenny 
(Arts). 

880 yards Run.— 1, Barber (Sci.), 2 min. 2 3-5 sec ; 
2, Molson (Sci.), 2 min. 3 sec. ; 3, Fry (Med.). Record 
broken. 

One mile Bicycle — 1, Bickford (Sci.), 3 min. 20 sec. ; 

2. Coussirat (Arts). Record broken. In the trial heats 
Coussirat made the mile in 3 min. 12)4 sec., and Bick- 
ford in 3 min. 19 2-5 sec., both beating the record, which 
is 3 min. 20 sec. The old record was 3 min. 20 3-5 
sec. 

Hurdle Race (Final heat) — 1, Campbell (Med.) ; 2, 
Tees (Med.) ; 3, Peppers (Med.), 20 sec. 

440 yards Run — 1, Tees (Med.), 54 2-5 sec. ; 2, Bar- 
ber (Sci.), 54 3-5 sec. ; 3, Molson (Sci.), 55 sec. Record 
broken. 

Sack Race — 1, Cowan and Baker, tie ; 2, MacDougall. 
Run off— 1, Cowan (Vet. Sci.) ; 2, Baker (Sci.) ; 3, Mac- 
Dougall (Arts). 

Pole Leap— 1, Peppers (Med.) ; 2, Archibald (Sci.) ; 

3, Baker (Sci.), 8 ft. 4 in. 

100 yards Run (Final heat) — 1, Campbell (Med.); 

2, Irving (Med ) ; 3, Tees (Med.), 10 2-5 sec. 

Mile Race — 1, Brodie (Sci.) ; 2, Barber (Sci.) ; 3 
Bickerdike (Arts), 4 min. 56 2-5 sec. 

220 yards Run — 1, Campbell (Med.) ; 2, Tees (Med.) ; 

3, Halpenny (Arts), 25 1-5 sec. 

Mile Walk — 1, G. D. Robins, B.A. (Med.); 2, King 
(Sci.) ; 3, S. P. Robins (Sci.), 8 min. 8 2-5 sec. Record 
broken. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY RECORDS. 

The following are the records made by the men of 
McGill during the past nine years, counted up to date ; 

Kicking the football— G. H. Mathewson, 168 feet, 5)4 
inches. 

Throwing the cricket ball — C. Ault, 108 yards, 11 
inches. 

Putting the shot, 16 lbs. — McDougall, 35 feet, 9 in. 

Throwing the heavy weight 56 lbs. — J. L- Brown, 22 
feet, 7)4 inches. 

Throwing the hammer, 16 lbs. — N. Watson, 76 feet, 
9 inches. 

Standing broad Jump— Springle, 9 feet, ii )4 inches* 

Running broad Jump— H. M. Jacquays, 19 feet, 9 in. 

Running high jump— H. M. Killaly, 5 feet, 6 % in. 

Pole leap— Milburn, 9 feet, 9)4 inches. 

One mile bicycle — Coussirat, 3 min., 12% sec. 

One mile run— McTaggart, 4 min., 54)4 sec. 

One-half mile run— Barber, 2 min., 2 3-5 sec. 

440 yards run— Tees, 54 2-5 sec. 



28 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



220 yards run — Clark, 24^ sec. 

100 yards run — Kennedy, 10 2-5 sec. 

120 yards hurdle — No authentic record, but as far as 
kept, Connolly, 19^ sec. 

One mile walk — Robins, 8 min., 8 2 5 sec. 

Much of the success and pleasure of the day was due 
to the painstaking and able staff of Field Officers. The 
students owe the following gentlemen a debt of grati- 
tude : 

The Referee, Prof. Chas. E- Moyse, B.A. 

The time-keepers: — 

Prof. C H. McLeod, Ma E- 
“ J. T. Nicholson, B.Sc. 

W. A. Carlyle, B.A.Sc. 

J. Elder, M.D. 

The Judges: — Prof. C. A. Carus-Wilson, M.A. 

“ A. McGoun, M.A., B.C-L. 

“ T. Wesley Mills, M.A , M.D. 

“ John Cox, M.A. 

Starter— R. F. Ruttan, B.A., M.D. 

Clerk of Course — D. D. McTaggart ; Asst. Clerk, W. 
G. Turner. 

Measurers — A. Collyer and R. H Balfour. 

Scorers — R. H. Barron, B.A., and B. Anderson. 

Judges of Walking— Prof. M. C. Baker and Prof. T. 
Wesley Mills, M.A., M.D. 

Among the spectators were several old friends of 
McGill who had come to see the sport. Dr. Webster, 
’91, of Lansdowne, Ont. ; Dr. Bowie, ’91, of Brockville ; 
Dr. White, ’93, of Ottawa ; and Mr. Paton, President of 
the M.A.A.A., watched the contests. 

Early in the afternoon Messrs. Salvini and Paul 
Kester w'ere conducted through the buildings of the 
Applied Science and Arts Faculties by the committee 
in charge of the Law, Arts, and Applied Science the- 
atre turn-out ; they then witnessed the sports. 

The Committee was a little thoughtless when it chose 
the 20th as Sports’ Day, for the Governors of the Uni- 
versity were required to be present on that day at a 
meeting in the Molson’s Bank. For three years in suc- 
cession the field meeting of the McG.U.A.A. has been 
held on a day on which the Governors met in session, 
thus preventing their attendance at the sports. We 
have it on good authority that the Governors look upon 
this as a slight, and would, accordingly, recommend 
that the Committee take this into consideration when 
fixing a date another year. 

Many of the teachers assembled in Convention in the 
city were allured from their deliberatings to the col- 
lege campus. 

It is said that a fair Donalda was over-heard to re- 
mark in the Molson Hall, that she liked “ the student 
that cheers but not inebriates.” 

Peace and quietness reigned supreme in the Molson 
Hall until 5.30 p.m., at which hour the last contest was 
ended. In two minutes the Hall was crowded, and 
standing room was at a premium, while Pandemonium 
itself could not have presented a greater scene of up- 
roar. But no one would have stopped the noise if he 
could have done so, for it was merely the outburst of 
irrepressible enthusiasm. Ofcourse the McGill cry was 
quite conspicuous, and the assembly was assured that 



Arts and Medicine were all right, while the Science 
yell rang out sharp and clear. A band of students in 
one corner had a partiality for singing “ Hop along, sis- 
ter Mary,” in season and out of season, while thosein an- 
other part of the hall were quite anxious to inform the 
company that “ There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the 
Sea.” Several of the leading voices gathered at the 
head of the stairway, and lead off in some songs in which 
the students joined with McGill’s old time vigor. 

The prizes were pretty and costly. Eight silver me- 
dals and a gold one were among them. The Presi- 
dent, Mr. G- H. Mathewson, B A., occupied the chair 
(that is, he stood up and called up the prize-winners), 
while Mrs. Dr. Alexander Johnson presented the prizes. 
Each prize-winner was duly cheered and bounced in a 
way that would make a timid person feel pleased that 
he had not broken a record on the campus. The cheer 
with which the Law, Arts and Science men greeted 
the announcement that Medicine had won the inter- 
Faculty trophy showed clearly that the best of feeling 
exists among the Faculties, the croakers to the contrary 
notwithstanding. 

Following are the names of the officers and com- 
mittee of the McG U- A. A. upon whom the success of 
the day so largely depended : — 

Officers : — 

Hon. President ,— Sir J. W. Dawson, LL. D., F.R.S. 

President, — G. H. Mathewson, B.A., Med. 

Vice-President,— W. Donahue, B.A., Law. 

Secretary, — J. C. Hickson, Arts. 

Hon. Treasurer, — Prof. C. E- Moyse, B.A. 

Treasurer , — H C Baker. Sc. 

Committee : — 

Arts — Bickerdike and Turner. 

Law— Cox, B.A., and Barron, B.A. 

Medicine— Pritchard, B.A., and McTaggart. 

App. Science— Collyer and Balfour. 

Comp Med. — Anderson and Cowan. 

Theology— Hamilton, B.A., and Leitch. 



FOOTBALL- 

THE INTERMEDIATE CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The McGill Second played their final match in the 
Intermediate series on Oct. 21, when they defeated 
Britannia Second by 19 points to 8. 

Britannia played their old scrimmage and dribbling 
game, while McGill trusted to their half-backs and 
wings. 

The McGill scrimmage held and heeled out just 
like a machine, Drum doing excellent work at centre; 
Leslie as half-back was perfect ; Schwartz on wing 
worked like a horse, and followed up the ball closely 
all through the game ; Dyer at full-back did not get 
much to do, but showed that he was fast, a hard safe 
tackle and a good kick. 

Enough credit cannot be given to Lome Drum, the 
captain. A less enthusiastic worker or one who 
grudged the necessary time could never have brought 
and held together the combination which has won for 
McGill the Intermediate championship of Quebec for 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



29 



the first time. The following team represented McGill : 
back, Dyer ; % backs , Baker, Leslie, Lynch ; % back , 
Rogers ; wings, Cowan, Turner, Switzer Hill, Schwartz, 
Donkin; scrimmage , Hamilton, Lewis, Drum (capt.), 
Collyer. 

The McGill Second defeated the Lennox ville team on 
Oct. 14th by a score of 31 to 4, on the Lennoxville 
grounds. In the first half, Lennoxville had the advan- 
tage of a fairly stiff breeze, and managed to hold our 
team down. McGill did not seem to play her combi- 
nation game, and the wind interfered with those long 
passes that our half-backs indulge in. However, they 
got first blood in the shape of a rouge, Riopel then 
scored a try by a very pretty run, which roused McGill, 
who forced a rouge, a safety and a touch in before half 
time, making the score 5 to 4 in their favor. 

With the wind in their favor, our Second had no 
difficulty in running up 26 more points in the next 
half, Lennoxville failing to score. Riopel, Almond and 
Robertson played an especially strong game for Len- 
noxville. 

* • 

For McGill, Angus and Drum in the scrimmage, and 
Draper and Schwartz on wing were the stars. 

Mr. Hamilton made a very satisfactory referee. The 
team has to thank the Lennoxville club for a very 
pleasant evening after the match. 

The following were the teams : — 



Lennoxville . 

Kingsmill 

Rothera ) 

Almond (capt) v 
Willett ) 

Riopel 

Matthewson 'l 

Mitchell | 

Sutherland 
Robertson ! 

Dowdell 

Kerwin J 

Watson ) 

Donnelly 
Stevens 
Johnson 



back — 

....half backs 
quarter back . 



.Wings 



.Scrimmage. 



McGill Second 

Leslie 

f McDougall 
< Lynch 
( Baker 

Rogers 

f Tees 
Turner 
Cowan 
Schwartz 
Draper 
, Wilkin 
f Alley 

! Drum (capt) 
| Angus 
( Donkin 



Referee, Arthur Hamilton, M.A.A.A. 



McGill’s chances for the Senior championship went 
up in smoke on October 21st, when Montreal defeated 
her by a score of 25 to 3. 

The Montreal captain thinks he has the fastest 
wings in the league, and he is right beyond question. 
The McGill wings are fast, but they are not in it with 
Montreal either for speed or blocking. 

Our scrimmage played a hard game, but their heel- 
ing out was of no avail, for the Montreal wings were 
down on our half backs like a flash as soon as the ball 
was passed to them. 

Every match shows more and more clearly that the 
wings are becoming a most important feature in a 
team, and where these are outmatched the game must 
be lost. The Montreal back division is very good, 
but not particularly better than ours, while our scrim 
mage could hold their own without much difficulty. 
The following were the teams 



Montreal. 
Branch 



back 



Savage ) 

Fry V y 2 backs. 

Hagar ) 

Wand % back . 

Buchanan (capt) f 

Higginson 

Jamieson 

Monsarrat j» Wings. *{ 

Baird I 

O Brien | 

James J ( 



Routh 
Poff. . 
Tames 



T scrimmage. -{ 

i ( 



Sherbrooke. 

Brunnelle. 

Molson* 

Trenholme. 

. McDougall, R. 
. .Gaudet (capt.) 

Rankin. 

Primrose. 

Jacques. 

Proderick. 

. . Draper. 
.McDougall, G. 

Dunlop. 

Guthrie. 

Angus. 

Alley. 



Quebec Seniors defaulted to McGill Seniors on 
October 14th, and apparently did not care to play off 
the championship match on October 16th, as McGill 
suggested. The consequence is that the Rugby 
association has dropped the Quebec first team out of 
the league. 

McGill Third defeated Montreal Third on October 
14th in the championship series by a score of 6 to 2. 

A heavy rain prevented any brilliant play by the 
back division, the ball being in the scrimmage the 
greater part of the time. Dyer at full back played a 
star game ; Molson by a very pretty run scored a try, 
which was not converted. The following team repre- 
sented McGill : — 



Back , Dyer ; backs , Molson, Trenholme, Drink - 

water (capt ) ; % back , Davidson ; wings , Schwitzer, Hill, 
Sutherland, Mowat, Bishop, Balfour ; scrhnmage , 
Hamilton, Lewis, Collyer, Russel. 



HOCKEY. 

A meeting of the McGill Hockey Club was held on 
Saturday evening, October 14th, in the Arts Reading 
Room. There was such a small attendance that the 
meeting was postponed till the middle of next month. 

Every man intending to play hockey should attend 
this meeting, when officers will be elected for the 
coming year. As our Freshman contingent includes 
some of the best hockey players in America, McGill 
should have a very strong team this year ; though un- 
fortunately we are entered in the Intermediate series 
only. It will be a great pity if more interest is not 
taken in Hockey this year by the Students in general. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



IN MY EASY CHAIR. 

/ am a gleaner after Tune . 

We see in newspapers, at intervals, notices of oddly- 
addressed letters passing through the Post Office 
turning over the pages of a scrap book a few evenings 
since, I unearthed a number of bona fide ones, which I 
noted away back in the ages. My brother kept a 
branch office in one of the London districts for several 
years, and we jotted down all the strange addresses 
which passed through our hands. I pledge my word 



30 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



for their genuineness, and they have the additional 
interest of being innocent of type hitherto: — 

To au old lady who on Ion non ( London ) bridge sells froot. 
Uncle John Hopposite the Church, Londen, England. 

Guys hospital Charity ward day nurse from No. 6 with a bad 
ancle. 

39 Cornhill 

Mann. 

Missis Carr 

to be left 

at Mister Leshmar 
sent telrs 

gersey 

{Saint He tier's, Jersey). 

Oiley white 

amshire 
Isle of Wight , 

Hampshire . 

Coneyach lunemtich 
Asiliam 
Colney Hatch , 

Lunatic Asylum. 

For keen victins 
at Winer easel 
Loudon 
For Queen Victoria , 

Windsor Castle. 

Fine Hart Departmint 
greson cort 
cristol palis 

Sidnom. 

Grecian Court , Crystal Palace , 

Sydenham . 

And the following unique specimen by some obscure 
poet : 

To Miss Bayman at Romjord this letter’s consigned, 

Mr. Postman make haste and convey it, 

A Confectioner s shop in the Market you’ll find 
So pray do no longer delay it, 

But hasten with speed, 

And bear it away, 

The postage is settled, 

There’s nothing to pay. 

Whether they found their way to their destination, 
this deponent saith not. 

H. M. 



OUR DRAMA. 

We are gathering again from various pursuits and 
recreations, from all parts of the country, to participate 
in the common delight of work and play at McGill. 
There are so many of us, and we have doubtless spent 
our holidays in so many different ways, that an account 
of some of our doings may not be uninteresting to the 
rest of our colleagues. 

We found our pleasure nearer home than those who 
sought the flowery glades of the Pacific Coast ; we ex- 
perienced less fatigue than he who strained his eyes en- 
deavoring to take in all the wonders of the White 
City; but we had as much unalloyed bliss as the 
youthful pair of doves whose honeymoon bills are paid 
by a wealthy P a P a - Where, you ask, is this Elysium 
this terrestrial paradise ? 1 respond with accents that 



should resound from the rocky shores of Newfoundland 
to the balmy groves of California, and from the frigid 
regions of Hudson Bay to the feverish coasts of the Gulf 
of Mexico : — Where else but the Lake of the Thous- 
and Isles? There indeed, where the “ moon shines 
bright and the stars give light,” where the evening 
zephyrs scarcely stir the bosom of the waters from their 
deep slumbers, and play but a faint aeolian strain among 
the leafy branches of the trees, where canoes glide with 
their happy loads down shadowy channels or into 
moonlit bays, and glistening sails dazzle the eyes 
in the glorious sunlight ; there indeed is the Valhalla 
of Canadian campers and the home of American can- 
oists. 

There had you floated down a certain deep dark 
channel upon a certain evening, you w'ould have seen 
before you a fairy scene of enjoyment. A rocky shore, 
against which the ripples broke with murmuring mel- 
odies, sloped gently back to where “ enthroned upon a 
flowery rise ” a cottage stood, all but concealed by the 
silver birch whose shining trunks shone thro’ the moon- 
light like the glistening body of a Naiad, and by the 
lofty elms that fain would shield the Naiad from the 
too familiar glances of the moon. Upon the slope a 
goodly company of dames and damosels with their white- 
suited cavaliers reclined at ease, while before them 
came and went the gorgeous pageant of an Ancient 
Court. The flaring blaze of Grecian fire shone on the 
gleaming shields and armour of the warriors, the royal 
scarlet, gold, and fur of a king and the many-tinted 
beauties of his attendants. It was the first presenta- 
tion of a Drama written for us and us alone, and en- 
titled : “ Sigurd the Viking.” I beg the literary critics 
who haunt the corridors of Old McGill to tieat it len- 
iently. The rhyme may be forced, the rythm may be 
halting, the phraseology may be bad, and the three 
unities may not be exactly observed, but the play served 
its purpose and gave us one happy evening. May it 
not be unworthy the notice of the readers of the Fort 
NIGHTLY. 

Wydown. 

SIGURD THE VIKING. 

A DRAMA 
Presented at 
“SAGUSTEWEKE ” 

August 1 8th, 1893. 



dramatis person^. 

IIaroed Old Viking, Sigurd’s enemy. 

Sigurd A Viking, Athole’s son. 

DagoberT— Sigurd’s friend and companion. 
ELfrida— D aughter of Harold, lost in infancy 
Guard, Nurse, Peasant, numerous Warriors and 
Attendants. 



ACT I. 

(Sigurd enters in canoe disguised as a minstrel.) 

Sigurd : The storms, when hideous deaths and frightful wrecks 
appear, 

often in these seas, and timid women quake and 
fear 

With silent hearts, while thinking sadly of the fate 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 3* 



Of many brave aud stalwart men, who seek the shore 
too late. 

But more they dread the fearless foes who, with relent- 
less looks, 

Swarm up our bays aud rob our homes, and dye with 
blood our brooks. 

My youth was spent in joyous games of skill and war- 
like sport, 

And early were my muscles taught the hardest tests to 
court. 

I swam and ran and hurl’d the spear with many an 
older man, 

Aud oft I saw my father’s eyes with pride my prowess 
scan, 

As through a shield my axe I Crashed, or pierced the 
target’s eye. 

While yet a child unused to war, my Dad in victory 
Returned from lengthened cruise with many captives 
in his crew. 

Among them was a fair-haired child, with eyes of clear- 
est blue, 

Aud dimpled cheeks so soft and pink, and lips that 
sweetly smiled, 

She won my mother’s heart, and my stern father — some- 
times wild — 

To her was more than kind. We grew together side 
by side. 

Warmed by the same sweetjove of father’s gentle Irish 
bride. 

When I first wentto win my sword by fighting on the 
sea, 

Elfrida shed some bitter tears, and said she’d pray for 
me. 

My mother made an under- vest of softest reindeer skin, 
And lined my helm with fleecy wool, and kissed me on 
the chin. 

We sailed away with many a cheer, — my sire, he liked 
to roam. 

But never yet had lost a ship, or robbed a peaceful home . 
We sought adventure far and near, and many strange 
sights saw, 

And scarce escaped with greatest work the Maelstrom’s 
mighty maw. 

We routed pirates off the coast, ’neath Erin’s sparkling 
eyes, 

And in the fight, my vessel brave, which I have called 
“ Surprise,” 

Smashed in the pirate chief’s, and I him prisoner took. 
When we returned, I found my mother and Elfrida look 
With pride on my success, and loaded me with praise. 

A feeling new then found its birth in those still youth- 
ful days. 

I loved Elfrida with a love that ever stronger grew, 

But when I to my sire spoke, he said what was quite 
true. 

That I was young to marry yet : so I was sent away 
To help some distant relatives anc. keep their foes at bay. 
For many a day in many a port I wandered to and fro, 
And many damsels smiled on me, but none like her I 
trow. 

So I returned, and still was faithful to my youthful love. 
But ah ! what anguish theu was mine, to find the 
dragon’s hoof 

Had trampled on the ashes of my old ancestral home- 
Elfrida gone, my mother lost, my father made to roam. 

I bowed my head upon my breast, and wept with bitter 
tears; 

My warriors brave around me stood, and swore revenge 
for years. 

A boy came rushing from the hills when our ship hove 
in sight, 



And cheered my soulfwith gladsome news, and set my 
heart aright 

My parents both were safe, altho’ my sire was wounded 
sore ; 

He said, like wolf upon the fold, Harold came down in 
gore, 

And wrecked our ancient habitat, and stole my future 
bride. 

The message from my father was, that with my war- 
riors tried, 

I should away to Harold’s den and give his carcass cold 
To birds to tear and winds to sport, and raze his castle 
old, 

Unto the ground in ruins quite, and slay his fearful crew. 
And so we’ve come. Around yon point my ship awaits 
anew, 

With four and twenty braves ; and I,,I seek an entrance 
here, 

Disguised with flowing hair as Lohengrin, the ancient 
Seer. 

{Sings serenade .) — 

Come my love, the stars are shining, 

Time is flying, 

Love is sighing. 

Come, for thee a heart is pining, 

Here, alone, I wait for thee. 

(Guard above), — 

What ho ! Who goes there ? 

Sigurd. 

Lohengrin, the Seer, am I. I’ve travelled far 
In my frail bark to sing of Harold’s victories, and now 
Await an entrance. 

Guard. — A ttend below. I’ll see my lord. 

(Exit), 

Sigurd. — N ow Odin and Thor, ye fearless gods, lend me your 
nerves, 

That from this awful place I may escape with my Elfrida 
dear. 

(Enter Harold in royal robes, and attended by numerous ser- 
vants). 

Harold. — Welcome to our halls, old man. The minstrel will 
always find a cup of mead and vacant seat in Harold’s 
home. In good sooth thou art most timely in thy 
coming. To-night we celebrate our royal] sou’s betro- 
thal to Elfrida. Euter, then, aud make ours a joyous 
feast. 

Sigurd — ( aside.) 

How tritely his vile tougue slips over her dear name. 
Scarce can I keep my hands from off his throat, the 
hoary villain fiend. 

(To H.) — Let Harold lead and I shall follow fast. 

Oft have I heard of Harold’s fame on sea, in battle 
and in love. It shall I siug right cheerfully. 

(Exit.) 

ACT II. 

SCENE I. —(Harold, Sigurd, Elfrida and attendants descend 
from castle ; vessel waits on shore.) 

Harold. — Mine old enemy Othere, the Blue Tooth, 
has gone, my spies report, in search of adventure, 
and left his fields and home defenceless. Now will 
I wreak my long-delayed vengeance, and carry off 
his wealth. Call forth my thanes aud vassals. 
{Bugle.) Now, men, once more we start upon 
victorious tour. A golden bracelet will I give to 
him who first opes Othere’s doors. To all I pro 
mise bounty large, and w alth. Haste ye ! Leave 
no preparation unattended to. 

Sigurd. — Would that I once again were young ! Then 
should I teach these striplings how to wield the 
axe. Then should I win your golden arm-ring 
not for its worth, but for the fame. 



32 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Harold. — Nay, my good minstrel, rest thou here, and 
cheer the drooping hearts of tearful maidens and 
older men. Thou hast well earned thy ease. Let 
younger men to war. Klfrida, I’ll hasten back 
with many a present rich with which to deck thy 
wedding dress. Fear not for my return, nor that 
of this, my bold, brave son. 



(S. Embracing E.) — And now, my darling heart, nothing 
shall separate us more Here in my arms shall 
thy resting-place be, safe from all the turmoil and 
strife of this wicked world. 

(D. comes back, and all get into canoe and go off ) 

ACT III. 



(Enters ship, and warriors row away ; Elfrida sings : — 
“ My darling heart.”) 

Scene II. — (Sigurd, still as minstrel, and Elfrida on shore.) 

Elfrida. — Oh ! minstrel ! Hast thou in thy wander- 
ings ere seen good Alhole’s home, where the brave 
Sigurd whilom did live ? The peaceful rule of 
Athole is well known ; mayhap thou hast rested 
there of late ? 



Sigurd. — Aye, that have I. But, alas ! not long since 
did I see the horrid ruins of his halls blackened 
by some marauder’s fire. Athole himself was 
wounded sore, and Sigurd the stripling off on the 
sea seeking for his enemy. 

Elfrida. — Sigurd is a brave warrior. Him have I 
known from earliest days ; and had he been near, 
no Harold would have torn me weeping from that 
happy home. 

Sigurd.— No! nor will he leave thee long in this 
robber’s den (, throwing off disguise ). Behold him 
who will carry thee back across the stormy seas 
and guard thee in safety from all ill. Oh ! Elfrida, 

I remember not when first my love lor thee was 
born. But long I’ve loved thee with a love that 
hates to leave thy side. The daily question, love, 
is, Lovest thou me ? And for thy answer now I 
wait. Nought but duty and obedience to my sire 
had taken me to Frankish shores, and left thee 
unprotected. And, when returned, I saw our home 
in ashes, I swore that ne’er I’d rest till thou wert 
safe, or I were stiff and cold in death. In this 
disguise I’ve sought thee here, to ask if thou dost 
love me well enough to fly hence and become my 
bride ? J 



Ei.frida.--I love thee, Sigurd, with my whole soul. 
I’d marry thee hadst thou but a paltry thousand a 
year. To the world’s end I’ll follow thee, and 
ne er be happy but when thou art near. But first 
remember that I was but a captive in thy father’s 
house. No parents do I know. And yet I have a 
faint remembrance of a lovely face that I called 
mother. I think I am of noble birth, and oh ! 
I hope, fit to be your bride, and thou dost love me 
as thou’st said. 



Sigurd.— “ Zoe mou sas agapo.” Never have my eyes 
rested on so fair a face, nor my hands held a softer 
palm. Nor time, nor loss, nor death itself can 
quench my love for thee. Fly with me, and we 
will be safe. My vessel awaits beyond the point 
and e’en now I expect my trusty Dagobert— (Loon’s 
cry) There he is - (answers, and Dagobert jumps 

from rannp'l J “ 



Dagobert.— How’s things, old man? We saw his 
mbs sail out of the harbor not long ago, and it 
was all I could do to keep our fellows from taking 
after him. But I said, the time is not yet Now 
what wilt thou that I should do ? 

Sigurd—Ruu up to the castle and get some rugs a 
water-proof and an umbrella. We must not allow 
the fair Elfrida to take congestion of the lungs. 

(Exit. Dagobert). 



(Enter Harold’s ship-men chanting.) 

Omnes — Scared by the sharp swords’ singing sound 
Brandished in air, the foe gave ground, 

The boldest warrior cannot stand 
Before King Harold’s conquering haud. 

And the King’s banner ever flies 
Where the spear-forests thickest rise. 

Although the King had gained of old 
Enough of Freya’s tears of gold, 

He spared himself no more than tho’ 

He had no well-filled purse to show. 

Our dauntless king with Gamle’s gore 
Sprinkled his bright sword o’er and o’er, 

Sprinkled the gag that holds the mouth 
Of the fell demon Fenri’s wolf. 

Proud swelled the warriors’ hearts when he 
Drove Eric’s sons out of the sea 
With all their Gotland host. 

(Enter Guard from Castle as ship touches shore.) 

Guard. — Hail, Oh King! Thy conquering hand must yet 
another victory gain/" 

Harold.— What meanest thou, good Thane? Are not these 
sufficient spoils ? Now shall I rest and prepare me for 
my gallant offspring’s wedding. 

Guard. — Pardon, Oh Harold, Not mine the fault, but on me 
falls the hateful duty of bad news. 

Harold. — Bad news ! bad news ! and thou dost jest, ’tis but a 
sorry sort of humor. 

Guard.— No jest is this, but hard stern fact. Oh ! sire. Scarce 
had thy vessel left the shore yestreen, when he, whom 
as a minstrel thou didst harbor with thy genial kind- 
ness, threw off his disguise of peaceful garb and old 
man’s locks, and stood revealed, thine old enemy— 
Sigurd. Then was he joined by his companions, all in 
armor clad, and, together with Elfrida, they made 
haste away- Mayhap, along the shore thou still mayst 
find them lurking. 

Harold. — A horse, a horse ; my kingdom fora horse ! I’ll ride 
along the shore and search for these base thieves, and 
by Ouar, Night’s dark spouse, I’ll teach them what it 
is to rob wild Harold’s lair. Whilst I am gone, good 
Thane, call up my udal men, unlaid my ocean-soates 
of all their load, and them prepare for battle fierce. 

(Enter Peasant.) 

Peasant No need, oh King, to ride along the shore. Sigurd 

and Dagobert his friend have just put out to sea from 

behind yon rocky point. Thou mayst easily o’ertake 
them. 

Harold. — Haste them, my vassals all, 

I hear the eagles call 
Me on to victory ! 

My good sword longs for blood, 

And soon o’er Sigurd’s brood, 

Will give me victory. 

To be Continued . 



aimj iu WARDS IT. 

It IS natural upon entering into new surroundings to 
compare new with old ; and however warmly one may ap- 
preciate the merits and good points of the new, it would 
3rgue a quite too Utopian and unsatisfactory condition 
of affairs if it were not possible here and there to dis- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



33 



cover something wherein the old would seem to have 
the advantage. It is natural and healthy also, when 
the newcomer arrives on the scene with his criticisms 
and suggested improvements, that the old inhabitants, 
proud of their home and customs, should feel inclined 
to follow the example of the Lancashire villagers at the 
mere advent of a stranger, and u ’eave arf a brick at ’is 
yed. M But as I have already received so generous a 
reception here in Montreal, and have consistently, I 
trust, attempted to enter to the fullest into the spirit of 
McGill, I hope that w’hat I am about to say will be met 
with equal generosity and without even the mildest 
metaphorical “ brick heavings.” 

In studying University life here, the feature that 
impresses the graduate of one of the old English Univer- 
sities very strongly is the almost complete separation 
of the various faculties— staff and students, to an 
almost equal degree. This, of course, has its good side ; 
it is a splendid thing for a man to feel that he belongs to 
a well defined body, to know that his interests are bound 
up with its interests, and to have something tangible, 
asitw'ere, for which to work —something with which he 
can clearly connect himself in the present as well as in the 
future. The idea of a University, it must be confessed, 
is not so tangible. But granting this most freely, and 
appreciating to the fullest the good effects upon each 
man of a steady devotion to his Faculty, it must be kept 
in mind that, after all, we in McGill are not members 
of one or other of a series of specialized and special- 
izing schools in Medicine, Arts, Science, Law and 
Comparative Medicine (I put these in order of sen- 
iority so as to cause the minimum of offence), but are 
members of McGill, members of a University, and as 
such should for our own benefit, if for nothing more, 
attempt to make the most of that connection. Now 
one of the greatest, if not indeed the greatest, educa- 
tional advantage of a University is the opportunity 
there given of gaining knowledge and appreciation of 
one’s fellowmen. It is needless for me to enter into a 
discussion as to why it is that at a certain age human 
beings at the same time reveal their sentiments more 
freely, and judge more rapidly and correctly the 
mainsprings of the actions of those around them, and 
w r hy in consequence a University is the best school of 
men and manners. That alone is the subject for a long 
essay. Suffice it to say that it is so, and being so, the 
full advantage of a University education is reaped, not 
when those of similar tastes, destined to pursue similar 
courses, congregate religiously together, but when 
there is a free intermingling of those whose lines of 
thought and life do of necessity diverge. 

But under the present conditions is there any pos- 
sible way of bringing this about ? 

Sports of all kinds, it is true, are a notable aid, 
but unfortunately only a small and picked propor- 
tion of the whole body can take an active part in 
them. They can only therefore be regarded as a great 
and useful auxiliary. But it seems to me that there is 
a way — I fancy the only way— one whereby the attach- 
ment of each individual to his Faculty would be in no 
wise weakened, but coincidently the University feeling 



and ideal would be greatly strengthened. I refer to 
the establishment of a Union Society or Club, of which 
the whole management should be vested in the mem- 
bers through their representatives elected by ballot, the 
Treasurer alone being of senior standing. 

However small the clubhouse might be at the start, 
the ultimate aim .should be to possess a Library and 
writing room, a smoke room and reading room, a debat- 
ing hail capableof holding, if not of seating, all the mem- 
bers, and provided of necessity with a ladies’ gallery, 
while a refectory, where simple lunches and dinners w r ell 
served at moderate cost could be supplied, would be 
worth striving after. This scheme may appear aerial, 
yet it is what the students have obtained for them- 
selves at Oxford, at Cambridge, and in Edinburgh, and 
in all these Universities the Unions have been produc- 
tive of the highest good. For not only have the stu- 
dents found in the Union a common meeting-ground, 
but there has developed a wholesome competition and 
rivalry among the best and most ambitious men of all 
the Faculties for the various offices of President, Vice- 
President, Secretary and Committee ; and the methods 
there learnt and the training have been of the greatest 
benefit in after life. From Macaulay onwards a long list 
might be given of celebrated men who have filled the 
Presidential chair at Cambridge, and the same is true 
of Oxlord. Edinburgh has started more recently, but is 
following along the same good lines. 

I can recall as though it were yesterday a memorable 
lunch held in the rooms of a hospitable Fellow of 
King’s, to celebrate the laying of the foundation-stone 
of a further and important addition to our Cam- 
bridge Union Society’s bulding, and hearing old Lord 
Houghton tell at dessert the story of how, when he 
was an undergraduate, the Oxford Union invited the 
Cambridge to send representatives to take part in a 
debate ; how Alfred Tennyson and he, then Monekton 
Milnes and president of our Society, were appointed 

and went, and were the guests of the Oxford President 

William Ewart Gladstone — at Christchurch. The 
subject of the debate was whether Shelly (of Oxford) 
or Byron (of Cambridge) was the greater poet. The 
Cambridge representatives supported the claim of 
Shelley, while Oxford, not to be outdone in courtesy, 
voted by a large majority in favor of Byron. 

It was not a very large luncheon party, consisting 
but of officers of the Union, two special guests, and the 
small building committee. Why I, who had practically 
done nothing in the Union, was placed upon that build- 
ing committee, I never quite understood, unless it was 
from the fact that having a few blue and white plates in 
my rooms, I was supposed to be acquainted with old 
china, and, consequently, to be a man of more architec- 
tural taste than the bulk of undergraduates. However, 
there I was, and now it is interesting to see how, al- 
though it is not ten years ago since that luucheon took 
place, many of those then present who were the leaders 
in the Union either have made their mark, or are 
rapidly forging to the front. Poor J. K. S. has written 
“ Lapsus Calami,” and given to the world, among much 
that is better, that oft-quoted couplet : 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



34 



“ When the Rudyards cease from Kipling 
And the Haggards ride no more.” 

He, as one whom the gods love, has lapsed. G., our 
leading Conservative orator, with his delightful Irish 
brogue, after alternate experiences of the Salvation 
Army and the race-course, is sure of his seat in the 
House of Parliament at the next election. C-, the 
advanced Radical of those days, has followed his 
father into the Unionist camp, has oddly enough beaten 
O- B , our host of that afternoon, at the last election, 
and now, as member for an important division of a 
Midland county, is looked upon as the most promising 
of all the younger members of the House. As to M. J., 
his reputation as a classical scholar and archaeologist is 
already established, and he has recently added to it in 
connection with the unearthing of the “ Gospel of St. 
Peter.’ ’ At least one other is now a Professor. The 
two special guests, Lord Houghton, the old president, 
and the young undergraduate of Trinity who had 
shown a constant interest in the Union, are both dead, 
the last amid the mourning of the whole Britisli people. 

If the Unions at the older English Universities can 
accomplish this much in bringing forward good men, 
how much might not a Union at McGill accomplish 
for Canada, over and above its utility in fostering a 
sentiment of attachment among its members to some- 
thing in the University superadded to the Faculty, — in 
fact, to the University itself? 

If such a scheme as this is to be successfully carried 
out, it must be taken in hand and pushed by the 
students themselves ; to leave it to older members of 
the University would be a sure sign that the under- 
graduates had not their hearts in the matter, and 
would doom it to failure. As to where the money and 
the building would come from, that again is a matter for 
the students to discover. I will only say that they had 
the same difficulty in Edinburgh, and yet they possess 
now an admirable Clubhouse, and I can testify that 
they are able to serve an excellent lunch. As to the 
inevitable fee for membership, well, the Edinburgh 
student has notoriously what a needy German docent 
once described to me as “ Ueberflussigkeit von Geld- 
mangel,” or superabundance of lack of money, yet in 
his case the wind seems tempered, and he manages to 
join. If at Oxford and Cambridge, where men of 
different tastes and studies must be thrown together (as 
a consequence of collegiate existence), the Union has 
shown itself beneficial,— how much more good would 
it be destined to accomplish here, where, in the absence 
of halls of residence, there is no common meeting 
ground save the campus and the cafe ? 

J. G. ADAMI. 



Officer of the Court — “ Prisoner at the bar, are you 
guilty or not guilty ? ” 

Prisoner — “ Sure itsmeeself as ’ll wait.’’ 

Officer — “ Wait for what?” 

Prisoner— “ Wait and see what kind of a case me 
lawyer’ll make out for me .” — Irish Law Times . 



POETRY. 



“ OUR BABY SHOW.” 

As one enters by the gateway, 

And meanders up the walk, 

He sees no pretty maidens 
With never-ending talk. 

He sees no College students 
Attired in cap and gown ; 

He sees no proud professors 

With high and mighty frown. 

He sees no racing schoolboys 

As he strolls beneath those trees, 

But an endless line of nurses 

Rocking babies on their knees. J. G. S. 



SOCIETIES 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The meetings have opened with- every encourage- 
ment. The Friday evening Prayer Meeting has an 
increased attendance and interest ; half an hour of 
prayer seems to be appreciated by the Students. 

The “Students’ Meeting’’ on Sunday afternoon, 
opened Oct. 8th, with an attendance of over eighty men, 
a most encouraging feature being the presence of many 
new faces, and it was deeply interesting to see many of 
these men rise and take their stand in college as Chris- 
tian men ; it was a little thing in itself, but has a deep 
and abiding significance. The report of the “North- 
field Students’ Conference ” was received on Oct. 15th 
with much pleasure and profit, and if it rests with last 
summer’s delegates, McGill will be largely represented 
in ’94. Nothing could be more desirable. 

• The membership canvass progresses with encourage- 
ment. We gladly welcome new members to the ranks, 
and trust that the College Christian Association will 
find and fill a place in the education of every man. 

We take this opportunity of stating the kind of mem- 
bers needed : 

1. Men who ask questions to obtain a better under- 
standing of the Association and their place in it. 

2. Men who at the beginning of their college course 
take an active interest and continue till graduation with 
increasing activity. 

3. Men who not only avoid evil, but make their 
influence positive. 

4. Men who command the respect of their class. 

5. “ Acting active members, who will actually actuate 
others to actual action. ” 

This last qualification is the result of the cerebral 
activity of a Freshman. 

The Committee Re-union on Saturday, Oct. 7th, was 
a happy introduction to the session’s activity. It drew 
the active workers together in a close bond of union, 
and as a bird’s eye view was presented of the different 
committees and their work, an observer would be im- 
pressed with the motive power there represented. 

We take great pleasure in stating that Sir William 
Dawson will be present at the Prayer Meeting on Friday, 
Oct. 27th, and will speak on “ Bible Study.” Classroom 
I in Arts building should be filled at 7.15 on that even- 
ing. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



35 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of this Society for the [session was 
held in the old Science building, when the officers for 
the coming year were elected as follows : 

Hon. President. — Dr. Harrington. 

President. — W. A. Carlyle, Ma.E.,ME. 
Vice-President. — A. A. Cole, B.A., Science ’94. 
Sec.-Treas.— O. C. Hart, Science ’95. 

The members of the Committee are: 

O. E. Whiteside, Science ’94. 

W. R. Askwith, Science ’95. 

H. R. Stuart, Science ’96. 

Although this Society has not been organized a year, 
the interest and attendance which have been shown at 
the meetings promise to make it one of the important 
societies in connection with the University. Meetings 
are held fortnightly throughout the session, when papers 
are read on mining and metallurgical subjects by the 
undergraduates or graduates. These papers are usually 
followed by a short discussion of the subject. 

At this meeting, Mr. E. P. Mathewson, B A. Sc., of 
Pueblo, Col., kindly read a paper on “Smelters.” Mr. 
Mathewson is a graduate of the University in Mining, 
and now holds the position of superintendent of the 
smelting works at Pueblo, Col. His paper was very 
interesting and instructive, especially as he pointed out 
the different and best methods of obtaining metals from 
their ores. All students o’f the University interested 
are cordially invited to attend the meetings of the So- 
ciety. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, the nth of September. Many of 
the old members were present and a good representation 
of the Freshmen class. 

After a few opening words on the part of the Presi- 
dent, arrangements for the coming year were made. 
The annual lecture was discussed, and it was finally 
unanimously agreed that Sir William Dawson be asked 
to deliver the same. 

In former years it has been customary to have the 
debates criticized ; last year the office was almost nom- 
inal but the committee were authorized at this meeting 
to procure critics for the several debates. It is hoped 
that women graduates will act as such. The meeting 
then grew intensely interesting, as an impromptu 
debate followed. ResoU ed : That it is desirable that 
women should be financially independent. Miss Travis 
and Miss Fraser upheld the resolution, and the negative 
was supported by Miss Ross and Miss Krause. The 
arguments on the negative were logical and clearly ex- 
pressed and won the majority of votes. After the meet- 
ing many new names were added to the membership 
list. In every way the prospects of the Delta Sigma 
Society are very bright. 

Y. W. C. A. 

The first meeting of the Theo Dora for this session 
was held on Thursday, the 19th of Oct. Miss Seymour 



presided, and, after the opening exercises, gave a brief 
summary of the work the Theo Dora intended to pursue 
this year. She then called on Miss Whiteaves to speak 
on the “ Claims of foreign missions on us as women and 
as college women/' Miss Whiteaves’ remarks, earnest 
and to the point, caused us all to realize more fully 
than ever before how much each one of us was re- 
sponsible for the evangelization of our sisters in far-off 
lands. 

The meeting was brought to a close with prayer. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the winter session of this 
Society was held Saturday evening, October 14th, 
the President, L- Y. McIntosh, occupying the chair. 
Although there was a good turnout of members, we 
hope to see the number doubled at our next meeting. 

Alter the transaction of business, the President 
addressed the meeting for a short time, giving a very 
interesting sketch of the history of the Society from its 
foundation until the present time, mentioning the 
names of those illustrious men who, from time to time, 
have done so much to advance the interests of the 
Society, and of whom the great majority have now 
risen to the highest ranks in their profession. He 
noted the different stages in the progress of the Society 
from year to year, and predicted that it would make 
still more rapid strides in the future. He concluded 
by impressing upon the junior men the great necessity 
of attending the meetings regularly and taking part in 
the discussions, assuring them that they would never 
have reason to regret spending a few hours in the 
meetings of the Medical Society. 

Professor Mills, who had come in during the evening, 
was then called upon to make a few remarks. 

The Professor, who has always taken an active 
interest in the progress of the Society since the time 
when he himself was connected with it, spoke at some 
length in his usual happy style. 

He called up some very interesting reminiscences of 
the workings of the Society in his time, and pointed out 
how it might attain a still higher degree of efficiency in 
schooling its members in those acquirements which 
are of the greatest importance in making a successful 
practitioner. At the close of his remarks the Professor 
was tendered a very hearty vote of thanks, and the 
meeting was adjourned. 



CL\SS REPORTS. 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

On Wednesday, the 10th instant, a meeting of the 
four years in Medicine was held, to discuss the question 
of having a University Dinner. 

A communication was read, asking the Medicals to 
elect two representatives to meet the representatives of 
the other Faculties, for the purpose of discussing the 
advisability of having a united banquet this year. 
After some discussion, Messrs. E. C. Hart and G. S. 
McCarthy of the final year were appointed for this 



36 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



purpose. The general feeling was in favour of having 
a Faculty Dinner as usual, and the committee were 

ordered to report to that effect. 

* * * 

The Medical buildings are undergoing considerable 
improvement, — and not before they needed it. A large 
number of lockers have been added this year, and fill 
a long felt want A separate cloak-room has been 
provided for the third and fourth year students. We 
understand that some additions are to be made to the 
present buildings and another lecture theatre added. 
This is a move in the right direction, as the present ones, 
from continued occupation, afford lessons in practical 
hygiene too often at variance with our didactic lectures. 
But we are improving in this as well as in other 
directions. 

* * * 

The new Pathological laboratory will likely be ready 
in a week or two. The basement contains a photo- 
graphic room, storage rooms and a special place for 
keeping the various animals used for purposes of 
research. The first floor will be occupied by the rooms 
of the Professor of Pathology and the Demonstrators 
of Bacteriology. Besides these there are cases for the 
preservation of specimens : incubators, sterilizers and 
instruments for cutting, mounting, and staining mi- 
croscopic sections.'of diseased tissues. 

The upper flat has been thrown into one large room, 
which is well lighted from all sides. This contains a 
number of tables for the use of the students in examin- 
ing the specimens provided, and is admirably adapted 
for the purpose. Probably an extension will be built 
in the near future. A number of miscroscopes are to 
be provided also. 

This new laboratory will do much to relieve the con- 
gestion of the large building, and will be much appre- 
ciated. It is to hoped that before long this department 
will have reached to such proportions and excellence 
of equipment as to attract graduates Irom other schools 
to McGill for purposes of original research. 

* * * 

During last session some dissatisfaction was ex- 
pressed by the Students as to the various expenses for 
delegates, etc., which had to be met. It was decided at 
a meeting of the four years to put in a committee for 
the purpose of estimating the usual expenses for the 
term, and exacting a single contribution to cover all 
demands. 

On Tuesday, the 17th inst., a united meeting was 
held, and the following report was presented and un- 
animously adopted. This will likely result in a great 
improvement over old methods. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CURRENT 
EXPENSES TO THE MEMBERS OF THE 
FOUR YEARS IN MEDICINE. 
Gentlemen, 

Your Committee consider that the following itemized 
account of expenditure is at present adequate for the 
purposes mentioned : 



Delegate to Cab fare. Hotel Bill. Pullman. Ticket. 

(a) Toronto. . $2 00 fS 00 $4 00 $ l 7 5 ° l 2 & 50 

(b) Trinity.... 2 00 5 00 4 00 17 50 28 50 

(c) Queen’s... 2 00 5 00 4 00 9 70 20 70 

(d) Halifax... 2 00 5 00 8 00 28 00 43 00 

( e ) Reception committee for dinner (3 men) 50 00 

(/) Expenses Academy night 30 00 

(g) “ for dinner 100 00 



Total 



$ 3 °° 7 ° 



They would also submit the following suggestions 
for your consideration ; that, 

1. A fee of $1.50 be levied on every student to defray 
these and other expenses ; 

2. Any student who has not paid this fee will not be 
eligible to vote at any meeting or to receive office 
either from his own year or from the Faculty, but may 
acquire such right by paying all back fees from date 
of entrance ; 

3. A general-treasurer be appointed by the third year, 
who shall receive the collections from the secretary- 
treasurers of the four years ; 

4. A finance committee be appointed, consisting of 
the secretary-treasurer of each year, together with the 
general-treasurer, whose duty it shall be to determine 
the amount of each expenditure. The secretary- 
treasurer of the fourth year shall be chairman of this 
committee ; 

5. A majority of a meeting of the four years having 
decided that an appropriation be made for a certain 



purpose, it shall be the duty of the chairman of the 
finance committee to call a meeting of said committee, 
at which will be determined the amount of the appro- 
priation, the votes of three members being necessary 
for a decision. He shall then communicate the deci- 
sion to the secretary of the 4th year, who shall draw 
out an order on the general-treasurer, sign it himself, 
and have it countersigned by the president of the 
fourth year. The secretary shall then forward this 
order to the person authorized to received it, to whom 
the money shall be paid by the general-treasurer on 
presentation of the order ; 

6. The president of the fourth year shall have the 
right of refusing to sign any order for the expenditure of 
money. In such a case it shall be his duty to call a 
meeting of the four years at the earliest possible 
opportunity, and lay the matter before them. The deci- 
sion of a majority of this meeting shall be final ; 

7. The president of the fourth year shall at any time 
call a meeting to discuss any question with regard to 
expenditure, on receipt of a request signed by any ten 
men who are eligible to vote. A majority of this 

meetmg shall decide whether or not an expenditure 
shall be made ; 



r o — uixt picMueni 01 the 

fourth year shall be held during the first week of the 
winter session, at which the general-treasurer of the 

P v fn ar ? a , present his financial statement and at 
which his books shall be audited and handed over to 
the newly appointed treasurer. 



JAMES PRITCHARD, 

Secretary. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



37 



SPORTS’ NIGHT AT THE QUEEN’S. 

McGill owned the streets of Montreal last Friday 
night. It was Meds’ night at the Queen’s Theatre. 
At 7.15 p.m., the disciples of Esculapius met at the Uni- 
versity gate, with the usual appurtenances of good 
spirits and femurs. With them assembled the Veter- 
inary Faculty and the Medical students of Bishop’s Col- 
lege. 

Down the street they marched with banners stream- 
ing, the band of the Victoria Rifles at the head, 
making the welkin ring with the war-cry of Medicine 
and Old McGill. At the doors of the Theatre was a 
seething mass of humanity, packed like sardines in a 
barrel, assembled to see the fun. Two by two the boys 
marched in, three hundred or more, in perfect order, to 
the martial strains of the band, amid all the glories of 
gas, blue-fire, and sky-rockets. Once in, they filled the 
“ gods ” to the ceiling. 

The Queen’s was lavishly decorated with flags and 
festoons of red and white, — the University colors. Above 
the stage was a huge streamer with the word “ Wel- 
come ” upon it. From the balcony drooped the flags of 
the respective Faculties. 

Below, a goodly company of people were assembled 
to absorb an evening’s mirth, among them many of the 
“ Old Boys,” who were there to see that Medicine was 
“ all right.” In the boxes were several of the Professors 
and Demonstrators, who received quite an ovation. A 
number of nurses from the M.G H. also graced the pro- 
ceedings with their presence. 

During the performance most admirable order was 
kept by the Students, and only when the curtain was 
down did they make things hum, — and they did that to 
perfection. 

The play was very amusing, and the company, who 
all wore rosettes of McGill ribbon, presented it in an 
admirable manner. Miss Barry, Miss Lynne and Mr. 
Hackett received well deserved applause, and were 
several times recalled. “ Hannah ” acted remarkably 
well, and was here, there, and everywhere attracting 
much attention by her clever acting. 

Between the acts it was the Students’ turn. The sing- 
ing was remarkably good all through, and was marked 
by a swing and precision that evinced careful prepara- 
tion and reflected great credit upon the trainers. At 
times the blending of the tenor and bass, with the 
added advantage of the orchestra, was very rich, and 
produced a flood of tone. Mr. Edwards of the Second 
Year conducted, and did it with a great deal of vim. 
One of the features was a new song written by Mr. 
Frank Feron, which has been submitted as a Faculty 
song for the new song-book. It took admirably. Mr. 
Feron sang the solo himself, and did it well, although 
the setting was a little high for his deep voice. The 
chorus was very fine, and came with great effect from 
the hundreds of clear voices. Among others who sang 
solos were Messrs. Scott, Edwards, Tetrault and Lee. 
When all was done so well, it would be invidious to 
make comparisons, but perhaps mention might be made 
of “ Daisy Bell,” “ Litoria,” and “Son of a Gambolier.” 
An instrumental quartette of mandolins and guitars 



made an agreeable variation in the programne. At the 
close of the first part a magnificent basket of flowers tied 
up with McGill ribbon was let down by a wire to Miss 
Barry, who gracefully bowed her acknowledgments. 
Miss Lynne received a similar offering at the close of 
the second part. Mr. Hackett was also the recipient 
of a box of cigars sent down by the same precarious 
method. 

Mr. Hackett kindly gave the Gipsy dance from Car- 
mencita at the end of the play. He made up extremely 
well, and his dance was very graceful and much enjoyed. 

At the close of the performance the procession re- 
formed, headed by the band, the president of the Second 
Year wearing the historic grey “tile.” When Mr. 
Hackett and his company appeared, the horses were 
taken from the carriage, and they (not the horses) were 
dragged along in the procession by scores of willing 
arms, accompanied by shouts that seemed to cleave the 
vital air ; even the frisky and festive electric car had to 
stop. Two by two the procession advanced, dragging 
the carriage after them, till they reached the Balmoral 
Hotel, where Mr. Hackett made a speech, thanking the 
Boys for their reception. The Students then left to sere- 
nade the various professors, and succeeded in routing 
out the People’s Jimmy, who gave them one of his 
characteristic speeches. 

On Union Avenue they were met by the procession 
of the Faculties of Law, Arts, and Applied Science, who 
halted and gave three cheers for Medicine. The Meds. 
in turn cheered their confreres with hearty good will, 
and then the band struck up “ For they are jolly good 
fellows,” which all the Faculties sang with great enthu- 
siasm. They finally passed on in mutual amity, and 
it was an early hour the next morning before the last 
shouts of “ What is the matter with Old McGill ? ” died 
away in the distance and the streets settled down to 
their wonted repose. Altogether, the evening was the 
best that the Students have ever had. 



TRI-FACULTY NIGHT,— LAW, ARTS, SCIENCE. 

M-c-G i- 1 - 1 , what’s the — But no, it is no use trying 
to speak above a whisper to-day. (Oct. 21st, 1893). 

What a time we had last night ! The McGill yell 
still sounds in our ears mingled with class cries ; the 
whole consomme spiced with enquiries as regards Jim- 
my MeShane’s third term baby, a twin to which was 
offered him. 

Law, Arts, and Science attended the Academy last 
night together. The Faculties proper were represented 
by three professors from each, who occupied stage-boxes 
which were very prettily decorated for the occasion ; 
the Students were represented by themselves, to the 
number of three or four hundred. 

The Science men formed under their year banners in 
front of their own building, and marched up to join 
their confreres in Law and Arts in front of the Arts 
Building. A diagram of the order of the procession 
had been drawn up and placed in each building, show- 
ing the position of each year in the “procesh.” The 
“Boys ” aided very considerably the work of the commit- 



38 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



tee and marshals by falling into their proper places in 
a most orderly manner. The march started at 7.10 p.m., 
and a great sight it was. The three Faculty banners 
were carried together in front, directly behind these 
came the senior year in Arts, followed by that of Science, 
behind whom came the students in the Faculty of Law 
with the representatives of Laval, the other years fol- 
lowing in order of seniority. 

Up in front with the banners marched Mr. Paul Kes- 
ter, the clever and charming young playwright whose 
name has been for sometime connected with that of Sig- 
nor Salvini. 

Four hundred tickets had been disposed of by five 
o clock in the afternoon, and the holders of these form- 
ed of course the great part of the procession, but there 
were a great many outsiders who brought up the rear. 

The usual route down McGill College Avenue and 
along St. Catherine to Victoria was taken, the boys sing- 
ing and giv ing the college yells to their hearts content. 

The arrangements made by the Academy manage- 
ment for the entry of the students could not have been 
excelled, every man in that big procession had entered 
the front door and had obtained his seat in the “ gods” 
before a single 'ticket was sold at the wickets, and the 
crowd quickly filled up any spare room that was left 
by the students. 

As soon as the mm gat seated, the boys gave the 
first intimation of the orderly conduct which character- 
ized the whole evening by responding promptly to the 
committee’s request for silence, while the evening’s pro- 
gramme was sketched out- 



species of wild men might possibly have learned a lesson 
from them in quiet conduct at the proper time. Once 
or twice a slight interruption was unthinkingly started* 
but the originators thereof were promptly sat upon. 

Of the play itself, the “ star ” Salvini, and his admira 
ble troupe, no criticism can be attempted, for his splen- 
did acting and the grand support he received could 
only obtain applause from us, and any criticism would 
have to emanate from far greater and more competent 
critics than we are. 

At the close of the first act, after the Arts song, Mr. 
C. D. White, Law ’96, sang the solo of li Kingdom Com- 
ing,” the boys joining in the chorus. Later on, one of 
the Laval men sang the verses of mt Le Brigadier” in grand 
style, and what the boys lacked in Parisian accent in 
the chorus they made up in heartiness. The third solo- 
ist of the evening was Mr. Wright, whose tenor voice 
did full justice to “ Listen to de story dat I tell ” ; the 
Undergrads did listen until the chorus, when they 
themselves took about four hundred “ hands in.” 

If the people down stairs thought that the gods had 
reached the limits of applauseand cheering and yelling 
before the end of the third act, they soon discovered 
their mistake. The curtain had no sooner gone down 
than a student-Bedlam broke loose. Good gracious ! 
how the fellows did yell while the ribbon-entwined gold- 
mounted cane was being lowered down to the great 
actor. 

Attached to it was an enormous placard reading as 
follows : — 

Presented to Alexander Salvini, 



The University yell was first given, and then tl 
whole body joined in the separate Faculty cries, aft 
which each separate Faculty cheered the others. ’ Tl 
Laval representatives were then presented and well r 
ceived. Mr. de Salaberry made a neat little speech in L 
val’s behalf. Mr. Paul Kester was next introduce, 
and given three rousing cheers. 

Then the men settled down to sing, and they did 
well, reflecting credit on the hard work which Messr 
Duclos and Becket had done in the practices. 

As each professor appeared in the boxes, he was we 
corned by the whole crowd, irrespective of Faculty < 
profession. Not only were the professors taken notic 
of, but sundry Students who had strayed from the na 
row paths of the gods’ stairs into the wide and plea 
ant way of the orchestra chairs, received the outspoke 
sympathy of their poverty-stricken but supremely haD 
py brethren up above. * 

The orchestra opened the “ ball ” with a selection c 
college airs, which called forth wild applause and 
considerable amount of unexpected vocal assistance. 

Once the curtain went up, perfect order was restorec 
and all through the play the Students did themselve 
credit by their behavior, and showed the public plair 
ly that although when they start to make a row one 
a year they throw their whole hearts and vocal ore-an 
mto it yet at the same time, they can act in a perS 
natural and gentlemanly way, and those people who an 
imbued with the idea that Students generally are 



by 

The Students of Arts, Law, and Science, 
of 

McGill University. 

Time will not permit us to give our own account of 
the rest of the evening. The following is taken from 

the Herald : 

Mr. Salvini was quite affected, and his hands twitch- 
ed nervously as he placed them ou a chair beside 
him, and it looked for a moment as though there 
was going to be a genuine case of stage fright. Af- 
ter thanking the Students for their gift, he went on 
to say that his profession was one in which it was his 
duty to speak the lines of others rather than to 
compose his own thoughts in words, and they would 
therefore have to make allowance for any failure on 
his part to adequately express the feelings of his heart, 
which had been profoundly stirred by their kindness. 
He paid a high tribute to McGill as an institution, 
ranking it on equality as to endowment, equipment, 
and results, with the best the continent contains. In 
closing, he said that when old age should lay its hand 
upon him and he should seek the support of the very 
handsome cane which they had just given him, if his 
little grandchildren should chance to ask him who 
had given him this beautiful cane, he should have the 
greatest pleasure in answering that it was from the 
Boys of Old McGill. 

This was received with loud applause, and the Boys 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



39 



immediately began with one accord to make the usual 
staccato enquiries as to what the matter was with him, 
and having learned that he was all right, took up the 
refrain “ For He's a Jolly Good Fellow." 

At the conclusion of the fourth act handsome 
bouquets were lowered to Madame Salvini (Maude 
Dixon) and Miss Elinor Moretti, who gracefully 
bowed their thanks and received the kind assurance 
that they were certainly “ all right.” 

When the curtain rang down, the Students sang 
“ God Save the Queen," and when Mr. and Madame 
Salvini were teady to depart, the horse was removed 
from their cab, and the boys drew them to the Windsor 
in the usual hilarious and triumphant manner. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Lost ! Strayed ! or Stolen ! the Legal Class- reporter. 
Why, chappie, I hardly Saw yer ! 



One of this year's addition to the Irish contingent 
added another “jewel" to the crown of their happy 
speeches, by referring in a debate some time ago to his 
opponents as “ our frinds the initny ; " and this same 
man does not generally make a Mull-in matters of this 
kind, as he is a rattling good speaker. 



Say, boys, that first lecture in the Bills and Notes 
course on Credit was a beauty. How I longed for the 
presence of my tailor and shoemaker and the rest of 
my creditors, in order that they might understand what 
a grand system it is. 



“Give me ten cents." That "bold-faced turkey,” 
the bird of wisdom, was perched up in its usual place 
on Sports’ night. “ Its owl right.” 



In our lectures on the Law of Persons, we were told 
that one of the few grounds which might form a basis 
for annulling a marriage was a mistake as to the 
person of one of the contracting parties. Look out, 
you legal benedicts and fellow-students, have you 
never been told that “ you’re not the man I took you 
for?" 

— • — — ^ 

What a racketting time we had on Sports’ night. 

* It is a thousand pities that Old Cujas, friend Du 
Moulin, and the Dalloz family, were not with us, for 
from the style of their writing they must have been 
such jolly rollicking good fellows ! 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Who was it that got struck in the neck with the 
soda-water siphon ? 



Matrimony is a queer thing. It converts a sighing 
lover into a loving sire. 



Echoes from the Theatre : “ Well, well, well ! 



“ What is the difference between a sophomore and a 
freshman?” “The difference is of-a-more theoretical 
than actual nature.” 



Prof, to class in Ophthalmology : 

“ By this operation you get a serviceable stump, to 
which a glass eye can be subsequently affixed so 
perfectly as to deceive even a Fourth year student at 
the examination ! ” We presume that the patient would 
not be able to see through the deception himself. 



Mr. Frank Feron has written a song for the Medical 
Faculty, to be submitted for approval to the Song-Book 
Committee. It is set to a very melodious air, and was 
sung with great gusto at the Queen’s last Friday. 



The Third Year men are thinking of competing next 
year for the walking prize on Sports’ Day, as they 
have abundance of practice in walking to and from the 
boarding house, college and hospital. 



The First Year students in Medicine have begun 
their career with a class of ninety six. 



At a recent meeting of the First Year the following 
officers were elected for the ensuing year : President, 
H. S. Kirby; Secretary, E. J. Williams, B.A. ; Class- 
Reporter, Louis H. Morse. 



" Sunset." 

Wanted: To know the location of the Reflexor 
Muscle . 



Prof in Medical Jurisprudence Gentlemen, you 
may be questioned on these subjects even before you 
reach the witness-box.” 

The members of the Third Year have shown their 
appreciation of last year’s President, Mr. F. E. L» 
Johnston, and Secretary, Mr. Neil McKinnon, by re- 
electing them to the same offices for the present 
session. 

The following officers have also been elected from the 
Third year : General Treasurer for the four years, 

Mr. C. C. Alexander ; Class Reporter, Mr. Howard J. 
Chapman ; Mr. Percy C. Leslie was elected Captain of 
the Foot Ball Team. 



ARTS NOTES. 

Those who went on the Geological tramp last Satur- 
day are still busy examining the mud on their boots. 

Apropos of Geology, we w r onder when our trip to 
Lachute is coming off. “ Scruffy ” wants to go this Sat- 
urday, but, then, he is on the Theatre Committee. 



40 



McGill fortnightly. 



The members of the Class of ’94 are to act as ushers 
at the formal opening of the new Library 011 the 31st inst. 

Lectures in Honour Mathematics to the First Year 
have commenced. Nine of the Class have entered upon 
the course. 

Prof : u What is the meaning of le mousse ? ” 

Student: “ A little animal.” 

Prof : 14 Yes, a little two legged animal employed as 

prentice-boy on board ship.” 

Some half-a-dozen of the Juniors have been selected 
to assist in the singing at the opening of the New 
Library building. The Juniors sing with the spirit, 
but whether with the understanding or not is an open 
question. 

The following account of the yacht race of Saturday 
the 7th inst. has been handed in : — 

“The veliferous vessels, Valkyrie and Vigilant, val- 
orously vied in a vacillant voyage ; but notwithstand- 
ing the vaunting of verdant viewers, the victorious 
Vigilant's valiant velocity verily vanquished the vainly 
watchful Valkyrie's vivacious vigilance, through want 
of ventosity (or wind) ; thus vindicating the valuable 
virtue of the centre-board.” 

The villainous vandal who vilely ventured to give 
vent to such vacant vaporings must be the vexed victim 
of some virulent and vitiating Voudoo. 

Now that the annual field meeting of the Athletic 
Association, with all its accompanying duties and 
attractions that have kept our athletes on the campus 
so much of late, and allured even our book* worms out 
of doors to an unwonted extent, is a thing of the past 
as far as 1893 is concerned, we notice a tendency among 
the students to settle down or do some steady training 
for a different kind of sport in December and April. 

Say, Freshmen, what’s the matter with three pages 
of amusement during this month? 

Owing to the decease of Mr. Win. Donahue, B.A., 
’93, the Artsmen appointed Mr. S. G. Archibald ’96 to 
be their second representative 011 the Song-Book Com- 
mittee. 

(Erratum:— In the above read “graduation” for 
“ decease.” Doubtless the length of time we have 
been waiting for the appearance of that Song-Book 
is responsible for the error. — Ed.) 



It is to be hoped that the poetic student of the First 
Year will reconsider his decision “to go mad or drop 
down dead,” and still continue to vary the monotony 
of lectures with his selections. 



An unusually large number of Seniors and Juniors 
are taking Dr. Robins’ Lectures in Pedagogy at the 
Normal School. This is certainly a move in the right 
direction. Every student, whether he intends to be- 
come a teacher or not, would find the course in Ped- 
agogy a very useful and instructive one. 



Many of the Artsmen found time to attend some of the 
sessions of the Provincial Teachers’ Association, which 
were held in the McGill Normal School last week. The 
addresses and discussions were very interesting and 
profitable to all interested in the cause of education. 
Those who were present will long remember with pleas- 
ure the Conversazione on Thursday evening in the 
High School. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Owing, as we suppose, to the pathetic nature of our 
studies, the German class is almost deserted. We are 
afraid we might find the perusal of “ Hans im gluck ” 
and similar noble monuments of German prose too affect- 
ing, and so think it best to absent ourselves from lec- 
tures. One of our number was so overcome that she 
could scarcely articulate a syllable, her gentle voice so 
shook with emotion that it was only with the utmost 
difficulty that we could catch its melodious tones. 
However, as this affecting part of, the programme is 
drawing to a close, we expect a large reinforcement in 
the near future. 



SATURDAY’S EXCURSION. 

We did not enjoy the early start particularly, coming 
as it did after Sports’ night, but were amply repaid for 
our loss of rest by the whole day’s pleasure, every- 
thing at Lachute reminding us of summer : the day, 
the cow-bells, the flowers (one thistle), to say nothing 
of the lamb (?) and green peas ! 

We now rejoice in the knowledge of strike and dip , 
and can tell a gneiss rock from one that is not. 

To-day we stood on what to geologists constitutes one 
of the most interesting spots in the world : the divid- 
ing line between Archaean and Palaeozoic periods of 
the earth’s formation. Once more we bent our ears to 
listen to the story of our Planet, which the beautiful 
little crystals were so eager to repeat. 

Their language was so new and strange, that, had 
it not been for the help of Dr. Adams, their wonderful 
tale could not have been understood by us. Even as 
it was, at times their utterances were so indistinct, owing 
to the way in which they had squeezed each other up, 
leaving no room for breath, that the meaning of their 
simultaneous cries we utterly failed to grasp. 

But if you want to hear the story in all its grand 
simplicity, you must go to Lachute as we did, and hear 
it from those who can tell it best. 

The following are the names of the Class Officers 
elected for the present session : 



4th Year. 


Pres. 


Miss 


Warner. 




Vice-Pres. 


<< 


Craig. 




Sec. 


<< 


McKenzie. 




Class Rep. 


<« 


Ogilvie. 


3rd Year. 


Pres. 

Vice-Pres. 


<< 


Botterell. 




Sec. 


a 


Wilson. 




Class Rep. 


<4 


Cameron . 


2nd Year. 


Pres. 


<4 


Hammond. 




Vice-Pres. 


a 


Pitcher. 




Sec. 


<< 


Henderson. 




Class Rep. 


<< 


Krause. 


1st Year. 


Pres. 


a 


Smith. 




Sec. 


it 


Cameron. 




Class Rep. 


u 


Shaw. 



Reading Room Committee : 
Pres., Miss McKenzie 
Sec.-Treas., Miss Travis. 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



4i 



1st Year Class Reporter (to editor) : “ Now, don’t put 
this into the paper if you don’t like it. I shan’t mind 
in the least. 

2nd C. R (to same) : “ Read this over first, and make 
any changes you like.” 

(After issue of Fortnightly.) 

2nd C. R : “ That conceited editor just spoiled my 
contributions by her attempts to improve it.” 

1st C. R- : “ Well, she never even put in my article 
at all, the mean thing.” 

Saturday has ceased to be a holiday for the Donaldas ; 
on the contrary, it is now a Pen-hallowday . 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Testing Laboratory Instructor . — “ What is an initial 

load ? 

Junior . — “ Six beers before going into the theatre.” 

The election of officers for the Freshmen year resulted 
as follows : — 

President. — Graham Drinkwater. 

Vice-President . — J. W. Bell. 

Secretary . — J Lomas. 

Class Reporter. — G. Drinkwater. 



Freshies ” we are called, 

We number sixty and eleven. 

Freshies we are content to be 
And hurrah for *97 ! 

Mr. Henri Herdt, Sc. ’93, is taking a post-graduate 
course in chemistry. He delights the students by his 
affability and condescension in speaking to the “ Under- 
grads.” 

“ Everybody had a jag on but me.” That is all very 
fine, but it does not account for your black eye, old 
man. 

Who is the enterprising ’95 man who takes the street 
car out to Pt. St. Charles to get his hair cut for 15 
cents ? 

Inquisitive Arts man (in alarm) : — “ What on earth is 
all that awful noise about ? ” 

Science freshie Oh ! that’s just some of our fellows 
experimenting with hydrogen.” (This is not a joke, 
but it is funny. — Ed.) 

W. M. Scott, Science ’94, who has had a bad attack 
of typhoid fever, is improving rapidly. 

The Fourth year are hard at work making patterns 
for the air compressor. They hope to finish and test 
the machine before the close of the session. 

Did you see that obstreperous ’96 man with the three- 
foot horn at the theatre on Sports’ night ? 

Science has a new Faculty banner, obtained by our 
indefatigable president for Sports’ night. 

Our Freshmen are a fine class this year, large in num- 
bers, liberal with their money, and far above the aver- 
age in athletics. 



OLLA PODRIDA. 

The work of a reviewer is usually a very pleasant 
one, — to himself, at all events, if not to the reviewed. 
For sometimes, like the surgeon’s knife, he must make 
a keen wound in order to heal. Too often above the 
critic’s door might be written : “ All ye who enter here 
leave hope behind.” The critic should have a wide 
sympathy and a comprehensive gaze. He must have 
the poet’s eye, 41 in a fine frenzy rolling,” and rise on 
the wings of imagination to lofty altitudes, far above 
the ken of the poor earth-grubbers beneath. He must, 
again, at times descend to the lower realms of prose. 
With all this he should have the taste of a virtuoso, a 
keen discrimination, an innate sense of the fitness of 
things. 

Critics are not always appreciated, however. Fre- 
quently positions are reversed, and they become the 
criticized, — not always undeservedly either. 

Jerome (not the Saint, but a more modern personage 
of histrionic and literary fame) handles them pretty 
freely : 

“ When a new book is written, the high class critic 
opens it with feelings of faint hope, tempered by strong 
conviction of coming disappointment- As he pores 
over the pages, his brow darkens with virtuous in- 
dignation, and his lip curls with the godlike contempt 
that the exceptionally great critic ever feels for every- 
body in this world who is not yet dead. 

Buoyed up by a touching but totally fallacious belief 
that he is performing a public duty, and that the rest 
of the community is waiting in breathless suspense to 
learn his opinion of the work in question before form- 
ing any judgment concerning it themselves, he never- 
theless wearily struggles through about a third of it- 
Then his long-suffering soul revolts, and he flings it 
aside with a cry of despair.” 

To be a good reviewer is not difficult, strange as it 
may seem. To the “ polloi ” the editorial voice 
usually speaks in Sibylline accents “ Procul, O, procul 
este profani.” Let us draw the veil aside a little, a 
very little. The modus operandi is much as follows# 
The first requisite is a comfortable chair, — not too 
easy, however, in case the occupant should chance to 
doze, and the manuscript suffer in consequence, nor 
too hard, lest the annoyance should be vented on the 
devoted head of the poor contributor. Then some 
sheets of paper of the kind commonly designated 
“ fool’scap.” A pot of paste, warranted not to sour, and 
a large pair of shears (preferably of Sheffield manu 
fabture). This completes the outfit. Ideas are a 
secondary consideration ; other people supply them, * 
That is the beauty of the arrangement. To use the 
words of Montaigne : “I have gathered me a posie of 
other men’s flowers, and nothing but the thread that 
binds them is mine own.” 

So it is our purpose to gather the flowers, ^-the 
“ Macaulay-flowers, ’ — as Oliver Wendell Holmes 
wittily called them, from our neighbours’ gardens, and 
combine them into a sort of literary nosegay, the 
scent of which will be grateful to the mental olfactory 
organs of our eager readers. 

Most of us remember the rhyme we used to repeat at 
that period of our existence when our garb chiefly con- 
sisted of pink legs and pinafores : 

•‘How doth the little busy bee 
Delight to bark and bite, 

And gather honey all the day, 

T o eat it up at night.” 

Like that little bee, I flit from flower to flower, sipping 
the sweets thereof ; unlike the bee, not hoarding them 
for my own private delectation, but enshrining them in 
these pages for the benefit of posterity and a grateful 
country. 

Do you know the meaning of the words “Olla 



42 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Podrida ” prefixed to these pages? Well ! I’ll tell you. 
It is a kind of soup, or stew, generally supposed to be 
peculiarly captivating to the Spanish palate, and like 
Scotch kail having “intilt” nearly everything of a 
vegetable nature known to Botany. In other words, it 
is a hotch-potch, a farrago, a medley ; so, to adapt the 
line of Juvenal: — 

“ Quicquid agunt scriptores nostri farrago libelli.” 

I am afraid this line won’t scan, but I can’t help it. 

To translate it freely for our un-Latin readers, it 
means “ Whatever concerns writers is the lioteh potch of 
our modest pages.” With little rhyme or reason, their 
only purpose is to entertain. It is not quite so easy to 
amuse others as it might seem to the casual observer. 
The professional joker is often the most doleful of men. 
It reminds me of a story I once read. The scene is laid 
in London in the days when the famous comedian Jos. 
Grimaldi was the cynosure of all eyes. One morning 
a man entered the office of a distinguished physician. 
He seemed a physical wreck. His face was sallow and 
seamed with care, his hair unkempt, and a profound 
melancholy pervading his whole being. After hearing 
his story, the doctor said : “ Pooh, pooh, there is noth- 
ing the matter with you. All you want is to be brought 
out of yourself. You need to be amused. Get a 
good laugh and you’ll soon be better. Why not go 
and see Grimaldi ?” 

“Alas, Doctor,” replied the visitor, “I am Gri- 
maldi.” 

Such is fame. 

In turning over the leaves of a stray copy of the 
Cambridge Review , I came upon the following, which 
I quote for the benefit of those susceptible individuals 
who are animated by that tender passion which in Pick- 
wickian language might be termed, “ one of the finest 
feelings of our imperfect natures” : 

TO A TORN FRAGMENT OF MUSLIN FOUND IN MY 
POCKET THE DAY AFTER A DANCE:— 

. Dim souvenir of past delight, 

Why do I tender thee and cherish, 

Wnat sweet remembrance of last night 
Was I unwilling to let perish? 

Perished it is. I cannot think 

How thou within my pocket earnest, 

Poor muslin rag of tender pink, 

That such a world of thought enframed. 

Didst thou belong to her whose eye, 

Half setn above the saucy fan, 

Shot flames of subtle sorcery 
Beneath the lanterns of Japan ? 

L Or vvast lllou hers— be still, my heart ! — 

Beneath whose dainty mastication 
Gn use, lobster, salmon, duck and tart 
Endurtd imvartial immolation ? 



What did she wear — my soul’s delight, 

The nymph I wrote my last two hymns on ? 
Lilac, I think ; or was it white ? 

Crushed strawberry ? or green ? or crimson ? 

I don’t remember colors well, 

And at this moment I’ve no notion 
From whom the puzzling relic fell, 

Which I preserved with such devotion. 

To keep it always did I vow ? 

Or was my meaning to return it ? 

I’ve really quite forgotten now : 

And so, — perhaps I’d better burn it. 

The first number of The Mitre , a new venture on 
the part of Bishop’s College, Lennoxville, has come be- 
fore our notice. In the introductory remarks I read, 
“ While the primary object of this and every college 
magazine is to promote the interests of our University 
by creating a spirit of unity and fellow-feeling between 
the various members of our collegiate body, we have 
other aims in view. We wish to make The Mitre a 
link which shall serve to keep ever fresh in the heart 
of every graduate of Bishop’s College, and of every Old 
Boy of Bishop’s College School, the memories of the 
days spent within her halls.” 

This is a very laudable motive and The Mitre is on 
the right track. 

A University paper to be worthy of its name must be 
broad enough to rise superior to petty local jealousies 
and strive to foster an esprit de corps among University 
men at large. Otherwise, it will come to an untimely 
end. It should be of the students and for the students, 
if it is to survive. 

We wish The Mitre every success. A.G.N. 



Eicatnug Isfotcs. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



E are just receiving a very large and varied stock of the 
Finest English 

TWEED SUITINGS, 

ALSO A FEW 

Ex'ra Quality Canadian Tweeds. 

cer-RRICES FROM $15.00 TO $30.00“®B 



JOHN MARTIN & CO., 

Military Outfitters, 

455 & 457 St. Paul Street, MONTREAL. 



Or fell'st thou haply on the ground 
For some dress— whose?— while shifting phases 
Of waltz or polka swept around, 

Their blight kaleidoscopic mazes ? 




P^OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitabe 
' to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

380 to 386 St. Paul Street, - - /Montreal 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



43 



NOTICE— To the Committee o f the McGill FORTNIGHTLY. . • 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub’ 
lications are reminded that Desbarats Co. execute Thoto 
Engiavings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement is>ued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



Tie COOK'S FRIEND is retails! Is all Geo! Grocers. 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL, 




TO ATHLETES. 



Regulation McGill 
Foot Ball 

Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 

McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 





REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 



One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 



jllicro. Accessories 
Clinical Tftermomeiers 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Laryngoscopic [Ilirrors 
Opihalmoscopes 
Stethoscopes 
Specula of all patterns 
Sculls and Skeletons 
Aspirators, Batteries 

Pockel Gases, etc., etc. 

STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 






FINE FURS 

CHOICEST QUALITIES ! 
LATEST FASHIONS ! 
and POPULAR PRICES ! 

Cor. Notre Dame and St, Lambert Streets . 



E have a very exten>ive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, . . 

15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 

at very reasonabl e prices. • 

PATERSON & FOSTER 

. . WHOLESALE AND RETAIL . . 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 




MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




S1UDENTV HEADQUARTER* 



For >ale by the Edison Phonograph 6° Densmorc 
Typewriter Agency, 1744 Notre Dame Street, 
Montreal . . . 



Telephone 2963 



The EDISON PHONOGRAPH 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 

ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



The G EORGE glSHOP 

Engraving and Printing Co. 

COLLEGE, OLUn AND 
— — 

SOCJ ETY PH IX TIN (! T 

169 St. Janies Street 

The American Fur Store 

WHOLESALE |fl U till fit ft II I' \ 1) Q df 11 IT j ITS 8 " d " BT *L L 

Nos. 27 and 29 St Lawrence Street 

BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St , B ™ll V Col^c Ave. nd 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fiuide d’H<ver or Winter Fluid 



An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smo th and soft. It is also a grate* 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mack ^nzie’s Inhalant 

A most eflfec ual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME S I REET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE SOREST, Cor. Metcalfe 



lCst ai>iislicci 1859 . 

IR,. C3 -RA.1T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

1 he Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



programmes 

MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



FACULTIES OF McCILL. 

DOWN TOWN STORE: UPTOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. I 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

MORTON PHILLIPS & CO. 

STATIONERS, 

0UANK BOOK MAKERS 

AND PRINTERS. 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



45 



JAMES SHEARER 



SHEARER & BROWN 



ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square W. lte Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 



Point St. Charles, 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CHELA-IO- STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 

JOHN PAXTON & CO. ‘“SST” 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 



Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men 3 voIs. t cloth £2.50 reduced from #5.00 

Lord Lytton's Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie*s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3 00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ ** 7.50 ** 12.0 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St, Catherine Street. 



MOSES T> AFtKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 



AND MICA AXLE GREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

Petal and (Srauel Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 4 

Nos 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Oak Tanned Leather Belting 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

WIUHTON. MDHISOrt 4 DO. 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal. 

j^;R/TISTc 3 ° ° - 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAI . 

<3-. <Sc OY ESIPZ-iXICsr 

Bftx Manufacturers 

ANI> 

Lumber Merchants 
Office, 126 DUke Street. .Montreal. 



19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

MONTREAL. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 

SAMUEL. ROGERS & CO., DUNCAN ROBERTSON, 

TORONTO. MONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 

LUBRICATING :0ILS: ILLUMINATING 

(12 Gold Medals in 6 years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

B en Telep hone 9i9 o. 92 McGill St., Montreal. 

GEO. S. KIMBER, 

USE, SISK « FRESCO PAIRTEH. 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No- 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESIRED MOTOR. 




46 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 



OF ENGLAND. 



Liability of Shareholders Unlimited 



.$IO,000,00 Q 

35,000 ,oo 0 



CAPITAL 

RESERVE FUNDS .... 

ANNUAL INCOME, upwards of .W. .. . 8,< 

Investments in Canada for protection of Canadian Policy-Holders (chiefly with 
Government) exceeds ,000,000. Evety description of property insured at moderate 
rates of premium. Li:c Assurance granted in all the most approved forms. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATLEY, Chief Agent 



E. Hurtubise, ) Specia 
Alfred Si. Cyr, Frenc 



ccial Agents James Allin, I Special Agents 

rench Dept. W. S. Roberts n, | English Dept. 

of G. R. Robertson & Son. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sa ling Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND , LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

L ike Ontario, 5300 Tons, Capt. Campbell. Lake Superior, 5300 Tons, Capt. Stewart. 

Lake Huron, 5000 Tons, Capt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, Capt. llerriman. 

Lake .Nipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this Line have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
Trade. 1 he state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
accommodation f r all classes of Passengers at very low races, 
specially reduced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 

IM OTST -x'IR, E A.X,. 



McCASKILL, DOUGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 

Manufacturers of Fine 



VARNISHES, JAPANS 
and COLORS. 



. MONTREAL . . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 



-4 



WARDEN KING & SON 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 



^CANADA LIFE!* 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 

HEAD OFFICE , HAMILTON, OUT. 

Capital and Funds over 13,0.0 000 Dollars, 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

EDWARD L. BOND 

JfiiT ami JJtarinc Underwriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreiga Marine Insurance Co. 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 



THE MOL.SONS BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . §2,000,000 | Rest, # §1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. VV. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, \V. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson. 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES,— Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound, 
Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Thomas, Out., Toronto, Toronto 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London. — Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited); Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool. — The Bank of Liverpool. Cork— Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 
Pa ris— Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp fie Igiutn. — La Banqued’ Anvers. Hamburg 
— Hesse, Newman & Co. 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES . — New D^.-Mechanics* National Bank 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep 
herd, Agents Bank of Montreal; National City Bank, also in the principal cities 
of the llnited Slates. 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 



HENDERSON BuOS. 

dumber and ^timber 

Stecun S clw ctrul Hlcuxi g flills 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling Wood always in Stock 

H. R. IVES 6 l CO. 

■g- Architectural Iron Works 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 

Queen Street MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



47 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 



Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR FURNACES 
RADIATORS- REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOOKS AND SCALES 



333 cfc 307 St. Paul St. 



MONTREAL. 



ESTABLISHED 1809 

North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



CUraorbinara directors. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore i The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen | The Hon. Lord Well wood 
The Right Hon Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly 
Total Assets, - 



85,000,000 

52,053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal = 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



FIRE Hi ASSOCIATION 

(IjTIMITTIEID) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CANADIAN BOARD : 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., j _ Directors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada, 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 



The 



Guarantee Gomp’y 



OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 

Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, Vice-President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 



Mail Buildings. 



MEDLAXD A JONES, Agents 



The Liverpool & London 5 Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable iate&»and 
losses liberally adjusted 

Gr. IF. O. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL- 



Insure your Property with the 

Phoenix Insurance Co. H 

TIME TRIED 



OF 
ARTFOKD 



and FIRE TESTED 



GERALD HART, 

General Manager for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 




Northern A8surar.ee Co. 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



XJJ Branch Office for Canada— 1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds I&S^S 0 * 000 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds ; ...... 5»495-°oo 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 200, oco 

ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada . 

City Agent; BROWNING, British Empire Building. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



48 





Ga.pt 1* A C5 o «9 


| ||ili 


Hoi Water, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 


— TO THE 


. ti ll i 


McGill University Building, 


Jlfttoiilf 


Royal Victoria Hospital, 




Board of Trade Building. 




>lans and Estimates Given on Application. 



R 



OBERT GARDNER & SON 



Established 
. . . 1850 . . . 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth , Brennan and Dalhousie Sts., MONTREAL/. 



J. K. MACDONALD 

. . . PRACTICAL . . . 

IfottsB mib jllemitWiI JWl-lfangBJV Jxodhmillj mtb (laneral J5ladtamillj 



ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 



CARPENTERS’ and BUILDERS' WORK TO ORDER 



762 and 764 CRAIG STREET, West of Victoria Square, 

Bell Telephone No, 2591 



MONTREAL 




Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 

Sjiduocates, barristers, &c., 

IsTEW TOBK LIFE BTJIL DITTO-, 

MONTREAL. 

R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. PEERS DAVIDSON. 

GEORGE BRUSH Established 1S20. - 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 

ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 

SCOTCH DRA’M PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, FLUE COVERS, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, VE N'T LININGS, 
ENAMELLED SINKS, 

CALCINED PLASTER, WHEELBARROWS. 
HAND BARROWS, GARDEN VASES, COAL OIL, 
LADDERS, POLES, 

MORTAR AND BRICK, HODS, &C. 

Portland, Roman and Canada Cements 

• 50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 336. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 

BOYD & CO- ^* 11Telephone ~ 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal .—Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co., D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 

TRIANGLE, 
SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

Special Discounts to Students. 

HE&RN &> HARRISON, notre 4 dame 

W. * F. P. CURRIE * CO. 

100 CREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WH 1 TBF 0 RD & THEORET 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

3£aiu booksellers, publishers and b^hinders 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“The Monthly law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO 01- 

La Revue Legale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St* James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

To be Out Shortly = — Crankshaw’s Criminal Code of Canada, 1892. 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH- 
Juluoratcs, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 

J. B. Abbott C. S. Campbell 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. H. J. Hague F. E. Meredith 

ATWATER & MACXXE 

Juluocates, blisters, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BU.LP.NC Tfo ^ JAMES STREET, 

nvroisrTT^EA.r J 

J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 

Telephone 1880 Cable Address, “Arcfost.” 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 

Albert J. Brown W. Prescott Sharp 

HALL, GROSS, BROWH X SHARP, 

Advocates, barristers and Solicitors, 

TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Farqubar S. Maclennan 

MACMASTER & MACLENNAN 

J^duo cates, barristers, <£tc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 





Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AIND THE iEOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 



Largest Stock. No Canvassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 



taken in exchange. 




Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices. 



FURNITURE 



FOE 



Professors and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



REMUD, KING 3c PATTERSON 



652 CRAIG STREET 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



$2.25, 2 75, 3.50, 4.00 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



Full assortment of RUBBERS and OVER SH OES 



WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 

It goes without saying tiitit — 

WALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 
Photos of Professors on sale. ..... 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 



WHAT ARE YOU STUDYING FOR, 

A Doctor, a Lawyer, a Minister or an Engineer ? 

No matter what Art, Science or Profession, we can fit you all with Clothes. 

Good. Wear, Good Fit and Low Price guaranteed. We have now 
everything desirable in Men’s Wear from head to foot, including inner and outer 
garments, Underclothing’ to Overcoat, Hats,! Boots, Shoes and Rubbers. 
No need to run all over the City when you can get all you want from us at most 
reasonable Prices. Special discount to Students. 

JOH3ST ALLAN’S 

659 to 665 CRAIG STREET. 



“THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

- GLOVES - 

... AT THE . . . 

Paris Kid Glove Store 



262 St. James Street | 2341 St. Catherine Street 

E. B. COOKE & CO. 







MANAG ER. 




136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 
MONTREAL. 



HATS, CAPS and FINE FURS 

Having opened a new store at 2411 St. Catherine Street, I would invite special inspec- 
tion of a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 

WILLI AM SAMU EL, 2411 St. Catherine Street 



TELEPHONE 3466 




