Vol. X 



No. 4 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OIF 1 TSTIEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly - - - “ " ' - $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

ACENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

1762 1 TOTBE STREET, - - 



WEDDING CARDS, 



VISITING CARDS, 



MENU CARDS, 



RECEPTION CARDS, 
INVITATION CARDS. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
3 E C HEMICAL A PPARATUS. 

S ^ull Stodk dor^tar|tly on H-kud, Imported 
f)fre<it froir\ ti|e Leading JVIapufkdtufefd 
of tl^e \Voi‘ld. 

AX INSPECTION INVITED. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 & 9 Blourj St., MONTREAL. 



384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CTA-iLAIES ST. 



* * 



Wm. Notman & Son, 
*********** * * * * * * * 




** *********** * * * * * 

Ife^ao Beale of 'Trices this year 
for Biudenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET 



.nBHtat/, tVORKS, BOOKS useh ijv art course, 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full assortment in stock: & supplied at Rod Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., &c., 
-♦-iBEST VALUE LLT TOWFi-*- 

Stylo graphic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Taro.es Street, 

— ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



vol. x.] McGill college, Montreal, December 1st, 1886. [No. 4. 







Editorials. 



ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE FELLOWS. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

E. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-ChieJ 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CONTENTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 45-47 

Poetry 47, 51 

Contributions 47-50 

McGill News 51 

Societies 51-52 

Sporting 53-54 

Personals 54 

Between the Lectures 54-55 

College World - 55 

Correspondence 56-58 



NOTICE ! 

Subscribers who have not yet paid in their sub- 
scriptions for the current year, will please do so 
as soon as possible. 

All moneys and communications with refer- 
ence to the address of papers sent by post, should 
be directed to Mr. Mackie, Sec.-Treas. to the 
Board of Directors, Box 1290. 



We publish in this issue a letter from Mr. Wilfrid 
Skaife, B. Ap. Sc., professing to be a reply to our 
article upon this subject in our issue of November 5th. 
The subject is a very important one. It is unfortu- 
nate that Mr. Skaife did not see fit to treat his subject 
in a little more serious style : his criticisms are un- 
fair. We endeavoured to treat the subject in a candid 
and unbiassed spirit ; this letter does not meet us in the 
same spirit, and if it pretends to give the views of 
those who differ from us in this matter, it is evident 
that they recognize the truth that the less the question 
is understood the stronger will tne.u. tv ion become. 
However, we invite our readers to examine carefully 
Mr. Skaife’s letter, and convince themselves to what 
straits our opponents are put in their endeavour to 
carry through a measure so little called for and so very 
objectionable as is this one. Mr. Skaife’s letter 
abounds in inaccuracies. He writes, — “ The first 
statement which I have to challenge is the writer’s 
assumption that the Science men might, on account of 
their fewness in number, be more likely to consider 
their own good than that of the University in general.” 
Now the writer of that article assumed nothing of the 
kind. We do not believe that Science men are any 
more likely than Arts men, or Law men, or Medical men 
on account of their fewness in number, to look more 
towards furthering the interests of their own faculty 
than those of the University at large. But we do be- 
lieve that they are just as likely as other men. Now 
let us explain “ by what series of mental gymnastic’s 
we arrive at this remarkable conclusion,” merely pre- 
mising that if our friend Mr. Skaife had trusted more 
to his reasoning powers, and less to his ability for 
conjecture, he might perhaps have been more success- 
ful in following our argument. The more diverse the 
interests of the constituency to which a candidate 
appeals for suffrage the more difficult is it for one 
man or any set of men to impose their individual 
projects and schemes upon the electorate. The very 
fact of there being among the electorate many very 
different views and opinions upon the matters to be 
regulated by the man of their choice, will have the 
effect of selecting a man of broad views, a man 
thoroughly representative. Now, the smaller the 



46 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



constituency the less chance is there for this de- 
sirable diversity, the greater opportunity is there 
for hobbyists to acquire complete control, to the 
injury of the whole body and of themselves. We 
agree thoroughly with Mr. Skaife that “ the very 
numerical weakness of a faculty makes it more 
dependent for advancement on the general pros- 
perity of the University he seems to imagine that 
our article was directed against the Science Faculty, 
while the fact is we wrote, as we then believed and as 
we still believe, in its best interests. 

We are not in a position to inform Mr. Skaife of 
the nationality of the author of the article referred to, 
but he probably would feel neither insulted nor 
slandered to be called both a “ Home Ruler ” and an 
“ Irishman” ; but we in our turn are anxious to know 
“ by what series of mental gymnastics ” Mr. Skaife ar- 
rives at the conclusion that this gentleman is of Irish 
extraction? We wrote that the proposed change 
“ would have the appearance of countenancing the 
fact of divided and antagonistic interests,” which the 
whole tenor of the article goes to prove would be 
created by this very change itself, but which do not 
now really exist. 

Mr. Skaife next informs us that the promoters of 
the change have looked well to the effects of the suc- 
cess of their efforts, have, like good engineers, exam- 
ined the ground upon which their agility is going to 
land them. It is a pity that he did not incorporate 
some of the reasons given in the petition of which he 
speaks, and which are to be so powerful with the 
Governors, in his letter, for we fail to see in it one 
single valid objection to the argument of our article ; 
as a criticism on style it is exceedingly good, and on 
the whole is not a little amusintr. 

And now our correspondent is astonished at another 
of our “ assumptions,” viz., that it would be no evil to 
have the Science representative elected by the medical 
graduates. If Mr. Skaife will persist in taking out 
single sentences in our article and warping their 
meaning to suit his purpose, we have neither the time 
nor the inclination to follow his peculiar style of 
argument. Our contention is that the Representative 
bellows should each and all be voted for by the whole 
body of graduates ; Mr. Skaife surely cannot have 
misunderstood our position : if he did misunderstand 
it, we fear there is not “ enough of the pristine under- 
graduate vigor ” left in him to assist him through an 
ordinary passage in English with even ordinary 
promptitude, not to mention despatch . 

When Mr. Skaife has done with witticism he in- 
dulges in declarations. First in order he tells us that 
the majority of Science mep repudiate the present 



system as being contrary to common sense and justice. 
Well, on the other hand, a respectable minority of 
Science meD, the great majority of the Medical, Arts 
and Law men and, as we are credibly informed, some 
of the Professors do not regard it as contrary to com- 
mon sense, and see no injustice in it. If Mr. Skaife 
looks before he leaps, we are bound to say we see little 
evidence of any very careful ocular investigation be- 
fore he speaks. How, he asks, could a medical graduate 
speak with authority as to what was wanted in the 
Science Faculty? Who, we ask, has ever proposed 
that a medical graduate should ever be placed in such 
a position as would necessitate his speaking with 
authority upon what was wanted in the Science 
Faculty? The present system elects Science men as 
Science representatives, and we insist there should be 
no change. No special policy is ever enunciated by 
the candidates who present themselves for election, 
and therefore we say that a Science man selected on 
his general reputation for ability and fitness by the 
voice of the whole body of the alumni is much more 
likely to be a useful man than is one who would in 
many cases be the representative of a mere clique. 
He would represent the University better and would 
be in just as good a position to speak authoritatively 
of the needs of his own Faculty. 

Unfortunately for the promoters of this scheme re- 
presentation by number has much to do with the pre- 
sent movement ; and now since Mr. Skaife has so 
much confidence in the grit of himself and his friends, 
we shall be very much surprised if the graduates in 
Medicine, Arts and Law do not develop enough of the 
same commodity to preserve the University as far as 
possible against the dangers Avhich this agitation in- 
volves. 

The letter closes with a reference to what Mr. Skaife 
calls a “ curious admission” on our part. The admis- 
sion is to the effect that if we can do no better we shall 
take care to retain for ourselves a choice between two 
evils. This may appear a “ curious admission ” to 
those who work for present success, regardless of con- 
sequences ; but we doubt not, it will be regarded by 
the best friends of the University as a wise precaution. 



HARVARD. 

The Gazette tenders very sincere congratulations 
to Harvard on the completion of her 250th year. Her 
sons have already done great things for their country, 
and for mankind ; but, doubtless, with the prestige 
which age and increased resources afford, her glory is 
but begun. The anniversary celebration just held, 
appears to have been a very enjoyable affair. We 
give a short description by one who took part : 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



47 



The celebration of the 250th anniversary of the 
founding of Harvard College took place at Cambridge, 
on the 5th to 9th inst. 

The first day, Friday, was devoted to the Law 
school, the second to the Undergraduates — the morning 
being filled by literary exercises in Sandars Theatre, 
a part of the Memorial Hall, erected in memory of 
those graduates and undergraduates who fell in the 
war. The oration by Hamilton, an undergaduate, was 
most effective, and a good promise of his after success, 
if he do not follow the example of his famous namesake. 
The day was so wet that the football match in the after- 
noon. and fireworks in the evening, had to be given up. 

Sunday there were sermons by Francis Peabody 
and Phillip Brooks, in the Chapel, and some fine 
music. 

Monday was graduates’ day, and by about ten 
o’clock all the classes were formed into a long pro- 
cession, headed by the President and Fellows of the 
College, the Overseers of the University, and the 
invited guests. President Cleveland, with his Staff, 
the Governor of the State, attended by the Lancers, 
arrived shortly after, and the procession started for 
Memorial Hall, to hear the Oration by James Russell 
Lowell, and the Poem by Oliver Wendell Holmes. 

There were about 2,600 graduates in the procession, 
and all of these, besides about four hundred ladies, 
succeeded in getting at least a footing in the Sandars 
theatre. The platform was filled with the guests, and 
the Faculty, in their robes, and the gallery above 
was taken for the choir, made up of the members of 
the Glee Club for a number of years back. 

Of the Oration and Poem it is needless to speak, 
as both have been published ; but no one reading 
them can realise the effect produced on an audience 
so excited and so enthusiastic as that gathered on this 
occasion. 

A dinner followed, and in the evening there were 
class dinners, a reception in the Gymnasium, and a 
torchlight procession of the undergraduates and the 
Law School, besides fireworks on Holmes’ Fields. 

It was a great rejoicing, which no one will soon 
forget who was present, and the writer prays, like 
Macaulay’s Roman — 

“ God send Rome such another day 
And send me there to see.” 



Poetry. 



OUT OF THE OLD HOUSE. 

We cannot part without a tear, 

Old house that sheltered us so long. 

Twelve times the birth-night of a year 
In thee we welcomed with a song. 

Good bye, old friend, good bye the toys 
That pleased us in our childish days, 

We are no longer girls and boys, 

Our feet are in the worlds highways. 

Thy sturdy walls were ever proof 
Against the storms of air and life, 

Not once beneath thy sheltering roof 
Dwelt sickness, sorrow, want or strife. 

God grant that we may live again 
In our new home, in days to come, 

Twelve years as glad, as free from pain 
As thou hast given usT dear old home. 

Arthur Weir. 



tkcmtributions. 



a McGill man. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. IV. 

“ Oh ! that I were a glove upon that hand, 

That I might kiss that cheek ! ” 

— Shak. 



In my last chapter I left Cutler standing with his 
horn in his hand on the window-sill of the young 
ladies’ sleeping apartments at Mrs. Snorter’s fashion- 
able school. He had not remained long in this 
perilous position when a light began to move in the 
house, and almost immediately he heard the hall- 
door cautiously opened, and saw a head with a night- 
cap on protruded. This was Mrs. Snorter, who, hav- 
ing been awakened by the noise and the excitement 
of the young ladies, had come down to reconnoitre 
and find out the cause of the disturbance. She had, 
however, taken the precaution to waken the head 
governess, and to order her to follow with an instru- 
ment of defence, in the shape of an umbrella. See- 
ing no one near the door, she boldly stepped out into 
the street and looked up at the window, where she 
beheld our friend Cutler quietly looking down. 

“ What are you doing up there, sir 1 Come down 
at once. How dare you have the impertinence to 
climb up on my house. Come down out of that, I 
tell you.” 

“ But I can’t come down, m’am, without a ladder. 
They have taken away the ladder, and left me here.” 

“ And how dare you go up there, sir 1 I tell you 
I’ll have you arrested. You must come down at once, 
sir.” 

“ But I tell you, m’am, again, I can’t get down, 
confound it.” 

At this point the policeman arrived on the scene, 
and Cutler began to swear at us inwardly, and to 
think that the affair was passing a joke. The police- 
man, having made enquiries as to the cause of the 
rumpus, and ascertained that the man above was not 
a burglar, determined to make an arrest, but was 
somewhat at a loss to know how to come at his 
prisoner. 

“'Vat is it you do there, young man?” asked the 
policeman. 

“Arrest him, Mr. Policeman; arrest him, I say,” 
cried Mrs. Snorter indignantly. 

“ But, madame, I cannot arrest him until he do 
descend.” 

“ I’m a student,” shouts Cutler, “ and my name’s 
Smith, and after I got up here they took away a lad- 
der we had, and I couldn’t get down. I’m going to 
get in through this window, and get down through 
the house.” 

“ Don’t do anything of the kind, sir,” screamed Mrs. 
Snorter back to him. “ Y ou’re a student, are you ; 
I suppose you’re a medical student. Well, I’ll teach 



48 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



you a lesson you won’t forget for a while. Arrest 
him, Mr. Policeman ; arrest him.” 

“ But, madame, in order that I do arrest him, me I 
must go up de stairs and catch him by de inside.” 

This, however, could not he done, because the 
young ladies had retired for the night, and it would 
never do to bring a policeman through the room. 
Cutler would have disregarded this delicate point, 
and descended by the inside of the house, but he 
knew that he would be immediately arrested by the 
policeman on coming down, and put in for the night. 

After a consultation and much cogitation, it was 
determined that the girls should all retire into another 
room until the arrest was made, and Miss Stickstein, 
the governess, was sent up to give the necessary orders 
and superintend the removal. All preparations hav- 
ing been completed, Policeman Jean Baptiste Francois 
Xavier was conducted into the house, and was actu- 
ally half-way up the stairs, when three or four of us, 
who had remained within ear-shot all the time, rushed 
up with the ladder and let the poor fellow down. 
When the majesty of the law made its appearance at 
the inside of the window, we sang a few lines of that 
facetious song, “ Come away from the window now, I 
say,” and decamped, to spend a few jovial hours at 
Cavallo’s, or some other equally charming resort. 

Cutler never fully forgave me for my share in that 
exploit. He told Miss Jennie Slitherum that I 
thought myself a very funny fellow, but that he was 
bio wed if he saw where the wit and humour came in. 

But all this had passed and gone. ^Ve were now 
working hard for the Christmas examinations. Blake 
was still infatuated with Miss Mayflower, and was 
making himself as miserable as possible, because he 
could not manage to get an introduction to her. If 
this went on, I knew he would never pass any of his 
examinations, and communed with myself what had 
better be done. Since the close of the football sea- 
son Blake had done nothing but try to study, and 
frequent the theatre, the Queen’s Hall, and such hi<*h- 
toned places of amusement, in the hope of getting a 
glimpse of his beloved. He took absolutely no exer- 
cise, and I noticed that his disposition was a little 
cranky. Cutler, whose wound was still ranklin'* 
cynically remarked, “sluggish liver,” and I began to 
believe there was something in the remark. 

. I made Clooney join the hockey club.* I had to 
join also, or he would not play, although I did not 
know a hockey stick from a goal-post, or a skate from 
a flounder. Indeed, there seemed to bo very much 
of the latter fish about my performances. Clooney 
surprised rue. I found he was a practiced skater, and 
as this is the first requisite of good hockey playin^ he 
soon became proficient in the game, and, fronThis 
great size and strength, was noted for his rushes The 
sport had almost the desired result. His merry lau^h 
returned, and though I still found him studying no°w 
and then, from a book that was turned upside down 
he did not seem so restless. We pulled through the 
examinations fairly well, and rested on our oars dur- 
ing the holidays. At least Blake did, for he went 
down home As for me, I had some back work to 
study up, which prevented me from acceptin'* Blake’s 
invitation to accompany him. I had hard work re- 



fusing, for, as I said, I had developed a brotherly 
interest in his sister and a warm affection for himself. 
Another thing that prevented me was a long-standing 
invitation to a Christinas dinner from an old friend 
of my father’s, who had found me out, and made me 
promise to spend Christmas Day at his house, in the 
city. 

I felt lonely when Clooney was gone. He had 
twined himself round my heart even tighter than I 
thought, but with an effort of will I set to iny studies 
and succeeded in banishing the loneliness. Christ- 
mas Day came speedily, and I togged out to pay my 
promised visit to Mr. Smithson’s, where I was received 
with due ceremony. What was my surprise to find, 
as my vis-a-vis, Miss Edith Mayflower ! How I 
wished Clooney also had been present. I found her 
a very agreeable person, with a gift for repartee, and 
if I had not been reminded, by a too truthful mirror, 
that was on the wall behind her, of my red-headed 
and stumpy physical man, I should have fallen in 
love with her myself. 

I thought that she flushed up a little when she saw 
mo, but was not sure. Certainly, her subsequent 
treatment of me was natural, and yet it seemed to me 
that she must have recognized me as the friend of one 
whose interest in her had led him to frequent many 
of the same places of amusement as herself. Perhaps 
she had not noticed it, but woman is very quick to 
detect such things. She was an enthusiastic sport, 
having been trained by her brother, and was well up 
in the doings of the various athletic clubs of the city. 
After complimenting us on our fine football team, 
she went on to speak of the winter season. 

“ You toboggan, do you not 1 ” she asked, “ or are 
you too studiously inclined 1 ” 

“I have few friends in the city,” I replied, “with 
whom to go tobogganing, and that, I believe, is the 
great pleasure of the sport. Besides, my nights are 
pretty well occupied by study. What spare time I 
have I am giving to hockey just now.” 

A splendid game,” she said. “ It’s the only game 
I like to watch. In football I am always afraid some 
one will get hurt, and lacrosse is very rough. But 

hockey I can watch for hours. It is so fast and 
graceful.” 



most graceful attitude of mine, in which my feet had 
decided to seek opposite ends of the rink, and only 
came to an agreement when I was likely to become a 
pfuro extended compasses. This agreement was to 
let the head do their work. I suppose I looked grace- 
u as , Ploughed through the iee and snow on one 
ear and a shoulder for ten yards, till Clooney and a 
lew others stopped my progress by falling upon me. 
I suppose I looked graceful, but I confess I did not 

t Gl ?°A . H ? wever > 1 d i d not tell Miss Mayflower 
about this, but entered into a disquisition upon the 
charms of the game. 

During the dinner I learned that Miss Mayflower 
was about to spend some weeks in Toronto, but in- 

SwS l°A h l downbef ore the close of the season, 
bhe wished to see the match between our team and 

m,t fl? 0na ®’ aS Mr. Smithson, who turned 

o t to be a cousin of hers, was to captain the latter. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



49 



“I have promised him a tuque if he takes the first 
game,” she said. 

“ He ■will have to work hard, then,” I answered, 
“ for our team has several new men. One, in par- 
ticular, a chum of mine, will give him all he can do.” 

“ What is his name ? ” she enquired. 

“ Clonardo Blake, a young Nova Scotian, a tall, 
broad-shouldered, handsome fellow.” 

As I gave this answer I glanced at her. There was 
that fiush again. No, it was only the gaslight. Was 
it, or was it not? I could not tell. 

In the games that followed, Miss Mayflower was 
one of the merriest. I did not get another chance to 
converse with her, as old Mr. Smithson drew me into 
the window and gave me a long account of the times 
when he and my father were hoys together. 

When Clooney got back from the holidays, I told 
him of my good-luck, and promised to get him an 
introduction, if possible, as soon as Miss Mayflower 
returned from .Toronto. I told him also about the 
hockey match, hut kept quiet as to the prize for the 
first game that Charley Smithson was to get. The 
way that Clooney practised at hockey was astonishing. 
He was first on the ice at every practice and last off. 
We had to go to the river in those days, and play on 
the canal at the cost of a few cents an hour. How 
often I used to get angry at him as he dragged me out 
of bed some cold winter morning to go and play 
hockey ! In those days our club was always victori- 
ous, although not so well established as now. Wo 
seldom had the same team two years together, and as 
most of our men this year were new, I was not sur- 
prised when Clooney was elected captain. 

The challenge to the Vies, was given and accepted, 
and the eventful day arrived. By special courtesy — 
for hockey was not then so well appreciated as now 
— we were allowed to play in the evening. Both 
teams vvere on time, and at 8 o’clock filed out upon 
the ice amid the plaudits of a goodly audience, many 
of whom were McGill men, Avho had come down to 
encourage their team. I was one of the umpires, and 
looked round anxiously among the audience to find 
Miss MayfloAver. Clooney was also looking in that 
direction, and as I saw a flush pass over his bronzed 
face, I followed his glance, and beheld the young 
lady chatting with Charley Smithson, Avho, every inch 
a hockey player, Avas laughing at something that Avas 
said. Cloonev skated back to me. “ Now,” he said, 
“noAV.” - 

I understood him, and skated with him up to Avhere 
Charley was standing. We were too late, hoAvever, 
for just as we came Avithin ear-shot, Charley bowed 
and left her, coming himself towards us. We could 
not avoid hearing her parting words : “ Remember, 
Charley, a tuque for the first game.” 

“ Never ! if I know it,” muttered Clooney, and the 
next moment he was arranging preliminaries with 
Charley. Before the game began, I had an instant’s 
conversation Avith Miss MayfloAver, and then Avent 
back to my post at the Victoria’s goal. Clooney had 
not said anything further to me about Avhat he had 
heard, but I knew by his firm demeanor, and the 
eager flash of his eyes, that *he had nerved himself 
for a great struggle . — (To be continued.) 



MENTAL SLAVERY AND MENTAL FREEDOM. 

II. 

There are three gradations of freedom — the per- 
sonal, the political, and the mental : and each is 
entitled to rank amongst the best and dearest interests 
of humanity. 

Personal freedom may perhaps, in some cases, re- 
quire experience of the contrast of constraint in order 
to its full enjoyment ; and yet there are instances in 
which it is so prized that men readily sacrifice for it 
many of the conveniences and advantages of society. 
Personal freedom is one of the elementary rights of our 
being. Even men in the lowest stages of civilization, 
Avho have been doomed to undergo its loss, have 
usually felt its deprivation bitterly. Personal free- 
dom is one of those primary rights which should only 
be interfered vvitli Avhen a man acts so as to prevent 
the liberty of others. Within those limits law and 
custom should hold it sacred. The well-being of 
mind and morals, not less than that of the body, may 
depend upon its Avholesome and judicious exercise. 

Political liberty is another gradation in the scale of 
freedom. A nation is not free which cannot avail it- 
self impartially of the powers of all its subjects. . A 
government is a slave-government that is debarred 
from employing the fittest agency, from any religious 
sect or denomination, or from any political party. A 
community, like an individual, should be self-govern- 
ed. The achievement of political freedom has been 
marked, and deservedly, by outbreaks as resplendent 
as those by which the feelings of the negroes in the 
West Indies were characterised when they celebrated 
their Emancipation. We look back to the establish- 
ment of American independence as the era of the 
triumph of a great principle. Throughout these 
colonies they felt as though they had attained to a 
condition of freedom beyond their hopes, but from 
which they were anxiously expecting to reap the 
noblest advantages. What an overflow of joy there 
was, not only in France, but also in England, and in 
all Avell-constituted minds throughout Europe and the 
world, when the Bastile fell, and freedom seemed to 
arise from its ruins in a splendour and glory which 
promised a long endurance and an ever-extending 
progress ! 

Political freedom is the charter of social good. It 
is a mere fiction to say that any despot — though he 
were an angel or archangel from heaven — could 
govern a free country better than it would govern 
itself ; for whatever mistakes be made as to Avhat is 
the common interest, we may be well assured that in 
the long-run it will be promoted, and that the delays 
Avhich take place are useful, inasmuch as they render 
more distinct to individual minds the good Avhich is 
sought for adoption by the community. Let free states 
make their blunders, and adopt for a vvhile a false and 
erring policy, — let them even be ungrateful to, and 
unappreciating of, the superior minds among them, 
Avho Avould lead them by a more direct path, still, in 
the very fact of their freedom and self-government 
they have before them a means of progress which 
bears an analogy to the gradual development of the 
human mind and body, and which secures for them 



50 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



analogous results. This love of liberty and desire for 
it aggrandises those who fail of its attainment. Let a 
nation — it may be a small free state — be crushed by 
external force ; let it fall before barbarian arms and 
numbers — still, even in its fall, it is dear to humanity. 
In its own extinction it does something towards the 
future existence of other free states. Its champions, 
though they perish, are the world’s martyrs : hearts 
will throb with delight, and beat quicker when their 
names are repeated : their memory becomes a religion 
in the world : the places where their heroism was 
evinced are hallowed ground in all future times ; and 
with the cypresses around their tombs shall be en- 
wreathed and blended the laurels of future victories, 
and the roses of peaceful enjoyment. 

Mental freedom — the highest in this gradation — is 
less noticeable in its attributes, and less capable of 
being traced and recorded in its progress. It is very 
often achieved and exercised in silence. It is a world 
which goes on in those mental recesses which are more 
impervious to us than the deepest solitude ; accom- 
plished there by the disposition — which, while it 
respects the authority of numbers, or of antiquity, will 
not be bound by them; which holds itself at liberty to 
investigate any topic whatever of human thought; 
which takes the exercise for granted of every power 
with which it has been endowed by nature, as the 
rightful function of its being ; and which, unshackled 
by prejudice or interest any more than by outward con- 
trol, is still winning its way to a higher, wiser, and 
purer state. This is a condition of being more fraught 
with blessedness, although less obvious to notice, than 
any of those hitherto described. It is only in such a 
state as this that mind does justice to itself; that it 
accumulates truth after truth, ever enriching and en- 
larging its stores of knowlege ; that, by its honest ex- 
ercise, it acquires strength to discern, which at last 
becomes almost intuitive, between the good and evil, 
the right and wrong, the true and false ; and thus at 
length there arises within itself an unboastful but 
deep and enduring sense of enjoyment, such as can 
spring from no other source whatever. It is a glad- 
ness which the heart of the individual alone knows, 
but which, when he is once acquainted with, he would 
fiot exchange for all that the world can offer. 

I he mind, liberated from ignorance and prejudice 
throwing oft internal, as well as external restraints 
— relying upon its own excursiveness for action — does 
not go loudly and boastfully abroad to proclaim 
this to the world; but to itself ever and anon there 
arises that low, musical, and thrilling tone, which 
makes the individual feel that his lot is a happy one 
whatever may be the disadvantages of his external cir- 
cumstances This is the state described, in some 
lines of Sir Henry Wotton, which, in their quaintness, 
depict a feeling common to all times : 

How happy is lie born and taught, 

Who serveth not another’s will ; 

Whose armour is his honest thought, 

And simple truth his only skill ! 

* 

This man is freed from servile hands 
Of hope to rise, or fear to fall ; 

Lord of himself, though not of lands • 

And having nothing, yet hath all. ’ 



Such, also, have been the experience of men who 
have felt that 

Stone walls do not a dungeon make ; 

Nor prison bars a cage.” 

The mind expatiates beyond the limits of its cell, 
and all truth, beauty, goodness, and glory in the uni- 
verse yet remain in some degree its heritage. This is 
the most inalienable of human blessings. Many have 
possessed it, too, when the benefit of political freedom, 
and even personal liberty, was denied. Plato, the 
greatest name in philosophy — the free Greek, Plato — 
was once seized by the tyrant of Syracuse, and sold 
for a slave. He was soon redeemed by his admiring 
friends and disciples; but supposing this had not 
been the case, why, even in bonds, the slave would 
have been Plato still, his mind would, even under 
such circumstances, have retained its variety, lofti- 
ness and grandeur ; it would still have possessed all 
those qualities which have made him the dispenser of 
so much improvement and delight to the students of 
succeeding ages. There is that old, garrulous, de- 
formed AEsop, who still appears to talk in our schools 
by his fables, telling his stories of speaking birds and 
beasts, and working out by their means so many 
shrewd lessons for the government of human conduct 
— that old philosopher was but a Phrygian slave ; and 
the chief notices of his life which remain to us are a 
list of the masters under which he passed, he having 
been sold from one to another, and found, no doubt, 
by his owners to be a very profitable property. 
Epictetus, whose moral maxims commend themselves 
so much to all who delight in that species of study, 
was also but a slave. He taught, even while in 
bonds, the worth of mental liberty, and experienced 
its blessedness himself while he was teaching it to 
others. Homer, whose odes are to this day so promi- 
nent a portion of education, whose observations upon 
men and manners have been such a treasure of plea- 
sant philosophy — he, though not himself actually a 
slave, was the descendant of one who was elevated by 
an arbitrary act from that condition to become a free- 
man. Virgil, the sweet singer of Roman times, sang, 
but like a bird in a cage, under the subjection to 
which his country was then reduced. Even the very 
authors of our religion were not politically free. 
Jews by birth, they were the subjects of imperial 
Rome ; and in this, as in other instances, there was 
issued, even from amidst the dreariness of extended 
domination, or the very depths of gaols and dungeons, 
a voice to which the heart of man has responded, be- 
cause it breathed the accents of a liberty beyond the 
power of despotism. 

(To be continued.) 



(Scene Parish Church vestry not one hundred 
miles from I)unbar ; John, the church officer, is dis- 
covered lighting the fire. Enter the minister rubbing 
ns hands.) Minister : — “A damp, cold morning this, 
John. (John, who can hardly believe his ears, re- 
mains silent.) Minister (evidently thinking that John 
lias not heard) : — “ I said it was a damp, cold morn- 

i, m : “ S° R sir, so it is ; but dinna sweer, 

it’s God’s wull.” 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



51 



SONG. 

(From the French .) 

Comrades ! in vain ye seek to learn 
For whom I burn : 

Nor for a kingdom would I dare 
Her name declare. 

But we will chant in chorus still, 

If so you will, 

That she I love is blonde and sweet 
As blades of wheat. 

Whate’er her wayward fancies ask 
Becomes my task : 

Should she my very life demand, 

’Tis in her hand.! 

The pain of passion unrevealed 
Can scarce be healed : 

Such pain within my heart I bear 
To my despair; 

Nathless, I love her all too well 
Her name to tell, 

And I would sooner die than e’er 
Her name declare ! 

Geo. Murray. 



PFlcfBill News. 



Six large packing cases, containing supplies for the 
laboratory, arrived from Amsterdam last week. A 
Theolog. counted four hundred bottles inter alia. 
What comes from Amsterdam in bottles? Ask us 
round. 

The following is taken from one of the daily papers 
of this city : — Montrealers will be pleased to learn 
that the Handbook of Psychology of Prof. J. Clark 
Murray, has met with very great success, the first 
edition being nearly exhausted. It is introduced 
into a number of colleges in Great Britain, and into 
several universities in the United States — in Michigan, 
Vassar, Rhode Island, and Western Pennsylvania. 
Prof. Murray has received a letter from a publisher in 
Warsaw, asking permission to translate it into Polish, 
which is a flattering compliment to the merit of the 
book. 

We have received from Sir William Dawson, the 
following notice : 

PRIZE POEM. 

RESTORATION OF DERRY CATHEDRAL. 

A Prize of <£50 is offered for the best Poem on 
Derry Cathedral. The composition may be in any 
recognised measure, and is not to exceed 120 lines. 
The author is requested to conceal his name ; but each 
Poem is to be distinguished by a motto, and accompanied 
by a sealed envelope endorsed with the motto, contain- 
ing the competitor’s name. An entrance fee of Ten 
Shillings is to be forwarded with each Poem. While 
it is desirable that reference should be made to religious 
and historical associations, the adjudication will be 
decided by poetical merit alone. 

Poems, marked “ Derry Cathedral Prize Poem,” 
are to be lodged with the Secretary, Diocesan Synod 
Office, Londonderry, on or before February 15, 1887. 
Unsuccessful Poems cannot be returned. 

The following gentlemen have kindly consented to 
act as judges : — 

Edward Dowden, Esq., Professor of English Litera- 
ture in the University of Dublin. 



W. J. Courthope, Esq., Education Department, 
Whitehall. 

Harold A. Perry, Esq., Fellow of King’s College, 
Cambridge. 



ENGINEERING LECTURES. 

The Faculty of Applied Science and many visitors 
were entertained by an excellent lecture by Mr. Wan- 
klyn, M.E. of the G.T.R., on “ The Differences Be- 
tween American and English Locomotives.” This 
gentleman took up each of the chief parts of the loco- 
motive in detail, showing the defects or advantages 
over the other engine. The gaudy style of many 
American locomotives ma*ke the plain, business-like 
looking English engine much preferable, though, 
taking all parts into consideration, the former engines 
may be considered superior. Every one was delighted 
with this lecture, though it was quite evident that the 
gentlemen present, of English training and interest, 
would not admit the inferiority of the British engine. 

On Friday, Nov. 19th, Mr. St. George, City En- 
gineer, gave, from knowledge gained in a long period 
of practical experience, a valuable lecture on “The 
Construction of Sewers.” These lectures are growing 
very much in interest, as is evidenced by the full at- 
tendance of the engineering students, and the presence 
of many gentlemen from the city interested in engin- 
eering works. The lectures, so far delivered, have 
been practical and useful, giving an idea to those en- 
tering the profession of what may be expected of 
them. 



Societies. 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

Invitations to the members of the Club were dis- 
tributed, asking them to be present at the first meeting 
in their new house, on Saturday evening, Nov. 20th. 

More than fifty members were present, and several 
invited guests, among whom were Mayor Beaugrand 
and Dr. Hingston. 

The rooms are now all appropriately furnished, and 
on this occasion were all lighted up, presenting a very 
lively appearance. What with billiards and chess and 
cards, and plenty of good reading matter and music, 
the members passed a most enjoyable evening, and 
many of them expressed themselves as delighted with 
the house, and were loud in their praise of the energy 
and zeal with which the Committee of management 
have prosecuted their work. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The President, Mr. R. B. Henderson, called the 
meeting to order at 8.10 p.m: Why cannot the 

members turn up sharp at 8 o’clock? The Faculty 
granted permission to place a piano in No. 1 classroom. 
The authorities refused to grant prizes to the society. 
A committee reported on some improvements (?) to the 
programme. Some of these improvements are of very 
doubtful nature, especially the institution of trials and 



52 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



a 1 House of Commons ’ (!) by this latter is probably 
meant a Mock Parliament. The members are notified 
to turn out in full force to the consideration of these 
suggestions on December 3rd. LeRossignol read an 
essay on the ‘Study of Nature.’ W. A. Cameron 
explained the difference between Judge Haliburton’s 
ideas on the peculiarities of a kiss and his own ex- 
periences. “ Was the policy of the government a 
wise one in regard to the building of the C.P.R. 1 ” — 
was decided in the affirmative. The speakers were 
Solandt, Johnson, whose speech was about as good 
as usual, Eliot and Charters. Gibson, Fry, and 
Davidson, failed to put in an appearance. There would 
be no need for improvements in the programme if 
those who are on it would turn up. No question can 
be made interesting by discussion that has had no pre- 
paration, and how often it is that nearly every speaker 
is unprepared either by his own fault or through the 
blameworthiness of some defaulters ? 



Y.M.C.A. MATTERS. 

% 

Saturday evening the 20th November, was a me- 
morable night in the history of the University Y.M. 
C.A. As many as 58 new members, principally from 
Arts and Medicine, were received. This is a very 
gratifying report to make at the beginning of the 
third year of the Association’s existence. The member- 
ship committee reported that others would likely join 
at the next meeting in February. 

The meeting will also be memorable on account of 
the action taken regarding a building. By a standing 
vote the Association decided to go forward with the 
scheme of erecting a building for the uses of the 
Association. A building committee was appointed, 
to consist of eleven students, and four University and 
business men, which will pi'oceed to prepare plans, to 
confer with the Board of Governors and select a site, 
and to collect funds. It is proposed first to raise as 
large a subscription as possible among the students, 
and then appeal to the public alter the holidays. At 
the present time a canvass is being made ; and so far 
the project has been well received. A subscription is 
sought from every student, on the ground that the 
building will be not for the members of the Associa- 
tion only, a limited number, but for every man of the 
University. The Social Parlor will meet a long felt 
want for a pleasant resort ; the bath-rooms, etc., are 
also much needed : while certainly a “ local habita- 
tion” is necessary to attain the objects of this or- 
ganization. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The subject for the meeting of this Society, on tl 
19th .November, was one that should have brou-d 
together a large number of members, but we wej 
disappointed at seeing only ten present. They wei 
Messrs. Selkirk Cross (in the chair), J. R. Murray 
Gughtred, Brooke, McGoun, Busteed, Fry, Murpln 
Unsworth, and Topp. Mr. Busteed opened the di: 
cussion on the question, “ Should the Universities b 
specially Represented in the Provincial Parliaments 
showing inter alia that if permitted to send member 



to the Legislatures they would send men that would 
worthily represent the interests of education, and 
who could not fail to be of the greatest use to the 
country. He strongly advocated University Federa- 
tion, and maintained that special representation would 
probably lead to it. Mr. Fry followed on the nega- 
tive, and said that the only country in which Univer- 
sities are specially represented is Great Britain, to 
whose House of Commons nine members are returned 
for the Universities, namely, two for Oxford, two for 
Cambridge, two for Dublin, one for London, one for 
Edinburgh and St. Andrew’s jointly, and one for 
Glasgow and Aberdeen jointly, but that in Great 
Britain the circumstances were very different from 
h/ere. Oxford alone, where only resident Masters of 
Arts and Doctors of Law have votes, having about 
5,000 votes. A great many other interests had as 
much right to have representation, but the system in 
other countries as well as in this is entirely territorial, 
the British North America Act not contemplating 
any other. Mr. Fry was followed by Messrs. Murphy 
and Murray on the affirmative, and by Messrs. 
Oughtred and Cross on the negative. Mr. Oughtred 
thought that in Great Britain the Universities were 
first given special representation to increase the 
power of the Established Church, in which, however, 
Mr. Murray did not agree with him, being of opinion 
that the reason was that from the large number of 
residents at them it was virtually representation of a 
district. The debate having been closed by Mr. 
Busteed summing up in the affirmative, a vote was 
taken, and resulted in favour of the negative. 

At the meeting held on the 26th of November, a 
somewhat similar question was discussed in “ Is class 
representation desirable 1” Mr. R. C. Smith, the pre- 
sident, occupied the chair, and there were also present 
the Rev. George Rogers and Messrs. Turner, Ritchie, 
Oughtred, S. Cross, Budden, C. Barnard, Fry, Downie, 
Dunton, Murray and Ferguson. Mr. Oughtred, lead- 
ing in the affirmative, followed John Stuart Mill, from 
whom he quoted largely, in dividing civilized commu- 
nities into employers and employed, and shewed that 
all the large interests of a country, except Labour, are 
represented, and that an injustice is done the labour- 
ing classes in not giving them direct influence in the 
Legislature. Mr. Budden, for the negative, feared 
that the interests of the country at large would suffer, 
and that Parliament would become a mere battle 
ground for the different interests. These gentlemen 
were supported, respectively, by the Rev. Mr. Rogers 
and Mr. S. Cross. The question was decided in the 
negative. The only other business transacted was the 
nomination for membership of Mr. Hector Buie. 



“ That s a nice trick you played me,” said a young 
benedict in a chiding tone to his theatrical friend. 
I thought you said that minister of yours would marry 

us cheap, lhe old beggar braced me for twenty dol- 
lars. 

Hang it all ! ” was the reply ; “ I forgot to give 
you the tip. Lou should have said you were one of 

the piofession, and you would have got wholesale 
rates. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



53 



Sporting. 



McGill versus queens. 

The match between “Varsity” and McGill having 
been postponed until Saturday the 13th inst, and 
McGill football team not wishing to lose another 
Saturday match, made arrangements to play Queen’s 
University football team on Saturday the 6th, and to 
play Ottawa City on the following Monday. On 
Friday night then the following team, left for Kingston 
by the C.P.R. 

Backs — Hamilton and Blanchard. 

Half Backs — MacLean and Lucas. 

Quarter Backs — Dunlop and McDonell, (Captain.) 

Forwards — Henderson, Drummond, Palmer, Kirby, 
Robertson, Springle, May, McNutt, Hughes. 

The trip up was most delightful, banjo solos, songs 
speeches, etc., giving entertainment to those on board 
the train and making it very enjoyable for all alike. 

At 6 a.m. on Saturday morning we arrived at 
Kingston, and found a snowstorm awaiting us there. 
Having arrived at the hotel, those composing the team 
sought some repose, not much sleep having been 
obtained the night before, notwithstanding the sweet 
lullaby of a banjo trying its soothing effect. 

Breakfast being over the boys, Accompanied by 
Kingston friends, proceeded to view the sights, not- 
withstanding the snowstorm. At 2.30, a buss, kindly 
supplied by Queen’s, arrived at the hotel and drove 
the team to the College, whence they soon proceeded 
to the campus. 

The following composed the team from Queens. 

Back — E. Pirie. 

Half Backs. — H. Pirie and Logie, (Captain.) 

Quarter Backs — Chown and Farrell, 

Forwards — Bain, White, McFarlane, Harvie, Echlin, 
Richards, Pratt, Rankine, McGannon and Gandier. 

There was a blinding snowstorm blowing from the 
North and North East, and the campus being situated 
on high ground and exposed, the full force of the cold 
and wind was felt. 

McGill having lost the toss, were obliged to play 
against the wind, so the ball was kicked off by 
McDonell. It Avas immediately returned by Queen’s 
half backs, and, aided by wind, landed close to McGill 
goal. 

Here a series of scrimmages followed, until our boys 
by keeping the ball on the ground, and thus dribbling 
it along, got it up to the middle of the field, where 
they kept it until half time was called. Once during 
this half a touch down was claimed by Queen’s, but 
was disallowed on'account of a foul which preceded 
it. For Queen’s side Bain, Farrell, Logie and Rankine 
were conspicuous ; while McDonell, Hughes, McLean, 
Kirby and Drummond played rattling games for 
McGill. 

When half time was called, neither side had scored 
anything. The players were by this time commencing 
to feel the cold, so the game was proceeded with, 
without the usual intermission. 

f - During the second half McGill had the wind in her 
favour, and it was soon seen that the Queen’s men 
were not as proficient in playing the ground game as 



their opponents, the ball being frequently passed back 
from scrimmage and entrusted to the gentle breezes, 
by a McGill back. Thus McGill gradually forced the 
ball down the field, until one of our boys, by dribbling 
this scrimmage, kicked the ball behind the line, where 
it was touched down by Dunlop. A foul being 
claimed, a touch was given without the privilege of 
a try. After this Queen’s were compelled to rouge 
twice, and by a brilliant piece of play by Robertson 
and McDonell, a touch was secured by the latter, but 
on account of the heavy state of the ball and the 
height of the wind, the kick for goal proved a failure. 

Soon after this time was called, the game standing, 
McGill 10 points to Queen’s 0. 

Shortly after halftime, Farrell, one of the pluckiest 
men on the field, had to retire, having unfortunately 
wrenched his knee. The game on the whole was rather 
unsatifactory, the deep snow and cold wind making 
any very good play impossible, but every man worked 
hard for his own side. 

It was amusing to an outsider to see the w {rye) 
faces of some of the players after the game was over, 
when they were trying to hug each other to keep warm. 

Mr. W. C. Carruthers acted as referee, most accep- 
tably, while cadets Clapp and Gunn of the R.M.C. 
looked after the interests of McGill and Queen’s re- 
spectively. 

After the game, a telegram was received from Ottawa 
withdrawing the match on account of the snow, so the 
boys having partaken of dinner, left for Montreal by 
the 8 p.m. train, having spent a most enjoyable time 
through the kindness of the boys from Queen’s and 
the R.M.C. 



Toronto University vs. McGill. 

Of all the football matches played during a season 
by our College Club, no one excites greater interest 
than the inter-collegiate game with Toronto ’Varsity. 
Last year, this club proved altogether too much for our 
boys, and this year, had tied the Ottawa College. In 
the meanwhile the excellent new material in our club, 
together with the good work the older members were 
doing, aroused full hopes that old McGill would line 
up to win this time. City teams have an immense 
advantage over college men, in that they have a much 
longer time to practice, while year after year the same 
men play together, thus building up a combined team 
play, which is almost invincible to a college club, 
with limited practice and a constantly changing mem- 
1 bership. 

This year McGill made a wise and fortunate selection 
in Captain MacDonell, who has played his men with 
system and good judgment, thus winning their con- 
fidence and obedience. In iact, they are ready to be 
ruled even more firmly and “ dogmatically.” 

The day for this game proved cold and stormy, with 
several inches of snow on the field, but not so bad as 
the Saturday spent in Kingston. Game was called at 
3.15, to play two half-hours, ’Varsity having the kick 
off, slightly against the wind. They held their ground 
thus gained when a series of kicks by Lucas, McLean 
and MacDonell sent the ball up to the ’Varsity twenty- 
five yards, where a long, steady scrimmage took place, 
neither side gaining until ’Varsity made a break and 



54 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



the ball was kicked down to McGill’s half-backs, Lucas 
was rather slow and was tackled. But a moment later 
he secured a free kick, when he made a fine kick up 
along the touch line. The ’Varsity back seemed to be 
“struck all of a heap” when he was magnificently 
tackled by MacDonell before he could begin to try to 
kick the ball back. With this ground secured, McGill 
soon secured a safety touch. In the second half 
McGill got a good start by a fine kick from Drummond, 
and a touch in goal, soon followed by a rouge, now gave 
McGill 4 points to 0. ’Varsity now made a rush up 
the field and Blanchard, who perhaps was playing up 
too close, was only able to kick the ball into touch at 
his twenty-five yards line, instead of down the field. 
A long, hard fought scrimmage ensued, McGill slowly 
losing ground, and resulting in a rouge against them. 
On the kick off from the rouge, not much was gained, 
and again a perpetual, evenly balanced scrimmage 
occurred, when the men kept circling around as they 
got shoved off-side, and ran around to again push for 
all they were worth. The ball at last got out into the 
fresh air, and started over to the opposite side of the 
field, and from this time to the end of half time, 
McGill slowly but surely drove the Torontos back, and 
the game ended by their winning by 4 to 1. 

The ’Varsity played a splendid game, though some- 
times inclined to lie on the. ball, and they fought 
well for every inch. Their Captain, McLean, is a host 
in himself, tho’ not a giant in size, while Senkler, who 
did so much damage to our boys last year, did well, 
but was well looked after. 

For McGill every one played to win, and not one 
was seen to funk. They tackled very fast, and were 
on the ball constantly, as very little kicking or drib- 
bling was indulged in. Drummond played a fine 
centre scrimmage ; ’Varsity could not get the ball away 
from him, so their centre- man tried to outmatch him 
by getting his head hard against Drummond’s dinner- 
basket, and then lifting him up, but to no avail. 
Robertson, Hughes and Springle played a fast, sure 
game on the wings, while the forwards, the strong- 
hold of the McGill club, every one of them played 
like Trojans. Dunlop at quarter-back played his best 
game of the season, while McLean proved himself 
a valuable addition to the team. The full backs had 
very little to do, but nothing got past them. One 
very great improvement on the part of McGill, was 
that, apart from the Captain, little was heard from the 
men, but even yet this can be greatly bettered. There 
was very little rough play, and the ’Varsity boys all 
said it had been a pleasure to play this game, though 
the fates were against them. 

In the evening the two clubs, with a goodly number 
of friends, assembled and enjoyed a very pleasant 
dinner at the Richelieu, and we hope our visitors went 
home with kindly feelings towards the football club of 
McGill. 

The following are the players for McGill. 

Forwards — May, Palmer, Kirby, Henderson, Drum- 
mond, McNutt, Springle. 

Wings — Robertson and Hughes. 

Quarter Backs — MacDonell, (Captain) and Dunlop. 

Half Backs — Lucas and McLean. 

Full Backs — Hamilton and Blanchard. 



Personals. 



Trenholme, Science ’85, has returned from B. C. 

Leading question, Editorial Rooms : — Where’s 
Wheeler ? 

A. H. U., the unpronounceable, spent Thanksgiving 
in Montreal. 

James Gibson, Med. ’86, has been appointed House 
Surgeon to the Burlington Hospital, Vermont. 

Harry Hamilton, the distinguished mineral specialist, 
has returned to Montreal. He plays billiards at the 
Club. 

Corsan, Med. ’85, House Surgeon in the Montreal 
General Hospital, is rapidly convalescing from an attack 
of typhoid fever. 

H. M. Cockfield, Arts ’82, is head-master of the 
Ann St. School, City. He is now the proud possessor 
of a wife and a gold-headed cane. 

Major Moffatt, Science ’84, has been selected to “lay 
out ” the position of the bridge which the C. P. R. is 
about to build over the Sault Ste. Marie. He’ll soon 
have his majority. 

Rev. W. II. Warriner of Bowmanville, Gold 
Medallist in English in ’77, is now delivering a course 
of lectures on Old Testament Prophecy to the students 
of the Congregational College. 

All the friends of Mr. J. E. May, ’88 Science, learn 
with deep regret the loss of his father, Mr. Geo. May, 
of Ottawa. May had gone home to spend his Thanks- 
giving, when his father was taken worse with his 
disease — Bright’s Disease — and, on Monday, expired. 
All the students will offer their sincere sympathy in 
his great bereavement, as all who know Mr. May hold 
him in the greatest respect and esteem. 



Between the Lectures. 



“Witness, did 
bar?” “Oh, yes; 
him.” 



you ever see the prisoner at the 
that’s where I got acquainted with 



Office boy to editor : “ There is a man outside 

what says he has a bill he wants to present.” Editor : 
“ Say to him that his manuscript is respectfully de- 
clined.” 



Archbishop Whately once startled his hearers by 
asking, “ If the devil lost his tail, where would he go 
to find a new one ? ” and without waiting for others 
to guess, replied, “ To a gin palace, for bad spirits are 
re-tailed there.” 

“ Now tell me why I punished you ? ” said a stern 
father, who had painfully found it necessary to punish 
his son Johnnie. “ That’s it, sobbed Johnnie, you’ve 
nearly pounded the life out of me, and now you don’t 
know why you did it.” 

Teacher — “ Tommy, can you define ‘ drink ’ ? ” 

Tommy — “ No, mum.” 

leacher— “ Well, can you tell me the future tense 
of ‘ he drinks ’ ? ” 

Tommy — “ He is drunk.” 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



55 



HE WAS ENGAGED. 

Col. Nick Bell, superintendent of foreign mails, 
went to St. Louis last week as an attractian at the ex- 
position, says the Washington Critic, and, being desir- 
ous of looking his best, he concluded to add a new pair 
of trousers to his otherwise complete wardrobe. He 
was so busy getting matters in shape to leave, that he 
had no time to go to a clothing store, so he ordered 
a half dozen or more pairs sent to his office to try on. 
They came, and the superintendent shut himself up 
for a few moments in order to make a selection. The 
door had scarcely been barred before a committee of 
women on some charitable mission applied to see him. 

“ You can’t see him, madam,” said the door-keeper 
to the spokeswoman. 

“ We must see him,” she persisted, woman-like. 

“But you can’t. He gave me instructions particular, 
that nobody was to see him till he told me they 
might.” 

“ That’s all right,” she said, coaxingly ; but we are 
not after office or influence, or on any official business 
whatever.” 

“ Don’t make no difference ma’am. Instructions is 
instructions, and what the boss says goes every time.” 

“Well, sir,” she said, finally, with all the others 
talking at the same time, “ we should like to know 
why a public officer refuses in this arbitrary manner to 
be seen ” 

“ Arbitrary thunder ! ” exclaimed the door-keeper, 
provoked into emphasis, “ that’s got nothin’ to do with 
it. He’s tryin’ on a pair of pants, but if you want to 
see him you may, only you’ve got to slip in on him 
mighty quick, for he’s one of the diffidentest men in 
this whole town.” 

The way that committee went down to the hall and out 
of sight reminded the doorkeeper of how the Yankees 
got away from the rebs at the first battle of Bull Run. 



College T3Jorl6. 



The Faculty of Amherst is entirely composed of 
graduates of that institution. 

At the beginning of the year there were, in the 
Library of Colby University, 20,000 volumes. 

At Cornell University last year’s freshman class 
“ upon analysis gave ten per cent. ” of women. 

The Minister of Education has decided against the 
admission into the Prussian universities of women as 
students. 

There are 18,000 ladies in the different colleges in 
the States; but co-education is impracticable, — “a 
ridiculous experiment ! !” 

The students of Oberlin College have contributed 
$2,500 towards their gymnasium. Where are the 
Y.M.C.A. subscription lists ? 

The Colby Echo congratulates itself on its success 
as a bi-weekly. Judging from the appearance of the 
copies we have received, the congratulation is well 
merited. 



The following are the exchanges up to date : — Acta 
Victoriana, Archon, Atlantis, Beacon, Chaddock, 
Colby Echo, College Student, Dalhousie Gazette, 
Droghedean, Foster Academy Review, Harvard Ad- 
vocate, Knox College Monthly, Knox College Record, 
Our School Times, Portfolio, Sunbeam, Tuftonian, 
University Cynic, University Monthly, ’ Varsity. 

The Harvard Advocate contains the following, 
which ought to be more widely known : — The larger 
liberties and privileges now allowed to the students, 
as well as the increased age and advanced standard of 
requirements for admission, have put the men upon 
their honour, and have served greatly to engender a 
spirit of self-respect, which is the life and strength of 
the University. 

In some colleges there is the very laudable practice 
of depositing annually “Class Albums,” each of which 
contains a photo, of every graduate of the year. 
Among all the friends to be remembered “ in the 
spring” when comes the photo. -giving time, is there 
no room for our Alma Mater — no room for those who 
are to fill our places in the world of McGill ? Let us 
see if there will be an “ Album of ’87.” 

The ’ Varsity has urged on the Toronto boys a cen- 
tralization of their Athletic Societies, and even fore- 
stalls McGill in an attempt to create a union among 
the various Literary and Scientific societies. The suc- 
cess of our amalgamation of the various sporting clubs 
in the Athletic Association may give a precedent 
to Toronto. While the movement now on foot in 
McGill towards a union of the rest of the Societies 
may receive help from the knowledge that the need 
of such a union is felt in other places. 

The Yale Sophomores and Freshmen had a fine 
time on October 9th at their baseball game on the 
athletic field. Both classes turned out in full force 
and cheered their nines lustily. The Sophomores had 
things all their own way in the game. Dann, the 
catcher of last year’s University team, pitched for them, 
and the Freshmen failed to hit him at all. There is 
some good material in their nine, but the score stood : 
Sophomores, 10 ; Freshmen, 5. 

After the game the real fun began. The ’89 men 
lined up on both sides of t he gate, and the ’90 men, 
formed in a solid column four abreast, tried to force 
their way out. For half a minute the phalanx kept 
its form and then it went to pieces, canvas-jacketed 
Sophomores and Freshmen struggling in one confused 
mass. It was a “ shirting ” rush from the word go, 
and in two minutes a Freshmen was out of the battle, 
his attire being reduced to a short canvas jacket, a pair 
of stockings, and a pair of tennis shoes. His compan- 
ions grouped around him until somebody loaned him 
an ulster. For a quarter of a mile the straggling con- 
test was kept up, the Freshmen bearing most of the 
losses. A couple of hacks were pressed into service 
and tailed up the procession, bearing young gentlemen 
who were left with an average of one garment apiece. 
There was more “ shirting” done than at any rush for 
years before, but both classes kept their good humor 
through it all. 



56 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



£orre$pon&ence. 



LAW FACULTY. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — In your issue of the 17th November, 
appeared an editorial under the above title, in the 
course of which you make the following remarks : 
“ The reason assigned for not having some of the 
lectures delivered in the morning, was not such as a 
strong Faculty would consider for a moment.” 

In the absence of the reason being assigned, perhaps 
you will permit me to draw your attention to the fact 
that the Faculty acted in the best interests of the 
students, several of whom would be practically exclud- 
ed from the course if any lectures were delivered in 
the morning. 

Law Student. 

[Ihen, in that case, the best interests of several of 
the students do not coincide with the best interests of 
the I acuity. The advantage of morning lectures per 
se is acknowledged on all sides. The advantage was 
foregone to meet the requirements of several students, 
who could not attend morning lectures. A strong 
Faculty would not likely find itself obliged to suit its 
hours of lectures to the wants of a few men, in order 
to avoid lecturing to empty benches. — Eds.] 



OUR, BANQUETS. 

To the Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, — A brief comparison of the management 
of the “ Laval " banquet with that of our own may be 
of interest and utility in regard to the next Annual 
Dinner of McGill. 

In the first place, I was much surprised to find that 
for the sum of one dollar, or about half our cost, they 
had got up a banquet, fully equal, if not superior 
to any we have had. In addition to the supper, each 
guest was supplied with wine, which must have con- 
siderably increased the cost. The Menu and Pro 
gramme were a first-class piece of work. The next 
thing that attracted me was their good judgment in 
regard to toasts. Leaving out the objectionable part— 
the toast of Leo XIII. preceding that of the Queen— 
the anangement was perfect, live toasts only were 
down on the programme, and short, witty speeches 
the order of the evening. The contrast was very 
marked between this and the endless toasts and tedious 
harangues of our last dinner. 

If I might offer a few suggestions, they would be 
these: First, that the toasts number no more than 
five, such as — 

1. Our Country and Our Queen. 

2 . Sister Universities. 3. Corporation and Professors. 
4. Sista Faculties. 5. Lady Undergraduates 

I favor the omission of the indifinite and unsatisfac- 
tory toast, “The Ladies.” In regard to No. 3 that 
not more than four be requested to speak, and that 
nve-mmute speeches rule the evening. The President 
of the Laval banquet had a small bell to regulate this 1 



My second suggestion is in regard to the entertainment 
of the guests. Speeches are tiresome, unless agreeably 
varied, and I think that a thoroughly good programme, 
instrumental and vocal, should be got up by a committee 
of men acquainted with music. 

Give the performers lots of time to prepare, and 
avoid the slip-shod methods of last year. 

Hugh M. Patton. 

Montreal, Nov. 25th, 188G. 



FACULTY REPRESENTATION. 

To the Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — As one of the originators of the present 
movement among Science men relative to a change in 
the mode of election of Representative Fellows, I 
crave space to reply to the leading article of your last 
issue. 

To begin with, allow me to state that I was pleased, 
indeed, to see how ably the writer handled his very 
weak case, and also to know that even he could not 
advance any new or valid arguments against the 
movement. Also, I was most agreeably astonished to 
find that I was not called by any harder name than a 
“ Home Ruler,” for I was fully prepared to be handled 
after last year’s style, and expected to be dubbed any- 
thing from a low caste politician to a body snatcher. 
Everybody will be glad to see that the Gazette has 
turned over a new leaf, to correspond with its new 
title page. 

The first statement which I have to challenge is the 
writer s assumption that the Science men might, on 
account of their fewness in number, be more likely to 
consider their own good than that of the University in 
general. By what series of mental gymnastics he 
arrives at this remarkable conclusion, I am unable to 
conjecture. Let me point out that the very numerical 
weakness of a faculty makes it more dependent for 
advancement on the general prosperity of the Univer- 
sity than it would be were it stronger, and that this 
is well known to Science men. 

Next, the writer speaks of the injury which might 
be done by appearing to countenance something which 
ie admits does not exist, but which he calls a fact ! 
Surely the writer is of Irish extraction. 

I will deal later with the point he raises here con- 
cerning antagonistic interests ; and now allow me to 
say m reply to his friendly warning, to look before 
v e leap, that we have looked, and like good engin- 
eers, carefully surveyed the ground we have taken up. 
(Jur petition shows reasons why the desired change 
should take place, which we are sure the governors of 

the University will think worthy of very serious con- 
sideration. 

Peimit me, next to express my astonishment at the 
very calm way in which the writer assumes that were 
the Science representative elected by medical graduates, 
it would not be an evil state of affairs, and that there 
would be no complaint by the Faculty, as a whole, 

A U \r 0 n^n by the defeated candidate. Is there anybody 
at McGill, except the writer, who would first submit 
to such a thing, and then call the man so elected a 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



57 



representative of his faculty ? If he has any desire to 
try what the effect of such a course would be, let him 
propose, at a general meeting of medicals, that their 
representative be in the future elected by the law 
graduates. He will find enough of their pristine 
undergraduate vigor left to assist his passage through 
the nearest window with promptitude and despatch. 
I can speak for the vast majority of Science men when 
I say that they utterly repudiate such a system, as 
being contrary to common sense and justice, and the 
spirit of the University statutes which deal with the 
elections in question. For it must be patent to every- 
body that, when these statutes were framed, adequate 
representation of the several interests of the Faculties 
was aimed at, and it is also very evident that graduates 
in any particular faculty are most fitted to judge who 
among them is best able to represent these interests. 
The writer lays great stress on the fact of there being 
no antagonistic interests, nor any special ones separable 
from the general welfare of the University.' There 
are, indeed, no antagonistic interests, and let us hope 
there never will be ; but cannot he see that questions 
must arise at corporation meetings, concerning the 
affairs of the different faculties, in which the respective 
representatives are best qualified to speak ? Take, for 
instance, the question of raising the standard of 
matriculation. How could a medical graduate speak 
with authority as to what was wanted in the Science 
Faculty ? This is only one out of a hundred instances 
which might be quoted to show that truly representa- 
tive men are needed by each faculty ; and who can 
judge better than their fellow graduates of their ability 
to handle such and similar matters ? 

Towards the end of the article the writer raises the 
question of representation by number which has noth- 
ing to do with the present movement, although he 
seems to think it has, for in his last paragraph the two 
issues are inextricably mixed. He says moreover, 
practically, that if the Science men have sufficient 
grit to stick to their guns and fight the battle out, he 
would allow each faculty to elect its own representa- 
tives in proportion to the number of graduates. This 
is a curious admission, seeing he has already termed 
election by faculties both disadvantageous and in- 
jurious. He may rest assured that the Science men 
will see the matter through now, and are glad to be 
able to show the other faculties the way. 

Yours very truly, 

Wilfrid Skaife, B.A.Sc. 

Montreal, November 17th, 1886. 



FACULTY CENSORSHIP OVER UNDER- 
GRADUATE DEBATES. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — We have waited patiently for some of your 
polished and literary correspondents to express their 
views upon the matter of censorship exercised by the 
Faculty of Arts over the subjects of debate before the 
Undergraduates’ Literary Society, in the absence of 
which, I most humbly beg to place my opinion on 
record. A few weeks ago a subject for discussion was 



chosen by the committee and posted on the notice- 
board, as usual, but it had scarcely been there one 
hour when it was ordered down. In this act, on the 
part of our instructors, there seems to me to be a serious 
principle involved. It is surely not desirable to revive 
the censorial laws of Russia in this land of liberty, in 
this age of advancement and freedom of speech ! 
When we first entered McGill, we came ready to 
maintain against any opponent that our University 
would do all it possibly could to make her students 
better men and women ; that anything tending to en- 
large their views, cultivate independence of thought 
and prepare them for future usefulness would be re- 
commended and cherished, anything to the contrary 
would be discountenanced and expugned. I must 
confess that when I learned that our Literary Society 
was not allowed to discuss a question which is of the 
utmost importance to every intelligent man in this 
province, a question which admits of two opinions, 
and on either side of which are ranged the ablest men 
of our country, I say, I must confess that my zeal 
received an unexpected blow. I cannot think that 
my youthful assumption was entirely wrong, but 
decided to inquire into the facts of the case. 

That the faculty admits the usefulness of our Lit- 
erary Society is evident from the fact of its granting 
the use of one of the lecture-rooms in the college 
building for its sessions. And, Sirs, here is a reason 
advanced by some why Ave should meekly submit to 
the rulings of the faculty in this matter. They say 
we are given the use of a room, free light and heat, 
and the faculty simply claim the right of judging the 
fitness or unfitness of any question for debate ; if, they 
say, Ave do not like this Ave are at liberty to find an- 
other room. If the college buildings Avere private 
property this theory Avould be all right, but they are 
not, and, therefore, it is all AAU-ong. If by placing the 
rooms of any of the college buildings at the services 
of the students is going to assist in the proper education 
of the undergraduates Avithout conflicting with higher 
interests, (and what higher interest has any univer- 
sity?) to my mind the faculty is as much in duty 
bound to grant them those rooms as the professors are 
in duty bound to give them the benefit of their most 
careful observation and research on the subject of their 
lectures. 

And now, Sirs, I shall give the avoAved reasons 
of the faculty for exercising its censorship as stated 
by our much-esteemed Principal, Sir Wm. Dawson. 
In sense he says, that the University is putting forth 
energectic efforts to secure endoAvments to further 
perfect our educational course. He claims that men 
Avho have strong feelings on questions of the day 
might be prejudiced against the college, if a report 
that the students had given a verdict contrary to their 
conviction, came to their notice. Now, Sirs, to de- 
cide a question Avhich admits of tAvo opinions in favour 
of one vieAV is more or less likely to be objectionable 
to those Avho hold an opposite view, according to the 
standing of those who decide. 

But any man Avho reflects Avould not think of hold- 
ing a Faculty responsible for the opinion of its under- 
graduates as expressed in debate. As I said before, 
the Faculty admit the general usefulness of our 



58 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Society, and now it will be seen that by advancing the 
argument which I have just given, it practically 
admits that under certain circumstances it would be 
perfectly right to have the privileges Ave claim, or in 
other words, that to discuss public questions in our 
debates is not an evil in itself. Now, I would ask, 
why should a man be allowed to give money to an 
institution such as ours without giving all the infor- 
mation necessary about its working. There is enough 
right about McGill to make us proud of her, and as 
Carlyle says, “ success attends an act in exact propor- 
tion as it is right." More than one Society such as 
ouis have left the college buildings and held their 
meeting in some hall in the city where they could 
discuss what they pleased, and I have not heard one 
of these express a regret at their action. And, Sirs, 
you can remember what a fight your Gazette had for 
its existence ; but it was a fight which terminated in 
a glorious victory. You have raised it to a very 
respectable position, among the best college journals 
of this continent, notwithstanding the efforts to crush 
it. AVe, therefore, while imbued with deep respect 
for the Principal and Faculty, and recognizing the 
obligations which this province owes them, must dis- 
sent most emphatically from the present stand which 
they take on this important question. The time of 
our young men is too precious to wait longer for a 
change, and their future work far too important to 
leave one stone unturned which shall help on the 
good work of sound preparation. 

Undergraduate. 



THE IMIOIDIEIREISr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 



BATHING HOURS: 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— manufacturers of — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

-M; NOVELTY IRON WORKS *♦ 

40 to 54 Nasareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 








CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



OTSTEES -A-T A-XjIj HOVES. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 



Established 1859. 

HiEHSTIES-E- IE£- 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 

1 nysicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock- 

3STrer3r pen guaranteed. 

TT IE. Sz SOISTS, 

25Q St. James Street. 



GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well' as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D, B, A. MACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor. 



S. J. BRISSETTE. JOS. COURTOIS. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

"W HITE’S Ij_A_ 1ST IE, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Paper Makers, Piped Box Manufacturers, 



<*B00X BINDERS and PRINTERS.** 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

Designed and. Bnilt to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



“Me ZST GST? 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear 



hardest Stocf? in Canada to Select from* 



S JJITS and 0 vercoa TS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



33 TTY TOTTE, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
ffitte ©crufcctioucvy, 

R oNBQNS and U hOCOLATES 
“ TOTCES ” 

PHILIPS SQUARE, MONTREAL. 

STAINING FLUIDS "? Monnliig Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 




ARTISTICALLY 

^Engraved and Printed,*- 

— rIN — 

BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 

The Burland Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 

MON TREAL. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

Ji.EVOCii.TES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE D ME STREET, • MONTREAL 



ZPAlXjJVCIEIEVS 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 



J, N. Greenshields. 



Edmond Guerin. 



R. A. E. Greenshields. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

AOVaGATES, 

157 ST. JTAJUCES STREET 

lv^OITXH,E45..r,. 



1W, flies', Con|b,s', jsstbop^, 

‘Peifunieiy, ki|d Toilet 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Atwater, Cross & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

Maciaster, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &C., 
175 St. James St., Montreal . 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAX, B.C.L. 

Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nioolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hou. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. XICOLLS. 

lA. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST,, 

(near the court house,) 

MOITTEEAL. 





THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

(fngraring ^ renting 
Company. 

1R9 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Cards, Orests, programmes, 
Jtfonograms, &e., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 




BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, Ac. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 



Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, & c . 




Watson & Feltow, 



53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



a ^ ^ S 3F 1 . 

Hairdressing aid Shavini ii Matest Style, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



B. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

<3ewellei^y § Fancy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 



FINE COLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 



— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 



a low Figure. 



A 'S SILVER WARE , CLOCKS, BRONZES , and 

J'ANCy GOODS, suit able for Wedding Gifts or Presentations. 



OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

, also 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 387 St. DP-a-xtXj Steeet, 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S , 

CeleMWHSLW* 



[ITERS 



—AND— 



Cast Bunfly Radiators, 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

Paper Manufacturers, { 




HotAir Furnaces 



— FOR — 



Coal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Blotting Paper, 
Toned Paper, 
~ * ed ~ 



Colored Paper, 

White Paper, 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, 

Roofing Felt. 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 



Grey Paper, 
$1 



traw Paper. 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Special Sizes slzlcI eigplvts stele to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



Iff ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY ANB STBAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 

WORKS AT 
.CORNWALL, ONT 
C-A-FIILA-Xi, - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superfinlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 




SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

CartagelAgents for South Eastern Railway. 

Freight and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T eams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONC OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 
l r 7'3 St James street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



“ QUEEN S BLOCK," 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St., 
Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros,, 
|inparbr$ mth SmtuFatlumV jigenls, 

821 Craig Street, 821 

MONTREAL. 

lEC. a-EK/TH, 

IMPORTER OF ' 

-He CIGr^IKS 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OP 25. 

Tr^r StvLd.e33.ts Mixtv.re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $ 1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 

f 



THK GENUINE 

COOK’S PRIEITD 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in tlie market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should he pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

1(M) GREY ISUN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Clay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHI1TA CLAT, cScC-, <3so. 
IfannfaelnrerM of 




W. A. DYER & CO.. 
Ftnnlial 4 Span Ctemisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 



MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 



Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Cellulehi 

Auronasal. 



Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

-A_2sTID 



BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 

TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMIT t E]D, 

21, 21 i & 23 St. Anteine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted, with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application.; 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

-A^isriD IF'ttir, ZE3Ia.ts 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

"W*- ^E- SiLMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



-Hi PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & soisn, 

CHCBAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MQNTEEAL. 



SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For ail kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleiiry Street. 



