MONTREAL, JANUARY 19, 1893. 



/j 















J5? 









CR<5 



loj 






w 









i»\v 

■i.^' 

I%X5 






0 ^ 


















<yo 



/ // .. 



\' 



A\,i// 



/ 









'ib 









um 









AU> 



OTffTSa«T0. 















Editorial Comments 87 

Literary Standards 87 

A German University 88 

To Mount Royal (Poetry) 91 

Some Aspects of Education 91 

Song Silence (Poetry) 93 

Life in a Colorado Mining Town 93 

Skating (Poetry) 95 

Prose Ballads 95 

Bachelors 97 

A Night at the Theatre 98 

All for Naught 98 



Societies 99 

Sporting Column 1 co 

Class Reports loi 

Science loi 

Law loi 

Arts 102 

Comp. Med 102 

Donalda News 102 

Medicine 103 

Personals 104 

Between the Lectures 105 






J McGill UMivr 
I ARCHiVls 





MUNCO CICARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE GOODS OUR SPECIALTY 



;S. DAVIS & SONS, LARGEST CIGAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 




FINE AMEBICAN GUITABS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and “DOBSON” 



Genuine Itnllnn AKandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 : and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B,— Special dlscouiit to Students. 



Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164: St. James St. 



SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. 

Carbutr® dry Plates and Films. 
Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 

Prosch Triplex Shutters. 

Proscb Flash J.,amps. 

New York Aritso Paper. 

Peerless Blue Paper. 



SPECIAL BARGAINS. 

1 5x7 Folding Kodak $57 60 
14x6 “ “ 62 5(t 

1 4 X 5 Hawkeye Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

1 No. 2 Kodak 2.5 OO 

1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 
1 A “ •* 8 60 



E Z G-TO 3^ 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 




1892 



CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard. 

SPACKMAN & CO., 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 

^ I ^ ^ suitable for fall 

and sell it to students for ^!3.00. 

CAIjXj tit A3STID SEI-T IT- 

A. M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherine, 

- - CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 



Suits for GYMNASIUM of FIELD, 

Running Shoes, etc. 

ALBERT DEMERS. 

D 338 St. James Street, 

NEARI.V OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



Hiah Quality. 



Low Prices. 



Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAIVT, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4306. Montreal, 




s 



To buy theip Winter supply of 

NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

New Ooods arrlwitis: dally at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2216 St. Catherine Street, 



Foot of Victoria. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

.r.-.-., .. .. from 

TEES & CO. 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 



flfithow oUr Rates to 
Students ate 
t Low, 

• We give them the best in 

* Portraits, 

Groups, etc. 

W. Notman & Son, KBlenrySt 



A4 



LA CADENA ” and “ LA FLORA ” The Cream of the Havana Crop. 



MADRE E’ HIJO (7 SIZES.) 



jVlcGlIsIs FORTNIGHTIsy. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VoL. I. MONTREAL, JANUARY 19, 1893. No. 6 




^EDITORIAL BOARD>^ 



Gordon W. MacDougall, B.A. (Law *94), Editor-in-chief. 

W. M. MacKbrachbr, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. ^93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda ’93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



-EBUSINESS BOARD*^ 

H. M, Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. *94), Chairman. 

E. J. MacIver (Arts *93), Secretary, 

J. Featherston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B.A. (Law *93;. 

F. A. Bottbrell (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. *93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Rcnouf’s and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chicf, P.O. Box 37. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS, 



literary standards. 

We ofiFer to our readers in this issue the first of a 
series of articles on the leading Universities of both 
the old world and the new, which we hope to publish 
successively in the numbers of the Fortnightly yet 
to appear. 

The different gentlemen who have been approached 
by the editors on the subject have kindly expressed 
their willingness to contribute to this series, which thus 
promises to be both entertaining and instructive, and 
the articles as contributed will be based largely if not 
altogether on the writer’s personal experience at the 
various educational institutions which they describe. 

The articles themselves, as will appear on perusal, are 
of a comparative as well as of a descriptive nature, and 
the teaching methods of the various universities in their 
different Faculties will be carefully compared with our 
own, in so far as the natural differences of country and 
foundation will permit. McGill is indeed fortunate 
in having representatives of these famous foreign 
universities as members of her teaching staff, many 
of whom have, in addition to their outside quali- 
fications, laid the foundations of their subsequently 



j attained specialized knowledge in the halls of our own 
[ university, and under the able tuition of those who still 
so competently fill the positions they have long upheld. 

As contributions to the Fortnightly, these articles 
are also possessed of the highest value, as they must 
naturally tend to raise the literary standard of our 
journal, and this elevation is one of the things that all 
having the best interests of the University at heart must 
welcome as adding to the importance and influence of 
the paper, not alone in the immediate college world 
where it Circulates most largely,‘butalso in other educa* 
tional centres where it finds its way as an exchange. 

The editors sincerely hope that their efforts in this 
direction will be appreciated by the University men in 
general, and that their enthusiasm for College jour- 
nalism will increase as the literary worth of the con- 
tributions becomes more pronounced. We in McGill 
are now in a position to rise above the mere chroni- 
cling of the happening of local events, coupled with 
trivial personals ; and although this department should 
certainly not be neglected, but on the contrary should 
be cleverly and properly represented, still, the main 
portion of this, as of every other paper that aspires to 
any definite degree of importance in its own proper 
sphere, should in our opinion be devoted to the public, 
ation of articles of a sufficiently great literary merit to 
justify to the outside world, who may care to interest 
themselves in such matters, the undoubtedly high 
opinion which they already hold of the general culture 
and attainments of the students of this great educational 
institution of the Canadian metropolis. The work of 
contribution and selection certainly requires the ex- 
penditure of a great deal of both time and care ; but when 
we see what has already been accomplished by our 
sister universities— or, as politicians may dictate, comm 
universities — across the border line, notably in Harvard, 
with whose journals and journalists we have come into 
personal contact, there seems no justifiable reason why 
such excellence should not at least be attempted by the 
students of our own Canadian universities. 

This long dissertation may appear to be put in an 
over-serious strain, and yet surely the thought has long 
ere this occurred to many others interested. As has 
been said before, the work of a college is in a large 
measure judged by its press, and if this be truly the 
case, then all elevation of standard, every advance 
toward literary excellence must be favorably regarded 
as approaching that position of general efficiency and 
importance which we all must heartily desire and 
which each should do his utmost to heighten and 
foster. 



88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



CONCERTS. 

The Banjo Club's concert, on Friday the 20th inst., 
will be an innovation for McGill in more ways than 
one. Not only is it the first time that a McGill Banjo 
Club has called for the support of fellow-students and 
city friends in so large an undertaking, but also are 
we now first afforded an opportunity to s1k>w our 
hospitality and good fellowship to delegates from a 
sister university in the United States. There will be 
thirty or more in the party from the University of 
Vermont, who furnish half the programme on Friday 
evening, and they will be entitled to judge of Canadian 
universities and Canadian hospitality by the reception 
they receive at the hands of McGill, so the Banjo Club 
hopes that the Faculties will all turn out in force to 
give them a genuine Canadian welcome. 

The programme, which came out at the beginning 
of the week, shows a most attractive list of items, 
comprising solos, duetts, glees and concerted instru- 
mental music to be rendered by the Vermont and McGill 
men in turn ; and it promises a pleasant evening’s 
enjoyment to all who attend the concert at the Windsor 
Hall, on Friday evening. 



Our sister university of Bishop’s College has 
resolved to enter the college world of journalism with 
the advent of the new year, and our editor has been 
communicated with by Mr. A. Henry Moore of that 
institution with the purpose of obtaining information as 
to a certain amount of the detail connected with the 
running of a college paper, a knowledge of which is 
most necessary to the proper inception of such an effoit, 
and the detail of which is only to be obtained by a large 
amount of that process known as ‘‘ rubbing elbows with 
old Dame Experience.” We have gladly given this 
information to the best of our ability, and hope that our 
worthy friends will not be deterred from carrying out 
their projected enterprise by the apparent difficulties 
which may at first seem insurmountable. 

We in McGill can perhaps be but considered as again 
at the experimental stage but still we confidently 
hope and have reason to expect that our stability has 
been firmly established. 

Good luck. Bishops, in this (as far as we are aware) 
your first really important journalistic enterprise. You 
have our sympathy and, if necessary, our support in all 
your endeavors ; and should the paper become as the 
politicians say — a real live issue ^ — kindly accept the 
Fortnightly as one of your home list of exchanges. 

The winter months succeed each other in rapid 
succession ; Christmas examinations are things of the 
past, and the sessional troubles are still events of the 
future, so that the energy of the University should 
and undoubtedly does direct itself into the channels 
of out door sport and in-door recreation. In this con- 
nection we would claim the attention of all to the 
opportunities which are afforded by the Athletic Club 
House, at the back of the mountain, where in the past 
so many delightful evenings have been spent by the 
men of the University. Science leads the van, and is, 



we believe, to have a steeple-chase with this old snow- 
shoers, retreat as a rcndez vous. Well done. Science ! 
A move in the right direction ! Some winters ago the 
opportunity to take full advantage of membership to 
this hospitable institution was given us by the kind- 
ness and thought of private individuals. This year 
arrangements can surely be made by the Students to 
procure for themselves the advantages which such 
membership affords, and a repetition of the jolly 
evenings which some of us remember will probably be 
enjoyed by numbers of the newer members of the 
different Faculties who have not as yet enjoyed the 
pleasures which the Montreal Athletic Club House 
offers to those who care to pay it a visit. 



A GERMAN UNIVERSITY. 

HkidKLBKRG. 

Volumes might be written and have been written on 
the great universities of Germany, which though by 
no means free from faults, have so many and great 
excellencies that year after year they continue to 
attract to them great numbers of students from all 
parts of the civilized world. 

The ta.sk of presenting a general review of these 
excellencies and defects I shall have to leave to another, 
and endeavor here to confine my remarks more 
particularly to one of these great seats of learning — 
the University of Heidelberg. 

Heidelberg may be considered as a typical German 
University — not so large as Berlin or Munich on the one 
hand, with 8,340 or 3,350 students respectively, nor so 
small as Jena or Freiburg on the other, with only 610 
and 585 respectively— it had last summer 1.076 students 
with a teaching staff of 120. Like most of the twenty- 
one German Universities, Heidelberg has five faculties 
— Theology (Protestant), Law, Medicine, Philosophy 
and the faculty of Natural Science and Mathematics. 
Of the total number of students last summer 73 were 
studying theology, about 250 were matriculated in the 
faculty of Law, and an equal number in Medicine, 
while the rest were attending lectures in the faculties 
of Philosophy, Natural Science and Mathematics. 

Situated in the northern portion of the Grand Duchy 
of Baden, where the beautiful little Neckar, after wind- 
ing its way through the romantic forests of the 
mountainous district known as the Odenwald, sudden- 
ly enters the wide and fruitful plain constituting the 
valley of the Rhine, encircled in part by the precipitous 
cliff lying on either side of the Neckar. but in recent 
years commencing to spread out into the Rhine valley, 
surrounded on all sides by verdure, the heights above 
the city crowned by the castle, one of the most impos- 
ing and magnificent ruins in all Europe, Heidelberg 
in summer can compare in beauty with any spot in the 
whole world. The town is also of great historic 
interest. It was formerly the seat of the Electors of 
the Palatinate, and the emblem of the Palatinate, the 
lion, IS still to be seen surmounting the fountain in the 
University Square To Englishmen it has the further 
interest that one of these electors, Frederick V, 
married Elizabeth daughter of James I of England, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



89 



while the prominent part which he played in the 
Thirty-Years’ war led to the repeated pillage and 
destruction of the town. 

Although a small town of only 32,000 inhabitants, it 
is wealthy as compared with most German towns of its 
size, and is now a great resort of people of fashion and of 
tourists innumerable. The university is a state in- 
stitution belonging to the Grand Duchy of Baden, and 
is the oldest universit}^ in Germany, having recently 
celebrated its 500th anniversary. It is moreover the 
fashionable University, and most of the elegant young 
gentlemen who enter on an acdemic course in Germany 
endeavor to study (?) at least one term in Heidelberg. 
Here the distinctive student life is perhaps best seen. 
The students belonging to the various Corps and Verhin 
dungen are seen every where, with their hats of brilliant 
colors and diverse shapes. Here also are duels in 
abundance, and the best beer without stint, to those 
who wish them. 

The same general arrangements and methods are 
found in all the Universities of Germany, so that what 
may be said of one of them refers with some few modi- 
fications to all. 

A student from any English-speaking country, on 
first going to a German University, will be impressed 
by the fact that it is scarcely possible for two institu- 
tions of learning to differ from one another more than 
a German, and an English or an American University. 
In one point this difference would be less noticed by a 
student from McGill, seeing that neither at McGill nor 
in Germany do the students reside in college build- 
ings, and in neither case do the University authorities 
undertake to make themselves responsible for the 
student’s behavior when not in College. In Germany, 
however, if the student goes so far as to make an 
actual disturbance or in any way break the law of the 
land, the University police escort him to the University 
jail, where he languishes (?) till such time as the 
University judge deems him ‘‘to have truly repented 
his former naughty life. ” 

The English-speaking student will find that there is 
no matriculation examination, no division into 
“ years,” no compulsory attendance, no regular courses 
laid down, no stated times for examination, — in fact, no 
examinations at all except the great and final one at 
the conclusion of his course of study. 

He will also find that no more money than is 
absolutely necessary is spent on buildings, while very 
large amounts are spent in equipment and in securing 
the services of the most able teachers. In this way old 
buildings, which though not particularly convenient 
will nevertheless serve the purposes of the University, 
are often secured, and new buildings when erected are 
scattered about in different parts of the town, often a 
considerable distance apart ; thus the University 
buildings have not the imposing appearance often 
presented by those of seats of learning elsewhere. 

This is one of the points which serve to explain why 
the small Universities of Germany, with but limited 
means at their command, outstrip so many of the more 
wealthy and more advantageously situated universities 
of other countries. 



Another fact which always impresses a foreigner is the 
continuous movement of students from one University 
to another. All the Universities are practically on the 
some level of scholarship, the larger differing from 
the smaller in having a greater number of teachers 
rather than more eminent ones. Hence students 
having once matriculated anywhere may pass from one 
University to another, spending one or more terms in 
each and thus get the best that each can afford. A 
German student rarely spends his whole time at any 
one University. He frequently matriculates at one 
and graduates at another. 

This also has a remarkably stimulating influence on 
the professors of the Universities, for if any one of them 
becomes careless or ^‘fossilized,” his students desert 
him for someone else, and as this leads to a marked 
diminution in his income he endeavors by all the means 
in his power to avoid such a contingency. In this way 
a state of affairs which often amounts to a perfect curse 
in other Universities is in a great measure guarded 
against. 

Let us suppose a student having leached Heidelberg, 
and secured his rooms, wishes to enter the University. 
He first goes to the office of the University and 
deposits his papers. 

If he be a German student he must present a certificate 
that he has passed his final examination in a ‘‘ Gym- 
nasium” or Realschule,” which correspond to our 
High Schools, but which carry the student much 
further. Such an examination would be at least 
equivalent to that of our intermediate examination in 
Arts, and every German student must thus have a good 
general education before he enters the University at 
all. 

If the student be a foreigner, he presents his Passport 
and Bachelor’s Diploma. The latter is not absolutely 
necessary for entrance, but the requirements are strict 
if the student wishes subsequently to proceed to a 
degree. 

Having deposited these with his fee, the student is 
notified that he must present himself before the 
Prorector at a certain time, when his papers are 
examined, and if found satisfactory he signs the 
University register and has given to him two most 
important documents : first, a Legithnations Karte ; 
and second, an AnmeldtmgsbucJu 

The former is a card somewhat larger than a visiting 
card, bearing the arms of the University, and on which 
he has been required to write his name. On the 
reverse are a series of printed instructions, the most im- 
portant of which is that he must always carry this card 
on his person and produce it whenever it is demanded 
by the town or university police. It serves to identify 
him, and the University, having an independent juris- 
diction of its own, secures him against all municipal 
arrest, and marks him as a citizen of the University, 
Having this card in his pocket our student may 
cheerfully proceed to celebrate his matriculation, 
knowing that in event of any undue hilarity the 
municipal police will merely demand his card, which 
they will hand t6 the University authorities with their 
report, and in the course of the next few days he will 



90 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



be informed by one of the University Peddle that he has 
been tried and condemned by the University authorities 
to pay a fine of one or two marks (twenty-five or fitty 
cents), or to go to the University jail for a certain 
number of days. 

Most students try to get put in the jail for a day or 
two, it being a charming relic of mediaeval times, and it 
is always a critical matter to decide just what offence 
should be committed to avoid a mere fine on the one 
hand and an unduly prolonged period of imprisonment 
on the other. An Bnglish acquaintance of mine, after 
much consideration, believed that he had devised a 
proper course, and walking down the Aanptshasse one 
night hammered violently on a great iron shutter with 
a heavy stick. So far his plan was excellent, but when 
the policeman came to inquire into his reasons for this 
remarkable proceeding, he committed the further offence 
of requesting him politely to convey himself to a place 
which shall be nameless, in consequence of which pro- 
ceeding he found himself obliged to spend the greater 
part of the following week in a 7 'cer^ and thus made 
a much more thorough acquaintance with that institu- 
tion than he had desired to do. 

To return, however, from this digression, the student 
would also have presented to him an aiwieldungsbuch. 
This is about the size of an ordinary copy book, and con 
tains about half a dozen pages, one for each semester, 
in which all the lectures he hears and the demonstra- 
tions, etc., which he attends are entered and certified to. 
It is necessitated by the custom mentioned above, of 
the students dividing their course among several uni- 
versities. It shows at once where the student has been 
and how he has employed his time during each semes- 
ter of his course. 

He next goes to a bookseller and purchases a copy 
of the little pamphlet published by each university every 
term, in which a complete list of all the courses of lec 
tures, etc., to be delivered during the term are given 
as well as hours at which they will be delivered, and 
from this selects those he wishes to attend. 

In order to give an idea of the number and variety of 
these courses it may be stated, that during the past 
semester at Heildelberg the following number were ad- 
vertised in the several faculties 



Theology 

Law 

Medicine 

Philosophy 

Natural Science and Mathematics 



33 

38 

66 

79 

64 



Some of these are comparatively elementary introduc- 
tory courses, while others are of the most advanced char- 
acter, pving the most recent results of the most modern 
investigations, often carried out by the lecturer himself. 
Some of them occupy only one hour a week, while 
others occupy an hour or even more daily. As an exam- 
ple of the thoroughness with which a subject is some- 
times treated, it may be mentioned that last semester in 
Heidelberg, Rosenbusch lectured seven hours a week on 
Petrography, a single branch of Geology, and was even 
then obliged to curtail his treatment of portions of the 
subject. Having selected one or several courses of lec- 



tures, the student waits on the several professors, and has 
them make the required entries in his ayimeldimgsbuch 
which he then takes to the Treasurer of the university 
and pays his fees, which vary with the number of cour- 
ses taken, but are always moderate. He then enters 
regularly on his work. The style of the lectures of 
course vary in the case of the several lecturers, but as a 
rule the/ are delivered much more rapidly than is cus- 
tomary with us. It is by no means unusual for But- 
scheli, when lecturing on comparative anatomy, to 
speak so rapidly that he is obliged to pause at times to 
take breath. Woe to the ‘student in such cases who 
has not a sufficient knowledge of German to write it 
fluently. It is impossible for him to take full notes in 
English, as no one can translate mentally with sufficient 
rapidity and accuracy to accomplish this. The lectures 
are however always well illustrated by an abundance 
of drawings, maps, specimens, etc. Lectures com. 
mence at 7 a. ni. and close at 8 p. m. The celebrated 
Bunsen, when Professor of Chemistry at Heidelberg, al- 
ways lectured from 7 till 8 a. m. In the faculties of 
Natural Science and Medicine the formal lectures are 
delivered as much as possible in the early part of the 
morning and the latter part of the afternoon, so as to 
leave the day clear for work in the Laboratory or Hos- 
pital, which effects great economy of time. 

Much might be added did space permit concerning 
many peculiarities in connection with the lectures which 
are always delivered with a certain state, such a thing 
as a disturbance of any kind in a class-room being un- 
known, almost unimaginable in a German university. 
The academical year, unlike ours, is divided into two 
approximately equal terms or Semesters^ a summer and 
a winter one. The former commences about the end of 
April and lasts till the early part of August, while the 
latter begins towards the close of October and lasts till 
March. 

The student remains about three’years at the Univer- 
sity, but if not diligent may require a much longer time 
to qualify himself for his degree. One student at Heid- 
elberg used to be known as Der Ewige or the Everlast- 
ing, having spent no less than seventeen semesters at 
the University. Such cases, however, present a remark- 
able example of the working of the Emersonian Law 
of compensation, for according to the Beer Code, the 
‘‘oldest*' student takes precedence of all others in 
“ Kneips'' as similar convivial gatherings, which, con- 
stituting as they do a not inconsiderable portion of stu- 
dent life, confers on the gentleman in question a sort 
of regal state. 

Examinations take place only at the close of the stu- 
dents’ studies. One degree is granted in each faculty, that 
of Doctor. In order to obtain this, the student must first 
submit a lengthy thesis on some subject connected with 
the branch of learning to which his studies have been 
more especially directed. This must embody the re- 
sults of his own research, generally carried out under 
the Professor’s immediate supervision, and must afford 
proof that he can carry out independent and original 
research in his own subject at least. Success in a Ger- 
man university is at every step based on man’s original 
research. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



91 



The thesis having been |found satisfactory the stu- 
dent is admitted to examination. This may be held at 
the beginning, middle or end of a term, and covers three 
distinct subjects to which the student has devoted his 
attention while in the university. The examination 
is always viva voce, and lasts at least two hours. It is 
held by the several Professors in the presence of the 
Dean of the Faculty, and is also conducted with much 
ceremony. If successful in this also, the candidate re- 
ceives his degree. Of this there are four distinct grades 
known respectively as : — 

Summa cum laude. 

Magna cum laude. 

Cum laude. 

Rite. 

The highest is very seldom taken, the second is con- 
sidered very good, while the Germans have a saying 
that he who takes the lowest proves thereby that he is 
an ass. 

From what has been said it will be seen that a Ger- 
man University is what we would call a Post Graduate 
institution. It does not occupy the same position as 
the Universities elsewhere. It aims at giving special 
and advanced instruction in a few subjects to a student 
who has already laid down a good foundation of know- 
ledge. None of the practical applications of science are 
taught, these being regarded as belonging to the domain 
of the techenical school ; a foreigner can therefore study 
with profit in Germany only after he has completed a 
regular course on one of the universities or colleges 
in his native land. 

FRANK D. ADAMS. 



TO MOUNT ROYAL. 

Fair mount, 

Thou art but one small wrinkle on earth’s brow 
And yet I love thee and admire thee too. 

I love thee for the beauties thou dost bear 
Within thy leafy bosom, those fair glades 
Where oft my boyhood has the day beguiled, 
From when the sun dancing amid the twigs 
Spangled thy grassy carpet underneath 
With golden tiles, until that same bright orb 
Sank glowing down and left thee dark and cold, 
But lovely still, only the light was gone 
That served thy myriad beauties to reveal. 

And so I loved thee, as I love thee still. 

And stray with pleasure through thy leafy groves. 
Or view the landscape from thy rocky top. 

But when I gaze upon the bustling streets 
And old St. Lawrence rolling grandly by, 

My feelings change, my mind is filled with awe. 
And admiration takes the place of love. 

Four hundred years ago when Cartier came, 

And toiling to thy summit graced its crown 
With his rude cross, then wert thou consoled ; 
Beautiful too, wilder perchance than now. 

As yet untainted by a city’s smoke, 

Thy only visitant the hunter red. 

Close at thy base betwixt thee and the sliore. 
Amid a sea of waving maple trees. 

The Indian village Hochelaga stood. 

This thou hast seen flourish and pass away 
And in its ashes rise our city proud 
Replacing both the village and the wood. 

Oft has thy turf bespattered been with blood 



Of Indian murder or of battle fierce 

The Lion at thy feet the Lilies crushed 

And on thy slope France signed this land away. 

Full are thy stones^of memories of the past ! 

And so I stand and wonder at the deeds 
Of history which thou dost for me renew 
Until a fuller tone swells in my mind. 

And,“like awaking on a chasm’s brink, 

I pass beyond the limits of man’s past 
And look on thine, that vast abyss of years 
Through which thy head, once towering far aloft 
And tossing molten rock and floods of flame 
High into air, has felt the inward fire 
Grow weaker with the swift succeeding years ; 

And, worn by floods and tempest, fire and storm. 

Thy crest has lowered till no more thou stand’st 
A giant of the earth. They call thee now 
Only a hill, whereas thy very height 
Proclaims thy former greatness and thine age. 

But as to-day hereafter wilt thou stand 
Through years to come while still the sun doth shine. 
The world of men around thy unheeding feet 
Will rise and fall like surges on a beach, 

Whilst thou shalt stand in majesty sublime. 

Admired and loved by others as by me. 

TROJANUS. 



SOME ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

The Annual Lecture delivered to the members of the women’s 
Delta Sigma Society of McGill College, Dec., 1892, by Prof. 
Chas. E. Moyse. 

Reminiscences of my life as a tutor] and school- 
master have determined me to address you on some 
aspects of elementary and of advanced education. I 
hope to make my remarks point towards one centre of 
thought, expressed by Herbert Spencer in a manner 
which serves our purpose admirably, because the lan- 
guage used cannot be misundertood or explained awa3^ 
It is the language of settled conviction, language so 
emphatic that it seems to stand out from the rest of the 
page as if written in capital letters. Herbert Spencer 
is treating the subject of education, and closes a para- 
graph in which he attacks the English public schools 
with the following statement, which covers the ground of 
wider investigation : “The vital knowledge,” he says, 
“ that by w'hich we have risen as a nation to what we are 
and which now underlies our whole knowledge exist- 
ence, is a knowledge that has got itself taught in nooks 
and corners, while the ordained agencies for teaching 
have been mumbling little else but dead formulas.” This 
accusation is a sweeping one. Do the ordained, in 
many cases the national agencies for teaching, cling to 
dead formulas yet ? Are our schools and colleges in 
bondage to the past, or have they awakened to the import 
ance of the present ? The educational world has not 
stood still since those words were written, now between 
thirty and forty years ago. It has been moving, and 
moving along the path that Herbert Spencer advocates 
in obedience to the modern scientific impulse of which 
his own philosophy is a profound and wide-reaching 
result. In presence, then, of the countless victories of 
science which are borne in on us like a grand revela- 
tion, we may profitably think about the new life and 
the new training. We may ask ourselves whether dead 
formulas were not living formulas once, and whether, 



92 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



as living formulas, they have not carried men to the 
highest levels of moral and intellectual and physical 
achievement. All are agreed that the aim of educa- 
tion is to interpret life, and to enable the individual to 
live with the greatest possible benefit to himself and 
his fellows. It is when we ask what is understood by 
life and what is the relative value of its various aspects 
that we are met with every shade of opinion. The 
educational world seems to be divided into hostile 
camps. There is a conflict between literature and 
science. As to literature, and its instrument language, 
the battle between ancient and modern, humorously 
described by Swift, rages along the whole educational 
line, and German and French are pitted against Greek 
and Latin. Even among the sciences themselves all is 
not peace. The so-called concrete sciences, which have 
made such remarkable progress in recent years, are 
striving to diminish the ground long occupied by pure 
mathematics in the educational world. The outcome 
of all this turmoil no man can foresee ; perhaps discus- 
sion will never cease ; perhaps, as Sainte Beuve some- 
where says, there will come an age when people will 
write no more. 

And now let us turn to some of the ordained agencies 
for teaching, and see if the results in English, for in- 
stance, are what they ought to be. Not long ago the 
new'spapers gave a piece of information which disclosed 
an extraordinary state of things. Some educational 
vacancy had to be filled in Ontario, and many of the 
candidates who applied for it were unable to spell 
correctly. Of course, severe reflections on the method 
of teaching English in schools and colleges followed. 
To the popular mind. Universities are places w'here the 
defects of elementary education should be remedied, 
and scarcely anything more. But they were not reme- 
dying these defects. They were allowing men to take 
a degree without requiring that standard in ortho- 
graphy' which schools, even of a low grade, ought to 
attain and to exact. By some writers comparisons 
were made between our system and those of other 
nations. A boy taught at Eton or Rugby was credited 
with ability to spell English correctly in virtue of his 
classical training. The attention he had to give to 
verbal forms and shades of thought, as well as to scho- 
arly translation and to prose and verse composition, 
was the cause of his being able to write his owii 
language respectably. It was maintained, on the other 
hand, by those who look on classics with distrust, that 
the time spent in acquiring a perfectly useless know- 
edge of Eatin and Greek was precisely the root of the 
whole evil. All the fault findings and attacks, how 
ever, seemed to converge in a demand for the teaching 
of more English composition— too much English com- 
sition was impossible. 

I repeat that this is an odd state of things and an 
unpardonable one. That colleges should permit men 
to graduate who cannot spell words which belong to 
the ordinary vocabulary of our language admits of no 
excuse. Bad spelling is the one sure mark of the 
illiterate. Now and then geniuses spell badly, as a 
student once reminded me when he was trying to 
excu.se some glaring blunder he had made ; but gen- 



iuses are not the chief concern of academic legislation. 
Why colleges do not take a firmer stand in regard to 
this question might well be asked. The reply would 
likely be made that the fear of unpopularity and dim- 
inished numbers following on increased requirement 
had induced existing leniency. And, truly, the constant 
reference made to numbers is wearying ; the pro‘ 
minence given to them when higher things ought to be 
spoken of is undignified. If a University takes care of 
itself, if it develops its power in the light of all that is 
best and soundest, guards its intellectual life with 
jealousy and does not waste it, watches keenly what is 
taking place elsewhere, and does not languish in an 
atmosphere that fails to invigorate, the numbers will 
take care of themselves Two diametrically opposite 
causes produce the same result. A degree that is very 
easy to obtain will be obtained by many — a degree that 
carries its weight with it, the world over, will besought 
by many. But before the first step can be taken 
" towards that degree, the average man should be 
required to show that he can write his own language 
intelligently and grammatically. Indeed, the very 
leniency of which I spoke just now may be due to the 
feeling that the simple practical use of English is, after 
all, an affair of the school. And let me add in regard 
to entrance at college, that one of two courses must be 
followed strictly. On the one hand, the old custom of 
the Scotch Universities, of Edinburgh and Glasgow, for 
for example — a custom which they have recently and 
mostwisely forsaken — might be adopted and no entrance 
examination required, of the general student ; or, on 
the other hand, if an entrance examination is required, 
there should be no loopholes by means of which ignor 
ance can enter and get itself established on a regula- 
academic footing. Better that a palpably weak portion 
of the general academic body should be got rid of than 
that it should depress the vitality of the whole, even 
though numbers might be diminished for the time or 
the exceptional cases in which ignorance is not due 
to inability be left to shift for themselves. What is 
exacted of the matriculant at present, average ability 
can soon acquire. 

But to return to the lower ordained agencies for 
teaching— the schools, and to the teaching of English, 
which belongs to the living formulas of modern 
systems of education. In some respects old times and 
old methods, older than many persons imagine, are 
being reverted to now. In one respect the modern world 
differs entirely from the intellectual centre of the 
ancient, so far as education is concerned. A Greek 
youth was never asked to trouble himself with any 
language but his own ; Egyptian or Thracian did not 
enter into the Greek curriculum. The languages of 
barbarians— and barbarians were called barbarians on 
the ground of speech merely— were left to barbarians. 

If barbarians wished to hold converse with Greeks 
they had to learn sufficient Greek for the purpose! 

And thus it came to pass that men, who spoke one of 
the must subtle and powerful tongues which any nation 
ever used, were not good linguists. At any rate, there 
is evidence to show that when in the course of history 
the Greek had to make himself familiar with Latin, he 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



found great difficulty in doing so. We may perhaps 
teel inclined to congratulate the Greek because he had 
nothing to do with foreign languages ; we ought cer- 
tainly to congratulate him in that his language was, as 
compared with our own, rational in respect of the value 
of letters or symbols. He had not to wrestle with such 
old forms as dough, daughter, laughter, hough, tough 
and trough, spelled as they are with what appears to be 
a large waste of letters, and hinting to the student of 
language that they may conceal some important prin- 
ciple of sound-change, into which it is beyond our pur- 
pose just now to inquire. They juizzle our own youth, 
and no doubt they will for the sake of youth be made 
phonetic before long. The foreigner is pleased to hold 
them up to ridicule, for they puzzle him still more ; yet, 
if he is inclined to blame us for our spelling, he ought 
to bless us for giving him rational gender. How many 
English men who speak French — an irrational lan- 
guage in the same particular as our own — and German, 
and speak them fluently, have mastered the difficulties 
of their genders ? Our language was phonetic once and, 
on the whole, uniform in spelling, subsequently it was 
largely phonetic but not so uniform — hence we meet 
with the same word spelt in different ways according 
to the humor of the scribe, still later it became 
uniform not phonetic. So, that when we advocate 
phonetic spelling, we are, in reality, advocating an old 
state of things and not a new one. However, the 
modern world is unlike the Greek world, as I said a few 
moments ago. In the modern world the question of 
modern languages is an eternal question, like the 
Eastern question in history. How has English stood 
ill regard to it ? The answer leads us to record, and a 
few facts may prove interesting. 

Of study in the old purely monastic schools, nothing 
need be said. Our concern is rather with the old 
endowed Grammar schools which were intended to 
educate the children of citizens or townsmen. One of 
the earliest of the endowed Grammar schools, in 
England is the Free School at Derby, founded before 
1162. Yet it is not with such schools as that of Derby, 
which, with about twenty others, belongs to the pre- 
Reformation period, that we have to do. We pass to the 
post- Reformation Grammar schools, and are watching 
for the first scholastic mention of the study of English, 
in border to examine its tenor. It is worth while to 
notice that before this mention appeared, Greek had 
found a place in the Grammar-school curriculum. The 
first teacher to introduce the study of Greek into the 
English public school was William Lilly, who was 
made the first head-master of St. Paufs school in Lon- 
don about the year 1510, so that Greek in school life 
has now a history of nearly four hundred years. Strange 
enough, the first head-master of the Merchant Taylors 
School in London, Richard Mulcaster, gives what is 
perhaps the earliest scholastic reference to the study 
of English in public schools. He was made head-master 
in 1561, and published the first part of his Elementarie 
in 1582. In the interval between Lilly and Mulcaster 
appeared Roger Ascham's Toxophilus, a work intended 
to revive the pursuit of archery then falling into decay. 
The Toxophilus is noteworthy in the history of 



93 



English, because in the preface A.scham vindicates his 
use of English instead of Latin which he might have 
been expected to employ. Wishing the book tq. be 
popular, he had written it in the vulgar tongue, even 
though his reputation as a learned man might thereby 
suffer. But this is by no means all. In Ascham s 
eyes English of and in itvSelf is a good language, 
demanding care in its use and capable of supplying all 
that an author needs. This attitude of an exalted pro- 
fessional .scholar towards English, when he selected it as 
the language in which to write a book, is quite worth a 
passing notice. Before we reach Mulcaster, then, we find 
Greek introduced into the .school curriculum, and also 
a famous classical scholar looking with favor on the 
merits of Engli.sh as a literary language. 

( 7 <? be continued.) 



SONG-SILENCE. 



A song in niy heart is swelling 
Thro’ stillness of the night ; 
’Tis only a silent presence, 

A voiceless calm delight. 



Only a subtle presence. 

Yet it soothes me like rich perfume 

Scattered from swaying censers 
Thro’ the chancel’s twilight gloom. 

I know not whence it cometh 
Nor how long it shall abide, 

I only know I have it 
And care for none beside. 

It may be .some haunting memory 
Time hath not worn away, 

An echo of long-lost music 
Or some unreinembered lay. 

I cannot give it utterance 

For it has no words nor voice. 

But it wells thro’ all my being 
And beats : ‘‘ Rejoice ! Rejoice ! ” 

And I hush my breath, and listen 
To its inward melody 

Till peace, like flowing waters, 

Steals softly over me. 

O ble 't and gracious silence ! 

O sweet, unspoken song ! 

The music of thy presence 

Shall haunt my memory long ! 

And o’er the coming morrow 
Its sadness and its glee 

Shall hang like a benediction 
The peace I caught from thee. 



Hansard. 



R. McD. 



life in a COLORADO MINING TOWN. 

To all Ea.sterners who have never crossed the Great 
Plains, the West remains a vast region but little known 
or comprehended, but still ever of intense interest and 
alluringly romantic with the early history of the Red- 
men’s supremacy and their final subjugation, fraught 
with many 'fierce fights, extreme sufferings and heroic 
deeds, or with the stories of those pioneers who braved 



94 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



every danger and suffered many vicissitudes in their 
search for new homes. 

The name, the West, to one who has traversed the 
prairies and lived amidst the solemn grandeur of the 
Rockies at once recalls to mind enchanting memories of 
illimitable breezy stretches of plain of richest green or 
else dull dusty brown, — the glorious sunrises and sun- 
sets across those swelling seas of grass once alive with 
tribes of merciless Indians, and thundering with the 
tread of countless hordes of buffalo, elk and antelope, — 
and of the noble mountains, silent and beautiful, whose 
rich treasure-houses, men fearless and resolute, are 
searching out and despoiling, reaping full reward for 
privations, losses, danger, in the countless wealth here 
poured out so bounteously. The West has a strong 
fascination for ycung men, offering as it does a life of 
perfect freedom and independence besides endless pos- 
sibilities for success. 

After the completion of a course at McGill the wri- 
ter spent several years as a mining engineer in one of 
the most famous, as well as picturesque, mining towns 
in Colorado, and he has been tempted to write about 
such a life, giving a short sketch that may be of 
interest. 

The founding of this town was incident to the dis- 
coveries near the top of the range, near the present city 
of Leadville, where issued the tremendous rush of men 
in 1878-9 where over sixty thousand people crowded 
into the new city of shanties, and many, unaccustomed 
to such an altitude, and unable to procure sufficient 
shelter, died of pneumonia in the streets, while many 
others were shot and robbed by fcot-pads until the 
Vigilance Committee, the stern and hot salutary force 
in a new country, gave some members of this predatory 
profession short shrift and hung them up as a grim 
warning. In many a Western town the banding 
together of the firm, resolute, law-respecting citizens as 
vigilantes has proved a great blessing. They never 
hesitated in meting out speedy punishment, nor did 
they make many mistakes, and law and order were 
established where before had reigned complete lawless- 
ness and desperadoism. 

When the limestone strata at Leadville (then known 
as California Gulch) were discovered in 1878 to be 
extremely rich in silver and lead, a[new and extensive 
field was opened up to the intrepid prospector and 
miner, who hitherto had searched only in the granite 
or volcanic rocks for veins, or in the gravel beds and 
sand bars for gold. Along the range, then, hurried the 
excited bands of prospectors, tracing out and testing 
this new ore zone, while some, still bolder, crossed the 
continental Divide to the Pacific side, to hunt out and 
prospect the blue limestone there, entering the country 
of the warlike Utes who fiercley resented the white 
man's invasion. 

A small band of miners having crossed the range at 
Independence Pass, and followed down the Roaring 
Fork of the Grand River, to where the limestone suc- 
ceeded the granite, they went in to camp one night 
near the river, cutting out among the small aspen trees 
room for their tents. At this place was found good 
indications of silver ore and the first claims were located, 



while more men were quickly attracted to the new 
camp, which soon became known as Aspen. For three 
or four years no very large ore body was discovered, but 
in 1884, a man with a lease on a claim with only six 
weeks remaining before its expiration opened up a 
wonderfully large body of very rich ore, and in these 
six weeks took out $1,100,000 worth of ore. This mine, 
the ‘‘ Aspen," has since produced over ten millions, and 
one of the lucky owners is a Canadian. 

In 1888, after encompassing difficulties by triumphs 
in engineering truly daring and heroic, two railroads 
reached this now booming mining camp, and shortly 
after this the writer was thus saved the uncomfortable 
but exciting ride by stage coach over the Divide from 
Leadville. 

Aspen is now a town, or rather a mining city," of 
11,000 people, possessing all the accessories of a 
modern city — water-works, electricity, street cars, good 
hotels, and fine theatre, large public buildings, a 
goodly number of well-filled churches, large and well 
equipped schools, while there are many very pretty 
residences, some beautifully furnished. More mines of 
great richness have been discovered, and the list is con- 
stantly growing until the year’s out-put has reached 
$10,000,000, making Aspen the greatest silver camp in 
the world. 

It is wrong to believe that in a Western mining town 
one meets continually with danger and lawlessness, that 
personal rights are boldly disregarded, while the 
revolver, or “gun,” as it is called, is ever ready and 
forth coming as a very potent arbiter. The advent of a 
railroad into nearly every town, bringing a better class 
of men, has driven away most of that class of wild, 
reckless fellows, many of them outlaws and criminals, 
or else has compelled them to be law-abiding citizens, 
and the “ bad-man ’’ business has rather ceased to be 
tolerated, while the man who has “killed a man" 
keeps this fact well in the dark as a little affair better con-' 
cealed than made a boast. Even the willful, fun-loving 
cowboy with promiscuous shooting predilections, when 
moved to deeds of daring by the influence of the fiery 
liquor, now restrains his feelings when he comes into 
town, or else he is speedily taken in charge by one of 
the Marshall’s emissaries, whose threatening gun, in 
case of resistance, ^seldom fails to “ round him up ” and 
make him a very meek and docile follower to the local 
Bastile. Unless one is going back into the lonely parts 
of the mountains, where any emergency may arise, it 
is much safer and more comfortable to be quite unarmed, 
as everyone strictly minding his own affairs will suffer 
little, if any, molestation. 

Life in a mining camp offers many new features and 
permits many fresh sensations. Every man comes to 
the mountains confident of winning fortune’s smile, 
eager to follow up every fair opportunity, to bear hard- 
ships, if needs be, to win success. Here are graduates 
from all the great universities, members of old and 
honored families, men ready to don blue jeans and 
long boots, to shove a mine car, or handle a drill. 
Often on stopping at a lonely cabin up in the moun- 
tains, one will find men, in rough miner’s garb, of rare 
intelligence and education who are pinning their faith 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



to a claim they have located and are attempting its 
development. The life of many of these men is 
strongly colored with romance, as away back exists 
some fair one who is eagerly waiting for his good luck 
to come, and then his return ; or often a strong man is 
struggling to crush out an affection that cannot be 
returned, or that has been cruelly trifled with. There 
are many such up among the mountains. 

In the towns, drinking and gambling places are many 
and always open. Stepping into a saloon on a tour to 

see the sights,’’ near the door is the bar, at the other 
end billiard tables, and along the sides tables supplied 
with stacks of chips and all tlie paraphernalia for faro, 
roulette, or poker. Around each table, especially after 
pay day, is a crowd of men looking on or playing. 
There is not much noise, as all are intent on the game, 
except the ceaseless tum-tum of a piano and screech of 
a violin with which they try to make the place more 
attractive. Along the same street are variety theatres 
and dance halls, very ribald and coarse, where Thespis 
and Terpsichore are sorely degraded and burlesqued, 
these nightly revels only ending at the glinting of the 
mountain peaks by rising sun. 

The miners themselves as a whole are a fine class of 
men, many well educated, and everyone of them is 
living in expectancy of the time when their “ strike ” 
will be made. 

The social life is always a great surprise to the new- 
comer on becoming a member of the best social class, 
as then he finds quite a large circle of very delightful 
people whose intercourse is always bright and interest- 
ing. Social “ functions” are frequent and entertaining, 
and conventionalities are generally carefully observed. 
At an evening dance or “at home ” the men put aside 
flannel shirts, corduroys and big boots, and appear in 
irreproachable evening dress, and the ladies look charm- 
ing in dresses as fine and beautiful as would be seen 
in the East. But one of the very greatest pleasures is 
riding. Nearly everyone, perforce, rides, and fine 
saddle horses with Western saddles and bridles can be 
got at the stables at reasonable rates, and then such 
beautiful scenery is seen as different canons are 
explored, or narrow mountain trails lead the horse- 
man to points of vantage, from where the views are 
glorious and inspiring. The writer spent many days 
in the saddle, and with another B.A.Sc., who was well 
known at College in foot-ball and athletics as well 
as in the lecture hall, had many a ride, never to be 
forgotten, when we recalled our College days at 
McGill or tried to foretell what the West had in store 
for us both. The mountain streams are very beau- 
tiful, the water perfectly clear and sparkling comes 
dashing down its uneven, tortuous bed whose bottom 
is covered with pieces of gaily colored rock, the home 
of the large and gamey mountain trout. The air, dry 
and bracing, is almost intoxicating as our nimble- 
footed and speedy horses climb the steep road or go 
racing away over the more level places. It is hard to 
conceive of much greater pleasure than these rides 
among the mountains. 

Of course everything in such a town is affected by the 
mining interests. Some men are reaping bountifully. 



95 



while many more are sowing capital, hoping for a 
good return. Daily all are asking, “Any new strikes ?” 
wondering what claim now unknown or unnoticed will 
be the next to spring into fame. Here is a place of 
constant change ; what the morrow^ will bring forth, no 
one can tell. Men suddenly become rich, while others 
are forced to give up in despair, having lost their all in 
an unfortunate venture. Few men have moral strength 
enough to bear sudden access of great weath, when a 
mine begins to pour out riches seemingly without 
limit. Often some old prospector makes a big “strike ” 
that yields him a hundred thousand or more after many 
years of rough life and severe toil. He at once 
becomes known as “major “ or “ colonel,” no longer 
Pete or Mike ; but in many cases he will scatter his 
money broadcast, and in a few months, only to be poor 
again, to go on once more with his former hard labor, 
but quite content, as he has had his time.'’ 

C. 



SKATING. 

There’s much philosophy in skating, sliding, 

And playing on the ice at what’s called Hockey — 

Rare game, I like to see a blithe young jockey, 

Just out of school, o’er ice triumphant riding ; 

He’s more than paid, though he should get a hiding; 

He never thinks of saying What’s o’clock, eh ? ” 

But on he speeds, light-footed as a trochee 
In sede tertid the verse dividing. 

What though he sometimes tumbles ? ’tis all one ; 

He makes the best of what were else but gloom. 

And chill, and hardship, — Reader, if your doom 
If after life with ills be overrun, 

That early knowledge may you wise resume. 

Make evils bend, and turn them into fun. 

H. M. 

PROSE ballads. 

THE DEATH OF THE DAUPHIN. 
(Translated from the French by G. W. M.) 

The little Dauphin is sick ; the little Dauphin is 
dying. In all the churches ot the Kingdom the Holy 
Sacrament remains exposed night and day, and the 
great tapers burn for the recovery of the royal child. 
The streets of the old capital are sad and silent, the 
bells no longer ring, the carriages pass slowly by. At 
the outskirts of the palace the curious bourgeois look 
through the railings upon the porters with gilded 
paunches who gossip together in the court-yards, with 
an air of importance. 

The whole chateau is in a stir. Chamberlains and 
major-domos run up and down the marble staircases. 
The galleries are full of pages and courtiers in silken 
doublets who pass from one group to another asking 
in low tones for the latest reports. 

On the wide perrons the maids of honor, in tears, 
exchange low courtesies, wiping their eyes at the 
same time with daintily embroidered handkerchiefs. 
In the orangery, a numerous gathering of robed phy- 
sicians is assembled. They can be seen through the 
glass windows, shaking their long black sleeves and 
nodding their periwigs in a most professional manner. 



96 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The Governor and the equerry of the little Dauphin 
pace up and down belore the door awaiting the 
decisions of the Faculty. Scullions pass them by 
without saluting. The equerry swears like a pagan ; 
the governor recites some verses of Horace. And 
during all this time over there beside the stables a long 
plaintive whinnying is heard : it is the sorsel of the 
little Dauphin whom the grooms have forgotten and 
who sadly calls before his empty manger. And the 
king ? Where is his Highness the king ? The king 
has locked himself up alone in a room at the other end 
of the chateau. Royal personages do not care to be 
seen in tears. For the queen, it is different. Seated 
at the pillow of the little Dauphin, her fair face is 
bathed in tears, and she sobs aloud in the presence of 
all, as a mere draper’s wife would do. On his little bed 
with its lace coverings, whiter than the pillows on 
which he rests, lies the little Dauphin with closed eyes. 
They imagine he is asleep ; but no, the little Dauphin 
is not asleep. He turns again to his mother, and seeing 
her in tears says to her : “ Madame La Reine, why 
are you crying ? Do you really think that I am going 
to die ?” 

The queen tries to answer him, but sobs prevent her 
from speaking. 

‘‘Do not weep, Madame La Reine. You do not 
remember that I am the Dauphin, and that Dauphins 
cannot die in this manner.” 

The queen sobs more violently, and the little 
Dauphin commences to feel frightened. 

” Hola !” he says. ” I do not want death to come 
and carry me away, and I know the way to prevent 
him from getting here. Order up immediately forty 
of the strongest halberdiers to mount guard around 
our bed ! Let a hundred big cannons watch night and 
day, fuses burning under our windows ! and woe to 
death if he dares to draw near us !” 

In order to humor the royal child, the queen gives a 
sign. Immediately the great cannons are heard rolling 
in the court-yard ; and forty tall pikemen, their hal- 
berds in their hands, draw themselves up around the 
room. 

They are old veterans with grizzled mustaches. The 
litte Dauphin claps his hands on seeing them. 

He recognizes one of them, and calls him by name. 

“ Lorrain ! Lorrain !” 

The weather-beaten old soldier takes a step towards 
the bed. 

“ I love you well, my old Lorrain. Show me your 
big sword. If death wants to take me away, you must 
kill him, won’t you ?” 

Lorrain answers : 

“ Yes, Monseigneur,” and two great tears roll down 
his tanned cheeks. At that moment the chaplain 
approaches the little Dauphin, and showing him a 
crucifix talks to him a long time in a low voice. 

The little Dauphin listens to him with an astonished 
air ; then all at once interrupting : — 

“I understand perfectly what you tell me, Monsieur 
1 Abbd ; but, still, could not my little friend Beppo die 
in my place if I gave him a great deal of money?” 

The chaplain continues to talk to him in a low voice. 



and the little Dauphin looks more and more aston- 
ished. 

When the Chaplain has finished, the little Dauphim 
resumes with a heavy sigh : “ All that you have just 
told me is very sad. Monsieur TAbbe ; but one thing 
consoles me, that is, that up there, in the Paradise of 
the Stars, I shall be still the Dauphin. I know that 
the good God is my cousin, and cannot fail to treat me 
according to my rank.” 

Then he adds, turning to his mother : — 

“ Tell them to bring me my fairest clothes, my 
doublet of white ermine and my velvet pumps ! I 
want to look well before the angels and to enter 
paradise in the costume of a Dauphin.” 

For a third time the Chaplain bends over the little 
Dauphin and talks to him for a long time in a low voice. 
In the middle of his discourse the royal child angrily 
interrupts him : — 

» ” But then,” he cries, “ to be Dauphin is nothing at 
all !” 

And, not wishing to hear anything further, the little 
Dauphin turns over towards the wall and weeps- 
bitterly. 



ADDRESS TO THE ALPHABET. 

Dear friends, although no more a dunce 
Than many of my betters, 

I’m puzzled to address at once 
Ye six and twenty letters. 

Perhaps you’ll think that may not be 
So hard a thing to do. 

For what is difficult to me 
Is A B C to you. 

However, pray dismiss your fears, 

Nor fancy you have lost me, 

Though many, many bitter tears 
Our first acquaintance cost me. 

Believe me, till existence ends. 

Whatever ills beset you, 

My oldest literary friends 
I never can forget you. 

H. M. 



BIBLIOTHECAE. 

“ My days among the dead are past ; 

Around me I behold, 

Where’er these casual eyes are cast 
The mighty minds of old ; 

My never -failing friends are they. 

With whom I converse day by day ; 

With them I take delight in weal, 

And seek relief in woe ; 

And while I understand and feel 
How much to them I owe. 

My cheeks have often been bedewed 
With tears of thoughtful gratitude.” 

SOUTHEY. 

Life in a library is not without its amusing side ; 

a librarian meets with many “ moving incidents," and 
gathers a many-sided experience, and it would be 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



97 



interesting to jot down the charming variety of appli- 
cations that cross his path. A librarian in the United 
States records that he was once asked for onr old-time 
favorite “Robinson Crusoe” as “Robinson Cruci- 
fied ; ’ ’ and I can believe it. I will ‘ ‘ nothing ex- 
tenuate, nor aught set down in malice,” but simply 
recount two or Ithree incidents within my own know 
ledge. 

Whilst serving in a library in this city, I was asked 
for the works of the Greek philosopher as “ So/o-kels!' 
and “The Cruise of the Midge ” and “ Tom Cringle’s 
Log ” (written by Michael Scott), as Sir Walter Scott’s 
novels ; one reader returned Thackeray’s “ Pendennis ’ 
as the “ stupidest" book he had ever read, — indeed, his 
verdict was that “ it was so stupid, that he could not 
read it," — my reply was, he might depend upon this, 
that “ it was not the fault of the book ; ” — another 
client returned a book, after having had it only a few 
hours, and upon my expressing surprise at his having 
got through it so quickly, he very gravely furnished 
as explanation, that "after reading 6o pages of it 1 
found I had read it before." 

But I can say, with a pardonable pride, that nothing 
of that sort is the matter with McGill, “ that's all 
right ; ” nevertheless, the bill-of-fare called for, during 
a day or two, is varied enough, and one may be for- 
given if it is now and then a trifle puzzling to find 
what is asked for ; I do not allude to the Grotes and 
Mommsen, the Beowulfs and Cynewulfs, the Grays and 
Besseys, the Nicholsons, the Prestwichs, the Tennysons 
and Wordsworths, the Mills and Hamiltons, the 
Tacitus and Plinys, almost beyond counting, these 
pass in review daily as a matter of course ; but there 
is a field beyond all these which is being continually 
ploughed, let me note a few which have been “ modern 
instances ” within the past week 

The application is generally introduced with a smile 
and a pleasant “ Canyon tell me." 

1. When the book of Exodus was written? 

2. What is the origin of minding your P’s and Q’s? 

3. Whence comes the proverb of pouring oil upon 
troubled waters ? etc. , etc. 

These are easily enough answered, with a little 
patience, and I venture to subjoin the replies 

1. A preponderance of evidence is in favor of the 
year B C. 1652. Hales places the Exodus B.C. 1648, 
Usher B.C. 1491, and Bunsen B.C. 1320. 

Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible. 

2. This expression arose from the ancient custom of 

hanging a slate behind the all-house door, on which 
was written P or Q, f-e.. Pint or against the 

name of each customer, according to the quantity 
which he had drunk, and which was not expected to 
be paid for till the Saturday evening, when the wages 
were settled. 

Notes and Queries, ist S., Vol. III., p. 357. 

3. Dr. Brewer, in speaking of this proverb, refers to 
the Biblical passage, "a soft answer turneth away 
wrath." It may be found in Plutarch, Aristotle, Pliny’s 
Natural History, Erasmus, Plautus, Bede’s Ecclesi- 
astical History, Pennaut, Benjamin Franklin, and so 



on, down to the popular novelist Jules Verne in Dick 
Sands. 

See Notes and Queries. 

But beyond all these, there is an ebb and flow of 
transient queries, that are 

“ Like a snow fall in the river, 

A moment white, then melts for ever.’^ 

the subject of Hypnotisin and Du ChctiilUi which 
name, by the bye, brings to mind a furore of a short 
time back, for the writings of the now eclipsed Stanley,, 
and a still more erratic form of application from out- 
siders, '.who have been recommended by a friend to 
j ask ! ‘‘ I have been reading lately about the Relief of 
j Lucknow, can you tell me the meaning of the name 
^ Jessie ? — and another querist named Jones, who is 
I descended from the old Welsh princes, but as there 
' are several branches of the Jones-es ( ! ) ca?i I put him 
on the track of something to prove his pedigree ? 

I desire to put on record my appreciation of the 
uniform courtesy and politeness of my clients proper 
— the most complete good- nature reigns : — 

Good sense and learning may esteem obtain, 

Humor and wit a laugh, if rightly ta*en : 

Fair virtue admiration may impart ; 

But \\% good nature only wins the heart : 

It moulds the body to an easy grace, 

And brightens every feature of the face, 

It smooths the unpolished tongue with eloquence. 

And adds persuasion to the finest sense. 

H. M. 



BACHELORS. 

* 

“ Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again ? 

A young man not yet, an elder man not at all thus 
wrote the wisest and brightest of mankind. Poor 
fellow, his philosophy finds little favor in modern days* 
Indeed, at the present moment, the secular press is 
raising the hue and cry against the few remaining 
specimens of bachelors, that most innocent and gentle 
class of humanity. 

It has been proposed with much blowing of trumpets 
tinl horns, and other instruments for stirring up the mind 
of the intelligent proletariat, to levy a tax on bachelors, 
just as the prudent Civic Fathers levy on dogs, goats, 
and undesirable quadrupeds in general, which it is the 
policy of civic wisdom to discourage and keep down. 

This cry having been taken up, and passed on by 
various wiseacres about town, doubts are expressed as 
to whether it may not prevail, several younger 
celibates have betaken themselves to wedlock, and 
even some of the elder members of the order appear to 
falter. 

A little reflection might teach these prophets the 
function of bachelors in the social fabric and the folly 
of accomplishing their extirpation, as well as the dis- 
astrous results which would follow a successful issue to 
their efforts. 

Bachelors — men past twenty-five who seem irresolute 



98 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



towards assuming the marriage yoke — belong to a high 
nd advanced state of civilization and society. 

The opcrarii furnish no examples at all, unless it be 
an occasional individual, who has been so thoroughly 
non-suited, and for such good reasons, that his exist- 
ence as a bachelor possesses no special significance. 
The operarii make a better showing and redeem their 
credit through an occasional example, whose presence 
is invariably marked by the possession of fatter beeves, 
swifter steeds and stronger mead than can be found else- 
where in the neighborhood. But not to touch each 
note in the gamut, the literarii develop the bachelor 
in his full perfection. The clerical side indeed pretend 
to discern some especial merit of a wholl}^ mysterious | 
nature among the celibates; but let us not stick at | 
thi.s, let us be content with those virtues which are | 
open to the gaze of the world. | 

The bachelor here is sometimes, though not always, ! 
too poor to be otherwise than as he is. More com- 
monly his bachelorhood is a matter of choice, prefer- 
ence or noble resolve. It is a voluntary choosing of 
the better part, if not half It notes the high water 
mark of civilization • 

What a delightful man was Hume ! how placid, ' 
polished and intellectual ! How smoothly his prose ! 
flows ! How gentlemanly ! What a mighty mind had ' 
Newton ! How he grappled with the problems of the 
universe, and solved them. And, here again, mark the 
repose, amiability, dignity ! Truly, these bachelors 
were fine fellows ! Small wonder that Oxford and 
Cambridge ordained that their fellows should all be 
bachelors. Saharissa, too, was equally rigorous, and 
preferred Civil Bachelors. Another doctor thunders 
from his vantage point on the importance of wedlock 
and the wickedness of bachelors in general. Happy 
prophet ; when did ever the people fail to swallow a 
message which tallied with their own belief and wish ? 
But from what data or through what conceivable 
stretch of invention are bachefors thus slandered? 
Who ever heard of a rake remaining a boch ? On the 
contrary, they always marry, fame says with great 
success, so also do drunkards and other evil members 
of society. 

The inoffensive bachelor, on the other hand, with 
peaceful serenity and good conscience, continues a 
triumphant progress through advancing stages of 
blessedness, undisturbed by domestic trials, and achieves 
a completeness not attained elsewhere. Let us silence 
this unseemly parrotting of the voice of the vulgar! 
Let us give the bachelor his due. 

What a lonely life ! A single human being steering 
his way alone through the mysteries of existence; 
single-handed, alone, complete in himself! Does it not 
excite our admiration and evoke reverent fear ? Yet 
what solace has he in his solitude ? Life pre.sents to 
him facts quite different than to his harassed, per- 
plexed, domestic brother. 

It is something for the human family to now and 
again produce a complete man, who lives for the sake 
of existence, without reference to the past, present or 
future of the race at large. 

These things trouble the proletariat not the bachelor. 

CAELEBS. 



ALL FOR NAUGHT. 

She is such a coy though merry 
Little maid, 

That of men you’d think her very 
Much afraid. 

But a year ago she doted 
Ou bravados who were noted, 

And to wicked ways devoted, 

So she said. 

There was something so attractive 
In a “ tough,” 

That a man in crime inactive 

Was such stuff ! 

So she laughed at my emotion 
When I vowed a life’s devotion, — 

I had such a prudish notion 

Of a rough ! 

So I bought a “Colt’s ” and dagger, — 
Made big bets, 

And began to swear and swagger, 

Ran up debts, 

And I domineered, provoking 
By my actions bitter joking, — 

And I even took to smoking 
Cigarettes. 

I was just a mild beginner, 

As you see, 

For I’d vowed that I would win her, — 

But ah, me ! 

When I w'eut and gently told her 
I had changed in growing older. 

Her reply was even colder : — 

So had she ! 

K. X. 



A NIGHT AT THE THEATRE. 

The new year has begun well in McGill. The 
dying days of the old may record some slight differences 
and faculty rivalry, but the joyous festive season has 
ushered in that happy state of affairs which should 
forever characterize the grand old “ Alma Mater.” On 
the Evening of Saturday, Jan. 7th, the Queen’s Theatre 
was packed to its utmost capacity by students and 
friends of the University, the former occupying the 
galleries, and numbering over 500. The play was 
Hamlet,” with Wilson Barrett in the title role, Miss 
Maud Jeffries as “ Ophelia,” and Mr. Franklin McLeay 
as the Ghost.” Comment upon the acting can onl}' 
be in the highest appreciative strain, for indeed the 
student of Shakespeare could not but be satisfied with 
Barrett’s “ Hamlet” and Miss Jeffries’ ” Ophelia.” The 
balance of the company proved themselves also to be at 
home in their respective roles. During the performance, 
loud and prolonged applause was of frequent occur- 
rence. Shortly after seven o’clock the long procession 
of students was seen wending its way from the Univer- 
sity grounds, and ere long the mighty throng dense!}’ 
filled the ” gods ” allotted to them. Then broke forth 
chorus after chorus, all of which are held dear by many 
generations of students. Before the curtain ascended 
after the fourth act, an imperative demand was made 
for the appearance of Miss Jeffries, and at the same time, 
as if by magic, an enormous basket of roses descended 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



from the “ gods.” For this the beautiful ” Ophelia ’ 
charmingly looked up to the sea of faces, then modestly 
bowing, moved away, the happy recipient of a McGill 
tribute. This was not all, for, immediately succeeding, 
cries for Miss Elmore, who sat in the audience, revealed 
to all that this brilliant young actress had not been 
forgotten, for in mid-air another floral offering was seen 
approaching the stage. Upon its arrival, Miss Elmore 
blushingly stood to receive it. The curtain now as- 
cended upon the “ grave scene,’' but one more event 
had precedence, and loud cries for “ Barrett," “ Barrett,’' 
“ Barrett,” resulted in the lowering of the curtain and 
in the appearance of Mr. Barrett, a little too late to see 
his “box of Havanas” floating towards him, but not 
too late to carry them off. ^ His appearance was the 
signal for deafening cheers combined with college yells. 

At the conclusion of the performance, the whole 
audience joined in the applause, and Mr. Barrett 
appeared to say farewell for the present to Montreal, 
and in a well timed speech referred to his high appre- 
ciation of the students’ general behavior. 

At the doors of the theatre on St. Catherine St., as 
the immense audience dispersed, an ever-to-be-remem- 
bered scene presented itself — torches flared, rockets 
shot forth, colored lights burned brightly, students 
yelled, and students sang, small boys ran, women hur- 
ried, policemen hid themselves, cabmen swore, and even 
the electric cars seemed unable to nroceed. The various 
members of the company w^ere each received in unmis- 
takable terms of genuine enthusiasm. Wilson Barrett 
first, then Mr. McLeay and Miss Elmore, Miss Jeffries 
having left earlier in the evening, not being aware of 
the demonstration that was to follow the performance. 
Her presence in the carriage was much missed by all. 
The triumphal procession then proceeded to the Windsor 
Hotel, where Mr. Barrett addressed the students at 
some length, jovially remarking that through it all he 
preserved his box of cigars. 

The students’ committee, whose energy and .self- 
sacrifice deserve special mention, consisted of Messrs. 
E. D. Aylen, W. H. Scott, C. Gorrell and H. Yorke. 

The singing was entrusted to the management of 
Mr. Frank Ferron, who chose as soloists Messrs. King- 
horn, Fry, Lambly and Lee. To Mr. Anderson, 
manager of the Queen’s Theatre, and Mr. Rogers, 
manager for Wilson Barrett, the thanks of all are due 
for their extreme courtesy and splendid arrangements. 



THE NEW McGILL SONG BOOK. 

Mr. Robert Wilson (Medicine), Sec. of the Song Book 
Committee, reports that the w’ork of revision of the Son 
Book goes on apace, and that the committee are in 
hopes of having the New Book out early in the autumn. 
The idea of a Faculty song has been taken up with 
such avidity, and the results so gratifying, that it .speaks 
well for the literary ability of our students. Medicine 
has yet to send in its song, but some rumor has it that 
though last it will by no means be least in literary 
merit of songs sent in. 



99 



tSOClETIES. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of this Society took place on Satur 
day evening last, January 14th, the President, Mr. T. A 
Dewar, in the chair. The minutes of the preceding 
meeting were read and adopted. Mr. Deeks requested 
to be relieved of his duties as a member of the pro- 
gramme committee ; his resignation was accepted, and 
Mr. Duvernet elected to fill the vacancy. After some 
minor busine.ss was tran.sacted, the president called 
upon Mr. S. Ridley McKenzie ’93, who had prepared a 
paper, with ca.se reports, on ‘‘ Ery.sipelas.” This paper 
was the first of its character read before the Society 
during the session, and was heard with due apprecia- 
tion by all. Mr. R. H. Phillimore of the First }'ear 
will read at the next meeting of the Society an in 
teresting paper on a case of “ Fracture of the Orbit.” 



delta SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held Thurs- 
day, Jan. 12th, and was con.sidered the best and most 
enjoyable gathering this session. Miss Angus read a 
bright and interesting essay on Gems'' without 
going too far into Geological detail. Miss Mackensie’s 
instructive and feeling essay on “ Christmas Legends" 
was read by Miss Radford, owing to the .severe cold of 
the former. 

The meeting closed with an impromptu debate — 
Resolved, that prizes should be abolished in .schools — 
which caused much merriment owing to its .short 
duration. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL- 

At a meeting held Jan. 12th, at 8 o’clock. Prof. Mills 
occupied the chair. Prof. Baker and a large number 
of members were present. Mr. O. G. Orr read a paper 
on “ Laminitis or Peditis.” Having alluded to the 
history, early ideas of its nature, and other interesting 
features connected with the disease, the essayist went 
on to describe the etiology, symptoms, pathology, 
treatment, etc. He criticized some of the present 

methods of treatment, showing that they were from 

being counter indicated by pathological lesions. Mr. 
Cleaves next reported a peculiar case of nervous 
disorder in a dog. Both papers were thoroughly 
discussed. The question of metasta.sis in connection 
with laminitis received considerable attention, nearly 
all the members favored a nervous explanation and not 
the theory that it was transferred from one organ to 
another by continuity of surface. Prof. Baker thought 
that laminitis was a primary lesion, .stating that it 
exists from the first, but frequently overlooked, because 
at onset the general symptoms overshadow the local, 
and lead us to neglect examinin,^ the feet until inset of 
pathognomic symptoms. Meeting then adjourned. - 



100 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COM- 
PARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

At a meeting presided over by the President on 
Jan. loth, Mr. Tracy read a paper entitled, “How do 
animals reason ? ” He gave a comparative sketch of 
animal ps3xhology, pointing out, among other things, 
the physiological behavior of an organism, how it 
modified, and how it was modified, by its psychical 
development. The influence of repetition and the 
extent that it influenced the actions of all animals was 
touched upon. Mr. Stephens followed with a paper on 
the psychology of cats. He considered that this 
animal possesses all the adenda that constitutes an 
individual, and that his present despised condition is 
due to that fact. Many purely feline traits of character 
were enumerated by the essayist, in such a manner 
that he captivated not only the attention but the 
applause of the members present. It is seldom that 
the Society is entertained by such a happy combination 
of sentiment, poetry and wit that characterized Mr. 
Stephens’ essay. The President was lavish in his 
praise of Mr. Tracy’s production, and after a short 
address adjourned the meeting. 

FOURTH YEAR ENGINEERING SOCIETY. 

The members of the Fourth Year Applied Science, 
thinking that their mutual improvement would be 
better advanced by forming themselves into a society 
for the reading and discussion of papers on practical 
subjects, held a meeting to discuss the matter towards 
the close of last term, the tangible result of which is 
the Fourth Year Engineering Society, with the follow- 
ing officers : — 

President— Mr. Louis Herdt. 

Vice-Pr&ident — Mr. L. L- Street. 

Sec. Treas.— Mr. J. H. Featherstone. 

The Society, which meets every alternate Tuesday, 
held its first meeting in the old East Wing on the 9th 
inst., when the constitution was adopted and an 
excellent paper read by Mr. L. Greenberg on the 
subject of ‘‘ Asphalt Pavements.’' 

If every paper read proves as instructive as that of 
Mr. Greenberg, the Society will have accomplished the 
purpose for which it was organized. 

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

During X mas Holidays, a number of our members 
spent a social evening at the residence of Dr. F. W. 
Kelley, whose hearty hospitality is well known to 
College men, and the pleasant time will be remembered 
by those present who were unable to get home for 
Christmas week. The ladies were certainly a pleasing 
feature of the evening, and added much to the enjoy- 
ment and profit of the occasion. 

The meetings of the Association were resumed on 
Sunday, Jan. 8th. The Committee are planning to 
make each meeting attractive and of practical value to 
student life. 

Dr. W. F. Hamilton, Supt. General Hospital, will 
address the meeting on Jan. 22nd ; there should be a 
large attendance on that date. 

At the Provincial Convention Jan. 26-29, this city, 
special College Conferences will be held as follows ’ 



P"riday Afternoon and evening. 

Saturday — Afternoon. 

As these Conferences are entirely open, our members 
should avail themselves of the opportunity of being 
present. Representatives from many Canadian colleges 
will be delegates, among whom may be named Dr. W, 
Harley Smith of Toronto, and E. L- Hunt, M.A. 

The sessions will be held in the City Young Men’s 
Christian Association. 



The presence in the city of Mr- J. R. Mott, College 
Secretary, will afford an opportunity for students to 
hear “ a man among men.’’ 

A special meeting on Sunday, Jan. 29th, will be 
arranged for and advertised. McGill should be there 
to a man, 

McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of the McGill Mining Society 
was held in the old Science Building, on Thursday 
evening the 12th inst. 

A very interesting paper, entitled ‘‘ Life Under- 
ground,’ was read by Dr Harrington, the Honorary 
President. The Doctor took up the history of the 
English and Scotch miners for the last century, mining 
accidents and the general health of miners. 

A hearty vote of thanks was tendered Dr. Harring- 
ton by the meeting, and the hope expressed that he 
would often be able to attend the meetings of the 
Society. After a few remarks by the President, the 
meeting adjourned. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 

HOCKEY. 

The first match in the Intermediate Championship 
series took place on Thursday evening last, January 
1 2th, in the Crystal Rink, between the Montreal and 
University teams. 

Good hockey was shown, as a general thing, through- 
out the evening, although in the second half there was 
a noticeable tendency to ‘‘ ragged ” play. 

For the college, Lewis was a stone wall in goal, and 
Smythe and Dawes showed up well among the 
forwards. 



Taken all in all, the Montreal men were just a little 
too much for our men, although this was not made 
apparent, to judge by the score, until the second half, 
the score standing at the end of the first half hour’s play 
3-2 in Montreal s favor ; to this score Montreal added 
another two games in the second half. 

Following were the teams : — 



McGill 

Lewis Goal 

Schwartz Point 

Bickerdike Cover Po'iiV tV.V. ' 

Beckett 'j 1 . . . . 

Dawes i, 1 

Massey forwards. J- 

Smythe j J 

The next match will be against Sherbrooke on our 
own ice. The Sherbrooke men will doubtless have on 



Montreal. 

. . . . Shaw 
C. Mussen 
. ... Tames 
A- Mussen 
. . . . Routh 

Wand 

Barlow 



a strong combination, and to meet in a successful man- 
ner the team that so nearly won the Intermediate last 
year will require hard practice and lots of it. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



lO 



Faculty Keporis, 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Prof. Bovey has issued a pamphlet on Hydraulic 
Motors for the convenience of his hydraulic class. 

~ “ What spare hour have you, so that we can 
arrange for another lecture on this subject ? ” 

Ovcnvorked Senior, — “I think we could come up 
on Sunday, sir.” 

NOT THE CRACK O’dOOM. 

What is that wild, unearthly sound 
That seems as ’twere creation’s knell ? 

It is the college boys. They’ve found 
A new and most heartrending yell. 



The character of the designs required from the senior 
civils this term would render opportune a sermon on 
the evils of profanity, as the task assigned these gentle- 
men promises to be more prolific of the above sin than 
anything we know of. 

Speaking of vocations, mining is the only one which 
a man hopes that his work will be in ” vein,'" 

It is to be hoped that the Freshmen will give more 
hearty support to the Glee Club in future than they 
have as yet ; every year must turn out well to the prac 
tices if our ventures this year are to prove success- 
ful. 



The new Sulphuretted Hydrogen generator is prov- 
ing a great success. During the time it was running 
last session only one-half a liter of acid was required, 
although it was very frequently in use. Instructor 
showing the apparatus—* * It’s running well !” Professor 
— Yes ! It has the right smell.” 

The Third year Chemists are working in the Fourth 
year Laboratory this session, and are delighted with 
the change. It was found very difficult for them to do 
careful quantitative analysis in the Laboratory they 
have just left, on account of the large number of stu- 
dents engaged in qualitative work and th : presence of 
a good many Freshmen. It is to be regretted that we 
have not proper accommodation for the Freshmen in a 
large, well lighted Laboratory, but under the present 
condition of things this is impossible, and the number 
of men far exceeds the capacity of the room. The 
demonstrator has been obliged to make two divisions 
of the class, and even under this arrangement men who 
perhaps never handled chemical apparatus before are 
placed in the same room with those who are working 
with over two years experience, and who require the 
room free from dust, the benches clean and as little 
noise as possible. 

The Third year Electricals are doubly fortunate this 
term, F. Barbour being a welcome addition to their num- 
ber, and C, H. Long worth having returned quite re- 
covered from his serious illness. 



legal briefs. 

The naturalist, the philosopher, even the lawyer, 
find many delicate things in nature to cherish and 
admire, and standing forth pre-eminent among these, 
at least in our estimation, is the beautiful confiding 
faith with which the students of this as of other fac- 
ulties hear and receive in fortnightly instalments, the 
good things their duly appointed and devoted delegates 
have to furnish them with. It must be remembered 
in this connection that their task is a delicate one and 
one entirely self-imposed, so that any deficiencies which 
may occur or any items that, perhaps by being care- 
lessly written, may offend the sensibilities of any or 
all of the students, must be overlooked, if possible, by 
such gentlemen, and an apology be accepted without 
a formal tendering of the same on the part of their 
editor. 

To a very great extent, the aim and intention of the 
legal column is mainly to please, and if any more ser- 
ious end is attained or information conveyed, so much 
the better, and our labors will not have been in vain. 

If possible, however, the contributions should emanate 
from all the members of the Faculty through the 
medium of their class- reporter, and in this way the 
onus would perhaps be shifted and the responsibility 
of contribution would be more generally distributed. 



Query : Is that unanimous vote of censure, duly 
recorded, we believe, by the Secretary, to bear fruit, or 
must resort be had to the method suggested by the 
C.P.C. ? quo warranto, etc.! I 



Counsel, — Did you ob.serve anything particular about 
the prisoner ? 

Witness, — Yes, his whiskers. 

Counsel, — And what was there peculiar about his 
whiskers ? 

Witness, — Why, he had none. 



A writ of attaclifnent, — A love letter. 



Judge, — Have you anything to say before the Court 
passes sentence on you ? 

Prisoner,—^ CiX, all I have got to say is, I hope your 
Honor’ll consider the extreme youth of my lawyer 
and let me off easy. 



Lawyer, — Do you swear positively, sir, that you 
know more than half this jury ? 

Witness, — Yes, sir ; and now that I have taken a 
good look at them. I’ll swear that I know more than 
all of em put together. 



The following is the story of a pick-pocket’s arrest, 
as narrated by himself in the London slang of the 
criminal classes: “I was jogging down a blooming 



102 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



slum in the Chapel when I butted a reeler, who was 
sporting a red slang (watch guard) 

“ I broke off his jen*}" and boned the clock which was 
a red (gold) one, but I was spotted by a copper, who 
claimed me. I was lugged before the beak who gave I 
me six toss in the steel. I 

‘‘ The week after I was chucked up I did a snatch i 
near St. Paul’s, was collared, lagged, and got this bit | 
of seven stretch (years).” 



ARTS. 

At the end of last term Dr. Eaton kindly offered his 
services, as instructor, to such students as might be 
desirous of forming a classical .society. The project 
was eagerly welcomed ; and those interested have 
recently held a meeting and appointed a committee of I 
three men from each year, to draw up a constitution. 
The meetings will likely be held fortnightly ; and 
considerable attention will probably be given to the 
Latin comedies and the lighter works of cla.ssical 
literature not embraced by the course. 



Mr. Decks has received a letter from Sir William, 
conveying greetings of the New Year to himself and 
his class. The Principal states his intention to return 
before the close of the session. It is almost as super- 
fluous to note that he retains his wonted zeal for geolo- 
gical study as to remark that he is still mindful of 
McGill ; and the Museum receives continual acces.sions 
from him. 



The Third year, on whom the duty of taking action 
devolves, have decided to hold the annual (as we may 
now call it) Arts Tramp on the evening of Saturday, 
February ist. Dinner will be provided at the Athletic 
Club House, and a programme will be prepared. 
Tickets may be obtained from Messrs. Fraser, Barlow 
and Ogilvie, the members of the committee. 



It will not be difficult to assign the following illus- 
tration to its author. An ambitious junior inquired of 
his professor if two exemptions would be granted him in 
virtue of his taking two honor courses The student 
was informed that he was like an Irishman who had 
heard of a new stove which saved half the fuel. 
“Sure,*’ said Pat, ” Oi’ll git two o’ thim stoves and 
save all the fuel.” 



“ A self-made man, a man of worth. 

My friend,” so runs the bon mot, 

‘‘ From what I hear about your birih. 
You are a novos homo'" 

The Doctor smiled.— “ Excu.se me, pray, 
How did you get that notion ? 

A 7WV0S homo, did you say ? 

Why, I’m a Nova Scotian. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. W S. Plaskett has been elected valedictorian for 
class of ’93. 

Dr. Charlie (to 3rd year man) ” Tell Frank to hitch 
up my grey mare.” 

3rd year man (to 2nd year man) ‘‘Tell Frank to 
hitch up my grey mare.” 

2nd (to Freshie) “ Tell Frank to hitch Charlie’s 
mare.” 

Freshie (to Frank) “Dr. Charlie wants his mare 
hitched up.” 

Frank (to John I) “ John, hitch Dr. McEachran’s 
mare.” 

John I (to John II), “ Hitch up the Dr’s, mare.” 

John II kicks Jack out of the stable and hitches up 
the grey mare. 



The reading room committee wish to notify subscri- 
bers and others whom it may concern, that the reading 
room is for the exclusive purpose of perusing the 
newspapers and periodicals on file. 



Pedestrianism may be a healthy exercise, but when 
carried too far becomes anything but invigorating. A 
member of the Second year recently investigated the 
matter, and can give pointers to anyone who intends 
taking up walking for the health or otherwise. 



Bruce Anderson, one of the popular young men of 
the Veterinary college, has been confine I to his house • 
since the holidays with laryngitis. 



DONALDA NEWS. 

Miss Martha L- Seymour has been elected by her fel- 
low-students to repre.sent Arts ’93 as valedictorian at the 
coming Convocation. 



Frequenters of the Reading-room are requested to 
commit the following lines to memory, with special 
attention to the first class described. “ Neither a bo7- 
rower nor a lender be, for loan often loses both itself 
and friend, and borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.” 

Hamlet. 



The Sophomores lunch together in the reading-room 
on Friday afternoon, January the 20th. Representa- 
tives have been invited from the several years. Miss 
F. Angus has been chosen from the Seniors to attend 
the “ festive board.” 



“Never too late to mend.” How about 10 a.m. on 
Monday, Seniors ? 



There will be several .songs submitted by Graduates 
and Undergraduates of the ladies’ department, for the 
choice of one especially suitable for entrance into the 
I New Song Book as a “ Donalda Song.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Several members of the First year ha ve been excused 
from, attendance at the supplemental examinations 
It was felt that it would be advisable for them to 
concentrate their energies u|.on the spring examination, 
tins being regarded as an entrance into the Second year. 
We wish them success. 



Professor.— “ Multorum amniiiin foiites sunt parvi.” 
Students translates. The sources of many initidj are 
small.” 



It is becoming an exciting question among members 
of the Fourth year whether the University “ Pin ” will 
appear before the University “Song Book,” or vice 
versa. 

We would like to wear our pin as students. 

Perhaps an extra ten cents would hasten matters. 

Juniors lament that the examiner in mechanics did 
not accept the minding of our P’s and Q’s as an equi- 
valent fora “tension.” 



Bivalve ! Saturday 9 30 a. m., a feast of oy.sters and 
a flow of souls. 

ro.30 a. m. Donalda ! Did you say every oyster had 
sixteen shells ? 

MEDICAU CLASS REPORTS. 

The whole four years extend their hearty congratu- 
lations to Dr. Birkett on his narrow e.scape. 

♦ 

We all deeply .sympathize with Dr. Shepherd in his 
sad bereavement. 

* * 

* 

At a meeting of the Fourth year men, Mr. W . E. 
Deeks, B.A., was elected valedictorian for the year 
1893. His opponent was Mr. Robert Wilson, jun. Mr. 
Deeks, in a neat little speech, thanked his fellow-stu- 
dents for the honor which they had conferred upon him. 

* 

The class photo has raised an endle.ss discussion. 
Who are to occupy the two central positions ? It 
would seem that the Valedictorian and the President 
of the 3'ear are entitled to the place of honor. 

. * 

The opening of the new wing has proved an immense 
improvement. The system of holding clinics in the 
wards was greatly to be deprecated. 

* * 

* 

The Fourth year men are all agreed that Dr. C. F*. 
Martin is one of the most genial and obliging of house 
surgeons. Ifanyoneisin doubt, or requires informa- 
tion respecting the identity of a certain bacillus, the 
question is invariably asked : “ Where is Dr. Martin ?” 

* 

In a recent number of The Critic a valuable article 
appears from the pen of Professor Adanii. It is 
entitled ‘'Eliot’s Bible at Cambridge University.” The 
volume is the first translation of the Scriptures into the 
Indian language, and appears to have been lo.st for a 
great number of years. It has been unearthed from 



103 



amid a pile of ancient tomes in Jesus College by Pro- 
fessor Adami, and is valued at $3,500. According to 
Dr. Adami, the title-page of the New Testament is in 
the Indian language, and is dated 1661. It is suc- 
ceeded by Eliot’s metrical translation of the Psalms, 
following upon which is a .single leaf beginning 

Noowomoo Wnttin— Noowaonk God ; “ and ending, 

“ Kali netat up labutlantamoe kesuk. PhNis.’’ The 
Indian is a very pretty language. It appears to be a 

kind of cross between the Gaelic and the Welsh. 

* 

* 

We are happy to .see that Dr. Henderson is around 
again. lie is shaking hands with Dr, R. Tait Mac- 
kenzie. They are both anthorities upon typhoid. 

* 5k 
5k 

The following has been received from “ Susan 
Brent — 

“ Freshmen ! beware ! The great work of Epitaphs 
has been resurrected again, and this looks like a big 
plucking in the Spring. “It is well known that over 
every “ Med.” who is “ pulled ” in Botany .some kind 
friends write a few words in kind remembrance. These 
are all preserved in this celebrated volume. The writer 
happened to be fortunate enough to see the book in 
que.stion, and also to get a peep at the last page. 
Thereon was written : — 

“ Here lies, alas ! a first year Med, 

With fragrant flowers around his head ; 

His pen its task would not fulfill. 

And now \it\-hallow-^d rests he still ! “ 

It has been suggested that alcohol thermometers be 
placed in the dissecting room, as the mercury will likely 
collapse under the strain of the continued cold snap. 

The moral training imparted in the histological labo- 
ratory is unique. 

Dispose of your expensive but practically useless 
instruments io yonr '' Frie 7 idsT and with the profits 
buy the cheaper and more useful ones — such was the 
advice most affably insinuated. 

We notice that many of our Freshmen friends, who 
have been in the habit of inspecting public buildings 
by the tender light of the moon, have enrolled them- 
selves under the banner of the “ Knights of the burn- 
ing lamp.” Adieu, fair youths, your departure dims 
the lustre of St. Catherine st., the disconsolate beauty, 
of St. Lawrence Main must now sigh in vain for 
those genial smiles. Yet bear up under the black 
shadow of fate and hope for a better time. 

Quite a number of the Second year men are planning 
the purchase of Laryngo.scopes. Ascheme is already 
on foot to .send to Germany should the supply in the 
city prove in.sufficient. 

Professor to Student who has been giving some 

rather wild answers : “ Now, Mr. , I should like 

too ask you at how much you value all this at examina- 
tion standard ?” Student : I think I would be satisfied 

with seventy five per cent.” Collapse of the Prof. 

Donnez-moi une chique de tabac, mon ami. 



104 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



PERSONALS. 

¥. H. Grahim, ’94, has recovered his health, and will 
soon return to College. 

Jaiues Taylor, B A. ’92, is in the mission field at 
Louris, Man. 

\V. T. D. Mdss, B A. ’90, has recovered from his se- 
vere attack of typhoid, and returned to prosecute his 
studies in Theology. 

R. MacDougall, B.A. ’90, visited McGill during the 
holidays. He is greatly pleased with Harvard, where 
he found another McGill man, Sidney Calvert, B.Sc. 

A Successful Grad. — Mr. S. Fortier, ’86, a native of 
this province, has recently been appointed professor of 
civil and hydraulic engineering in the Utah Territorial 
College. Mr. F. has been for three years chief engi- 
neer of the B. R. Waterworks & Irrigation Co., and 
lor nearly two years has had charge of one of the lar- 
gest irrigating schemes in America. 

He will make for the College a complete survey of all 
the water in the Territory. This is something which 
has never been done, and will be of great benefit to the 
territory, especially when done as correctly as it will be 
by Mr. Fortier. 

Mr. A. S. Dawson, who has been employed on the 
engineering staff of the C.P.R. during the past season, 
was in town during the holidays. Scott spent three 
successful years with us, and intends to return to col- 
lege next session. 

The Dinner will b^ held in the Windsor Hotel on 
January 27th. The committee has spared no pains to 
render it a success, and it promises to be more largely 
attended than usual. 



We are more than interested in learning that W. 
Smail, Sc ’ 90, has taken unto himself a better-half. 
Perhaps the best we can wish for them both is that 
they may ever be as popular with each other as Billy 
was with his fellow-students at McGill. 



P. J. LeRossignol, Sc. ’92, has recently left the city 
for Radnor Forges, Que , where for the present he takes 
a position as chemist in the Iron Smelting Works. His 
chief duty will be the analysis of iron ores. 



between the lectures. 

A question for Chemists : — 

Could a man found lying in the street under the 
influence of liquor be rightly termed an alcoholic pre- 
cipitate ? 



Clinician in cardiac case — You can also hear a 
musical murmur at the apex” — at this moment an 
organ grinder outside starts up “ Spring, Spring, Beau- 



tiful Spring.” Tne laugh that this naturally called 
forth soon faded away into thoughtfulness when that 
vernal season was brought to memory. 

” Are you guilty or not guilty ? ” asked the clerk of 
the Court. 

‘‘ An’ sure now, ” says Pat, what are you put there 
but to find out ? ” 



Counter-irritation in form of sole leather poultice 
applied to the gluteal region in heroic doses at short 
intervals. 



Can a tumor on the front of the Patella be any other 
than a Kneeoplasm ? 



Teacher, to infant class in Sunday-school— “ What 
is promised to the righteous ? 

Child : ‘‘ Eternal bliss,marm.’* 

Teacher,—” And to the wicked ? 

Voice from bottom of class. — ” Eternal blister.” 
(There was one penny less put on the plate that day. 



This is the way a Vassar girl tells a joke : “ Oh, 
girls, I heard just the best thing to day, it was too 
funny. I can’t remember how it came about, but one of 

the girls said to Prof. Mitchell Oh, dear, I can’t 

remember what she said, but Prof. Mitchell’s answer 
was just too funny for any use ; I forget just exactly 
what he said, but it was just too good for any thing. ” 



Temperance Orator.— ‘ Who have red eyes > 
Who 

Bobby (just from the circus)— ” I know. Albinos. ” 



“Do you own that dog?” asked Billy Bliven 
” Ya a-s,” replied Gus de Jay. 

“ Will he mind you ? ” 

Oh I nevah try to boss him ! I just own him.” 



reading notes. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you eet a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



105 



Applied Science danjo ClnP 

(»on?ei^T, 

WINDSOR HALL, 
FRIDAY Eocning, January 20lh, 

AT 8 P. M. 

RESERVED SEATS, - 50 Cents. 

With kind assistance of University of Vermont. 

A YOUNG MAN 

Can largely increase his income by working during his 
spare time for a First Class Life and Accident Insurance 
Company, address P.O. Box 835, Montreal. 

STUDENTS’ HEADQUARVEftS. 



All the Books required for the 




FACULTIES OF McCILL, 



TO BE HAD FKO.M 

W. &c 00 . 

Down Town Store, - - 232 ST- JAMES ST. 

Up Town Store, - • 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Ploojeps ! plotueps ! ! 



The finest flowers, and most Artistic Floral work, can 
be had at all seasons and for all occasions. 

S. S. BAIN, Flox*ist, 

fiO IPEAVEU HALL HILL. a few doors below Dorchegter St. 



IPE »ITI ni nPEllTEP. 




“ Imppovement the Order of the Ag*©-” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 




1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 



TO WHEELlVtEN. 



Before buying your Wheel for the coming season, call in and see the 

' HUMBER’’ BEESTON 

AND THE 

NEW '‘HOWE.’’ 

The most perfect Safety Bicycles in the market. Dunlop Adjustabk 
Tyre and the Laforce Tyres. SOLE AO ENT, 

LOUIS RUBENSTEIN, 537 Craig Street. 



THE INGRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANOUAOES. 




100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 
We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing « OGaneiny 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A. Duret, late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

Terms: $io per month, lessons every day 
if desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $6o.oo per month. 



THE INGEES-OOUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 



Siugle Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Circulars. 



io6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




‘•THE BOYS” buy their own and. 
sweethearts’ 



* O-LOATES 

AT THK 

Paris Kid Glov<? Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Catht rine Street. 

B-. E,gj a Eg a Q13 ,, 

MEDALS FOR SPORTS. 




X 



Badg'es, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES EREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises. 

LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

:Et. HEIMISLIE'Z', 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 

Hair Dressing Palace. 



THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Combs- Razors- Strops, 
Perfumery and Toilet 
Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

SeASON JS92»^3^ 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Mdtons, Beavers, friezes, &c. 

IS NOW COMPLETE, 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

— DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship 
Silk Lining, $36.00. 

INSPECTION INVITED. 

WM. F/VFtQUH-ftftSON, 

IVIeiTClnaiTti T tailor., 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



MO^TOJ^, pyjLiiitps & ao., 



STATIONERS, 

Boolt /Oarers arid Prirtters, 



1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 




FOR. 



WRITING MACHINE. 



What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VBZmA. 

12 McGill College Av„ just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Sliaviii$(, 12 Tickets $l.oo. 



Mansen /V\oUllin’s Surgefy 

liecommended for fhe use of Students by the 

Prof. Suryery in McGill and other Universities. 

published on SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



S W£RICAM |?-UR 




^ 557 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one in the city to buy 
furs and have repairing done. 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do bette 
with us than withsany other Furrier in Montreal. 





ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT. 



, JC0LX^JL_.J_-, dtf OO.f 

16 and 18 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 






Manufacturers of the Pisesi Qwslity ItleotF9'PIsi9d WsF&* And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons, Etc. 

A. J, tFHIMBET, Manager. 



FURKITURE 



— :poI^ — 



Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON. 

652 CBAIG STREET. 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



$2.75, 3.50, 4.00 PER PAIR. : • 

Just the thing for Students. 

Win. F. SWAROOW. 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



It goes without saying that J 

- WALFORD’S 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346 . 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., Ac. 

1742 Notre Dame St,, Montreal. 




M 11 .L.S, 

Furrief & Ftattef, 



ST. cjs.the:rine: st. 



2nd door West of Feel. 



E. A. GEI^TH, 

DIKECT IMPORTER OF HIGH OLA88 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. BIPC8. 

Sole agent for Rtita8i Freres 

KGYPXIAN CIGARRHXH8. 

Smoke Eerth’g Celebrated Mixture. 

2236 ST< GATHEBINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
lest assorted stock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at HOCK BOTTOM PHICBS, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 666 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Bleary. 



KstatoHslted 185^. 

T3L:EnsT:Rir :r. o'ES/Jlit, 

PHARMACEUTICAU CHEMIST. 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The DiBpenelng of PhyBieians' PreBcriptions a epecialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lectorcrt supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 







MANA6EB." ' 136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

corner CRAIG. 

Brauclii>8 all over the City. Telephones : Bell, 666 and 1748. 




MCQIL.L_ TOBACCO THAT^ E]^ERIENCE 

CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MONEY CAN BUY 

MIXTURE 

P. E. MORRIS , Tobacconist, ‘408 St. James St. 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OL D CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



