



PAGE 

Editorial Comments 289 

Contributions 290 

In my Easy Chair 290 

A Legend 291 

A Trip up the East Coast 292 

“ La Main de Dieu’* 295 

Pastoral 299 

Societies 299 

The Detroit Convention 302 




PAGE 

What? Where? When? . ..302 

Class Reports 303 

Arts Notes 303 

Legal Briefs 304 

Science Jottings 305 

Feathers from the East Wing.. ..305 

Comp. Med. Class Reports 306 

Olla Podrida 306 



McGILL UNIVERSITY > 
ARCHIVES j 



ACC. NO. 



REF. 





Fine " * 

JJAUAH MAHDDLUIS 
- AIEBICAB GBITARS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

c ‘ t STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
“DOBSON ” . . . 

Qcnjo 5 

BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything in the 
Musical Line. ....... 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 

N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



KODAKS 



and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 

IPErTCJES : #6 to $ 75 . 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 



Montreal Photographic Supply* 



R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 




S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 
MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 



258 St. James Street, 

Near McGill St. 



WM. FOSTER BROWN, 

<^The MgCiiII BooK Store 



2323 ST. CATHERINE ST., 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



MONTREAL. 



Telephone 3641 . 



S3. DRYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL. 



Ageryt for Storrett’s Tools. TeIepF\or\© 169 . 



E. A. GERTH, STUD ENTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block, 
MONTREAL. : : 

D OF HiGH-C’LAES Havana Cigars ajtd Retail. 

Try Gcrth's Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality Low Prices, 

THE ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPIT AL 

Has purchased its entire and magnificent outfit of 

Surgical Instruments, Microscopes, 
# Sterilizers, Anatomical Models, 
Electric Batteries, Etc., Etc., 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4398. MONTREAL- 



EOT EASTER TIES 

m*lG loves 

Latest Styles and Loulest Prices 

CO TO 

Mgnroe Bros. , 

V V V 7 

2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 

LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 

T 3a».^ l7 Bleury Street 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 




TELEPHONES. 



Warehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call* “and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 



T. W. NESS & CO 



749 Craig St., 
MONTREAL 



IVlcGlbk FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. II. MONTREAL, MARCH 1 6, 1894 . No. 12 




CD 




^EDITORIAL BOARD<- 



Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec*y p f (Comp. Med. and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) * M Science ’94.) 

J. A. McPhail, P.A., M.D., Graduates* Society. 



-EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F . A. Botterell, (Donalda *95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. *95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may- be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co.*s and W. 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



FAREWELLS. 

It is with sincere regret that the Editors sever the 
pleasant relations that have existed between them- 
selves and their readers. For the past six months, 
characters of different kinds have been flitting hither 
and thither upon our little stage, with, we trust, in- 
terest and profit to the audience. Now the curtain 
falls, and our task is ended. It is no easy matter to 
conduct a college paper as it should be conducted. 
This we very quickly discovered. Of course there are 
many and diverse opinions on this question. This is 
but natural and proper, for interests frequently lie in 
different directions, and individuality within certain 
limits has an important place in the human economy. 
Any educational institution, be it University or other- 
wise, which turns out men just as a machine turns out 
tacks, — one just like another, — is on the wrong tack: 
no joke intended. In McGill, however, this individ- 
uality has ample scope, and we must expect to find 
different ideas on all subjects of College interest. In 
the case of the Fortnightly we have heard very few 
adverse criticisms, although we hardly know whether to 



rejoice at this or not. In our pages an endeavour has 
been made to meet this diverse taste in our readers. 

“ The greatest good to the greatest number” has been 
our motto. We ask our readers, therefore, not to judge 
our work by one particular issue, but to consider all, 
and draw conclusions from them. Only in this way 
can a fair estimate be made. These pages have been 
the concentrated product of the “ think-works ” of the 
staff. We are not quite infallible, however, much as 
we regret it, and are quite ready to admit that a few 
mistakes have been made. If so, we crave the indul- 
! gence of our readers. It has been a labour of love with 
us ; and as.it is the result of much thought and trouble? 
we trust that we have obtained the approbation of our 
readers. 

1 On looking back upon the history of the paper for 
the past session, certain considerations affecting its 
welfare present themselves. When it was proposed to 
revive the old University Gazette , the idea was taken 
up with great avidity by all the Students. The success 
of this re creation in the first year was marked. Real- 
izing that the second year of its career was a testing 
one, the Editors have bestirred themselves to bring it 
to the greatest pitch of perfection of which they were 
capable. Apart from the literary excellence of the 
paper, which it would be invidious to comment upon, 
if the number of subscriptions can be taken as a 
criterion, the paper is even more successful than before. 
It devolves, therefore, upon our successors to enhance 
this progress. 

This year we have introduced engravings in our 
articles, and this, we venture to think, is an improve- 
ment. Students who have few spare moments in the 
lecture room in which they can indulge their taste for 
things literary generally like something that will 
catch the eye, and pictures do this better than any- 
I thing else. In future issues this idea might be more 
developed with advantage. Much has been done this 
year to push the paper among outsiders. The result 
; has been to make it pay ; but apart from actually 
benefiting the paper this must of necessity bring the 
University into greater prominence, and so far is some- 
j thing to be aimed at. It is regrettable that we cannot 
| count more graduates among our subscribers. It is 
; perhaps hard to reach them, but it might be advisable 
i next year to send a small printed card advertising the 
Fortnightly, to all those whose addresses can be 
obtained. With respect to our contributors, we venture 
to express the hope that in the future their number 



29 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



will be increased. Those who have assisted us this 
year have certainly done nobly, but they were com- 
paratively few. This state of affairs might be im- 
proved. We desire to express our thanks to those who 
have so kindly contributed to our columns, especially 
to Mr. R. McDougall, M.A., and to Mr. Henry Mott, 
the assistant librarian of the University, to whose 
uniform courtesy and generosity the Fortnightly 
owes so much. 

The Fortnightly is now on a paying basis, and has 
every prospect of continued success. To keep up its 
reputation, however, it must always be run in a business 
way. The students can hardly be expected to support 
their paper out of pure patriotism. They must be in- 
terested ; and whether this is done or not depends 
largely upon the Board of Editors, who should always 
be of broad and liberal views, and who should do their 
work with a single eye to the honor and welfare of the 
paper, the subscribers, and the University. The Fort- 
nightly should be a perfect reflection of University 
life in all its phases, ready to recognize everything 
which has a legitimate claim upon its attention. It is 
essential, therefore, that all its machinery should work 
smoothly, if the best results are to be attained. These 
relations have been, during the past session, of the 
most pleasant kind, and augur well for the future. We 
now drop from our hands the reins of power, in con- 
fident expectation that our successors will be imbued 
with the same sentiments with which we ourselves 
have been animated, and will do all that lies in their 
power to enhance the welfare of the Fortnightly for 
which we have worked faithfully, and in the success 
of which we shall always feel the deepest interest. 

In taking our final leave, perhaps we may be per- 
mitted, like our old friend Silas Wegg, to “ drop into 
poetry,” in the following lines which we owe to the 
kindness of Mr. Henry Mott 

VALEDICTORY. 

Indulgent Friends ! Our yearly work is done ; 

The goal we touch, the victory is won. 

Strong was the hope and strong the moving cause, 

To reach that goal with honour and applause. 

Defects are the exceptior, not the rule, 

In any well-conducted Editorial School. 

How broad the field that here before us lies, 

Where thoughts in never-ending progress rise ! 

A never ending woik of new creations, 

A vast, a boundless range of combinations ! 

We grant misfortune may perform a part, 

Depress the resolution, chill the heart ; 

With gloom and darkness shroud the future life, 

And make the prize seem hardly worth the strife. 

Ytt, still, success is mainly in the man ; 

Whoever says he will, will find he can. ’ 

A varied social life we here embrace ; 

See true politeness beam on every face ; 

And see in every student, if you scan, 

The perfect lady— perfect gentleman. 

Ficm golden rule, the wrong we here eschew ; 

We learn the just, we learn the good and true.’ 

In public spirit, too, our souls aspire ; 

We fiel the gLw of patriotic fire. 



While other sterling virtues here expand, 

We learn to love our own, our native laud. 

Its manly freedom here we learn to cherish ; 

Oh ! far the day when Liberty shall perish ! 

While thus the subject vast before us lies — 

From outer earth to yonder vaulted skies ; 

While we the harvest proudly gather now, 

Like tempting burden on the autumn bough ; 

Yes, patrons, friends ! Your gracious kindness here 
Has crowned the many labours of the year : 

Their fruits upon the future age shall tell ; 

Oh ! may ye live to see them. 

Fare ye well. 

The Staff of the Fortnightly for the session 1894- 
’95 will be as follows : — 

Editorial Board. 

H. M. Jaquays, B.A., Sc. ’96, Editor-in Chief. 
Reginald H. Rogers, Arts ’95, Secretary. 

Win. Donahue, B A., Law ’96. 

Florence A. Botterell, Donalda ’95. 

Wm. Oliver, B.A., Med. ’95. 

C. H. Zink, jun., Comp. Med. ’95. 

Business Board. 

J. Devlin, Law ’95, Chairman. 

A. F. Edwards, Med. ’96. , 

S J. Archibald, Arts ’96. 

Elizabeth A. Hammond, Donalda ’96. 

W. F. Angus, Sc. ’95. 

J. C. Cutting, Comp. Med. ’95. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 



IN MY EASY CHAIR. 

“ / am a gleaner after Time.'' 

I closed my gossip in the last number of the Fort- 
nightly with the announcement that I had jotted 
down some other memories for future use ; and as the 
Magazine closes for this season with the present num- 
ber, I am tempted to produce one or two, which I hope 
may be acceptable. I must tell that away back in the 
forties I was on terms of intimate friendship with two 
or three artists and wood-engravers, who worked on 
Punch, and we met frequently, spending our evenings at 
each other s houses, and we had one rule which was 
imperative, viz., that on each evening of our meet- 
ings, a new song should be sung by one of the company 
present. I call to mind that 011 one occasion we were 
amused with the following metrical version of some of 
the chapters of Humphry Clinker , which I give from 
memory, only saying that it is as nearly complete as I 
can make it : — 

“ Of ancient bards to sing in praise of heroes, is the way go • 
But I will sing the life and times of Lieutenant Lismahago 
In Scotland’s bleak aud northern clime, his life he did begin it 
But though lie loved his native land, he didn’t stop long in it. ’ 



wiiii me wind in a 

stormy quarter, 

And when the ship .was under way, he thought it was under 
water ; 

And when arrived in America, to gratify a penchant. 

He wore a sword, ’twas four feet long, for glory and a pension. 

w° n ? f 3 f th ® y W6re firiD * shots at a ta *-get on the turf, he 
Was taken by the Potowats, along with Ensign Murphy. 

ut Murphy dodged behind some trees, so fleet that they well- 
nigh lost him, y 

These funny Potowattamees they thought they’d better roast him. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



u And when the chief, who was head cook, was curing him on 
the turf, he 

Said, ‘ We are not the only ones who are fond of a roasted 
u Murphy ’ 

But for Lismahago a different fate, for instead of getting a 
roaster, 

He was declared bridegroom elate of the lovely squaw Squin- 
kiuacoosta.” 

He then describes the personal charms of the bride, 
her paint and her ornaments, etc., and says : 

“ ’Twould have puzzled Dr. Brewster 
To tell if the eyes were green or blue of the lovely squaw 
Squinkinacoosta. 

Her ear-rings were of hickory thorn, of the size and shape of 
drumsticks, 

And wampum her bracelets did adorn, the gift of her father, 
Rumrix. 

“ He lived for two years, so happy, and more, along with his 
lovely squaw T dear, 

When she fell sick after a very long ride, and died of a surfeit 
of raw bear ; 

But she left him a hatchet and two Scotch mulls, and a picca- 
ninny’s rattle, 

And a breakfast service made of skulls that her father had 
taken in battle. 

« And so, you see, his early life, though humble he did begin it, 
He found he was the left-tenant of a wigwam and everything 
in it.” 

I may say that on these occasions I became acquaint- 
ed with some of the cleverest patter songs that I ever 
met with, and several of them I call to memory with 
pleasure; but I fear I am growing tedious, and prefer to 
close with some verses, which were written in the 
album of a member of my own family by Eliza Cook, 
and have, I believe, been published only once before : — 
TIME! TIME! WHAT HAST THOU DONE? 

My forehead is smooth, not a wrinkle is yet 
To be found as the tell-tale of life's waning years ; 

Not a hair has turned grey, not a record is set, 

That proclaims a long journey through trials and tears. 

Oh ! mine is the season when spirit and thought 
Should have little of earth but its sunshine and flowers ; 
With joy to look back on, joy still to be sought, 

And Mirth and Hope laughingly crowning the hours. 

But though short be the tenor I’ve held from above, 

Enough of dark sands in that tenor have run 
To bid my soul cry o’er the wrecks of its love, 

“ Time ! Time ! what hast thou done ? ” 

Changes have passed that I weep to behold 

Over all that was dear to my childhood and youth, 

Warm hearts are estranged, friendly hands have grown cold, 
And the lips I once trusted are warped from the truth. 

My affection, that burnt like the God-serving flame 
On the purest of altars that love could illume, 

Eives on, but now worships a form and a name 

That is wrapped in a shroud-robe and carved on a tomb. 
Oh ! the world has too soon dropped its fairy-tinged mask, 
For the dearest of ties have been torn one by one, 

Till my heart and my memory tremble to ask, 

“Time ! Time ! what hast thou done?” 

I make my bow for this season, hoping that my gossip 
may not have been unduly egotistical, and shall be well 
pleased if my young friends may think well enough 
of my effusions to induce them to say in the words 
of Bottom in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”:— 
a Let him roar again , let him roar again” 

H.M. 



291 



A EEGEND. 

Perhaps no literature is so rich in “ legendary storie 
of nurses and old women ” as the German ; and although 
the following seems to be cast in German mould, the 
origin is extremely doubtful. 

Many years ago there lived in the fine old castle 
Wissenschaft one Baron von Gebieter, along with his 
wife and family of numerous sons and daughters. 
There was a custom, of old standing in the country, that 
each child should, on attaining a certain age, set out to 
earn his or her “ Ruf. ” This “ Ruf ” could not be pur- 
chased by money, influence, or any of those devices so 
potent in modern times, but was to be had only at the 
expense of individual, strenuous effort. 

For many months the head of this home had been 
detained in foreign parts, and the time had now come 
for a dear and loved son to set out ; and although a 
father’s blessing would be denied him, he comforted 
himself that a mother’s prayer and kiss could still be 
his. 

Shortly before his departure, he offended the Baroness 
his mother by indulging in some boyish pranks, and 
that so deeply, that she refused utterly to see him before 
he set out. The youth, grieved to the heart, shut him- 
self up in his room, refusing to be comforted, and as the 
day drew nearer when he should leave to go forth 
lonely and unforgiven, his brothers and sisters renewed 
their entreaties to the stern “ white mother ” that he 
should be received back into favor, but to no avail : the 
more they pleaded with her, the more determined was 
she in her resolution that her dearly loved boy should 
not receive her farewell kiss. It might be years ere he 
returned, and at the thought agony rent her heart, but 
false pride sealed her lips, while nightly her pillow was 
bathed in tears. 

At last the night had come whose dawn would see 
her (as she thought him now) dearest child depart, and 
as she sought her couch, sleep was as far from her burn- 
ing eyelids as rest was from her weary heart. Hour 
after hour she lay awake, and as the old bell in the 
court softly tolled the passing hours, her heart seemed 
almost bursting with the fierce conflict of her conditions. 

But hark ! The sound of softly approaching footsteps 
from down the long corridor fall upon her straining ear. 
She knows the foot fall well : it is her boy’s. Nearer and 
nearer it comes until it reaches her door, then stops. 

“ Mother,” says the boy, “ will you not forgive me ere 
I go from you, perhaps forever?” A sob breaks from 
her lips, but steeling her heart against all natural im- 
pulses, sternly she makes reply : “ Never! Go, unworthy 
child of thire ancestors, without a fathers blessing or 
a mother’s kiss.” Then one long, shuddering, never-to- 
be-forgotten moan reaches the unhappy mother’s ears, 
and she feels she has killed her boy. With one pierc- 
ing shriek she springs to the door, wrenches it open, only 
to find that she had been the victim of a hideous night- 
mare. Cold beads of perspiration stand upon her fore- 
head, and her limbs refuse to bear their burden, and she 
falls prostrate across the threshold, swooning. The 
strange part of the legend is that branded in the oaken 
floor of the corridor can be seen the name of her once 
unforgiven but very dear son “ Valedictory.” 

A. D. EaNOD, 



292 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



A HOLIDAY TRIP UP THE EAST COAST 
OF BRITAIN — Concluded. 

“ London at last ! ” was my cry as we emerged from 
the station into the busy thoroughfare. It would take 
a much more skilful pen than mine to describe the 
wonders of the “ great village,”— a whole library of 
books and a life time would be required. In a short 
stay of ten days only the surface could be glanced at, 
and that imperfectly. Perhaps the most imposing 
thing in the whole of London is Westminster Abbey, 
with its hallowed associations. From the time when 
the little church of St. Peter was miraculously conse- 
crated, down to the time of its present glory, it is 
inextricably associated with the life and history of 
the nation, and is a worthy resting-place for Britain's 
honoured dead. The Abbey on close inspection is 
rather the worse for time, but is nevertheless very 
imposing. Emerson’s description of architecture, as 
frozen music, aptly applies to it. As you enter and 
hear the great waves of melody from the organ rever- 
berating through the lofty aisles, surrounded as you 
are by the remains of the illustrious dead, man feels 
his insignificance in a measure that few other buildings 
Could produce. The Poet’s Corner is of course the 
first thing that everybody looks for. I noticed a 
beautiful fresh wreath of flowers upon the grave of 
Dickens, showing in what a manner he is enshrined 
in the hearts of the people. Henry VII’s Chapel in 
the Perpendicular style is much admired for the 
elegant fan tracery of the roof. 

Outshone by the greater glory of the Abbey, close 
beside it nestles the little church of St. Margaret’s 
Westminster. It is interesting as the resting-place of 
Sir Walter Raleigh, who was beheaded close by in 
the Palace Yard. The church contains some fine 
stained-glass windows, one of them to the memory 
of Caxton, the printer. Passing up Whitehall to Tra- 
falgar Square, we “took in ” the National Gallery It 
would take more time than the average traveller has 
to spare to adequately view the wonders in this 
collection I was heretic enough to prefer the English 
and Dutch schools to all the gilded madonas and 
saints of the Italians. At the east side of the square 
is the church of St. Martin’s in the Fields, celebrated 
chiefly for its magnificent Greek portico. In it are 
the remains of Nell Gwynne, Roubilliac, the sculptor 
and other celebrities. Passing eastward along the 
Strand you come to the Church of St. Mary-le-Strand 
and further on that of St. Clement Danes, where Dr.’ 
Samuel Johnson used to worship. I went into this 
church and sat in the old Doctor’s pew, whereat 1 felt 
much improved. Many of the churches in this part of 
London are the work of Wren, and were erected after 
the great fire Owing to the lack of money, Wren 
was compelled to lavish his genius on the most pro- 
minent part of these edifices,- the steeple. Some of 
Wren s spires, especially that of St. Mary-Ie-Bon are 
very fine. Passing through a narrow passage out of 

1 t0 ° k a ramble throught the Temple 
which has been compared to a large cheese tunneled 
through and through. Many famous men lived here 
among them Johnson, Goldsmith, and Blackstone’ 
Their houses can still be seen. The most interesting 
object is the Temple Church. It is composed of two 
parts,— a round and an oblong. The Round Church 



was consecrated in 1185 and the nave in 1240. It is 
the largest of the four round churches in England, 
and narrowly escaped destruction in the great fire of 
1666. Its carved Norman doorway is very beautiful, 
and the church itself contains the tombs of many of 
the Templars. As the name implies, the Temple was 
the residence of the Knights-Templar. This Society 
being suppressed in 1312, the domain passed into the 
hands of the Knights-Hospitallers, who demised it 
to certain professors of the common law. Since then 
the Temple has been one of the great teaching schools 
of law. The church is the only part that remains of 
the original buildings. Near the church is the tomb 
of Goldsmith. In the Middle Temple is the famous 
Elizabethan Hall, begun in 1562. It has a firm 
timber roof. In this hall Shakespeare's “Twelfth 
Night ” was first produced. Not far away is the 
famous Fountain Court. Here the Lancastrians and 
the Yorkists plucked the red and white roses which 
were to be their badges in the coming struggle. 

Som. Let him, that is no coward, nor no flatterer, 

But dare maintain the party of the truth, 

Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me. 

War. I love no colours ; and, without all colour 
Of base insinuating flattery, 

I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet. 



All will remember the scene in “ Martin Chuzzle" 
wit ” when Ruth goes to meet her lover in Fountain 
Court. 

“Merrily the fountain leaped and danced, and 
merrily the smiling dimples twinkled and expanded 
more and more, until they broke into a laugh against 
the basin’s rim, and vanished.” A quiet nook is this, 
and one can dream an hour or two away very comfort- 
ably, away from the din of the great city which can- 
not penetrate into these retreats. In Fleet street, 
not far from the Temple lane, is one of the old Eliza- 
bethan houses with projecting stories. Here the poet 
Drayton lived. At the top of Ludgate Hill rises the 
grimy structure of St. Paul’s. It seems as if it was 
striving to emerge from the darkness and gloom of 
earth to a purer and more perfect atmosphere. Inside 
it is so bare of ornament that it seems harsh and cold. 

I he Wellington Memorial by Stevens in one of the 
side chapels is a fine piece of work. The crypt con- 
tains the tombs of Nelson, Wellington, Wren, Turner 
and other great ones. 



r r* . c* ° v "- in me wan 

of St. Swithin s Church the “ London Stone,” encaged 
in iron. It is supposed that this was a Roman millia- 
rium. On it Jack Cade smote with his sword, saying, 

“Now is Mortimer lord of the city.” 

An interesting place to which I made a special visit 
was the graveyard of Bunhill Fields in Finsbury 
Here lie buried Daniel Defoe, John Bunyan, Susannah 
es ey, Isaac Watts and a lot of others. Daniel 
Defoe is remembered by a tall column erected by the 
school-children of England. Returning, I passed 
though Smithfield, that place so often lit with the 
glare of martyr-fires. On the south side of London 
Bndge is the interesting church of St. Saviour’s 
Southwark. It was the church of the Priory of St 
- lary Overy and has a long history. It has been 
much spoilt by restorations, but the Lady Chapel is 
in its original state. This contains a fine tomb to 
* oxe, Bishop of W inchester. In this chapel Gardiner 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



J 93 



tried Ridley, Latimer, and others of the early reform- 
ers. The most interesting tomb is that of the “ mo- 
ral Gower.” His effigy is reclining with a very dole- 
ful expression, his head upon his three books. In the 
churchyard are the remains of Edmund Shakespeare, 
the poet’s brother, and of Massinger. In the Borough 
High street, not faraway, is the “ White Hart,” where 
Pickwick discovered Sam Weller. 

It /Was with reluctance that I tore myself away from 
London, but still it was to seek pastures new. 

Leaving the dock one fine afternoon, we proceeded 
to make our way down the Thames, nearly making 
matchwood of a little steamer that happened to be in 
the way, in the process. Just below London,' about 
Blackwall and Greenwich, the river does not look 
very inviting. The hosts of warehouses and dock- 
yards totally ruin the scene from an aesthetic point of 
view. At Greenwich is to be seen the great Hospital 
with its noble park, and celebrated Observatory at the 
top of the hill. At Parfleet, Erith and Northfleet are 
some of England’s old “ wooden walls,” great battle- 
ships of the times of Nelson, which are now used for 
the more peaceful purpose of training-ships. Dropping 
our pilot at Gravesend, we were soon to sea, making 
for the North. Night coming on, very little of inter- 
est was seen till Scarborough was reached. This is a 
very fashionable watering-place. A lofty promontory 
juts out into the sea, on the top of which are the ruins 
of a castle. William Le Gros, Earl of Albemarle and 
Holderness, its first known governor, is said to have 
built it in 1136, but there was probably a castle here 
before that. The old name of the town was Skarde- 
burge, “ the town on the cliff,” and the name shews 
the influence of the Danish settlements. The town 
was ravaged and burnt both by Tosti, Count of 
Northumberland, and Harold Hardrada. It was 
taken possession of by Henry II, and for some time 
was a royal residence. George box, the quaker, was 
imprisoned at Scarborough in 1655- Our next objec- 
tive point was “ high Whitby’s cloistered pile.” Whit- 
by is to-day little more than a sea-faring town, but 
has an interesting history. Most of its romance clings 
about St. Hilda’s Abbey, the imposing remains of 
which are still to be seen at the top of the lofty cliff. 
Whitby was known to the Saxons as Streoneshalh , or 
“ Holy Treasury.” The celebrated Abbess Hilda was 
the grand-niece of Edwin, king of Northumberland. 
In 658 A D. the Abbey was founded by Oswy, the 
then king, in fulfilment of a vow for a great victory 
gained over Penda, the Pagan king of Mercia. The 
monastery was an establishment for monks and nuns 
of the Benedictine order. The daughter of Oswy, 
Edelfleda, was here dedicated to the service of God, 
and afterwards adorned the Abbey with great magnifi- 
cence. In 664 a synod was held in Whitby, to deter- 
mine the time for keeping Easter and the shape of the 
tonsure. In 867, town and abbey were both destroyed 
by the Danes. In 1074 the Abbey was destroyed 
by Reinfrid, and eventually came into the hands of 
the Crown in 1539. 

It is said that on certain occasions a spectre may 
be seen hovering about the ruins— “the very form of 
Hilda fair.” At: the foot of the cliffs are to be found 
many Ammonites. The story goes that these are 
snakes which infested the Abbey rock, and at the 
prayer of St. Hilda they were beheaded and curled 

up. 



They tell, too, 

“ How sea-fowls’ pinions fail, 

As over Whitby’s towers they sail, 

And sinking down with flutterings faiut, 

They do their homage to the saint.” 

This occurrence is a fact, but admits of a very sim- 
ple explanation. It will be remembered that Caed- 
mon, who wrote the Pharaphrase of the Bible, was a 
poor herdsman at Whitby during the life of Hilda, 
who eventually educated him, till he became a monk. 

Late in the afternoon we reached Sunderland, where 
the steamer remained till the next morning. Unfor- 
tunately the time for seeing the town and its neigh- 
bourhood was so short that little in the way of sight- 
seeing could be done. The town contains a pleasant 
park, and many interesting places are in the immediate 
vicinity. 

“ And now the vessel skirts the strand 
Of mountainous Northumberland.” 

The Priory at Tynemouth soon came in sight. 
Tynemouth was anciently a fortress of the Saxons, 
and from remains it has been thought that there was 
a Roman station there. The first church was of wood, 
and was built by Edwin, king of Northumberland. 

It was rebuilt by Oswald, and was frequently besieged 
by the Danes. In 1074 it became a cell of Durham ; 
Malcolm III of Scotland and his son, slain at Alnwick 
Castle, were buried in the monastery. Earl Mowbray 
converted the priory into a castle to defend it against 
William Refus. The castle was besieged during the 
civil war. There remains now little more than the 
ruined keep. Skirting the coast we next came to 
“ Dunstanborough’s caverned shore.” There are to 
be seen considerable vestiges of what must have been 
once a very imposing fortress. It was built by 1 homas, 
Earl of Lancaster, in the reign of Edward II. It was 
finally dismantled by the Yorkists. 

Some miles further along the coast is Bamborough, 

“ King Ida’s castle huge and square.” The ruins 
stand upon a perpendicular rock about 150 feet high. 
According to the Saxon chronicles, it was erected in 
547 by King Ida of Northumberland, who called it 
Bebbanburh after his Queen Bebbe. It was besieged 
by Penda of Mercia, and frequently attacked by the 
Danes. For many years it was the residence of the 
kings of Northumberland. Refus besieged it in 1095, 
when he brought the captive Earl, Robert Mowbray, 
before the walls, and threatened to put out his eyes 
unless the countess would give up the place, which 
was done forthwith. The castle fell into ruin in the 
reign of Henry VII. The proceeds of the castle and 
manor are now invested for the benefit of wrecked 
seamen. 

Soon we reached the Forne Islands, the scene of 
Grace Darling’s heroic deed. The largest of these is 
Lindisfarne, or Holy Island, with its monastery, “ a 
solemn, huge and dark red pile, placed on the margin 
of the isle.” This island is intimately bound up with 
the early history of Christianity in England. In the 
early days it was the seat of the see of Durham. The 
monastery was founded by Oswald in 635 ; St. Aidan 
was its first Bishop, and came from the monastery of 
Iona, at the request of Oswald. Much of its fame was 
derived from its connection with the name of St. 
Cuthbert, the sixth bishop of Durham. His body, 
after numerous wanderings, now rests in Durham 
Cathedral. Among the rocks of Lindisfarne are to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



294 



be found numerous Eutrochi. The legend goes that 
during the night St. Cuthbert sits upon a rock, and 
forges there, using another rock as an anvil. 

“ Such tales had Whitby’s fishers told, 

And said they might his shape behold. 

And hear his anvil sound : 

A deadened clang — a huge, dim form, 

Seen but, and heard, when gathering storm 
And night were closing round.” 

The ruins of the monastery are of Saxon date, and 
still considerable. There are evidences, however, 
of later restorations in the pointed windows which 
are seen in some places. The building suffered 
much from the incursions of the Danes. 

* In Saxon strength that Abbey frowned. 

With massive arches broad and round, 

That rose alternate, row on row, 

On ponderous columns, short aud low.” 

The view of this part of the country is very strik- 
ing, with the numerous islands in the foreground, and 
the Cheviots in bold outline in the distance. 

Soon, however, the lovely picture became fainter, 
and the steamer made for the north, and before long 
was out of sight of land. Early next morning we 
were abreast of Wick in Caithness. 

The name Wi-.k is Norse, and means “ a bay ” ; in 
fact, the history of this part of Scotland is very 
closely interwoven with that of the early sea-kings. 
The places in this part nearly all have Scandinavian 
names. The word Caithness itself shews its origin 
plainly, the Ness or cape of the Catti, a tribe men- 
tioned in Tacitus. Noss Head, a bold cape just north 
of Wick, also shows its derivation. On this cape are 
the remains of Sinclair Castle and Girnigo Castle. 

A number of these structures of very ancient date are 
still to be found on this coast. Wick, Girnigo and 
Keiss are the oldest, and are supposed to date back 
to Scandinavian times. All this coast is very pictur- 
esque, and the action of the sea has curved the land • 
into a number of striking capes, some of them of 
awful grandeur. The rock is chiefly red sandstone 
and slate. The sandstone goes sooner under the 
resistless might of the sea, and in many places there 
stand out huge pinnacles of rock, like giant teeth 
waiting to devour the first unlucky ship that falls 
into their fangs. In other places, again, the sea has 
worn caves, called gyoes, which pass inland for a 
quarter of a mile or so, and then open upon the sur- 
face. During storms the sea enters them with great 
violence, and great torrents of water are driven up 
into the air at the far end, resembling the blowing of 
a whale. Duncansby Head, the easternmost point, is 
a huge precipice, of semicircular outline, and about 
two miles in extent. It rises sheer from the sea, a 
huge perpendicular cliff of red sandstone, gnawed 
and gnarled by the waves, and full of caverns. Off 
the point are the Stacks, three huge pinnacles of rock 
that stand out bare and red from the mainland. 

At the entrance to the Pentland Firth are the two 
Skerries with two lighthouses, guarding the entrance 
to the channel. The early name of the Pentland was 
the Pightland Firth, and the origin of the name is 
said to be as follows : The Piets were defeated by 

the Scots in a great battle, and fled to Duncansby 
whence they crossed to the Orkneys. Being resisted 
by the natives, they attempted to recross the Firth, 



and were all drowned in the flood. The Pentland 
is noted for its strong current, and when the tide is 
running fast, the water is eddied and churned like a 
whirlpool. 

At the entrance lies the island of Stroma, “ the 
island in the current.” Our course lay between it 
and Swona, and to our left we could easily make 
out John O’Groat’s House, the site of which is now 
occupied by a hotel. Dunnet Head was the next 
striking feature to the view. It forms the northern- 
most point of Scotland. The height averages two 
hundred feet, but near the point the cliff rises to 
three hundred. There are a number of small locks 
upon the summit. Only thirty feet from the crest 
of the precipice is the lighthouse; it is the highest 
lighthouse in Scotland, and its height above the 
highest tides is three hundred and forty-six 
feet. “ The faces of the rocks are hollowed into gap- 
ing caverns, when the waves thunder in, and roll 
along the gyoes far inland. The leap of the waves is 
only exceeded by their rebound seaward again. They 
rush up the face of the rock like a pack of hounds, 
and spread themselves along the summit in blinding 
showers of spray.” Notwithstanding the height of 
the cliff, it is said that the waves carry up stones with 
sufficient force to break the lanterns of the lighthouse. 
At this station we signalled our farewell before set- 
ting out again across the Atlantic. Thurso next came 
in sight. The scenery is grand. To use the words 
of Smiles : “ Thurso Bay, whether in fair or foul 
weather, is a grand sight. On the eastern side, the 
upright cliffs of Dunnet Head run far to the north- 
ward, forming the most northerly point of the Scot- 
tish mainland. On the west, a high crest of land juts 
out into the sea, forming at its extremity the bold, 
precipitous rocks of Holborn Head. Looking out of 
the bay you see the Orkney Islands in the distance, 
the Old Man of Hoy standing up at its western 
promontory. At sunset the light glints along the 
island, shewing the bold prominences and depressions 
in the red sandstone cliffs. Out into the ocean the 
distant sails of passing ships are seen against the sky 
white as a gull’s wing.” This whole coast is classic 
ground. It abounds in recesses which were once the 
retreats of old \ ikings. Wrapped about the Ork- 
neys is the romance of days long gone, almost before 
the range of history. In later days the district has 
been brought into prominence through the researches 
of Dick, the baker nationalist, Murchison, and Hugh 
Millei. for a poetic mind this region must always 
have a great fascination. Here we have Nature in her 
wildest and most uncontrollable forms, the scenery 
everything to stimulate. Upon the left the crags of 
Caithness and its iron-bound shore, with the song of 
many waters ; on the right, the Orkneys, the Ultima 
. u e of the Romans, with their entrancing assoefa- 
lions ; before us the great Atlantic, stretching free to 
Labrador, “ boundless, endless and sublime.” 

“ Tllere is a pleasure in the pathless woods, 

There is a rapture on the lonely shore, 

There is society, where none intrudes, 

By the deep sea, aud music in its roar ; 

I love not Man the less, but Nature more, 

From these our interviews, in which I steal 
From a ii 1 may be, or have been before, 

To mingle with the Universe, and feel 

What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal.*’ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



295 



The vision faded all too soon ; the rock-bound 
coast sank gradually into the wave ; and as the white 
mists began to chase each other about the summit of 
the Old Man of Hoy and about Cape Wrath, our 
good ship ploughed her way westward into the 
mighty Atlantic bound for the shores of Canada. 

A. G. NICHOLLS. 



“ la main de dieu.” 

There is perhaps no part of Canada which affords 
grander scenery to the tourist or traveller than some parts 
of the regions of the Upper Ottawa, more especially 
at that point where the river turns sharply from the 
northern boundary of civilization, and leads the travel, 
ler who traces it up back into the lumber country be- 
low Lake Temiscamingue, beyond the lake up to the 
height of land and Lake Abetibbi, a section of Canada 
known, one might almost say, only to the Indiaus, the 
Hudson Bay Company employees and a few devoted 
adherents of moose hunting. Mattawa is the last set- 
tlement of any importance on the river, and it is here 
that the lumberman bids good-bye to the world when he 
starts for his winter’s w’ork up the river. The town 
itself was originally a Hudson Bay post, though the 
Company has not now the exclusive enjoyment of trade 
which it once possessed ; and uninteresting though 
it may appear from an aesthetic point of view, it has 
-witnessed many a scene of thrilling interest, and the 
proverbial oldest inhabitant has a large stock of tales 
about the lawlessness of the lumbermen in the old days, 
and many a tragedy has been enacted in the locality 
when they have come down in hordes from the back- 
woods after the cutting season was over. 

Some distance up the eastern shore of the river, above 
Mattaw’a, is a stretch of laud called the “ Devil’s Gar- 
den-” No name could be given which would do more 
j ustice to the place and to the wild scenery. The whole 
of a former forest, rotted and fallen by age and decay, 
lies in a tangled mass upon the ground, while a new 
growth of stalwart trees takes its place. These old 
trunks, twisted and knotted in a most wonderful man- 
ner, form the main floor upon which the traveller 
walks. It is a flower well worthy of a Devil’s Garden, 
carpeted as it is with a growth of poisoned ivy and sting- 
ing nettles. The reputed diabolical character of the 
place is further sustained by the presence of a huge 
bloomy cliff, which rises at the back of the garden about 
one hundred yards from the river. This cliff, steep and 
hjcrh, is draped with the same soft, treacherous plants 
as^those which cover the ground. The fact that, in 
some parts of the garden, and especially at a place 
on the top of the cliff exceedingly difficult of access, are 
found onions and potatoes growing and flourishing 
amidst a variety of wild vegetation of all sorts, is the 
reason for the name long since given to this spot, and 
many a shantyman, especially in older days, has believed 
firmly in the fact that these have been planted by Old 
Nick himself, and that they would cause swift and sud- 
den death to the mortal who dared to eat them. It was 
in this garden that the summer of 188— found me en- 
gaged in a party surveying the Upper Ottawa for a pro- 



posed railway. The country was wild in the extreme, 
and this was the first time that the axe of civilization 
had attacked it since its devastation by the old shanty- 
men many years before. More than one of the axemen 
in our party had felt an unpleasant emotion at enter- 
ing on the Devil’s Garden, for the superstition they had 
received from their fathers was strong in them still, al- 
though they laughed and joked about finding his Sat- 
anic Majesty at dinner and joining him at his repast. 
Among these axemen was a Frenchman, an old, old man, 
though still retaining his strength and activity ; he had 
been engaged principally from his knowledge of the 
country, and was also supposed to assist in the lighter 
work of the party. Early in the expedition he was as- 
signed to the task of carrying the level which I was 
running, for a life-long training had made him surefooted 
and reliable in walking through the dense forests, while 
want of experience necessitated my giving my whole 
attention to myself. He was a strange character this 
old Jacques Bonin, and, unlike his compatriots in the 
party, moody and silent as a rule ; and when the day 
w-as over, instead of joining his companions in a game 
of Pedro, he was generally found outside the tent, smok- 
ing his old clay pipe and gazing intently into the bonfire 
as if lie were recalling the scenes of his old lumbering 
days. A liberal sharing of my town-bought tobacco and 
perhaps a little more kindness than was absolutely 
necessary in dealing with him made the old level 
carrier and myself great friends, and it was from him 
that I learnt many different stories of the “shanty- 
man’s ” life when the work, even now a wearisome and 
hard one, was accompanied not only with many dan- 
gers, but engaged in by the very worst and most crim- 
inal of men. 

When we reached the Devil’s Garden, old Jacques 
became anxious and more moody than ever ; and, as we 
progressed through the clearing made in the tangled 
tree trunks, I noticed him disappearing every time that 
I took the level from his shoulder. I supposed at first 
that he was looking about to get some of the famous 
onions or potatoes, but made no remark to him. On 
the second day of our work in the garden, Jacques and 
I, who were some distance behind the transit and chain- 
ing party, reached a slight bend in the river, and he 
became quite excited, and running down to the river 
examined the trees on the bank for a moment, then 
returning, hastily exclaimed : — “ Excuse me, boss ; I go. 
Me looks for somethings,” and plunged into the woods 
towards the cliff. I took my levels at the spot, and 
after waiting for a while for Jacques told the rodman 
to go on, and shouldering my instrument proceeded to 
the next “ station,” or hundred foot mark ; but just as 
I reached it, the transit party, having made a mistake 
in their calculations, had to “ buck back ” almost to 
the spot, so there was nothing for me to do but take a 
rest till they got ahead. After filling and lighting my 
pipe, I went back a bit, and called out to Bonin ; but 
getting no answer, I thought I would see where he was, 
for I was afraid that the old man might have had some 
mishap. So I started in where he had left me, and 
followed his tracks through the broken brushwood for 
some little distance, and called to him again, but with 



296 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



no better result. So I went on. and right under the cliff 
in a little clearing I saw Jacques down on his knees 
at the side. I thought to myself : “ Well, my venerable 
friend, I guess you have found those onions at last; ” 
but what was my amazement when, on looking closer, 
I saw him bending over an oblong mound, at the head 
of which was a rude cross, and the tears were pouring 
down the old man's face as he knelt there, apparently 
praying. I was so startled that, although I did not 
intend to disturb him, I let out an involuntary “Why, 
Jacques ! ” He looked up with a start, and, letting out a 
w T ild yell, his face white with terror, began to run like 
mad, but in his haste tripped over a fallen trunk head- 
foremost- I caugh thim, and exclaimed: “ For Heav- 
en’s sake, what’s the matter with you, man ? ” 

“ Oh, good gosh ! boss, is dat you ? I t’ot it was de 
devil. Ba gosh, but I was scar ! ” and down the old 
man’s head dropped, and he sobbed like an infant as he 
shivered in an agony of fear. As can easily be under- 
stood, I was myself shocked in no slight degree ; but 
after reassuring him that I had no connection with the 
object of his fear, I drew back to let him compose him- 
self, and returned to where he had been kneeling. 
Examination showed that it was a grave, and looking 
at the cross I saw on it rudely carved La Maui de Dieu } 
and underneath was cut the semblance of a hand with 
the forefinger pointing to the side. Thoroughly inter- 
ested, I commenced to walk in the direction of the hand 
through the clearing, only to have my interest in- 
creased tenfold by the discovery of another grave with 
a cross bearing in like rough carving the name 
“ Charles Donovan.” It was too much for me, so 
I gave up trying to puzzle the matter out, and re- 
turned to where I had left Jacques, determined to get 
an explanation from him. He had recovered him- 
self somewhat ; but as soon as I came up, he said : — 

“ Look, boss ; you’s been ver’ good to me on dis trip 
and me I do more for you dan for an’body un de whole 
011’fit, but pour le Bon Dieu doan say nodin’s to de 
big chief about dis, nor to nobody in de camp. I tell 
you all ’bout it some time when we’s alone, but please 
doan ask me now ! Ba gosh, me I was scar ’ ! ” 

The poor old man was so thoroughly in earnest, 
that, excited though I was, I could not ask him for any 
more information, and reluctantly enough gave him my 
promise to keep the affair to myself, making him in 
turn promise to enlighten me at a future time. During 
the next two or three days I had the greatest difficulty 
in refraining from asking the promised anecdote from 
Bonin, the more so that he went on with his work as 
usual, and made no reference whatever to the incident. 
At the end of the third day we were almost through 
the Devil’s Garden, and as our camp, to which we re- 
turned in big scows every night, was some four miles 
behind us, it was decided to shift it higher up the river, 
so in order to have as little to bring up as possible, the 
big chief gave orders that the instruments were to be 
left on the “line” that night, and I was told to take 
one of the men and camp out at the spot under a small, 
portable tent, to take charge of them. 

Picking one of the men was not such an easy task 



as it appeared, for almost all of the axemen fairly 
shivered at the idea of spending a night in what some 
of them almost regarded as an entrance to the reputed 
owner’s permanent abode. Asa denuei' ressort , I turned 
to Jacques, and asked him rather sharply if he was as 
big a coward as the rest, or whether he had “sand” 
enough to stay overnight with me. The old fellow did 
not like the idea very much, but, partly to shame the 
younger men, I think, replied that he would. 

After the others left and the tent had been pitched 
on the river bank, he cooked our dinner, and we fell 
to work on it with an ardor that only a hard day’s 
tramping in open air can give, and we then sat down be- 
fore the bonfire for a smoke. After a while, to my great 
delight, Jacques offered to tell me about the graves 
which I had seen that day, and I of course accepted his 
offer at once. After waiting a moment or two to get 
the facts connected in his mind, the old man began his 
story, which I try to produce as nearly as possible, ask- 
ing the reader to make allowances for the loss which 
it sustains in being translated from the “ patois” into. 
English, and to pardon the many omissions of inciden- 
tal profanity with which old Jacques favored his 
yarn. 

“As I have often told you, almost all my life has 
been spent, since I was a boy, in the bush. I started in 
to work as a shantyman when I was fourteen, in a 
gang in which my father was chopping, and some four 
years later I joined a gang which went up to the lake 
(Temiscamingue) to cull out there for the first time 

“ There were a big crowd of men in the camp, and a 
good many of them were pretty bad men too, four or 
five of whom had been jailed at different times for rob- 
bery, and once or twice, when they got their skinful of 
whisky blanc, bragged of the different crimes they had 
been engaged in. One of the men was a big, tall fel- 
low, dark complexion, with black hair all over his face, 
and surly as a bulldog. No one knew anything about 
him or where he came from, for he had no mate in the 
gang, and never said anything about himself ; and when- 
ever he was asked questions about his home, his dark 
face grew darker, and he scowled at his questioner in 
a way that generally satisfied any further curiosity, for 
everyone in the gang was scared of him, as he was as 
strong as a bear, and in the early part of the season had 
one or two fights, when he showed that he could lick 
anyone in the whole outfit, and when he got fighting 
mad he was perfectly reckless what he did. One time 
in a fight he drew a knife and rushed at the* other fel- 
low, and had not a couple of the men grabbed him, we 
would have been a man short in the party ; as it was 
when the others let him go, he went away, muttering 
and cursing as usual to himself. 

“ Every man in the outfit hated him, and he was by no 
means fond of the rest of the gang. One man in parti- 
cular he was always bullying and swearing at, and he 
was a little Irishman, Charlie Donovan. It was his 
grave, boss, you saw down the river. 

“ This little feller Donovan was as bright as the water, 
always laughing and playing jokes on the other men' 
just in fun. Everyone liked him, because, although lie 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



297 



was not very strong for a shantyman, yet he worked all 
he knew how, and would keep chopping away, laughing 
and whistling all the time, and once or twice when the 
men were sick, by gosh, he was kind just like a woman 
and gentle as a baby. 

“ This big black cuss, Jean Chinquin was his name, 
— Black Chinquin they used to call him— hated little 
Donovan like everything, because he got into a row 
one time with the gang boss for knocking the little fel- 
low around so much. 

“ One day early in the winter the chief wanted to send 
some men to Mattawa, and told Donovan, Chinquin 
and me to take the big scow and a tent and grub with 
us, and row down. 

“ Well, you can bet, boss, I felt mighty pleased, for I 
knew my wife would be awful glad to see me, as she 
did not expect me till the next spring ; and the little 
fellow he was tickled to death, for he told me he would 
see his old mother, whom he supported ; but Black 
Chinquin didn’t want to go, and went off sulking and 
growling until it was time to start. He steered with 
the big paddle, and me and Donovan rowed. We pulled 
on all day until about four, and the Irishman got 
tired out and asked Chinquin to row a while and let 
him steer, but the big black cuss commenced to curse 
him, and said that he wasn’t going to touch an oar, 
and that we had to row on all night. Pretty soon 
it commenced to get dark and cold, and the snow com- 
menced to beat down. About seven o’clock, after hav- 
. ing some grub, we rowed on for a while, and the little fel- 
low got clean played out, for he wasn’t very strong, and 
his hands got cold and numb so that he couldn’t grip the 
oar. Well, boss, I got mad pretty soon, and told Chin- 
quin that he was a dirty coward for not giving Dono- 
van a rest. He told me that if I didn’t mind my busi- 
ness he’d chuck me out. 

“In a little while the Irishman couldn’t row any more, 
and Chinquin got mad and swore at him, and threatened 
to smash him with the steering paddle if he didn’t go 
011 ; but the poor little devil was as weak as a cat, and 
after trying again, he got sick, and fell over the oar, 
crying like a baby. Then Chinquin got furious, and 
roared out : ‘ You lazy Irish hound, if you don’t go on 
rowing, by Heaven I’ll kill you.’ The little fellow made 
no answer, and before I could see what he was about, the 
big black brute reached over me with the long paddle 
in the air, and brought it down whack on poor Dono- 
van’s head. Well, you know, boss, I was only a boy, and 
I got so scared, I shivered all over like a leaf, and let go 
my oar, while the boat drifted ; it seemed that I sat 
there for an hour almost before Chinquin spoke to me, 
though, as usual, he was muttering to himself, and I 
heard him say that he didn’t mean to hurt the fool, and 
then later something about not caring a hang, he wasn’t 
the first one. As I told you, it was a dark night, and 
snowing, so that I could not see his face, but after a 
while he said, * Pick him up.’ I stood up in the scow 
and turning round started to do so, but almost let him 
fall, as I felt the blood from his face trickling over my 
hand. I struck a match ; it flashed for a minute and 
then went out, but it burnt up long enough to see all 



I wanted, for it was a terrible sight, and though I was 
pretty strong, it nearly made me sick, for there the blood 
was streaming down from under one side of his cap, and 
it seemed to catch and thicken on one side of his mous- 
tache and around his mouth. I tried to make him sit 
up, but he fell over on me, and I felt his hand closing 
on my arm, and that frightened me so that I almost 
yelled. As 1 bent over him I just heard the word ‘fatigue' 
and then he dropped on his face again in the scow, and 
he was dead. 

“ I can’t tell you how I felt ; it was almost as bad as if I 
had killed him myself, audit was so lonely, for I knew 
that Black Chinquin would kill me if I shewed fight, 
as I had caught sight of his knife when the match 
was lit. ‘ What’s the matter with the fool ? Is he hurt ?’ 
Chinquin said, and my voice shook like an old man’s 
as I said, ‘ He’s dead’. 

“ We said nothing more, and soon he turned the boat 
in towards shore, for we had been drifting down, and 
said that we would have to camp out in the snow, and 
bury Donovan in the morning. I was too frightened 
to say anything, and we landed just at the spot where 
I left you that morning, for I marked it afterwards. 

“I got out and then pulled the body after me, but the 
black devil sat in the stern for a few minutes, and when 
he got out told me to clear a place for the fire and get 
some wood. 

“ I could just see him bending over the body when I 
was doing this; and when I lit the fire, he started to go 
through Donovan’s pockets, and took out everything he 
could find, and threw them into the blaze, and then 
standing up. he swore at him for a while, then the brute 
kicked him and spit on his face, after which he sat down 
and scowled at the fire. 

“ I went over to the body, and taking Donovan’s head 
on my knees pulled off his cap. The blood had con- 
gealed over one side of his face and head, and had 
stopped running, but as the fire burnt up I could see a 
long gash in his head. 

“Just then Chinquin reached over, and grabbing my 
shoulder said : ‘ Come over here and leave that alone 

I got up, and he pulled me over to the fire, where we 
sat down. He looked at me for a minute, and then com- 
menced to grin. ‘ Look here, Bonin. Where did you get 
all that blood on your overcoat ? Why, you fool, it was 
you killed that man. Now, pay attention : if you say 
one word of this, perhaps you can get me into a 
row ; but does it strike you that if I swing you’ll have to 
keep me company, for you know as well as I do that 
you held Donovan while he was struck. There were 
only three of us there, and the third man isn’t going to 
tell much. What’s more, my boy, I’ll keep an eye on 
you in camp, and if I think for a moment that you’re 
going to blow on me, you’ll fill a hole in the ground 
sooner than you expect.’ 

“ I couldn’t be more scared than I was ; but when I 
realized that there was some truth in what he said, 
well I just broke down and sobbed like a woman, for 
I was in an awful fix. 

“ We spent the night there somehow, but just how I 
don’t know. I was too scared to go to sleep, and every 



298 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



time as the firelight flashed I could see poor Dono- 
van’s bloody face, and I know Chinquin kept awake, for 
I watched him, because, boss, I believe if he had slept 
and given me the chance, I would have killed him. 

“As soon as the morning came and it got light, I filled 
a can of water and heated it at the fire, for I thought 
it would be better to try and get the blood off Donovan’s 
face. It was hard, hard work, for it had grown thick and 
dark, and had to be soaked before I could remove it, but 
I got it all off after a while, except on one corner of his 
mouth and moustache, where the clots simply could not 
be washed away. Chinquin, who had in the meantime 
taken a pick which was in the boat, and gone into the 
bush, returned just as I finished ; he said he had made 
a hole to put him in, and to drag him over, and he him- 
self then went back into the woods. I never was much 
of a praying man, sir, but I knelt down after he had 
gone, and told the Virgin that I had not killed Dono- 
van, and promised if I ever got a chance to be re- 
venged for his death. 

“ Poor Donovan, I will never forget his face as he lay 
there with his cap on (for I had replaced it to hide the 
wound), white as a sheet, except for that horrid black 
stain about his mouth- I seemed almost to be going 
crazy, for I was so perfectly helpless ; but after a while 
I got my head again, and dragged him over to the 
grave that that cursed Chinquin had dug. 

“ We put him in, and then I saw Chinquin start to roll 
over two large boulders. Ugh ! I didn’t look any more, 
but I heard them fall on the corpse with a thud that 
made me quiver all over ; afterwards, when the hole was 
filled up, we threw some snow on top. 

“ After we got the things into the boat we shoved off, 
but when we were a few feet out— it was not up to my 
head in depth— Chinquin suddenly stood on the edge of 
one side, and she upset. As I went under water my first 
thought was that he was trying to drown me, for he 
knew that I could not swim \ but when I got my feet 
on bottom and looked around, he had the boat by the 
stern, roaring with laughter. I grabbed the oars, and 
we got on shore again. 

“ ‘ Now, you fool, do you see how our poor Irish- 

man was drowned ? Gar ; but it is too sad ! I wanted to 
change places with him and row, mark you, and while 
we were doing it the old tub upset. Ha ! Ha ! Ha !’ he 
yelled. • You won’t have to hang, my dear boy, after 
all, for your bloody overcoat is floating down the river 
there. You needn’t mind the wet ; it is much better 
than a dry rope.’ 

“ Then in a minute, aud before I could see what he 
was doing, he had me by the throat and tripped me, and 
when he knelt on me he looked as black as the devil. 
‘Now, my boy, swear that you’ll back up my story and 
everything that I tell about this. Men are too often 
drowned up here to cause any questioning ; and if you 
don’t play the fool we’ll be all right. Swear, now, or 
I’ll choke you.’ «, 

il suppose I was a coward, boss, but I was so scared 
that I swore to it. Theu he let me up, and holding out 
his dirty hand made me shake it. 

“ It’s too late now to tell you of how we got back, and 



how Chinquin lied, and I swore to it ; but, as he had 
said, lots of shautymen are drowned every year, for 
most of us, strange as it may seem, can’t swim, so his 
story was believed, and the matter was dropped. 

“ You may be surprised, but for a week or so after- 
wards I didn’t seem to mind, and went about at work 
as jolly as ever ; but after that my life was a perfect 
hell. I was scared to sleep almost, for every once in a 
while I would dream of that white face with the 
blood-stained mouth ; it was simply terrible, and I got 
as moody and glum as a bear. 

“ Being the only boy in the outfit, I was a kind of fav- 
orite, but it seemed to me that the men began to dislike 
me, especially when they saw me so thick with Chin- 
quin, who pretended to be very fond of me, and w r as 
always near me when he could get a chance. 

“ Then Christmas came along, and I thought I would 
have a good time by getting drunk ; it was the first 
although not the last time ; but no, it was no use, the 
drunker I got the more this poor devil’s face seemed to 
grow on me, and when I commenced to sober up I gave 
way completely, and was sick for some time ; and had 
it not been for Chinquin’s threats I would have told 
the story to the gang boss, who had been very good 
to me, and had taken me into his hut when I got sick. 

“ Things got worse and worse ; everything seemed to 
go wrong with me. I had two or three ‘ scraps,’ and 
by the time the spring came and the river opened, every- 
body in the camp hated me except Chinquin aud the 
boss. 

“ I don’t know if you ever saw a lumber-chute, but it is 
made in the summer when the streams on the hill bank 
are dry ; they build it into the bed at the top of the hill, 
and carry it down to the river,' so that in the spring’ 
when the snow melts, the whole body of water rushes 
down the chute, which is about four feet deep, instead 
of taking the usual course, and you see there is enough 
water to float the logs, which have been cut up above, 
down to the boom in the river. 

“ One day Chinquin was standing just at the head of 
the chute spiking the logs which I was ‘ feeding ’ to 
lnm, into the chute, and it happened that the gang boss 
was just behind me helping me ‘ feed,’ for we were 
slioi t-hauded, as some of the men were sick. 

“ How it happened, I don’t know, but the boss tripped 
on something and let go his end of the log ; it was a tre- 
mendous heavy one, and I had ‘my end up in the air, 
passing it on, so when it fell it threw me over, and I 
bumped into Black Chinquin. He lost his balance, 
aud before I was on my legs again I heard him yell, 

and the last I saw were his feet as he shot down in the 
stream. 

The boss was in a terrible state, and we shouted to 
the men below, and rushed down the hill ; some of them 
had seen him in the chute as he swept by, but before 
they could grab him he had shot into the river. They 
got out the boats, but it was no use, for the boom was 
pretty full, and they could not get around through the 
ogs, and anyway the logs themselves prevented his 
coming up to the top of the water. 

“ As soon as thin S s got a little quiet the boss explained 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



299 



how it had happened, and of course everybody was for 
a while shaken up ; but when they realized that it was 
Chinquin, they seemed to take it more easily, and one 
or two of them hinted that they were not sorry. 

‘ For my part, after it was over, I almost hugged my- 
self with delight, for you know how I hated that man, 
and I always felt that he would have killed me with- 
out any hesitation ; but the poor boss, he felt awfully 
bad, and he and I remained in camp that afternoon. He 
was cursing himself with having killed Black Chin- 
quin, and seemed so cut up that I could not stand it 
any longer, so I told him the whole truth about Dono- 
van, and pointed out to him that if he repeated it that 
I would probably get into trouble as an accomplice for 
not having confessed before. 

“ As soon as his surprise would let him, he asked me 
a lot of questions, and finally he seemed satisfied that I 
told the truth, and told me to leave him alone for a 
while. When he called me in again, he said • ‘Bonin, 
that is an awful charge to bring against a dead man. 
Will you swear to it ? ’ And he handed me a Bible. I 
kissed it, and said : ‘ I swear before the Virgin that it is 
true.* Then he took my arm and spoke very earnestly : 

‘ I believe you, my boy. I thought something was the 
matter with you lately. What you have told me has 
taken a load off* my mind. I felt that I had uninten- 
tionally killed a man, but now I believe that the good 
God made me fall that time. C'estla main dc Dieu . 
Now to-morrow, you and I will go and look for his 
body, and if we find it we will bury it near where poor 
Donovan lies, and after that never speak to me again of 
what you’ve told me, and I’ll try and forget it.’ 

“ Well, boss, there’s not much more to tell. 

“ We found Black Chinquiu’s corpse about three 
miles down in the clear water, cut and torn by 
splinters so we hardly knew him. We towed it down to 
the spot where I left you, and after burying it put up 
the cross, and cut on it ‘ La main de Dieu,’ with the 
hand pointing to poor Donovan, over whose grave we 
put the other cross.” S. C. 



PASTORAL. 

It was a summer Sunday evening. The last rays of 
the dying sun were steeping everything in rosy radi- 
ance. By knots of two and three the congregation was 
strolling home from church, soothed and subdued by 
the solemn Evensong. 

A group of these attracts us : one, his sombre garb 
proclaims the youthful shepherd of the flock ; — not yet 
a fully constituted pastor, but looking forward to that 
end. They with him are evidently sisters, the elder 
one just budding into beauteous womanhood, the 
younger a prattling child of seven or eight. Silently 
they walk along, enjoying the calm loveliness of the 
scene and listening to the evening carol of the wood’s 
sweet songsters. Suddenly the child raises her eyes, 
blue as the heaven above, and asks : u Why, Mr. 

Blank, do you not wear one of these red and white 
things 011 your back like Mr. Smith who was here 
in the spring ? ” 



Running his hand through the golden stream that 
rippled over her shoulders, he answered : “ Wait a while, 
little one ; in one short year from now, if all goes well, 
I too shall wear a hood of red and white, and one year 
after that shall have another of a regal purple.” And 
then the elder sister spoke, her gaze fixed on the distant 
hills, her hair a mass of auburn glory. “You will, 
then, Mr. Blank, receive them by degrees .” 

The sun sank down below the western horizon, the 
song of the birds was hushed, and the trio went their 
way. 

F.-’94* 



SOCIETIES. 



literary society. 

“A German Mediaeval Town” was the subject of 
a peculiarly interesting and instructive lecture delivered 
by Mr. P. T. Lafleur, M.A., on the evening of Friday, 
the 2nd inst., under the auspices of the Literary 
Society. Feeling assured that they would be amply 
repaid for the time lost to their studies, the members 
of the Society turned out in force to hear Mr. Lafleur. 

No time was lost in despatching the routine business. 
Mr. Edgar of the First Year Arts treated the audience 
to a very pretty solo on his mandolin, and then Pre- 
sident Latnbly introduced the lecturer of the evening. 
Mr. Lafleur is so well known to McGill men that any 
comment upon the quality and interest of the lecture 
other than to say that it was quite as good as our 
knowledge of him led us to expect, is unnecessary. 

The “German Mediaeval Town” proved to be the 
old Bavarian town of Nureinburg as seen to-day. The 
lecturer began with a brief sketch of the history of 
Nuremburg, pointing out some of the features of the 
city and of the characteristics of its inhabitants that 
made it important in the Middle Ages, and causes it 
still to maintain its position as the second city of 
Bavaria in size and first in commercial importance. 
Early in the Middle Ages it came directly under the 
old German Empire, and became an imperial city. Its 
central position in Germany made it a great centre of 
distribution. The enterprise of its traders was famous ; 
they went through perils and overcame difficulties in a 
way that excites our highest admiration for their pluck 
and dauntless energy. When the streams of commerce 
went another way about the time of the discovery of 
America, Nuremburg, unlike Venice, did not lose its 
commercial importance. The thrift and integrity of 
its inhabitants keep it still a city of importance. The 
traveller entering Nuremburg to-day is disappointed 
at the modern aspect of the city. Outside the walls 
there is a 19th century boulevard, and everything 
indicates that Nuremburg is a prosperous 19th century 
town. But after a few steps more, all is changed. Just 
as soon as the visitor has passed within the thick walls, 
he is taken back 400 to 450 years. Most of the streets 
are narrow and crooked ; the houses are built with their 
gables toward the street ; beautiful fountains and 
curious shrines adorn the road-sides and principal 



300 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



squares. The quaint old houses lean over the narrow 
streets, built thus in mediaeval times for protection. 
Most of the buildings are in the Gothic type of arch- 
itecture, yet there is every variety of genius in building 
displayed. The civic law requires that all new houses 
be built according to types already existing in the city ; 
and thus its mediaeval appearance is preserved. It is 
wonderfully quaint and picturesque. 

The lecturer, with the aid of a large diagram or map 
of the city, carefully explained its situation and the 
location of many of its places of interest. The river 
Pegnitz divides the city into two portions, which take 
their names from the two principal churches, that of 
St. Sebald and that of St. Lawrence. The ancient 
wall with its moat, the towers, the mediaeval inn, the 
streets, and the houses were rapidly sketched. Photo, 
graphs of places of interest in Nuremburg, kindly lent 
by Professor Moyse, did much to give the audience a 
vivid idea of the picturesqueness of the city. The 
crown of Nuremburg is its historic old castle, beauti. 
fully situated on an eminence commanding the city. 
The oldest part, the famous five-cornered tower, is in 
good repair. In its museum are still preserved many 
of the instruments of torture, such as the terrible “ Iron 
Virgin,” “ Spanish Horse,” and “ Cradle,” which were 
used all too frequently in mediaeval times. Full of 
interest also is the deep well in the court-yard with its 
mysterious subterranean passages. 

From this centre of interest the lecturer took us in 
imagination down the hill to the home of Durer, the 
great German contemporary of the great Italian artists 
and to the quaint old inn in which the artist used to 
loaf and chat with his friend, Hans Sacks, the cobbler 
poet. 

Probably the most interesting portion of the lecture 
was that in which Prof. Lafleur discussed the different 
types of architecture to be seen in Nuremburg, and 
from this was led on to speak of architecture in general, 
its purposes, and the lessons which we may learn from 
a careful study of it. He pointed out that works of 
architecture are the most enduring signs of the different 
beliefs, intellectual and religious, of the human race. 
Here Faith is embodied in stone. The human race has 
preserved its thoughts in two books— Architecture and 
Printing. Since the invention of Printing, Architecture 
has declined, and the thoughts of the race are now pre- 
served in bound volumes in our libraries. 

The two finest churches in Nuremburg, and, at the 
same time, two of the finest Gothic edifices in Germany, 
are the churches of St. Sebald and St. Lawrence. Each 
is over four hundred years old, and took at least two 
hundred years in building. The German National 
Museum, the pride of Nuremburg and of the whole 
German Empire, occupies a marvelous old mass of 
building which was formerly a Carthusian monastery. 
After drawing attention to other places and features 
of interest in this remarkable old city, the Professor 
concluded the lecture with a statement of two im- 
portant lessons that may be drawn from a study of 
Nuremburg and its inhabitants. Here we have an ex- 
ample of unselfish devotion to country and to city, 



resembling in a marked degree the noble patriotism of 
the Greeks and Romans. Every Nuremburgher was 
and is proud of his city, and this gives a dignity to 
municipal affairs, and ensures perfect honesty in the 
transaction of business relating to the city. We are 
taught the direct, personal responsibility of every 
person to his town ; and, by the example of such men 
as Hans Sacks, we learn the nobility of labour. 

The vote of thanks tendered to Mr. Lafleur for his 
interesting lecture, by the men present, was by no 
means a mere formality, for all were much pleased with 
the pleasure and profit afforded by it. 

The business of the Society was then taken up. A 
very lively discussion took place, when it was proposed 
that a committee be appointed to see if arrangements 
could be made by which the Literary Society be turned 
into a Mock Parliament, for a part of next session at 
least. However, the committee was appointed. 

A vote of thanks was tendered to the President for 
his untiring efforts on behalf of the Society during the 
past year, and then the meeting adjourned, not to meet 
again until September next. H. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The activity of the Association naturally is some- 
what pent up for the remaining few weeks; but we 
note with much satisfaction that the attendance at the 
meeting on Sunday afternoon keeps up well. 

The special work at present is the planning of the 
“Fall Campaign,” special work for new students, in 
which the definite aim is made to bring new students 
into the Association, secure their influence, and help 
their own lives. 

Here is an outline for those interested : 

I. Importance : 

1. Large number of new students who are not Chris- 
tian — one half. 

2. The many who are evil influenced because no 
special effort has been made to reach them. 

3- It is the strategic time in the life of a man— the 
pivot point. 

4. The possibility of a widespread spiritual influence. 

II. Methods : 

1 . I repare and send out handbook to prospective new 
students. 

2. Meet men the first day at college. A greeting and 

a welcome to the College and to the Christian Associa- 
tion. 

3. Provide a good lodging and boarding-house. 

4. Introduce men at a Social Reception. 

5. Bring them personally to the first meeting of the 
Association. 

6. Introduce them to a Church Home and the Pas- 
tor. 

7- Invite men to your room. 

8. Use your personal influence to lead them to Jesus 
Christ ; be satisfied with nothing less. 

9 • Follow up the work begun. 

These are all practical suggestions for the members 
of the Pall Campaign Committee ; let us carry them out 
to a successful issue. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



301 



The resignation of Mr. W. J. LeRossignol from the 
presidency is a great blow to the Association. Few men 
have rendered such faithful service as Mr. LeRossig- 
nol, during his term of office, ever watchful, sugges- 
tive and self-sacrificing in his work. As counsellor and 
leader his absence will be keenly felt. 

The General Secretary elect for *94-95 will enter office 
almost immediately. Mr. Leslie goes to New York 
to enter the office of the International Committee for 
four mouths ; after March 19th, Mr- Mahaffy will be 
found in the Association Office in the East Wing of 
Arts Building. Until the end of this month he will 
observe the hour of 5 to 6 p.m., and after April 1st may 
be found at any time at u headquarters.” 

REPORT OF THE Y. W. C. A. 

The 4th regular meeting of the Theo Dora Society 
was held Thursday, March 8th, at 4 p.m. There was a 
larger attendance than usual, as the meeting was of 
special interest, on account of the report to be given 
by Miss Ross, our delegate, to the Detroit Conven. 
tion. After the opening exercises, Miss Radford spoke 
briefly of the origin of the Student Volunteer Move- 
ment, and then called on Miss Ross for her report. We 
have not the space to give any detailed account of Miss 
Ross’ report, which was so interesting and helpful, and 
only regret that all of the students did not hear 
it. There were two thoughts, hourever, that were 
especially brought home to our hearts : First, our re- 
sponsibility for the unsaved millions, which Miss Ross 
so touchingly illustrated by the story one of the 
missionaries told of the poor heathen woman who 
said so pitifully, “ We never knew there was a Jesus 
before ; ” and the other important thought that Miss 
Ross left with us was the question, “ Are we just in 
the place where God can use us best ? ” 

After Miss Ross’ report the meeting was closed with 
a hymn and prayer. 

MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The last regular meeting of the Medical Society 
was held in the Upper Lecture room of the College on 
Saturday evening, March 3rd. 

Quite a large number of students were present, con- 
sidering the proximity of the examinations. 

Dr. Beers delivered a very entertaining and instruc- 
tive address on Dentistry. 

During the course of his lecture the Doctor pointed 
out the frequency with which dental defects gave rise to 
remote and reflex symptoms, several interesting ex- 
amples of which he furnished from his own experience. 

At the close of the lecture the Doctor received a 
very hearty vote of thanks for his instructive address, 
after which the meeting adjourned. 

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. 

The annual general meeting of the McGill University 
Athletic Association was held in the Molson Hall on 
Feb. 27th. The only business of importance was the 
election of officers for the ensuing year, which resulted 
as follows : — 

Hon . President Prof. C. H. MacLeod. 



President F. A. Wilkin, Sc. ’95. 

Vice-President S. Carmichael, Law *95. 

Secretary F. Johnston, Med. *95. 

Hon . Treasurer Prof. John Cox. 

Tieasurer Geo. Schwartz, Arts *96. 

The reports of the secretary and treasurer were read 
and approved, and a vote of thanks passed to the retir- 
ing officers, after which the meeting adjourned. 

McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday evening, Feb. 28th. 

Mr. F. Lambert, Science ’94, read a paper on the 
Marquette Iron Mines, Michigan. 

The paper contained an account of the extent, work- 
ing and occurrence of these immense Hematite deposits. 
Mention was made of the way in which these bodies 
were supposed to have been formed. 

Mr. A. R. Askwith, Science ’95, read a paper on 
“ Rock Blasting,” in which he explained briefly the 
composition, preparation and efficiency of the various 
explosives. The paper contained many useful and 
practical points as to the ways in which the explosives 
should be manipulated. 

A hearty vote of thanks was tendered to the speakers 
for their much appreciated papers, after which the 
meeting adjourned. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday, March 1st, Miss Botterell, the vice-president, 
in the chair, the routine of business taking the well- 
worn orthodox channel. The debate for the day : 
‘‘ Resolved, — that implicit obedience should 7 iot in every 
case be rendered to external author^, ” was supported 
on the affirmative by Miss Mona Watson and Miss 
Ethel Hurst, and on the negative by Miss Denoon 
and Miss Jessie Brown. Our critic, for some reason or 
other, failed to put in an appearance, her absence being 
at once a loss and a disappointment to all concerned. 
Had she been there, she would no doubt have advised 
a more thorough preparation of the subject, with a hint 
that the arguments on both sides might have been more 
satisfactorily answered by the opponents; at the same 
time, the speakers on the affirmative might have been 
complimented on the evident ease with which they 
spoke, and that almost without a note- 

The arguments on the negative were weakened by 
the withdrawal at a very late date of the speaker whose 
name had for the last three weeks figured on the index 
sheet as leader on that side. Miss Denoon, at a few 
hours’ notice, performed her part admirably, demonstrat- 
ing to a nicety the saying “ Screw your courage to 
the sticking point and you’ll not fail.” 

This debate was perhaps one of the most fairly dis- 
cussed questions this Society has seen, the platform 
having been arranged beforehand by the speakers. 

The majority of votes decided the question in favor 
of the negative. After a general discussion the meet- 
ing adjourned. 



302 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE DETROIT CONVENTION. 

A. large audience) comprising students from every 
department of our Alma Mater, assembled in the Asso- 
ciation Hall on Sunday afternoon last, to hear the re- 
ports of the representatives of McGill who attended the 
great “ Student Volunteer” Missionary Convention, 
recently held at Detroit, Mich. Mr. George Hague 
presided. With him on the platform were Sir Wm. Daw- 
son, Mr. Percy Leslie, and a quartette of McGill men 
with violins. 

After a lesson from the Bible, read impressively by 
Mr, Hague, and a prayer in which Sir William led, 
Mr. Leslie made a short introductory address, in which 
he rapidly sketched the history of the movement which 
has led up to this great Convention, — the second of its 
kind ever held. Though so recently begun, the move- 
ment is already very wide-spread. Mr. Leslie pointed 
out the purposes of this, the greatest gathering of 
students ever held on this Continent, and urged the 
duty devolving upon everyone to do all in his power 
to disseminate the truths of the Gospel. Mr. Harry 
Archibald, Sc. ’97, briefly described the sad home-life, 
the revolting customs, and the degrading religions of 
many heathen lands where there are still few or no 
missionaries. Mr. Mallinson, Arts *97, made a pointed 
speech upon the subject : “ The Student in relation to the 
Foreign Missionary Work.” Mr. A. Gun of the Faculty 
of Medicine gave a practical address upon u Medical 
Missionaries.” He showed clearly the great need in hea - 
then lands of men who understood Medical Science. He 
pointed out that great good had been done already, and 
made a very powerful appeal, on humanitarian grounds, 
to the students in Medicine, to devote a part at least of 
their energies to the introduction of the blessings of 
Medical Science into these benighted lands. Miss Ross, 
Arts ’97, spoke upon “ Woman’s Work for Women.” 
She thought that there was a great and glorious work 
opening up for women, especially in China and Japan. 
There is great demand for lady teachers in the Japan- 
ese cities, and, besides, the Kindergarten is becoming a 
very important part of the work of lady missionaries. 
After an illustration or two of what is now being done by 
Christian lady-missionaries, Miss Ross, in a very earn- 
est and persuasive manner, urged her fellow-students to 
remember that they had the Gospel in trust for the 
nations, and to realize the great responsibility thereby 
devolving upon them. 

Mr. H. D. Clark, Comp. Med., drew our attention to 
some of the most important features of the great Con- 
vention ; and then Miss Seymour, Arts ’95, in a very- 
impressive manner, spoke of the spiritual influences 
emanating therefrom. The movement was more than 
a philanthropic one, it was deeply spiritual ; their 
motto was not “ Civilization ” but “ Evangelization.” 

The meeting was closed with singing and prayer. 
All the speakers were evidently full of enthusiasm in 
regard to the great work of christianizing the heathen 
in foreign lands, and spoke with such fervor, that even 
some of us, who have hitherto thought that 



there was a good deal of that kind of work to be done 
nearer home before the energy of our churches could 
rightly be directed into so wide a channel, were com- 
pelled to entertain the rather uncomfortable thought, 
that, perhaps, after all, our view had been rather too 
narrow. 

H. 



WHAT? WHERE? WHEN? 

Friday, March i6th. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 

Saturday, March 17TH. 

St. Patrick’s Day in the morning. 

Exam, in Civil Procedure in the afternoon. 

Sunday, March i8th. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, Dr. Murray 
will speak at 2 p.m- 

Wednesday, March 21ST. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5 p.m. 

Veterinary Med. Society. 6 Union Ave., 8 p m. 

Friday, March 23RD. 

Good Friday. Hot cross-buns in season. 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 

Easter Sunday, March 25TH. 

Hard hats and soft eggs. Spring bonnets with East Wing 
feathers. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building at 2 p.m. 
Tuesday, March 27TH. 

Niagara falls to-day. 

Wednesday, March 28th. 

Classical Club and other festivities. East Wing, 8 p m. 
Friday, March 30TH. 

Comparative Medicine Convocation, Molsou Hall. All Final 
men are invited. 

Saturday, March 31ST. 

The Deluge reaches Arts and Applied Science. 

Mr. Grattan, Vet. Sci., leaves for Chicago. 

Apric Food’s Day. 

University Pin and Song Book Committees meet in Union Club 
Building. 

Monday, Aprid 2nd. 

Declaration of results in Medicine. 

Wednesday, Aprid 4TH. 

Convocation in Medicine. More doctors let loose. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



303 






THE CHATEAU DE BONCOURT. 

A dream vraftsme back to my childhood, 

And I shake my old grey head ; 

Why visit me, ye pictures ? 

I loug had thought you dead. 

High rises from shady enclosure 
A glimmering castle-tower ; 

I know each turret, each battlement, 

Each bridge of stone, each door. 

From the coat of arms, so friendly 
The lions look out at me ; 

I greet the old acquaintances, 

Through the court-yard wander free. 

There stands the sphinx of the fountain ; 

There blossoms the old fig-tree ; 

There, long ago, behind that window 
I dreamt my first fantasie. 

I enter the village chapel 
And seek my grand-sire’s tomb ; 

There it is ! hang from the pillar 
His arms, that ancient heir-loom. 

Not yet, the words of th’ inscription 
Can my veiled eyes read aright, 

Tho J brightly, thro’ checkered pane, 

Over it breaks the light. 

So thou stand’ st, oh home of my fathers, 

True and firm in my heart. 

Thou art vanished from the earth, 

The plough breaks thee, in part. 

Be fertile, oh precious soil, 

Kindly I bless thee now, 

Though moved. And I doubly bless him, 

Who over thee guides the plough. 

But I will rise up quickly, 

My lyre in my hand, 

Wander the wide-world over, 

And sing thee from land to land. 

One of the Donaeda Ffeshmen. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



ARTS NOTES. 

At last we lay down our quill, and retire. 

Our successor is now in the swim ; 

He knows some old jokes, is an original liar— 
Enough ! We will leave you with him. 

B.S- 



It will soon be time for the Sophomores to begin 
their collections of plants. Nothing like taking thyme 
by the fore-lock. 



The Reading-Room Committee have had to sit 
again for their photograph. It is said that this time 
Mr. Notman used a plate made of plate-glass. 



Mr. N. D. Keith of the Third Year won the prize for 
reading in the elocutionary contest recently held in the 
Presbyterian College. 



The annual Wicksteed contest took place in the 
Gym. on the 3rd and 6th inst. The contest, especially 
in the Fourth Year, was very interesting. Those who 
tuok part were : in the Senior class — Blackett, Arts 
’94 ; S. M. Dickson, Arts ’94 ; Cole, Sc. ’94, and Boyd, 
Arts ’94 ; in the Junior class — Gill, Sc. '96; Keith, 
Arts ’95, and Green, Sc. *96. Altogether, the perform- 
ance was very creditable. The decision of the judges, 
Dr. McKenzie, Mr. D, J. Watson, and Mr. C. H. Gwilt, 
will be awaited with interest. 



Prof, to class in English : “ What is onomatopaeia ? ” 
Bright student : “A work on the sounds made by 
animals, sir.” 



Soph : — “ Do you know why I am like the mill of the 
gods this month ? I grind slowly, but I am getting my 
work down awful fine, I can assure you.’* 



Messrs. E. E* Howard and A. R. MacMaster have 
been appointed by the Artsmen to represent them on 
the committee of management of the Athletic Asso- 
ciation for the session i894- , 95- 



It is said that the recent phenomenal growth of the 
mustache of one of our Juniors is due to the fact that 
he sprinkled a sandwich the other night with Hair 
Vigour instead of Worcester sauce, by mistake. 



The other evening a number of Students were gather 
ed around a friendly table, with a puzzled expression 
on every face, endeavouring to decipher a mysterious - 
looking document which ran thus : — 

PALMAM FERAT, QUI VERBA HAEC MYSTICA EXPUCABIT 



0 




quid 


tuae 


be 




est 


biae ? 


Rarara 


es, 


et in ramramram 


ii. 



Even the seniors of the party gazed in mute helpless- 
ness, when at last a bumptious Sophomore exclaimed : 
“ Eureka ! O superbe, quid superest tuae superbiae ? 
Terra es, et in terram ibis.” At this a Freshman, who 
dreams at times of the Shakespeare gold medal, called 
out : “ Why, that isn’t so good as the address of the 
American letter which found its destination after a few 
weeks in the Dead Letter Office : 

Wood 

John 

Massachusetts. 

After qualifying several clerks of the office for the 
lunatic asylum, the address was at last deciphered into 

John Underwood, 

Andover, 

Massachusetts.” 



Prof : “ Gentlemen, this element is found in the 
mineral, Orthoclase. The Artsmen will recognize the 
derivation — orthos, to cleave, and klaio, at right 
angles. ” 



McGill fortnightly. 



304 



The other day, while busily engaged in the Library, 
we overheard a Junior explaining to a fair visitor, to 
whom he was pointing out the beauties of the place, 
that the carvings which embellish the hammer beams 
of the inner roof were intended to represent the Don- 
aldas. Not half an hour later, another irreverent mem- 
ber of the same class told a trustful visitor that the 
figures represented the members of the Faculty. This 
should be stopped, for if the public get the idea that 
our professors and students have such forbidding 
countenances as those depicted, it will do great injury 
to the College. 



What is this ghostly shimmering myth ? 

How like a nightmare doth it seem ! 
How haunting is its piercing stare ! 

Avaunt ! Thou spectre of our “ Dream/’ 
Who is the “ Dream ” of First Year Arts ? 

The snore of class-room and of parlor ? 
The bug-bear of the Symmerites ? 

No, *tis not he ! Not B . . . . M . . . . r. 



Why is it that everyone has taken to writing or to 
learning poetry ? We hear it quoted on all sides, and 
are deluged with “jingles” for the Fortnightly. 
This has helped us to resist the impulse to put our 
thoughts in rhyme ourselves. Probably the re-awaken- 
mg which nature is experiencing during this delight- 
ful spring weather is to blame, yet that cannot account 
for the popularity among the Freshmen of those verses 
of Mackay : — 



There seems to be a danger that the students may 
lose the privilege now open to them of visiting the 
Library during the evening, unless more show that 
they appreciate the privilege by taking advantage of 
it. It is to be hoped that the number of readers be- 
tween the hours 5 and 6 p m. and 8 and 10 p.m. will 
be much increased, and that all attending will register 
their names so that this privilege may be again granted 
next session. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The old lady who began to patt er-son on the head 
had previously placarded his desk with a small sign- 
board, on which was this strange device : “ Smoking, 
chewing and spitting strictly prohibited.’ * 



It is said that eight of the students in this Faculty 
have decided to quit their attendance on the lectures in 
April, and are making every necessary arrangement 
not to join the classes again in September. It is under- 
stood that influence has been brought to bear on the 
whole of these gentlemen to induce them to abandon 
their determination— so far without success. The most 
determined effort was made in this direction on Satur- 
day last, when they were visited by Justinian, Sir Henry 
Maine, and the Ghost of Gaius, but after being closeted 
for 4 hours it is believed that every one of the eight gen- 
tlemen remained firm and true to their vow. That 
ought to settle it. 



Oh my heart is sick with longing, 

Longing for the May, 

Longing to be free from study, 

For the young face fair and ruddy, 

And the t jousand joys belonging- 
To the summer day- 
Oh my heart is sick with longing, 

Longing for the May. 

. This sounds more like the wail of one who is looking 
forward to the spring exams with fear and trembling. 
Moreover, the difficulties of Latin prose, of which the 
.Sophs are having a full allowance, haunt many of them 
like a nightmare. So we were not surprised to hear 
one of them the other day, absent-mindedly quoting 
the following lines : — 

Felis sedit by a hole, 

Intente she, cum omni soul 
Predere rats. 

Mice concurrent trans the floor, 

Infnumero, duo, tres or more, 

Oblite cats. 

Felis saw them oculis. 

“I’ll have them,” inquit she, “I guess 
Dumfludunt.” 

Tunc ilia crepit toward the group, 

“ Habeatn,” dixit, « good rat soup, 

Pingues sunt.” 

Mice continued all ludere, 

Intenti they in ludem vere, 

Gaudenter. 

Tunc rushed the felis into them, 

Et tore them onmes limb from limb, 

Violenter. 



The students valedictory to the Professor at the close 
of a course in either civil or commercial law might not 
inappropriately be rendered as hereinafter contained, to 
wit , Farewell, Sir Professor, I have endeavored to 
keep up with you , but you have outdistanced my fleet- 
est fancy, my swiftest power of mental grasp, and the 
nimblest movements of my ready pen.” Eh! Fare- 
well. 



stanza subjoined is dedicated to posterity as be- 
ing a most useful and convenient compendium to have 
stowed away in one’s mind at a Roman Raw Exam : 

“ Descendens omnis succedit in ordinate primo, 

‘‘ Ascendens proprior, germanus (a), filius (ia) aegis, 

“ Tunc laterie ex uno junctus quisquae fiilius xgis 
Delequ® proximur reliquorum quisquis superstes.” 

Mr. S— n will please trace the orthography of each 
misspelled word in the above, and point out any defects 
found by scansion, and explain fully the relation be- 
tween faulty feet or bad spelling and an easy method 
of memorizing an order of succession followed by the 
Imperial Roman two thousand years before you got go 

per cent, in R.L. 



What are the rights of a squatter ? Mud or water 
just now, we believe, with or without bad faith. 



ivir. justice Wurtele has kindly decid 
his course of lectures in Real Estate. 



to complete 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. * 3°5 



The Dean’s course of lectures in Merchant Shipping 
is completed, and was exceptionally well appreciated by 
the gentlemen of the Third Year who have their faces 
set for the J uly Bar. 



A certain white gentleman of the “ premiere annee ” 
complains that, owing to too much concentration on the 
black clauses as contained in the Senatus Consultum 
Claudianum, he has had little time to consider the other 
methods of acquiring a universitas rerum. 



It is said that a member of the Faculty of Law since 
plugging for the RL- examination wishes to make a 
Donatio mortis causa for the benefit of intending begin- 
ners. He, we believe, could be induced to make it in 
the shape of a “ universitas rerum.” 



A prize of a Roman “As” is offered to the student 
who first answers, in a satisfactory manner, “ What is, 
was or will be the Lex hac consultissima ?” 



There wasn’t much “legal brief’’ about that R-L- 
paper, was there ? Not until you read this one. 



We beg pardon for trespassing upon the valuable and 
valued space of the Fortnightly with so much R-L. 
items, but really how any fellow can write readable 
legal briefs after having two courses of R-L- and two 
curses of R-L- exams in one term, we pause to consider ! 
But to be “ Brief,” there isn’t any fellow in the Faculty 
save two who is not shedding R L- at every lamp-post, 
whose eyes are not filled with a dreamy, far-away, 
Roman tic moisture that foretells a flock of coming 
Cujas’ and Savigny’s, and each one at just 24. 



I say, boys ! Did you hear Mac tell the Dean that he 
enjoyed his Justinian very much? Well, he did ! 



The Law Faculty Spring Steeplechases in the Pen- 
manship class opened a few days ago. 

j __ n’s, ’94, is said to have broken the record by put- 
ting in 67 pages in three hours. 

It is said that the committee in charge of these con- 
tests are going to institute a series of handicaps in 
which the sprinters who write shorthand are to be put 
on scratch. 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Dr. Robert Bell, B.A.Sc., Assistant Director of the 
Geological Survey, is in the field for election as Gradu- 
ates’ Fellow in Applied Science, in succession to Col. 
Jeffrey Burland. At the annual meeting of the Ottawa 
Valley Graduates’ Society held on the 20th of February, 
Dr. Bell was unanimously chosen as the Society’s can- 
didate for this fellowship. 



Honour Student : “ Well, one member of this class is 
no gentleman, anyway.” 

Indignant Chorus : “ Who ? Who ? ” 

H. S. : “ Miss Blank.” 



From all accounts, the Fourth Year Science have been 
taking to Water Polo. A game played the other day 
between the Mechanicals and Electricals on one side, 
and the Civils, Miners and Chemists on the other, 
resulted in a draw. 



How would it do to have a few drinking cups in the 
lavatories ? The taps are effective for drinking pur- 
poses, but inconvenient and uneconomical. Perhaps 
before next session some steps might be taken to remove 
this want. 



While we are making suggestions (they cost noth- 
ing, and are good value at the price), would it be im- 
possible next session to make some arrangement for 
having the Applied Science Library open (occasionally 
at least) in the evenings. Many Students have so few 
hours free from lectures and laboratory work that they 
are unable to use the library to nearly the extent they 
would wish. 



At a meeting of the Undergraduates on the 5th, 
Messrs. Trenholtne,’95, and Drinkwater,’97, were elect- 
ed as the representatives from Science to the committee 
of the University Athletic Club. 



The shadow of exams hangs like a cloud over us all. 
Even our class reporters feel the blighting influence, 
and our readers will miss the sparkling witticisms with 
which they were wont to enliven this column. But our 
hearty thanks are due for past assistance, and we give 
them our parting blessing and cheerfully commend 
them to our successor. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Prof, to class of Donalda Students : — “ What chap- 
ter, please ? ” 

“ Chap. 52. ” 

“ Oh ! Only 52 ! ! If we don’t get on we’ll all be old 
men before we’re through ! ! ! ” 

Question “ When shall we get through ? ” 

Monday, 5 p.m. 

Life-size figure of a man thrown on the screen : 

Prof. : — “ This, you notice, is a fault in nature 



In this last issue of the Fortnightly for this session, 
we would like to draw the attention of our Undergra- 
duates to the fact that our tennis court is once more 
making its appearance. 

Since tennis is the only physical recreation offered to 
the Donaldas inside the College grounds, would we not 
do well to enter more heartily into the game ? There 
is more benefit to be had from a 20 minutes’ tossing of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



306 



the ball than from an hours walk, for this is condu- 
cive to meditation, so that by an imperative demand 
for a quick eye, steady hand and swift foot, precludes 
the possibility of deep thought. Ethics and Euclid’s 
problems are alike banished for the time, while all our 
energies are directed to the deft handling of the ball. 

No class of persons, we venture to state, needs this 
thorough relaxation from thought as the student, to 
whom it is of incalculable benefit. 

If we only had a gymnasium on the grounds ! — we 
might spend many half hours there. Perhaps there 
will be room in the new Donalda building fo r one. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

Everyone seems satisfied with the class picture. It 
is certainly a beauty. 



The handsome face of our genial President adorns 
the horse-shoe. The honour is not a small one, by any 
means, and will no doubt be more appreciated by him 
from the fact that the position was unsought for on his 
part. 



“Clothing cheaper than the cheapest.’ ' — See notice 
board. 



Cholly should be a little more explicit when giving 
his order for breakfast. 



I11 a short time we will disperse to our homes after a 
few short months of pleasant companionship. Let us 
not, on pleasure bent, overlook the abundant opportuni- 
ties for individual work, observation and experiment 
that will present themselves to each of us during the 
summer months. Much can be accomplished by a little 
well'directed effort in the right direction. 



The face of the Final student wears an anxious ex- 
pression these days as he ponders over the probability 
of his getting plucked. 



The lad that some of the boys style P. D., and who 
hails from a Norwegian settlement out in the wild and 
woolly West, seems to be supremely happy, and says 
that his motto is “ Peace and good-will toward men.” 



A grand success — Mr. Judge’s dinner. 



“ Oh where is our little dog gone ? ” is the wail of the 
First Year experimenters. 



OLLA PODRIDA. 

One of the main advantages to be derived from a 
perusal of Exchanges is that we are thereby enabled to 
get some idea of what is going on in educational insti- 



tutions other than our own. Students in the hurry and 
bustle of ordinary University life are apt to become 
mentally shortsighted, and anything which brings 
them into touch with the outside world of thought and 
enlarges their intellectual horizon is of considerable 
value- 

Naturally we are apt to place these periodicals in 
comparison with our own Fortnightly, and we may 
be perhaps excused for a little pardonable pride if we 
venture to express the opinion that our paper is not 
much, if at all, inferior to any that we see, as a reflec- 
tion of University life and thought. The main reason 
for this view is that all parts of McGill work in the 
utmost harmony for the good of the paper and the Uni- 
versity at large. The Fortnightly is a representative 
paper, and therein lies its strength. The interests of 
all are well balanced, and our motto is “ the greatest 
good to the greatest number.” It is to be regretted that 
the different sections represented on the Editorial Staff 
of some of our contemporaries, more especially those 
from the Maritime Provinces, like the proverbial ox and 
ass, draw together but badly, and the result is unseemly 
strife and more or less ill-feeling. When this is the case, 
such a paper cannot be a success. Failure is marked 
upon it at the outset. Nothing can be gained so long 
as some who should be supporters of the College paper 
are converted into antagonists. Such a misfortune can 
readily be averted by having an editorial staff of liberal 
views, and one in which a fair and impartial represen- 
tation is given to all departments of the University. 

One of the important events in University life which 
should be noted is the production of Sophocles’ Antigone 
by the Students of Toronto University. The Varsity for 
some time past has been giving us glimpses of what is 
being done. The students of Toronto show a good deal 
of boldness in attacking such a masterpiece of art as the 
Antigone , which may be justly considered the crowning 
glory of the Greek Drama. But it is a most admirable 
boldness. May the day come soon when our own 
Classical Society will be strong enough to perform a 
Greek play. Prof. Hutton on Jan. 27th delivered a 
lecture at the University on the A?itigone } which, in anti- 
cipation of the coming representation, elicited much 
enthusiasm. The representation was given under the 
auspices of the Classical Association, the College of 
Music and the Glee Club. The Varsity refers to a new 
book of Prof. Goldwin Smith’s, containing translations 
from ^Eschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. We may 
perhaps take the liberty of quoting some of the Pro- 
fessor’s verses from the Antigone : 

(Lines 450-4S9). 

ANTIGONE. 

“ The proclamation went not forth from Zeus, 

Or Justice, partner of the gods below, 

Who had ordained these canons for mankind ; 

Nor deemed I proclamations had such power 
That thereby mortal man could contravene 
Heaven’s law unwritten and unchangeable. 

That law was not the child of yesterday, 

Nor kuoweth man the source from which it came. 

I was not minded for what men might say 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



307 



fo break that law and brave the wrath Divine. 

That death would come I know, as come it must 
Without thy proclamation, and to die 
Before my hour I count it so much gain. 

For when a life is full of wretchedness, 

As mine has been, is it not gain to die ? 

Little I care if I such doom must meet ; 

But I care much not uninterred to leave 
His corpse that was of the same mother born. 

One pains me sore, the other pains me not ; 

And if to thee I seem to play the fool, 

To me it seems that to a fool I play it, 

CHORUS. 

She shows the savage spirit of her sire, 

And to misfortune is untaught to bend. 

CREON. 

Know that the most self-willed most often fall. 

Iron that hath been tempered by the fire 
To a surpassing hardness, when it breaks, 

We often see shattered most thoroughly ; 

And a small bit suffices to subdue 

The fiery steed. High thoughts become uot those 

Who owe subjection to another’s will. 

This maid before displayed her insolence 
In overstepping what the laws ordained ; 

And now again displays it, glorying 
And laughing in our face over her crimes. 

It is not I that am the man, but she. 

If she can thus usurp and go unscathed. 

Be she my sister’s child or child of one 
Nearer in tyood than all around our hearth, 

She shall not the last penalty escape, 

Nor shall her sister.” 

Chorus. 

(Lines 781-800). 

‘‘Unconquered Love, against whose might 
Wealth’s golden mansion hath no ward, 

That in the maiden’s dimpled cheek by night 
Keepest thy guard ; 

The ocean wave to bear thy tread is taught ; 

The rural homestead, gods, and men are brought 
Alike thy power to own ; who feels it is distraught. 

’Tis thou that upright hearts and pure dost lead 
From virtue’s ways to ways of sin. 

’Tis thou whose influence in our Thebes does breed 
Strife among kin. 

O’er all prevails the charm of Beauty’s eyes, 

Charm that with Law supreme in empire vies, 

For Aphrodite’s power all rebel force defies.” 

These lines, vigorous and faithful, as they are, only 
give imperfectly the beauties of the original, which in 
point of pathos and tragic force has never been sur- 
passed by any production of the Tragic Muse. We 
congratulate Toronto on its enterprise. 

The Varsity seems to be improving since it donned 
its new suit, and is always a welcome visitor. Another 
subject that is occupying the attention of some is that 
of Canadian poets. 

The Varsity of Jan. 31st contains such an article 
from the pen of Mr. Jas. A. Tucker. He takes up more 
particularly the work of William A. Stephens, the pio- 
neer poet of Ontario. 



The University Monthly for January contains a cri- 
tique from the pen of Prof. Chas. G. D. Roberts, upon 
il Seaward, an Elegy on the death of Thomas William 
Parsons,” by Richard Hovey, a poem which, the Pro- 
fessor remarks, was written in his study at Kingscroft, 
and in the woods about King’s College. 

Prof. Roberts says : — 

“‘Seaward* appears to me to be much the most 
important English elegy since Arnold’s ‘ Thyrsis ’ and 
Swinburn’s ‘ Ave atque Vale.’ It belongs to the rank 
and fellowship of these poems. It is in the direct line 
of descent from the work of the Sicilian elegists — 
Bion’s ‘ Lament for Adonis’ and the * Lament for 
Bion ’ of Moschus — through the 1 Lycidas ’ and the 
‘ Adonais ’ ; but the pastoral element common to all 
its predecessors except the ‘ Ave atque Vale ’ has dis- 
appeared, and the poem is modern in spirit. 

* * ifC 5}C * 

“The language of ‘Seaward’ is singularly felici- 
tous, and shows a command of the richest harmonies 
of words. The poem is written in what Arnold called 
‘ the grand manner,’ and is full of spacious Miltonic 
phrases. Miltonic, too, is its mastery of the organ- 
music of proper names — a mastery which is superbly 
displayed in the concluding stanza.” 

The following lines seem specially good : 

“ O mourners by the sea, who loved him most ! 

I watch you where you move, I see you all ; 
Unmarked I glide among you like a ghost, 

And on the portico, in room and hall, 

Lay visionary fingers on your hair. 

You do not feel their unsubstantial fall 

Nor hear my silent tread, but I am there.” 

* * * * 

“ O Death, I shout back to thy hearty hail.” 

* • * * 

“ Time, like a wind, blows through the lyric leaves 
Above his head, and from the shaken boughs 
Aeonian music falls ; but he receives 
Its endless changes in alert repose. 

Nor drifts unconscious as a dead leaf blown 

On with the wind, and senseless that it blow r s. 

But hears the chords like armies marching on.” 

The same paper gives a critique of Prof. Roberts’ 

‘‘ Songs of the Common Day, and Ave ! an ode for the 
Shelley Centenary.” One of these songs entitled 
“ Burnt Lands” is worthy of reproduction here : — 

“ On other fields and other scenes the morn 

Laughs from her blue — but not such fields are these 
Where comes no cheer of summer leaves and bees. 
And no shade mitigates the day’s white scorn, 

These serious acres vast no groves adorn ; 

But giant trunks, bleak shapes that once were trees, 
Tow er naked, unassuaged of rain or breeze, 

Their stern grey isolation grimly borne 

The months roll over them, and mark no change, 

But when Spring stirs, or Autumn stills, the year, 
Perchance some phantom leafage rustles faint 

[strange. 

Through their parched dreams — some old time notes ring, 
When in his slender treble, far and clear, 

Reiterates the rain-bird his complaint.” 

The Monthly has come out in a tasteful new cover, 
but the change in size is hardly an improvement. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



308 



The Acta Victoriana. This paper is specially good. 
It always contains solid and interesting matter, and pre- 
sents a very neat appearance. 

Like many other college journals at the present time, 
it is dealing with some of our Canadian poets. 

It contains a very interesting article on E. Pauline 
Johnson, the Indian poetess, by F. Gertrude Kenny. 
There is also a well-executed portrait of Miss Johnson. 

The following lines show “ she has a wondrous 
faculty of catching the very feeling, the very mood of 
nature at certain times.” 

“ I seem to hear a bar of music afloat 
And swoon into the west, 

My ear can scarcely catch the whispered note, 

But something in my breast 
Blends with that strain till both accord in one, 

As cloud and color blend at set of sun.” 

“ And twilight comes, with gray and restful eyes, 

As ashes follow flames ; 

But oh, I heard a voice from those rich skies 
Call tenderly my name : 

It was as if some priestly fingers stole 
In benediction o’er my lonely soul.” 

This rondeau is also worth quoting : 

IN FRESHET TIME. 

RONDEAU. 

In freshet time the waters tread 
With crafty foot a foreign bed ; 

On shores whose outlines come and go, 

As falls or swells this overflow — 

The teasel lifts its ragged head 
In freshet time. 

The turbid river, mountain-fed, 

Laughs while the suu warms overhead ; 

The thawing flats all spongy grow r 
In freshet time. 

Drenched sedges trail with stems outspread 
O’er drift-wood, water -logged and dead ; 

The field-mouse burrows deep below, 

The wary musk-rat plunges low, 

And willows turn from grey to red, 

In freshet time. 

The Acta also has articles on “ Christian Socialism” 
and “ Broken Harmonies in Thoughtful Life.” 

The November number of the Manitoba College 
Journal contains a good article by Dr. Bryce, entitled 
“ First Quarter Century of the Dominion.” Among 
other evidences of Canada’s growth and “ national 
endeavour,” Dr. Bryce cites the brilliant galaxy of 
young poets who have arisen in Canada. He says : 

” It may not be known to Canadians generally that we 
have in Canada at present a constellation of poets, with 
more true power, a loftier note of inspiration, and 
greater elegance of diction than is to be found in the 
United States. This pouring out of song is to us a 
sign and hopeful token of our national life in Canada. 

” The England of Elizabeth wakened into life the 
muse of Edmund Spenser, after a poetic silence of 
nearly 200 years, and then for a quarter of a century 
England became ‘ a nest of singing birds,’ as her com- 
mercial, sea-going, military, social and religious life 
grew strong. 



“And so, perhaps, on a less heroic scale, but in a real 
way, the building of our Dominion, imperfectly as some 
of us may have appreciated it, has touched true chords 
in the hearts of cur noblest spirits. We name the 
cluster of seven, who stand cutnnost clearly before our 
eves, and notice that all of them are between the ages 
of 31 and 33, and so have been entirely moulded and 
formed under our Dominion life. Further, we would 
say that it is not only in the notes these have sung, but 
in the fact that they, with others whose names and 
songs might well be mentioned, are the outcome of a 
hope and belief that Canada has a destiny worthy of 
the confidence of her sons.” 

The “ seven ” he mentions are : F. G. Scott, Archibald 
Lampman, Bliss Carman, E Pauline Johnson, William 
W. Campbell, Chas- G. D. Roberts and Duncan C. 
Scott. 

We may quote Bliss Carman’s 

CARNATIONS IN WINTER. 

" Your carmine flakes of blc orn to-nigbt 
The fire of wintry sunsets hold ; 

Again in dreams you burn to light 
A far Canadian garden old. 

The blue north summer over it 

Is bland with long ethereal days ; 

The gleaming martins wheel and flit 

Where breaks your sun down orient ways. 

There, w'here the gradual twilight falls, 

Through quietudes of dusk afar, 

Hermit antiphonal hermit calls 

From hills below the first pale star. 

Then in your passionate love’s foredoom 
Once more your spirit stirs the air, 

And you are lifted through the gloom 
To warm the coils of her dark hair.” 

And also Campbell’s “ Ode to Thunder Cape.” 

“ Storm-beaten cliff, thou mighty cape of thunder ; 

Rock-Titan of the North, whose feet the waves beat under 
Cloud-reared, mist-veiled, to all the world a wonder. 

Shut out in thy wild solitude asunder, 

O ! Thunder cape, thou mighty cape of storms ! ” 

I eople seem to be just waking up to the fact that 
Canada has a literature to be proud of. 

The Peabody Record comes to us from Nashville, 
Tenn. The contributions are mainly on literary sub-' 
jects, such as Sidney Zanier, Mrs. Browning’s Place 
Among Poets, A Half-Hour with Bacon, etc. It is a 
very readable production. 

The Edinburgh Student. This is an interesting pro- 
duction. We learn that Edinburgh is working at a 
Song-book. So is McGill, but we will have to make 
haste or theirs will be out first. The Student does not 
present much in the way of contributed articles, but is 
mainly taken up with general University news. 

Since last writing we have received the followine 
periodicals : 6 

The Student (Edinburgh), Acta Victoriana , The Pea- 
body Record , Manitoba College Journal , Knox College 
Monthly , Queen ’s University Journal. 



A. G. N. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



309 




Now ready. February, 1894. 

Just received, first' consignment of 

SPRING SUITINGS 

Including choicest qualities and 
latest novelties. Before our military 
orders monopolize our time we will 
be glad to give our best attention to 
any of our patrons requiring spring 
clothing, assuring them of perfect style, 
fit and finish 



Prices range from $15.00 to $25.00 



Have you seen our Blue Worsted 
Waterpoof Cloaks ? 

Made to order, only $15.00 each. 



i\ catling Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 

a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



Patersonjdl Foster, 15 Phillips Square, would draw the 
attention of Medicos to their advertisement in this issue- 

Their stock of instruments is very complete, and a visit will 
be interesting as well as profitable to intending purchasers. 



Here is another flattering testimonial from a weil-known musical 
connoisseur, Mr. G. Couture, choir master of St. Peter’s Cathedral, 
musical director of (he Philharmonic Society: — 

Montreal, Dec. 15th, 1893. 

L. E. N. Pratte, Esq., Montreal. 

Dear Sir : — 

It is with real satisfaction as a friend and pride as a Canadian that I 
wish to congratulate you on the u Pratte Piano *’ of which I have 
lately become the possessor. 

The care with which you have avoided the undesirable qualities 
found in other pianos, and the choice of the best materials combined 
with judicious improvements, makes your piano one of the most satis- 
factory and perfect instruments one could desire. 

Allow me to congratulate you and at the same lime express my ad- 
miration. 

G. COUTURE. 



T. FITZPATRICK, 

^ DEN TIS T. 

Gold Crouln and Bridge ulork a specialty. 



54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Telephone 3755 . 



HELEN DRAKE, 

2407 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

JUST WEST OF PEEL ST. 

. . . IMPORTER OF . . . 



^Montreal. 



Novelties in Materials for Dresses 

Millinery, Mantles, Trirnrnings, 

N.B. — Special selection of Novelties for Ball and Evening Dresses. 

DRESS MAKING A SPECIALTY. 

Latest Styles from LONDON, PAKIS and NEW YORK. 

ESTIMATES GIVEN. 

Sole Agent in Canada for . . . 

F. I. L. CORSETS 

Highly recommended for Style, Comfort and Durability. Perfect Fit 
and Shape. 

JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER *«= DECORATOR, 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 



F OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & 

380 to 386 St. Paul Street, 



CO. 



Montreal 



( 



3io 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS: 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 

A coidial welcome to students at all meetings. 

o 

Indian *Pea Depot 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

J^ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit everyone 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LeMESURlSR 

S PRING JUIT S 

Our full range of Spring Goods, com- 
prising all the Latest Novelties in 
Tweeds, Overcoatings, etc., are now on 
hand 

Call Early to Avoid the Rush. 

WM. FARQUHARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 St. Peter Street. 

WINDSOR MARKET. estabushed 1339. 

BROWN BROS. 

Manufacturer, of l~ II] ft | a D I 6 D 6 1 1 G Q G 1 6S. 

The Emporium for Fine Meats, 

Cor. St. Catherine Street and McCill College Avenue 

Telephone 4038. 



Call at thb . . 



= HOLLY CIGAR STORE. 



and give us your custom for Imported and 
Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— College Cigars and Perique Mixture 




TO JTffLETES. 




Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. , 



Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys . 



Read this 



Students 1 Outfits 
0 complete line of 
Surgical Instruments 
Gauzes, Cottons 
and all necessaries 
for a practitioner’s 
outfit. 

Examine our goods 
early and obtain prices. 



HI. BEQGJfOLDT $ GO., 



2397 

ST. CATHERINE STREET 



Sole Agents for 

REICHERT’S MICROSCOPES. 

PATERSON & FOSTER, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers, 

^_15 PHILLIPS SQUARE. 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



3 1 1 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION— Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Stu’ents, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No 7204 MR. KRUSE, Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



The COOK'S FRIE S D is relaiM 0 } all Gooi Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAYER HALL HILL, 

Formerly 76 Victoria Square. 

Greenhouses at ROCKFIELD, Lachine. 



Largest Mock of PALMS and other DECOR .1 TLPE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

JAMES BRAY, 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 




SAMUEL S. GRANT, 



1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D 



SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, 



Hours 9 a. in. to 8 p.m. 



Hi NRY GRANT & SON, 



72 BEAVER HALL, 

Corner Dorchester Street. 



VICE-REGAL DECORATORS AND FLORISTS, 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5- Davidson Sr Sons, 

Branch : — 174 St. James St. Conservatories :--Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL . 9324 and 1754. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

<Sngrat>er, 

118 Mansfield Street, Corner ofSt - Catherine 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 



QUT FLOWERS . . y 

JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (Cor. PEEL 

r Tel . 4911 . 



J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S., 

DENTIST, 

MONTREAL. 

49 UNION AVENUE. 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES! 



199 ST. ANTOINE LST. and 2647 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




312 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



W. H. HOPE, 

Manufacturer of 

IPICTTTIR^ :fi&a.ts£:eis 

Importer of 

Steel Engravings, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

TEL 3 E e p 2 H 9 ONE 2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., "qntreau 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



H 



OUNTAIN MARKET. 



Fish, Gamy and Ousters 



Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Cor. Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St, 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . . 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats <5^ Co. execute Thoto 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 



The GEORGE $ISHOP 

Engraving and Printing Co. 



COLLEGE , CLUB AND 
SOCIETY PRINTING 



169 St. $ctmes Street 



programmes 

menus 

INVITATIONS 
TICKETS . 



The American Fur Store 



wholesale amt J; !t d It f i II t} T ll' 



and RETAIL 



Nos- 27 and 29 St Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St., A’ve. ld 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness o 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 



Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 

STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 



All the Books required for the 





. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



EstahlivSlied 1 859. 

HENRY EE. GER^Y, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McGILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE: UPTOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. i 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P^ns 




Diaries, Calendars, 

51cmk 3°°ks, Stationary. 



BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PEIOES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 
LYOISTTIHHIA.L. 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



3i3 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber. 

Dealers In Square and Flat Fine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 

Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square White Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 



Point St. Charles, Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CRAIG STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Fine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 



JOHN PAXTON & CO- 



Telephone 

305. 



Importers and Manufacturers of 



OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal 

GEO. W. REED, 

jSlatc, Petal and (Sraucl Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

OAK-T ATsTTsTEID 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 





k CO. 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal. 

ARTISTS " " ” 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBES T1D OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by W 1 NSOR & NEWTON, Artists Oolormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAL. 

<3-- &c J~. ESPLIH 

Box Manufacturers 

AND 

, . Lumber Merchants 



Office, 126 Duke Street. 



Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men 3 vols., cloth $2.50 reduced from $5.00 

Lord Lytton's Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie's Hours With the Bible 3 ** “ 3.00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 ** 7.50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 

MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 
MONTREAL. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., 
TORONTO. 



DUNCAN ROBERTSON 
MONTREAL. 



THE SAMUEL ROGERS GO. 



OILS 



LUBRICATING 



ILLUMINATING 



(1/5 Gold Medals in 6 years.) 

GREASES NAPHTHA. 

Bejijreiephone 9i9o. 92 IVIcGill St , Montreal. 

GEO. S. K1MBER, 





if *1*11 HUM IIIM^V mill I Mill 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stoek. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Tt lephone No. 3287. Montreal. 

Passenger and Freight ANY DESIRED MOTOR 




1 vl 



108 KING ST., 

MONTREAL 




314 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 

Largest Fire Office in the World. 



^CANADA LIFEh- 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 



Unlimi'ed Liability. Absolute Security. 

Every description of property insured at moderate rates of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

w. TATLEY, Manager. 

GEO. SIMPSOY, Assistant Manager. 



K. Hurtubise, ) Special Agents 
Alfred St. Cyr, $ French Dept. 



James Allin, I Special Agents 
W. S. Robertson, j English Dept, 
of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

1‘itf C HFh CalB l >llcl1 - !» tf Superior, 5300 Tons, (apt. Stewart, 

Like lluion, 5000 Tons, Capt. Urey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, t’apt. nerriman. 

lake .Nipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

Tr a rL. hC TK ea ? e . rS of this Line ha \ e been bui,t specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
1 he ^ tat ? roo ™ s are ver y large and have the best of ventilation Sunerinr 
classes of Passengers at very low rates 
Specially reduced rates during winter month® Passages and 

For?u n r ^rX m rrio a „^ P p^y?: ,0 the M ° n,rcal ° ffice 0r any loCal A ^ nt - 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square 
MONTREAL. 



McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 

VARNISHES, JAPANS 



sdy. 



and COLORS 



. . . MONTREAL . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 




WARDEN RING «£ SON 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spence s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 

DAISY 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINCS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST, MONTREAL. 



HEAD OFFICE , HAMILTON , OAT. 

Capital and Funds over 13.000,000 Dollars, 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL, 

EDWARD L. BOND 

Jfirc and fflarinc llndmuriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co, 
Enhance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Oompanv (Fire) 



the molsons bank, 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 | Rest $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood. Assistant Insnertnr. 

Hamilton, _ 

Ridgetown, , PL-, * . v ., ot. xuumas, vni., lore 

Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London.^- Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited); Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool — The Bank of Liverpool. Cork — Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 

Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp, Belgium —L* Banqued’ Anvers. Hamburg 
—Hesse, Newman & Co. & 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES. — Went York. — Mechanics* National Bank, 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep- 
ru* Agents Bank of Montreal; National City Bank, also in the principal cities 
of the United States. r 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 




HENDERSON BROS- 

dumber and timber 

Steam Saw arid Planing jMilis 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kind ling Wood always in Stock 



H. K. IVES 6 l CO- Es ‘*is“ 9 8hed 
^ Architectural Iron Works 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 



Queen Street, 



General Founders, etc. 



montpeal 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



3i5 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 



HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR TURN ACES 
RADIATORS, REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOCKS AND SCALES 



Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



333 cfc 387 Sir. Paul St. MONTREAL. 



ESTABLISHED 1809 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



ftjtraorDinara pircrtors. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen I The Hon. Lord Well wood 
The Right Hon. Lord Forbes J 



Invested in Canada, nearly - 85,000,000 

Total Assets, - 52,053,716 



— s- Head Office for Canada at Montreal = 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



A1-.BIOM 

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, - MONTREAL. 



The Liverpool & London & Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted ... 

Gk IF. O. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL- 

Insure your Property with the_ 

Phoenix Insurance Co. HARTFORD 

TIME TRIED 
and FIRE TESTED 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., j _ Directors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



SMITH & TATLEY, 

Managers for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 



^Guarantee Gorop’y 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 




Northern Assurance Co, 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds $35,730,000 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 5,495.000 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 200,000 



ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 



Mail Buildings. 



MF.DLAXD d JOXES, Agreut* 



City Agent: BROWNING British Empire Building. 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



316 


McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




Co «5 


ii! if i 11 1 * 


Hot later, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 


I ! l : i| B 1 1 it! 


— TO TIEEIE 


3§S|i 


McGill Unioersity Building, 


Royal Victoria Hospital, 


Board of Trade Building. 




»lans and Estimates Given on Application. 

• 



R 



OBERT GARDNER & SON 



Established 
. . . 18 >0 . . . 



MANUFACTURERS OF 









Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth , Brennan and Da/housie Sts., 



310 NT REAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 

. . . PRACTICAL . . . 

3|ou$e anil jHeambal Jfell-Ifanjor, Jtntksmillj anb General Jladbmilii 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc, 

CARPENTERS' and BUILDERS' WORK TO ORDER 



762 and 764 CRASC STREET, West of Victoria Square, 

Bell Telephone No, 2591 



MONTffcAt 







as cuicL , 

fpLectiic ^Lct-jpt 




Engineers', Plumbers’, Gas and Steam fitters ’ Goods . 



Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 

^duocatcs, barristers, &c., 

UST-ETW YORK LIPS BIJIL DITTO- , 

MONTREAL. 



R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. 



PEERS DAVIDSON. 



I«;sU»l»lisli.U 1N20. 



CEORCE BRUSH 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 



ALEXANDER BREMNER, 




IMPORTEROF 



FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, ENAMELLED 
SINKS, CALCINED PLASTER, 
WHEEL BARROWS, &c. 

COAL OIL, 

Portland, Roman and 

Canada Cements. 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 336. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 

BOYD & CO. Telephone 1996.y 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co : 
Gillespie. Mofeatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co., D. Torrance & Co , 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire 







TRIANGLE, 

SCALES, 

T SQUARE. 



Special Discounts to Students. 



1640 



WHITEFORD & THEORET 

(STD CCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

Sate booksellers, publishers and bookbinders 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly Law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Legale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St* James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Just out, Sfsiifesksj's Criminal Sues of Ganaila, §10 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Jlduocaics, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 



J. B. Abbott 
H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague 



C. S. Campbell 
F. E. Meredith 



ATWATER & MACKIE 

Jaluoratcs, barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

O LD STANDARD BU.LD.NC JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL 

J. S. Ajchibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 



Telephone 1880 



Cable Address, “Arcfost.” 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.F.P. 
Albert J. Brown 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



HEARN & HARRISON, notre dame , 
W. i F. P. CURRIE i CO. | 

IOO CREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



HALL, CROSS, BROWH 5 SHARP, 

Advocates, barristers and Solicitors, 

I .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C. 



iFarquhar S. Maclennan 



MACMASTER & MACLENNAN 

^duorafes, barristers, <£tc. 



THE TEMPLE 



St. James Street, 



MONTREAL 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

(57 St. James Street, MONTREAL 





1-A.iN Uo - pratu 

AMD THE iEOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 

Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating, 



Largest Stock. No Canvassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices 



LM' 1676 * 1 

notre Dame. Montreal 



Easy terms. Old instruments 
taken in exchange 



BUY YOUR 



ALLAN’S, 661 CRAIG STREET, 

He has all the latest English and American styles at most reasonable prices. 
No trouble to show the goods. Come in and see them; 5 per cent, off to Students. 



Students 



Ptofessois 



RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON 

652 CRAIG STREET 



J/JZZ fainting requisites 

<4^ and Artists' JYlaterials 

DRAWING MATERIALS, 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, 

At special prices for Students at ... . 

WALTER COTTiNGM & 00„ 

(322 NOTRE DAME ST., 

CORNER ST. HELEN. 



Good Fall and Winter 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



Pull assortment of RUBBERS and OVERSHOES 



WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Strest 



It goes without saying that^-a^^i 

WfiLFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty 

Photos of Professors on sale. 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 



136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 
MONTREAL. 



MANAGER. 



Having opened a new store at 2411 St- Catherine Street, I would invite special inspec- 
tion of a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 

MkMSrns WILLIAM SAMUEL, 2411 St. Catherine Street 



