i^lcGlIsIs FOHTNIGHTIsV 

A Fortnightly Journal of literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. III. MONTREAL, MARCH 8, 1894. No. ii 




EDITORIAL BOARD 



E(Jifar-in-chief — Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App, Sc. *96). 
Secretary — Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Vef. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 
H. M, Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med. ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 



E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95), Chairman, 

A. F. Edwards (Med. '96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Sc. *95). J.C. Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. *95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts ’96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is j^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.*s, E. M. Renouf’s, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



It is rumoured that the term of study in the 
Law Faculty will be increased to four years instead of ' 
three as it is at present. The Faculty are discussing 
the question, and will soon arrive at some definite con- 
clusion regarding it, though what the decision will be 
is still a matter of doubt. The students seem to think 
that three years are ample to enable them to absorb 
sufficient legal lore to practise their profession, and 
all the more so because the Quebec Legislature a 
year ago passed a bill reducing the term of clerkship 
of the student from four to three years, thus allow- 
ing him to complete his full course of study at 
the University and clerkship in the office at one and 
the same time. They, however, know that they will 
not be consulted, and are consequently awaiting the 
decision with considerable anxiety. 



changes which have taken place in our athletics under 
the new regime. Undoubtedly there has been an 
improvement over former years, and athletics now 
seem to occupy among us what may be termed a 
good healthy prominence. Students are induced to 
participate in them for the physical benefits to be 
derived therefrom, while the “ training ” system has 
I not been introduced to such an extent ns to interfere 
I with the work of the class room. 

It cannot be denied that the extra money placed 
' at the disposal of the several clubs, while extricating 
! them from their chief difficulty of the past {i.e., lack 
! of funds), may possibly conduce to the objectionable 
system just referred to ; but it is to be hoped that 
the good sense of the McGill student will not permit 
such a thing. 



Football, the McGill A. A. and Hockey have 
each felt the benefit of the increased grants, and have 
flourished accordingly. Especially has this been the 
case with the Hockey Club; for have we not ob- 
served somewhere among our class reports, that Ap- 
plied Science alone supports five teams ^ Hockey 
seems once more to be taken up in the right spirit, 
and McGill boasts a strong team. 

The SEASON FOR CRICKET and tennis was practically 
over at the commencement of the session, so that the 
votaries of these sports, which have hitherto needed 
money perhaps more than any others, have not as 
yet felt the good effects of larger appropriations. 
Their turn will come, however, next summer. 

In striking contrast to the state of out-door 
sports is the condition of the Gymnasium. Yet, in 
spite of the old building, with its cold drafts, leaky 
roof and general uncomfortableness, this branch of 
athletics is still popular, as anyone will testify who 
has had the good fortune to witness the competitions 
that have taken place during the last week. 



The first committee for the management of 
oTounds and athletics at McGill has just finished its 
year’s work, and naturally we are led to look at the 



We have, as yet, received no further communica- 
tions touching the suggestion in our last number, for 
a joint concert on Sports Night, to be arranged for by 



184 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



our Glee and Banjo Clubs. We arc given to under- 
stand, however, that the proposal has met with gen- 
uine approval, and has been enthusiastically advo- 
cated by the undergraduates of certain of the Facul- 
ties. 



Our reporters have responded nobly to the ap- 
peal in our last number, and have done their part 
towards making the editors happy. Would that others 
had consciences as tender as have class-reporters, and 
that a request for contributions were met with such 
liberality on all sides, as to beget in the editors naught 
but a feeling of complacency, as they reflected upon 
the articles and poems that might be held over until 
next number. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



EDMUND SPENSER. 

Let us turn aside for a few minutes from current 
events with their excitement, fatigue and disappoint- 
ment, and rest ourselves beside the quiet stream of 
pure poetry which flows through the melodious stan- 
zas of Spenserian verse. Camden’s eulogium “ An^'li- 
carum poetarum nosiri seculi facile princeps” was not 
only true of that age, but has, in one sense, remained 
true through every succeeding epoch, for no English 
poet, save one, of whom more hereafter, has equalled 
Spenser in the triumphs of pure imagination. Side 
by side with him on our modest bookshelf stands his 
only predecessor, Chaucer, and side by side they lie 
in Westminster Abbey. Chaucer interests us by his 
warm living characters, his strong humanity. Spen- 
ser interests us not at all, except as we have trained 
ourselves to love high thoughts and feelings express- 
ed in music. The ordinary newpaper and novel reader 
can, with the very slight expenditure of trouble 
necessary to master the archaic phraseology, read 
Chaucer with pleasure ; but Spenser is silent to him, 
for what cares he for the involved and contradictory 
adventures of impossible personages > He feels the 
personal presence of the jolly Wife of Bath or the 
cantankerous Sompnour, but the faint phantoms of 

Sir Calidore or Sir Artegall are to him mere idle 
folly. 

Spenser’s machinery is of the simplest possible 
description. A champaign country, varied with 
bosky woods and clear running streams, a hermitage, 
an occasional castle or palace, an innocent damsel in 
distress, a guilty damsel in fair disguise, a good knight, 
a bad knight, a monstrous beast, these constitute his 
whole mise-en-scene, his inevitable dramatis personcs, 
and with these simple accessories, carelessly strung 
together, he sets out on his long journey through 
Faeryland, knowing that those whose ears are tuned 
aright will follow him with ever increasing pleasure 



and caring not for a multitude of followers. His 
audience will always be fit though few. The remark- 
able absence of human interest from his poetry is 
thrown into a strong light when we compare him 
with Milton, that prince of anthro-pomorpholo- 
gists who has reduced the powers of darkness to 
human shape, and has bestowed a character more 
mundane and distinct on Lucifer than on Adam. 
Spenser, on the other hand, demands from us an 
entire abstraction from flesh and blood. His charac- 
ters are virtues and vices, speaking an articulate lan- 
guage indeed, but not personified. 

It is for this reason, that he, more than any other 
English poet, may be taken as the test of a reader’s 
taste for poetry as such, pure and simple. It is a 
truism that poetry appeals to the imagination, and 
therefore the more absolute the appeal — the greater 
the demand upon the imagination, — the purer the 
poetry, subject always to this qualification, that there 
must be a sufficient reward for the imaginative exer- 
cise demanded. If a man, throwing all extraneous 
aids of interest, passion or humanity aside, appeals 
to our imagination and furnishes that imagination 
with a pure, beautiful and noble exercise, then he is a 
true poet in the strictest sense of the word, and such 
a one is Edmund Spenser — a poet for poets. Of this 
his peculiar dignity, we have a sufficiently conspicuous 
example. The practical Macaulay, brilliant versifier 
though he was, had about as little true poetry in him 
as any writer ancient or modern, and accordingly we 
find him condemning Spenser as tedious. With 
reckless superficiality he tells us that “ very few and 
“ very weary are those who are in at the death of the 
“ Blatant Beast.” Now, the Blatant Beast is one of 
Spensers finest imaginations. In it he represents 
popular slander, that proneness to think evil of great 
minds, which is the most ignoble characteristic of 
human nature, and for which we so often have occasion 
to blush ourselves. He knew the human mind too 
well to picture the final eradication of this curse. He 
niakes Sir Calidore pin the monster to the ground and 
c am him, as we all know some particular lies are 
pinned down and chained, but the chain is soon 

broken and the beast gets out into the world, at 
liberty again. 

“Tl^nceforth more mischiefe and more scath he wrought 
To mortall men then he had done before • ^ 

Ne ever could, by any, more be brought 

™=iystred any more : 

Albe that, long time after Calidore 

•‘ The good Sir MIeus him ,„oke'i„ hand. 

And after him Sir Lamoracke of yore 

Ve, none of then, could ever bring hin. into tand. 

“ "7 'Ik 'vorldanain 

And rageth sore in each degree and sute •’ 

T^7n>' -w festraint ’ 

Hegrowen is so great and strong oflate. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



185 



“ Barking and biting all that him doe bate, 

Albe they worthy blame, or cleare of crime. 

Ne spareth he most learned wits to rate, 

Ne spareth he the gentle Boets rime ; 

But rends without regard of person or of time.” 

Now, what shall we say of the critic who talks 
about “ the death of the Blatant Beast” ? 

Of the musical qualities of Spenser’s verse we need 
say but little. His pre-eminent virtue in this respect 
is admitted on all sides. He first showed English- 
men the rich melody that could be drawn from their 
mother tongue. Under his hands our language shook 
off those crabbed restraints which mar all our other 
early poets, and no long work in our language, even 
to-day, equals the Faerie Queene for constant ease 
and sweetness of rhythm and expression. From first 
to last the reader’s ear is filled with uninterrupted 
pleasure. 

The waies, through which my weary steps I guide 
In this delightfull land of Faery, 

‘‘ Are so exceeding spacious and wyde, 

And sprinckled with such sweet variety 
Of all that pleasant is to eare or eye, 

That I, nigh ravisht with rare thoughts delight, 

My tedious travell doe forget thereby ; 

And when I gin to feel e decay of might, 

It strength to me supplies, and chears my dulled spright.’’ 

Not only did he make his instrument and endow 
us with the splendid Spenserian stanza, poised so 
exquisitely and closing so fully upon its long Alex- 
andrine ; but he used that instrument with a mastery 
more perfect than any of his better equipped succes- 
sors have attained. He is at once Stradivarius and 
Paganini. The famous refrain of the Prothalamion, 
so admired by Christopher North, is not more apt 
than the companion refrain of the Epithalamion, but 
Spenser’s beauties are not quotable. There is a con- 
tinuity about all his verse which effectually saves him 
from dissection and exhibition in “ Selected Readings ” 
and the like. We open the book at random, and on 
the same page we have two such touches as these : 

Her lips lyke cherries, charming men to bite.” 

‘^The birds’ love-learned song the deawy leaves among,” 

but these are no special ornaments, they are mere 
incidental touches forming part of a highly finished 
whole, — the most splendid marriage hymn in literature. 

A delightful characteristic of Spenser is the sudden 
touch of quiet fun that slips into his verse now and 
again, with piquant effect. For instance, after “the 
night raven that still deadly yells,” and “ damned 
ghosts cald up with mighty spels,” and “griesly vul- 
tures ” are solemnly warned off the premises, what a 
delicious topsy-turvy we take, when we read 

“ Ne let th’ unpleasant quyre of Frogs still croking, 

Make us to wish theyr choking.” 

But these sportive strokes do not frequently occur. 
Spenser s temperament is uniform, that of a tran- 
quilly cheerful man, neither gay nor sour. The dis- 



appointments of his life have left no deep impressions 
on his verse, and his complaints of the uncertainty 
of court favour and the fickleness of favourites and 
potentates are the expressions of conscious and almost 
contemptuous merit, untinged with any very strong 
feeling of bitter personal disappointment. The two 
stanzas which are all that remain to us of the eighth 
book of the Faery Queen exactly express his best 
mood, and, familiar as they are, we will quote them 
once again : — 

“ When I bethinke me of that speech whylenie of mutability, and 
well it may, 

Me seemes, that though she all unworthy were cf the Heavens 
Rule; yet, very sooth to say, 

In all things else she bears the greate^t s^^ay ; 

“ Which makes me loath this state of life so tickle. 

And love cf things so vaine to cast a^^ay; 

Wh ose flowring pride, so fading and so fickle. 

Short Time shall soon cut down with his consuming sickle. 

Then gin I thinke on that which nature sayd, 

Of that same time when no more change shall be, 

“ But stedfast rest of all things, firmely stayd 
Upon the pillours of Eternity, 

That is contrayr to mutabilitie ; 

‘^For all that moveth doth in change delight ; 

“But thenceforth all shall rest eternally 
“ With Him that is the God of Sabbaoth light ; 

O ! that great Sabbaoth God, grant me that Sabbaoth’s sight ! ” 

Of Spenser’s manner of life, how he looked and 
moved and acted in the ordinary world, we have little 
direct information, but his works tell us all we care 
to know. No author of any merit has ever succeeded 
in disguising his personality from his attentive readers, 
and we think the description of a gentleman in 
Mother Hubbard’s Tale may stand for a portrait of 
the master, drawn by himself : — 

‘‘ Yet the brave Courtier, in whose beauteous thought 
Regard of honour harbours more than ought, 

“ Doih loathe such base condition, to backbite 
“ An’es good name for envie or despite ; 

He stands on tearmes of honourable minde, 

“ Ne will be carried with the common winde 
' “ Of courts inconstant mutabilitie, 

“ Ne after everie tattling fable flie ; 

But heares, and sees, the follies of the rest. 

And thereof gathers for himselfe the best. 

“ He will not creepe, nor crouche with fained face. 

But walkes upright with comely stedfast pace, 

“ And unto all doth yield due curtesie ; 

But not with kissed hand belowe the knee, 

“ As that same Apish crue is wont to doo ; 

“ For he disdaines himselfe t’embase thei*etoo. 

He hates fowle leasings and vile flatterie, 

‘ ‘ Two filthie blots in noble genlrie ; 

And lothful idlenes he doth detest, 

The canker worme of everie gentle brest ; 

The w’hich to banish with faire exercise 
‘‘ Of knightly feates, he daylie doth devise ; 

Now menaging the mouths of stiibborne steedes. 

Now practising the proofe of warlike deedes. 

Thus when this Courtly Gentleman wdth toyle 
‘‘Himselfe hath wearied, he doth recoyle 
“ Unto his rest, and there wdih sw’eete delight 
“Of Musick’s skill revives his toyled spright ; 

“ Or els with Loves, and Ladies gentle sports, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ The joy of youth, himselfe he recomforts ; 

“ Or lastly, when the bodie list to pause, 

“ His minde unto the Muses he withdrawes ; 

‘"‘Sweete Ladie Muses, Ladies of delight, 

Delights of life, and ornaments of light ! 

“ With whom he close confers with wise discourse, 

‘‘Of Nature’s workes, of heaven's continuall course, 

“ Of forreine lands, of people different, 

“ Of kingdomes change, of divers gouvernment, 

^‘Of dreadfull battailesof renowned knights ; 

“With which he kindleth his ambitious sprights 
‘‘ To like desire and praise of noble fame, 

“The onely upshot whereto he doth ayme : 

“For all his minde on honour fixed is, 

“To which he levels all his purposies.” 

Let anyone read the whole of the passage from 
which we have taken these excerpts, and he will have 
before him a clear picture of the men who, in their 
proper greatness, made England great. The picture 
may be ideal. No one man of that age, perhaps, 
filled all the demands of the description, although 
some, like Sir Philip Sidney and Spenser himself, fell 
not far short. But what perfect ideal it is ! And how 
exactly it represents to us the typical English gentle- 
man ! 

It is a singular fact that our own time, so dissimilar 
in its most salient aspects from the Elizabethan era, 
has witnessed the appearance and acknowledges the 
living fame of the only poet who has followed in 
Spenser’s footsteps both in the subjects and the spirit 
ofhis principal poems. The parallel between Spenser 
and Tennyson is one of the most striking in litera- 
ture. Both have embalmed the memory of their 
dearest friends in wonderful verse. Both have turned 
aside from the actual world and sought the theme of 
their longest effort in Faery-land, the realm of pure 
imagination. Both have played upon our language 
with a facility and precision beyond the reach of all 
their brethren, and, above all, both have taught the 
same lessons of manly morality, a morality that com- 
bines robustness with delicacy and high ideals with 
strong common sense. If our readers have time and 
inclination to work out this parallel, we think the 
more closely they apply it the more exact it will be 
found. So long as Spenser’s name remains a fore- 
most one in English literature, so long will Tennyson 
remain his companion ; they are alike in spirit and in 
power. 

But we have rested long enough. Camden, speak- 
ing of Spenser’s funeral, tells us “ his hearse was at- 
tended by the gentlemen ofhis faculty, who cast into 
his tomb some funeral elegies and the pens they 
were wrote with ”, and so we throw our little ofiferinp-. 
unworthy as it is, upon his grave, and utter our 
final “ Vale.” 

ALFRED B. MAJOR. 



MY SCHOOLFELLOWS. 

My schoolfellows— where have they strayed ? 

Wliere are the flowers of hope they cheiishcd ? 
Pacled— as fairest flowers will fade ; 

Have they thus prematurely perished ? 

Or has the world been all they dreamed, 

Replete with happy lads and lasses— 

A jolly world ? for such it seemed 

Through boyhood’s rosy- coloured glasses. 

A school-boy’s notions of the fight 
For love, for honour, and for glory. 

Are apt to be too dazzling bright— 

But that’s, you know, the old, old story. 

To youth, the world’s a fairy-land ; 

A land that flows with milk and honey. 

Where life-streams roll through golden sand, 

And magic touches all— to morey. 

To happy boys, the form of life 

Is clothed like some enchanting stranger; 

They do not know the face of strife, 

Nor recognise the shape of danger. 

With ringing laugh, the world they dare, 

They mock their lilliputian troubles; 

But all their castles melt in air ; 

And all their boastings break like bubbles. 

Where are they now ? I’ve no idea; 

They joined life’s race with, thoughtless laughte 
Some may have won ; but few, I fear, 

Have gained the prize they panted after. 
There’s Brown, for instance, we were taught 
To think so w^ondrous wise and witty ; 

Who ridiculed the vaguest thought 
Of vulgar office in the city ; 

Who fixed his every boyish hope 
On legal fame. It's very funny ; 

I’ve heard he’s manufacturing soap. 

And coining w^ondrous sums of money. 

And 'Ihompson — oh, it’s too absurd! 

His every look was mirth and laughter, — 

Has joined the Church. Upon my word, 

I can’t think \vhat the fellow’s after. 

Applause came down at each grimace. 

An emblematic form of joking. 

Why, sometimes looking in his face, 

I’ve felt that I was almost choking ; 

He’d swear that black was wdiite, or blue; 

He w'as the first at spree or pillage, 

I can't imagine him — can you ? 

A parson — in a country village. 

Young Dove, w^ho w^as so meek and mild 
That when you spoke to him he trembled. 

Who had a very moral mind 
And ne'er defrauded nor dissembled. 

Was started in a first-rate trade ; 

But caring not a dump about law. 

His creditors he never paid. 

For which he was declared an outlaw: 

He fled to distant Mozambique, 

Where at the seaside he's residing; 

And till detectives cease to seek. 

It s probable he w’on t cease hiding. 

And Symonds, who from home once had 
Some wine, on which the rogue got tipsy 
(At first we thought him raving mad. 

Till one suggested catalepsy); 

Symonds, who smoked till almost dead 
Beneath the blankets, and to hide it 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



t87 



Burned turpentine beside the bed ; 

The Band of Hope he quite derided ; 

My blank amazement no one knows, 

When, meeting him at railway station, 

He handed me a tract that shows 
How smoke and drink destroy the nation! 

Then Chapman, you remember him, 

Perhaps the cleverest in the college, — 

Squint, specs, tall, awkward, shabby, slim, 

A walking library of knowledge. 

Always surrounded by a throng 
Querying questions, asking answers ; 

I’ve heard — it surely must be wrong ! — 

That he’s a captain in the Lancers. 

It takes a fancy very warm 

To think that solemn face could alter ; 

To imagine him, in uniform, 

Dancing scholtisches at Gibraltar. 

While Lamb, so ignorant of shame, 

Who ne’er was known to learn a lesson; 

On whose robust, well-seasoned frame 
No flogging made the least impression ; 

The roughest of the rough, as cool 
As ice, and quite as dead to feeling ; 

Who ere he’d been a day at school 
Was captured in the act of stealing ; 

Who left without one loving heart 

To which to look for fiiendship's bounty ; 

This year (in DocT) you’ll find him Bart.’^ 

And lord-lieutenant of a county. 

But, oh ! the saddest shock of all 1 

Pressall, who treated love with laughter, — 

My bosom friend, my all in all, — 

The fellow mariied four years after ! 

’Tis ever so; new whims get in. 

And older fancies may go rotten. 

’Tis ever so ; let love set in, 

Friendship and friends are soon forgotten. 

’Twas ever so ; some people run. 

While others walk, and some are carried ; 

For while I’m not yet twenty-one ♦ 

This younger rascal must get married. 

Married at twenty-one ! I think 
I’ve read in novels of such folly. 

At twenty -one ! it makes me shrink ! 

It really makes me melancholy ! 

Married at twenty -one, perchance 
It does in a comedietta — 

In Spain— in Norw^ay — or in France; 

I thought that English folk knew better ! 

A boy of twenty-one to wed ! 

Well, well, of course I haven’t tried it ; 

I think I’d as soon cut off my head. 

And pack my body up inside it ! 

Where are they now, the friends I knew. 

The clever, dull, the sober, “ lighf' one, 

At Hong Kong, or at Timbuctoo, 

At Brussels, Amsterdam, or Brighton ? 

Are they alive, or are they dead. 

Poor and forlorn, or famed and wealthy ? 

And are they bachelors, or wed ? 

Infirm and weak, or strong and healthy ? 

As waves that on the ocean beat, 

Mingle their frosted foam, and sever, 

So schoolboys who in boyhood meet 
May only meet to part for ever ! 

H. M. 



This must be pardoned as poetic license, the verse would have it so. 



ENGLISH BALLAD POETRY.' ' ■ 

III. 

The remainder of the ballad recounts the circum- 
stances attending the death of King Arthur ; and as 
it embraces the whole portion of the story, modern- 
ized in the “ Morte d’Arthur” of Lord Tennyson, 
I shall quote it entire, only promising that in Tenny- 
son’s version, as also in the old romances, it is Sir 
Bedevere and not Sir Lukyn who is the last survivor 
of that brilliant band of heroes, the Knights of the 
Round Table. 

The king, having succeeded in making his way 
back to the duke, and finding that his end is drawing 
nigh, is anxious to restore the sword Excalibar, or 
Calibur, which he had received, according to the old 
legend, in a very mysterious manner from the fairy 
of the Lake, and had worn for so many years : 

Sir Lukyn then he thus bespake 

Sir Knight, thou hast beene faithfulle tryde, 

Now’e take my sword Excalibar, 

That hangs so freelye by my syde. 

“ O take my sword Excalibar, 

And there into the river throwe, 

For here henceforthe beneath this tree 
All use of weapons I foregoe. 

And fare thee well, thou trust ye sword 
A belter ne^er had valiant knight, 

With thee full ofte, and manye a daye 
Have I withstood my foe in fighte. 

With this good fauchionin my hande 
Oft have I reaped the bloody fielde : 

But nowe the fatalle houre is come, 

That never more I may thee wielde.” 

The duke to the river side he went 

And there his owne sword in threwe he : 

But he kept back Excalibar, 

He kept it back in privilie. 

For all of coleyne (steel) was the blade ; 

And all the hilte of precious stone : 

‘‘ And ever, alacke ! ” then sayd the^knighte. 

Must such a sword awaye be throwne ? ” 

Then backe he came unto the kinge. 

Who sayd : Sir Lukyn, what did yee see?’’ 

Nothing, my liege, save that the winde 
Blewe o’er the waters faire and free*-” 

“ O goe againe,” then said the kinge, 

O good Sir Lukyn, goe againe : 

Into the rivers throwe my sword. 

Nor keep me lingering here in paine. ” 

The duke then to the river went 

And the king’s scabbard in threwe hee ; 

But he kept back Excalibar, 

And hid itundernethe a tree. 

Then backe he came to tell the kinge, 

Who’sayde, Sir Lukyn, sawe ye oughte ? ” 

“ Nothing, my liege, save that the winde 
Nowe with the angrye waters fought.” 



i88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



O Lukyn, Lukyn ! sayde the kinge, 

Twice hast thou dealt deceitfullye, 

Alacke, whom may wee ever tiusle 

When suche a knight e soe false can bee ? 

Saye, wouldst thou have thy master dead, 

All for a sword, that wins thine eye: 

Nowe goe againe and throwe it in, 

Or here the one of us shall dye.’^ 

1 he duke all shent withe this rebuke 
No answere made unto the kinge ; 

But to the rivere tooke the sword, 

And threwe it far as he colde flinge. 

A hand and an arm did ineete the sworde, 

And flourished three times in the air ; 

Then sunke beneathe the runninge streme, 

And of the duke was seene noe mail*. 

All sore astonied stood the duke ; 

He stood as still as still mote bee ; 

Then hastened backe to telle the kinge ; 

But he was gone from under the tree. 

But to what place he colde not telle, 

For never after hee did him spye: 

But he sawe a barge goe from the lande, 

And he heard ladyes howle and crye. 

And whether the king was there, or not, 

Hee never knewe, nor ever colde. 

For from that sad and direfulle daye, 

He never more was seene on molde. 

But lest it should be supposed that the lays of the 
old English ballad singers are all of a serious charac- 
ter, although the song of “ Robin Hood and Guy of 
Gisborne,” of which I have already given a few speci- 
mens, may be taken as sufficient evidence to the con- 
trary, I shall next quote a few passages from a humour- 
ous ballad entitled “ King Edward IV and the 
Tanner ofTamworth, ” one of the most amusing of 
them that we possess. This ballad is a good repre- 
sentative of a pretty large class of the popular songs, 
in which the king is represented as mingling, either 
by accident or design, with the lowest order of his 
subjects; and we may form a tolerably correct idea 
of the character of several of these, simply by observ- 
ing the kind of person with whom, in the title of the 
ballad, the monarch is associated. Thus we have, 
among others, the names of “ The King and the 
Miller”; “King Henry and the Soldier”; “King 
James and the Tinker” ; “ King Alfred and the Shep- 
herd ” ; “ King Henry VIII and the Cobbler ” ; etc., in 
all of which we seem to be able to discern at a 
glance whether the story be grave or gay, witty or 
dull, serious or amusing. In like manner, “ King 
Edward IV and the Tanner,” which we are now about 
to discuss, is a title sufficiently suggestive, and the 
ballad, although, like most of those of a humourous 
character, deformed by occasional coarsenesses of ex- 
pression, which, however pardonable we may be in- 
clined to consider them in view of the age in which 
they were written, are none the less blemishes,— is 



admirable in its way, and gives us an excellent in- 
sight into the manners and sentiments of our English 
ancestors. 

King Edward, being out on a hunting excursion, 
attended by his nobles and followers, spies a tanner 
riding along towards him on a mare, with a cowhide 
for a saddle, and, being in the humour for a little sport, 
orders his attendants to remain behind under the 
trees, while he rides forward to meet the tanner, whom 
he thus accosts : 

“ God speede, God speede thee,” said our king, 

‘ Thou art welcome, sir,” sayd hee. 

“ The readyest waye to Drayton Bassett 
I praye thee showe to mee.” 

‘ ‘ To Drayton Basset woldst thou goe, 

Fto the p'ace where thou do't stand ? 

The next payre of gallowes thou comest unto, 

Turne in upon thy right hande.” 

“ That is an unreadye way,” sayd our king, 

” Thou doest but jest I see ; 

Nowe, showe me out the nearest waye, 

And I pray thee wend withe me.” 

“ Awaye withe a vengeance ! ” quoth the tanner ; 

“ I hold thee out of thy witt : 

All daye have I ridden onBrocke my mare, 

And I am fasting yette.” 

”Go' with me down to Drayton Basset, 

No dainties we will spare; 

All daye shalt thou eat and drinke of the best. 

And I will paye thy fare.” 



“ Gramercye for nothing,” the tanner replyde 
“ Thou payest no fare of mine : 

I trowe I’ve more noblfis in my purse 
Than thou hast pence in thine.” 

The king wishes him joy of his money, a form of 
congratulation which arouses the suspicions of the 
tanner, who straightway begins to tremble for fear 
that he has got into the clutches of a thief or hio-h- 
way man, 

“ What art thou,” he sayd, “thou fine fellOwe? 

Of thee I am in great feare. 

For the cloathes thou wearest upon thy backe 
Might beseeme a lord to weare.” 



The king, after protesting his innocence of having 
acquired his habiliments by any unlawful means, and 
receiving a rebuke from the other for his extravagance, 
then desires to know the news : 

“ What tydings Iieare you ? ” sayd the kinge, 

“ As you ride fane and neare ? ” ’ 

“ I heare no tydings, syr, by the masse. 

But that cow-hides are deare.” 



“Cow-hides ! cow hides! 

I marvel w'hat they bee ? 
“ What art thou a foole ! ” 
“ I carry one under me. 



What things are those ? 
the tanner sayd, 

>5 



^ , uii me part ot the 1 

as to the occupation of his blunt-spoken acqut 

ance, who, after informing his majesty that he 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



189 



^'barker," as a tanner was sometimes called in those 
days, puts a similar question to the king in return. 

The king tells him that he is a poor courtier out of 
employ, who would be very glad to become his 
apprentice and gain a knowledge of his trade ; 

“ Marrye heaven forfencl,” the tanner replyde, 

“ That thou niy prentice were ; 

Thou woldst spend more good than I shold winne 
By fortye shilling a yere.” 

The king next proposes to exchange horses with 
the tanner, who, ready to drive a good bargain, as- 
sents in the following terms : 

Why if with me thou faine will change, 

As change full well maye wee, 

By the faith of my bodye, thou proud fellowe, 

I will have some boot of thee/^ 

At this the king demurs, on the ground that his 
horse is manifestly the best of the two, to which the 
tanner replies : 

“Yea, sir, but Brocke isquiete and milde. 

And softly she will fare ; 

Thy horse is unrulye and wilde, I wiss^ 

Aye skipping here and there.” 

“ What boote wilt thou have ? ” our king reply’d, 

Now tell me in this stound. 

Noe pence, nor halfpence, by my faye, 

But a noble in gold so round. 

“ Here’s twenty groates of white mon^ye, 

Sitte thou wilt have it of mee.” 

I would have sworn now,” quoth the tanner, 

“ Thou hast not had one pennie. 

“ But since we two have made a change, 

A change we must abide. 

Although thou hast gotten Brooke my mare, 

Thou gettest not my cow-hide.” 

Upon the king’s declaring that he would not have 
the cowhide if the tanner were to make him a present 
of it, the latter then throws it over the saddle of the 
king’s'beast, and prepares to mount. 

Now help me up, thou fine fellowe, 

’Tis time that I am gone : 

When I come home to Ty Ilian, my wife, 

Shell say I am a gentilmon.” 

When the tanner he was in the kinge’s saddle 
And his foote in the stirrup was. 

He marvelled greatly in his minde 
Whether it were golde or brasse. 

But when his steede saw the cow’s taile wagge 
And eke the black cow-horne ; 

He stamped and stared and awaye he ranne, 

As the devil had him borne. 

The tanner he pulled, the tanner he sweat, 
nd held by the pummil fast ; 

At length the tanner came tumbling down. 

His necke he had well nye brast. 

‘‘ Take thy horse again with a vengeance,” he sayd, 

“ With mee he shall not byde.” 



My horse would have borne thee well enoughe. 

But he knew not of thy cow-hide. 

Yet if againe thou faine woldst change. 

As change full well may wee, 

By the faith of my body, thou jolly tanner, 

I will have some boote of thee.” 

“ What boote wilt thou have ?” the tanner replyd, 

“ Nowe tell me in this stounde*? 

Noe pence nor halfpence, sir, by my faye. 

But I will have twentye pound.” 

“ Here’s twenty groates out of my purse, — 

And twenty I have of thine : 

And I have one more, which we will spend 
Together at the wine.’ 

The king set a bugle-horne to his mouthe. 

And blewe both loud and shrille ; 

And soon came lords and soon came knights. 

Fast ryding over the hille. 

Nowe, out alas ! ” the tanner he cryde, 

^ ‘ That ever I sawe this daye ! 

ITiou art a strong thiefe, you come, thy fellowes 
Will bear my cow-hide away.’^ 

They are no thieves,” the king replyde, 

“ I sweare, so mote I thee ; 

But they are the lords of the north countrey. 

Here come to hunt with mee.” 

And soone before our kinge they came 
And knelt down on the grounde : 

Then might the tanner have been awaye, 

He had lever than twentye pounde. 

The king then calls for a collar, which seems to 
have been employed in early times for the purpose 
of creating esquires, by hanging it round the neck ; 
but the demand suggests quite a different train of 
thought in the mind of the tanner. 

‘A coller, a coller,” the tanner he sayd, 

“I trowe it will breed sorrowe ; 

After a coller cometh a halter, 

I trow I shall be hanged to-morrowe.” 

“ Be not afraid, tanner,” sayd our kinge ; 

‘‘ I tell thee, soe mote I thee, 

Lo here I make thee the best esquire 
That is in this North coun tree. 

“For Plumpton parke I will give thee, 

With tenements faire beside : 

’Tis worth three hundred markes by the yeare, 

To maintain thy good cow-hide.” 

“Gramercye, my liege,” the tanner replyde. 

For the favor thou bast me showne; 

If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth 
Neates leather shall daub thy shoen.” 

And here ends this amusing tale, and we may, I 
suppose, fairly conclude that the king and the tanner 
both keep their word, although we have no direct 
evidence to the fact. 

E. G. 



T90 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



WHAT’S IN A NAME. 

Apropos of names, who has not heard of “ old dog 
Tray,” and yet this name Tray has not been in actual 
use for centuries, and exists only in the field of sen 4 - 
mental literature. Even the old Celtic word “tray, 
meaning dog, from which it is probably derived, is 
not found save in an epigram of Martial, in which 
we find the form vertragus, signifying a swift dog or 
hound. 

Since our subject is “ what’s in a name ” it will not 
perhaps be quite out of place to introduce a few ana- 
grams, strikingly appropriate. The invention of 
anagrams is ascribed to the Greek poet Lycophron, 
who flourished about B.C. 380, in the time of Ptolemy 
Philadelphus, on whose name he formed the anagram 
airo fxe\iTo<;, “ made of honey.” He thus read that of 
Ptolemy’s wife Arsinoe * Hpa? ’toi/ “Juno’s violet.” 
There is an excellent one on Mary Stuart : “ Maria 
Stewarda Scotorhm Regina , — Trus a vi regnis niorte 
amara cado , — Thrust by force from my kingdoms, 
I fall by a bitter death.” The name of George Monk, 
Duke of Albemarle, contains, written in Latin, an 
important historical date, “ I brought back my king 
in the year 1660.” 

Turning from names of persons to another division 
of proper names, we find that local names, whether 
belonging to mountains, rivers, plains, towns or seas 
are always significant ; they are never mere arbitrary 
signs, but are of great interest and importance. As 
Mr. Taylor says in his work on local name.s, they are 
always records of the past, and enable us to trace the 
history of ancient nations, their emigrations and im- 
migrations, their commingling by war and by con- 
quest or by the more peaceful agency of commerce. 
They are often more archaic than the existing forms 
of language, and embalm the form of speech of more 
remote eras. Names of places often remain un- 
affected by the lapse of ages, when the towns that 
bore them and the people who used them, have long 
since vanished. 

The names of Tadmor and Sidon remain un_ 
changed by a single letter, when only a few broken 
columns and fragments of sculpture remain to mark 
the scene of ancient splendour. 

The appellations, when descriptive of the country, 
aid the philologist, if the physical features have re- 
mained the same ; and likewise, if the aspect of the 
country has undergone changes, when rivers have 
altered their course, when marshes have dried up, and 
coast-lines have advanced or retreated, they come 
forward as records of facts unrecorded in history, and 
thus aid the geologist, as evidences of vast physical 

mutations. 

The picturesque or descriptive character of names 
is seen in those applied to the .striking features of the 



landscape, — mountains, rivers, seas. Thus from the 
dangerous character of its coasts the Black Sea was 
called TT01/T09 “ the inhospitable sea,” after- 
wards changed by euphemism to iv^eivo^, 

“kind to strangers.” 

But “many names conjoin historical and physical 
information,” thus the highest peak of the Isle of Man 
is called Snafell ; but this is a Nor.se word, belonging 
also to a mountain in Norway, and thus we find that 
the Isle of Man was conquered and colonized by Nor- 
wegian Vikings. The chief value of the science of 
geographical etymology consists in the ethnological 
import of names. Many nations have left no written 
records, but from the traces they have left behind 
them in the names of rivers, mountains, lakes and 
plains we can gather the history of their migrations. 
It is thus that most of our information regarding the 
migrations and conquests of Teutonic, Celtic, Sclav- 
onic and Scandinavian races has been obtained. 

Names often contain explicit historical information, 
and even enable us to fix the approximate dates of 
important historical events. For instance, from the 
very name of Tripoli we see that it was founded by 
three cities, — Tyre, Sidon and Aradus ; Louisiana 
tells us that that part of the country was settled in the 
time of “ le grand monarque ” ; Virginia, in the reign 
of the Virgin Queen. 

The names of the New World are especially rich 
in information ; from them we may gather the pro- 
gress of the white people over the Western world, 
and the dates at which different settlements were 
formed ; we may assign to the different nations of 
Europe their share in colonization, and may recover 
the names of the adventurous captains who led the 
bands of pioneers through the wilderness to conquer 
from nature, or the savage tribes. 

It is possible, merely, to mention a few names by 
way of illustration. Salem was founded by the Pilgrim 
Fathers to be a new Jerusalem ; Philadelphia, the city 
of brotherly love, was founded by Quakers who fled 
from the persecutions in England, in the hope of found- 
ing a Utopia in y\merica, a state of peace and har- 
mony. 1 he origin of the name Pennsylvania is 
well known to all. In the Northern Seas we find a 
record of four brave Englishmen— Frobisher, Davis, 
Baffin and Hudson— who met with a tragic fate in the 
waters which bear his name. 

How can the red men be forgotten while so many 
states and territories, bays, lakes and rivers are 
indelibly stamped with names of their giving > ” The 
Indian names are remarkable for their inexpressible 
beamy and grand majestic euphony. Niagara- 

a her of waters ; ” Alabama,—" here is rest : ” Tor- 
onto—" meeting of the waters.” 

A little ,,oem of Mrs. Sigourney’s is worth quot- 



McGill fortnightly. 



Ye say they all have passed away, 
That noble race and brave, 



That their light canoes have vanished 
From off the crested wave, 

That 'mid the forest where they roamed 
There rings no hunter’s shout : 
l?ut their name is on your waters, 

Ye may not wash it out. 

“ ’Tis where Ontario’s billow 
Like ocean surge is curled, 

Where strong Niagara’s thunders wake 
The echo of the world. 

Whei'e Red Missouri bringeth 
Rich tribute from the West, 

And Rappahannock sweetly sleeps 
On green Virginia’s breast . 

“ Ye say their cone-like cabins. 

That clustered o’er the vale, 

Have disappeared as withered leaves 
• Before the autumn’s gale, 

But their memory liveth on your hills. 

Their baptism on your shore. 

Your everlasting rivers speak 
Their dialect of yore.” 

“ Your mountains build their monuments 
Though }Ou destroy their dust.” 

An 6 xtr 3 ,ct from cin Qrticlc on the origin of the n3,nie 
Arcsciici by Sir \\ illi3.n1 Dsvvson might be of interest. 
“Arcadia” signifies primarily a place of plenty or 
abundance. Thus it is not only a beautiful name 
which should never have been abandoned for such 
names as New Brunswick or Nova Scotia, but it is 
most applicable to a region which is richer in “the 
chief things of the ancient mountains, the precious 
things of the lasting hills, and the precious things of 
the earth, and of the deep that coucheth beneath 
than any other portion of America of similar dimen- 
sions.” 

In conclusion, we must not leave the subject of 
names without a passing glance at another point in 
connection with the local names of ancient Greece. 
Grote says : — “ Many among its proper names, by 
their analogy to words really significant, gave direct 
occasion to explanatory or illustrative stories. Ety- 
mological mythes are found in sensible proportion 
among the whole number.” 

Thus we have the Bosporus, “ the ford of the cow- 
maiden,” taking its name, as yEschylus says, from 
the ill-fated lo, and in like manner the Ionian Sea 

y 

reached by her in her wanderings. 

The citadel of Carthage was called “ bozra,” a Phee. 
nician word meaning an acropolis ; the Greeks con- 
nected this with “ ^vp a ” an ox-hide, and then arose 
the explanatory legend of the portion of land enclosed 
with the ox-hide cut into strips by the cunning 
Ph(Enicians. 

In more modern times legends have similarly 
gathered around altered names. The origin of the 
well-known legend of the wicked Bishop Hatto, de- 



191 



voLired by rats in his fortress on the Rhine, may be 
traced to a corruption of the name of the “maut- 
thurne,” or custom-house into the mause-thiirm or 
Mouse-Tower. Thus we find in names an almost inex- 
haustible source of information, useful and amusing, 
historical and mythical, geographical and ethnological. 
Although we have confined our attention solely to 
proper names, thus illustrating in a somewhat 
desultory manner “ what’s in a name,” there yet re- 
mains the wild field of common names, containing 
rich mines of wealth to reward the toil of all who will 
endeavour to fathom their depths. 

DONALDA. 
THE SWALLOW. 

• (Translation from L. IT Frechette.) 

Pve seen the sprightly swallow flying, — 

To her old friends forever true — 

On rapid wing straight homeward hieing 
To the rest where she may her loves renew. 

Would that I might her lot inherit, — 

Such happy fate smile on my ways, 

To come back yearly (so might I merit I) 

To this charming spot ; and here end my days ! 



THE COMPLAINTE OF LOVE. 

Love, — if Love be thy name — 

Thy fires are cruel. 

A maid’s eyes set the flame, 

My sighs do fan the same, 

My heart is fuel. 

I do consume away 

Under her glances ; 

She is the orb of day, 

My heart hath to one ray 
Gathered its lances. 

Oh, fierce delight to burn 
After such fashion ! 

Wealth, fame and friends I spurn, 
Forsaking all to turn 

Unto Love’s passion. 

When I do burnM prove 
Scatter my ashes, 

That they as lights of love 
Wherever winds do rove 
Kindle new flashes ! 

R. MacDOUGALL. 

Cambridge. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

It was a study to watch the facial expression of 
some of the students the other day in the Molson 
Hall, as they faced the paper on Criminal Law. 
Some took it in the shap of a sudden shockf as 



192 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



though struck with a sandbag ; others showed deci- 
ded surprise, which, as they read, developed into a 
wild, frightened, let-me-get-out-of-here expression ; 
others read the first question, grabbed the pen, 
dashed at the ink-bottle and buckled down to work 
without delay ; — ink flew around, and the fellow’s 
white collar in front was soon speckled. He didn’t 
mind, he was too much absorbed. These were the 
wise ones. Others read the papers through calmly, 
and smiled, — yes, actually smiled ! A funny kind of a 
smile though, a sort of grin-and-bear smile. It 
was great to watch them. That is what the exam- 
iners like. They like to watch the fellows in pain. 
Eventually all got to work ; but the fellow who 
began to shower the ink around on the first ques- 
tion had an advantage. He got two or three min- 
utes of a start. That’s not much, but considering 
the wide field that had to be covered, every second 
counted. The abbreviatory schemes that were 
evolved that afternoon were startling, we believe. It 
is an art to be able to cover vast subjects in a few tell- 
ing, magic words — to reduce twelve hours’ writing to 
the limit of three or four. We must boil down, crys- 
tallize. Let’s study laconics. Never mind dates, 
and statutes — leave them out ; brevity is the thing in 
law, master strokes ! 

Well ! it is over anyway. We sigh with relief. 
Still it was a struggle. After writing from three 
o’clock till after the dinner hour, as the boys wiggled 
downstairs one by one, it looked as though the whole 
brigade had been sandbagged. Happy 3rd Year 
men ! Pray for us that remain. 

W. Bond, of the ist Year, represented the P'aculty 
of Law at the Arts Conversazione, recently held in 
the Molson Hall. The meeting was a brilliant suc- 
cess, and reflects great credit on the gentlemen of 
the P'aculty of Arts. Our representative reports 
having spent a most enjoyable evening. 



awakened to a sense of its duty — that this new B.C.L. 
general exam, is a grand move in the right direction, 
that the Faculty is now going to turn out all-round, 
thoroughly equipped men. And, besides, it will be 
a grand thing for the Bar exam. 

And then just watch that fellow smile. All out of 
pure malignity. 



Mr. A. Rives Hall, of ’94, let the light of his genial 
countenance shine in upon us the other evening. He 
was welcomed by all the old students. These old 
familiar faces. How pleasant ! 



Professov — “ When we reach the patriarchial 
system we arrive at the age of history.” 

Student — “ Was that before or after the flood. 
Professor V' 

Collapse of Professor. 

Gentlemen, you may bring your codes, notes, etc. 
etc., to the Exam, to morrow. That is a privilege 
Professor Geoffrion has allowed the students from 
time immemorial. Now, ist Year men, don’t be 
foolish. Don’t imagine you are going to have “a 
snap ” of it. Don’t go and lug half a dozen big vol- 
umes to the Molson Hall to-morrow, and have all the 
2nd and 3rd Year men laughing at you. It 
will not do you a bit of good. Besides, you ought to 
know by this time that Professor Geoffrion is a 
humourist — a wit. Yes, and something of a practical 
joker too. Mark that last ! 



The announcement not long ago by the Dean, that 
the students would be required to undergo a general 
examination in all the subjects of the three years 
before being admitted to the degree of B.C.L. , created 
something like a panic in the ranks of the 3rd 
Year. The graduating class immediately made re- 
presentations that they would be placed at an alarming 
disadvantage by the new law ; that the time was too 
short to prepare ; that timely notice should have 
been given them ; that they were working up their 
Bar exam., etc., etc. And the Dean generously let 
them olf. And now you will see a Senior come up 
and put his arm affectionately around a 2nd Year 
man, and rest his chin lovingly on his shoulder, and 
whisper into his ear that the Faculty has at last 



FEATHERS FROM EAST WING. 

‘‘ Unnumbered as the sands, in swarms arose 
The hosts of insects. In long dimension 
Creeps with sinuous trace the worm.’’ 

Such were the words which fell upon the listening 
ears of one of ’96, who, leaving her zoological cares at 
home, had come to hear Hadyn’s “Great ion.” “ Oh ! ” 
she sighed, must these creatures buzz and crawl 
about me even where I expected to forget myself and 
all the world in soul-refreshing strains } Ye ‘ Ver- 
mes ’ with sinuous trace, when I came to your pro- 
vince, I thought my load a heavy one, but struggled 
on, looking forward to ‘ Insecta ’ which I thought 
meant a bug or two. Alas, how frail are human 
hopes !— ‘ unnumbered as the sands.’ I fear when 
these swarms have settled in a thick black cloud upon 
me, naught will they leave but the skeleton of a 
human vertebrate which will perhaps in future years 
serve to illustrate the physiology lectures, or be sta- 
tioned as guardian of the museum insects. But my 
revenge w ill be sweet ; what groans shall issue from 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



'93 



that museum at night, what strange lights shall flash 
from the windows, and in the morning in what 
ghastly heaps shall these preserved representatives of 
my tormentors lie ! ” Thus she calmed her fears, and 
with a triumphant gleam in her eyes, quietly heard 
the concert through. 

REPORT ON THE STATE OF THE 4TH YEAR 
(Feb. 28th, 1895.) 

Ordinaries. — “ Labor and intent study.” 

English Honours. — “Painful vigils keep.” 

Philosophy Honours. — “There never was a philo- 
sopher who could bear toothache patiently.” 

Honour Science. — “ Blessings on him who invented 
sleep.” 

Total — rushed. 

Q. What would you prescribe ? 

A. The full possession of a “ B.A.” will effect an 
immediate convalescence. 



The following was overheard on the avenue : 

1st Soph. : “ I’m going over to the Library to 
copy notes ; will you lend me the notes you took in 
Botany this morning ” 

2nd Soph : “Didn’t you get yours down ?” 
ist Soph: “No; he went so fast, I gotonly about two 
lines down, and I did not want to spoil the appear- 
ance of my notes. I would much rather have a 
neat book than full notes.” 

Did she really mean that ? 

Where, and oh where, have the East Wing feathers 
gone ? 



Professor. — Where do you get the meaning of “ to 
begin ” in Auspicari — ? 

Donalda. — In the note. 



Scene: an English class-room. 

Literary Donalda (author of the most voluminous 
essay that has ever greeted the eyes of a professor of 
English), addressing Lecturer,— “ When are we to get 
our essays back } ” 

Lecturer.— Well I hardly know ; I believe there 
were about a hundred of them to be corrected, and 
{innocently^ I heard that there was one forty-eight 
pages long.” 

(Sudden collapse on the part of the enquirer and 
the few initiated ones.) 



TO MY GOWN. 

THE LAMENT OF A JUNIOR. 

Do I behold thee once again, 

My gown, my own dear gown ? 

Where through these long weeks hast tliou been, 
While I, with ceaseless frown, 

Have wandered round in search of thee, 

And found thee not, my gown, my gown ? 

Who then has dared— bold, shameless one — 

To take from me my gown ? 

For three long years of toil and care 
We have each other known, 

And never, till this last sad year, 

Have I yet lost thee, my dear gown. 

Was it a staid Donalda of 
The famous Senior year? 

The charmM circle — seven maids, 

Whom we do hold most dear ! 

Ah, no ! these maids too noble are. 

E’er to remove thee, gown most dear ! 

Was it a Junior then ? No, no ! 

Damsels so orderly 

Have e’er their own gowns close at hand ; 
Indeed, it could not be 

A member of Class of ’96 
Who has appropriated thee. 

A Sophomore ? Perish the thought ! 

Too dignified by far — 

Too studious, stately, and too proud. 

These fair Donaldas are. 

Their dignity would ’97 

From such an unkind deed debar. 

A Freshman then? Alas ! ’tis sad 
That such a tale be told ! 

But yet it seems to be too true — 

True that the culprit bold 

Is of the year we vainly strive 
In their own proper place to hold. 



ARTS NOTES. 

In a recent issue of the Fortnightly, mention was 
made of the Sophomores’ intention to hold a political 
debate. 

It was hoped that the Faculty would not in any 
way interfere with the execution of the idea ; great 
interest had been aroused, and all hoped for a good 
time on the night of the debate. The Faculty, how- 
ever, saw fit to exercise its right, and the affair is, in 
consequence, off, for the present. 



Prof. — (Examples in logarithms). Did you fail .? 
Student. — No ! 

Prof. — Did you try ? 

Student. — No ! 

Then you are only postponing your fail 

ure. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



194 



The class of ’97 is taking a deep interest in the 
historical lectures delivered by Dr, Colby. The 
course is one of the finest in the curriculum, and the 
vast historical knowledge evinced by the lecturer, as 
well as the sympathetic interest which he manifests 
towards his pupils, have won for him a very large 
mea'^ure of respect and esteem. 



A recent writer has said : 

This world is like an omnibus — 
A few good men perhaps 
May own a seat, but nearly all 
Must hold on by the straps/’ 



Altering somewhat 

This world is like a college hall — 
A score of men or more 
May own a chair, but Howard C. 
Must sit upon the floor. 



Classical discussion on ^omepco irapeOvov. 

Students — Was she represented on the stage as a 
cow ? 

Professor. — Oh, no. 

Student. — Is there not then, some discrepancy } 
Professor. — Our author does not account for it. 



We are pleased to learn that Mr. J. C. Robertson, 
our worthy ex-president, has been elected Arts’ Edi- 
tor for next session. His appointment gives satisfac- 
tion to us all, for he is “ worth no worse a place,” and 
we feel that his presence on the Editorial Staff will 
go far to insure a hearty support of our College paper 
from the members of our Faculty. 



The Conversazione Committee are decidedly of 
a literary frame of mind. While we are proud to be 
able to announce this, yet as the Literary Society has 
need of this frame, for its notices, we would suggest 
that the Committee return the property now that their 
reputation is established. 



“ Much may be said on both sides,” so he spake. 
Around the room there ran, nay rather staggered a 
sigh, so shriveled, lean and broken that it scarcely 
stirred the dust upon our book rests. A common 
fear had seized us, we looked upon our note-books 
already full to bursting, and asked ourselves ; “Ah! 
what will be the end ? ” 



“ Would that a man might know the end of this 
day’s business, ere it come.” It is what each is wish- 
ing, as the April clouds bear down on us. Some 
are already rising with the lark, and others are sitting 
up until the lark rises. The session has done its 
work. 



Destitute alike of flesh and money (woe unto the 
tax gatherers), we await the end. 



It may be a satisfaction to some to find that they 
can at last see through us, but to us these ravages of 
time are painful to behold. Who would dare say at 
this moment that we study to acquire knowledge, 
not simply to pass exams ? Dark would be the fate 
of such a mortal, were he within our reach. 



We are glad to see “William ” kept Ash Wednes- 
day as he should. The crunch of the cinders under 
foot is pleasant to our ears. 



Experience has taught us that examination papers 
are made up of “ questions not likely to be asked.” 



It is reported that one of the Seniors objected 
strongly at the studio to the use of the head-rest. 
He thought it indicated that the photographer was 
goingathim “hammer and tongs!' 



At the last meeting of the Faculty a motion was 
passed, to the effect that the report of the Finance 
Committee “be laid upon the table.” 

The Committee has tried to explain that no such 
liberty could be taken with the report, since it has 
been mislaid at present. We understand though, that 
just as soon as it can be found, the wish of the meet- 
ing shall be carried out. 



It remained for one of the ist Year men to dis- 
cover that the phrase “a bite and sup” was. of Uni- 
versity origin, and really equivalent to a bit of a 
“ sup.” 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

One veiy important piece of evidence of the great 
ad\ances i.i civilization and common sense, for which 
h.s present century is justly renowned, was duly illus- 
■a ec m one of the late meetings of the M. G. H. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



195 



officials. Until this meeting the selection of Resi- 
dent House Surgeons for each year was manipulated 
by the Governors of the Institution. These individ- 
uals not being medical men were just about as likely 
to select the best men for the offices, as it is that Cook 
could go to England and select a worthy Principal 
for McGill University. However, the problem 
has been solved at last by Dr. Shepherd, who carried 
through a motion to the effect that the selection of 
the Resident Surgeons be left to the discretion of the 
Medical Board. No doubt, they will get the best 
men. 

The Final men have at last arrived at the culmin- 
ating point of their whole student career, and although 
for years prospecting for this notable occasion with 
hearts full of pleasant expectancy, occasionally, now, 
in the heat of action, you will observe a few crest- 
fallen individuals. And why this doleful change ? 
Only because they have heard the report that the au- 
thorities have ordered but fifty Parchments, while 
there are sixty-eight candidates. 



Last week at the closing of our hospital clinics each 
professor made his farewell speech. And as each 
one wished us unlimited success in the coming strug- 
gle, he smiled a weird, ghostly smile which seemed to 
say : “ Believe not my words, for when my chance 
comes ril crush the hopes out of you.” Of course to 
the students who thus translated the smile, pleasant 
anticipations began to radiate before their field of 
vision, while demons mocked them. 



On Tuesday, February 26th, the annual elections 
of The Fortnightly officials from Medicine resulted 
in the choice of W. Mowatt, B.A. ’96, Faculty Editor, 
and W. Proderick, ’97, Business Manager. Two 
better men for these offices could not be found in any 
college, and we have every reason to expect that next 
year’s i.ssues of The Fortnightly will be far ahead 
of any previous attempts. 

W. Mowatt, B.A., the new Editor, has already dis- 
tinguished himself in the literary world by carrying 
off first prize for story writing competed for by the 
students of the University, and donated by the FORT- 
NIGHTLY in 1893 ; while W. Proderick has shown 
deep interest in the success of the FORTNIGHTLY by 
his numerous contributions as class reporter for this 
term. 

One bright youth in the 2nd Year, and a candidate 
for honours in the approaching examination, distin- 
guished himself at one of his grinds the othei day. 



When asked : “ What are the names of the bones of 
the skull V’ he solemnly replied that “ he had them 
all in his head, but couldn’t get at them at present.” 
We presume that on the day of examination, his 
cranium will be so expanded with anatomical impres- 
sions that these bones can be easily got at and labeled. 

The 15th of March is drawing near, and woe betide 
the Freshman whose card does not bear the necessary 
number of “grinds” to enable him to present it with 
proud and svyelling heart to the Professor of Anatomy. 

Botany in the balmy springtime, boys ! Polish up 
your stenography and engage a typewriter at once- 



The gentlemen of Medicine ’98 will hear, with great 
pleasure, the news of the appointment of one of our 
fellow-students to the onerous post of Alley and yard 
inspector to the city. Needless to say he is indefati- 
gable in the discharge of his duties, being found at 
his post as early as 4 a.m. 



A subscription ought to be taken up to furnish the 
1st Year Class Reporter with pen, ink and paper. As 
his obituary has not been seen in any of the papers, 
it is concluded that he is “still ” alive but “ stiller” 
than usual, as he has only been heard from twice. 



“ THE JANITOR OF JANITORS ” 

Owing to the proximity of examinations, the 
events in college circles are sparse. Bnt, to mat- 
erialize, we think that a short sketch of the life of 
the “ Only Cook ” might be interesting, not only to 
his juvenile acquaintances, but also to readers in far 
distant lands, who have, in their time, been the 
charges of this celebrated personage. James Cook 
once janitor of McGill Medical College, but now 
superannuated, and acting only in the capacity of 
manager of the internal material workings of the 
same College, commenced his career when but a mere 
boy. From that event he has gradually evolved into 
manhood, and has ever since maintained that same 
dignity. Of his earlier connections we know but little, 
for in his zeal towards the College and students he 
has no heart to say of himself, but only to do for 
his beloved charges. Consequently we will at once 
introduce him as janitor of McGill Medical College. 
When or how he attained that position but few living 
know. However, in this position we found him, and, 
according to all monumental and traditional author- 



196 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ities, he has held this same office for years, waning 
with the adversities and radiating brilliantly with the 
success of this same College. 

He numbers the youths who have satisfactorily pass- 
ed his drillings by thousands, and for these he has a 
special regard. Like a loving foster-father he would 
be only too glad to meet them once more, to give 
them the hand of good fellowship and the advice 
that always accompanied it. 

Always willing and ready to assist the student in 
his various troubles, the youth would be black-hearted 
indeed, who could possibly find fault. And those who 
have been here before, and those who go out this year^ 
must of necessity feel handicapped in commencing 
life without Cook’s personal surveillance. 

Ever attentive to his duties, success has naturally 
shed her gentle glamour on the labours of our 
worthy friend. Hence to-day we see the star of the 
student and the prop and stay of the Faculty^ 
instead of hobbling around as of old, the smiling 
controller of two active youths, who wait upon his 
every beck and nod, while he himself enjoys his well 
deserved reward. 

And now “ from morn to dewy eve ” he lounges 
in a comfortable little office, all his own, situated near 
the main entrance, whence he ministers to the wants 
of all, and greets the visitor at the door. 

Verily, verily, we say to the student, take example 
from this man of men, and rise to superiority. Even 
yet his star lingers in the mid- heavens, and who 
knows but that, under the present circumstances^ 
when the University is looking around for a Princi- 
pal, some one of the powers that be might suspect 
Cook, and assist him to the polar globule of 
fame. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 



SONG OI-- VICTORY. 

Tune of Litoria, etc. 

When ninet-seven hockey plays 

Sweedle-we-dum-bum. 

The righteous look on in amaze, 

Sweedle-we-dum-bum. 

They played rings round the first year men 
Sweedle-ee-we tu hi ra sa — 

And when they’d done, they did it again, 

Sweedle-ee-wee-dum-biim. 

Cho , — 1 itoria, etc. 



2 

The freshies challenged us to play, 

Sweedle, etc., 

Try something else another day, 

Sweedle, elc. 

For when from them we knocked the stars — 
Sweedle . . hi ra sa. 

They went home mad in the trolley cars — 
Sweedle, etc. 

Cho, — Litoria, etc. 



3- 

Shot after shot we rained on goals, 

Sweedle, etc. 

Sometimes the puck went through the poles 
Sweedle, etc. 

In goals they had young Billy L-cr-x, 
Sweeedle . . hi ra sa. 

Who worked his stick as fast as his jaw, 
Sweedle, etc. 

Cho . — Litoria, etc. 



4. 



As long ago Horatius brave — 

Sweedle, etc. 

Kept well the bridge the town to save, 
Sweedle, etc. 

So our goal keeper brave P — k— rd, 
Sweedle ee-we tu hi ra sa. 

Stopped all the shots when not too hard, 
Sweedle, etc. 



Cho, — Litoria, etc. 



Z. I. Pala. 



M-k-bb-n wishes the 3rd Year men to bear in 
mind that he is not a freshman. 



ATHLETICS. 



HOCKEY. 



Wonders will never cease. B. failed to respond 
when asked to translate. 



The representatives for Science on the Fort- 
nightly boards for next session are : 

Wm. MacDougall, ’96, Editorial Board. 

J. W. Bell, ’97, Business Board. 



On Saturday, Feb. 23rd, the Science Freshmen 
defeated the Arts Freshmen by a score of 2 goals 
to o. 

It is also worthy of note that the Freshmen defeat- 
ed the 2nd Year by a score of 4 to i. 



M-ch-1 seems very proud of his medal. Perhaps it 
was 3rd prize in the Donoghue-Johnson race. 



The 1st teams of 2nd and ist Year Science 
played a match game of hockey on Feby. i8th, 
resulting in a victory for 2nd Year. 



A chemical definition of leather, — 
(Oxh) ide of beef. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



!97 



-#V 



Davidson and Drinkwater did good work for tiie 
winners, as did Butler, Lacroix and McLca for the 
Freshmen. The score was 6 to 5. 



The 2nd teams of these years played, in which 
game the ist Year men were easily victorious ; score 
4 to I. 



The 4th Year defeated the 3rd by a score 4 to 2, 
chiefly owing to the excellent work of VV. Currie. 

SOCIETIES. 



McGILL LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The last meeting of the Society for this session was 
held Friday night, March ist. President Hanson in 
the chair. Instead of the usual programme, the 
Society was treated to a lecture by Prof. C. W. Colby, 
B.A., Ph.D., on “ Aims and Methods of Academic 
Life.” A bad night, and the nearness of the exams, 
seemed to have prevented many of the members from 
being present, but those few who did go got more 
good from the lecture than twenty hours of cramming 
could have given them. 

The lecturer began his remarks with a few words 
about the progress of McGill during his absence. He 
remarked with pleasure the creation of the Classical 
Club, of the Glee and Banjo Club, and the Girls’ Club 

I 

organized by the Women Graduates. He a’so not- 
iced with joy the institution of a Theatre Night, the 
progress made in Athletics, and the magnificent gift 
of the Library. What we wanted now was a Uni- 
versity Dining-hall, and this we must work for 
ourselves. 

Before entering upon his main subject. Dr. Colby 
touched on the Literary Society. This Society ought 
to be a powerful factor in university culture. He 
reminded us that Canning, Gladstone and Asquith 
were all in their youth University debaters. 

The Lecture Proper. — Dr. Colby gave a text which 
he said might be carried away if nothing else was. 
It was an extract from a sermon preached before the 
undergraduates of Oxford by Mark Pattison : — 

“ Among all our many differences, there is probably 
no one point upon which we are all so unanimous as 
that the end and aim of our academic efforts is the 
cultivation of the intellect and character, and not the 
communication of useful knowledge.” 

By useful knowledge we are to understand practi- 
cal knowledge. We are in danger of forgetting our 
real aims in college life among the multitudinous 
details of work which surround us. The Philistine 
fears that he shall learn too much, and so restricts 



himself to practical knowledge. Qm bouu whais 
the use of it all— this is his cry. It won’t help me in 
the race for money. This cry is sordid and selfish 
a man should not be afraid of learning too much. 

The lecturer then dwelt on the two great evils of 
university or academic life — medal-hunting and indif- 
ference or listlessness. 

Medal-hunting is a bane to true cultivation. Per- 
sonally the lecturer wished every medal in McGill at 
the bottom of the sea. It may be noted in passing 
that the lecturer in his college days obtained .several 
of these trifles which he now condemns to the deep. 
Learning should be sought on account of the good it 
brings. Virtue is its own reward. 

The second great evil is listlessness or indifference. 
This is not the ruling spirit of McGill, for, according 
to the lecturer, McGill students work harder than the 
students of any University with which he had been 
acquainted. 

After thus showing what we are to avoid. Dr. Colby 
told us what we are to aim for as aids in the cultivation 
of our intellects. 

We are to cultivate our intellects by observation 
by reflection, and by seeing things in their general 
relations. It is possible for a man to go through col- 
lege, to pass all his examinations, and yet not to make 
one original observation. This is wrong. 

Our faculty of observation is to be cultivated. 
Observation strengthens the memory, and he who 
observes closely is apt to remember well. Our observ- 
ations must not be thrown haphazard into our 
brains ; they must be arranged and classified. 

Reflection is a necessary factor in the cultivation 
of the intellect. Memorizing things in a salvish 
manner hurts the higher faculties of the understanding. 
It is to be regretted that the heaping up of routine 
work in McGill makes time for reflection almost 
impossible. Good conversation is one of the greatest 
educational and cultivating forces in the world? 
greater even than reading. 

To be an all-round man, thestudent must see things 
in their general relations. He must not fall into the 
idea that the subject or subjects that he is studying 
are the only ones requisite for him to learn. A man 
may have a hobby horse, but he must understand that 
it is a poor gee-gee compared to Pegasus. We must 
not be provincial, we must be urbane. A student 
must study with all his intellectual windows open, and 
must not be afraid of draughts. If a man works in a 
cellar he soon loses his intellectual chlorophil. 

The cultivation of character is brought out most 
powerfully by a university, by the use of indirect 
methods. A university by filling the minds of her 
students with what is lofty and true creates a distaste 
in them for what is low and false. The imagination 



198 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



should also be trained, as it is in this direction that 
our modern civilization is weak. 

In concluding his talk, the lecturer referred to the 
good work done by the great English universities in 
the poor parts of London, and hoped that some day 
McGill would do the same for Point St. Charles or 
Griffin town. 

We who have a university education should sym- 
pathize with those who cannot obtain one, and do our 
best to help them. 

The lecturer concluded with a Latin quota- 
tion, which, for the benefit of the 4th, 3rd and ist 
Years in Arts and the remainder of the University 
the reporter will put in the vulgar tongue : — 

“ Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things 
are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever 
things are pure, whatsoever things are of good 
report ; if there be any virtue, and if there be any 
praise, think on these things.” 

A. R. M., ’97. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The assiduous planting and watering by the faithful 
few have at last yielded their increase. The meeting 
of February 21st was really worthy of the Donalda 
Faculty, so that the applause which the debating 
called forth was full and inspiring. 

The debate, — Resolved, that the Influence of 
Poetry is not so great in the present as in former 
ages — was supported on the affirmative by Miss 
Denoon and Miss M. Watson in whose favour the 
majority of the audience voted. The majority was 
very small however, for the negative side of the ques- 
tion was captially argued by Miss Holden and Miss 
Pinder. Altogether, the meeting was highly satisfac- 
tory. Let us have another such for our farewell, 
March 7th. 



Y.W.C.A. 

Miss Whiteaves led the meeting of February 20th. 
The subject was prayer, which was divided into two 
main parts, — first, as viewed from the petitioner’s 
standpoint ; and second, from God’s acceptance of it; 
and was so treated that everyone might carry away 
a clear remembrance of the meeting and subject. The 
attendance was comparatively large, and the effect of 
the meeting was immediately seen by the questions 
asked and arguments brought forth. If the result of 
the meeting be only making each one think, that, in 
itself, is good. 

Owing to Wednesday being a holiday, the meeting 
was held Thursday, at the regular hour, 4 p.m. Our 
leader was Miss Stephen, to whom was given the “ Par- 



able of the Talents.” Though the meeting was not so, 
largely attended as we wished and hoped it would, 
yet it was one of the brightest held this se.ssion. 
After the leader had closed her remarks, several 
members took up the subject illustratively 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill Min- 
ing Society was held in the old Science buildingon lYi- 
day,Feb.i 5th, President Carlyle in the chair. The min- 
utes of the previous meeting were read and adopted 
Mr. J. C. Gwillum then read a very interesting and in- 
structive paper on the “ Rock and Minerals of West 
ern Algoma.” The paper showed very careful prepara- 
tion as well as an intimate knowledge of the deposits 
and the mode of their occurrence. After some dis- 
cussion by the members present, and a few remarks 
by the President on the future of Algoma as a field 
for mining engineers, a hearty vote of thanks was 
tendered Mr, Gwillum for his valuable paper. The 
meeting then adjourned until Friday, March ist. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in 
the old Science building, on P'riday, March ist. In 
the absence of the President, Vice-President Gwillum 
took the chair. The minutes of the previous meeting 
were read and adopted. 

Mr. W. S. Johnson then read a paper on “ The 
Asbestos of Quebec,” in which he described clearly 
the veins and their mode of occurrence, also giving a 
good description of the methods of mining and fitting 
the ore for the market. His remarks were illustrated 
by a number of handsome specimens representino' - 
all the different grades. The remainder of the even- 
ing was taken up by the Secretary, who read a short 
account of the Waverly Gold district. Nova Scotia. 
After some discussion by the members present, the 
meeting adjourned. 

Y.M.C.A. 

“The Relation of the Decalogue to the Sermon on 
the Mount” was the subject discussed on the loth by 
Dr. Scrimger. He regarded the former as a civil 
code, in statutory form, and intended primarily to be 
used in the administration of justice in the chosen 
nation. Later on in their history they made the 
grand mistake of using this statute for an ethical 
standard of individual conduct. It was this error of 
interpretation to which Christ objected; and he 
pointed out the way in which the law of Moses must 
be expanded, elevated, and its spirit rather than its 
letter observed, before it is suited as a moral code for 
tile guidance of human conduct. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



199 



On the 17th SirWni. Dawson, in his own masterly 
way, defended the Mosaic authorship of Deuteron- 
omy, and gave some hints as to the practical value of 
this book. 

Next Sunday Rev. Principal Shaw will speak on 
“Current Tendencies of Religious Thought.” 

The Executive Committee for next session will 
consist of : — 

President. — P. C. Leslie, Med. ’96. 

Vice-President. — J. C. Robertson, Arts ’96. 

2 nd Vice-President. — F. W. Kee, Comp. Med. ’96. 

Rec. Sec. — A. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

Treas. — F. A. Corbett, B.A., Med. ’96. 

Asst. Treas. — A. B. Newcombe, App. Sc. ’97. 

Representative from Law. — Wm. Patterson, M.A. 



STUDENT VOLUNTEER BAND. 

The annual meeting of the University Volunteer 
Missionary Band was held on Monday, Feb. nth, 
with a fair attendance of members. 

The record of the year shows that at least eleven 
men have signified their intention to become foreign 
missionaries, the total number in the University and 
affiliated colleges now being 27 distributed as follows : 



Faculty of Arts 6 

Faculty of Medicine 4 

Presbyterian College 6 

Wesleyan College 5 

Congregational College 4 

Diocesan College 2 



As these men graduate it throws a great responsi- 
bility upon the churches to send them to the 
“ regions beyond,” for “ how can they preach except 
they be sent ” 

The officers elected for the ensuing year are : — 
President. — S. H. Mallinson, Arts ’97. 
Vice-President. — J. M. Wallace, Pres. College. 
Cor. Sec. — Arthur B. Ross, Arts ’98. 

Rec. Sec.— Alex. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

The closing meeting for this session will be held on, 
Tuesday, March, — at 7. 1 5 p.m., in Diocesan College. 

All students will be welcome to this meeting ; the 
topic “ China ” will be fully discussed. 

EXCHANGES. 

We beg to remind onr College contemporaries that 
exchanges should be sent to Editor-m-chiefy McGlix 
Fortnightly, care McGill University Library. 

The exchange editor has much pleasure in welcom- 
ing The Harvard Advocate and The Harvard Daily 
News once more. The Advocate is so well known and 
so highly esteemed, that praise would be superfluous, 
but among much excellent matter, we specially 
enjoyed Three Parodies of prominent authors ; that in 
Miss Wilkins’ style being particularly clever. 



In 'I he Harvard Daily News, we have a complete 
record of Harvard life ; — its lectures, sports, clubs 
and work. Our exchanges from across the line show 
that a marked tendency to the time-honoured game 
of chess is developing in- the large American colleges, 
and we can only wish that such a fine pastime will 
find favour in all universities. 

The Glasgotv University Magazine cont^Aus a vivid 
account of Students’ Night, while The Student, which 
is always written in a bright and taking manner, has 
its usual amount of college and social news. The 
editorial relating to skating stirs every true Canadian 
heart, and we congratulate our friends “over the 
water ” that they are enjoying one of our favourite 
sports. 

Those of us who have had the privilege of reading 
any of Professor Drummond’s writings can understand 
in part what a privation his absence from Edinburgh 
and the consequent cessation of his lectures, will be, 
and we trust that Mr. Drummond may speedily return 
in restored health. 

The McMaster University Monthly, in an article 
entitled Works and Products of McMaster University 
gives good and sound advice, not only to students of 
that institution, but to young men and young women 
in pursuit of knowledge, the world over. 

.\cta Victoriana in Three Contemporary English 
Novelists brings together three widely different wri- 
ters : George Meredith, who took forty years to 
attain fame ; Rudyard Kipling, who captivated the 
public at twenty-five; and Mrs. Humphrey Ward, 
whose name as the author of Robert Elsmere, David 
Grieve, and Marcella is familiar to every ear. Very 
appropriately folio ,ving this article, comes a criticism 
of the popular books of the day, in which some of the 
writings of the authors before mentioned receive their 
share of attention. The never-dying topic of Suf- 
frage is once more brought forward, and a glowing 
tribute is also paid to the late Bishop Harrington. 
Altogether, Acta Victoriana is particularly attractive 
this issue. 

From lack of space we can simply acknowledge 
The Bowdoin Orient, The College Times, The Sunbeam, 
and The Treasury. 

NEW BOOKS. 

For the benefit of our medical readers we quote 
from “ An Outline of a New^ Pathology,” which treats 
of the diseases of clothing, — a work which should be in 
the hands of every student. Under medical cases, most 
interesting perhaps, are the diseases of trousers, such, 
as Contractio Pantalunce, or Shortening of the Legs 
of the Trousers, an extremely painful malady most 
frequently found in the growing youth. The first 
symptom is the appearance of a yawning space 
{lacuna) above the boots, accompanied by an acute 



198 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



should also be trained, as it is in this direction that 
our modern civilization is weak. 

In concluding his talk, the lecturer referred to the 
good work done by the great English universities in 
the poor parts of London, and hoped that some day 
McGill would do the same for Point St. Charles or 
Griffin town. 

We who have a university education should sym- 
pathize with those who cannot obtain one, and do our 
best to help them. 

The lecturer concluded with a Latin quota- 
tion, which, for the benefit of the 4th, 3rd and ist 
Years in Arts and the remainder of the University 
the reporter will put in the vulgar tongue : — 

“Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things 
are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever 
things are pure, whatsoever things , are of good 
report ; if there be any virtue, and if there be any 
praise, think on these things.” 

A. R. M., ’97. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The assiduous planting and watering by the faithful 
few have at last yielded their increase. The meeting 
of February 21st was really worthy of the Donalda 
Faculty, so that the applause which the debating 
called forth was full and inspiring. 

The debate, — Resolved, that the Influence of 
Poetry is not so great in the present as in former 
ages — was supported on the affirmative by Mi.ss 
Denoon and Miss M. Watson in whose favour the 
majority of the audience voted. The majority was 
very small however, for the negative side of the ques- 
tion was captially argued by Miss Holden and Miss 
Pinder. Altogether, the meeting was highly satisfac- 
tory. Let us have another such for our farewell, 
March 7th. 



Y.W.C.A. 

Miss Whiteaves led the meeting of February 20th. 
The subject was prayer, which was divided into two 
main parts, — first, as viewed from the petitioner’s 
standpoint ; and second, from God’s acceptance of it; 
and was so treated that everyone might carry away 
a clear remembrance of the meeting and subject. The 
attendance was comparatively large, and the effect of 
the meeting was immediately seen by the questions 
asked and arguments brought forth. If the result of 
the meeting be only making each one think, that, in 
itself, is good. 

Owing to Wednesday being a holiday, the meeting 
was held Thursday, at the regular hour, 4 p.m. Our 
leader was Miss Stephen, to whom was given the “ Par- 



able of the Talents.” Though the meeting was not so, 
largely attended as we wished and hoped it would, 
y'et it was one of the brightest held this session. 
After the leader had closed her remarks, several 
members took up the subject illustratively 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill Min- 
ing Society was held in the old Science building on PYi- 
day,Feb.i5th. President Carlyle in the chair. The min- 
utes of the previous meeting were read and adopted 
Mr. J. C. Gwillum then read a very interesting and in- 
structive paper on the “ Rock and Minerals of West 
ern Algoma.” The paper showed very careful prepara- 
tion as well as an intimate knowledge of the deposits 
and the mode of their occurrence. After some dis- 
cussion by the members present, and a few remarks 
by the President on the future of Algoma as a field 
for mining engineers, a hearty vote of thanks was 
tendered Mr. Gwillum for his valuable paper. The 
meeting then adjourned until Friday, March ist. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in 
the old Science building, on P'riday, March ist. In 
the absence of the President, Vice-President Gwillum 
took the chair. The minutes of the previous meeting 
were read and adopted. 

Mr. W. S. Johnson then read a paper on “ The 
Asbestos of Quebec,” in which he described clearly 
the veins and their mode of occurrence, also giving a 
good description of the methods of mining and fitting 
the ore for the market. His remarks were illustrated 
by a number of handsome specimens representing 
all the different grades. The remainder of the even- 
ing was taken up by the Secretary, who read a short 
account of the Waverly Gold district. Nova Scotia. 
After some discussion by the members present, the 
meeting adjourned. 

Y.M.C.A. 

The Relation of the Decalogue to the Sermon on 
the Mount was the subject discussed on the loth by 
Di. Scrimger. He regarded the former as a civil 
code, in statutory form, and intended primarily to be 
used in the administration of justice in the chosen 
nation. Later on in their history they made the 
grand mistake of using this statute for an ethical 
standard of individual conduct. It was this error of 
inteipretation to which Christ objected; and he 
pointed out the way in which the law of Moses must 
be expanded, elevated, and its spirit rather- than its 
letter observed, before it is suited as a moral code for 
the guidance of human conduct. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



On the 17th SirWm. Dawson, in his own masterly 
way, defended the Mosaic authorship of Deuteron- 
omy, and gave some hints as to the practical value of 
this book. 

Next Sunday Rev. Principal Shaw will speak on 
“ Current Tendencies of Religious Thought.” 

The Executive Committee for next session will 
consist of: — 

President. — P. C. Leslie, Med. ’96. 

Vice-President. — J. C. Robertson, Arts ’96. 

2 nd Vice-President. — F. W. Kee, Comp. Med. ’96. 

Rec. Sec. — A. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

Treas. — F. A. Corbett, B.A., Med. ’96. 

Asst. Treas. — A. B. Newcombe, App. Sc. ’97. 

Representative from Law. — Wm. Patterson, M.A. 

✓ 

STUDENT VOLUNTEER BAND. 

The annual meeting of the University Volunteer 
Missionary Band was held on Monday, Feb. nth, 
with a fair attendance of members. 

The record of the year shows that at least eleven 
men have signified their intention to become foreign 
missionaries, the total number in the University and 
affiliated colleges now being 27 distributed as follows : 



Faculty of Arts 6 

Faculty of Medicine 4 

Presbyterian College 6 

Wesleyan College 5 

Congregational College 4 

Diocesan College 2 



As these men graduate it throws a great responsi- 
bility upon the churches to send them to the 
“ regions beyond,” for “ how can they preach except 
they be sent ” ? 

The officers elected for the ensuing year are: — 

President. — S. H. Mallinson, Arts ’97. 

Vice-President. — J. M. Wallace, Pres. College. 

Cor. Sec . — Arthur B. Ross, Arts ’98. 

Rec. Sec.— Alex. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

The closing meeting for this session will be held on, 
Tuesday, March, — at 7. 1 5 p.m., in Diocesan College. 

All students will be welcome to this meeting ; the 
topic “ China ” will be fully discussed. 

EXCHANGES. 

^^e beg to remind our College contemporaries that 
exchanges should be sent to Editor-in-chief ^ McGiLL 
Fortnightly, care McGill University Library. 

The exchange editor has much pleasure in welcom- 
ing The Harvard Advocate and The Harvard Daily 
News once more. The Advocate is so well known and 
so highly esteemed, that praise would be superfluous, 
but among much excellent matter, we specially 
enjoyed Three Parodies of prominent authors ; that in 
Miss Wilkins’ style being particularly clever. 



199 



In 'I he Harvard Daily Neivs, we have a complete 
record of Harvard life ; — its lectures, sports, clubs 
and work. Our exchanges from across the line show 
that a marked tendency to the time-honoured game 
of chess is developing in the large American colleges, 
and we can only wish that such a fine pastime will 
find favour in all universities. 

The Glasgozv University Magazine contdans a vivid 
account of Students’ Night, while The Student, which 
is always written in a bright and taking manner, has 
its usual amount of college and social news. The 
editorial relating to skating stirs every true Canadian 
heart, and we congratulate our friends “over the 
water ” that they are enjoying one of our favourite 
sports. 

Those of us who have had the privilege of reading 
any of Professor Drummond’s writings can understand 
in part what a privation his absence from Edinburgh 
and the consequent cessation of his lectures, will be, 
and we trust that Mr. Drummond may speedily return 
in restored health. 

The McMaster University Monthly, in an article 
entitled Works and Products of McMaster University 
gives good and sound advice, not only to students of 
that institution, but to young men and young women 
in pursuit of knowledge, the world over. 

.\cta Victoriana in Three Contemporary English 
Novelists brings together three widely different wri- 
ters : George Meredith, who took forty years to 
attain fame ; Rudyard Kipling, who captivated the 
public at twenty-five; and Mrs. Humphrey Ward, 
whose name as the author of Robert Elsmere, David 
Grieve, and Marcella is familiar to every ear. Very 
appropriately folio ,ving this article, comes a criticism 
of the popular books of the day, in which some of the 
writings of the authors before mentioned receive their 
share of attention. The never-dying topic of Suf- 
frage is once more brought forward, and a glowing 
tribute is also paid to the late Bishop Harrington. 
Altogether, Acta Victoriana is particularly attractive 
this issue. 

From lack of space we can simply acknowledge 
The Bowdoin Orient, The College Times, The Sunbeam, 
and The Treasury. 

NEW BOOKS. 

For the benefit of our medical readers we quote 
from “ An Outline of a New Pathology,” which treats 
of the diseases of clothing, — a work which should be in 
the hands of every student. Under medical cases, most 
interesting perhaps, are the diseases of trousers, such, 
as Contractio Pantalunoe, or Shortening of the Legs 
of the Trousers, an extremely painful malady most 
frequently found in the growing youth. The first 
symptom is the appearance of a yawning space 
{lacuna) above the boots, accompanied by an acute 



200 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



sense of humiliation and a morbid anticipation of 
mockery. The application of treacle to the boots, 
although commonly recommended, may rightly be 
condemned as too drastic a remedy. The use of 
boots reaching to the knee, to be removed only at 
night, will afford immediate relief. In connection 
with Contf actio is often found, 

Odditas Soccorum, or oddness of the socks, a thing in 
itself trifling, but of an alarming nature if met in com- 
bination with Contractio Pantaluncc. Cases are found 
where the patient, possibly on the public platform 
or at a social gathering, is seized with a conscious- 
ness of the malady so suddenly as to render med- 
ical assistance futile. 

SURGICAL CASES. 

It is impossible to mention more than a few of the 
most typical cases of diseases of this sort. 

1. Explosio^ or Loss of Buttons, is the commonest 
malady demanding surgical treatment. It consists 
of a succession of minor fractures, possibly internal, 
which at first excite no alarm. A vague sense of 
uneasiness is presently felt, which often leads the 
patient to seek relief ^in the string habit — a habit 
which, if unduly indulged, may assume the propor- 
tions of a ruling passion. The use of sealing-wax> 
while admirable as a temporary remedy for Explosio 
should never be allowed to gain a permanent hold 
upon the (system. There is no doubt that a persis- 
tent indulgence in the string habit, or the constant 
use of sealing-wax, will result in 

2. Fractiira Suspendornm, or Snapping of the 
Braces, which amounts to a general collapse of the 
system. The patient is usually seized with a severe 
attack of explosio, followed by a sudden sinking feel- 
ing and sense of loss. A sound constitution may 
rally from the shock, but a system underminded by 
the string habit invariably succumbs. 

In conclusion, the author makes a plea for scientific 
treatment. Quacks and self-treatment are to be 
avoided. At the first symptoms of disease the 
patient should not hesitate to place himself in the 
hands of a professional tailor. 

COLLEGE ITEMS. 

A ‘‘ Whisker Club,” consisting of twenty Seniors 
in the Law School, has been organized at the Uni- 
versity of Michigan. 

THE LAWYER. 

In college days he used to lie 
On shady banks of brooks, 

Which bubbled soft accompaniments 
To which he read in books. 

Now he has laid his studies by 
To seek the legal dime, 

And, quite forgetting other days, 

He lies most all the time. 

— Detroit Free Press. 



At Princeton the interest in chess is so great that 
the expenses of the team at the recent tournament 
in New York were paid by a canvass of the college. 



GEOLOGICAL^ , , 

A stratum of solid, slippery ice, 

A stratum of slush, soft and nice ; 

A stratum of water over that, 

A stratum of man in new silk hat ; 

Above, the startled air is blute, ' 

With oath on oath a stratum or two. 

— The Uni*. 



We hear a great deal of scientific lectures now- 
a-days. This is the sort of thing we may expect to 
hear when young ladies return from a pleasant lecture, 
with dissolving views on prehistoric j men and the 
glacial epoch : , 

The views, too, weren't they lovely? . . 

Especially Mount Blanc and the Alps ; - ^ 

Though the last ones were perfectly frightful— " 
Those men with the clubs and scalps— ’ 

Well, maybe they didn’t have scalps — ■ 

They frightened me all the same ; . 

And that animal — wasn’t he horrid ? 

The — what -did-he-say-was-his name ? ‘ * 



Academy of Tlusic 

HENRY THOMAS, I 

Lessee and Manager. 



Week commencing MafcH.Jtli. 



French Opera Co. 

Friday Night, Saturday /Vlatinec 
and Saturday? Night 

“LE PETIT DUr 



Next Attraction ! 



Beginning Monday, March 11 



“ Daugfhters of Eve.” 



POPULAR PR/GES. 



