Vol. XII 



No. 8 











UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J# N. Greenshields* Edmond Guerin, R, A, E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 



PERM, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JCAIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



N1ACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &o., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Caiherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic: Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

Sclool ami College Text Books ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



cruiokshane: & elliot, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE ,C A N DY. :x::ra 

254SUames Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparts street, OTTAWA. 



232 st. j\a_:m::e]s st 



JOEHICAL WORKS, BOOKS USEU US' ART COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in Stock: and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. Ac., &c., 

" « ^ BEST VALUE I IV TO WjN ^ ^ 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. «X a ines Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 29th, 1889. \No, 8. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law *89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’ 91 . 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in-Chief '. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 
C.L. Wheeler, B. A. ,Med.’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 87-89 

Poetry 90, 96 

Contributions 90-93 

McGill News 93-94 

Societies 94-95 

Personals 95 

Sporting 96 

Between the Lectures 96-97 

College World 97 

Correspondence 97 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 



The ninth number of the “ University Gazette ” 
will contain an article on Tennyson’s later Poems, by 
Mr. J. E. MacPherson. 



Editorials. 



McGILL NORMAL SCHOOL. 

The rapid strides which have been made in the com- 
mon education of the people during the last decade, 
and the recognition of the importance of the duty 
devolving upon those engaged in the teaching of the 
rising generations, has given rise to what is known 



as the “ new profession.” To maintain its promin- 
ence and reputation, and to prevent it from degener- 
ating into a mere drudgery — a mere receptacle for 
those who, from lack of mental ability, or courage, 
are unable to enter the more exalted stations of life — 
the teacher should be thoroughly trained in the theor- 
etical and practical arts of the profession. McGill, 
long since recognizing this great fact, and realizing 
her obligation in this respect, affiliated the Provincial 
Protestant Normal School. The number of teachers 
sent forth from the Normal School into the schools of 
the City of Montreal and throughout the Province, 
and the great reforms that have been accomplished 
by their influence, attest the wisdom of her course. 
The school system, now in operation in the Province, 
is largely the work of one of McGill’s many distin- 
guished men, and a pupil of the Normal School. The 
ardent men who have in the past been entrusted with 
the management of the school deserve great credit 
for the work they have done, and done so well. 
Undoubtedly many of their deficiencies are apparent 
to the present generation, but these were men who have 
done yeoman service in the cause of education in this 
Province. These men are one by one dropping from 
active duty, and their places are being filled by 
younger and more active workers. In selecting their 
successors, great care should be exercised by those 
in authority to appoint only those who are pre-emin- 
ently qualified, mentally and morally, to fill such 
very important and responsible positions ; and great 
weight should be placed upon the educational attain- 
ments. Under a supervision of a man endowed with 
the keen and broad intellect of the present Principal, 
Dr. Robbins, little apprehension need be felt for the 
future success of the school. 

Lately great exertions have been put forth to follow 
a course of study there which would lead directly to 
the Arts Course in the University, and this has so 
far been effected that this year the Academy class has 
been transferred to the first year in Arts, under certain 
conditions, which still connect the students with the 
Normal School. This is only as it should be, and 
the sooner that the authorities believe that the time 
has come to demand that aspirants for teachers in 
academies and the higher schools, should complete 
the full Arts Course, the better will it be for education 
in the Province. Ontario practically demands that 



88 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



qualification now. When that time arrives the pres- 
ent difficulty encountered by many graduates of the 
University, seeking for the diploma of the Normal 
School, would perforce disappear. At present the 
position of a graduate, who has been so unfortunate 
as not to take second class standing in Latin and 
Greek at the intermediate examination, and has 
dropped one or both of these subjects during the two 
last years, is anomalous indeed. Under the present 
regulations a graduate may even be a medallist and 
distinguished in many respects, but lacking this imag- 
inary requisite, although perfectly eligible, at least 
educationally in the neighboring provinces, and even 
in the United States, is debarred from obtaining the 
diploma necessary for qualification as a teacher in the 
public schools of his native province. This has proven 
a pernicious and formidable obstacle since the new 
regulations have come into force, and the result has 
been that more than one graduate, who would have 
proven a credit to the teaching body, has been com- 
pelled to turn to other employments, and this year 
more than one fourth-year student are in the same 
position. When so much is being said and written 
concerning the value of the B.A. degree as an equiva- 
lent to the preliminary examination exacted by the 
learned professions, may it not be a propos to suggest 
that this degree be recognized to its fullest in this 
profession, entrance to which is not complicated by 
the difference of religion and the early training of the 
candidates. 



CANADIAN HISTORY. 

If McGill is slow in awaking to her responsibility 
as a Canadian University, it is not for any lack of 
patriotic enterprise in her environs. Since our last 
editorial on this subject, we notice with pleasure the 
announcement of a new periodical published in con- 
nection with the Society for Historical Studies in this 
city — “ Canadiana : a Collection of Canadian Notes” 
— in reference to which “ Laclede” says — “ Canadiana 
is a sign of the times. Here, again, Montreal is 

leading the country in a broad field of literature. 
* * * * * * 

It will be devoted to the by-paths, the findings, the 
scraps, the discoveries of our inexhaustible treasures 
of history. An undertaking equally commendable is 
the formation of a Society for the Study of Canadian 
Literature, which aims to enroll among its members 
all who are in any way interested in the subject, 
whether authors or not, and the inaugural address of 
which was delivered on Wednesday, Jan. 23rd. 

It is a pity that movements such as these should 
not be aided and encouraged by that which is looked 



upon as the city’s intellectual centre the University. 
Many of our graduates are working hard in Canada s 
cause, and these are they who feel sufficient interest 
in the land of their birth or adoption to become intel- 
ligently acquainted with what concerns her. But 
there are others — we fear, the majority — whose ignor- 
ance begets indifference, and had these been given the 
advantage of a thorough course at McGill, such as we 
advocate, perhaps one would not find B.A.’s, in their 
New Year’s addresses to Sunday School children, 
speaking of “ that dryest of all studies — Canadian 
History.” 

We repeat that McGill should found a Chair of 
Canadian History and Literature. The object of this 
step might bo well expressed in the following words 
from the prospectus of Canadiana : — “ To foster and 
stimulate the sentiment which is growing among 
Canadians — of interest in the past, pride in the pre- 
sent, and confidence in the future of the Dominion.” 
But many are the claims upon her not overflowing 
coffers, and it is her graduates who should make a 
special effort to establish what would place our Uni- 
versity first in the Dominion, and Canada first at 
McGill. 



COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION. 

A movement is on foot to institute an association 
of journalists connected with College papers, on the 
same basis as the Press Associations, common in all 
communities. The scheme would deserve support if 
it were feasible, but there are features connected with 
College journalism that the daily press has not to con- 
tend with ; the personel of the editorial boards is 
continually changing, and there is not the same com- 
munity of interest or feeling that binds together mem- 
bers of one great profession, but something might be 
attempted to bring the managers of so many papers 
into a closer relation. College journals possess a cer- 
tain influence, but it is chiefly local, and any effort 
that tends to concentrate their energy will be produc- 
tive of good. Such a union would give a dignity to 
a work that is often thankless, and induce students to 
keep a closer watch on their representatives, and take 
a deep interest in their efforts. The journals would 
keep in truer touch with each other, a broader Uni- 
versity sentiment would prevail, and a combined 
effort could be more effectually made for the common 
good. At present there is a marked lack of unity 
among the papers, and there does not seem to be 
enough editorial acquaintances with the needs and 
methods of each other. A study of the exchanges 
helps to counteract this, but such work is confined 



1889.] 



UN IVERSITY GAZETTE. 



89 



usually to one editor, who makes very little use of 
the information he obtains. 

The promoters of the plan may be assured of the 
support of The Gazette in any scheme to broaden 
and strengthen college journalism. 



THE DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The Delta Sigma Society is to be encouraged in 
the new step it is taking. A special plan of work 
has been laid out for this session. Instead of having 
the essays and debates on any and every subject 
which the committee recommend, all the work is to 
tend in one direction, namely — to the study of the 
Renaissance in as many of its aspects as possible. 
Essays will be written on the growth of science and 
art, and on the many discoveries of the world and 
universe which were made at that time. Debates 
will be framed to discuss questions and theories then 
in vogue ; with this in view, a most interesting and 
instructive programme has been prepared. The Prize 
Essay Competition, which was instituted by the So- 
ciety last year, will, in accordance with this plan, 
have for the subject of the essays — “ Painting of the 
Renaissance and its Principles.” 

The Society, heretofore, has been unable to do 
what it wanted in the way of benefiting all its mem- 
bers, and it is hoped that this change will bring about 
the desired result. 

At the essay meetings, it has been the custom to 
read two short essays on different subjects. These, 
if they aroused and interested for the time being, did 
not do much else, except for those who prepared them. 
The same thing, though in a less degree, may be said 
of the debates, resulting in no very apparent benefit 
to the non-acting members. Under the new regime, a 
greater interest must be aroused, and a greater benefit 
derived from the fact that all, though working in 
different channels, have the same end in view. There 
is ample scope for each member to exercise her pecu- 
liar abilities, and a most successful result is antici- 
pated. 

LADY STUDENTS OF ZURICH. 

Zurich is the only University German ladies can, 
at present, attend. There are but seventeen who avail 
themselves of the privilege, and among the number 
are Americans, English, Poles, and Swiss. Germany 
can, therefore, not boast of many. German women 
are taught, from their childhood, to look up to the 
male sex as superior to themselves, and to repress any 
‘‘unladylike” ambition, such as following a college 
course. They have no courage to force their way, to 
undergo a training, which, in the present condition 



of German society, would lead to much disappoint- 
ment. Their cause has not had a good start, owing 
to the number of Russian ladies who followed the 
lectures at Zurich, and who created much scandal by 
smoking, dressing differently from other women, and 
making themselves generally conspicuous. These 
Russian students have, however, been expelled, and 
the professors are now much better pleased with their 
female auditory. But to get this movement satisfac- 
torily forward, the German women will have to com- 
bine in using their influence to reach this end. Let 
them take for their mottoes that “ Union is strength/' 
and “ Where there’s a will, there’s a way,” and, fol- 
lowing the noble example of their American sisters, 
they will be sure to succeed. 



Though the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers 
has no integral connection with the University, the 
recent annual meeting and the demonstration attend- 
ing it, cannot fail to bring the College into favorable 
notice, and to lend additional strength to the Society. 
The chief gain will be to the Science Faculty, within 
whose province the scope of the Society lies, and 
besides doing good work, it will receive an increasing 
appreciation. There will be a personal gain to the 
students as well ; they are brought into prominence, 
and when there is work to be done, their claims are 
likely to receive consideration. To mingle with so 
many great engineers, who, above all others, are 
working out the destinies of this country, is to catch 
their spirit and work along the lines they have laid 
down. Canadian engineering has only been plotted 
out, and there is abundant scope for energy and 
ability in filling in the details. It is reassuring to 
know that the men of McGill are coming in for their 
share in the labour. 



The directors of the Ontario Ladies’ College at 
Whitby have decided to erect an immense gymnasium 
for the students. This, combined with toboggan slide, 
skating rink, riding school, lawn tennis, etc., furnishes 
to the pupils of the Ontario Ladies’ College a course 
of physical training unequalled in Canada and unsur- 
passed on this continent. 

The Women’s Medical College of Philadelphia is 
in its thirty-ninth year, and is the largest women's 
medical college in the world. It matriculates this 
year 160 students, among whom are one each from 
Japan, China and Australia, the others being from 
nearly every State in the Union. Its course consists 
of three years, with an additional year’s study which 
is optional with the students, but which is recom- 
mended by the institution. An effort is being made 
to endow a Chair of “ Preventive Medicine.” 



90 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



FLOWERS FROM THE GREEK ANTHOLOGY. 

Ox a Fountain. 

(Plato.) 

These waters birth to Cytherea gave, 

Or, bathing here, she beautified the wave. 



Dedicatory Verses. 

Phoebus, this bow and quiver now are thine, 
Hung high by Promachus within thy shrine : 
But, from the auiver if thou rciss the darts. 
These lie deep-buried in his foeinen’s hearts. 



A Lover's Prayer. 

(Rufinus.) 

When haughty Rhodope I chance to meet, 

Disdainful looks my salutation greet: 

If fragrant wreaths I hang above her door, 

She tears them down, and tramps them on the floor. 
Come, then, grey hairs 1 come, wrinkles, take the field 1 
For ye can force proud Rhodope to yield. 



The Complaint op a Cicada. 

(Author uncertain.) 

Remorseless shepherds 1 wherefore tear away 
A lone cicada from her dewy spray? 

The road-side songster of the nymphs, I rove, 

At noon shrill-chirping ’mid the shady grove. 

The blackbird, thrush, and starling should be slain — 
These are the robbers of the farmer’s grain ; 

But I, who ne’er the husbandman annoy, 

Should live, my leaves and dewdrops to enjoy. 



An Epitaph. 

(Dioacorides.) 

Eight sons, who lie this monument below, 
Demaeneta sent forth against the foe. 

Moved to no tears, she cried, when all was o’er, 
“ Sparta ! for thee my valiant sons I bore 1 99 



The Fib. 

(Paulus Silent iarius.) 

Sweet are the smiles of Lais, sweet her sighs. 

And sweet the tears that tremble in her eyes. 

Last eve (ye know I ne’er have suffer’d aught 
To cloud her joy) I found her deep in thought, 

And pale with grief. She droop’d her graceful head 
Low on my breast, and tears unnumber'd shed. 

Like drops of dew they glisten’d on her cheek, 

I kiss’d them, faltering, “ Dearest Lais, speak ! 

Why do’st thou weep ? ” She whisper’d, “ 0, my Love ! 
I weep to think that thou perchance wilt prove 
False to thy Lais, leaving her — to die ! ” 

She fibb’d so sweetly — I forgave the lie. 



Dignity and Impudence. 

(Author uncertain.) 

Thus Jove to Cupid : “ Cruel boy I 
Thy bow and arrows I’ll destroy,” 

** Threat not 1 ” the urchin answer’d, ” or 
I’ll change you to a swan once more.” 



Betrayed. 

(Meleager.) 

0 gleaming Lamp ! 0 holy Night! 

No witnesses but you 
Were present when with fond delight 
We pledged our vows anew : 
He swore that he would love me ever, 
And I, that I would leave him never. 



We vowed before you two alone, 

To him my heart I gave : 

But now, alas ! his love is gone, 

’Twas written on the wave, 

And thou, bright Lamp, do’st oft discover 
In Helen’s arms my faithless lover 1 



Montreal. Geo. Mubbat. 



Itontributions. 



THE NATURAL METHOD OF TEACHING 
FRENCH. 

The study of French claims a good deal of attention 
in the Province of Quebec. This demand arises in 
the exigencies of commercial life, and it does not 
appear that the interests of any class are opposed to 
it. As the French majority in the Province becomes 
relatively greater, it will be more and more necessary 
to acquire their language. 

However, it is French for use that is so much de- 
sired. It is not enough to be able to read and trans- 
late; we must know French colloquially. The object 
of this paper is to discuss a method of language-teach- 
ing which aims at this result in English schools. 

The main fact about the conversational method is, 
that the learner hears and speaks only French from 
the very first. This does not mean that the instruc- 
tor shall plunge in mediae res with conversation in 
French. He would not be understood, attention 
would fail, and nothing would result but confusion 
and merriment. He can, however, show the class 
familar objects, and give their names. Attributes of 
color, magnitude, etc., can be named in the same way. 
Verbs and adverbs can be interpreted by means of 
gesture. After a little the meaning of new forms can 
be explained by means of the vocabulary already or- 
ganized. Meantime, tho class have constant practice 
in speaking. They repeat new words and expres- 
sions, and ask and answer questions individually and 
in concert. 

They also learn to read and write by reference to 
carefully arranged text-books, in which the circle of 
known forms is gradually extended by introducing 
new words and new constructions as they are needed 
for conversation. This text becomes the basis of the 
oral lessons, and the teacher then explains and em- 
ploys all new forms before the text is studied by the 
pupils. 

The rules of grammar are not neglected, but it is 
thought best not to spend too much time on them at 
first. When a boy has learnt that la is the feminine 
form of the article, and that plume is a feminine noun, 
he is still very apt to say le plume ; but when he has 
heard and has used the correct form a number of 
times, he will make no such mistake. The few prin- 
ciples of syntax necessary in the first stages of study 
can be explained in French as soon as they are needed. 
Systematic grammar is taken up when the pupils 
have acquired a practical mastery of the more ordi- 
nary forms of speech. At this stage the special read- 
ing texts, already referred to, can be superseded by 
selections from general literature suitable to the attain- 
ments of the class. 

I do not attempt here to describe the various de- 
vices employed by the skilful teacher to explain the 
meaning of new expressions. The outline which I 
have given may help the reader to receive tho state- 
ment that it is possible to proceed from the first with- 
out making use of a single English word. Thus the 
names of things are associated with the things them- 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



91 



selves — language with thought — without translating, 
and the essential hahit of thinking in French is soon 
acquired. 

There is no question, in this case, of the sacrifice of 
mental discipline to practical utility. The soundness 
of the pedagogic principles on which the work pro- 
ceeds is never called in question, so far as I am aware. 
The hahit of attention is fostered, because the work 
can he made interesting to people. The memory 
training is excellent, because the principle of associa- 
tion, stated above, is correct, and because a repetition 
drill, so essential to thorough teaching, must attend 
the practice of reducing everything learned to imme- 
diate use. 

But the advocate of this system must meet the ob- 
jection, that its methods are not suited to the condi- 
tions that obtain in public schools. Not a few teach- 
ers, we are told, have been unsuccessful in this kind 
of teaching. This is the crucial point of the whole 
question. However, there are special reasons why 
the method should succeed in this Province, and at 
this time. 

Excellent text-books (the Berlitz series, for exam- 
ple) have been issued within the past few years, in 
which the subject matter is presented in systematic 
form. This will very much reduce the chance of 
failure. Very many of our teachers are able to speak 
French with more or less fluency, and the students of 
the Normal School are now trained in the use of the 
method. Again, a practical knowledge of French is 
more necessary here than elsewhere. It is worth 
while to make a thorough effort. 

But the question of feasibility must be referred at 
last to the test of experience. The trial is being 
made in the Protestant schools of Montreal by ingraft- 
ing the new method upon the old, and the experi- 
ment will be watched with interest. Meantime, a 
hasty judgment should not be passed. The report of 
the University School Examinations for 1888 contains 
a criticism of the answering of candidates prepared 
under the Normal method of teaching. I take it that 
the High School of Montreal is the institution referred 
to. I hope it is fair to point out that the students in 
question had never received instruction in any but 
the usual classical method. It has not been thought 
wise to change the method of teaching in the case of 
students who have been learning French for several 
years ; indeed, the new method is not used exclu- 
sively, as yet, in any class in the High School. In 
the lower grades it forms a part of the course. The 
A. A. examinations must not be regarded as a test of 
the success of the new plan for several years to 
come. 

It should be remembered, too, that a complete mas- 
tery of French is not promised, as a result of this 
teaching, in English schools. My own view is, that 
pupils will learn as much French as they do now, but 
it will not be the same French. To make a somewhat 
va^ue distinction, they will know more of the lan- 
guage of every-day life and less of the language ol 
classic literature, and especially they will be able to 
understand and to employ whatever forms of the 



language they require. 



H. H. Curtis. 



HOUSEHOLD LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. 

The songs of childhood are universal. V oice an- 
swers to voice in the language of infancy across the 
ocean of time and space. 

The wail of the Grecian babe is echoed by the child 
of the Indian savage, and the prattling infant on the 
pauper’s knee crows with the darling of queens and 
mingles her tears with his. 

In Eastern Hindostan and classic Greece and Rome, 
in the Romance tongues and our later English, the 
same lisping words, sweet to a parent’s ear, are 
breathed on baby lips — “ Papa,” “ Mamma,” — this was 
the language of Grecian tongues two thousand years 
ago, and as long before the Greek speech arose, was 
lisped by the Indian child. So was it with their 
earliest words, so is it with their household songs. 
An English mother sings above the cradle of her sleep- 
ing child, lullabies which crooned the Spartan babe to 
sleep and soothed the future Caesar and Marcellus. 

In the household lays of Rome, especially, there is 
a simplicity and home-felt delight, which uncon- 
sciously charms our hearts, and we listen to them as 
to the echoes of some old sweet song which lulled us 
to rest in our infant days. Some are very beautiful 
in their sweetness and smooth-flown melody. One 
familiar to every Roman ear and sung by every Roman 
hearth, was commonly known as : 

“quiesce, carissima !” 

“Quiesce-la, Baby, up in arbore !” 

Canas agitat ventus when spirans lente. 

Quum the bough frangitur pupa will fall 
Corruent pupula, canaeque all !” 

In this cradle song, the rapid tripping metre is in- 
tended to suggest the swaying of branches in a sum- 
mer breeze. The household songs of Rome were 
peculiarly rich in these lullabies, of which, unfortu- 
nately very few have come down to us. Livy men- 
tions, Ann. Lib. LXIY. Cap 6, 1-16, a list of some 
seventeen which were used in vain in putting L. Cor- 
nelius Sulla to sleep the day his father was made 
Praetor. 

A song dear to the heart of Caesar, and which is 
said to have suggested to him the idea which Virgil 
so grandly utters : “ Rome bounds her dominions by 
the earth, her fame by the stars,” is the beautiful little 
lyric : 

FELIS VIOLIN AQUE. 

“ Hey diddle, diddle !” 

Felis et fiddle, 

Bos trausultavit the moon. 

Fecit canem ridere. 

Such ludum videre, 

Platinaque currit cum spoon!” 

Catullus, who loved children and all that pertained 
to them, and wa3 fonder of his “ liberi ” than his 
“ libri,” delighted, in his old age, in writing songs for 
his “ Carissimi nepotes,” as he was fond of callin 
them. In one he represents a dialogue as takiu 
place between a favorite grandchild and himself. The 
lullaby is short, and was engraved on the head piece 
of the cradle : 

Catulus, Catulus, where have you been ? 

Londini, re, fui ut viderem queen. 

Catulus, quid visum est Londinum ! 

Murem parvam sub cella persecutus sum.” 



to to 



92 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1889 



The song may still be seen in any crib of Catullus. 

One little piece, which I must not overlook, is al- 
most unique. It is an anniversary ode, attributed to 
Horace, but on rather doubtful authority, and appears 
only in Ed. Boekk. Lib. III. Ode 31. It is entitled : 

“Ad J. H.” 

“ Parvus Jack Horner 
Sedit in corner, 

Edens his Christmas pie ; 

Inseruit thumb, 

Extraxit a plumb, 

‘Quam bonus,’ he said, ‘puer’ I !” 

Some of these lays aim at combining instruction 
with pleasure, and convey a useful lesson, or relate 
the story of some remarkable individual. From these 
I select one, nameless and authorless, a kind of “ vade 
mecum ” to everyone, whose popular chai'acter seems 
to stamp it “ pro bono publico 

Jack et Jill 
Scandemnt hill 
Referre water festi 
Procubuit Jack 
Fecit cranium crack 
Et volvens Jill came post him. 

Verses of this kind were much affected by some of 
the pastoral poets in the Augustan age. Virgil, in one 
of his delightful letters to Maecenas, mentions an 
eclogue which he intended to write for the niece of 
Augustus, to be called “ Habuit Maria parvam lamb.” 
Whether he ever fulfilled his purpose we cannot tell, 
as no further mention is made of the song. In the 
same letter he inserts a copy of some verses in the 
style of his intended eclogue, which, he assures 
Maecenas, are really and truly his own, fondly styling 
them his “ versiculos.” Unfortunately, a portion of 
the epistle has been destroyed, and only the name 

“ Bo-peepula,” and the last line is preserved : 

* * * * * * 

“ Ferrentque candas post ’em.’' 

Another little favorite was the “Bell Song,” 
“ Tinuit Campanula,” whose popularity was rivalled 
only by the one commencing “ Quis trucidit Robin ?” 

In the Roman child’s delight in these lullabies may 
be seen the foretaste of hia love for war aDd blood- 
shed in more mature years. 

Cicero seldom lays aside his legal duties for the 
lighter employment of poetic composition ; when he 
does, we confidently expect a treat, and are rarely 
disappointed. In one of his songs, of which I quote 
the opening lines, he evidently intends to inculcate 
an ethical lesson : 

“ Unus, duo, 

Fige shoe 0 ! 

Tres, quattuor, 

Claude the door ! etc. 

In closing, let me quote a short metrical tale, which 
seems to be a “ Harvest-home ” song, to be chanted at 
the close of the rye and barley harvest, and which ap- 
pears to be the Roman counterpart of the nursery 
rhyme of “King Cophetua and the beggar maid,” with 
the wedding omitted : 

Cano carmen sixpence, 

A corbis plena rye, 

Viginti aves quattuor 
Percoeti in a pie. 



Quum the pie operti.s est 
Turn canit avium grex ; 

Nonne suavis cibus hoc 
Locari ante rex ? 

Fuit rex in counting-house, 

Estimans his nuraens ; 

Regina in culina was, 

Bread et mel consumens. 

In horto stetit maiden, 

Suspendens ubi clothes ; 

Venit parves avus out, 

Et rapuit sua nose. 

JOHLE JOHKR. 



THE ADVENTURES OF MAN-HOOLAFFS. 

KnoAV then, Sire, that thy servant, the great travel- 
ler, Man-hoolaffs, had seen many strange sights in this 
his last journey, among which is that strange animal 
that is called Dude, in our country thought fabulous, 
but there in Khan- Ada living domesticated, and not 
wild as other travellers have said. In form and ap- 
pearance it is like unto a man, save that the head is 
hollow and the legs thereof like sticks. Now, the 
men of Khan-Ada are a perverse generation, and go 
to extremes (like unto their climate, which is like unto 
Gehenna in summer, but in winter colder than the 
snows of Ararat), for they believe in the teachings of 
their great prophet, Dar-Ouin, who said — “ Behold all 
men are descended from apes and monkeys (may dogs 
devour the shadow of his grandfather), and they 
talked much of “natural selection” and “survival of 
the fittest” (which Dar-Ouin taught), and thy servant 
Man-holaffs learnt their teachings, and he said to the 
people of Khan-Ada — “ Verily, these doctrines are 
good, but may it not be that you are descended from 
this animal the ‘ Dude,’ that I see around tame, for 
in outward shape it is like unto you, and may be, after 
millions of years, a man might evolve.” Then were 
the Khan-Adians wroth, and said unto Man-hoolaffs 
— “ Comest thou from the East to insult us ? get thou 
hence to Sheol,” and thy slave departed quickly. 

But, Commander of the Faithful, the strangest ad- 
venture that befel me in my travels was in the chief 
city of Khan-Ada, which is on the river Saintl-Orens. 
For Man-boolaffs walked one day, and he looked up 
and beheld, through fair grounds, a large house which 
looked like unto a dry goods box, and entering by the 
door he saw a hall meanly ornamented, and in it men 
struggling like wild beasts, in a doorway, with shrieks 
and howls, and he said unto an onlooker — “ Who be 
these fools ? ” and he said — “ These were once men 
from Wa-bac, but now have come to this place, which 
men call Mag-il, and belong to the sects of the first 
and second Medi-kals, who are ghouls who carve 
human flesh,” and I fled from thence and weut into 
the hall of another house, which was empty, and soon 
there passed by me a curious thing ; for its face was 
like unto a maiden, and on its head was a cap with a 
square black board on top, and on its back a black 
gown, and shape it had none ; and I turned to him 
who kept the door and said — “ Lo ! what is this thing 
that. 1 see?” and he said, mocking — “Its name is 
legion, for they are many. Know, stranger, that this 
is one of those called Ladas-Teudens, who learn here 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



93 



in the hall of the Arts all things, even as the Arts- 
men, and some wish to he even as the Medi-kals, to 
carve human flesh; but this is not yet;” and many 
other things I saw there, for I came upon a company 
of a few men talking and debating, and I said — 
“ What do ye ? ” and I was answered — “ We are Siens 
men, and we wish to have our yearly feast ; but, be- 
hold, some men of Siens think only of themselves, 
and say — ‘ Wherefore have we this yearly feast, and 
why should we give our money 1 lo ! we will make 
our names even like Montreal streets, which men call 
mud, and it may be that Siens will have no feast this 
year ! ’ ” And the company which I saw was sad on 
this account, thinking that the men of Siens were not 
as those of former years, who had fun and jollity, and 
lived and feasted, and worked in friendship and good 
feeling. 

And the Sultan said to Man-hoolaffs — “ Great are 
thou, * 0 ! Man-hoolaffs ’ at lying, for I know those 
things whereof ye speak, and most of all the last are 
untrue, for I have seen many SieDS-men, but none 
like these.” Therefore, he called his servants, and 
said — “ Take Man-hoolaffs hence, and bend him even 
as the letter V, and take rods, and leave no skin on 
the apex thereof,” and it was done. 

L’homme qui rit. 



3¥lc(Bill News. 



McGill will be well to the front in the Carnival 
Drive. There are dark rumors to the effect that the 
citizens and strangers will be astonished at the orig- 
inality and daring of the designs. 

The Arts Dinner was held at the Balmoral Hotel, 
on Friday evening. The Science Dinner takes place 
1st February. An account of these important events 
will appear in next issue of The Gazette. 

Last year the men of ’88 met after Convocation, 
and appointed a secretary, to whom each solemnly 
agreed to write at the New Year. As yet, two letters 
only have been received, and the secretary is weeping 
salt tears for the iniquity of his vanished comrades. 

A meeting of lady-students was held on Friday, the 
18th inst., to discuss the advisability of having an en- 
tertainment, similar to that of last year. After de- 
bating the pros and cons of the question, it leaked out 
that the junior years intended giving an entertainment 
for 89’s lady-graduates, and wished to take the re- 
sponsibility on their own shoulders. The fourth year 
president, Miss Reid, in a few words expressed the 
appreciation felt by herself and other members of her 
class at this delicate attention, and then closed the 
meeting. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

The Ladies’ Reading-room has assumed a most de- 
cided holiday aspect, and it is evident that Father 
Christmas did not forget this corner of “ psychic lore” 
when making his rounds. New pictures, inkstand, 
basket, and blotter, combine the useful and orna- 
mental in such a way as to command the admiration 
and appreciation of all. 



The members of the gymnastic class, so far, num- 
ber seventeen. They attacked the rings, trapezes, 
and horizontal bars on Wednesday, the 9th January, 
for the first time, and we have not yet heard of any 
broken bones. 

Miss Ritchie, B.A., President of the Delta Sigma 
Society for ’88, was unaimously elected an honorary 
member at the last meeting. 



EXAMINATIONS. 



The following completes the list of results of the 
Christmas Examinations in the Faculty of Applied 
Science : — 

MOULDING AND FOUNDING. 

Second and Third Years. — Class I. — Mooney and Wing- 
ham, equal ; Middleton and Williams, equal. Class II. — 
Redpath, Ramsey. 

MATHEMATICS. 

First Year. — Class I. — Le Rossignol, Adams, Lawrie. Class 
II — Rutherford, Copeland, Cunningham, Simpson, Mitchell, 
Murphy, and Smart, equal ; Wainwright, Stevenson, Fraser, 
Warren, Denis. Class III.— Tasker, Bolton, Featherston, Klock, 
Ryan . 

Second Year. — Class I. — Stone. Class II. — Walker, Rus- 
sel, Stuart. Class III. — McCrea, Middleton, and Schwitzer, 
equal ; Bickerdike and Wiugliam, equal ; Williams, Bulman. 

Third and Fourth Years. — Class I. — Antliff and Strong, 
equal; Lea, Tuplin. Class II. —Mattie, McFarlane, Denison, 
McLennan. Class III. — Mooney and Naismith, equal ; Haw- 
kins ; Addie and Redpath, equal ; Ellacott ; Reed and Rexford, 
equal. 

GERMAN. 

Second Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Walker. Class 
III. — Middleton. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Cunningham, Davis, Rutherford, 
Ramsay. Class II. — McCrea, Bolton. Class III. — Bickerdike, 
Mitchell, Purves, Smart, Murphy. 



EXHIBITION AND PRIZE LIST. 

The following Exhibitions and Prizes have been 
awarded ; — 

The British Association Exhibition to A. W. Strong (4th 
year). 

A Scotr Exhibition to S. R. Lea (3rd year). 

A Scott Exhibition to E. A. Stone (2nd year). 

The Greenshields Prizes for the best Summer Reports to M. 
N. Hersey (4th year), for his Paper on “ Dextrine,” and to R. 
S. Lea (3rd year), for his Paper on “ Charlottetown Water 
Supply.” 

The Burland Chemistry Prize to W. H. H. Walker (2nd 
year). 

The Prize in Levelling to G. W. Mooney (3rd year). 



MEETING OF CORPORATION. 

The regular meeting of the Corporation was held 
on Wednesday, January 23rd. The following exemp- 
tions for session 1888-9 were reported, — Governor- 
General, 11 ; governors, Arts, 6 ; Donalda, 10 ; Nor- 
mal School, 5 ; affiliated colleges, 54 ; benefactors, 
67 ; total, 153. 

A report was presented by the Dean of the 
Faculty of Arts on the number of students in that 
department, as follows : — The total number of students 
in the Faculty of Arts is 310, being an increase over 



94 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



last year of 30, and an increase over 1887 of 76. The 
increase this year is entirely in the number of men, of 
whom there are 33 more than last year. The total 
number of women is about the same as last year, being 
105 against 108 — but there is amongst these a very 
gratifying increase in the number of undergraduates, 
viz., 35 as against 26 at the same time in 1888, ten of 
these undergraduates are from outside Montreal. 
There is also a considerable increase in the number of 
men undergraduates, 119 as compared with 100 in 
1888. The total number of undergraduates is 154 as 
against 126 in 1888. The number of matriculated 
students is 197, viz.: 150 men and 47 women. The 
total number in the faculty has doubled in about 
five years, viz.: 310 as against 157 in 1884. The num- 
ber of men has doubled in fourteen years. The 
number in all the faculties has doubled in about 
twenty-five years (576 in 1888 as against 201 in 1863). 
Non-matriculated students are termed “occasional.” 
They take fewer than three of the undergraduate 
classes. 

The above report does not include students of other 
faculties, a considerable number of whom attend the 
lectures of the professors in arts; nor does it include 
students in arts in the affiliated colleges elsewhere in 
the province. 

Reports of attendance in the faculties and affiliated 
institutions were presented, from which it appeared 
that in the Faculty of Law there are 13 students, in 
Medicine 257, in Arts — men 205, women 105, in 
Applied Science 70, in Morrin College (Quebec) 34, 
St. Francis College (Richmond) 11, and in the Mc- 
Gill Normal School 94 teachers in training, making a 
total of 789, exclusive of students in the affiliated 
theological colleges who are not reckoned, except 
when taking courses of lectures in the Faculty of 
Arts. 

The report of the Library Committee showed a 
total of nearly 28,000 volumes and a great increase 
in the number of readers. An appeal was made for 
additional shelf-room and increased reading room 
accommodation. Many valuable donations were ac- 
knowledged, which will appear in the printed report. 

The report of the Peter Redpath Museum Commit- 
tee referred to the improvements made in the 
botanical collections, which now contained 7,362 
species, represented by 10,300 specimens, all properly 
labelled and arranged; to valuable additions to the other 
collections, and to the large number of students deriv- 
ing benefits from the museum and the classes carried 
on therein. The issue of museum memoirs on speci- 
mens had been commenced. The number of visitors 
had been 1,500, besides students working in the 
museum, classes from schools and many parties of 
visitors not recorded. The collections and means of 
study in geology, zoology and botany might now be 
considered unrivalled in this country for educational 
purposes. 

The report of the Observatory referred to the 
meteorological and time service, as well as to special 
work in relation to sun spots, to determinations of 
longitude and to the education of students. 

The Normal School report testified to the continued 
excellence and prosperity of that institution, and 



especially to the increasing number of students from 
the country. Reference was made to the benefits 
derived from the new arrangements for the education 
of the academy class in the college, to the recent 
codification of the regulations, and to the erection of 
a workshop for the boys of the Model School, in 
which the teachers in training would also have oppor- 
tunity of learning methods of manual training. 

The Annual Report to the visitor was submitted 
by the Principal, referring to the matters contained 
in the above special reports, to the losses of the Uni- 
versity by death, to new appointments, to the condi- 
tion, progress and wants of the several faculties and 
affiliated institutions, to the relations of the Univer- 
sity, to the schools and to provincial legislation, to 
the public aids to the University, and many other 
topics of educational interest. The report showed 
that the University had now more than 1,400 profes- 
sional graduates, of whom nearly all are usefully 
employed in their several professions, and many have 
attained to the highest positions. Of the professional 
graduates, at least 130 are Bachelors of Arts, and the 
number of graduates in Arts in course is 394. The 
report, or an abstract of it, with the statement of 
income and expenditure, will be published as soon 
as possible. 

After routine business relating to appointment of 
examiners, etc., it was announced that His Excellency 
the Governor-General had signified his pleasure to 
visit the University on Friday, February 8, and a 
programme of proceedings was submitted, with a draft 
of an address to be presented to His Excellency on the 
occasion. 



Societies. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The sixth regular meeting of the Delta Sigma So- 
ciety was held on Friday, Jan. 11th ; the attendance 
was not as good as usual, but the programme was an 
admirable one. Miss Hunter, in an able and compre- 
hensive essay on “ The General Aspect of the Renais- 
sance,” made a fitting opening to the winter’s work. 
Miss Abbott followed with an essay on “The Literature 
of the Renaissance,” which was well prepared, and 
thoroughly appreciated. 

The critic, Miss Williams, did her duty in a few 
well-rounded periods, after which Miss Finlay read a 
charming selection from Washington Irving. 

The Theo Dora Society met, as usual, on Tuesday, 
Jan. 15th. Miss McCoy read an essay on the Geogra- 
phy ot China. Miss Binmore, in a carefully prepared 
paper, treated the same country from its historical 
point of view. These essays form the first of a series 
bearing exclusively upon China and India, which will 
constitute the programme for the remainder of the 
present college year. It is hoped that the more de- 
tailed information thus to be obtained may increase in- 
terest, and that eventually other important fields may 
be taken up in the same manner. Miss Crai^ <?ave a 
reading. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



95 



1889 .] 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

Subjects to be considered on the next three Sab- 
baths are as follows : 

Jan. 27th. — How to Follow Christ. Matt. 5-14. 

Feb. 3rd. — Missionary. 

Feb. 10th. — What Profit? Matt. 16-26. 

During his holiday trip, the President, D. J. Evans, 
met some of the Dartmouth students. The Dartmouth 
boys are endeavouring, with good prospects of success, 
to secure the erection of a College Y.M.C.A building, 
to cost $10,000. 

Our own building is still in the future, yet still in 
prospect. If it is to be built at all, we are every day 
coming nearer the date of its erection, and should not 
let our endeavours in its behalf flag. The success of 
an enterprise consists much in its being a live issue, 
and in its being constantly kept before those who 
should be interested in it. Each member can assist 
in hastening the date of our building’s erection by 
showing his own interest in and desire for it. 

Remember that the usual weekly prayer-meeting is 
held every Tuesday evening in the Arts’ building, 
class-room No. 1, at 7 to 7.30 p.m. 

The 19th annual convention of the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations of Ontario and Quebec will be 
held in Ottawa, Jan. 31st to Feb. 4th. 

An interesting programme, consisting of papers and 
addresses by prominent members of the Association, 
has been prepared. 

Among those who have consented to prepare ad- 
dresses or papers are the following : 

C. S. Gzowski (chairman). Report of the Provincial 
Executive Committee. 

Hon. S. H. Blake. “ Personal Effort in Association 
Work.’’ 

Rev. Dr. McTavish, Toronto. “ Why we Ought to 
Support the Y.M.C.A.,” and “Preparation for Ser- 
vice.” 

Rev. Dr. Wells, Montreal. “ How Best to be Or- 
ganized and Managed.” 

A paper on the relation of the Y.M.C.A. to Foreign 
Missions, is to be read by the deputation from McGill. 

By the kind invitation of Mr. Holden, the officers 
and members of the Y.M.C.A. met in his residence to 
spend a social hour on the evening of Saturday last. 
The gathering was quite informal, and those who 
were present enjoyed a very pleasant evening. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

On Friday, the 11th of Jan., the above society held 
its first regular meeting for this term. The principal 
business was the election of the Special Committee on 
Programmes. Of the gentlemen nominated, the fol- 
lowing were elected : Messrs. Gibson, Kinghorn, Hen- 
derson, Ryan, Shuttleworth. 

In the absence of Mr. Robertson, the essayist, Mr. 
Le Rossignol opened the programme by reading 
Dickens’ description of the “ Formal Couple.” 

The debate appointed for the evening was on the 
subject : “ Resolved — That an Art’s course is bene- 

ficial to the farmer’s son.” 



Mr. Tolmie led the affirmative, supported by Messrs. 
Pritchard and Moore. The negative was sustained by 
Mr Craik, followed by Mr. Sutherland. Though a 
difficult subject to handle, the debate was ably con- 
ducted, and resulted in a victory for the affirmative. 

Friday, Jan. 18th. — The meeting was called to 
order at 8 o’clock, the President in the chair. 

After the routine business, the report of the com- 
mittee appointed to make arrangements for an inter- 
collegiate debate with the Presbyterian College, was 
read and accepted. It has been decided to hold the 
debate in the theatre of the Redpath Museum, on the 
evening of Feb. 1st. Sir Wm. Dawson has been re- 
quested to preside at the meeting and to deliver the 
decision. The subject chosen for debate is: “Re- 

solved, that a limited monarchy is the most perfect 
form of Government.” Messrs. Harvey, Law, and J. 
Robertson, Arts, have been tentatively appointed as 
speakers. 

When the report had been received, the programme 
for the evening was commenced with an essay by 
Mr. Garth, “ A Sketch of the Life of Principal Daw- 
son.” The subject for debate was, “ Resolved, that a 
two cent postage system would be beneficial to 
Canada.” 

Mr. J. A. Elliott opened for the affirmative, and 
Mr. Hall, in the absence of the appointed leader for 
the negative. Mr. Elliott was supported by Messrs. 
McDougall (2nd year) and Kinghorn ; Mr. Hall, by 
Mr. Archibald. Decision was given in favour of the 
affirmative. 

Mr. R. P. McKenzie, critic for the evening, closed 
the programme by a short criticism of its events. 

The attendance was somewhat slim. 



Personals. 



Geo. W. McKinon, M.D., ’89, is located in Eureka, 
California. We hope that he also “ has found it.” 

E. J. Elderkin, M.D., ’84, has returned to college 
for a short time, and will “ go across” in the spring. 

J. II. McLellan, M.D., ’84, and now practising in 
Tignish, P.E.I., has taken to himself a better half. 
Long may he flourish in the “ land of spuds.” 

J. P. Ball, B Ap.Sc., ’87, assistant-superintendent 
of the Charlottetown Water Works, came all the way 
from Prince Edward Island to attend the meeting of 
the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers — and to see 
the town. 

J. W. Spencer, B.Ap Sc., ’74, A.M., Ph.D., F.G.S., 
has just been appointed State Geologist of Georgia, 
in recognition of valuable services rendered by him, 
especially in connection with the discovery of the 
ancient river courses of America. 

In the Government expedition under Surveyor- 
General C. W. Nish, sent out to Lisgar, a town in the 
Sierras, to observe the eclipse of the sun on the 1st 
January, Mr. J. W. Moffatt, B.Ap.Sc., had a place 
among other prominent scientists. 

At the examinations held for leave to study law, 
held recently in this city, Mr. F. W. Hibbard, B.A., 



96 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



’86, crowned the list, and Mr. Hall, ’90 Arts, and Mr. 
Ryan, ’92 Arts, also passed very creditably. These 
gentlemen were at a very great disadvantage, owing 
to the Christmas examinations having been closed only 
two weeks previously. 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

McGill and Crystal. 

There was a fair crowd of spectators in the Crystal 
Rink on the night of 24th January, to see a friend- 
ly hockey match between the McGill and Crystal 
teams. Neither side showed first-class form, and the 
match was inclined to be ragged. In the first half the 
Crystals had things pretty much their own way, and 
got puck between the posts six times, while McGill 
only succeeded in scoring once. In the second half, 
however, McGill showed up in better shape, and won 
three goals to the Crystal’s two, leaving the score at 
the finish — Crystals, 8, McGill 4. The weak point of 
the college was the defence ; the forwards did some 
excellent work, and showed a good idea of combina- 
tion and team play, but they lacked support from be- 
hind, while the Crystals w r ere particularly strong at 
those points. 

The teams were as follows : — 



McGill. 

Holden 


Fosition. 


Crystal. 


Walsh 

Meighen 

Hamilton 

Jamieson 

Fry 

Kingliorn 


^ Forwards, j * * 





Referee, D. A. Elliott. 

Umpires, T. McAnulty and H. Jamieson. 



MEDICINE VS. SCIENCE. 



On the 16th January the inter-faculty match be- 
tween Medicine and Science was played by the follow- 
ing teams : 

Medicine. Position. Science. 



Shanks • Goal. 

R. A. Walsh Point 



J. A. Walsh. . .Cover Point 
Hamilton . 

W. Walsh 
White.... 

Holden . . , 



j F orwards 



s 



Ramsay 

, SmaiUe 

Mattice 

Rankin 

Walker 

Jamieson 

Russel 



At the start the teams seemed very nearly equal, the 
puck flying from one goal to the other with surprising 
rapidity, but it was soon seen to spend more time at 
the Science goal. For a while Ramsay kept his post 
well, but in about twenty minutes he was passed and 
a goal scored for Medicine, by Holden. Play had not 
long been resumed before half-time was called. On 
changing ends the game continued with energy. 
Several times the medical goal was threatened by Rus- 
sel, but Shanks was not to be passed, and Medicine 
won the second game. The last game was short and 
scored in favor of the medicals, though the Science 
men made a brave resistance. Kinghorn acted as re- 
feree. 



AN AFTERNOON IN DECEMBER. 

This is the place, yet scarcely would I know 
Yon rugged mountain, white with fallen snow, 

The tall pines rooking to the icy blast. 

The sky with pallid drifting clouds o'eroast : 

The talking tarn, the singing streamlet dumb, 

Nor tribe of bird, nor insect's cheerful hum : 

The faint horizon line, the shortening day, 

The mist-veiled landscape, dull and oold and grey ; 

The river locked in sullen, rigid rest. 

Where late the ships danced o'er its heaving breast, 

The shrinking sparrows huddled on the bough 
That leafless sways, their sole, frail refuge now ; 

And children hast'ning home with winged feet, 

From school’s dull round released, with laughter sweet, 
Or graver college men and maids sedate, 

Adown the avenue and past the gate. 

But ah I a sight more sad, with head low bent. 

See yonder beggar on hig staff now leant. 

And trembling paused to stretch a pleading hand, 

Dumb want's pathetic, eloquent demand. 

And far I see the fair cathedral rise, 

Soft outlined on the sombre winter skies, 

A sculptured unity, a carven prayer. 

Amid the world's discordance and its care ; 

While, hark! outrings the sleigh bell's silver chime, 
The Northland's music for her poet's rhyme. 

Which, wand'ring far, her exile sons in dreams 
Shall constant hear by alien mount and streams. 

But quick his wand the brisk lamplighter springs, 

And sudden radiance on the darkness flings : 

'Tis day's delaying, lingering eclipse, 

Night's mystery for the city's heart and lips. 

Erol Gervase. 



Between the Lectures. 



Joe Beef is dead. Where will the freshmen get 
lunch now 1 



A farmer always wants the earth. Without it he 
could do nothing. 

Requisites for a Punch Joke : * ( ) 

[ ] Foot Note. 

Why is the head of a bald man like heaven 1 Be- 
cause there is no parting there. 

Q. — Who was the first extensive business operator ? 

A. — Noah, who floated a limited company. 

Q. — When was the first money-order drawn 1 

A. — When Pharaoh received a check on the bank 
of Red Sea. 



We have it on the authority of Wordsworth that 
“ Heaven lies about us in our infancy,” and we think 
it rather unfair. 

Subject for a debating society — If a Mormon has 
eight wives, and one of them dies, how much of a 
widower is he, if any 1 

The Dean — “With what kind of rigor does pneu- 
monia set in ?” 

Student — “ Rigor mortis !” 

Freshman making his debut at the Occidental ; — “If 
there is anything I dote on, it is jellied calves’ heads.” 

Senior (derisively) — “ Such egotism.” 

Professor : What are cilia 1 

Student : Cilia are some kind of projection from the 
body of an animal, which enable it to move. 

A novel method for the preparation of nitrogen has 
been discovered. Mr. X , of the third year, Medi- 

cine, will give full information as to the process. 

According to the latest teachings in surgery, a pa- 
tient who does not take the physician’s advice, is to be 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



97 



sent to the cemetery where they build ice castles with 
fire clay. 

The following answer was written to the question, 
u Describe a typical vertebrae ?” “ A typical vertebrae 
has two legs for locomotion, two arms for prehension, 
and thirty-two teeth.” 

Two ladies in Edinburgh were sisters ; of their hus- 
bands — one was dead, the other was in India. The 
widow remarked to a friend on the warmth of a con- 
cert room, who replied, thinking it was her sister, 
“ Not nearly so warm as where your husband is.” 

Two versions — “ Introduce me to Miss Fairley. 
You know her well enough.” “ Yes, but I don’t know 
you well enough,” or “ Why did you introduce Mr. 

A to Miss Fairley 1 You know me better than 

him.” “ That’s just the reason 1 did not introduce 
you.” 

The professor in Chemistry was distributing the 
class slips to be filled up. 

Prof. : (to freshie) — “I have two kinds of slips here. 
Which kind shall I give you ?” 

Freshie — “I think you might give me a green one ; 
I’m green enough for anything.” 

Graduate, zealous for his Alma Mater's property to 
professor, zealous for the department of botany, who 
was collecting specimens — “Hi, there ! plucking flow- 
ers is forbidden.” 

The graduate was dazed when he found it was not 
a freshman he was admonishing. 



College T#orl&. 

The State University of Oregon has 150 women 
students. 

Eleven women are studying in the University of 
Lund, in Sweden. 

Women painters are going to open an exhibition of 
their works in Brussels. 

Rev. Ida C. Hultin, a graduate of Michigan Univer- 
sity, has charge of a Unitarian Church at Des Moines, 
la., and preaches twice every Sunday. Her congre- 
gation has more than doubled in two years. 

The Englishwoman's Review says : “ We cannot yet 
rival our cousins in America in the facilities they 
possess for practising law ; but so far as our univer- 
sities can give legal honors they have, for the first 
time, done so in two cases this year. Miss Eliza 
Orme obtained the degree of L.L.B. from the London 
University, and Miss Letitia Washington obtained a 
similiar honor in the Royal Irish University.” 

In Russia, a country which is generally regarded as 
steeped in barbarism, an Imperial Ukase has empow- 
ered women to study pharmacy. In Sweden the 
postal and telegraphic services have been open to wo- 
men for the last quarter of a century, and since 1871 
they have had access to the Universities, and to the 
study and practice of medicine. In Austria the gov- 
ernment has given a grant towards the training of wo- 
men as apothecaries and chemists. 



Miss Mary A. Greene, who lately graduated with 
honors at the Boston University Law School, has 
translated for the Chicago Law Times a work on 
“ The Woman Lawyer,” by Prof. Louis Frank. Prof. 
Frank was one of Mile. Popelin’s supporters in her 
recent effort to secure admission to the Brussels bar. 
His work is said to be interesting and exhaustive. 
The translation is made with the author’s permission, 
and will run through several issues of the Law Times, 
beginning with the current number. 



Horrespcmbence. 



FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORE. 

Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — It must be really amusing to the majo- 
rity of your readors to note the inordinately generous 
spirit in which “ Senior ” deals with the above ques- 
tion in The Gazette of the 11th January. In verity, 
one might be led to think the millennium was at 
hand. 

The Faculty of Medicine may be somewhat conser- 
vative in its traditions as to the sphere proper to 
freshmen, and other matters of discipline, but surely 
the spectacle of freshmen superseding seniors in posi- 
tions of precedence and advantages would, to say the 
least of it, be obnoxious to a community even fanati- 
cal in so-called liberality. Of course, the poor, dear 
little things must, and shall, be allowed the privileges 
pertinent to the verdant condition, but when it is 
suggested to have them play in the role of freshmen, 
soph, and senior, objection will be raised, at least by 

Yours, 

Medical Soph. 



THE PRESS vs. STUDENTS. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — It is a singular fact that the press of 
this city, with few exceptions, has always arrayed it- 
self against the medical student whenever that un- 
happy mortal becomes, as he unfortunately does too 
often, a subject of public discussion. 

An instance of this occurred since our last issue, 
in which the respective virtues of the aforesaid Medi- 
cals, and those of a certain peripatetic professor were 
so discussed. 

The students may have exceeded the bounds of 
propriety in ridiculing what, evidently to their minds, 
was a huge fraud ; still, this was no reason why they 
should be so thoroughly misrepresented, more espe- 
cially when it is remembered that the individual 
already referred to was the first to insinuate a charge 
of falsehood and insincerity against those of the 
students who tested his ability on the stage. 

The tendency of such reports is to excite public 
indignation against the student by thus placing him 
in the worst possible light before the citizens, sug- 
gesting, perhaps, also to their minds the idea that the 
practical interest shown in our public institutions is 



98 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



ill-repaid by those most benefited, namely — the 
students themselves. 

It is to be hoped that, in future, the press will be 
more lenient, or at least just, in its criticisms. 

Yours, 

AESCULAPIUS. 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

O- Bose l r 73-&, - ILv£©xvtxea,l. 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© <3-exxa,xcL Stxeet East, Toxoxito. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

IF’TTXSE WA.TEE. 

PEEPECT -SXTOEe:K- 

FJEZCOAFT DELIVEBX. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 



Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 



D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

Shirt Maters and lei’s Fnrnishers, 

* NOBBIEST NECKWEAR. !N_ TJIE CITY. * 

10 per cent. Discount to Students. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



-) BUT 'STO'U’RCE 



Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

STORES. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 



Properly and Fashionably Cut, Singed and Dressed, 

<3-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

■Win.d.sox 35otel Blocls, IFeel Stxeet. 



Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A.d.cLress : 

30 st. crozETnsr street. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



335 387 St. Steeet, ^dCoisTTZESE-A-Xj 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— f Wholesale Manufacturers*— 




Sot Am Fobnices 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
(rnggai’ing ^ Jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

Invitations, Cards, CFests, programmes 
Jtfonograms, Sec., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STALES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

VISTO QXQ&MBg, 

Spillcr & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

JSmm J&km C3/ 1 JcSl - t®. "I" 1 H T 
2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-H{c PHOTOGRAPHY fr«- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOED’S. 

For CROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOED’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOED’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Blenry Street. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

"and chemical apparatus. 

S tfull $to6k dogdtkptly og ^?kgd, Imported 
f)ifedt from tl\e I<ekdigg ^Ikgufcufttlfefd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 






Wm. Notman & Son, 





^ ****************** 


■1 


photographers 


* * (J 


****************** 



Jfevu Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 



THE GEJVUEVE 

Cook’s Fbiewd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21 2U & 23 St. Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 

MOITTEE^L. 




1850 and 1852 1T OTRE D AME ST., CORNER. Me C ILL. 

Tlie only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

IR-IEAID'Y'-IIVn.A.IDE CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

«®- SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. -®» 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit .will 



repay you. 




