Vor. IX. 



JVo. 9. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday , February 17, 1886. 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 



Editorials - - 3-4 

Poetry - 4-5 

Contributions 5-6 

Every Fortnight - 6-7 

McGill News 7-8 

Societies 8-9 





PAGE. 


Sporting - 


9 


Personals 


9 


College World 


10-11 


Between the Lectures 


- 11-13 


Correspondence 


13-14 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL: 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1886 , 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GreensMelds, McCortill, Guerin & GreensMelGs, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jlmmiers, jftflontap, jSoImlor*, fa t 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

M ORTRXAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



Robertson, lie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. Street, 



ATWATER & CROSS, 
^3vocate$, |Jam&ei$, fjonjmi^ioner^ $c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

gamstm, Jkrlixiturs, Set., 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

A.. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MOITTEEAL. 




I. B. DUBOCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

m ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CITE for UcSILL C0LLE9E DINNERS. 



HEADQUARTERS 



— FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. JAMBS ST. 



AIEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USER IJY ART COURSE , 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS . 

Full assortment in sM & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS. 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 
-^I'BEST VALUE ILT TOWU’i^ 

Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students 1 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Ta.rn.es Street, 

-A.XjSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BUY YOUB 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

ISt. Lawre nce Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters Furriers, 

1677 J\foire Dame Bi. 



FUR COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. IX.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 17th, 1886. [No. 9. 




DIRECTORS. — Jeffrey H- Burland, B. Ap. Sc., 
F. C. S., President; Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President; 
Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Scc.-Treas. Committee : — Charles 
W. Hoare ; W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87; Fred. W. Hibbard, 
Arts 86 ; E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS . — A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B. A., 
Editor-in-Chief ; J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86 ; Raleigh 
J. Elliot, Law ’86 ; Arthur Weir, Science ’86 ; Ed. Evans, 
Med. 87 ; C. Percy Brown, Science ’86 ; W. Inglis Bradley, 
B. A., Med. ’87 ; Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



Editorials. 



representative fellows. 

We publish in this number a communication from 
the Honorary Secretary of the Graduates’ Society with 
regard to the nomination of Representative Fellows, 
showing the means to be adopted by those desirous of 
making use of that Society for this purpose. As will 
be seen, not much time remains for the reception of 
nominations, so that those who wish to have candi- 
dates nominated should at once set about the matter. 
But of course it is not absolutely necessary that a 
candidate should be nominated by the Graduates’ 
Society. That is a convenient way of making known 
to the graduates generally what men are in the field, 
and of giving the voters an opportunity of examining 
into the merits of the candidates. Still the voters 
may vote for whom they please, provided the person 
be a graduate of three years’ standing in the Faculty 
for which they wish him to sit. Every graduate of the 
University who has paid the registration fee of fifty 
cents can vote. We mention these particulars 
because there seems to be a very general indifference 
and ignorance with regard to these matters. The 
number of graduates who have been in the habit of 
making use of this right has been hitherto very small, 
and in fact the elections have not received that atten- 
tion which their importance merited. The largest 



number of voters ever polled, we believe, was about 
two hundred, and as a general rule the number is 
much smaller. When we consider that the voting is 
by proxy and that the registration fee is merely 
nominal, we cannot understand why such indifference 
should be displayed. We hope that at the approach- 
ing elections next month greater interest will be 
manifested. 

At the present time it is very necessary that we 
should send good representatives to Corporation, and 
we ask the electors to carefully weigh the merits of 
whatever candidates may be brought forward. The 
subjects which are at present in agitation are of such 
vast importance that men of ability, discretion and 
stamina should be selected. If these qualities are 
found in any graduate, he should not, on the mere 
score of youth, be rejected. At all events be sure 
that those for whom you vote are prepared to support 
the three following proposals : Reform of the Law 

Faculty, the Raising of the Standard of Matricula- 
tion in the University and Larger Representation of 
the Graduates on the Governing Bodies of the Uni- 
versity. Those who can contribute most to the carry- 
ing out of these objects are those whom we believe to 
be most worthy of your suffrages. 



A CHANGE IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION. 

In the Medical Faculty this year the examination 
in Practical Chemistry has been conducted in a differ- 
ent manner to heretofore. Formerly the examination 
was mainly written, the practical examination consist- 
ing of less than ten minutes work in the laboratory, 
when the student had not time to recover from the 
excitement he labored under, till the bell rang and 
he was hurried out, to realize the fact that he had 
made some gross blunder in something which he 
knew perfectly well. Doubtless this process was 
easier for the examiner but it was palpably an in- 
justice to the examined. 

This year the examination was entirely practical, 
and the student instead of spending ten minutes in 
the laboratory, worked there for two hours. Thus 
he was given an opportunity of establishing his know- 
ledge — or otherwise — of the subject. This is a change 
in the right direction, and is a step forward in doing 
away with the pernicious system of cramming which 
is altogether too prevalent in our colleges, 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE- 



[1886. 



In the department of medicine, perhaps more than 
in any other, this evil should he combatted as far as 
possible, and more value should be attached to a 
practical knowledge of the science than to a mere ex- 
pertness in rhyming of theories, hypotheses, etc., per 
text book or lecture notes. 

Now while the teaching of our college tends to be 
pre-eminently practical, the method of examination is 
such as to favor this process of cramming, and is such 
as to make it possible for a student by a few months* 
hard reading to creditably pass the prescribed exam- 
inations — as Huxley says : “ They pass and they don’t 
know.” 

“ Reading and much reading,” said Edmund Burke, 
“ is good : but the power of diversifying the matter 
in your own mind and of applying it to every occasion 
that arises is far better — so don’t suppress the vivida 
vis .” The aim then should be to make the examina- 
tions, wherever possible, largely practical. They 
should be of such nature as “ to let reason, memory 
and method have free play.” We would not recom- 
mend the abolition of written examinations by any 
means ; but we would desire to see the oral practical 
part, put on an equal footing with it, and not confined 
as heretofore to ten or fifteen minutes, which often 
seemed more of a matter of form than a part of the 
examination. Would it not be well to have the oral 
last at least half-an-hour in each subject. Then the 
examiner could test his man and find out his capacity 
and power and thus he will not pass a one-sided 
opinion on him as he often necessarily does if he 
judge him by his written examination. Another, 
and we believe, a more salutory change would be to 
abolish the present system of competitive examination, 
with its medals, prizes and “ honorable mention.” 
The spirit of emulation and the desire to excel his 
companions, is a feeling which induces very few 
students to make an extra effort, as very soon the 
measure of each student is taken and a few soon 
leave the rest so far in the rear that all hope of suc- 
cessful competition is given up. Hence as an incen- 
tive to study competition fails. These few (who in 
any case would be successful students) are stimulated 
to excel by a spirit of rivalry which is certainly not 
the noblest or healthiest. The one wins the prize or 
attains the coveted position ; the rest get — nothing. 
Who shall say this one is the best student 'l Has he 
not merely “shewed his power of work under stimulus, 
and his capacity for rapidly and clearly producing that 
which, for the time, he has got into his mind V 9 

The remedy we propose is the following : — 

Let there be a pass and honor standing as there is 
now, and let this be all. Let there be no positions in 



these classes — no medals or prizes. They are wrong 
in principle, are a practical failure, and often won by 
only a few marks or a lucky chance. 

By the above method all will be compelled to work 
as now for a pass. The more ambitious or gifted can 
attain an honor standing ; while the few who now 
spend their time in superfluous reading and much 
cramming that they may possibly win a medal, may 
spend this time in acquiring a permanent and more 
scientific knowledge of their profession, and at the 
same time not jeopardise that which is the acme of 
human welfare — a sound mind in a sound body. 

We should like to hear through the columns of the 
Gazette the opinion of the students on these matters 
as well as on that of having an outside Board of Ex- 
aminers. 



Poetry. 



[for the gazette.] 

HORiE HORATIANiE. 



HORACE— BOOK I., ODE IX. 

See, dazzling with untrodden snow 
Soracte stands: the straining woods 
Bend with their burden, and the floods 
Curbed by keen frost have ceased to flow. 

Pile logsupon'the hearth, afar 
To drive, 0 Thaliarcb, the cold, 

And draw the vintage, four years old. 

With lavish hand from Sabine jar. 

Resign all else to Jove’s high will : 

When once he lulls the winds asleep 
That battle on the boiling deep. 

Cypress, and ancient ash, are still. 

Seek not to-morrow’s fate to know, 

Set down as gain whatever chance 
To-day brings forth, nor scorn the dance, 

Or youthful love’s delicious glow. 

Age soon will blight thy manhood’s flower: 
Park and parade should claim thee now, 
And thou shouldst murmur passion’s vow 
At dusky twilight’s trysting hour : 

Or track the low, sweet laugh that tells 
Where some coy maid conceals her charms. 
And snatch a forfeit from her arms, 

Or hand, that tenderly repels. 



book i., ODE XXII. 

Fuscus, the man whose life is pure. 

And clear from crime, may live secure ; 

No moorish darts or bow he needs. 

No quiver stored with venom’d reeds : 

Whether on Afric’s burning sands, 

Or savage Caucasus he stands, 

Or where with legend-haunted tide 
The waters of Hydaspes glide. 

For, while in Sabine glades, alone, 

Singing of Lalage, my own, 

I roamed light-hearted and unarmed, 

A wolf that faced me fled — alarmed. 

No monster so portentous roves 

Through gallant Daunia’s broad oak-groves, 

Nor e’en in Juba’s thirsty land, 

That suckles lions ’mid the sand. 

Set me on lifeless deserts, where 
No tree is fanned by summer’s air. 

That zone of earth, which mist and cloud 
With sullen atmosphere enshroud : 

Set me in houseless realms afar, 

Beneath the sun’s too neighbouring car. 
E’en there sweet-smiling Lalage, 
Sweet-speaking maid beloved shall be. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



BOOK I., ODE XXIII. 

Thou shun’st me, Chloe, like a fawn, 

That on some trackless mountain lawn. 

Scared idly by the woods and wind, 

Seeks her shy dam to find. 

If the first breath of Spring but chance 
To quiver on the leaves that dance, 

Or the green lizards stir the brakes, 

In heart and knees she quakes. 

I chase, but not to crush thee, child, 

Like lion grim, or tiger wild : 

Then, cease to haunt thy mother’s side, 

Now fit to be a bride. 

Geo. Murray. 



Contributions. 



BACKWOODS PICTURES AND PECU- 
LIARITIES. 

By a member of the “ Delta Sigma.” 
{Concluded.) 

But tlie great event, the Carnival of the back 
country, is the annual cattle show, held in the county 
town, in the month of October. Early in the morn- 
ing of the eventful day, the whole neighborhood is 
astir. Droves of cattle, and cart or waggon loads of 
cackling hens and crowing cocks, and gabbling geese 
and truculent turkeys, and tinnets of butter and great 
heaps of vegetables, may be seen entering the town, 
which is gaily decorated with flags and bunting. 
Observe that slender legged colt, trotting gaily along 
by its mother’s side, its bushy tail wagging with ex- 
citement, its fine dark eye kindling, its ears pricking, 
a wreath of artificial roses around, or a bunch of bright 
ribbons at its neck. Or this drove of cows, headed 
by a vicious looking old gentleman cow, whose eyes 
glare, and whose head shakes so menacingly from 
side to side at the timid little girls on their way to 
school, (for it is now going on to 9 o’clock,) that in- 
stinctively they shrink with terror, and some of them 
begin to run, casting ever and anion fearful looks 
behind, to see if the terrible creature is giving chase. 

By about half past ten the cattle, fowls etc., are all 
mustered in a large field, and ranged around the fence, 
all the cows together, all the sheep together, all the 
pigs together etc. etc., and dire is the discord of 
sounds. When all is in order, the judges walk round, 
take the cows by the horns, feel the soft wool of the 
sheep, poke the lazy pigs in their sides to see how fat 
they are, and finally after a great deal of professional 
consultation, affix tickets to those animals they con- 
sider worthy of a prize. 

But while all this is going on in the field, let us 
look into the Town Hall, and see what is in progress 
there. On tables round the room are displayed loaves 
of white home made bread, pots of golden butter, and 
many other exhibits of the same kind. But there 
seems to be some special attraction at the fare end. 
Behold ! it is the fancy work department. Here is a 
patchwork quilt, which is much and justly admired. 
The groundwork is of white cotton, the centrepiece 
an immense yellow star ; — around the yellow star is a 
whole constellation of green stars of lesser magnitude, 
while at the corners are triangle of yellow. The effect 



as a whole is unique and artistic in a high degree, and 
we cannot wonder that this quilt should take a prize. 
There are invariably on exhibition, two or more large 
frames, containing wreaths of flowers, made of wool 
seeds or feathers. At one of these cattle shows I saw 
an arrangement , constructed of straws tied with ma- 
genta wool, and intended I imagine, as a pendant 
ornament for the ceiling or window of some rural 
drawing room. The body of the ornament seemed to 
be an intricate network of straws, while from all 
point hung little pendants made of four straws 
crossed. 

How in the world the manufacturer of this delicate 
marvel managed to bring it into the town without 
crushing or breaking, I do not understand ; but there 
it was in perfect preservation, dividing with the above 
mentioned quilt, the admiring wonder of the crowd. 
There is always a display of knitted socks, mittens, 
and comforters, and the prevailing colour for the two 
first is striped or spotted magenta and yellow. 

During the afternoon the lads and lasses walk 
round the town, arm in arm. Both dressed in their 
gayest attire ; the young ladies resplendent in purple 
dresses blue feathers, green silk ties ; the young 
gentlemen, with faces burned to a healthy shade of 
boiled beets or roast beef, smiling and looking very 
sheepish. As they walk along generally both ladies 
and gentleman are regaling themselves with ginger- 
bread mittens or “ Taffy ” on a stick, bought at one of 
the numerous stalls set up for the occasion, I am sorry 
to have to tell it, but in truth I must, that some of 
these good or bad people finish up the day by getting 
drunk and having a fight. However this disgraceful 
custom is becoming less frequent than it was, and let 
us hope that as Christianity and Temperance advance, 
it well happily die out and become altogether a thing 
of the past. 

I have said that, the backwoods people are prover- 
bial for keeping a tight purse string in regard to the 
Clergyman and Doctor. This latter individual they 
cannot bear to call in until the very last moment, when 
it is almost life or death ; and however reasonable 
his charges there is an extreme reluctance to paying 
them, particularly in cash, produce being, as in the 
Clergyman’s case offered instead. If he has been suc- 
cessful it is sometimes said. “ Shure, he just ordered 
a poultice and a bottle of so-and-so, and I believe she 
would have took the turn and got better if he had not 
come near her at all, at all.” 

If unsuccessful, and the patient grows worse or 
entirely succumbs, then he is often pronounced un- 
skilful, and his bill disputed or repudiated. 

The diseases from which they suffer have names, 
under which we would hardly recognize them. Bron- 
chitis is brownteeters ; congestion, a conjunction ; in- 
flammation, information , — a malady from which some 
of us students would not object to suffer at examina- 
tion time. 

One person, in speaking of her daughter who had 
been sick, said that she was conscientious (conscious) 
all the time. 

Another old woman who was suffering from some 
affection of the limbs, said, in bemoaning her illness, 
“ Shure I can’t walk at all, for, savin’ yer presence, 



6 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. t 1886 - 



me leg kapes runniri all the time. And/ 7 she con- 
tinued, “ it’s the right-hand leg y sor.” 

It was yet another who remarked that she didn’t eat 
a bite forbye what she drank . 

If one of the back-countrymen went to a druggist’s 
to buy a disinfectant for our Picotte , he would in all 
probability ask for Florida lime (chloride of lime), or 
Garabaldic acid (carbolic acid.) 

Many of them are remarkable for a strained pro- 
priety of speech when they want to make an impres- 
sion. A certain man, who passed for somewhat of an 
orator, gave Twelfth of July addresses, etc., was call- 
ing at the house of a gentleman, on business, and the 
latter not being at home, his wife invited our friend 
to enter. His answer was : “ I thank you, missus, I 
shall not halt upon the present occasion.” 

When anyone dies, his residence is immediately 
designated the “Corp house,” and his friends proceed 
to give him a wake. I am told that this affair often 
lasts two or three nights, and that they have a gay 
time, laughing, talking, eating, singing, courting, in 
the neighborhood of the apartment where the dead is 
laid out, if not in the actual room itself. 

Apropos of this, I heard an amusing story of a man 
who was dead, and his friends were discussing whether 
he should be buried in a shroud or in his shirt. Some 
one suggested that the shirt would do nicely, and save 
expense, which in the circumstances of the family 
was a serious consideration. But the wife, with a 
look of righteous indignation, exclaimed, “ What ! 
bury my husband in his shirt 'l a nice figure he’d cut 
at the Resurrection with nothing but his shirt on.” 
We must hope after this that the shroud was procured. 

Most of the back-country people are very supersti- 
tious. I knew of a man who had made a vow never 
to shave on Sunday, in order to be kept from tooth- 
ache. 

Once in the dead of winter a poor old woman was 
lost in the woods and frozen to death, and the people 
who live near the place say that still she can be heard 

crying in plaintive accents, “ Och and och and o ” 

Most likely it is the owls they hear, or perhaps a 
loon. The loon is a large, handsome bird of the duck 
species, which flies at night over the lakes, and one 
who has never heard its cry can have no conception 
of the wild, melancholy shriek, dying away in a hol- 
low moan, as of a person in distress. 

I have said nothing of the scenery of the backwoods, 
for that is rather foreign to my subject, and might 
well exhaust many pages of descriptive eloquence, 
were I possessed of eloquence. 

But 1 would just briefly notice one pretty picture 
that may be seen on any winter’s day. It is a sleigh- 
load of logs, drawn by two fat brown horses. Seated 
on a buffalo skin on the logs is the driver, clad in a 
blanket coat, and a blue and red tuque, which makes 
a bright spot of colour against the dazzling snow. His 
hair and beard are white with frost, and his breath, as 
well as that of the horses, is like a cloud of fine smoke 
in the cold, clear air. The logs are crusted with ice, 
and here and there is a tuft of evergreen, which has 
escaped the wood-cutter’s axe. As the load passes 
along through the town on its way to the saw-mill, the 
sleigh-bells jingle merrily, and the crisp snow crunches 



beneath the horses’ hoofs. A crowd of merry boys and 
"iris on their way to or from school, encounter it, and 
with a hasty “ Gimme ride, please,’’ and before the old 
fellow has even time to assent, which, unless unusu- 
ally churlish, he does, with a grim smile, or an aqui- 
escent grunt, they spring nimbly up, seat themselves 
on the logs, and the load proceeds, gathering addi- 
tional freight at every turn. 

The backwoods people in their intervals of leisure 
occasionally court the muse, and their effusions almost 
invariably take the form of obituaries. One such, 
which I cut from a local newspaper not long ago, oc- 
curs to my recollection, and as it is a fair specimen of 
those which I have read, I give it here, as the con- 
clusion of my hastily prepared paper. 

LINES WHITTEN ON THE DEATH OF MRS. . 

BY HER SISTER SARAH . 

Dearest sister, God has called you 

From this world of care and pain — 

Where to meet with thy dear loved ones, 

Never more to part again. 

Could I but have watched thy bedside. 

Or have smoothed thy bright brown hair, 

Ido feel it would have soothed me, 

Although I know that’s hard to bear. 

But to think I could not see you, 

Oh ! that seemeth harder still ; 

But we must not be reflecting. 

But submission to His will. 

Dearest Letty. I remember 

When I kissed you last good-bye ; 

And your tender arm was around me— 

Tears was in your bright blue eye. 

I little thought it was for ever, 

When that last good-bye I said ; 

You were standing by the gateway, 

Where in ohildhood days we played- 

All those months since I have left you, 

My thoughts were still on home and thee— 

I was hoping at some season 
Back again with you to be. 

But it’s God that hath bereft us, 

And I know if I sincerely 

Ask him, He will guide me safely 
Home to heaven and sister dear. 

Sarah . 



Euery Fortnight. 



Themistocles, being asked, “ Whether a man should 
rather bestow his daughter upon a poor man that was 
honest, or upon a man that had more wealth, but less 
integrity,” made reply : “ I had rather bestow her 
upon a man that wants money, than upon money that 
wants a man.” 

This is all very well, but it does not appear which 
the girl herself would have preferred. Those who have 
read the story of Spinosa will remember what an effect 
even a necklace has. 

* * 

* 

It is unnecessary for me to say that I have been 
greatly abused and calumniated since I commenced to 
send my scribblings to the Gazette. I have been 
called all sorts of names, but the most cutting accusa- 
tion which has been hurled at me is that of being a 
combination.” I really did not deserve that. Call 
me a safe, or a lock, or anything but a combination. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



I find that I had a namesake in the eighteenth cen- 
tury? and that they made fun of him too. “ One Den- 
nis, commonly called 1 the Critic/ who had writ a 
threepenny pamphlet against the power of France, 
being in the country, and hearing of a French privateer 
hovering about the coast, although he were twenty 
miles from the sea, fled to town, and told his friends 
‘they need not wonder at his haste, for the King of 
France, having got intelligence where he was, had sent 
a privateer on purpose to catch him.* ” This is a little 
joke of Swift’s. 

* * 

* 

Perhaps it will be just as well for me to flee some 
of these days from the privateers sailing about the 
land. 

“ Oh ! think of me, my friends ! when I am gone 
Let not my memory lightly pass away. 

With pleasant songs forgotten — or as one 
A stranger-guest, abiding but a day. 

“ For I will think of youl a purer ray 
Will gild Life’s journey, flung from times of old, 

And Thought will reckon o’er, when far away, 

Their gentle memories— its hoarded gold. 

M Oh I dream of me, my friends I when I am gone, 

Then be your happy slumbers lightly stirred 
By tender shadows from the distance thrown. 

By echoes sweet of some remembered word.” 

* * 

* 

I should be very sorry to contend that mottoes, 
crests, family traditions and the like, do not possess 
their value. The Earl of Shaftesbury’s motto was 
“ Love and Serve.” How this motto must ever have 
been as a hand guiding him through a life of nobility 
and philanthropy till he won the honor and happiness 
bestowed upon the glorious knight of old who first 
had these words written upon his banner ! How com- 
pletely, too, he fulfilled the mission which these three 
words embody ! 

* * 

* 

“ Coming events ” begin “ to cast their shadows be- 
fore.” Let us hope that they will not leave shadows 
behind them as well. I notice that when the time of 
examinations approaches, a peculiar feeling of uneasi- 
ness, distraction and suspicion pervades the com- 
munity. Everything seems hushed and solemn, as on 
the eve of some great battle, where kingdoms are at 
stake, and the contending parties of almost equal 
strength. As we sit round the bivouac fire, sleepless 
and silent, the thought will force itself upon our 
minds that some of us will never meet again, — that 
this jovial ring is broken, — no more the story and the 
song. 

* * 

* 

To those who are graduating this year, I give this 
bit of advice : If you wish to make direct use of any 
part of the knowledge which you have obtained dur- 
ing your college course, make up your mind to keep up 
the study of that particular subject. Do not let a year 
go by and imagine that you can some time in the future 
return and start from where you left off’. As Sidney 
Smith says : “ It is no more possible foi an idle man 
to keep together a certain stock of knowledge, than it 
is possible to keep together a stock of ice exposed to 
the meridian. Every day destroys a fact, a relation 
or an influence ; and the only method of preserving 



the bulk and value of the pile is by constantly adding 
to it.” 

* 

** For now we sever each from each, 

I learn what I have lost in thee ; 

Alas, that nothing less could teach 
How great indeed my love should be 1 

" Farewell I I did not know thy worth. 

But thou art gone, and now ’tis prized ; 

So angels walked unknown on earth, 

But when they flew, were recognized I” 

* * 

* 

“ Why should one become startled by the thoughts 
which suddenly come, uncalled for and unexpectedly ? 
If right — all is well ; if wrong — calmly, not hastily, 
reason them away.” 

* , * 

* 

Many writers have pictured the different kinds of 
bores, but I do not remember to have seen anywhere 
mentioned the bore of public meetings. Still you all 
have seen him. When some subject has been thorough- 
ly discussed, and when the debate is upon the point 
of closing, a small form is seen to rise slowly to ad- 
dress the chair. “ I hope that I am not out of order, 
but there is one point, which, it seems to me, has been 
left untouched by those who have already spoken.” 
He then goes on to remark that he did not notice any- 
thing of much importance in what the other speakers 
had said, and that he would give the correct view of 
the matter. The correct view generally lasts for half 
an hour, and when it disappears there is a general 
feeling of everybody having been insulted by a well- 
meaning, egotistical blockhead. 

* * 

How unexpectedly things happen in this world ! 
What is put up to-day is knocked down to-morrow ; 
he who was here but now is with us no more. Often 
the most useful persons and things swept away appar- 
ently without reason. What a preacher I have be- 
come ! It is time for me to stop, for though “ I am 
nothing if not critical,” as Othello remarks, yet I 
should not like to be considered didactical. 

Critic. 



TflcSill Keujs. 



At a meeting of the students in Arts, held on 
Friday, the 12th, Messrs. J. Naismith and W. L. 
Jamieson were elected representatives of the faculty 
on the Executive Committee of the Athletic Associa- 
tion. Mr. A. P. Murray was appointed Arts Editor 
of the Gazette for next year, at the same meeting. 

On the evening of Feb. the 6th, Mr. P. A. Peter- 
son, the well-known engineer of the C. P. E., deliv- 
ered the first of the winter course of evening lectures 
to the Science students. The lecturer was introduced 
by Prof. Bovey at 7.30. The subject of the lecture 
was “ Pier Foundations,” and Mr. Peterson’s reputa- 
tion as a bridge engineer is a sufficient guarantee of 
its good quality. The address was listened to by a 
very appreciative and good-sized audience, and at its 
close a vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. Peterson. 



8 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1886. 



Last Friday evening Mr. John Kennedy delivered 
his annual lecture to the students of the Science 
Faculty. His subject was “ The Ice Phenomena of 
the St. Lawrence.” Mr. Kennedy went into the sub- 
ject in considerable detail, describing the process of 
ice formation, its influence on river and river bed, the 
causes of spring floods, damage to water-works, etc. 
His address was aided by a large number of diagrams, 
and was listened to with very great interest. Mr. 
Kennedy’s knowledge of the subject is too well 
known to call for comment, and the students should, 
and, doubtless do, appreciate his kindness in lectur- 
ing to them. Among those present were, Sir William 
Dawson, Profs. Johnson, Bovey and McLeod, Messrs. 
Peterson, Forsythe, St. George, Sproule (Ap. Sc. ’77) 
and others. In concluding, Mr. Kennedy, as has been 
his custom in other years, invited the students to his 
house to spend the remainder of the evening. After 
the proposal of a vote of thanks by Sir William, 
which elicited hearty applause, the company adjourn- 
ed to Mr. Kennedy’s, where, by their actions, they 
gave their host no reason to doubt that the latter part 
of his evening’s entertainment was as much appre- 
ciated as the former. The party broke up shortly 
after midnight, the unanimous verdict being that it 
was one of the red-letter nights of the college year. 



COLLEGE Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

The following facts may be interesting to a number 
of our readers : At the present time there are in active 
operation 210 College Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tions, with a membership of about 10,000. This num- 
ber will be the more surprising when we remember 
that the first college association was formed in Prince- 
ton less than ten years ago. There is still, however, 
room for extension, since in the United States and 
Canada there are 1,200 colleges, academies and pro- 
fessional schools, with 150,000 students in attendance. 
In every one of these colleges it is intended that a 
Christian Association shall be organized. 

As to Canada, there are Associations in University 
College, Toronto ; Queen’s, Kingston ; Albert, Belle- 
ville ; Morrin, Quebec ; Dalhousie, Halifax, and in 
McGill. Besides this, quite lately, another has been 
formed in St. Francis College, Richmond (one of the 
feeders of McGill), under the presidency of Mr. Bead. 
The Association in University College, Toronto, re- 
joices in the possession of a fine building costing 
$5,000, and situated in the college grounds. It is to 1 
be hoped that in the near future we shall see the like 
on our McGill grounds. Such a building would be a 
convenient resort, not only for the members of the 
Association, but also for undergraduates in general. 
Among other things, this may fairly claim the atten- 
tion of benefactors of McGill. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE CO. 

ANNUAL MEETING. 

The annual meeting of the subscribers to the 
Guarantee Fund of the Gazette was held on Feb- 
ruary 1st, the President, Mr. Burland in the chair. 



The report of the Board of Directors was presented 
and showed the financial condition of the Gazette at 
the close of last year to have been highly satisfactory. 
This year the issue had been greatly increased and the 
expenses for the year (which ends the 1st May next) 
will consequently be larger and require, to meet them, 
larger receipts than those of last year. This difference 
the Board hopes will be made up by the increased 
number of subscribers. 

The election of officers for the year commencing 
the 1st May next resulted as follows : Directors. — 

Messrs. J. H. Burland, F. W. Hibbard, E. P. Wil- 
liams, C. W. Hoare, W. A. Carlyle E. de F. Holden, 
and C. H. Livingstone. Editors. — Messrs. J. R. Mur- 
ray, R. J. Elliot, A. Weir, and W. I. Bradley. 
Auditor. — Mr. H. A. Budden. 

A resolution was adopted appointing the present 
directors a committee to take steps to secure Letters 
Patent incorporating a company to publish and manage 
the Gazette. The capital of such company to be 
$1,000, in 100 shares of $10 each, fifty per cent, of the 
stock subscribed to be paid up at once. 

A resolution was passed striking out of the consti- 
tution the clause requiring the annual meeting to be 
held in the college building. 

A vote of thanks was moved to Mr. Colquhoun, pre- 
sent Managing Editor, who refused to allow himself 
to be re-appointed. Remarks complimentary to Mr. 
Colquhoun were made by several of those present and 
the motion was enthusiastically carried. 

Votes of thanks were also passed to the Secretary- 
Treasurer, the Board of Editors and Board of Direc- 
tors. 

At the close of the meeting a list was opened and 
all present subscribed for stock in the proposed Com- 
pany. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of the Society last Friday was presided 
over by Mr. C. J. Brooke, 1st Vice-President, and the 
following members were present : Messrs. Arch. 

McGoun, Jr., A. G. Cross, R. C. Smith, A. R. Ough- 
tred, S. P. Leet, J. K. Unsworth, A. W. Smith, J. R. 
Murray, W. J. Sproule, Mathewson, Colquhoun, Fry 
and Murphy. 

The debate was on the question suggested by the 
recent paper read by Prof. Clark Murray before the 
Society, on “ Bishop Berkeley,” and the Secretary 
read a note from Dr. Murray expressing regret at his 
inability to attend during the discussion. The 
wording of the subject was : u Is Berkeley’s theory of 
the ideality of the universe philosophically sound.” 
Mr. McGoun began the discussion, and gave a lucid 
enunciation of the great metaphysician’s theory. Mr. 
R, C. Smith followed in an able argument, expressing 
the objections to the theory, and Mr. Cross success- 
lull} appealed to the text of Berkeley himself to show 
exactly what he contended for. Mr. Sproule spoke 
huefly, and Mr. McGoun summed up, after which a 
vote was taken, resulting favourably to the affirma- 
tive. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

On Saturday evening, Feb. 6th, the eight regular 
meeting of the Medical Society was held in their 
Reading-room, the president, Dr. Stewart, in the 
chair. After routine business, the pathologist shewed 
some microscopic sections on the pathology of which 
he made some remarks. 

Dr. Mills then gave an address — “ The History of 
the McGill Medical Society.’* Beginning with the 
inception of the society under Dr. Osier in 1877, he 
spoke of the difficulties encountered in carrying on 
its work under very unfavorable circumstances. He 
gave some pleasing reminiscences of the students who 
with himself took part in making the society a success 
at that time. Contrasting the Society as it was then, 
with the Society as it now is, and possessing the 
many advantages which it does, he said he was sur- 
prized to see it so poorly attended. He took the 
occasion to give some good practical advice to medical 
students. In speaking of the students who “ never 
had time to attend ”, he showed that it was those 
students who took an active part in its affairs, from 
the first year of its existence when members of the 
society took the Gold Medal and carried off the Final 
Prize, to last year when a member took the Gold 
Medal, who were the honor men of the University 
and of their profession. At the next regular meeting, 
Feb. 20th, Dr. Roddick has promised to read a paper 
before the society. 

UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on the evening of 
Friday Feb. 12th, Mr. R. Henderson, the Vice-Presi- 
dent in the chair, and the following members being 
present, — Messrs. Lerossignol, Kingston, MacArthur, 
Garth, Naismith, Deeks, Parker, Robertson, MacKen- 
zie, (R. T.) Bell, Pedley (F.) Pedley (H.) Lucas, 
Rogers, Curtis, Hibbard, Topp, Bryson, Murray and 
Gibson. Two visitors were also noticed. It was 
moved that the meeting adjourn to allow the members 
to hear Mr. Kennedy’s lecture on the “ Ice Difficulty” 
— lost. 

“ Olivor Goldsmith ” was the subject of Mr. H. 
Pedley’s essay : he has, as he said of Goldsmith, “ a 
taking way of putting things,” Mr. J. Lerossignol, 
the ‘ reader ’ of the evening, delivered a comic piece 
called “ The Force of Habit.” 

The subject of discussion was “ Resolved that a 
lawyer is justified in defending a prisoner whom he 
believes to be guilty,” which was decided in favour of 
the negative. Messrs. F. W. Hibbard, Curtis, and 
Pedley (F.) spoke on the affirmative, while Messrs. 
R. Henderson, Robertson, and R. T. MacKenzie were 
on the side upholding the present usage. 

In closing the debate, the chairman congratulated 
the speakers on the fluency that had been displayed. 
The critic, Mr. C. B. Kingston, then made his re- 
marks, dwelling at some length on the noted want of 
forcible delivery at the culmination of a line of argu- 
ment. Mr. Murray drew attention to the analogy 
that might be drawn between a lawyer defending a 
man against his belief, and a member of the society 
speaking against his convictions. Mr. Topp followed 
with a clever little summary of what could be said on 



both sides. The meeting then adjourned after some 
discussion on placing certain names on the list of de- 
faulters. 

The next meeting of the society will be held on 
the 19th, at 8 p.m., in the Arts Building, when Prof. 
Andrew will give an address on “ Elocution all 
students are invited to be present. 



Sporting. 

The Annual Meeting of the McG. U. A. A. was held 
on the 6th inst. at 8 p.m. in the Molson Hall, the 
Vice-President being in the chair. 

The reports of the Secretary and of the Treasurer 
were then read and approved, the latter showing a 
balance on hand of about $205.00. Next came the 
election of officers which after considerable ballotting 
resulted as follows : 

President : Sir Wm. Dawson. Re-elected by ac- 
clamation. Vice-President : R. E. Palmer, Ap. Sc. 
’87. Secretary : J. A. Springle, Med. ’88. Treasurer : 
Prof. C. H. McLeod. Re-elected by acclamation. 
Ass’t-Treasurer : C. W. Colby, Arts, ’87, 

The next business before the meeting was the ques- 
tion of the affiliation of the Football and Hockey clubs 
with the Association, which produced a long and 
animated discussion during which able speeches were 
made by Messrs. Pedley, Wright, Hibbard, Topp, 
Macdonnell, Kerry, Palmer, Bell and others. It was 
finally resolved on Mr. Wright’s motion that it was 
desirable to affiliate and that Messrs. Springle and 
Weir be appointed a committee on behalf of the Asso- 
ciation to confer with committees from the two clubs 
on the terms of amalgamation. A motion was then 
brought up by Mr. Wilson to open the membership 
to students taking lectures in two or more subjects. 
The advantages of this being obvious it was adopted 
with little opposition. There being no more business 
the meeting then adjourned at 10.15 p.m. 

The outlook for the coming year is very bright as 
a very active and capable complement of officials have 
been chosen. Much depends on the choice of Faculty 
Committee men which should be made with care. 
With a little trouble on the part of the officers and 
the co-operation of the students, there is no reason 
why the Field Day and Record of 1886-7 should not 
be at least as good, to say the least, as those of pre- 
vious years. 

At a meeting of Science Faculty in 4th year draft- 
ing-room, on Feb. 12th, at 7.30 p.m., Mr. W. A. 
Carlyle, ’87, was elected Editor for 1886-87; and 
Messrs. Taylor, ’87, and May, ’88, elected to the 
McG. U.A.A.. Executive Committee for the ensuing 
session. 



Personals. 

W. E. Thompson, M.D., graduate of ’82, who has 
been studying for the past few months in Edinburgh, 
has just passed the final examinations for the triple 
qualifications, and been admitted L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., 
Edin., L.F.P., L.F.S. Glasgow, and L. M. Dr. 
Thompson is at present in London spending a few 
weeks prior to his return to Canada. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



[for the gazette.] 
“ GAUDEAMUS IGITUR,” 

" One fond kiss and then we sever 
Thus, my dear, has ended ever, 

One and all each fond endeavour 
Bliss to gain. 

Friends, now married* once thought clever— 

Tell me — “ More than this seek never 
To obtain ; 

Or you’ll find as we have done 
That of life you’ve lost the fun 
E’er your course you’ve well begun ; 

Ne’er again 

Will you smiling ' take the bun,* 

Nay 1 the final heat you’ll run 
E’en with pain.” 



EVENING HYMN. 

(For Music.) 

I bow my weary head. 

And fold my hands in prayer, 

And trust the God of all. 

Whose love is everywhere. 

This day with all its pain, 

I lay down at Ilis feet ; 

To-morrow strength will come, 

To-morrow’s care to meet. 

Adieu ye vain regrets 1 
And dark desnair, adieu 1 

Howe’er I may have erred, 

I did the best I knew. 

My heart is full of hope, 

And fearless is it, too ; 

Net calmer is yon star 
That shines in heaven’s blue. 

He gave to me my soul, 

And knows its inmost need ; 

/ cannot grasp His plan ; 

To 44 trust Him ” is my creed. 

I bow my weary head, 

And fold my hands in prayer, 

And trust the God of all, 

Whose love is everywhere. 

Gowan Lea 



College Ulorlb. 



There are 610 Freshman at Oxford this term, as 
compared with 570 at the same period last year. There 
are fifty-six at Christ Church, forty-nine at New Col- 
lege, and forty-seven at Balliol. 

At Cambridge there are no fewer than 865 Fresh- 
men, Trinity College heading the list with 179, while 
next comes St. John’s (eighty-two), Caius (fifty-four), 
Clare (fifty-four), and Pembroke (fifty-three). 

A new chair lately established at Cornell is that of 
Pedagogy filled by Prof. S. G. Williams, up to the 
present professor of geology, and Secretary of the 
American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. Prof. Williams has had very large experi- 
ence in the organization and management of primary 
and secondary schools. 

Edinburgh University students have taken a vote 
on the question of assuming the cap and gown worn 
usually by college students. The result has been as 
follows : Divinity students in favor of both cap and 

gown, 33; of neither, 24; majority, 9. Law students 
— for both, 122; neither, 120; cap only, 11 ; gown 
only, 4 ; majority, 17. Medicine — both, 601 ; neither, 
355 ; cap only 46 ; gown only, 5 ; majority, 297. 



Arts— both, 332 ; neither, 153 ; cap only, 83 ; gown 
only, 5 ; majority, 272. Of the 3,094 student 1,901 
voted, and the majority for the innovation is 595. 
The next course to be adopted is to petition the 
Senatus to give effect to the desire of the students and 
it lies with them to say whether the course suggested 
is to be adopted. 

The authorities of all the leading institutions, in 
response to inquiries made from the Union Theologi- 
cal Seminary, of New York as to the moral and reli- 
gious condition of their students, have recently made 
reports which agree in representing that there is a 
steady improvement. The Eev. Dr. Barbour’s testi- 
mony as to Yale and President Eliot’s as to Harvard 
is sustained by President Barnard, of Columbia, who 
says that “ the moral tone of the College is quite satis- 
factory, and perhaps has never been more so ” ; by 
President Seelye, of Amherst, who says that “ the 
moral life of the members of the College was never 
higher than now,” and notes a special improvement in 
the matter of temperance ; by ex-President Hopkins, 
of Williams, who remarks especially upon the change 
in this latter matter, as shown by the fact that for- 
merly it was thought necessary to exact from every 
student a pledge that he would not use intoxicating 
drinks on college ground, while now no such promise 
is required, and also discovers an advance in student 
sentiment regarding “ college tricks and disturbances,” 
and by President Bartlett, of Dartmouth, who reports 
“ a steady and marked improvement in college morals,” 
as illustrated in the decadence of the brutal element 
and the absolute extinction of hazing. 



THE CLUBS OF OXFOKD. 

Oxford clubs may be classed under three heads, 
viz. : those strictly for the practice of Athleticism, 
social clubs, and college clubs. The first class repre- 
sents almost every form of manly exercise, from cricket 
up — or down — to bicycling, croquet being the only 
exception to the rule. The University clubs are sup- 
ported only by the more shining lights, while it is the 
patriotic custom for all to join their proper college 
clubs, some devoting their personal activity to the 
cause, and less energetic brethren doing good service 
by payment of subscriptions. 

Next for the University clubs of the properly social 
kind ; and first for those which boast a local habita- 
tion as well as a name, a qualification which all do 
not possess. 

^ Foremost among these stands the Union, the Oxford 
Union Society, whose especial features are its weekly 
debates, its excellent library, and its supply of tele- 
graphic news. It has, however, the reputation of 
being a rather unsociable institution, and for this 
reason many men, who have not the ambition to shine 
as orators, prefer to join one of the smaller clubs, which 
are an especial feature of Oxford. These institutions 
are many and various, mostly located in the “ High,” 
the Pall Mall of Oxford, and possessing two particu- 
larly excellent characteristics, which could not per- 
haps be imitated by the institutions of larger growth 
elsewhere, in their supply of afternoon tea, and postage 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



of all letters without a charge. The best known, as 
it is the best, of these is Vincent’s, limited to one 
hundred members, election to which is a distinction 
sought even in these democratic days ; of more recent 
origin are the Gridiron and Oxford Dramatic Club, 
the former, as its name implies, looking to the needs 
of the body as well as of the mind, an arrangement 
much to be appreciated in a city where a sovereign to 
the Proctor most probably has to be added to an 
undergraduate’s hotel dinner bill ; while the latter has 
succeeded the Philothespians, memorable for their 
production of The Merchant of Venice , and is the 
rendezvous of the dramatically disposed. 

Besides these there is a group of school clubs, 
formed of old boys of whatever schools are represent- 
ed at the University in sufficient numbers. These, 
as may be imagined, are mostly of mushroom growth 
and decay, and few, such as the Etonian Club, are 
able to boast any very long continuous existence. 
They are, however, pleasant institutions, especially to 
the friendless freshman in his fresh term, and they 
are often the means of keeping up school acquaint- 
anceships, which without them might have been al- 
lowed to drop. 

It remains to glance at what may be called the 
nomadic class of clubs, L e ., without club-rooms, and 
possessing usually some special raison d'etre . Among 
such must be counted the now historic Bullingdon, 
confined almost to Christ Church, and entirely to 
men of means ; nominally a cricket club — its cricket 
bears to its convivialities the Falstaffian proportion of 
bread to sack ; and in this direction it is followed by 
the Caledonian Club, which periodically calls together 
a select number of Scotchman to make merry, and re- 
joice that they are Scotchmen born. A more sober 
type (the word is used in no invidious sense) is found 
in the political clubs, which, meeting in the members’ 
rooms in turn, discuss the questions of the day to- 
gether with the inevitable weed. These are named 
after the statesmen they admire, the Canning, Chat- 
ham, Palmerston, etc., whose modern successors they 
are often the means of bringing down to Oxford to 
speak at their yearly dinners. 

Lastly, come the third class of institutions in which 
the social tendencies of Young Oxford manifest 
themselves — the clubs within and confined to the 
various colleges. Of these the name is legion, and a 
sketch of the most generally existing types must 
suffice here, leaving to themselves the eccentricities 
which are occasionally produced. College clubs may 
be either open or exclusive ; among the former being 
always the Debating Club, usually a popular institu- 
tion, and with as perfectly a bias to Conservatism as 
is that of the House of Lords ; and the Musical 
Society, to which visitors to Oxford at Commemoration 
time owe the concerts that are so great a feature of 
the week. Of the exclusive sorts the chief are the 
so-called “ Wine Clubs,” whose members and their 
guests dine and pass a social evening once a week to- 
gether, and whose names often refer more or less re- 
motely to the good fellowship they create. Of these 
the most notable are the Phoenix and Octagon at 
Brasenose, the Falernians at Exeter, King Charles’s 
Club at St. John’s, Flickerers at Magdalen, and Myr- 



midons and Elysians at Merton ; while the two Christ 
Church clubs, the Loders’ and St. Aldate’s, fill the 
same position in a slightly different way. Outside of 
these there are minor clubs for the doing of every- 
thing in an orthodox, that is, a social manner ; from 
the playing of whist to the reading of Shakespeare. 
Essay, Literary, and Discussion Clubs abound, and — 
to complete the list, — an Archery Club still flourishes 
at one college, an institution of extreme antiquity, 
and probably without a parallel at any University. 

Some prudent parent or guardian who reads this 
article may say, “ What a waste of time and money 
must be caused by all these clubs I” The answer is 
that neither time nor money are wasted. The sub- 
scriptions are uniformly small, good value is given, 
and there is no possible necessity for a man to join 
more clubs than his means allow. As to time, this 
indeed may be wasted in clubs as easily as elsewhere, 
but — this is also true — as easily elsewhere as in clubs ; 
and in conclusion it may be confidently asserted that, 
if a proper and moderate use be made of them, nothing 
in any man’s University life is the source of half so 
much profit as well as pleasure as the clubs of which 
he has been a member . — London Graphic . 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Died of hard drink,” was the verdict upon the 
man who was crushed under a lump of ice. 

Prof- — “ I’m afraid, Mr. S., you are worse than the 
ass mentioned in Scripture.” S. — “ Why, sir?” Prof. — 
“ You don’t even know your crib.” 

Don’t frown ; smile ; it costs nothing. Religious 
Contemporary , There’s where they are mistaken. It 
costs fifteen cents; two smiles for a quarter — 

A down-east fire company, in a resolution on a de- 
ceased member, says : “ He has responded to his last 
alarm.” It is a wonder they didn’t add that he “ has 
gone to his last fire.” 

Young B.A. : “ As a general rule, men have brains 
and women have not ; of course there are exceptions,” 
Damsel : “ You and I are exceptions, aren’t we ?” They 
never speak as they pass by. 

“ Sit down.” said the editor’s son to his sister’s fel- 
low. “ Helen Louise is up-stairs and wont be down 
for some time yet — has to make up her form , you 
know, before going to press. 

First Dude — “You look wather pale, Cholly, my 
boy.” Second Dude — “ Yaas, I feel wather offish. Got 
vaccinated yesterday.” F. D. — “Ah ! Did it hurt t” 
S. D. — “ No, I took ether, you know.” 

“ Some idiot’s put my pen where I can’t find it,” 
growled a fourth year man the other day at lecture. 
“Ah, um, yes,” he continued in a lower key, as he 
hauled the article from behind his ear. “ I thought 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



The following libel on the Meds has crept into our 
hands : “ While medical students are being harshly 
condemned for robbing graves, it is forgotten that they 
intend tilling them up again when they go into prac- 
tice.” 

Outside of a minister’s tent in Idaho a red-shirted 
man was searching for his tin-cup. Not finding it he ob- 
served : “ Some infernal thief has stolen my cup.” 
Then, sticking his head into the tent, he asked : “Any 
of you gentlemen got it?” 

“ Do you allow drunken people on the train ?” asked 
an old gentleman of a city passenger conductor. 
“ Sometimes — but not when they are too drunk,” re- 
plied the conductor. “ Just take a seat near the 
middle of the car and keep quiet, and you’ll be all 
right.” 

“ I do love pig’s feet so !” exclaimed a young freshie 
at his boarding house the other day, as he reached 
over and took the last one from the plate in the middle 
of the table ; “ I do believe I could live on pig’s feet.” 
“ Are you sure that you don’t ?” was the sarcastic ques- 
tion put to him by a soph., who was about to help 
himself to the fast disappearing foot. 

Marc Antony Grig, the distinguished tragedian from 
the wayback circuit— “Me friend, how is this? The 
house was cold last night — cold — cold — ca-hold! And 
yet I had distributed me good gold among the ushers 
to insure a hearty welcome and tumultuous applause.” 
Mr. Ochstein, the prosaic and Hebraic manager — 
“Golt? Two dollars un a helluf! You don’t get you 
no more as a gordial rezeption !” — 

A Cleveland speculator sent his son to Wisconsin 
to buy hops, telling him to keep his eyes open for any 
other speculation. After a few days a despatch came, 
saying: “A widow has got a corner on the hop 

market of this State. Shall I marry her ?!’ “ Cer- 

tainly,” was the reply sent over the wires. Twelve 
hours later the son announced : “ Got the hops, the 

widow and seven stepchildren, and shall go to Chicago 
to-morrow to see about a divorce.” 

Z is one of the most triflng students in the law 

faculty. He rarely attends lectures, and when he does 
he is so sleepy that he can’t distinguish one object from 

another. The other day he met X , another law 

student, at Notman’s. “ Hello ! Z , what are you 

doing here ?” said his friend. “ I just want to see the 
photographs of the professors of the law faculty so 
I’ll know ’em when I meet them on the street. We 
ought to know each other.” 

What She Feared : “ I understand, Mr. Softly,” 

said Miss Muffin, “that you play the violin.” “Well, 
yes, Miss Muffin, I — a — try to play the violin.” 
“ That’s what I heard. You see, Mr. Softly, we are 
going to have a little sociable at our house next 
Thursday evening. I wanted to invite you, but ma — 
is so very anxious not to give anybody any trouble — 
ma was afraid that — ” “ Oh, no trouble at all, I assure 
you, Miss Muffin,” eagerly interposed Softly. “ It will 
be a positive pleasure to me to bring my violin.” 
“ Ye-e-s — that’s what ma was afraid of.” 



LINES TO BESS. 

BY A LAW STUDENT. 

Believe me, Bess, when I declare 
A title-deed my heart, 

And vou the party of the first, 

And I the second part. 

To you I’ve given my whole love, 

With no Remainder over : 

If you betray that trust. I will 
An action bring— of trover. 

Now don’t Demur when this you read, 

But own you feel compunction, 

Or I my suit will Prosecute, 

In spite of your Injunction- 

My Case— it’s one in Equity— 

I’ve Pleaded with precision : 

You know the Points ; why will you, then. 
So long Reserve Decision ? 

You owned to an Attachment once, 

When I the question Mooted : 

But now, it seems to me, you act 
As if you were non-suited. 

I make no Dilatory Plea ; 

I’m driven to distraction ; 

You know how long I’ve Courted you— 
Come, in my case Take Action. 

If you resist a Civil Suit 
I’ll bring at Cupid’s Session, 

And there, a Plaintiff lover, ask 
For Judgment by Confession. 

But if, in spite of Judgment mine. 

You will not hear me still. 

I’ll get an Order from the Court 
To administer your Will. 

Don’t fail to File an Answer Brief 
To this my Declaration, 

Lest, losing patience, [ shall make 
A Cross-Examination. 



OUR OWN JOKER. 

Professor to Student — “Here’s an iron ore from 
Penzance. What would you judge it to be?” 
Student — “ Sulphide of Iron, sir.” Prof. — “ What 
makes you think it that ?” Student — “Because in that 
case it would be The Pyrites of Penzance.” 

If the gentleman who walked off with a pair of No. 
9 rubbers the other day in the museum, under the 
absurd notion that they belonged to some fair under- 
grad., will take them down from the bracket or out of 
their frame or from next his heart and return them to 
the proper owner before the next snow-storm all will 
be forgiven. 

Though we may now and again forgive a man for 
hiding his light under a bushel we make no allow- 
ances when he hides himself in a cupboard — particu- 
larly the cupboard of a college professor about to 
lecture. It is curious, but true, that it never soothes 
a prof.’s nerves to get an answer to the roll call from 
the depths of a press. He is apt to comment upon 
it and to decline to construe it as anything but a false 
quantity of wit. 

An old farmer and his wife were jogging along one 
of our suburban roads the other day between two 
close and high snow-drifts, when suddenly two fleet 
snowshoers sprang across the gap above the sleigh, 
their great shoes clacking as they did so. The old 
woman looked up, and just catching a glimpse of the 
flying shoes cried out to her husband : “ Mike, Mike, 
did you say the big agles ?” 

Tenders are requested for a series of time-honored, 
familiar, non-explosive, laugh-killing examination 
papers in Arts, Science and Medicine, All tenders 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



must be accompanied by the name of the perpetrator 
not necessarily for publication but that the under- 
taker may know where to send his bills. Lowest or 
any tender not necessarily accepted. All incompre- 
hensible jokes must be accompanied by diagrammatic 
explanations. 

It is our mournful task to announce in these columns 
the unfortunate incidents that have of late made the 
museum a place of terror. This duty has devolved 
upon us, the comic Editor, not, as might be imagined 
from a perusal of these columns, because anything of 
a peculiarly series or horribly atrocious nature is our 
delight, but because our joyous disposition will enable 
us to dwell without complete prostration upon facts 
that would harrow up the souls of ordinary mortals. 
Under the circumstances, however, we must not be 
expected to put any humor into our account, and if 
the reader finds any he will confer a favor by return- 
ing it to the University Club Eooms, when he will 
receive a suitable reward. 

The biological portion of the museum lately re- 
ceived a crocodile from the Soutern States, a meek- 
eyed, long-tailed, generous-mouthed creature who had 
been heartlessly deserted in his youth by his parents 
and whose orphan state won for him the pity of all 
who saw him. Soon after his arrival the janitor 
missed a few of his children but paid no attention to 
this as he thought they had got mislaid somewhere 
about the building. But when the professors began 
to remark upon the disappearance of several fossils 
and plants matters got serious and an explanation was 
sought. 

The crocodile was not at first suspected. Although 
he declined all food, this was set down to a natural 
homesickness. But who was there to suspect? Not 
the lady undergrads, surely ? Perish the thought : 
they might fancy a nice fat baby, but a fossil — never. 
Honor men, on the other hand, were fond of fossils, 
Here was a clue. Yet they would never steal a baby, 
indeed would probable flee from a healthy young 
specimen of the order Bimana. So suspicion turned 
unavoiably to the crocodile and it was determined to 
watch him. 

All who have seen this creature will remember his 
colossal proportions and be prepared to credit the 
following account of his doings given us by an eye- 
witness who, with the modesty inherent in every 
truthful nature, desires us to withhold his name. 
Having volunteered with a friend to watch the animal 
for one night they went on guard, first near the cro- 
codile’s tank, but utimately in the geological part of 
the museum where, amid the sea bottoms of forgotten 
ages, and under the sheltering bones of the Megather- 
ium, they sat playing dominoes with a stromatopora 
for a table and the moon as a candlestick. In the 
excitement of the game the crocodile was forgotten. 

Hark ! what was that? Out of the silence of mid- 
night came a peculiar rattling on the stairs as if some 
one was coming up on stilts. Now it ceased, and a 
dark shadow, trailing low, stole across the floor and 
pushing back the door that leads to the main room 
entered. All unconscious of the impending peril — 
for our sagacious readers, if accustomed to novels, will 



see that the crocodile is entering upon the scene — the 
men played on when suddenly an enormous head was 
thrust in between them and dominoes and stromato- 
pora disappeared in a capacious maw. With a shriek 
of terror the men fell backward, and then springing to 
their feet sought places of safety, with the crocodile, 
whose first snap had missed its object, in hot pursuit. 
The survivor, whom we may call our hero, in a frenzy 
of fear clambered up the backbone of the megatherium 
and perched himself panting upon the head just in 
time to see his unlucky comrade seized by the vora- 
cious monster. One shriek of agony, a frantic waving 
of feet and the unfortunate man disappeared head 
first after the dominoes. 

Then the creature turned its attention to our hero 
whom it soon found and tried to capture by climbing. 
But so huge was its bulk that the crocodile always 
slipped oft’ on one or other side of the backbone and 
rolled off the arching ribs upon the floor with a re- 
sounding thud. 

After a few such falls it concluded to await further 
developments and lay down at the foot of the pole. 

Our hero soon recovered coolness and seeing he 
was in for a long wait drew a comic paper from his 
pocket and began to read it. Suddenly the brilliant 
idea struck him that if he read aloud to the animal it 
would get into good humor and spare him. He read 
one comic piece after another and the crocodile lis- 
tened with interest. Soon the creature began to yawn 
and finally fell into a child-like slumber. This sur- 
prised our hero but also afforded him much pleasure. 
“A few more jokes,” he thought, “and I can descend 
in safety.” The few more jokes were read, descent 
was made and the garrison sommoned only to find 
that the crocodile had passed away peacefully in his 
slumber. “What was the last joke you read? we 
asked the hero as he finished his narrative. “ Let me 
see,” he replied, “ it was about a dude — no it was a 
smallpox joke.” “ Oh !” we answered, “ no wonder 
the crocodile died.” 



(Correspondence. 



MR. STUDD TO RETURN. 

Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs. — The students who heard Mr. J. E. K. 
Studd in Morrice Hall a few weeks ago, as well as 
those who afterwards heard about his interesting ad- 
dress will be pleased to learn that he is to revisit our 
college a few weeks hence. Mr. Studd is a young 
English gentleman, a graduate of Cambridge, who 
during the winter is visiting the American colleges. 
What makes the coming of Mr. Studd especially in- 
teresting is the fact that he is one of a group of college 
men whose names have been brought before the Eng- 
lish public during the last two years, in fact ever since the 
visit of Mr. Moody to Cambridge University. Of this 
group probably the most famous in Mr. C. T. Studd, 
brother of our expected visitor, who was one of the 
best cricketers in England, and one of the best men 
on the English eleven. Another athletic student was 
Stanley Smith, who was stroke oar of the Cambridge 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



eight. These two and several others were influenced 
through Mr. Moody’s visit to such an extent that a 
company of seven last spring left the bat and the oar 
and the life in which they had grown up, to bury 
themselves in the interior of China, as Missionaries 
of the China Inland Mission. It was the story of 
these Christian athletes and their consecration to their 
Lord that Mr. Studd told us in Morrice Hall. Mr. 
Studd himself is no mean athlete : he was captain of 
the Cambridge eleven ; he and his brother often play- 
ing together on the same team. To show his position 
in the University it maybe told that when Mr. Moody 
went to Cambridge almost all the students were up in 
arms against the American evangelist and his religion ; 
so that although the hall was filled the students kept 
up such an uproar that it was impossible for Mr. 
Moody to be heard. It was then that Mr. Studd was 
chosen from the students to stand by Mr. Moody on 
the platform and lend him his moral support. By 
this means quiet was restored. 

It is this gentleman who is going from college to 
college — we believe at his own expense — speaking to 
fellow college-men of the Jesus Christ whom he serves. 
In the States he has been at Amherst College, West 
Point Military Academy and other places. As he has 
been greatly in demand we are very fortunate in ob- 
taining him. It is expected that he will remain during 
the week, Feb. 22-26. A programme of the different 
meetings will be shortly arranged. During his stay 
he will probably be the guest of Sir Wm. Dawson. 

Thanking you for allowing so much of your space. 

I am yours, etc., 

Joseph K. Uns worth. 



THE GRADUATES’ SOCIETY AND REPRE- 
SENTATIVE FELLOWS. 



Editors McGill Gazette : 

Dear Sirs, — I am requested by the Executive 
Committee of the Gnduates’ Society to forward to 
you for publication the following resolutions, which 
were carried at the last Annual Meeting of the Society, 
and which will govern the nomination of Representa- 
tive Fellows in the present year. 

I have the honour to remain, dear sirs, 

Yours truly, 

J. Ralph Murray, 

Hon. Sec. 

RESOLUTIONS. 

I. “That in future the nominations for Representative Fellow’ 

shall be made through the Executive of the Graduates 
Society.” 

II. “That the Committee shall be bound to accept as nomin- 

ated ; — 

Any qualified graduate, whose name shall be presented to the 
Committee on or before the 1st day of March, in each year, by at 
least ten qualified voters, of whom five, at least, shall be gradu- 
ates in the Faculty for which the nomination is made.” 

III. “ That the Committee shall post notices of such nomina- 

tions as shall be made under the above regulations to all 
qualified voters on or before the 10th day of March in 
each year.” 



J~. ZMT-A-IRailEJSr, 

Hair Dresses and Wig Stakes* 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

MON T REA L. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES’ CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO. 

Phamacentical & Dispsii demists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris- 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges , 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



\ 



SPECIAL ZESIEID'CrC'XIOIfl-S I 





All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




AU 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carslev’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carslev’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 



MEN’S SILK TIES, 

MEN’S SILK SCARFS, 

MEN’S SILK (MADE) TIES, 

MEN’S SILK MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S SILK MIXED MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S CASHMERE MUFFLERS, 

FANCY SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

WHITE SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, In all Colors, 

MEN’S LINED KID GLOVES, 

MEN’S LINED KID MITTS, 

MEN’S DRIVING GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN S DOGSKIN GLOVES, 

MEN’S PIEWAR GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN GAUNTLETS, 



All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s.- 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley's. 



S. CARSLEY,'^™?.«rt" 7, '^OT7?£ dame street , 



J.& E. McENTYRE, 

Merchant 4^- 

TAILOBS, 



e] 1671 [= 



MONTREAL, 



jA^M. j^OTMAN ON, 





-M- 



New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-H|t FOR STUDENTS *+ 

17 BLETJHV ST. 





BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 

Masks, &c. 

— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

i 7 

5S ST. Sl l.l’K K STREET. 

E. .A.. GBBTH, 



IMPORTER OF 






Briar and ^feerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try St-u.cleaa.ts fixture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlfjirl mb iollmj fflatmlariinm, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuifs, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurgital -Jnslrumeitk 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 



-A. 2 ST ID 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c S03ST], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Eooks procured to order from England & the United States. 

678* AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 



THE 

!|inian3 ]^itliograpI|ic fjo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printing^ 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HI APS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Plioto-Engraving, 

BOOKS . PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

PEOCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed ana Illuminated. 



SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



