
Fortnight^ 



A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event- 

VOL. III. MONTREAL, DECEMBER 21, 1894. No. 6. 




* EDITORIAL BOARD & 



Editor-in-chief— Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 

Secretary — Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Ver. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med* *95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 

& BUSINESS BOARD & 

E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95), Chairman . 

A. F. Edwards (Med ’96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda *96). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Sc. ’95). J. C. Cutting (Com. Med.and Vet. Sc/95). 

A. E, Gordon (Arts *96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is £1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. Renoufs, Cyrus 
Ashlord’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Edi t or-in-Chief, 96 3 Dorchester Stre et, Montr eal. 

EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



In THE MIDST of our many occupations we had 
nearly overlooked certain unmistakable signs an- 
nouncing the twofold fact that the year’s work, 
which we began, it seems, but yesterday, is half fin- 
ished, and that Christmastide is at hand. 

Now all our neighbours’ chimneys smoke, 

And Christmas blocks are burning ; 

Their ovens they with baked meat choke, 

And all their spits are turning. 

Without the door let sorrow lie ; 

And if for cold it hap to die. 

We’ll bury ’t in a Christmas pie, 

And everyone be merry.” 

£ * The client now his suit forbears, 

The prisoner’s heart is eased ; 

The debtor drinks away his cares 
And for the time is pleased. 

Though other purses be more fat, 

Why should we pine or grieve at that ? 

Hang sorrow ! care will kill a cat, 

And therefore let’s be merry.” 

So say we, let “ everyone be merry, ” and on behalf 
of the FORTNIGHTLY we extend to everyone the sea- 
son’s greetings, with the hearty wish that they may 
enjoy a full measure of happiness and success during 
the coming year. 



IN REPLY TO communications asking for an ex- 
planation of the system under which the proposed 
skating rink on the college grounds is to be conducted, 
we may say that we understand that the Committee 



on Grounds and Athletics is to ask a representative 
from each Faculty, and probably also a representative 
from the Hockey Club, to form an undergraduate 
committee to assist in the management of the rink. 

The rink will probably be reserved for the exclu- 
sive use of the Hockey Club on two or three occa- 
sions during each week. 

For the present, the rink is to be the full size of the 
available ground, but later in the season it will be 
bounded by wooden sides, should this be found de- 
' sirable. 

There are two shelters, — one for ladies and the 
other for gentlemen. 

The fee for students having paid the tax of $2.00 
for the use of the Grounds is to be $1.00 ; for those 
partial students who have not paid the $2.00 tax> the 
fee will be $3.00. It is proposed also to admit gra- 
duates to the privileges of the rink for the $3.00 fee. 

Should cold weather arrive, the rink will be in full 
running order by the time this appears. 

We WOULD DRAW the attention of all our readers 
and especially undergraduates, to the advertisement, 
of the McGill Glee and Banjo Club concert, to be 
found in this number. A special arrangement for seats 
has been made by the Club for the benefit of their 
fellow-students, and these w.oilld do well to acknow- 
ledge the kindness by giving their support to the 
Club upon their concert night. The absence of this 
support was noticeable last year. Ought not every 
undergraduate to try, whenever possible, to assist 
and encourage the various college societies, especially 
those possessing as much* merit as the Glee and Banjo 
Club ? 

The next Number of the Fortnightly, coming 
at a time when there must necessarily be few if any 
class and society reports, will be composed mainly of 
contributions. Among these will be an article upon 
McGill history, — a subject which, we regret to say, has 
not had proper prominence in our College paper here- 
tofore. A photogravure of the present Deans of 
McGill, with a sketch of the life of each, will also ac- 
company the issue. In view of these facts, and in- 
asmuch as several of the articles are furnished by 



92 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



well-known writers a larger demand than usual 
for the number is anticipated, and in order that none 
may be disappointed, we would suggest that those 
undergraduates who wish extra copies, should leave 
their order with the business manager of their Faculty 
at as early a date as possible. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

R. M. SAYFORD WILL VISIT McGILL. 

We introduce Mr. Say ford by the following bio- 
graphical note from the Young Men’s Era of Nov. 
29. Speaking of the way in which he was led to de- 
vote himself to the work of deepening the spiritual 
lives of his fellow-students all over the continent, it 
proceeds as follows: — “He was invited to address 
the students of Amherst College, Mass. During a 
brief stay here he held a personal interview with four 
or five of the wilder students, who, however, were pro- 
fessedly Christian men. One of them was manager 
of the baseball nine, and, upon being led to renew his 
covenant with God, arose from his knees, and grasp- 
ing Mr. Sayford by the hand, said : ‘ Oh, my dear 
man, why can’t you do this for the men in other 
colleges?’ It was in this way that Mr. Sayford was 
led into this unique work which has been so signally 
blessed of God, over 20,000 Christian men having 
covenanted with him to live a higher life, and hun- 
dreds of men led to accept Christ as a personal 
Saviour.” 

Feeling that the college men of Canada might ap- 
preciate a visit from Mr. Sayford, the Canadian dele- 
gates to the World’s Student Conferenceat Nortlifield 
last summer invited him to spend a few weeks with 
us at the beginning of next term. He will accord- 
ingly begin with McGill about the 10th of January. 
He is connected with no organization, is sustained by 
voluntary contributions of private friends, is in no 
way demonstrative, but speaks in a plain honest way 
that appeals to the hearts and consciences of men. 
We hope his visit will be the means of helping many 
of us to a better understanding of spiritual matters, 
that we may the more certainly have that peace of 
mind w hich “passeth understanding.” Further de- 
tails will be given later. 

A. M. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 

RAMBLES WITH CHARLES DICKENS. 

“Kent, sir ; everybody knows Kent— apples, cherries, hops and 
women — Pick wick Pa pers . 

To the lover of Dickens the county of Kent must 
always be hallowed ground. Not only is it, with its 
extensive wealds and picturesque vistas, well called 



the “garden of England,” but almost every scene, 
beautiful as it is, becomes invested with anew charm 
when portrayed in the pages of the immortal novelist. 
To one who was so keenly alive to the beauties of 
Nature as Dickens was, it is little wonder that a love 
for these regions, so renowned in song and story, 
should have become entwined about his heart and have 
given birth to a series of entrancing tales which will 
ever live in the memories of future races, hor myself, 
who once paid a short visit to these districts, Kent, 
with its delightful scenes, its historic interest, and its 
romantic associations, has fixed upon my mental 
vision sweet memories vivid as of yesterday. 

Though born in Portsmouth, the earlier years of 
Dickens’ life were passed in Chatham, a suburb of 
Rochester. Here the embryo novelist delighted 
in rambling about the neighbourhood. Its storied 
scenes, the Cathedral and castle of Rochester, Cob- 
ham Park and Gadshill, faded, however, all too soon 
like a fairy dream, when in his tenth year his parents 
removed to London, only to reappear at a future time 
in the delightful pages which have made his name 
famous. 

The Dickens’ country may be said with fair accu- 
racy to begin at Gravesend. This quaint old town, 
situated about twenty-four miles from the great 
metropolis, is an important pilot station, vessels here 
exchanging the seagoing pilot, whom they received at 
Dungeness, for a river pilot to guide them into Lon- 
don. The town therefore has a more or less marine 
flavour about it and some small amount of bustle. 
Landing at the pier and passing up the High street 
with its clamouring mob of street-vendors, we hired a 
wagonette and set off on our modern pilgrimage. 
Within a radius of about ten miles from Gravesend 
lie Cobhatn, Strood, Rochester, Cooling, Chalk and 
Gadshill, all places replete with memories of Charles 
Dickens. Driving up the picturesque Windmill Hill, 
a delightful scene met the vKw. It was the first 
week in June and all Nature was clad in an odourous 
livery of varied hue. Pink and white hawthorne, 
laburnums, climbing-roses, and flowering chestnuts 
lined the road, filling the air with a delicious perfume. 
Passing over the ridge and down the declivity, the 
hop-gardens and arable lands of Kent soon lay before 
us. As yet the fields were only bare expanses of poles, 
the hop-vines having reached but a foot or so from 
the ground, while here and there through the trees 
peeped quaint old barns and red-roofed kilns. Five 
or six miles from Gravesend is the little village of 
Cobham. Here there is an ancient ivy-mantled 
church which contains, it is said, the finest collection, 
of brasses in England. A lii.tje further down the 
road on the left is a village, alehouse, “The Leather 
Pottle,” embellished with, a sign stating that Dickens, 
once frequented it. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



93 



Here the too susceptible Tupman retreated after 
the episode with old Mr. Wardle’s sister, and was 
found at dinner by his friends in “a long, low-roofed 
room, furnished with a large number of high-backed, 
leather-cushioned chairs of fantastic shapes, and em- 
bellished with a great variety of old portraits and 
roughly colored prints of some antiquity.” This village 
was a favourite spot with our novelist, and in 1841 he 
once spent the night in the little inn. Some years 
later, too, Dickens, with his friends Maclise, Jerrold 
and Forster, travelled over this well-known ground. 
A little further on is the gate to Cobham Park, an 
estate belonging to the Earl of Darnley, the Lord 
High Steward of Kent. The great sight here in June 
is the rhododendrons, which annually attract many 
visitors. In the centre of this park is a lake, and a 
noble Hall, a relic of Elizabethan days. Our walk 
beneath the magnificent oaks and elms recalled the 
walk of the Pickwickians after their erring brother. 

“A delightful walk it was; for it was a pleasant 
afternoon in June, and their way lay through a deep 
and shady wood, cooled by the light wind which 
gently rustled the thick foliage, and enlivened by the 
songs of the birds that perched upon the boughs. 
The ivy and moss crept in thick clusters over the old 
trees, and the soft green turf overspread the ground 
like a silken mat. They emerged upon an open park, 
with an ancient hall, displaying the quaint and pictu- 
resque architecture of Elizabeth’s time. Long vistas 
of stately oaks and elms appeared on every side ; 
large herds of deer were cropping the fresh grass ; 
and occasionally a startled hare scoured along the 
ground, with the speed of the shadows thrown by the 
light clouds which swept across the sunny landscape 
like the passing breath of summer.” 

From Gadshill to Cobham was one of Dickens’ 
favourite walks. Even in a foreign land his memory 
reverted to this spot, when in one of his letters 
written at Lausanne, iii 1846, he said : “The green 
woods and green shades about here are more like 
Cobham, in Kent, than anything we dream of at the 
foot of Alpine passes.” 

Leaving Cobham Park, we drove on through a 
gently undulating country with w'oodcd slopes and 
rolling hop-fields. As one descends the valley of the 
river Medway to Rochester, what a lovely scene 
enchants the eye! At the foot of the hill lies the 
town of Strood, where once stood a house of the 
Knights-Templar. Spanning the river is a hand- 
some bridge, while on the right bank, which rises 
sharply from the shore, frowns the keep of the ancient 
Norman stronghold, grey with age, and mantled by 
a verdant carpet of clinging ivy. Not far away against 
the clear blue sky are to be seen the towers of the 
cathedral. Such a view is to be seen in few places 
in England. 



Passing over the bridge, we remember poor David 
Copperfield, “ footsore and tired,” trudging his weary 
way into Rochester on the road to Dover, where his 
aunt, Betsy Trotwood, lived. Looking up the Medway, 
let Dickens himself describe the scene: “ On the left 

of the spectator lay the ruined wall, broken in many 
places, and in some overhanging the narrow beach in 
rude and heavy masses. I I uge knots of sea- weed hung 
upon jagged and pointed stones, trembling in every 
breath of wind ; and the green ivy clung mournfully 
around the dark and ruined battlements. Behind it 
rose the ancient castle, its towers roofless, and its 
massive walls crumbling away, but telling as proudly 
of its own might and strength as when, seven hundred 
years ago, it rang with the clash of arms, or resounded 
with the noise of feasting and revelry. On either side 
the banks of the Medway, covered with corn-fields 
and pastures, with here and there a windmill, or a dis- 
tant church, stretched away as far as the eye could see, 
presenting a rich and varied landscape, rendered more 
beautifulby the changing shadows which passed swiftly 
across it, as thin and half-formed clouds skimmed away 
in the light of the morning sun. The river, reflecting 
the clear blue of the sky, glistened and sparkled as it 
flowed noiselessly on ; and the oars of the fisherman 
dipped into the w r ater with clear and liquid sound as 
the heavy but picturesque boats glided slowly down 
the stream.” 

At the Bull Inn in the High Street, Dickens often 
stayed, and in an upper chamber took place the ball at 
which Alfred Jingle, Winkle, and the fiery Dr. 
Slammer assisted in the early wanderings of the 
Pickwick Club. Near by, in a locality called the 
Vines, is an old house called Restoration House, which 
was the model for Satis House in “ Great Expecta- 
tions.” It is also very probable that the city of 
Rochester is portrayed under the title “ Cloisterham” 
in “ Edwin Drood.” A short distance away on the 
Maidstone road is a fine block of almshouses which 
were built under the endowment of Richard Watts, 
who left a sum of money to provide “ for six poor 
travellers, who, not being rogues or proctors, may 
receive gratis for one night lodging and entertainment 
and fourpence each.” Rochester Cathedral is very 
interesting, but time forebade us lingering. On the 
north side of the choir rises Gungulph’s Tower, 
where it is said that a treasure is hidden. The story 
goes that this is guarded by a hand of flame, and 
whoever can climb the tower on St. Mark’s eve and 
blow out the light will be able to discover the wealth. 

In the Cathedral is the quaint monument to 
worthy old Master Watts, and beneath it a brass 
tablet to the memory of Dickens. Close to Rochester, 
and indeed forming one city with it, are Chatham and 
Strood, so often mentioned in Pickwick. Several cha- 
racters were found in Chatham, “The Marchioness” 



94 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



was suggested by a workhouse girl, whom Dickens’ 
parents took with them when they removed to Lon- 
don. Gaffer Hexam and his son were drawn from 
originals found in the Dockyard. Most of the build' 
ings associated with Dickens’ childhood are now 
swept away, leaving but a memory behind. Leaving 
Rochester with regret, a short drive brought us to 
Gadshill, famous now as the residence of the great 
novelist. Here at the top of the hill on the left side 
of the road stands a plain, red-brick house two stories 
high. It was built about 1780, and came into Dickens’ 
possession in 1856. Here in the midst of the 
charming country which he loved so well, many of 
his works were written, and here he died in 1870. 
Across the road in the garden, the novelist erected 
a Swiss chalet. Gadshill, too, derives much of its fame 
for its association with Sir John Falstaff, who here 
met with a strange adventure with the “ men in buck- 
ram.” 

“ But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by 
four o’clock, early at Gadshill ! There are pilgrims 
going to Canterbury with rich offerings, and traders 
riding to London with fat purses ; I have vizards for 
you all ; you have horses for yourselves.” 

It has been thought that Falstaff had his prototype 
in Sir John Oldcastle who owned Cobham Hall, and 
a castle at Cooling, some remains of which are still 
to be seen. He was eventually besieged at Cooling, 
and put to death for his Lollard istic proclivities. The 
road from Rochester to Gadshill had an unenviable 
notoriety in Shakespeare’s day on account of the 
many highwaymen who infested the woods near by 
In 1656, the Danish ambassador was robbed on 
Gadshill, who next day received a letter stating that 
“ye same necessitie that enforc’t ye Tartars to break 
the wall of China compelled us to wait on ye excel- 
lencie at Gadshill.” 

One of Dickens’ favourite walks in this locality was 
to Higham and thence across the fields to Cooling 
Here is the opening scene in “Great Expectations.” 
In the churchyard, “ a bleak place overgrown with 
nettles,” Pip met the escaped convict Magwitch, who 
compelled him to steal a file from Joe Gargery’s forge 
to remove his gyves. 

“The marshes,” said Pip, “ were just a long black 
horizontal line then, as I stopped to look after him; 
and the river was just another horizontal line, not 
nearly so broad, nor yet so black ; and the sky was 
just a row of long angry red lines and dense black 
lines intermixed.” Other favorite walks were to 
Shorne and Cobham. Often, too, the novelist walked 
to Higham, and then by a cross-road to Chalk, a quaint 
little village, with an odd church about half a mile 
away from it. This church is apparently built of flint, 
and is covered with ivy as so many Kentish churches 
are. Over the door are several grotesque figures in 



stone, one of which represents an old monk, sitting 
cross-legged, and holding a drinking-mug. At Chalk, 
Dickens passed his honeymoon, paying for it out of 
the money he received for the first two numbers of 
“ Pickwick Papers.” Many of the places about here 
and in the Isle of Sheppey are referred to by Barham 
in his inimitable “ Ingoldsby Legends.” Time forbade 
us to visit all of these storied regions, and among them 
Canterbury, which we were reluctantly obliged to 
forego seeing. This venerable cathedral city recalls 
to our minds Dr. Strong, Agnes Wickfield, Uriah 
Hecp, and Wilkins Micawber, with a host of pathetic 
incidents described in “ David Copperfi eld,” that work 
which for dramatic force and pathos is perhaps un- 
equalled among the many creatios of our author’s 
pen. Driving on from Chalk through Milton back 
to Gravesend, we ended our pilgrimage, retaining the 
most pleasant recollections of our flying visit to lovely 
Kent. Amid such scenes as I have attempted to por- 
tray, Dickens passed some of the happiest years of his 
life, and wrote many of his inimitable works. Just be- 
fore he died his thoughts were on his beloved Roches- 
ter. In the last pages of “ ESwin Drood,” he wrote: — 

“A brilliant sun shines oft the old city. Its anti- 
quities and ruins are surpassingly beautiful, with the 
lusty ivy gleaming in the sun, and the rich trees 
waving in the balmy air. Changes of glorious light 
from moving boughs, songs of birds, scents from 
gardens, woods and fields, — or, rather, from the one 
great garden of the whole cultivated island in its 
yielding time, —penetrate into the cathedral, subdue 
its earthy odor , and preach the Resurrection and 
the Life. 1 he cold stone tombs of centuries ago grow 
wai m , and flecks of brightness dart into the sternest 
marble corners of the building, fluttering there like 
wings.” 

On the morrow the spirit of the great author passed 
away. When I stood, two years ago, among the 
mighty dead in Westminster Abbey, on the grave of 
Dickens lay two lovely wreaths, placed there by some 
unknown hand, eloquent though silent witnesses of 
the undying esteem and love with which the great 
novelist is regarded. 

A. G. NICHOLLS. 



SONGS OF THE QUARTIER. 

There is a body of extensive pretensions, but less 
notable achievements, in the “ Quartier Latin,” 
known as the “Association Generate des Etudiants 
de Paris. From its “ Annuaire” one is led to believe 
that it inhabits spacious and well appointed apart- 
ments, where exciting debates and pleasant social 
gathei ings are held, and where a student may spend 
a quiet evening at chess, cards or reading. Nothing 
is, however, further from the reality. Although the 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



95 



membership, to judge from the number of my card, 
is among the thousands, the rooms are small, dirty 
and ill-kept, the reading room a vain deceit, and 
the debating societies unknown quantities. Fool- 
ishly believing one of the notices posted in the 
“ Faculte de Droit,” one day I went down to the 
“ Rue des Ecoles,” where these rooms are, to a de- 
bate to be held in the “ Salon Carnot.” There was 
no one there. Of two lonely individuals in the 
untidy Library, one never heard of the meeting, the 
other was asleep. The office was empty, and from 
appearances the building had never known a janitor- 

Another time I visited the reading room. Here 
chaos reigned supreme. “ L’lllustration, ” a really 
worthy paper, was in the cover of “ La Vie de Paris,” 
a publication that is a disgrace to French journalism. 
The scientific papers were scattered in hopeless tat- 
ters and worse confusion. No one seems to know 
what “ L’Association ” does, and yet it is “ reconnue 
d’utilite publique.” It must be granted that its 
membership is worth the twenty francs a year, because 
of the reduction given by many Theatres to its mem- 
bers. I am also indebted to last year’s “ Annuaire ”, 
for the short account of Students’ songs 1 now present 
to the readers of the FORTNIGHTLY. 

One song I must give first, to show that the short- 
comings of the Association are recognized by the 
Students^ themselves, and are not merely the imagina- 
tions of an alien critic. 

“Y a-z-un Comity d’dignitaires 
Compose de gens tr&s rassis 

Et c’est eux qu’embrouill’nt les affaires 
A PA. des Etudiants de Paris. 

Nous avons une salP de r’vues 

Personne ne les a jamais vues 
A PA. des Etudiants de Paris. 

Car — c’est pas pour vous fair’ des r’proches — 

Afin qu’elPs ne soient pas salies. 

Y en a qui les fichent dans leur poche 
A PA. des Etudiants de Paris. 

These songs are taken from the writings of two 
men, Xanrof and Jean du Moulin, whose originality 
and charm, says the “ Annuaire,” consist in that they 
have been students and in that they have seen 
and felt that of which they write. 

Thiriet — for such is the real name of du Moulin — 
is still known to the Students, and an advocate of the 
Court of Appeals, conceals himself behind the “ nora 
de plume ” of Xanrof. “ Voila qui est moderne, bour- 
geois et moral.” Their literature is even more moral. 
It is almost too moral — the translator humbly ques- 
tions this. It is not they, certainly, who have as 
Fenelon formerly complained— “ donne un tour 
gracieux au vice.” Vice does not appear very 
amusing to them, although it is often comical in its 
foolishness. They are not romantic, but they are 



gay, even in the more thoughtful moments when they 
reason with undeniable good sense. No one can 
complain that they have devoted their talents to the 
praise of study. Such music is hard to find. One 
cannot imagine a Greek ode sung to the air of “ Paris 
a cinq heures du matin.” But this does not mean 
that the Students do not study, — on the contrary, 
they do ; and they are spurred on by the thought of 
anxious parents in the distant corners of“ La Patrie.” 

Nos braves peres, esp^rant 
En un avenir fulgurant 

Tout plein de belles destinees, 

Subventionnent nos travaux 
Et nous font emplir nos cerveaux 
Pendant de huit a dix annees, 

Et nous professerons plus tard 
Le droit, le grec — ou le billiard, 

Dans les provinces £tonn£es. 

These are the reflections of some. Xanrof tells us 
of others in a song called “ Quatre-z-Etudiants ” : 

L’premier faisait des lett’es, 

L’second du droit Romain, 

L’troisieme faisait des dettes, 

L’quatri£me faisait rien. 

D'uiP fetnm’ assez gentille 
TomWr’nt tons amoureux, 

Comine c’etait un* boon’ fille 
E1P les rendit heureux. 

Mais quand vinr’nt les vacances 
Et qu’ils rentrernt chez eux/ 

Leur papa, dans les transes, 

Leur dit : P ’tits malheureux ! 

“ Vous n’et ? s pas assez sages 
Vous n’aurez plus d’argent ; 
y travaillais a vos ages, 

Vous en ferez autant.” 

Ils se Pmir’nt a i’etude 
Avec acharnement. 

N’avaient pas l’habitude, 

Sont morts au bout d'un an. 

Happily this terrible fate is rare. The thought of 
examinations, however, recalls the student from time 
to time from romance to realism. Xanrof shows us 
one who moralizes on the opening of “ La Nouvelle 
Sorbonne,” in these words : — 

Enfin v ? la qu’on Pinaugur’ 

La Sorbonne 
La Sorbonne. 

Enfin v’la qu’on Pinaugur’, 

Gaudeamus igitur. 

Soyons gais ! peut-etre demain 
Dans ce monument qu’on fete 
Nous passerons un examen 
Et nous Prons un’ fichu’ tete. 

And Jeatidu Moulin says : — 

Nous travaillons sans treve et sans relache 
Au moins huit jours avant notre examen, 

Chaque matin — 6 penible tache — 

Nous nous disons : Je commence demain . 

These statements only the most credulous will take 
literally. Virtue is not rare, but she gains nothing 



McGtl.L FORTNIGHTLY. 



06 



by being loudly sung. “ Les jeunes Fran$ais ’ arc not 
hypocrites, and they are worth more than they say. 
That the youth is not rich is too true, but the bar- 
ren rooms of the furnished hotels are the homes of 
gaiety. 

Nous logeons haut — sursum corda 
Mais l’Eternel nous accorda 
Ileureusement la jambe leste 

Nous demeurons, le occur tranquille et sage 

Dans des logis suspendus loin du sol. 

Naturally an occasional bird of passage rests in 
these rooms high up under the roof; all else is liter- 
ature, law, medicine or art. Here is a detailed 
description of one such Bohemian home : 

J ? habit’ pres d’ l’Ecole de Med’cine 
Au premier tout cornme un bourgeois, 

Un’ demeure magnifique, divine, 

A Thotel du num£ro trois. 



And while so doing, six cabs, a bread waggon, 
three coupes, a dog-cart, two loads of building stone, 
a regiment with drums and bugles, a wedding party 
and five tram-cars, one after the other, swell the 
blockade. 

Enfin son devoir 6tant fait 
11 partit d’un air satisfait, 

Tout en maugr^ant le cocher 
Se remit alors a marcher. 

Forteurs, omnibus, regiment, etc. 

There are other songs of private life from the pens 
of our two poets. But they are “ Des chos s qui 
n’ r’gard’nt pas le public,” so we must halt ere we 
intrude on sacred ground. 

A. RIVES HALL. 



SNARED. 



Les draps sont grands comme des serviettes, 

II n’y a qu'un seul mod&l’, je crois, 

Et e’est le chien qui lav’ les assiettes 
A l’hotel du num£ro trois. 

Notre potage roul’ dans ses vagues 
Tant de cheveux que chaque mois 
Les clients s’en font fair’ des bagues, 

A l’hotel du num6ro trois. 

But the real home of the student is not his room, 
it is the Boulevard or the Cafe, or under the trees of 
the Luxembourg by the “ Fontaine de Medici.” The 
restaurant is a necessary resort where only a very 
grim necessity would send us. 

Bourgeois ventrus thesauriant la rente, 

Gens d£licats, gourmets, connaissez-vous 
L’officine tr£s abracadabrante 

Ou nous mangeons moyennant vingt-trois sous ? 

Le patron, laid et grelg comme un crible, 

Majestueux, la serviette a la main, 

Ponrsuit d’un ceil soup$onneux et terrible 
Un indiscret redemandant du pain. 

Entre des fleurs et du sucre, a la caisse 

Se tient Madame, un peu haute en couleur 
Dont le menton, double, et luisant de graisse, 

Fait supposer qu’elle d^jeune ailleurs. 

Now and then there is a street blockade that de- 
lights the Parisian beyond all else. 

Un fiacre le long du trottoir 
S’cn allait, plein de nonchaloir 
Roulant 
Catrin-Catrant 
Deambulant 
Suivant la rue 
Un arroseur municipal 
Arrosait sans penser mal. 

Roulant, etc. 

Le fiacre £crasa, pour passer, 

L’tub’ qui servait pour arroser, 

L’arroseur attrap’ le cocher 
Qui lui r£pond d’aller se coucher, 

L’arroseur appelle un agent 
Qui s'en vient d’un pas negligent, 

Et fait arreter le cheval 
Afin de dresser 1’ proc&s-verbal. 



Thou hast caught me in thy net, 
Love, tyrant Love ! 

I will break thy meshes yet, 

And escape, cruel Love ! 

Thou hast set thy spirit nigh me, 

Like a warder, ever by me, 

But my soul shall yet defy thee, 
Love, cruel Love ! 

Thou hast bound my heart with steel. 
Love, tyrant Love ! 

And I cannot thiuk or feel 
But of thee, cruel Love ! 

All my life is bowed before thee 
Like a fierce storm sweeping o’er me, 
And I cannot but adore thee, 

Love, cruel love ! 



Thou hast made me kiss my chain, 

Love, tyrant Love ! 

I cau never hope again 

To be free, cruel Love ! 

Thou hast cast thine arms around me, 

In thy sweet embraces wound me, 

Leave me not, now I have found thee, 

Love, sweet Love ! 

R. MacDougalt,. 



Cambridge. 



SHAKESPEARE’S GARDEN. 

III. 

We have numberless allusions in the dramas, not 
simply to gardens and to horticultural operations, — 
the latter being generally used, moreover, for some beau- 
tiful image, or comparison, as in the celebrated scene 
in Richard the Second ; the subject of discourse is the 
forlorn condition of the country induced by the mis- 
government of the unfortunate king, already deposed, 
— the head gardener giving directions to his subor- 
dinates. 

In the elaborately constructed garden of the time 
there was never any lawn. The space was wholly 
devoted to flowers, with a few simple evergreen 



McGill fortnightly. 



97 



shrubs, such as box and dwarf yew. Adjoining 
them were pleasant “alleys” and shaded walks, and 
bowers and arbours seem to have been an essential 
feature. The flowers were of the kinds cherished to- 
day as “ old favorites,” comprising many brought in 
ftom the neighbouring woods and meadows, a good 
number from continental Europe, and a sprinkling of 
choice rarities from the Levantine countries, Persia 
and Northern Africa ; seven-eighths of the modern 
English garden, it is almost needless to remark, 
were quite unknown. 

As 1 have said, Shakespeare’s catalogue of wild 
flowers was about fifteen — and his list of garden 
flowers was only about half as long, not reaching more 
than eight. He had no occasion to mention any 
more ; the great mass of the references fell upon only 
two, the lily and the rose, these having been from 
time immemorial the poet’s metaphors for loveliness 
and purity, especially feminine, and as shown in the 
feminine cheek, thus, in truth, part of the established 
vocabulary of civilized man. 

This use of the rose and the lily, as emblems of 
beauty and purity, may be traced through Hebrew 
literature ; the ( leirion ) \etpvov and redon (pay op) of the 
Greeks, the lilium and rosa of the Romans are their 
antetypes ; only that while the application of the an- 
cient names is indefinite, and the botanical species 
intended are often indeterminable, the nearer we draw 
to Shakespearian times, the more precise they be- 
come, Chaucer leading the way, till, at last, in Shake- 
speare himself, as in the case of the violet too, we rest 
in thankfulness. 

The actual beginning of the rose and lily usage, 
like the source of great rivers, is hidden among the 
mountains. It is as old, at all events, as the time of 
Solomon, whose use of the Hebrew words says with 
our poet “ my beloved is white and ruddy,” an in- 
finite amount of grand significance lying within. 
Shakespeare reflects the latter when Viola, in Twelfth 
Night , says to Olivia : — 

“ ’Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white 
Nature’s own sweet and cunning hand laid on.” 

The comparison comes to the! front again in King 
Lear : — 

“Of Nature’s gifts thou may’st with lilies boast, 

And with the half-blown rose.” 

this allusion is so much the more beautiful from the 
circumstance that the rose is the only flower which 
is quite as lovely in the opening bud as when full 
blown. Theocritus so admired the rose when in this 
condition that he calls the flowers simply calyces. 

Shakespeare never tires of the two-fold citation. 
See how exquisitely in the Rape of Lucrecc , the 
figure here partly founded upon a later event of his- 
tory : — 

“ The silent war of lilies and of roses.’’ 



So again in Coriolanus : — 

o 

“ Our veil’d dames 

Commit the war of white and damask in 
Their nicely-gauded cheeks to the wanton spoil 
Of Phoebus’ burning kisses.” 

Damask is the color of the damask or Damascus 
rose, noted for its fine crimson hue, whence in Pliny 
the happy epithet, ardeutissima. This species had 
also a white variety, and another that was parti- 
colored, which did not escape Shakespeare’s observa- 
tion ; he refers to it in As You Like It : — 

Ci There was a pretty redness in his lip ; ‘ + 

A little riper and more lively red 

Than that mix’d in his cheek. *Twas just the difference 
I >et vv i x t the constant red and mingled damask.” 

I should not omit the well known lines from 

Tivclfth Night'. 

“ She never told her love, 

I»ut let concealment like a worm i’ the bud, 

Feed on her damask cheek.” 

Apart from the poet’s use of rose and lily as names 
for loveliness and perfection, it is very interesting to 
observe that these two flowers are representative of 
the two great sections into which all plants bearing 
flowers are divided by bota nists, namely, the exogens 
and the cn do gens. 

I have no time to treat of the Wars of the Roses 
beginning A. D. 1455. We are apt to forget some- 
times, in our attention to prose history, how much 
Englishmen owe to Shakespeare in respect of his 
dealing with those wars. Shakespeare has made 
them what the “Tale of Troy” was to the Greeks, 
only that the narrator is greater even than Homer. 

There are at least sixty allusions in the poet’s 
writings to this flower of incontestable queenliness ; 
besides these, we have mention of “ rose-leaves ” and 
“ rose-water,” and references also to the rose-like or- 
naments made of ribbon, worn on the shoes in 
Shakespeare’s day ; — besides the rose and lily we 
have notices of the “ Flower-de-Luce, ” the “ Crown 
Imperial,” the “Marigold,” the “Carnation,” the 
“ Gilliflower ’’and the “ Columbine,” — the last named 
flower is alluded to in “ Love’s Labour’s Lost ” and in 
“Hamlet,” 

“ There’s fennel for you, and columbines,” 

Here is reference to some emblematic or supersti- 
tious idea, the traces of which are obscure. Ophelia 
employs it, seemingly, as a representative of thankless- 
ness, since in Chapman we have 
“ What’s that, a columbine? ” 

“ No ! that thankless flower grows not in my garden.” 

Why “ thankless ” is a question still to be answer- 
ed. Turner speaks only of the supposed medicinal 
virtues, Matthiolus and Gerard do the same. 

One cannot pass from Shakespeare’s flowers with- 
out recalling what he has told us of the little wizards 
of the hive, — the bees. Under Providence, he says, 



98 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



there is special work in the world for everybody, 
and the faithful concurrence of the whole, duly per- 
formed, is “ like music.” One reference in Romeo 
and Juliet is so beautifully figurative that I cannot 
omit it : — 



“ O my love, my wife, 

Death that hath suck’d the honey of thy breath 
Upon thy beauty yet hath had no power, 

Thou ait not conquer'd ; beauty’s ensign yet 
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks, 

And death’s pale flag is not advanced there.” 

But l am neglecting the weeds and wild-flowers — 
weeds are but wild-flowers in excess of number, and 
growing where the soil is wanted for purposes of cul- 
tivation. Taken individually, few of the plants 
which are prone to trouble the gardener and the 
farmer, through their fecundity and their persever- 
ance, are inferior in beauty of structure to the general- 
ity of the garden favorites. Isolated by the wayside, 
and in the pride of their summer, they seldom fail to 
please. Many of the larger kinds, no doubt for 
want of training, become ragged and disorderly, but 
even then they redeem themselves by their lustre. 
Nothing in the costliest garden is more splendid than 
a full-grown cotton thistle, a scarlet corn-poppy, or a 
well-developed specimen of the azure bugloss (or ox- 
tongue). One of our minor poets has happily ex- 
pressed it ; — 

<l The soil is mother to the weeds, 

But only step-dame to the flowers.” 



Of the wild flowers Shakespeare mentions 



Pansy 

Cowslip 

Oxlip 

Daisy 

Daffodil 

Harebell 

Crow- flower 



Violet 
Nettle 

Cuckoo-buds or Buttercups 
Wild Thyme 
Dog Rose 
Eglantine 
Woodbine 
Meadow-Orchis or Long Purple 
As Shakespeare’s favorite trees were those of the 
woods, in which as a boy he was accustomed to wan- 
der, absorbing “sweet influence,” so are his wild- 
flowers those of the Warwickshire meadows, trodden 
we may be sure, with equal delight. The green fields 
around his native village, the quiet lanes, the borders 
of the pretty streamlets, were their homes. Here it 
was that he first plucked the “ pale primrose,” the 
freckled cowslip, and the early daffodil. 

We find the violet mentioned in Ovid’s Metamor- 
phoses ; but when Shakespeare copies, or borrows, if 
either term can be justly applied to the use he makes 
of his predecessors, he repays a hundredfold in the 
method of the use. Perdita’s are not Ovid’s flowers, 
for those may be anything we like to fancy'; hers are 
old England’s violets, and nothing besides. 

Similar, one cannot but think, is the Shakespearian 
indebtedness, which yet is no debt, in regard to that 






most sweet and tender passage in Ovid, where the 
poet enjoins us to pay kindly respect to the tombs 
of the departed, by strewing flowers upon them. 

“They ask,” he says, “ but small offerings. To 
them is affection more pleasing than a costly gift . 
Enough for them are chaplets and plucked violets. 

Almost like an echo of these lovely words are the 

lines in Pericles , where Marina enters with her basket- 

0 

ful of mourning tribute: — 

“ No, no, I will rob Tellus ol her weeds, 

To strew tby grave with flowers ; the yellows, blues, 

The purple violets, and marigolds, 

Shall, as a chaplet, hang above thy grave 
While summer days do last.” 

It is impossible to quote the many beautiful illus- 
trations that might be furnished, showing the poet’s 
love for the pansy and violet, the cowslip he men- 
tions only six times, the one which first occurs to one 
is the well known song of Ariel in the Tempest : — 

“ Where the bee sucks there lurk I, 

In a cowslip’s bell I lie.” 

In King Henry the Fifth he tells of the “ freckled 
cowslip.” Again, in A Midsummer s Night's Dream 
we have Oberon addressing Puck : — 

“ Hast thou the flower there ? Welcome, wanderer. 

Ay, there it is.” 

u I pray thee, give it me, 

I know a bank where the wild thyme blows, 

Where oxlip and the nodding violet grows, 

Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, 

With sweet musk-roses and with eglantine.” 

he tells Puck to place a pansy on the eyes of Titania, 
in order that, on awaking, she may fall in love with 
the first object she encounters. 

But I may be growing tedious, and must hasten on ; 
whilst speaking in praise of wild-flowers I am in good 
company ; I might claim that every poet whose 
writings are worth quoting has sung their praise. 
Thomson in his Seasons has proclaimed their beauty 
in simple language : the daisy has been immortalized 
by Robert Burns as the “Wee, simple, modest, crimson- 
tipped flower.” And of the thistle, — Scotland’s 
emblem, — he tells : — 

“ The rough burr- thistle, spreading wide 
Among the bearded bear, 

I turned the weeder-clips aside, 

And spared the symbol dear.” 

Gerald Massey, another of the people’s poets, sang. 

“ And here’s my Rest, where sheen and shadows meet 
O’erhead, the small flowers budding at my feet ; 

Green picnic places peeping from the wood, 

Where you may meet the spirit of Robin Hood 
Crossing the moonlight at the old deer-chase ; 

A brooding Dove the Spirit of the place ; 

Gleams of the Graces at their bath of dew ; 

An earthly pleasaunce, Heaven trembling through— 

****** 

And with glad laugh the tiny buttercup, 

Its beaker of delight brimful holds up ; 

And, prodigally glorified, the mead , 

Is all aglow with red -ripe sorrel seed. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




And quick with scents that make one long to be 
A-gathering sweets, bloom -buried utterly.” 

And about 50 years ago, during a period of fierce 
political agitation, the Radical poet, par excellence , 
Ebenezer Elliott, pleaded : — 

Ci Beneath the schemes of wicked men 
Our country’s head is bowing, 

But thanks to God, they can’t prevent 

The sweetj wild-flowers from blowing.” 

Thomas Campbell, the author of the Pleasures of 
Hope , wrote : — 

Ye field flowers ! the gardens may eclipse ye, ’tis true, 

Yet wildings of Nature. I dote upon you, 

For ye waft me to summers of old, 

When the earth teemed around me with fairy delight, 

And when daisies and buttercups gladdened my sight, 

Like treasures of silver and gold. 

* * * * * * 

Earth’s cultureless buds, to my heart ye were dear, 

Ere the fever of passion, or ague of fear 
Had scathed my existence’s bloom ; 

Once I welcome you more, in life’s passionate stage, 

With the visions of youth to revisit my age, 

And I wish you to grow on my tomb.” 



Mrs. Hemans has some pretty verses in praise of 
wild- flowers, and Eliza Cook gives us some simple 
lines about Buttercups and Daisies : — 

“ Are there, I ask, beneath the sky 
Blossoms that knit so strong a tie 
With childhood’s love ? Can any please 
Or light the infant eye like these ? 

No, no ; there’s not a bud on earth 
Of richest tint, or warmest birth, 

Can ever fling such zeal and zest 
Into the tiny hand and breast. 

Who does not recollect the hours 

When burning words and praises 
Were lavished on those shining flowers ; 

44 Buttercups and Daisies ” ? 

There seems a bright and fairy spell 
About their very names to dwell 
And though old Time has mark’d my brow 
With cares and thought — I love them now. 

44 Smile if ye will, but some heart-strings 
Are closest link’d to simplest things ; 

And these wild-flowers will hold mine fast, 

Till love, and life, and all be past ; 

And then the only wish I have, 

Is, that the one who raises 
The turf-sod o’er me, plant my grave 
With 44 Buttercups and Daisies .” 

Tennyson, too, sings 



99 

And so on to the end of the chapter, I might 
quote them all : 

44 Blessings be with them, and eternal praise, 

The Poets ; who have made us heirs on earth 
Of truth and pure delight, through heavenly lays.” 

44 For doth not song 
To the whole world belong ? 

Is it not given wherever tears can fall ? 

Whenever hearts can melt, or blushes glow, 

Or mirth and sadness mingle as they flow, 

A heritage to all ! 

Of miscellaneous market edibles, not derived from 
the home garden, about half a dozen kinds are 
mentioned by Shakespeare, two of them, Samphire 
and Eryngoes , prepared from productions of the sea- 
shore. 

“ Eryngoes, ’’named in the Merry Wives of Windsor , 
were the candied roots of the Eryngum Maritimum , 
grey denizens of the seaside sandhills, — a veritable 
“ touch-me-not,” distinguished at once by its intense 
prickliness, (whence the synonym of “ sea holly,”) and 
its large egg-shaped head of sky blue flowers. 

Samphire (crithmum maritimum ) never grows upon 
the sandhills, but exclusively upon rocks and cliffs, 
such as are daily splashed by the salt-water. The 
leaves are many-fingered and very succulent, the 
flowers are produced in yellowish umbles, the plant 
becoming a mass of about six inches in height. The 
juiciness and pleasant saline flavor recommended it 
at a very early period, for use as a pickling vegetable. 
The collecting of it is at all times somewhat dangerous. 
As a rule, samphire is often quite inaccessible except 
by means such as those referred to in the inimitable 
description in which it is mentioned by Shakespeare, 
— suspending a man by a rope from the brow of the 
cliff, — this particulur cliff — the most interesting in 
England, since it is at Dover, overlooking the 
Channel. 

Edgar in King Lear , standing on the top of this 
cliff, known as Shakespeare’s Cliff to this day, says : — 



“How fearful 

And dizzy ’tis to cast one’s eyes so low ! 

The crows and choughs, that wing the midway air, 
Show scarce so gross as beetles ; half-way down 
Hangs one who gathers samphire — dreadful trade, 
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head, 

The fishermen who walk upon the beach 
Appear like mice ; * * 

44 The murmuring surge 
That on the unnumber’d pebbles chafe, 

Cannot be heard so high. I’ll look no more 
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight 
Topple down headlong.” 



44 Flowers in the crannied wall ; 

I pluck you out of the crannies ; 

Hold you here, root and all in my hand, 
Little flower, but if I could understand 
What you are, root and all, and all in all, 
I should know what God and man is.” 



Let me here say, in parenthesis, that I have seen 
this picture. I do believe that if I were asked what 
is the grandest sight I ever saw, I should reply with- 
out hesitation, sunrise from the summit of Shake- 
speare’s Cliff, — to look across the channel towards 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



too 



Calais on the French coast (the magnificent sight 
reminding one of Douglas Jerrold’s mot that the best 
thing between England and France was “the 
channel”), and then to t irn and look over miles of 
“ the garden of England,” as the county of Kent has 
beencalled, with its picturesque patches of gardens 
and fields, laid out like the squares on a chess-board. 

The impression produced would thus take shape 
in words: — 

I have beheld the stately sun arise 

Ere the pale earth had yet forgot the night, 

Blushing all rosy with a glad surprise, 

Like to a girl who sees her heart’s delight. 

Folding the crags that gird the mountain-top, 

Night’s messenger, the creeping cold gray cloud, 

Holds close its arms ; before the sun they drop, 

And leave the cliff uncovered by their shroud ; 

And the fair valley is again revealed ; 

The searching sun has freed what was concealed. 

I have seen this, and have seen men gathering 
samphire too, exactly as Shakespeare tells us — and I 
have eaten the samphire pickled ; in the bottle it 
looks like the tails of mice or rats. 

On seaside mud-flats there grows very commonly 
another plant, suitable for pickling, the salt-wort 
( scilicornia herb ace a), a singular production, made up 
of little round, green, erect and juicy pencils. This, 
sometimes called samphire by mistake, is by no means 
to be thought of as Shakespeare’s samphire, that grows 
only on the cliffs and rocks, as I have said. 

Shakespeare’s single botanical mistake is to be 
found in Cymbeline , where he says : — 

“ A mole, cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops 
In the bottom of a cowslip.” 

A certain amount of latitude is always permissible 
in descriptions designed to be vivid and picturesque, 
but it is quite beyond the reality to say that the spots 
in the cup of the cowslip are “ crimson.” The flower 
must have been very dear to Shakespeare, as familiar 
as the violet, and no flower would be plucked more fre- 
quently, which makes one wonder so much the more, 
that over this flower he should have made the one 
solitary mistake in exactitude of description, which 
shows in contrast so striking to his otherwise strict 
accuracy. 

One other matter is worthy of note — his mention of 
the cedar tree — by this name is always understood in 
literature, the immemorial cedar of Lebanon, so 
often employed in Scripture as an emblem of kingly 
stateliness and magnificence. It was, doubtless, the 
scriptural use which furnished Shakespeare with his 
ideas of the tree, no mention being made of it by the 
classical authors, to whom, indeed, the Libani would 
seem to have been unknown. Shakespeare introduces 
it upon twelve different occasions. No cedar existed 
in England during Shakespeare’s life-time. The first 
appear to have been raised from seed by John Evelyn , 
some time about 1680. 



I fear that I am growing tedious, but I have not 
yet spoken of his weeds, and his medicinal plants, and 
much more ; we have all heard of the play of Hamlet, 
with the part of Hamlet omitted, and I think I hear 
it said that I have scarcely reached the “folk-lore 
yet. I can only say with Captain Cuttle that “the 
force of the observation lies in the application of it, 
and therefore if it meets with your approval, we 
might reserve “ folk-lore” for another paper. My 
object was simply to indicate a few of the suggestions 
called up by the mention of flowers in connection with 
the poet’s name, but my pet wild-flowers ran away 
with me. 

“ Shakespeare’s flowers.” The words are talismanic } 
and as we utter them we see him as a boy on the 
Avon’s side ; as a lover, hastening past the hedgerows 
to blossom-hidden Shottery ; as a grave citizen^ 
strolling between the trim beds in his garden at New 
Place ; and at the last, stricken down with mor f al fever, 
“fumble with the sheets,” and “play with flowers,” 
and be sure that he “ babbled o’ green fields.” 

H.M. 



RPJDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM. 

The lord is outshone by his valet ; 

The subject dictates to the king ; 

The urchin that crawls in the alley 
Squalls louder thau choristers sing. 

The African maid is more garish, 

Array’d in her girdle of rope, 

Than a princess ; the priest of a parish 
Is prouder by far thau the pope. 

The cowl must not stoop to the mitre ; 

The pulpit o’ertops not the pew ; 

The printer improves on the writer 
And whispers the critic his cue. 

And the first and most fam’d virtuoso 
Must have known dilletanti like us. 

And been told that the thing should be so-so, 

And this way and that way and thus. 

The knight of the cross in his armor 
Was bay’d by the Apennine boar ; 

The trader looks down on the farmer ; 

The beggar despises the poor. 

The student informs the professor, 

The fieshman the Master of Arts : 

Thus the greater is less than the lesser, 

Or the whole is a part of the parts. 

CAP’N GOUN. 

A HOLIDAY ADVENTURE. 

I happened a few years ago to be spending my fort- 
night’s holiday in a small, inland, country village, 
very beautiful doubtless from an artist’s point of view, 
but to mine, fresh from the life and gaiety of a 
large city, ghastly in its isolation and loneliness. 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



IOI 



An old friend of my father’s, who had amassed a 
considerable fortune through some lucky speculations, 
had bought a plot of ground here, and built a large 
roomy dwelling for himself and family, the latter con- 
sisting of his wife and his daughter, a very pretty girl 
of about 23 years of age. 

In response to repeated invitations, and, moreover, 
it must be confessed, being too pressed for ready cash 
to go elsewhere, I had at last made up my mind to 
run down and piy the Phrales a short visit. 

1 he time passed more pleasantly than I had ex- 
pected in the company of Violet Phrale, and already 
the end of my holiday was in sight, when the inci- 
dent, — for it was but little more — that I am about to 
relate occurred. 

I was to leave on Saturday night on my return to 
town, and had sat up rather late the evening before, so 
that I fell asleep almost directly my head touched the 
pillow, and slept uninterruptedly till I was awakened 
at. an early hour the following morning by an unusual 
disturbance in such a quiet locality. 

Hastily throwing on a few clothes, I ran downstairs 
and found the whole household in a tumult. It 
seemed that the housemaid, on entering the dining 
room preparatory to laying the breakfast table, had 
discovered the sideboard drawers lying on the floor, 
with what remained of their contents scattered round 
them, the furniture also had been pushed about, and 
the room generally showed signs of having been 
thoroughly ransacked by some midnight marauder. 

My attention was first directed to allaying the fears 
of Mrs. Phrale, who seemed to be imbued with the 
idea that the robbers were hidden somewhere about 
the premises waiting for an opportunity to sally out 
and slay the whole community. Having persuaded 
her with some difficulty that no immediate danger 
was to be feared, I started out with her husband, 
who appeared to have been rendered almost helpless 
by the affair, to see if any clew could be found. We 
came upon one almost immediately in the shape of 
footprints in the soft grass just outside the window 
of the dining room, which overlooked the lawn, 
and the sill of which, moreover, was only a few feet 
above the ground. A hasty examination showed me 
that the foot-marks were turned both ways, and that 
they had been produced, as far as I could judge, by 
a large man wearing a heavy pair of boots. I next 
turned my attention to the window through which 
the robber had apparently made his entry. This 
was about four feet from the ground, and was made 
in two parts, the upper of which was stationary and 
the lower part capable of being pushed up, and was 
kept in place, when closed, by its own weight which 
was by no means inconsiderable. This could be 
fastened at night by means of an iron catch on the 
inside of the upper or fixed part of the window. 



The whole matter at first sight seemed so clear, 
that I straightway proposed to Mr. Phrale that I 
should ride over to the neighbouring village and notify 
the authorities to send over an officer. To my surprise, 
my friend strongly objected to this course, saying 
that the loss was after all a trifling one, consisting of 
some knives, forks, and spoons, and a few pieces of 
plate, and further he did not wish to have his house 
filled with busy-bodies, and finally, much against my 
will, I was obliged to submit. 

In the interval before breakfast I whiled away the 
time by interviewing the butler. This individual, 
who had been in the Phrale’s service a little less than 
a year, appeared to be smitten with remorse, and con- 
fessed to me that he had neglected to fasten the catch 
on the evening previous ; other information than this 
he could not give me, as he slept on the opposite side 
of the house and had heard nothing during the night. 
After breakfast I took a walk in order to try and 
think the matter over. What appeared strange to 
me was that any person could have opened the 
window and created such a disturbance in the dinincr 
room, which was directly under my bed room, with- 
out having wakened me, for I had always been a 
light sleeper. 

On my return to the house I questioned the house- 
maid closely as to the position of the various articles 
of furniture, and her answers strengthened a suspicion 
that had been growing in my mind, that the chaos in 
which the room was found was a studied disorder in- 
tended as a blind. But why should a thief who had 
entered and left the house so boldly, without taking 
the trouble even to remove his boots, have gone to 
the length of moving the furniture round in this care- 
ful manner? This seemed to be a point worth consi- 
dering. I could not help feeling that there was 
something too clear and plain about ‘he whole 
matter, and what had at first been but a suspicion 
became almost a conviction the more I considered it, 
namely, that the thief was to be found among those 
composing the household. 

1 went for a long drive that afternoon with Violet, 
to take a farewell view of the country, returning in 
time to have 5 o’clock tea with Mr. and Mrs. Phrale. 
While we were waiting for the tea to appear, Mrs. 
Phrale happened to leave the room for a few minutes, 
and Violet having gone to her own room to remove 
her hat, Mr. Phrale and I were left alone in the 
drawing-room where we sat chatting about the city 
to which I was about to return. Our conversation was 
interrupted by the entry of Walters with the tea and 
cake. What possessed me I can never explain, but 
the idea suddenly flashed into my mind that if I 
could catch Walters off his guard he might possibly, 
if he had any connection with the robbery, betray 
himself by some signor word. Without stopping 



102 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



to think that I was acting on nothing but a mere 
whim, I rose and approached theteatable, as if to help 
in arranging the cups and saucers, but instead of that 
l laid my hand lightly on Walters’ shoulder, and said 
in a solemn voice : “ \\ hat do you intend doing with 
those spoons ? ” 

The eftect exceeded my wildest calculations, for the 
butler dropped his tray without the slightest hesita- 
tion, put his right hand in his pocket, as quickly with- 
drew it again, and before I could do more than throw , 
up my arm, I was dazzled by the flash of a revolver. 
Luckily, the involuntary movement of myaim’dis- 
turbed his aim, and before he could fire again I had 
him by the throat, my surprise having by this time 
been overcome, and, with the aid of Mr. Phrale the 
scoundrel was forced to the ground and his arms, and 
legs secured with handkerchiefs and a couple of chair 
tidies. 

I he noise of the report brought Mrs. Phale and 
Violet shrieking to the drawing-room, where they 
were much relieved to find us uninjured beyond a 
few slight scratches incurred in the brief struggle. 

But little remains to be told. Walters, finding him- 
self helpless, confessed that he had appropriated the 
missing silver, having left the window unfastened, and 
disturbed the furniture purposely, with the idea of 
misleading us into thinking that the robber \v r as 
someone unacquainted with the house. He had made 
arrangements with a friend, whose identity, however, he 
would not disclose, to convey the spoil to the city and 
there dispose of it as soon as the matter had quieted 
down. The foot-prints under the window he could 
not explain, but I learned some time later from Mr. 
Phrale, that they had been made by the gardener, 
who came once a week to look after the grounds, and 
who had been looking for some brass wire that he 
had left hidden in some small bushes growing against 
the house, almost directly below the window. 

At Mr. Phrale’s request I delayed my departure 
till the following day, and during the evening I drove 
over to the adjoining village and put our prisoner in 
safe keeping, where he remained till the following 
month, when he was tried and sentenced to seven 
years imprisonment. So ended my first and only 
appearance as an amateur detective. 

B. B. 



CLASS REPORTS. 

ADVICE TO THE INEXPERIENCED. 

Ye gentle youths, unused as yet to ply 
The driving pen, while precious moments fly, 

As ’zamiuation’s dread approach ye fear, 

Draw near at once aud lend a ready ear 
To the advice I will to you impart 
From out the memories of an aching heart. 

When you are marshalled to that place of doom, 
The Molsou Hall, for ever wrapped in gloom. 
While that in nervous haste you grasp the pen 
Aud dreadful questious swim within your ken, 
Don’t stop to look, don’t even stop to wink, 

Write all you know aud more than you can think, 
Mix it all up, and don’t forget to shew 
You know much more than your professors know. 
Don’t punctuate at all, except with blots. 

Don’t cross your T’s, nor give the I’s their dots, 
The more the words the greater is the prize, 
Which fact, my friend, keep you before your eyes. 
Follow my counsel, do just as you’re bid, 

Aud you’ll do more thau any of us did. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

On W ednesday, the 5th inst., the Fourth Year Stu- 
dents were happily made the recipients of a most 
beautiful and useful Christmas present, in the shape 
of “ Da Costa’s Manual of Modern Surgery.” Dr. 
Roddick, the donor, appeared much affected as he 
shook hands with, and made kind remarks to, each, 
student, on presentation of the books. He announced 
much to the regret of all, that he was the unfortunate 
subject of a severe throat affection, for which his med- 
ical friends had advised a trip to the Mediterranean. 
He left on the following evening, and the many Stu- 
dents who attended his departure from Windsor Sta- 
tion gave him a hearty send off. His name always 
was, and always will be, to the Student, the personi- 
fication of all that means sympathy and generosity. 
We sincerely hope that his trip will give the desired 
results, and that he may be spared for many years 
yet to teach and instruct. 

Doctor Adami, who continues at present Dr. Rod- 
dick’s course of lectures, opened up with a much 
deserved eulogy on the merits and successes of out- 
departed friend. 

The success of the Bishop’s Medical Faculty Din- 
ner, which took place at the Queen’s Hotel on Dec. 
6th, was no doubt owing to the presence of our gen ial 
representative, J. II. Watson, B.A. ’95. 

“Billy” Lambly, our representative to Toronto 
College Medical Dinner, liked so well his treatment 
by the boys there, that he remained over a few days 
longer than was absolutely necessary. 



Messrs. Price and Day, both competent men, have 
been elected to offices on the Reading Room Com- 
mittee. We have full confidence that they will look 
after things. 

The Reverend, mentioned in the report of the 
McGill Medical Faculty Dinner of last issue as being 
the future valedictorian, is none other than the plea^ 
sant and good-natured I. L. Hargrave, B.A. 

W'e are pleased to announce that F. B. Carron, 
’95, who has been so long ill with appendicitis, has 
been operated upon and is now convalescing rapidly. 

Dr. Stewart finished his lectures on “ Diseases of 
the Nervous System ” last week, and the course has 
been resumed by Dr. Finley on “ Diseases of the 
Respiratory System.” 

We are pleased to announce that Mr. Hill, an es- 
teemed member of the Second \ ear, has completely 
recovered from a severe illness which lasted several 
weeks. 

Messrs. Gurd and Burril have been unanimously 
chosen from the Second Year as representatives on 
the Reading Room Committee. Evidently the right 
men are in the right place. 

The Secretary of the Second Year has recorded 
twenty-one meetings during the past month. Sum 
total of all . much talk, noise and an adjournment. 

“Joe,” familiarly known to Second Year as “ De- 
mosthenes,” will lecture to the Maritime Province men 
on Saturday evening, Dec. 22nd ; subject : “ Evils of 
Gastrotomy.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 103 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS NOTES. 

A course of lectures will be given to the Students 
of Comparative Medicine after the holidays by Dr. 
Piank Miller, 87, of Burlington, Vt., who has spent 
some time abroad in the Berlin and other Veterinary 
Schools. The course will consist of a series of lectures 
upon Diseases of the Eye, to which subject Dr. Miller 
has especially devoted his attention. 

Dr. D. McEachran has left Montreal upon his 
usual trip to the Northwest. He will return about 
Jan. 1 2th. 



As the neighboring Masonic Temple nears com- 
pletion, we look forward eagerly to a new patient for 
the Infirmary,— the “goat.” 



Lord Charles Beresford will resume his duties at 
the College immediately after his return from Khar- 
toum. 

C. H. Zink, j r . , has been chosen valedictorian by 
the Class of ’95. 



While we may not have a Faculty yell, that we do 
have a Faculty whistle of a most seductive kind, wan- 
dering canines of too abiding faith learn to their 
sorrow. 

Homeless and otherwise unfortunates are cordially 
invited to Dr. C’s coach-house on Christmas day, when 
the usual festivities will be celebrated. “Grub struck” 
R. — d’s has already begun to fast in preparation 
thereof. 

A pair in a hammock 
Attempted to kiss ; 

But in less than a jiffy 
•siqi p9pUB[ X9t{J, 

Ex. 

What song does the electric car sing on its last trip 
at night ? “ I’m going home to dynamo.” 

Ex. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

After the last exam., the members of the several 
Years wish each other a weak and weary “ Merry 
Christmas,” and then depart ; but this year ’96 
wishes to be magnanimous to others besides those of 
her own class : Freshmen, may college gowns in 
abundance be among your gifts (ask Santa for some 
that can’t be “stole ”) ; may huge chunks of “ Wis- 
dom ” bulge the stockings of the damsels of ’97 ; and 
may our Seniors have all they want of the follow- 
ing : — 

1. The sort of boots “ that departing leave behind 
them,” etc. 

2. Another kind, spiked, for climbing to the pin- 
nacle of Fame. 

3. A copy of “A sure and safe Guide to Gold 

Medals.” 

4. Blue stockings of permanent dye. 

5. “ How to be happy though a female B.A.” 

6 . Sweets of learning (in sticks or lozenge-shaped). 



Miss C. G. Seymour, formerly of the Class of ’95, is 
now General Secretary of the Young Women’s Chris- 
tian Association at Poughkeepsie, N.Y. This is 
probably a further preparation for the work to which 
shehas long been looking forward. We wish her all 
success in her work, and strength to continue it. 

The Donaldas are feeling especially grateful just 
now to Sir Donald Smith. His last gift to us has 
been a piano, which we were endeavoring to obtain 
by ourselves, as we felt that we could not do without 
one of our own any longer. 



Miss Smardon, of Class ’93, we are glad to hear, has 
at last got her medal, the Lord Stanley Gold Medal 
for Modern Languages. 



A CHRISTMAS FAREWELL TO CONDI- 
TIONS. 

[A long way after Shakespeare.] 

Take, oh take those “ av ”s away, 

Absence from them have I sworn ; 

And those “ rl. the bane of day, 

That have me misled, out-worn. 

But my novels bring again, 

Bring again ! 

Signs of ease, not signs of pain, 

Signs of pain ! 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The battle of pen and ink is over; and while we 
are pleased to note that no positive fatalities occurred 
it is our sad duty to record that the following in- 
juries were received bv some of our Legal enthusiasts, 
through their gallant and noble efforts to write five' 
hour-and-a-half papers in the space of two hours. 



B rn emerged with glasses broken and the 

phalanges of his right badly warped, and is at present 
compelled to eat his soup with his left hand. 



Svv st, who always prided himself on his 

short hand, received such injuries that his fingers are 
now of incredible length. 



Our valiant and martial V. P. is again at his office, 
with the tips of the fingers of his damaged right hand 
showing through the multifarious bandages as they 
gracefully rest in the folds of a sling. We hear he 
has now a proposition before the Faculty, to be 
allowed to utilize his stenographer in future examin- 
ations. 

The Irish element is now paring its claws follow'- 
ing the example of the Tammany Tiger. 



The House Surgeons in the Casualty ward report 
that B — nd is getting on gradually, but will never be 
able to walk on his hands again, especially his right 
hand. 



Our great extraction from the French author has 
suffered most, for we hear he has fallen greatly in the 



104 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




estimation of his lady friends by being obliged during 
tlie last two weeks to communicate with them by 
typewriter. 

D— on is suffering from anguish of soul to think 
that never again, or at least not for many months to 

0 me^ \\ jll he be able to entrance the members of the 

1 ock larliament with that sinuous movement of his 
exquisite right hand, so familiar to them all when he 
is raising his manly voice in violent denunciation 
against the machinations of the Conservative Party. 



It is reported that as a consequence of the rapid 
pace ..it which little Monty went during the examin- 
ation on Obligations, that he became dizzy and fell 
into an ink bottle, and was only rescued by the long 
reach of M — sur who was sitting four seats behind. 



• 

A rousing meeting of the Students v r as held 
regarding the proposed Bar bill: and although much 
heated discussion took place, we are glad to be able 
to state that the only blows that were struck were 
those on Joe D — n’s desk. 



APPLIED MECHANICS CLASS. 

1 lease, sir, I can t get the answer given in 
the book for this problem ; there must be something 
wrong with it. 

1 rof. Do you mean the book is wrong ? 

R-G- Oh no, ! no sir ! no, sir ! not at all. 

From the way in which some of the Third Year men 
took to the patrol waggon which came up to the 
College at the time of the fire in the Arts building 
it looked as if they had been there before. We trust 
hovevei, that appearances were deceitful, and that 
th ( y h^ve not been in trouble of that sort. 

• 

d he oider, that the students in the pattern shop 
aie not to use the machinery, has produced consider- 
able dissatisfaction among their ranks. The induce- 
ments held out by the practical department are very 
considerably lessened if the use of so important 
a part as the machinery is to be prohibited. We 
may, however, derive considerable solace from the fact 
that the use of the grindstone is still kindly permitted, 
and when in need of excitement we may watch it 
tu;n. All visitors are requested to use caution while 
in the vicinity of this “ instrument ”, for should, 
anyone be so unfortunate as to be injured by it, there 
is a strong probability that its use would also be pro- 
hibited to the student. 

During a lecture, speaking of the scheme for usiii" 
the gas given off in cremating dead bodies for illm 
m mating purposes, the fact was remarked, that it would 
at least enable some people to shine after death in a 
way that they never could hope to do while alive 

Messrs. S. F. Rutherford and R. H. Stewart have 
unanimously been selected to represent the Third Year 
on the Dinner Committee. We feel sure that our 
representatives will not only give satisfaction to their 
cv. n Year but to the whole Collece. 

o 



SOCIETIES. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. . 

The aoove Society met in the Faculty Lecture 
Room, No. 6 Union Ave., on Thursday evening, with 
the President, Dr. Wesley Mills, in the chair. 

After the reading of the minutes of the previous 
meeting, the Society tendered Dr. Mills a vote of 
thanks for his recent donation to the library. 

Mr. W. K. Inglis, ’9 <5, read a paper on the “ Ex- 
pression of Emotions in the Lower Animals.” This 
paper was well written, and evidenced considerable 
original thought and investigation on the part of the 
writer, and elicited an animated discussion from those 
present. 

An article on the subject of Animal Psychology, 
from the pen of an American clergym m, and which 
lately appeared in the Fancier , was read by one of 
the members. The somewhat unorthodox views of 
the writer were received with marked attention, and 
formed a subject for further discussion, after which the 
meeting adjourned to meet again in a fortnight. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Association was held 
on Thursday evening, 13th inst., in the Lecture Room 
of the Faculty, Dr. Adami occupying the chair 
After report by the Experimental Committee upon 
two experiments with anaesthetics, the Association 
listened to the report of a case by Mr. E. H. Lehnert. 
Mr. Arthur Boutelle then read a paper upon Enchon- 
droma. This subject has received but little attention 
from the comparative pathologist, and being very 
ably treated, the paper was an especially valuable 
contribution. The writer gave the results of a long 
series of investigations made in the pathological 
laboratory of McGill, arriving at some new theories 
which will probably be given to the magazines in the 
near future. 

Several works were donated to the Association 
upon Micro-biology, by Dr. Denwiddie of the Arkan- 
sas Experimental Station. 

At the next meeting, to be held Jan. 13th, Mr. 
Inglis will report a case, and Mr. Cowan will read a 
paper on Pathology in its relation to General Biology. 

Y.M.C.A. 

1 he last lecture of this term was given on the 9th 
Dec., by Rev. E. 1. Rexford, B.A., his subject being, 
“ 1 Purpose and Meaning of the Tabernacle.” The 
value of the Tabernacle in the religious training of 
Israel was dwelt upon, and, with the help of a map, 
its structure and furnishings were closely presented 
together with their typical import. 

The next Sunday afternoon lecture will be deliv- 
ered on the 13th Jan. by Mr. S. M. Sayford of New 
York. A complete statement of next term’s meetings 
will appear in a later issue of the FORTNIGHTLY. 
Our heartiest thanks are due to those who have ad- 
dressed us this term. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 105 



DELTA SIGMA. 



The Fifth Annual Le.ture of the Delta Sigma 
Society was delivered by Sir William Dawson, in the 
Teter Red path Museum, Dec. 13th. There was a 
large attendance of members, both regular and 
honorary, an I also of visitors. The address, on the 
subject “An Ideal College for Women,” was one of 
the most interesting the Society has ever heard, and 
was thoroughly enjoyed by all. The abstract given 
below renders any description unnecessary. 

We had hoped that Her Excellency ihe Countess 
of Aberdeen wou’d have been with us, but on account 
of ihe death of Sir John Thompson, Her Excellency 
was called to Ottawa, and so was unab'e to be pre- 
sent. 

The lecturer introduced his subject by a ref. re nee 
to the earliest known authoress, the prophetess 
Deborah, and to her remarkable poem, as an evidence 
of the status and education of women in th it remote 
time in which she lived. He then glanced at the edu- 
cational and literary position of women in the inter- 
vening times, and at the remarkable extension of the 
education of women, and of their influence in literary 
scientific, social, political, professional and religious 
affairs within the last quarter of a century. He then 
referred to the practical division of colleges for women 
into two classes — those that, like Girton and Ncwnham 
in England, and the Harvard Annex in the United 
States, are connected with old universities, and rnay 
be designated as affiliated colleges, and those which, 
like Holloway and Cheltenham and Smith in the 
United States are more or less self-contained, and 
may be regarded as independent of university control. 
Without any invidious comparison with others of their 
respective classes, he took Wellesley and Newnham 
as examples of these t.vo types, and enquired in some 
detail in what respects they approached to ideal col- 
leges, in reference to home and social influences, 
courses of study, the value of their degrees or certi- 
ficates, their economy and facility of management and 
of extension, and the causes which have led to the 
preference of one or the other system. This compa- 
rison, with occasional reference to other colleges differ- 
ing in details, occupied the greater part of the lecture. 
In conclusion, the re’ative position of the Donalda 
special course in McGill was referred to, and the pros- 
pect of its development into an institution nearer to 
the ideal college than those even of Britain and the 
United States —independent in all except the degree 
giving power, provided with an adequate staff of its 
own, yet having the benefit of all the educitional 
appliances, and, as far as necessary, of the staff of the 
University, taking an equal place with McGill College, 
and perhaps becoming ultimately as extensive in the 
sphere of its operations, and thus fully meriting the 
high title of “ Royal Victoria College for Women.” 



Y. W. C. A. 

The leader of the weekly devotional meeting held 
Nov. 30th •was Miss h raser of the Class of <.) 6 . To 
Miss Fraser was allotted the subject of “ Perseverance,” 
which was very clearly and beautifully handled. 



Miss Krause had charge of the meeting of Dec. 
7th, which will be the last held in 1894. That 
evening our thoughts, under the subject of “ The 
Book,” were directed to the necessity of Bible-study, 
and the benefits to be derived from a regular and 
systematic course to be pursued, not only intellectu- 
ally, but from the heart. The attendance on this occa- 
sion was somewhat smaller than usual. 

These meetings will be continued after the Christ- 
mas holidays, and, we trust, will be duly enjoyed. 



MATRIMONIAL. 

Mr. Donald Guthrie, a graduate of McGill in Arts 
and of the Presbyterian College, was united in mar- 
riage with Miss Jennie Stirton, of Guelph, Ont., on 
Dec. 5th. Mr. William Patterson, B.A. ’93, was 
groomsman. The wedding took place at Guelph, 
from where Mr. and Mrs. Guthrie set out for a trip to 
Buffalo and other points. Mr. Guthrie is remembered 
for his sturdy scrimmage work on the first football 
team and for his recitations as a member of the Glee 
Club. 



EXCHANGES. 

We beg to remind our College contemporaries that 
exchanges should be scut to Editor-in-chief. , McGill 
FORTNIGHTLY, care McGill University Library. 

In our last issue >. e referred to the pleasure it gave 
us to notice transatlantic exchanges, and we now 
glad'y acknowledge the receipt of the Glasgow Uni- 
versity Magazine. Whether in arrangement or in 
writing, the Magazine has attained a very high 
standard. It contains nothing that is dull, and 
among its bright and readable articles, “A Carpet 
Sale ” is very amusing. The Marquis of Lome, in his 
article on “Nationality,” which is really an argument 
in favor of the union, as at present existing, of the 
United Kingdom, lays down as an axiom, something 
that it is well worth our while to remember in Canada j 
“ Local rivalry is often wholesome ; national rivalry 
generally hurtful, — why ? Bee ;use local rivalries pro- 
mote emulation on the same lines and for the same 
objects. But national rivalries work on different lines 
for different objects. Therefore, the larger the area 
ofnational effort, where a central government can 
procure perfect control, the more wholesome will local 
effort become.” 

We have perused the last number of the Queen's 
with much pleasure. It contains a sufficiency of 
local items, with thoughtful editorials and articles of 
general interest. We can heartily endorse the greater 
part of the editorial devoted to the need of more 
extensive reading than is customary among students, 
— a need, however, which, in view of the rapidly increas 
ing use of the Library at McGill, our undergraduates 
seem to feel. Nevertheless, we must admit that among 
some of our undergraduates, at least, the plea “ r.o 
time ” is a good one. 

The King's College Record has a well-written artie’e 
on the English Drama, and the interest of the number 
is greatly enhanced by a strong poem from the well- 
known pen of Mr. Charles G. D. Roberts, whose 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



106 



power in treating Indian legends has time and again 
been successfully shown. 

Acta Victoriana devotes but little space to items 
of other than local interest. We are inclined to think 
that its biographical notices might be shortened with 
advantage. The article on Oliver Wendell Holmes 
deals sympathetically with the writings of the lam 
ented poet-physician. 

We have to acknowledge with much pleasure the 
receipt of the November and December numbers of 
The Knox College Monthly. The wide scope of the 
articles which they contain renders anything more than 
the barest mention of them impossible in the space at 
our disposal. 

We highly value the kind words of the Presbyter- 
ian College Journal anent our humble selves, and 
value even more, the hearty good feeling that is appar- 
ent in them. The Journal is itself so well conducted 
that commendation at its hands is doubly satisfactory. 

We regret that we have nonumber of the 'Varsity 
to acknowledge this month. Among other ex- , 
changes received since our last issue are The Manitoba 
College Journal , the Collegium (St. Dunstan’s, P.E.I.), 
the Droghedean , of the Harvard Daily News , and the 
Canadian Magazine. 



ACADEMY J2EJMUSIC 

HENRY THOMAS, Lessee and Manager. 

WEEK OP DECEMBER 17th, 

. . FANNY RICE . . 

IN THE OPERATIC COMEDY 

A Frau’s Frolic 

Week Commencing, December 24th. 

.Music, Song . . 

. . . aryd Story 

PICTURALLY ILLUSTRATED 

. .. 13Y . . . 

Mr. G. H. Snazdle. 



WINDSOR HALL . . . Friday, JAN. 11th, 1895 

McGill University Glee and Banjo Clubs. 



3rd ANNUAL CONCERT OF COLLEGE. 











Songs, Glees, Mtisic . . . 



and Readings 



LARGER AND BETTER THAN EVER. 



ADMISSION, 75, 50 and 25 Cents. 



Galleries reserved for Students only. 







HENRY. T. BOVEY, M. A , LL.D., N. \V. T REN HOLME, M.A., D.C.L., 

Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science. Dean of the Faculty of Law. 

ALEXANDER JOHNSON, M.A , LL.D. 

Vice-Principal and Dean of the Faculty of Arts. 

DUNCAN McEACHRAN, D.V.S., ROBERT CRAIK, M.D , 

Dean of the Faculty of Comparative Medicine and Deau of the Faculty of Medicine 

Veterinary bcience. 




t 













* 




