Vol. XIII 



No. 3 










40 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 






Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

-A.Xi'ST'OC-A.'X’IE: s , 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R, A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pliarmacentical & Dispensinc Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 



ipERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. OEAEMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Allocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c„ 



MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 



Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 



Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Tron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTE RS 



175 St. James St., 



Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L* 




— FOR — 




CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

117 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. .T-A-IIVCIES ST 



.yiKinr.tr. works, hooks usKn ijv .hit vovrsk 

SCIRJX'CR TKXT ROOKS, 

THK VARIOUS TRKOJ.OOir.tr ROOKS. 






Fine Custom Tailors. 



Full Assortment in stock amt Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 

>- i - BEST V ALU E I IV TO WN ^ , 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEATER HALL HILL. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. JT ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 24th, 1889. [No. 3. 




In awarding the various places, such as the presidency 
of the year, of the dinner, representation to the vari- 
ous colleges, an amicable division of the spoils was 
come to with the result that everybody was satisfied, 
^here yet remained one position to be filled — that 
f Valedictorian — and two candidates appeared, both 
f whom were undeniably good men in respect of 
ttainments, in the high position they hold in the 
lass, appearance and manner. There was no way in 
vdiich the contest could be settled but by a vote of 
hose interested, whose opinions will be guided by a 
rariety of circumstances, such as personal regard and 
ocal feeling. In addition, there were several disturb- 
ng elements. There was an impression that a few 
nen have for four years taken all such matters into 
heir own hands, and, by a mutual agreement, awarded 
Le prizes to whom they saw fit. The question also 
arose as to whether men who remain over from pre- 
vious years should be allowed to vote. A good deal 
jf feeling was created, but it subsided as soon as the 
election took place. 






TOWN vs. GOWN. 

Through the generosity of Mr. Botterell, an old- 
time friend of the students, the undergraduates in all 
the Faculties have become members of the Athletic 
Club House. This is an admirable move, and will 
prove a source of income to that institution, for once 
the students know of its attractions, each succeeding 
veneration will feel bound to share in them. Some 

o 

definite move should be made toward organizing. 
Students, however much their grey matter may he 
stimulated during their winter months, have not an 
excess of purely bodily exercise, and if some one 
would form the nucleus of a snowshoe club it would 
soon develop into an important body. It is 
lamentable how small an interest students take in 
the life of the town ; many even of the fourth year 
men know nothing of its institutions or its ways, 
The concert-rooms and the Art Gallery are unvisited, 
and nothing is known or cared for of its public move- 
ments. Not that this makes any difference to the 
town, but when a man spends four years amidst the 
best influences for culture, and lets them have no 
effect, he is missing an opportunity that may never 



42 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



return. In many cases the best students come from 
country schools, but too often they return to their 
homes, more learned, it is true, but having gained 
nothing from a four years’ sojourn amidst the com- 
plex elements that go to make up a great city. Many 
learn nothing. Some become acquainted only with 
its vices, and fewer still avail themselves of the op- 
portunities for culture that are within the reach of 
every student. Some such organization as a snow 
shoe club would tend largely to lift students out of 
the rut of sectionalism into which they naturally fal. 



ATHLETIC CLUB HOUSE. 

All the students were very agreeably surprised th 
other morning by receiving membership tickets to th 
Athletic Club House, and a great deal of surmisin 
was indulged in as to their probable source. After in 
vestigating the case we have found out that for this 
as well as many other kindnesses, we owe our thank 
to Mr. Botterell, a gentleman who has always interest 
ed himself in the students. He thought of this ex 
cellent means of doing a kindness to the students 
and at the same ^time aiding the Club House, whicl 
is in financial difficulties. 

1 he next question that comes up is, how are w< 
going to make use of these tickets ? Would it not b( 
a good idea to organize a McGill Snow-shoe club, am 
have “student’s nights” at the Club House, sa) 
every other Saturday night, alternating with tht 
medical society night. We could tramp out there 
pass the evening in vocal and instrumental solos and 
choruses, then tramp home over the mountain. 

Some such arrangement would show the donor that wt 
appreciate his kindness, besides proving a boon to stu- 
dents, who would be much benefited, both mentally and 
physically, by some healthy out door exercise during 
the winter months, a time of the year when they 
are too apt to remain in-doors. 



COLLEGE POLITICS. 

There is no fourth year, the fourth year is split 
to pieces,” was the remark of a man in Medicine about 
his own class, after the memorable meeting of Friday. 
The meeting was called to elect a delegate to King- 
ston, and four men were proposed. The ballotiiTg 
took place, and McLellan was elected, with Gorvill 
second. The demand was made for a second ballot, 
and then all the feeling of all the cliques broke forth, 
showing that there is in the Medical Faculty as in- 
tricate a system of politics, and as absolute a division 
of spoils, as ever disgraced a national government. 
The meeting lasted an hour, and was full of un- 



pleasant incidents, many of them introduced inten- 
tionally. Clear lines were drawn between a number 
of separate interests, and it was very evident that an 
attempt was made to play one off against another. It 
must be very clear by this time that any attempt on 
the part of individuals or cliques to engineer the 
working of the Faculty is useless, for the vast body 
of students have sufficient spirit to refuse to be the 
tools of any organization or of any set of men. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



43 



1889 .] 



We have received a communication from the 
“ Growler.” He asks “ why the Engineering students 
of the top row, should have to bear the brunt of the 
evil doings of the whole class, and made the unhappy 
victims of a professor’s sarcasm ? ” 



Is there no way of gaining sense without passing 
through the mill of experience? If students had all 
the money they have squandered on books they did 
not need, instruments not required for ten years, and 
on grinds which a little study would have dispensed 
with, how much better off they would be. 



There is hope and work in store for the present 
second year in Medicine. An effort will be made to 
arrange a practical class in Pathology next year, which 
all may and should attend without any extra fee. Dr. 
Johnson never spares himself when there is an op- 
portunity of increasing the efficiency of the Patho- 
logical Department. 



The Football Club made two important moves at 
the annual meeting, in electing representuives on 
the committee from the Faculty of Comparative 
Medicine, and by resolving that, in future, the reports 
of the secretary and treasurer be published in The 
University Gazette. 

Kvery club or association in the University should 
have its treasurer’s statement audited and published. 

It is a pity that the contest for Valedictorian be- 
came so personal. Bowes has a fine presence, good 
manner, and striking delivery ; while Bissett pos- 
sesses versatility of thought, keen and clever humor, 
and a delicacy in flattery, while really rubbing hard 
the recipient. On these points the men should be 
judged, and not on the stupid personal issues, Anti- 
Zyte, Anti-Catholic, and Anti-Clique cries that were 
raised. 



Every student will lament the accident that has 
befallen the Professor of Surgery, both on account 
of the unpleasantness to so esteemed a man as Dr. 
Fenwick and for the loss that missing even one of 
his lectures entails, but it was worth a week’s illness 
to receive such a reception as the boys gave the old 
Doctor when he appeared on Monday. There was 
unmistakable evidence that “ he Avas all right.” 



Referring to “ Senior’s” letter, calling attention to 
the ruffianism of three students Avho, on the 2nd of 
December, Avere guilty of the abominable conduct he 



alludes to, and his enquiry as to what proportion of 
students are compe‘ent to such an outrage? Ave can 
only say that even among students the spirit of Avan- 
tonness is not extinct Wo have enquired into the 
case, and find it exactly as stated. The Medical 
students should take steps to publish an apology in 
The Gazette. 

The Y.M.C.A., in connection Avith the University, 
h is tAvo classes of members betAveen Avhich is fixed 
a great gulf — the one open to men of confessed and 
professed religious belief and life, the other open to 
any one avIio may choose to apply for admission Avith- 
out any confession, faith, or test of conformity. In 
the first are included some of the most upright men 
in the University, Avho stand first in their classes and 
in the estimation of the student world. But betAveen 
many of the others and ordinary mortals there is no 
ready means of distinction, and those Avho are bound 
up in the Avelfare of the Association should take 
paius that not too many are attracted to their ranks 
by the prospective loaves and fishes Avhich this 
Christian community is in the habit of distributing 
to those Avho may in any Avay touch the hem of its 
garment. 



At a Meeting of the Directors, held on 
Friday, 20th instant, it was unanimously 
resolved to authorize and accept the re- 
sponsibility of publishing “ The Gazette ” 
weekly, provided the Editors could see 
their way to furnishing the necessary 
matter regularly every week, and to give 
the extra time and attention that would be 
called for by such a frequent issue. 

[This is an important move, and if the Editors 
accept the responsibility attaching to them, they can 
only do so upon receiving a generous support on the 
part of all the Students of the different Faculties of 
the University. The strong impetus Avhich The 
Gazette has received from the Faculty of Medicine, 
particularly in the matter of subscribers, has lead up 
to the above resolution, but if the paper is to be con- 
tinued as a Aveekly, and to be truly representative of 
all University interests, it must receive a like support 
from all the other Faculties. The Editors Avould par- 
ticularly request that information may be supplied to 
them by all and any Avho are acquainted Avith matters 
of University interest. — E ds.] 



44 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Poetry. 



SONG, 

(Translated from Victor Hugo.) 

If you have really nought to say, 

Why come so often in my way ? 

Or why those smiles upon me shed— 

Smiles that would turn a monarch’s head? 

If you have really nought to say, 

Why come so often in my way ? 

If you would have me understand 
No secret, wherefore press my hand? 

I know that, as you hither strayed, 

Sweet dreams about your fancy played : 

Why, wherefore, clasp my hand, unless 
Some riddle you would have me guess? 

If you would really have me go 
Far from your sight, why tempt me so? 

Filled with both rapture and despair, 

I tremble, when I see you there : 

Then, prythee, cease to tempt me so, 

If you would really have me go 1 
Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



EflctBill News. 



E. J. Bowes has been appointed Valedictorian for 
Medicine. 

Miss M. E. Abbott has been appointed Valedic- 
torian for the Ladies’ Graduating Class. 

In the competition for the surveying prize, the 
work was not of sufficient merit ; the prize was, there- 
fore, withheld. 

Bickerdike, 3rd year, Science, has been awarded 
the prize for levelling, with Stone and Bulman equal 
in second place. 

The Canadian Society of Civil Engineers will hold 
a banquet on Thursday, the 10th of January, to cele- 
brate their annual meeting. 

The students of the Faculty of Applied Science 
are solid for the University dinner, and all hands are 
trying to make it a success. 

A member of the “ Front rank” of Class ’91, Medi- 
cine, narrowly escaped being des(troy)ed by one of 
the orderlies at the hospital last week. 

Mr. Cook is again to the fore, as the students ; with 
commendable thoughtfulness, he has purchased, for 
the dissecting-room, a good supply of new stools. 
Thanks, awfully, Cook ! 

Seven medical gentlemen in evening dress is 
rather an appalling sight around a patient’s bedside, 
but such was the case the evening of the dinner, when 
they were called from the paths of pleasure to those 
of duty. 

There is one important want in the hospital 
equipment, namely, that of a photographer. All the 
text books extant fail to give that concise and im- 
pressive idea, which a single photograph of a typical 
case conveys. 

Crowded houses of the final men, is a fair indication 
of the great interest taken in the Wednesday Skin 
Clinics. It is a pleasure to listen to the clear, terse 



sentences by which Dr. Shepherd explains the 
diagnosis, pathology and treatment ot the different 
skin affections. 

By the plan of appointing two good men in each 
year to act as reporters, the Gazette should be a com- 
plete record of all things said, thought and done, 
pertaining to college life. And if each man keeps his 
papers, he will, at the end of four years, have a com- 
plete record of what occurred in his University career. 



Societies. 



THE DELTA SIGMA. 

THE PRINCIPAL'S LECTURE. 

On Friday, Nov. 15th, the Molson Hall was the 
scene of a new era in the development of the Delta 
Sigma. The hall was well filled with ladies, mem- 
bers of the Society and their friends, assembled to 
listen to the first annual lecture delivered under the 
auspices of the Society. The lecturer was the Prin- 
cipal, Sir William Dawson. 

The subject — “ Educated Women” — was one cal- 
culated to be of interest to all present. The general 
nature of education, in itself, was first dwelt upon. 
It was described as a process, not of superadding, but 
of developing ; one that must be gradual, as the 
physical growth of the subject, and symmetrical, all 
the faculties beiDg trained equally in the order of 
their maturity ; one that should, however, be carried 
on with due regard to the different peculiarities, ten- 
dencies, and destinies of the individual ; a process 
that should finally turn out its subject knowing 
“something of everything and everything of some- 
thing.” 

The special case of Women’s Education was then 
considered. It was looked at in turn from its 
physical, mental, and moral side. In connection 
with physical education, the Principal took occasion 
to refer to the classes under Miss Barnjum in the 
University gymnasium, and to express his surprise 
that they were attended by so small a proportion 
of the lady students. It was pointed out that while 
the physical is, in some sense, the lowest aspect of 
human nature, it is for that very reason most import- 
ant, forming, as it were, the foundation-stone of all. 
Mental and moral growth are impossible while the 
physical welfare is being neglected. 

Mental education was distinguished as of three 
kinds — scientific, literary, and aesthetic. Of these the 
first was represented as the highest and widest, be- 
ing practically infinite, for it deals with the creations 
of God, not man, and all in the world of matter and 
of mind. Women, as scientific specialists, are much 
needed, and there is a wide opening here for women 
workers. The second department, that of literary 
culture, while not boundless like that of nature, is 
practically so. It has two objects — the cultivation 
of powers of expression, and the storing of the mind 
with the wisdom embodied in history. 

.Esthetic culture, the love of goodness and beauty, 
and of the high and noble in art, is necessarily some- 
what neglected in a University course, but the 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



45 



student should not omit the seeking of it elsewhere. 
The new movement in connection with the Glee 
Club among the students was commended in this 
regard. 

The third side of human nature which requires 
education — the moral and religious — was touched 
upon as the highest of all fields ; too high and sacred 
to call for analysis. Pure and high morality is not 
taught in schools, but grows out of pure example and 
home influences. 

The lecturer next turned to consider the relative 
position of women and men, as laid down by Scrip- 
ture, and established by the evidences of the history 
of every civilization. The sphere of woman was de- 
scribed as equal, but not identical, with that of man. 
The subject of “ Professional Education for Women” 
was lightly touched upon. 

A most interesting and delightful lecture was 
closed as follows : — 

“ I shall conclude with the pictures of two edu- 
cated and talented Englishwomen — Queen Elizabeth 
and Queen Victoria. The one placed at the helm in 
a great and terrible crisis of the history of her coun- 
try, had loneliness fixed upon her by the necessity 
of her position. She must employ and govern all 
sorts of men influenced by all kinds of motives, but 
she could mate with none. This was her God-given 
mission, which she performed, at whatever sacrifice 
to her own feelings and affections. The other, a liv- 
ing wife and mother, guiding with gentle hand at 
once her own family affairs and those of the State, 
suffers much sorrow, yet is not doomed to dwell apart 
and alone. Both women are great and good, and 
models to the world, yet how different in their duties 
and surroundings. Every educated and intellectual 
woman must be a queen in her own sphere, be it 
small or large. She may be an Elizabeth or a Vic- 
toria. She cannot be both. The question of which 
she shall be may not depend entirely on herself, but 
with God’s grace she may play well either part.” 

The President, Miss Derick, thanked Sir William 
Dawson very heartily, in the name of the Society, 
for the pleasant and instructive hour that had been 
passed. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

A general meeting of the Graduates’ Society was 
held on Dec. 12th, to ascertain the views of the mem- 
bers on the proposition for holding an Annual Dinner 
for all connected with the University. 

All the speakers, including, among others, Messrs. 
Hall, Cross, McLeod, and Dr. Mills, were favourable 
to having a dinner, thoroughly representative of the 
whole University. 

It was moved by Mr. Hall, seconded by Professor 
McLeod, and unanimously carried — “ That this meet- 
ing approve of the idea of having a combined dinner, 
and further, that it appoint a committee of Under- 
graduates, and to make arrangements for carrying 
out the idea.” 



The following resolution, moved by Mr. Falconer, 
seconded by Professor McLeod, was carried : — “ That 
this Society appoint as its committee, to carry out 
the terms of the first resolution, the President, Secre- 
tary, Dr. Stewart, and Prof. McLeod.” 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The fourth regular meeting was held on Nov. 
28th, the President in the chair. A debate was held 
on the subject — “ Resolved, that the Treaty of 1888 
sufficiently protected the Rights of Canadian Fisher- 
men.” 

The affirmative was supported by Misses Binmore 
and Ross, the negative by Misses Tatley and Inez 
Botterell. The negative won, and deservedly, for 
both speakers debated well, Miss Botterell, in fact, 
waxing really eloquent in defence of her country’s 
rights. 

Miss MacFarlane acted as critic. 

A poem, by Mr. George Murray, “ How Canada 
was Saved,” was read. 

Some interesting discussion upon the subject of 
the debate took place. 

The results of the Prize Essay Competition, opened 
in the session 1888-’89, were announced. The list 
of competitors, unfortunately, an extremely short 
one, was headed by Miss Abbott. 

Dec. 12th. — The proximity of the Christmas Ex- 
aminations was made very evident by the thin attend- 
ance at the meeting, there being only 15 members 
present. Nevertheless, the programme was duly 
proceeded with. 

Essays were read by Misses Leach and LeRossignol, 
the former on “ Canada under French Rule,” the 
latter on “ 1791, 1837, 1867.” The title of Miss Le- 
Rossignol’s paper sounds a dry one, but the essay 
deserves commendation, not only as being excellent 
in its style of treatment, but also for the interest it 
was calculated to arouse. The plan of having Cana- 
dian subjects for essays and debates is much approved 
by every member. 

Mrs. Millar read a short poem. 

The impromptu debate — “ Resolved, that War is 
Unjustifiable,” was supported by Misses Williams, 
Binmore, and Pitcher on the affirmative, and Misses 
Monk, Abbott, and Smith on the negative. 

The vote having been taken, resulted in a draw, 
for the fifteen present went in trios, three debating 
on each side, three voting on each side, and three 
following the discreet course of not voting at all. 

A fine copy of Dante was presented to Miss Abbott 
for the best essay on “ The Painting of the Renais- 
sance, its Principles and Immediate Inspiration.” 

The President requested any members wishing to 
write on subjects of their own choosing, to communi- 
cate with the Secretary as early as possible, in order 
that the programme for the after Christmas session 
might be completed. She added that essays upon 
original themes would be gladly welcomed by the 
committee. 



46 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1889. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The fourth regular meeting was held on Thurs- 
day, Nov. 22nd. The programme for the day con- 
sisted of two essays, one on “ East Central Africa,” 
written by Miss Botterell, and one on “ The Moham- 
medanism and Paganism of Africa,” written by Miss 
Moffat. 

Dec. 4th. — Africa still holds the attention of the 
Society. An essay upon “ \V estern Africa ” was 
read by Miss Kennedy, followed by one from Miss 
McCoy on the “African Slave Trade.” The interest 
felt in the latter subject was strong, and elicited 
some discussion. 

i he needlework done in the Society is progress- 
ing fairly, judging by appearances, and there is some 
talk of sending off all completed work on hand at 
Christmas. 



THE MUIOTA SOCIETY. 

Dec. 2nd. — All the resident members, six in num- 
ber, were present at the third monthly meeting of the 
Lady Graduates’ Society The general subject was — 
“ Canadian Politics.” Two papers were read, one 
from Miss A. Wilson, Winnipeg, on “ Provincial 
Parliaments;” and one by Miss McFee on “The 
British North American Act of 1867.” Miss McFee 
gave a logical account of the steps which led to the 
Act, the Act itself and its results, and varied her 
essay with extracts from Bourinot’s “ Constitutional 
History of Canada.” 

In the discussion which followed, Miss Hunter 
told some personal experiences of the Parliament of 
Prince Edward Island. 



Personals. 



The Gazette would 
A. G. G. 



like to have the address of 



Corbin, Med. 90, has been selected as representa- 
tive to Kingston. 

Andrew Young, ’88, Applied Science, is now in 
Helena, Montana. 

D. J. Fraser, Arts, ’90, has been appointed Vale- 
dictorian for his class. 



J; Foster, ’82, App.Sc., is making a reputation 
as a Mining Engineer in Montana. 

Dr. C. W. Wilson, ’86, of Buckingham, Ontario, 
is in town for a few days, on his way to Europe. 

T. H. MacKinnon, M. D., ’89, is located at Mill 
Village, N. S., and is reported to be thriving 

O' 

We deeply sympathize with Hamilton, Med., ’91 
whose brother was drowned at Sackville, N. B. 

E. S._ Lea, Science, ’90, has been selected by the 
graduating class to read the Valedictory address. 

M. J. McLeod, B. A., (leger), every Arts man will 
be sorry to learn, has gone over to the great major- 



W. J. Hamilton, ’87, App.Sc., has been speculat- 
ing in mines, ranches, and town lots. Billy “will 
get there or bust.” 

W. H. Graham, ’84, App.Sc., spent the summer in 
Europe, principally in Great Britain, studying the 
great engineering works. 

Hubert, M. D., ’89, is practising the science and 
art of Medicine in St. John’s, Newfoundland, and his 
efforts are meeting with a ready acceptance. 

MacPhail has gone to Halifax and Prince Edward 
Island to procure illustrations for a forthcoming Mag- 
azine article, dealing with some phases of Maritime 
life. 

J. Craven, of the Class of ’87, App. Science, has 
been studying Electrical Engineering, and has been 
representing the Edison Co. in the Far West and 
South. 



It makes the boy’s hearts glad to see Harry Bell, 
M.D., ’88, come occasionally into the hospital. It is 
an earnest to them of what they may yet attain to, in 
the way of professional dignity. 

All the students of Class ’91, Medicine, were glad 
to see J. N. Kyle around College again last Saturday. 
He intends going on with his course, which he was 
forced to give up in his first session. 

J. E. LeRossignol, B. A., ’88, writes from 19, Lohn- 
strasse (with two dots over the “ o ” ) Leipzig, and it 
will give his friends much pleasure to hear of his 
welfare. He also states, parenthetically, that even 
for a German student it is not necessary to become 
addicted to the alcohol and nicotine habits. 



ueen neara trom in 
Aspen Co., and we may be permitted to shake (hands) 
with him in January. He is evidently learning 
Spanish, lor if some parts of his letter are not Spam 
ish, well . He has found some congenial com- 

panions, graduates of McGill, Yale, and Ann Arbor. 
Quarters have been secured in a “ new brick block ” 
\\ e hope it is red brick, otherwise it will soon change 
color. He is having a varied and practical experi- 
ence m all departments of a sampling works. For 
the benefit of the uninitiated, we would explain that 

a samp mg woiks is a place where ores are treated 
in large quantities. 



Hialop '84, App.Sc. No one woui/Zp ct it °Z 
he. It is in connection with the second surveyin’ 
exped.tton of the Denver, Colorado, Canon, 'and 
1 acihc Railway Co. The first expedition, of which 
Hislop was transitman, left Denver on May 22nd to 

survey the Colorado River. The first mishtp w^s the 

rftVt? oaded wlt h provisions. Then on Julv 
10th, President Brown’s boat was capsized and hi 

rJ::r a - Later oa tw ° — 

streara he sSi n !h el ' ° f the conti “ ued down the 
mountain’sheep H£ 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



47 



country. They travelled on foot, carrying their sup- 
plies, blankets, and equipments on their backs, and 
at last struck a Mormon habitation, where they were 
kindly treated. It was a bishop, named L. C. Mser- 
inger, whom they struck, of Knaebe, who gave them 
money, food, and shelter in the tithing-house, and 
guided them homeward, reaching Denver about July 
28th.” 

Graduates Abroad. 

The following gentlemen are now in London con- 
tinuing their studies : — Drs. Hewitt, Young, and 
Woodruff, ’88, and Dr. A. W. Campbell, ’86. The 
latter has quite recovered from his attack of 
pleurisy. 

Dr. P. H. Orton, ’86, is practising at Mandarin, 
Florida. The climate of Canada was too severe for 
his health, and he was obliged, much against his 
wishes, to leave. In his new home he has, happily, 
found health and patients. 



£orre$pon6ence. 



UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

It will be remembered that, early in the term, the 
undergraduates m the Law Faculty passed a resolu- 
tion in favor of holding a University dinner of all the 
Faculties of McGill College. Copies of this resolution 
were forwarded to the other Faculties, asking them to 
call meetings to consider this resolution, and to 
report the result to the Law Faculty, Meetings were 
held. All the Faculties expressed themselves in favor 
of the movement, except Medicine. Feeling that the 
objection of one Faculty would defeat the object, the 
matter temporarily dropped. Late in November it 
was brought up again by Arts and Science, which 
Faculties communicated with the others, calling a 
joint meeting of McGill undergraduates. This meeting 
was held Nov. 30th at 1 1 o’clock in No. 1 class room ; it 
was well attended. The objects were to ascertain the 
feelings of the majority, and to bring forward united 
action. All sides of the movement, pro. and con., 
were carefully considered, and the following motions 
were then put and carried by a large majority : — 

1st. That a University dinner is advisable. 2nd. 
That, since in the opinion of this meeting it will tend 
to the best interests of this University, her professors 
and students, to substitute for the separate Faculty 
dinners one University banquet, we call upon every 
Faculty to elect two representatives to a general com- 
mittee for carrying this movement into effect. 

The Secretary of this meeting was instructed to 
forward copies of these resolutions to all the Faculties, 
asking them, individually, to consider these and 
report to him. Hut by this time the Medical Faculty 
had held their Faculty dinner, and accordingly they 
did not appoint representatives. The three Faculties, 
Law, Science and Arts, voted unanimously in favor of 
the resolutions, and appointed their representatives. 
The new Faculty, Veterinary, approved of the move- 
ment, and although partial arrangements for their 



separate dinner may prevent them attending the 
University dinner, it is believed the will appoint their 
representatives. 

We have thus far succeeded in establishing a “ Uni- 
versity banquet,” and this movement has received the 
approval of the graduates’ society. They have united 
with the undergraduates, appointed their representa- 
tives ; and instead of the dinner of the graduates, and 
the dinners of the separate Faculties, there is to be a 
great “ University Dinner.” An informal Committee 
meeting was held Friday evening, Dec. 13th, and it 
was decided to appoint Wednesday evening, Jan. 8th, 
1890, for the first regular meeting of the dinner Com- 
mittee 

It would be needless to dwell upon the advantages 
we shall derive from the University banquet, suffice 
it to say that we intend it to be truly representative of 
our University. The graduates and undergraduates 
are hopeful that they may receive the encouragement of 
the governing body of the University, and with these 
united interests this new departure should prove a 
boon to our University. 

Science. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Without in any way depreciating the excellent 
contributions from the ladies, would it not be well if 
they would write shorter reports of their societies’ 
transactions, which, at the best, interest but a limited 
number, and contribute short little notes on the 
doings, sayings and thoughts of their own College 
life. Even that professional growler, the Medical, 
would read these with avidity. 

Med. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

On the evening of Monday, 2nd December, at a 
quarter to eight, three ladies were making their way 
past the University Street College gates to one of the 
religious meetings th it were being held in a down 
town church, when they were assailed by three 
students and mercilessly pelted with snow and ice. 
Perhaps you can explain what proportion of .McGill 
students are actuated by motives that would lead them 
to perpetrate such an outrage. 

Senior. 



Sporting. 

HOCKEY. 

The McGill Hockey Club have secured the use of 
the Dominion Rink (corner of St. Dominique and 
St. Catherine Streets) for their practices. 

The first practice takes place on Saturday next, 
December 2 1st, at 9 o’clock a.in., in the above Rink, 
and on each Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday dur- 
ing the Christmas vacation, between 9 and 10 a.m. 
All those who skate should turn up for these prac- 
tices. Besides the matches between the Faculties' of 
Medicine, Veterinary Science, Arts, and Applied 
Science, it is also proposed to have class matches this 
winter, and the boys can hardly wait for the ice to 
form to begin work. 



48 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1889.] 



There is a rumor afloat that the team, with a large 
contingent of friends, will take a trip to the Eastern 
Townships about the end of the holidays ; if so, we 
advise all the students to come along, as such outings 
have become the synonym for fun. 

The Inter-Faculty matches, which will take place 
during January, are sure to be especially interesting 
this season, as there will be four competing teams, 
the Veterinary Faculty having decided to enter one, 
which promises to be very strong ; and of the other 
three teams, the Medicals are determined to maintain 
their supremacy, while the Science men have shown 
on the football field that they are no mean oppon- 
ents ; and as the majority of players always come 
from Arts, that Faculty ought to show up well. 

All things considered, it only remains with the 
“ clerk of weather” to make the season an exception- 
ally good one. 



FOOTBALL. 

The annual meeting of the Football Club was held 
on the 13th inst. There was a large attendance, the 
majority being from Medicine. Mr. Hamilton in 
the chair. 

The following officers were elected : — 

President H. Yates. 

V ice-President Halliday. 

Treasurer Gordon McDougall. 

Secretary W. G. Smart. 

Captain E. H. Ilamiltton. 

Faculty Representatives on the Committee. 

Medicine Webster. 

“ Bowie. 

Science Russell. 

“ McFarlane. 

Arts Guthrie. 

“ Donnahue. 

Law Peers Davidson 

“ Hall. 

V eterinary Peerley. 

“ Townsend. 

Moved by Mr. Webster, seconded by Mr. Bowie, 
and carried — “ That the new Faculty of Compara- 
tive Medicine have two representatives.” 

Messrs. Peerley and Townsend were then elected. 

Moved by Mr. Yates, and carried — “ That McGill 
representatives to the Quebec Rugby Union be in- 
structed to use their influence to have rule 54 to read 
as follows : — 

“ If any player persistently violates any of the laws 
of the game, or make any unfair or rough play, the 
referee shall rule him out of the game, and no sub- 
stitute shall be allowed.” 

It was also resolved — “ That the reports of the 
Secretary and Treasurer shall, in future, be published 
in The University Gazette.” 



There are some bold, bad spirits in Medicine, who 
seem to occupy their time in finding nick-names for 
the other good spirits of the faculty. 



Exchanges. 



When the Tuftonian is done talking about itself, it 
has some time left to gather together material that 
must be interesting to its more direct readers. 

The Atlantis , published by two societies of Central 
University, Richmond, Ky., is an attempt to be am- 
bitious in a small way, but it follows the method of 
a cheap newspaper, and has not the dignity that 
should mark a college paper. 

A new journal has come to hand, The Delphic , 
published at Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa, and 
it gives the impression that student life is fairly re- 
flected in it. The articles are mainly by students and 
the news such as would concern them. 

The Owl , the paper of Ottawa College, has gotten 
almost beyond the bounds of college journalism and 
is now almost a well managed magazine. The recent 
number is a special issue to commemorate the in- 
auguration of Ottawa University and the unveiling 
of the Laboret Statue. It is rich in illustrations, 
containing excellent portraits of the members of the 
Faculty, and is by far the most ambitious attempt that 
has yet been made in Canadian college journalism. 

They’ve got them in Edinburgh, too. Listen to this 
from the Student: 

EXAMS. ! They are on us already ! We must now give 
up our evening smoke and game of billiards at the Union ; 
our nights at the theatre, listening to Madame Georgina 
Burns, Miss Fanny Moody, Mr. Barton M’Guckin, and the 
rest; our late calls at “the So-and-so’s” — for the seclusion of our 
studies and the companionship of our books ! We must beg, 
borrow, or steal notes from our friends, and give our nights up 
to “ grinding.” For those terrible class exams, will not wait. 
They begin od Monday, and go on .for the rest of the week, 
and even on into the next. All men who want to shine in the 
class lists — and even those who don’t — should consult the 
paper on the boards anent the Examinations in Medicine, and 
then look out extra coffee, and come to some arrangement 
with their landladies about the gas ! 



College TcUorlb. 



The University of Michigan has 2100 students. 

Mr. Blaine is the only College graduate in Harrison’s 
cabinet. 

The University of Pennsylvania has 1200 students. 
The freshmen class in Arts numbers 140. 

Ex-minister Phelps will resume his professorship 
at Yale next January. 

The higher institutions of learning in Norway, 
Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland and Italy, have be- 
come co-educational. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



49 



The Lady Graduates of Kingston have formed a 
society on the same lines and in connection with that 
lately organized at McGill. Their secretary is Mrs. 
John Marshall, Gordon Street. 

Japan has 31 Schools of Medicine, one of Dentistry 
and two of Veterinary Surgery. The University of 
Tokio graduates average 100 medical students per an- 
num ; with it are connected 20 hosipitals and many 
other medical societies. 



Between the Lectures. 

Jamesie, speak to the ladies. 

What part of a river is the periphery 1 

What was meant in the last number by “ tropical 
fruit ? ” 

What professor uses three words where one would 
do ? 

Who is the Surgeon that looks around the operat- 
ing-room for microbes ? 

Who is the Surgeon that makes free incisions, and 
puts in a drainage tube! 

Who is the Surgeon that makes a “ firm, rapid cut, 
as I will show you ? ” 

What would be the treatment were a patient to cut 
himself with a putrid animal ? 

Survival of the Fittest at McGill : Dinner without 
smoke, or dinner without ladies. 

What is the direction of Aortic arch ? You have 
been told a thousand times— “ Fully a thousand.” 

Here is a point, but don’t “ let the temperance 
people get hold of it.” “Alcohol causes Psoriasis.” 

That was good advice Sir William Dawson gave to 
the ladies. It is the complete rounding off of a life. 
So says Col. Ingersoll. 

There was a fainting epidemic the other day in the 
hospital, due, it is supposed, to the successful alcohol 
treatment of the first patient affected. 

Dr. Wilkins has expressly stated, that if any gen- 
tleman had any specific cause, he would be at 
liberty to leave the lecture room. 

“ Now, was your nose ever healthy? Was it al 
ways like mine? ” 

Stupid patient : “It never was so high, Doctor.” 

Poor little nurse Jessie has a hard time of it. The 
whole hospital staff is in attendance, and each one 
that comes along adds something new to her diet 
card. 

Cook’s “ Supe” mustn’t be impertinent. He has 
no supervision over senior students to any considerable 
extent, and one day may be duly and forcibly in 
formed of the fact. That is the old “ Supe.” 

Any fool can diagnose such cases, but if you saw 
the number of mistakes that were made, you would 
say there were a great many fools in the world — and 
so there are. 



The students of Materia Medica have their feelings 
periodically harrowed by the strange sounds proceed- 
ing from the Pathological laboratory ; what can they 
be doing in there ? 

It is rumored that Sir Adolphe Caron i3 to take an 
action against a certain final man, on the ground of 
utilizing the Government shoe leather for civilian 
purposes. 

We had an example, lately, of how anaemic persons 
are liable to fainting fits. A wan-looking freshman 
was carried out of the operating-room, feet foremost. 
Cause : Over-heated air and the sight of a little 
blood. 

If a common human being might aspire to make a 
suggestion to Mr. Cook, in the way of janitorial 
duties, it would be, let the sweeping operations in 
the corridors be performed after all lectures are 
delivered. 

In a recent beer-drinking contest, one of the com- 
batants added l ’10 gr. of apomorphine to his draught. 
His opponent now claims a foul. A code of rules 
should be drawn up by which such contests might be 
regulated. 

“ Too late, too late, ye cannot enter now’.’ Every 
Saturday morning, between the hours of ten and 
eleven, a number of third year men will be found 
outside the Pathological lecture room, perched on the 
rail doing the foolish virgin act. 

Re the after-dinner speeches delivered when the 
medicals made merry, one of the students was heard 
to remark that he was never called a “ gen’lman ” so 
many times to the square inch before — excepting, per- 
haps, towards the end of a journey on a pullman car ! 

The Hunter. 

I raise my gun and low I bow, 

I aim ! I fire ! I see it fall ! 

And up I get, but d n it all ! 

There lay a farmer’s cow. 

T n LL. 

Professor : “ What is the fifth mineral on the scale 
of Hardness ? ” 

Student : “ Don’t know, sir.” 

Professor (kindly) : “ Oh yes, you do ; now think ; 
what did you have for breakfast ? ” 

Student (confidently) : “ Quartz.” 

Clothes cupboards, where the men could lock up 
their things safe from the inroads of the habitual 
cloak-room thief, are a crying necessity in Medicine. 
The faculty could follow, with advantage, the plan 
adopted by the High School. We would gladly pay 
$2 a year for the comfort of having our cap, coat, and 
rubbers safely under lock and key. 

The pulse of the first year has once more resumed 
its normal beat ; the blood pressure wave shows a 
marked drop ; the anxious, careworn expression, 
suggestive of wet towels and strong coffee, with a 
corresponding consumption of the midnight oil — or 
gas, has disappeared, and an unexpected roll-call is 
innocent of the black spots which marred its beauty 
a few days ago. Botany examination is over. 



50 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



buttings. 

The following exquisite love letter, taken from the 
Book Lover, is to be found in the works of one Wil- 
liam Shakespeare, who flourished in the 10th century : 

Mr Love, My Wife 1 — I have here received letters 5 
to the which as yet there is no answer made. 3 I may 
be negligent, foolish and fearful ; in every one of 
these no man is free, but 4 1 pray thee chide not ; 5 con- 
demn the fault and not the actor of it ; 6 to my un- 
folding lend a gracious ear ; 7 I would I could quit all 
offences with as clear excuse. 8 

My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena ! 9 1 have 
this while with leaden thoughts been press’d ; 10 there’s 
nothing in this world can make me joy; life is as 
tedious as a twice told tale, vexing the dull ear of a 
drowsy man; 11 I am wrapp’d in dismal thinkings, 15 
have of late lost all my mirth, foregone all custom of 
exercises. 13 The main grief springs from the loss of a 
beloved daughter and a wife, 14 therefore am I found 
so much unsettled ; this drives me to entreat you that 
presently you take your way for home. 15 You must 
not marvel, Helen, at my course ; 16 my love admits no 
qualifying cross, no more my grief in such a precious 
loss. 17 Sweet above thought I love thee ; 18 love me and 
leave me not ; 19 take me with you, take me with you, 
wife. 50 Sweet lady, you have given me life, and 51 you 
take my life when you do take the means whereby j 
live. 55 Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face. 35 
I spy life peering ; but I dare not say how near the 
tidings of our comfort is. 54 The business is for Helen 
to come hither. 55 Hope is a lover’s staff; walk hence 
with that and manage it against despairing thought. 
Thy letters may be here, thou, thou art hence. 56 0 thou 
that dost inhabit in my breast, leave not the mansion 
so long tenantless, lest, growing ruinous, the building 
fall, and leave no memory of what it was ! Repair 
me with thy presence, 57 Helen, I love thee, by my life 
1 do. 58 That kiss 1 carried from thee, dear, and my 
true lip hath virgiu’d it e’er since. 59 

0, Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine ! 30 if I 
should swear by Jove’s great attributes I loved you 
dearly, would you believe my oaths ? 31 for you in my 
respect are all the world, 35 and I as rich in having 
such a jewel as twenty seas, if all their sands were 
pearl, the water nectar, and the rocks pure gold. 33 
Little Helen, farewell, 34 farewell my wife ! 35 I cannot 
be mine own, nor anything to any, if I be not thine. 36 

I am your husband. 37 

Borneo and Juliet, Act v., Scene iii. 

2 Julius Caesar, Act iv., Scene iii. 

3 King Henry V., Act v., Scene ii. 

^Winter’s Tale, Act i., Scene ii. 

5 Romeo and Juliet, Act ii., Scene iii. 

Pleasure for Measure, Act ii., Scene ii. 

"Othello, Act i., Scene iii. 

8 King Henry IV., Part i., Act iii., Scene ii. 

^Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act iii., Scene ii. 

10 Othello, Act iii., Scene iv. 

n King John, Act iii., Scene iv. 

12 All’s Well That Ends Well, Act v., Scene iii. 

13 Hamlet, Act ii., Scene ii. 

14 Pericles, Act v., Scene i. 

15 All’s Well That Ends Well, Act ii., Scene v. 



16 AU’s Well That Ends Well, Act ii., Scene v. 
17 Troilus and Cressida, Act iv., Scene iv. 
18 Troilus and Cressida, Act iii., Scene i. 
19 Merchant of Venice, Act iv., Scene i. 
20 Romeo and Juliet, Act iii., Scene v. 
2 l Merc*hant of Venice, Act v., Scene i. 
22 Merchant of Venice, Act iv., Scene i. 

23 Love’s Labor Lost, Act v., Scene ii. 

24 King Richard II., Act ii., Scene i. 

25 Ali’s Well That Ends Well, Act i., Scene iii. 
26 Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act iii, Scene i. 
27 Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act v., Scene iv. 
28 Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act iii., Scene ii. 
29 Coriolanus, Act v., Scene iii. 

30 Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act iii., Scene ii. 
31 Ali’s Well That Ends Well, Act iv., Scene ii. 
32 Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act ii., Scene i. 
33 Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act ii., Scene iv. 
34 All’s Well That Ends Well, Act i., Scene i. 
35 Tempest, Act i., Scene i. 

36 Winters Tale, Act v., Scene iii. 

37 Mueh Ado About Nothing, Act v., Scene iv. 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSWOOD, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

ORDERS FOR 1 80 St. JaMES STREET, 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building f 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



PAGE. 



Armstrong k Radford, ... 53 

Ashford, C., . . . . 54 

Atwater & Co., .... 40 

Birks, H., k Co., ... 54 

Chapleau k Co., . . . 40 

Clarke, G. W., . . . 54 

Cumming k Brewis, ... 52 

Doughty, A. G., 53 

Drysdale, Win., k Co., . . 40 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., . . 40 

Featherston, A. M , . . . 53 

Gerth, E. A., ... 52 

Gray, Hy. R., . . .52 

Greenshields k Co., . . . 40 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 51 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 51 

Jensen, J. L., ... 51 

Lyman, Sons k Co., ... 52 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . 53 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . 54 

Murray, Wm., . . . 53 

MacBean, D. B. A., ... 52 

McEntyre k Son, ... 40 

McLaren, W. D., ... 54 

Me Master & Co., . . 40 

Ness, T. W., .... 51 

Nightingale, D., . . .52 

Nordheiiner k Co., ... 54 

Notman k Son, ... 54 

Periard, A., ... 51 

Reid, Robert, • ... 52 

Robertson k Co., ... 40 

Ross, Hugh, • ... 53 

Sharswood, W. H. F., . . 50 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . , . 52 

Summerhayes k Walford, . . 53 

Tarrante, Sami., • . . 53 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



51 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS' 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygp.aphs, and Office Supplies. 



A. PERI ARD, 



AND 



• • • LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

moutbeal. 



JOHN HENDERSON & CO.. 



ROYAL; DYE VZORKfL, 

70S CR-A-IGr STREET. 












c Mllli 

229 ST. JAMES STREET. 



jti m M* 



Special Agents for College Trenchers, Ac. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

335 dz 387 St- Stebet, Konteeal 

— {-Wholesale Manufacturers*— 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 

f. ELEBMTEP HotWMER HHTERS 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Aik Furnaces 



FOR 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on A pplicaiion. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



52 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Pliotograjifiic Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

CUMMIItfG & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL HATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



I^iill $todk doit^tkiitly ot) ^cUid, I Hi-ported 
f)ifcdt ffon\ tl)e l^ekdii]^ JUciitufkdtufe.f^ 
of tf|e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



Established 1859 . 

KCEOSnEre’ IS. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA U CH E TIE RE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemicnl Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address* 



ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monnmeiital & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



The loflern Misli or Roman Balli, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST ., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D' 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

FISTS SATAl’A CIGARS, 

Spiller & Co.'s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. SERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen's Block. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Victor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each. 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $50 each . 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students . 




D, IMIGHTI JV GALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 

#9- Improved Billiard Cushions. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



53 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand : 

“The Idylls of the King: 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 



An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

3P- O- Box 173^, - ZLv£o:rvtrea,l. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG X RADFORD, 

Halieriasta anil Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle - 
men’s Wear . 

2 6 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St. ) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEUPtY STREET. 

: )Brar your ( == 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe; stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
Tlie West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all me Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffitw Wxxxn amt 

No. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

(Opposite the English Cathedral ,) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical , Advocates' and Academical Gowns 
MILITARY and HIGHLAND COSTUMES a SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. 



54 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



wji pp § 80 R 

Photographers, 

STUDENTS’ PORTRAITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

PRIVATE GROUPS 
: PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 

: : COLLEGE VIEWS, 8fc. 

17 iBijiE'CTiR.'z' Stebbt, 

MONTREAL. 

Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., • MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion / 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices 1 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell. Federal. T. H. LOVE, 

580 &. 2482. 1683. Manager. 

veab. NORDHEIMER’S: ESTABLISHED 1845. 

PIANOS * AND • ORGANS 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JAMES STREET, ITOITTE^HIA.1^. 

HENRY BIRKS $T Co7~ jewellers, &e. 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St. James Street, Montreal 

G. W • C L ARIIlE, Importer of 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods, 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 




the gbnuiive 

Cook’s Pbienk 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to tlie user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of N 0 I E BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &C. 

2vCo*a.trea.l G-e»~ Hospital IF'ls.a.rMn.a.copceia., 25c. 

C. ASHFORD, 

Near University st. 818 Dorchester St., Montreal. 





