jVlcGlbls FOHTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature* University Thought and Event- 

VoL. III. MONTREAL, DECEMBER 7, 1894. No. 5 




^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



E(Iitor-ln-c?iief^Ho^ER M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 

Secretary — Miss L. E. Afmstuong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med, and Ver. Sc. ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law *96). 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med* ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95), 

^ BUSI NESS B OARD ^ 

E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95), Chairman, 

A. F. Edwards (Med. *96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96), 

W. F. Angus (App. Sc. ’95). J. C. Cutting (Com. Med. and Vet, Sc. '95). 

A. E. Ck)RDON (Arts ’96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

T he annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. Renours, Cyrus 
Ashlord’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Stre et, Montre al. 

EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 

However lightly Father Time places his fingers 
upon McGill, his grip is felt none the less keenly 
by the individuals of the University. At this time 
of the session we are impressed more than we usually 
are with the fact that “ time flies,” and it certainly 
will not be long before those members who at pre- 
sent make up the Years in the several Faculties will 
pass out into the world to practise their different 
piofessions. But before this separation with McGill 
takes place, there are a few things we hope to see, 
and not the least important among these is the new 
Song-Book. 

Silently we have waited — how long and patiently, 
we will refrain from saying — for some sign to 
show us that the publication of the book might be 
expected, and it is only quite lately that rumours 
are afloat which would lead us to believe that such 
an event may sometime take place. We do not 
wish to appear uncharitable or thankless to the mem- 
bers of the committee who have undertaken the far 
from light task of selecting the book, but we would 
like to bring the fact most emphatically before them, 
that we have no song -book, that we have waited an 
intolerably long time for one, and that other-books 
are being constantly bought by the undergraduates 
to serve the purpose our own book should. 

Whether or not the rumours above referred to are 
truthful, time will tell ; but the committee in charge 
of the work would be conferring a great benefit upon 



all concerned should it attempt to hasten, be it ever 
so little, what we are so anxiously waiting for, — the 
new Song Book. 

In the last issue of the Fortnightly was pub- 
lished a letter upon a subject which ought to be of 
considerable importance to many ; yet, somewhat to 
our surprise, we have received no further communica- 
tion about the matter. 

The scheme proposed by our correspondent is, how- 
ever, too good to be allowed to pass without comment^ 
and we would like to bring the matter a second time 
to the notice of the Undergraduates. 

The subject of theatre night has been frequently 
discussed in the pages of the FORTNIGHTLY, — but 
usually at a lime when discussion was necessarily 
fruitless. We do not intend to more than touch 
upon the subject now, but would point out that, 
although it is generally agreed among the Under- 
graduates that a university night is decidedly prefer- 
able to faculty nights, and that we shall probably 
have a university night next year, still this will not 
come of itself ; and all should show their interest by 
promptly electing the committee as suggested by 
our correspondent, or by taking such other steps 
towards the same object as may commend them- 
selves to the Undergraduates. 

COKTRIBUTiONS. 

SHAKESPEARE’S GARDEN. 

Read at a meeting of the Folk-Lore Society. 

No results of an acquaintance with Shakespeare 
are more useful, pleasing and varied, than such as 
arise upon familiarity with his reference to trees and 
plants. These references are key-notes to far more 
than appears upon the surface. I can only attempt 
to show to what they lead, and the purpose and sig- 
nificance of the terms employed. I can but briefly 
deal with the subject, it would be a labour of love to 
deal with every tree, plant or flower named in his 
plays or poems, quoting the important passages — 
the characters should be also dealt with, when the 
beauty of the reference made it desirable ; but this 
would be far beyond my limit. 




74 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Let us pass in review a few of the trees mentioned 
by Shakespeare ; — he was always at home in the 
woods, of these he never tires, in the woods he lays 
some of his most admired and poetic scenes. Spend- 
ing his youth in the ancient and glorious forest 
shades of Warwickshire, and returning to them after 
his London life, no wonder that trees hold a place so 
distinguished in his imagery. It was under the 
boughs of immemorial forest monarchs that his im- 
agination found earliest nurture, and no pleasure that 
we can conceive as concurrent with his declining 
years can have exceeded the calm delight with which 
he trod the shaded pathways wherein he had gather- 
ed his first impressions of the beauty of nature, and 
tasted the deep joy of meditation. Not only were 
the grand old trees a daily spectacle during his boy- 
hood ; he was much alone with them, as with most 
other elements of wild nature, and thus peculiarly 
open to their influence. His walks were in scented 
meadows, where he would hear no voices but those 
of the birds, and by the smooth and lilied river, from 
which he would change to the green recesses of the 
forests. No other scenes were at his command, save 
in the village, and even here the prevailing condition 
would be one of tranquility. But we must not think 
of Shakespeare’s forests from the woodlands of to-day, 
wheat now grows upon many a broad acre, which, 
when Shakespeare wrote, was covered with timber, 
magnificent aboriginal forest, the like of which in 
England can never be seen again. Many of the trees 
now so common in England that they seem indigenous 
— the birch, for example, and the Lombardy poplar 
had not been introduced, and even the sycamore and 
the Norway spruce were known only in private plea- 
sure grounds. 

Shakespeare’s forest consisted of trees such as had 
given shelter to Caractacus, and the great mass of 
them would be majestic. Trees such as these must 
be thought of, when we would understand in what 
kind of school Shakespeare learned his forest lessons. 

Of the many beautiful scenes laid by Shakespeare 
in the quiet of great woods and forests, the most 
charming are those in the Midsummer Night' s Dream 
and in As You Like It. The chief part of the action 
in each of these matchless pieces lies amid trees ; and 
it is worth noting that it is in these two that Shakes- 
peare most wins upon the heart that delights in peace. 
Nowhere are we nourished more exquisitely by his 
humane and dulcet wisdom than when listening to 
him among the trees which bore “ love songs on their 
barks ” : — 

“ Are not these woods 

“ More free from peril than the envious court ? 

“ Here feel we but the penalty of Adam, 

“ The seasons’ difference, as the icy fang, 

“ And churlish chiding of the winter’s wind, 

“ Which when it bites and blows upon my body, 



“Even till I shrink with cold, I smile, and say 
“This is no flattery ; these are counsellors 
“ That feelingly persuade me what I am, 

“ Sweet are the uses of adversity, 

“ Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, 

“ Wears yet a precious jewel in his head, 

“ And this our life, exempt from public haunt, 

‘‘ Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, 

“ Sermons in stones, and good in everything.” 

What a master of our language ! let me ask you to 
note the charming alliteration in the two last lines : 

“ Tongues— trees ; Books— brooks ; Sermons— stones.” 

Of trees, Shakespeare mentions the oak, willow, 
yew, aspen, linden, hawthorn, box, holly, birch, ash, 
elm, elder and tli^ sycamore. Every country has its 
“ forest monarch,” in England this proud title is right- 
fully accorded to the oak, which in associations as 
well as figures and attributes owns no rival. Many 
circumstances contribute to this supremacy. The 
total number of references to the oak by Shakespeare 
appears to be thirty-one, — excluding the repetitions 
in the Merry Wives of Windsor, twenty-four. No 
other tree is mentioned so often, and thus, upon his 
own showing, it was his favourite ; though we must 
not forget that the oak has in all ages held a front 
place in metaphor, the various names under which it 
appears denoting several species not British. 

Shakespeare refers frequently to the prodigious 
strength and solidity of the oak ; in Julius Ccesar we 
have 

“ I have seen tempests wheu the scoldiug winds 
Have rived the knotty oaks. ’’ 

In Measure for Measure ” : — 

“ Merciful heavens ! 

“ Thou rather, with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt, 

“ Split’st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak, 

“ Than the soft myrtle.” 

Acorns, the fruit of the oak, are mentioned upon 
half-dozen occasions ; “ I found him,” says Celia, 
“ under a tree like a dropped acorn,” — Rosalind is 
ready for her, and replies : — 

“ It may well be called Jove’s tree, when it drops forth 
such fruit.” 

Although so much historical and legendary lore 
have clustered round the oak, yet scarcely any men- 
tion is made of this by Shakespeare. The legend of 
Herne the Hunter, which seems to have been current 
at Windsor, is several times alluded to in the “ Merry 
Wives of Windsor. 

Mrs. Page says ; — 

“ There is an old tale goes, that Herne the Hunter 
Some time a keeper here in Windsor Forest, 

Doth in the winter time, at still midnight. 

Walk round about an oak, with great rugged horns. 

And there he blasts the trees, and takes the cattle, 

And makes milch-kine yield blood, aud shakes a chain. 
In a most hideous and dreadful manner ; 

You have heard of such a spirit ; aud well you know. 

The superstitious idle-headed eld 
Received, aud did deliver to our age. 

This tale of Herne the Hunter for the truth. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



75 



KISMET. 



He never once mentions the beech tree, and the 
ash is passed over, except in reference to the strength 
of spear-shafts made from the wood. 

Shakespeare does not care to learn much about 
what a botanist would call the “species” of trees. 
It may be doubted whether he knew familiarly more 
than half-a-dozen different kinds. But how quick 
and accurate his conception of the phenomena of 
their life, and of the part they play in the universal 
poesy! This is the kind of knowledge to be most 
envied, for it is that to which comparison of forms 
and colors never reaches. 

In the sunshine of high summer, in Titus Andronicus 
we have 

‘‘The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind, 

And make a chequer’d shadow on the ground.” 

Then we are asked in The Merchant of Venice to 
note how quiet they can be 

“The mooa shines bright, in such a night as this, 

When the sweet wind did kindly kiss the trees, 

And they did make no noise.” 

Presently the breeze quickens 
“ The southern wind 
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes, 

And by his hollow whistling in the leaves, 

Foretells a tempest, and a blustering day.” 

ist. part Henry IV., v. i. 

Autumn approaches, and he tells us • 

“ I have lived long enough, my day of life 
Is fallen into the sear, the yellow leaf” 

Macbeth, v. 3. 

Lastly, mark the observation, so consummately 
accurate, of the fact not more true in botany, than so 
admirably employed as an image, that a tree never 
casts its principal or larger leaves, till decay of every- 
thing is imminent. 

In King Richard the Third, he writes : 

*• When clouds are seen, wise men put on their cloaks, 

When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand, 

When the sun sets, who doth not look for night ? 



” PERSICOS GDI, PUER, APPARATUS.” 

Persian trappings, boy, I hate ; 

From the linden save my pate ; 

Where the roses linger late 
Cease to search, nor add 
To the myrtle’s plain design, 

Fitting for my brows and thine, 

Thee a slave, me quaffing wine 
’Neath the trellis’d shade. 

W. M. M. 



EPIGRAM. 

’Twixt those Poets of old, and our Poets of late — 
One perpetual distinction holds true ; — 

The New in a twinkling are all out of date ; 

The Old — will for ever be new ! 

H. M. 



The sun was almost set after a sultry cloudless 
July day. I stood on a low shoulder of hill which 
rose sluggishly out of the plain three half-miles to the 
south, and sloped upward till it was suddenly cut 
away by the river gorge on the north. The abrupt 
faces of the rock had crumbled slightly backward, 
leaving a steep, precipitous slope, broken here and 
there by tufts of scrub pine and masses of hard, intru- 
sive rock. 

Before me lay the immense canons of the Colorado. 
The hill on which I stood rose like the shoulder of a 
whale from the plain around, and gave view of league 
after league of the country before me. Half a dozen 
miles to the east lay the junction of the Chiquito 
Colorado with the main river. There the combined 
streams make a sudden swerve westward, and the 
great canon begins. I could follow its course for 
miles as it channelled its way across the plain as the 
rivulets do in spring, when they run over clay beds 
and work their way downward in narrow slits until 
the gravel below is reached. The walls of the canon 
in front of me were composed of evenly disposed 
strata of rock which the water had grooved out into 
horizontal flirtings, and chiselled into pinnacles, and 
channelled into terraces, till they suggested at every 
turn the distant view of a city’s walls and towers and 
spires. At short, irregular periods the walls were cut 
by the gorges of tributary streams, which flowed 
along the bottom of ridiculously narrow slits, cut 
down as by a knife from the plain above. 

Along the southern edge of the canon wound a 
narrow wagon trail, which the traders coming up 
from the Little Colorado followed on their way to 
San Pueblo. Around the base of the hill, where the 
steep declivity sloping down from my feet met the 
abrupt walls of the canon, a slender pathway had 
been made with pick and shovel, a mere bridle-path, 
so narrow and frail it seemed clinging to the hill-side 
in terror lest it should suddenly be swept over, which 
indeed every fresh storm threatened to do. 

Along this precarious road all the wagons from the 
East were in ihe habit of passing. The danger, how- 
ever, was more apparent than real, except after a 
heavy rainstorm, when boulders and smaller debris 
were frequently washed down from the hill above, 
and made the passage both difficult and dangerous 
until they'were removed. Such a sudden storm had 
swept the plains a few days before, and was followed 
by weather of that peculiar blinding sultriness which 
is to be experienced only on the western prairies. 

As I stood on the highest spur of the hill, and 
gazed out over the plain which stretched in lono- 
swells to the northern horizon, the palpitating blue 
heat of mid-day was silently giving place to the re- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



76 



freshing coolness of night, and purple shadows were 
beginning to steal over the plain. The sun shook 
off the dazzling haze which hung about it throughout 
the day and sank in a blaze of mellow glory, suffusing 
the sky with rich warm colors of orange and saffron 
and rose, which spread in waves of increasing tenuity 
and softness far past the zenith, and were shot 
through with opalescent gleams and hints of violet. 

My eyes were finally drawn from the beauty of the 
scene before me to a single mule-cart, which crept 
slowly along the narrow pathway below me. It was 
the outfit of some emigrant from the East feeling his 
way carefully towards the Pacific States. The cart 
was an old one, two- wheeled, and contained, as I 
guessed, a poor emigrant’s slenderest outfit, — single 
tent, bedding, cooking utensils and a scant supply of 
food. There seemed scarcely room for even these 
meagre belongings in the vehicle below me. A young 
girl was sitting in the cart, leaning wearily forward, 
and grasping the sides of the box as the wheels jolted 
from stone to stone. The man walked beside the 
mule, keeping close to its head and holding the bridle 
rein loosely in his hand. The mule plodded list- 
lessly on, his long ears pointed forward, stumbling 
occasionally on a stone and hastily recovering him- 
self at the quick jerk of his leader. 

They had the dust of long travel upon them, and 
were evidently seeking a place for the night’s en- 
campment. I watched them idly as they left the 
edge of the open and began to creep along the face 
of the cliff below me. The mule pricked up his ears 
and stepped more carefully and the trail drew closer 
to the verge of the canon. The man stopped occa- 
sionally to remove a stone from the track where the 
recent rain had washed it from the steep above. 
The girl seemed to cling more closely to the sides of 
the cart-box as she gazed sidelong at the fast blacken- 
ing gulf beside her. 

Suddenly there was a jar of the cart and a slight 
scream from the girl. The inner wheel had struck a 
boulder and scraped sideways. The mule pulled 
viciously forward at the unexpected resistance and 
the wheel began to rise over the stone. Beside the 
shaft the droop-shouldered man plodded listlessly on 
his eyes bent on the track before him and the slack 
rein hanging over his arm. As the wheel came up, 
the cart gave a sudden lurch towards the verge. Then 
the child screamed. The mule, startled at the cry, 
lunged heavily forward. The inner wheel was thrown 
grinding down off the boulder and the outer slid over 
the edge of the canon. The young girl was flung 
against the side of the box, and her white face 
showed above it as she sprang fearfully forward to- 
wards the shaft. The father turned swiftly and in- 
stinctively at the crash of the wheel and the startled 
cry of his daughter, and with a hoarse, inarticulate 



sound, the cry of an animal in pain which a man 
only utters when his heart turns to water at the pres- 
ence of death, he flung out his arm, convulsively, and 
clutched the mule about the neck as the animal 
stiffened its legs*^ and strove to regain its footing. 
The mule struggled bravely for an instant, but the 
man’s weight hung like an incubus upon it, and the 
moment which might have saved them was gone in a 
flash. The mass of the cart, as the second wheel 
rose from the ground, dragged them backward, and in 
an instant had flung them bodily into the air, where 
they seemed to pause a second ere they plunged 
headlong after it into the blackness below. 

I listened for some sound to break the stillness 
which had suddenly become awful, but only the mel- 
low clang of a mule bell from the opposite side of the 
canon struck my ear. Then I turned away. It was 
four thousand five hundred feet to th^ bed of the 
river below. 

Cambridge. R. MACDOUGALL. 



A JUNE MORNING. 

Damp with the gentle rain ofyester-night, 

As yet’unwooed by Pheebus, high in air, 

This mossy path out stretches past my sight. 

And curves with elfish mischief, here and there ! 

A thousand fitful shadows come and go. 

More silent than the sportive summer breeze. 

The tender green of mosses clings below 
Along the gnarled, grey roots of stately trees. 

The brambles cling about me, as if loth 

That I should leave them and pass by alone ; 

A free full-throated thrush his music forth 
Flings to the silent, listening wood, — Ah, gone ! 
Why should all lovely things before us flee. 

But such as cannot cleave the circling air ? 

Or why sweet Nature’s beauties may we see. 

And feel between the gulf she fixes there ? 

But now, a troop of nymphs and fauns, I know. 

Fled with a swift, wild whirl behind the trees,— 
What else could mean this sudden silence, so 
Apparent ? Tell, O thou wandering breeze ! 

I hear them laughing softly.— Hark ! and see,— 
Almost, I mean,— a gleeful, impish face 
Peering, believe, most cautiously at me 
From the cool depths of yonder leafy space ! 

I like to think the young god Pan lives still. 

Though dead to us— Alas ! that this must be,— 
And pipes according to his sovereign will 
To all things wild, and beautiful, and free ! 

For who can tell, but, like the crimson rose. 

Our fair, first mother’s gift from Paradise, 

Whose perfume comes to each through life who goes 
Once only, we, the too, too worldly-wise, 

Grown wiser in sweet sylvau lore, may chance 
On Pan himself amongst his merry throng, 

And for one startled moment see the dance 
And listen to the god’s immortal song ! 

KAY LIVINGSTONE. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



77 



INDIAN RICE MAKING. 

The lake was roughened by a heavy south wind 
when we set out in search of the rice camp, while 
from the burning forests of Minnesota there came a 
smoke which covered all the land, obscuring every 
point and land mark along the lake shores. 

Presently we were conscious of a dull beating 
sound, something like that which one hears when a 
steamboat is beating her way in the distance. As 
we advanced down the lake, this sound resolved 
itself into the monotonous “ tom tom ” of the 
Indians’ drumming. Directing our course towards 
the sound, we by and by approached a long, low, 
sandy point reaching out into the lake. Here 
among the trees stood a dozen or so of birch bark 
lodges, and a whole fleet of bark canoes lay along 
the sandy beach before them. Every living thing 
in the camp came forth to array itself upon the 
upper bank as we drew near. A curious crowd of 
wanderers they were : old men with long, grey hair ; 
young men with a kind of half crop, and ill-fitting 
clothes, neither a grace to savagery or civilization ; and 
women and half naked children, with the usual con- 
tingent of howling, half-starved, mangy dogs. 

When we landed, an English-speaking half-breed 
came down to the water’s edge, shook hands gravely, 
then stood aside whilst his comrades went through 
the same ceremony in the same mechanical manner. 
One old fellow particularly impressed me. He was 
an old man, and an old savage. Civilization had 
not touched him. He wore nothing but a waist 
cloth and a loose blanket, yet he filled his position as 
a savage with dignity. If he had tried to fill any 
other he would have looked a fool. 

He courteously showed us where to land our 
canoe, then led us up to one of the largest lodges. 
The drumming, which had ceased for a space, once 
more began, and the painted, bell-begirt band forsook 
the novelty of our appearance for the never failing 
charms of the drum. We entered the lodge by one 
of the end doorways, and passing up the centre way 
shook hands with numerous women and children who 
were seated on the ground in various places. Then 
we sat down to a council, as the residents 
of the neighboring lodges dropped in one by one 
to see us. The Chief Counsellor came in. He had 
red triangles painted on his cheeks and black circles 
about his eyes, as well as a band of dog-bells about 
his waist and a yellow and black eagle feather in his 
long black hair. We were duly impressed by his 
magnificent appearance, whilst we held mute council 
together, learning how it went with them in their 
hunting and their rice making. They had but one great 
sorrow: there was no tobacco in the camp. So I 
gave them all I had, and universal smoking and 
happiness banished this woe also. 



In another lodge near by lay a poor sick boy. 
They asked us how it was with him, looking eagerly 
for some hopeful reply; but there could be none. 
Consumption had wasted him to a skeleton, and as he 
lay panting there upon the ground, he had but little 
time before his hereafter should reveal itself. 

Nearly all these Indians are heathens. Their 
medicines are the tricks of the conjurors and the 
drum-beating. One ancient upholder of savagedom 
was discovered busily prancing up and down in a 
little pit dug in the ground. This pit was lined with 
hard baked clay, and the old fellow was husking the 
parched, wild rice by the primitive method of treading 
it out, somewhat after the manner of the oxen in the 
Bibical record. He had not a rag upon his body 
save the afore-mentioned loin cloth. A few minutes 
of this jumping up and down with a slight rotary 
movement served to make the rice and its husk part 
company. 

At many large fires scattered through the camp 
there were women busily roasting the fresh gathered 
rice in great pots, to parch its husks, before it should 
pass under the treatment described above. 

Others were out in the rice marshes beating out 
the grain into the bottoms of their canoes. So each 
one takes part in this happy harvest time, when all 
the world to them is bright and peaceful and there 
is plenty in the camp. 

I looked into one tent, where there was an Indian 
woman sewing moccasins as usual, and behind her 
peeped out two little fair-haired children, blue-eyed 
as any Saxon. Their father was a white man, and 
this was the inheritance of his children. 

Be sure we did not leave without a visit to the 
scene of the drum beating. Here we found a cleared 
space encircled by a periphery of heathens, whilst 
four of their number beat a solemn tatoo upon a big 
drum placed in the centre. Nearly all of them were 
painted and feathered, and otherwise adorned, more 
than is usual in these days. After a short pause in 
the proceedings, one of the number arose and gave 
the rest an address upon the state of hunting pros- 
pects, and the delight his tribe would experience if 
the friends of this camp would pay them a visit 
Then carefully producing a small paper of cut 
tobacco, the speaker went round to each particular 
star of the constellation and presented him with a 
pipeful, receiving a grunt of approbation in return. 
They then all lighted their pipes, and the drumming 
went on again. 

So we left them, and as we passed on before the 
south wind down the lake, the sound of their drum- 
beat followed us long after the smoky air had hidden 
from us all other signs of their existence. 

J. C. GWILLIM, 



78 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



THE RIGHT USE OF BOOKS. 

Lecture to the Delta Sigma Society of 
McGill University by Mrs. Ashley Carus- 
WiLSON, B.A. Lond. 

Turning then to our fourth class of books, that 
is to those containing good matter well written, which 
are rightly designated Literature, we have a wide 
choice in both the two great departments of human 
knowledge : Physieal dealing with Nature and 

Historical dealing with Man. Toward one or other 
of these we each have a bias, and this bias should be 
followed. Because I am fond of history I am not to 
question what is for you the more fascinating study 
of Botany. Because you delight in Philology, I am 
not to insist that you lay it aside for my favourite 
pursuit of Chemistry. 

But whatever we choose, we must keep two things in 
mind. First that our own subject probably seems large 
to us, out of proportion to its real size. It is possible 
to push steadily along the road we are determined 
pursue without spending our lives in a cutting that 
shuts out from our view that there is any other road 
to take. How many regard with more contempt than 
sympathy both acquirements and opinions that are not 
theirs ! How many make a point of reading only books 
that they know beforehand they will agree with ! 
Hear Mr. Ruskin on this matter ; “ You must show 

your love to books first by a true desire to be taught 
by them and to enter into their thoughts. To enter in- 
to theirs, observe ; not to find your own expressed by 
them. If the person who wrote the book is not wiser 
than you, you need not read it ; if he be, he will 
think differently from you in many respects. Very 
ready we are to say of a book : “ How good this is i 
That is exactly what I think. ” But the right feeling is : 
“ How strange that is ! I never thought of that 
before, and yet I see that it is true ; or if I do not 
now, I hope I shall some day.” “But whether thus 
submissively or not, be sure that you go to the author 
to get at his meaning, not to find yours. Judge it 
afterwards, if you think yourself qualified to do so ; 
but ascertain it first.” — {Sesame and Lilies.) 

Secondly, we must remember that study does not 
accomplish its purpose if it leads to knowledge 
only. What we need to “ cull ” is : 

Knowledge that step by step might lead us on 

To wisdom. ” — Wordsivorth . 

They are very different, for ; 

“ Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much ; 

Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.” — Cozvper. 

And knowledge is “ the .second, not the first. ” 

“ For she is earthly of the mind, 

But wisdom heavenly of the soul.” — Tezmysoii. 

Seeking wisdom above all, wc shall escape the 
dangers of that intellectual avarice that merely 



amas.ses for the sake of amassing, until with us as with 

the Sordello of Robert Browning : 

Eyes, bright with exploring once, grow dim 

And satiate with receiving ” 

The literary banquet is spread for all in these days, 
since the best books are also the cheapest. It does 
indeed seem good to the Canadian government to 
levy a tax upon knowledge that means at least half as 
much again added to the price of a book, viz., a volume 
that could be bought in London for 4s. bd. here costs 
$1.75. But even so, half of what many of us spend 
in superfluous luxuries in the course of a year might 
furnish us with as many good books as we could really 
study in the lime. 

But do we value books as much as they were valued 
in olden times when they were costly and hard to 
procure ? It would not surprise me to learn that they 
are valued more here than in the Old Country, just 
because they are less easily got. One remembers 
what the enthusiasm of the scholars of old was. How, 
for instance, the young Erasmus wrote from Paris: “ I 
have given up my whole soul to Greek learning. As 
soon as I get any money I shall buy Greek books, and 
then I shall buy some clothes.” 

For modern expression of the same passion for 
books, take Isaac Barrow’s words: “He that loveth 
a good book will never want a faithful friend, a whole- 
some counsellor, a cheerful companion, an effectual 
comforter”; or Mr. Ruskin’s eloquent elaboration of 
the same thought in his “ Sesame and Lilies ” ; or Mrs. 
Browning’s glowing verse painting from her own 
experience the young Aurora Leigh’s rapture over 
books ; or Book V, of Wordsworth’s “ Prelude, ” where 
one of the least “ bookish ” of authors shows that he 
too knows that good books are 

Ouly less 

For what we are, and what we may become. 

Than Nature’s self, which is the breath of God, 

Or His pure Word b}- miracle revealed ’^ 

Classifying books according to the numbers an- 
nually produced, publishers place fiction at the head 
of the list, and religious books next. Ere we leave the 
right matter of reading, we may say a word on each. 

Novels fall into three classes, suggesting three 
corresponding courses of action : (i) Bad ones, — that 
is, novels that call evil good, and put darkness for light 
and bitter for sweet. The e wtmust not read. (2) In- 
different ones,— that is, weak fiction in periodicals, and 
sentimental tales, that fill circulating libraries and make 
young people dream of a life that never was and never 
could be real, instead of doing their duty day by day 
in the life that is real. Concerning these books also our 
course is clear. We need not read them, for if we do, 
it is at the expen.se of leaving better books unread. 
(3) Good ones, meaning not merely “ not immoral,” 
but likely to make their readers fear God and love men 
better tlLin they have hitherto done, because a lofty 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



79 



ideal of what they ought to be is set before them, and 
they are stirred up to realize it. Such novels are not 
numerous, but they exist. Take Kingsley s “ West- 
ward Ho ” and “ Two Years Ago, ” and Mrs. Rundle 
Charles’ “Joan the Maid. ” We may gain much from 
such good novels, given two conditions: (a) That we 
do not read too many. While repetition strengthens 
our active energies, it weakens our emotional impres- 
sions. The more you read, the less you will enjoy. 
(d) That we do not read for mere amusement. What 
was seriously written maybe seriously read, and how 
seriously the best fiction is written we see in the bio- 
graphy of the author of “ Westward Ho. ” 

Turning from fiction to theology, we cannot leave 
unnamed that body of religious literature which we all 
have, which is at once most ancient and yet ever new, 
awaking the delight of the child and the awed admir- 
ation of the giant in intellect. Its name of Bid/e is 
an acknowledgment that it is the Book ; the man 
who knows it only is educated in the highest sense ; 
the man who does not know it has missed the best 
thing that Literature has to offer us. 

There are two ways in which we may fail to reap 
from it the rich harvest that may be reaped. If, look 
ing at it only on its human side, we read with the cold 
superiority of the critic who ignores man’s spiritual 
needs and deniesthat such needs can find satisfaction, 
and forgets (if I may for the third time refer to “Ses- 
ame and Lilies ”) “ that no syllable of that great Book 
was ever yet to be understood but through a deed,’ 
we miss again and again meanings that are obvious 
to many a simple soul who does not know what “crit- 
icism” is. 

If again, looking at it only on its divine side, we 
read it in that devout but wholly unnatural way that 
ignores altogether that it is History and Literature, 
we turn a divine banquet into a feast of scraps, and 
in the end miss even the spiritual edification that we 
might have gained. 

What is needed is a combination of thorough and 
intelligent study, with the enlightened heart of that 
French lady who, when asked why she believed in 
the divinity of the Bible, answered : “ Because I have 
become acquainted with the Author.” 

Lastly we turn to the consideration of Right Method 
in our reading. We may possess good books 
we may read them, and yet we may be little the bet- 
ter because we read amiss. It is an old saying that 
he who would bring the wealth of the Indies thence 
must take it thither. What we get from a book 
largely depends upon what we put into it. Unless 
we are in some sympathy with the author, we shall 
misunderstand, as did the mathematician who laid 
down “ Paradise Lost” with the comment that he 
found in it a great deal of assertion and very little 
proof. 



Thomas Fuller tells a delicious story of a rich and 
unlearned owner of many books entering the bare 
room of a poor student with this greeting: “Salve 
doctor, sine libris !” When the visit was returned, the 
student glanced round the well filled shelves, and said 
quietly : “ Salvete libri, sine doctore !” 

Take Bacon’s Essay “ Of Studies ” for many wise 
and weighty words on methods in reading. “ Non 
multased multum” is an excellent motto here. Those 
whose culture has been of the highest type have often 
been students of a few first rate books rather than 
readers of a great many, good bad and indifferent. 
One book mastered is worth far more than twenty 
skimmed. There is in the world more curiosity to 
know what is said on a subject than to know the 
truth about it, and satisfaction of the former curios- 
ity leaves us little the wiser. 

Mr. Gladstone tells us that he has been mainly in- 
fluenced by four authors: S. Augustine, Bishop 
Butler, Aristotle and Dante. 

Archdeacon Farrar would give young people five 
“best books” to read, mark, learn and inwardly di- 
gest : “ The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius, Thomas 

o 

a Kempis,’ “ Imitatio Christi,” Dante, Shakespeare 
and Milton. 

Lowell names five indispensable authors : Homer, 
Dante, Cervantes, Goethe {i.e., Faust) and Shakes- 
peare. 

Short as these lists are, each includes books of 
widely different ages and races. The battle between 
ancient and modern books which Swift described is 
best made a drawn game by availing ourselves of 
both. 

Another reason for aiming at few rather than 
many is that a book worth reading is worth reading 
three times : ist, that we may know it; 2nd, that 

we may understand it ; 3rd, that we may store it up. 

Once again let us lay to heart this wise maxim : 
“ A word unknown is a sentence misunderstood !” 
and let us not be ashamed of minute accuracy and of 
frequently turning to the dictionary, especially the 
etymological dictionar3^ in the study of our own 
language as well as of other languages. 

It is a real help, to young readers particularly, to 
keep a list of all books read. The record of our 
choice of books confronts us and shames us into 
making it a good one. Exact statements of title and 
author’s name are also useful for future reference. 

Finally, whatever the views of our author are, and 
we have agreed to leave altogether unread those 
books whose tendency we know to be harmful, let 
us not read him for the first time in that critical atti- 
tude that is so delightful to the half learned. 

“ We get no good 

By being ungenerons, even to a book, 

^ And calculating profits — so much help 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



8o 



By so much reading. It is rather when 
We gloriously forget ourselves, and plunge 
Soul-forward, headlong, into a book’s jirofound, 
Impassioned for its beauty and salt of truth, 

‘ Tis then we get the right good from a book. ” 

— Aurora Leigh. 

Let us then determine that every power we pos- 
sess shall be cultured to the uttermost, that it may be 
a helpful power to the world in which we live ; let us 
apply to all our reading that twofold injunction of 
Our Lord : “Take heed ye hear ” and .“Take 

heed how ye hear,” and then Motive, Matter and 
Method alike Right, books may be a true aid in ful- 
filling the noblest end in life, becoming what God 
means us to be. 



A MARVEL. 

Dedicated to the Song Book Committee. 

Can this be so, which now we hear 
Whispered around as true. 

That our new Song Book will appear. 

Within a mouth or two ? 

We looked not for it yet a while. 

In fondest dreams ne’er thought. 

That in the space of but three years. 

This great work would be wrought. 

Blessings on the brave committee 
Whom for the work we chose. 

They now will live* to see their task , 

Brought well unto a close. 

And their names will long be cherished, 

By students old and young. 

And the songs that they have gathered, 

In future will be sung. 

So when our Song Book does appear. 

As soon I hope it will, 

What universal joy there’ll be 
Throughout our old McGill. 

SCHODASTICUS. 



ANNUAL DINNER OFTHE MEDICAL 
FACULTY. 

The Undergraduates of the Medical Faculty held 
their Annual Dinner at the St. Lawrence Hall, on 
Thursday evening, the 29th inst., where a most sump- 
tuous repast was served up amid an elaborate adorn- 
ment of bunting, crests, etc., which did great credit 
to the Committee of Management and to the capabili- 
ties of the establishment. The men?i card in every 
way was one of rare excellence, i.e., in regard to the 
beauties and arrangement of the card, and last but 
not least, as to its more substantial contents, which 
were served up in a manner creditable to any establish- 
ment on the Continent, 

The summons to dinner, which came about 8 p.m., 
was responded to with great ardor by most of those 



present, and on entering the room each Student was 
courteously shown to his seat by on-;,* of the Committee 
of Management, the professors, guests, etc., having 
previously had their seats allotted. For some few 
minutes there was a hubbub of voices as the Students 
admired the tastily decorated dining room, tables, 
etc., when suddenly one end of the room, as if by 
magic, became strangely silent, and even while we 
looked, the silence rapidly spread throughout the 
room, and we knew that the subject of discussion had 
been changed, and for the next hour little was heard 
but the noise of many dishes, cutlery, etc. At the 
end of this time these noises began to be intermin- 
gled with those of voices, the latter again gradually 
getting the upper hand, and the noise of dishes was 
exchanged for the clanging of glasses. At this junc- 
ture, about 9.15 p.m., Mr. J. Tees, president of the 
Dinner, arose, and having expressed his regret “that 
His Excellency the Governor General was unavoid- 
ably detained by an important engagement in New 
York,” he opened the further proceedings of the 
evening by a few well chosen remarks, thanking his 
fellow-students for the honour they had done him in 
electing him to the position of President, and hoped 
that he might be able to do credit to himself and to 
his Alma Mater. He ended by proposing a toast to 
Old McGill, which was heartily responded to by all 
present. Mr. J. D. Flinn (Med. ’95) replied to this 
in a most eloquent speech, referring to the general 
advancement of McGill intellectually, morally, spirit- 
ually and numerically, and in this he referred to the 
Medical Faculty specially. As a proof of their 
spiritual advancement, he said, that although they 
could not boast of a chaplain, they could of a parson 
who had so instilled himself into the confidence and 
good graces of his fellow-students, that they, to show 
their appreciation of him as a man, and of his prin- 
ciples, had elected him to fill the most honorable and 
responsible position of his Year, that of Valedic- 
torian. He also stated that the appreciation of such 
good qualities had been greatly influenced by one of 
our most eminent professors. Dr. T. Wesley Mills, 
who has always shown a keen interest in the moral 
advancement of his students. 

Mr. Flinn’s speech w'^as followed by one from Dr. 
Johnston (vice Principal), W'ho referred to the past 
and present history of McGill, wilh special reference 
to the advancement of the difterent F'acullies in intel- 
lectual and numerical standing, and the gratification 
which the Medical P acuity experienced in having on 
their role more students than in any former year, 
although the course had been lengthened from six to 
nine months. He concluded by proposing a toast to 
the Dean and Professors, U'hich wms again heartily 
applauded. 

These speeches were followed by others equally 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



8i 






eloquent and impressive, but which we have not room 
to give here in detail. These succeeding speeches 
were interspersed by Toasts, to the Hospitals, Class 
’95, Sister Universities, Professors and Freshmen, and 
we may here note the more important remarks of the 
speakers. 

Mr. F. E. L. Johnston, in proposing the Toast to 
the Professors, drew attention to the lossMcGiU had 
experienced in the death of one of our professors. Dr. 
Geo. Ross ; he also mentioned that Class of ’95 had 
felt somewhat slighted in not having received the 
customary Lecture from our Dean. He also thought 
that the course in Obstetrics should be made more 
practical for the Students. 

Dr. Girdwood, in his reply to Professors’ Toast, 
said that he thought there should be a more intimate 
and personal relationship between Professors and 
Students, and suggested one means of bringing this 
about would be by having a large Dining Hall in con- 
nection with the University, where* class dinners, etc., 
could be more frequently given. He also drew' at- 
tention to the advantages which the Students now 
entering the Medical Faculty possessed over those 
of former years, as they had a longer time, and 
would be able to get a more thorough training. 

Dr. Armstrong in a short speech drew attention to 
the facilities which McGill offered to the Medical 
Students, and the thorough practical training the 
P'aculty attempted to give, thus preparing the Student 
to enter the profession as a good general practitioner. 
He also suggested the annual gathering of all Medical 
Students at some centre once a year, to exchange 
ideas, etc., for mutual improvement. 

This speech was followed by a song from Mr. W. 
T. Scott (’96), entitled “ Climb up, ye Children, 
Climb.” This song was followed by a short speech 
from Mr. Von Eberts (Class ’97), who concluded by 
proposing a Toast to Sister Universities. 

Dr. Hingston in his reply referred to the advance- 
ment of social relationship between Students and 
Professors, and social advancement of Students in 
p-eneral. He also referred to the increased facilities 

o 

which the Medical Faculty possessed, being enabled 
to attain these principally through the munificence of 
her Governors and Benefactors. This speech was fol- 
lowed by others from the representatives of the dif- 
ferent Universities, namely, Mr. M. Currie, B.A. 
(Toronto), James Neish (Queen’s), J. C. Hutchinson 
(Trinity), A. W, Derome (Laval), Mr. Brymer 
(Bishop’s). 

The other speakers of the evening were: Dr. Mills, 
Mr. Wolferstan The mas, Mr. Thompson (’96), Mr. 
Wickham (’95), Dr. Kirkpatrick and Mr. l^'raser (’98). 
The above proceedings weie intermingled by appro- 
priate songs from Messrs. Robertson, Scot, Lauter- 



man, Ogilvy, and others, and on the whole a most 
enjoyable evening was spent. The proceedings 
ended about i a.m., when all w'ended their homeward 
way, — i e., nearly all. 



FOOTBALL 



The annual general meeting of the McGill Univer- 
sity Rugby Foot- Ball Club was held in No. i Class 
Room, Arts Building, on Saturday evening, Nov. 24th. 

The President, Mr. W. F. Angus, occupied the 
chair. The meeting, which was an unusually large 
and enthusiastic one, was called to order at 8.15. 
After the minutes of last meeting had been read and 
approved, the Secretary and Treasurer read their res- 
pective reports. The Secretary’s report showed that 
the season had been a very successful one ; although 
the Senior Championship was not won, the Interme- 
diate was retained- The Treasurer’s,report showed a 
a balance of $11.60 in hand; the expenditure being 
the largest for many years. Both reports were adopt- 
ed, and the next order of business — the election of 
officers for the coming year — was proceeded w'ith, 
and resulted as follows : 

Hon. President — Prof. Nicholson (re-elected). 

“ Treasurer — Dr. Kuttan (re-elected). 

President — Lome Drum, B.A. (Med.). 

Vice-President — S. Davidson (Sc.). 

Secretary. — W. G. Turner (Arts.). 

Treasurer — J. C. Hickson (Arts). 

Captain \st xv — Harry Trenholme (Sc.). 

“ 2 nd XV — G. Drinkwater (Sc.). 

“ "^rd XV — R. Balfour (Sc.). 

COMMITTEE. 

Arts — C. Howard and Todd. Medicine — N. Grace 
and Schwartz. App. Science — E. McLea and Wil- 
kinson. Law — W. Donahue and Montgomery. Vet. 
Science — Ness and McKeracher. 

This year a change was made in the Constitution, 
and the Captains of the 2 nd and ^rd xv. were ap- 
pointed at the general meeting, and not by the Eixe- 
CLitive Committee as heretofore. The^ proposal, that 
the annual meeting appoint a coaching committee of 
three non-playing members brought forth a lively 
discussion, and it was finally agreed that the Execu- 
tive Committee should appoint this committee. The 
question of forming an Intercollegiate League was 
then introduced by the President, who explained the 
extent and purpose of the scheme. It was decided 
to instruct the in-coming committee to take steps in 
the matter, and to report to a special general meeting 
if they thought necessary. Mr. Drinkwater moved, 
seconded by Mr. Wilkin, a hearty vote of thanks to 
the retiring officers for their efficient services. There 
being no further business, the meeting adjourned. 

It is pleasant to see that some of our old foot- 
ballers do not forget their late Club after leaving 
McGill. Mr. Guthrie, the old scrimmage veteran, 
showed that he had lost none of his former interest 
in his old Club, by showing his sympathy withus in a 
very tangible form. 



82 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



We are inclined to think that in point of number 
the foot-ball meeting on Saturday, Nov. 24th, was a 
“ record ” one. 



FOOTBALL IN OLD TIME. 

To our ancestors, foot-ball seemed a dangerous 
game, and a number of laws were passed from time to 
time forbidding it. James I of England wrote of it : 
“ From this court 1 debarre all rough and violent 
“ exercises, as the foot-ball, meeter for lameing than 
“ making able the users thereof.” And in the days of 
Queen Elizabeth sixteen persons were arrested for 
playing the ” unlawful game.” 



ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL. 

Association Football has evidently come to Mc- 
Gill to stay. From the interest manifested in the 
introduction of the game into our University, it is 
evident that scores of Students were waiting only 
for some one to take the initiative in the matter, 
when they would give their hearty support to the 
movement. The introductory step was taken at a 
general meeting on Nov. 13th, as reported in the last 
number of the FORTNIGHTLY. A second general 
meeting was held on Nov. 20th, in the Arts building. 
The report of the committee appointed to draft a 
constitution and draw up by-laws w'as submitted and 
adopted. The first article of this constitution states 
that the new club shall be called the “ McGill Asso- 
ciation Football Club.” The following officers were 
elected : Honorary President, Professor C. H. Mc- 
Leod ; President, E. Edwin Howard (Arts) ; Vice- 
President, Hugh B. Fraser, B.A. (Med.) ; Secretary, 
A. F. Edw'ards (Med.) ; Treasurer, A. P. Brace 
(Theology); Curator, W. H. Watters (Arts). The 
following w'ere elected to constitute with the officers 
the Executive Committee of the Club : — F. W. Thom- 
son (Med.) :George Weir (Arts) ; A. Suter (Sci.) ; 
A. A. Ewing, (^I.aw). The Secretary read a com- 
munication from the Shamrock P'ootball Club, chal- 
lenging the new organization to a match to be played 
on Thanksgiving Day. The challenge was at once 
accepted. At a meeting of the Executive Committee 
held immediateb' afterward, Mr. A. F. Edwards was 
appointed captain of the Club, and a practice match 
was arranged for the following afternoon between 
two teams from which the team for Thanksgiving 
Day w'ould be chosen. 

THE McGILL SHAMROCK MATCH. 

The McGill team that faced the Shamrock ath- 
letes on their own grounds on Thanksgiving Day, in 
a srame of Association Football, was an unknown 
quantity. The players had not had an hour’s prac- 
tice together, and accordingly they, as players, were 
almost strangers to their captain and to one another ; 
moreover, most of the team were quite out of train- 
ing. Under the circumstances, anything like com- 
bined play seemed out of the question, and no one 
thought the McGill boys had a ghost of a chance of 
winning against their veteran opponents. But inside 



of ten minutes after the kick-off, the opinion of the 
.spectators, and probably of the contestants them- 
selves, had altered very considerably. 

The College boys were playing by far the faster 
and more scientific game, and this they continued to 
do throughout the first half, at the end of which the 
score stood McGill 2, Shamrock 0 , — and most of the 
second. Towards the end of the second half some 
of the College boys showed signs of flagging, though 
they heroically did their best. The Shamrock won 
a goal by dint of hard play towards the close of the 
match. Score at finish McGill 2, Shamrocks i. For 
the home team, P'ox, Birchmore and Henshaw 
played exceptionally well ; while for the collegians, 
though every man did excellently, Thompson, Brace, 
Edwards and Johnson probably were best, and Mc- 
Cosh is a star in goal. 

The teams lined up in the following order 



McGill. 


Position. 


Shamrocks. 


McCosh 






Dean 






Ct j ] 1 j ^ q 


do 




Mowat 


Half Backs 


Dick 


Edwards 






Waters 






Douglas 






Johnston 






Weir 






Brace . . . 






Thompson.... 







Mr. Frazier-Crier acted as referee. 



HOCKEY. 



The annual meeting of the McGill Hockey Club 
was held on Friday, Nov. 30th, in the Arts Building. 
The meeting, as far as attendance went, was not as 
good as it might have been, but it is to be hoped 
that McGill Students will take a little more interest 
in this winter’s sport than they have done in the last 
one or two years. With the new list of officers 
things ought to take a fresh start. After the Secretary’s 
reports were read and adopted, the election of officers 
took place, and resulted as follows : — 

Hon.-Pres. — Prof. McLeod. 

Pres . — G. Drinkwater. 

Vice-Pres. — F. A. Wilkin. 

Sec. Treas. — J. C. Hickson. 

COMMITTEE. 

Arts. — Howard, Turner, 

Medicine — Smythe, Davidson, Me Lea. 

Science — Kenny, Bickerdike, Montgomery. 

Captain — S. Davidson. 

After the election of officers a discussion followed, 
with regard to a University League and the advis- 
ability of dropping out of the Intermediate Series of 
the C. H. A. ofCanada. As everyone knows, McGill 
has never been a success in this Series and, as it looks, 
never will be. It was unanimously decided to drop 
out of this series, and to devote all our attention to a 
University League ; this is practically settled, and all 
that needs to be done is to draw up a schedule of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



83 



matches. The idea is to have the Clubs in Toronto, viz. 
Trinity, Osgooi and ’Varsity play ofif, and the 3 east- 
ern Clubs viz., Queens, R.M.C. and McGill, then the 
winners of each set to play home matches. These 
matches ought to produce more for University spirit 
than there is at present, and also to make friendly rela- 
tions with the other Universities in Canada of which 
we know so little about. It is to be hoped that all 
Students will interest themselves in Hockey this year. 



CLASS REPORTS. 

“FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING.” 

HER CLASS REPORT. 

The clock is on the stroke of twelve 
And I begin to doze, 

But now before I go to rest 
I have to do my very best, 

A “ feather ” to compose ; 

For when to-morrow I repair 
To Alma Mater Oh ! 

Our Editor, with outstretched palm, 

Will say to me in accents calm ; — 

“ Your class report, you kuow.” ^ 

Well, let me see — I don’t believe 
I've anything to say ; 

Fcr not a joke has passed our lips. 

Professor Z — has made no slips 
(1 hoped he would each day). 

I’ve said to every one I met: — 

“ Pray tell me, what’s the news? ’’ 

But they have only stared at me. 

And answered with great dignity : — 

“ To gossip I refuse.” 

Even my “ lean and hungry look” 

As the fatal day drew nigh. 

Inspired no pity in their breasts. 

Though humbly made I my requests 
Embellished with a sigh. 

A »d 1 ow sleep sits upon my eyes 
So that I scarcely see ; 

I’ve no report — 111 let it go 

To a land by the name of Jericho — 

The land of Nod for me ! 

For the last few weeks the members of the Fresh- 
men class have suffered a good deal of annoyance 
by reason of their gowns being purloined, during 
lecture hours, by Students of other Years. These 
Donaldas do not seem to realize that it is unlady 
like, to say the least of it, to borrow other people’s 
gowns without permission and to return them with- 
out apology. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 



Fieshmen turned up to a man, and faced the music 
bravely. The reports will doubtless show that the 
men of ’97 have floored the Second Year. Oh! that 
chunk of Latin ! 



At the recent Exam, the Students were invited to 
send in their papers either in English, French or 
Latin. Many papers were written in the polite lan- 
guage, and we believe most of the Freshmen wrote in 
Latin. We were sorely tempted ourselves to launch 
out in the classic language : we thought it would be 
so nice to be able to say we had written in Latin. 
Fortunately for us, however, on weighing the matter, 
better counsel prevailed, and we clung desperately to 
the good old vernacular from start to finish. We, 
are not proud — English is good enough for us. 



F y (short boy), hurrying in late to a lecture, 

to M r (long boy) : “ Here, you long boy, hurry 

up. I’m late.” 

M r. (indignantly) : “ I’m not a boy. I’m a 

Man-sir I ” 

F y. — “ Oh ! you remind me of a poet — Long- 

fellow.” 



Criminal Law Exam, has been postponed till after 
Xmas. Saved 1 saved ! (Let’s all faint away with 

joy-) 



Stragglers — weary Law Students — have been seen 
wandering home at the midnight hour after a “ lung 
pull” with some “ brithers in distress.” And yet 
people think of the happy, rollicking student who has 
nothing to do. In many quarters the Spanish Stu- 
dent idea is still extant. The Law Student at McGill 
resembles the romantic and, we believe, fictitious 
Spanish Student about as much as a chrysanthemum 
resembles a turnip. We would not insinuate for a 
moment that the vigorous, unadorned and woody 
turnip is just the correct figure to apply to a Law 
Student, — no ; he is the chrysanthemum. But what 
a change from the ruddy and sunburnt crowd of last 
September ! 

We have not reached the yellow parchment period 
yet; that comes in April. Xmas progresses us fairly 
on the way however. White with blue rings is the 
intermediate period, — the Belgium marble, fromage- 
bleu period. But never mind, gentlemen, keep up 
your spirits and keep your powder dry, and wait till 
the Xmas holidays. 



A Student of light and leading in the First Year 
The Christmas Exams, are upon u-. Preliminary 1 has taken madly to the study of that most intere.sting 
skirmish in Obligations on Saturday, 24th Nov. The \ branch of criminal jurisprudence,— Treason. The 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



S4 



Dean the other night helped him out of some diffi- 
culties which had arisen in his mind touching, 
offences agafiist the King’s person or those of his 
near relations. All the Students had the benefit of 
the explanation, and all enjoyed it very much. If 
our friend will only consent to give the boys a gen- 
eral coach before exam., no doubt we will all pass bril- 
liantly on the subject of Treason. 



M. Girard, adv'ocate of Paris, has appeared among 
us, and offered his services to the Students in the 
way of a series of lectures on legal technical French. 
This is a rare opportunity, which no doubt will be em- 
braced by most of the English Students. Unfortu- 
nately, M. Girard visits us at our very busiest time 
as the Xmas Exams, are near at hand. 



Recently, in the interval between lectures, when 
the fagged student puts down his pen and gets the 
circulation rubbed back into his cramped fingers, 
Mr. C — e of the Third Year gave us a pleasing address 
on the subject of “ the P'ORTNIGHTLY.” He was 
pleased to notice that the FokTiNiGHTLY was keeping 
up its high standard of literary and moral excellence. 
He referred with visible pride to the full Hibernian 
complement on the staff from the Law Faculty. He 
said kind things about the Editor and ye reporter, 
for which we feel very grateful, — of course the Ladies 
did not pass unnoticed. He was highly pleased 
with the clever reports of the Societies and those 
of the classes. {If the Donalda's had only heard 
him!) Again we bow our acknowledgments to Mr. 
C — on behalf of ourselves and, if we may so far 
presume, on behalf of the ladies. 

Mr. J. P. Whelan, of the Third Year, represented us 
at the McGill Medical Dinner on Thursday evening. 
He enjoyed himself thoroughly. 



ARTS NOTES. 

An invitation has come to McGill Artsmen to send 
a representative to the Annual Conversazione of Vic- 
toria University, Toronto, to be held on December 
7th. The honour of representing us on that occasion 
has been conferred upon Mr. R. H. Rogers, ’95. We 
have no doubt but that Mr. Roger’s well-known 
social qualities will win him favour among the Stu- 
dents of Victoria. 

There has been a singular dearth of jokes in the 
class-rooms of late. The boys ceased to sing about 
two years ago, and recently they have ceased to joke 
al-so. How serious a view of life ye Seniors are be- 
ginning to take ! 



Mr. Hanson, ’95, represented Arts at the Medical 
Dinner. We understand that Mr. H. did us due 

honour on that occasion. 

One of our Professors spoke of an important astro- 
nomical discovery, made last century, which has not 
yet been noticed in our text-book. Was it a joke, 
or was it a revelation concerning certain college text- 
books } 

Even if the Second Year have no drawing-room, 
they are frequently told, that they have un gros 
“ parlor.” Where is it ? 

Who are you } 

R-s-1. — Je connais (conny). 

T-n-me, to Professor ofBotany. — How on earth do 
you arrive at that conclusion, sir.-* 

That is a rather cold reception to accord to a pro- 
fessor just entering his class-room, to greet him with 
a volley of ice and snow. The quiet observer was at 
a loss whether to admire more the coolness of the 
man who had done the deed or the Spartan-like in- 
difference of the Professor. 

The desire for a class photo has at last reached the 
Juniors. It is to be hoped a picture may be arranged 
for it would surely prove a good one. A few mem- 
bers are at present opposed to the scheme, presum- 
ably out of pity for the camera. 

To all whom it may concern ; — Upon the twenty- 
ninth of November, 1894, at about 10 a.m , the 
French class room was thoroughly aired. The action 
was severely commented on, but we live to tell the 
tale. After careful reference it has been found that 
a similar phenomenon occurred some ten years ago, 
but on that occasion the offender lost his life. 

Prof, (after roll call).— “ Who came in just now ? ” 

C — e. — “ Here, sir ! ” 

A petition is to be sent in to have the date of a 
certain exam, changed. Delegates have been sent 
to consult the Donaldas — their return is expected 
shortly. 

To any of the Juniors who have not yet written 
their essays we would suggest Procrastination as a 
fitting subject for their labors. 

APPLIED SCIENCE REPORTS. 

J. H. Featherstone (Sc. ’93), who took a post gra- 
duate last session, is reported as doing very weU in 
British Columbia, having a responsible position in 
connection with hydraulic gold mining. 

A. A. Cole, B.A. (Sc. ’94), is filling the position of 
chemist at Radnor Forges. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



85 



A recent warning to the Seniors just before an 
exam, is worth the attention of all 

“ Remember that marks will be deducted for exu- 
berance of verbosity.” 

Scene : dynamo room. Time, 4 p.m. 

McD . — Using spring balance— “The force is too 
great, sir.” 

P^of . — “ Oh ! you’re off your balance — eh 

McD . — “ No, I didn’t say that.” 



At a meeting of the Four Years on Monday, 26th 
Nov., W. R. Askwith, ’95, was elected to represent 
Applied Science at the Med’sDinner. 

There was also read a letter from W. F. Angus, ’95, 
announcing his resignation from the' Business Board 
of the Fortnightly, in consequence of which A. R. 
Holden, ’95, was elected to the position of Science 
representative on the Board. 



We went in youthful to the class. 

Few sorrows our lives then knew. 

Some talked and laughed in childlike way, 
There were jokes cracked by a few. 

We came out aged from the class. 

Without an aspiration. 

Our lives were wrecked, we’d run against 
The second degree equation. 



A member of the Third Year seemed to be consider- 
ably disturbed in the Physics Class a few days ago 
by the Professor speaking of “ p” as the symbol of den- 
sity. Of course there was nothing personal implied, 
Roe, so you may still have hopes for the exams. 

Science Class ’96 seems to be particularly unfortu- 
nate in losing its members this year. Mr. F. H. White 
has been obliged to give up his year on account of a 
severe attack o f rheumatism. We are pleased to report 
that he is at present much improved. Mr. F. P. 
Buchanan, who had also to lose his year on accoung 
of poor health, leaves shortly for California. In taking 
this journey, Mr. Buchanan carries with him the best 
wishes of his class for beneficial results. 



It is perhaps not generally known that certain 
gentlemen in the — Year are attempting to improve 
their financial standing by starting a meat stall within 
the portals of the Engineering building. We would 
hereby advise them that such an action shows a lack of 
respect for their College, that pre-historic rabbit is not 
the most popular kind of food, that some students 
may object to having their lockers used for refrigera- 
tors, and that if the undertaking is abandoned at once 
there will be no more said about it. 



MICDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

All the Students have wonderful tales to tell of 
Dinner Night adventures, but gradually the good and 
bad effects of the occasion arc wearing off, and regu- 
lar work is being resumed. 

Mr. A. Cruikshanks, ’95, who represented the 
Meds. at the Dinner of Trinity Medical Faculty, is 
again back to his old haunts. He is delighted with 
his reception. 

A word to the class reporters of the several years : 
although the dinner was of consequential importance, 
and everybody was supposed to attend, we think that 
is no reason for your neglecting your duties as repor- 
ters to the Fortnightly. We would propose that 

0 

in future where any other “ celebratable ” occasion 
crops up, you might do just a little towards record- 
ing class items. 

In order to make this column presentable, we insert 
the following clipping on the Ambulance Doctor^ 
copied from the Ifiternational Journal of Surgery^ 
which will be most interesting to the Medical Stu- 
dents : — 

THE GUARDIAN ANGEL OF THE 
AMBULANCE. 

Strange, passing strange that the ambulance sur- 
geon should have such burdens thrown upon his 
much-enduring shoulders. Each time that the clan- 
gor of the well-known bell announces his passing, we 
look up and wonder what ills he is bent on relieving, 
we think that his presence is one of the most shining 
marks of that loftiest degree of civilization which is 
based upon mutual help. Yet the sensational-quest- 
ing reporter, that autocrat of our breakfast-table, 
when hard pushed for canvass whereupon to bedaub 
his gaudy pigments, has been known to seize upon 
the ambulance surgeon. His pen-chromos have de- 
picted the man at the back of the ambulance as one 
who is haughty and puffed up with a sentiment of 
his importance, as one who at times commits grave 
errors, who scorns the disinterested advice of eaeer 
bystanders, is heedless of suft'ering and impervious to 
sorrow, and finally, and without benefit of clergy, is 
guilty, oh anathema ! of being young. 

Ours the privilege of defending him from these 
odious charges ! Ours the hand to lead him to his 
real position in the esteem of a generation whose 
vision, though prone of refractive errors, can com- 
monly be corrected by means of proper glasses. 

Haughty, forsooth! Because the jolting of his 
chariot fails to disturb the serenity of countenances 
that mirrors a restful conscience. He has been 
known to err 1 Let the providers of so-called 
“ scoops ” pick up their stones. They never get 



^6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




blown up by the night editor, and have all been pre- 
served in the spirits of just men made perfect. The 
ambulance surgeon harkeneth not to the crowd’s 
advice. He hath been known to firmly reject the 
proffer of the usual luscious quid of fine cut where- 
with to bind a wound, preferring, in his obstinacy, 
the golden-hued gauze that smileth to Heaven. He 
is heedless of suffering, since he prefers to irrigate 
with bichloride solution rather than with copious 
tears, and impervious to sorrow, since he can seldom 
be persuaded to attend the wakes of those for whom 
the ambulance proves an Acherontian bark. 

But he is young. What plea can we advance in 
mitigation of this damning but often truthful accusa- 
tion ? What is his excuse? Gentlemen of the jury, 
if length of whisker was a measure of merit and a 
badge of skill, where should we be ? Consider the 
humble goat. He sows not, nor does he reap, and 
yet Greeley in all his glory was not in it with him. 
The ambulance surgeon, we say it without fear of 
contradiction, is often young through no fault of his 
own. Could he have hastened the nuptials of his 
progenitors, he would have done it, and could he have 
foreseen the reportorial attacks to which he was 
doomed, he might, have forbidden the banns alto- 
gether. The ambulance surgeon of this city has been 
known to climb a steeple and, upon a few shaky 
boards poised at vertiginous heights, minister to one 
too badly hurt to be moved at once from his danger- 
ous position. He goes down the holds of great ships 
for men that lie there crushed and bleeding ; he has 
been made a target for pistols in the hands of crazed 
ones, tremulously aiming at ophidian hallucinations. 
Night and day he is at the beck and call of suffering 
humanity; in all weathers you hear his crashing gong. 
We are glad that he is young and able to accomplish 
such things, and feel that his salary of nothing a day 
and clothe himself is more than earned. Surprising 
as a word of approval must be to him, we know that 
he can stand it, for he is used to emergencies and 
sudden shocks, and we hereby tender him the assur- 
ance of our most distinguished consideration. — The 
International Journal of Surgery. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

L. S. Cleaves represented Comparative Medicine at 
the Meds’ Dinner. We only regret that we had 
not a larger man in the Faculty, but two hundred 
and twenty-five pounds is our limit, and with a cor- 
responding capacity we hope showed our appreciation 
of the invitation. 

Dr. Robert Darling, ’89, has been appointed In- 
structor in Veterinary Science to the State Univer- 
sity of Nevada. 



Dr. C. Morin, ’84, of St. Albans, Vt., spent a few 
days in Montreal during the past week. 

We call attention to a coming scarcity in the horse 
market. Mr. T— r, of the First Year, has outlined a 
series of experiments on the horse for the Christmas 
holidays, covering every known and some new surgi- 
cal operations. Ye fond anticipations of \ e Fresh- 
man ! In our experience, eight (?) hours sleep and 
three square meals per diem constitute a full pro- 
gramme for the holidays. 

H — N — will shortly publish a work on “ Dream- 
land,— A study in Physiology,” which will no doubt 
be a valuable acquisition to our knowledge of the 
subject. 

Dissection has begun, and 

With falt’rinf hand and shaking blade 
The Freshman plies his latest trade* 

His days among the dead are passed, 

He feels quite sure each is his last. 

Aponeurosis, integument, 

Artery, veiu and ligament, 

With muscle, duct and gland combined 
Have ruined little Freshie’s mind. 

Upon his laden dinner plate. 

He looks suspiciously of late ; 

He sees no more beefsteak alone. 

But muscle, cartilage and bone* 

At night he tries in sleep to flee 
From his relentless enemy. 

But Anatomy pursues him there, 

In dreams he dissects a fierce nightmare. 



SOCIETIES. 



Y. M. C. A. 

On the 25th November, Mrs. Ashley Carus-Wib 
son, B.A., gave an excellent lecture on “ The Chosen 
Nation.” The relationship of Israel to God and 
to the world was shown to be contained in the pro- 
mise made to Abraham, viz., “ I will bless thee,” 
“ and be thou a blessing.” The ideas contained in 
these two clauses must not be dissociated. It is his- 
torically true that the Hebrew nation did receive 
special tokens of God’s favor, but it was that they 
might be a means of communicating His “blessings” 
to other nations. He lavished special care upon the 
one nation because He loved all the nations. And 
the obligation of Israel may be said to have culmin- 
ated in Jesus, and in the few disciples who established 
in various places the nuclei of the future Christian 
church. 

Last Sunday Sir Win. Dawson again lectured to a 
large audience. His subject was “ The Miracles of 
the Exodus,” He dwelt at length on the nature of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



miracles. He said that in its widest sense the mira- 
culous is not necessarily bound up with the superna- 
tural nor with theism. Many miracles may be mere 
natural phenomena, which are not accounted for sim- 
ply because of the limitations of the human mind 
The Bible, he went on to say, usually regards a mir- 
acle as a superhuman exertion of divine power put 
forth with reference to some spiritual end. It does 
not abrogate natural laws, but is the result of certain 
combinations of these laws ; and in its production it 
may happen that the vital power of the arm of Omni- 
potence overrides the mere physical power resident 
in the laws of the material universe, as when the 
vital power of the child raises a pebble in defiance of 
the law of gravitation. 

Keeping this idea of the nature and function of 
miracles in mind, those connected with the Exodus 
were considered in detail, but want of space forbids 
a fuller report. 

The last lecture of this term will be delivered next 
Sunday by Rev. E. I. Rexford, B.A., Rector of the 
High School. Subject : “ The Purpose and Mean- 
ing of the Tabernacles.” 

Y. W. C. A. 

FRIDAY, NOV. 1 6TH. 

The weekly prayer meeting was held in the 
Second Year Class-Room. Miss Pitcher, ’96, led in 
studying the Life of John the Baptist. This stern, 
grand character was brought practically before us, 
his unflinching bravery and deep humility being 
especially emphasized. None could fail to catch in- 
spiration from the record of such a life. 

Twenty-seven members were present ; we would 
welcome many more. 

FRIDAY, NOV. 23RD. 

Miss Carr, of the Class of ’98, was the leader of this 
meeting, the topic for the day being “ Our Example. ” 
The responsibility which rests on each one of us in 
setting example was emphasized very strongly. On 
this occasion we had one of the largest attendances 
of the session, and trust that the number will not 
only continue to be so large, but that it will increase. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill 
Mining Society was held in the old Science building, 
on Friday, Nov. 23rd. President Carlyle in the chair. 
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and 
adopted. The President then read a letter from Mr. 
Blue, manager of the PI uestis Copper Mines at Capel- 



87 



ton, in which he invited the members of this Society 
to visit the mines in that district. The Secretary then 
read a communication from the Secretary of the 
General Mining Association of the Province of Que- 
bec, concerning the proposed scheme of affiliation. 
The discussion of this letter was left until the next 
meeting. 

The remainder of the evening was taken up by 
Dr. Adams, who read a very interesting and instruc- 
tive paper on “ Mineral Veins” At the close of the 
lecture a hearty vote of thanks was tendered the 
speaker, after which the meeting adjourned. 



LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The weekly meeting of the McGill Literary 
Society opened at 8.15 last Friday evening, with 
President Hanson in the chair. The minutes hav- 
ing been approved, the committee for nomination an- 
nounced that Messrs. Craig, Dickson, Hopkins and 
Mitchell were the nominees to represent McGill 
against Toronto. Messrs. Craig (Arts) and Hopkins 
(Arts) were elected as orators, while Messrs. Rogers, 
Graham, Saxe, Sutor, Colby, Trenholme and Mit- 
chell were the gentlemen chosen to be a committee 
of management. Mr. R. Childs Patterson gave an 
enjoyable reading, which was much appreciated by 
everyone present. Mr. R. Rogers then read an 
essay, which showed much thought had been given 
to his subject; it was enjoyed by all. Owing to the 
lateness of the hour, it was decided that the debate 
should be omitted, and so Mr. Mullin wound up the 
evening with a short and interesting critique. The 
meeting was adjourned until the first Friday after 
the holidays. 

FRIDAY, NOV. 23rd. 

The weekly meeting of our McGill Literary Society 
was held last Friday evening, with President Hanson 
in the chair. There was considerable business trans- 
acted, one important item of which was the resolution 
to challenge ’Varsity to the regular yearly debate 
for next January. The programme for the evening 
was entirely in the hands of Arts 97-8. First came 
an enjoyable reading by Mr. Stevenson, ’97, entitled 
“The dog that got found,” and the reporter would 
here like to note that with possibly one exception all 
the readings this year have been humorous. Is this 
as it ought to be at our Literary Society } Mr. Atkin- 
son, ’98, followed with a bass solo, which greatly de- 
lighted his hearers. Mr. J. G, Saxe then read an 
essay on the Sand-Dollar, showing some specimens as 
illustrations. 

The following was the wording of the Inter-Year 
Debate : — 

Resolved : that the Republican sentiment of the 



88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



19th Century has resulted in more amicable relations 
between man and man than formerly existed. 

Messrs. D. W. Munn, Colby and Duff won the de- 
bate for the Freshmen, while Messrs. E. M. Campbell^ 
A. R. MacMaster and J. G. Saxe gallantly fo ught 
against them. 

Mr. Rodgers wound up a very long evening with 
his critique. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A very enthusiastic and well attended meeting of 
the Society took place on the evening of Saturday, 
December ist. 

A communication was read from Mr. H. K. 
Wright, resigning his position as Pathologist of the 
Society. Mr. Wright’s resignation was accepted, and 
Mr. Bouck elected Pathologist. A number of items 
of business came before the Society, and were dealt 
with in a prompt and business-like fashion. But the 
chief interest of the meeting centred around the 
paper of the evening, read by Mr. Wm. Oliver, B.A., 
on the subject of “ Homoeopathy. ” 

Mr. Oliver’s carefully prepared and well written 
paper was listened to throughout with the closest 
attention, and many times during the reading of the 
paper, as Mr. Oliver pointed out and summarily dealt 
with the fallacies of Homoeopathy, his statements 
were greeted with applause. 

An animated and instructive discussion followed 
the reading of the paper, and a hearty vote of thanks 
was tendered Mr. Oliver. 

Owing to the lateness of the hour the case report 
on Dermoid Cyst was postponed until a future meet- 
ing. 

The next meeting of the Society will take place 
on Saturday evening, December 1 5th. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL AS- 
SOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Veterinary Medical 
Association was held on Thursday evening, 29th 
Dec., in the Lecture Room of the Faculty. Dr. 
Adami, the President, occupied the chair. Ther e- 
port of the Experimental Committee was submitted, 
containing an outline of the experiments to be per- 
formed with various drugs upon the smaller 
animals during the ensuing session. Mr. C. H. 
Zink, jun., reported an interesting case of the removal 
of a myo-sarcomatous tumor from a fourteen-year 
old spaniel. He also described the removal of a 
mammary tumor, giving an account of the condition 
as exhibited by a microscopical examination. Dr. 
Adami made some instructive remarks upon the 
pathology of these tumors. 



Mr. J. C. Hargrave read a paper on Distemper, 
giving an excellent historical review of the disease. 
He discussed fully its nature, complications and 
treatment. At the next meeting, which will be held 
Dec. 1 2th, Mr. Boutelle will read .a paper on 
En chondroma. 

DELTA SIGMA S0CIP:TY. 

On Thursday, Nov. 29th, the best Delta Sigma 
meeting which we have enjoyed since the beginning 
of this season was held. There was a large attend- 
ance, and everybody was interested. 

The Debate, — Resolved : that circumstances are more 
potent in the formation of character than is will — 
was upheld on the affirmativ^eby Miss Bourke- Wright 
and Miss Locke, and on the negative by Miss Rad- 
ford and Miss Ross. The speakers occasionally 
violated the rules of oratory, but more often followed 
them well, and the affirmative at length succeeded in 
convincing the members present that their position 
was the stronger. Mrs. Clarke Murray kindly acted 
as critic, and gave very useful advice on many points, 
from which the Society will very certainly derive 
much profit. A new feature of the Delta Sigma was 
shown in the College Songs with which the meeting 
opened and closed. They were much enjoyed, and we 
hope we see in this little beginning the prospects of a 
future glee club. The next meeting of the Delta 
Sigma will be held Dec. 13th, in the Molson Hall, 
when Sir William Dawson has promised to address 
the Society on the subject of “ An Ideal College for 
Women.” It is hoped there will be a full attend- 
ance. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The above Society met at 6 Union Ave., on Tues- 
day evening, Nov. 27, with the President, Dr. Mills, 
in the chair. 

The receipt of several new works on Psychology 
and Anthrophology for the Library was announced. 
Dr. Mills also presented to the Library some of the 
results of his own investigation in the field of Psy- 
chology. 

Mr. E. C. Thurston read a paper on “Instinct 
and Intelligence,” while Mr. E. H. Lehnert dealt 
with “The Relation of Reflex Action to Instinct.” 

Both papers were well written, and evoked an 
animated discussion. 

An article from the pen of .St. George Mivart, on 
“ The Distinction between Human and Animal 
Mind,” was re.id by one of the members; also an 
article which recently appeared in the Fancier, on 
“ Animal Psychology ( A Protest) but the discus- 



89 



McGILL FORTNIGIITI.Y. 



sion of these papers w as postponed owing to the 
lateness of the hour. 

d hese meetings are well attended, the members 
taking an enthusiastic interest in the subject. 

Messrs. Jones and Inglis will contribute papers at 
the next meeting. 



McGILL CLASSICAL CLUB. 

t 

The usual meeting of the McGill Classical Club 
was held last Wednesday evening, Mr. Ferguson 
Arts ’96, presiding. Mr. A. C. F. Howard, ’97, 
gave an enjoyable reading, after which an inter- 
esting and instructive essay on '■' Pollice Verso” 
(“ Thumbs up and thumbs dowm”) was read by Mr. 
Heine, Arts ’98. After stating that there was a 
great diversity of opinion upon the subject, and ihat 
we could not fix upon any theory as absolutely cor- 
rect, the waiter referred to the various references in 
classical literature bearing upon the subject and the 
opinion manifestly upheld by these. Baumeister, 
Friedlander and Seyffert contend that the down 
thumb was the sign of death, w^hile the waving of 
handkerchiefs was a signal of mercy. 

On the other hand, Smith’s Dictionary of Antiqui- 
ti' S, besides many commentators, states that turning 
the thumb up was the death-signal, and that mercy was 
indicated by the dowmward thumb. The lexico- 
graphers were about equally divided, and many 
modern scholars tell us that the spectators turned 
their thumbs towards their owm breasts or throats to 
indicate that the conqueror should plunge his sword 
into his victim. Two passages were cited, one from 
Juvenal and one from Pliny, which show'ed conclu- 
sively that pollicem vertere was used as a sign of dis- 
approbation. These passages, however, did not prove 
what that sign was. Vertcre_ meant, in its literal 
sense, to turn from a normal position. Then the 
natural or normal position of the thumb, in the case 
of the outstretched hand, w^ould be upwards. So the 
abnormal, signified by the literal meaning of pollicem 
vcricre, must mean to turn down the thumb. 

The w'l'iter claimed that this interpretation of the 
pollicem lertcre was strengthened by the study of the 
phrase pollex infestus, which is proven to refer to a 
hostile gesture. Just as in \^irgil the lupestci hcistci 
denoted the “ levelled spear,” so the pollex infestus 
must signify hostility to the fallen gladiators, which 
would be indicated by the downward thumb, express- 
ing ad inferos ! ” “ death to him.” 

The sign of favor or mercy w'as pollicem premere as 
is plainly told us by Pliny. But how could this 
phrase mean either “to turn the thumb up,” or “to 
turn ^he thumb down t It seemed more reasonable, 
he thought, to take premere in its radical meaning, 



viz., to “ press ” or “ squeeze”. As the downward thumb 
signified death, so the squeezing and hitling of the 
thumb indicated the “ missio ” or discharge of the 
vanquished gladiator. Attention was called to the 
expressive symbolism in both cases: the enclosing of 
the thumb by the fingers signifying the sheathing of 
the sw'ord, and the clenched fist and downward 
thumb, typical of the unsheathed sword — “there he 
is ; finish him by plunging your sword into his breast.” 



EXCHANGES. 

We beg to remind our College contemporaries, 
that exchanges should be sent to Editor-in-Chief, 
McGill Fortnightly, care McGill University 
Library. It is with regret that we omit to no'.ice in 
this column several valued exchanges which, we are 
quite sure, have been sent us, but not to the foregoing 
address, and have therefore failed to reach us. 

The Owl, as usual, presents a most creditable appear- 
ance, and contains well- written and thoughtful arti- 
cles, relieved by others in a lighter vein. 

We quote the following item from the October 
number, which is there credited to an Exchange'. 

. “ Tennyson could take a worthless sheet of paper, 

write a potm on it, and make it w’orth a fortune 
— that’s genius. Vanderbilt can write a few words 
on a sheet of paper and make it worth $5,000,000 
— that’s capital. The United States can take an 
ounce and a quarter of gold and stamp upon it an 
‘ eagle bird ’ and make it worth $20 — that’s money. 
A mechanic can take material worth $5 and make 
it into watch springs worth $1000 — that’s skill. A 
merchant can take an article worth 75 cents and sell 
it for $1 — that’s business. A lady can purchase a 
75 cent hat, but she prefers one that costs $27— 
that’s foolishness. A ditch digger works ten hours 
a day and handles several tons of earth for $3 
— that’s labor. The editor of this paper could write 
a check for $80,000, but it wouldn’t be worth a dime 
— that’s rough.’’ — Ex. 

The Bowdoin Orient in its last issue calls atten- 
tion to what we should imagine to be a rather 
unusual regulation among Universities, “At Boston 
University,” we are told, “the Faculty has voted to 
permit work on the College paper to count as work 
in the Course, allowing seven hours per week to the 
managing editor and two hours to each of his assis- 
tants.” 

With the month of November, the Canadian 
Magazine enters upon its fourth year, and maintains 
the standard established by previous issues. Several 
articles on topics connected with the early dicrni'ory 



90 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and settlement of North America are of special 
interest to Canadians. 

We have always had a particularly cordial feeling 
towards our brethren (trusting they may not think 
the word too familiar) of Edinburgh, Apart from 
the circumstance that’ their University has been, in 
many respects, taken as a model upon which to form 
our own, Sir' William Dawson came so near to 
deciding in favor of Edinburgh, instead of accepting 
the calfto preside over the then struggling McGill, that 
it seems as if our destinies were linked almost more 
closely with those of the Scottish University than of 
any other. It is with particular pleasure, therefore, 
that we have looked over the recent numbers of the 
Student. Although it is the organ rather of the 
Undergraduates in Medicine than of the Edinburgh 
Students as a whole, each number contains articles 
of general interest ; thus the Magazine, which is 
admirably edited, makes capital reading. 

We have examined with much interest the copy 

- of the “Constitution of the Students’ Representative 

- Council,” which accom[>anied one issue of the Student. 



Like greater folks, they’ve learned jokes : 

My housemaid Sarah— she 
Is ever ou the giggle— they 
Call Sal- Volati-le. 

And then, by role, strange tongues they quote : 
My groom, when some neglect I 
Had taxed him with, declared he’d got 
“ Mens sibi conscia recti'^ 

The lady’s maid, the spendthrift jade, 

As gifts for the New Year, 

Gave Thomas a Forget-me noty 
And cook a Souvenir. 



Our Willie passed away to-day. 

His face we’ll see no more ; 

What Willie thought was H2 O 
Proved H2 SO4. 

Ex. 



The Chinese orderly called the roll — 
The tourist delighted fell ; 

For he felt in the depths of his Yankee soul 
’ ’Twas his old time college yell. 

Ex. 



We welcome cordially also the Droghedean. It is 
not pretentious, but it is well written and interesting. 
. Among other exchanges received are : The Harvard 
Daily News, ‘ Varsity (Toronto), Albert College Times, 
' Dalhcusie Gazette, Sunbeam, Acta Victoriana. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 



THE “MARCH OF INTELLECT.” 

•I 

• '' The ‘‘ march of intellect ” is becoming a threadbare 
' f'gure, but it stalks across our path at intervals. A 
" short time since, a gentleman, residing in England, 

• told me that he had had two samples of it recently. 
He received a letter from his training groom, quoting ‘ 
Sliakespeare ; and one of his housemaids told his lady 
!hat she must provide another servant in her place* 
unless she were alloiued gloves to do her work in! 

• V The following lines, which appeared about 50 

■- years ago in a humorous publication called the 
.vHumourist, are’ applicable, and worthy of reproduc- 
r.tion :-r- . .■ -i - " , ■ ^ 



ACADEMY o/" MUSIC 

HENRY THOMAS, Lessee and Manager. 

WEEK OP DECEMBER 10th, 

Sardou's Latest European Success. 

Mme. SANS GENE, 

{MADAM DON'T CARE) 

By Victorieu Sardou and Emile Moreau. 

Produced under the iiianageineiit and personal supervision of 
Arcu sTi's PiTOu. 

COMING ATTRACTION ! - 

from the • 

EGYPTIAN HALL 

STORY 



Sridzelle, 

T asked my groom the other day, , j 

. What made him look so badly ? * j MUSIC, SONG AND 

' The coxcemb said, he’d had a fall, j 

And hurt his sadly. ! . 

, , , My cook, when ask’d what made her mope, i . ’ 

So like a moulting pigeon ? ; 

" ' ' Said she’d a slight derangement ju i . 

The epigastric region. j 



