iVlcGlfels FOHTNIGHTfey 

A Fortnightly Journal of l iterature, University fhought and Event, 

MONTREAL, OCTOBER 30, 1895. No. 2. 






^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



Edit(y)'-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law ’96). 

Secretary — ^J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96), 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med, and Vet. Sc. ’96), \Vm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med. *96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda '96. 



^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 



S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97;, Chairman, 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Prodbrick (Med. '96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97), 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet, Sc. '96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is ;$i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouP-s, Cyrus 
Ashlord’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

Are we to have a University dinner this year } It 
looks like it. Steps have already been taken with 
that end in view, and, so far, all the signs and tokens 
presage prosperity and success to the undertaking. 
Five years have passed away since the various Facul- 
ties of McGill, at perhaps some little sacrifice of social 

or might we say Faculty — enjoyment, met together 

around the same banquet board. This co-operation 
too-ether for a common object, albeit of the lighter 
sort, and social reunion, will not be unfruitful of good 
results to all concerned. No one can say that we 
have too much of it in McGill. Indeed the estrange- 
ment of the Faculties and the too great individualizing 
of the work have been pointed to as a distinct defect 
in our University life. The eminent scientist who 
visited McGill the other day, and addressed the 
students, did not forbear to touch upon this matter, 
and his words will be echoed by all those who look to 
greater unity among us. A University dinner every 
five or six years will not cure this anomaly, nor cause 
a union club to be born, but we apprehend it will not 
set greatly against either. On the contrary, although 
an event not permanently fixed as yet in our Univer- 
sity life, still it is always a drawing in the right direc- 



tion, and ought to give the unity feeling a great impetus. 
In this regard the year has begun most propitiously. 
Among the student body there has been perfect 
unanimity. All Faculties have met in friendly, manly 
contest on the campus, and on the same night march- 
ed out together through the gates of old McGill in 
long procession, to fill up the “ gods ” of the Academy 
of Music in one compact body. 

But we need not hasten. A University dinner is 
no light undertaking. It involves time, thought, 
labor and expenditure. On many men in their final 
year — principally the presidents — no small portion of 
the work will fall, and this will mean a relinquishing 
of much valuable time which they ill can spare. But 
the students themselves by active and willing co-oper- 
ation can greatly lighten the labors of the committee 
men. And great assistance will be rendered by pro- 
fessors and others whose aid is not generally counted 
on in getting up Faculty dinners. These difficulties 
will be overcome by energy, tact and hard work. If 
there are other valid objections to a University din- 
ner, we do not know of them. That the Faculties will 
lose their individuality, that men will be forgotten in 
the great gathering ought to be lost sight of in view 
of the larger considerations, which' appear, briefly, to 
be : First, the meeting together of all the Faculties of 
the University for the first time in the presence of Dr. 
Peterson, our new Principal — the first University wel- 
come ; the sense of grandeur and unity conveyed to the 
participant thereby, which would not be present at any 
Faculty dinner ; and, secondly, the opportunity afford- 
ed the students of seeing and hearing not only the 
heads of our own and sister Faculties, but also men well 
known in this country in all departments of life, 
scientific, political and educational ; and lastly, the 
name of old McGill would no doubt become still 
better known by her being known or visited again by 
those who have seldom an opportunity of meeting at 
once professors and students of all departments. 

The Graduates Society has set the ball rolling, and 
at the time of writing, all the Faculties have signified 
their intention, almost unanimously, of co-operating 
together in the matter. There can be no doubt that 
the necessary further steps will be speedily taken and 
the enterprise pushed forward to success. 

Let us have a University Dinner. 




20 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE CONCERT. 

The YaJe-Princeton-McGill Glee and Banjo Con- 
cert on Friday night was an unqualified success. 
There was no hitch anywhere. The arrangements 
were wisely made, and carried out to the letter. 
And all, students, professors, citizens, and the press 
are united in the opinion that Friday’s Theatre Night 
was more successful than any other similar event in 
the history of McGill. 

This' was due to the loyalty of the student-body 
generally, and the alacrity with which every Faculty 
responded to the call, and the enterprise of the 
McGill Glee and Banjo Club, and — let us give real 
credit to those on whose shoulde's the burden of the 
work fell — the Committees. 

The various Committees — Decoration, Reception^ 
and Theatre Night — deserve the utmost praise for the 
manner in which the appointments were made and 
carried out. It would be as difficult, as it would be 
unfair, where there was no jar anywhere, tosingleout 
any of these for special mention, although for obvious 
reasons the Decoration Committee fell in for the lion’s 
share of the general approbation. 

Our fellow-students from Yale and Princeton, and 
the charming cantatrice who accompanied them from 
New York, cannot but be plea.sed at the reception 
accorded them by the cit zens of Montreal and the 
students of McGill. On the part of the latter it was 
a vociferous and enthusiastic ovation. The students 
o' McGill are whole-souled fellows, and when they all 
get together, where will you find a happier-hearted, 
more enthusiastic, and, if we do say it, a better con- 
ducted student-crew ? So the Old McGill cries rang 
out, and those also of Princeton and Yale, never 
from lustier lungs or merrier hearts than those of Fri- 
day night last. 

This has been our first departure from the tradi- 
tional mode of observing Theatre Night. No one 
will now say that it has not been a delightful one. It 
seems rather strange that we have not before this 
S’Wakened to the idea of associating with us in 
our annual celebrations the undergrads of sister 
universities in the republic. But now we have got a 
glimpse at least of the possibilities of the future. 
Canada is not insular, nor is McGill narrow in her 
sentiments and aspirations. We believe with Dr. 
Peterson in the “ brotherhood of nations.” 

Wherefore let us hope that if other colors may not, 
yet often again at our glorious festival may the colors 
of Yale, Princeton, and McGill be intertwined, and 
over all the grand old flag of England and the star- 
spangled banner of the land of the free. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY 

society. 

In directing the attention of the readers of the 
Fortnightly to this Society, it is with the special 
desire to reach the student body of McGill. 

The interest shown in the meetings this session 
has been very encouraging, and the attendance above 
the average. 

It is, however, quite within the limit of realization 
to have these weekly meetings becoming larger and 
larger, until old No. i Class Room would no longer be 
able to hold the numbers coming up every Friday 
evening ; and thus there would be not only a suflficient 
reason for moving into more comfortable quarters, 
but also the advantage of a grand mass meeting of 
the students from all the Faculties, where the Uni- 
versity spirit might be developed and strengthened 

Let us also bear in mind that we have to win back 
the laure’s from Toronto University, which we suc- 
cessfully held for so many years, as well as win fresh 
fame is as yet untiied fields, so that it is necessary to 
have command of all the eloquence which can pos- 
sibly be furnished. 

The General Committee will do everything possible 
to make the meetings interesting, and it is expected 
that those who take part will find time to make care- 
ful preparation. 

It is with much pleasure we announce that a 
promise has been received from the Principal to be 
present and give an address in Molson Hall at our 
regular meeting on Friday, Nov. ist. An invitation 
is extended to all who are interested, both students 
and their friends, to be present at this time to hear 
Dr. Peterson. 

It is scarcely necessary to remind McGill students 
of the material assistance rendered the business de- 
partment of this paper by our ad vertisers. It is doubt- 
ful indeed if the Fortnightly could be carried on 
successfully without such aid. The students are 
therefore asked to patronize those business men who 
have been good enough to favor and assist us by 
placing their advertisements in our columns 

This is only fair. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



SPORTS NIGHT. 
The Procession. 



the Coll ^ "ssembl 

the College grounds as early in the evening as ( 

commgsinglyat first, then in couples then? 

then m battalions, and from all directioL^'’’ 
resounding shouts of advancing regiments ^n 
and west Sherbrooke street heading for the Col 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



21 



gates were answered now and again, mountainwards, 
by those approaching the campus by the eastern 
entrance. Every man sought his tribe and his flag. 
Under the banners of Medicine, bearing their grim 
effigy of the scull and cross-bones, clustered a solid 
phalanx; Arts sought her pennants ; and Science 
gathered around her University ravens; while few in 
numbers, but charged with enthusiasm, the students 
of Law stood guard around their venerable owl-embla 
zoned banner ; and Comparative Medicine was there 
staunch and true. And now as the crowds increased, 
the excitement apparently became more intense. 
Everyone seemed to be under high pressure. There 
were clamors, and shouts, and commands, and the 
ranks forming seemed more than once in danger of 
giving tvay to “ most admired confusion.” Nor were 
there wanting of sights and sounds to rouse the spirit. 
“ The spirit-stirring drum, the ear piercing fife” made 
music martial to the gloomy Moor: our soldiers 
would have despised such watery stufif. Nothing 
but the most diverse, incongruous, ear-torturing sounds 
could tickle them to the marching humor. Hence 
they had horns, and whistles, and jews harps, and 
bones, and many strange instruments as yet unnamed. 
One thing was wanting to add the last touch of hid- 
eous variety to the discord. Very blamable is the 
Committee for overlooking it : a half dozen good stout 
pipers scattered here and there, stopping vigorously 
to different tunes, wou'd have made the musical pro- 
gramme complete. And of sights, there was no lack 
to rouse the spirit to heroic mood. There was no 
regulation dress, forsooth ! It is not advantageous to 
the common soldier. Such an ardor-damping rule, 
such an infringement on the rights and liberties of 
the citizen would have been resented by our chaps. 
And so w'e had a fine display of headgear, not for- 
getting, in particular, many beautiful specimens of the 
beaver : they were there, young, fashionable and 

glossy, and some middle-aged, and yet some in the 
last stages of decrepitude. How those venerable and 
battered old heroes, foraged out from many a dusty 
garret, and pervading the ambient air with their 
ancient musty smell, must have rejoiced at that last 
and glorious windup to their long and checkered 
career ! Perhaps they saw not a few of their ancient 
companions thereabout. Nor were the other habili- 
ments w'anting in the grotesque. Much we commend 
the valor of the infantry, who turned out with linen 
dusters and straw hats on that wintry night. And 
here Science easily took the palm. They uniform, 
and in excellent taste, for such a jollification. The 
distinguishing feature of the dress was red hats for 
the first year, red sashes for the second, and white 
breeches for the third. A very artistic get-up. One 
pleasing feature was everywhere noticeable : not a 

man failed to provide himself with the colors of 



I McGill ; and so the crimson and white, that familiar 
badge that has bound together in the past, as it will 
yet in the future, so many thousands of the men of 
Old McGill, was everywhere visible. Some indeed in 
the heat of their loyalty were prodigal to excess, dec- 
orating themselves with very many yards of the 
same ; and Yale and Princeton colors were there pro- 
fusely conspicuous. 

But it was 7. 1 5, and at that moment sounds began 
to float above the din by comparison, soft and 
melodiously sweet, — the band of the “ Vies,” no less. 
Then passed out of the gates of McGill into metropoli- 
tan jurisdiction, the first banner and the final 
m'^'ii of the victorious trophy-capturing Faculty of 
Medicine, with their brother-delegation from Bishop’s, 
and the Bishop’s banner, and following, slowly disen- 
tangling itself, a long line of a twelve hundred men 
filed out towards St. Catherine street. The order of 
the procession was : 

ist. Medicine 
Science 
Arts 
2nd. Law 

Comparative 
3rd. Arts 
Science 
Medicine 

4th. Medicine 
Science 
Arts 
5th. Arts 
Science 
Medicine 

The line of march lay down McGill College 
Avenue, St. Catherine west, Windsor, Dorchester east 
Phillips Square, St. Catherine to the Academy. 
Along this route went the enthusiastic legions, march- 
ing to the lively strains of the “ Vies’ ” band, and 
with all their banners flying. The banners of Medi- 
cine and Bishops had turned westward along St. 
Catherine before the last man passed through the 
McGill gates. It was a sort of triumphal procession. 
Never had the citizens of Montreal witnessed a larger 
University turnout. Crowds lined the streets through- 
out. Street car traffic was .suspended ; and more 
than once a jam seemed imminent. Passing the 
Wind.sor Hotel, the scene was one not likely to be 
forgotten in after years bytho.se in the ranks. Here 
the enthusiasm reached its height, while the w'hole 
line of banners w'as illuminated by the blazing fire- 
works bountifully supplied to the column by the 
Committee. 

Arriving at the Academy, extraordinary provision 
was found to have been made to give ready ingress 
to the crowd, and soon all were installed in ‘ the 
gods.” Here the veterans, having hung their banners 
over the railing, and disposed of the poles, proceeded 



Final Years. 



ledicine 



} 



whole Faculties. 



Third Years. 



Second Years. 



First Years. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



22 



to make merry, as is their wont. Often were Yale 
and Princeton greeted with their war cries ; McGill 
was “ all right ; ” and with class yells and choruses 
they beguiled the time till 8.30, when the curtain rose 
and the Concert began. 

DON. 



AT '['HE ACADEMY. 

The Decorations. 

Here the sight was an inspiring one. 

It is safe to say the Academy never presented a more 
picturesque appearance. Every possible bit of bunting 
was brought into requisition to enhance the beauty of the 
interior decorations. In the lobby, itself a mass of palms 
and green, one was brought face to face with the fact, even 
if he had not previously thought of it, that others besides 
McGill were to take part in the evening entertainment. 
What was the meaning of the yellow and orange, the blue 
and the white, which everywhere caught the eye, and pleas- 
antly intermingled with the white and scarlet of McGill ? 
Surely such decorations had not been seen before at any 
previous “ Sports Day ” entertainment. The display was 
lavish in the extreme, and Montrealers will not soon 
forget the distinctive colors of the American univers ties, 
so appropriately brought into prominence. The interior 
of the theatre presented a beautiful sight, being 
one mass of foliage and color. Even the very incandes- 
cent lights were tinted to suit the occasion, handsome 
shades of tissue paper, in the colors of the respective uni- 
versities, enveloping each, and causing a soft, subdued 
light to fall upon the animated and picturesque mass of 
humanity below. 

Over the procession arch the meteor flag of Old England 
and the star spangled banner were intertwined in graceful 
folds, surmounted by the arms of McGill University. From 
each side of this again, hung huge streamers of McGill 
colors, caught up at the boxes, which were decorated with 
the colors of Yale and Princeton respectively. On the 
right was the yellow and orange of the University, on the 
left the blue and white of Yale. Above stood the graceful 
models of Grecian beauty — familiar to the habitues of the 
Academy — draped with the same shades of color as those 
which were appended immediately below. 

The front of the two tiers of stage boxes was completely 
hidden. Groups of flags and appropriately colored bunting 
were lavishly displayed, while in huge letters were the words 
“Yale ” to the kft, and “Princeton ” to the right. Around 
the front gallery, in the centre of which were the words, 
“ Now, we are in holiday humor,’’ was a charming com- 
bination of the colors of all three colleges, intertwined and 
caught up here and there with medallions. 

The gallery was decoiated in the red and white of 
McGill, and presented a lovely appearance. But the acme 
of perfection was reached when the curtain rose, reveal- 
ing the stage as a perfect bower of foliage. Palms, bego- 
nias and chrysanthemums were everywhere in evidence 
and the scene was one of great beauty and brilliancy. The 
effect of the decorations was further intensified by the hand- 
some toilets of the ladies in the orchestra, dress circle and 



parquette, who, by .he way. 



. . ... r.. I 4- t .-kO ¥ 



nrivnntnap in arramziilCf 



and coiffures. 

The audience was a very large one, perhaps the largest 
which has ever assembled m the Academy. tan mg 
room only” was hung out before the beginning of the con- 
cert, but even this was at a premium before half-past eight 
o’clock, and not only was the audience a large one, but it 
comprised some of the most fashionable people m Mon- 
treal. 'I'he private boxes were all filled, for the rnost part, 
with the professors of the College and their families. In 
the right hand stage boxes were Dr. Ruttan and a party 
of ladies; Dr. Johnston, dean of the Arts Faculty; Dr. 
Craik, dean of Medicine; Dr. Duncan McEachran and a 
party of ladies. On the left were Dr. Roddick, Dr. 
Stewart and Dr. William Gardner in one box with a party 
of ladies, and in the box above, Mrs. R. G. Reid and Miss 
Whiteway of Newfou idland, and Miss McShane. In the 
other boxes were Sir William and Lady Dawson, Dr. and 
Mrs. Peterson, Mr. and Mrs. S. Finley and party, Mr. and 
Mrs. J. H. R. Molson, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, Mr. Hugh 
McLennan and parly. Lady Hickson and party. In the 
audience were noticed nearly all of McGill’s professors 
with parties of ladies. 

The distribution of prizes won at the day’s Sports took 
place during the intermission. Mrs. Peterson, escorted 
by Mr. J. H. R. Molson, ascended the stage and handed 
the prizes to the lucky winners. She was accompanied by 
Lady Dawson, escorted by Dr. Peterson, and >1 rs. Mol- 
son, escorted by Sir William Dawson. Each of the ladies 
was, on leaving the stage, presented with a bouquet of roses 
tied with the ribbons of the Colleges. 

During the evening Miss French was presented with a 
magnificent basket of flowers, and the gentleman soloists 
in the Glee and Banjo Clubs with cigars. 

The students, on leaving the theatre, escorted Miss 
French to the Windsor, re-forming there into line and 
marching to Sherbrooke street, where they separated, the 
several Faculties going their ways to serenade their pro- 
fessors. At Professor Moyse’s residence there was a 
lively scene, the professor coming to the door in response 
to calls and making a short and witty speech. 



THE CONCERT. 

All things considered, the musical portion of the 
festivities could hardly have been a greater success. 

The performers,— the Yale Glee Club, the Prince- 
ton Banjo Club, and our own Glee and Banjo Clubs, 
assisted by Miss Myrta French of New York,— all 
acquitted themselves well ; the audience, whether of 
townsmen or gownsmen, was most appreciative ; and 
on all sides could be heard expressed the hope that 
the present concert would prove to be the first of a 
long series of such events in succeeding years. 

One hardly likes to institute comparisons between 
the visiting and the home musical societies. All, as 
has been said, did admirably, and the McGill Glee 
Club, in particular, is to be congratulated upon the 
marked improvement that it has made since last 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



year. The quality of tone was good, and the sing- 
ing, on the whole, smooth and accurate. At times a 
certain roughness was perceptible, although this was, 
we imagine, partly attributable to the attempt to 
sing with the men standing in a single long line — a 
mistake which was, wisely, corrected at the matinee 
on Saturday. Greater smoothness, more light and 
shade, and especially more and spiiit, will doubt- 
less be developed during the session. But the 
improvement already made is most creditable, and it 
is a source of congratulation that the home club 
should have made such a good showing by the side 
of the Yale visitors. 

These latter gentlemen were, perhaps deservedly, 
the prime favorites of the evening. They all possess 
good and well-trained voices; while they sing with 
much delicacy, finish, and with the greatest point 
and dash. Their selections, too, were most judicious 
and appropriate to a concert of the kind, with the 
result that they fairly took the house by storm. If 
we mistake not, they were five times encored, after 
their performance of Sheppard’s “ Medley ; ” and, to 
all appearances, everybody who heard them would 
gladly have heard them in five times that number of 
selections. We cannot refrain from congratulating 
the Club upon their leader, Mr. Lackland. In him 
they possess a comic singer of a high order, 
Chevalier himself could hardly have given with 
better effect the parrot’s “ Sneak out ! sneak out! 
and “ Good-day ! ” 

Miss Myrta French, who was engaged in New 
York as the soloist of the occasion, has a fresh, high 
soprano voice and an excellent method. Her by- 
play during her first selection — Luckstone’s waltz- 
song “ Delight ” — recalled the remark of a famous 
French critic, upon a similar performance — “ Made- 
moiselle a chante : File a des beaux yeux.” Her 

voice was a trifle light for the Academy. Miss 
French is nevertheless an artist, and sang best in her 
best selections. She responded to a well-earned 
encore. 

For the instrumental portion of the concert, we 
have only words of praise. The Princeton Banjo 
Club is in its way quite as good as the Ya!e Glee 
Club, and played with brilliancy and finish. They 
were repeatedly encored, responding with the utmost 
good nature; and Mr. George, one of the members of 
the organization, added greatly to the pleasures of 
the evening by his playing of the banjo solo “Mar- 
riage Bells ” and of the encore that followed as a 
matter of course. The IMcGill Banjo Club, though 
not so large as that from Princeton, played excel- 
lently. 

The music furnished by the “ boys ” in the gallery 
was well done, and we venture the suggestion that 



23 



the audience would gladly have listened to more of it 
before the concert began. We append in full the 
programme of what is already a memorable perform- 
ance — memorable in being graced by the presence 
of McGill’s newly appointed Principal and his lady; 
no less than for imparting, as the Principal on the 
occasion so happily put it, an international flavor to 
the university character of the entertainment, and for 
thus aiding in the great movement towards the unity 
of nations. 

'Fhe programme of the evening was as follows : 



PART I. 



Part Song 


“ Star Spangled Banner.” 
United Clubs. 

“ Tom, the Piper’s Son,” 


. Kendall. 


March 


McGill Glee Club. 
“ Imperial March,” 


Jennings. 


Song . • 


Princeton Banjo Club. 
“ Serenade.” 




Maich 


Mr. G. Parker, Yale. 

“ But One Vienna March,” 


Lansing. 


Song . . 


McGill Banjo Club. 

“ Delight ” (Grand Valse), . 


. Luckstone. 


Part Song 


Miss Myrta French. 

. . “Beneath the P31ms,” . 


. Storckel. 



Yale Glee Club. 

PART II. 

“ Wing Dance.” ..... Arranged. 
Princeton Banjo Club. 

Part Song . “ Baa ! Baa ! Black Sheep,” . Wiske. 

McGill Glee Club. 

Songs, . . rtt^Bonjour! Suzon,” . . Faure; 

b “ Here Below.” . . Duprate. 

Miss Myrta French. 

Part Song — Medley .... Sheppard 

Yale Glee Club. 

Banjo solo . . “ Marriage Bells. ’ 

Mr. C. A. George. 

Songs . a “ Happy Days Gone By,” . Strelitzki. 

b “ Avril,” . . . Goring-l’homas. 

Miss Myrta French, 

Waltz . “ Love and Beauty Watzes,” . Armstrong. 
McGill Banjo Club. 

The following are the officers of the McGill Glee and 
Banjo Clubs : hon. president, E. B. Greenshields ; presi- 
dent, A. F. Edwards; vice president, H. E. Huestis . 
secretary, O. S. Finnie ; leader Glee Club, C. E, P.Bovey; 
assistant leader, A. C. F. Morrison ; leader Banjo Club, 
W. W. Lynch ; business manager, W. L. Carter, B.A.Sc. 
The officers of the Yale Glee Club are : E. C. Lackland, 
leader ; J. B. Neale, business manager. The officers of 
the Princeton Banjo Club are: R. D. Smith, leader, and 
W. K. Greene, business manager. 

The Decoration Committee were: A. Holden, B.A Sc., 
chairman; G. Foster, C. Long (Medicine), Travis and 
He..derson (Science), Colby and McMaster (Arts), Boyer 
(Law). The Reception Committee were : Rutherford and 



24 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



Wilkinson (Science), Drum, Bownell (Medicine), Scrimger, 
Heine (Arts), Dell (Vet. Science), Bond (Law), Huestis, 
Diifresne, Lynch and Larmonth, from Glee and Banjo 
Club. The “Theatre Night” Committee were: C. H. 
Wright (Science), McPhail (Science), Myers and Fagan 
(Medicine), Marler (Law), Baldwin (Vet. Science). 



Pie ^ 

Coffee 4 

30 

The waiters are all Harvard students, who are 
thus enabled to defray much of their college expense. 
The Weld Boat Club issues monthly tickets, which 



Harvard Summer School. 



There are now about one hundred Summer Schools 
in the United States. All are successful. The rrost 
prominent, perhaps, is the Summer School carried on 
by Harvard University at Cambridge. The last 
session of this school proved far more successful 
than any other in its history. 

There are forty courses in all, besides several 
special classes in the Harvard Medical School. Five 
divisions of these courses — English, Education and 
Teaching, Mathematics, Chemistry, and Geology are 
chiefly attended by teachers from the public schools. 
Those are Engineering, Common Law, Freehand 
Drawing and Physical Training, and draw their stu- 
dents from commercial and mechanical life, and many 
spend their vacation from the ofllce or warehouse in 
attendance at these lectures. Harvard Undergra- 
duates take advantage of the regulation which per- 
mits students to follow any one of these courses in 
lieu of the corresponding course in the college, in 
this way lessening their year’s work. Hence, it may 
be said, that there are three classes of students in 
Harvard Summer School. 

Several of the University buildings, including the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Semitic Museum 
and the Mineralogical collection, are accessible to the 
members of the Summer School. The Library is 
open, as is also a Text Book and Reading Room. In 
short, those attending the Summer School have the 
same advantages as the undergraduates. 

The large and well equipped Gymnasium isopen to 
all summer students. Regular classes are held, con- 
ducted by two professors of Physical Training, with 
their assistants. One of these assistants during the 
past session was an honorary graduate of West 
Point Military Academy. An entertainment is given 
each year by the members of the gymnastic classes. 

No residence is offered to the Summer School 
student, but a common eating house is provided by 
the authorities, known as Foxcroft Hall. Good 
meals are given at very reasonable prices. P'or in- 
stance, a very good dinner costs thirty cents, as fol- 
lows : — 



Soup 

Bread 

Butter 

Meat 

Vegetable 



cents. 

5 

1 

2 

10 

3 



entitle the holder to all Club privileges. Similar 
tickets are sold by the Harvard Tennis Club. The 
cost in each case is $2.50. There is no need of com- 
plaint on the part of the athletically inclined. 

In conclusion, I wish to speak of the Harvard 
Teachers Association. Any teacher who is or has 
been a student at Harvard University, in term time 
or in the Summer School, may become a member of 
this organization. The main objects of this Associa- 
tion are : “To promote the development of the study 
of Education and Teaching at Harvard University, 
and to promote the professional advancement of its 
members.” Eight evening lectures were held this 
year, upon the aims, means and methods of teaching 
certain branches. The annual meeting of the Sum- 
mer School section of the Harvard Teachers 
Association was held on July 31st last. The topics 
for discussion that evening were : “ Electives in 

Secondary Education ” and “ The Closer Articula- 
tion of Elementary and Secondary Education.” 
Among the several papers read was one entitled 
“ How can the Gap be bridged between Elemen- 
tary and High Schools?” by Mr. J. A. Dresser of 
Richmond, Que., a graduate of McGill. 

S. G. 

A JAUNT TO NIAGARA. 

Time rings for Youth a muffled bell 
And hides his face in flowers.” 

After this manner also did “ Angelina” swing for us 
her ponderous seven-inch brass clanger, when our ears 
were dulled by slumber at half past seven, and the 
order of each morning was a desperate attempt to 
put the work of half an hour into ten minutes or less, 
so as to partake of breakfast that was at least moder- 
ately comfortable. Thus it happened that when 
towards the end of August we made up our minds to 
visit the Falls, we borrowed the alarm clock as a 
piecautionary measure, and gave the thumb screw 
eight 01 ten turns, and lost consciousness, hoping for 
a fine to-morrow. 

Forty winks at most it seemed, or only thirty-nine 
had been snatched, when such a peal rang forth six 
inches from my ear as made the middle of the room 
seem a desirable and safe place in comparison to my 
recent couch. 

Four of us share one large room. We rub our 
eyes and look out upon the dusky world. Clouds 
shut out the sky on all sides and touch the earth in 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



a mist that is almost rain. To go or not to go that 
is the question! The morning is certainly not invit- 
ing. A decision must be made at once if we are to 
go at all, so our weather prophetess is called upon to 
speak, and thus she delivered herself : ‘‘ Get ready by 
all means. If you were not so very fond of a morning 
sleep (she was fonder of a morning sleep than any 
of us) you would know that this is quite a frequent 
beginning to a fine day.” 

So bustle and hurry ensue, and finally a start is 
made, and as the electric car hums along and nears 
the Yonge St. wharf, the mist that has been rising 
suddenly clears away and the sun bursts forth. All 
dampness is dispelled, and lovjking across the radiant 
water we inwardly exclaim : Why do we not rise 

early every morning, it is so refreshing! ” And as we 
steam away out into the lake, a merry congratula- 
tory party we are. 

In due time we enter the Niagara River, and all at 
once the wraps that have been our comfort are 
thrown aside, as we realize that the day is warm. The 
old landmarks are observed and commented upon, 
and the troublous times of 1812 recalled as we catch 
the first glimpse of Brock’s monument in the dis- 
tance. The sail up the river has been delightful, but 
it is not the “ Falls.” So we eagerly wait for the 
placing of the gang way, and make for the open cars 
in waiting, securing end seats so as to command as 
good a view as possible of the sights along the river. 
We steadily mount the steep grade until the summit 
of Queenston Heights is reached, and looking down 
the river from there, enjoy a magnificent panoramic 
view of the surrounding country ; the eye is scarcely 
satisfied before our car glides forward, and as we 
suddenly sweep to the very edge of the cliff we give 
a little gasp, half of fear, wholly of delight, as we 
gaze down at the seething, boiling waters, — how 
many feet below } On we spin in our mad career, 
nowon the brink of the precipice, now for a moment 
entirely out of sight of the river, slowing up now and 
then when the guard shouts out something which no 
one can understand except those who have been 
there before. We slowly cross the trestle work, 
from which, on looking into the dizzy depth below, 
we see a tiny thread of silver making its way slowly 
towards the mighty force of waters a few hundred 
yards beyond ; instinctively we grasp the rail of the 
car for safety, and are informed that we are over 200 
feet above the bed of the streamlet. At last the Falls 
are in sight (the Falls so often seen before, and yet so 
new), and we leave the car, voting the new electric 
railway a complete success. To-day we will not go 
up to Chippewa, but lunch just above the Falls on the 
errassy slope overlooking the wonderful dashing^ 
leaping, and further on majestically sweeping waters, 
before the final leap is taken. 



25 



A party of five, far enough from the carriage road to 
escape observation, having risen at five o’clock in the 
morning, what wonder is it that our wearied frames 
should lose consciousness in sleep ? Lulled by the sub- 
dued roar of distant waters, and fanned by the gently 
passing breeze, who would not envy us this delightful 
slumber? Small wonder that even we seniors should 
in dreams be carried back to the time when we were 
“ fresh,” but not “ green,” and witness again the combat 
of Beowulf, and hear the cries of Grendel’s mother as 
she pays the extreme penalty beneath the boggy 
fen ; or that the gentle swaying of the branches 
overhead should transport us to those bright seas, 
where the sweet music of the sirens is drowned in 
the nobler and sweeter music of Orpheus as he sweeps 
his hand across the golden harp strings and sings of 
courage, hope and victory. 

Then there is a shout : “ The Bastile has fallen !” 
The cannon thunders in our ears, and we awaken to 
find a coaching party rolling past, their Jehu shout- 
ing like a very Stentoria. Refreshed, we wander 
further up, gathering here and there flowers, — old 
friends of former times ; and so passes the day until 
we long to be at home again, and as night closes in 
upon us the brilliant lights of Toronto harbor flash a 
welcome across the lake, a welcome whose brilliancy 
is softened by the red and blue and yellow paths that 
lead from Hanlan’s Isle. And now we four are in 
our room again, and “ Gertrude, where did you hide 
‘ Big Ben ’ ?” “ Behind the couch in the Library.’ 

Chorus, “ Good-night.” 

Sleepily, “ Ethel, what did you write on the 
placard you hung on the door ? ” Very drowsily 
comes the answer : “ ‘ Al?/ to be disturbed^ Please 

don’t speak to me again. I’m off to the land of 

A. D. La Nod. ” 



LITERARY SOCIETIES. 

/ 

We are all familiar with methods of educating the 
Grecian and Roman youth, and with what was con- 
sidered a college course in those days — Grammar, 
Logic, Rhetoric, Arithmetic, Geometry, Music, and 
Astronomy. The Greeks and Romans valued highly 
the gift ofelocpient and logical speech, and paid much 
attention to debate. As a natural result of this wide- 
spread and popular interest in public speaking, those 
countries produced men like Demosthenes, Cicero, 
and Caesar. I can imagine the young Cicero putting 
aside his stylus and tablets, and leaving the latest 
papyrus roll on rhetoric to join in the mimic debate, 
that was a means of developing the talents which 
made him the most powerful speaker that ever stood 
on the Roman rostrum. 

From various causes, political and otherwise, this 
interest, manifested during classical times, slackened 



26 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



towards the close of the fifth century ; and during 
the dark ages, literary societies were extremely interest- 
ing affairs. A man was expected to back up his 
statements with his sword ; and if the leader of the 
negative questioned the previous speaker’s veracity, 
or remarked upon his ability to fill a sack full of wind 
an impromptu adjournment was in order. In those 
days a man was compelled to speak to the point. 

That the students of Bologna, during the middle 
ages, had the power of stating a case skillfully is 
proved, I think, by the fact that Frederick Barbarossa 
in 1155 — seeing that this skill would be useful in 
furthering his imperial pretensions — granted them 
special privileges, although they had engaged in 
debates which the Pope had not sanctioned. 

Also the logicians of the twelfth century — seizing 
upon the theological doctrines of the day as great 
storehouses of indisputable major premises — became 
so ingenious and subtle in their discussions, that the 
records of these, to-day, excite the wonder of every 
student of metaphysics. I do not know whether 
regular literary societies existed in the two earlier 
universities of Bologna and Paris ; but if they did, 
they no doubt partook of the characters of their res- 
pective institutions, — Bologna standing for what was 
practical, and fitted a man for usefulness in after life ; 
Paris, for the speculative and for mental training whe- 
ther along practical lines or not. By a process of slow 
growth through various stages, we arrive at the col- 
lege literary society of to-day. These societies, 
roughly speaking, are divided into two divisions : 
those that allow rebuttal and the introduction of new 
arguments in the summing up, as on this continent, Clio 
and Whig Halls of Princeton ; and those that do not 
allow rebuttal or new arguments, as McGill or Yale. 

But every literary society of to-day has its defects, 
our own among the number. No doubt, in time, 
many of these defects will be overcome, and progress, 
though slow, will be sure. I will ask you for a moment 
to give your imagination free scope, and to view with 
me a session of the college literary society of the 
future. However, en passant, let us take one look at 
the society of the present — not any particular society, 
but any average organization. You enter the room 
while the meeting is in session. What do you see } 
Four bare walls of some color, with large patches of 
white plaster here and there to relieve the eye. From 
the ceiling, near a beautiful daub of the impressionist 
type, hang two chandeliers. The feeble rays ofa few 
gas jets enable you to come to the conclusion that it 
is a little darker outside. 

Remember, I am not taking any particular room or 
society as an example. The President, with becom- 
ing dignity, fills the chair, and after a few minutes 
calls for a reading and an essay. These essays vary 
in character from the careful consideration of the 



deepest metaphysical ju'oblems, as “ The regularity 
and simplicity of the cerebral convolutions of the brain 
ofa Freshman, ” to the most thrilling tales of adven- 
ture. The debate is as a rule upon some live topic, 
but the opposing sides have a way of misunderstand- 
ing the question and of looking at it from different 
points of view, which renders decision fai from easy. 
In fact, the leader of the negative generally begins 
with, “ Now to come to the question. A glance at 
the audience : in the front row the secretary and assis- 
tant are all attention. A little to the rear are scat- 
tered several individuals busily occupied in carving 
their respective monograms upon the immortal scroll 
of a wooden bench. Upon either flank you may see 
the soles of a pair of boots resting placidly upon the 
desks, and upon closer inspection you will nearly 
always find the rest of a man behind them. A large 
part of the audience are engaged in little side debates, 
which sometimes assume a violent character. Add 
to this the struggle at the window of the man who 
feels a draft and the man who wants fresh air, and 
you have a true picture. I might mention the critic 
who apologizes profusely, and then censures the speak- 
ers for prefacing their remarks with an apology. 

But enough of this ; let us pass on to the distant 
and mysterious future. Suppose we were allowed 
just once to rise from our graves to see ourgreat, great, 
grandchildren studying here at McGill. At dusk, 
we hurry over the Mountain from the cemetery to the 
campus. “ Oh ! ” you say, “ how different and strange 
everything looks ! ” “Come, come ; a McGill man was 
never afraid of anything !’’ “ There are the Science 

buildings with moss growing in the chinks of the walls; 
and what, what is this stately pile in front of us ^ ” 

“ Can — can it be the new Arts building .? ’’ “ Yes ; and 
what is that small stone building with iron-grated 
windows, surrounded by an iron fence ?" “ Let us go 

nearer and read what is carved over the door : ‘ The 

Cady-Stanton Special Course for Men.’ And 
in gilt on the transom : ‘ ENTRANCE FOR Men only’. ” 
“ You say you cannot fathom the mystery.? nor I 
either.” “ Let s go into the Arts building — this way 
to the Literary Society — just a peep within.” “ The 
President sits in her chair more dignified than we 
ever imagined mortal could be. The room is in 
amphitheatre style, and the rich tints of the walls give 
a beautiful backing to the many rare paintings and 
portraits. The whole is brilliantly lighted, and upon 
the electrical bulletin you read the subject of debate: 
— ‘ Resolved, that Suffrage shall be granted to men 
who have passed the ordinary examinations for B. A. 
and have no household duties to occupy their atten- 
tion’.” The Yalton glee club renders a selection, 
and an essay is read by a famous German philo- 
sopher who has been induced to come over for the 
evening in her air-ship, I he secretary reminds 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



27 



me of a maid we used to sing about on Sports Night. 
The debaters do not lean upon the table, and always 
address an opponent as — the previous speaker. The 
large room is crowded, and in one corner, guarded by 
two janitresses, are a half dozen men provided with 
needle work and other sources of amusement. See 
that fair speaker, as with flushed face and studied 
gesture she reaches the climax ; and hear the gentle 
tapping of palms, which is to the roar we were accus- 
tomed to, as the piping of Homer’s shades, to the roll 
of the surf on the beach. Listen for a moment to what 
she says : — ‘ Ladies, my sister students, in those dark 
ages men had the audacity, the bold effrontery to say 
that woman was only a side issue, and they blamed 
woman because the choicest fruit in the garden of Eden 
did not succeed (I believe she referred to the early 
They even went so far as to affirm that woman is 
inferior to man. However, ladies, I think that in 
an enlightened age such as this, it will in no way 
menace existing institutions if a limited number of 
men are allowed to vote upon special questions.’ 
(Applause from the corner quickly silenced by the 
janitresses).” “ You do not want any more of this, you 
say ?” “ The grave is better V' “ Yes, yes; let’s 

back to the cemetery ! It all reminds me of what I 
heard an Irishman say in my day: — ‘ A man and his 
wife used to be one, but now she’s one man and he’s 
another, and it looks as though she had become the 
man ’.” 

M. C. H., Arts ’98. 

Oct. 18, 1895. 



THE UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

The idea of holding a University Banquet is not 
new, but it was not until 1890 that it began to take 
tangible form. During the session of 1889-90 the 
Faculties of Arts, Science and Law united with the 
Graduates Society in holding a joint dinner, Mr 
Alfred E. Harvey, then a student in Law, was one of 
the enthusiastic leaders in the movement, and acted 
as president of the Committee. 

The following session 1890-91 saw the students of 
the different Faculties, the Professional staff and the 
Graduates Society united in the University Banquet. 
This was undoubtedly the largest dinner ever held 
in the history of the University. The work was ex- 
tremely heavy, but was undertaken and carried 
through in a manner that reflected great credit upon 
the members of the Committee. 

The students of each Faculty elected two delegates ; 
the professors were represented, as was also the Gra- 
duates Society. Although the Students had control 
of the Committee, the number who responded to 
toasts, etc., was very small. With a considerable de- 



gree of self-abasement, which by the way is quite 
characteristic, they resigned their rights and privileges 
in favor of Sir John A. Macdonald, Sir John 
Thompson, Hon. Wilfred Laurier, Hon. Geo, E. 
Foster and others. The gentlemen named were all 
present, and spoke. 

It may be remarked en passant that the Dominion 
Elections were held a few weeks later. 

The question of holding a University Banquet this 
year was discussed in the Graduates Society, a few 
weeks ago. The matter was brought up through a 
report from the Executive Committee, read by the 
Secretary, recommending that such a Banquet beheld 
during the present session. 

The report was adopted after some discussion, and 
a committee named to confer with the Undergra- 
duates and Corporation. As it is understood that 
the students are strongly in favor of the, scheme, it is 
probable that at the next meeting of the Society two 
delegates will be named to act on the dinner com- 
mittee. Now that the Sports are over, it would seem 
advisable that the students of the different Faculties 
should lose no time in electing two representatives 
each to perform a similar duty. 

So soon as these representativ^es are elected, noth- 
ing will remain but to arrange for a joint meeting 
and begin work. 

The Graduates Society, while desirous that the 
management shall remain in the hands of the students, 
will elect delegates to the dinner committee, and co- 
operate vigorously in every way possible. 



POETRY. 



TO MONTREAL. 

O thou fair city — metropolis of a land 
Inferior to none that Mighty God hath planned, 

O Thou fair city — blessed by benefactors good 
And beautified by mountain, stream and wood. 

Thy vine-clad hills and flow’ry vales entrance 
And mind the Frenchman of his sunny France. 

Thy shady paths and fertile meadows near at hand 
Recall the memory of the English mother-land. 

Thy rising background with its rocky mountain- side 
Make Scotchmen think of home, and thinking swell with 

[pride. 

Thou’rt rich in all the gifts that human can bestow, 

Blessed by the grace kind heaven sends below. 

Where e’er the wise the field of Education till 
There rings the glorious name of Old McGill. 

When e’er we laud great England’s Sovereign’s fame. 

We praise our hospital and bridge which bear her name. 

O Montreal, thy every beauty makes thee dear. 

May each grow on, increasing year by year. 

S. P. Q.,’97. 



28 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



COMPETITIVE CRAM. 

I could not tell the cutler’s name 

Who sold the blade that murdered Caesar ; 

Or fix the hour when Egypt’s Queen 

First thought that Antony might please her. 

I could not tell how many miles 

Within a score rolled Thames or Tiber ; 

Or count the centuries of a tree 
By close inspection of its fibre ; 

So I was plucked, and lost my chance, 

And plodding Cram passed proudly o’er me. 

Who cares for Cram ? I’ve common sense, 

And health, and all the world before me ! 

H. M. 



REVEALED. 

My friend, they’ve torn the soft gray mist away, 

, The veil that covered all the blemishes 
Of your great nature ; there are such defects 
Ev’n in the purest ; and, although they thought 
Thus to destroy my love, such revelation serves 
But to intensify it, for, to me, 

You seemed too high above me, and too good, 

Almost, for friendship. Now, at last, I feel 
That you are huriian^ and that welcome thought 
Lends to my love a new, a sweeter strength. 

M. T. W. 



SOCIETIES. 



THE UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY 

SOCIETY. 

The Undergraduates Literary Society opened the 
season with a political debate : “ Resolved, that Free 
Trade with Great Britain and her Colonies would be 
a benefit to Canada.” The subject being one of gen- 
eral interest, there was a large attendance. Many of 
those present who were not members, or - were too 
prejudiced on the question to vote on the merit of 
the arguments brought forth, refrained from “showino- 
hands”. The resolution carried on a small vote. 

In his historical essay on Football Mr. Duff ad- 
vanced the general proposition that the College is large 
enough to put on campus winning teams in both 
“ socker" and “ rugger." 

There is nothing like a new broom for sweeping 
clean. Members of the Society will be pleased by 
the announcement of President Mitchell : “ I shall 
open these meetings sharp at eight o’clock, gentle- 
men, in order that we may get away by ten. 

The Freshman class in Arts proved the attraction 
at the second meeting of the above Society The 
critic commented on the fact that the new members 
seemed a trifle inclined to enjoy their own jokes 
This was put down by the meeting to an agitation of 



certain nerve centres caused by the embarrassment 
of dogmatizing on social matters to members of the 
senior years. Mr. Heine’s essay is printed in an- 
other column. Never in the memory of the critic (a 
member of Arts ’97) had there been read before this 
Society a paper which had awakened such general 
applause as this one of Mr. Heine’s. Several telling 
arguments were brought forth by both sides on the 
debate. Evidently the ladies’ champions had the 
best of it, for the vote showed eighteen for and twelve 
against the resolution. There are still a few doubtful 
members in the Society, as a count of those present 
made a total of fifty. 

As“ business arising out of the minutes,” the Presi- 
dent announced that two public debates w'ould pro- 
bably be held with Laval University, also that Prin- 
cipal Peterson had consented to be present at an open 
debate to be held in Molson Hall on Friday evening, 
November ist. The officers of the Literary Society 
will spare no pains to make this debate an interesting 
University event. 

SCRIBUS, JUNIOR. 



Y. W. C. A. 

Two of the most pleasant hours we have spent in 
our meetings were enjoyed on Fridays, Oct. nth and 
Oct. 1 8th. In the former Miss E. Radford, B.A., 
addressed us concerning the Northfield Convention. 
Miss Radford gave us just a glimpse of those sur- 
rounding her there, and told us how a lady missionary 
had been enabled to talk with some Indian women 
about Jesus. She stated she hoped to have done these 
poor, wretched people good in the short space of one 
half hour. Miss Radford tried to press home the 
thought that more missionaries were needed to carry 
on the work. Her address was short and her picture 
of the awful misery in some parts of the mission 
fields so well drawn, that each one would have a good 
idea of the of need our Saviour’s command, “ Go ye 
into all the world.” 



McGILL CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The McGill College Classical Club held its first 
meeting for the session of 1895-6, Thursday, in its 
room in the Library Building, with Mr. Ferguson, 
the retiring vice-president, in the chair. The follow- 
ing officers were elected : Hon. President, Dr. A. 
J. Eaton ; President, Mr, W. S. Ferguson, Arts ’96 ; 
First Vice-President, Mr. J. G. Saxe, Arts ’97; Se- 
cond Vice-President, Mr. Campbell Howard, Arts 
’97 ; Secretary, Mr. D. W. Munn, Arts ’98 ; Treas- 
urer, Mr. R. H. Ker, Arts ’97 ; Executive Committee: 
Messrs. E. E. Howard, B.A., Law ; J. T. Scrimo-er 
Arts ’96 ; and M. C. Heine, Arts ’98; Reporter, Mr! 
T. R. MacMillan, Arts ’97, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



29 



The programme of the Club for this winter will 
consist of lectures and essays on classical subjects. 
Arrangements are being made to enable the students 
to hear eminent classical scholars, and an interesting 
course is guaranteed. On Wednesday evening Oct. 
jOth, the Principal has kindly consented to deliver the 
opening lecture, and an excellent opportunity is thus 
given of hearing Dr. Peterson on his own ground. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the Society was held in the old 
Science Building on Friday, October 1 1 . There was 
a very good attendance, especially of Freshmen. 

The election of officers resulted as follows : — 

Hon. President . — Prof. Harrington. 

President. — Prof. W. A. Carlyle. 

Vice-President . — Mr. F. Rutherford. 

Sec.-Treas. — Mr. J. M. Turnbull. 

Prof. Carlyle read an interesting paper on Ore 
Dressing. 

The meeting was then adjourned till the Friday after 
Sports, so as not to interfere with Theatre Night. 



THE SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF 
COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The tenth annual opening meeting of the above 
Society was held on Thursday evening, the loth inst., 
the President, Dr. Wesley Mills, occupying the chair. 

The inaugural address by Prof. Penhallow was one 
of the best ever delivered before the Society. At its 
close the lecturer was tendered a hearty vote of 
thanks. 

The following officers were elected for the ensuing 
year : — 

President. — Dr. Wesley Mills. 

\st Vice-President. — Dr. Baker. 

2nd Vice-President . — E. H. Morri.s. 

Secjy.- Treasurer. — C. H. Higgins. 

Press Reporter. — Hard H. Dell. 

Cor. -Secretary.— ]. J. McCarrey. 

The President briefly reviewed the work of the 
Society since its organization, and expressed the hope 
that the work of this year would not fall short of pre- 
vious years. 

A letter was read from Dr. Clark Murray regretting 
his inability to be present, after which the meethig 
adjourned. 

Messrs. S. C. Richards and J. Anderson Ness will 
read papers at the next meeting. 

H. D. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

Thursday, October 24th, will henceforth be looked 
back upon as a Red-letter day in the annals of our Society. 
Not only was the debate a most delightful one, but several 



honorary members, among whom was the wife of our new 
Principal, honored us with their presence. 

The subject for debate was : Resolved, that Classics is 

a more important factor in education than Mathematics, and 
although Miss Hutchinson and Miss Mary Cameron up- 
held the Negative most ably, the majority feU that Miss 
Hammond’s and Miss Locke’s arguments were more effec- 
tive. 

Mi s. Murray was requested to make some critical remarks, 
wliich. she did in a most helpful and kindly manner, and 
closed by presenting Mrs. Peterson to the Donalda 
students. When Miss Denoon, the president of the 
Society, had spoken a few words of welcome, Mrs. Peter- 
son made a graceful reply, and the meeting was adjourned. 



THE MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The twenty-first annual opening meeting of the 
Association was held in the Library of the College on 
the loth inst. President Adami occupied the chair, 
but vacated the same in favor of the honorary presi- 
dent, Prof. D. McEachran, during the balloting for 
officers for the ensuing year. 

The following officers were elected : — 

President. — Prof. M. C. Baker. 

1st Vice-President. — Prof. N. D. Gunn. 

2nd Vice-President. — Mr. E. C. Thurston. 

Secy .-Treasurer. — Harri H. Dell. 

Librarian. — Mr. J. Anderson Ness. 

Twelve new members were added to the roll, and 
Dr. Martin was elected to honorary membership. 

A reporting committee, consisting of Messrs. Dell, 
Kee and Richards, was appointed to communicate 
reports of the meetings of the Association to the pro- 
fessional journals. 

An experimental committee was also appointed, 
and judging from the enthusiastic manner in which 
the members of the Society are entering upon the 
work of the session, it bids fair to be one of unusual 
achievement in the work undertaken. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The students of the Faculty received the other day 
what was to them an unexpected announcement by 
the Dean, Dr. Trenholme, that he had resigned his 
office, and would at an early date retire from the work 
with which his name has been so long connected. 

To say that the news is unwelcome is to say little. 
There is not a student among us who does not feel 
that he will suffer a personal loss. Dr. Trenholme 
has been a friend as well as an instructor to the 
students ; all have valued the fund of legal learning 
and experience that has been at their service for so 
long. It would be difficult to find a professor who 



30 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



takes such a keen interest in the welfare of his stu- 
dents as Dean Trenholine. His love for the Profes- 
sion is an inspiration, and his confidence in the future 
of the Dominion and the empire to which it belongs 
IS such as to awaken responsive sentiments in all * 
coming into contact with him, especially in the capa- 
city of students. 

It is perhaps hoping against hope, but we cannot 
refrain from expressing the earnest wish that some 
way will be discovered that will permit of the Dean’s 
retaining his connection with the Faculty and with 
the University of which it forms a part. 

Mr. Claud Hickson, one of our most prominent 
Freshmen, some days ago generously decided to give 
his employees a pleasant holiday in the form of atrip 
to Beauharnois. Mr. Hickson was accompanied by 
his two lady typewriters, the book-keeper, the office 

boy and his junior partner Mr. McL , a special 

car having been obtained for the occasion. We hear 
th.it the trip was most enjoyable. 



The students will be sorry to hear of the serious ill- 
ness of Mr. Daoust (“ J oe ”), the genial Deputy Protho- 
notary of the Superior Court. It is to be hoped that 
Mr. Daoust’s illness is of a merely temporary nature. | 



A meeting was held on the ninth of this month, to 
consider the election of a representative for the Col- 
lege Y.M.C.A. Board. It was moved, that as Mr. 
Patterson was a graduate, and therefore unable to 
represent the Faculty, Mr. Geo. M. Sinn should be 
elected as our representative for this post. There 
being no opposition, as Mr. Sinn is undoubtedly the 
right man in the right place, the election was declared 
unanimous. 



1 he First Year men are very fortunate in having an 
orator like Mr. H in their class. 

With all the eloquence and force of a Cicero, that 
gentleman slated that “ he was grieved, deeply grieved, 
at the Jinseemly levity with which a certain courteous in- 
tiinatio 7 t had been received by our Faculty. (As far 
as we know we received no intimation at all, courteous 
or otherwise ; but that didn’t matter to Mr. H.) 

“Surely,” he continued, “it was derogatory to our 

dignity as a ” Here emotion checked the speaker 

for a few minutes, and by the time he had recovered 
he found himself ruled out of order by the President 
The remainder of this instructive and eloquent speech 
has therefore, most unfortunately, been lost to 
posterity. 



V. Evelyn Mitchell is like the gentleman whoawoke 
one morning and found himself famous. On the 
4th of October, he took out a writ of saisie-arrit 



avaiit jugement against Mr. Herbert, the funny man 
of the Lillian Russell Opera Co. Not only did 
he name Miss Russell as tiers saist, but he actually 
succeeded in finding her husbatid, a thing not all the 
papers in America could do. 

Thus V. E. M., by his own great genius, set at rest the 
discussion which for four years has been agitating all 
those interested in the matrimonial status of the fair 
though unfortunate Lillian. What more could man 
desire ? 

Ordinary people would have been quite satisfied, 
but M. was t^ot an ordinary man. On the 15th of 
October he immortalized himself by travelling to 
Ottawa as the avowed champion and representative 
of the minority in this Province. 

He carried with him a petition regarding the ap- 
pointment of a judge and a Saratoga trunk filled with 
signatures in support thereof. He interviewed the 
Premier, members of the Government, and reporters, 
and though he did not accomplish his noble object, yet 
he has earned undying glory for the way in which he 
championed the rights of that large — though evidently 
not influential — class whom he represented. 

We are all fond of M., and our poetical friend Mr. 
Brossoit is writing an epic in the hero’s honor. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 

“ McGill’s football team should be better than it is 
They have practically all day to practice.” 

It may surprise the Sporting Editor of one of our 
Dailies, who penned the above lines, to learn that one 
of our Professors suggested to the over-worked Seniors 
that they spend Sports Day in the drawing room to 
overtake the work that is crowding them so. 



That McGill is commencing to be known abroad is 
shown by the fact that four students from colleges 
in England and Scotland are taking graduate courses 
in her laboratories. 



During the Street Railway Convention, many of 
our students visited the exhibition of appliances in 
the Victoria Rink and that of theG.E. in the Wind- 
sor block. At the latter place, some of them imbibed 
more than a knowledge of street railway practice, 
but not while the professor was around. 

They say J made a special visit for this pur- 
pose. 

Students would be pleased to share candies with 
the professor during lecture hours. 



Pt'of . — Take no notes, the BOOK will be out next 
week. 



A favorite expression of D-n-s ; “ I’ll ‘ raise ’ it one.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



31 



The Fourth Year Electricals have learned that with 

a certain value of R the well know formula C — 

R 

may be written 

Corpse = 

Remains 



Science man translating “ Fiat justitia ruat coelum ” 
— “The fiat of justice rules heaven !” 



We miss Norman G ; the poor deluded boy has 

gone into Arts. R.I.P. 



At the Kermess — Freshman (reading huge sign 
“ Lingerie ”). — “ Say, what sort of a drink is that there 
lingerie ? ” 

The question now troubling the Juniors is whether 
g = 980.68276001 or = 980.682760009. Also the 
Practical Astronomy class would like someone to ex- 
plain the phenomenon of the two moons on Theatre 
Night (and morning). 



Refreshments can be had at certain drawing desks 
ever since the Street Railway men were here. 



What a charming way the Sophs have of saluting 
their learned lecturers on St. Catherine st. : “ Hello ! ” 



MEDICAL REPORTS. 

We are glad to note that Medicine turne.J out in 
first rate order. Anybody hearing the wild strains of 
bewitching music let loose upon the calm evening air 
will vouch that we are a sound Faculty in more ways 
than one. 



The silver tenor of the Fourth Year (known better 
perhaps as “ Rupie ”) was highly indignant at practice 
the other evening. Someone enquired ; — “ Who is 
that filing saws up there on the back .seat } ” 

It is said that during practice in the Medical build- 
ing, the relics of a former generation in the bone room 
held “high carnival.” No wonder; we don’t doubt it 
in the least. 



The following remark was overheard one day last 
week : “ If my father keeps me in such a chronic dead 
broke condition. I’ll be covered with financial bed 
sores.” 



A RIDDLE. 

To keep in most perfect condition, 

All drinking a player must stop, 

Now, how can a half-back keep sober 
When he’s always taking a dr opt 

The procession on Friday evening was a “howling 
success,” so everybody says. 



FOURTH YEAR ARTS. 

Listen, P'reshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors ; we 
would not deprive you of wisdom we have gained. 
Heed well the words we quote. He who spoke them 
has gazed into the mysteries of the earth. Guard well 
this fact ; “ When the snow falls everything is cov- 

ered.” 



One of the most prominent members of the Class ’96 
confesses that he accepts without question all the pro- 
fessors tell him. Poor fellow ! His religious faith (and 
we believe he has some) stands in danger of some 
hard raps, if we are to judge from the heterodox 
remarks which have already fallen into the over- 
receptive soil of his mind. For instance, our Pro- 
fessor of Geology sets himself to prove that Heaven is 
not so pure a place as the Seer of Patmos would have 
us believe. He firmly maintains that even the color- 
ation of its foundation stones— amethyst, garnet, 
jasper, etc. — is due to the presence of certain “ impur- 
ities ” in their composition. What will science tell 
us next } Personally we are living in mortal dread 
lest the temperance cause should suffer by the promul- 
gation of the doctrine that the “ Water of the River 
of Life ” is not pure H2O, but a compound closely 
allied to the more mundane aqua vitae!' 



Can our courtesy and kindness be paralleled .!* 
One of our number has the true pronunciation of 
Latin, but in the exceeding kindness of his heart he 
gives the Professor permission to go on in his erron- 
ous pronunciation so long as he does not make it too 
obtrusive. 



Prof, m Geology. — “ Agates are now found princi- 
pally in South America, and are sent over to Ger- 
many to be worked.” 

Enterprising Partial. — “ Professor, would it not be 
a paying business to work those agates where they 
are found ?” 

Professor’s answer not heard. 

THIRD YEAR. 

The Juniors notice with pleasure the heroic (though 
somewhat spasmodic) efforts that our Sophies are 
making to overcome their youthful bashfulness and 
speak out at the Faculty meetings. Little D....f. espe- 
cially is practising a great deal. 



How inspiring it is to sit in our large, beautifully 
frescoed, bright, well ventilated hall, and to gaze at the 
hard- wood ceilings, and wonder if other colleges are as 
happy as we in the possession of such a magnificent 
lecture room for Induction. 



32 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



O Juniors ! zvhat do you think ? McM r took 

a lecture with the Donalda Sophomores the other 
afternoon. 



Arts ’97 held a meeting Saturday last, to decide 
whether or not they should possess a class banner, 
Messrs. Saxe, Macfarlane, Browne, Russell and Rowat 
supported the idea, but were energetically opposed 
by Mr. McLeod ar.d ‘ Ch -r ie ” Ives. 

The meeting, however, desired an emblem, and 
Messrs J. G. Browne and L. Macfarlane were elected 
to make all arrangements. 

Mr. Colin Russell, who has so ably fulfilled the 
requirements of the position for the last two years, 
was again elected 97’s Line-marshal for Theatre 
Night. Mr. Russell will be assisted by Mr. Ives. 

Mors lepi est nobiscum, 

Manus nostri sanguine : 

Ciel, par nos rouges mains ce jour, 

Tiens notre lepereau aime : 

Heaven send on us forgiveness, 

We, a helpless hare, didst stay ! 

It wasn’t at ail necessary for “ Blogger” to tell us 
that the first time he ever learned to sharpen a razor 
was in Kxtra Botany a few days ago. Have patience, 
old man ; everything comes to him who waits. 



A Senior says that the most approved style of ingra- 
tiating one’s self with a woman is to kiss her baby. 
What pretty young widow is Mr. George trying to 
flirt with now ? 



The bunnie feebly kicked. But the referee 
siying ’twas a motion of the involuntary muscles 
gave his knife a touch down. 

•■’Twas too much for Alec ; he turned and exam- 
ined the polyhedyroaricuss of a fly. 



Arts ’97 holds four offices in the Literary Society 
and four in the Classical Club. 



Axiom I. — It’s a wise child that knows that it 
doesn’t know more than its own father. 

Corollary I. — A wise Freshman knows that he 
knows less than his lawful superior, the Sophomore. 

We are pained, however, to see that a stimulus 
must be applied to the sense of sight as well as to 
the sense of hearing, in order that an impression 
may be made on the Freshmen. By the aid of 
lantern and lecture, however, we hope they will de- 
velop sufficient plumage to stand a little plucking 
at Christmas. In the meantime, Freshies, remem- 
ber, always be polite to the ladies. One thing more 



— you are out of school now, and your professors are 
your best friends ; treat them accordingly. 

A SOPHOMORE. 

FIRST YEAR ARTS. 

The Students of Arts ’99 held a meeting on Mon- 
day, October 21st, to organize a Football team. 

Mr. Burton was appointed Captain, with a com- 
mittee of two to assist him. 



The Marshals for Theatre Night were Messrs. E. 
Burke and W. G. Gumming. 

Mr. Angel being absent. Dr. Day remarked that 
he had probably departed to another world. He is 
a theolog now, however. 

Professor Harrington says that the Chemistry 
room has such good ventilation that it has blown 
the hair off the top of his head. 



FACULTY OF COMPARATIVE MEDICINE. 

It is extremely gratifying to the students of this 
Faculty to learn that the New York Board of Veter- 
inary Examiners have included the Faculty of Comp. 
Med. of McGill in the list of (six) American schools 
which are “ properly equipped and give the necessary 
three years instruction by a full staff of veterinary 
instructors.” 

The law of the “survival of the fittest” obtains in 
veterinary education as elsewhere, and its operation 
at the present day is particularly evident. 



A lecture to the Class Reporters on procrastination 
would be in order ; but probably a word to the wise is 
sufficient. 



An article entitled “ Passing of the Horse, ” and re- 
flecting unjustly on some veterinary students, ap- 
peared a few days ago in a local daily. 

Whether the author had attended the exhibition 
of the American Street Ry. Union, or had temporarily 
forgotten the early religious training we hope he 
received, it would be difficult to say. 

In future we trust he will, in his references to 
persons, either be more explicit or confine himself to 
a statement of the facts of the matter. 



A meeting of the three Years was held, to consider 
the advisability of holding a University Banquet, and 
all expressed their unanimous approval, and promised 
support of the same. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



33 



Second Year. 

We hear with regret that Mr. B. A. Sugden is con- 
fined to his room with a severe attack of appendicitis. 

The craze among some of the boys ^eems to be to 
have the appendages on their upper lip removed. 
It makes a vast difference in their appearance. 

We hear that Mr. A. L. Grover is not going to re- 
turn to “ Old McGill ” this year. 

The boys were happy when it was learned that 
there would be no Anatomy lecture on Monday. 



Third Year. 

Mr. B. K. Benjamin has resigned his position in 
the Wang company, and intends to take the course 
in veterinary science. 

Musical Director Richards is hustling these days, 
and by next issue we hope to announce the organiz- 
ation of a glee club “ second to none. ” 

Judging from appearances, some of the Final men 
are taking a special course in the holding of autopsies. 

Prof. — “Can you give me an infallible sign of 
death ?” 

Student. — “Yes, sir. Crape on the door.” 

Mr. Chas. H. Higgins, B.A.Sc. (Comp. Med., ’(96), 
is with us again. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

“ Where, oh where are the grand old seniors 

Miss Watson is teaching in the Victoria School ; 
Miss Travis in the Trafalgar Institute ; Miss Radford 
in the Girls’ High Schoo't ; and Miss Cameron in a 
school in New York. 

Miss Wilson, Miss Whiteaves and Miss Armstrong 
are at home, leaving the young idea’s shooting lesson 
to their former class-males. 

In our Honor History lectures we are discovering 
that hitherto we have been “ like dumb-driven 
cattle,” caring only to get our notes down, with never 
a word to the professor in the midst of it all. Ought 
we not to profit by the example set us, and cast aside 

the old idea that. 

“ There’s not to make reply, 

There’s not to reason why.” 



“Solitaire” was the characteristic feature of the 
Geology tramp to Lachute. The following Satur- 
day, over the mountains, however, we learn that the 
attention was divided between a “sweet,” “cute,” 



little “Ascidia,” and the location of certain gravel 
beds, which had been minutely described, but which, 
by the way, failed to be materialized by everyone. 
Then there were the courtesies to be extended to 
those unfortunate ones who were always away 
behind. The versatility of attention in this respect 
was more amusing than polite. 

At the Gymnasium. 

“Watch the students go up the avenue” said 
instruction’s voice. “How perfectly dreadful!” 
whispered the Donaldas; but the look of horror died 
on their faces as the voice continued, “ and see if you 
do not notice that nearly all of them have one 
shoulder higher than the other. This comes from 
the very common habit of studying with one elbow 
resting on the table. This you must carefully avoid.’ 
At this matter-of-fact conclusion a sigh of relief 
was audible. 



Case of Absorption. 

P hilosophy Student . — “ Oh ! my dear K — lam so 
glad to see you ! You have not been up for age.s. 
Have you just had a lecture ” 

The dear K — did not reply except with a look of 
scorn, as she had taken notes beside her friend at 
the last lecture. 

Several of the Third Year have expressed regret 
that they did not feel equal to the Saturday demon- 
stration. Certainly it was from no lack of interest 
that many were absent. Might we not leave our 
nerves at home, and, looking at things in a purely 
scientific light, forget our natural pity for poor 
Bunny. 

We are now fairly into the swing of the term’s 
work, and no longer conversation in the odd 
moments turns exclusively to the doings of the sum- 
mer. We have all proved satisfactorily to our dear 
friends that we were “away all the summer,” and we 
have listened with varying success to that intermin- 
able “what you did.” 

Professor . — “Did you prepare the work at all ” 

She (sweetly smiling) — “ I looked over it.” 

Professor . — “ Then you just managed to overlook 
every important point in it.” 

Our Second Year confreres are possessed with 
boundless musical enthusiasm. And we are treated 
to charming stentorian serenades as we emerge from 
a toilsome hour of pulling dried flowers to bits. 
Never mind. We know full well that very presently 
they will be wailing, sunk in the depths of Botan- 
ical terms. 



34 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



One day at Mathematics, on being told that there 
is such a thing as an angle of i8o^, a sceptical young 
lady of the First Year thought she would make her ‘ 
own proof. So she commenced with the angles made i 
by the legs of her chair, going gently backward, but 
suddenly her head reached the floor with such a con- 
clusive thump that she now believes all she is told | 
and keeps her chair erect. j 

Professor.— "' 1 ^\x\. a rabbit into Oxygen what 
will it do } 

Donalda “ Swim ! ” 

(Ye who are steeped in chemical and zoological 
lore, forgive this artless answer. Her young feet have 
but entered our classic portals, and it will not belong 
before she realizes that her reply should have been : 

“ Sir, the rodent would expire.”) 

Thursday, the 17th, from three to six o’clock, 
Prof. Moyse gave a lecture in the Physics Building to 
the students of the First Year. The lime-light views 
were very much enjoyed, especially those of the old 
abbeys, and it is hoped this pleasure will be repeated. | 
One slide showed us our forefathers when youths going i 
to college. Their descendants who sat downstairs at 1 
first looked dismally at it, for the thought of such an 
ancestry was not flattering. Their wonted cheerful- 
ness returned, however, when they realized that these 
men had not their privilege of education at this 
centre of Canadian learning. 

ATHLETICS. 



SPORTS D.\Y. 

A grand success ! 

Everybody pleased. 

Seven new records established. 

Medicine holds the Faculty trophy, and the relay race is 
hers, while Science glories in the individual trophy. 

An overcast sky, a chilly wind and a drizzling rain 
marred the pleasure of the morning eveiits, but the 
“ rooters ” of the different Faculties were on deck, and when 
at half past nine the opening bell rang out, the campus 
was surrounded by a crowd of ardent sports. 

Molson proved the lustiest kicker, and accordingly 5 
points went to Arts in the first event. Science capturing 
4 points for second and third. Medicine was next heard 
from, for the two Macs heaved the hammer beyond all 
competitors, McLennan making a new record, 85 ft. 
inch. 

In the trial heats of the Hundred Yards, Irvine, Baker 
and Moore were the first to cross the tape. The race 
between Moore and Campbell was veiy close, Moore only 
winning by about a foot. 

Medicine again added 8 points to her score in the 56 lb. 
shot competition, and the Medicos were happy, McLennan 
and Harris doing the needful. 

Campbell s^^read himself over 42 feet 7^ inches in the 
hop, step and jump, establishing a record and scoring 
for Medicine. 



The 'I'hrowing Cricket ball went to Robertson of Medi- 
cine; Robertson is a ‘“long-geared” young man, who 
thinks nothing of hurling a ball iio yards. He made a 
new College record of 109 yards, i foot, 5 inches. Lynch 
came second. 

The marning competitions closed with the 16 lb. shot 
putting, and Medicine again climbed a step nearer the 
Faculty trophy : McLennan ist, McDougall 2nd. 



AFTKRNOON SPORTS. 



It was certainly a great idea to hold the afternoon events 
on the M. A. A. A. grounds. 

Long before 2 o’clock St. Catherine street was crowded 
with gaily dressed people flockitig to the grounds, and 
before the half mile bicycle race came eff, 3,000 specta- 
tors were present. 

Everywhere the red and white of McGill, the orange 
and black of Princeton, and the blue of Yale greeted the 
eye. 

Near the centre of the Grand Stand, seats were reserved 
for the visiting collegians, and a fine looking lot of young 
men they wete. The boys of Old McGill were everywhere, 
and the well known McGill yell shattered the air on all 
sides, varied with the, “ Rah, rah, rah rah, — Yale !” — and 
the “ Ray-ray-ray tiger, Sis-s-ss boom ! ah ! Prince- 
ton ! ” of the visitors. 

Everybody was jolly and everybody well behaved. 
When Medicine scored, the cry was all M-e-d i-c-i-n-e; and 
as Moore of Science forged ahead in the short races, the 
Faculty of Applied Science tang clear and loud above the 
general din. From the first event till Craig crossed the 
line, an easy winner for Medicine in the relay race, the 
interest never abated. 

Records were broken in the Hurdle Race, V2 mile 
Bicycle, 3 mile Bicycle, i mile Bicycle, and the 440 yards 
race. 

The 220 yards was the best race of the day. Tees, 
Moore and Campbell crossing the tape almost together 
and in the order mentioned. 

In the 3 mile Bicycle, Coussirat of Science and Cameron 
of Medicine fought it out the whole way. The Science 
man, however, w as too strong for his opponent, and won 
by wheel. 



Campbell and Moore both did great w'ork, — the forme 
in the jumps, and the latter as a sprinter. 

The Medical relay runners also had an easy thing with 
their o[ ponents, and the last two men, Craig and Mussen, 
were never in danger. 

The heartiest thanks ot the McGill Students as a whole 
are tendered to the M. A. A. by the Fortnightly for their 
kindness in loaning their beautiful track and grounds for 
the day. It was by no means the least important factor 
in making the Sports a grand success. 









« t. A A C % • O 



Referee— Prof. D. P. Penhalloiv, B.Sc. 

Judges— Principal Peterson, M. A., I.L.D., ; Prof B I 
Harrington, M.A., Ph.D., ; Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B A ■ 

Pr..f. A. McGottn, M.A., B.C L:, ; T. L. i aton, M. A. A A ■ 
R. Tait McKenzie, B.A., M.D. ^ 

Timekeepers-Prof.C. H. McLeod. .Ma.E.tJ. A Taylor 
C.W.A. ; D.D. MacTaggart, B.A.Sc., Med 
Starter— Prof. R. T. Ruttan, B.A., M.D. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



35 



Clerk and Assistant Clerk of Course, — R. Pothier Dou- 
cet, Herbert Ross. 

Measurers — Prof. R. S. McLea, Ma.E., F. L. Thom- 
son, E. H. McLea. 

Scorers — A. Philip Brace, S. C. Richards. McGill Univer- 
sity A. .A., hon. president, Charles J. Fleet, B.A., B.C.L. ; 
president, T. Tetreau, Med. ; vice-president, Graham 
Drinkwater, App. Sc. ; secretary, K. Molson, .Arts; hon. 
treasurer, Prof. Wm. A. Carl>le, Ma.E. ; treasurer, H. M. 
Killaly, B. A, App. Sc. 

Committee — Arts, Herbert Ross and Robt. C. Pa- 
terson ; Law, R. Pothier Doucet and E. E. Howard, P.A. ; 
Medicine, F. L. Thomson and N. Grace ; App., Sc, H. R. 
Trenholme, and E. H. McLea ; Comp. Med., S C. Rich- 
ards and Walter Burns. ; Theology, A. P. Brace and Wallace 
Johnson. 

McGILL RECORDS, FIELD DAY, OCT. 15TH. 

Kicking football. — ist, K. Molson, Arts ’96, 1 53 ft. 9 in. 
2nd, H. Trenholme, Sci. ’96 ; 3rd, W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99. 

Throwing i61b. hammer. — ist, F. McLennan, Med. ’98 
85ft. in.; 2nd, J. G. McDougall, Med. ’97, 80 ft. 6 
in. Record broken by both ist and 2nd. 

Pole leap. — ist, J. H. Milburn, Med. ’96, 9 ft. 3 in. ; 2nd, 
H. P. Archibald, Sci. ’98; 3rd, R. Dalgleish, Arts ’98. 

Throwing heavy weight, 56 lbs. — ist, F. McLennan, 
Med. ’98, 21 ft. 9J4 in. ; 2nd, W. Harris, Med. ’99 ; 3rd, 
G. J. Berwick, Med. ’98. 

Running hop, step and jump. — ist, H. C. Campbell, 
Med. ’97, 42 ft. 7j4 in. ; 2nd, E, C. S. Harding, Med. '97 ; 
3rd, W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99. Record. 

Throwing cricket ball. — ist, H. M. Robertson, Med. ’97, 
109 yds. 9 1-2 ; 2nd, W. Lynch, Med. ’98 ; 3rd, A. W. 
Robert, Med. ’97. Record broken. 

Putting shot, 16 lbs. — ist, F. McLennan, Med. ’98, 
34 ft. 2 >% i 2nd, J. G. McDougall, Med. ’97 ; 3rd, P. 
Walker, Med. ’98. 

Bicycle race, mile.— ist, H. M. Killaly, Sci. ’96, 

1 min. 15 4-5 sec.; 2nd, R. A. Ker, Med. ’97 ; 3rd, A. W. 
Robert, Med. ’97. New Event. Record made. 

Running broad jump. — ist, H. C. Campbell, Med. ’97, 
19 ft. 5 in.; 2nd, W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99 ; 3rd, J. A. 
McCabe, Med. ’97. 

880 yards run — ist, J. W. Woodley, Med. ’99, 2 mim 
II sec.; 2nd, A. T. Mussen, Med. ’98 ; 3rd, H. Smith? 
Med. ’97. 

100 yards dash. — ist, W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99, 10 3-5 sec.; 
2nd, H. C. Campbell, Med. ’97 ; 3rd, R. H. Craig, Med. 
’96. 

High jump. — ist, F. W. Harvey, Med. ’98, 5 ft. 2j^ in.; 
2nd, C. E. S. Harding, Med. ’97 ; 3id, A. A. Cunningham, 
Med. ’99. 

One mile run. — ist, J. S. R. Green, Sci. ’96, 5 min. 2 1-2 
sec.; 2nd, H. Smith, Med. ’97 ; 3rd, H. M. Church, Med.’ 96. 

220 yards run. — ist, J. Tees, Med. ’96, :;4 1-5 sec.; 2nd, 
W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99 ; 3rd, H. C. Campbell, Med. ’97. 
Bicycle race, i mile. — ist, H. A. Coussirat, Sci. ’99, 

2 min. 36 2-5 sec. ; 2nd, H. M. Killaly, Sci. ’96 ; 3rd, L. G. 
Cameron, Med. ’99- Record broken. 



M.A.A.A. r.ice, 440 yds. — ist, \V. A. .Moore, Sci. ’99, 
54 I 5 sec. ; 2nd, J. Tees, Med. ’96; 3 d, A. T. Mussen, 
Med. ’98. Record broken. 

Bicycle race, 3 miles. — ist, H. A.Cou sirat, Sci. ’99, 8 
min. 20 2-5 sec. ; 2nd, T.. G. Cameron, Med. ’99 ; 3rd, H. M. 
Killaly, Sci. ’96. Record broken. 

Faculty team race, i FS mile, four relays. — First relay — 
ist, J. VV. Woodley, Med.; 2nd, C. B. Morgan, SA. ; 3rd, J. 
Todd, Arts. 

Second relay — ist, W. Colson, Sci. ; 2nd, H. Smith, 
Med.; 3rd, W. Rowait, Arts. 

Third relay — ist, A. T. Mussen, Med. ; 2nd, J. Burnham, 
Sci. ; 3rd, K. Molson, Arts. 

Final — ist, R. H. Craig, Med. ; 211 1, J. Green, Sci. ; 3rd, 
H. Baker, Arts. Time — 5.34 1-5. 

120 yards hurdle. — 1st, H. C. Campbell, Med. ’97, 19 
sec. ; 2nd, W. A. Moore, Sci. ’99 ; 3rd, J. Tecs, Med. ’96. 
Record broken. 

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. 

OFFICERS 1895-96. 

Hon. President. — C. J. Fleet, B.A., B.C L. 

Hon. Treasurer. — W. A. Carlyle, Ma. E. 

Presidcf.t. — T. 'l eireau, Med. ’96. 

Vice-President. — G. Diinkwater, Sc ’97. 

Secretary. — K. Molson, Arts ’96. 

Treasurer. — H. M. Killaly, Sc, ’96. 

ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL CLUB. 

OFFICERS FOR 1 895-96 

Hon. President. — Prof. C. H. McLeod. 

President. — A. J. Grant, Med. ’96. 

Vice-President. — J. Johnston, Arts ’98. 

Secretary. — W. E. Dean, Med. ’96. 

Treasurer. — A. P. Brace, Theology. 

Curator. — W. H. Watters, Arts ’96. 

Captain. — A. F. Edwards, Med. ’96. 

RUGBY FOOTBALL CLUB. 

OFFICERS FOR 1895-96. 

Hon. President. — Prof. Nicholson, B Sc. 

President . — L Drum, B.A., Med. ’96. 

Vice-President. — S. Davidson, Sc. ’97. 

Secretary. — W. G. Turner, Arts ’96. 

Treasurer. — J. C. Hickson, B.A. 

Captain \st XV. — H. Trenholme, Sc. ’96. 

“ 2nd XV. — G. Drinkwater, Sc. ’97. 

“ 3rr/YF.— R H. Balfour, Sc. ’97. 

McGill Records, 1894. 

For a college where comparatively so little time is spent 
in training, our Athletic records are good, and they are grow- 
ing better year by year. Not a year passes but that on Sports 
Day some new record is made. 

There is still room for improvement all along the line. 
Most of the records can be improved without the excessive 
training that has to be maintained in making the semi-pro- 
fessional records of some of the American colleges. 

1. — Kicking fool ball, Mathewson, 168 ft. 5 J^in. 1892 

2. — Throwing cricket ball, Ault, 108 yds. ii in. 1888 

3. — 16 lb. shot, McDougall, 35 ft. 9 in. . . . 1893 

4. — 561b. weight. Brown, 22 ft. 7 J4 in. . . 1893 

5. — 16 lb. hammer, Watson, 76 ft. 9 in, . . . 1890 



36 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



7 

8 

y 

10 
1 1 
r 2 

13 

14 

^5 

16 

’7 

18 



— Running broad jump, ('ampbcll, 20 ft. 11 in. 1894 

— Runring Iiigh jump, Killaly, 5 fi. \n. . 1892 

— Pole U ap, Milburne, 9 ft. in, . . . 1892 

— I mile bicycle, Coussirat, 2111.45 15 sec. . '894 

— 3 mile bicycle, Coussirat, 9 m. 8 3-5 sec. . 1894 

— I mile run, Rrodie, 4 m. 40 3-5 see. . . 1894 

— yi mile run, barber, 2 m. 2 3-5 sec. . . . 1893 

— y( mile run. Tees, 54 2-5 sec 1893 

— 220 yds. run, Campbell, 23 4-5 sec. . . . 1894 

, ( Kennedy. 10 2-5 sec. . . 1881; 

— too yds. run,^ ^ ^ 

^ Campbell, 10 2-5 sec. . . . 1893 

— 120 ) ds. hurdle, Campbell, 19 1-5 sec. . . ’894 

— 1 mile walk, Robins, 8 m. 8 2-5 sec. . . . ^893 

— Sack race (110 yds.). Baker, 17 see. . 



YALE— CAM 13 RI DGE. 

Yankee athletes are in the ascendant. The sons of 
Eli triumphed on the 5th inst., and Yale has avenged 
her smashing by Oxford last year. The long series 
of disasters to the Britishers on this side of the water 
this year it is to be hoped will only set them more 
eagerly to work to even up A Briton does not know 
when he is vanquished, and in Yanks and Cana- 
dians this year at least he has found foemen worthy 
of his steel. But Cambridge has grit, and no one will 
regret. That in the mile, half, and 440 yard runs they 
captured the prize events of the day, if only three. 
In the shot and hammer they were not even classed. 
But it was a great day, perfect weather, everyone in 
good condition, and fortunately no steamers blocked 
the track. Summaries below : — We give results in 
full for comparison with our records onfield day. 

100 yards dash — Won by W. M. Richards, Yale ; 
R. W, Burnett, Yale, 2; H. Lewin, Cambridge, 3. 
Time, 10 1-5. 

120 yards hurdle race (American style) — Won by 
E. H. Cady, Yale ; G. B. Hatch, Yale, 2 ; L. E. Pil- 
kington, Cambridge, 3. Time, 16. 

300 yards run — Won by W. M. Richards, Yale ; 
C. H. Levin, Cambridge, 2 ; W. Fitzherbert, Cam- 
bridge, 3. Time, 32 2-5, 

Half mile run — Won by F, S. Horan, Cambridge ; 
P. W, Crane, Yale, 2. Time, 2.00 2-5. Each college 
started only one representative. The race was a gift 
for the Cambridge president, who made the running 
from the start. 

One mile run — Won by W. E. Lutyens, Cambridge; 
J.E. Morgan, Yale, 2 ; H. J. Davenport, Cambridge, 
3. Time, 4 minutes 35 3-5 seconds. 

440 yards run — Won by E. H. Lewin, Cambridge ; 
W. M. Richards, Yale, 2 ; W. Fitzherbert, Cambridge, 
3. Time, 49 4-5 seconds. 

1 20 yards hurdle, English style, on grass, with fixed 
hurdles — Won by G. B. Hatch, Yale ; W. M. P'letcher, 
Cambridge, 2; E. H. Cady, Yale, 3. Time, 16 se- 
conds. 

Running high jump — Won by J. H. Thompson, jr., 
Yale, 5 feet 8 y( inches ; F. M. Jennings, Cambridge, 
and L. P. Sheldon, Yale, tied for second place at 5 
feet yy{ inches. Johnson was the first to go out at 5 
feet inches. The others all failed at 5 feet yy( 
inches, and after a lot of tedious trials Thompson won 
the tie, clearing 5 feet 8 inches. Jennings and Shel- 
don tied for second, but did not jump off. 



Running broad jump — Won by L. P.^ Sheldon, 
Yale, 21 fect4j^ inches ; P'. M. Jennings, Cambridge, 
21 feet, 2 ; R. Mitchell, Yale, 20 feet 9^ inches, 3. 

Putting 16 lb. shot — Won by W. O. Plickok, ^ ale, 
42 feet 2 inches ; A. Brown, Yale, 4*^ 3 iriche.s, 

2 ; E. J. Watson, Cambridge, 37 feet 2}4 inches, 3. 

Throwing 16 lb. hammer — Won by W. O. I lickok, 
Yale, 130 feet 7 inches; II. P. Cross, Yale, 117 
6 inches, 2 ; A. B. Johnston, Cambridge, 107 feet 8 
inches, 3. 



The annual meeting of the Canadian Amateur Ath- 
letic Association took place on October 5 on the Rose- 
dale grounds. There was an immense crowd, and 
perfect weather. Canadian brawn held its own, 
although a good many events went to visiting New 
Yorkers. Montreal was nobly represented in the races 
by Gifford and Brodie. The following is a summary 
of the events, with winners and records : — (com- 
pared with our record's) 

100 yards — First heat — C. A. Bradley, London 
A. C., won by two feet ; J. Humphrey, Moncton, N.B., 
A. A., second. Time — 10 2-5. 

Second heat — T. I. Lee, N.Y.A.C., won by a foot ; 
J. N. Morrow, Toronto A. C., second. Time — 10 



2-5. _ 

Final heat — C. A. Bradley won by a yard ; T. I. 
Lee, second ; J. W. Humphrey, third. Time — 10 1-5. 
Four started in each preliminary heat. 

880 yards race — C. H. Kilpatrick, N. Y. A.C., won 
by two feet ; A, W. Gifford, Montreal A.A., second. 
Time — 1.54 3-5. Three others started. 

Running liigh jump — R. Williams, London A. C., 
first, with 5 feet 7 inches; F. G. Webber, Toronto 
A. C., second, with 5 feet 5 inches. Two others com- 
peted. 

Putting 16 lb. shot — George R. Gray, N.Y.A.C., 
won, with 43 feet 9 1-2 inches ; Joseph Grey, Orillia 
Lacrosse Club, second, 41 feet lo inches ; Geo. Ste- 
wart, 48th Highlanders, third, 40 feet 9 inches. Five 
others competed. 

220 yards run— T. I. Lee, N.Y.A.C., won by a 
yard; J. B. Morrow, Toronto A. C., second; R. P. 
Forbes, Halifax A. C., third. Time — 22 4-5. 

Mile run — G. W. Orton, N.Y.A.C., first by 50 
yards ; A. Brodie, Montreal, second ; E. J. Wilkins, 
London A. C., dropped out. 

56 pound weight— J. S. Mitchell, N.Y.A.C., won 
with 34 ft. ; W. Nichol, second, witli 31 ft. 2 in ; 
Geo. Stewart, Toronto, third, 28 ft. 9 in. Four others 
competed. 

Pole high leap — James Pearie, Hamilton, won at 
10 ft. 3 in.; J. Knox, second, at 10 ft. 2 in.; W. G. 
Parker, Toronto University, third, 10 ft. 

120 yards hurdle— Godfrey Shaw, won; R. Wil- 
Hams, second ; H. G. Steven, third, all of London 
A.C. Time — 164-5 seconds. 

16 pound hammer— J. S. Mitchell, N.Y.A.C., won, 
1 15 ft. 4 iri'j Geo. Stewart, Toronto, second, 1 14 ft. 
6 in.; W. Nichol, Toronto, third, 1 13 ft. 8 in. 

Running broad jump— R. S. Lyons, N Y A C 
won, with 21 ft. 9 1-2 in.; F. G. Webber, Toronto aI 
C., second, 2 i ft. 2 in.; R, Williams, London A C 
third, with 19 ft. I 1-2 m.; S. G. Stevenson, London 
A.C., and Harry Gill, Orillia, also competed. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



37 



440 yard run— John D. Morrow. Toronto A.C., 
" on by three inches ; A. W. Gifford, Montre il /v.A.A., 
second; Geo. M. Sands, N.Y.A.C.. third. Time 
— 50 seconds. 

2 mile run— C. H. Bean, N.Y.A.C., first ; A. Bro- 
d e, M.A.A.A., second ; E. J. Wilkins, London A.C., 
third ; George W. Orton, New York and 'I'oronto 
A. C., fourth. Tinv' — 9.55 r-5. 

The New York A.C. won six events, London A. 
C. four, and Toronto, Hamilton and New Jersey one 
each. 

FOOTBALL. 

For the last time this season McGill and Montreal In- 
termediate teams have joined in deadly strife, and the 
wings in .a last feivent embrace. 

McGill, though 22 points behind from last Saturday's 
mauh, made a gallant uphill fight, but were only able to 
decrease their opponent’s majority by 8. 

The day was fine, the field in perfect condition, but a 
gale ol wind was blowing, making scientific play impossible. 

From the stcyt the game was hard and fast, and McGill 
evidently was in to win. Her opponents were outplayed 
at every point. Drinkwater with his long punts kept the 
ball Wi ll in Montreal territory most of the time. When 
the half was up, the score stood ii to 6 in favor of the 
College. 

At the call of time the “ boys of the winged wheel,” 
favorid by the wind, went in with a rush, and before long 
the score stood 17 to 16 against McGill. Then the boys 
woke I p, and for the remainder of the game had things 
mostly their own way. It was quite dark before time was 
up, and the play was exceedingly loose. 'I'he score stood 
McGill 25, Montreal 17, making Montreal winner in the 
total by 14 points. 

For McGill, Shirley Davidson put up a magnificent 
game, Drinkwater punted beautifully, and Dandurand and 
Molson played brilliantly at times. Muffing, however, was 
the ordtr of the day, but doubtless the wind may be held 
responsib'e for most of it. McLea, Turner and Wilkinson 
played a fine wing game, and King, in the scrimmage, was 
a host in himself. 

U illet, Hamilton and Molson of the Montreal team were 
most conspicuous. 



The teams 


were as 


follows : 




McGill. 






Montreal. 


Burnet. 




Back 


Willet. 


Drinkwater. 


■) 




f Hamilton. 


Dandurand. 


[ 


Half Back 


< Molson. 


Molson. 


i 




( Hunt. 


Davidson. 




Quarter 


Jack. 


King. 






( Cotton. 


Howard. 


c 


Scrimmage 


] Hall. 


Bond. 




( Baptist, 
f Godwin. 


1 

1 


Wilkinson. 




1 James. 


Moore. 


1 




1 Prissio. 


Gilday. 




Wings. 


^ Eaves. 


McLea. 


1 




1 Wallace. 


Tu rner. 


1 

j 




1 Miissen, 
( Evans. 



Referee, Mr. Linton. 
Britt. F. B. C. 



McGill III. vs. Quebec lit. 

The Quebec teams are always hard to beat on their own 
grounds. To go down there expecting to win is a mistake. 
To capture the America’s cup is easy compared to such a 
feat. 



In the first place, Quebec plays a team that has no more 
right to be called a 3rd team than McGill ist has. In the 
second place, Quebec are kickers of great magnitude in 
more ways than one. 

If reports are correct, McGill had a hard row to hoe, 
and did exceedingly well to hold the “ Ancient Capital ’’ 
players down in the manner they did. One point is a 
narrow margin. Could McGill but get a chance at them 
up here, the score would be a little different and the winner 
would be our 3rd. 

At the call of time the score stood i8 — 19 in favor of 
Quebec. 

The McGill team was as follows: — Lynch, Burnham, 
i\IacLennan, Skinner, Burton, Ross, McMaster, Laurie, 
Sise, Packard, McPhail, Sutherland, Austin, Balfour 
(Capt.), Nichols (spare). 

Referee, C. U. Branch, 

M.A.A. 

ASSOCIATION. 

On Saturday the Mels defeated McGill Intermediate by 
a score of 4— 2, in a well contested game, thus winning 
the championship. 

McGill Team : — Ferguson, Maloney, Callahan, Ryan, 
Short, Ferguson, Sowdon, Blackett, Johnson, Robertson’ 
Brace, 

Referee, E. C. Whitney. 

EXCHANGES. 

Exchange Editors will kindly direct all journals to 
the McGill Fortnightly U 7 iiversity Library.McGill 
University. 

Ex, Ed. 

The question of precedence is a constantly recurring 
one among students in general, and so with a large 
number of exchanges at hand, the thought naturally 
comes, — which first.? 

To look through them all in order to ascertain their 
respective claims for place would be a task rather 
than a pleasure ; we therefore fall back on the cus- 
tom adopted by many others, and where all are alike 
new, take first the most attractive in appearance. 

The Bowdom Orient is published every alternate 
Wednesday by the students of Bowdoin College, 
Brunswick, Maine. Its cover is bright and artistic^ 
and encourages the reader to form a closer acquain- 
tance; when he finds that the fresh and breezy art- 
icles, mostly relating to student life, accord with the 
liveliness of the outside. 

A well arranged directory of the Class of ’95 is an 
interesting column in the issue of Oct. 2nd. 



The Harvard News approaches more nearly the 
dimensions of a city Daily than that of a College 
Journal. 

Its Editorial Board is a large one, and the carefully 
written articles bear evidence of the ability of those 
who undertake that work. We confess, however, to 
having felt a slight shock when meeting the expres- 
sion McGill University, Torotito ; but after carefully 
examining the context it would seem to be a mistake 
through accident and not one of ignorance. 

To give our readers some idea of how the impor- 
tant questions of the day are discussed in the Neius, 
we cannot perhaps do better than quote from two of 
its editorials. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



38 



I 



commend itself to every student who wishes to uphold 
the honor of his Alma Mater : 

“ In the meantime, let us enter into the spirit of 
university life with all the zeal of which we are capa- 
I ble, keep up established institutions, and in'use with 
! new life the time-honored customs. Let us strive to 
make this academic year a success in every respect, a 
j year to be looked back upon with fond recollections 
! and pride. Let us be reunited in a solid influence for 
i good, which nothing can resist. Each one strive to 
j do his whole duty by his University, and she must 
I proudly raise her head once more and outlive her 
; humiliation.” 

I With such a feeling among the students, there is 
no need to fear for the future of any University. 



The first deals with the relation of the Theatre to 
the College, and it will be of interest to McGill stu- 
dents to know something of the feeling in Harvard 
on this important question. The writer concludes as 
follows : — 

“To study the best in the best form of art, to hear 
the best in the best form of literature, — that is surely 
an aim worth putting before one’s self. Let every 
man go to the theatre, then — let him go often, if his 
purse be full and good plays abundant, yet bearing 
always in mind that he has before him something 
more than a chance for temporary amusement, namely, 
an opportunity to cultivate his taste, add keenness to 
his intellect, and quicken his appreciation of what is 
noble and beautiful. An intelligent attendance on 
the theatre is one of the surest aids which any person 
can have towards the realization of Goethe’s ideal — 
‘im Ganzen, Guten, Schoenen resolut zu leben’.” 

The second, although referring to a different phase 
of life, is of no less interest to us ; and they may veiy 
well be considered together ; 

“ Nothing sets one thinking more gravely about the 
proportion of force that is in him than to be asked to 
lend it to another. If you say to yourself, what have I 
to tell this fellow that will keep him from stealing when 
he is hungry, or this other that will make him stop at 
one drink when he wants two, — you are getting pretty 
close to the springs of your own power. When peo- 
ple who need help confront you, looking to you to 
guide them, and you feel yourself unable, then you 
know the full shame of the question they are sure to 
ask, — ‘What is your culture to me.^’” 



We are also glad to welcome the first number of the 
Varsity for this session. Having heard some ac- 
count of the rough weather which it had encountered 
last year, we were anxiously waiting to learn how it 
had come through ; it is therefore with feelings of plea- 
sure that we now find it coming forth, as strong as at 
any time in its past history. 

A full account is given in this issue of the proceed- 
ings and findings of the University Commission ap- 
pointed last spring to investigate the .state of affairs 
at the University of Toronto, and naturally enough it 
throws quite a new light on much of what was done 
by that commission. 

In an article on the same subject, entitled “What 
next ? ” there is a distinctly warlike note ; but the con- 
clusion to which the writer comes is one that must 



HENRI MAR7EAU 

Henri Marteau, that distinguished violinist^ who so delighted his 
Montreal audiences by the peifection of his >tyle and delicacy of touch, 
writes as fe^llows to Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, Managing Director of the 
Pratte Piano Co., Ltd-, anent the qualities of the Pratte Piano. 



Visitors are always welcome to the warerooms of the Pratte Piano 
Co.,1676 Notre Dame Street, a few doors east of Place d’ Armes Square, 
and all interested in music should drop in to examine the Pratte Piano. 
Not only its musical tone and mechanical excellence, but also the 
beauty of its cases, will appeal to any person of taste. 








PATERSON & FOSTER 

“'•■"^Reiciiert's Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the be..t line in the Dominion * 

Used in ihe Baiteriological Laboratories of the ... STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals IN STOCK 

DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 

GET OUR QUOTATIONS^^^^ 

21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



