’ \\ 



The McGill 

Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I. No. 8 



EDITORIAL 
A Reply to Mr. Cohen 

Antequera 

Sonnet 

Downhill 



PRICE 10 CENTS Saturday, March 6, 1926 



CONTENTS 



Allan Latham 
A. S. Noad 
Brian Tuke 
. . . Vespasiano 



Proud Parable 

Legend 

Correspondence J. 

Nocturne 

Science and Happiness 



S. 

. Vincent Starr 
Lewis Thomas 
. Michael Gard 
J. H. Taylor 



EDITORIAL 

W E are glad to see that the question of the 
athletic levy is before the student body again, 
for it is high time that the whole subject was 
re-discussed. For our part, we cannot but feel that 
the levy is peculiarly pernicious. 

If its sole object were to provide more undergraduates 
with more playgrounds and more opportunities for 
healthy exercise— if, in a word, it helped to make 
more genuine athletes— then we would have no quarrel 
with it. There can be no reasonable objection to the 
University exacting money from students for the 
purpose of providing them with those things necessary 
to their mental and physical fitness. But the levy in 
question does not do this. Its avowed object is to turn 
students into spectators. It makes McGill undergradu- 
ates buy seats in advance for games they may never 
see. It is, to use other language, the state subsidisation, 
at the expense of student-taxpayers, of an industry 
which was apparently incompetent to stand on its 
own feet. We can imagine no more severe an indict- 
ment of McGill sport than this, that such a levy was 
considered necessary; and no more patent an example 
of our faith in organization than this, that it was 
thought the levy would produce a better type of 
student. 

However, in case the undergraduates do not wish 
to reduce their present subscription to student activi- 
ties, we have an alternative proposal to make. Let the 
five dollar levy be devoted, not to swelling the crowds 
of spectators at games, but to the encouragement 
of things more intellectual and artistic. We would 
suggest the following distribution: SI. 00 to the Music 
Club, $1.00 to the Literary and Debating Society, $2.00 
to the Players’ Club, $1.00 to The McGill Fortnightly 
Review. All of these seem to us to be eminently worthy 
of general support. 

Will no candidate for the presidency come forward 
with this as his platform? 



W ITHIN the University there seem to be 
numerous minds still in that primitive stage 
of development which renders them incapable 
of understanding the nature of criticism. The Editors 
of the Fortnightly are constantly being told that 
they are always “crabbing,” that they never suggest 
anything “constructive.” Because we do not produce 
for our impatient readers some proposal for a new 
society or a new activity, because we are often content 
to protest against thoughtless or misguided expressions 
of “college spirit,” we are looked upon as dangerous 
beings possessed of radicalism, socialism, Bolshevism 
and all of the other supposed vices of a like character 
so notriously repugnant to the Montreal mentality. 

To these of our critics we have simply this to say. 
There are times in the history of Universities when 
the only sort of “construction” worth having is that 
which preserves the best traditions of the University 
from being vitiated by the introduction of alien ideas 
and alien ways of doing things. The present at McGill 
is such a time. We are in danger of forgetting what our 
traditions are. We gulp down the current ideas of 
organization in our sport and our student activities 
without stopping to think whether we are altering 
for the worse the character of our play or our activity. 
We have shown ourselves quite ready to solve little 
difficulties of our own by importing ready-made solu- 
tions holus bolus from the States. It is against these 
alien importations and these novel methods that 
the Fortnightly has ever set its face. We are destructive 
only in the sense that we attempt to destroy parasitical 
growths, and these who label us Bolshevik are wrong, 
for we express probably the most conservative opinion 
in the University. If we have attacked the Scarlet 
Key Society, it is because its symbolism and its official- 
dom represent in our opinion a startling break with 
tradition; if we ridicule the Freshman questionnaire, 
it is because we maintain the old belief that it is better 
for a Freshman to volunteer for an activity than to 
come at the request of an official who has got his name 
from a questionnaire; if we cry out against over-or- 
ganization it is because we feel that the present struc- 
ture of our student society is such that it tends more 



-i 



$2 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



and more to a deadening centralisation never before 
seen at McGill, more and more to deflect the initiative 
of the individual from self-chosen channels ol ex- 
pression into a prepared set of forms and moulds. 
Every bit of our criticism is, in fact, but the statement 
of a theory of University life which, we contend, is 
at once truer to the ideals and more in keeping with 
the best interests of McGill than anything that oui 
antagonists have yet propounded. 

No, this is not a time when, for a paper like the 
Fortnightly to justify its existence, it must outdistance 
the present organizers at McGill in an effort to be 
the first with some new-fangled proposal. We stand 
out very definitely against the “bigger, better and 
brighter” attitude. A University is not a soap-factory ; 
it does not require constant alterations, improve- 
ments and additions in order to fulfil its functions 
properly. The new Arts Building will not im- 
prove McGill's B. A. by one jot or one tittle, noi 
can further “organized” activity produce aught else 
but dissipation of energy. So the Fortnightly does 
what it can to emphasize the spirit rather than the 
body, the idea rather than the form, and to slow 
down this misdirected attempt at “progress. 



A Reply to Mr. Cohen 

Allan Latham 

I N the last number of The McGill Fortnightly Review, 
Mr. Bernard Cohen in his article, The Theory of the 
Stationary Population, argues for a fixed number of 
people in the world as a remedy for the more patent 
social ills. He enumerates the three following ad- 
vantages, which would presumably result from an 
application of his theory: 

(1) Unemployment would be eliminated, because 
work would be as plentiful as the supply of workers, 
whose ranks would not be augmented by a growing 
population. 

(2) Wages would increase, owing to the comparative 
scarcity of labour. Thus a more nearly equal distribu- 
tion of wealth would be achieved. 

(3) Wild-cat investment would go by the boards, 
as a consequence of the reduced concentration of 
wealth with the attendant necessity of economy on 
the part of those getting sufficient, but not extravagant, 
gains from industry. . 

I am unable to agree with Mr. Cohen, m so far 
as he is of the opinion that a “stationary population" 
would lead to the first two conclusions given above. 
The third is not very important, since it is not an 
outstanding phase of industry from the social point 
of view, although it may be from that of a student 
in a school of commerce, which both Mr. Cohen and 
I are not. Moreover, the second of the above conclusions 
follows directly from the first. Consequently, I shall 
merely attempt to refute the assumption regarding 

unemployment. 

Given a “stationary population, it would still be 
impossible for unemployment to disappear, in a capi- 
talist society. Unemployment is a necessary corollary 
of competitive production. There is no reason for 
believing that the trade cycle would not continue to 
exist. Indeed, it is very probable that, with the static 
population, there would be even wider variations in the 
demand for labor. There would be unavoidably the 
same old periodic gluts on the market, if anything, 
probably greater than formerly. At every time of 
glut large numbers of employees would be necessarily 



dismissed. The unemployed cannot be regarded as 
the surplus of population: they are rather the labour 
force whose services are required in times of boom, 
but which is superfluous in the inevitable periods of 
depression. 

Mai thus, whose deductions led to a belief in the 
desirability of artificially limiting population, could 
not conceive of the industrial society in which we live 
to-day. The means cited by him, whereby population 
is kept commensurate with subsistence, apply to an 
agricultural or only partially industrialized state. 
How could he, or anybody else, account for the phe- 
nomenal growth of population in latter-day England? 
The answer is that productivity, owing to machinery 
and organization, progressed far in advance of the 
population which might be supported. But, why 
did people increase, until they were in apparent 
excess of nature? Simply because the industrial 
system demanded it. From the beginnings of English 
industrialism, there was an urban population with 
irregular work, called the “pauper class.” Ninety 
years ago, this class numbered about one and one- 
half millions; to-day, with greater industrialization, 
there are five times as many people affected by the 
dearth of employment. 

It cannot be questioned that the progress of industry 
causes enormous leaps in the population of industrial 
countries. The growth of knowledge in the field of 
applied science, increased efficiency in management, 
and the irresistible expansion of capital, would all 
conspire to need an ever growing army of workingmen. 
However, since the present army would not be permit- 
ted to grow, it would at last be essential to close down 
large parts of the industrial mechanism. More men 
than ever would consequently be thrown out of work, 
until the industrial life would become inactive enough 
for the nation’s powers of absorption to catch up with 
its productivity. We are confronted, then, with the 
amazing paradox that an increased demand for men 
would eventually mean a very much lessened demand 
for them. We are thereby forced to accept the dictum 
that a stationary population would not only fail to 
relieve the unemployed, but would also actually 
increase their numbers, which are at present sufficient- 
ly alarming. 

It would seem that our industrial age requires a 
steadily increasing population. Artificial restrictions 
of population growth only introduce worse complica- 
tions, when these restrictions are directed to the 
prevention of general increase. Nevertheless, I am 
prepared to admit that, in agricultural states of the 
type of India and China, a stationary population 
would be of immense benefit. There, the workers are 
connected intimately with the primitive source of 
wealth. They multiply in accordance with the bounty 
or the paucity of nature. When nature has an un- 
productive year, multitudes starve to death; and in 
good years, they are permitted to increase. 

Neither do I deny that those who wish to limit 
the size of their families should be allowed to do so. 
However, it would be highly regrettable if the practice 
of birth control were to become so general as to keep 
population below its quantity demanded by the in- 
struments of production. Therefore, I question the 
plea that much happiness would immediately result 
from popular education in birth control. If our 
system of distribution were altered, so that surplus 
production were to go to the workers instead of the 
capitalists, “overproduction” would no longer be an 
impediment to the stationary population. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



63 



Antequera 

A. S. Noad 

De Antequera parlio el moro très horas antes del dia. 
Con cartas en la su Mono en que socorro pedia. 

I T was assuredly a dark dawning for the Moor, 
that of the day when he lost Antequera. This 
little hill-town, once the key to the passes 
which lead from Malaga to the fertile vega about 
the blessed city of Granada, has still some of the 
austere beauty of a fortress in decay; the rugged 
escarpments that surround it show signs of how the 
Moor prized it, in the battered but time-defying 
walls reared by his hand. 

We visited Antequera as the result of a whim. On 
the way down to Malaga, to see the Good Friday pro- 
cession, we were puzzling how to spend two intervening 
days. The coast city itself would be horribly crowded, 
and our lodgings almost certainly dear and uncomfor- 
table. Where might we drop off with a fair chance 
of enjoying air, good water, mountain scenery, and 
homely Spanish talk? Antequera, said Herr Baedeker, 
was once the bulwark that held off from Granada 
the remorseless tide of Christian invasion during 
many a long year of border strife. He promised, too, 
a singular stone labyrinth, a notable peak, the Torcal, 
and “one of the few dolmens to be seen in Southern 
Spain — the Cueva de Menga.” We were for Antequera. 

Perched atop of a windy hill and overlooking a 
boulder -strewn plain, with tremendous spires of 
rock cutting the horizon all round, Antequera held 
aloof a' quarter of a mile from the little station where 
we descended. Two deboshed-looking mule omnibuses 
presented themselves as a means of climbing thither. 
“Hotel Colon?” said the driver of one, without hope 
in his tone. We were discoverers and the name suited. 
In we jumped; the conveyance groaned up the slope, 
rattled over irregular pavements, turned five or 
six corners, and stopped only twenty feet below our 
destination — a close enough approximation for a 
mountain town. 

It was a good inn. True, the entrance was forbidding, 
and suggested a combination of warehouse and bird- 
fancier’s; the facilities for making one’s toilet were 
primitive; the servants looked morose. But all was 
clean and airy, and our first meal (lunch) was a real 
Spanish repast of chowder, eggs, fish, and — alas! 
my heresy was not to be concealed — “biftek,” eaten 
under the dumb protest of the waitress. 

Antequera itself provided a few surprises. First, 
when we walked abroad after the siesta, we were 
made the object of close and growing attention on 
the part of its inhabitants. My whiskers, unique I 
should say in the district, were not long a puzzle, of 
course. I was a Frenchman, and Frenchmen wore 
whiskers. But what was my companion doing with 
a cape, exactly such a cape as the stout old men of 
Antequera carried to ward off the dry cold breeze? 
Who ever saw a woman thus arrayed? And they peered 
and whispered, chuckled and summoned witnesses 
from within their houses, untill at last I began to fear 
popular violence. I even fancy a stone or two flew 
our way, aimed with intent to injure, but only as a 
reminder that Spanish hillmen can still use their 
native weapons, if need be. Those urchins who stared 
and ran reached for a pebble with a gesture as inevita- 
ble and as harmless — properly understood — as the 
arching of a cat’s back. We climbed out of the more 
frequented streets and took the offending cape to the 
citadel. 



There it stood, dominating the town, the work 
first of Moors, then of the Christian chieftains, who 
had vowed never to let their dearbought prey slip 
from their grasp. We won free of the winding white 
lanes, mounted a few steps, and found ourselves 
facing a stretch of bare rock, curiously honey -combed 
with caves. From one of these emerged two or three 
frowsy people, who gazed mutely at the strangers. 
“Is it permitted to enter the fort from this side?” 
I cried from afar. “Yes, Yes!” came the answer. 
“But be careful lest you slip; it is a dangerous path.” 

We passed on our way, following a barely discernible 
track along the crest of the hill, over cactus-encumber- 
ed boulders. Soon we had guides; two ragged boys 
hurried past us with side-long glances and vanished 
round a corner of the ruin. As we followed, a shower 
of dirty water descended from the walls, missing 
us by a hand-breadth. Fish-scales gave a grisly hint 
of what we had escaped. 

Beyond the bend in the ramparts, we found a spot 
where the masonry had collapsed. We clambered 
up this breach, encouraged by the two youths, who 
had by now called forth the keeper of the place. He 
was an old, old man, full of pride in his mountain 
stronghold. “Come,” said he, “I will show you the 
tower.” And into the tower, up a spiral stair, we went, 
while he jingled keys in front. 

Emerging on a breezy platform, we gazed out 
over many miles of fierce, shaggy upland. Right in 
front was a mighty cliff of red rock, jutting out abruptly 
from the plateau — the most conspicuous thing in the 
landscape. This, said the ancient, was the Lovers’ 
Leap. The inevitable pair — a Moslem maid and a 
Christian youth — pursued by the fanatical parents 
of one or the other, had jumped to their death once 
in the far past. But beyond and to the right was 
something even more interesting. 

“You are to know,” our guide quavered, “that 
yonder peak is the highest in this country. It is in 
truth unique. Folk come from all quarters of the 
globe to see and to climb it. Its height is tremendous; 
the winds that blow there are strong and cold in the 
extreme. Only last month,” and he fixed me with 
his eye, “a German gentleman came here, merely 
to scale the mountain.” 

He looked expectant, and thank heaven, I could 
respond without a scruple. “Yes, it is wonderful,” 
I hastened to say. “And fortunate are you who live 
within sight of so great a prodigy.” 

“Then there is the clock,” he added. “Come down 
and see the clock.” We saw the clock; we stood and 
listened to the mechanism crawling within it. It was 
a very old piece of work, I am afraid to say how old. 
An inscription on the wall told of the king by whose 
orders it had been placed there — perhaps it was Philip 
the Second. 

But the air streaming around us made us shiver, 
and we were a little relieved to get down again to 
the relatively sheltered foot of the tower. There was 
more to be seen, said the old gentleman; but the edge 
of his expository fervour was palpably blunted. We 
excused ourselves and stumbled away down the 
breach, leaving him satisfied, I trust, with our tangible 
thanks. At any rate he bowed adieu to us as we went 
out of sight. 

And now we tramped through the town, looking 
for someone who could tell us of the Cueva de Menga. 
“Thirty metres deep” was what Baedeker had said. 
Decidedly, we should be faineants if we went away 
from Antequera without visiting and revering this 



64 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



relic of prehistoric ages. On the road to the station 
we at last found a lad who was not afraid to nsk a 
definite word of instruction. He was seated upon 
his donkey; his eyes were long and lustrous, surely 
the legacy of some long-forgotten Moorish ancestor; 
his manner was simple, shy, and altogether beautiful. 
He knew of the Cueva de Menga. 

"Walk along by those almond trees, where there 
is a track. Leave it near the burying-ground and 
climb the hill. There you will find the Cueva de Menga. 
Go with God!” And he dug his heels into the donkey s 
ribs and passed on his way. 

We went along by the almonds, as he had shown 
us, and soon saw the cemetery, at the foot of the 
slope — a white-walled quadrangle with its little 
population of tombstones. But of the Cueva there 
was no sign. We scanned the hill for a black mouth, 
and could find none. Leaving the road, we walked 
over uncultivated fields until we ran across a little 
goat-herd, singing softly to himself upon a heap of 

stones. „„ . 

“Where is the Cueva de Menga ? we asked. 
“Mirelo,” replied the child, pointing to a depression 
not fifty yards away. With beating hearts we drew 
near to one of the few dolmens still to be seen 
in southern Spain. 

Imagine a nearly square pit about ten feet deep, 
with a green-scummed pool at one end. Above the 
water was a big grey stone, half-hidden with bushes 
and brambles, and plainly imbedded in the sou. 
Such was the far-famed Cueva de Menga. 

Little enough, in truth. Yet as we stared at it, a 
feeling of dislike not based wholly on disillusionment 
rose in us. Something ugly and hateful had once 
inhabited that spot, I am sure; it looked blasted. The 
insects buzzed around it, the breeze made a harsh 
rattle in the bushes, the goat-herd’s song came to us 
in snatches; but we were suddenly caught away from 
this world to another older, crueller one. We saw no 
visions, felt no rush of memories. But bc>th of us were 
invaded by a vague uneasiness and a desire to be gone. 
So we left the Cueva de Manga. 

We left Antequera the following day, not before 
I had learned how the Spaniards make their Bunoz, 
that savoury strip of doughnut which goes so well with 
the morning coffee. (This, however, is another story.) 
As the train bore us away down the rocky passes 
towards Malaga, our thoughts remained a space with 
the little fortress in the hills, and we might have 
repeated the words of the old ballad, “Y ansi se gano 
Antequera.” “And thus did we make Antequera ours. 



Sonnet 

W OULD I were Angelo, and taking stone 

Rough-hewn from bold Carrara’s mountain 

[brims,] 

Could shape it to the glory of thy limbs, 

So uttering the beauty thou hast shown 
That all the multitude of men would own 
Thee perfect beyond thought, and when death dims 
Thy mortal fires, more than a poet’s hymns 
Would prove the loveliness that I have known. 

Yet would I pity those enamoured fools, 

Gazing enraptured on that heartless bust 
With unappeased desire, hopelessly. 

For what thy love can mean is mystery 
No stone may tell, though Phidias from the dust 
Rise with deft hands to wield the edged tools. 

Brian Tuke 



Downhill 

Thoughts on the Decline of Democracy 

“Vespasiano” 

I 

M R. Ramsay Muir in his little book, “Peers and 
Bureaucrats,” has remarked the phenomenal 
decay in importance of the British House of 
Commons. It is an admirable little book, and sets 
forth the case conclusively. So clearly established is 
the thesis that nowadays its burden is included in 
academic lectures on the English constitution. 

The career of Mr. Lloyd George well illustrates 
Mr. Ramsay Muir’s contention, especially during the 
War. It is a significant thing that in war time when 
efficiency is — not indeed more essential — but more 
obviously and immediately essential, the methods 
of democracy are inevitably cast aside, and firmer 
government takes their place. Mr. Lloyd George as 
Minister of Munitions and as Prime Minister scarcely 
stepped into the House of Commons, the headquarters 
of democracy, which awed by the gravity of affairs, 
shewed enough sense — perhaps for the first time in 
its career — to keep quiet, and for the most part 
without question to pass all measures proposed to it by 
the Cabinet. When Mr. Lloyd George effected the coup 
which made him Prime Minister, he did so without 
the agency of the House of Commons — a thing which 
had not occurred since the bad old days of George III. 

What, then, must one think of that ultra-democratic 
measure passed by Lloyd George at the end of his 
reign— the Representation of the People Act? The 
Act was the most democratic ever known in England— 
it carried the franchise almost to the logical limit, 
including women. Is it not possible that this too was 
done in Mr. Lloyd George’s admirable spirit of cyn- 
icism? May it not be that, seeing the dragon of 
Democracy rendered harmless, Mr. Lloyd Gecrge threw 
it the last cake from the tin, laughing in his sleeve? 
What harm in broadening the franchise still further, 
when the party system had effectually defeated the 
ends of a democratic franchise? 

It is supposed that the voters have their moment 
of tvranny” on election day. But this is really only 
theoretically the case. As a matter of fact they are 
only the clay used by the parties in their potting. An 
election is a competition between the parties, to see 
who can dupe the people most effectively. The people 
do not choose how they will be governed; they choose 
between the various conglomerations of specious non- 
sense known as party platforms, which are composed 
without the least reference to the party’s true inten- 
tions, and are merely bait to catch votes. Surely, then, 
to broaden the franchise merely lowers the average 
intelligence of the voter, and renders the process of 
duping the easier. I think that delightful old scoundrel 
Disraeli knew this. Napoleon III certainly knew it. 
It is altogether likely that Mr. Lloyd George knows 
it too. 

II 

W HEN Lord Thomson was in Montreal lately’ 
he startled our little bourgeoisie by comparing 
Lenin and Mussolini, and deciding that their 
constitutional positions had been very similar. “What,” 
went the whisper, “Lenin and Mussolini? That wicked 
immoral Bolshevik, and the great John Bull of Italy?’ 
And they probably decided that Lord Thomson him- 
self was more like Lenin than is Mussolini, a horri 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



65 



Bolshevik, come to confuse their honest little bourgeois 
minds. It reminds one of the Pa'palist attitude to 
“thinkers” at the time of the Risorgiamento. Lord 
Thomson was lifting the curtain? He showed our little 
bourgeoisie the facts — things which they have never 
understood — which do not fit into their little scheme 
of things. But the truth is that Russian Communism, 
just as Italian Fascism, is not in the least democratic. 
We have got beyond democracy, and new constitu- 
tional forms, if they are to live, must recognize that. 
That both Communism and Fascism do so, is both a 
sign of the times, and a sign that they have come to 
stay. The only essential difference between Com- 
munism and Fascism is that the former provides an 
intelligent method of securing good governors, the 
latter provides no method. Perhaps that is the fun- 
damental reason of their extreme opposition. 

(To be concluded) 



Proud Parable 

I will sit with my love 

in the somnolent window seat, 
and watch for long enough 
the slender rain. And how it 
stings the polished street 
to an intolerant white flash 
of loveliness will parable 
how beauty in the flesh 
from a high elsewhere fell, 
blossoming its bright splash 
to a proud, momentary parable. 

— S. 



Legend 

C OOL and dank as green seaweed this wet hair 
Coils callously about a little wave 
That sways as gently as two bells the grave, 
Small, coral-tinted breasts to starboard there 
Where salt translucency has had to share 
With fabulous old sea-legends the brave 
Presence of a mermaid. She has left her cave 
In the oozy depths to fling a dare 
To unbelieving men. Thin silver skims 
Across the green and gold; her scales outshine 
The beauty of a mortal maiden’s limbs. 

The head of the littlest shipmite swims 
More dizzily than after a sip of wine. 

And the Chaplain fumbles in his book of hymns. 

— Vincent Starr 



Correspondence 

Frontenac Hotel, 
Kingston, Ontario. 
February 18, 1926. 

The Editor, 

“McGill Fortnightly Review,” 

Montreal. 

Dear Sir, 

I have just read with much interest in the McGill 
Review of February 6 the article entitled “Univer- 
sities.” But though I believe that the writer’s pur- 
pose is entirely good I do not agree with his method 
of presenting the case. In fact I absolutely disagree 
with some of his statements. 

What exactly is his conception of an university 
I wonder? As far as one can deduce from his article a 
true university would be a very exclusive institution 
in which a body of persons devoted a portion or all 
of their lives entirely to the cultivation of the mind — 
to thinking — with no other objective than self satisfac- 
tion. While I wdll not deny that out of the meditations 
and close deliberations of the members of such 
communities something might emanate which would 
contribute towards the well being of mankind, I am 
certain that the term educational institutions could not 
be correctly applied to them. 

Education has been well defined as “a training 
for Life.” But we ordinary mortals understand 
that universities are not merely educational institutions 
but that they are the highest type of educational 
institution. Therefore we expect that the true university 
will be equipped to train men and women for all 
occupations in which considerable mental capacity 
is required, for example as teachers, ministers, doctors 
of medicine, scientific engineers, scientific agricul- 
turists, and lawyers. 

How dare Mr Coulborn make the statement 
that “Medicine, Law, Applied Science are not 
university subjects,” and suggest that doctors of 
medicine and certain others are not thinkers. Granted 
medical men and engineers do not spend their lives 
in the selfish pursuit of thought for its own sake, as 
“pure thinkers,” but, unless they happen to be among 
the few who perform their duties with no other interest 
than that of reaping a large monetary reward, they 
are regularly utilizing every opportunity which occurs 
between spells of routine work to apply their minds 
to the questions of ways and means of rendering 
the greatest service to humanity. The practitioner, 
if he be true to his profession, thinks deeply about 
new processes for the cure and prevention of disease, 
and about the psychological and spiritual aspects 
of his practice. The engineer exercises his intellect in 
an endeavour to invent ways of harnessing the forces 
of nature so effectively that the burdens of toiling 
mankind will be reduced, and as a consequence that 
man will have more leisure to devote to the develop- 
ment of the aesthetic side of his nature. 

Of course most of us know it to be only too true, and 
I believe it to be the cause of Mr. Coulborn writing 
as he did, that the attitude towards Life of many stu 
dents not pursuing Arts is not as sound as it ought to be. 
But is that the fault of the students, and does it prove 
that Medical and Applied Science faculties are no 
properly parts of an university? No. Examine the 
matter carefully and the cause of the students’ too 
materialistic outlook on Life will be seen to lie in the 
nature of the curriculums they are exposed to. Those 
who map out the courses of study for the various 



66 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



non- Arts faculties are so zealous in their efforts to 
ensure that the students get as “thorough as possible 
a training in a limited time that they almost completely 
lose sight of the fact that most of the young people 
who come to study medicine, etc. also come, or at 
least should come, to the university to receive a higher 
education. As a result of this forgetfulness of these 
powers that be the courses offered are so weighty ana 
so intensive that the average student, unless he is 
fortunate enough to be influenced by some rectifying 
force outside of the university, cannot help but be- 
come rather narrow and very materialistic. F° r it 
he is conscientious and is desirous of doing well 
he applies himself intensely to the immense amount 
of work assigned, confidently believing that it must 
be good for him, never imagining the possibility ol 
the authorities being capable of making a mistake, 
and never spending a moment while his brain is fresh 
pondering over the purpose of Education and its 
real relation to Life. It is not to be wondered at 
then that he, poor misguided mortal, is crude in his 
outlook on Life, and that his behaviour at times is 
such that it shocks the well balanced mind of the true 
student of Arts— when I say “true student I do not 
mean the “pure thinkers”— and calls forth denunciat- 
ory remarks from those like Mr. Coulborn who, im- 
pelled by the instinct of trying to preserve that which 
one loves, temporarily lose their mental balance 
while making a vigorous effort to check what they 
rightly believe to be an influence deleterious to the 
success of their aim in life. , . 

I firmly believe that the curriculums of certain facul- 
ties as they stand are only adapted for the exceptional 
student but there is no fundamental obstacle to prevent 
them being revised in such a way that, as well as giving 
good training in Medicine, or whatever it be, they 
would provide a liberal “training for Life.” If the 
lovers of Arts, and I claim to be one, were to direct 
their efforts towards impressing the authorities with 
the necessity of such alteration their time would be 
well spent. Yours truly, 

J. Lewis Thomas 



Nocturne 

ILING the comforters about the bed 
this snowy lady prances to her rest: 
if music be the food of love, if love be dead, 
play of dark dirges only the quietest — 

pluck the faint willow, ruffle the pool, 
drop the crisp yellow down to death, 
muting the fretwork of the cool 
fountains and her shadowy breath. 

Down these white curves her body moves 
circuitously coupling night — 
black velvet on the budding groves 
that harbour a quaint feigning of delight. 

The dark envelops her phorescent limbs, 
Night mixes with her Day: 
she is a twilight woven all of whims, 
most accurately murmurous of grey. 

— Michael Gard 



Science and Happiness 

J. A. Taylor 

S AVAGES and primitive types of people have 
their culture, their art. and personal affections, 
all of which express their mode of life. As humans 
rise above such a more or less perceptual plane of 
existence the peculiar phenomenon of reflective thought 
leads to a higher level, where the mind of man can, 
and sometimes does, function intellectually. But as far 
as we know, man is unique in this respect, and it is 
only natural that nearly all his interpretations and 
constructions of reality, of the world of nature in 
which he lives and has his being, be projections from 
such a source, as well as functions of it. 

Some however are less inclined to make man the 
measure of all things. For the scientific interpretation 
of nature the course now pursued is from without 
inwards, and not from within outwards. In studying 
objective measures scientists have played in an immense 
and beautiful virgin field. Even the great Newton 
was here as a “boy, finding here and there a prettier 
shell or a smoother pebble than the rest.” Thus was 
bom science. It supplied what art had previously 
lacked. It gave birth to knowledge in the modern 
sense, and in doing so dealt a mortal blow to at one of 
man’s hereditarv enemies— superstition. 

But I am principally concerned here with the nature 
of the urge responsible for the scientist’s devotion 
to his life work. How is it that psychologically 
and, in the common sense, artistically, from the 
phenomena presented to him in perception he labours 
joyously in building up his particular iron-hkte frame- 
work of scientific fact? The answer to this question 
is, I believe, intimately bound up with the emergence 
on reaching such a higher plane of mental activity, 
of what I will call an intellectual delight in contem- 
plation— a fact of stupendous significance, not only 
for science and human commerce, which is finally 
dependent on it, but for culture, for art, and even 
for the affections of everyday life. Because of it, all 
these are today richer in meaning, and productive 
of greater delight. It is at once the cause and 
consequence of a life spent in earnest quest of truth, 
and it is mainly responsible for reaches of culture 
and of art above and beyond the primitive. 

Intellectual delight in contemplation leads to the 
pursuit of knowledge for its own sake. Although it 
is one of the higher elements going to make up some 
forms of that complex that we call love, it is nc>t in 
any way synonymous with love, unless in the restricted 
sense of, for example, the “love” of a mathematician 
for his science. The capacity for it seems to be, in 
the main, an hereditary function of the organism, 
and in the case of this tendency not being inherited, 
it is doubtful if the individual is capable of delight in 
the pursuit of knowledge. If not, he certainly will 
never “thirst” for knowledge. Furthermore, the 
love he is capable of lacks it as an element, and it is 
very doubtful if such could lead a person to a love 
for knowledge, as we say. This seems a strong argu- 
ment for the more fundamental nature of knowledge 
as compared with love in the living of a good life, in 
spite of the fact that the possession and the consequent 
force of it in guiding life are far less universal. Bertrand 
Russell thinks that love is more fundamental. But 
then he, as far as I know, does not refer, in his defini- 
tions of love and art, to the inclusion of an intellectual 
delight in contemplation, and does not attempt to 




The McGill Fortnightly Review 






explain why great men labour in the field of pure 
science. In fact he is not above citing personal gain as 
an incentive. A desire for fame and distinction might 
even be invoked. Such explanations are very popular 
in America, but in this, as elsewhere, we must meet 
all the facts; we must get to the truth of the matter. 
As Russell says in his little book “What I Believe ,” 
“The philosophy of nature is one thing, the philosophy 
of value is quite another. Nothing but harm can 
come of confusing them. What we imagine good, 
what we should like, has no bearing on what is.” 
(page 22). Objectively, knowledge covers a far 
wider, and, subjectively, a far more restricted field 
than love. In this respect it has much in common 
with art. 

Intellectual delight in contemplation seems, to 
use Bertrand Russell’s expression, to “move between 
two poles”; on the one hand that which tends to a 
personal expression, (beauty as in certain types of 
art), and on the other, that which tends to an imper- 
sonal expression (as in science). The former tends 
to subjectivity, the latter to objectivity. The former, 
though it usually finds its inspiration in nature, does 
not end in nature, but in a unique creation, expressing 
more or less an individual factor. The latter not only 
finds its inspiration in nature, but works with nature 
exclusively, continually returning to inquire if it has 
inadvertently added to or subtracted from its “essence- 
mcdel” of the external world. In this sense, a sort of 
fusion of the intellectual and the emotional delights 
in contemplation has been called a “Cosmic Emotion” 
by W.K. Clifford, which he says can only be experienc- 
ed ty approaching nature and not, for example, through 
poetry. It results either in a feeling of resignation 
and submission, or in an overpowering stimulus to 
action, depending on the individual; but it involves 
admiration for nature in either case. 

“To respect nature is foolish; physical nature should 
be studied with a view to making it serve human ends 
as far as possible, but it remains ethically neither 
good nor bad.” (p.93). But, “Human nature we 
should respect, because our impulses and desires are 
the stuff out of which our happiness is to be made.” 
(p.92). 

This, strange to say, is to the only reference I can 
find in Bertrand Russell’s book as to the meaning, 
or the attainment, of happiness. Although it need 
not be a plum set up to tempt people into leading a 
good life, in order to enjoy that which they believe 
necessarily follows from it, it might work out better 
for humanity if this were so in the nature of things. 
Unfortunately, experience seems to show that happiness 
is missed when taken as an objective. Like a will-o’- 
the-wisp it will lead the self-centred ones to misery. 
Yet I cannot but believe that knowledge, that the 
experience of love and art in their manifold forms, 
that well-wishing, together with the application of 
knowledge to human life and ends inspired by it, adds 
to the sum total of human happiness. And after all 
that has been said concerning the good life, the whole 
purpose of the thing seems to have been missed, if we 
cannot suppose that the leading of such a life for its 
own sake will result in greater human happiness even 
as it will in greater creative activity. 

If, as I believe, but cannot undertake to defend here, 
beauty is not confined to human nature, and if beauty 
leads to happiness, then we must “respect” extra- 
human nature. However, we must do this on Russell’s 
own score. How do our impulses and desires originate? 
The answer to this question indicates the primal 



source of our happiness, so long as we act with a 
competent knowledge in harmony with it; and therefore 
this source, in common with that peculiar and com- 
plicated accretion which we call human nature, should 
be respected — no less the whole than the part. Artists 
frequently struggle in want from childhood to a pre- 
mature grave, yet they appear to be happy in the 
execution of their art — in the reproduction of the 
beautiful that they experience through their own 
nature, stimulated by external nature. However, 
ethical judgments are not involved. The human concepts 
“good," “bad,” and so on, cannot be applied to the 
order of nature, as Spinoza showed, but it does not 
follow that they are unique in the sense of meriting 
respect. Few that have experienced the beauties of 
such “vulgar” natural phenomena as the freezing 
of water can escape from a feeling of admiration, of 
respect. And while we are totally ignorant of what we 
are respecting, the emotional antecedents are there, 
and the attitude is equally legitimate with the cor- 
responding attitude held with regard to human values. 
As Kant’s well-known expression goes: “There are 
two things that move me to profound respect, the 
starry heavens over me, and the moral law within me.” 

The reference to a Divine Artificer is not a necessary, 
in the sense of logical, consequence from this, although 
we must remember that such men as Sir Isaac Newton 
and Lord Kelvin, two of the greatest investigators 
in the history of natural science, actually made this 
reference. It is significant that people who do not 
experience the Cosmic Emotion, and psychologists who 
study man, seem very much less liable to experience 
this respect. The investigations of Leuda, concerning 
the beliefs of American men of science in God and 
immortality, show strikingly that these beliefs are 
most prevalent among physicists and least prevalent 
among psychologists. 

Under the unconscious influence of the Cosmic 
Emotion such acts of belief become almost inevitable. 
That, from a logical point of view, they involve the 
assigning of particular natures first to such “respect,” 
and secondly to the “what” of such respect, which 
natures must contain a reference to a supernatural 
origin, is not directly apparent to them. However 
the “nature” of our psychological processes is unknown, 
and if su:h and such a “nature” be a si 'r.ed to the 
Cosmic Emotion, the religious consciousness, and so 
on, it is outside of the province of psychology to 
pronounce upon it. Rather than hang in the air con- 
fessing ignorance, the particular emotional antecedants 
involved drive the intellect before them, if such an 
expression can be used, to an act of faith, and the 
natural philosopher, forsaking his former critical 
attitude, held with reference to the external world, 
is led into spheres of the unknown where, he feels 
convinced, there is an underlying “harmony,” a 
common thread of truth between the reason and 
inspirational and revelational pronouncements, not 
formerly evident. 

Man may be the most involved product of nature, 
but he is also the most egocentric. From the dawn of 
history the religions of man have shown how com- 
pletely what he calls the “higher things” are bound 
up with himself and his fate. Anything that con- 
cerns him or his happiness should, he feels, be res- 
pected. It is almost axiomatic to him that the most 
involved product of nature should be the “best. 
But it is doubtful whether he would still be of this 
opinion, if it had so happened that, for example, the 
horse or the ant had usurped this distinction. If size 



68 



the McGill Fortnightly Review 



ih .rfi.T. 



were any criterion, the whale or the dinosaur might 
have overshadowed man’s ancestors. As it is, H. Berg- 
son considers that the intuition exhibited in the ant, 
even to a greater degree than man, is a higher and 
more immediate form of knowledge than that la- 
boriously achieved by the “over-rated” human reason. 
Perhaps after all the ant is the “better” product! 

The “progress” of humanity, of which many of us 
talk so glibly, also evades reflective examination. If 
happiness is any criterion the doubt is apparent. It 
is true that science at least does make progress, and the 
more progress that science makes within its own 
field the greater are the possibilities of achievement 
open to mankind, of its serving human ends. But 
man's moral nature is a thing set over apart from 
science. Its development is not necessarily so involved. 
What prompts the engineer to gain and use scientific 
knowledge? Probably not altogether personal gain. 
We cannot naively assume that the development, 
improvement and coherence of man’s mor3l nature 
takes place in any analogous way to that of science. 
If the content of pure science was suddenly made 
many times its present value, the happiness in the 
world, the production of a “good world,” would not 
be furthered. The present state of man has been 
determined by biological continuity and adaptation, 
and it sets definite limitations on him as a psycho- 
physical organism, and on the pleasure-reactions to 
his environment, which determine the sense of well 
being and happiness experienced. In other, words 
man’s happiness, and the possible extension of it, are 
functions, not only of his environment, but of himself, 
of his biologically determined nature. Savage man 
may be heartier and happier than civilised man, al- 
though more restricted. However, all restrictions 
are not necessarily to be done away with. By over- 
coming resistance and obstacles, man finds himself 
and develops. With the field of man’s activity and 
possibilities of enjoyments widened by Science, demands 
keep pace — more being required to induce the same 
satisfaction. He becomes deadened to the simpler 
things, the elementary happinesses, the fundamental 
values. Only highly flavoured and glittering pabulum 
will soothe the jaded nerves of the super-civilized. 
How far civilization can stand this involution without 
succumbing to nervous collapse is problematical. 
Man may manage bigger pieces of pie as he grows 
older, but there is a limit to the possible increase in 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editorial Board: A.P.R. Coulborn, A.B. Latham, 
F.R. Scott, A.J.M. Smith. Managing Editor: L. 
Edel. 

The Editorial Board is responsible only for 
opinions expressed in the editorial columns, and 
hopes to publish articles on controversial questions 
by contributors of widely divergent views. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one 
of the editors, or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly 
Review, Apt. 16, 989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. 
Unsuitable contributions will be returned. 

Subscription rates are one dollar for this year’s 
complete issue. Cheques should be made payable 
to the McGill Fortnightly Review and sent to the 
Managing Editor at the above address. 



the size of his mouth. The question is will man die 
of chronic indigestion before he can develop a bigger 
head to accommodate his over-developed gastro- 
nomic apparatus. It seems that in the past only 
geological periods of time have sufficed for such 
developments. 

The more people that civilization can support, 
beyond a certain point, the more it seems are they, 
and incidentally their fellows, brought ultimately 
to misery. Between the maudlin sentiment that 
cherishes the sludge of humanity on the one hand, 
and the sanctimonious pig-headedness that permits 
them to procreate often in ignorant vileness at a rate 
impossible to a healthy minority, on the other, there 
does not seem much room for progress, — except as 
a joke. When will our moralists realise that nature, 
“red in tooth and claw” as they say, is infinitely more 
humane and just? The emancipation from natural 
restriction and environment won by science should 
not imply the survival of the unfit, nor tolerate the 
persistence of loathsome ideals' The progress brilli- 
antly exemplified of science seems to have been con- 
fined, so far, to the field of inanimate nature, and to 
some parts of human nature considered as independent, 
while cobwebs still serve to cover our social wounds. 

While it is not my purpose to question here the 
divine origin of the highest values of human life, I 
do question the myopia that sets man over apart from 
nature in his social relations, and higher functions, if not 
in the lower. Man may be a mere infinitesimal lump 
of matter in the natural universe of star galaxies, but 
he is capable of values of an ideal nature, and of loyalty 
to them. This we must accept at least with “natural 
piety,” as Alexander put it. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



