jVlcGlbb FORTNIGHTfey 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

Vol. IV. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 27, 1895. No. 4 




* EDITORIAL BOARD 

Editor-ivrckief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Hakri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. *96). 

W. B. Mo watt, B.A. (Med. ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda ’96 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



* BUSINESS BOARD & 

S. G. Archibald (Arts *97), Chairman . 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law *97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda *96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. '96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Win. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. RenouFs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



JOURNALISM. 

We learn from an Exchange, that sixty students 
of Harvard are engaged in the editing and manage- 
ment of the five journals published by the under- 
graduates of that great University. Sixty embryo 
journalists every year taking a one-year course in 
. practical journalism, — enough to make quite a res- 
pectable Faculty in many Universities- Doubtless 
many of our students are aware that special train- 
ing is provided in many American Universities 
for students intending to devote themselves to 
newspaper work — or, rather, we should say, to the 
profession of Journalism, for so it is now called. It 
is doubtful, indeed, if these courses are of much prac- 
tical value to the prospective journalist. An ordi- 
nary college education, wide general reading, and an 
inclination to the work are the best preliminary 
guarantees of success. The rest must be acquired in 
practice. It is not likely that we will have special 
training provided in McGill with a view to journalism 
for some time ^to come. Nor is it desirable, or 
necessary, even if a large number of our students 
intended taking up that work. Rather before that 
and before all other things, let us have that course on 



Political Science, for which we have all been so long 
hungering and thirsting. Nevertheless, the subject is 
not uninteresting in view of the fact that many gra- 
duates of McGill are to-day engaged in newspaper 
work, while some are exerting an immense influence 
on public opinion through the editorial columns of 
some of our own journals. It may strike the reader 
as somewhat curious, that in the United States, 
where such unusual provision has been made for 
special training in journalism, and where so many 
men take a college course preparatory to adopting the 
Press as their life-work, the tone of the American 
press should remain so low, and that the worst features 
of journalism should be so prevalent in the Press over 
the border. It certainly would be curious, if such 
were the whole case. There, as here, there are news- 
papers and newspapers. In the city of New York, 
for instance, there are many journals, which we could 
name, decidedly conservative in tone, independent, 
clean and non-sensational, while they are edited with 
consummate ability. Some New York editors have 
even gone so far as to draw up a list of words — we 
might call them suspicious words — which are fre- 
quently met with in newspaper reading, not to men- 
tion their ordinary use in common parlance, and these 
the writers and reporters engaged on their papers 
will use at their peril. The best type of American 
journal is, like our own, midway between the pon- 
derous English journal and the ordinary typical 
American newspaper. And to the busy man, they 
are certainly preferable to the heavy English paper. 
It is no light task to face the editorial columns of a 
paper like, say, the London Times , every morning. 

Charles A. Dana, editor of the New York Sun , 
in an exceedingly interesting lecture delivered to 
the students of Union College some time ago, set out 
the literary requisites essential to the success of a 
journalist. As to a college education he considered 
it almost indispensable. It will be observed that, in 
this respect, his views differ somewhat from those of 
Horace Greely, who, for newspaper work, held 
college men in some contempt. The real newspaper 
man, he declared, was the man who slept on news- 
papers and ate ink. As to literary qualifications 
then, Charles A. Dana put a thorough knowledge 
of English as a first requisite ; and under this 
head he thought every man should have a perfect 



6 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



knowledge of these three books, viz. : The Bible, 

Shakespeare and Milton ; a knowledge of politics 
was another requisite ; and, lastly, a profound insight 
into the principles and genius of the American Con- 
stitution. Charles A. Dana is not the only editor in 
the United States who has a lofty conception of the 
nature and scope of his work and who has endeavored 
to realize and embody it. Men of great political and 
literary renown, and men of especial ability and char- 
acter have been associated with the American news- 
paper. They range all the way from Bryant down. 
Nor should we forget that, in our own Dominion, 
some of our most able public men have been con- 
nected with the Press. And the Press is worthy of 
our best men. It wields a mighty power in our 
modern life for good, and — for evil. All men who 
can read, read the papers, and some, only the 
papers. To these, true, sound and useful knowledge, 
conveyed through the medium of the daily or weekly 
paper, is precious knowledge indeed. It has been 
even charged that some public men, occupying no 
mean position in the popular eye, have gleaned all 
their knowledge of political and social questions from 
the columns of the public press. This statement may 
be a malicious one put forth by some political 
enemy ; at all events, we can conceive of a condi- 
tion of things wherein, although the assertion could 
never be true to the hilt, yet it might approximate to 
the full truth much nearer than it could possibly do 
under present circumstances. And that with no 
discredit to the public man. With regard to the 
average citizen, it is, no doubt, now, quite true. The 
practical question which occurs is this: Will the 
advent of the college man improve the newspaper ? 
It ought to : first, by raising the tone of the news- 
paper language : the strong, clear, terse Anglo-Saxon 
of the newspaper would soon become the popular 
language; and, secondly, by discouraging sensation- 
alism ; and, lastly, by bringing to the Press a manly, 
courageous and independent spirit, which, we fear 
it sadly needs at present. We want in Canada 
papers like the grand old London Times , that can 
neither be bribed nor coerced. We want a clean, 
courageous and unsubsidized Press in Canada. We 
want, in a word, Freedom of the Press. 

The student-readers of the Fortnightly, whether 
there is any liklihood of their ever drifting into 
journalism or not, may find it to their advantage 
hereafter to become journalists for the nonce, and 
to take sufficient interest in this Journal to contribute 
occasionally to its columns. If the editors have a 
monopoly of the work, it is through grim necessity, not 
choice. The paper is yours. If you have sent in 
an article which has not appeared, it is because you 
have failed to indicate an address to which it might 



be sent for necessary changes, or for re-writing, 
which latter no student ought to be ashamed to do. 



WINTER SPORTS. 

Now that the season for all summer and autumn 
sports is past, and King Frost has compelled even the 
lusty “pig-skin chaser” to lay aside canvas jacket 
and shin guard, it behooves the student to look about 
him for some way to divert himself during his leisure 
hours. 

A judicious use of dumb-bell and Indian club, 
coupled with a brisk walk in the open air, will be of 
the utmost service in keeping the system in proper 
tone- A thorough gymnasium course is better still. 
There, under a competent instructor, a man can begin 
with elementary work, and gradually train his muscles 
to a degree of development impossible in his own 
room. 

It is generally conceded, as far as we have been 
able to learn, that last year’s open air rink was not a 
flattering success. It was too small on which to play 
hockey matches with any degree of comfort. Now, if 
we only had a rink, say on the Campus, large enough 
to play matches on, we could, with such a chance to 
practise, and the material we have in the University, 
turn out a team that would make the best of them 
work to beat us. 

We have heard it expressed that a snowshoe club 
in connection with McGill would be a capital thing. 
Why not have one ? With the number of fast men 
attending our lectures, we could enter a team into all 
the open steeple-chases held in Montreal during the 
winter, and capture a large number of prizes. Then 
we could have weekly tramps over the mountain. 
What more exhilarating sport can be indulged in 
than a tramp in the clear moonlight of a Canadian 
winter’s evening with a jolly crowd ? The blood leaps 
through your veins, your spirits are buoyant, every 
care and trouble is cast aside, and you return to book 
or desk with new vigor. 

Why can’t we have a College drive this winter ? 
A few years ago the drive was looked forward to as 
one of the most enjoyable functions of the year. 
Let some of us take hold and start something that 
will put some snap into our dull student existence. 
We come to College to work, not to make slaves of 
ourselves. 

Let us hear from some of the boys regarding Win- 
ter Sport for this year. If anyone has an idea that 
might be acted upon, let him come out with it as soon 
as possible, for there is much room for improvement 
in the relations we students bear to one another in 
McGill. We are not united, not bound together by 
the ties of fiiendship that should exist amongst us as 
students of Old McGill. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



61 



CORRESPONDENCE 



To the Editor of the Fortnightly ; — 

Now that the Christmas Examinations are close at 
hand, to which most of us are already looking forward 
with dread, I would like to suggest, through your 
paper, to the Faculty of Applied Science, the num- 
bering of Examination Papers instead of naming 
them. 

Science, for years past, has been the most progres- 
sive of Faculties in the University in many respects ; 
but in this one, she is still behind the times. 

The Medical Faculty has for some time, I believe, 
followed this plan, with, as far as I can learn, great 
success, and would no sooner think of giving it up 
than of giving up the examinations themselves. 

Their system is, that each student on the roll is 
given a number, which appears on the paper instead 
of the name, the list of names with corresponding 
numbers being in the possession of the Dean of the 
Faculty, who, just before the declaration of results, 
replaces the number by the name. 

I think the advantages of the system will be appar- 
ent to everybody, and especially to those who have 
the examining of the papers. 

The Professors wish, and try, we all know, to be 
impartial ; but that is almost impossible. 

Were this plan followed, I believe, with many others, 
that the satisfaction of student and professor would 
be greater. 

X. Y. Z. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 



GRAY’S ELEGY IN A COUNTRY 
CHURCHYARD. 

“ Stoke Poges, a parish of England , in Bucking- 
hamshire near Slough , — 4 miles N. N. E. of Windsor. 
The poet Gray is buried in the churchyard , which is the 
supposed scene of his immortal Elegy T So says the 
Gazetteer , and meeting with this note by chance 
recently, set me “ a-thy nkynge” — with the recollection 
that I had visited the charming spot referred to, one 
amongst the hundreds of sweetly pretty views in rural 
England ; — thence I was, in fancy, transported to 
Poet’s Corner in Westminster Abbey, where, under 
that of Milton, is an elegant monument erected to the 
memory of Gray. It seems expressive of the com- 
pliment contained in the epitaph, where the Lyric 
Muse, in alt-relief, is holding a medallion of the Poet, 
and at the same time pointing the finger up to the 
bust of Milton, which is directly above it. 

No more the Grecian muse unrivalPd reigns. 

To Britain let the nations homage pay : 

She felt a Homer’s fire in Milton’s strains, 

A Pindar’s rapture in the lyre of Gray.” 

Died July 30TH, 1771, aged 54. 

JOHN BACON, sculptor. 



This brought me to reflect on the Poet’s writings, 
and foremost amongst them, the “ Immortal Elegy.’’ 

It has been the curious fortune of this famous poem 
to be hacked and mangled, altered and changed, by 
the publishers of the old editions, to an extent rarely 
paralleled in any literary work. Gray himself was so 
fastidious in his polishing and perfecting of it, that he 
kept it nearly twenty years, touching it up and im- 
proving it ; yet it seemed fated to go out to the world 
with so many unwarranted changes, that it becomes a 
matter of interest to see it in its true form, as the au- 
thor finally left it. 

This work seems to have been performed by Pro- 
fessor Rolfe, who has taken great pains to present the 
verses as Gray perfected them. There are many 
small changes in some of the famous lines — the author’s 
changes from the original version, and these were al- 
ways for the better, — as well as corrections of the com- 
monly received rendering. 

“ The lowing herd wind slowly o’er the lea/’ 

is one of these — the author correctly writing it “ wind'' 
instead of “winds." 

The beautiful second verse was not nearly so good 
' as it now stands, in the author’s first copy, where he 
had it thus : — 

“ Now fades the glimmering landscape on the sight. 

And ‘ now’ the air a solemn stillness holds,” 

a far less perfect line than the one with which we are 
all familiar, 

c< And * all ) the air a solemn stillness holds.” 

Here, we find another famous verse presented in a 
shape woefully inferior to that in which it stands after 
receiving the final touches of the author. Who could 
have believed that the man who has told us how — 

u The breezy call of incense-breathing morn, 

The swallow twittering from the straw-built shed 

The cock’s shrill clarion, or the echoing horn, 

No more shall rouse them from their lowly bed,” 

could have written it, and let it go, at first, in this 
j unworthy shape ? — 

“ Forever sleep ; the breezy call of morn, 

Or swallow twitt’ring from the straw-built shed, 

Or chanticleer so shrill, or echoing horn, 

No more shall rouse them from their lowly bed.” 

Of this famous poem, which has long since taken its 
place among the classic productions of English liter- 
ature, three M.S.S. in Gray’s handwriting still exist. 
These serve to show the frequent and improving 
touches which the poet put upon his work. The place 
which the poem holds is certainly a higher one than 
it could have hoped to attain, but for this careful ela- 
boration and detailed polish to which the author sub- 



6 2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



jected it. Several good verses were stricken out by 
Gray, perhaps not unwisely. 

After the eighteenth stanza, “ The struggling pangs 
of conscious truth to hide,” etc., theM.S. has the fol- 
lowing four stanzas, now omitted : — 

“ The thoughtless world to Majesty may bow, 

Exalt the brave, and idolize success; 

But more to innocence their safety owe 
Than Power, or Genius, e’er conspired to bless. ” 

“ And thou who, mindful of the unhonour’d Dead, 

Dost in these notes their artless tale relate, 

By night and lonely contemplation led 
To wander in the gloomy walks of fate .’ 5 

“ Hark ! how the sacred Calm, that breathes around, 

Bids every fierce tumultuous passion cease ; 

In still, small accents whisp’ring from the ground 
A grateful earnest of eternal peace.” 

“ No more with reason and thyself at strife, 

Give anxious cares and endless wishes room ; 

But through the cool sequester’d vale of life, 

Pursue the silent tenour of thy doom.” 

The Elegy was commenced in 1742, and was taken 
up again probably in the winter of 1749, on the death 
of his aunt ; it was certainly concluded at Stoke Pogis, 
—whence it was sent to Walpole in a letter dated 
June 12, I75 0> Walpole admired it greatly. 

In February, 1751, the publisher of the Magazine 
of Magazines wrote to Gray that he was about to 
publish the Elegy. Gray wrote to Walpole to get the 
poem published by Dodsley, and it appeared accord- 
ingly on February 16, 1751. It went through four 
editions in two months, and eleven in a short time, 
besides being constantly pirated. Gray left all the 
profit to Dodsley, declining to accept payment for 
his poems. 

It first appeared with Gray’s name in the Six Poems 

in 1753. 

Mason says that Gray originally gave it only the 
simple title of Stanzas V ritten in a Country Church- 
“ yard,” but that he “persuaded him to call it an Elegy 
“ because the subject authorized him so to do, and 
“ the alternate measure seemed particularly fit for that 
“ species of composition ; also so capital a poem written 
“ in this measure would, as it were, appropriate it in 
“future to writings of this sort.” 

The title of the eighth edition, 1753, is “ Elegy, 
originally written in a Country Churchyard.” 

Three copies of the Elegy in Gray’s handwriting 
still exist. One of these belonged to Wharton, and 
is now in the British Museum, the second is in posses- 
sion of Pembroke College, the third was sold by auc- 
tion in 1845, and brought ^100; in 1854 it was sold 
for £131 ; and in 1875 it was bought by Sir William 
Fraser for ^230, who had 100 copies of it printed in 
1884. 

One of the most curious alterations made by Gray 



himself in this famous poem remains to be noticed, 
viz. ; — the change in one of the most frequently quoted 
verses, of the historical personages used for the illus- 
tration of his meaning — a change from ancient Rome 
to England of the 17th century. The “ Village Hamp- 
den,’ the “ mute, inglorious Milton,” and the “ Crom- 
well,” were originally Roman characters thus : — 

“ Some village Cato, who, with dauntless breast, 

The little tyrant of his fields w ithstood ; 

Some mute, inglorious Tully here may rest, 

Some Caesar guiltless of his country’s blood.” 

This change to English, in the place of Roman 
celebrities, was about the happiest one of all. 

QUEVEDO REDIVIVUS. 



THE SCOTTISH TEACHER OF THE PAST. 

A SKETCH. 

The parish schoolmaster of the past belonged to a 
class of men and an institution peculiar to Scotland, 
and the subject of this sketch was no exception to 
the rule. He was a thorough Celt, full of emotion 
that could be roused to vehemence, but mild, modest, 
subdued, and firm. Between him and the parish 
clergyman these was a close alliance formed by many 
links. The incomes of both were secured by Parlia- 
ment, and both held their appointment for life. Both 
were members of the same church, and were obliged 
to subscribe to the same confession of Faith ;.both 
had attended the same University. 

By reason of his very considerable scholarship and 
culture, the minister considered the schoolmaster a 
very suitable companion, and made him his confiden- 
tial adviser and clerk of the Kirk session. The manse 
and school stood in close proximity, and the two 
worthies frequently met to discuss delicate questions 
relating to the flock, or argue knotty theological 
points and other subjects of equal mutual interest. 

Although deeply involved in his church work, the 
master never neglected the duties of his position, the 
most important in the parish. The school was ever 
his fitst duty, and there he diligently taught some 
fifty 01 sixty scholais, braw lads and bonnie lassies, 
for five days in the week, imparting knowledge in 
the usual branches, and also instructing two or three 
pupils in Latin, Greek and Mathematics in prepara- 
tion for the University. 

The glory of this old Scottish teacher was to 
ground his pupils thoroughly in the elements. He 
hated all shams, and placed little value on what was 
acquired without labor. To master details, to stamp 
gramma 1 lules, thoroughly understood, upon the 
minds of his pupils as with a pen of iron was his 
delight. He does not appear to have had the same 



McGill fortnightly. 



63 



ardent desire that many of our present day teachers 
have, to see how fast he could rush his pupils through 
the greatest number of classical authors ; on the 
contrary, it was a pleasure to him to move slowly and 
accurately through one classic at a time. He had no 
long spun theories about education, nor did he ever 
try his hand at adjusting the fine mechanism of boys’ 
motives. “ Do your duty and learn thoroughly, or be 
well licked “ obedience, work and no humbug,” 
were the sort of Spartan axioms which expressed his 
views ; and when he found boys honest at their work 
he rejoiced in his own. Many a successful minister, 
lawyer, and physician is able to recall this old gentle- 
man as his earliest and best friend, as the one who 
first kindled in him the love of learning, and helped 
him in the pursuit of knowledge. 

This worthy schoolmaster is long since dead. He 
died as he lived, at peace with God and man. The 
official residence has been changed to another part 
of the parish, the garden and footpaths obliterated. 
Verily, the place that once knew him knows him no 
more. 

G. C. A. 



POETRY AND PROSE. 

A custom, which, if not admirable in itself, has at 
least the weight of popular sanction behind it, pre- 
vails among writers upon controversial topics. The 
essayist sets out by asserting that he knows all about 
the matter under consideration, that its definition is 
fastly determined and its provinces easily outlined, 
and that he has in mind to settle at once and forever 
those vexed points which have so long confused and 
harassed unenlightened thinkers. And thereupon 
he proceeds, after a more or less direct fashion, to 
play the Socrates upon himself, entangling his own 
feet in a mesh of uncertain assumptions and con- 
tradictory conclusions, though lacking the eyes to 
see and the honesty to blush with Thrasymachus 
over the position he is found in. 

There is a Persian proverb, with a quaint Oriental 
ceremonialness about it, which says that mankind is 
of four classes : First, he who knows not, and knows 
not he knows not: he is a fool, shun him ! Second, he 
who knows not, and knows he knows not : he is 
ignorant, teach him ! Third, he 'who knows, and 
knows not he knows : he is asleep, awake him! and 
Fourth, he who knows, and knows he knows : he is 
wise, follow him ! 

It is good to be wise, but that is given to few; the 
wayfaring man, however, for the most part appreciates 
the truth, even though he have not lips apt to de- 
clare it, and needs only to be awakened from his 
sleep to perceive that he already possesses that 
knowledge in search of which he journeyed. The 



past experience of the individual and of the race 
have been organized in his nature into a touchstone 
by which he instinctively tests the metals presented 
to him, and — unconsciously, it may be, without ex- 
plicit grounds, but — unerringly selects the true and 
rejects the false. We know that this position is 
tenable, we feel that that reasoning is fallacious, even 
though we can give no articulate reasons for the 
faith that is in us. 

And in the matter of defining the provinces of 
Prose and Poetry, where so many elements enter 
into consideration, and the conception of their offices 
is as varied as the individuals who define them, it 
will be found that in spite of the fact that those who 
undertake an elaborate demarcation of the two suc- 
ceed usually in perpetuating their own voice only, 
without multiplying it in the convictions of others, 
yet every reader has a very lively and definite sense 
of agreement with or dissent from his author. 

Everyone, that is, believes that there is a very 
real distinction between the two forms of writing, 
and is continually making that distinction, — inarti- 
culately and practically, if not explicitly and theor- 
etically — in his criticism of literature. And it may 
be that the difference is in evident and essential 
things, not in obscure and accidental properties. Of 
one thing we make no doubt : the form is inessential ; 
the boldest didactic prose has time and again mas- 
queraded under rhyme and metre, and some prose 
poems which our English speech contains could 
scarcely be improved by any trick of versification. 
Poetry shall everywhere claim her own, under all 
disguises ; and for these hypocrites in the church of 
j song it shall be in vain to call upon Apollo with pro- 
testations of “ Lord ! Lord ! ” saying : “ In Thy name 
have we prophesied and done many mighty works,” 
the final and inexorable answer of the god will be : 

“ Depart from me ; T never knew you !” 

The truth is, they serve another master, — if any — 
and must of necessity be reckoned among those who 
“ work iniquity.” The old rule here finds applica- 
tion : “ By their fruits ye shall know them!” The 
goat’s nature does not change because it has happened 
to stray into the pastures of the sheep ; and the 
worshipper of Beauty can recognize no other deity as 
supreme, nor admit of any other homage, even 
though that homage be paid to Truth itself. 

As knowledge is to Beauty, so is Prose to Poetry. 
The one is born of the artistic nature of man ; the 
other is fashioned by his intellectual need. The one 
seeks the Beautiful , the other the True. Prose is the 
weapon of practical life, of man as conquering, 
scientific, as logician and demonstrator. Poetry is 
the instrument of the imagination, of man as appre- 
ciator, connoisseur, as perceiver of the harmonies of 
I things. The painter, the sculptor, the composer, the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




6 4 



architect all work with the same plastic materials; 
they are brother-craftsmen of the one guild. And 
all those who enter into the spirit of these workers, 
— receptive, though not creative — do thereby become 
for the moment, also artists. The wine-taster, too, 
and the smoker, watching through half-closed eyes 
the revolving circles float lazily upward through 
the thin blue air, are, in their own dumb way, 
poets. 

Universally the imaginative, artistic nature de r 
velops and finds expression before the reasoning, 
scientific faculty. The youth of the individual and 
of the race is through and through poetic, imagina- 
tive. It creates and personifies ; it invests the 
world with its own qualities and modes of acting and 
feeling. With maturity only comes the rationalizing 
habit, the recognition of a scientific outer order, and 
the impersonal investigation of it. The earliest ex- 
pression of the thought of a people is everywhere in 
verse ; prose is usually an extremely late develop- 
ment. The English tongue has a literature extending 
over a dozen centuries, yet Thomas Hobbes was per- 
haps the first to conceive prose in its true modern 
sense. Those examples of the prose form which 
preceded him constantly involve poetic elements. 
In his hands did the English speech first become the 
sufficient instrument of thoroughly disciplined 
thought. In his works the form is wholly subser- 
vient to the matter, and Hobbes is, in virtue of this, 
forever the model of what English prose should be. 
There may, indeed, be shortcomings in Hobbes’s 
style ; he may have failed, in many instances, to at- 
tain that which he sought; but he has, nevertheless, 
with splendid power set before us, in his example as 
well as in his endeavor, the ideal and type of all true 
prose-writing. 

The thought must be supreme for the writer in 
prose, his whole duty and his sole purpose being to 
set that in an utterly lucid form before his readers. 
This is his one work : whatever will best subserve 
that end, he seeks ; whatever hinders it, he must 
reject. To express the thought in the clearest, most 
forcible and fittest manner is the sole criterion of ex- 
cellence in prose-writing. 

“The words,” it has beautifully been said, “must 
be a clear window through which the thought has 
unimpeded passage,” its one essential character beino- 
capacity for perfect transmission. For this purpose, 
indeed, the utmost care must be taken of the form in 
which the thought is expressed. Every element and 
every relation in the paragraph and its component 
sentences is of importance j the expression must be 
lucid, forcible and harmonious. Beauty is thus an 
essential quality in prose as in poetry ; but while in 
poetry its value is primary, in prose it is derived, for 



here, indeed, it is only negative, its office being by 
the satisfaction of the aesthetic nature to render the 
flow of thought as unimpeded as possible. Beauty 
in prose has thus only a dependent not an absolute 
value, deriving its worth from the service which it 
renders to Truth. 

It is, indeed, strictly limited in this regard, for if it 
be too strongly emphasized, even though that em- 
phasis be an unquestionable intensification of the 
beauty, it nevertheless detracts from the perfection of 
the work, as a piece of prose-writing, by drawing at- 
tention to itself and causing the mind to dwell upon 
the beauty of the expression as a thing of worth in 
itself. This may be done in some writing, — it must 
be done in much writing; but wherever it is done, 
the composition becomes, in so far, poetry, not 
prose. 

For here, if anywhere, I must mark the transition 
from the one class of work to the other. In prose 
the form must be nothing in itself, that thereby the 
idea may be all. The thought must pass through it 
as through a clear glass, and for this purpose utter 
transparency is the one thing needful. To this end 
the best materials must be found : in other words, 
carefullest selection of words is necessary, in order 
that the idea may be exactly represented ; these 
materials — the lime and silica of our spiritual 
window — must be combined in the right propor- 
tions, — that is, the relation of element to element in 
the period is to be weighed and nicely determined ; 
and the whole medium must be clearly and high'y 
polished, — in literal terms, the greatest possible 
beauty and harmony of expression must be sought. 
These demands are imperative, but imperative only 
as are their counterparts in the figure used, as — the 
condition of perfect capacity for the transmission of 
the light of thought. 

In poetry, on the other hand, these elements have 
a value in themselves apart from the idea expressed. 
The thought “ sticks in the utterance,” instead of 
passing unimpeded through, and gains a new beauty 
thereby. The imagination of the poet 

“like a dome of many colored glass 
Stains the white radiance of eternity,” 

and these unimagined colors, this golden glow into 
which the alchemy of his genius has transmitted the 
sober light of day is not with him a means but an 
end. Truth becomes here the handmaiden of 
Beauty, essential indeed, — absolutely so in all true 
art, but subservient only, and in no way fashioning 
or compelling the greater Spirit. 

The relations of the two qualities in these two pro- 
vinces of writing are indeed reversed. For in poetry 
it is Beauty which gives worth to all other elements. 
A poem must not shock the moral sense, not because 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



65 



it thereby falls away from truth, but because it thus 
becomes by so much the less beautiful. The Trite, 
the Beautiful ; these are the words of Prose and of 
Foetry, and all values must be assigned by relation 
to them and to them alone. 

Berlin, Robert MacDougall. 



WAR CRIES. 

No doubt it will be generally admitted by specula- 
tive minds, that the subject of war cries is an exceed- 
ingly interesting and intellectual one, and anyone 
who has earnestly endeavored to analyze the com- 
plexity of feeling to which they give expression must 
come to the conclusion that here is a problem, or rather 
a realm of problems, worthy of the ability and the 
effort of a veteran scientist. Take, for example, the 
war cry of the Rumpty-Foo Indians, which, as 
everybody knows, is “ Wiang, wiang, wong, wang, 
wong, wingty, wingty, wing, wang, wong.” When 
one pictures to himself a noble tribe of savages (and 
the Rumptiesare both noble and savage) giving forth 
to the world the melodious echoes of such a war cry 
as that, one is naturally led back to the gentle days of 
chivalry. 

The “W” which is so prominent in this noble out- 
burst of feeling, as well-known psychologists have 
already pointed out, clearly expresses the sentiment 
contained in the native word “ Wiggewawa,” which is 
obviously connected with our own word wig, and is 
forcibly significant of scalps and scalping. This is 
interesting from an ethnological as well as a psychol- 
ogical point of view, as it points to an original relation- 
ship between the Rumpty-Foos and the Red Indians 
of North America, though even this obvious conclu- 
sion has been disputed. A more extended enquiry 
into the meaning of the term wiggewawa leads us to 
infer that it expresses very much the same feelings as 
are so well depicted in the words of a certain old 
gentleman, who, according to Dickens, kept a second- 
hand establishment near Portsmouth at one time, and 
forms one of the most striking pictures in the works 
of the great novelist. Perhaps it might prejudice my 
friends the Indians in the mind of the reader if I 
were to go farther into detail. A point of particular 
interest is noticeable in connection with the repetition 
of the syllable “mg.” I trace in it the source from 
which the Swiss bagpipes must have been evolved in 
some remote period of the history of evolution ; and 
I think it strange that evolutionists have not advanced 
this fact in support of their theory, for assuredly it is 
both striking and powerful. 

Before passing from this interesting example of 
emotional expression, I would notice the significant 
hint conveyed in the syllables “ wing, wang, wong,” 



which no doubt have already suggested to those inter- 
ested in this subject the many Chinese laundries which 
decorate the cities of the world at the present day. 
Without doubt, the meaning intended to be conveyed 
is that not only will the Rumpty warriors reluctantly 
slay their enemies, but they will also take from them 
all they possess,— in fact, strip them clean. 

But we now come to a war cry which is far more 
interesting to us, as it expresses all the deep feelings 
of our own University, — the war cry of McGill “ M-C- 
G-I-L-L, What’s the matter with old McGill, she’s 
all right, oh yes, you bet!!!” What memories it 
awakens ! What associations it calls up ! What anti- 
quity and wisdom it represents ! As may be natur- 
ally supposed, this war cry is far more intellectual than 
the one we have just been considering, and therefore 
it requires more concentrated thought, more earnest 
attention, to understand and elucidate the intricacies 
of feeling that are contained in it. 

The “M ” is plain enough, and is addressed to all 
opponents of McGill in whatever sphere of rivalry 
they appear. It means simply “ My magnificentico, 
you think yourself so great ! ” This letter is empha- 
sized naturally when we are not so successful as we 
might be, and need encouragement, and therefore 
should be taken as an expression of honest scorn and 
determined purpose rather than one of personal 
aggrandizement. The “ C ” is printed small, and wisely 
so, for it represents sweet innocent childhood ; but it 
says : — “ We are more than seven.” I believe that 
those who have investigated the matter hold that 
this has special reference to the students of the First 
Year; if so, we congratulate them sincerely upon 
their advanced age and increasing wisdom. Like 
every institution of respectable antiquity, we are 
blessed with ghosts, and it is with these apparitions 
that we connect the third letter of this curious rem- 
nant of the Middle Ages. These ghosts appear first 
in the Molson Hall and other centres of the University 
where the spirit of professional investigation runs ram- 
pant. They appear in a more conspicuous form in 
the front lobby of the central building around Christ- 
mas time (for give me a Christmas ghost), and they 
disconsolately walk the halls of the University in the 
spring. Those who have had the painful privilege 
of seeing them hold that they resemble nothing more 
strongly than a bird of some kind, which has, for 
some unaccountable reason, doffed its plumage. This 
has led investigators of a somewhat bold spirit to 
connect the “ G ” with the preceding letter, by making 
the latter stand for chicken ; but I cannot follow them 
into such deep water as this. Evolutionists, for they 
have been busy here as elsewhere, state that these are 
the ghosts of men who were students at McGill at a 
period so remote in the world’s history, that they had 
not yet reached that stage where they could justify 



66 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



that definition of man given by the ancient phil- 
osopher, who described him as a featherless biped. 

The three last letters of the first utterance in the 
war cry are to be taken together, and the question at 
once arises as to whether they are to be pronounced 
in accordance with the continental rules of pronun- 
ciation or after the old style. The discussion of this 
matter, though of great interest and importance, would 
take up too much time and space for the patience of 
the ordinary reader, and at any rate it is a matter 
which still remains unsettled. 

To me the word seems to be English, in spite of 
the fact of our being a classical University, and I 
would simply take it to mean what it says. It points to 
a state of uneasiness or pain produced by different and 
varied circumstances, the character of which depends 
upon time and place ; and it is doubtless for this reason 
that our war cry ends with the reassuring reiteration of 
the fact that McGill is all right. No matter what ad- 
versities she may meet with, what momentary defeats 
she may suffer, yet, whatever else may be wrong, the 
smallest boy in the streets of Montreal will tell you 
that McGill is all right. Surely no more encouraging 
words could have been chosen to characterize the life : 
and history of this great institution than those that 
occupy so prominent a position in its well-known war 
cry, and may it ever be said of McGill with truth and 
honesty that “ She is all right.” 

SIR RUPERT. 



GAUGING THE ST. LAWRENCE. 

The expedition to Lanoraie was a decided success. 
The party consisted of Prof. McLeod, Prof. Smith, 
Mr. Kerry, and about fifteen Civil and Mining stu- 
dents. 

At 7.30 a.m. the whole contingent was on the 
wharf, ready for the start — an early hour for most of 
us. Alarm clocks (set to sidereal time ?) had been 
active all the morning. One member of the party 
woke early enough to set his agoing. Breakfast was 
taken in double quick time too. We understand that 
the Harbor Commissioners’ floating shop is a capital 
place to eat mutton pie in. 

Soon we were spinning down the river in Senator 
Drummond’s trim yacht “ Wild Rose” under the 
command of Mr. F. R. Redpath. It was a splendid 
run. How pleasant to glide along with a swift, easy 
motion, invigorating breeze and cold spray chasing- 
all signs of slumber from our faces. The time was 
passed in song, jest and story. Between times one 
would think we were all full-fledged engineers, judging 
by the amount of professional small talk indulged in. 
In good time we arrived at Lanoraie, and set to work 
immediately. Our business was to gauge the flow of 
the St. Lawrence whose mightly current gives 

“ Its freshness for a hundred leagues to ocean’s briny wave.” 



The arrangements for carrying on the work were 
complete, and they were completely carried out, even 
to consuming the contents of the huge lunch baskets 
provide \ by Profs. Bovey and McLeod. 

The rate of the current was determined by means 
of long poles, weighted at one end so as to make them 
float, standing vertically in the water. Closely follow- 
ing each pole was a boat, in which were two sextant 
men, who read off angles between certain fixed points 
on shore, a man to note the readings and the exact 
time at which they were taken, and a sturdy oarsman 
to propel the boat when necessary. About twenty 
such lines were run for a distance of ^ of a mile. On 
shore were transits, etc., to establish necessary lines 
and points. The rate of flow was also measured by 
means of a current meter specially adapted for work 
in deep water. Wednesday night was spent with 
mine host “Champagne ” of the “Temperance” Hotel. 
Early next morning, after filling his cash-box with a 
goodly number of shekles, and wondering what such 
a puzzle of a name could mean, we went to work once 
more with an enthusiasm worthy of McGill men, and 
when darkness again gathered round us, we had got 
through with all our operations (except luncheon), and 
were snugly gathered on board the yacht. We at 
once steamed homewards with our three boats in tow, 
and a score of tired but well-satisfied men on board. 
Again the old reliable songs rang out over the water. 
Conspicuous among the lusty singers were Prof. S. — , 

“ Billy” and G. M. H. Some of us retired within the 
cosy cabin to crack jokes and perpetrate puns, while 
others sat on the boiler to keep it warm, or stood on 
deck to inhale the ozone. The “ Wild Rose” made 
good headway in spite of her heavy cargo and strong 
head wind and swift current. Once more we gathered 
round the festive board, and this time the baskets sur- 
rendered the last morsel. Late at night we were glad 
to land in the city, and taking possession of a car, 
we soon reached our beds, to rest our weary limbs 
and dream of the events of the past two days. 
Would that such expeditions came oftener. 

G. R. M., 

Sci.y ’97. 



POETRY. 



SUNSET AT ATTAYA. 

Now on the water’s crystal-clear calm breast 
Lies a long pillar of rich crimsoning light ; 
Shoreward the mountain rears its purple crest, 
Deeply o’ershadowed by the coming night. 
Slowly the sun sinks downward in the west. 

Till, overcome by grey cloud masses’ might 
It fades ; and dark the quiet waters rest ; 

The cloud-bank covers the sun’s radiance bright. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



67 






The wind is rising; though our oars lie still, 

We drift adown the gently rippling lake. 

No word we speak ; our minds grave thoughts do fill. 

I>ut suddenly through the dark clouds doth break 
The glorious sun again — grows brighter, till 
A perfect globe of light appears, to make 
The world seem bright. Then, all is darkness, chill — 
Daylight and joy together sad leave take. 

t 

Now sadness seems to creep into our hearts 

Where gladness leigned throughout the summer day. 
You tako the oars again ; the light skiff darts 
Over the waves, now showing grim and gray 
Upon the lake. But on the beach that starts 
J he camp-fire’s gleam, the sound of voices gay 
Comes to us in the distance ; gloom departs, 

By those young happy voices driven away. 

M. T. W. 

Arts ’96. 



RENEWAL. 

See the rose dying, 

All faded lying, 

Gone its fresh perfume, gone its red splendor. 

What can restore it, 

What shall breathe o’er it, 

And to the poor flow’r life again render? 

Only the dew may, only the sun ! 

So in life’s journey; 

Oft in the tourney 

When, bruis’d and wounded, the heart lies all bleeding, — 
For like the flow’r, 

The soul hath its hour. 

Of darkness and storm, — from heav’n speeding, 

Let a soft ray fall, a new life’s begun ! 



SOCIETIES. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the above Society was held on Friday 
evening, 8th November, in No. 1 Class Room, Arts 
Building, with President V. E. Mitchell in the chair. 

An invitation to send a delegate to a dinner given 
by Trinity College, Toronto, was received. The 
Society, however, thought best to refuse this, owing to 
the scarcity of funds. Mr. Luttrel, Arts ’99, opened the 
programme with a difficult reading from the “Auto- 
crat” the “ One Hoss Shay he was followed by Mr. 
R. C. Paterson, Arts ’98, who read a learned essay on 
“ Theatres,” which showed careful preparation. 

Then came the debate of the evening : “ Resolved, 
that the modern drama is on the whole beneficial to 
mankind.” 

Mr. Mitchell, Arts ’99, opened the debate for the 
affirmative. He defined drama as a play with a plot, 
and said that this definition excluded all burlesques 
and low variety shows. He also criticized the unfair- 
ness of those who, having never given the theatre a 
fair trial, yet called it hard names. 

Mr. R. P. Campbell, Arts ’97, followed for the nega- 



tive. He contended that vice was so presented on 
the stage that it might be easily mistaken for virtue. 
The actors too were exposed to tremendous tempta- 
tions. 

Mr. Leney, Arts ’98, next spoke on the affirmative. 
The drama, said he, appealed to those to whom the 
other fine arts did not. It showed the triumph of 
right over wrong. Plays like those of Shakespeare are 
educators which appeal to everyone. 

Mr. Armstrong, Arts’97, followed for the negative, 
lie humorously sketched the modern comedy, and 
asked f this was beneficial to mankind. Pie charac- 
terized theatre-going as a waste of time. 

Mr. Guthrie, Arts ’98, followed on the affirmative. 
The lives of actors, according to him, had nothing to 
do with the question, they were merely the parts of a 
machine, and the debate was whether the work done 
by this machine was beneficial to mankind or not. He 
contended that the drama did not include burlesques, 
etc., and that even in the lowest sort of dramas the 
hero is praised and the villain vilified. 

Mr. Duff, Arts ’98, volunteered to speak on the nega- 
tive, and made some forcible remarks in his usual 
happy and untrammeled style. 

The Affirmative won by one vote. 

It was then the pleasure of the Society to listen to 
Mr. Ferguson’s able criticism. It was searching, kind 
and true. The defects of the speakers were brought 
out, and their good points praised. The criticism 
made us all proud of the only Fourth Year Arts man 
at the debate. 

SCRIBUS SENIOR. 

SECOND MEETING. 

At the last meeting of the Society, several items on 
the advertized programme were conspicuous by their 
absence. The Committee apologized, and the Presi- 
dent promised that in future two weeks’ notice should 
be given to those who were expected to take part. It 
was resolved that war should one day cease in the 
world. In reality three essays were read on this sub- 
ject, a circumstance which led the critic to condemn 
written speeches as being quite out of harmony with 
the aims and traditions of the Society. After the vote 
had been taken — resulting in a victory for the affir- 
mative — and before the criticism was delivered, sev- 
eral members claimed their right of speech on the 
resolution. Curiously enough these were nearly all 
on the negative side, and seemed to meet with the 
hearty approval of the meeting. 

SCRIBUS JUNIOR. 



McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

The subject under discussion in the McGill Y. M. 



68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 






C. A. on Sunday, November 10th, was Prayer, based 
on Math. vi. i - 1 5. Mr. Tory led the meeting, and the 
hour spent was an exceedingly pleasant and profitable 
one, and proved an excellent preparation for the 
special prayer service which immediately followed. 
This service is held annually in compliance with the 
request of the American International Conference and 
the World’s Conference of Young Men’s Christian 
Associations, and has special reference to the work 
done by the Associations on behalf of young men 
throughout the world. The meeting was in charge 
of the President, Mr. Percy C. Leslie. Extracts were 
read from letters from Mr. John R. Mott, who is now 
making a tour of the world for the purpose of study- 
ing the student-field and of deepening . the spiritual 
life of college men. Mr. Mott is at the head of the 
Intercollegiate Movement in America, — a man of most 
wonderful personality and irresistible force of charac- 
ter. He has visited Great Britain, France, Germany 
and the Netherlands, Scandinavia, Switzerland, Aus- 
tria and Hungary. His last report-letter was written 
from the .Egean Sea. His grasp of the student-pro- 
blem of America and Europe is most broad and com- 
prehensive. As an organizer, it is difficult to find 
his equal. The scheme he hopes to carry through is 
no less than the federation of all the Christian stu- 
dents of the world- He will be absent on his tour 
about a year and a half. 

Perhaps the most interesting meeting of our Asso- 
ciation yet held was on the 17th inst. The study was 
taken from Math. vii. 24-29, entitled “The House 
on the Rock.” The conversational character of the 
meetings and the informal manner in which they are 
conducted seem to commend them to the men. 

Immediately following, at 4 o’clock, Mr. Plugene 
Stock, of the Church Missionary Society, spoke to a 
crowded meeting presided over by Prof. C. A. Carus- 
Wilson, at which many ladies, including a number 
of Donaldas, were present. He spoke on “ Preparation 
for Work in the Foreign Field.” Mr. Stock has an 
easy and captivating manner of address ; his remarks 
were pointed, pithy and practical. 



Y. W. C. A. 

Miss Pitcher had charge of the meeting of Nov. 
8th. The subject was “ The Mercy-Seat,” and some 
very practical lessons were drawn by comparing the 
account given in Exodus, of the mercy-seat between 
the cherubims of the ark, to which the High Priest 
of the Jews had access in their behalf, and that mercy- 
seat mentioned in Hebrews to which all may appeal. 

On Nov. 15 th we had another missionary meeting. 
Miss King gave us a description of Corea, as to its 
climate and peoples, and also their manner of living. 

Miss L. Reid and Miss Doull read to us short 



accounts of work being done there, and then Miss R. 
Watson, B.A., addressed us on Corea. This is where 
our missionary interest is directed. In 1888 Toronto 
University sent Mr. Gale as missionary to Corea, but 
it was found necessary to send one who could gain a 
firmer footing with the natives. The knowledge of 
medicine proved to be necessary to accomplish this, 
so in 1892, Dr. Hardy, a graduate in Medicine of the 
same University, was sent. Since that time he has 
been carrying on the work. In Corea there are at 
present ten and a half million people and only sev- 
enty-two missionaries. The need for more workers is 
great. If we cannot ourselves go, let us make an 
effort to send and support those who can. 

Miss Ross told us at the end of our meeting that 
she had been able through our envelope system to 
send away to this missionary work some four dollars. 



A 2 SOCIETY. 

The members of the Delta Sigma Society, and 
many of their friends, assembled in the theatre of the 
Physics Building on Wednesday last, to hear the 
accustomed annual lecture, given this year by Pro- 
fessor Cox. All who listened to his delightful “Talk 
on Music” carried away with them, we feel sure, a little 
of the spirit of his enthusiasm. We hope Professor 
Cox will allow us to print the lecture, so those may 
read it who were denied the pleasure of listening. 

Miss Pinder and others very kindly contributed to 
the enjoyment of the audience in a practical way. 



MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill 
Mining Society was held in the old Science building- 

o 

on Friday evening, 15th Nov., 1895 ; the vice-pre- 
sident in the chair. 

Mr. N. N. Evans, M.A.Sc., read a most interest- 
ing and instructive paper on the mining district of 
Freiburg in Germany, illustrated by photographs, 
maps, etc., also an account of the smelting process 
which the ore undergoes. After which the meeting 
adjourned. 



McG. C. C. 

The Classical Club did not fail to hold its regular 
meeting on Wednesday evening, 13th Nov. 

Mr. Campbell Howard, second vice-president, filled 
the chair. An hour was spent in the enjoyment of 
the programme, which consisted of an essay and a 
reading. 

Mr. Munn’s essay on “The Position of Woman in 
Ancient Greece,” dealing with a subject none too 
familiar to those present, was a rich treat. 

Mr. Scrimger gave an excellent and appropriate 
reading. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



6 9 



’96 JOURNAL CLUB. 

1 he Journal Club met on Friday evening, Nov. 
15th, with the president, Harri H. Dell, in the chair. 

The article of Dr. W. L. Williams, ’79, on “ Thera- 
peutics of Colic,” was read, and proved very interest- 
ing to all present. After the reading of this paper 
a discussion ensued, during which many new ideas 
concerning the subject in hand were brought out by 
members. 

Although the number present was small, the meet - 
ing proved of such value as to warrant the holding of 
another at an early date. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The Association met in the Library, on Thursday 
evening, 7th Nov., with the president, Dr. Baker, in 
the chair. 

There was a large attendance of members and 
visitors, among the former being Drs. D. McEachran, 
Adam, Mills and Martin. 

The secretary was instructed to convey to Dr. F. 
H. Osgood the thanks of the Association, for his dona- 
tion of fifty copies of the 1895 report of the Mas- 
sachusetts Board of Cattle Commissioners for distri- 
bution among the members. 

Mr. E. C. Thurston reported an interesting case of 
oesophageal obstruction in a dog, the animal dying 
shortly after admission to the hospital. 

Mr. Harri H. Dell presented a carefully prepared 
paper embodying the result of much original research 
on Pyaemia in the Dog- His remarks were illus- 
trated by microscopic specimens and mounted 
sections shown under the microscope. 

The paper evoked an animated discussion, the 
essayist being highly complimented on the literary 
and scientific merit of the paper. 

Mr. J. Greer will read at the next meeting on 
Physical Diagnosis, and Mr. J. H. Patterson will 
furnish the case report. 

H. D. 

SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The above Society met in the Library, 6 Union 
avenue, on nth Nov,, the president, Dr. Mills, 
occupying the chair. 

There was a good attendance, and two names were 
added to the roll w 

Mr. J. J. McCarrey read an interesting paper on 
“ Effects of Music on Animals, ” a subject on which, 
from the discussion, there appeared to be a diversity 
of opinion. The essayist, however, ably defended 

his statements. 



Mr. E. H. Morris presented a paper on “ Fear and 
Anger in Animals.” His remarks on the subject 
were clear, concise, and showed a good knowledge of 
the subject on the part of the writer. 

Mr. J. Anderson Ness read a portion of an article 
lately appearing in the Science Monthly on “ The 
Psychology of Woman,” the discussion of which 
was postponed until a future meeting. 

Messrs. Kee and McNider will read papers at the 
next meeting. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

The annual Alumni dinner will probably be held 
early in the coming year. 



I'he students show their appreciation of Dean 
McEachran’s Saturday morning lectures by attending 
in full force- 



“ What has become of the Glee Club ? ” is the 
question heard on all sides, and a very pertinent query 
it is. With the nrisical talent in our midst we should 
have a club second to none. 



Through the kindness of Dr. G. Campbell, 1893, 
the Second Year are now enabled to have weekly 
grinds in Chemistry. 



The First Year men are very anxious for the cold 
weather to set in, so they can begin dissecting. 



Judging by the attendance of the Plrst Year men at 
Dr. Baker’s lectures and grinds, there will be few 
plucked in Anatomy. 

Great interest is taken in Dr. Mills’ lectures on 
Cynology, and the First Year men have furnished 
many very interesting subjects. 

Third Year. 

Query — Why are so many veterinary surgeons 
afflicted with bunions, especially those stationed at 
the “ Quarantines ”? 

Answer. — It is simply the effect of their laudable 
efforts to stamp out pleuro-pneumonia, tuberculosis 
and other contagious diseases. 



The Third Year have elected Mr. Harri Dell 
valedictorian, and Messrs. Higgins and Thurston as 
“ class historians ” ; the latter, by the way, are asking 
some very impertinent questions- 



1 



7 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Grand paw’s” stay within our scientific walls is 
fast drawing to a close. We hope this is not wholly 
due to the after-effect of minor operations performed 
at The Kennels. 



He tried to use the artery forceps, but it was in 
vein. 



Jimmy’s trousers are completed, but, sad to relate, 
they don’t fit. 

Our Faculty osteologist has resumed work on 
the camel’s skeleton in a most Ernest manner. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 

Prof . — You had better use a rheostat to prevent 
sparking. 

Chorus of Students . — Oh ! we never spark. 

The Fourth Year Miner who receives letters ad- 
dressed “ Prof. W. M. W ” need not think it 

a case of “ coming events cast their shadows before.” 
The Governors have no intention of appointing him 
to the vacant chair in Mining. 



D s’ temperance drink. 

Acetic acid + alcohol (equal parts) \ water to 
taste. 

(All these from the Lab. at McGill, and guaranteed 
pure.) 

When we found this formula in one of our text- 




with the following values of a, #. a. (i> 

a .00003959^ .00002603125 a' .000064375, 

P .000000335625, 

we hardly needed to be told : “ These values are 
rarely of any practical value. 



Will some of the students who have not subscribed 
to the FORTNIGHTLY please remember that they are 
not entitled to first pick of the papers when they 
come up to College ! 



Pres, Walketn will represent Science on the 
University Dinner Committee. 



Voice from Dynamo room (via speaking tube). 
— “Less noise, please.” 

Reply from Ete. Lab. (via do.). — “ Oh ! you can’t 
s (carus). 



Who translated “ Quid rides ” as “ What does he 
ride” ? 

Why, a Science man. 



The Fourth Year Mechanicals had their annual 
bath at the Laurentian Baths last Thursday. 



One would almost think it ungrammatical to say, 
“ If I (I.) is small, w will be large.” But is that 
the reason why the boys laughed when the professor 
made the remark ? (Artsmen can get explanation 
from the Science Editor.) 

The boys played well at Cornwall, and Frank re- 
fereed the game well enough ; but if you win the game 
at Cornwall, your name is mud. 

A party of v Civil Fmgineering students went down 
the St. Lawrence last Wednesday, as far as the 
mouth of the Richelieu, to make a survey of the river 
there. They returned on Friday, and declared that 
they had a grand time ; but from what we can gather, 
the “grand time” consisted in rowing a heavy boat 
about the river. 



We were sorry to notice the epidemic of short- 
sightedness which the Sophomores displayed at one 
of their lectures last week. 



Modern scientists have made important discoveries 
with regard to blindness. But there is nothing new 
under the sun. In the book of the Prophet Lluburnt 
it is inscribed that a blind man can’t read b. co- 
secant c. 



Prof- A. — says that certain coal areas are of miner 
importance. 

Harry got a good photo of Vercheres wind-mill, 
with a group of the most respectable men in ‘the 
University sitting at its base. 

The Mechanicals and Electricals are allowed in 
the drawing rooms again. 



At Vercheres, K — 1 — y (spying loads of hay), 
“ Boys, if we get run in, there’s lots of hale.” 
Voice.— “ Yes, and when that’s all gone we can bail 
out the boats.” 



We missed the “ leading lady’s ” merry voice at 
Lanoraie. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

We learn with great pleasure that there is a 
movement on foot among the members of the 
Legal profession, to have the courts and offices closed 
at 1 p.m. on Saturday. If this magnificent 
scheme succeeds, it is apparent that the health of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 






those fragile flowers, the Law students, will be much 
improved thereby. As a rule, the Law students are 
greatly overworked. They hurry down to their 
offices every morning at about 10 o’clock and have 
barely time to read the papers or smoke a pipe with 
the graduate of last year — who has an office upstairs 
and not too many clients, — before being cruelly sent 
up to the Court to fyle a plea or take out a writ. 

In the afternoon, this performance, which every 
fair-minded person will admit is of the most trying- 
kind, is repeated. This is not the worst, however ; 
no sooner is the office work completed than the 
miserable men have to rush up to lectures. The 
physical and mental strain during lectures is simply 
awful. The scheme above mentioned has therefore 
our entire approval. 

Some days ago Mr. S. was asked if he had 

anything to report regarding the Y. M. C. A. S. 
was rather reticent upon the subject, but since then 
we have observed several notices concerning the 
services, meetings, etc. Our representative is evi- 
dently doing his duty in the most satisfactory 
manner. 

Last week, our friend M., who, without consider- 
ing expense, had invested in a new hat, was en- 
raged to find that some person or persons to him 
unknown had shoved the peg whereon said hat was 
wont to hang through the crown thereof. 

This little joke is a rather common one, and we 
quite sympathize with M. in his fearful indignation. 



The great football match between the teams 
representing the Faculties of Law and Arls is to be 
played on Wednesday, the 20th inst. The Law men 
are all in the best of condition, so much so indeed 
that it was decided that no practice would be neces- 
sary. The Law team will be composed of the 
following well known athletes : — 

Back, — Duclos ; Half Backs,— Aylmer, Donahue 
(Capt), Kennedy; Quarter,— Montgomery ; Scrim- 
mage,— Sinn, Hingston, Hanson; Wings— Armstrong, 
Boyd, Bickerdike, Hickson, Cook, Bond, Burnette; 
Reserves — Laverty, Honan, Doucet, and fifteen others 
Professors Fortin and Ryan have kindly con- 
sented to postpone the lectures due by them the 
afternoon of the match. 



ARTS NOTES. 

* 

Fourth Year. 

Some time ago the Professor of French mooted the 
scheme of organizing a French club for both lady 
and gentleman students. For some reason, or rea- 



sons, the project is only now emerging from the in 
nnbibus stage and taking definite constitutional 
form. The following conversation will perhaps give 
some hint to the uninitiated as to the cause of delay : 

Stud : Quand aurons-nous notre premiere reunion, 
Professeur ? 

Prof : Ah ! II y a une difficult^. Vous avez une 

reputation tres mauvaise ; vous etes separes 

comme des betes feroces. 

Stud: C’est la vraie verite. 



A prominent, but in this a rather over-confident, 
young man, recently tried to introduce a mustache- 
shaving cult among the members of the graduating 
class, by appearing one morning minus the usual 
adornment of his upper lip. Unfortunately for the 
success of his plan, our time is too much taken up with 
weightier subjects to warrant our learning new per- 
sonal habits, even though they would necessitate the 
admiring of ourselves in a mirror. 

A sweet little bird has whispered to us that the 
Donaldas are advised not to look out of the window, 
lest they should see things they ought not to see, and 
not to pass too often from building to building, — 
possibly because they might meet “things” they 
should not meet. When will this Reign of Terror 
cease ? 



Third Year. 

Prof, of Classics : “ Gentlemen, I am sorry to say 
that I have been informed that one of your number 
makes use of a * crib ’ ! I am unwilling to believe this, 
and so desire that the one suspected will answer 
guilty or not guilty.” 

Class to a man : “ Not guilty, sir.” 



(In an Honor lecture) Miss Susy : — “ Say, Bub, ask 
Mac for my ribbon.” 

Bub (in a stage whisper to Mac) : — “ Susy wants to 
know if you’ll walk home with her.” 

Mac : — “You just bet.” 

(And he couldn’t understand why the class laughed.) 

The First Year students are signing their names in 
the Library Register as “ Arts ’99.” A young Don- 
alda asks, “ What are the next year girls to sign ? ” 
Some invention must be forthcoming ; it must never be 
that they should be set down as “00 ” (naught-y 
girls). 



On Thursday, the 14th of November, A.D. 1895, 
an unusual vibration might have been noticed in the 
peaceful aether of the Library. All eyes were 
rivetted on four daring youths, who in one moment 



72 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



of heroism had dashed to the earth certain time- 
worn (or, better, “ worn-out ”) traditions by coolly 
seating themselves at the second table, reserved to 
the exclusive use of the East Wings. 

A Fourth Year man had entered the hall, had dis- 
covered his favorite seat occupied by a Donalda, and, 
torn by convulsing emotions and aided by an appre- 
ciative following, had acted as above related. 

The heroes were immediately put to flight by one 
of the librarians. 

Trivial as was this incident, it faces us with the 
question : Why should these things be ? 

Why should four tables and the easy chairs be 
reserved for the fair sex and the remaining tables 
and the hard chairs for the wise sex ? 

Were it not for such a barrier, the senior Donalda 
could imbibe knowledge beside the Freshman. The 
freshman-Donalda could aid the manly Sophomore. 
The “men” could learn how. to study twenty-three 
hours and fifty-nine minutes out of twenty-four 
hours ; the “women ” how to combine the four S’s, — 
Study, Society, Sports and Success. 

Men-students and lady-students, seniors, juniors, 
sophomores and children, book-worms, happy*med- 
iumsand book-butter-flies, let us unite against the tie 
that separates, and study side by side. 

Amor Vincit Omnia. 



Second Year. 

Dean . — “ I see two gentlemen whispering ; if they 
are seeking information, they are, I fear, adding two 
“ noughts ” together. 



The name of “ Mr. ” Duff was omitted in the list 
of wings on the ’98 football team given in the last 
number. 



The Arts ’98 football team defeated the Freshmen 
by a score of 7 to o. It was a rattling good game 
from start to finish, and the picturesque effect of 
the combat was heightened by the antics of Mr. 
Burke, ’99, who played all over the field by himself. 
Every member of our team deserves honorable 
mention. 

Mr. Bishop, one of the popular members of our 
Year, has been laid up with a twisted knee, since the 
game with Arts ’97, when he met with the accident. 

We are glad to welcome him back even “ on 
cruches.” 

We appreciate the kind concern of the Juniors in 
regard to our youthful bashfulness. We might, 
however, remind them that speaking much and speak- 



ing to the point are two very different things. Still, 
I suppose we are a little bashful compared with the 
brazen front of our critics, and in this connection we 
would again emphasize the difference between 
demagogues and orators. We have no lack of dig- 
nified and gentlemanly speakers ; and when anything 
is to be done , ’98 is always there, and generally first. 

Arts ’98 defeated Arts ’97 at football by a score of 
5 to 4. Our back division did especially well, Messrs. 
Grace and Trenholme playing fine football. Mr. 
Russell played the game for ’97. 

We tender our sincere sympathy to ’97 in their 
sore trial and humiliation. We are sorry that any 
Year in McGill could not beat a “prep” school. 
Were they completely “ Tuckered ” out ? 



First Year. 

The first of a series of pamphlets, to be regularly 
issued hereafter, containing exercises for Latin Prose 
Composition, has at length come to hand. 

The change meets with the approval of the stu- 
dents ; but why not go a step farther, and let us have 
in a similar form the Latin sentences intended for 
illustrating principles of syntax, etc. ? 

At present, very few of the students get the exact 
wording of these sentences as they are dictated, and 
so much of what should be very valuable is almost 
wholly lost. 

“When Greek” (First Year) “joined Greek” 
(Second Year) in the narrow corridor, truly “ there 
was the tug of war.” 

Prof . — “ Avez-vous soif, Mons. P.” 

Mons. P. — “Non, monsieur, j’ai femme;” and 
Mons. P. wondered why the class laughed. 

Query . — Why do the gentlemen (?) generally sit 
facing the Donaldas in the Library? 



One of the wise (?) Sophomores endeavored 
recently to make a certain innocent Freshman 
believe that the “At Home” card he had just 
received was nothing less than an invitation to a 
wedding; and that the mysterious letters R.S.V.P. 
indicated that for a present 1 Real Silver (is) Vastly 
Preferred.” 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Medicine in the past has always, been well 
represented on the football-field, and this year is no 
exception. 

From the Fourth Year we have Brunelle, the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



73 



plucky full-back, who has saved the McGill goal so 
often ; Tees, one of the fastest forwards ; and Lome 
Drum, who has done much to build up football in the 
College. 

Alley and Sparrow, both crack wings, and Pro- 
derick, of last year’s Seniors, hail from the Third 
Year. 

Schwartz, who is undoubtedly one of the best 
wingmen we ever had, and Grace, of the redoubtable 
scrim, are of the Sophs ; and Levesque, our brilliant 
quarter, is a Freshman. 

Has not Medicine a right to be proud of her 
men ? 



A Freshman is credited with the following : — 
“ The stomach is a comical stack situated beneath 
the diagram, and above the abominable cavity.” 



We note with much pleasure the interest Dr. 
Gunn has taken in football, in so kindly donating a 
trophy to be defended by the Fourth Year. It is 
creating quite astir among the foot-ball enthusiasts, 
and will no doubt be the means of bringing out some 
new material from the other Years for next season’s 
College team. 



Fourth Year. 

Dr. Evans’ grinds and classes in palpation are much 
appreciated by the Final Year. So practical are 
these, that — like Oliver Twist — we long for more, 
especially the latter. 



Mr. F (reading house-surgeon’s report). — 

“ Patient went to Ontario — no ! I mean the out-door 
patient’s (pause and consultation with house sur- 
geon), “ patient’s upper teeth are false.” (laughter.) 
Mr. F. — (in explanation) — “You see, gentlemen, 
this is not my report.” 

Head Surgeon — “ An excellent report it is.” 

(The house comes down, and F\ subsides.) 



C , to M (who has taken C’s turn look- 

ing through the microscope). — “ Well, we read that 
Caesar possessed all Gaul in his day, but you pretty 
nearly come up to him.” 



W makes a tolerably good-looking young 

woman. He caused quite a sensation when he appear- 
ed in nurse’s attire at the Civic last week, though his 
moustache was a little anomalous, and, besides, there 
was no waste of material in the epigastric region. 

We learn though that M has since gone one. 

better, and capped the climax by borrowing the 
nurse’s head-dress as well. 



Third Year. 

On Saturday, Nov. 9th, a foot ball match was 
fought out between ’96 and ’97. 

’96 were walloped all over and covered with 
dirt — score 9 to 7. The Third Year had the best of 
it all through. 

On Saturday, the same Years played for a 
trophy, given by Dr. Gunn, to be defended by the 
Fourth Year. We hadn’t the heart to take it away 
from them. 

I — — — 

The Third Year didn’t begin their good work 
early enough in the game. There was, however, 
some good individual play. 

Barclay takes a whole team to stop him. Hard- 
ing plays a clever game, and rushed the ball away 
from Tees and Brunelle once in good style. Jim 
Johnson could have played a much swifter game if 
his hat hadn’t fallen off. Knox Tierny did good 
work hugging the ball. 



Second Year. 

Messrs. Smith and Blackett were elected as 
representatives on the reading room committee. 

The Second Year decided that the best place to 
rush the Freshmen was on the College Campus. 
Rugby was decided on, and on Thursday, 7th, a full- 
dress rehearsal was held. Much originality was 
shown by the players both in style of play and 
costume. Some of the men showed up in fine form, 
especially the secretary, after the distressing accident 
that befell him. 



On Saturday, 9th, the game took place, and the 
Freshmen were rushed pretty badly, and covered 
with mud, — in fact, the mud was rubbed in pretty 
deeply over the available portions of their anatomy. 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

It is a pity that one must cautiously and only occa- 
sionly soar into realms of poetic fancy, in our col- 
umns. We feel for you, our poets, with your young 
souls yearning to give forth some lofty thought in 
sublime verse. Alas! poetry is an expensive luxury 
with us, and all we can do to atone for thus condemn- 
ing you to obscurity is to promise to inscribe on your 
tombstones : 

“ Chill Penury repress’d their noble rage, 

And froze the genial current of the soul.” 

Thus the world shall know that through no fault of 
your own you lived unknown to fame. But if you 



74 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



cannot wait for a tombstone and “ bridle in your 
struggling muse with pain,” what does mere printed 
form matter? Express your feelings thus : “The rain 
is coming down in sheets, just hear it on the roof! 
I’m glad I have my rubbers here, also my waterproof. 
And when I get home dripping wet, I’ll take my 
rubbers off, and drink a little Pectoral, to keep away 
a cough.” 

Then you may bid defiance to printers’ laws, and 
with melody and beauty reveal to us those throbbings 
of a poetic heart. 



The Freshies are beginning to study French Law, 
and the question agitating them at present is whether 
the Chief of Police would be fined if he arrested an 
innocent individual. Can anyone enlighten them on 
this subject ? 

Found in a Donalda’s note-book : — 

Carbon is made from bones discovered in 1774 by 
Brandt in Germany. 



We were told that we might spend Thanksgiving 
Day in a very enjoyable and at the same time useful 
way, — that is, by taking salts. It depends on the kind 
of salts and how we take them, in this case we find 
them in our Chemistry Book. 



I'hings which were remembered on Thanksgiving 
day: — Mechanics exam., December 16, and Latin 
Prose till Xmas. 



Why is it that we appear worried and distracted ? 
We cannot find a quiet spot in which to study — ex- 
cept the Library ! The Library! Hearken, my deluded 
friend. Take your book and sit down in the Library 
for half an hour. In all probability you are studying 
for that Thesis. The Jesuits, Cardinal Richelieu and 
Wallenstein are becoming living realities. Your eyes, 
riveted on the absorbing page, glow with enthusiasm. 
Your breathing grows quick and heavy. Suddenly 
your ideas become confused. The Jesuits seem to be 
running saw mills ; Richelieu and Wallenstein are 
filing saws. Down from your heights you come 
abruptly. Your lofty sentiments vanish, and with a 
scowl you look around to find that your neighbor, 
having broken the point of her, pencil is, with the 
united aid of a penknife and the polished surface of the 
table, making a new point. 

But that is nothing — nothing worth mentioning. 
To be sure it will take you five or ten minutes to get 
interested again, and there is every probability that 
the saw-mill will again begin to run. But please don’t 
lose your temper. The Library was meant as a place 
for study, not angry meditations and muttered 
threats. 



Orders should be sent in early for the collection of 
French Sonnets written by members of the Second 
Year, which is shortly to appear. Do not fail to 
procure one. A great rush is anticipated. 



At a meeting of the Fourth Year on Tuesday, the 
19th, Miss Hammond was elected our Valedictorian. 
We feel that this our last honor has been most deserv- 
edly bestowed on her who has so skillfully directed 
our class affairs as president for several years of our 
college course. 



Our Wing looks bare for want of “ feathers.” The 
class-reporters solicit contributions from those caring 
to prevent further exposures of this kind. 



ATHLETICS. 



FOOT-BALL MATCH. 

Fourth Year Meds. vs. Third Year. 

The game on Saturday, November 9, between the 
“ mud-larks ” of the Fourth Year, and the “ clay-backs ” 
of the Third Year, was one of the finest exhibitions of 
foot-ball as it should be played— not, that it has ever been 
our lot to witness. 

The day and ground were eminently fitted for a display 
of the abilities of both teams. A very wet rain had been 
falling for some time, and daring the game gentle north- 
east zephyrs laden with cool, refreshing moisture fanned 
the fevered brows of the contestants, lessening the danger 
from delirium and hyperpyrexia. 

The field itself was in almost perfect condition. A layer 
of soft mud, not common, every-day muddy mud, but mud 
of a loving, clinging nature, covered the whole field to a 
depth of not less than two inches. This mud formed such 
an attachment for the players that much of it left home in 
their company, and the College authorities mourn the loss 
of a large amount of real estate. 

The noted “ Blue Jeans Ambulance Corps ’’were in 
attendance, and rendered valuable service succoring the 
wounded. Their welcome cry of “ Phagocytes! Phago- 
cytes!” rose high above the din of battle, renewing the 
courage of the wounded. The gallant attempt to remove 
Harding of the “ clay-backs,” who had broken the rules by 
catching the ball on purpose, will be handed down to pos- 
terity along with the “ Charge of the Light Brigade.” 

Sergt. Leuoeyte Leslie, Corp. Phagocyte Hogan were in 
charge of.all isolation and removal of the wounded, while 
Pte. Fibrinogen Finley and Pte. Stagnation were the 
dressers. 

It is beyond the power of human pen to describe the 
game, the play was so fast, so replete with artful dodges 
that the eye could scarce follow its changes. Suffice it to 
say that the “ clay-backs” came out victorious by 9 pts. 
to 7 pts. The “ mud-larks,” however, claim that their 
opponents took an unfair advantage in playing some men 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



75 



who really could catch and kick a ball, while their men 
were carefully selected to avoid any such mishap. There 
is no doubt that the contention is a just one, and had they 
been less careful in picking out a team the result would 
have been different. 

It is meet here that the star players should receive some 
recognition of their services. 

Kendrick and McAllister were particularly good wrest- 
lers ; Craig and Irvine shone as sprinters, but both seemed 
to see how much running they could do without making 
any headway ; Irvine is great at dropping on the ball ; 
Kemp is a mud-lark of the first rank, and was in his element 
on Saturday; Duckett is good, and had a swell uniform 
on ; there were two Churches on the team, but as no 
clergyman was present, they were closed for repairs after 
the game. Thompson and Edwards were too good for 
this to mention them at all ; Staples and Grant became 
unrecognizable early in the game, and we couldn’t follow 
their play very well ; Curran and McAuley were birds, 
but their feathers were sadly draggled. 

The Third Year were too good to deserve recognition 
and praise from us. Their reward will come again. Suffice 
it that they won the game and played the best toot- ball. 

The teams were as follows : — 

Fourth Year. — Duckette, McAuley, Church, Thomp- 
son, Edwards, Grant, Kemp, Staples, Church, Curran, 
McAllister, Kendrick, Elliot, Craig, Irvine. 

Third Ye vr.— McLeod, Roy, Jost, Harding, Kirby, 
Robertson, Tierny, Foster, H. R. McRae, Robert Hurd- 
man, Kienan, Hayden, McLennan, Smith. 

Ambulance Corps.— Long, Muloney, O’Reilly, Laing, 
Herman, Roberts. 

Arnica and Lint Bearers. — B. Deane, Mick Graynor, 
Joe Lockery, J. D. McRae. 

Couches. — Sparrow, Proderick, Harvey. 



McGILL 2ND vs. CORNWALL. 

On Saturday, November 1 6, the McGill Intermediate 
team played a friendly game at Cornwall with the team of 
that place. 

The game was very one-sided, McGill winning hands 
down with a score of 21 to o. The boys played a first 
class team game, and were never in danger. Davidson at 
Quarter, Lynch at Full, and Drinkwater at Half were in 
good form. The Scrimmage also worked well, and the 
Wings played their usual fast game. Balfour was especially 
in evidence. 



The teams lined up as follows : — 



McGill. 

Lynch 

Burnett. 

Burnham. 

Drinkwater. 

Davidson. 

Ross. 

McMaster. 

Bond. 



Back 

Halves 

Quarter 

Scrimmage 



Cornwall. 

Primeau. 

( Ferguson. 
i Cameron. 
Turner. 

Lister. 

C Cotter. 

•j Sewell. 

( Peacock. 



Balfour. 

Whitton. 

Sise. 

McPhail. 

MacLennan. 

Todd. 



1 (McDonell. 

| Copeland. 

! ) Pettet. 

( Wings. j Broderick. 

J | Barbour, 

j ( McCutcheon. 

Referee — F. Packhard. 



We are glad to note that Messrs. Ernie McLea, Harry 
Trenholme and W. Irving, who were injured in this 
season’s games, are all progressing favorably, and are able 
to be around again. 



ARTS vs. LAW. 

Arts feels thirsty after the victory of the 20th inst. Is 
there no one who will give us a cup ? 

Four to one is a small score, yet its smallness furnishes 
no criterion to the brilliancy of the play. Such was the 
score on Wednesday last, when rival teams from Arts and 
the Faculty whose name '‘rhymes with Jaw ” met “ in a 
friendly contest ” at Football. The explanation of this match 
is to be found in a letter from the Faculty of Law challeng- 
ing the Faculty of Arts to a friendly contest at Football, 
with the condition, however, that the men in Arts who had 
played on the 1st XV. should not be included in the team 
to play against Law. The Artsmen, nothing daunted, 
accepted the challenge, and agreed to play a match, with 
the result that the Arts XV. defeated the Law XVI, by 4 
points to 1. We would suggest, that should the Law men 
wish to renew their challenge, they should attach as condi- 
tions to be observed by themselves something similar to 
the following : “ That all the aforesaid XVI. shall not bring 
their Civil (or uncivil) Codes, nor that Faculty that rhymes 
with Law,” to the aforesaid match, but shall leave the 
aforesaid moveable goods and chattels at their respective 
domiciles.” Under such conditions Arts would probably 
play up better, and the referee would have more chance 
to hear himself think. 

Promptly at the half hour after the appointed time, the 
Arts XV. and Law XV L slid on to the Campus, and the 
match began. 

A delightful variety of costume was to be seen, from the 
immaculate white sweater of the embryo lawyer to the 
weather-beaten, canvas “ limb-warmers ” of the would-be 
B.A. It did not take long however, for such variety to 
disappear; these distinguishing marks being all changed 
alike to landmarks in an incredibly short time. 

\ 

The first difficulty arose from a dispute between the 
referee and the rival captains as to whether Law’s XV. 
should be composed of sixteen or seventeen men, this was 
amicably settled by agreeing that Law’s XV. should be 
sixteen. Soon the referee was plunged deeper into the 
mysteries of the rules by being called upon to decide as to 
whether or not Law should have a free kick when their % 
back picked the ball out of the scrimmage. Such a trifle 
was easily settled, but when the question arose (the “ throw 
out” from touch being in favor of Arts) as to whether the 
Law men should procure another ball and continue the 
game with it, or whether they should follow the ordinary 



76 



McGill fortnightly 



mode of procedure with the original ball, a problem diffi- 
cult to solve was met with. We are glad to say that the 
auditors (they can hardly be called spectators) came to the 
aid of the players and decided in favor of Arts. Still the 
referee did his duty nobly, sliding from one basis in the 
desert of mud to another with the greatest agility, until on 
the verge of despair he remembered he had another impor- 
tant engagement, and whistled for time ; time rushed to his 
assistance, and the match was over. 

The Arts XV. then gave the Law XVI. three cheers. 
1 his did not satisfy the Law XVI; they took the case 
en dchbere for five minutes, and then triumphantly pro- 
ceeded to score an imaginary touch down. 

fortunately for Arts the referee was being congratulated 
at the time on his lucky escape, and so could not alter the 
score. At the date of writing the score is still unaltered, 
and will probably remain so unless some of our learned 
friends from the Eastern (not East) wing endeavor tov 
\6yov KpeiTToo iroieiv. 

N.B. — Just before going to press we learn that a suit is 
pending between the McG. U. F, Club and the members 
of the Law “ scrum ” as to the rightful ownership of the 
real estate that was appropriated from the campus on the 
20th inst. We hope that Law may win in their footbal l 
suit, but in such & grave matter do not care to express any 
opinion. 



MATRIMONIAL. 

Gunn— Brainerd.— On Wednesday, Nov. 13th, Mr. 
Robert A. Gunn, Sc. ’94, was married to Miss Lillian 
Miranda, daughter of the Hon. Herbert Brainerd, of St. 
Albans, Vermont. 

Mr. Gunn is well known to the Undergraduates of Mc- 
Gill. lo him the Glee and Banjo Clubs owe much, pos- 
sibly among other things their very existence, certainly a 
large share of their rapid growth. Of these clubs he was 
business manager during the sessions ’93-’ 94 and ’94-’95. 

It may also be remembered by some that Mr. Gunn, in 
a letter to the Fortnightly last session, proposed the 
plan for a University night, the carrying out of which 
scheme was accompanied by perhaps more interest and the 
success it achieved was perhaps greater than that attending 
any other project yet undertaken by the undergraduates. 

Mr. Gunn graduated from the Science Faculty of Mc- 
Gill in ’94, and is at present in charge of the laying of an 
electric road between Nutley and New York. 



OUR EXCHANGES. 

Queen's University Journal comes out this year in 
a new coat, donned not because the old one was the 
worse of wear, but because fashion changes and vari- 
ety is the spice of life. The new coat is certainly 
tasty and becoming- 

I he contents aie in keeping with the outside 



appearance. That fine feathers do not make fine birds, 
we know, but we are doubly disappointed when we 
find second class matter done up inside attractive 
book or journal covers. Queen's University Joitrnal 
does not disappoint us, editorials, contributed arti- 
cles, sports and college news, all are bright and well 
written. 

With the first number is a portrait of the late Dr. 
Williamson, vice-president of the University, who died 
last September, and who had been connected with 
the University for fifty-three years. 

From some of the records of their annual games 
Queen’s must have some men strong and mighty. 
McRae put the 56 lb- 30 ft. in., and the hammer 
103 ft. 8 in. These are the only events in which they 
surpassed our records. That they have co-education 
in Queen’s is shown by a list of class officers, in Medi- 
cine, in which the vice-president of each year is a 
Miss. And speaking of class officers, they have a 
number that are not known in McGill at all : Poet, 
Prophet, Orator, Antiquarian, Historian, Critic and 
Marshal ; would not some of these be ornamental at 
least, and perhaps useful in our colleges ? We wish 
our fellow- workers in college journalism of the Lime- 
stone city, success during this the XXIII. year of 
the Journal's career. 

That Yale is a large University, most of us have 
known for some time ; that she has a first class glee 
club, we all found out on Sports Night. Now the ex- 
change editor has something else to tell of Yale : she 
has a good illustrated, humorous, fortnightly paper, 
The Yale Record. 

Is not the following as applicable to McGill as to 
Yale ? 

TO NINE l Y NINE. 

As Freshmen first to Yale they roam, 

These lusty gallants just from home, 

1 o seek, perchance, for knowledge, 

They wear on vest, lapel, or coat, 

Or radiant necktie round their throat. 

The emblems of their college. 

They swear to Yale they will be true, 

Their color ever will be blue ; 

Their loyalty is seen. 

But spite of banners and of badges. 

So proudly sent to Beths and Madges, 

Their color still is green. 

From over the seas, in the Emerald Isle, comes 
The Droghedean, published by the students of the 
Grammar School there. It is full of newsy school 
notes and readable articles on various subjects ; one, 
on the University Matric. called the “ Little-Go ” 
Exam., shows plainly that that exam, is harder there 
than it is with us, and includes that bugbear of the 
scholars, “ Orals.” 

We do not feel flattered by the notice they have 
taken of us in their Exchange column. We believe 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



77 



the McGill Fortnightly is more than a School 
Magazine. 

King's College Record , of Windsor, N.S., gives in 
its first number for this year an article on the poet 
Burns ; a detailed account of the Jubilee of Bishop’s 
College, Lennoxville, interesting to their readers on 
account of the church connection of the two colleges ; 
well written book and magazine review notes, college 
news and student personals. Altogether a full and 
interesting number. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 



WHERE AUTHORITIES DIFFERED. 

The reading class was standing in a stiff row upon 
the floor of an Indian schoolhouse, and a bright little 
fellow was drawling a paragraph about a Roman 
massacre. 

The President of the School Board was present on 
his regular tour of inspection, and he pompously re- 
quested that the boy “ read that verse again.” 

The “ verse-” was read again. 

« Ah ! h’m ! ” said the great man in a loud voice. 

“ Why do you pronounce that word massa-ker ? ” 

The boy was silent. 

“ It should be pronounced massa-kre, ” continued 
the great man, with a patronizing smile- 

The boy remained quiet, but the teacher finally 
spoke : 

“ Pardon me, sir,” she said, “ but the fault is mine 
if the word is mispronounced. I have taught the 
class to pronounce it ‘ massa-ker’.” 

“ But why ?” insisted the great man, as a look of 
surprise was followed by a look of pain upon his be- 
nign features. 

“ I believe that Webster favors that pronunciation,’’ 
said the teacher meekly. 

“ Impossible,” said the great man. 

The dictionary was brought, and the President of 
the School Board turned over its leaves until he found 
the word. There was a breathless silence as he looked 
up. 

“ I am astonished, madam,” he said at last, “ that 
Daniel Webster should have made such a mistake as 
that.” 



Apropos of the death of Mr. Justice Hawkins’s fox- 
terrier “ Jack,” which has just occurred, a provincial 
paper tells a story current at Warwick of Jack and 



his master being caught ratting by a farmer on the 
banks of the Avon. His lordship, nowise disconcerted 
tendered a sovereign to cover the trespass, which the 
farmer, affronted by such a cool proceeding, refused 
with indignation. 

“ You’d better take it,” said the Judge; “it’s a 
reasonable offer.” 

Then the farmer got so angry, that Sir Henry 
announced himself. “And what is more, sir,” said he, 
“you shall go with me to the Warwick Arms and 
crack a bottle of champagne with that sovereign 
immediately.” 

The story adds that there was free ratting for 
Jack on that bit of land as long as he lived. There 
are other stories about Jack, and it is said that when 
sitting on the Bench with his master he once ventured 
to express his opinion on the matters before him in a 
singularly loud tone. The tale goes that Sir Henry, 
with the greatest promptitude, directed the ushers to 
“ turn that dog out of the gallery.” 

The ushers, of course, did not find a dog in the 
gallery, and nobody ventured to look under the Bench. 
On solemn occasions'Jack was always attached to the 
judge’s wrist by a long blue ribbon, and many a junior 
has beguiled the tedium of a case by watching the 
ribbon gradually unroll as Jack pursued his investiga- 
tions, while Sir Henry every now and then “ hauled 
in the slack.” 



Three tailors — an Englishman, Welshman and 
Irishman — were bragging of their attainments in 
their particular line of business. Says the English- 
man : — “Why, if a man happened to be walking on the 
other side of the street, I could take his measure at a 
glance .” Says Taffy “ That’s nothing. If I was only 
to see the tip of his soulter coming roundt the corner 
I could measure him, look you. ? ’ Pat : — “ Och, by the 
powers! Show us the corner he wint round, Oi’d fit 
him.” 



A man had forgotten to go home to supper one 
evening, and, knowing what awaited him, he purchased 
a set of miniature flags, and put them into his pocket. 
“John Henry !” exclaimed his wife, as he entered the 
house ,“ I should think you’d be ashamed of yourself to 
treat your wife with so little consideration !’’ He slowly 
unrolled his little package of flags, took out a square 
red one with a black square in the centre, and fastened 
it to the mantel. “ What’s that ? ” she demanded 
sharply. “ Storm signal,” he replied pleasantly. She 
drew herself up haughtily. Once or twice she seemed 
on the point of speaking, but controlled herself, and 
finally turned coldly away. He merely took down 



78 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the red flag, and replaced it with a white one. “ Cold 
wave,” he said. There was a moment’s silence, and he 
saw that her feelings were hurt. “ You’re 4 cruel, ” she 
said, at last. “You stay away from dinner, and then 
you come home just to make fun of me. I — I — ” He 
put up a blue flag. “Rain or snow,” he said. “Why do 
you want to be so mean ?” she asked, tearfully. “ Why 
can’t you be the dear, kind man you used to be ? I 
won’t be cross again.” He put up white flag. “Fair 
weather,” he said, “ and, also, a flag of truce. I 
capitulate to tears.” And the white flag floated the 
entire evening. 

SUCH is fame! 

A young woman of twenty-three, escorted by a 
young man about two years her senior, were visitors 
at the Executive Chamber recently. They stopped 
to look at the oil portrait of George Washington. 
The young woman stepped back a little, and said, in 
a reflective manner I know that fellow; I have 
seen him somewhere.” — Albany, N.Y., October 26. 

The window display made by a Glasgow news- 
paper in connection with one of the races between 
“ Defender” and “Valkyrie ” included a dial to indicate 
American time. “That clock’s clean wrang,” said a 
man, as he pushed his way into the thick of the enor- 
mous crowd that had assembled, “ it’s five hoors 
ahint.” “Hoots, min,” said a wag, “if they had na 
pitten back the time the race wid hae been encroach- 
in’ on the Sawbath Day.” “ Losh, freen’, I never 
thocht o’ that. Naebody can beat thae Yankees for 
cute doges.” 

During the war old Rastus was asked by a Federal 
soldier why he was not out fighting for his rights. 
After pondering for a moment, he replied, “ Did yo’ 
ebbersee two dogs a fightin’ over a bone, sah ? ” 
“ Yes, oh yes ! ” “ Did you ebber see de bone fight ? ” 

FAME DESPISED. 

“ Mr. Speaker,” exclaimed a member of the New 
South Wales parliament, “ my colleague taunts me 



with a desire for fame. I scorn the imputation, sir. 
Fame, sir! What is fame? It is a shaved pig with a 
greased tail, which slips through the hands of thou- 
sands, and then is accidentally caught by some lucky 
fellow who happens to hold on to it. I let the 
greasy-tailed quadruped go by me without an effort 
to clutch it, sir.” 

LAW vs. ARTS. 

The Editors have received, but unfortunately too 
late for publication, a full account of this now much- 
talked -of football contest, from the Law point of 
view, together with a very elaborate legal document, 
in the form of a Protest, which we gather was duly 
servedon the Arts team, and afterwards withdrawn. 
The important point to be noticed is, that the Law 
version of the battle is confirmatory of that which 
appeared in the daily papers, giving the victory to 
Law, and herein it differs radically and vitally from 
the account printed in another column. The Fort- 
nightly is bound, in this as in all other inter-Faculty 
matters, to maintain the strictest neutrality and to 
give all parties a fair hearing. Therefore, the docu- 
ments submitted will be published in due course. As 
a proof of our sincerity in this matter towards Law, 
we have only to state that we have stopped the print- 
ing' press and considerably discommoded the 
printers in order to insert this notice. 

™* Ontario Medical—^- 
College for Women, Ltd. 

TORONTO, Ont. 

i3tPi SESSION 1895 to 1896 

gTUDENTS are prepared for the Examinations 
of all Canadian Licensing Boards, Universities, 
etc. . . . 

FEES, $ 90 PER ANNUM 

Apply for Calendar to 

D. GIBB WISHART, 

Registrar 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

Reichert’s Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the best line in the Dominion 

Used in the bacteriological Laboratories of the ... STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals *’ IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 



GET OUR 



QUOTATIONS 




21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 




