Vol. XII 



No. 7 












UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E* Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners. fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

NIACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR & McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., 3Iontreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
rinnliial S Dispnsiu deiists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gameree’s Eucalvntol. Sanitarv Towels. Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 



DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




- P U R E CAN DY. TJTfl 

254 Si. James Street, and 1 5 St. Law rente Iain street, MONTREAL 
aid 73 snarls Street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. TA-iMIIES ST 



JtlEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USER IN ART COURSE , 
SCIENCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. See., Sc c., 

BEST VALUE I IV TOWN 

Stylograpliic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 11th, 1889. \$ o . 7. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 



J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not he returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Editorials 75-77 

Poetry 77, 79, 82, 83 

Contributions 77-79 

McGill News - 79-81 

Societies 81 

Personals 82 

Exchanges 82 

Between the Lectures 83 

College World 84-85 

Sporting 85 

Correspondence 85-86 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 



The eighth number of the “ University Gazette ” 
will contain, as notable features, a poem by Erol Ger- 
vase, entitled “ An Afternoon in December,” and an 
article on “ The Natural Method of Teaching French,” 
by Mr. H. H. Curtis. 



Editorials. 



We announce, with regret, the resignation of Mr. 
Arthur Weir as chief of the Editorial staff. 

Mr. Weir’s resignation was caused by pressure of 
outside work, which renders it necessary for him to 
devote less time to the University- Gazette than he 
feels should be at the disposal of the Editor-in-Chief. 



The Gazette will not entirely lose Mr. Weir’s ser- 
vices. As Corresponding Editor he retains his posi- 
tion on the staff. 

At a subsequent meeting of Editors, Mr. J. A. 
MacPhail, B. A., was chosen Editor-in-Chief. 



FEMALE EDUCATION IN GREECE. 

In a letter to the New York Evening Post, H.W.H. 
gives an interesting account of the education of 
women in Greece. He justly observes that it is 
strange that in a land surrounded by countries in 
which woman is looked upon as little more than the 
child-bearer, the female sex should occupy the high 
place she now does in Greece. 

He attributes this change in the condition of 
women in Greece to the influence of two Americans, 
Dr. and Mrs. Hill, who left Boston in 1830 for 
Athens, with instructions from the Episcopal autho- 
rities, under whose auspices they went forth, to estab- 
lish schools, and to do nothing “ which could justly 
give rise to the impression that another church or 
another form of Christianity would be introduced, 
but to labour to restore to that people the holy sim- 
plicity and glorious purity of that very Gospel which 
St. Paul preached among them.” 

In 1832 Mrs. Hill opened that then unheard of 
thing in Greece, a school for girls. Of humble begin- 
nings, its attendance increased to 50, then 100, then 
300, and fora long time averaged 700. Mrs. Hill 
conducted the school for 40 years, and was succeeded 
by Miss Marion Muir. It is now known as the 
“ American School of the Agora.” 

Husband and wife became favorites with all classes. 
Mr. Hill became Chaplain to the British Legation in 
1845, and in 1869 Mrs. Hill was requested by some 
of the leading Greek families to establish a school for 
the higher education of girls. The “ Hill Institute” 
was the result, and it opened the eyes of all Greece 
to the importance of educating girls. So far-reaching 
was its effect that, at the grave of Dr. Hill, who died 
in 1882, aged 91, the Greek orator said that “ the 
Greek mothers of nearly all our homes were educated 
at the Hill Institute.” 

Dr. Hill was buried with almost princely pomp by 
the Greeks. But his work outlives himself and hi 3 
wife. Once the Greeks got a taste of female educa- 



76 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



tion they craved for more. To-day there are 270 
public schools for girls, attended by over 20,000 
pupils, the first schools having been taught by gradu- 
ates from the Hill Institute. 

According to H.W.H., the finest school for girls in 
Greece is the Arsakeion, founded by Mr. Arsakes, a 
patriotic Epirot, who left 500,000 drachmai for the pur- 
pose. The Government contributes 20,000 drachmai 
annually towards this school. 

The school grades from the Kindergarten to the 
normal department, and its pupils vary in age from 
four years up to eighteen or twenty. The Govern- 
ment is particularly interested in the normal depart- 
ment of the Arsakeion. It recognizes the diplomas 
given by the authorities of the school, and gives 
teachers’ certificates in turn. Since its start the in- 
stitution has scattered over Greece and Greek-speak- 
ing lands over 2,000 graduates, a very large propor- 
tion of whom have taught more or less. The Greeks 
look upon the Arsakeion as a legitimate result of the 
Hill Institute, and the two schools have, from the 
first, worked in perfect harmony. In fact, the grad- 
uates of the Hill Institute were the first teachers in 
the Arsakeion. 

The subject of the religious instruction in Greek 
schools, says H. W.H., is of especial interest. During 
the revolution over 400 monasteries were destroyed ; 
150 remain. There are four nunneries. In fact, 
these religious institutions seem to have flourished 
better under Turkish rule than under the Greek. The 
Government is inclined to encroach more and more 
upon the property of the monasteries. The land 
granted by the Greek Government to the American 
Classical School at Athens was taken from the grounds 
of the neighbouring Convent of the Astomaton. The 
monks are of two orders — the Cenobites, who live at 
common tables and according to common rule, and 
the Idiorhythmics, who are more solitary. 

Very largely owing to the influence of the Ameri- 
can workers in Greece, the New Testament is used as 
a text-book in all the elementary schools of the king- 
dom. The modern Greek text is so nearly identical 
with the original of the Gospels that all the children 
can understand them. Large portions of the Gospel 
are learned by heart as a regular lesson. It is certain 
that religious instruction is far more thorough in 
Greek elementary public schools than in American. 
It is true the priesthood has a part to play in this 
instruction, and the priests are certainly as a class 
most ignorant, and in performing the task of exami- 
nation they are rather learners than examiners. A 
law has been passed, and is strictly enforced, to the 
effect that no school can be carried on in Greece 



except the priest is allowed to come in to give reli- 
gious instruction. It is even so with the Hill Insti- 
tute. 

Is it not poetic justice that the New World should 
restore to the Old the fruits of that learning and 
love of liberty which the Old gave as a seed to the 
New ! 

ENTRANCE EXAMINATION. 

There is a general upward tendency in all the Ex- 
aminations for admission to the study of the profession, 
and McGill, as is usual, is taking the initiative, notably 
in the Medical school. The move is in the interest 
of the students chiefly, and then in the interest of the 
profession and of the college. If they were made 
much more difficult no real harm would result, for 
those who are now able to pass creditably would not 
be rejected, and a small percentage of applicants would 
be excluded, whose deficiency lowers the general 
average of scholarship. Until a rigid uniform system 
is adopted, students will slip in whose attainments do 
not warrant their becoming members of such a learned 
profession as Medicine. Our own University is not 
alone in this respect ; indeed the students stand re- 
markably high in respect of scholarship, but the ex- 
amination papers reveal a condition of intellectual de- 
pravity that should not exist in the being of any one 
student. Making every allowance for the hurry of 
writing, and the concentration of the mind on deep 
things in the Examination hall, no student is fit to 
study or practice medicine whose elementary educa- 
tion has been so neglected that he spells wrist rist, 
elephant elifant, shoulder sholder, clavicle clavical, 
neck neak , ancle ankel , psoas so as, humerus humorous, 
acetabulum assatahulum. Originality in spelling 
should, as a rule, be deprecated, and it is no dispar- 
agement of a man’s talent to say that he adheres to re- 
cognized forms. There is no need to go out of one’s 
way to spell axis access, vein vane, or brain hrane. 
Yet all this has been done, and in one case forty-three 
per cent, of the words used were misspelled — but this 
was in a branch where no matriculation examination 
was required. Protoplasm is not a counter irritant and 
should not be spelled protoplaster. A fourth-year 
student may be above the necessity for accuracy, but 
there is still a prejudice against spelling scalene scline. 
These are but instances taken at random, and if one 
had access to the fund of information which any ex- 
aminer possesses, deeper depths of depravity would be 
revealed. This is not singularly true of McGill, as 
the forty-three per cent, case will indicate, but it is 
usually confined to a few men whom a slight elevation 
of the standard would rightly exclude. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



77 



THE STUDY OF GERMAN. 

A new text-book has been introduced in the first 
year German lectures to replace Schmidt’s German 
Guide. The fact that the latter is prescribed in the 
calendar for this session, prevented the professor from 
instituting the desired change, but the students of 
both sexes unanimously agreed to procure the new 
grammar at once. We think they were wise, as it is 
in many ways a great improvement on its predecessor* 
It is compiled by Professors Van der Smissen and 
Fraser, of University College, Toronto, and as the 
Modern Languages course of that institution is known 
to be particularly strong, one is not surprised to fiud 
the book practical, concise and comprehensive. The 
declensions, auxiliaries, and weak conjugation form 
the subject matter of the opening pages ; the exer- 
cises are not so long as those of Schmidt, — who does 
not remember the hours spent over those interminable 
Ausgaben ? — and the sentences for translation do not 
treat of “ Little green nuts,” and “ Six good old 
women,” but are judiciously selected for conversation ; 
after each lesson is a short oral exercise, with the 
words in English type. 

The German language is one with which every gra- 
duate should be conversant. Apart from being of 
service on the Continental trip so much in vogue with 
students of to-day, it constitutes the key to a mine of 
wealth — the German literature — a key that no doctors, 
scientists, literati, of either sex, can afford to be with- 
out. This change of text-books is a step in the right 
direction. We would like to see more interest taken 
in the subject at McGill. Last year, University Col- 
lege had an honour class in Modern Languages of 
about twenty-five ; last year our Lansdowne Medal 
went begging. We would also like to see every 
student in German in the first rank at the sessional 
examination. This latter could be accomplished by a 
little individual effort on the part of each, for language, 
unlike some studies, does not require exceptional 
ability, but simply careful mastering of the ground- 
work, steady application and constant revision. 

Mile. Popelin has passed the law examination of the 
University of Brussels, and demands that her name be 
duly entered as a member of the Bar. The matter is 
to come before the courts for argument. This is the 
first time that the question has been raised in Europe, 
and there is much interest in the result. 

The letter sent by Cardinal Gibbons and the Ameri- 
can Bishops to the Pope, with reference to the Wash- 
ington University, announces that $8,000,000 has been 
collected for the new institution, and that the build- 
ings are now going up. The Cardinal and bishops 
request the concession of academic privileges to the 
University, and ask the Pope’s approval of its statutes. 



E TENEBRIS LUX. 

The Trachinle op Sophocles, 94 - 140 . 

I. 

O sun ! O blazing sun, 

Whom night, star-glorious, dying brings to birth, 

And, when the shades are gathering, lulls to sleep, 
Thee, I implore, to tell me where on earth, 

On what far shore or island of the deep, 

Dwelleth Alcmena’s son. Thou, whose all-seeing eye 
Nothing escapes, whate’er is done 
Tell me ! O tell me, where is the beloved one ? 

II. 

So, as a lonely bird for its lost brood 
Laments uncomforted, 

For Hercules doth Dejanira cry 
(Whom once so many suitors sought to wed). 

By yearning love subdued 
And tearless with much sorrow. With the dread 
Of some mishap to her long-absent lord, 

She ever pines upon her widowed bed 
She waits the awful word 

That tells her of his doom. 

III. 

As when the strong blasts come 
From north or south the billows ebb and flow 
Unresting, o'er the wide expanse of seas, 

So has thy life been, Theban Hercules, 

Both child and man, — a scene of endless care. 

And yet some god preserves thee from the foe 
Who rules the realms of darkness and despair. 

IV. 

Therefore of grief's excess I disapprove, 

And I will utter a far other sham : 

Why cast away the hope of better things ? 

The son of Saturn, he who reigns above, 

Granteth to none a life all free from pain, 

But in due time to weary mortals brings 
Sweet joy no less than sorrow. 

And in the north the stars decline and rise. 

V. 

Nor night, nor gloomy woe, nor aught they prize 
With mortals makes long stay, but to their eyes 

One joy is present, absent on the morrow 
But grief from joy may ever solaoe borrow^ 
Wherefore, my queen, take courage, knowing well 
They, whom Heaven loves are safe where'er they dwell. 

John Reade. 



£cmtribution$. 



BURNS, FRANKLIN, JOHNSON. 

In a letter to Dr. Moore, dated August 2nd, 1787, 
Robert Burns, while relating the incidents of bis early 
life, writes : — “ The earliest composition that I recol- 
lect taking pleasure in, was ‘ The Vision of Mirza.’ ” 
After this, it is interesting to read the following pas- 
sage at pp. 31-2 of “ The Life of Dr. Franklin,” by 
Mason L. Weems (6th Edit., Carey, Pa.): — “The 
next day, going into a fresh part of the town, he saw, 
at the side of the street, a little table spread out, and 
covered with a parcel of toys, among which lay an 
odd volume, with a neat old woman sitting by. As he 
approached the table to look at the book, the old 
lady, lifting on him a most pleasant countenance, 
said — ‘Well, my little man, do you ever dream 
dreams 1 ’ Ben, rather startled at so strange a saluta- 
tion, replied that had dreamt in his time. * Well,’ 
said the old lady, * I dreamed last night that a little 
man, just like you, came along here, and bought that 
old book of mine.’ ‘And pray, Madam, what do you 
ask for your old book 1 ’ * Only fourpence-half- 

penny,’ said the old lady. ‘Well, Madam,’ con- 
tinued Ben, ‘ as your dreaming shall turn out true, 
there’s your money.’ * * * * * * 



78 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



On leaving the old woman he opened his book, when 
behold, what should it be but an odd volume of the 
Spectator! The number which he chanced to open 
was — ‘The Vision of Murza,’ Avhich so caught his 
attention that he could not take it off until he got 
through.” As Franklin was born in 1706, and as 
this incident took place while he was 13 years old, it 
happened in 1719, the very year of Addison’s death. 
Burns died six years after Franklin (who lived to the 
age of 84), but was born 53 years after him, dying 
at the early age of 37. "We must not forget what Dr. 
Johnson wrote in his “Life of Addison” — “Who- 
ever wished to attain an English style, familiar but 
not coarse, and elegant but not ostentatious, must 
give his days and nights to the study of Addison.” 
The ghost of Addison must surely be pleased, if it has 
ever learnt that “ The Vision of Mirza ” was the 
favourite composition of two men so eminent, and 
yet so different, as Benjamin Franklin and Robert 
Burns. 

I find another interesting coincidence at p. 104 of 
the same “Life of Franklin” that I have quoted above. 
Ben, when a young man, had a conceited and dis- 
agreeable “ chum,” named Keimer, who lived in the 
same house with him. Ben, who had, temporarily 
only, become a vegetarian, had also carried his point 
with Keimer, and accordingly engaged an old woman 
to become their cook, and gave her, off-hand, written 
receipts for three and forty dishes — not one of which 
contained a single atom of fish, flesh, or fowl. “ For 
their first day’s breakfast,” writes Mr. Weems, “ the 
old woman treated them to a tureen of oatmeal gruel. 
Keimer was particularly fond of his breakfast, at 
which a nice beefsteak with onion sauce was a stand 
ing dish. It was as good as a farce to Ben to see 
with what an eye Keimer regarded the tureen, when, 
in place of his steak, hot and savoury, he beheld this 
pale, meagre-looking slop. 

‘What have you got there?’ said he, with a scowl- 
ing eye. 

‘ A dish of nice, hasty pudding, sir,’ replied Ben, 
* made of oats.’ 

‘ Of oats ! ’ retorted Keimer, with a voice raised to 
a scream. 

‘ Yes, sir, oats,’ rejoined Ben; ‘oats, that precious 
grain which gives such elegance and fire to our noblest 
of quadrupeds — the horse.’ 

Keimer growled out that he was no horse, to eat 
oats. 

‘No matter for that,’ replied Ben, ‘ ’tis equally 
good for men.’ 

Keimer denied that any human being ever ate oats. 

‘ Aye ! ’ said Ben, ‘ and pray, what’s become of 
the Scotch? Don’t they live on oats? And yet, 
where will you find a people so ‘ bonny, blythe, and 
gay’ — a nation of such wits and warriors ? ’ 

As there was no answering this, Keimer sat down 
to the tureen, and, with many wry faces, swallowed a 
few spoonfuls.” 

Turning now to Boswell’s “ Life of Johnson,” p. 
97 (John Murray, 1853), we find the doctor’s defini- 
tion of “oats” as “a grain which in England is gener- 
ally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the 
people.” 



Again, at p. 399 of the same volume, the following 
note is quoted from Sir Walter Scott: — “Lord Eli- 
bank made a happy retort on Dr. Johnson’s definition 
of oats as the food of horses in England, and of men 
in Scotland. ‘ Yes,’ said he, * and where else will you 
find such horses and such men ? ’ At p. 489 Boswell, 
who has been visiting Lichfield, observes : — “ It was 
pleasant to me to find that ‘ oats ,’ the ‘ food of horses ,’ 
were so much used as the food of the people in Dr. 
Johnson’s own town.” 

The subject is again mentioned at p. 588, when 
Pennant’s “ London ” is quoted as follows : — “ I 
brought on myself his transient rage, by observing 
that in his tour in Scotland, he once had long and 
woeful experience of oats being the food of men in 
Scotland, as they were of horses in England. It was 
a national reflection unworthy of him, and I shot my 
bolt. In turn he gave me a tender hug.” 

Finally, at p. 713, we have what Dr. Johnson him- 
self said about his famous definition : — “ After mus- 
ing for some time he said — ‘ I wonder how I should 
have any enemies, for I do harm to nobody ? ’ 

Boswell — ‘ In the first place, sir, you will be 
pleased to recollect that you set out with attacking 
the Scotch ; so you got a whole nation for your 
enemies.’ 

Johnson — ‘ Why, I own that by my definition of 
oats I meant to vex them.’ 

Boswell — ‘ Pray, sir, can you trace the cause of 
your antipathy to the Scotch ? ’ 

Johnson — ‘ I cannot, sir.’ 

Boswell — ‘ Old Mr. Sheridan says it was because 
they sold Charles the First.’ 

Johnson — ‘Then, sir, old Mr. Sheridan has found 
out a very good reason.’ ” 

I will add one more illustrative anecdote to show 
that “oats” had supported the Scottish people long 
before the Leviathan of Literature maliciously alluded 
to the fact. William Drummond, of Hawthornden, 
was born in 1585 and died in 1649. He left behind 
him, in manuscript, a volume, on the title-page of 
which he inscribed : — “ Democritic, a Labyrinth of 
Delight, or Works Preparative for the Apologie of 
Democritus : containing the Pasquils, Apotheames, 
Tmpresas, Anagrames, Epitaphes, Epigrames, in 
French, Italiane, Spanishe, Latine, of this and the 
late age before.” A great portion of the work is, 
from its licentiousness, unfit for publication ; but 
specimens of it have been printed in the “ Archceo- 
logica Scotica." Among them may be found the 
following anecdote : — “ Two Low Country men being 
in Scotland, the one asked the other how it was pos- 
sible the men were so tall and big and the horses so 
little ? ‘ Do you not know,’ said the other, ‘ that the 

men here eat all the horses’ bread ? ’ meaning our oat- 
bread, which the commons use.” 

The name, “ Land o’ Cakes,” which has been given 
by Burns and other writers to Scotland, has no doubt 
oiten been a puzzle to foreigners. The sobriquet can, 
of course, refer only to the oatmeal cakes, which are 
a common national article of food, particularly amon" 
the poorer classes. 

Boswell asked J ohnson if he did not see moat 
and drink enough in Scotland when he visited it ? 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



79 



“ Why, yes, sir ; meat and drink enough to give 
the inhabitants sufficient strength to run away from 
home.” 

On another occasion Boswell stated that a beggar 
starving in Scotland was an impossibility. To this 
Johnson replied — “ That does not arise from the want 
of beggars, but from the impossibility of starving a 
Scotchman.” Again — “ It is to no purpose,” he said, 
“ to tell me that eggs are a penny a dozen in the 
Highlands ; that is not because eggs are many, but 
because pence are few.” Of Scottish learning, he 
remarked — “ It is like bread in a besieged town ; 
every man gets a little, but no man gets a full meal.” 

Geo. Murray. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 



BED-TIME. 

After tea, meek as can be, 

The freshman goes to his lonely den ; 

But his mind will dose, and his eyes soon close, 

And he gets to bed by ten. 

Supper done, “Now for fun,” 

The Sophie cries ; and by seven 

He’s down on the pave, where the tough little knave 
Never thinks of his bed ’fore eleven. 

Tea time past, free at last, 

The Junior hastes to see his “ cousin 

And Cupid’s dart will not let him part 
Till the clock rings out a dozen. 

His light meal o’er, through psychic lore 
The Senior toils, nor’s done 

Till his lamp burns low, and the chanticleer’s crow 
Announces the hour of one. 

— Brunonian. 



YI. 



Poverty. — Hard sugar for sweetening wealth. 

Prison. — The grave where state-doctors bury their 
murdered patients. 

Revenge. — Quenching your thirst with brandy. 

Savage. — A mark to show Civilization how far she 
has travelled. 

Scholar. — A worker for the noblest wealth, whose 
banker is his memory. 

Ship. — An extempore island, by which Earth defeats 
Ocean’s attempt to separate men. 

Sincerity. — A free, bracing air, which hardy natures 
love to exercise themselves in, but which 
puny natures fear to breathe. 

Slave. — Every one who believes himself not free. 

Sloth. — Voluntary paralysis. 

Sword. — Passion’s special pleader in Folly’s Court 
of Appeal. 

Time. — The scene-shifter to the world’s drama. 

Tobacco. — A triple memento mori — dust for the nose, 
ashes for the mouth, and poison for the 
stomach. 

Toleration. — An acknowledgment of the possibility 
of the truth in others. 



Tree. — One of Nature’s customers, who has a new 
suit of clothes every year, and returns 
the old ones. 

Tyranny. — Knocking people down for the crime of 
standing upright. 

Wages. — Gold-dust thrown by Capital in the eyes of 
Labour. 

Wine. — Bottled fever. 



Q. 

With this Batch of Definitions, Mr. Mott finishes 
his contributions in this line. We feel sure that our 
readers have, like ourselves, thoroughly enjoyed the 
kindly humour of some of the definitions, the cynic- 
ism of others, and the keenness of all. — Eds. Univer- 
sity Gazette. 



MclBUl News. 



Lectures in the Medical faculty were resumed on 
Tuesday, the 8th inst. 

We congratulate the orderly janitor of the Peter 
Redpath Museum on his marriage during the holidays. 

Dr. Eton and Mr. Lafleur have kindly consented 
to act as judges of the essays on “ Painting of the 
Renaissance and its Principles,” to be written by 
members of the Delta Sigma Society. 

Out of a class of seventeen who presented them- 
selves for the supplementary examination in Anatomy, 
only four were successful. Evidently the shepherd 
intends keeping his lambs around him. 

In reply to the request in last issue, the following 
“ slogans” have been sent in, and they are now sub- 
mitted to the student public. — [Eds. University Ga- 
zette. 

What’s the matter with old McGill ? She’s all 
right ! 

Great Scott ! 

Slam bang — McGill ! 

Whoop-her-up — McGill ! 

M—c—G—i— 1—1— McGill !— Me— G— i— 11 ! !— 
Me— G— i— 11 !_ Me— G— i— 11 !— Me— G— i— 11 !— 
the Faculty ! 



On Thursday, Jan. 3rd, a number of graduates and 
students were entertained by Dr. and Mrs. Murray, 
at their home on MacKay street. After a very plea- 
sant evening and a sumptuous supper, the following 
programme of impromptu speeches was carried out, 
everyone present taking part : — 



Education and Literature 

in Montreal 

Art in Montreal 

Our Great Neighbour. . . 

The Glee Club 

The Delta Sigma 

Queen’s College 

Class ’89 

Class ’88 

Absent Members 



| Miss Hunter 

Mr. Martin 

Mrs. Murray 

Mr. Le Rossignol. . 
Miss A. Murray. . . 

Prof. Murray 

Mr. Day 

Prof. Murray 

Mr. Lafleur! 



Mr. MacPhail, 

Miss Evans. 
Mr. Brown. 
Miss Wilson. 
Miss Reid. 
Miss Ritchie. 
Miss Reid. 
Miss Ritchie. 
Prof. Murray. 



80 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889 



This reunion was specially planned for the class 
of ’88, and is but another proof of the interest in, 
and hospitality to, the students, which Dr. Murray 
and his wife have always shown. 

Mrs. Murray is to he congratulated on having 
devised a method of entertainment, at once novel 
and improving. Perhaps the idea may spread, and 
such “ Feasts of Reason 99 become a popular item at 
holiday gatherings. 



CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS. 

The following are the results of the Christmas ex- 
aminations : 

FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

Supplemental in Anatomy.— Hewitt, Hayes, Jenkins, 
Woodruff. 

Supplemental in Botany. -Second Year Students— O’Con- 
nor, Moss, Richards. 

Botany — First year — (in alphabetical order— G. A. Berwick, 
R. H. Berwick, Binmore, Bovin, Boyce, Brousseau, Brown, 
Bruce, Carmichael, Coban, Cooper, Chabot, Chipman, Day, Du 
Yernet, Ellis, Clendenning, Graham, Grant, Halliday, Hayes, 
Henderson, Jamieson, Johnson, King, Lang, Langley, McKenty, 
McKinnon, McLennan, McLeod, McNally, McKay, Martin, 
Mair, Massiah, Mead, Melkie, Outwater, Patterson, Phelan, 
Robinson, Scoville, Tuplin, N. Taylor, T. T. Taylor, Thompson, 
Walker, Walsh, Watson and Young. 

V eterinary Students. — Cannon, Gorham, Henderson, 
Higginson, Hill, Joel, Macaulay, MacDouald, T. R. Mac- 
Naughton, Miller, Scanlan, Scott, Simpson, St. Louis, Stur- 
rock, Townsend, Watson, Williamson, Young. 

Practical Chemistry. — Names being in order of merit — 
Seventy-five per cent, and over. — W. A. Brown, A. Alexander, 
A. T. Moller, A. Lore, Morrow, R. E. Webster, J. R. Spier, A. 
Dewen, J. C. Clemishaw, W. Troy, R. J. Gibson, J H. Mc- 
Millan, J. A. Moss, R. Bennie, W. P. Williamson, C. I. Kelly, 
D. C. McGuire, C. M. Carlow, E. M. Lambert, N. M. Watson, 
A. Sparling, P. R. Mutch. 

Sixty-six per cent, and over.— W. H. Hollie, C. H. Park, C. 
F. Smith, R. A. Bowie, D. N. Moore, B. H. Calkin. 

Passed — Fifty per cent, and over. — J. Brown, Lovering. 
M. M. Martin, A. A. McCrimmon, D. Neil, E. J. Keir, H. H. 
Patten, I. F. Robertson, A. G. Smith, J. H. Smith, R. Smith. 

Special. — F. McKeowan, E. Mulligan, C. O’Conner. 

FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

Geology. — Third year — Class I. — Lea, Edwards and Hersey, 
equal ; Young. Class II. — Shuttleworth, Mattice, Rexford, 
Calvert, Ellacott, Reed, Hawkins. Class III. — Denison. 

Zoology. — Second year — Class I. — Evans and Smail, equal ; 
Stone, Breckerdyke and Me Aul and Walker, equal. Class 11. 
—Russell, Jamieson and Shuttleworth, equal ; Bulman, Cal- 
vert, Schweitzer. Class III. — Tighe, Stuart. 

English.— First year— Class I. — LeRossignol. Class II.— 
None. Class III. — Denis, Adams ; Copeland and Warren, 
equal ; Murphy and Simpson, equal ; Laurie, Rutherford, Cun- 
ningham, Bolton ; Ryan and Stevenson, equal ; Eadie, Purvis. 

French — First year — Class I. — Le Rossignol. Class II. — 
Adams. Cunningham, Laurie. Class III.— Ryan, Copeland. 
French — (2nd year) — Class 1. — Stone and Wingham, equal. 
Class II.— None. Class HI.— Russell, Williams. 

FACULTY OF ARTS. 

Geology and Mineralogy.— Fourth year— Class I., Deeks 
and Squire, equal ; W. L. Jamieson, Stevens, Rogers. Class II., 
Walsh, Caldwell, McKenzie, Garth. Class III., Read. 

Astronomy. — Fourth year — Class I., W. L. Jamieson, D. B. 
Holden. Class II., T. N. Walsh. Class III., McCusker, Read, 
McKenzie. 



Moral Philosophy. — Fourth year — Class I. , Wilson, Robert- 
son and Tniell, equal. Class II., Stevenson, Read, Lee. Class 

III., Meighen, Austin, Garth, Holden, Jamieson McKenzie, 
McCusker, Watt. 

Greek. —(Fourth Year)— Class I.- Gibson, Stevenson, W. L. 
Jamieson. Class II.— Meighen and T. N. Walsh, equal. Class 
III. — McCusker ; Garth and F. W. Read, equal. 

Latin. — (Fourth Year) — Class I. — Gibson, Rennie. Class 

II. — Meighen. Class III. — Rogers, Truell. 

Latin. — (Third Year) — Class I. — Williams, Colclough, 
Nicl lolls, Abbott, Derick, Robertson, Binmore ; Davidson and 
Fry and Moss and Parker and Scott, equal. Class II. — Tolmie ; 
J. T. Botterell and Trenholme, equal ; H. J. R. Botterell ; Hall 
and Sutherland, equal; McDuffee. Class III — Hunter, Hen- 
derson, Macfarlane, Kinghorn, Paton. 

Greek. — (Third Year) — Class I. — Nicliolls ; Abbott and Col- 
clough, equal ; Derick, Daley, Swanson ; Binmore and Cameron, 
equal. Class II. — Sutherland ; Fry and Moss and Tolmie, 
equal ; Mack, Mathewson, Hunter, A. W. Walsh, Richardson. 
Class III. — McGregor ; E. A. Elliott and Parker, equal ; Reid, 
Henderson, Ross, Finch. 

Zoology. — Third year— Class I. — Williams, Derrick and 
Hall, equal ; Botterell, J., and Walsh, A., equal ; Abbott and 
Nicliolls, equal ; Daley, Oaten, Trenholme and Moss, equal ; 
Scott, Cameron and Fry and Sutherland and Long, equal ; 
Robertson and Robins, equal ; McDuffee; Binmore and Richard- 
son and Macdougall, equal. Class II. — Botterell, I., and King- 
horn and Ross and Mack, equal ; Elliott and Moore, C., equal ; 
Mathewson, Lambly and Paton, equal ; Manning ; Henderson 
and Swanston and Macfarlane, equal ; Walsh, W. E. Class 

III. — McGregor, Moore, S., Finch, Colclough, Kennedy. 

Mechanics — Third year — Class I., Tory and Daley, equal ; 
Sutherland, McDougall, Fry, MacVicar, A. R. Hall, Davidson, 
Tolmie. Class II., Binmore, Cameron, and J. A. Elliot, equal ; 
D. J. Fraser, J. J. Ross, Abbott and Kinghorn, equal. Class 

111., A. W. Walsh, Hunter, Reid, Moss; Paton and Scott, 
equal ; Parker, Macfarlane, J. T. Botterell and McDuffee, equal ; 
Mathewson, Moore, Henderson. 

Logic. — (Third Year) — Class I. — Fraser and McDougall, 
equal ; Williams ; J.A. Elliott and McVicar, equal; Fiy, Abbott, 
Hall, Davidson, Richardson. Class II. — Swanson, Caldwell, 
McGregor, Kinghorn, Fry. Class III. — E. A. Elliott, C. Moore, 
Finch, S. Moore. 

Latin. — (Second year) — Class I., Henderson and Le Rossignol, 
equal; Gunn, Waud; Guthrie and McGregor and Patterson, equal; 
Mewhort and Reeves, equal ; Ellenwood, Hipp. Class II., 
Smith, J. F. Warne, G. Whyte, Oliver, Flinn, E. B. McGregor, 
Dobson and Moffatt, equal ; Me Alpine and Young, equal ; Mc- 
Dougall, Hall. Class III., Orton, Hunter and McMillan, 
equal ; Hamilton and R. E. Moore, and W. A. Warne, equal ; 
Russell, Findlay, Craik, Holden and Tees, equal ; Cameron, 
Cole and McCallum, equal ; Mooney, McLeod, J. White, Mc- 
Caskill. 

Greek. — (Second year) — Class I , Le Rossignol and J. W. 
McGregor, equal ; Gunn, Henderson, Paterson, Ellenwood. 
Class II., Guthrie and E. R. McGregor and Reeves, equal ; Hipp, 
J. F. Warne, Cole ; Hunter and Oliver, equal ; McAlpine ; W. 
A. Warne and G. Whyte, equal ; Class III., McDougall, Holden, 
Tees and Young, equal ; Orton, Hamilton, Russel ; Dobson, 
Moore and McCaskill, equal ; McLeod, Craik, J. Whyte. 

French. — (Second year) — Class I., J. M. McGregor, Moffat 
and Smith, equal ; Gunn and Le Rossignol, equal ; Hipp. Class 

11., Pattison, E. B. McGregor, Oliver, Ilall, Baillie, Holden, 
Young, McCallum and J. F. Warne, equal ; Mooney, Reeves, 
Ellenwood, Mewhort. Class III., G. Whyte, Tees, J. T. White, 
McMillan, W. A. Warne. 

German.— (Second Year) — Class I.— McGregor, Mooney, 
Baillie, Hall. Class II.— Ellenwood, Mewhort, equal ; Moffatt, 
Smith, equal. Class III. — McMillan. 

Psychology. — Second year — Class I. — Gunn and LeRossig- 
nal and Mooney and Wilson, equal; Judge and McGregor, J. 
M., and Warne, J., equal; Moffatt and Oliver, equal; Baillie 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



81 



and Henderson and Patteson, equal; Chantler and Whyte, G., 
equal ; Reeves, Finlay and Hamilton and Smith and Tees, 
equal ; Ellenwood and Guthrie, equal ; Craik ; Hall and Young, 
equal ; Clendinneng, Flagg and Flinn, equal. Class II. — Mc- 
Alpine, Russell, Hunter and McMillan, equal; Cole, Mc- 
Gregor, E. B. McDougall Holden and Orton, equal ; Moore, 
Mewliort, Humphrey, Dobson and Warne, W., equal. Class 
HI.— Hipp, McCaskill and Tripp, equal ; McLeod, J. W., and 
Whyte, J., equal; Mitchell, T., Bailie, J. E., Cameron, D. E., 
and MacCallum, equal ; McLeod, N. 

Botany. — (Second year) — Class I., Baillie, Stevenson, and 
J. F. Warne, equal ; J. M McGregor, Smith, Le Rossignol, 
Dunn, McMillan and Craik, equal ; McDougall, Flagg; Moffat 
and Mooney and Henderson, equal ; PL B. McGregor and Mew- 
liort and W. A. Warne and Chantler, equal. Class II., Hall, 
Pattison, Ellenwood, Hamilton ; Guthrie and McAlpine, equal ; 
Hipp ; Dobson and Hunter, equal ; Cole ; Blackford and J. 
Whyte, equal; Oliver. Class III., Holden, Flinn; McLeod 
and Orton and Reeves, equal; G. Whyte; Russel and Humphrey, 
equal ; Tees, Young, MacCaskill, Mussen, Cameron, Moore, 
MacCallum. 

English. — First year — Class I. — Archibald, Raynes, Koll- 
myer, Darling, Campbell, Pitcher, Boright, Mclver, and Ryan 
and Wood, equal ; Thompson, J. S., Macdonald, Mitchell and 
Robins, equal. Class II. — Craig, Davey and Russel, equal; 
Tatley, Read, Angus and Cushing and Drum, equal ; Lyman 
and McLennan, equal ; B.irron and Hunt and Jacques and Pat- 
terson, equal ; Brown and Day and Ellicott and Taylor, equal. 
Class 111. — Blatchford, Shaw, Ross, Tener, Anderson and 
Davis, equal ; Carmichael, McCoy, Smyth, Grisbrook, Leach, 
Pritchard, Thompson, J.; Mclnnes and McKenzie, equal ; A. D. 
Fraser and McHarg, equal. 

Latin. — (First year) — Class I., Wood, K. M. Campbell ; 
Kollmyer and Ryan, equal ; Boright, Robins, Taylor ; Archibald 
and Cushing, equal ; Barron, Drum and Mitchell, equal ; Angus 
and McDonald, equal ; Pitcher. Class II., Mclver ; Day and 
McLellan, equal ; Monk, Hunt, Blackford ; Pritchard and Shaw 
and Tatley, equal ; McCoy, Craig ; J. K. Ross and J. Thompson, 
equal ; Anderson ; Carmichael and Paterson and Sadler, equal. 
Class III., Brown, Leach, Smith; Jaquays and Raynes and 
Rodger, equal ; Aylen ; Davis and Read, equal ; Lyman ; Davey 
and R. 0. Ross, equal ; Graham, Russel, Grisbrooke, Williams, 
McKenzie, McHarg, Jekill, H. W. Blunt. 

Greek. — (First year) — Class I., Wood, Kollmyer, Ryan, Rob- 
bins, Barron, Archibald, Cushing and Mclver, equal ; Mitchell. 
Class II., K. M. Campbell, Drum and Taylor, equal; Day, 
McCoy, Pritchard, Blackford, Hunt and Shaw, equal ; head and 
R. 0. Ross, equal ; Anderson ; Brown and McLennan and 
Russel, equal. Class III., Davey; Patterson and Smyth, Aylen, 
Davis, Jaquays and Sadler and Thompson, equal ; Carmichael, 
Williams, Graham, Grisbrook, IT. W. Blunt, Lord, McKenzie, 
Jekill, McHarg. 

French. — (First year) — Class I., H. Johnson, Blachford; 
Boright and Wood, equal; Kollmyer, Archibald, Ryan, Craig, 
Robins, MacDonald, Barron, R. J. Mitchell, Angus and 
Lord, equal. Class II., McDuffee ; Day and Campbell, and 
Mclver and Pitcher, and Taylor, equal ; Rankin, Cushing, Ly- 
man, Smyth ; Drum and Leach, equal ; Humphrey and Mc- 
Harg, equal ; Hunt. Class III., H. Blachford and Graham, 
equal ; Shaw, Tatley, Carmichael, Bullock, Sadler, Blunt, Mc- 
Coy, D. Brown ; Aylen and Thompson, equal ; Jaquays. 

German. — (First Year) — Class I.— Craig, Tatley, R. Camp- 
bell, Boright, Pitcher, Angus, Rayner, Lyman, Orton. Class 
II. — Macdonald, Henderson, Blunt. Class III. — Leach, Teckill. 

Mathematics. — (First year)— Class I., Wood, Kollmyer, 
Cushing, Boright, Barrow, Robins, Campbell (K M.), Pitcher 
and Taylor, equal ; Pritchard, Darey. Class II., Mitchell, Ryan, 
Ross (R.), Drum, Tatley and Thompson, equal. Class III., 
Blachford, Shaw, Sadler ; Raynes and Smith, equal ; Graham, 
Day, Archibald, Mclvar, Anderson, Angus, Ellicott ; McKenzie 
and Russel, equal ; McCoy, Jaquays, Davis ; Hunt and A. 
Robertson, equal ; McHarg, McDonald ; Bullock and Craig and 
Jekill, equal ; McLennan, Brown, D. Aylen. 



Chemistry. — (First Year)— Class I. — Wood, Davey, Koll 
myer, Jas. Taylor ; Rankin and Ross, equal. Class II. — Tatley, 
Ryan ; Boright and Pritchard, equal ; Archibald and Raynes, 
equal ; R. J. W. Mitchell; Aylen and Barron and Cushing and 
Mclnnes and Smyth, equal ; John S. Thomson, Mclver, Clen- 
dinnen ; Jackson and Robins and Wm. Russell, equal ; Blatch- 
ford and K. Campbell and Pitcher, equal ; Brown, Patterson, 
McHarg, Sadler, Tener. Class III. — Anderson ; Davis and 
McCoy and McKenzie and Read, equal ; Craig and Ellicott and 
Shaw, equal ; Eadie ; Day and A. Robertson, equal ; Angus 
and Gourlay, equal ; Drum, Jas. Thompson, Jacquays ; Graham 
and Grisbrook and MacDonald, equal ; Bullock and Hunt and 
McDuffee and McLennan, equal. 

Hebrew. — (Elementary Course) — Class I. — B. A. Fyles and 
Judge and F. E. Daley, equal ; Horsey, Howitt, Lee ; Davey, 
and Flagg and Kennedy, equal ; Bouchard and Elliott and Long 
and Mack, equal ; Reid ; Caldwell and E. Maynard and Ross, 
equal; Davis. Class II. — Patterson and Fraser, equal ; Russell, 
Tener, Read, Anderson ; Guthrie and Pritchard, equal. Class 
III. — Oaten and St. Aubinand Moise Maynard and McLennan, 
equal ; Colclough, Robertson ; Eadie and Machines, equal ; 
Grisbrook. 

FACULTY OF LAW. 

Civil Law, History of Privileges and Hypothecs, 
Prescription, Imprisonment in Civil Cases — Third year. 
R. H. Clerk and F. Topp, equal ; C. A. Barnard. Second year. 
— W. A. Kneeland and D. H. Girouard, equal ; G. P. England, 
H. R. Pelletier, A E. Harvey and T. J. Vipond, equal ; J. D. 
L. Ambrose. First year. — F. J. Hatchette, F. W. Hibbard, V. 
Geoffrion. 

Civil Law, Succession, etc. — Third year. - R. H. Clerk, 
F. Topp, C. A. Barnard. Second year. — W. A. Kneeland, D. 
H. Girouard, A. E. Harvey, H. R. Pelletier, G. P. England, T. 
J. Yipond, J. D. L. Ambrose. First year. — F. G. Hatchette, 
V. Geoffrion, F. W. Hibbard. 

Passed the Christmas examinations in order of merit. — Third 
year. — Clerk, Topp, Barnard. Second year. — Kneeland, 
Girouard, Harvey, Pelletier, England, Yipond, Ambrose. First 
year. — Hatchette, Geoffrion, Hibbard. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The last meeting of this Society, for the past year, 
was held on Friday, 15th December, Mr. A. R. 
Oughtred in the chair. Mr. H. H. Curtis was ap- 
pointed one of the speakers on the public debate, in 
place of Mr. Parmelee, resigned. The speakers, as 
they now stand, are Messrs. Mackie, Curtis, Yates, 
and Hibbard. The subject of debate, “ Should 
Manual Training be given in Elementary Schools 1 ” 
was well supported on the affirmative by Messrs. Le 
Rossignol and Yates, and on the negative by Messrs. 
Curtis and Hibbard, and decided in favour of the 
negative. 



Some time ago the authorities of Columbia College 
passed a resolution to the effect that caps and gowns 
should be worn. The college paper makes the above 
announcement, and then says : “ While not wishing 

to cast a reflection on any action of our esteemed 
Trustees, we feel called upon to state that being the 
persons who had the choice in this matter, we decided 
to wear the dress of an American citizen, and we do 
loudly proclaim to the college world at large that only 
freshmen andchumps wear mortar-boards at Columbia.” 



82 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



[For The Gazette.] 

NOTHING WITHOUT LOVE. 

(Translated from the German of Vogl.) 

I. 

Little sprightly bird, and free, 

Happy in swift flight forever, 

Singing blithely on each tree, 

But— without love— never, never ! 

n. 

Nodding flowers as they grow. 

Whisper in the morning glimmer ; 

" Life, how beautiful art thou, 

But without love— never, never.” 

in. 

Billows word for word exchange 
Flashing in bright rays of silver, 

Two by two they gladly range, 

But without love— never, never I 

IV. 

Thou heart, filled with joy or pain 
Feelest too this one truth ever, 

Blest will thou alone remain. 

But without love— never, never 1 

A. G. G. 



Personals. 



T. Henderson, B. Sc., is in town. 

A. P. Murray, B.A., ’87, is making his home in 
Scotland, amidst commercial interests. 

P. E. Ritchie, B.A., ’86, who is studying Law in 
Toronto, is spending the holidays at home. 

C. L. Walters, B.Sc., *88, is spending his energy in 
an Educational publishing house in Boston. 

Miss 0. G. Ritchie, B.A., Med., ’91, Queen’s College, 
Kingston, is spending the holidays in Montreal. 

Raoul Rinfret, B. Sc., ’87, is making preparations 
for a momentous event, to take place early next week. 

J. A. Hislop, B. Sc., spent a week in town. He 
came home for the holidays, and is returning to Omaha 
in a few days. 

J. M. McCarthy, B.Sc., beamed upon us last week ; 
he was on his way to resume his railroad work in 
New York State. 

Miss Mitchell, M.D., has returned from London, 
Eng., and will shortly begin practising in this city, 
treating especially women’s and children’s diseases. 

R. B. Henderson, B.A., ’87, the “Rusher,” has come 
for his Christmas dinner. He brought with him R. 
B. Sweeny, B.A., ’88, whow is also studying law in 
Toronto. 

A memorable meeting took place in a mining town 

of Colorado. It came about in this way : W. A. 

Carlyle, B.Sc., ’87, conveyed the intelligence by tele- 
graph to C. H. MacNutt, B. Sc., ’88, that there was a 
void in the industrial life of the country, which his 
manly form alone could fill. He left for the West at 
once, and on his way, fell in with W. J. Hamilton, 
B. Sc., ’88, and then the three scientists joined forces. 
Not one of the participants has been heard from. 



Exchanges. 



Correspondents are reminded that all communica- 
tions should be sent to Box 1290, Montreal; this is 
the only address by which they are sure to reach 
us. 

The Portfolio, published by the young ladies of 
Hamilton Ladies’ College, opens with a Christmas 
Carol, and is generally an acceptable holiday number. 

The Dalhousie Gazette is filled with sound, fresh 
matter, and the editors evidently attempt to keep 
themselves in touch with other colleges. It keeps a 
keen eye on its surroundings, and has always a use- 
ful, incisive comment to make. Many of the attempts 
at pleasantry are inclined to be elephantine, and 
some of them might be objectionable to the persons 
concerned. 

The Christmas number of the ’ Varsity opens with 
a capital cut of the entrance door to that fine archi- 
tectural work, the University of Toronto. The issue 
contains a high class of contributions, which make it 
one of our most weighty exchanges. Among the 
writers are Louis Frechette, Sir Daniel Wilson, and 
Charles G. D. Roberts. 

With the current number, the Owl celebrates its 
first anniversary, and it has no reason to be ashamed 
of its sturdiness and general evidence of health. The 
reading matter is substantial and solid, and large 
questions are discussed. 

The Almafilian is filled with a lot of little things, 
and indicates a skilful use of the scissors. There are 
numberless items of truth and point, but the college 
side does not come up to the requisites of a student’s 
paper. 

The Epsomian is at hand. The English exchanges 
do not come up to the robustness and freshness of 
thought that is found in their American contem- 
poraries. 

The Sunbeam, the Ontario Ladies’ College journal, 
bears traces of careful editing, and is really a very 
serious paper. 

The Tuftonian, for Christmas, equals, in its make 
up, any modern magazine, and we praise it without 
stint, but in its remarks about itself it is in danger of 
becoming too personal. It is a good paper. It tells 
us so itself. 

Ihe University Monthly, for December, makes a 
good attempt, for a small college, to keep its place 
among the journals of more favoured Universities. 

The King’s College Record is a journal of a literary 
cast, and atones for a rather scanty editorial treatment 
of University questions. 



The number of female medical students entered at 
Paris this term is 114, of whom 90 are Russian, 12 
French, with 8 English and 1 American, 1 Austrian 
1 Greek, and 1 Turk. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



83 



DANIEL McCOY. 

Fresh from the land of corn and hay 

Where the black crows caw, and the lambkins play, 

Where people rise at break of day 

And live on endless cream : 

A country youth from a place way back, 

Came Dan McCoy with bundle and pack, 

From a homestead far remote from the traok 
Of civilized stream. 

In English grammar he was weak, 

But he laughed in Latin and sighed in Greek, 

His hair was red and his air was meek, 

And his soul did yearn for light. 

For he came with purpose and the will 
That purpose grand well to fulfill, 

He came to study at McGill— 

To soar in flaunting flight. 

He studies hard does Dan McCoy, 

Study, in fact, is his only joy, 

I fear a somewhat dismal boy. 

A lonely country lad. 

His pale blue eyes and timid stare, 

His crown of fiery-coloured hair, 

His rather heavy awkward air. 

Bespeak his mood as sad. 

But fired by potent magic wand 
Of intellectual converse grand 
Aglow his mind will soon expand, 

His voice will soon be heard 
Discussing works he’s never seen, 

Or coun tries where he's never been, 

Whilst commonplaces grand he’ll screen 
In flowing, flowery word. 

Think not you are to smile at him, 

Nor cast his country style at him, 

He has no one to pilot him, 

This simple country swain. 

I would not have you feel contempt, 

Of such a hap I have not dreamt, 

So hold me free from the attempt — 

For Daniel’s is a brain 

That loves to sit and ponder free 
On problems that are hard to see. 

And he will get his Arts degree, 

He surely, surely will. 

And his will be an honored place 
At finish of the hard-run race, 

His plodding, steady-going pace 
More bounding gaits will kill. 

Spriggins. 



Between the Lectures. 



Labor Omnia Vincit. Whose? 

Is it dignity or indignity a Freshman is called upon 
to bear ? 

A Boodle Inquiry : What great Library at Oxford 
does the Fraser Institute resemble ? 

The Museum is to be congratulated on the recent 
acquisition of a fresh specimen of the order bimana. 

When can a case be said to have progressed suffi- 
ciently to justify a physician in “calling in the re- 
mainder of the students ? ” 

The members of the first year in Medicine desire 
to inform intending patients that their presence is 
not urgently requested in the wards. 

In Latin. — Prof. : “Now, as to quodam ; what is 
the significance of the termination dam ? ” 

Freshman; “ Makes it more emphatic, sir.” 

A man, having bought 1,000 Havana cigars, was 
asked what he was carrying. “ Tickets to a course 
of lectures to be given by my wife,” he replied. 

A remarkable therapeutic discovery has recently 
been made, and in future FI. Ext. Jaborandi will 
take its place among such drugs as Chloral Hydras 
and Tr. Ergot. 



On one occasion, at least, Cook wished to be 
“ elevated,” when he was brought to a standstill, 
with his gruesome load, through an interference with 
the platform ropes. 

Aunty : “ So you're studying Roman History, 
Bobby? Why did Caesar hesitate when he came to 
the Rubicon ? ” 

Bobby : “ Oh, ’cause he wanted to see if he had the 
Gaul to cross it.” 

“Young man,” he said solemnly, “ what would you 
think if I should put an enemy into my mouth to 
steal away my brains?” “I would (hie) think, sir,” 
hiccoughed the young man, “ that you were going to 
an unnecessary expense.” 

The star of Medical Science, from a diagnostic 
point of view, is in the ascendant when “Round 
Ulcer of the Stomach,” and “typical” at that, can be 
detected from lingual symptoms only. If such things 
can be done in the green tree, what will the dry 
bring forth ? ” 

It was the day after Christmas, and they were open- 
ing a bottle of ale in their rooms ; it opened in a 
hurry, frothing up on a grand scale. 

“ Hello ! ” said the first sophomore, “ I believe 
that ale has been out all night, it’s so frisky.” 

“ Yes,” said the second, “ it has a head on it.” 

Little Dorothy had been intently watching her 
brother, an amateur artist, blocking out a landscape 
in his sketch-book. Suddenly she exclaimed — “ I 
know what drawing is.” 

“ Well, Dot, what is it ? ” 

“ Drawing is thinking, and then marking round 
the think.” 

Government Inspector — “ Well, boys, what did the 
witch of Endor think she saw?” (Pause). 

First Boy : “ Plaze, sur, that wur an appurition ! ” 

G. I. : “ Quite right ; but what is an apparition ? ” 
(Longer pause). 

Second Boy : “ Plaze, sur, that be a spectar ! ” 

G. I. : “Yes, yes, quite right again, so far; but 
what’s a spectre?” (Prolonged pause). 

Bright Boy (in a wild falsetto) : “ Plaze, sur, that 
be a gintleman as goes about examinin’ scules ! ” 

Chaplain : “ So poor Hopkins is dead. I should 
have liked to speak to him once again, and soothe his 
last moments ; why didn’t you call me ? ” 

Hospital Orderly : “ I didn’t think you ought to 
be disturbed for ’Opkins, sir, so I just soothed him as 
best I could myself.” 

Chaplain : “ Why, what did you say to him ? ” 

Orderly : “ ’Opkins,” sez I, “ you’re mortal bad.” 
“ I am,” sez’e. “ ’Opkins,” sez I, “ I don’t think 
you’ll get better.” “ No,” sez’e. “ ’Opkins,” sez I, 
“ you’re going fast.” “ Yes,” sez’e. “ ’Opkins,” sez 
I, “ I don’t think you can ’ope to go to ’eaven.” “ I 
don’t think I can,” sez’e. “ Well, then, ’Opkins,” 
sez I, “ you’ll go to ’ell.” “ I suppose so,” sez’e. 
“ ’Opkins,” sez I, “you ought to be very grateful as 
there’s a place perwided for you, and that you’ve got 
somewhere to go.” “ And I think ’e ’eard me, sir, 
and then ’e died.” 



84 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



College Tftorlb. 



An agitation is on foot at Vassal’ College to intro- 
duce the Cap and Gown. 

Entrance Examinations for Yale, Harvard and 
Princeton are now held in London and Paris. 

The University of Leyden is said to be the richest 
in the world. It has real estate valued at $6,000,000. 

There are thirty college graduates in the staff of the 
New York Sun. Connected with the whole press of 
Montreal there are but four. 

At Harvard during the year the students have 
drawn from the Gore Hall Library over 60,000 
volumes, and the number of “reserved books” taken 
out over night is more than 9,000 volumes. 

The Wykeham Professorship of Logic at Oxford, 
England, is about to become vacant by the resignation 
of the Rev. Dr. Thomas Fowler, the President of 
Corpus Christi College, who was appointed in 1872. 

The glee clubs of several colleges are making holi- 
day tours through the New England and Western 
States. Their concerts afford opportunities for pleasant 
reunions of alumni, and give the public a glimpse of 
college life. 

The old custom of cremating Analytical Geometry 
was revived recently at Amherst by the sophomores. 
A formal trial was held, and the prisoner, Anna Lytic 
G. Ometry, was condemned and executed with novel 
ceremonies. 

Among the Scotch universities, Edinburgh leads 
with 3,500 students ; then comes Glasgow with 2,200, 
Aberdeen 920, and St. Andrews, 220. The total num- 
ber of students at the four universities has doubled 
within twenty -six years. 

Mr. Wm. Dawes has presented Ripon College with 
a cottage for the use of lady students who desire to 
keep down their expenses. No charge is made by the 
college for room rent, and the young ladies do their 
own housework and cooking. 

The catalogue of Trinity, N.S., for the current year 
shows a total of 118 students, divided as follows : 
Seniors 18, juniors 25, sophomores 36, freshmen 25, 
special and post-graduate students 14. . . . The 

library has now 29,000 volumes, besides 2,250 dupli- 
cates, and 16,000 unbound pamphlets. 

The convocation of Oxford University has renewed 
the grant of $500 a year to the British school at Athens. 
The British school, which was founded later than the 
American school, is now on a prosperous footing. 
There are already several Oxford men at work there, 
with a prospect of numerous additions next year. 

The salaries paid Scottish college professors are far 
in excess of those paid in American universities. The 
most valuable professorships are those of the Medical 
Faculty at Edinburgh, some of which pay $15,000, 
and none less than $5,000. In the Faculty of Arts 
the chairs of Latin, Greek, and mathematics are worth 



about $9,000 a year at Glasgow, and about $7,000 at 
Edinburgh. 

Miss Fawcett, daughter of the late postmaster- 
general of England, applied to a famous mathematical 
“coach” at Cambridge to be taken as his pupil. She 
was rudely repulsed, the uncivil tutor declaring that 
he “would take no tabbies.” The same Miss Fawcett 
bas been systematically beating the best men of her 
year at the Trinity College examinations, and will 
doubtless be senior wrangler for the coming year. 

President Dwight, of Yale College, does his writing 
on an old-fashioned secretary that is said to have been 
in the family 200 years, and the Puritanic straight- 
backed chair in which he sits looks as if it had been 
in the family at least a century. The study is a very 
cheery room, with an open wood fire that warms the 
President’s back as he works. The only adornment 
is a picture of the Ascension that was given President 
Dwight when he was a professor in the Theological 
School. 

Wells College, at Aurora, N.Y., has begun the erec- 
tion of a new college building on the site of the old 
one. The ceremony of setting the stakes was a very 
pretty one. Miss Helen Smith, the principal, hit the 
first blow on the stakes. This was followed by blows 
from the seven young ladies who comprise the grad- 
uating class of ’89. The Alma Mater of Mrs. Cleve- 
land was never in a more prosperous condition. 

We wonder how many thumbs were struck. — [Eds. 
University Gazette.] 

Since the beginning of 1880, in rowing, Yale has 
won six of the nine Yale-Harvard races, including 
three successive victories in 1886, 1887, and 1888 — 
the time of the last race (20m. 10s.) being the fastest 
on record in America. In base-ball, after defeating 
all the nines in the Inter-Collegiate Association in 
1880, Yale joined that Association in 1881, and has 
won the Inter-Collegiate championships in the follow- 
ing years: 1881, 1882, 1883, 1884, 1886, 1887, 1888. 
In football, Yale has lost but one match since 1878. 

Frederick Apthorp Paley, grandson of the famous 
author of “The Evidences of Christianity,” died in 
England a few days ago in the seventy-third year of 
his age. He was a graduate of Cambridge, and re- 
mained at that University until he joined the Roman 
Catholic Church in 1846. He returned to Cambridge 
in 1860, and became one of the most famous of the 
resident classical tutors. He edited a great number 
of Greek and Latin authors, and was Professor of Clas- 
sical Literature in the Roman Catholic University at 
Kensington, London. 

The librarian’s record of books drawn from the 
Yale Library from September 1, 1887, to August 31, 
1888, shows a total circulation of 9,849 volumes. The 
professors lead in drawing books, with 2,736, or about 
28 per cent, of the whole number. Graduate students 
are next, with 1,738 volumes. The Divinity School 
takes 12 per cent., or 1,240 volumes. The four 
academic classes have a total of 2,182 volumes, the 
number taken by each class increasing steadily from 
Freshman to Senior year. The Sheffield Scientific 
School ranks lowest, taking only 4£ per cent. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



85 



Berlin University attracts many students. The num- 
ber entered for the present winter term is 5,7 00, which 
is 1,177 more than last summer and 322 more than 
last winter. The numbers of students attending the 
various faculties are : Theology, 840; law, 1,585 ; me- 
dicine, 1,456, and philosophy, 1,909. In addition to 
the matriculated students, 1,895 persons have been 
permitted to attend the various lectures, thus bringing 
up the total number of attendants at the University 
to 7,685. The greater number of this total, 4,302, are, 
as would be naturally expected, of Prussian nation- 
ality ; 870 students come from other States of the 
German Empire, and 405 from different countries of 
Europe. The foreign students are : Russians, 127 ; 
Swiss, 86 ; Austrians, 39 ; Hungarians, 37 ; British, 
33; Luxemburgers, 13; Italians, 11; French, 11 ; 
Roumanians, 11; Greeks, 10; Swedes and Nor- 
wegians, 9 ; Dutch, 6 ; Turks, 4 ; Servians, 3 ; Bel- 
gians, 2 ; Danes, 2, and one S| aniard. From other 
continents than Europe there are 213 students — 
namely, 171 from America, 39 from Asia, 2 from 
Australia, and one from Africa. 

At the Faculty of Medicine, in the University of 
Paris, Mile. Schultze, the Russian young lady of 21 
who presented herself for her doctor’s degree, was 
warmly complimented by M. Charcot, who was one of 
the four members of the jury, and who admitted that 
women doctors pass their examinations most satisfac- 
torily — better even than men. “ But,” he continued, 
“ permit me to tell you that these women think more 
of themselves than of humanity. They aspire to the 
first rank, to the most prominent posts, to lucrative 
offices. They consent less willingly to be dressers in 
our hospitals, to apply those antiseptic treatments 
which demand sustained attention, minute care, and 
great physical skill. Here is an occupation for which 
women are so well suited ; but they are too ambitious. 
As Nature, again, has barred their way to roles which 
they seek to fill, I conclude that women doctors have 
no future before them, and will never be more than an 
exception.” He then complimented the young lady 
before him on her beauty, her youth, her talent, and 
her courage. M. Landouzy, who followed him, re- 
marked that in his opinion women doctors might with 
advantage turn their attention more especially, and 
with undoubted advantage, to the treatment of women 
and children. 



Sporting. 

HOCKEY. 

McGill vs. Lachine. 

On Saturday afternoon, the University hockey team 
went to Lachine and played a friendly game with the 
Lachine team. McGill was accompanied by about 
fifty students. The train arrived at Lachine at 2.35 
p.m., and the players, with their admirers, imme- 
diately proceeded to the rink of the Lachine Skating 
Club. Although the rink is rather small, the ice was 
in perfect condition, and the club kindly placed their 



club-house at the disposal of the visiting team. Sharp 
at 3 o’clock the teams lined up as follows : — 



McGill. 

D. B. Holden 

R. M. Walsh 

F. S. Meighen 

H. D. Hamilton (Capt.) 

W. L. Jamieson 

H. M. Kingliorn 

F. Fry 



Position. Lachine. 

...Goal H. K. Danford. 

..Point W. Robertson. 

Cover-Point. '. Jenerfust. 

! W. J. MacGowan. 

W. ShXell (Capt.) 
A. Wood. 



The McGill men won the toss, and played with 
their backs to the sun but against the wind. During 
the first half-hour the Lachine team had slightly the 
bettor of the game, and finally scored towards the end 
of the half. After the teams had changed goals, the 
college boys forced matters and soon secured a goal, 
Fry scoring. The visitors now seemed thoroughly 
acquainted with the rink, and got in some very fine 
team play. The Lachine men did some very good 
individual play, Robertson and Barry especially mak- 
ing some fine runs, but no goals were scored. From 
this point the college boys played a rushing game, 
and secured three more goals, Hamilton, Jamieson, 
and Fry scoring. All of the college team played 
well ; Meighen, at cover-point, played a sure and 
steady game, and his checking was very clean and 
effectual. 



Ikorresponbence. 



FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORE. 

Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — The question which called forth your 
editorial of the 22nd December, as to who should 
hold the honoured seats when two classes or two 
faculties attend the same lectures, has always engen- 
dered much bitter feeling, and not unfrequcntlv an 
open rupture between the contending factions. It is 
said that some few years ago, so fierce did the struggle 
rage between two faculties, that for a whole hour 
nothing could be seen or heard but a struggling mass 
of humanity. This is a state of affairs that might 
well put to the blush men, whoso greatest pride is to 
be considered gentlemen of fine sensibility and refine- 
ment, more especially when they reflect that it is 
brought about by their own selfish acts. Recently, 
the majority of seniors in another faculty took a dif- 
ferent position to that of the Medical Sophomores. 
They maintained that where seniors and juniors at- 
tended the same course of lectures, every advantage 
should be conceded the latter. They rested their 
pretentions upon the solid foundation of the refined 
and cultured rules, to which the “ unwritten laws” of 
college life must submit, of every true gentleman 
and lady, and which concedes every possible prefer- 
ence to the weaker class or individual. In the diffi- 
culty which is yearly creeping up in the same beehive 
in the Medical Faculty, there can be no doubt on 
which side the weaker class lies, and it undoubtedly 
should be preferred. By following such a course on 
all occasions, the stronger would never suffer from 
the weaker, when it happens — as is pretended by the 



86 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Sophomores in this instance — that there is far more 
depending upon them than in the weaker, and such 
unseemly and disgraceful wrangling would cease to 
he heard of among the students of McGill. 

Senior. 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

Au Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

I 3 - O- Bo:: l r 73' : i, - 3^030. txea.1. 

or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© G-erra-rd. Street East, Toronto. 



D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

Shirt lakers aid Men’s Farniers, 

•=» NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO’Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

V7ATEB. 

PEHFECT 

FFOI£FT ZDZEXjITTEKTE". 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at graham BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

3HT YOUR (== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2213 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 



IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cot, Singed and Dressed, 

0-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

’Wixia.sor Hotel Block, IFeel Street. 



Fire, Life, h ccideni. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 



-A-d.d.resa : 

30 ST. JOH 1 T STREET. 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3SS <£z 3Q7 St. IF’-a.txx. Steeet, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURIMEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— f Wholesale Manufacturers ■$— 




Hot Air Fdbbaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

He nsra-sr 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 



(£ngr L aYing ^ fpijinting 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Crests, programmes, 

Jilonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

PIN’S 3474^4 OIQ&RS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

A, GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and" CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

T^ull $todk don$tkntly on Sknd, Imported 
©idedt fdoir\ tl\e I<ekdii)g ^kgufkdtudedd 
of tl\e Wodld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 




Jfeiv Scale of 'Prices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21 2h & 23 St. Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



THE GENL JVE 

Cook’S Feie id 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Bissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOB CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

I'^TOZTTP.E^IL. 




1S50 and 1852 NOTRE SAME ST., COUNTER Me CILL. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

ZE^ZEJYZDIT-IMI.A.IDIE CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MEL10NS — FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

SPECIAL RATES TO S TUDENTS. 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay ycu. 




