Vol. VII 



No. 4. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Saturday, December 15th, 1883. 




Priere 

Editorials - 
On College Ambition 
Contributions 
A Roundelay 



C O NTENTS : 





Correspondence - 
Sporting News - 
College World 
Between the Lectures 
Personals 



PA.GH. 

- 4-5 

- 5-6 

6-14 

14-15 

15 



MONTREAL : 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 



1883. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 
Jl&voca,tes, jd iiorneys, dec. 

13 HOSPITAL STREET, 

MON TREAIj. 

N. W. TRENHOLMB. M.A., B.C.L. A D. TAYLOR, B.A. B.C.L. W. E, DICKSON, B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 

Mssisii&ot ffiwUalic,. 

Commissioner for the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 



MAGMASTER, HUTGHINSON & WEIR, 

-Me Y ©O^IFEjS 

‘Barristers, Solicitors, dec. 

132 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. m. Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L. 

Qreenshields, MgGorkill & Querin, 

ABV ©CATSS, 

SawtikrA, Jlilomeyi, SoMtMor4,di 

CHAMBERS : EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

10 & St. JTrcuncois Jtcuxrter St., 

3&IC>IXrTITL]E^Xj . 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill Edmund Guerin. 

CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

Jotarieis, ^ommiasirmerji, |jonrapmm, &t, 

->5jcP^RRI^6K-!l£lCE]S.SE,SvI^]SaEDoi£^- 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 






: 







JOHN HEHDEESOH k CO. 



283 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Wmw Cfeps 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlxe “ 3MoG-ILa3j ” Ptitotoon for aalo. 



-McvWM. HILL***- 




•*- 



eooms -ajp 



2^9 



No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 



— AND 



Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 

WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

||||WcA cunt |pmJoT>, 

RTO. 135 S T. PET33H STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MILITARY UNIFORMS A SPECIALTY. 



g«R6IC^L INPRIIJffiW 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 



— FROM THE— 



IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST. JAMES ST., b 'TS"„T" a MONTREAL. 



LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED, 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. RA. VL STREET, 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 



UNIYEESITY GAZETTE 



Yol. YII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 15th, 1883. 



[No. 4. 



MI Mb MRiyfiRSlSi) SH2ESSS. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
\Y H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



II. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
J. Porter, B.A., ’86, Med. 

S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 



Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



PRIERE. 

[Song. Translated from the French .) 

Ah, if you knew how I deplore 
My solitude continually, 

Sometimes before my cottage door 
You would pass by. 

If you but knew the joy I took 
In meeting but your fleeting glance, 

Up to my window you would look 
As ’twere by chance. 

If you but knew what comfort sweet 
My heart has known when near you stood, 
You could not hesitate to meet — 

No sister would. 



If you but knew what I could tell — 
My love , and if you knew the hoio, 

I almost think perhaps — that— well — 
You’d enter now. 



Gowan Lea. 



(Sdiiorial$. 

It is not often that we refer in these columns to matters of a 
political nature, since such must as a rule he considered to be 
without our province. Still it cannot be supposed that a large 
body of intelligent men such as a University draws together are 
entirely without fixed opinions upon questions of public interest, 
only we must be ever cautious to avoid discussing in a paper 
like this distinct party questions, since such discussions are apt 
to arouse an odium politicum almost as intense as the bitterest 
odium theologicum,. And yet there are subjects of a general 
nature pertaining to political science which are as important to 
be known as many of the facts the teaching of which is received 
with general approbation. Many of these are at the same time 
abstract and highly practical, and especially necessary to be 
understood in a democratic country like this. No University 
ought, in our opinion, to be without a chair of Political Science, 
and we look forward anxiously to the day when our own College 
will be in a position to add a course in this subject to the cur- 
riculum. The ignorance, which very generally prevails in this 
department of science, may largely be traced to the idea that a 
knowledge of politics comes intuitively, without study and 
without effort. No more mistaken notion was ever entertained. 
Of course, by a perusal of the daily press ordinary political events 
may be understood and intelligently judged by most people with 
the aid of a little common sense, but when any question arises 



depending largely for its solution upon general principles the 
great majority find themselves completely adrift. Now, who 
can be expected to understand the great political questions of 
the day if not those who come from our Universities, where they 
are supposed to have been afforded the highest education which 
the country has the means of bestowing 1 And yet we have 
heard the opinion expressed that men while at a University 
should altogether refrain from meddling in political matters. 
Such is certainly not the opinion entertained in England, nor 
does it seem to us a very sensible one. It is rather absurd to 
suppose that men, who, during their college life, refrained alto- 
gether from -enquiring into political matters, can, upon emerging 
into everyday life, suddenly acquire a sound knowledge of the 
subject such as they will undoubtedly be expected to possess. 
To put off commencing to study politics until that time of life 
at which most men think of relaxing their studies is certainly 
an unjustifiable infraction of the old command not to put off till 
to-morrow what can be done to-day. In our University, educa- 
tion in this department is almost entirely left to be given by our 
literary societies, and if it were for no other reason they ought 
on this account to be strenuously supported. 

The subject upon which we more especially wish to dwell at 
present is the duty which every citizen owes to himself and to 
his country to take a fair interest in political and public affairs 
generally. In this Province no public duty, perhaps, has been 
more glaringly neglected, and the consequences are becoming 
more and more apparent every day. "We see men going into 
public life who ought more properly to be going to prison, we 
see good men indifferent or disgusted, and we see the Govern- 
ment a sink of corruption. This state of affairs is largely due 
to the indifference long manifested by men of high character 
and intelligence to affairs of public interest. It is often annoy- 
ing to us when we hear of indignant protests against those who 
wish to restrict the franchise in a slight degree to think of the 
thousands and thousands who possess the right to vote and will 
not make use of it. They clamour and hurl denunciations at 
those who oppose them, and at last, when they get what they 
want, are tired of their possession. This is one of the great causes 
of the failure of democratic government in the United States. 
The fact is that the people require an immense deal of educating 
in this matter, and perhaps those require it most of all who go 
by the name of the respectable classes. In College we meet with 
many men who will not take the trouble to interest themselves 
in anything, but who tolerate everything. These men who 
merely tolerate are unmitigated nuisances. So in general life, 
there are respectable men and educated men who won’t deign to 
interest themselves in the election of an alderman or a member 
of parliament. They don’t want to mix themselves up in these 
kind of things, or perhaps it would cost their lackadaisical 
majesties too great an expenditure of energy. Others again are 
too busy, the mammon of unrighteousness occupies all their 
spare thoughts and moments. Such people forget, or perhaps 
they never comprehended, that a public responsibility lies upon 
them and that it is their duty to take part in public life. Of 



o 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



course, all are not equally suited for taking an active part in 
politics, some have not the ability for so doing, others could not 
afford it; but all can spare enough time to do the moderate 
amount which they are in duty bound to do. AYe all know 
how, in ancient Greece, the man who took no part in public 
affairs, who joined neither one side nor the other, but who 
tolerated all his countrymen with an indifferent air, was looked 
down upon with contempt and branded as idiotes. To under- 
stand in what light they viewed them, we have only to look 
at that famous passage in the funeral oration of Pericles, as 
handed down to us by Thucydides, in which he inveighs against 
these useless citizens. Athens considered no citizen too ignorant 
to have an opinion on public matters ; she allowed none to 
abstain from public and political duties. The English-speaking 
people in this Province have hitherto taken matters too easily, 
they have not bestiired themselves until now it seems almost 
too late. They were too much occupied to spare any time to 
see after their rights and these are now slipping rapidly from 
them. The serious position which we know at present to exist 
might, perhaps, have been prevented, had the educated portion of 
the community displayed more energy. Mr. AVoolsey, at one 
time President of Yale College, in his work on Political Science, 
says : “ As the right of voting is greatly prized by those who 
cast the least intelligent votes, so the reverse is equally true. 
There are multitudes in countries where suffrage is unrestricted, 
whose property is injured by misgovernment and who are con- 
tinually complaining of the state of things around them, who 
make no efforts by use of their right of suffrage to improve it. 
Either in despair or in selfish disregard of the public welfare 
they stand aloof from politics, even when a political duty might 
not cost them half an hour’s time once or twice a year. On the 
theory that voting is a privilege, it involves for the most part a 
duty ; to enforce it by penalty would not comport with the 
nature of a privilege ; it would be more reasonable to make the 
continued neglect of exercising it a reason for its forfeiture. 
The question becomes one of simple duty, and is to be solved, 
not by the mere preferences of party or personal feeling, but on 
the highest principle of regard for the general good.” It cannot 
be denied that certain classes of people, such as clergymen and 
doctors, are prohibited from taking any active part in politics, 
but they can at least vote. All University men ought to re- 
member this important duty and not only act up to it them- 
selves, but use their influence to make others do the same. 

AYe are glad to be able to announce that the graduates have 
unanimously elected Mr. Eugene Lafleur as consulting Editor 
to the Gazctts. A\ e consider ourselves fortunate in obtaining 
the services of so able a gentleman, and only regret that the 
appointment was not made earlier. 

It is with much pleasure that we chronicle the election of 
Mr. J. AY. Pedley as Valedictorian to the Arts Class of ’84. 
This appointment was a wise and fitting one in every respect, 
and the unanimity shown by the members of the class in their 
choice, was a high, though deserved tribute to the ability and 
popularity of Mr. Pedley. It is seldom that any election is so 
entirely devoid, as this was, of those obnoxious features — wire- 
pulling and a preparatory candidature. AYe would, indeed, 
have been sadly disappointed, had the students of the fourth 
year belied, in this instance, the stand they have ever taken 
against the degrading and undignified proceedings which have 
usually characterized class elections in the past. 



By the time that our next number will appear, the Christ- 
mas holidays will have been a thing of the past. AVe there- 
fore take this opportunity of wishing our readers all the 
compliments of the season, and of expressing a hope that the 
Undergraduates will return to College invigorated in health and 
full of pleasant memories. 

“ Glad Christmas comes, and every heart 
Makes room to give him welcome now ; 

E’en want will dry its tears in mirth, 

And crown him with a holly bough.” 



The Literary and Scientific Society of Toronto University 
and the McGill University Literary Society held their public 
debates on the same evening, the 14th instant. This coinci- 
dence reminds us of a suggestion made some time ago by the 
’ Varsity , that literary meetings should be organized jointly by the 
students in Toronto and McGill, which would give an oppor- 
tunity to the men in the two Colleges of becoming better 
acquainted with one another, and do much towards promoting 
culture in our midst. The suggestion is, in our opinion, a good 
one, and we will be glad to do anything in our power to 
further the scheme. If the ’ Varsity will propose some feasible 
plan we will discuss the matter, and perhaps be able to arrange 
for some kind of meeting after Christmas. 



In its issue of 24th November the ’ Varsity recommends the 
committees to re-open their correspondence with regard to the 
proposed Inter-Collegiate sports, in order that everything may 
be definitely arranged for the meeting in Montreal next fall. AYe 
do not know what action our committee is taking in this matter, 
but we hope that they will not put off making a move until it 
is too late. If they do not make some arrangements within the 
next month it is probable that nothing will be done until next 
year, when we shall, in all likelihood, have a repetition of the 
bungling which we witnessed this fall. McGill is anxious to 
have these sports, and we feel sure that the University will do 
its utmost to give a worthy reception to our Toronto friends, 
and to make the first gathering a brilliant success. 



Last month the Methodist Theological College, in affiliation 
with McGill, was opened with considerable dclat. The Uni- 
versity is now pretty well encircled with theological colleges ; 
on the one side we have the Presbyterian and Congregational 
colleges, on the other side, near the Medical School, the Method- 
ists have taken up their abode, and we hope it will not be long 
until the Diocesan College will leave its present quarters, 
and take up its position among the others. AYe are glad to see 
these denominational colleges around us, for it is an evidence to 
all of the character of McGill University, thoroughly unsectarian 
and undenominational, but at the same time willing to help all 
the Christian denominations by affording to their young minis- 
teis a libei al secular education. McGill is exceedingly fortu- 
nate in possessing this universal character, affording as°it does a 
solution of the difficulty wliichhas been puzzlingthe authorities of 
some of the older universities in the United Kingdom. An aspirant 
for the ministry in any denomination can in Montreal pursue at 
one and the same time his secular and professional studies Avith 
the greatest advantage. As an eminent professor from the Old 

Country remarked a short time ago, Ave are to be envied in this 
respect. 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



^ E regret that we cannot find room for Mr. Wigle’s letter to 
the Varsity in which he replies to the questions asked in our 
report of the Inter-University football match. The letter, we 
feel bound to say, does not afford a very clear explanation of 
the exact points in dispute, but it suffices at all events to show 
how far we were justified in publishing the account referred to. 
As the captain of the Toronto team states that the gentlemen 
who retired from the play were bona fide disabled, it would not 
be courteous for us to discredit the statement, but we persist 
in our opinion that the arrangement made between the captains 
was a most undesirable one. It would also appear that in the 
matter of the calling of time our estimable friends were in the 
right. On the other points, however, our complaints have not 
been answered. Mr. Wigle very cleverly evades the trouble of 
telling us how Messrs. Boyd ami Duggan came to play against 
our team by showing us how it happened that they played 
against the ’Varsity team the Saturday before. This was not 
exactly what we wanted to know. The question in dispute was 
whether the gentlemen referred to were Undergraduates in any 
department of the University or no. The other complaint that 
a fresh man was put on during the game, seems to be acknow- 
ledged in the letter, and we, therefore, need not speak further 
of it. We presume that the discussion will now be dropped, as 
no more light is likely to be thrown upon the subject, and the 
facts have been sufficiently laid bare to allow all to judge of the 
merits of the case. We may add that the ’ Varsity is completely 
wrong when it surmises that our report was not written by one 
of the players. It was written by one of the players — by one 
of the best players — and one who thoroughly understands the 
principles and rules of the game. His opinions, moreover, as 
expressed in his report, Avere unanimously endorsed by the team. 



ON COLLEGE AMBITION. 

“ Oh ! Ambition hath its hour 
Of deep and spirit-stirring power ; 

Not in the tented field alone, 

Nor peer-engirded court and throne ; 
Nor the intrigues of busy life ; 

But ardent Boyhood’s generous strife, 
While yet the enthusiast spirit turns 
Where’er the light of Glory burns, 
Thinks not how transient is the blaze, 
But longs to barter Life for Praise. 

Look round the arena, and ye spy 
Pallid cheek and faded eye ; 

Among the bands of rivals, few 
Keep their native healthy hue ; 

Night and thought have stolen away 
Their once elastic spirit’s play. 

A few short hours and all is o’er ; 

Some shall win one triumph more ; 

Some from the place of contest go 
Again defeated, sad and slow. 

What shall reward the conqueror then 
For all his toil, for all his pain, 

For every midnight throb that stole 
So often o’er his fevered soul ? 

Is it the applaudings loud 
Or wond’ring gazes of the crowd ; 
Disappointed envy’s shame, 

Or hollow voice of fickle Fame? 

These may extort the sudden smile. 
May swell the heart a little while ; 

But they leave no joy behind, 

Breathe no pure transport o’er the mind, 
Nor will the thought of selfish gladness 
Expand the brow of secret sadness. 

Yet if Ambition hath its hour 



Of deep and spirit-stirring power, 

Some bright rewards are all its own, 

And bless its votaries alone : 

The anxious friend’s approving eye ; 

The generous rival’s sympathy ; 

And that best and sweetest prize 
Given by silent Beauty's eyes ! 

These are transports true and strong. 

Deeply felt, remembered long ; 

Time and sorrow passing o’er 
Endear their memory but the more.” 

Sir W. R. Hamilton. 



(Sontribufions. 



Student Life in Germany. 

In presenting to the readers of this paper some articles on 
German student life, I shall endeavour, to the best of my 
ability, to lay before them a faithful picture of an existence 
which, in many aspects, differs greatly from that led by students 
at English or American institutions. In fact, students in the 
full sense of the term are to be found only in Germany. There 
they form a very distinct class in society, having feAv acquaint- 
ances outside the university and still retaining some of the 
privileges accorded to them in olden times. I must begin by 
stating that German universities are not constituted in the 
same way as ours are. Students study specialties ahvays, there 
being nothing to correspond to our Arts course. The general 
training which avc receive in this course is supposed to have 
been already acquired by the student at the public school or 
“ Gymnasium,” and once at the university all his attention is 
devoted to some particular subject. 

There are ahvays four faculties, viz. : — Laiv, Medicine, 
Theology and Philosophy, and to take a degree in either a 
student must have studied at least six terms at a German uni- 
versity, and must have prepared a thesis. Then he is required 
to pass an oral examination, Avhich takes but very little time, 
making up for this latter deficiency in its severity. There are 
no examinations but this final one, and in point of fact, the 
thing most looked to is the thesis, Avhich takes usually two 
Avhole terms to complete. For instance, suppose the student to 
be going in for natural science, and that he has selected 
chemistry as the subject to which he intends to devote most of 
his time. In order to graduate he must perform some entirely 
original experiments in the laboratory and hand in a printed 
account of them. He may set to work to discover and produce 
some compound hitherto unknown in the annals of chemistry, 
or he may experiment on the occurence of some knoAvn sub- 
stance in hitherto unknoAvn or only suspected Avays. In 
any case the AA r ork must be entirely original, and approved 
of by the Professor in charge of the laboratory. Then 
he must pass an oral examination in three more subjects, one of 
which must be philosophy, and the other tAvo of which the 
student selects, usually geology and mineralogy. The day on 
Avhich the examination is to be held is fixed upon and may be 
at any time during the term, for there is no such thing as 
Avhole bodies of students being examined together, and needless 
to say there are no competitive examinations. There is only 
one degree given, that of Doctor. A graduate is always knoAvn as 
“ Doctor” afterwards, no matter what he may have graduated in. 

It will be seen by the above that simplicity is one of the 
greatest characteristics of the German university system. Another 
admirable point is the arrangement be tAveen the different univer- 
sities, which provides that a term passed in one is as good as 
a term passed in any other. The A r ast majority of students take 
advantage of this, and during their period of study, wander 
from one place to another, spending, hoAvever, the tAvo last 
terms, at least, at one university, in order to get up their theses. 
Very few succeed in graduating in six terms, and many stay 
six or seven years instead of only three. Although they 
are not particular during the early terms as to which university 
they visit, yet there is a great difference betAveen one university 
and another as regards graduating. At some they are far more 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



particular than at others, and some stand high in one faculty 
and low in the rest, The universities of Berlin and Leipzig 
stand high all around, while Heidelberg, under Bunsen, is cele- 
brated for its laboratory, and Halle for its medical faculty. 
Then, again, Jena and Liibingen are sought by those who 
don’t admire hard work, and degrees at these and some of the 
other small ones are not considered equal to those obtained at 
Berlin, Leipzig or Breslau. 

In conclusion, I may remark, that we over here have usually 
but little idea of the number of students which attend the 
lectures at the German universities. The largest number at any 
one is to be found at Berlin, where there are now about four 
thousand, counting the affiliated schools of mining and agricul- 
ture. There are some three thousand at the university proper. 
Leipzig comes next with very nearly as many, and then Munich. 
The smallest is Rostock, with under two hundred. 

Having now given some idea of the German universities in 
general, I shall have the honour, next time, to describe more par- 
ticularly how the students spend their time. 

W. T. S., B. Ap. Sc., ’80. 



It is true a course in arts cannot do everything, it cannot 
supply the place of brains, or give a mil powers and faculties 
which he never possessed, but even the dullest mind cannot fail 
to be stimulated and strengthened by such a training, in which 
daily intercourse and friendly rivalry with classmates play a not 
unimportant part ; while the powers of the most brilliant mind, 
which while untrained, may be compared to a number of knights 
errant, with, it may be, a common purpose in view, but with no 
leader and no common or united plan of action, under such a 
course becomes a disciplined army, all the force of which can at 
any time be concentrated and applied to the attainment of any 
required object. 



A ROUNDELAY. 
Asmoking, I saw yesterday 
Or seemed to see, — I cannot say, — 

In the curling smoke a maiden fair, 
With dark, sad eyes, and darker hair, 
She in some sorrow seemed to be ; 

Yet as she passed, she smiled on me 
Asmoking. 



University Education. 



The importance of a thorough University training, as the 
groundwork for a professional education, is becoming every year 
more apparent. This may be said in one sense to apply more 
particularly to those who purpose to enter the Church or go to 
the Bar, since in both of these cases a more varied and general 
knowledge is necessary than in some others. From another 
point of view, however, it applies with equal force to all the profes- 
sions. Mental powers are in many respects subject to the same 
rules, and require the same treatment as physical powers, to 
bring them into the highest state of efficiency. The athlete, 
who by a long course of systematic training, has cultivated his 
physical powers and brought them under perfect control, will 
leave far behind another who is naturally his superior, but whose 
powers are untrained. 

The application of this rule to the case in question will be 
easily seen. One student begins his professional education 
after a full University course and with his mind thoroughly 
trained. Another, whose natural abilities are much superior, 
enters upon the same course after a hasty preparation, by which 
his mind, instead of being strengthened and trained, is injured 
by being overloaded with a heterogeneous mass of dates and 
events, which are usually forgotten in a very short time after 
the preliminary examination. The first man has formed habits 
of study, which enable him to take up his work at once, and to 
master, with comparative ease, the problems of his technical 
education ; the other, with his mind and faculties all untrained, 
and ignorant of the way in which he may use them to the best 
advantage, finds himself excelled by one who is in reality his 
inferior, but who has learned how to make the best use of what 
abilities he has. 

A very common idea, respecting a University education, is 
that all the benefit to be derived from it is a certain amount of 
knowledge of the dead languages, and some other subjects of 
very little practical use to anyone, except perhaps to an e 'uca- 
tional man, or a theologian, and that all the benefit that remains 
to the University graduate after a few years, from such 
education is the privilege of appendingto his name themafficlet 
ters B.A. ° 



That this idea is a mistaken one, need scarcely be asserted 
is quite true that a great deal may be and often is Wott 
even by those who have stood high in their classes, but t 
effect of the systematic training through which they have pass 
will never be lost. Many an eminent barrister or jud<*e who 
skill and ability, in dealing with the most complicated qu< 
tions, have raised them to the highest place in their professio 
owe that skill and ability in a large measure to a severe cour 
of mathematical study, the principles of which they ha 
retained, and perhaps unconsciously apply to the questio 
given them for solution, although in a great degree they nr 
have forgotten the problems, through which those princinl 
were made known to them. 1 1 



The face, with witching beauty dight, 
Grew dim, then faded from my sight. 
For Fancy flung her wand away, 

And smoke was only smoke that day 
Asmoking. 



Harvard Advocate . 



(Sorrespondence. 

Our Irish Letter. 

Dublin, 20th Nov., 1883. 

If one may judge from appearances the number of people 
in the city this winter is very large. New houses are to be 
seen going up in all directions, and the plaster is hardly dry 
before the houses are occupied. Trade is somewhat brisker 
than last year, although capital is still very scarce. Business in 
the law courts is unusually dull at present, the barristers having 
little or nothing to do. Twenty young men were called to the 
bar this term, all of whom had University degrees, a thing 
which is usual but not imperatively necessary. The medical 
profession is overstocked as well as the legal, and the number 
of young men entering the two professions does not seem to be 
diminishing. In Dublin alone there are over five thousand 
medical students, about one-fifth of whom will never practise 
as doctors. Medical students, it would seem, have particularly 
good opportunities for studying their profession here, as about 
one hundred and fifty thousand patients pass through the hos- 
pitals annually, out of a total population of three hundred 
thousand. It must, however, be remembered that a great 
many come up from the country to be treated in the city hos- 
pitals, which partly accounts for this large number. Our 
National University is in a flourishing condition. The number 
of freshmen who entered Trinity College this term was two 
hundred. The Philosophical and Historical Debating Societies 
have had two most brilliant opening meetings for the session. 
The former was presided over by Lord Justice Fitzgibbon, and 
an address was given by Mr. Pim, the Auditor, on Political 
Science, which was keenly criticised by the speakers who 
followed. The meeting of the Historical Society was presided 
over by the Right Hon. Edward Gibson, Member of Parlia- 
ment for the University, who took his seat as president of the 
Society for the first time. He succeeds the late Sir Joseph 
Napier as president. Mr. Studdert, the Auditor, delivered his 
address on Political Education, and Mr. Justice Murphy fol- 
lowed with an able speech. The meeting closed with a speech 
from the new President, who was received with loud applause. 
I orty-three gentlemen have just obtained Moderatorsliips. 
The Mathematical Studentship of this year has been awarded 
to Mr. Lyle. The Classical one was withheld, although Messrs. 
Bowen and White came out equal, having answered quite as 
well as the successful candidates of former years. For some 
inscrutable reason the seven wise men of the board only 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



awarded them $750 each, a poor compensation for the student- 
slap, the value of which is $500 a year, for seven years. The 
University football club have this year again succeeded in 
putting on the field the best team in Ireland, so that prosperity 
reigns in every department. 

Your Correspondent. 

-Sporting 

The receipts of the Harvard Base Bali Club of last season 
were about $4,600. 

Camp, the professional coach of the Yale football eleven, was 
recently severely injured in playing. 

The Queen’s College Association Football club have played 
five matches this year and were not beaten once. The follow- 
ing are the clubs which they played : — University College, 
Victoria College, Bowmanville, Belleville and Kingston City. 
The Rugby club has only been beaten once, namely, by Ottawa. 

Much disappointment is evinced in Harvard at the result of 
the Princeton game. Better results had been hoped for by the 
majority of the students, but the outcome was exactly what was 
expected by the closer observers. Hard work is, however, being 
put in order to make the best possible showing against Yale 
on Thanksgiving Day, and the result will probably be some- 
what more favorable than the game with Princeton. — Ex. 

Much excitement was caused in Harvard and Yale lately by 
the action of the Faculty of the former University, in forbidding 
the football team to play any more games, on account of the 
brutality of the rules. This resolution was afterwards rescinded 
to allow the match with Y r ale, all the arrangements for which 
had been made, to take place on Tanksgiving Day. In future, 
however, the Faculty will not permit students to play football 
unless the game is so modified that it may be played by gentle- 
men without derogation. Lest our readers should suppose that 
the game, as played in Canada, is open to the same objections as 
those which have caused the action of the Harvard Faculty, it 
may be stated that in the United States the rules admit of a 
much greater degree of roughness than they do here, and that 
the students of some colleges there have in the past taken 
advantage of their superior strength to injure — sometimes 
seriously — their opponents and so render the superior playing 
of the latter of less avail. 

The following is the account of the latest amusement of the 
Harvard students, given by a correspondent of the New York 
Herald : — 

A new dissipation has broken out among the students of 
Harvard College. From the earliest days of the institution its 
stately halls have rung with the shouts and songs of under- 
graduates gathered around the flowing punch-bowl. The allure- 
ments of the corps de ballet have heretofore been irresistible, 
and every Boston theatre had its nightly patronage of “ Cam- 
bridge men.” But the student mind is insatiate for fresh 
excitement. Hence, wrestling matches, fierce glove contests, all- 
night poker parties, and various other entertainments of a mild 
nature have long been enrolled on the list of standard amuse- 
ments, and the casual caller at a college-room may stumble upon 
one of these any evening. Until very recently, however, it is 
believed that the cock-fight has not been found flourishing in 
the classic shades. From time to time, as these interesting and 
elegant events have taken place in the neighborhood, some few 
students have been found among the spectators ; but a genuine 
cock-fight, conducted from beginning to end, according to Ed. 
James, taking place in one of the buildings of Harvard Univer- 
sity is, to say the least, a refreshing novelty. A few nights ago 
your correspondent found himself in a richly furnished room in 
one of the popular dormitories of Harvard. A dozen or more 
students were present. Several were padding the walls of the 
room to prevent any unusual noise from rousing the proctor. As 
one of the students condescendingly explained, “ He wouldn’t 
be disturbed by an ordinary rumpus, don’tcha know — a punch 
or soiree musicale, don’tcha know, with a little rum flip, but if 
the demnition birds should squawk, why — er — al — he might 



think the Sabines were attacking Rome again, ya know, and 
that the demnition poultry were cackling to warn him.” It 
might almost be said that all classes of students were represented, 
for one or two were present who have gained no low position in 
the rank list. The final touch to the preparations was given, 
after removing the furniture, by spreading a sheet over the 
expensive carpet. Then the cocks were brought forth from a 
dark closet. They were handsome birds, showing their blood 
and breeding in every motion and every feather. The long, 
cruel steel spurs having been adjusted, the birds were permitted 
to peck at each other’s heads for a moment to stir their mettle, 
when they were breasted and the fight began. The students 
were grouped about the room, and for a minute or two nothing 
was heard but the flap, flap, of the wings and the occasional 

sharp click of the spurs when they met. Then Tommy T , 

the host, cried out, “ I’m gambling fifty more on my bird.” This 
bet was taken at once and others were quickly made of sums 
ranging from $5 to $50. Everybody was in a state of intense 
excitement. The battle had been the subject of much anticipa- 
tion and speculation. Both birds were known to have fought 
several times, and had been bought by their respective owners 
especially for this fight. One, known as Dandy, was owned by 
a peculiar specimen of mankind, a species rare among students, 
a man whose every thought and purpose centred upon contests 
of this nature. He was evidently the ringleader, and probably 
the only one present who entered into the sport with genuine, 
deep enthusiasm. He was nervous and excitable, and took 
every advantage allowed by the rules to benefit his bird. The 
host’s bird was called Jim, and was at a slight disadvantage in 
the betting, the proportion being 5 to 4 on Dandy. Meantime 
the fight was being contested stubbornly and was waxing hotter. 
Several strokes had taken effect on each combatant, and the 
white sheet was liberally sprinkled with blood and feathers. 
Every now and then, as one bird drove the other across the 
sheet, there was a stampede of students to the window seats and 
the corners. The fight was evidently against Jim, and Tommy 
and his friends began to look despairing. 

Suddenly a heavy knock sounded on the outer door of the 
room. Every one, including the Herald correspondent, turned 
pale and trembled. It must be the proctor had heard the racket 
when they all had to dive and dodge from the furious cocks. 
Ten frightened young men rushed into their bed-rooms and 
locked themselves in, while Tommy and Ben coolly but quickly 
caught up the birds and dumped one in the coal closet and the 
other in the bottom of a bookcase. Then Ben hastily rolled up 
the sheet while Tommy went to the door. He opened it 
deliberately, and upon the ears of all fell the words : 

“ I’ve been a knocking at your door, Mr. , full foive 

minutes : I jist called fur the wash — ” 

“ Oh, bother the wash,” growled the host ; “ call to-morrow 
morning,” and he slammed the door and everybody re-entered 
the battle ground. The momentary damper upon the evening’s 
pleasure was soon unfelt, as the birds were again breasted for 
the fatal encounter. One of them must surely die, perhaps 
both, though it seemed almost certain that a few moments more 
would finish poor Jim. But with Jim’s decreasing strength 
Tommy grew more interested, and finally danced over the carpet 
fairly wild. 

“ Go it, you dogond coon ! give him one behind his ear,” 
then, as he saw the poor bird’s struggles with his own weak- 
ness, he added in a tone of contrition, “ no, you poor old cuss ; 
you’re a game stag ; if you’re licked it isn’t the fault of your 
pluck.” 

While Tommy was wrapped in gloomy despair, Ben and his 
backers were correspondingly exultant. Both birds were fight- 
ing magnificently, as an enthusiastic observer afterward expressed 
it, but the end was drawing near. Tommy and his fellow backers 
had given Jim up for lost ; the birds hesitated a single moment 
face to face, their feathers erect, their eyes bloodshot, when Jim 
dying as he was, all but dead, with one convulsive sprint met 
his opponent and drove his long spurs clean through Dandy’s 
brain. Ben’s face fell and his spirits sank a hundred decrees 
as he looked ruefully at his fallen and vanquished bird, too 



G 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



astonished even to curse his luck. Tommy and his friends were 
so overcome with triumphant emotions that their enthusiasm 
knew no bounds. They crowded around the victorious Jim 
eager to address some complimentary words to the plucky hero. 
Jim understood it, and croaked a brave but ghastly “hoorah” 
in his peculiar dialect. Tommy had taken him up at first, but 
he struggled a little and was consequently put down. He 
flopped his wings feebly, strutted a few paces, and then striking 
out spitefully once more at his vanquished foe, staggered, keeled 
over and died. The fight lasted thirty-six minutes, exclusive 
of the waits. Bets were paid over, the dead fowl divided 
between the “ slaves,” and the party separated. 

“ It was a bloody good fight, though,” remarked Ben, trying 
to console himself, as he walked out with his friends. It was 
a bloody fight, to say the least, and in a sporting sense, undoubt- 
edly a good one. 

It is but just to the generally high character of Harvard 
students to add that such occurrences as above described are 
rare, and confined in their participation to a very few — usually 
new-comers. These events are kept secret, and the public opinion 
of the students would be strongly opposed and condemnatory to 
their form of amusement were it known to be gaining any real 
headway. • 



(Sollccjic Q25ovI£>. 



McGILL. 

The Graduates’ Society intend to hold, this winter, re-unions 
similar to those of last year. We believe, hoAvever, that tr.ey 
find considerable difficulty in obtaining a suitable place to 
hold them in. 

Ox Tuesday, the 27th Nov., Mr. Barnjum gave his opening 
exhibition for the season in the gymnasium, University Street. 
We were glad to notice that a large number of McGill men 
were among those who took part. 

The final students in Arts held a meeting on the 6th inst., 
for the purpose of electing a Valedictorian. But one nomina- 
tion was made, and the nominee, Mr. James W. Pedley, was 
therefore declared elected by acclamation. 

And still they come ! The Meds have just been invited to 
send a representative to the first annual dinner of the Western 
School of Medicine, of London, O. We hope that McGill 
will be able to send up a representative, as this sign of energy 
on the part of our little baby sister is deserving of all encour- 
agement. 

On Friday, November 3rd, a meeting of the Glee Club was 
held, Mr. Calder in the chair. Mr. Stewart, the secretary, 
having been asked to give his impression of last year’s work 
and of the advisability of another venture, said that, consid- 
ering the poor results from the efforts put forth, he did not 
think it wise to reorganize the old club, but proposed the com- 
pilation of a new book of songs. This, the great need of last 
year, having been supplied, he thought practices might be held 
every Friday evening before the meeting of the Literary 
Society. Mr, Bell then moved that a meeting to consider the 
proposition be called soon after Christmas. This motion having 
been seconded and carried, the meeting adjourned. 

Monday, 3rd Dec., was a students’ night at the Academy, 
when the Montefiore Club performed Gilbert’s comedy in three 
acts entitled, “ Randal’s Thumb.” The piece was very well put 
on for an amateur performance, which is not saying very much. 
The play cannot be said to sparkle with wit, and at times the 
dialogue was excessively dull. The attendance was large and 
enthusiastic, especially in the “ gods,” where the students from 
Bishop’s and Victoria were in force. There were a good many 
from McGill, but there was by no means the general turn out 
which we expected. The proximity of the Christmas examina- 
tions had doubtless something to do with this. The Victoria 
men sang a number of part songs in excellent style, while 
McGill and Bishop’s rendered some of their well-known choruses. 
The McGill organ was in tune, and partly made up for the 
absence of most of our best vocalists. Towards the close of the 



performance an over zealous guardian of the peace (sic) attempted 
to arrest one of the students for some trifling offence, and a 
general disturbance was the result, the play having to be 
suspended for about five minutes. I he rescue was successfully 
effected, and a battle with the police prevented by the inter- 
ference of the President of the Montefiore Club. The proprietor 
shows great stupidity in putting policemen in the gallery when 
it is occupied by students ] if they were left to themselves there 
would be much less fear of a row. The person who writes 
the local items for the Daily Gazette , in an account of this 
contretemps , dubbed the students “young cubs.” This was 
remarkably good taste on his part and exhibited great ability. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

On the 30th ult. was held the last meeting for this term. 
An essay from Mr. F. Pedley, and a reading by Mr. McQuat, 
preceeded a discussion of the problem, whether it would be 
of advantage to Canada for the government to own the rail- 
ways. Messre. A. W. Gerrie, Mabon, and Colquhoun victori- 
ously upheld the affirmative against the assaults of Messrs. 
Turner, McDougall, and Bell. On reviewing the course of the 
Society during this term, we are happy to be able to say that it 
has been a most prosperous one ; the meetings have been well 
attended, and the programmes, in the majority of instances, 
have been ably carried out. It is to be hoped that an equal 
measure of success will attend the proceedings of the Society 
next term. 

McGill Medical Society. 

At the fifth regular meeting of this Society, Mr. Hutch- 
ison read a paper upon some san seyuelae of Diphtheria, 
which he had witnessed during the summer. The paper 
was one of the best we have ever heard given by a student at 
the Society, being full of interest and carefully prepared. Mr. 
Darey gave a reading, and Mr. W. G. Johnston exhibited some 
specimens of bone and joint disease. We regret to notice that 
the attendance at the meetings, which has been very full for 
some time past, is beginning to decline again, and that less 
interest has been shown lately in reporting cases. This last 
part of the programme if properly carried out, would render 
the proceedings far more interesting than even the most 
carefully prepared papers. 

University Literary Society. 

At the regular weekly meeting of the Society held on the 
30th November, Mr. C. J. Doherty took the chair. In the 
absence of the Recording Secretary, Mr. L. T. Leet was ap- 
pointed secretary ; ro tern. The question for discussion was 
whether it would be advisable for the Government to assume 
the management of the telegraph system. Mr. Atwater, on 
being called upon to open the debate, moved an adjournment 
till the first meeting, for which no programme had already been 
provided, on account of the coldness of the room and the 
absence of the leader of the negative. This motion was 
seconded and carried, but was subsequently reconsidered and 
rejected. The discussion was then proceeded with. Mr. 
McConnel took the place of Mr. Archibald, who was ill, as 
the leader of the negative. Messrs. Duffet and Cameron were 
the other gentlemen appointed to speak, and these were fol- 
lowed by Messrs. Brooke and Oughtred. The decision was 
almost unanimous in favour of the affirmative. 

On the 7th November, there were about fifteen members and 
one or two visitors present to hear Mr. Barnard’s essay on 
Divorce. Before the programme was proceeded with, it was 
arranged that, as no invitations were to be issued for the forth- 
coming public debate, it should be held in the Society’s rooms, 
Phillips Square, and not in the Windsor as heretofore. In 
prefacing his remarks on Divorce, Mr. Barnard said that his 
essay was not quite so complete as he could have wished, the 
truth being that he had put off writing it until the eleventh 
hour. He hoped that the critics, whom the Society had lately 
acquired, would deal gently with any imperfections which the 
composition might exhibit, as it was nine years since he had 
last written anything of the kind. The University Gazette , 
he remarked, had, a few weeks ago, almost annihilated him in 
one line, which made him, of course, feel rather nervous. The 



1883 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



essay, which bore tlie evident marks of hasty preparation, was 
listened to with great attention. It referred briefly to the'lemil 
difficulties which would arise if divorce were allowed, but 
treated at more length of the religious and historical aspect of 
the subject. The Church of Romo, the writer said, had always 
been consistent in its opposition to divorce, as was evidenced, 
for example, by its conduct in the case of Henry and Anne 
Boleyn. In the Eastern States of the Union, the divorce law 
had resulted in there being one divorce in every eleven mar- 
riages, which was a very undesirable state of affairs. Mr. 
Brooke, in criticising the essay, questioned very much Mr. 
Barnard’s statistics, and in general took an opposite view of the 
question. He maintained that the Pope practically granted 
divorces, thus encroaching upon the work of our civil courts, 
and he laid bare the utterly illogical nature of the system of 
separation existing in this province. For the highest and 
noblest purposes of marriage, he thought divorce was a neces- 
sity. Mr. Oughtred followed, and in a brief speech defended 
divorce. He was sorry that the religious question had been 
touched by the essayist, but on common sense grounds he 
thought most people would agree that a divorce law was desir- 
able. All, however, might not be agreed as to what should 
constitute a valid reason, but all were agreed on one cause. 
The speaker agreed with Mr. Brooke in thinking that Mr. 
Barnard’s definition of marriage as a contract was wrong. Mr. 
Ritchie was also in favour of divorce. He disagreed with Mr. 
Barnard on the religious aspect of the case, and would go 
further than Mr. Oughtred by making incompatibility of tem- 
per sufficient cause for divorce. Mr.Kavanagh made some remarks 
in support of the essayist’s views, but his argument had not 
very much logical bearing on the matter. Mr. Doherty op- 
posed divorce. He said that the Pope did not grant divorces, 
but sometimes declared that there had been no marriage at all. 
He corroborated Mr. Barnard’s statistics, and remarked, that at 
the late meeting of the Episcopal Church in the United States, 
the question was gravely discussed. He considered that 
divorce put the power of dissolving the marriage into the hands 
of the less virtuous consort, and to be logical we should either 
have no divorce or divorce whenever the consorts wished it. Mr. 
Barnard, in replying, stated that he regretted having touched 
upon the religious question, and that he had done so merely in 
an historical way. He defended separation as carried out in 
this province, and made a good defence of the position he had 
taken. We may mention that the majority of those present 
were in favour of a divorce law and the doing away of the 
present illogical system. 

The Medical Dinner. 

Alas ! this great college event is now a thing of the past, and 
we must say with Locker (I think it is) : 

“ Hoo ! Boohoo ! 

I can’t eat any more !” 

It was a grand success, not merely owing to the untiring 
efforts of the committee, nor to the brilliant and witty speeches 
and their enthusiastic reception, but chiefly to the spirit of hearty 
good-fellowship which possessed every one present from 
the ordinarily awe-inspiring representatives of the Gov- 
ernors and the Faculty, down to the Freshman who has just 
grasped the delicious idea that the magic word McGill is the 
“ open sesame” to all that is worth having in this life. One 
and all they seemed to feel that they were fellow-workers in a 
glorious cause which had for a time relaxed its apparently end- 
less demand upon their energies and time, and that they were 
all off on a holiday together. Everything, except the elements, 
conspired to make the occasion a delightful one. The dinner 
proper left nothing to be desired, save one helping of “cyinbe- 
tine,” while the pretty decorations, the gay music and the ap- 
propriate and well-rendered songs carried one to the prandial 
seventh heaven. 

The chairman, Mr. R. F. Ruttan, not only fulfilled his 
modest claim to being a good listener, but in addition proved 
himself q- humourous speaker. His fanciful “ History of 
Alimentation” called forth much laughter and applause, while 
he faifly brought down the house” when, in a happy combi- 



nation of nursery ryhmes and physiological technicalities, he 
alluded to the feelings of enthusiasm which he thought must 
have been kindled in tho youthful breast of a certain well-known 
and deservedly popular physiologist, when, in days gone by, he 
listened to the clinical history of that mysterious and remarkable 
case of indigestion recorded of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Sprat. 

The vice-chairs were occupied by Messrs. Palmer, Elder and 
Lafleur. 

The Secretary, Mr. L. D. Ross, read the usual letters of 
regret from His Excellency the Governor-General, Lord Lans- 
downe, His Excellency Lieut. -Governor Robitaille, Consul-Gen- 
eral Stearns, the Hon. J. Church and others, the sister universities 
of Halifax, Harvard and Western University, and lastly, and 
with evident difficulty, the cause of which everybody so well 
understood, that his plaintive request to remember that they were 
letters “ from Doctors” was hardly needed. 

The usual opening toasts were proposed and honoured as only 
loyal Canadian Meds can honour them, but at old “ Alma 
Mater,” though disguised under a novel and uncanny title, the 
walls rang again. After an original song had been sung by Mr. 
C. Wilson, ’86, responses were made by the Hon. Justice 
Mackay in behalf of the Governors, and Professor Johnson in 
behalf of the Faculties. Dr. Grant, of Ottawa, in replying 
for the Graduates, made a most eloquent address, and the loud 
applause which rattled forth at certain parts of it referring to 
Dr. Howard showed that the Meds can appreciate well-deserved 
compliments applied to a favourite professor. 

Dr. Howard, in proposing the novel toast of “ Our Bene- 
factors,” showed most clearly that those golden individuals have 
hearts as open and generous as their pockets, and proved what 
we had suspected before, that even the hardest worked and most 
dignified of professors can at the right time become as light- 
hearted and jolly as the youngest freshman amongst us. 

Mr. Thomas Workman, in replying to this toast, led us to 
infer that the only pleasure in life comparable to that arising 
from a generous gift to McGill was the privilege of listening to 
college songs outside your door at 10.30 p.m. Such a doubly 
unselfish man well typified the remarks made by the Glee Club, 
to fortissimo accompaniment on the piano, that they, (Our 
Benefactors) were “ Jolly Good Fellows.” We should be very 
loth to deny so patent a fact, after the overwhelming evidence 
adduced by Dr. Howard in proposing the toast. In view of the 
munificent donations of the Hon. Donald Smith, Mr. G. Stephen 
and others, and the great personal comfort and happiness which 
those and other gentlemen have (according to Mr. Workman, 
and we quite believe him), experienced, we do not doubt that 
that mihionennium , which he so enthusiastically foreshadowed, 
will soon be a reality. 

Mr. G. F. Palmer, in graceful terms and with that rare 
fidelity to be expected in one having so intimate an acquaint? 
ance with the subject, proposed “ The Hospital.” 

Mr. Andrew Robertson, in replying in behalf of that patient, 
long-suffering institution, whose heart can never be estranged 
from her (occasionally naughty) children, showed that her zeal 
in their interest was as unflagging as ever, and announced that 
at last they were in a position to fulfil their mature and long? 
cherished schemes of improvement. 

“ Sister Universities,” proposed by Mr. Elder, with an 
amount of feeling and sympathy only to be obtained from one 
who has personally felt the heavy hand of the oppressor, “ that 
relentless and cruel foe of medical students the world over, the 
policeman !” 

Mr. Spence, of Toronto University, in replying, stated that he 
felt as soon as he arrived that he had fallen among friends, and 
we know that his feelings on this point were exactly those of 
our representatives this year, wherever they went. Mr. Fierhel- 
ler, of Trinity Medical School, in a comically gallant speech de- 
monstrated with mathematical precision that successful efforts 
to secure one of the two students of the Toronto “ Ladies’ 
Medical College” as a bona fide delegate are at present a tech- 
nical impossibility, but the grief caused by his conclusions was 
more than allayed by his very soothing manner of stating them. 
Mr. Cumberland, of the “ Royal” Medical College, Kingston, 
taking up tho same strain, said that tho Kingston lady Meds 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



hardly appreciated the fact that they owed their present com- 
fortable surroundings to the exertions of their brother Meds, 
exercised indirectly in their behalf last year, and sang a “Laugh 
Song” of a dangerously infectious nature. 

Mr. Blackmer, in replying in behalf of “ Bishop’s,” gracefully 
alluded to the consanguinity of the two schools, and Mr. 
A allin representing Laval, stoutly upheld the respectability of 
Meds in general, and McGill Meds in particular, and we wish 
that the high functionaries of our city could have listened to his 
eloquent speech and had their doubts for ever removed. 

The Victoria representative, though searched for by the Com- 
mittee, high and low, here, there and everywhere, could not be 
found, and as, owing to the great length of the programme, the 
Committee had been prevented from calling upon the represen- 
tatives of those institutions so nearly connected with ourselves, 
that a definite line of demarcation would be hard to establish, 
viz., the Vets or the Theologues (of whatever ilk), as well as 
those sister faculties, with whom we are so diffused as to be al- 
most absolutely homogenous, this toast, the great feature of the 
evening, met with no more responses. 

V ith us, “ absence made the heart grow fonder,” and the 
toast of Dr. Dawson, feelingly proposed by Dr. Howard, and 
replied to on his behalf by Prof. Johnson, as acting-Principal, 
was enthusiastically honoured. 

Class ’84, proposed in terms of deepest sympathy and condol- 
ence by Mr. Lafleur, a freshman, who, in view of the rapidly 
approaching “ Ides of March,” of which he entreated them to 
beware, in an ungarded moment compared that presumably 
unfortunate but august body with that of 'Caesar on a certain 
awkward occasion, while he insinuated that the Final Professors 
were akin to Brutus and his friends. Doomed man ! in an 
instant Dr. Osier was upon his feet and, in proposing the toast 
of “ Freshmen,” assuming presumably the character of Metullus 
Cimber, for there was “ no voice made more worthy than his 

own to sound moresweetlyin great Caesar’s ear, ’’proceeded, in the 

mostgenially withering sarcasm to which we have ever had the good 
luckto listen to demonstrate the presumed“fulness of his adversaries’ 
ignorance” and defended his fellow conspirators with the able but 
trite justification that in such an improbable case as the molecu- 
lar, or in the almost impossible event of the molar death of Caesar, 
the autopsy would certainly reveal this, that the cause of the 
sad result was not that Brutus loved Caesar less, but that he 
loved Rome more. (Loud applause.) 

However, until he reports that interesting autopsy at the 
funeral in the Molson Hall, on the 31st of March, 1884, which 
friends and acquaintances will be respectfully invited to attend 
we can only express a hope that our Mark Anthony, whoever he 
may be, will charitably suspend his judgment and let the proof 
of the pudding await the eating. 

Mr. Mclnerny replied for the graduating class in a very 
amusing speech. J 

Mr Wilkinson, in replying to the toast of the Freshmen, only 
stated, we are sure, the views of the more moderate of the 
r reshmen class, when he praised the general urbanity and for- 
bearance of the Senior classes, in which McGill presents a pleas- 
ing exception to the majority of American colleges. 

The Ladies, last but not least on the programme was 
proposed by the Chair in all the wierd light of a vile, atrocious 
pun, of which, happily, no single man saw the point,’ and was 
replied to by Mr. Wyatt Johnston, who unblushingly and in the 
“ fulness of his ignorance” (Osier), posed himself as the 
champion of the sex, although we have since heard from an 
eminent authority on the subject that this pretentious attitude was 
but a specious disguise to a cowardly and sarcastic cynicism 
which not only suggested what it pretended to conceal but 
took advantage of a position on the toast list, which prevented a 
reply from the injured benedicts in esse and in posse who as all 
know, can alone truly appreciate the ladies. 

After Dr. Rodgers had, in a manner which did equal credit to 
his head and heart, proposed the health of the Chairman and 
after a well-earned vote of thanks had been tendered to the Com- 
mittee, and “ God Save the Queen” had been sung, the guests 
reluctantly departed, after many little chat reminiscences of bv 
gone dinners. Heliogobalus. 



Obituary. 



With sorrow we chronicle the death of Arthur Howie of 
St. Thomas, 0., late of class ’86. He died at the hospital, of 
typhoid fever, on November 29th. The funeral took place 
from the hospital the same evening, and the Medicals attended 
in a body, and after a short, 1 ut impressive ceremony, followed 
the hearse to Bonaventure station. Mr. Howie was respected 
both by his teachers and fellow-students as a man thoroughly 
well up in his work, and was without an enemy in the whole 
College. 

General. 

Yale College has nearly $2,000,000 under investment. 

The average yearly expenses of a Princeton student are $325. 
— Ex. 

President McCosh of Princeton College, lectured before the 
Yale students lately. 

There are about one hundred and ninety College papers in 
the United States. — Ex. 



An agitation is on foot to erect a new and commodious col- 
lege building at Dalhousie. 

A Daughter of President Nelles has been enrolled as a 
student of Cobourg College. 

Amherst College has 321 students — 81 seniors, 86 juniors 
83 sophomores and 71 freshmen. 

Professor James Bryce is now giving his course of lectures 
on Roman jurisprudence at Johns Hopkins. 

“The Joe Brown University” is to be the name of a 
Georgia College, with Senator Brown as patron. 

Mr. Armistead, M. P., has resolved to present £2,000 to 
Dundee University to found one or more scholarships. 

The late Samuel litz bequeathed two-thirds of his residuary 
estate to Harvard College for the use of the Medical School. 

Since 1825, out of 38,054 Alumni from 58 Colleges 3 577 
are recorded as physicians, 9,991 Clergymen, and 6,105 Lawyers. 

The catalogue of Middlebury (Vt.) College shows 42 stu- 
dents— 8 seniors, 8 juniors, 7 sophomores, 13 freshmen and 6 
specials. 

Ye were glad to receive the November number of our little 
friend, the Droghedian. We hope that it will continue to pay 
us regular visits. 1 J 



aii i- ' Jaa neaim are not ad mitted to Wellesley Collet 
AH applicants are submitted to a medical examination, °to 
exclude weaklings. — Ex. ’ 

A Project is on foot to establish an Irish College of Veter- 
inary Science and Medicine with independent powers of 
examining and conferring degrees. 

There is a wise movement in Oakland, Cal., toward the e<i 
tablisliment of a school of industrial arts, a gift of $150 000 
having been made for that purpose. ’ 

The Annual Dinner of the Faculty of Medicine of Bishop’s 
Co lege was held at the Windsor on Wednesday evening last 
and was, we believe, a grand success. ° ’ 

Professor Gildersleeve has declined the appointment to be 
director of the American school at Athens, which was made v 
the committee without previously consulting him. ^ 

The Alma Mater Society of Queen’s College Kingston is 

arranging with the Rev T DpWih t i ? ’ . mgston > 1S 

r t ° .P . ■*- JmVYitt Talmage tosrive a lecture 

before the society, and the friends of the College. 

Trinity College will erect a suitable buildiim for the astro 
noimea instruments given it last year by Dr° S B St John 

eqi,atoria"telesf„pe 0ng ““ mStn,ments » borate six-inch 

received money from the State FeC that tlie CulIege has 

and Class Committee. r ’ 1011f,tcr > Class Day Committee 



9 



1883 -] McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Dalhvusie Gazette is the oldest College paper in Canada. 
It began its sixteenth volume in November. The principal 
feature in the first number is Dr. Weldon’s address at the 
opening of the new Law School. 

There have been two pitched battles lately, between the 
senior and junior students at Jefferson Medical College. The 
cause of the quarrel was a disagreement as to which students 
should have the front seats at the hospital lectures. 

The reported circulation of some leading American College 
journals is as follows The Dartmouth 1030, the Tuftonmn 
1000, 1 ale Lour ant 850, Amherst Student 625, Princetonian 
725, Harvard Advocate 450, Athenaeum 600, the Lampoon 700. 

^At a meeting of the Council of University College of South 
Wales, at Cardiff, last month, the Dean of Llandaff, presiding, 
it was announced that the Senate of the University of London 
has appointed Cardiff as a centre for Matriculation examina- 
tion in 1884. 

In the German University at Prague, 1,307 students have 
entered this term ; in the Zeech University, 1,379. The Aus- 
trian Government have objected to the appointment of Prof. 
Rooling in the German University on account of his anti- 
Semitic writings. 

The Hamilton (Ky.,) College Monthly for October, contained 
a large number of contributions including two poems. In its 
own words the Monthly contains “ the honest efforts of school 
girls,” and the articles are of the kind which this fact would 
lead us to expect. 

Mr. Paul Tulane’s most recent gift to Tulane University 
of New Orleans, is stocks and bonds of a face value of $269,- 
000, but whose market value is much greater. They will yield 
an income of $19,600 a year. His total gifts to Louisiana are 
worth more than $1,000,000. 

Mrs. Elder, widow of the late Mr. John Elder, the well- 
known shipbuilder, has given to the Senate of Glasgow Uni- 
versity the sum of £ 12,500 for the purpose of founding a 
professorship of naval architecture, to be called “The John 
Elder Chair of Naval Architecture.” — Star. 

The Argosy exchange Editor says that the Portfolio, of Ham- 
ilton, though quite a nice paper, has declined in worth since last 
year, and that it is hardly up to the average. The Presbyterian 
College Journal is glad to receive the Portfolio, and hopes that 
it may continue to improve as fast as it has done since Sep- 
tember. 

Professor Sumner of Yale will institute the plan of having 
a “ loan library for political economy ” this year for his optional 
class. A book containing 350 questions relative to political 
economic subjects will be the text book used, and the optional 
study will consist of looking up the references bearing upon 
these questions. 

The College of the City of New York has a new course of 
study called the course of workshop practice, which has for its 
aim “to make the student acquainted with the tools used in 
working woods and metals, the properties of these materials and 
the methods of forming and combining them lor useful in- 
struction.” — Ex. 

The old historical buildings of the Shrewsbury Royal School 
having been vacated by removal to a new and larger site, it has 
been decided by the townspeople to purchase the buildings for 
the purpose of a county museum and free library. A subscrip- 
tion list was recently inaugurated by Alderman Jenkens with 
$1,250, and since then nearly the whole sum — viz., $20,000 — 
has been subscribed. 

“The Birds,” of Aristophanes was performed in Greek at 
Cambridge, England, on Nov. 27th and 30th, and Dec. 1st. 
The arrangements were more elaborate than were those 
of the “Ajax” last year, and Mr. Hubert Parry has set the 
choruses, and written incidental music. The ladies of Girton 
are to perform he “Electra” of Sophocles this week. None 
but ladies are to be admitted. 

Much of the matter in the University Monthly for Novem- 
ber is of a ocal character, and uninteresti g to outsiders. There 



are two or three short articles, however, which repay perusal. 
The account of the University at Hofwyl, is very interesting, 
while the articles on Hallowe’en, and the lyrical poetry of the 
Elizabethan Period are j leasantly written, if they do not contain 
much. 

The moot-courts which formerly flourished in the Law 
School at Harvard are being revived. They have not been in 
vogue during the last five or six years, and their place has been 
occupied largely by the numerous law clubs. These have hardly 
filled the place of the moot-courts and consequently they have 
been re-established, largely through the efforts of certain men 
in the second year. 

The Sheffield Scientific School of Yale College has suffered 
a severe loss in the death of Prof. Norton, who was the senior 
professor of the school. Prof. Norton was called to the 
Sheffield School to organize the civil engineering department in 
1852. This professorship has been held ever since. The Yale 
News says : “He has been considered one of the foremost 

authorities in his department of investigation.” — Ex. 

The Duke of Abercorn, on Thursday week, attended the 
ceremony of conferring degrees in the Royal University in 
Dublin, and, addressing the students, said that all the hopes 
entertained of the success of the University have been fully 
realized. Mr. Trevelyan, who also spoke, expressed a hope 
that a large number of Irishmen would by means of the 
culture now open to them be forthcoming for public service. 

The managing committee of the American School of Classical 
Studies at Athens will publish once a year, about December 1, 
a volume of papers of the school, made up from the works of 
the director and students. The publications will be issued at 
a price to be fixed by the publication committee. Copies will 
be sent free to the libraries of co-operating colleges and put on 
sale with leading booksellers. The first edition will be issued 
in December. — Ex. 

The duel in which the law student Moschel was killed at 
Wurzburg by the Philadelphia student, who escaped to Switzer- 
land, it is hoped, will cause some alteration in the practice of 
duelling at Wurzburg at least, if not at other Universities. 
The father of Moschel has sent a circular-letter to parents and 
others who have relations at the University complaining bitterly 
of the party spirit and gross heedlessness of the students. In 
Munich former students have called a meeting to consult on 
what ought to be done. — Ex. 

The oldest University student in Berlin, and probably in the 
world, is sixty-nine years of age. Aker passing his examina- 
tion in theology in his youth he went to South Africa as a 
missionary, and there he married the daughter of a rich Dutch 
farmer, who inherited her father’s property. Having lost his 
wife and children several years ago, he returned to Germany, 
and is now about to graduate in medicine from the University 
of Berlin. As soon as he has secured his diploma he will re- 
turn to the Transvaal. — Ex. 

Although Cambridge University is generally regarded as 
second to Oxfor i in the classical curriculum, she has educated 
the principal English poets. Chaucer is generally believed to 
have been a Cambridge man ; Milton was a Master of Arts at 
Christ College, and Dryden went from Westminster to Trinity 
College, Cambridge. Of the poets of this century, Wordsworth 
was a Johnian, and Coleridge an undergraduate < f Jesus, Cam- 
bridge. Lord Byr n is one of the glories of Trinity, and 
Alfred Tennyson was of the same College. — Ex. 

Sir Earrer Herschell, Solicitor-General, addressing the 
students of Durham Science School last month, said “ that if 
he had to live his life over again he should endeavor, before the 
practical work of life began, to make himself thoroughly 
acquainted with some branch of natural science.” Dwelling 
upon the advantages to be gained by study of modern sciences 
and especially that of electricity, he advised students to thor- 
oughly master one branch before taking up another, and to 
limit their studies to a complete mastery of subjects taught. 

Mr. Ruskin has joined the ranks of the teachers at Oxford 
who are asking the University to give them new buildings. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



He noticed recently, as characteristic of the scientific tenden- 
cies of the present day, that, while the University will spend 
£100,000 or even £150,000 in decorating in a style as incorrect 
as it is un-English rooms for the torture of her students, she 
gives her art-workers nothing better than a cellar to draw in, 
and her ai't professor no other place for the storage of his 
models than a corner of his private office in the gallery. — Ex. 

The Trustees of Columbia College have arranged a four 
years course of study for women, for which a strict preparatory 
examination will be required, and no girl under seventeen will 
be admitted. Those who pass the examination may study 
where and how they please, and will be examined by the Col- 
lege teacher as often as may be necessary. Upon satisfactory 
examination at the end of four years, or upon the completion 
of any prescribed course, the student will receive a certificate 
which will be substantially the equivalent of a diploma granted 
to a gra luate of the College. — Ex. 

The Knox College Monthly commenced its second volume in 
December. It is not a students’ paper but a theological journal, 
and interesting mainly to Presbyterian college students. The 
December number may be said to consist of a paper by Prof. 
Maclaren, D. D. on “Calvinism in its Relations to other 
Theistic Systems.” The article is instructive and well worth 
reading, however widely one may differ from the doctrines held 
by the writer. The Monthly is considerably ahead of the 
Presbyterian College Journal , which it more closely resembles 
in tone than any of our other exchanges. 

The report of the treasurer of Yale College for the year end- 
ing July, 1883, shows that the aggregate of the invested funds 
in all the departments is $1,924,328, an increase since the last 
report of $77,698. The expenses of the various departments 
for the year were $332,827. The funds are incommensurate 
with the growing needs of the University, and rigid economy 
will be necessary, but the gradually increasing year’s fund will 
be divided as follows: — University, $464,890; academical, 
$544,116; theological, $330,356 ; Sheffield, $144,193 ; medi- 
cal, $30,995 ; law, $11,600, and art department, $19,179. — Ex. 

The authorities of the University of Trinity College, 
Toronto, have issued a circular which will no doubt be read 
with interest by all who are interested in the cause of educa- 
tion. It has been thought advisable to call for a supplementary 
endowment fund in order that the College may be placed in a 
more satisfactory state with regard to teaching facilities. The 
amount asked is $200,000, and already very liberal contribu- 
tions have been made. Great inducements are made to possible 
contributors by promises of the right of appointing to free 
tuition in the College one or more students for a longer or 
shorter time. — Ex. 

Mr. Johx Bright has given his opinion of the study of the 
classics in the following -words : — “1 regard what I call classics 
— that is, the ancient languages of Greece and Rome — as 
luxuries rather than anything else. It is a great luxury to 
know anything that is good and innocent. It is a great 
luxury to knows a great deal of the past, not that it makes you 
more powerful to do much, but it is a great pleasure to the 
person who know ; but I do not believe myself that there is 
anything in the way of wisdom which is to be obtained in any 
of the books of the old languages which at this moment may 
not be equally attained in the books of our own literature.” 

Lord Coleridge, in speaking to the students of Haverford 
College, Pennsylvania, said : — “ A poet whom I admired very 
much in College, and have always admired as a poet, though 
there was much in the life of the man and some things in his 
writings which are by no means to be commended, was Shelley. 
Then the poet on whom the best subsequent poetry has been 
built, the true master of Tennyson, a man of the richest fancy 
and most exquisite diction, — John Keats. 1 beg you to learn 
by hear this ‘ Hyperion,’ his ‘ Ode on a Grecian Urn,’ and ‘ Ode 
to a Nightingale.’ You may be surprised at the name I shall 
select from your American poets, when I tell you to learn 
Bryant. I do not say Longfellow, because, although he is a 
sweet and noble and delightful poet, he is not an American — I 



mean that his poetry might just as well have been written in 
England or Italy or Germany or France as in America ; but 
Mr. Bryant’s poetry is full of the characteristics of his own 
country, as well as noble, natural and invigorating.” 

Professor Youmans says that the study of dead languages 
has been the one pre-eminent and historic failure of the so- 
called liberal education. There is more hatred of it than of 
any other kind of study — mathematics not excepted. He 
regards its failure as so notorious that he cannot attribute it to 
any defect in the methods of teaching it. He denies that any 
possible reform in the modes of studying the dead languages 
can alter their relations to modern thought. We have to regard 
their educational failure as a result of the progress of the 
human mind, and therefore as “ a normal and inevitable thing.” 
They hold their position against the advancing knowledge of 
the age “ through the power of tradition, through the blind 
veneration of things ancient, because they represent a conven- 
tional culture, and are conserved by old and wealthy institu- 
tions.” There is, besides, the professor adds, a good deal of 
money in the classics, which is not to be overlooked when we 
wish to account for the tenacity with which they are maintained. 

There was a meeting in Boston lately, of the presidents of 
the leading colleges of the country, including Harvard, Yale, 
Dartmouth, Williams, Amherst, Wesleyan, Tufts and Trinity ; 
and also a professor from each of the colleges. The meeting 
was called nominally to consider the subject of “ Modern 
Languages in Colleges,” yet the discussion took a wide range 
and involved the ancient languages also. Mr. Adams was 
criticised, but he was not lacking in friends to champion his 
views ; and while there were none who could endorse his 
sweeping propositions in their entirety, a number were evi- 
dently prepared to slide gracefully into position with him, and ad vo- 
cated the devotion of more time to modern and less to ancient lan- 
guages. President Porter, of Yale, was the champion of theancients, 
and put great stress upon the advantages to be derived from 
careful and persistent study of the classics, giving many good 
reasons for the faith that was in him. On the other hand, 
President Eliot, of Harvard, was perhaps the most pronounced 
in advocating a breaking away from old dogmas and accepting 
new light. During the discussion the earnest words of Lord 
Coleridge to the Yale students a few weeks ago, in favour of 
classics, were quoted by those who sympathized with his views. 
—Ex. 

The report of President Angell, of the University of Micli- 
igan, states that the total number of students at the University 
last year was 1440, Compared with the previous year, this 
was an increase in the number of students in the literary 
department, but a decrease in all the other departments. This 
decrease (which was anticipated) was due in a large part to the 
increase made in fees. The number of resident graduates was 
nearly doubled. Michigan furnished nearly or quite forty- 

seven per cent, of all the students. Several gifts to the 

University have been made during the last year by its friends. 
One gentleman gives several thousand dollars to the institution 
to be expended in the purchase of historical works. Thus far, 
some fourteen hundred volumes have been bought with a por- 
tion of this money. Mr. E. C. Hegeler of La°Salle, 111., Mr. 

J. J. Hagermann of Milwaukee, and' President White of 
Cornell University, have also presented a peal of five bells, 
which have been placed in one of the towers of the new 
library building. Hon. James McMillan of Detroit, has pre- 
sented a magnificent Shakespearian library to the University, 
while the geneiosity of a few gentlemen in Detroit has placed 
the University in the list of institutions which are supporting 
the American school of Classical studies at Athens. By the 
contribution of sbout $2,000 by these gentlemen, graduates of 
Michigan University can now be admitted to the school. 

The Atlantis, published at Central University, Richmond, 
Kentucky, in appearance is not extremely prepossessing. It is 
up to the average of our American exchanges, however, and is 
very strong in the advertisement department. A large part of 
the space in the November number is occupied with matters of 
local interest, but at the same time solid reading matter is not 



1883.] 



11 



McGill university gazette. 



absent. “ The Function of the Dude ” is the subject of the 
leading editorial, and is a philosophical defence of that creature. 
The aiticle on Modern Thought is full of inaccuracies and 
words incorrectly spelt. Such attempts at criticism are worse 
than foolish. Let us quote one or two sentences. “ Plato 
who made the immortality of the soul the cardinal point' of 
his philosophy, was almost as intelligent as Mr. Spencer 5 Aris- 
totle, who believed in necessary truths, was not inferior in 
natural gifts, to Mr. Mill who denies them. And if we come 
to Christian sages, St. Augustine had a loftier intellect than 
Mr. Tyndall ; Butler more profound than Mr. Bain ; Dr. New- 
man more sagacious than Mr. Huxley ; and President Porter 
more clear-sighted and subtle than Mr. Arnold.” Who can 
have the temerity to believe in modern philosophers after this ! 
A much better article in the same number is “ The Origin of 
the Physical Sciences.” 

The annual report of the Society for Collegiate Instruction, 
the so-called “Harvard Annex,” says — The society closes its 
fourth year with every token that it is accomplishing the ends 
for which it was begun. It has given women who have grad- 
uated from the colleges open to them opportunities for carrying 
their studies forward ; it has afforded teachers means of addin” 
to their teaching power by coming in contact with the trained 
minds of the university professors ; it has given the graduates 
of our high schools another opportunity to pass through the 
usual undergraduate course, and receive a certificate to that 
effect ; it has established for schools for girls a standard which 
all may not attempt to reach, but will tend to elevate the grade 
of teaching in such institutions, and, in some degree, do away 
with the aspersions of “ superficiality” and “ incompleteness” 
that have so long been the threadbare topics of animadversion 
in discussing them ; it lias added its quota to the effort to give 
woman the means for preparing herself for professions that will 
enable her better to compete with men for position and pay ; 
and, finally, it has given those women who wish to study for the 
mere pleasure to be derived from a full mind and a higher 
cultivation an opportunity to satisfy their desires, and thus 
prepare themselves to accomplish much more than they other- 
wise could for the social union. Forty-one names appear on the 
lists of students for the year. The ladies of the executive com- 
mittee have raised $67,000 towards an endowment fund. — Ex. 

At a late meeting of the Senate of Toronto University, Dr. 
Wilson announced that Mr. Joseline Bagot had presented to 
the University a portrait of Sir Clias. Bagot, by whom the 
foundation stone of King’s College was laid in 1842. There 
was also received from Col. R. B. Denison a copy of the origi- 
nal programme of the ceremony of the laying of the foundation 
stone of King’s College, the original of the University of 
Toronto and University College. Mr. Houston gave notice 
that at the next meeting of the Senate he would introduce a 
statute repealing the regulations which debar honour students 
who degrade into lower years from competing at the next 
ensuing examination for medals, scholarships, or relative stand- 
ing, except by special permission of the Senate. Mr. Houston’s 
statute to abolish the regulation which enacts that in junior 
matriculation no scholarship will be awarded to any candidate 
who at the time of commencement of the examination is more 
than 23 years of age, was read a first time. Upon motion of 
Mr. MacMurchy, seconded by Mr. Falconbridge, the Committee 
in extending the text for examinations to 1890 was requested 
to present at an early day a partial report in texts for junior 
and senior matriculation for the years 1886-7. Professor 
Galbraith’s statute to create the degree of C. E. was referred tc 
a committee. Mr. Houston’s motion that a return be asked 
from University College of names of ladies who had applied 
for admission was carried. Prof. Wright’s statute, which pro- 
poses to allow a fourth year man in the honour department of 
natural sciences to graduate in either chemistry, or biology, or 
mineralogy, or geology, was referred to the Board of Art 
Studies, the Senate not committing itself to the principle of 
the statute . — Toronto Mail. 

The report of the Committee of the Council of the Univer- 
sity of Glasgow recommends that a “doctorate or higher degree 



in arts and science should be established in this University, 
similar to that which exists in Edinburgh.” The Committee 
further recommends “that the degree of Doctor of Laws in this 
University, besides being conferred honoris causa as at present, 
should be conferred after examination on certain legal subjects 
or otherwise as in the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Lon- 
don, Dublin, and the Queen’s University, Ireland.” The 
ground on which the committee were led to advise this is 
the anomaly which at present exists “ of refusing the highest 
law degree to lawyers as such. The number of law students 
has been quadrupled during this period, and the Law Faculty 
is now the third in point of numbers. The committee do not 
wish to interfere with the special regulations which may be 
adopted for the examinations in law, but they would suggest 
that the standard to be aimed at should be that of London 
University. It would be extremely inadvisable to make the 
degree so easy of attainment as it is in Cambridge and Dublin, 
where it is usually taken by clergymen, as this would involve a 
considerable lowering of the value of the present degree of 
LL.B. But if the doctorate in the Faculty of Law is put on 
the same footing as in the Faculty of Divinity in Glasgow, the 
result will, no doubt, be to give a considerable impetus to the 
scientific study of law. If it is thought desirable to distin- 
guish honorary from ordinary graduates, this may be done by 
designating the former Hon. LL.D. If the honorary graduates 
are sufficiently eminent to entitle them to the degree, there can 
be no confusion. Even though the University created a 
hundred ordinary Doctors of Laws every year, it might still be a 
very high honour to receive the degree asan honorary distinction.” 

On the subject of extramural teaching in arts and science, 
the committee state that “ they are certainly not at present 
prepared to recommend the throwing open of the graduation in 
arts and science to extramural teaching, which might, in their 
view, tend to alter entirely the whole character of the Univer- 
sity, and ultimately to assimilate it, to an extent of which they 
are unable to approve, to the character of the London Univer- 
sity, as simply an institution for the conferring of degrees.” 

Claremont College, opened in 1882, “is designed some day 
to be to the South what Wellesley is to the North.” That is 
what its president said (before he had heard of Smith). The 
College building, or rather the south wing, since that only is 
finished, is occupied by teachers and pupils this year for the 
first time, although the educational work was carried on last 
year in the unfinished building. It is built of unfaced brick, 
is three stories high, with mansard roof and tower, the only 
one in this part of the State, and dear to the hearts of Hickory. 
The College is finished in native woods, pine and hickory, and 
plastered, an innovation which has the charm of novelty ; for 
the people generally prefer to stick to the good old way and 
ceil their houses in wood, although it is more expensive. The 
chapel on the lower floor and the handsome parlors above are 
hard finished. The College has plenty of arched windows, 
with wide window seats, lofty rooms and spacious halls, re- 
sounding with the groans of tortured pianos and vocalizations, 
which cease not night or day. Truly, the operatic “tone” is 
only acquired by practice. I nearly forgot to mention that 
Claremont College has a cellar. But it is a fact of 110 slight 
importance ; for cellars are the exception, and Avhen they 
exist at all are built like ours, after the house is finished. We 
are surrounded by a grove of oaks and hickories, twenty-five 
acres in extent ; fallen trees, timber, “trash” of all sorts mar its 
beauty, but Time, which conquers all things, appears to be 
slowly bringing confusion out of chaos. There is a mineral 
spring within five minutes’ walk ; its waters are supposed to 
possess remarkable healing properties. The taste is marvellous 
at any rate, something like poor soda water and weak kerosene! 
The water here is generally excellent, and is more or less im- 
pregnated with iron and sulphur. The town proper is about a 
quarter of a mile away and consists of three or four streets 
rambling off into the country, leaving the railroad station, two 
hotels, and a long row of stores and shops for a centre. Hick- 
ory has fifteen hundred inhabitants, seven churches the 
Highlands, a classical school for boys ; St. Joseph’s, a school 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



for girls, and at last, but not least, Claremont. The Catawba 
River is only three miles away, and on its banks the girls 
go hunting chinquapins, a sport that takes the place of chestnut- 
walks. Much rain has fallen of late, but this last week the 
weather has been like that of our Northern June. The sun is 
hot, indeed, but the air is always tempered by the mountain 
breezes into a softness that seems to have crept into the tongues 
of the people and tangled them to slow music. The soil is 
white clay, with a sub-stratum of a glaring brick red, that is 
forever staring you in the face, and making your eyes ache for 
New England rocks. This subsoil is almost impervious to rain, 
and when it is thoroughly wet forms a doughy mud that a 
mule has been known to decline with thanks. Speaking of 
mules, one of the striking features of street scenes here is the 
frequent mule, “ all saddled, all bridled,” and tied to the limb 
of a tree. On Saturday these ridiculous animals ornament the 
scattered hitching posts adown the business street, and are 
grouped on the tree-shadowed square, or more properly triangle, 
at its head. There are no sidewalks, correctly speaking, though 
people generally walk on the edges of the highways, and you 
step directly from the street into the store or shop. Once inside, 
however, you will forget all discomforts. The courtesy and 
attention bestowed so lavishly and impartially in one half-hour 
here would supply a Northern clerk with good manners for a 
week. And courtesy is not confined to the clerk or merchant, 
who might be supposed to cultivate politeness for the sake of 
his pocket, not by any means. A gentleman doffs his hat; 
he does not give it a hasty twitch sideways, nor an indifferent 
double-jam over the eyes. He takes off his hat and bows with 
an easy elegance as impossible to imitate as it is to descibe. 
Hickory is a summer resort, a kind of half-way house between 
the mountains and the low country, and candor compels me 
to add that visitors would come oftener and stay longer if the 
accommodations were better. A good hotel with an enterpris- 
ing proprietor would be a great advantage to the place, which 
would give a pleasant home and generous patronage in return. 
Hickory lies on a plateau, and from the College windows on 
the tower you look away over broken stretches of forest to the 
far, blue horizon line, where the mountains sleep in eternal 
repose, curtained with pale mists, and bathed in the warm 
splendor of the Southern sun. There have been no frosts yet, 
and the woods wear the livery of June; only here and there a 
leaf, flushed crimson with the sun’s hot kisses, flaunts autumn’s 
colors in the summer air. The Blue Ridge is visible, forty 
miles away, Mt. Mitchell, and nearer, Baker’s Mountain, Blow- 
ing Rock and Grandfather, lying on his back, with upturned 
face, another Prometheus chained to his mountain top. — 
Correspondence of the Transcript. 

The sophomores of the University of Pennsylvania held their 
cremation of Ahn’s “German Grammar” and Arnold’s “Greek 
Prose Composition” last night, and made a grand success of 
their undertaking. Before eight o’clock the vicinity of the Mint 
was thronged with an eager crowd of ’86 men, eagerly watched 
by their upper-classmen friends, the juniors and seniors, and 
the inevitable contingent of street urchins and other curiosity- 
seeking spectators. The freshmen, with their t< rches, assemb ed 
near Spruce and J uniper streets, and between their rendezvous 
and the gathering place of the sophomore braves there every 
now and then marched in battalion style a gang of small boys, 
each bearing a white painted picket which he had stolen from 
some fence in the suburban districts, and lustily yelling a clever 
imitation of the University cry : “ Hoorah — Hoorah — Hoorah 
— Pei.nsyl- van-i-ah — Eighty — Six.” The college men 

laughed at the mimicry of the gamins, and replied with “Bingo” 
and “ Here’s to ’86, drink it down.” Soon the hearse was 
seen. The boys began to light their torches, the line was 
formed, the band began to play and the line of march was taken up. 
First came a platoon of Mayor King’s stalwarts, then a division 
of sophomores, each bearing a torch and clad in the regular Uni- 
versity mortar-board cap and the classic, time-honoured gown. 
The Great Western band followed, playing in good style a 
mournful dirge, and leading the way for the catafalque, which 
was improvised for the occasion out of a large lumber wagon, 



with a high framework covered with a black tarpaulin, on top 
of which were placed the two coffins of the departed Alin and 
Arnold. Then came another division of sophomores preceded 
by a bearer of a transparency, on which was painted a picture 
of a noble Greek, clad in the simple chiton, standing on 
academic steps and handing down to an humble freshman the 
standard manual of Greek prose composition. Policemen 
followed the sophomore procession, and then came the fresh- 
men, 140 strong, a band playing lively airs in front, and a 
waggon with a powerful calcium light in the rear. They carried 
torches and wore high hats of the fashion of two decades ago. 
The procession passed down Broad to Chestnut, to Seventeenth, 
to Spruce, to Twenty-first, to Walnut, to Twentieth, to Chest- 
nut and thence to the campus. Crowds stood on the sidewalks 
and apparently enjoyed the spectacle hugely. Some did not 
know what it meant. “ It’s the Salvation Army,” exclaimed 
an innocent-looking lady, while others imagined it was a big 
scheme to advertise some new medicine or fresh book when they 
read the freshmen transparencies, “Chew Jackson’s Best” and 
“ Read Jokes Made Easy,” by J. G. R. McElroy ; “ Little, but 
Oh, My !” And the gamins laughed gleefully as they shouted, 

“ Look at the dudes ! Shoot the hats.” When Provost Pep- 
per’s house, on Spruce street, was reached a loud cheer was 
given, and the same honour was paid Professor McElroy on 
Twentieth street, and the many ladies’ seminaries along the 
route. Red fire glowed all along the streets, the crowd of 
“ medics,” and dentists, and juniors and seniors on the sidewalk 
sang and cheered and jostled about in rough rushes, and the two 
lower classes trudged along in the mud. At last the campus of 
the University was reached. Thousands of people were already 
there, and the windows of the buildings were filled with ladies. 
The two classes gathered around the pyre, which, when lighted, 
illuminated the college grounds in a strangely weird fashion. 
While the two coffins on the pyre were being slowly consumed 
the exercises went on. H. A. Robb, as president, made a 
brief and witty speech, followed by W. C. Posey, who delivered 
the “ Laudatio Arnoldi ” in a dolefully humorous style. A hymn 
to the air of “ Last Cigar ” was sung ; E. Thompson recited a 
poem, another hymn followed to the air of “ Laduiger Horatius ” 
and then the last address, the “ Laudatio Ahni ” was given by 
G. A. E. Kohler. The “ Doxologia ” was then rendered to the 
air of “ Bingo,” the class yell was given and replied to by the 
freshmen with their cry. Then came a din of tin horns with 
bass and treble notes, groans for the faculty, and yells of deri- 
sion by both “sophs” and “fresh” against each other. The 
crowd seemed loth to disperse, but the song “ Down to Otto’s 
we will go; let the lager freely flow,” rose from the hoarse 
throats of the mob of collegians, and a break was then made for 
Darby Road. But “ Otto’s ” was closed, and the rumor spread, 

“ the faculty hired him to close.” The street was packed. Men 
in gowns, and men without, jostled against each other, and in 
turn were elbowed about by the crowds of medical students 
from the University and Jefferson. Then began a row. AVlio 
began it was a question, but soon every one was in it. The place 
was on Darby Road, opposite the University buildings. A rush 
was made by a gang of “ Medics ” upon the Freshmen, who 
made a good stand in solid phalanx, with their lighted torches 
thrust right before the cheeks of their assailants. Several faces 
were burned. A score of men were trampled to the ground, and 
lamp sticks and tin cans and clubs were thrown about in avery 
promiscuous and highly dangerous manner. Still the rush kept 
on, and the surging mass of excited students rolled in one body 
now up and now down the street. But a squad of bluecoats 
with clubs uplifted soon appeared, and, dashing upon the crowd 
succeeded m scattering the opposing forces. Threatened with 
arrest the boys ceased their rough encounter, but not before one 
of their number was severely hurt on the head by a blow from 
a club and two others captured by the police and taken to the 
Twenty-first District Station House, on Woodland Avenue 
The injured man was Douglas Hall, of the Freshman class. He 
was taken to Monaghan’s saloon nearby, and then given medical 
treatment, after which he was taken home. For a long while 
he was stunned by the blow, and it was feared that his skull 



[1883. 



13 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



might Iuia e teen dangerously cut. Howard Peters and A. I) 
Shissler, both students, and both living at 3419 Walnut Street 
were the lads unfortunate enough to be caught by the officers! 
Their follow-students said that they were no more to blame than 
any others in the crowd . — Philadelphia Press, Nov. 28. 

Tiie following is the New York Tribune’s report of a lecture 
delivered by Matthew Arnold in the Brooklyn Academy of 
Music : — -Practical people talk with a smile of Plato and his 
obsolete ideas, and it is impossible to deny that his ideas do 
often seem impracticable, especially when placed in contrast 
with a great working population, like that of these United 
States. He regards such trade and mechanical work with 
disdain, but what becomes of tho life of a great working 
community if you take the trade life out of it ? Trade, says 
Plato, brings about a fatal decay of nobler growth in a man, and 
as he has his body marred by grimy labor so his soul within 
him becomes broken and decrepit. Nor do the working pro- 
fessions fare any better at his hands. He speaks of the 
bondage of the lawyer whose toil makes him so small and 
crooked of soul, that, not possessing the courage to stand by 
honesty and truth, he becomes without any soundness in him 
whatever. We cannot but admire the artist who draws these 
pictures, and though they belong to an age so widely differing 
from our own, they yet command the respect of minds. They 
descend from a period when the warrior and the philosopher 
were held most in honor, the lower classes being principally 
slaves whose work consisted of trade and business. They were 
handed on from Roman to feudal times, when, also, the warrior 
and the priest were mostly honored, and the majority of the 
people were next to slaves. Yet education is still mainly 
governed by ideas of men like Plato. We are apt to consider 
such an education as his fitted only for leisure and unsuited to 
the practical and matter-of-fact issues of life. Especially un- 
suited to the masses who are bound to industrial pursuits, and 
whom this kind of education makes dissatisfied with those 
pursuits. Yet Plato’s views are in reality sound enough, for he 
says that man should prize those studies which result in his 
soul’s attaining to soberness, righteousness and wisdom. Men 
will not complain of such an ideal of education as this. It is 
solidly good, whether our future destination be a hereditary seat 
in the English House of Lords, or the pork trade in Chicago. 
Plato had no idea of such a community as the United States, 
which shapes its education to the standard of its requirements, 
and if one kind is discovered to be unsuited, very speedily 
adopts another. The question now is much raised, whether to 
meet the needs of our age we ought not to substitute the cul- 
tivation of belles-lettres for science. Nowhere is this question 
so eagerly and ardently discussed as here. It aims at abasing 
literary attainment in favor of scientific, which is said to be 
more adapted to modern requirements. The present question 
which I shall discuss, is whether belles-lettres ought to be ex- 
cluded from education, and Avhether the present onslaught 
made upon them will prevail. I anticipate the objection that 
may be made to myself, whose education has been almost 
wholly confined to belles-lettres, discussing scientific questions, 
and I shall make my remarks with becoming caution. My 
small attainment in science will, however, be visible, and no 
one will be taken in. You may remember a remark of mine 
that we ought to know the best that has been taught and said. 
Professor Huxley, quoting this remark and emphasizing it, says 
the civilized world may be regarded as one great federation, 
working for a common result, and having for its outfit a know- 
ledge of Greek, Roman and Egyptian antiquity, and of one 
another. I assert that literature contains that which will enable 
us to know ourselves and the world. But, says Professor Hux- 
ley, “this knowledge will not conduce to culture, neither will a 
nation, nor an individual attain to this without knowledge of 
science.” It is very necessary to have a plain comprehension 
of the precise meaning of terms. Professor Huxley thinks 
that the study of belles-lettres is elegant and ornamental, but 
not useful. Renan speaks, too, with contempt of “a superficial 
humanism,” which is taught in our schools, as if we all in- 
tended being poets and orators and teachers. Now when I 



speak of Greek and Roman antiquities, I mean all that we can 
know of the Greeks and Romans, their life, their morals, their 
politics. All teaching is thus scientific when followed up to its 
source. All learning is scientific which is systematically laid 
out. To know the Greeks and Romans means more than so much 
vocabulary, or grammar, or extracts from authors. It is the 
same as knowing our own, or other nations, by which Ave arrive 
at a knoAA’ledge of ourselves. The distinctive characteristic of 
our times, lies in the part played by physical science. It com- 
mands more of popular sympathy than the study of literature. 
I have said that Ave ought to knoAV the best that has been 
taught and said in literature. Literature is a large word. It 
may mean all that has been comprised in books. By literature 
Prof. Huxley means belles-lettres, and considers that this is no 
sufficient equipment for a criticism of modern life. As by 
knoAving Greek, I mean the understanding of Grecian art, the 
habits and life of a people from Avhom Ave derived physics and 
mathematics, so to knoAV the best that modern nations have 
taught and said is to folloAv the processes by which these results 
have been attained, and that is found in their literature. There 
is something, then, to be said on behalf of those Avho have been 
someAvhat scornfully called the Levites of humane studies, in 
opposition to those avIio may be called their Nebuchadnezzar. 
The results have their visible bearing on human life. All 
knowledge is interesting to all men. The habit of dealing with 
facts is an excellent mental discipline. We do not accept a 
theory merely because it is said to be so and so, but are made 
to see that it really happens. For the purpose of attaining real 
culture, instruction in science is as necessary as instruction in 
literature. In natural science, the habit of dealing Avitli facts 
is an excellent and valuable discipline. But Avlien it is proposed 
to make the training in natural science the chief part in edu- 
cation, those Avho Avould do this leave out of their calculation 
the necessities of human nature. It Avould be hard to deny 
that Avhen Ave come to commemorate the chief things that go to 
build up human life, as beauty and conduct and the poAvers of 
society, literature takes a greater and Avider place. We need all 
these, none are isolated. In the generality of men there is a 
tendency to relate pieces of knoAvledge. As Ave acquire one 
piece of knoAvledge after another Ave try to connect them, and 
therein lies the hold which letters have upon us. We feel a 
need to relate these pieces of knoAvledge to our sense of beauty 
and conduct. The Sybil told Socrates that man had the desire 
that good should ever be present Avitli him. Love is but the 
expression of his desire. Noav there are some kinds of knoAV- 
ledge which cannot be related. I once ventured to assert in the 
Senate House at Cambridge that a little mathematics mmht be 
made to go a very long Avay. It is the same Avitli certain things 
in natural science. Education lays hold upon us by relatin'" 
our knoAvledge. The great mediaeval universities came into 
existence because of the general desire in man that good should 
ever be present with him. We find that humane letters have 
the poAver to engage human emotions. Has poetry and its 
quence this poAver 1 They have. II ow, I cannot explain. If 
they have this effect on the universe, hoAv are they to be used ? 
The great philosopher Spinoza said that felicity consisted in a 
man’s being able to define his own essence. But Iioav different 
is the effect of this from the sentence : “ What shall it profit 

a man if he gain the Avhole world and lose himself V’ Let us 
avoid comparisons betAveen humane letlres and natural science. 
I have shoAvn that there is an underlying depth in human 
nature, which requires that knoAvledge should connect itself 
Avith our sense of beauty and conduct. The study of the humane 
letters does this. This many, nay most, will admit, but why 
should it be Greek literature 1 Have not the English-speakiii" 
race enough of great minds in their OAvn literature 1 I ansAver 
that the study of Greek, against which the present outcry 
seems most strongly directed, affords symmetry of thought and 
idea. I think the lovers of Greek literature have nothin" to 
fear ; the time is coming Avhen Avomen Avill knoAV Greek as°did 
Lady Jane Grey, and when your girls will be studying it in your 
schools of learning in the far West. It should be remembered 
that the glorious beauty of the Parthenon at Athens was not 



u 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



made up of a statue here or a portico there. It was a grand 
symmetrical whole, perfect in every detail. I know not how it 
is in America, but in England, the one thing lacking in our 
architecture is symmetry. We have grand things in detail, and 
isolated, but the whole is inharmonious. The time may come 
when the cultivation of Greek literature may impart such 
symmetry to our ideas as will make us ashamed of such a street 
as the Strand. Here our friend Mr. Ruskin steps to our side, 
and we may safely leave the matter in such excellent hands. 

We acknowledge with thanks the following exchanges: — 
Acadia Athenaeum , Acta Victoriana, A strum Alberti , The 
Blackburnian , Dalhousie Gazette, The Dartmouth, The Dro- 
gliedian , Hamilton ( Ky.) College Monthly , Harvard Advocate, 
King's College Record, The Portfolio, Queen's College Journal, 
Richmond Literary Miscellany, Rouge et Noir, The Sunbeam , 
The University Cynic, The 'Varsity, Knox College Monthly. 



'^Befipeen the ,-Secfures. 



OCTOPUS. 

BY ALGERNON CHARLES SIN-BURN. 

Strange beaut} 7 -, eight-limbed and eight-handed, 

Whence earnest to dazzle our eyes ? 

With thy bosom bespangled and banded 
With the hues of the seas and the skies ; 

Is thy home European or Asian, 

Oh mystical monster marine ? 

Part molluscous and partly crustacean, 

Betwixt and between. 

Wast thou born to the sound of sea trumpets ? 

Hast thou eaten and drunk to excess 

Of the sponges— thy muffins a d crumpets, 

Of seaweed — thy mustard and cress ? 

Wast thou nurtured in caverns of coral, 

Remote from reproof or restraint ? 

Art thou innocent, art thou immoral, 

Sinburnian or Saint ? 

Lithe limbs, curling free, as a creeper 
That creeps in a desolate place, 

To enrol and envelop the sleeper 
In a silent and stealthy embrace ; 

Cru d beak craning forward to bite us, 

Our juices to drain and to drink, 

Or to whelm us in waves of Cocytus, 

Indelible ink ! 

Oh breast, that twere rapture to writhe on ! 

Oh arms ’twere delicious to feel 

Clinging close with the crush of the Python, 

When she maketh her murderous meal ! 

In thy eight-fold embraces enfolden, 

Let our empty existence escape ; 

Give us death that is glorious and golden, 

Crushed all out of shape ! 

Ah thy red lips, lascivious and luscious, 

With death in their amorous kiss ! 

Cling round us, and clasp us, and crush us, 

With bitings of agonized bliss ; 

We are sick with the poison of pleasure, 

Dispense us the potion of pain ; 

Ope thy mouth to its uttermost measure, 

And bite us again ! 

The Light Green. 

“ Is lager beer a tonic ?” asks an invalid ; and the German 
doctor answers : “It ish a tonic — it isli, in fact, a Teu-tonic !” — Ex. 

“ No, pa, I do not wish to marry yet. What I want is a man 
who does not drink, smoke, snuff, chew, go out at night, gamble, 
bet, over-eat, etc. ; in short, a man of no vices, and one who is 
always good.” “ My daughter,” said Mr. Duesberry, “ you are 
but a stranger here, heaven is your home.” — Ex. 

Ax Irish lawyer having addressed the Court as “gentlemen” 
instead of “yer honors,” after he had concluded, a brother of 
the bar reminded him of his error. He immediately rose and 
apologized thus : “ May it plase the Coort, in the hate of debate 
I called yer honors gentlemen. I made a mistake yer honors.” 



Science. 

Sarcastic T dor — “ So that’s a spherical segment, eh ? Then 
I must confess I don’t understand your diagram.” 

Cheeky Freshman— “ Don’t you ? Well, just come around 
after the hour and I’ll explain it to you.” (Sensation.) 

Logic. 

Professor — “ What’s the universal negative ?” 

Freshman , (taken by surprise) — “ Not prepared.” (Tem- 
porary suspension of hostilities.) — Scribner. 

Half-Dashes From the Spirit World. — A well-known 
spirit medium, having just recovered from a trance, says that 
while in it he saw several ardent spirits entering a certain 
boarding-house attended by a banshee who had just returned from 
a bier with a goblin. He saw later, as one in a dream, a spirit 
being exorcised and a devil cast out by the landlady and an ass, 
the High Priest, and that one of these, a dark and forbidding 
harbinger of evil, has flown to a gloomy cavern, in whose awful 
recesses he defies pursuit. The other, a graceful sprite, fair to 
look upon, once more expelled from his temporary resting-place 
by the shrisks of the banshee, has returned to the ark, bearing 
not even a palm or olive branch. 

A MEDLEY. 

I’m a Jimmy McGill young man, 

An “ admire my legs” young man, 

A knickery-ickery, ockery- bockery 
Oscar Wilde young man. 

On Thursday last, sad to relate, 

Down at the C. P. R., 

A medico near met his fate, 

While standing on a car. 

On the back platform he did stand 
To cool his noble brow ; 

But e’er he’d time to lift his hand, 

“ De Bull” had tossed “ De Cow.” — Tableau. 

The proprietor of a religiously conducted paper of this city 
was invited to a wedding the other day. Of course, he had to 
present the pair, whose marriage he was to witness, (no pun in- 
tended,) with a gift. As electro-plate is too closely allied to 
lucre, he resolved to seek the indispensable in a crockery store. 
On entering he was struck with horror to see an array of wine- 
glasses, which, as is well-known, he never will advertise in his 
paper lest the weak be thereby led into error. Recovering 
himself with difficulty from this shock, his glance, roving about 
the shop, was caught by the appearance of a rich, cut-glass 
bowl. As he was in a great hurry to escape from the contami- 
nating neighbourhood of the wine-glasses, he purchased this 
bowl, directed it to be sent to the house of the bride expectant, 
and quickly made his exit from the place of abomination. 
When the gift arrived at its destination, the bride and her 
friends, who, like the donor, were of the elect, speculated long 
and anxiously as to the purpose for which the bowl was 
intended. At last they resolved to seek the aid of an ungodly 
and, it must be confessed, wine-drinking neighbour, who was 
thereupon called in, examined the gift, and — gods that such a 
thing such exist !— pronounced it a Punch Bowl. Charitable 
and uncharitable people will draw their own inferences from 
this story. 

Irving and Beecher Dine. 

The great preacher, Beecher, gave a dinner yesterday to the 
great actor, Irving, at which the immediate members of the 
Beecher family entertained Mr. Irving, Miss Terry and Major 
Pond. The courtesy grew out of a visit paid by the Rev. Mr. 
Beecher and his wife to the Star Theatre on Saturday after- 
noon, where they occupied a box and witnessed Shy lock Irving 
and Portia Terry in “ The Merchant of Venice.” The pastor 
and his wife were so charmed by the fine acting that they ex- 
pressed a desire to Major Pond, Mr. Beecher’s lecture agent, to 
have the foreign artists dine with them on Sunday. The 
recipients of the invitation gladly consented to cross the 
Beecher threshold. So yesterday they attended Plymouth 
Church and listened with reciprocal admiration to Mr. Beecher’s 



1883.] 



15 



McGill university gazette. 



sermon. The clergyman was at his best, and his parishioners 
congratulated each other at the doors upon dismissal that the old 
fire had returned in their beloved shepherd. Mr. Beecher 
came out of his pulpit, shook hands with the actor and actress 
heartily, introduced them to several pillars of the church, told 
them how much pleasure they had afforded him on the previous 
day, and came to the point by saying that his folks in Connecticut 
had sent him a big goose, which he would share with them. 

Mr. Irving made a little informal speech in reply and 
accepted the invitation in behalf of Miss Terry and himself. 
The party then paired off— Mr. Beeeher taking charge of Miss 
Terry and requesting Major Pond to take Mr. Irving’s arm and 
go on ahead. In this order the party reached the house, at 
Hicks and Clark streets. Mrs. Beecher, from an upper window, 
saw them coming and v atched them until they reached the 
door. She then rushed down stairs to turn over tire goose while 
her husband opened the door with his night-key. The party 
rested in the parlor until the dinner was ready. The conver- 
sation was of an everyday nature and did not enter deeply either 
into theatricals or religion. Mr. Beecher said that he was 
almost ignorant as regards Mr. Irving’s profession. The play 
that he remembered best was “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” in which 
a live bloodhound took his part very naturally by biting Legree. 

On the other hand Mr. Irving expressed sorrow at being 
forced to say so, but he has not read the revised edition of the 
New Testament through yet. Mr. Beecher put the actor at 
ease by confessing that he had not eit‘ er. A good-natured 
laugh followed and the conversation became general. Miss Terry 
described a love of a bonnet that she saw last week, and Mrs. 
Beecher, who had joined the party, dilated upon the medicinal 
merits of boneset tea. The smell of onion-stuffing permeated 
the atmosphere and put a keen edge on already sharp appetites. 
J ust as the great actor was about to feign a dead faint from 
hunger, a sharp voice from the kitchen called : 

“ Mrs. Beecher !” 

The summoned lady ran down stairs two steps at a time and 
soon reached the side of the dismayed cook : 

“ What is the matter, Polly V 

“ W e’ve forgot the sage !” 

“ Oh, Polly ! Polly !” 

Nothing could be done but to say nothing and send the goose 
up stairs in the hope that the missing link would not be noticed. 

“ Dinner’s all ready,” announced Mrs. Beecher with an as- 
sumed smile. 

The party filed into the dining-room, Mr. Beecher behind, 
turning his cuffs end-for-end as he walked. In this room was a 
palatal le show. A big fat goose intrenched in gravy and flanked 
by all kinds of vegetables slept the final sleep in the centre of 
the table. Everything necessary accompanied the star of the feast. 

“ Dark meat, Miss Terry V’ asked the reverend gentleman, 
as he grasped the carver. 

“ If you please, with plenty of stuffing,’ returned the little lady. 

All were helped from the generous goose, and Mr. Beecher 
sat down to enjoy his reward. He is very fond of onion-stuffing, 
and had taken care that it was not all gone before his turn came. 
“ This goose,” began Mr. Beecher, the bird’s biographer, “ has a 
history. She is the seventh goose of a seventh” — 

Just what the reverend gentleman was going to attribute to 
the goose will not be known, as just then he tasted the stuffing. 
A stern look came over his face and he was on the point of 
saying something when he caught the warning glance from his 
wife’s eye and kept quiet. Nothing was heard for ten minutes 
besides the tuneful play of knives, forks and dishes. The 
dinner was topped off with mince and pumpkin pies, in whose 
favour the guests could not say too much. 

After dinner a quiet, enjoyable talk was indulged in. Mr. 
Beecher neglected his Sunday-school to entertain the English 
artists. He highly complimented Mr. Irving by telling him 
that he was a born preacher. 

“ If I was not pastor of Plymouth Church, I would be Henry 
Irving,” said Mr. Beecher. 

“ You are a born actor,” said Mr. Irving. “ As for myself, 
there is no one I feel more inclined to envy than the pastor of 
Plymouth Church.” 



Miss Terry was not slighted in Mr. Beecher’s meed of praise. 
The topics of the discussion momentarily changed from America 
to England and back again, both of the leading gentlemen 
having well-stored minds that released them from “ talking 
shop.” At 4 o’clock the visitors departed, carrying and leaving 
delightful impressions . — New York Herald, 19th November. 

“ I’d be a medical, gay body-snatcher, 

Digging up graves, the world all abed, 

And invent a little pill 
That would never fail to kill,” 

Thus to himself the gay Theolog said. 

“ I’d be a Theolog, gay devil-dodger, 

With a prayer on my lips I’d be flirting with sin ; 

With parson and rector,” thus said the dissector, 

“ ’Tis money they’re after, the motive’s too thin.” 

I’d be a Science man,” the Law student murmured, 

“ Building up bridges and laying down rails ; 

The scheme may be trumpery, 

Then form a company, 

The Scientist prospers, the company fails.” 

“ I’d be a lawyer.” thus shouted an Arts man, 

“ I’m for the Law, it suiteth me well ; 

Hence pills, Science, and cloister, 

I’ll take the oyster 

And hand to the clients the beautiful shell.” 

“ But who’d be an Arts man ?” 

Theology, Medicine, 

Science and Law in unison say, 

“ Dudes, mashers and daisies, 

In different phases, 

They demolish the cake while 
Their governors pay.” 



'7S ) er£>orrals5. 



McCulloch, ’84 Med., is laid up with typhoid fever at the 
hospital. 

Warnford, ’86 Med. is slowly becoming convalescent at the 
hospital, after a severe attack of diphtheria. 

Mr. Geo. Rogers, fourth year Arts, we are glad to see, is able 
to be about again. He has just recovered from an attack of 
typhoid fever. 

T. D. Green, B. Ap. Sc., ’82, was in town last week. He 
has just returned from the North-West where he has been 
engaged on the staff of a surveying party. Roughing it must 
agree with him, if we are to judge from his hearty looks and 
tanned face. 

Movements of Principal Dawson in England. — As our 
readers are aware Dr. Dawson reached England in time for 
the meeting of the British Association at Southport. He took 
part in the discussions in general committee on the meeting 
in Canada in 1 884, and in the public proceedings at the close” 
and also read in the Geological section a paper in farther illus- 
tration of Eozoon Canadev.se. At the close of the meeting he 
visited Chester, Manchester, Leeds and Bradford, informing 
himself as to the new scientific and technical schools in these 
cities. At Leeds he lectured before the Philosophical Society, 
and at Manchester before the Students’ Natural History Society. 
He took part in the public exercises at the opening of the new 
medical laboratories of Owens College, and in the annual conver- 
sazione of the Chester Society of Natural History. In pursuit 
of information as to the methods now employed in England in 
the higher education of women, he visited the Colleges of 
G rton and Newnham at Cambridge, and also the Ladies’ College 
at Cheltenham ; and has collected reports and other evidence 
respecting the Ladies’ Colleges at Oxford, Bristol and London, 
some of which he hopes to visit at a later date. While in 
London, Dr. Dawson has been renewing acquaintances with 
scientific friends, attending the meetings of the Royal and Geo- 
logical Societies, and discussing points of geological interest as 
well as collecting material for the University Museum. Before 
this time ho has, no doubt, left London for Paris, Rome 
Naples and Egypt. ’ ’ 



16 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



Gentlemen's Haberdashery ! 

S. CARS LEY’S, 

393, 395, 397, 399 Notre Dame Street. 

UNDERCLOTHING ! 

SCOTCH ! CANADIAN ! ENGLISH ! 

Gentlemen's Winter Underclothing in all the best makes at lowest prices. 

S. Carsloy’s. 

HALF HOSE. 

GENTLEMEN S WOOLLEN IIALF-HOSE ! 

GENLEM N’S CASHMERE HALF-HOSE ! 

COMPLETE STOCK OF WI TER IIALF-HOSE! 

S. Carsley’s. 

CARDIGAN JACKETS ! 

Gentlemen’s Brown and Black Cardigan Jackets, with and without 
sleeves. 

S. Carsley’s. 

GLOVES ! 

MEN’S KID GLOVES, lined or unlined ! 

MEN’S BUCK GLOVES, lined or unlined ! 

MEN’S CLOTH GLOVES, lined or unlined ! CARSLEY’S. 

MEN'S SHOULDER BRACES ! 

MEN’S ELASTIC SUSPENDERS! 

N.B.— The entrance to S. CARSLEY S MEN’S HABERDASHERY 
DEPARTMENT is 399 NOTRE DAME STREET, jast opposite the 
Glasgow Drug Hall. 

INVITATION ! 

Gentlemen are re-pectfully invited to examine our Goods and compare 
our prices with other stores. 

S. CARSLEY’S, 

39 3, 395, 397, 399 Notre Oame Street. 

iwml wEiEtBinnr mKm<B<U) mwiriEm 2 

PHOTOGRAPHSb; ELECTRIC LIGHT 

PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 








251 ST. JAMES STREET. 

NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 
OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 
PLEASE CATjXj iVTSTT) SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S. — The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 

-HRC. ASHFORD’S*- 

Sew Joel and Stationery jtaop 

t r J * 

(one door west of his old stand) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases cl/zcL Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR. CASH. 

Books procured to order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY OF 



BISHOPS+COLLEG 

MD 0 J^T IKEA Xj » eu- 5 



H 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

SESSION OF 18 8 4-85. 




HE Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for this 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice < f either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“The Wood” and the “Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the “Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 

FACULTY: 

F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L R.C.P. Lond., Dean. Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L., Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A., M. D., C.M., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary. Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hospital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D., C.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M,A., M. D., C. M m Professor of Materia Medica, Physician Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M., M. D., Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 
GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professor of Physiology. Physician Western Hospital, 
JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D..C.M., M.R.C.P 1., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physician Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENHOLME, M.D., C.M., B.C.L., Professor of Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, C. M. , M. D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C.M., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy. Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY. B.A., M. D., L.R.C. S. E., L.R.C. P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A* LAP1HORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Botany, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IX SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 

JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S.. Lecturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D., C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GAHERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY, C. M., M. D., Curator of Museum. 



or to 



For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 

JAMES O. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P. I., 



Montreal, December, 1833. 



Registrar 9 Montreal . 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, fyc., 8fc. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to es ablished rules of art- 

tigg 1 Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
talcen on his recent visit to this city, for sale . Price 
50 C6ThtS* 

— TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 

Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 




HENRY GRANT k SON, 

26 Beaver Hal Terrace. 



PATENT 

SPECTACLE 

INDICATOR. 



Will indicate th 
exact focus requi- 
red for each eye. 
Pat. July 31, 1877* 



gfECTAcf^ 




... Students' Eye Shades, 



CLINICAL THEBKOMETEBS, 
MICROSCOPES, 
BAROMETERS, &C. 



OPTICIANS, 

y^T WATCH-MAKiES, 



£lDlCATQft 



JEWEIiIiSRS. 



HEADQUARTERS 

FOR 




232 Si j. Cra:m.es Storeet;- 

Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books • 

Full assortment in stock and suuolied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $-c . fyc., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students * 
Supplies a Specialty • 

■W® B)]KYBI>A]LE & <C0>® 

23 2 Sij- James Stmeet^ 

— ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 






OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

MONTILEAXj. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OF 

MICROSCOPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL, 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



O. HILL, 





lO PHILLIPS SQUilLltia, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 



English and American Periodicals 

And Illustrated Works • 
All Ii.ln.dLs of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 




J. B. DTJROOHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp. COURT ROUSE and CITY HALL 

MOWTR-EAL. 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Sinners. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOH, 



BROWN & S0NS3^ 




Mercftant * Tailors, 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MOSTEEAL. 



21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 



^WILLIAM SAMUEL* 

36 7 Notre Dame Street, 



— IMPORTER OF — 




From tli© Best Englisli Makers, 

— AND — 

Manufacturer of FINE FURS. 



Highest Award for FINE FURS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 







No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

ONTREAL. 

Special Hates for Stutien 



-A. SPECIAL DISCOU3STT TO STTTIDEIsrTS- 



DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

T'T O. 3 3 3 ST. J -A. Is/L E S STREET. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL. 

ALL KINDS 

OP 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

COLLEGE 
REQUISITES. 

SIGN OF ’’"HE GOLDEN OWL. 

3 STO. 333 ST. E S STREET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 





