/ 



I 



IVlcGlbls FORTNIGHTIsV 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature^ University Thought and Event- 



VOL. III. 



MONTREAL, JANUARY 9, 1894. 



No. 7 




EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



jE'< 7 i 7 or-in-cA/>/— Homer M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 

Secretary — Miss L. E, Armstrong (Donalda ’95). 

C. H. Zink (Com.'Mcd, and Vet. Sc. *95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.) E. Commins, B.A. (Med* ’95). 

C. J. Hickson (Arts ’95). 

^ BUSINESS BOARD ^ 

E. B. Devlin B.A., (Law ’95J, Chairman, 

A, F. Edwards (Med '96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda *96). 

A. R. Holdkv, B.A. (Sc. ’95). J.C, Cutting (Com. Med.and Vet. Sc.'95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is ;^i. 00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashlord’s, Chapman's and VV. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 
Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



We regret that the following communication 
reached us a few days too late for our last issue, we 
insert it- now, feeling assured that its appearance will 
be gratifying to the many who have been eager for 
information upon the subject with which its contents 
deal. 

McGill University, 

Dec. 17th, 1894. 

To the Editor of the McGill Fortnightly" : — 

Dear Sir, — In your issue of Dec. 7th, reference 
was made to excessive delay in publishing the new 
edition of the “ McGill University Song-book.” On 
behalf of the committee appointed to collect material 
and get it ready for the press, I have been asked to 
state the chief obstacle which has hitherto prevented 
the appearance of the work. 

When the labour of compilation ended, — and this 
was almost a year ago — final arrangements were about 
to be made with a Montreal firm to publish the book 
immediately. Almost at the last moment, however, 
the committee was informed that it would have to 
seek another publisher, as important business changes 
obliged the firm in question to abandon the venture. 
The immediate steps necessary to publication had to 
be taken afresh, the result being that the committee 



and a second publisher are now on the eve of coming 
% 

to terms, which will, it is believed, prove satisfactory 
to all parties interested. 

Were I to enumerate the difficulties of various 
kinds attendant on the preparation of a University 
Song-book, your readers might not be led to consider 
the office of the committee a sinecure, but enough 
has been said to indicate that the committee has not 
neglected the task it undertook to perform. 

I am. 

Yours truly, 

- Chas. E. Moyse. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 

THE MARINE INSPECTOR’S STORY. 

We were sitting round the big stove in the house 
of old Louis Chouinard, the pilot, at Cock Point — or 
La Pointe anx Coques, as the French call it, — about 
half way between Father Point and Metis, one 
November night in 1872, killing time by yarning away 
to each other. 

There was Louis, a typical French Canadian pilot, 
every mortal thing about him home-made except his 
briar wood pipe, with his face the color of bright 
buff leather, as smooth as if the wind had blown all 
his wrinkles away instead of working them in ; there 
was Captain McLean of the ship “Sir John Pink,” 
which ha d left Quebec with grain for Liverpool, but 
ended her voyage on the beach at Cock Point, 
and the sea that was up that night was fast pounding 
her to pieces; there was Jock, his son, who had 
shipped as second mate ; and I was down as usual in 
the interest of the insurance companies. 

Louis was in rare story-telling trim that night, and 
I never heard anything better than his description .of 
the phantom ships of Sir Hovenden Walker’s expe- 
dition which from time to time renew their terrible 
tragedy. 

By the way, that story is a good example of how 
tradition preserves facts. The squadron was wrecked 
on the ledges off the He aux CEufs early in the last 
century. 



io8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Now, Louis, although he could read enough for 
his calling, certainly never read a line of history in 
his life, and still more certainly never saw an old line- 
of-battle ship ; and yet in his story he described the 
admiral’s ship coming on under full sail, her rig, her 
peculiar build, with her gun ports open, all lighted 
up between decks, the appearance of the men, the 
battle lanterns hung along, and the Admiral on the 
quarter-deck in his dressing-gown— the whole as 
minutely as if he had actually stood on that fatal 
coast and seen it all. 

However, to get back to my yarn, when the old 
man finished his story of the ghostly ships coming 
on to their death, the horrible confusion, the helpless 
efforts of the crews as one ship after another was 
ground to pieces on that awful shore, and then the 
whole thing was swept away with the mist, and he 
and his companions escaped death by a miracle in 
the memorable storm which followed— we sat silent 
for a long time, listening to the wind without and the 
comforting roar of the stove before us. 

“ Father,” said Jock at last ; tell Mr. Stewart about 
our wreck.” 

“ Well,” began McLean slowly, “ I am not so keen 
on telling the story, because there’s more in it than 
I or any other man can explain, and I’m not over 
fond of being questioned about it ; but here are two 
of us, and we at least know that every mortal word is 
as true as gospel. 

“ It’s just four years next month since I sailed 
from Ldth in the brig ‘ Flora Maciver, ’ bound for 
Callao with coal. Jock here was with me as quarter- 
master, we had a first rate crew, and for seven weeks 
we made as fair a run as one could expect from a 
ship as heavily laden as we were. The weather had 
held fine from the time we left the channel, and we 
were all feeling set up with our luck, when one even- 
ing, just as I was coming out on deck after supper, 
the mate came up with his face very white, and he 
said : — ‘ Captain, the ship’s afire.’, 

“ I needn’t tell any of you the way I felt. I have 
been through a lot of tough places in my time, but 
so far I had escaped that horror,— a fire at sea. How- 
ever, there was no time for thinking over it, and when 
I went down between decks with the mate, there was 
no use in trying to hide the matter. There was a 
strange, gassy smell the moment you got amid- 
ships, and on bending down and putting your nose to 
the edges of the main hatch there was a strong heated 
air slowly escaping that told the story. The coal 
had started by itself, spontaneous combustion, and 
podness only knows how long it had been smoulder- 
ing or when it would break out. 

“ I stood up, and the mate held up his lantern, so 
that we could see each other’s faces. 



“‘Well, sir, w'hat do you think .^’ 

“* There’s no “ think” about it, Mr. Angus,’ said I ; 
‘ but it might be worse. Call all hands aft at once.’ 

“ Without another word we went up on deck and in 
a few' minutes the mate and I stood on the poop with 
all the crew before us. 

“ ‘ Men,’ I said, ‘ I’ve bad news for you. Mr. Angus 
and I have just been down between decks, and this 
ship’s afire, and no doubt about it. If I wasn’t sure 
that you are the right sort of men. I’d have kept this 
dark as long as I could ; but we’re all in the same 
boat now, and I know there’s not one of you as will 
go back on me in a time like this. You know as 
well as I do that the coal may burn for days, and 
weeks even, without breaking out ; and now I’m going 
to alter her course and make for Montevideo. I’ll 
stand by her just as long as there’s any reasonable 
chance, but not a minute longer ; and so long as I 
stand by her I expect every man to do his duty as 
before.’ 

“ That was pretty much as I gave it to them, and 
they took it well. 

“ Of course with a wooden ship it was a pretty slim 
chance before us, and before forty-eight hours the 
deck was growing so hot that the tar began to bubble 
up in the seams. We kept it well flooded with water, 
and that was about all we could do. Of course we 
could not get at the fire itself, for if a hatch had been 
raised it would be out on us at once. 

At last there w’as no good holding on any longer, 
the smoke was bad between decks, wriggling up like 
little serpents from a dozen places, and the heat was 
intense, so the boats were well provisioned, and when 
the flames at last broke out we pulled off and lay to 
in an almost calm sea, watching the old ‘ Flora ’ 
blaze like a mountain of fire through the short night; 
ap before morning we were picked up by a Norwe- 
gian barque that had come down on us when she saw 
the blaze. 

“She proved to be the ‘Ole Olsen’ of Christiana 
Captain Neilson, bound for Liverpool with lumber, 
and as she was short-handed, our fellows turned to 

and worked with a will, just to show how thankful 
they were. 

‘“Misfortunes never come single,’ as the parsons 
say, and that was a true text for us that trip, and, I 
tell you. It was well preached. On the third day we 
were struck by a hurricane, dismasted, and would cer- 
tainly have foundered if we had carried any other 
cargo but lumber. As it was, when the storm was 
over, we were without a stick higher than three feet 
rom the deck, and absolutely water-logged There 
we were twenty-seven of us, men and boys’, on the 
deck of the water-logged barque in the South Pacific, 
without a morsel of food and only one water butt half 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




full of fresh water. She had sunk to the level of her 
main deck, and we set to work and cut away the bul- 
warks in places, so as to let the sea have a free run 
as she rolled heavily in the long swell. 

“ I need not tell you what we went through. The 
only thing that kept us up at all was, that we were in 
the track of ships and the weather was fine. But what 
nearly drove us crazy was the sight of ships that showed 
up only to keep straight on their course and by and by 
get hull down and out of sight. I’ll never forget as 
long as I live the first one we sighted on the morning 
of the second day. When the man who saw her sung 
out, you’d have thought Ave were as good as on board 
her. We laughed and talked as we Avatched her stand- 
ing toAvard us. We made no signals, for Ave’d noth- 
ing to fly a rag on, and Ave couldn’t start a flare if 
Ave’d had dry stuff, for there Avasn’t a match in the 
lot of us. And anyAvay it didn’t seem to matter, for 
she came straight on, and it didn’t seem that it could 
be any time till she picked us up. Well, sir, Ave 
stood there talking and laughing like a lot of school 
boys, and the NorAvegian captain Avas just saying 
‘ Well, Captain, this is your luck every time,’ when 
Ave saAv her alter her course and begin to pay off on 
it. Lord ! sir, you never heard anything like the 
Avay those men Avent on ; they screamed and shouted 
till they couldn’t make a sound, they tore off their 
shirts and Avaved them until their arms Avere so sore 
they couldn’t lift them above their shoulders, and for 
hours after she Avas out of sight I don’t think any- 
one said a Avord. 

“ Most of the men sat about the deck staring at any- 
thing or nothing, and some of them leaned over the 
rail looking into the water at their feet ; it Avas aAvful ! 

“ Day after day dragged on ; we saw two more ships, 
but do you know, that first f ne worked on us so, that 
Ave Avatched them with hardly a word as they slowly 
showed up, and then Avent doAvn, doAvn out of sight 
— too far aAv^ay even for hope. 

“ At last our Avater gave out, and Ave kneAV that help 
must come at once, or — Avell you knoAv Avhat has 
haj)pened to castaAvays like us. Nobody had said a 
Avord, and each man hated to look at the others for 
fear he might look Avhat he Avouldn’t say. 

“I sat all that night wide-awake, with Jock here 
asleep beside me, his head on my lap, and tried not 
to think, for fear of the awful thought that Avould 
come in spite of me. 

“ The next day Avas simply awful. The sun Avas 
blistering, and yet when it came evening we saAv it go 
down with terror, for Ave kneAV that night, in the dark- 
ness, some one Avould propose Avhat he dared not 
speak of by day. 

“ Lower and lower it sank down, and as the edge 
just touched the water we all stood watching it, knoAV'- 



i©9 



ing that what Ave all feared Avould be done before 've 
saw it again. 

“ Some one of us Avas looking at it for the last time. 

“ DoAvn it went faster and faster, till at last there was 
just a jagged see-saAv of AAater against the gloAv. 
We turned slowly Avith a kind of gasp, and as avc 
looked round the horizon, as if in search of something 
to rest our eyes on, three or four of us tried to shout 
out together ‘ Sail ho ! ’ The shout A\as a failure, 
there wasn’t more than a decent Avhisper between us, 
but we pointed straight to the eastward Avhere Ave 
could clearly see a full-rigged ship bearing directly 
doAvn on us. 

“ It was curious to see how many of the men re- 
fused to believe in cur luck, even Achen she came on 
nearer and nearer, running easily under the freshen- 
ing evening breeze. We Avere so near death that it 
seemed impossible that life could come back to us so 
quietly. 

“ We crowded together in silence by the rail, and avc 
waved back our silent ansAver to the cheers that were 
sent to us by the boat’s creAv that came alongside 
tAVO long hours later. 

“ They boarded us and handed us doAvn one by one 
like a lot of children, and before midnight AveAvereall 
safe aboard the ‘ Montezuma, ’ Captain Walter 
Davies, bound for Liverpool Avith hides. 

‘‘We pretty well croAvded them out for room, but 
nothing AA'as too good for us, and 1 had the Captain’s 
OAVn bunk, Avhich I kept for three days Avithout stirr- 
ing. 

“ On the Sunday evening following our rescue. Cap- 
tain Davies came up to Avhere Neilson and I Avcre 
sitting Avith Jock, and after a Avord or two said to me» 
‘Do you know. Captain, hoAV you Avere picked up V 

“ I thought at first he Avas chaffing, and s aid, ‘ Of 
course I do.’ 

“ ‘ No,’ he said, ‘ you don’t ; but if you’ll listen a 
minute I’ll tell you. Last Tuesday evening, just 
before supper, I had no more idea of picking up you 
and your men than of touching bottom. I was Avalk- 
ing up and down here, as I always do at that hour, 
when the steward came to call me to supper. I 
looked about ; everything Avas fine, the sun just touch- 
ing the Avater, and so I Avalked sloAvly over toAvard 
the companion-Avay. All of a sudden a bird fleAv 
across the deck on a level Avith my head between 
me and the companion, and then made a quick 
turn, and passed again so close that it almost struck 
me Avith its wings. It flcAv straight aAvay from the 
ship in the direction of the sun. 

“‘It Avas curious, but I didn’t think anything parti- 
cular about it, and turned toAvards the companion 
again, Avhen there Avas a SAvish of Avings in front of 
me, and I threAv up my hands to guard my face as the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



bird went by, and again it turned and flew straight 
out towards the sun like the first time. 

“ ‘ Still, I didn’t think anything of it, and laid my 
hand on the rail to go down, when I saw the bird re- 
turn, making straight for me again. It fluttered a 
minute before my face, and again it turned and flew 
just as before. 

“ ‘ Well, sir, I turned back, ran over to the side, and 
jumping up on the rail watched the bird flying on till 
I lost it, but just between the sun and me I saw some- 
thing black come into view for half a second. My 
eyes were too dazzled to be sure of anything, so I 
sang out, “ Mr. Johnston, go aloft with a glass and 
See what that is on the sun ! ” 

“ ‘ In a couple of minutes he shouted from aloft, “ I 
think it’s a wreck, sir.” And that, gentlemen, is how 
you were picked up.’ 

“Now, Mr. Stew'art, there’s just one thing I want 
to call your attention to, and that is, that we w'ere so 
far off and lay so low in the water that there was no 
other possible point at which we could have been seen 
from the ‘Montezuma,' except against the setting 
sun. 

“That’s our story, ” the old man concluded, “ and 
whatever anyone else may think of it, I don’t need 
any explanation as to Who sent that bird with its 
message.” 

WILLIAM Mclennan. 



OUINTE. 

{Published through the kindness of McGill University Library^ 
which possesses all the manuscripts of the late Mr. Charles 
Sangster.) 

Spirit of Gentleness ! what grace 
Attends thy footsteps. Here thy face 
With fine creative glory shone, 

Like a mild seraph’s near the Throne, 

On that fair morn when first thy wing 
Passed o’er the waters, brightening 
The quiet shores that gravely lay 
Far far along the tranquil Bay, 

No lofty grandeur piled supreme, 

But like a sweet, prophetic dream, 

The landscape stretched, unfolding still, 

The gently sloping vale and hill ; 

Bright woods of every shade of green ; 

And over all the sun, serene. 

Rolled back the shadowy mists of gray 
That veiled the bosom of the Bay. 

What spirit of sublime Repose 
Was with thee when the forest rose 
And flung its leafy mantle o’er 
The changeful wild on either shore ? 

Spirits of Rest and Peace ! for here 
'Phey build their bowers year by year, 

Creating yet, from day to day, 

Fresh graces for their favorite Bay. 



And still the charming landscape lies 
The fairest 'neath Canadian skies, 

Trembling with grace and beauty rare, 

Blushing to know how sweet and fair 
The lovely features all remain, 

Untouched, untainted, free from stain ; 

The matchless face as warm and gay 
As when first mirrored in the Bay. 

Broad wavy grain -fields touch the shore. 

Receding from the dash and roar 
Of the hoarse billow from the deeps 
Of the wide Lake ; lare woodland sweeps 
Of upland wild and deep ravine. 

In undulating swells of green ; 

And grassy banks that shoreward stray, 

To toy with the delightful Bay. 

Fair meadows basking in the sun. 

Dotted with stately herds, that shun 
The summer heats beneath the shade 
Of some old remnant of the glade ; 

Or having sought the cooling stream, 

Defy the sun’s intensest beam, 

Fanned by the graceful airs that play 
O’er the calm surface of the Bay. 

Far as the eye can trace the view, 

The Indian rolled his wild halloo ; 

The wide expanse of shore and sea 
Quailed at his perfect archery ; 

And desperate fields were lost and won, • 

’Neath pitying moon and burning sun, 

Staining with blood of deadliest fray 
The pure bright waters of the Bay. 

Within these narrow bounds confined, 

We scarcely heed the minstrel wind, 

That through the drowsy greenwood plays 
Its solemn hymns and wild strathspeys. 

Waking quaint airs from dream and trance, 

Till branch and bough and leaflets dance : 

Now to the blithe winds’ roundelay 
We dash across the broader Bay. 

At the blest hour of saintly eve 

When fancy dreams and young hearts weave 

Sweet fictions that make life divine ; 

When Love erects his pilgrim-shrine : 

How witching is the purple glade, 

The dreamy woods, half light, half shade. 

Stretching in mazes far away, 

Mile after mile along the Bay. 

Or when beneath the moonlight mild 
The zephyrs slumber in the wild ; 

When all the stars in heaven gleam, 

Like glimpses of an angel-dream ; 

The mellow light, the sombre shore, 

The prospect brightening more and more : 

The night, with all its grand array, 

Ne’er shone upon a lovelier Bay. 

Bay where the soul of Quiet seems 
Self-lulled in visionary dreams ; 

A bark — a gallant bark — and thee. 

With a fair breeze and dashing sea, 

A straining mast, a swelling sail, 

That yields to but defies the gale ; 

Thus bounding through the surf and spray. 

What scene can match proud Quintets Bay ? 

CHARLES sangster. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Ill 



McGILL UNIVERSITY. 

A Historical Sketch^ Compiled chiefly from 
THE Addresses and Pamphlets of Sir William 

Dawson. 

In the years to come, the curious who seek to 
know the story of McGill and her students in the old 
days of the nineteenth century will turn for enlight- 
enment to the files of the FORTNIGHTLY. There 
will they find reflected the University life, its work, 
its sports, its normal round and occasional excite- 
ments, the heaviness of examination seasons as well 
as the exultation of field days and theatre nights. 
Yet even this record, full as it may be, leaves some- 
thing to be asked for, and the seeker will most 
naturally look for the preface to this energetic stu- 
dent life of which the FORTNIGHTLY is the testi- 
mony. What are the events which led up to this 
state of things ? What is the record of the years pre- 
vious to 1892 ? That the Fortnigfitly may not 
leave these questions unanswered, it is proposed to 
insert here in this holiday number an outline of the 

Rise and Progress of the University of McGill. 

% 

Colleges, institutions of learning, any and all 
institutions grow as a rule out of the recognized 
need for them, just as new machines are made to meet 
the demand for certain commodities. Following 
out this idea, one must believe that Montreal thirsted 
for learning even as far back as a hundred years 
ago, for almost that length of time has passed since 
the first movement was made which was to expand 
into the establishment of the University. 

It was well that the desire for education at least 
existed, for that was indication that the deficiency of 
its means would one day be remedied. 

The investigation set on foot by Lord Dorchester 
in 1787 had revealed a lamentable state of ignorance 
throughout the whole Province of Quebec. The few 
English schools could scarcely make headway 
against the tide of denominationalism which con- 
stantly opposed them, and the government had 
hitherto been utterly regardless of the difficulty. 
Nevertheless, evidence is not wanting that among the 
thousand inhabitants of the city of Montreal were 
those who were anxious not only to see primary but 
higher education available to their sons; and when 
the report of Lord Dorchester’s committee recom- 
mended to the government the propriety of esta- 
blishing not only a number of Elementary Schools 
but also an institute for the cultivation of the liberal 
arts and sciences, the response came not from the 
government but from the citizen body. 

Among the Scotch merchants who did business 
in the Montreal of that day, one of the most active 
and prominent was James McGill. Mr. McGill was 



more than a trader. While carrying on his business 
with such ability as to make himself a rich man, he 
was by no means absorbed by it. True public spirit 
and high intelligence led him into many avenues of 
usefulness, and lifted him up to intercourse with the 
most intellectual society available. Thus, while he 
represented a city ward in the Leg*islative Council and 
led the city militia, he also sang good songs and told 
good stories at the renowned Beaver Club, and 
enjoyed the friendship of' the learned Bishop 
Strachan. It has beei^ conjectured that it was through 
conversations with this gentleman that Mr. McGill 
first conceived the idea of making Montreal a univer- 
sity town, or at least of substantially forwarding such 
a plan when it should be undertaken by govern- 
ment. Be that as it may, it is certain that in 18 ii, 
two years before his death, James McGill made his 
will, bequeathing his property of Burnside and 0 
£ 10,000 for the foundation of a college to bear his 
name in the university which the government was to 
establish. 

In 1813 the property at the foot of Mount Royal, 
far on the outskirts of the town, came into the hands 
of certain trustees who were pledged to carry out 
the testator’s wishes within the next ten years. 
Perhaps then more than one youthful Erasmus 
already saw in the old house a place where know- 
ledge was dispensed. It is to be hoped it such 
was the case, that these longing souls were satisfied 
elsewhere with Greek, for the metamorphosis of Burn- 
side was too slow for them. 

In 1818 was passed the act establishing the Royal 
Institution for the advancement of learning ; — a high 
sounding title, but little more, for not being furnished 
with the promised lands and money, the Board was 
powerless. The bequest of Mr. McGill remained a 
reality in the midst of vanitie.s, and soon the Royal 
Institution was nothing else than a board of manage- 
ment of the McGill estate. 

In 1821 a Royal Charter was secured for the future 
college, but it was not until 1829 that, the govern- 
ment aid again proving an illusion, building was 
begun with some of the McGill money. 

June 29th, 1829, the college was formally opened 
in the residence of its old founder, Burnside House. 
The Montreal Medical Institute already in existence 
became its Medical Faculty, and the P'aculty of Arts 
received its constitution under a Principal and three 
Professors. 

Here at last was a college where students met 
together. Had the two Faculties found any ground 
for contention in those early days, the very few Arts- 
men, all of them of necessity Freshmen, could have 
made but feeble stand against the larger and longer 
established band of Meds. Yet with the Faculty of 
Arts came the dignity of the University name, which 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



112 



the Montreal Institute of Medicine had lacked, so 
tliat strength was not all on one side. Let us hope 
that the newly affiliated bands walked side by side 
in unity, drawing to them by their zeal others of the 
youth of the land. 

Looking over the curriculum of the College to-day, 
and reflecting on the number of lines of study that 
have been opened up in recent years, one is prone to 
think that the old course was a very meagre thing 
indeed. Yet it should not be belittled. If the 
medical student of that time received but a fraction 
of the instruction which is thought necessary at 
present, he yet held his own among the men of con- 
temporary colleges. If the Arts man passed through 
his four years without a glimpse of the beauties and 
mysteries, the curious and marvellous things of 
the sciences, of botany, geology and zoology, of chemis- 
•try, physics and astronomy, he also lived through the 
time undisturbed by the longing for such knowledge. 
The natural and physical sciences were not thought 
of as material for college work. Mathematics was 
the one science thought worthy of much attention. 
The time which the student of to-day gives grate- 
fully to the study of his own language, the student of 
’29 would have considered so much idle expenditure. 
Culture was very largely represented by knowledge 
of Latin and Greek, and this the college course sup- 
plied, and was so far satisfactory. It was no small 
advantage that had been attained when two or three 
men of learning were gathered into this centre, and 
when even a very small number of young men 
studied the humanities in the midst of the money- 
making community. 

One of the terms of the charter stipulated that the 
Principal should be chosen from the Board of Gov- 
ernors of the College. The responsibilities of this 
double position of legislation as well as administra- 
tion were very great, and further difficulties arose 
from want of means and from the conditions of the 
charter which in many ways hampered the workings 
of the institution. The Ven. Archdeacon Mountain 
held the principalship from 1829-1834, when he was 
succeeded by the Rev. Mr. Uxbridge, who, however, 
held office but for one year. 

For the next twenty years the records are very 
scanty, but they tell a tale of anxiety and discourage- 
ment for the governors, who must have been tempted 
sometimes to let the whole project sink into nothing- 
ness. That they did not do so seems to argue that 
they were men of strong enough vision to see their 
efforts rewarded, not in the advantage of the few 
youths then composing the College, but in the educa- 
tion of an ever-increasing body of Canadians in suc- 
ceeding ages. 

The efforts of the Board were directed toward 
securing an amendment of the charter, for it was seen 



that in its cumbrous decrees was the source of much 
inefficiency. In 1852 the change was accomplished, 
a new Royal Charter was granted, and the College 
began anew with some possibility of growth. 

A new Principal was needed. During the last 
twenty years five officers had successively held the 
position, and now in 1852, Hon. Justice Day, who was 
also chancellor of the University, was acting as its. 
principal. The advice was sought of the governor 
general. Sir Edmund Head, and to his wise and dis- 
cerning counsel the College owes forever its highest 
gratitude, for this it was which decided the governors 
to tender their offer to Dr. J. W. Dawson, Superin- 
tendent of Education in the province of Nova Scotia. 

Dr. Dawson had already identified himself with the 
body of educationalists. He had taken part in the 
framing of a school law for his own province, and 
afterwards as Superintendent of Education had been 
one of the administrators of the new regulations. 
His educational work, however, had followed that in 
another field. By taste and education Dr. Dawson 
was a naturalist, and the field which he knew best 
was geology. His papers, published under the aus- 
pices of the Geological Society of London, had brought 
him a reputation which induced the eminent Nova 
Scotians, Mr. Wm. Young and Mr. Joseph Howe, to 
secure his services for Dalhousie College, Halifax 
and afterwards for the educational u forms before 
mentioned. Scientific work was not superseded by 
but combined with new duties. Tours of school in- 
spection were made opportunities of invesiigating the 
nature of the very ground travelled over, and the 
result was, in addition to reports on education, the 
book on Acadian Geology now so well known. 

Po a flourishing institution successfully following 
approved lines of education. Dr. Dawson would have 
brought new life and power, to blighted struggling 
McGill his advent was as the coming of a deliverer. 
Fortunately, the new Principal did not have the an- 
tagonism of colleagues in office to contend with in 
addition to material wants. In more than one ad- 
dress he ha> testified to the high qualities of the men 
who in 1855 formed the board of governors. Them- 
selves well-educated, these gentle men, Judge Day, 
Mr. Dunkin, Mr. Ramsay, Mr. Ferrier, and Mr. 
Davidson were desirous above all else to see educa- 
tion prospering and its power extending. With 
their heaity co-operation to aid him, with the addi- 
tional support of the governor general, whose influ- 
ence as visitor was not for nothing, with the royal 
charter as a solid basis to preserve the University from 
the dangers of political change, the Principal felt 
strong enough to attempt many new schemes. More- 
over, to courage he added an unbounded power and 
willingness for hard work and a faith strong enough 
to see far beyond present risks and discouragements. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



! 13 



The College to-d ay is his testimony that that labor 
was not expended in vain nor that faith mistaken. 

The Faculty of Arts claimed primary attention. 
It was greatly in need of assistance, and in value it 
fell not below the professional departments. The 
Faculty of Medicine had already gained prominence, 
and a McGill degree claimed a iccognition in the 
old universities, which was accorded to no othea* col- 
lege in America. The Faculty of Law was as yet in 
its infancy, and in proportion to the number of its 
students was well enough equipped. The Faculty of 
Arts demanded the greatest care that its curriculum 
might present a scheme of broad general education, 
lacking which a univei'sity sinks into a collection of 
schools for technic il and professional ti'.iining. 

Some of the plans and hopes entertained by him- 
self and the governor's Dr. Dawson expressed in his. 
inaugural address given in November*, 1855,00 “The 
Course of Collegiate Education Adapted to the Cir- 
cumstances of British America.” Carefully acknow- 
ledging the need of the principle of utility in educa- 
tion, he showed the danger of carrying such a prin- 
ciple to excess, and outlined an ideal course in which 
the natural and physical sciences should have the 
place which had come to be recognized as their due, 
and in w’hich the ancient Semitic writings as .veil as 
the great things of English literature should have 
place beside the old yet ever-new, poetries and histories 
and philosophies of Greece and Rome. The course 
then shaped out became substantially the authorized 
course in Arts, though some of its featur'es have not 
yet been realized. 

In the reorganization of the College, it was felt that 
not only must provision be made for ample education, 
but that the institution must be brought well before 
the notice of the citizens of Montreal, that so its re. 
sources might be strengthened and the opportunities 
increased. To this end it was very desirable that a 
habitation befitting its dignity should be found for 
the University. Their remote situation, as well as the 
lack of means for their completion, had caused the 
abandonment of the unfinished buildings on the 
McGill estate. The Medical Faculty had a building 
on Cote street, while the Faculty of Arts, with the 
affiliated High School, held its classes in the building 
on Belmont stjeet now occupied by the Normal 
School. From this the classes were transferred to 
the old Burnside Hall, which had accommodation 
enough for the fifteen or sixteen men then compos- 
ing the Faculty. As their numbers increased, a fur- 
ther move was desirable and became imperative, when 
in 1856 Burnside Hall was destroyed by a fire, which 
involved the further loss of the College books and 
the Natural History collections which Dr. Dawson 
had placed at the service of his pupils. Rooms were 
hastily arranged, and good work was done even in 



rather unhappy circumstances. The year i860 had 
come before the Arts Faculty felt strong enough to 
maintain the building first designed for it, the Hall 
of the cupola, the now historic Arts Building. The 
grounds in i860 bore but a faint resemblance to the 
present enclosure. Then the sight of the passer-by on 
Sherbrooke street was refreshed by no level stretch 
of green ; no lines of be autiful trees led the eye to 
stately buildings beyond ; no sinuous tracks of board- 
walk stretched out to broad porticoes resounding to 
shouts for the Fac. App. .Sci. Then no east wing 
held its band of demine Donaldas ; no Molson 
Hall received the convocation. The great Redpath 
buildings were as yet unthought of. The Arts- 
men were there, liovvever, tramping down the 
miry walks, and ejecting the cows which had been 
peacefully browsing on the weedy campus. There, 
too, was the Principal making a home of the forlorn- 
looking house on the east side, planting trees and 
training vines, bringing beauty out of desolation. 
Other workers were there too, taking part in this good 
and profitable work, so that soon the McGill grounds 
began to attract the attention of the citizens of Mon- 
treal, certain of whom soon showed their interest 
in a very substantial way. Mr. William Molson 
was after Mr. McGill the first of the band of 
benefactors whose generosity lives in the strong 
buildings now so conspicuous. He built first the 
Convocation hall, the lower part of which served 
as a library room, and afterwards connected this and 
the Principal’s house with the middle building by 
blocks which contained rooms for museum and chemi- 
cal laboratory and theatre. The new library was 
filled with shelves for 20,000 volumes, in which the 
2,000 actually possessed made so forlorn an appear- 
ance that several donations were provoked. The 
museum was stocked partly from Dr. Dawson’s col- 
lections and partly by specimens obtained by ex- 
change and private purchase. Gifts of buildings 
alone, however useful, were not enough to sustain the 
ever growing college ; money was urgently needed, and 
great efforts had to be made to obtain it. In the 
first year of his office the Principal made a midwinter 
journey to Toronto to solicit government aid. The 
hardships of the undertaking, the dangers and dis- 
comforts of crossing the river by canoe at a time 
when ice blocks barred the way, the tedium of five 
days travel on snow-blocked roads was but ill repaid 
in the small pecuniary help received. Nevertheless, 
the journey was not for nothing, for Sir Edmund 
Head had shown a gratifying interest in the College, 
and had given valuable information on the subject of 
a coming Education Act. The next appeal was made 
to the citizens of Montreal, and here a response was 
met with which never since has failed when similar* 
requests have been proffered. In 1857 the chair of 



114 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



English Literature was endowed by Mr. J. H. R. Mol- 
son, and assistance to the amount of $3 5,000 given by 
other benefactors. This made possible the appoint- 
ment of three new professors, Drs. Johnson, Cornish 
and Darey, now the senior professors of the Univer- 
sity. 

It is creditable to the University and to the youth 
of Canada that supply has never equalled demand in 
the statement of its resources and possibilities. Libe- 
ral gifts have from time to time replenished the Col- 
lege coffers, but immediately these have been absorbed 
in some special object of which the want has been 
felt. The revenue has grown greater from year to 
year, but from year to year, too, students have come 
in larger and larger numbers, demanding increase of 
accommodation, better appliances, more instructors. 
As time went on, the men who had watched their 
institution grow from small things to great saw more 
and more plainly the possibilities which lay in it ; and 
longed to see it take its place among the great uni- 
versities of the world. 

In a pamphlet published in 1870, the Principal set 
forth his hopes and designs, giving at the same time 
a clear statement of the position of the College. Its 
three hundred students were divided among the Fac- 
ulties of Medicine, Arts and Law, and were in- 
structed by twenty-six professors and lecturers. The 
Molson library held 7000 volumes, and the Museum 
had been augmented by the fine conchological collec- 
tion of Dr. Carpenter ; St.Francis College, Richmond, 
Morrin College, Quebec, and the Theological colleges 
of the city had been affiliated. Much had been done, 
yet in view of the growth of Montreal much exten- 
sion was necessary. Some lines in the direction of 
useful work had had to be closed because of want of 
means or of the interest of the community, yet their 
founders ^were not discouraged. Speaking of the 
school of engineering, the chair of practical chemistry 
and the classes in scientific agriculture, which had all 
passed temporarily out of sight. Dr. Dawson said 
with the prophetic insight born of his strong faith : 
“ Some men may regard these efforts as failures. For 
my part, I am not ashamed of them. Directly or in- 
directly they have done good ; there is not one of 
them which is not important to the material progress 
of this country, and there is not one of them which by 
us or others will not be at length successfully carried 
out. I do not despair of any of them. 

“ We wait for some Canadian Lawrence 

or Sheffield to endow for us a scientific school like 
those of Harvard and Yale, which have contributed 
so greatly to the wealth and progress of New Eng- 
land.” Some years were to pass before this dream 
could be realized, but in due time the Canadian Law- 
rence indeed appeared. In the meantime, there were 
other pressing wants which Dr. Daw.son candidly 



stated. The University had, he said, in 1870 reached 
the highest point of development which its resources 
would permit. Obviously those resources must be 
increased, or the College must sink relatively to the 
progress going on round it. 

The endowment of the Redpath, Logan, and Fro- 
thingham chairs of mathematics, geology and philoso- 
phy greatly strengthened the power of the College, but 
ready money was still wanting. Through a period 
of financial depression ,much embarrassment had been 
felt, and a series of slight losses culminated, when a 
fall in the rate of interest reduced the already narrow 
income by almost 20 per cent. There seemed but 
one expedient, and it was not tried in vain. A meet- 
ing of constituents was called in 1881, and Judge Day 
and Mr. Ramsay simply and eloquently stated the 
perilous condition of affairs. The citizens of Mon- 
treal were neither stupid nor parsimonious. In the 
practical assistance which they ungrudgingly gave, on 
this and other occasions, they showed themselves 
fully in sympathy with the educators who spent them- 
selves on the project; “ the erection and permanent 
establishment of a university worthy of this great city, 
and fitted to be the centre of the higher education for 
the English of the Province of Quebec and to shed 
abroad the practical influence of scientific training 
and the amenities of literary culture throughout 
Canada.” 

Promptly in answer to the appeal of the governors 
came contributions amounting to $28,500 to the en- 
dowment fund, $36,335 to special funds, and $18,445 
in annual subscriptions. The pressing wants were 
relieved, and at short intervals came a succession of 
handsome gifts, making possible extension in various 
directions. The bequest of Major Hiram Mills, $43,- 
000, endowed the chair and medal of classical litera- 
ture. Mr. David Greenshields’ gift of $40,000 was 
given to the chair of chemistry. The will of Mrs. 
Stuart of Quebec provided for the Samuel Gale chair 
in the Faculty of Law. A gift more generous than 
any of these, and which was embodied in a form which 
makes it ever conspicuous, was the educational mus- 
eum. The circumstances attending the addition of 
this beautiful building and its contents to the posses- 
sions of the University were peculiarly interesting and 
happy. 

The year 1880 being his twenty-fifth year of office. 
Dr. Dawson resolved to celebrate the occasion in a 
festive gathering, to which should be brought every 
available member of the University. While answers 
came to almost all ot the 850 invitations issued, it 
was possible to bring together only about 360 of the 
graduates, even this being counted a gocdly number, 
considering the wide area over which McGill men had 
scattered. The lete was a most happy one, and the 
speeches displayed a spirit of loyalty and enthusiasm 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



115 



pervading the sons of McGill. Great, therefore, was 
the rejoicing when in the course of the evening it was 
announced that Mr. Peter Redpath, long the friend 
of the College, proposed shortly to erect on its grounds 
a large and costly museum for educational purposes, 
and that the building was to be stored with the valu- 
able collections of the Principal. A further announ- 
cement stated that the graduates proposed to com- 
memorate this anniversary by the creation of a fund 
to be expended on some object which should perpe- 
tuate the name of Principal Dawson. 

The project announced in April saw the beginning 
of its fulfilment in September, when with all due cere- 
mony the corner-stone of the museum was laid by 
His Excellency the Marquis of Lome. The speech 
of His Excellency on this occasion contained a tri- 
bute to the Principal, which is so pleasing to McGill 
students that it seems not inapt to quote a few of its 
sentences here. After speaking of Dr. Dawson’s stu- 
dies in Acadian geology, the Marquis said : “Just as 
it was not for Acadia alone but in the interests of 
Science that his first labor was undertaken, so now 
it is not for any special locality but for the good of 
our whole country that he is at the head of this place 

of learning Even in his presence it is right 

that this should be said of him, here on this spot 
where you are to raise a new temple of the practical 
sciences, and now that he with you has become the 
recipient of this gift which is a tribute from one who 
has earned success in the hard battle of life offered to 
men who with so much devotion are training other 
lives to win their way by knowledge through the 
difficulties which lie before them.” 

In August, 1882, the museum was formally opened, 
and has ever since that time been one of the most 
highly prized of the advantages offered to students of 
the University. 

In 1882 the number of students had reached 415, 
of whom the largest portion belonged to the Medical 
Faculty. The infant Faculty of Applied Science was 
being carefully nurtured by Professor Bovey, and had 
lately been much strengthened by the endowment by 
Miss Barbara Scott of the Chair of Civil Engineering. 

In 1883 Dr. Dawson, who was feeling the effect of 
his twenty-eight years of arduous and exacting work 
in the College, left it in , charge of the vice-principal, 
and went for a year of rest and change to the Old 
World. 

He met with a gratifying reception from those high 
in power as well as from scientific men. Honours were 
conferred upon him, and when he returned in 1884, it 
was as Sir William Dawson. 

The year of Sir William’s return was marked b)’ 
two events : the visit to Montreal and McGill of the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science, 



and the endowment of the Special Faculty for women 
afterwards the Donalda Department of the Faculty 
of Arts, by the Hon. Donald A. Smith. 

The ability of the College authorities to act as hosts 
to the British Association and the facilities which 
they could oifer it for study show the place to which 
the institution had attaineJ in scientific circles. 
The endowment of Mr. Smith was the crowning point 
of a series of events reaching back to 1870, when the 
first movement was made for the higher education of 
women in the city of Montreal. For the beginning 
of this as of many reforms, the community owes its 
thanks to Sir William Dawson. From the time of 
his coming to Montreal he had deplored that so few 
opportunities were offered to young ladies for cultiv- 
ating the higher kinds of education. In the pam- 
phlet of 1 870, already referred to, he speaks of the ad- 
visability of raising the standard of girls’ schools by 
extending to young women the privileges of the Uni- 
versity, arguing that: “The true civilization of any 

people is quite as much to be measured by the cul- 
ture of its women as by that of its men.” The result 
of Sir William’s exertion was the formation of the 
Ladies’ Educational Association, on the model of the 
one in connection with Edinburgh University. To 
the classes in this organization which were large and 
enthusiastic, lectures were given by the Principal and 
many of the professors of the University. 

The founding of the Girls’ High School in 1874 
with the admission of its pupils to the matriculation 
examinations of the Faculty of Arts led to the desire 
on the part of certain young women to pursue their 
course of studies further. In accordance with the 
rule before observed at McGill, the intellectual want 
appeared earlier than the wherewithal to supply it. 
A deputation of pupils from the Girls’ High School 
waited on Sir William, and sought admittance to the 
College, when the absence of means seemed to make 
compliance with their request an impossibility. 

The turning away of eager students was never a 
course of action favored at McGill, even when circum- 
stances were most untoward, nor was it the course in- 
tended here. The wishes of authorities as well as 
students were met when the Hon. Donald A. Smith 
came forward with his ofi'er of $50,000 for the en- 
dowment of a special course for women, to extend 
over the first two years in Arts. Subsequently this 
donation was increased to $120,000, so that the 
course was extended to the senior years, and the 
degree ofB.A. made available to students of the Don- 
alda Department. 

This new path in university work was not opened 
without comment on the part of the public, and the 
course taken by the principal was in some quarters 
misapprehended and criticized. Criticism vanished, 
however, before the success of the new organization 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 16 



and the Donalda Department is now regarded as not 
the least hopeful of the branches of McGill. 

Within the last five years, the University has vastly 
extended its work by means of the many and rich 
gifts which have come to it. The Faculty of Med- 
icine, the largest, the oldest and in some respects the 
most prominent of all the colleges, had been for many 
years straitened for want of space and funds. From 
the time of the establishment of the Campbell 
Memorial Fund in 1882, no large donation had reached 
the Faculty,' until the Spring of 1892, when, by the 
beneficence of Sir Donald Smith, Mr. J. H. R. 
Molson and others, money and property to the amount 
of $269,000 were placed at its disposal. Thus it has 
been possible to make the much needed addition to 
the Medical College. A long wing now extends from 
the rear of the old building, from which a roadway 
has been opened to connect the College grounds with 
Pine Avenue, thus giving convenient access to the 
recently opened Royal Victoria Hospital where 
McGill students may receive their practical training. 
The advantages thus opened up are fully appreciated. 
The number of medical students is larger than ever 
before, and a staff of thirty professors and lecturers is 
constantly employed. 

Of late years a young Faculty has taken a most con- 
spicuous place. It has been told before how the old 
time school.of Engineering was revived in the Faculty 
of Applied Science. Housed in a wing of the Arts 
Building, this Faculty did good work albeit in obscur- 
ity. By the splendid gifts of Mr. Workman and Mr. 
W. C. McDonald, this obscurity has been changed 
for buildings which for cost and fitness are matched 
by none on the grounds. The excellence of the 
thoroughly modern equipments of these buildings and 
the superiority of the instructors, whom by Mr. Mc- 
Donald’s endowments it has been possible to secure, 
have given to the Applied Science Faculty of McGill 
a reputation which has already gone beyond the 
boundaries of Canada. 

The Faculty of Law still lacks its factor in the 
College buildings ; but while its habitation is some- 
what remote, its interests are very close to McGill, 
and its work forms an important part of the work of 
the University. 

The year 1893 saw notone Faculty but the Univer- 
sity enter into possession of a gift, which promises to 
be above every other a joy to its possessors,— this is the 
Peter Red path Library. Beautiful in structure and a 
model of utility in all its arrangements, the library 
holds an interest beyond its own beauty or utility. 
It has become a memorial of the good man w^ho gave 
it and many other gifts of inestimable value to the 
University of McGill. Three months after the time 
when he met with the members of the University and 
its most distinguished friends, to formally present the 



library, Mr. Redpath died at his home, Chiselhurst, 
England. While the funeral services were being con- 
ducted there, a memorial service was held in the 
library so lately opened with gladness and festivity. 
The lofty room with its beautiful colored windows, 
Mrs. Redpath’s gift, was no inappropriate place for 
such a solemnity. Many of his friends sat round the 
white wreathed desk, where Dr. Mackay and the 
clergymen of the University read from the Scriptures 
of Death and the Resurrection ; and in the gallery, 
throngs of students gathered to sing the funeral 
hymns. 

The year 1893 holds yet another event which it is 
hard to have to chronicle. Severe labor, we are told, 
should not be protracted, and a long term even of 
light work must have its limit. Sir William Dawson’s 
work as principal of McGill had been both long and 
arduous. Rest already desirable was made necessary 
by a severe illness in the Spring of 1893. 

The resignation of Sir William Dawson was reluc- 
tantly accepted by the governors, and the principal’s 
chair was left vacant, nor has it yet been filled. The 
record of events has but faintly shown the part that 
he played in the University life during thirty-eight 
years, and the loss of Sir William has made a blank 
which no ordinary appointment can fill. Consola- 
tion exists in the fact that though no longer in the 
College, he is still of it, and his interest is still warm in 
all that concerns McGill. 

It was but a few weeks ago that his thoughtful 
kindness was shown in the preparation and delivery 
of an interesting address before one of the College 
societies. 

The year 1894 has been reached in this outline, 
which, it is feared, has left much to be desired in the 
story of McGill. If the part of the students in the 
University scheme has been too lightly passed over, it 
has not been because that part has been counted a small 
one, but because its records have been scanty. Exa- 
mination papers, statistics, lists of graduates, in which 
occasional names stand out, like lights in stretches 
of oblivion, cuttings on old desks, names scratched 
on college walls are as the bones of the skeleton of 
past student life which require to be clothed by 
the imagination of present day students before it can 
live again. We have no record, for instance, of the 
first theatre night ; but can we not imagine it? The 
excitement which thrills us now must have been felt 
by our predecessors when they first marched out, a 
smaller, but perhaps as joyous a band, to serenade 
their long suffering professors. 

Athletic and literary clubs have grown up, and 
found recognition as part of the College round. The 
direct religious work in the various Faculties has been 
almost entirely the result of the students’ own efforts, 

efforts which, it is hoped, have not been made in 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



vain, and which have been encouraged and kindly 
aided by the late Principal, who in his farewell address 
“Thirty-eight Years of McGill” commended to the 
special notice of his successor the Y.M.C.A. and the 
Y.W.C.A. of the College. 

For further records of club and society, athletic, 
debating, Theo, Dora, Delta Sigma, Glee Clubs and 
all their doings, are they not written in the pages ot 
the Fortnightly — the books of the scribes of 
McGill ? 

McGill exists for her students — charter, corporation 
and constitution, all are for them. Let them look to 
it that these exist not in vain. 

Without the conscientious and persistent effort of 
every student, the College can have no life, but will 
exist merely as a useless system of machinery. Nor 
should the student’s exertions on behalf of his col- 
lege cease when he leaves the University halls. Wher- 
ever he may go, the graduate is still a member of the 
University, and as such bears no slight responsibility. 
Those who are permitted to remain by the side of 
Alma Mater have perhaps more opportunit} for 
proffering her their aid ; but she should not be for- 
gotten by those who are afar. 

McGill graduates are scattered all over Canada — 
down by the sea and out on the Western prairies ; 
beyond the bounds of Canada, too, they may be found, 
dotted here and there in remote lands, filling high 
positions or doing unpretentious work, as talents or 
circumstances may decide. No one of them works 
quite as though his or her college life had not been, 
no one but has gained, and gained much by his four 
years at McGill. It is well that these men and 
women should cherish somewhere their tags of scar- 
let and white, and that they should sing over their 
toil or in minutes of recreation the songs of Alma 
Mater; and it is well that behind sentimental re- 
membrance should stand the earnest purpose to do 
all that is possible to strengthen and upbuild the old 
College at the foot of the mountain. May success in 
life meet the graduates of McGill, and may their 
memories be ever green ! 



ON A CERTAIN CLASS OF FICTION. 

I have tried at odd times to unravel 
Involved metaphysical snarls, 

I have even endeavoured to travel 
Through deserts of Rymer and Quarles. 

I have learned what the Benthamite teaches, 
I have verified hundreds of dates, 

I have listened to drivelling speeches 
On Fourth of July, in the States. 

I have had a go, also, at figgers, 

I have conn’d logarithmical lore 
Till the type seemed a million small niggers 
And two twos no longer made four. 



n; 



As a triumph perhaps without equal, 

Let me add that I’ve waded through all 
The letters, from preface to sequel, 

Which passed between T-ll-n and H-11. 

Thus equipped by a long course of reading. 

In literature stale, flat, and dull, 

I’ll pronounce on what tries one’s good breeding 
The most, and one’s brain, and one’s skull. 

The religio-three-volunie novel 
Is the killingest thing ’neath the sun ; 

It makes the intelligence grovel. 

The flesh look around for a gun. 



THREE SCOTTISH BALLADS. 

Of all the forms with which poetry has satisfied 
the esthetic needs of humanity, there is none so emi- 
nently qualified to fulfill its mission among all classes, 
gentle and simple, as the ballad. The form, the 
character, the language, generally of the least preten- 
tious kind, are so full of art, unconscious or otherwise, 
the subjects, passionate, fierce, lender or pathetic, so 
absolutely true to life, the writers so penetrated' with 
the reality of their themes, that it is not difficult to 
guess the reason of its popularity. The cunning 
touch of nature that makes all the world kin is the 
secret, — and it is a secret, in spite of its simplicity, not 
to be lightly regarded, for had not the singers of these 
verses studied human nature, and possessed the keen- 
est of sympathy with it, the Old Ballads would not 
have lived as they have done, to win the admiration 
and love of modern critics. 

These remarkable productions compose a literature 
of their own, unlike any other, and in their exempli- 
fication of undying loyalty, fierce love and hatred, 
and the, alas ! too often, triumph of treachery, con- 
vey clearly enough the undisciplined state of the so- 
ciety from which they sprang. 

Her ancient ballads form no inconsiderable portion 
of the literary wealth of Scotland, but I do not pur- 
posespeaking at present of the great number and high 
literary merit of the Scottish ballads, or of the admir- 
able manner in which time and thought have been 
spent on the various collections, it is simply my inten- 
tion to recall three of these Northern favorites to my 
readers, although 1 feel that they already dwell in 
every heart. 

As regards the well-known poem of Sir Patrick 
Spens, no one, I think, will be disposed to oppose the 
enthusiastic statement of Coleridge when he says : 

“ The bard, be sure, was weather-wise who framed 
The Grand old Ballad of ‘ Sir Patrick Spens.’ ” 

This fine example of remote poesy has perhaps 
caused more discussion, both as to its author and the 
inciden^it commemorates, than any other. Until 
compart vely recent times, it was supposed to have 
the most undoubted claims to antiquity ; but the fact 



iiS 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



has now been satisfactorily established that it eman- 
ated from the pen of Lady Wardlaw, of Pitreavie and 
Balmule, a daughter of Sir Charles Halket of Pitfer- 
ran in Fife, where she was born in 1677- This lady 
was also the author of the celebrated ballad “ Hardy 
Knute,” which, however, she never acknowledged, 
professing to have found the MS much defaced by 
time, in an old vault at Dunfermline. 

As regards the event upon which the story of Sir 
Patrick Spens, “ the best sailor that ever sail’d the 
sea, ” is founded. Sir Walter Scott is of opinion that 
a traditionary expedition, sent to Norway in the mid- 
dle of the thirteenth century by Alexander III. of 
Scotland, is represented. It is said, although history 
does not confirm the supposition, that the king, hav- 
ing lost all his children, despatched a gallant com- 
pany “ five-and-fifty Scots lords’ sons” under the 
command of the “skeely skipper,” to bring home his 
grand-daughter Margaret, the Maid of Norway, and 
only child of Eric, king of that country. Others in- 
cline to the belief that it refers to this princess, who, 
as is well known, was sent for after the death of her 
grandfather Alexander, in 1285, but who died at 
Orkney on her way to her kingdom, leaving the coun- 
try to the lawless misery of the time and a contested 
succession ; but Motherwell, with apparently the most 
reasonable claim to fact, refers the tragic occurrence 
to a period somewhat earlier, when Margaret of Scot- 
land, afterwards mother of the Maid, crossed the bois- 
terous northern seas, to become the bride of Eric of 
Norway. On the return expedition, the poet asserts 
that many Scottish nobles perished in a storm of 
unusual fury. 

The narration oegins with the perplexity of the 
king, in royal council at Dunfermline, the ancient cap- 
ital of Scotland : — 

“The King sits in Dunfermline town. 

Drinking the blucle-red wine ; 

‘O whare will I get a skeely skipper, 

To sail this new ship o’ mine ! ’ ” 

The advice of the “eldern knight ” sitting in the 
place of honor at the king’s right knee is apparently 
satisfactory, for we are told in the following stanza 
that : — 

“Our king has written a braid letter, 

And seal’d it with his hand,” 

appointing Spens to that high honor, coupled with the 

instructions : — 

“To Noroway, to Noroway, 

To Noroway o’er the faem ; 

The King’s daughter to Noroway, 

'Tis thou maun bring (or take) her hame.” 

The captain (designated young in more than one 
version) receives the royal appointment with varied 
emotions : — 

“ The first word that Sir Patrick read, 

Sae loud, loud laughed he ; 

The neist word that Sir Patrick read, 

The tear blinded his e’e. 



“ ‘ O wha is this has done this deed, 

And tauld the king o’ me. 

To send us out, at this time of the year. 

To sail upon the sea ? ’ ” 

But the honour is great, the commission enviable, 
and as other perilous ventures have been undertaken 
for similar reasons, so is this. Strangely enough, the 
princess is never Referred to during the journey, an 
apparently uneventful one, but in Buchans version, 
which, he says, was taken down from “ a wight of 
Homer’s craft,” the festivities at the northern court 
are described as brilliant and long continued, “a 
month but and a day,” and how “ every hall wherein 
they stayed, wi’ their mirth did rebound (resound T)." 
All the versions, however, coincide in alluding to the 
high consideration with which the guests are honoured, 
until a smouldering dissatisfaction, probably born of 
jealousy, among certain “lords of Noroway,” breaks 
out into open insult, and a fierce war of words, 
promptly reciprocated by the hot-blooded Scots, en- 
sues. The commander, unable to contain himself, 
shakes the dust of the inhospitable land off his feet, 
and orders instant embarkation, despite the solemn 
warning of one of his company : — 

“ I saw? the new moon, late yestreen, 

Wi’ the auld mcon in her arm ; 

And, if we gang to sea, master, 

I fear we’ll come to harm.” 

The prophecy proves too true, and the storm comes 
down upon them in fierce and sudden fury: — 

“ They hadna sailed a league, a league, 

A league but barely three, [loud 

When the lift grew dark, and the wind blew 
And gurly grew^the sea. 

“ The ankers brak, and the topmasts lap. 

It was sic a deadly storm; 

And the waves cam o’er the broken ship. 

Till a’ her sides were torn.” 

The gallant company, — however, “ laith to weet their 
cork-hceled shoon,” — rise to the emergency, and throw- 
ing themselves into the breach, do all in their power 
to avert the impending catastrophe ; but the struggle 
for life is vain, the wild northern seas prove victorious, 
and the fate of the king’s new ship is sealed, to as 
woeful a lament as anything to be found in the whole 
range of narrative poetry : — 

“ O lang, lang may the ladyes sit, 

Wi’ their fans into their hand. 

Before they see Sir Patrick Spens 
Come sailing to the strand. 

« 

* * 

“ Half owre, half owre to Aberdour, 

’Tis fifty fathoms deep, 

And there lies gude Sir Patrick Spens 
Wi’ the Scots lords at his feet ! ” 

« 

The startling statement that our modern versifiers 
can and may at any moment produce ballads to equal 
or even rival those of far distant years, never perhaps 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



could present such a want of veracity as after a perusal 
of the incomparable verses dedicated to “Fair Helen 
of Kirkconnel.” The author of these haunting lines, 
as well as the date of the occurrence, have long been 
forgotten, and will probably never be known, but the 
story clings still to the district in Dumfries-shire where 
the tragedy took place, and the graves of the lady 
and her faithful lover, upon whose memorial stone 
are the w'ords “ Hic jacet Adatnus Fleming" are shown 
to this day in the church-yard of Kirkconnel. The 
tragic event, woven for us into this deathless ballad, 
depicts the love and death of the heroine, Burd of 
Maid Helen. It is not known for a certainty 
whether the lady was a member of the family of 
Irving or that of Bell, as the estate belonged to both 
houses in succession, the former being deprived of 
their inheritance in the year 1600. Helen, however 
is described as being extremely beautiful, and having 
won the affections of two gentlemen of the neighbor- 
hood, one of whom was fortunate enough to possess 
her love in return. The favor bestowed upon Adam 
Fleming had aroused the jealous hatred of his self- 
constituted rival, supposed to have been a Bell, of 
Blacket House, who vowed to take summary ven- 
geance at the first opportunity. Not long afterwards, 
the betrothed lovers chanced to be enjoying a quiet 
evening stroll along the charming banks of the Kirtle^ 
when the lady inadvertently caught sight of her 
dreaded admirer among the trees on the opposite 
side of the stream, in the act of taking aim at her un- 
suspecting companion. With the unselfish impulse 
of great affection, the devoted girl threw herself upon 
the bosom of her lover, and saved his life, while re- 
ceiving the bullet in her own heart. 

The verses represent the helpless w'oe and speedy 
vengeance of the bereaved man, and, indeed, are 
almost pathetic enough in their mournful reiteration 
to be his own words, although there is no other war- 
rant for such an assumption. Some versions dwell 
upon the escape of the murderer to Spain, where, fol- 
lowed by the ruthless rage of Fleming, he met with 
the just reward of wickedness in a bloody encounter 
on the streets of Madrid. Others, of which the fol- 
lowing is one, state without the shadow of a doubt 
that he was at once punished for his awful crime. It 
is said that Fleming, after long w^andering in search 
of peace in continental lands, returned to the sad 
spot, and was shoitly afterwards found dead upon 
the grave of his lost love. Whether this story is cor- 
rect or not, w'e cannot now tell, but his grave, with the 
inscription above noted, w^ould certainly point to such 
a conclusion. 

The following version, Mr. Whitelaw'’s, being more 
comp etc than any other I have seen, and of equal 
charm throughout, I cannot refrain from quoting it 
entire : 



1 19 



“ I wish I were where Helen lies, 

Night and day on me she cries ; 

O, that I were where Helen lies. 

On fair Kiikconnel Lea ! 

O, Helen fair beyond compare. 

I’ll weave a garland of thy hair 
Shall bind my heart for ever mair 
Until the day I dee ! 

Cursed be the heart that thocht the thocht, 
Cursed be the hand that fired the shot. 

When in my arms burd Helen dropt 
And died for sake o’ me ! 

O, think na’ but my heart was sair. 

When my love fell and spak’ na mair, 

I laid her down wi’ mickle care 
On fair Kirkconnel Lea ! 

I laid her down, my sword did draw, 

Stern was our ficht on Kirtle Shaw, 

I hewed him down in pieces sma’ 

For her that died for me ! 

I wish I were where Helen lies, 

Night and day on me she cries ; 

Out of my bed she bids me rise, 

‘Oh, come, my love, to me !, 

0 Helen fair, O Helen chaste. 

Were I with thee I would be blest, 

Where thou low liest and tak’st thy rest 

On fair Kirkconnel Lea ! 

1 wish I were where Helen lies. 

Night and day on me she cries, 

I’m sick of all beneath the skies 

Since my love died for me ! ” 

The third and last of the poems which I design to 
recall is longer and perhaps less well known than 
either of the others. In several of the collections 
there is no mention of this ballad, but Sir Walter 
Scott, in his Border Minstrelsy, speaks of “ The 
Dowie Dens o’ Yarrow” as founded upon fact, and 
gives the name of Annan's Treat, a gloomy or melan- 
choly (“dowie ”) vale watered by the Yarrow, as the 
place where the ill-omened fight took place. The 
Yarrow is a sm^ll river in the Border country, which 
flows into the Ettrick, and is but a short distance 
from Abbotsford, so that, no doubt, the gifted author 
of Waverly was more than familiar with all the tra- 
ditionary circumstances of which he speaks — a know- 
ledge, indeed, ascribed by himself to every herd lad- 
die, however small, in the countryside. 

The story is briefly this : Early in the seventeenth 

century two gentlemen called Scott, — a powerful Bor- 
der clan, of whom the Duke of Buccleugh is chief, — who 
were either brothers-in-law, or on the eve of becoming 
so, quarrelled over a question of property. One of them 
Walter Scott of Thirlestane, a distinguished soldier 
and altogether fine character, had become betrothed 
to a lady whose father regarded the marriage with 
much favor, and in consequence contemplated set- 
tling upon her half his estate. Her brother, resent- 
ing fiercely what he was pleased to consider injustice, 
determined to pick a quarrel with the object of his 



T20 



McGiLL FORTNIGHTLY, 



V 



hatred at the first opportunity. In this he was suc- 
cessful, and, according to the manner of the times, 
a meeting was arranged to take place shortly after- 
^\ards. Hither, to the doomed spot, came the unsus- 
pecting victim, apparently unaccompanied by any 
friend, and here he found not only the “stubborn 
knicht but nine others, fully armed awaiting him. 
Undaunted by the great odds, he threw himself into 
the unequal fray, and with the fierceness of desperation 
all but won his cause, until one, supposed to be the 
false friend himself, falling to the last resort of treach- 
eiy, laid his gallant foe low with a blow in the back. 

The Scottish artist Sir Noel Paton, among his 
many works, has selected this picturesque story to 
illustrate with his graphic pencil, and the five paint 
ings comprise a group, brilliant in color, and char- 
acterized by great poetic fervor and deep love of his 
subject. It is worthy of note, that these pictures are 
to be seen, on occasion, in our own Art Association 
galleiy being the property of the genial ex-Presi- 
dent. Mr. R. B. Angus. To them, in a fine series 
of engravings taken for the Royal Association 
of the Promotion of Fine Arts in Scotland, is added 
one more, which, however, has not found its way to 
Montreal, nor does the owner of the rest know where 
it is to be found. It is a noble and fitting conclusion 
to the series, representing a solemn procession under 
the moonlight of a bier carried shoulder-high by 
squire and men-at-arms, upon which rest side by side 
the ill-fated lovers, “ in their death not divided.” 

In conclusion I have only space to give my readers 
the veises which the distinguised painter, by his elo- 
quent blush, has made to live again with all their 
original passion and pathos: — 

Late at e'eii, clriukiug the wine, 

And ere they paid their lawiug, 

They set a combat them between, 

To fecht it in the dawing. 

♦ « 

* 

O fare ye weel, my ladye gay, 

O fare ye weel, my Sarah ! 

For I maun gae, though I ne’er return, 

Frae the dowie banks o’ Yarrow. 



A MARVELLOUS ESCAPP:. 

Since first the footfall of man was silenced by 
the roar of Niagara, and his eyes were astounded by 
the majesty of the cataract, who can number the 
tragedies at which those falls have assisted ! Those 
in historic times can be ascertained ; but how often 
have those racing waters borne away the Indian cap- 
tive or become the Styx of some forlorn dusky 
maiden, who, in dim twilight or still darker midnight, 
stood looking skyward in mental agony, ere leaping 
to the death, Niagara is ever willing to grant the 
innocent and guilty alike ! 

In recent times, not Niagara itself has escaped the 
levelling influence of the age. Men would estimate 
its value by Watt’s horse-power standard, and harness 
it to trade, while it is no longer those alone who 
desire to escape the comment of the world who com' 
mit themselves to its torrents. Love of notoriety, the 
only spark of ambition left in ignoble minds, has led 
men, some brave and all fools, to various acts o^ 
bravado with regard to Niagara, of which the daily 
press has kept us only too well informed. I, who 
gloried in our family common sense, little thought 
that one of mine should be fated to do a more daring 
act than any that have yet been done by the cranks 
who have begun to infest the vicinity of the Niagara 
, Falls. Of one thing I try to persuade myself to this 
day, that the act was necessitated by foolhardiness 
and not the love of glory, and that it was committed 
only as a last resort of a man battling for his life. 

The hero of this escapade was my own brother. 
Having worked hard during the preceding year, — hard 
enough at any rate to give us the right to a holiday 
and the temper to enjoy it, we decided to take a trip 
through our own land in preference to going abroad 
or to the sand dunes of the Portland coast. The 
quaint old town of Quebec had been our first resting- 
place. 1 hen we had visited the Saguenay region and 
revelled in the scenery of the St. Lawrence and 
Ottawa rivers, till, by easy stages and a somewhat 
zig-zag course, w^e reached the great lakes and the 

Thousand Islands, and turned off naturally to visit 
the Falls. 



Oh geutle wiud that blowetli south 
From where my love repaireth. 

Convey a kiss frae his deir mouth, 

And tell me how he fareth ! 

* ♦ 

Four has he hurt, and five has slain, 

On the bloody braes o’ Yarrow, 

Till that stubborn knicht cam him behind. 
And run his body thorough. ’ 

« 

She s taen him in her arims twa. 

And gien him kisses thorough ; 

And wi’ her tears she has washed his wounds. 
On the dowie banks o’ Yarrow.” ’ 

KAY FIVINGSTONF. 



.. iwtcMucu spenomg only a day in the neigl 
borhcod of Clifton, but we remained a week. \\ 
saw the Falls a dozen times, wandered through tl 
Canadian and American parks, strolled over Go: 
Island watched the river shooting under the bride 
a the Sister Islands, and paced up and down the lo^ 
platform on the Canadian side of the rapids, that rur 
parallel ^o these, and so close that we could dip oi 
hands into the furious water, while at times the spra 
ew into our faces, like ghosts of timid meado 
brooks fleeing in terror from the agony of the whir 
pool 0,1, beneath the deep precipitoc 



McGill fortnightly 



I2I 




This brother of mine was a dare-devil fellow, ath- 
letic, and fond of all aquatic sports. He was a strong 
swimmer and an expert diver, but his ruling pa.ssion 
vvas canoeing. As in winter he could descend the 
steepe.st slide that ever was made, standing erect upon 
his toboggan, so have I seen him shoot a turmoil of 
shouting rapids while standing erect upon the little 
deck which covers the extreme end of a ricelake canoe, 
a feat which Blondin himself might fail to emulate. 
The sight of a running stream was to him what the 
sight of liquor is to a confirmed drunkard, or the 
trumpet call to a trained cavalry horse. It was tally- 
ho to his blood, and I was not long in discovering 
that the sight of the Niagara river was stirring up all 
his canoeing instincts. The pulsing life of the turbu- 
lent rapids thrilled him, and he sometimes spoke of 
the possibility of running them in a canoe. He 
assured me that two expert men in an air-chambered 
canoe might go through that hell of waters unharmed, 
as the light draught of the vessel would render it little 
.susceptible to the influence of under-currents. 

He did not suggest that we should be the two men 
to make the attempt, for he fully realized the danger ; 
but he declared that, under exceptional circumstances, 
he would not be afraid to make the attempt. At the 
many rapids above the Falls he made similar remarks, 
though, to me, these appeared even more formidable 
than those below, to say nothing of the certain death 
which awaited its prey at the brink of the horse-shoe. 

Nevertheless, the spirit of the water thrilled him, as 
I have said. He procured a canoe in the little village 
of Clifton, and, for a few days, contented himself with 
paddling about in the calm water below the Falls. I 
had made him promise to remain above a certain 
point at a safe distance from the grasp of the rapids 
below, so I had little fear for his safety. 

At the end of the fourth day, however, he told me 
he was curious to know what the river was like abo\ e 
the Falls, that is, above the rapids that mark its ap- 
proach to the chasm into which it ultimately plunges. 
I had made other arrangements for the following day 
and was unable to accompany him ; but I made no 
objection to his going, until I found that he con- 
templated taking his canoe. To this I strongly ob- 
jected, pointing out the danger which he ran by risk- 
ing himself, a stranger to the river, so near the brink 
of the cataract. He over-ruled my objections, how- 
ever, and lulled my fears ; and when I awoke that 
morning I was told he had set out, with his canoe on 
a capacious cart. 

All that morning I was filled with a strange dread, 
and found myself regretting that I had not accom- 
panied him or insisted upon his leaving the canoe 
behind him. Wherever I went, the boom of the Falls 
carried desolation to my heart, and, towards the after- 
noon, when my engagements were over, 1 was drawn 



by some irresistible attraction to the brink of the 
cataract. 

The day was cloudy, and a strong wind was blow- 
ing down the river. The roar of the Falls w'as louder 
than usual and a heavy mist was steaming from the 
river, borne upon the storm. I was buffetted by the 
wind and drenched with mist before I reached the 
brink of the cataract, and looked down with a strange 
fear into the seething chaldron at my feet. My stand 
was taken on the Canadian side of the Great Horse 
Shoe, near the ruin of Table Rock, which fell some 
years ago, almost carrying with it a carriage that was 
standing partly upon it at the time. Within a few 
feet of me the river bent its fluid mass over the ledge 
of limestone which crops o ut there, and is the origin 
of the Falls. My thoughts wandered, as I looked 
upon the scene, to the sun, which, over ninety mil- 
lions of miles away, was, nevertheless, the ruler of that 
cataract. As I mused, a sunbeam pierced the clouds 
and re-ted upon the Fall, as though claiming it as its 
own. A rainbow glittered in the mist and the sullen 
grey of the foam below became creamy white 

I cast a glance around me to take in the other 
changes which the sunbeam enu ed, a'’d my attention 
was attracted by some object dancing far up on the 
crests of the most distant rapids. I thought it a Iog» 
and, knowing that it was rapidly drifting near me, 
felt some curiosity to learn how it would take the 
plunge ; so I watched it. 

I saw it bound from crest to crest of the waves, now 
disappearing in a hollow, now outlined against a grey 
cloud-bank which had rolled up on the horizon. The 
object was symmetrical in shape, with what I took to 
be the stump of a bough in the middle. But as I 
looked, it drew nearer with railroad speed, and I 
caught the flash of something, now on one side, now 
on the other, while the broken branch seemed to 
move backwards and forwards with the flashes. 

A tremor seized me. My eyes were blinded by 
the awful light which flooded my brain. I recognized 
a human being in that log, and instinct told me it 
was my brother. My brother! And he was point- 
ing directly for the Falls ! I could not move. I tried 
to shriek, but to no purpose. All my soul was con- 
centrated in the sense of sight. 

Like a rose-leaf in a summer storm, the frail canoe 
was tossed hither and thither by the hungry waters. 
Nearer and nearer it drew. The water rolling at my 
feet seemed a cable of steel drawing it to its doom. 
The roari of the cataract was behind, before and 
around me. The mist was sweeping down the gorge 
and over the land, torn to tatters by the exultant 
wind. On every hand Nature was busy with her own 
affairs. A sparrow was chirping on the railing not 
twenty feet from me, and a few flowers were gentK- 
nodding and dipping their variegated petals into a 



122 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



quiet pool on the very edge of the chasm that was 
gaping for my brother’s life. 

God alone knows what I suffered in those few 
moments. Time was annihilated for me as much as 
for Niagara itself Thought after thought, fear upon 
fear, agony upon agony pressed down upon my brain, 
until I was buried as deeply beneath them as in a few 
instants more I expected to see my brother buried 

under tons and tons of water in the chaos at Niagara’s 
foot. 

Still the canoe swept on. There were but a few 
more yards of rapids to pass before it was in the quiet 
expanse which extends a short distance back from the 
brink of the cataract. Every moment I expected to 
see the cockle-shell crushed between the rushing bil- 
lows or swamped, and my brother thrown helpless 
into the seething waves. But his skill bore him 
through all the turmoil. His powerful arm swept the 
light bark this w’ay and that, forcing its nose to each 
lampart of billows, and surmounting it. 

“ What avails his skill ?” I groaned. “ It wins him 
a few more moments of life, and a bitterer death.” 

Still the war went on between man and the ele- 
ments. Then from the crest of the last series of rapids 
the canoe slid into smooth water, and bore down 
I>eacefully, but oh, how swiftly towards the fatal brink ! 
After all the tumult and struggle, the quiet skimming 
of the vessel (I can liken its progress to nothing else; 
was like the peace which follows the death agony and 
immediately precedes dissolution. As the canoe 
hurried towards me I could now recognize my brother 
distinctly. He was sitting in water with which the 
bark was completely filled, being sustained only by its 
air chambeis of unusual capacity, his teeth were set and 
his face pale. But he had scarcely emerged from the 
rapids than he swiftly yet cautiously rose, giving a 
quick glance round. He saw me and waved his hand, 

I returned the gesture with infinite sadne.ss. Had I 
had strength, I believe I would have thrown myself 
over the falls with him. As the canoe sped on, he 
moved to the stern and mounted the little deck of 
which I have spoken ; whereon he crouched. All this 
as you may imagine, was done in a few seconds. The 
end was near, and in a few seconds more all would 
be over. Like a h inter facing a fence, the canoe 
pointed for the brink of the falls. The water within 
it steadied it greatly, and my brother rose erect upon 
his constricted resting-place. I could see determina- 
tion written in his face and in the tension of his limbs 
He was to suffer death, I thought, and I was to sulfer 
its agonies. 

The canoe was now at the very brink of the falls, 
and held securely in the relentless clutches of the 
waves bent over to sweep downwards to the rocks 
below. I screamed with horror, and on the wind was 
borne my brot her’s answering cry. 



“ Neck or nothing,” he cried, and gathering him- 
self together sprang from the deck of the doomed 
bark out, far, far, out into the air. 

I saw the canoe swallowed up. I saw my brother 
turn completely over once, and then, feet foremost, 
plunge into the depths of water below the falls and 
just beyond the turmoil. In a few moments he reap- 
peared drifting slowly towards the base of the cataract 
held in the clutches of the treacherous undertow. 
Then he struck out manfully. Inch by inch he gained, 
inch by inch he overcame the eddies that would have 
drawn him to destruction. 

I tore down to the shore like a madman, and with 
the aid of a man who had also seen the leap, 
launched a boat and rowed to his assistance. Hi 
powers, taxed to the utmost by the prolonged strugs 
gle in the rapids above, had given out, and during the 
time consumed in my descent of the banks he had 
been slowly drifting towards the chaos that hungered 
for his life. My shout reanimated him, and he held 
the currents at bay until we reached him. 

It was several days before he had become sufficient- 
ly restored to be able to tell me how he had been 
drawn into the rapids by being ignorant of the cur- 
rents where he had been paddling. He told me that 
finding himself thus engulfed, he formed the plan he 
so successfully put into execution, that of leaping from 
the canoe and trusting to the impetus of the leap, and 
the height of the falls, to carry him beyond the base 
of the cataract. His chief fear had been that he could 
not guide the canoe through the rapids, for he well 
knew that if he was upset his fate was sealed. 

We left the vicinity as soon as my brother was suffi- 
ciently recovered from his terrible ordeal, partly be- 
cause we could no longer bear the sight of the hungry 
waters, and largely on account of the continual 
interviewing to which we were subjected by news- 
paper correspondents, whose elaboration of my 
brother’s experience and inventive faculty as regards 
his motives caused us continual annoyance. 

ARTHUR WEIR. 



AN OLD GOWN. 

My name’s initials— That is all, 

In .silken green and pink : 

It was a fancy carnival — 

She wore it at the rink. 

A radiance of the dawning sun, 

A glimmer of the past, 

The thought of her I used to run. 

The fifth before the last. 

r®’ features, eyes and hair ! 

What forehead, nose and lip ! 

She was the beauty everywhere ■ 

Why did I let her slip ? 

Sing ?— operatic song or hymn ' 

And play ! and talk ! and cook ! 

\Vr swim ! 

Vet all this I forsook. 

Oh ! such a fascinating smile ! 

And such a dulcet voice ! 

Besides, the boodle ! and the style ! 

She should have been my choice. 

But she would often give me pain. 

By turns caress’d and ragM : 

Bah _ she was fickle, fierce and vain— 
Besuies, she was engag’d. 



Cap’n Goun. 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



123 



DEANS OF McGILL. 5 



ALEXANDER JOHNSON, LL.D., VICE-PRIN. 
CIPAL AND;‘DEAN of THE FACULTY OF 

ARTS. 

The Acting Principal of McGill is, as is well known 
to its students, a graduate of Dublin University, in 
consequence of which fact he is rarely spoken of in 
the College Halls by his official title. 

In his University career, it was to classics and 
mathematics that he paid the most attention and in 
which he achieved his greatest success, obtaining a 
senior moderatorship and gold medal in the latter 
(an exactly similar position to the one held by Sir 
Robert Ball a few years later) and a scholarship in 
the former. 

The present Lord Chancellor of Ireland, also a 
classical scholar, graduated in the same year with the 
senior moderatorship in classics. 

Amongst his other contemporaries were the Pri- 
mate of all Ireland, Leckey, the historian, and Lord 
Russell of Killowen, lately appointed Lord Chief 
Justice of England. 

Among others, he secured prizes in logic and meta- 
physics, Hebrew, and on three separate occasions, the 
Vice Chancellor’s prize for English prose. 

The combination of the classical scholarship and 
mathematical gold medal, by all previous records of 
the University was sufficient to entitle him to feel con- 
fident of obtaining a Fellowship and to that end he 
continued his studies in the University several years. 
A Fellowship in Dublin is not similar to the Fellow- 
ship of other universities but more in the nature of 
a professorship, being held for lite and continually 
rising in vaiue to about $10,000 a year. 

McGill, at that time, was just beginning the for- 
ward movements which have caused it to reach its 
present height, and at the Governors’ request to the 
late Dr. Macdonell, Provost of Trinity, to appoint a 
Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy he 
at once offered the position to Mr. Johnson. 

There being no Fellowship vacant, or indeed any 
immediate prospect of a vacancy occurring. Dr 
Johnson accepted the position which he has so long 
and ably filled, and came out to Canada to assume 
the duties of his new post. 

If any present student at McGill could be trans- 
lated back to those days, he would find it extremely 
difficult to perceive any resemblance between the 
University of that time and to-day. The Faculty of 
Arts turned out only four or five graduates yearly ; 
lectures were delivered in the old High School on 
the corner of University and Dorchester Streets, the 
building now occupied by the P'raser Institute. In 
the grounds, there were but two buildings, the central 



one crowned by a Cupola and the east wing lately 
occupied by Sir William Dawson as a residence. The 
main building was utilized as a residence by the Rec- 
tor of the High School (which wa^ under control of 
the University) and the College Secretary. 

Even then there were ten professors, being a very 
much larger number in proportion to the number of 
students than the present staff of twelve professors, 
four lecturers and five sessional lecturers. Honour 
courses were as yet unknown, but were introduced 
in the following year. It is interesting to note 
amongst the names of his earliest students those of 
C. P. Davidson, J. R. Dougall, L. H. Davidson, 
William Hall, N. W. Trenholme, David McCord, 

F. Lyman, James Kirby, George Ross, late Vice 
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine. 

Shortly after his arrival he returned to Dublin to 
receive the degree of M.A. and two years later that 
of LL.D., which entitled him to wear those gorgeous 
red robes which a valedictorian once so humorously 
described as being dyed in the blood of his victims. 

Later he^ received the Honorary Degree of D. C. 

L. from the University of Lennox ville. 

In 1876 Doctor Johnson was appointed Vice Dean, 
of the Faculty of Arts, and in 1886 he succeeded Doc- 
tor Leach as Dean and Vice Principal of the Univer- 
sity. 

During the past two years, during the illness of and 
since the resignation of Sir William Dawnson, he has 
been Acting Principal. 

With regard to the work done by him outside the 
University, it might be mentioned that he is one of 
the original members of the Royal Society of Canada 
and was third President of Section 3. As a member 
of that section, he contributed papers : 1. “On the 
symmetrical investigation of the curvature of surfaces,” 
2. “ Preparations for observing the transit of Venus in 
Montreal.” 3. “Tidal observations on Canadian 
waters.” 4. “ Newton’s use of slit and lens in forming 
a pure spectrum. ” 5. “ Faraday’s lines of force.” 6. 

“ On the need of a coast survey for the Dominion of 
Canada.” 

When the British Association met in Montreal in 
the year 1884 he wrote a paper on “The importance 
of tidal observations in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and 
on the Atlantic Coast of the Dominion.” 

The subject was taken up warmly by Lord Kelvin 
then Sir William Thompson, and Dr. Johnson was 
appointed Chairman of the Committee in Canada to 
represent to the Canadian Government the urgency 
for taking steps to make such observations, with a 
corresponding Committee in England composed of 
Lord Kelvin, Mr. J. C. Adams and Professor 
Darwin. 

Doctor Johnson also introduced this matter to the 
notice of the Royal Society of Canada and a similar 



124 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Committee was appointed by them in 1885. These 
two Committees worked in harmony together for six 
years, as shown by the reports presented by them to 
both bodies, with the result that in 1890 the Cana- 
dian Go\ernmcnt undertook to establish stations for 
tidal observations and also to investigate currents. 
At last session a grant of twenty-nine thousand 
dollars was made for this purpose, with the under- 
standing that the grant would be continued for seven 
or eight years. 

As a result of his enquiries in connection with this 
work, the necessity fora regular hydrographic staff 
forced itself on Dr. Johnson’s attention, and at a 
meeting of the Royal Society in 1893, he brought the 
matter before that body, and a second Committee 
was appointed to interview the Minister of Marine. 

At the last meeting, Sir Charles Hibbert Tupper 
announced that the hydrographic survey was estab- 
lished permanently on a similar basis to that of the 
Geological Survey of Canada. 

In 1892, he was appointed delegate from McGill 
University to attend the Tercentenary of Trinity 
College, Dublin, and while in England started a 
movement to induce the British Association to hold 
a meeting in Toronto in the year 1897 ; a movement 
which, it is hoped, will have its full effect. 



its Dean and the new Faculty flourished under his 
care. Lately the magnificent McDonald endow- 
ments to the University have afforded him an oppor- 
tunity for the display of his great executive ability, 
and it is owing largely to Dr. Bovey’s untiring energy 
that the Faculty over which he presides has been 
brought to its present high state of efficiency. In 
fact. Dr. Bovey may be looked upon as the pioneer in 
Canada of University engineering. 

In 1892 the University of Bishop’s College conferred 
upon Prof. Bovey the degree of D.C.L. honoris causa. 

At the conferring of the honorary degrees in 1893 
at Queen’s University, Kingston, Prof. Dupuis of that 
institution prefaced his presentation of Dr, Bovey’s 
name for the degree of LL.D. with very compli- 
mentary remarks upon his work and attainments. 

In 1893, at the unanimous instance of the Grad- 
uates’ Fellows, the degree of LL.D. was granted 
by McGill University to Prof. Bovey, on the score of 
his* distinguished standing in his own University 
(that of Cambridge), of his eminence as a writer 
on the subject to which he is devoted, and of his great 
services to this University. 

When Prof, Bovey was admitted to the degree of 
LL.D. he was presented by Sir William Dawson, 
who said : — 



In addition to his scientific work Dr. Johnson has 
devoted a good deal of time for the benefit of various 
institutions in Montreal and for several years was the 
Lay Secretary of the Canadian Provincial Synod and 
Corresponding Secretary of the Bible Society. 



HENRY T. BOVEY. M.A., LLD., DEAN 01 

I HE FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENE. 

Prof. Henry Taylor Bovey, M.A., LL.D., M 
Inst.C.E., F.R.S.C., professor of Mechanical Engi 
neering, and Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science 
is a native of Devonshire, and was educated at a pri 
vate school in England and at Cambridge University 
On entering the university, he competed for anc 
obtained an open scholarship. On graduation he tool 
a high place in the mathematical tripos, and shortl} 
afterwards was made a fellow of Queen’s Colleo-e 
Having decided to adopt the profession of civil engi- 
neering, he joined the staff of the Mersey Docks and 
Harbor Works. In a short time he was appointed one 
of the assistant engineers on this work, and in this 
capacity had charge of some of the most important 
structures then in progress. It was in 1877 that he 
was offered and accepted the appointment of professor 
of civil engineering and applied mechanics in McGill 
University. At that time the engineering courses 
in the University were managed as a department of 
the Faculty of Arts, and were without buildings or 
equipment. In 1878, however, a Faculty of Applied 
Science was constituted, Prof. Bovey was elected 



Ml. Chancellor, I have much pleasure in announc- 
ing that the degree of LL.D. honoris causa has been 
granted by the Corporation to Henry Taylor Bovey, 
M.A., of the University of Cambridge, and Dean of 
the Faculty of Applied Science. The eminent ser- 
vices of Dr. Bovey to the University and to the engi- 
neering profession in Canada are too well known to 
require mention, and have already been recognized 
by two of our sister universities in Canada and also in 
the United States. Dr. Bovey is also the author of 
two important works on Applied Mechanics, which 
have been favorably received in England and America, 

and of several valuable papers on this and allied sub- 
jects.” 

Much of the success of the Society of Canadian 
Civil Engineer, is dae to Dr. Bovey’s labours as its 
secretary, which post he held continuously, from the 
foundation of the Society until compelled by increas- 
ing college duties to resign the office. Prof. Bovey is 
a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, a member 
of the Institution of Civil Engineers, also of that of 
Mechanical Enginecr.s, and an honorary member of 
the National Electric Light Association of the United 
States. He was one of the original founders, and is 

still a member, of the Liverpool Society of Civil En- 
gineers. 

That his sLiccessfnl efforts in connection with the 
haculty of Applied Science at McGill have met with 
‘ecognition in other lands than our own maybe 
inferred from the open secret that Dr. Bovey has 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



125 



declined tempting offers from other large Universities 
demanding services similar to those he has rendered 
to McGill. 

ROBERT CRAIK, M.D., DEAN OF THE 
FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

Dr. Robert Craik is a Scottish Canadian, born in 
the city of Montreal on the 22nd of April, 1829. 
His parents came to Canada from Midlothian, Scot- 
land, in 1818. He received his professional education 
at McGill University, graduating in Medicine in 1854, 
and taking the highest honours of his year. From 
the University he went direct to the Montreal Gen- 
eral Hospital as house surgeon , among the earliest 
of his responsible duties being in connection with the 
severe cholera outbreak of that year. In 1856 he 
was appointed Demonstrator of Anatomy in McGill 
University and in 1859 Curator of the Museum. In 
i860 he resigned his position as Resident House Sur- 
geon to the General Hospital, and was made a member 
of its Medical Board, entering at the same time upon 
the public practice of his profession. In the same year 
he was appointed to the McGill Professorship of Clin- 
ical Surgery, a position which he retained until 1867. 
In 1866, owing to the illness of Professor Sutherland, 
he was asked, at a few weeks’ notice, to undertake the 
duties of the chair of Chemistry, a task which, though 
difficult, he was able to carry through with success. 
In 1867, finding the teaching of Chemistry more to 
his taste than Surgery, he succeeded to the chair of 
Chemistry on the resignation of Professor Sutherland 
and continued to discharge its duties until 1879. 

In 1869, in addition to his other duties, he be- 
came Registrar to the Faculty, the onerous duties 
of which office he continued to perform until 
relieved of them by Professor Csler in 1877- Iti 
April, 1875, he also became Treasurer of the Faculty, 
and continued in that office until his appointment as 
Dean in 1889. 

In 1879, having reached the age of fifty years, and 
feeling the need of rest, he resigned his teaching 
duties, remaining, however, as Treasurer, and taking 
an active interest in all the affairs of the P'aculty. In 
1889, after the death of the late lamented Dean, Dr. 
Howard, Dr. Craik was unanimously appointed to 
succeed him, and the Chair of Hygiene and Public 
Health being at the same time vacant, he also assumed 
the duties of that chair, with a view to its reorganiza- 
tion and development, in keeping tvith the modern re- 
quirements of that department of Medicine. The 
revenue from the recent endowment by Sir Donald 
A. Smith is now being devoted entirely to the ade- 
quate equipment of the Chair, and it is hopjd that it 
will soon occupy a position commensurate with its 
importance. 

In addition to his Faculty appointments, Dr. Craik 



is also an active member of the Provincial Board of 
Health, Consulting Physican, Life Governor and mem- 
ber of the Committee of Management of the Mon- 
treal General Hospital, Governor of the Royal Vic- 
toria Hospital, and Chairman of its Medical Board, 
with other appointments of lesser importance, and to 
all of which he contrives to devote a large share of 
his individual attention. 

Dr. Craik has not written much for publication, 
but his inaugural Thesis, published in the Montreal 
Medical Chronicle in the summer of 1854 (more than 
forty years ago) is deserving of more than a passing 
notice. In it he was probably the first to claim for 
this class of infectious or zymotic diseases, an origin 
in a specific cell or germ for each disease, giving argu- 
ments and reasons for his belief, and predicting with 
such confidence the early discovery of these germs, 
and the direction in which the search would prob- 
ably be successful, that it reads more like an argu- 
ment after the fact, than one in prophetic anticipa- 
tion. 



DUNCAN McEACHRAN, F.R.C.V.S., D.V.S., 
DEAN OF THE FACULTY OF COMPA- 
RATIVE MEDICINE AND VETER- 
INARY SCIENCE. 

Duncan M. McEachran, born in Campbletown, 
Argyleshire, Scotland, on Oct. 27, 1841, was the son 
. of the late David McEachran, for several years 
senior bailie of the above town. The family ranks 
among the oldest in Kintyre ; the Ionic Cross of 
Campbletown bearing the name of Ed. McEachran, 
while the tombstones of the family date back to the 
fourteenth century. 

The subject of the present sketch was educated in 
the Free Church Grammar School of his native place, 
and at the age of seventeen began his professional 
studies under the distinguished Dick. He graduated 
as a veterinary surgeon in 1861, became a mem- 
ber of the Royal College ol Veterinary Surgeons the 
same year, and was elected one of the original 
Fellows of that body on its elevation to the rank of a 
university in 1875. 

In 1862 Mr. McEachran came to Canada, and 
practised his profession successfully for about three 
years in Woodstock, Ontario. During this period he 
gave, during each winter, a course of lectures in 
Toronto, on professional subjects. This was prior to 
the establishment of any veterinary school in that 
Province. He also, during his residence in Wood- 
stock, contributed to the advancement of veterinary 
medicine in many ways, and especially by lectures 
given at farmers’ meetings, contributions to the agri- 
cultural press, and by the publication of a work on 
veterinary medicine. 

In 1866 Mr. McEachran left Ontario to settle in 
Montreal, not, however, without recognition of his 
services, for the Board of Agriculture passed a reso- 



126 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



lution expressing regret at his departure, and he was 
entertained by a large number of his friends at a 
public dinner in Woodstock. 

Almost immediately on his arrival in Montreal, 
owing to the reputation he had made for himself, 
powerful friends rallied about him ; steps were 
speedily taken to lay the loundations of veterinary 
teaching, and in the same year the Montreal Veter- 
inary College was established under the auspices of 
the late Major Campbell, President of the Board of 
Agriculture, and of Sir Wm- Dawson, Principal of 
McGill University. 

During his residence in Montreal, Professor 
McEachran has, apart from the duties of his practice 
and professional teaching, found time to engage in 
many public undertakings, some of them of the 
highest importance. 

He was for ten years Veterinary Surgeon to the 
Montreal Field Battery of Artillery. 

He has been intimately connected with cattle 
ranching. Senator Cochrane and himself being the 
pioneers of that enterprise on a large scale in Can- 
ada, In 1 88 1 Principal McEachran visited Alberta, 
going via the Missouri River, driving across the 
plains from Fort Benton, in Montana, to Morleyville, 
and published a series of letters describing the trip 
on his return. 

He and Senator Cochrane established the ranch 
bearing the latter’s name in i88i, and Mr. McEach- 
ran was Vice-President of the same till 1883, when 
he became general manager of the Walrond Cattle 
Ranch Company, of which Sir John Walrond is 
President, and which is now the largest and most 
successful ranch in the Dominion. 

Principal McEachran’s efforts to prevent the 
introduction of foot and mouth disease, pleuro-pneu- 
monia and other infectious diseases from European 
countries, in which they have proved so destructive, 
de.serves special mention. 

In 1875 he urgently pressed upon the government 
of the Dominion ot Canada, the necessity of the 
establishment of a quarantine system, with the object 
as above stated. In April, 1876, he was appointed 
Chief Inspector, and organized the first Canadian cat- 
tle quarantine at Point Levi. He still remains Chief 
Inspector for the Dominion. 

In January, 1879, Prof. McEachran was sent by the 
Canadian government to the United States, to inves- 
tigate the pleuro-pneumonia then prevalent. The 
report of this visit led to important measures being 
taken by the governments of Great Britain and 
Canada to prevent the importation of diseased ani- 
mals. 

During the entire period of his residence in Mon- 
treal, Dr. McEachran has interested himself in the 
improvement of the city’s sanitary condition. 



The communicability of infectious and other dis- 
eases by milk was recognized 22 years ago by 
Mr. McEachran, who urged not only the inspection of 
all milk exposed for sale, but also the regular inspec- 
tion by experts of all dairy establishments. This fact 
deserves especial emphasis, for in this at the time re- 
ferred to and long after he was a voice crying in the 
wilderness, advocating a view in advance of the times. 

From time to time during the years of his residence 
in Montreal, Principal McEachran has been in con- 
sultation with the practitioners of human medicine 
with regard to the prevention of the propagation of 
infectious diseases, the general sanitary condition of 
the city, etc. The extent to which he has enjoyed 
the confidence of the general and local governments 
of the country, and the respect of his fellow-citizenS) 
is evident from the important interests committed to 
his charge and the general sentiment of the commun- 
ity towards him. 

At the meeting of the Association of Veterinary 
Faculties of North America, Dr. McEachran was 
elected to the vice-presidency, which he now holds. 

Almost equally well known in the United States 
and Canada, Dr. McEachran, by his unceasing labours 
and boundless energy, may be said to be realizing 
that to which he has always aimed, namely, a public 
respect and appreciation of the veterinarian and the 
establishment of veterinary medical education upon a 
higher plane. * 



N. W. TRENHOLME, Q.C., M.A., D.C.L., DEAN 
OF THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

The Faculty of Law is the only one in the Uni- 
versity which can boast of having trained all its 
professors, among which not one is a more represen- 
tative son of McGill than its Dean, Dr. Trenholme. 

Graduating in Arts in 1863 at McGill, he obtained 
the Chapman gold medal and ist rank honors in 
Moral Philosophy. In 1865 he graduated in Law, 
standing first in his year, and capturing the Elizabeth 
Torrance gold medal. In the autumn of 1868 he 
was appointed a lecturer in the Faculty of Law, 
the late Sir. J. J. C. Abbot being then Dean, and in 
1872 Professor. 

At that time such a position was simply honorary, 
as no salaries were attached to the office, and it is 
only by reason of ^ the love of its graduates for the 
University that the Faculty of Law exists to-day. 

Dr. Trenholme succeeded the late Mr. Kerr as Dean 
in 1887, and in 1890, when, through the beneficence 
of Mr. McDonald, the Faculty was reorganized, it was 
decided to appoint a Dean who should devote his 
entire attention to the affairs of the Faculty, the 
position was immediately offered to Dr. Trenholme, 
who, when he accepted the honour at a considerable 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



127 



personal sacrifice, conferred no slight benefit upon 
the Faculty of Law. 

During the last five years the Faculty of Law has 
made more than ordinary progress, a very fair illus- 
tration of this being shown in the increase in the 
number of its students ; in the spring of 1891 there 
were two graduates, this year there are over twenty 
freshmen. 

In his practice Dr. Trenholme was very successful, 
He was appointed a Queen’s Counsel by a hostile 
government, and held the office of Crown Prosecutor 
for several years. 



SOCIETIES. 



Y. M. C. A. 

The following is the scheme of Sunday afternoon 
lectures for the remainder of the session. We would 
suggest that it be preserved for future reference, as no 
more programme cards will be printed this session. 

Jan. 13th. Address b}' S. M. Sayford of New York. 

“ 20th do do do 

“ 27th Sinai and the Desert, by Sir J. W. Daw- 
son, F.R.S., LL.D. 

Feb. 3rd Introduction to the Book of Numbers, by 
Prin. Barbour, D.D. 

“ lOthThe Decalogue in relation to the Sermon 
on the Mount, by Dr. Scrimger (Presby- 
terian College). 

“ 17th Deuteronomy as a Mosiac Book, by Sir 
J. W. Dawson, F.R.S., LL.D. 

“ 24th (Subject of lecture to be announced later) 
by Prin. Shaw, M.A., LL.D. 

Mar. 3rd The Israelite Settlement of Canaan, by 
Hon. David Mills, Q.C., M.P. 

“ lOth Canaan in the time of Joshua, by Sir 
J. W. Dawson, F.R.S., LL.D. 

“ 17th The Book pf Joshua, by Rev. S. P. Rose, 

D. D. 

“ 24th The Physical Geography of Palestine, by 

E. I. Rexford, B.A. (Rector of High 
School). 

“ 3 1st Farewell meeting. Addresses by mem- 
bers of the graduating classes. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting of the McGill 



Mining Society was held in the Old Science building, 
on Friday, December 7th. President Carlyle in the 
chair. The minutes of the previous meeting were 
read and adopted. 

The proposed scheme of affiliation with the Quebec 
Mining Association was fully discussed, and the 
Secretary was instructed to correspond with the 
Secretary of that Society, and learn if they would 
propose some terms on either of the lines before 
mentioned by which affiliation might be brought 
about. The first paper of the evening was read by 
Mr. Rutherford of Science ’96, on “ Irrigation.” The 
paper contained very interesting descriptions of the 
work as it is carried on in Colorado and Nevada. 

The latter part of the evening was taken up by Mr 
O. E. S. Whiteside, who read a very interesting and 
instructive paper on “ Collieries as affected by thun- 
derstorms, and a description of a mine explosion 
caused thereby.” 

The paper was written expressly for this Society 
by Mr. Farnsworthe, C.E., of the Intercolonial Coal 
Co.,Westville,N.S. 

After some discussion on the papers by those 
present, a hearty vote of thanks was tendered the 
speakers. The meeting then adjourned. 



APP. SCIENCE GLEE CLUB. 

During the last term the Applied Science Glee Club 
has held its regular practices every week, with an aver- 
age attendance of about forty. Thanks to the Presi- 
dent’s untiring efforts, the Club this year is in abetter 
position than it has ever been since its organization. 
Under a capital instruction, Mr. Reynor, the Club 
has developed wonderfully, and thus expresses the 
fact that the Science Faculty is not a minus quantity 
in the vocal art. 

The Club’s regular practices will recommence on 
Wednesday, Jan. 9th, in preparation for its smoking 
concert, which is to be held next month ; the com- 
mittee are already engaged on its arrangements, and, 
judging from the Club’s work so far, the concert will 
be a most successful one. 

The Annual Drive, dinner at the Athletic Club 
house, Cote des Neiges, and steeplechase will be held 
on Saturday, Jan. 19th, to which the Students of other 
Faculties are cordially invited. 

This is something that should not be missed espe- 
cially by Science men, as the general opinion is that 
the Glee Club’s drive is one of the most enjoyable 
features of the whole year. Further notice of both 
drive and concert will be given later. 



128 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



McGILL GLEE AND BANJO CLUB. 

Before this issue ot the FORTNIGHTLY is in the 
hands of the Students, the Glee and Banjo Club will 
have returned from their third annual concert tour, 
taking in Ottaw'a and adjoining towns. Although a 
detailed account of their trip could not be prepared in 
time for this number, it can at least be reported that 
prospects are very bright for a successful tour, as the 
members of both the vocal and instrumental clubs 
have this year practised more faithfully and system- 
atically than ever before. 

The following extract from a printed circular is- 
sued by the “ Ottawa Valley McGill Graduates So- 
ciety” is very gratifying, and should serve as a 
prompter to all the Undergraduates to give their 
heartiest support to their fellow-students for their 
coming Montreal Concert, that they may not be out- 
done in loyalty to their Alma Mater. 

It isa.part of one of two motions passed unani- 
mously by the Society, and reads as follows : — 

“ It was also agreed to give the enthusiastic sup- 
port of our Society to the McGill Glee and Banjo 
Club, which will give a grand concert in the Opera 
House on Monday evening, January 7th, To this 
effect the Secretary has written to and obtained let- 
ters from the following distinguished personages, who 
have graciously acquiesced to become patrons and 

patronesses of this concert ” Then follow 

the names of their Excellencies, the Governor General 
and Lady Aberdeen, and many of the Hite of 
Ottawa. 



W/NDSOR HALL . , . Friday, JAN. 11th, 1895 

McGill University Glee and Banjo Clubs. 



UNDER THE DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE OF 

Their Excellencies The Governor-General and the Countess of Aberdeen, 

Sir Donald and Lady Smith, Dp. and Mrs. Johnson 

AND THB 

Governors^ Professors and Graduates of the University 



GRAND CONCERT OF COLLEGE SONGS and MUSIC 



ADMISSION, 75, 50 and 35 Cents. 



AGADEM y oi=_ MUSIG 

HENRY THOMAS, Lessee and Manager. 

WEEK OF JANUARY 7th, 

Prince Pro Tern 

A COMIC OPERATIC FANTASIE, UNDER THE 
MANAGEMENT OF CHAS. L. ROBBINS 

PrcttiJ iVlusic 
Pretty Faces' 
PrcttiJ Scenery 

POPULAR PRICES 



Plan now Open at Sheppard’s Music Store, St. Catherine St. 



