The McGill Gazette. 



VOL. V. 



SATURDAY, MARCH 20 th, 1879. 



Ho. 6 



EDITORIAL... 

A PROLOGUE 65 

OX WRITING NAMES IN BOOKS 65 

UNIVERSITY MEN IN PARLIAMENT 66 

SPORTING 67 

OUR EXCHANGES 68 




CONTENTS. 

61 THAT STUDENT OF McGILL 69 

PERSONALS 69 

CLIPPINGS 70 

ITEMS 70 

LAW DINNER 72 

THE QUEEN’S BENCH 72 



'ERMS.-^l7if7/e Subscription , $1.00 per annum , in advance. Single numbers , 20 cents. 

'or sale at Dawson Bros., Hill's , Drt/sdalc's , Ashford's and Me Adam's. 

Address, “THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1259, Montreal. 



Professional and Visiting Curds, Anns, Crests and Monograms, 



AND 



THE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,” 

AT 

J. 1). SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 

College Society Cards and. Badges a specialty. 



Patronage solicited. 



MACMASTER, HALL & GREENSHIELDS 

Advocates, Barristers, &c., 

No. 181 St. Janies Street, Montreal. 

D. Macmaster. John S. Hall, Jun. J. N. Greenshields 



GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRA VERS, 

169 ST. JAMES ST. 

MONTREAL. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 



JAMES GOULDEN, 



H-A-TTEIRS -A-ISTID FURRIERS, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 



CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 St. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St. 

GOULDEN' S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure for Neuralgic pains in. 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, &c. 

Neuralgine is of great service in improving weak digestion, 
loss of appetite, &c 



GET YOU It HAIR CUT AT HILL'S , 

Queen's Hall Block, - - 1321 St. Catherine St. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 



FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 



Those contemplating a tour to tropical climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. James 
St., Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



GENTLEMEN'S Coats, Pants, 8fc., 
Beautifully Cleaned or Dyed and Pressed 
without shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

706 CRAIG ST., near Victoria Square. 

rno Yog it jifPn y. 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. ARLESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 



II 



The McGill Gazette. 



THOMAS ALLAN & CO , 
WATOHMAK E R S 

AND 

JEWELLERS, 

8ol NOTRE DAME STREET , 



MONTREAL. 




Wearing. Ladies , Gentlemen or Children, Wearing. 

MANUFACTURED AT THE 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Stree\ (Established 1856.) 

GROSS, CLARE & CO 

Surgical Instrument Makers, Inventors and Manufacturers of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross’ 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, &c. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 

A large assortment of Rubber Good , Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymnasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clubs, Rheumatic Chains and Belts, 
&c M alwavs ou baud. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles clone with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 



FUR*, HATS AND CAPS. 



JOB C. THOMPSON & CO., 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, nnil Importers of English Hats , 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which 
we sell at the very lowest price. We mark all Goods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

Our system works well, as the Public have shown by 
their extensive support since we re commenced business. 

416 & 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 

Established 1835. 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

636 DORCHESTER STREET. 



McGill college text books ; 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

Also, all the Books u ed in McEichran’s Veterinary College. 

In consequence of declining he illh, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



McGill College Text Books. 



DAWSON BROS. 

Kf ep always on hand a full supply of all the 

TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 

Students’ Note Books, 

Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 

FOR SALE AT 

159 St. James Street. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET 

McGIBBON &: BAIRD. 

BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1870, 

1,335 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

[Corner Mansfield Street, 1 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the Dominion 
to choose from at either of the above establishments. 

Fresh Goods by every Steamer. 



H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 
BANKERS AND EXCHANGE B ROKERS, 
149 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, Saturday, March 29th, 1879. 



EDITORIAL. 

\T7ITH the present number we close volume 
Ty V. of theMcGiLcGAZETTK The existence 
of this journal has on the whole been of a rather 
precarious nature ; but we flatter ourselves 
that this year’s paper has been superior to any 
of the earlier volumes, not only as regards 
matter, but also in respect of style. We would 
not, however, have our readers to believe that 
the editors regard their efforts as in any 
respect perfect. That there is room for im- 
provement, we frankly admit, yet we cannot 
refrain from congratulating ourselves on the 
favour and success with which the Gazette 
has met during the past year. So much for 
the past. A word now as to the future. The 
size and form of the paper will be unchanged 
next session. We will endeavour to secure 
the co-operation of the best talent in the Uni- 
versity on the staff, and we ask the students 
to procure subscriptions for us during the sum- 
mer months. The first number will be out 
soon after the 15th of September, 1879, and if 
pecuniary prospects will warrant it, the issue 
will be more frequent than formerly. We 
cannot conclude without expressing our obliga- 
tions to our contributors. Some of them have 
done us excellent service, and we thank them 
for it. 



An apology is due our readers lor the delay 
in the issuing of the present number. At the 
usual date of the appearance of the Gazette 
the greater part of our staff were engaged 
either with their “ Sessionals ” or in preparation 
for the examinations then drawing nigh, and, J 
in consequence, the demand of the Managing- 
Editor on each for Ins quota was only produc- 
tive of a growl or an ‘unkind word. As soon, | 
however, as they were at liberty the publishing 



of the journal was immediately entered upon 
and, if late, the editors hope that the contents 
of the paper, will prove of equal interest and 
by no means inferior to its predecessors. 



A VERY great want is felt by the Science 
students in the fact that there are no models 
whatever to illustrate the lectures on drawing. 
The subject as it is taught to them is a difficult 
one, but it might be made very much easier 
by proper models. The lecturer performs his 
duty as well as he possibly can, but he finds 
it difficult enough to explain certain problems 
in orthographic, projection and in perspective 
by means of drawings alone, or by such models 
as he can extemporize out of books and sheets 
of foolscap. It is to be hoped that some im- 
provement will be seen in this respect next 
year. 



Our readers will observe in another column 
an account of the second annual dinner of the 
students in Law. Now, there is nothin" 
particularly remarkable in the fact that a 
graduating class should meet the men they 
leave behind them around the social board. 
The custom is an old one, in Arts at all events, 
and the. only reason why we refer to the Law 
dinner is, in the first place, to commend the 
good feeling which exists among the Law 
students. Unlike their brethren in Arts and 
Medicine, the Law students are by no means 
continually at lectures. They meet, in very 
uninviting quarters, for an hour or two daily, 
and it might consequently be presumed from 
the scanty intercourse necessitates that there 
would be little esprit cle corps amongst them. 
To their credit, however, it must be admitted 
that there is a great deal of esprit de corps, 
and other faculties might learn a lesson from 
the hearty, brotherly feeling exhibited by our 
legal confreres. Of course, it is only natural 
that there should be a bond amongst pro- 



The McGill Gazette , 



62 



fessional students more especially, but when 
we think of the disadvantages under which 
the Law students labour, we cannot refrain 
from congratulating them on the very evident 
entente cordiale which exists. Nor must we 
forget to notice that in Law a larger proportion 
of the students are French Canadian Roman 
Catholics, yet we learn that the most perfect 
harmony has ever characterized the relations 
between the students of different nationalities. 
To the students of the other faculties, and to 
the public at large, the esprit de corps of the 
Law students should serve as an example of 
good-will and brotherly feeling. 

It is certainly a pity that after the exertions 
the committee have made this year to increase 
the number of periodicals in the reading-room, 
so little care should be exercised by the stu- 
dents in handling them. Many of them have 
been badly torn, and complaints have been made 
to the committee by the persons who bought 
them at the auction, that they are not getting 
what they bargained for. We have frequently 
noticed Freshmen, and occasionally others, who 
should certainly have known better, scuffling 
with each other in the room, and, of course, often 
in the course of their “ fun ” damaging the pa- 
pers, the matting, and the furniture generally. 
Now, apart from the fact that the committee 
has to pay for any damage done, these in- 
dividuals should learn to conduct themselves 
in a manner more becoming to gentlemen and 
undergraduates of McGill, than they have been 
doing of late. Of course, accidents will occur, 
even in the best regulated leading-rooms, and 
to these we do not wish to refer ; but when 
you see two or more students fightino- over 
such a paper as the Scientific American, 
or the Graphic, it can hardly be called an 
accident, if in the course of their struggles, they 
manage to tear it. The Scientific American, 
the London Illustrated, the Art Journal, and 
others, have all suffered more or less severely, 
some being torn straight across the page. Now, 



with ordinary care, nothing like this should 
occur, and we hope to see nothing more of it, 
during this session, at least. 



We understand that a petition, influentially 
signed, has been presented to the governing 
body, praying that honour classes similar to 
those in vogue in Arts, be established in the 
faculty of Law. The suggestion will certainly 
commend itself to all those who have had any 
experience of the very unsatisfactory method 
• at present pursued, for anything more incom- 
prehensible it would be difficult to imagine. 
Not that we would insinuate that the exam- 
inations for honours are conducted in anything 
like a slipshod way ; the contrary, indeed, is 
the case. The reports of the annual examina- 
tions show that the average number of marks 
taken is considerably higher than in the other 
faculties, and the standard is certainly well 
maintained ; but it caDnot be denied that 
those who have gone in for honours have dur- 
ing the past year laboured under disadvan- 
tages as compared with the ordinary men. 
For instance, twelve questions were set down 
on a paper, eight only for ordinary ; the time 
for ordinary was one hour and a half, and for 
honours only two hours. This was, however, 
only one instance. Then hardly two profes- 
sors adopted the same method of examining 
their papers. But it is needless to expatiate 
more fully. The existence of the anomalies 
ot which the petition referred to complains 
must be admitted, and we trust that the docu- 
ment will be carefully considered by the facul- 
ty. Not the least commendable feature of it 
is that it shows a desire on the part of the 
students to raise the standard of the faculty 
and consequently the value of the degree. 

The last meeting of the University Literary 
Society was held on March 21st. We need 
not anticipate the annual report by reviewing 
at any length the doings of the Society during 
the winter, but we feel that we should call 



The McGill Gazette. 



6 3 



attention to the fact that the Society has not 
progressed since the last annual meeting. On 
that occasion we ventured to predict that the 
policy pui-sued by both sides in the election — 
and of course more largely indulged in by the 
winning side — was likely to prove prejudicial 
to the best interests of the Society. The 
event has proved the correctness of our fears. 
Old and tried members of the Society felt, 
and perhaps rightly, disgusted at the way in 
which the elections were carried on. They 
found the power taken out of their hands, and 
the consequence is that they lost interest in 
the proceedings, leaving a gap which has by 
no means been tilled by the multitude of new 
members whose subscriptions were paid for 
by the contending parties. We would not 
have it understood that we desire to cast 
blame upon the office-bearers. They have 
worked well ; but the effects of the election 
have been sorely felt. We must also remark 
that during the year the debating talent has 
been inferior to that of previous years. 
The Society is not so strong as it was 
two or three years ago. The Davidsons, 
Monks, Maclarens, Lamsays, Macmasters, 
Kellers, Fishers, have gone out, and with a 
few exceptions their places have not been filled* 
There are a few promising young speakers in 
the Society, but men of weight are wanting. 
Every organization, of course, must have its 
periods of prosperity and reverse, and the 
Society, we should say, is at present in what 
Mr. Vennor would call “ a low dip.” To place 
it on its feet again an energetic effort should 
be made. Not only should the undergraduates 
turn out in larger numbers, but the graduates, 
and moie especially the older graduates, should 
be invited to re-join. We make these remarks 
not to criticize the management during last 
session, for we believe that the staff' of officers, 
from the President down, was efficient ; but a 
very important element was almost entirely 
unrepresented : namely, the older graduates. 
We hope our words will be pondered over by 



those in authority, and we trust that we have 
at any rate seen the last of bribery and cor- 
ruption in the Society elections. 



The session just drawing to a close has been 
rather an unfortunate one for McGill in one 
respect — and that is as regards its athletic 
record. It is true that the meeting of the M. 
U. A. S. was very successful and brought out 
many excellent contestants ; but the defeats 
sustained by the foot-ball club, and to an extent 
by the hockey-club, to passoverthe meagre turn 
out at the snow shoe tramps, show that what 
we affirm is only too true. We have not 
merely lost those to whom our success in for- 
mer years has been mainly due, but those who 
remained, and those who took the places of 
the lost ones, have uot been able to main- 
tain the honour and reputation which the Col- 
lege has acquired as an institution where 
manly sports are cultivated and brought to 
perfection. It is unnecessary for us, while 
briefly summing up the sporting incidents 
of the year, to refer at any length to that 
unkindly spirit entertained by some of our 
foot-ball men towards the club generally. 
It was no doubt the offspring of a moment of 
pique, and those who indulged in it have long 
ere this, we trust, mastered their ill-feelings. 
The match with the Montrealers was played 
late in the season, and in the midst of a shower 
of rain and sleet, when those who composed 
the teams felt in no way disposed to display 
their knowledge of the game by any great 
exhibition of skill. Had the day been brighter 
and the campus in better condition, the result 
might have been different. It was the first 
and only match of the season, the club having 
showed its good sense by resolving to play none 
other of the annual games ; but we trust that 
next year it may find no good grounds for re- 
fusing to play the usual Harvard, Britannia 
and Town vs. Gown matches. If the newly 
appointed captain but does his duty, and 
there is no doubt but that he will, he will be 



l 



64 



The McGill Gazette. 



able, assisted by the material left in his 
hands by his predecessor to retrieve our 
defeat of last year, and keep true to our re- 
putation. The defeat of the hockey team by 
the Montrealers was perhaps counterbalanced 
by the victory over the Britannias, and was 
due, neither to ill play on the part of the 
University, nor to the overwhelming play 
of its opponents, who were as much surprised 
at the result as was the college. It was one 
of those results, the cause of which, cannot 
well be explained. We think, however, that 
the nervousness shown by many of the 
team, had a great deal to do with it. A re- 
turn match was looked forward to, when the 
college would, no doubt, have given a better 
account of itself; but, owing to the season 
being now over, we must wait until next 
session to obtain the desired victory. Although 
mainly unsuccessful, we must not be ashamed 
of ourselves, but consider the record we 
have made, rather in the light of a misfortune 
than a fault. The next season must be entered 
upon with the intention of retrieving past 
defeats, and earnest work on the part of the 
teams, together with good management on the 
part of their captains, will bring about the 
desired end. 



We understand that the afternoon of the 
•day before Convocation has been fixed upon 
by the senior year in Arts as the date on which 
their class day exercises are to be held. Jf we 
may judge from the programme decided upon 
and the selection of those appointed to carry 
it out, a treat is in store not only for the stu- 
dents of McGill but also for the ladies of 
Montreal, who are always to be found in Molson 
Hall when any public ceremony concerning 
the University is being gone through with. 
Of late years several new departures have been 
taken in the time honoured institutions of our 
- College, and of these the present addition to the 



usual Convocation exercises may, perhaps, be 
considered one of the most noteworthy. The 
Seniors are to be commended on taking this 
step, and we are feel that the class of ’79 in 
Arts, as in Law, will be looked upon by the 
men they leave behind them, and those that 
follow these, as a class, who have done more 
than any other, for many years back at least, to 
promote good-feeling and good-fellowship 
among their confreres in the college halls. That 
the proceedings will be attended with success 
we are quite certain, and we can only look for- 
ward to the inauguration with pleasure. May 
Class Day “ flourish like the green bay tree !” 
We cannot close this article without referrino- 
to the Class Suppers started last year by the 
present Soph more class. This session the 
Freshman and Junior classes followed in their 
footsteps, and we understand that the Fresh- 
man class in Medicine contemplates a similar 
observance. It is only right that students 
should meet their classmates once a year around 
the festal board. We, unfortunately, have 
not that which renders life at other colleges so 
en j° 3 ra ble common dining-halls. Scattered 
all over the city, the opportunity given us of 
- cultivating each others friendship is but nom- 
inal, and surely anything that tends in the 
least to lead forward toward this end should 
be promoted and fostered as much as possible- 
The graduating dinners are supposed to 
make up for this want in a degree ; but thev 
ate held too late in the session to bring about 
the wished for end. A greater part of the 
students have left the city to spend their 
summer 'vacation at home long before convoca- 
tion day, and the attendance in consequence 
at these dinners is unhappily small. We trust 
that an attempt will next year be made to 
hold a University dinner in place of the usual 
entertainment in honour of the founder. If 
taken in hand by the graduates and held early 
in the session it will do more then anything 
else to promote a feeling of esprit de corps 
among the students. 



The McGill Gazette. 



65 



DINNER AT THE "QUEEN’S,” 
MONTREAL, 1879. 



Prologue. 



McGill’s Law students, I’ve to say, 

St. Patrick, patron of this day, 

Cead mille fail the! greets us all 
Assembled here in festive Hall ; 

Full bent on pleasure at the board 
Which, graced with cheer and wine record 
Unmeasured joy of blithesome hearts 
On this completion of our parts 
In rugged Law’s probation course, 

(The which we willingly endorse). 

“ Variety’s charming,” runs the song, 

So having studied mnch Troplonq 
And also work’d with might and Maine , 

There*re many great “ Pots here ” to drain ; 

We having sought them for a spell 
In cups another Stori / tell, 

And Blackstone fling aside in play 
A “ white stone ” take to mark this day. 

Then let us to our Feast betake ! 

We’ve nothing but our Leads at stake ! 

In place of Malvoisie and Sack 
(Old possets strong of times far back !) 

We’ll pass the lighter Sauterne round, 

And thus a gentler rev’lry sound 
Than drinking one’s self semi-blind 
We'll required elevation find. 

Then each who is of Themis child, 

Become the son of Bacchus wild ! 

Drown care and strife and spleen and spite 
And cease to prate of “ wrong and right ! ” 

Let repartee and speech and song 
In varied form to us belong ; 

Theme, wit and humor gay combine, 

Law Bachelors of Seventy-nine ! 

But lest that any should get tight 
On this commemorative night, 

Our sleighs, nay, shutters for the fast 
Are order’d sharp at twelve half-past. 

# # # * * 

But stay, one moment ere we start 
This sentiment is from the heart, 

’Tis - should one passing shadow cross 
Our bright Kaleidescope with loss, 

’Twill be the thought of parting ruth 
From Alma Mater of our youth. 

Adieu ! Adieu ! Farewell ! McGill! 

We ever lov’d, and love thee still ! 

G. E. B. 

Montreal , 17th March, 1879. 



We don’t want to crib, but, by jingo, if we do, 

We’ve got the cribs, we’ve got the books and got the 
pockets, too.” — Ex. 



ON WRITING NAMES IN BOOKS. 



Those who do not love books as books, who 
would as willingly derive the same information 
or delight by some other means, lose a large 
amount of pleasu e which the bibliomaniac 
has, over and above what he may extract from 
the letter- press. They can hardly understand 
the expectancy with which he turns over a 
book to discover any of those little signs which 
help to make it more precious to him. 

Most of us have sometimes waited a moment, 
half thinking, half putting the question, "How 
shall I write my name here 1 ” when we have 
been fortunate enough to possess a handsome 
copy in which a careless scrawl across the fly- 
leaf would almost seem a profanation. 

Take up one of the heavy folios which were 
the delight of book -lovers three hundred vears 
ago, and the chances are that you will find, 
stamped on the cover, the arms of the owner, 
generally those of a college, but occasionally 
one has the good fortune to see the broad 
tasselled hat and minutely quartered arms of 
some learned churchman, or the crowned rose 
which suggests the possibility of a Tudor 
owner. 

To-day, books are more easily obtained, and 
are not particularly valued by most people, so 
that so expensive a fashion as stamping the 
arms has almost disappeared. Some few use a 
book-plate, but even this is somewhat unusual, 
and pen and ink are generally employed to 
mark the ownership. 

In old books, “ John Smith his booke,” and 
possibly a date, or the name of his college, is 
frequently seen ; but once in a while a more 
comprehensive statement is given, as in a copy 
of the fiist edition of Machiavelli, published in 
Florence, 1550, a young Englishman who laid 
old Howell’s Instructions to heart during his 
tour wrote “ Questo libro appartiene a me 
Edmondo Verniyo, Gentilhuomo Inglese, l’anno 
di nostro Signore 1663, il pretio su 9 shillings.” 



66 



The McGill Gazelle 



The most amusing entries, however, are 
those which have been pre-eminently the 
schoolboy’s property from time immemorial. 




written above in a bold, schoolboy hand is, 
“John Warren, 1761.” 

“ Hie liber est meus 
Testis est deus 
Hoc nomen pono 
Quia liber perdere nolo 
Si quis furatur 
Per collum pendatur.” 

“ Si quis hunc librum rapiat 
Atque furtivos manibus prehendat 
Pergat ad tetras Acherontis undas 
Non rediturus.” 

In the following the fate of the culprit is 
plainly set forth, — 

“Si quis in hunc librum furtivos injecit ungues, 

II. Sibi pro merito Littera Graeca manet.” 

In a book on Anatomy, — 

“ Si quisquis furetur 
This little Libellum, 

Per 1 hcebuni, per Jovem, 

I’ll kill him, I’ll fell him : 

In ventrem iilius 
I’ll stick my scalpellum 
And teach him to steal 
My little Libeliurn.” 

Those which follow are very “ common 

property ” — 

“Steal not this book for fear of shame. 

For in it is the owner's name. 

When you are dead the Lord will say, 

* Where is that book you stole away ? ’ 

Then if you say, ‘ I do not know,’ 

The Lord will send you down below.” 

*' Thomas Brown is my name, 

England is my nation, 

London is my dwelling place 
And Christ is my silvation.*’ 

“ The rose is red, the grass is green. 

And iu this book my name is seen. ’’ 

It is considered a grand joke to write on 
the fly-leaf, 

“ If my name you wish to see 
Loik at page 10 V’ 

and although the other boy knows the sell 
by heart, ten chances to one he will turn up 
page 1 )'i and be directed from thence to an- 
oth3r page; after looking up several places, the 
greatness of the joke finally bursts upon him. 

“ What a fool for looking ! ” 

Some ingenious people protect themselves 



from a possible theft by writing, “ Stolen from 

.” Others write their name on the 

title page, so that it cannot be taken out with- 
out disfiguring the book. And others on a 
particular leaf. 

However, if it is a valuable book, the safest 
rule is not to lend it to any but those whom 
you can trust, for if a man intends to steal a 
book it is very difficult to prevent him by the 
mere writing of one’s name in it. 

ooo 

UNIVERSITY MEN IN PARLIAMENT. 



It is very pleasant to notice that so many 
of the newly elected members of the Dominion 
House of Commons are graduates of universi- 
ties. From the advance-sheets of Mr. Mackin- 
tosh’s “ Canadian Parliamentary Companion ” 
we have compiled the following figures. There 
are 8S members of the Commons who were 
not in the last House, and out of these 17 are 
University men. Our own Alm% Mater, it 
will be observed, heads the list ; in fact McGill 
is tolerably well represented in Parliament. 
The names, etc., are as follows : 



McGill. Constituency. 

Hun. P. Fortin. M.D.. ’45. .. . Gaspd 

Darby Bergin, M. U , ’47 Cornwall. 

De$ir6 Girouard, B.C.L., ’60, D C.L., ’74.. .Jacques Cartier. 

Hugh McLeod, B.A., ’66 Cape Breton. 

Hon. J. Dubuc, B.C.L., ’69 Provencher. 

J. G. H. Bergeron, B.C.L., ’77 Beauharnois. 

Laval. 

Dr. E. B. Grandbois Temiscouata. 

Achille Larue ... Bellechasse. 

Victoria , Cobourg. 

Hon. W. McDougall C.B Halton. 

N. Wheler* North Ontario. 

Harvard. 

E. B. Muttart King’s, P.E.I. 

I Queen's (Kingston). 

I M. Richey Halifax. 

Michigan. 

Dr. Sproule East Grey. 

Bishop's, Lennoxville. 

Hon. G* B. Baker, M. A Missisquoi. 

Edinburgh. 

Colonel Wil iams East Durham. 

University College, London, Eng. 

Dr. Strange North Oxford. 

, King's (Windsor). 

Mr. Weldon St. John, N.B. 

It must be borne in mind that the above 



are all new members. We will, if the Com- 
panion is issued before the close of the session, 
present a complete list of senators and mem- 
bers who are alumni of universities. 



* Since the above was in type, the Election Court has 
deprived v ictoria of one representative. 



The McGill Gazette. 



6 7 



SPORTING. 



HOCKEY. 

The McGill Club played its first match this 
season on Friday, the 28th of Februavy, against 
a team ot the Britannia Football Club. The 
teams were ; Britannia — Morris, Kinghorn, 
Miller, S. Blaildock, Cushing, Wilson, Orr, 
Thompson. McGill — Redpath, Campbell, 
Scriver, Church, Swan, Green, Howard, Ross, 
and Robeitson. 

It will be seen that the Britannias were 
short of a man On noticing this, McGill at 
once offered to take off a man, so as to make 
the sides even; but the Britannias pluckily 
determined to play against the odds. This 
should be remembered, as it goes a long way 
to explain the result of the match. 

Play started at 4.40, with Howard in goal, 
Scriver point, and Green and Swan half-backs 
for McGill ; and Miller goal, Kinghorn and 
Wilson back for the Britannias. The ball was 
kept well in the Britannia half of the ice, till 
Ross broke his stick, and his skates being 
troublesome, he changed places with Scriver. 
While doing so, the Britannias carried the ball 
well up to the McGill goal, but it was soon 
carried down again, and Scriver getting a 
chance, made a good run and took the first 
goal for McGill, 10 minutes after the game 
began. 

The ball was soon started again, and the 
play was very close, but chiefiy at the Brit- 
annia end. Tn 13 minutes Campbell took the 
second goal for McGill. 

On siarting again, the play, which had 
hitherto been very close, became looser, there 
being more runs on both sides. After a run 
by Kinghorn, Redpath got the ball and made 
a good run, but unfortunate!j r , owing to the 
speed at which he was travelling, carried the 
ball through with his foot, and the goal did 
not count — hard lines for Redpath, who had 
made a brilliant run. Still he could take con- 
solation in the ruin he brought to both the 
goal post and goal-keeper. Play continued 
swaying backward and forward till “ Time 
was called by the umpires. 

On resuming play the positions of the men 
were changed, Campbell taking goal, with 
Ross point, and Scriver and Redpath forward, 
on the McGill side, while for the Britannias 
Cushing took goal. 



As before, the ball was kept pretty well in 
the Britannia’s quarters, and in a melee near 
their goal, Howard got a shot, and took the 
third goal for McGill, — time 6 minutes. 
Howard and Campbell then changed places, 
and almost immediately (1A minutes) after 
recommencing Church took the fourth goal for 
McGill. 

After another 4 A minutes, during which 
Wilson and Kinghorn made good runs, Rob- 
ertson got in front of goal, and the ball being 
passed to him, he sent it through, taking the 
fifth goal for McGill. 

On recommencing, the Britannias forced the 
ball well up, till Campbell picked it out of the 
crowd, losing his elegant head-dress in so do- 
ing, made a splendid run down the ice, and 
plunged with a Britannia man into the 
snow-bank near their goal. After a few 
minutes more play, he again got the ball, and 
took it down to their goal, and pausing a mo- 
ment to make sure, sent the ball through ; the 
sixth goal for McGill, taken after 13 minutes 
play. 

The Britannias then prepared for a last 
struggle, and during the succeeding 7 minutes 
kept the ball well to the McGill goal. A long 
shot was stopped by Howard, and then a de- 
termined rush was made by four or five Brit- 
annias. But Ross and Scriver foiled the 
attack, aud Green took the ball away out of 
danger. Just then time was called, leaving 
McGill victorious by six goal to nothing. 

On the part of the Britannias, Kinghorn 
played splendidly throughout; and Cushing 
kept goal very well, stopping many shots : he 
only needs practice to become a first-rate goal- 
keeper. Orr and Wilson also played well, 
though the latter was inclined to disregard the 
rules, probably through ignorance. Among 
the McGill men Green played splendidly 
throughout; bu r . the Britannias took such an 
interest in him, that if he touched the ball, 
they immediately crowded round and upset 
him : so fierce were their attacks that it was 
considered wonderful thit he lived through it. 
Swan also came in for a large share of their 
attention, which he well deserved. Among 
the rest it would be hard to particularize, the 
record of goals, especially as regards Campbell, 
speaks for their play. Blaiklock (who played 
very hard) and Ross especially distinguished 
themselves by their tendency to assume a re- 
cumbent position. 



68 



The McGill Gazette. 



MCGILL VS. MONTREAL. 

We regret that want of space should pre- 
vent us from giving a full account of this 
match, considered by many the best of the 
series of McGill vs. Montreal games. The 
Montreal team was as follows : Gough, Barns- 
ton, Joseph, Ringhorn, Larmonth, Lamothe, 
Torrance, Ferrier and Abbot. McGill, the same 
as in the match with Britannia, with the ex- 
ception of Dafoe, who pla} r ed in the place of 
his substitute. 

Play commenced at 4.35, and lasted three 
half-hours, during the first of which the Mont- 
realers took the only two games taken in the 
match. 

A return match was, at first, looked forward 
to by the College team, when they intended 
if possible to retrieve their defeat, but being 
so late in the season, it is doubtful if another 
game will be played before the College closes 

THE FOOTBALL CLUB. 

At the annual meeting of the Football Club, 
held on the 1st inst., the following officers for 
the ensuing session were elected : — T. L. 
Brown, ’80 (Med.), Pres.; C. Scriver, ’80 (Arts), 
Captain; H. J. Bull, ’80 (Arts), Treas. ; T. 
Drummond, ’81 (Sc.), Sec’y. Committe : J. 
Austin, ’80 (Law), A. Falconer, ’81 (Arts), K. 
McPherson, ’81 (Arts), C. Low, ’82 (Sc.), J. 
Grant, ’82 (Med.j. 

000 

OUR EXCHANGES. 



This number of the Yale Record is unusual- 
ly poetical. A “ Legend of Yale,” written in 
the metre of Longfellow’s “ Hiawatha,” — Brau- 
calcon D’Andalo, Podesta of Rome.” A Rhap- 
sody — “ Coincidence,” “ Benjingo,” a sonnet 
dedicated to the Ha-varl Advocate, and a 
pretty little poem which we cannot refrain 
from clipping, make up the tout ensemble of 
the literary matter : 

BONNY BOON. 

Ye bank;> and braes o’ Bonny Doon, 

How can ye bloom and look so gay ? 

Since last the sun looked down at noon, 

My light, my life, has passed away. 

Fade, fade, ye flowers, o’er hill and plain, 

The fairest flower o^ all has died ; 

And never show your bloom again, 

Where Bonny Doon’s sad waters glide. 

How can ye dance, O Daffodils, 

With every fair and fickle breeze, 



When she who loved you on the hills, 

Now sleeps beneath the lilied leas ? 

Ye bonnie birds, how can ye call, 

In careless song from bough to bough 
The sweetest singer of you all, 

Is only heard in Heaven now. 

How can ye, cold and silent moon, 

Look down so fair from Heaven above, 

Since never more by Bonny Doon 
I’ll wander with my plighted love. 

The Crimson comes out with a five-page 
supplement, and contains a mass of news and 
profitable reading, besides the usual editorials. 
In one of these latter, it endeavours to do away 
with a misunderstanding in regard to the 
proposed plan for the private instruction of 
young women at Harvard. It is not to be 
co-education in the true sense of the word, but 
an opportunity given to women to be in- 
structed by Harvard professors outside the 
college. The Crimson says : — “ We should be 
glad to have the scanty salaries of our instruc- 
tors increased ; we should be glad to see the 
bright faces of the young ladies in Cambridge, 
and we would not even be so selfish as to envy 
them a Harvard degree ; but we have too 
much respect for them to wish to have them 
associated with us in our college course.” 
Bravo ! Harvard ! 

The Advocate, as newsy and spicy as ever, 
has again found its way over “ the lines,” and a 
quiet perusal of its columns makes one feel as 
it all the world were at rest, and examinations 
looming up only in the distance. 

The Dartmouth has shortened its exchange 
list, and considers only seventy-five out of 
over two hundred College papers worth read- 
ing. There are some Colleges — we beg pardon, 
Universities — where one paper cannot satisfy 
the craving for literary matter, and two, 

1 ft-times three, spring into existence. A com- 
bination of the Tripod and Vidette of North- 
Western University would make a very credit- 
able college paper for instance, and other 
amalgamations of a like nature could take 
place with profit. Of course we make excep- 
tions iir universities like Harvard, Yale, or 
Columbia, where the number of students make 
the four figures. But — nos moutons. The 
Dartmouth still struggles on successfully, and 
its Editorials, Locals, and Exchanges, which 
make up the paper, compare favourably with 
their predecessors. 



The McGill Gazette. 




The neat pages of the Columbia Spectator 
always contain something of interest, and the 
new department, of which the illustration, 

■“ Reconciliation ” is a type, adds much to its 
appearance. “ Only a Vassar Girl ” has reached 
its ninth chapter, and the ending, “ to be con- 
tinued in our next,” brings a pang to one’s heart, 
and we wonder whether the hero is to lead 
to the altar Chief Zobelios-Kippinuaugap’s 
daughter, or Maud, or whether he is to suc- 
cumb to the fiery flame. 

Trinity College has been greatly excited 
over a disagreement between the faculty and 
the students, as regards the usual celebration 
on Washington’s birthday. The former, it 
seems, offered a hall in one of the college 
buildings for the entertainment, on the con- 
dition that the programme was submitted to 
them for approval, as well as the several poems 
and songs. To this the latter objected to, hired a 
hall in the cit} r , kept their speeches, etc., to 
themselves, and honoured the father of their 
country as they thought tit. The celebration 
over, six of the malefactors found themselves 
suspended, and two more placed on probation. 
The students as a body thereupon decided 
not to attend the usual exercises. The Faculty 
telegraphed to each one’s father, “Your son 
requires your presence immediately !” A flock- 
ing of anxious parents takes place, a consulta- 
tion is held, the faculty give way, and the 
students victorious, have had several holidays 
and much sympathy, while their rulers have 
fora second time this season found themselves 
at fault. 

OOO 

The following are also to hand: — Richmond 
College Messenger, Kenyon Advance, The 
Undergraduate, The Tuftonian, Cornell Era, 
The Tripod, The Volante, College Mercury, j 
Yale Record, Brunonian, Backer Quarterly 
Central Collegian, La Salle Advance, Prince -‘ 
tonian, Nasau Literary Magazine, University I 
Press, Beacon, Rochester Campus, Cornell 
Review, King's College Record, Kingston 
Collegiate Herald, Queen’s College Journal, 
Acadia A thenaium, Bowdoin Orient, Dalhousie 
Gazette, Canadian Spectator, New York Mon- ! 
day World, Argeuteuil Advertiser, Canadian \ 
Illustrated News, Evening Post, etc , etc. 



THAT STUDENT OF McGILL. 

Air: California Bid. 

The hero of my humble song 
Was a student of McGill ; 

And in the College lobbies 
You may hear the story still — 

He had no other aim in life 
Than to pass his sessional free, 

And be sometimes in at the Enquete Room. 

And sometimes out on a spree. 

CHO.--That student of McGill, 

That student of McGill, 

That rusty, musty, dusty, fusty 
Student of McGiil . 

When first he came to grind up Law 
He was a Freshman green, 

He’d never been to town before 
No vices had he seen ; 

But evil communica-ti-ons 
Our catechisms say. 

Are rather apt to lead our minds 
From virtue's paths away. 

Cho. 

This student wandered out one night 
Some Me-di-cals to see, 

And with those self same Medicals 
He got on a roaring spree ; 

And the bobbies straight did run them in. 

Though the next day they got free, 

By paying ten dollars and thirty-one cents 
To the City Treasuree. 

Cho. 

This student never went to court 
And his lectures didn’t attend ; 

So the Dean informed the wayward lad : — 

“ You will have your ways to mend, 

For quoad this, and quoad that 
We will you rusticate, 

So ponder it o’er my dear young man 
Before it grow s too late. ’ 

Cho. 

So the student took these words to heart, 

And determined to repent, 

On the World, the Flesh r>nd the Arch-En-em-y. 

His money no longer spent ; 

But purchased a Code and a Pothier, too, 

And ground them up so well 
That he took his degree at the end of the year, 
And later, his D. C. L. 

Cho. 

B. C. L., 79. 

000 

PERSONALS. 



Chas. R. Cook, late of ’SO, is studying Law 
in Plattsburg, N. Y . 

Professor Osier, of the Medical Faculty, 
has been appointed examiner on Comparative 
Anatomy and Physiology at the University of 
Toronto. 

’ 78 , N. H. Vineburg, M. D , delivered a lec- 
ture on “ The Physiology of Respiration,” on 
March the loth, in the Natural Histoiy So- 
ciety’s Rooms. It formed one of the Somer- 
ville course. 



70 



The McGill Gazette , 



CLIPPINGS. 



A SHORTER CATECHISM. 



“ What is a Senior ? ” 

“ A senior is a man who is hourly thunder- 
struck at the immensity and variety of his 
own learning. A senior usually discovers the 
cold, harsh nature of the world, when he falls 
in love with a green-eyed girl who will not 
marry him until he has an income of two 
thousand dollars a month, and a brown-stone 
front in Harlem.” 

“ What is a Junior ? ” 

“A Junior is one who writes poetry and 
nourishes secret griefs.” 

“ Tell me something about Sophomores.” 

“ Sophomores are men who cany big bangers, 
and rent seats in chapel to freshmen for $4.50 
apiece. Probably more beer is required to run 
a good healthy class of sophomores, than they 
could ever pay for, if they wei'e not allowed to 
‘ hang it up’.” 

“ Do Sophomores like Freshmen ? ” 

“Yes, sophomores do like freshmen, but you 
would, perhaps, uever suspect it from their 
manner. They are naturally reserved.” 
“Describe Freshmen.” 

“Freshmen are babes in the wood, who fall 
an easy prey to unprincipled tutors. A cheeky 
freshman is probably the lowest type of 
humanity. Freshmen, however, should be 
treated well because they will be seniors some 
day, if they can rub along until they are out of 
their swaddling clothes.” 

“ What are tutors ? ” 

“Tutors are beings created for the purpose 
of inspiring students with a longing for a bet- 
ter world hereafter. Many and many an 
innocent boy, reared in a Christian home and 
with a ch ldhood full of bright promise, has 
been led astray and gradually sunk lower and 
lower until he has ended by becoming a tutor 
in a college.” 

“ Is it ever possible for a man who is ignorant 
of his own language, who studies nothing but 
athletics, and who is remarkable chiefly for his 
cheek, to graduate at a college ? ” 

“ Oh, never ! ” 

“ What, never ! ” 

“ Well, hardl — ” 

“ Sh-h-h ! That’ll do : now put on your 
little striped ulster and run out and play till 
dark.” — 



There was a young student in Farnam, 

Who took off his stocking to darn ’em. 

And a piece of the needle 
He used in the deed’ll 
Be found in the student in Farnam. 

N. B. — He left it in his stocking, which can’t 
j be expressed in poetry. 

LE PRINTKMPS. 

| “In the spring the reverend senior braces for the final grind ; 

In the spring the nobby junior lets his hair grow long be- 
hind ; 

In the spring the jolly soph’more sees his former toughness 
wane : 

In the spring a freshman’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts 
of cane.” 



Prof. — •“ Yes, in bis darkest hours, Milton, 
blind, neglected and forgotten, could still for- 
get his sorrows while pouring forth his soul to 
the deep harmonies of the organ. Do you re- 
member, sir, a more modern instance of the 
same thing?” Soph. — (doubtfully.) — “John- 
ny Mor — ?” — Prolonged applause. 



* 79 . 

“ Grind, grind, grind, 

For a sight of that old degree ; 

.And I would that my tongue would utter 
The thoughts that arise in me. 

O, well for the innocent Fresh 
As he slopes with a timorous leer ! 

And well for the dissolute Soph, 

As he shouts for a schooner of beer ! 
But it’s grind, grind, grind, 

Till I tack on my name, A.B., 

And the careless ease of a day that is fled 
Will never come back to me !” 

:o: 

ITEMS. 



Lots of poetical talent in Law. 

What is the correct costume for Convoca- 
tions ? 

The Literary Society has been rather poorly 
attended lately. 

Several cases of theft about the main build- 
ing have been reported. 

The examination in Constitutional History 
will be held on April 21st. 

The Law students claim that their dinner, 
reported elsewhere, was the best yet. 

The presence of past graduates at the annual 
dinner in Law, is a good idea. 

Champagne suppers are given by Medicos 
on the occasion of their birthdays. 



The McGill Gazette. 



7 * 



A good number of this yeav’s graduating 
•class in Law go up before the Bar in July. 



large audiences, who departed well pleased 
with the evening’s entertainment. 



Graduates should not forget the annual 
meeting of the McGill Graduates’ Society. 

The last day of lectures in Law the students 
sang “ Auld Lang Syne ” in the lecture-rooms 

Owing to illness the Professor of Classics was 
unable to hold his classes as usual the earlier 
part of this week. 

Those students who remain in town during 
the summer, should not forget the Cricket 
Club. 

The Seniors in Aids, Law and Medicine 
have selected Nottnan as the class photo- 
grapher. 

The competition for the medal in Law is 
expected to be very close, and the marks taken 
are said to have been very high. 

A first-year student was heard to tell a lady 
lately that “ Every other class in Arts loafs 
horribly except the Freshmen.” 

At a dinner lately the retiring captain of 
the foot-ball team was made the recipient of a 
very handsome pipe by a number of his con- 
freres. 

The annual report is out, and contains, 
among other things, a regret at the extent 
cramming is carried on at McGill, especially 
among the Medicos. 

The following committee has been appointed 
to make arrangements for the graduating din- 
ner in Arts : Bull, ’80 ; Weir, ’81 ; Thomas, 
’82 ; Skaife, ’80 (Sc.) ; and Burland, ’82 (Sc.) 

The Law and Medical Convocation will be 
held on Monday, April 1st. Singing is to be 
indulged in, and as the 'personnel of the vale- 
dictorians predict good addresses, a most suc- 
cessful gathering is looked for. 

We understand that it is proposed by some 
of the Law Students to petition the Faculty 
to establish honour classes similar to those in 
Arts. The proposition is a good one, and will, 
we hope, be carried out. 

The Morrin College Debating Society has 
met with good success during this its first year 
of existence. Two very satisfactory public 
debates have been given, at which there were 



A number of Arts’ sweetest warblers took 
part in an entertainment at St. Paul’s Church 
some little time since, and again at the Indus- 
trial Rooms Bazaar last week. Their songs 
were well rendered, and Montreal is rather 
surprised at the musical talents displayed by 
her “ college boys.” 

It is understood that “ first is last, and last 
is first,” is the principle in which precedence 
is regulated in University matters. This ex- 
plains why the Law proceedings succeed the 
Medical exercises at Convocation, inasmuch as 
Law by the statutes of the University, has 
precedence over all other faculties in the 
University. 

The “Queen’s” is spoken of as the probable 
place where the Graduating Dinner in Arts 
will be held. A large attendance is expected, 
the committee having been enabled to materi- 
j ally reduce the subscription fee. The same 
; evening — thatof Convocation Day — the gradu- 
ates have their annual dinner at the Windsor. 

Owing to the fondness shown of late by the 
i several classes in Arts for “ sloping lectures,” 
the Faculty, at a meeting held some little 
time since, passed a resolution empoweiing the 
registrar of the College to impose a fine of 
from $1 to $5 on all members of a class found 
“ sloping,” in default of which rustication will 
be resorted to. 

The- Senior year in Arts have decided upon 
April 28th as the Class Day. The several 
years are to meet in their class-rooms and re- 
pair to the Hall in order of seniority. After 
the usual exercises the graduating class pro- 
pose planting an ivy somewhere about the 
College and rendering due homage to the 
different buildings of the University. 

We understand that there is about to be a 
i move among the Science students with regard 
to the extremely short time allowed them for 
dinner. Many of them live some distance off 
and are in consequence obliged to walk home 
and back at a pretty lively gait, which exer- 
cise immediately after a meal is by no means 
conducive to study, but is a capital way to en- 
courage indigestion. One hour is entirely too 
short, and it is to be hoped there will be a 
change made next session. 



72 



The McGill Gazette. 



LAW DINNER. 



The annual dinner of the Law students 
took place on the 17th instant at the “ Queen’s.” 
About forty sat down to the hospitable board, 
which, it is needless to say, was loaded with 
all the delicacies for which mine host of the 
“ Queen’s ” is so justly celebrated. After full 
justice had been done the menu, the toasts 
were drunk ; in every case, with a hearty 
goodwill. The first toast on the list was the 
standing one, with which familiarity cannot 
breed contempt, the toast of the “ Queen,” 
which was given by the Chairman, Mr. C. J. 
Fleet, B.A., in a few patriotic remarks. This 
was followed by a rendering of the National 
Anthem, led by Mr. A. 1). Nicholls, B.A. The 
second toast was proposed by the Vice-Chair- 
man, Mr. Trudel, M.A., and was that of the 
“University,” ably dealt with in a few remarks 
in French, and loudly applauded. “A Health 
to Old McGill” was the song that succeeded 
this, and was sung by Mr. Baynes, B.C.L., Mr. 
Lane, whose name was down for it, being 
obliged, from an unavoidable reason, to excuse 
himself. The next toast was that of “ The 
Professors,” which was proposed by Dr. Nicholl 
in the absence of the Rev. J. L. Forster, and 
was followed by a song from Mr. Ethier. “Bench 
and Bar ” was the next in order, which was 
proposed by Mr. Bampton in a few short and 
appropriate words, while Mr. Lafieur, B.A., 
sang “ The Queen’s Bench,” an original and 
very amusing song. Then came the toast 
“Our Guests,” by Mr. R. D. McGibbon, B.A.,in 
which, in the name of his class, be extended a 
hearty welcome to the representatives from 
the sister faculties and from Laval. Mr. 
Trudel followed in the voyageur song “ Hioupe, 
Hioupe sur la riviere.” The replies to this 
toast were made by Messrs. Decary, McCully, 
and Lighthall for Laval Medicine and Arts 
respectively. The sixth toast was “ The Gradu- 
ates of ’70,” proposed by Mr. Sharp in a speech 
that recommended to the praise of their 
successors the graduating class, inasmuch as 
they had been the great prompters of esprit 
de corps among the Students of Law. Mr. 
Carter then sang and was encored, and Mi-. 
Busteed, B.A., replied to the toast. “ The 
Medallist and Valedictorian” brought to his 
feet Mr. Atwater, B.A. In the song that 
followed, Mr. Chartrand took the place of Mr. 
Ledieu, and Mr. Fleet replied by singing his 



famous song “ The Student of McGill,” and. 
when encored sang “ My Sally.” “The Men 
we leave behind us” was proposed by Mr 
Nicholls, Mr. Trudel sang “ Brigadier,” and 
replies were made by Messrs. Weir and de 
Martigny, the former for the students of the 
second year, the latter for those of the first. And 
finally the Chairman proposed “The Ladies,” 
to which a voice very properly added “ God 
bless them.” Mr. Sharp followed in the ap- 
propriate song “ Here’s to the Maiden,” and 
Mr. Charles Raynes replied. The party 
separated about half-past twelve, everybody 
declared everybody else was the best fellow 
he knew, and thus, after singing “ Auld Lang 
Syne ” was the dinner brought to a close, 
which was, by a universal verdict, declared to 
be one of the happiest celebrations they had 
ever experienced. 

ooo 

“THE QUEEN’S BENCH” 



A LA “ PINAFORE.” 



When I was a lad I served a term 
As an office-boy to an attorney’s firm. 

I cleaned up the windows and I swept the floor, 

And I polished up the handle of the big front door ; (bis.) 

I polished up that handle so carefully 
That now I am a Judge on the great “ Q. B.” 

Cho.— He polished up that handle so carefully 
That now he is a Judge on the great “ Q. B.’’ 

As office-boy 1 mide such a mark 

That they gave me the post of a junior clerk, 

I served the writs with a smile so bland, 

And I copied out the letters in a big round hand, (6i>.) 

I copied out the letters in a hand so free 
That now I am a Judge on the great “ Q. B.” 

Cho. — He copied, &c. 

In serving writs I acquired such a fame 
That an articled clerk I soon became, 

And I cribbed a very little just as any fellow will 
For the B. C. L. exam, up at Old McGill, (bis.) 

And that B. C. L. exam, did so well for me, 

That now I am a Judge on the great “ Q. B.” 

Cho. —And that B. C. L. exam., &c. 

I grew so rich that I was sent 

As one of John A.’s members into Parliament, 

I always voted at my party’s call, 

And never thought ot thinking for myse’f at all. (bis.) 

I thought so little they rewarded me 
By making me a Judge on the great “ (J. B.” 

Cho.— -He thought so little, &c. 

Now, students all whoever you may be, 

If you want to rise to the top of the tree, - 

If your soul isn’t fettered to an office stool, 

Be careful to be guided by this golden rule, (bis.) 

Do the least work you can for the very largest fee, 

And you all may be Judges on the great “ Q. B.” 

Cho. — W e’ll do the least work, &c. 



’ 80 . 



. The McGill Gazette , 



in 



. ° TTAWA & o Cc 



# c ’ M /a 

SHORTEST AND MOST DIRECT ROUTE ' 

— TO — 

OTTAWA AND TOWNS IN UPPER OTTAWA VALLEY, 

— ALSO TO — 

QUEBEC ALL POINTS EAST, 

And to all intermediate points between Ottawa and Quebec. 



: o : 

FAST TRAINS AND SURE CONNECTIONS. 

For full information apply to Ticket Office, 

2D2 St, James Street , and 158 Notre Dame Street 9 

STARNES, LEVE & ALDEN, Ticket Agents. 



THE McGILL STUDENTS’ 

POCKET SONG BOOK, 

Plaice, 35 Cents. 

For Sale at the Bookstores, and on applica- 
tion to the Publisher, 

P. 0. Box 378. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 

Photographers to the Queen , 

17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



STUDENTS 

desirous of taking 

LESSONS IN SHORTHAND, 

Will please communicate as to terms, &c., with 

MR. CRANKSHAW, 

P. 0, Box 933. Secretary Phonetic Society . 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BE HELD AS USUAL INJHE 

NEW ROOMS , , 15 PHILLIPS SQUARE , 

ON 

FRIDAY EVENINGS, 

to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



BOOTS ! BOOTS I 

ESTABLISHED 1837, 

for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A . DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St* 



TURKISH BATH, 

140 Tv/COHSTIGiTTE STREET, 

(OFF DORCHESTER STREET), 

Near the Windsor Hotel. 

Larne stmd Complete . — One of the Finest in the World. 

HOURS Uentleuien 6 to 9 a.m., and 2 to 10 p.tn. Ladies 10 a.n?. 
to 1 p.in. 

Open Sund iv Mornings for Gentlemeu. 

T. COOK, Proprietor. 



IV 



The McGill Gazette. 



CHARLES McADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Chromos, Steel Plate 
Pictures, Fancy Goods , Sfc., SfC. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Square, 

Near Zion Church, MONTREAL. 

Honourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arte, Edinburgh. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Street. 

Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St., Montreal. 
OYSTERS, GAME, FISTI, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 12 to 3. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE TERMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 

HENRY DUNNE. 



The Medical Hall ’ 

St. James Street. 

Branch : , Branch : 

Phillips’ Square, Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies. 



W. SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents’ Fur Gals, Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS’ 

Emporium for Out-door and other Games , 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle, Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, &c. 

Jewellery and Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and‘ Silver Timing Watches-, 

Jewellery of all descriptions, 

Silver aud Electro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
nn endless assortment of other goods suitable for 

PRESENTATIONS. 

R. SHARPLEY 8c SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

# 



CHAS. M. ALEXANDER, 

CONFECTIONER, 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts , Dinner ami Supper Parties 

Supplied. 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 



McGill College Text Books. LORGE & CO., 



W. DRYSDALE k CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 

ter CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

232 ST. «T -A. IVIES STREET, 232 



First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
-A- T -A S E O E. JD ’ S , 

(576 V DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School, 

MONTREAL. 



Choice Cut Flowers Received Daily. 

Floral Decorations of every description at the Boston Floral Mart 
1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 
Prompt attention given to all orders by Mail or Telegraph. 

Will. RILEY, Agent. 



The McGill Gazette , 



• • • 



in 



SUBSCRIBE FOR 

"THE McGILL GAZETTE,” 

$1^00 per Annum , in Advance . 



THE McGILL STUDENTS’ 

POCKET SONG BOOK, 

Price, 35 Cents. 



For Sale at the Bookstores, and on applica- 
tion to the Publisher, 

P. O. Box 378. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 

Photographers to the Queen , 

17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

THE STUDENTS OF McGILL COLLEGE 

are invited to Inspect the stock of GENTS’ 
FURNISHINGS at 

TIETIE BE OOJLEET HOUSE. 

Prices right, and value without a doubt. 

BROWN & CLAGGET, 

Corner Notre Dame & St. Helen Sts. 

N.B. — A First-class Tailoring Department a specialty 
with us. B. & C. 



BOOTS I BOOTS ! 

ESTABLISHED 1837, 

for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A. DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St 



STUDENTS 

desirous of taking 

LESSONS IN SHORTHAND, 

Will please communicate as to terms, &c., with 

MR. CRANKSHAW. 

P. 0. Box 933. Secretary Phonetic Society. 



UNIVERSITY LITER AR Y SOCIETY. 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

t 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

ON 

F RI D -A. "ST E VENTHsTGS, 

to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET. ’ 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1876 
1,335 ST. CATHERINE ST. ’ 

[Corner Mansfield Street,] 

McGIBBON, BAIRI) & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the nmnirG 
to choose from at either of the above establishments Donun.ou 

’Fresh Goods by every Steamer. 



TURKISH BATH 

140 3VTOISriG4TTE STREET 9 

{OFF DORCHESTER STREET ), 3 

Near the Windsor Hotel. 

Large and Complete. — One of the Finest in the World 

HOIIUSs— Gentlemen 6 to 9 a.m., and 2 to 10 p.m. Ladies 10 m 
| to 1 p.m. v »ui*.o a.m. 

Open Sunday Mornings for Gentlemen. 

T, COOK, Proprietor . 



IV 



The McGill Gazette . 



CHARLES Me ADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Cliromos , Steel Plate 
Pictures, Fancy Goods, SfC., SfC. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Square, 

Near Zion Church. MONTREAL. 

Honourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arts, Edinburgh. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Street. 



W. SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents’ Fur Gats, Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 



Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St., Montreal. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS’ 



Emporium for Out-door and other Games, 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle. Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, &c. 



OYSTERS, GAME, FISH, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 1‘2 to 3. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE TERMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 



HENRY DUNNE. 



Jewellery and Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and' Silver Timing Watches, 

Jewellery of nil descriptions, 

Silver and Klectro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
an endless assortment of other goods suitable for 
PRESENTATIONS. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



The Medical Hall ’ 

St. James Street. 

Branch: » Branch: 

Phillips’ Square, an Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies. 



McGill College Text Books, 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices, 
isr CATALOGUES MAILED TREE. 

232 ST- J -A. IVIES STEEEX, 232 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
A T ASHFORD’S, 

676!s DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School, 

MONTREAL. 



CHAS. M. ALEXANDER 

CONFECTIONER, 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts , Dinner and Supper Parties 
Supplied . 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 



LORGE & CO., 

First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers* 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL , 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Choice Cut flowers Received Daily. 

Floral Decorations of every description at the Boston Floral Mart 
1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 
Prompt attention given to all orders by Mail or Telegraph. 

WM. RILEY, Agent. 



