Vol. VII. 



No. 6. 



McGILL 




Friday, February 1st, 1884. 




( 



The Lamp of Hero - 
Editorials - 
Contributions 
Correspondence - 
Sporting News - 



C O NTENTS : 



PAGE. 

: 1 

- 1-3 
- 3-7 

7 

8 



College World 
Between the Lectures 
Personals 
Obituary 



PAGE. 

8-10 

10-11 

11 

- 11 



MONTREAL : 

“ WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 

Jidvoaaies, Jiizcnrneys, dzc. 

13 HOSFITAli STREET, 

MON TREAL. 

t 

N. w. Trenholme, M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor, B.a. B.C.L. w. e, Dickson, B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner fer the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario L Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Magmaster, Hutchinson & Weir, 

-M:7iDY0e^Eg^ 

B arris: or s, Solicitors , doc. 

162 ST. JAlIVEES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. M. Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L. 



JOHII HEHDEHSOH & CO. 




283 NOTRE DAME ST. 





Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tli© “ MoG-IIjIj” Ribbon for sale. 



■HtvWM. H I LL^ 







¥ EOOHS -A.T 4- bvS 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 



^having Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



GreEnshields, MgGorkill & Guerin, 

AUV ©CATES, 

Smn6kr4, Jlttommjti, So4mioi4,de. 

CHAMEERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

10 & St. Frctncois St., 

MOlNTTREAri. 

J. N. GREENSHIELDS. J. C. McCORKILL EDMUND GUERIN. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 



jparies, 



lonucpum, H. 



^cja^^I^6E-:liICE]5SE^I^aED$4. 



No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 






32 

Os> 




IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST, JAMES ST., '*?Z£2: md MONTREAL. 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 




INTO- 135 JST. PETER STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MXIiITAH.Y UNIFORMS A SPECIALTY. 




A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 



IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

G"-* AN INSPECTION INVITED, 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. RA. 73 L STREET. 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 




Vol. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 1st, 1884. 



[No. 6. 



sscsiihib hriyee lsise mmm s. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



J. R. Murray, RA., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, '84, Arts. 

J. AY. Moffat, '84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., '84, Law. 



McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
AY. AY. AYhite, ’86, Med. 

S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
AA t yatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 



Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 
H. S. 



Session. 

Rejected Communications mil not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



THE LAMP OF HERO. 

{From the French of Louise Ackcrmann.) 

When Hero’s lover, reckless of the storm. 

Each night more hungry for his stealthy bliss, 

Swam the swift channel to the trembling form 
That waited with a kiss ; 

A Lamp, with rays that welcomed from afar, 

Streamed through the darkness, vigilant and bright, 

As though in Heav’n some large immortal star 
Unveiled its throbbing light. 

The scourging billows strove to blind his eyes, 

The winds let loose their fury on the air, 

And the scared sea-gulls shrieked discordant cries. 

Foreboding death’s despair : 

But from the summit of the lonely tower 
The Lamp still streamed above the waters dim, 

And the bold swimmer felt redoubled power 
Nerve each exhausted limb. 

As the dark billows and the winds at strife 
Whelmed in their wrath the love sick boy of old, 

So, round humanity the storms of life, 

Since Time was born, have roll’d. 

But while each lightning-flash reveals a tomb 

That yawns insatiate for each wretch that cowers, 

In the same dangers, and the same dense gloom 
The same true Lamp is ours. 

Through the dull haze it glimmers, sweet and pale, 

The winds and waters struggle, but in vain 
In clouds of foam the guiding star to veil, 

For still it gleams again. 

And we, with faces lifted to the sky, 

Filled with fresh hopes, the raging billows cleave, 

Faint, but encouraged by the light on high 
Our venture to achieve. 

Pharos of Love ! that in the blackest night 

Dost guide our course amid the rocks and shoals, 

O Lamp of Hero ! fail not with thy light 
To cheer our sinking souls ! 

Geo. Murray. 



very same number of the Journal there is a report of an 
address in which he is made to say “ that we (the Presbyterians) 
were forced to build up Queen’s at our own expense.” In the 
same address he makes a stirring appeal to his fellow-church- 
men. All this makes the contention of the Journxd appear a 
little inconsistent, but then, of course, that is a small matter in 
such an impoitant and heated discussion as the present. It is 
indignanly asked if the fact of there being more students of a 
particular denomination at a college is sufficient reason for that 
college being called “denominational.” AA r e wonder if the 
Journal had any real doubt upon this question. If it were to 
be answered in the affirmative, we should like to know what an 
“ undenominational ” college would be. Secondly, it is asked 
if the fact of there being more professors of a particular 
denomination renders the college “ denominational.” This is 
an equally sensible question with the first. The Journal itself 
points out the absurdity of these questions, and we cannot 
understand for wdiat object they w T ere brought fonvard. The 
Faculty of Arts is one part of Queen’s University, so also is the 
Faculty of Theology, which is in connection with the Presby- 
terian Church in Canada. If ever there was a denominational 
University in this world Queen’s University is such, and the 
Faculty of Arts is merely a department of that University. 
If Queen’s is not a denominational University, we should like 
to know where one is to be found. Does the Journal 
wish to maintain that because in the curriculum of the 
Arts department there is not laid down a special course in the 
distinctive doctrines of the Presbyterian Church, the College 
cannot be called denominational In that case, we have been 
living unawares in a blessed state of undenominationalism. 
Let us no longer make the mistake of calling Victoria, Meth- 
odist, and Trinity, Anglican. Have not they among their 
students, at least half a dozen, wdio are not Methodists or Epis- 
copalians ? All our Universities are undenominational ! But we 
must cry out w T ith D’Arcy McGee, “ O sacred inconsistency.” 
How was it that when Principal Grant came on his pilgrimage 
to Montreal some years ago, he visited the leading members of 
the Presbyterian community and solicited subscriptions from 
them on the ground that Queen’s was a Presbyterian College, 
and that as such they ought to support it. It was certainly not 
a pure desire to advance higher education that led some of our 
citizens to give large sums of money to Queen’s College on the 
occasions to which we refer. There was a LTiiversity much 
nearer home doing, perhaps, just as much for education as the 
Kingston College, to which these same benefactors could never 



(§ editorials* 



Tiie Queen's College Journal feels very sore at that College 
bein<' dubbed “ denominational,” and in a long editorial labours 
to show that the epithet is, in their case, improperly applied. 
That they should take this stand, surprises us not a little, after 
tlm arguments which Principal Grant has been thundering forth 
in his° recent philippics. AYe certainly understood him to 
defend the denominational colleges as such, and, indeed, in the 



be prevailed upon to give a cent. It would not have served 
Dr. Grant’s purpose to have claimed that the College was un- 
denominational then, and as we have said, he wisely took the 
only course which was at all likely to render his visit to this city 
a financial success, he made denominationalism the text of his 
begging sermon. Jlie supplies have fallen off in Montreal — 
a raid must be made upon the public treasury of Ontario. AA r e 
sincerely hope the attempt will not be successful. Principal 
Grant has heretofore been so successful in raising funds amongst 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



his fellow-churchmen that he is not likely to grow faint for 
want of means. Rut his sense of justice will not allow Uni- 
versity College to receive the money necessary to place it in a 
position to accommodate the increased number desiring admis- 
sion to its halls. I)r. Grant is a friend of University College, 
and he fears that it will never prosper if it benefits itself at the 
cost of justice. With such higliminded arguments do the 
friends of the denominational colleges endeavour to “ put to 
silence the ignorance of foolish men.” 

Let it be granted that the amount of infectious disease 
among students this year has been very great. No doubt it is 
a difficult and thankless task to look after the sanitary sur- 
roundings of a number of students who “board round” in the 
city, yet w T e fail to see that this difficulty exempts the authori- 
ties from all responsibility in the matter. Did the students 
live in residence the authorities would be directly responsible 
for any cases of contagious disease which might occur, and 
making all due allowance for the present circumstances, it 
certainly seems that some measure of responsibility should 
attach to them in the matter of seeing that the students live in 
boarding houses where they w ill have a reasonable prospect of 
finishing the session upon the same side of the grave as that 
upon vdiich they began it. Why should all responsibility 
in this matter end because it is not found feasible at present to 
provide a residence for the students? Would it not be v'ell to 
do now w 7 hat can be done while v r aiting for the happy time 
when it will be found possible to have a residence? That 
any boarding-house keeper should be allowed to receive a 
student without a tolerably recent certificate of the house being 
in a fair sanitary condition, is an idea which would seem utterly 
absurd were it not so common that no one thinks about it at 
all. In a College where in other matters the student is treated 
to so much paternal government, it seems a little odd and 
rather antithetical that he should be considered skilled in mat- 
ters sanitary, and, to use a w r ell-know T n phrase, be presumed to 
be “a good judge of bad boarding-houses.” It is hard to see 
why the responsibility of the authorities should end so abruptly. 
This disagreeable question is a very difficult one to evade, and 
so far it has been simply ignored. Surely it w 7 ould be wise to 
impart a little more than the usual information to the student 
seeking a boarding-house, perhaps for the first time and in a 
strange city. If the drains, for instance, are bad, and there is 
a good chance of typhoid, could not this be specially mentioned 
in the boarding-house list! The enthusiastic professor of hy- 
giene could hardly find a more pleasant or profitable task for 
the class than to practically investigate the sanitary condition of 
the students’ boarding-houses. The undertaking would not be 
without a certain element of excitement, inasmuch as they 
v r ould, in all probability, get themselves into hot water literally, 
as well as figuratively, wdien the landladies discovered the pur- 
port of their mission. We think it our duty to call attention 
to the seriousness of this question, and to express a hope that 
something will be done to palliate what cannot, at present, be 
effectually cured. 

With the limited means at the disposal of the Governors it 
would be like crying for the moon to press them at present to 
build us a residence, so we will say nothing on that head. 
But the Governors have it in their power, at any rate, to pro- 
vide the next best thing, a dining-hall. The difficulty of 
obtaining board has never been so great as this year, and many 



of the students are forced to get their meals at long distances 
from their lodgings. This is an especial hardship to students 
in the Faculties of Medicine and Applied Science, some of 
whom have but a single hour at noon, and are unable to get 
their dinner without going down town for it. The remedy for 
this state state of things can be easily applied. The great 
majority of the students would welcome and cordially support 
any attempt to establish a dining-hall. Such an institution 
would certainly pay its way, and, if carefully managed, might 
become a source of revenue to the University. The only 
question that remains is that of providing a suitable building. 
Fortunately this can be easily settled. The part of the east 
wing now occupied by the Bursar — it really is not absolutely 
necessary to the welfare of the College that the Bursar should 
reside on the premises — would suit the purpose capitally. It 
has the advantage of being in the College, and is sufficiently 
large for the ] urpose. It is too late, of course, to accomplish 
anything this session ; but, as the University machinery is pro- 
verbially slow of movement, the chances are that, if it is 
started now, the dining-hall will be a thing established by next 
September. 

Professor Norton, of Harvard, is trying the experiment of 
making the Tank of his students depend partly upon the merits 
of theses written by them on topics connected with their 
course. This is an excellent idea, and one w r e hope to see 
adopted at some not far distant day in our own University. 
The evils of the present system of ranking entirely according 
to the results of written examinations have been deplored for 
many years, but it has seemed as if human ingenuity, usually 
so fertile in expedients, is unable to discover any means by 
which these evils might be overcome. It is with great satisfac- 
tion, therefore, that w r e hail this departure of Professor Norton. 
It will certainly do aw*ay, to a great degree, with the pernicious 
system of cramming, whose effects upon the mind are so injuri- 
ous. Moreover, it will tend to place ready and slow students 
upon a more equal footing than hitherto ; while, at the same 
time, all will be forced to direct more attention to the study of 
their own language and of the power of expression. These 
things are too generally neglected in McGill. The only course, 
in which essays are demanded from students, is the one on 
Philosophy, and even there the mistake is made of not offering 
any reward for excellence. Student nature is very similar to 
the nature of older men — only more impatient ; and, although 
the students studying Philosophy recognise in theory the bene- 
fits to be gained from painstaking writing, yet in practice the 
majority ignore them. The essays have to be written, and wdll 
be carefully corrected. This the student knows, but, at the 
same time, it is his belief that his rank will be decided not, 
even in the slightest degree, by the merits of his essays. The 
consequence is that, though he usually feels some pangs of 
compunction, he gets into the habit of carelessly scribbling a 
few 7 pages upon the topic which first occurs to him, or sometimes 
he will even copy a portion of his notes. Of course, this is 
not true of all the students — perhaps not of the majority. If, 
however, the standing of the students depended altogether, or 
in part upon these essays, much more care and study would be 
expended upon their preparation. But Philosophy is not the 
only department in which thesis WTiting could be made the 
criterion upon which to award honors and prizes. In English, 
in History, and in Natural Science, this test could be used with 
advantage, even in conjunction w 7 ith the present system. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



This plan may not commend itself to all minds, but, when the 
drawbacks to the present system are considered, it is surely not 
demanding too much to ask that at least a trial should be given 
to it. 

We are sure that we are only expressing the opinion of the 
majority of the students when we say that the Medical students 
who took part in the recent demonstrations against the Lecturer 
in botany, owed that gentleman some apology for their conduct. 
Such disturbances as took place in the beginning we know are 
liable to occur now and again, but if the gentlemen who led 
the subsequent attacks had reflected on the matter, we feel sure 
they would not have carried the affair so far as they did. It 
ought to have been remembered that the gentleman with whom 
the unpleasantness arose, is a comparative stranger amongst us, 
and that, therefore, he deserved an amount of consideration 
which a more experienced professor might not, perhaps, be 
so well entitled to claim. The effect, too, which such an occur- 
rence has upon the minds of the friends of the University 
among the general public, is not very desirable. People imper- 
fectly acquainted with the facts, are apt to construe matters 
in an exaggerated way which is detrimental to the interests of 
the University, and to the reputation of the students. We are 
glad to know that all unpleasantness has now disappeared, and 
we hope that the whole incident will soon pass out of the 
memory both of the students and professors. 

There was one feature about the disturbances which we 
consider highly objectionable. We refer to the way in which 
reporters of the Daily Press were allowed to meddle in the 
matter. We are surprised at professors not seeing the impro- 
priety of letting themselves be interviewed with reference to 
matters which affect the students and authorities alone, and 
which ought not to become material for the ubiquitous news- 
monger to form his items out of. In this way what is often 
in reality a very small affair is exaggerated into revolutionary 
proportions, and a bad name is given by ignorant people on 
no adequate grounds. In future, we hope that all will act on 
that time-honored admonition not to tell tales out of school. 



(Sontribufions. 



Student Life in Germany. 

II. 

The leading feature of student life in Germany is the exist- 
ence of a large number of clubs or societies which are prin 
cipally for the purpose of promoting social intercourse among the 
students, but which frequently have other aims in view as well. 
There are never any dormitories in German Universities, pro- 
fessors and students lodging with the townspeople in the 
nei'dib mrhood of the buildings in which the lectures are held, 
and as these lodgings are usually remarkably circumscribed in 
their dimensions, the students are forced to seek each other’s 
society elsewhere. Hence, nearly every student belongs to his club, 
which has its room in some restaurant, fr m which strangers 
are rigidly excluded, and where the members meet night after 
ni<'ht°to drink weak beer and sing student songs. Students 
very rarely have their meals where they lodge. They take 
their morning coffee there, but almost invariably dine at cheap 
restaurants where they can get what satisfies them for about 
twenty cents. Very often they dine with their club, getting it 
a trifle cheaper in that way. A very common allowance for a 
student is twenty-five dollars a month, out of which he must 
pay for everything including his fees. Taking into considera- 
tion that things are dearer there than in Canada, it will be seen 



that life is not easy under such circumstances. They stint 
themselves, as a rule, in very many ways, in order to have 
money enough for beer. Beer costs from four to six cents 
per glass, and the amount they give out in this way is very 
large in proportion to their allowance. But were it not for 
beer, the student’s life would be dull indeed, for it acts as 
a medium of communication between them, and is absolutely 
one of the necessaries of life according to their ideas. It is 
worthy of remark here, that in Germany every body pays for 
himself There is no such thing as “ standing treat.” Even 
guests at a club sometimes pay for what they drink. 

Besides merely social clubs, there are many others, notably 
those called “ Corps,” which combine social intercourse with as 
much blood as possible, being bound by their rules to keep up the 
practice of duelling. At every University there is also a 
“ Turnverein,” or gymnastic club which patronizes the gymna- 
sium and upholds fencing with the sabre. Then there is at 
least one singing club, and of late years, a club for the purpose 
of opposing duelling is usually to be found. There are no 
clubs for the promotion of out-door sports. Cricket and foot- 
ball are only known by name, and, as yet, rowing has made but 
little progress towards finding favour in the eyes of the 
Germans. They have one out-door game which may be recom- 
mended on account of its simplicity, but for no other reason. 
It is frequently played by the gymnastic society, and this is 
done as follows : — Sides are chosen and assembled opposite 
each other and about twenty yards apart. A large leather ball, 
stuffed with hair, is tossed from one side to the other, and it is 
the object of each side to catch the same when thrown across 
the intervening space. If it touches the ground, the side 
which threw gains a point. Considering that the ball is larger 
than a football, the extreme difficulty of catching it can be 
imagined. 

On particular evenings, members of a club are allowed to 
bring their friends to the club room, or the “ Kneipe,” as it is 
called, and a visit of this sort is interesting to a stranger. On 
arriving, everybody present comes forward and introduces him- 
self with a low bow and much gravity, and strangers are 
usually treated very well, except that they are expected to pay 
for what they drink. The rooms are always decorated with the 
mottoes and crest of the club, besides swords, drinking horns, 
&c. Everybody present must drink and usually in pretty con- 
siderable quantities. There are, of course, duly elected officers 
to each club, and one of these takes the chair. Songs are sung 
out of the books belonging to the club, the chairman determin- 
ing, in every case, what shall be sung, and all singing together. 
Solos are very seldom heard, for though the songs are beautiful 
and far surpass ours both as regards words and music, the 
voices are seldom good. In the early part of the evening the 
chairman is usually able to keep order, but towards the end, 
and often on the way home, the uproar is tremendous, and 
many go round from one “Kneipe” to another till they finally 
get home somehow or other, and do not appear at lectures next 
day. 

Every Verein celebrates once a year the date of its founda- 
tion, or, as they call it, their “ Stiptungsfest,” and this is 
always a time of great rejoicing. I had the good fortune 
to be invited to assist at several such, notably that of the 
Turnverein at the University of Greifswold. This club was 
one of the largest in the University, numbering some fifty 
members out of about eight hundred students. The fes- 
tivities lasted two days, Saturday and Sunday. On Saturday 
afternoon I was present at the beginning of the affair in 
the gymnasium, where an exhibition of gymnastics, under the 
superintendance of the Turnlehrer, was given. There were 
a number of professors present as spectators, and delegates 
from nearly all the University gymnastic clubs in Germany, but 
not a student from Greifswold who did not belong to the Turn- 
verein. Some of the delegates took part in the proceedings, 
and I was urged to take off my coat and show what an Ameri- 
can could do, which honour I declined for good and sufficient 
reasons. Some calisthenic exercises were first gone through, 
the members standing in long lines and making various move- 
ments with their arms and legs, finally combining several, and 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



singing a chorus at the same time. Then each class marched 
off separately to the different apparatuses under the command 
of its leader, or “ Vortumer,” as lie is called, who ordered 
those under him round in a manner that would not he submit- 
ted to by Americans or English. The exercises gone through 
differed considerably from those in vogue in this country. 
Those performed on the horizontal bar were somewhat similar, 
but those done on the parallel bars were not at all the same, 
being apparently less calculated to develop the muscles, but 
more showy. The vaulting horse was very much used, and 
a good deal of jumping was done, this latter always from 
a little spring-board. None of the feats performed were re- 
markable, except those executed by the president, who pulled 
himself up to his chin first on one arm and then on the other, 
four or five times running. The proceedings were closed by a 
general set-to, first with light swords, and then with sabres, and 
a duel between a guest from Breslau and a noted local fencer, 
resulting in a walk-over for the Greifswolder. On the evening 
of the same day a great drinking bout, or “ Festcommers ” 
was held in a large hall hired for the occasion. It was hand- 
somely decorated, and had a series of long tables of the rough- 
est description in it. Near the entrance were standing the 
officers of the sojiety in full evening dress, with little round 
caps, about six inches in diameter, placed on the front part of 
the head and a little on one side, broad sashes of silk from 
the right shoulder across the chest, swords with fancy hilts, and 
large white fencing gloves. The sashes and caps were white 
and red, the colors of the society, and altogether these officials 
looked quite picturesque, and unlike anything to be seen in 
America. They addressed all strangers who entered, touching 
their caps in the military fashion, and mentioning their names 
as a polite intimation that you should also do so, and state who 
had invited you. At about eight o'clock, all having arrived, 
the officers took their places at the ends of the tables, and beer 
was served all round without delay. There were about one 
hundred and twenty present, including the majority of the 
professors. After a little the proceedings were formally opened 
by the president and vice-presidents rising, striking the tables 
with their swords and calling out “ Silentium ! ” Then the 
president made a speech welcoming the guests, which was well 
delivered, of course, for every German can speak in public 
without any display of bashfulness, and with a guttural fluency 
which is astonishing to a stranger. Then followed a song, the 
first on the printed programme with which each person was 
supplied. Many of the songs had been written for the occasion 
and were sung to popular airs. A very fair orchestra helped 
matters a good deal. Then the president rose, and after more 
striking of the tables with swords, silence was demanded for the 
delegate from Heidelberg, who forthwith arose, made a very 
short speech, and asked permission to drink the health of the 
Greifswolder Turnverein. This being accorded by the presi- 
dent, he poured half a liter of beer into his stomach and 
sat down. In a like manner each delegate was called upon 
and responded to the call. Many other toasts were drunk, 
notably that of the Chancellor of the University, who made an 
excellent and telling speech, and that of the Turnlehrer, who is 
known all over Germany as being one of the best fencers in 
the land. It was nearly four a. m. when the last student left 
the hall and tried to get home. The student I sat next to had 
seen the bottom of his glass twenty-three times, and I left him 
to spend the night on his doorstep, after having tried in vain to 
rouse his landlady. The next day's festivities consisted in 
an excursion on a steamer chartered for the occasion to an 
island in the Baltic sea, some ten miles from Greifswold. Here 
the whole party loitered round the park till dinner time, when 
all sat down in an old hall belonging to the duke who owns the 
island, and partook of an extremely meagre repast for which 
each man paid one mark. Then came another interval, and 
then tables were set out under the trees in the park, and 
another “ Commers ” was held. It much resembled the one I 
have just described, but was much less orderly. The chairman 
and officers soon lost all control over the rest, and a scene 
of the wildest hilarity ensued. There were usually two or 
three songs and a couple of speeches going on at the same time. 



Everybody's health was drunk, and that is always done with 
peculiar honors at students' meetings. Usually the president 
announces that they will now drink a “ salamander in honour of 
somebody or something and then calls out “ Ad exercitnun Sal - 
amandri FAns, Zwei, Drei ! At the last word everybody, 
standing up, drinks. Then again the president gives the word, 
FAns, Ztoei , Drei, and every glass is set down and rattled on the 
table till he again gives the word of command, and then every 
one sets his glass down with a bang. There are any number of 
rules with regard to the drinking of beer in society, which must 
be strictly adhered to if one does not wish to give offence, and 
strangers are very apt to get a trifle mixed with regard to them, 
especially towards the end of an evening. The Commers 
on the island was finally broken up by the president, who was 
one of the few sober men at six p.m., and after a great deal of 
difficulty, all were got safely on board the steamer. Needless 
to say no member of the Turnverein was to be seen attending 
lectures for several days after. Nor did the affair end in peace. 
One of the delegates had a difference of opinion with an out- 
sider, and the difficulty was settled with swords on the follow- 
ing day, the guest getting badly hurt. Beer is one great 
characteristic of German student life, and duelling is another 
of which I shall speak at some future time. 

W. T. S., 

B. Ap. Sc. '80. 



The Study of History. 

II. 

In a previous number of The Gazette I dwelt on the import- 
ance of history as a branch of study, on the proper objects of 
the pursuit, and of the various methods of treating it adopted 
by the chronicler, by the didactic historian, and by the philoso- 
pher. Arriving at the conclusion that a combination of these 
methods would best promote the success of the historical 
student, I was led to enquire whether an inductive investigation, 
suggested by correspondence of dates, might not enable us to 
inform the dry details of chronological narrative with the spirit 
of symmetry and of system, and thus to connect the lower ele- 
ments of history with its nobler truths and deeper lessons. 
From an examination of the leading events in modern history, 
and more especially in that of Britain for many centuries, we 
were led to note a very memorable and suggestive recurrence of 
important epochs towards the close of successive periods, and to 
remark that those epochs had been generally regarded as days 
of intellectual light and social progress. On a similar compara- 
tive view of the periods near the middle of these respective 
centuries, a general correspondence in certain very different 
characteristics seemed to present itself, such periods having 
usually been marked by the gloomier phenomena of history. 
Making due allowance for the temporary influence exercised by 
vigorous rulers, and for the opposite tendencies of feebler gov- 
ernments — allowing also for the various modifying results of 
national character, political or religious institutions, and unto- 
ward circumstances — we observed that for many ages the nations 
had passed, with a steadiness of recurrence approaching to con- 
stancy, through such cycles of transition, and that apparent 
exceptions, when closely examined, seemed to confirm rather 
than contradict the general rule. Those wars and revolutions 
which have attended the closing years of one century or the 
opening years of another, were found to have been connected 
with struggles for advancement, as they were dignified by dis- 
plays of human originality and power; while, on the other 
hand, the events of the period intervening have stained the 
page of history with the repulsive hues of civil conflict, or dark- 
ened it with the sickly shades of scepticism and factious zeal. 
This impression seems to be justified even by the comparison 
of a favourable case of the one kind with an unfavourable in- 
stance of the other. The days of the Commonwealth in Eng- 
land, about the middle of the seventeenth century, have 
much of the interest attaching to heroism, genius, and lofty 
patriotism ; yet their glory did not endure ; and the struggles 
and triumphs which distinguished them, however memorable 
and important in the history of the country, left but a slight 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



mark on her institutions and laws. Their value was negative 
or relative, rather than direct or positive. On the other hand, 
the French Revolution, with all those associations of blood and 
terror which its name suggests, was something more than the 
long-delayed vengeance of a nation on dignities become corrupt 
and effete , more than the product of scepticism and ignorance, 
brought into conflict with superstition and despotism. It was 
constructive as well as destructive ; and the excesses of some 
of its agents and instruments should not blind us to the salutary, 
enlightened, and still enduring character of its earlier legislation. 
Thus may the productions and institutions of even the noblest 
periods be found incapable of satisfying the wants of a later 
generation, for some taint of imperfection will be found to cleave 
to all of them. 

In those facts of history which have been already referred to, 
and of which the symmetrical arrangement has obtruded itself 
on our attention, we now seem also to trace the workings of 
this law of human nature. Periods of hope and enthusiastic 
striving have blossomed into high attainment, to be followed by 
times of questioning and testing, often with such results as dis- 
cord, division, and the dissolution of institutions once revered 
and prized ; and this because, in every effort either wholly or 
partially human, some elements of error and weakness have 
hitherto found a place. So, that season of reflection and criti- 
cism which inevitably succeeds the days of ardour and pro- 
ductiveness, ever finds something, perhaps many things, to 
correct or eliminate. With societies of men, even more than in 
the case of individuals, such a season must be in various 
respects one of trial. Established institutions are challenged 
and confirmed customs interfered with, existing interests com- 
promised, until, as the growing sense of what is defective comes 
to be more and more confronted with the opposing unwilling- 
ness to surrender what has been already acquired, the occasions 
of conflict become multiplied, and the disposition to resort to 
extremities tends to increase. At last, the bounds of resistance 
are broken ; the battle, often fierce, prolonged, and for some 
time dubious, has to be fought out ; and out of the wreck which 
it leaves behind, there comes to be formed some new combina- 
tion of the old materials — some solid outward unity, animated 
by new-born hopes and ideas. In another form, with many 
differences, the cycle repeats itself, and wise men feel, as Goethe 
felt on the battle-field of Valmy, that a new age has begun. 

For the illustration of this process, at once of thought and 
action, in the more civilized societies, we can appeal to the more 
memorable centuries. Let us take the sixteenth. The middle 
of its predecessor had been marked by conflicts, religious as 
well as political ; and these struggles had seemed to be decided 
in favour of those reactionary tendencies, in the direction of 
royal prerogative and renewed religious uniformity, of which 
the earlier years of the fifteenth century had given foretaste. 
Yet, at the very time when despotism, well-nigh personified in 
Louis XI., Edward IV., of England, and the Borgias in Italy, 
with some of their compeers, had apparently obtained a firm 
hold of Europe, there were witnessed some evidences that the 
triumph of authority, now perverted into tyranny, was not to 
prove complete or final. The principle of individual responsi- 
bility, demanding opportunities of free enquiry, seemed awhile 
to have been crushed under the weight of priestly authority, 
aided by the force of arbitrary power. Yet in various parts of 
Europe it began at that hour to revive, elastic as before, but 
purified from that crude extravagance, attendant on the igno- 
rance of the darker ages, which had mingled witli and marred 
some of its earlier manifestations. It rose again, to struggle 
and suffer indeed, but this time on the whole to prevail, — to 
win more lasting conquests in a world now prepared by Provi- 
dence to be the fitting theatre for its nobler, because better 
regulated exercises. 

In this instance, the grand moving ideas of that approaching 
acre were heralded by a train of concurrent circumstances worthy 
of their divine origin and of their world-wide importance. The 
simultaneous occurrence of great physical discoveries, momentous 
political changes, and a surprising literary revival, has not 
escaped the attention of even commonplace historians ; but the 
thoughtful and reverent mind cannot fail to note, as truly indi- 



cative of the forth-putting of a divine finger, the preparation 
afforded by all these events for the growth and success of a 
secret, but spiritual, and therefore all-powerful principle. A 
candid view of the state of morality, private as well as public, 
in the age immediately preceding the Reformation, would, we 
cannot help thinking, render this opinion regarding the source 
and significance of the great movement unavoidable. 

But° the middle of this eventful century, fertile in political 
changes, brought also discord and division among the ranks of 
even the enlightened advocates of liberty. When success had 
partially diminished the early warmth of the reformers, the 
drawbacks and difficulties of the new position began to reveal 
themselves. The gains acquired at such cost were re-examined 
and analyzed ; divergence in the opposite direction of progress 
and conservation quickly followed ; whilst the ideas of au- 
thority and restraint profited by their mutual recriminations. 
Still, however, the vast force of the original impulse, spreading 
throughout the various ranks of European society, carried the 
new ideas triumphantly over all opposition in the lands of their 
birth ; nay, seemed likely also to establish their supremacy even 
in regions where blind submission to authority had long been 
the rule. 

At this very time, however, the indications of a counter- 
movement, necessitated, it may be, by the very success of the 
Reformation, began to array themselves over the whole field of 
victory. The principle of authority, destined to prevail in the 
succeeding century, may now be traced in tendencies that 
wrought beneath or amidst the manifestations of free thought 
in the sixteenth. 

Thus, the seventeenth century, like the fifteenth, proved to 
be a contrast to its predecessor. Its ruling idea was that of 
authority, either in its beneficial aspect as law, or regulated 
restraint, or in its perversions, such as fantastic loyalty, ritual- 
istic sacerdotalism and superstitious zeal. When these ten- 
dencies came into collision with the lately dominant spirit of 
freedom, a fierce and lasting struggle ensued ; and this struggle 
was nearly co-extensive with the field of civilization. On the 
whole, the victory seemed to be on the side of authority, even 
in its more rampant forms. 

Before the century came to its close, the English Revolution 
had sounded the knell of irresponsible authority; and liberty, in 
its purified forms of toleration and constitutionalism, had an- 
nounced a new and far-extending reign under William III. 
The eighteenth century has, in our own days, been subjected to 
hearty and unsparing censure. Notwithstanding the popularity 
of such a judgment, which, as proceeding from the men of the 
age closely following, can scarcely claim the merit of impar- 
tiality, it may be confidently stated that the last century ful- 
filled the promise of its introduction, proving favourable, in the 
main, to real progress, and not entirely belying its somewhat 
complacent claims to enlightenment. It has been stigmatised, 
on plausible grounds, as materialistic and sceptical, yet it may 
well be asked whether these tendencies were not partly the 
legacy of a preceding age, and partly the accidental consequences 
of increasing tolerance in conjunction with the pacific, pros- 
perous operation of constitutional government. 

Our readers may have observed that, for a long time, accord- 
ing to our induction, the prevailing tendencies of the centuries 
have been alternately in favour of liberty and authority. The 
statement might be supported by the admissions of writers de- 
servedly honoured as master historians, though we have not 
observed this alternative character recognized by any of them. 
By studying the whole historical literature for themselves, 
attentive students may find further confirmation of this very 
singular fact. Thus they may note the dominant “ Csesarism ” 
of the first century, following an age of democratic license. In 
the provincial enfranchisement of Trajan, Adrian, and the 
Antonines, they may trace a more liberal spirit presiding over 
the destinies of the second. The third was the age of military 
despotism, while the fourth, on the other hand, saw the triumph 
of Christianity and the rise of the northern nations. In the 
fifth, barbarian monarchs assumed the powers of conquered 
emperors, and the designs of the Papacy first appeared with 
Leo the Great. The sixth witnessed the rise of distinct nation- 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



alities in Northern Europe; which token of freedom gave 
place, in the seventh , to their submission to Roman usages. The 
eighth *. century was marked by “new administration ” of the 
Eastern Empire, under Leo the Iconoclast, and the revival of 
puissant Northern life by Charles Martel and the Lombard 
Kings; the ninth , by the establishment of a world-empire under 
Charlemagne. The tenth was introduced in England by the 
national work of Alfred and his successors, while Germany also 
detached itself from the Carlo vingian Empire, and France began 
to acquire a national character under the Counts of Paris. The 
eleventh century saw Imperialism revive, to battle awhile with 
its spiritual rival in the person of Hildebrand. In the twelfth 
the genius of Teutonic Europe, striving earnestly after great 
results, found work for itself in the Crusades, and expression 
for its finer powers in Gothic architecture ; while elsewhere the 
kindred phenomena of lyric poetry, reforming tendencies in the 
Church, and civic patriotism in Italy, proved that the free 
energy of Europe was reviving. The thirteenth century brought 
an Innocent III. to dominate the Church and terrify the world ; 
mighty kings arose in the leading nations, and Aristotle became 
supreme in the schools. The next was the period of Swiss, 
Scottish and Belgian freedom ; of Wycliff’s attack on supersti- 
tion ; of the resistance to the Papacy by the nations ; of Dante, 
Petrarch and Chaucer. 

Of the later centuries we have already spoken. Let us con- 
sider whether any reason can be found for the striking inter- 
vention of this element of time in the process of repetition 
which we have pointed out, and which, in its essential nature, 
we have seen cause to ascribe partly to the course of human 
thought in a world full of imperfection, partly to such concur- 
rence of events as compels us to acknowledge Providential 
interference. Luther compared the progress of society to that 
of a drunken man, proceeding by a compensation of erratic 
movements. There is wisdom in the homely comparison, but 
we prefer to think of alternating waves of advance and retro- 
gression in a flowing tide, and deeper suggestions may be found 
in the prophetic image of those mighty wheels or circles, so 
complex, yet so harmonious, which even in a season of corrup- 
tion and danger were chosen to illustrate the mysterious, yet 
not wholly secret regulation of the universe. 

Shakespeare's Humour with Special Reference to “ The 
Winter's Tale." 

The comedies of Shakespeare refuse to be tabulated in 
deference to any method of classification deserving to be called 
precise — and several of them are comedies only according to a 
purely technical use of the term. The comic interest of his 
plays generally appears as a supplement to the main action in 
the shape of a bye or under plot, or, if it asserts itself to the 
reader or spectator as supreme, it is still of its nature incidental 
to the progress of the action, for it seems a just criticism that of 
all Shakespeare’s comedies but one is in both design and effect 
a comedy of character proper. This single exception, I need 
scarcely say, is the “ Merry Wives of Windsor," Shakespeare’s 
only play of contemporary manners and direct sketch of middle 
class English life, a play that is only merry, in which there is 
no pathos and little plot, and v r hich is dependent for success 
upon comical and well-constructed situations. 

The “ Winter’s Tale " by its title seems to incite comparison 
and contrast with that other comedy “ A Midsummer Night’s 
Dream." Both contain circumstances unreal and fantastic so 
artfully interwoven with the tale as no longer to seem impro- 
bable — the one a fairy tale, carrying us away to some enchanted 
land, where the air is purer and the skies are larger than in our 
world, where the stars are close above our heads and where the 
flowers harbour visible spirits — elfs and ariels clinging to the 
branches, and dazzling fire-flies tangled in the meadow grass 
beneath our feet ; the other a sadder tale (a sad tale’s best for 
winter, Mamilius tells us), a goblin story of dark suspicion, that, 
like the escaped genius of the Arabian nights, rises from the 
little bottle in which he has been imprisoned, in the shape of a 
thin smoke, which finally assumes gigantic proportions and 
towers to the skies — a tale (as one of Shakespeare’s commenta- 
tors remarks) told to a circle of poetically disposed listeners, 



gathered around the flickering fireside of a peaceful, happy 
home, on a weird winter’s night, while the atmosphere of the 
joyous assembly mixes with the terrors of the adventures nar- 
rated, and with the cold, dismal night.” But though the 
picture presented to us in the inters Tale is in the main a 
sad one, it does not leave upon our minds a sad impression. It 
is relieved by the happy termination of the plot, by the lecon- 
ciliation of Leontes and Hermione, by the young loves of 
Florizel and Perdita, and by the merry underplot in which 
Autolycus plays first fiddle. It is to this merry underplot, and 
to underplots of a similar character in other plays that I wish 
to draw attention, endeavoring to find out in what 
consists that pleasant mirthfulness of the poet so that we can 
say of him, as Rosaline of Biron : — 

A merrier man 

Within the limit of becoming mirth, 

I never spent an hour’s talk withal. 

On reflection, however, this task appears rather difficult. AA it 
and humour are too ephemeral and evanescent to bear analysis. 
A joke ceases to be a joke as soon as you attempt to dissect it. 
Laughter is proverbially contagious, and it is often the laughing 
spirit that carries us on amusing us in spite of ourselves, in 
spite, indeed, of our decided feeling that really there is nothing 
to laugh at. We English are assuredly a humorous race, more 
humorous in all likelihood than any other — this is shown, not 
only in Shakespeare, Chaucer, Butler, Sterne, Dickens, but in 
all the incidents of our country and city life, in the quaint 
colloquy and light chaff of the market place and way side. 
Merry England is an ancient phrase, and everywhere in Merry 
England is found a joyous, ever-bubbling humour, inextinguish- 
able by poverty and toil. It is by his ready recognition of this 
fact that Shakespeare excels as a humorist. He found his 
characters ready formed by nature, living and acting their parts 
in the world before his eyes, and with masterful skill he trans- 
formed them and reproduced them in his plays. In the old, 
forgotten coaching days, the days of highwaymen and Court 
clowns, there was wonderful humour at the wayside inns. 
Autolycus and Sam Weller were possible then — but in these 
days of railways and telegraphs, a railway porter has no time 
to be humorous, and Autolycus, for his first offence, finds 
himself sent down for six months. Shakespeare, therefore, so 
far at least as his comic characters are concerned, may be said 
to have been happy in the times that created them. Keen to 
see and seize the humorous aspects of affairs, he had also that 
deeper humour which creates character. There are two tests 
on the very surface of the true poet. If he describes a scene, 
you see it ; if he describes a man, you know him. Shake- 
speare’s fun grows out of his masterful knowledge of the world, 
of men and women. In a play of his (as in Romeo and Juliet, 
for example), you seem in some city of chivalry and romance, 
where the great knight passes to deeds of high emprise, and 
the lovely lady smiles upon him from her balcony, and the 
troubadour sings of the “ Lord of Oc and ho," and all the 
while you hear the chaffer of the market place, the chatter of 
the street gossips and the insignificant laughter of the loitering 
louts. Should we, therefore, be asked to express the greatest 
debt of the drama to Shakespeare, whether in the tragic or 
comic art, we should do it by the single word, characterization. 

Passing from generalization to what may be called the stock 
in trade of the comic poet, the means, natural and artificial, by 
which he contrives to call forth our merriment and laughter, 
it would be both curious and interesting to ascertain how far 
Shakespeare adopts and how far he rejects the subjects of 
laughter that have been turned to good account by other 
humourists. 

There are many kinds of laughter— laughter hideous 
and contemptible, ay, and even pathetic. Ruin and cynicism, 
and scorn and spite have their hyena laugh — but it differs 
wholly from the pleasant laughter of the man to whom the 
world brings always joyous impulses. On so wide a subject 
I can do no more than throw out a few suggestions as they 
occur to me, leaving it for my readers to supplement them from 
their own reflections, and in endeavouring to do this, I am 
inclined to include in the category of humorous poets, only 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



those who do not violate the following canon : — That man 
being the only animal that laughs and reasons, the connection 
between reason and ridicule seems to be very close, and the 
faculty of laughter seems superadded to our constitution to 
keep absurdity within bounds, and to lead us to look at the 
unavoidable follies of each other with good humoured sympathy 
rather than scornful disgust. From which it would follow as 
a sort of corollary that there can be no legitimate subject of 
laughter where the feelings or rightful interests of others are 
seriously wounded or assailed. Tested by this canon, Shake- 
speare’s good taste seems to have rejected two kinds of ridicule. 
(1.) That which owes its point to caricature and burlesque. 
(2.) That which owes its point to coarseness and indecency. 

The burlesquing of religion and religious superstition has 
always been a capital resource of the comic poets. If we in 
the Nineteenth century can find any amusement whatever in 
Byron’s travesties of Olympus, how exquisitely absurd to an 
Athenian mob, in the days of Aristophanes, must have been 
the figure of Prometheus under an umbrella, Heracles, tho 
glutton, Bacchus the young fop, and Iris, the soubrette. But 
can we feel equally sure that these caricatures were not a grave 
stumbling-block to the more sober-minded. From such carica- 
ture Shakespeare is free — nor though he had not the cloth to 
restrain him, would he have indulged in Tom Ingoldsby’s loud 
laughter against the vulgar idea of demons and saints and that 
ineffable fiend with horns and tail and hoof, whom Cuvier 
ruthlessly dismissed as a gramnivorous animal. Take that 
boisterous scene of a group of demons at dinner : — 

Few ate more hearty 

Than Madame Astarte. 

And Hecate considered the belle of the party. 



Here’s Lucifer lying blind drunk with Scotch ale, 

While Beelzebub ’s tying huge knots in his tail. 

This, no doubt, is pure burlesque without intentional irreve- 
rence, but at the time, when it was written, to the old-fashioned 
and fastidious it would scarcely appear so. 

In Shakespeare, again, we have no coarseness or indelicacy, 
save such as is the inevitable outgrowth of the plain-spoken- 
ness of his age. He, however, never trades upon it nor passes 
it off for wit. To use his own word, he has love songs with- 
out bawdry, which is strange ; but what he has not, is that 
unblushing indecency that was soon to spread over Court and 
capital and stage, establishing its dominion over the dramatic 
decameron of the Restoration, corrupting the manners and 
with them the morals of the dramatist, and forbidding them, 
at the risk of seeming dull, to be anything but improper. Had 
Shakespeare lived and written in accordance with the dominant 
reaction against Puritanism, we should probably have possessed 
an English Aristophanes with a muse too naked to be shamed. 

The enjoyment that proceeds from the absurdities of weak- 
lings and fools has always had a recognized place, though not 
one of a very high order, in the range of merriment. The 
sight of those who have the beard and body of a man, with 
the intellect of a baby, produces great mirth and satisfaction to 
the vulgar mind. It is in this department of the comic that 
there seems most foundation for the theory of Hobbes that the 
passion of laughter is nothing else but sudden glory arising from 
some sudden conception of some eminency in ourselves by com- 
parison with the inferiority of others. Of the innumerable 
people who have laughed at Lord Dundreary, a large proportion, 
no doubt, did so with increased heartiness from the comfortable 
conviction that here was at least one “ fellow ” to whom they 
were intellectually superior. I need scarcely point to the clown in 
the “Winter’s Tale” as exhibiting an instance of a similar kind. 
But there is another and better way in which fools and simple- 
tons become a source of amusement, and that is by the unex- 
pected displays which they sometimes make of wit, spirit and 
ingenuity, for which one gave them no credit, and in particular 
by their successful retort upon assailants who had looked upon 
them as an easy prey. In this, to my mind, lies the zest of 
the plot in the “Merry Wives of Windsor” that shows the 
shrewd, witty, but vain Falstaff baffled, mocked, befooled by 
those country burgess wives whom, as a wit and courtier, he 
pretended to despise, but intended to debauch. 



Does Shakespeare ever intentionally perpetrate that witticism 
known as the Irish bull ? I think he does — the essence of the 
genuine bull seems to consist in an unconscious self-contradic- 
tion. An example of a perfect verbal bull is contained in the 
dictum of the Irish Doctor that sterility is often hereditary. 
A self-contradiction that has a certain plausibility at first sight, 
and which I have seen imposed upon a very grave physician 
who was not Irish. As a counterpart to this I would quote 
Paulina’s amusing absurdity when she prays that the daughter 
of Leontes may have no jealousy in her composition, 

Lest she suspect as he does, 

Her children not her husband’s. 

A very ludicrous class of failures are those of which Mrs. Slip- 
slop in Joseph Andrews, and Mrs. Malaprop in the Rivals, 
supply us with the richest or most finished examples. The 
attempts of ignorant persons to use fine and peculiar words and 
the unconscious substitution of others bearing a different 
meaning or character, never fail to amuse. To generalize we may 
say that every instance of unsuccessful affectation, every 
assumption of a false character, that is at once detected, every 
preposterous attempt to shine where excellence is hopeless — 
all these are fertile sources of entertainment and legitimate 
objects of ridicule. It is to this principle that we owe those 
dolts of erudition Sir Nathaniel and Holof ernes, that solemn 
fop, Don Armado, the boorish Costard with his ad dunghill for 
ad unguem, and the servant in the Winter’s Tale with his 
Saltiers for Satyrs. 

Among the instances of ridiculous absurdity in what may 
be called suicidal statements are those extravagances known as 
gasconades. In these the speaker wishing to magnify his 
character or achievements, so rashly overstates his case as to 
defeat his purpose by becoming incredible — vaulting ambition 
that o’er-leaps itself and falls on the other side. It seems a 
favorite style of American wit to push a fact or story to such a 
degree of exaggeration as to be literally a reductio ad absurdum. 
The comic effect on the stage of the sayings and doings of 
gasconading cowards is familiar to us by the frequent represent- 
ation of such characters as in Miles Gloriosus, Bobadil, F alstaff, 
and ancient Pistol. 

And what of that scamp Autolycus *1 The merry Bohemian 
that forms the staple of laughter in the “ Winter’s Tale.” As 
a brain creature I place him side by side with the youngster 
Moth — that shrewd young rogue — that handful of wit, as Cos- 
tard calls him, who has purchased his little experience by his 
penny of observation. For the enjoyment of the fun of both, 
a certain childish swiftness of gleeful apprehension is required. 
It does not shine so much in its pure wit as in its overflowing 
humour, and in the inexhaustible fertility of ludicrous devices 
by which laughter is excited. Furnivall closes his critique on 
the play with these words : — “Not only do we see Shakespeare’s 
freshness of spirit in his production of Perdita, but in his cre- 
ation of Autolycus. That at the close of his dramatic life, 
after all the troubles he had passed through, Shakespeare had 
yet the youngness of heart to bubble out wit, this merry rogue, 
the incarnation of fun and rascality, and let him sail off suc- 
cessful and unharmed is wonderful, and that there is no dim- 
inution of his former comic power, is shown, too, in his clown 
who wants but something to be a reasonable man.” 



©orrespondence. 

To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette. 

McGill College Song-Book. 

Sirs, — A mass meeting of the students of all the faculties 
will be held in Dr. Girdwood’s class-room, Medical Building, on 
Tuesday evening, February 12th, at 8 o’clock, for the purpose 
of discussing the advisability of compiling a new collection of 
songs for the use of students of this college. As there is an 
absolute and immediate necessity for a song-book, it is ear- 
nestly hoped that there will be as large an attendance as possible. 

Yours &c., 

W. G. Stewart. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



.Sporting r £Xew$. 



Hockey. 

The McGill Hockey Club, stimulated by the success of last 
year, has again resolved to compete for the Carnival cup, and 
judging from their performances so far, will stand a fair chance 
of winning it. 

This manly game has never been in such high favor with the 
students as it is this year, if one may judge of its popularity 
from the numbers regularly attending the practices. The club 
has paid a fitting tribute to the untiring efforts of Mr. J. Roy 
in its behalf, by electing him President, and he, with the 
popular Secretary, Mr. S. Ogilvie, are doing all in their power 
to make this season’s play a success. 

On Monday evening, 14th inst., the following team met the 
representatives of the Victoria Club, in the Victoria Rink, viz : 
Hutchison, (goal) ; Elder, (point) ; Ogilvie, (centre) ; Budden, 
Craven, Brown, Weir, (field) ; Elder (who is the only member of 
last year’s team that has yet come forward) acted as captain, pro 
tern . The result of the match was evidently a surprise to every- 
body but the College men, ending in a victory for McGill by 
one goal to nothing. The defence of the College team was 
particularly strong ; and it was needed, too, for both Hutchison 
and Elder had all they could do to stop shot after shot on their 
goals. Indeed, too much praise cannot be given the former for 
his cool play in that most trying of all positions (expect an 
oral exam.) — goal-keeper ; while the latter showed that last 
year’s training had not been lost on him. In the field, Budden, 
Ogilvie and Craven played remarkably well. 

On the following Wednesday evening, the same team, with 
the substitution of Fairbanks and Lesage for Brown and Weir, 
met the Crystal Club in their rink, when McGill scored an easy 
victory by two goals to nothing. The game was rather a one- 
sided affair, consisting chiefly of a series of onslaughts on 
the Crystal’s goals, while poor Hutchison, deserted even by his 
fidus achates , Elder, stood lonely and shivering at his post. 
Though every man played his best, the change in the team 
was, in our opinion, no improvement. The club have now 
under consideration a challenge from the Quebec Hockey Club 
to play them at Quebec before the Carnival, as they want satis- 
faction for not having won last year. 

While on this subject, we would like to ask why the Carnival 
Committee have seen fit to reduce the number that must con- 
stitute a team competing for their cup from nine to seven men 1 
If the contests were to take place in a closed rink, we could 
understand why seven men should be thought sufficient ; but 
inasmuch as they are to take place, we understand, on the large 
open-air rink on the College grounds, why should not the 
regular team of nine men be kept 'I Last year should not be a 
precedent, for everyone knows that it was only out of deference 
to Quebec, (who came up with only seven men) that the clubs 
here consented to reduce their teams by two men. Of course, 
no one can question the right of the Carnival Committee to fix 
the number that shall constitute a team to compete for their 
cup ; but suppose, for example, they were putting up for com- 
petition a Lacrosse trophy, we should all think it rather strange 
were they arbitrarily to state that “ ten men shall constitute a 
team for such competition.” 



(Sollctjc 'USortiL 

McGILL. 

Faculty of Medicine. 

McInerny has been unanimously elected Valedictorian for 
Class ’84. 

Medicals find it very hard to study in cold weather, and for 
that matter in any other weather. 

Exit Decow, the "ay young bachelor, and enter Mr. Decow, 
the staid and sober benedict. Sic transit. 



There have been several cases of illness among the students 
lately, a decided preference being shown for typhoid fever. 

Symptoms of a religious revival and a crusade of city clergy- 
men among the students. Can it be possible that students have 
souls to be saved ? Do they not in so doing poach upon the 
preserves of the poor benighted African ? 

Freshmen quiet once more, and their happy circle still 
unbroken. The whole of the recent difficulty was owing to 
Professor classifying some of them as exogens, while they 
desired to be classed as endogens. Hinc illce lacrymce. 

A slight change has been effected in the heating apparatus . 
of the medical school, rendering some parts of the building 
warmer — or, to be more accurate — less cold ; but the building 
is still as thoroughly ventilated as ever, and the air of the lecture 
rooms still contains as much C0 2 as any old saurian of the 
Secondary Period could desire. We wonder that some enter- 
prising horticulturist does not try to effect an arrangment whereby 
he might be allowed to use the building as a fernery. A paper 
upon the spectroscopic appearances of a med’s blood at the close- 
of a lecture would be highly instructive. 

McGill Medical Society. 

On Dec. 15th, Mr. Gooding read a paper upon “ Ele- 
phantiasis,” and exhibited a slide showing the parasite Filaria y 
found in human blood in this disease. Mr. Rowell reported a 
case, and Mr. W. G. Johnston showed slides of several disease 
fungi. 

On January 12th Dr. Stewart read a most instructive paper 
upon the “ Neuroses of the Urinary Organs.” The attendance 
was larger than at any previous meeting of the society, and those 
present fully appreciated the benefits of a paper upon subjects 
not treated of scientifically in any English text-book extant. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

The first meeting for this term was held on the 18th ult., 
when one of the pleasantest evenings in the Society’s experience 
was passed by the members present. Professor Moyse read a 
humorous and chatty paper, taking as his subject societies such 
as he was addressing. The pleasantness of the Professor’s manner 
and the style of his paper placed him at once en rapport with 
his audience, and his words were listened to with much appre- 
ciation. It must not be supposed, however, that serious truths 
were altogether passed by in the paper, for such was certainly 
not the case. We regret that we cannot reproduce the lecture 
in full, and, at the same time, are conscious that to attempt to 
give a summary of it could but lead to misapprehension. At 
the close of the lecture a vote of thanks was tendered Professor 
Moyse for his kindness. 

University Literary Society.. 

The first meeting of this Society after the Christmas holidays 
was held on the 1 1th ult. There were fourteen members present, 
and in the absence of the President, Mr. A. McGoun, took the 
chair. After routine the following gentlemen were put in 
nomination as speakers for the public debate : Messrs. R. J. 
Elliot, A. G. Cross, R. Greenshields, E. W. Arthy, Boodle, J. R. 
Murray, J. Mackie, P. McKenzie, and F. S. McLennan. On the 
first ballot Messrs. J. R. Murray and E. W. Arthy were 
elected, and on a second ballot Messrs. Greenshields and Boodle. 
Mr. R. J. Elliot was elected Reader. The Chairman then called 
on Mr. Kavanagh, the leader of the Affirmative, to open the 
debate, which was on the following subject : “ Is belief in the 

personality of the devil a necessary article of the Christian 
Faith ? ” The appointed speakers were Affirmative, Messrs. 

II. J. Kavanagh and E. A. D. Morgan j Negative, Messrs. A. 

R. Oughtred and C. S. Campbell. Mr. Kavanagh regretted 
such a subject had been chosen, and after reading a somewhat 
lengthy explanation moved, seconded by Mr. L. T. Leet, “that 
this subject is not a fit one for the consideration of this Society 
and that the debate be adjourned sine die.” After Messrs. 
Smith, Ci oss, Kavanagh, Leet and McGoun had spoken to the- 
motion, it was put to the meeting and lost. Mr. Kavanagh was 
then called upon to open the debate, but declined, upon°which 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



1884.] 



Mr. J. R. Murray moved, seconded by Mr. A. G. Cross, “ that 
this debate be adjourned till the first night for which there is 
no programme provided. ” — Carried. After a motion to recon- 
sider had been put and lost, Mr. Boodle rose to say that he 
thought the gentlemen appointed to take part in this debate 
should have sent word if they found themselves unable to do 
so, and he would give notice that at the next meeting of this 
Society he would move a vote of censure upon the Correspond- 
ing-Secretary and those members who have failed to take the 
parts assigned to them in the debate of this evening. Mr. Cross 
was here called upon for a recitation and responded with an 
extract from Longfellow. 

At the meeting on January 18th Mr. Ritchie took the chair. 
The following report was read by Mr. E. W. Arthy : “ The 
Speakers appointed for the Public Debate have agreed to 
recommend the following subject, viz. : Ought theatre going to 
be encouraged ? Affirmative, Messrs. E. W. Arthy and J. R. 
Murray; Negative, Messrs. R. Greenshields and R. W. Boodle. 
They further recommend that the debate be held upon the 
13th February.” Mr. Boodle declined to take part in the Public 
Debate. On motion of Mr. I). Downie the election of another 
Speaker w T as arranged for the following Friday. Mr. Boodle 
then proposed the motion of censure of which he had given a 
week’s notice. Mr. Campbell’s excuse of illness was accepted 
by the meeting, and Mr. Boodle withdraw the name of the 
Corresponding-Secretary when the motion as amended was 
carried. The following question was then discussed : “ Should 
Latin and Greek form a necessary part of a College training ? ” 
Affirmative, Messrs. E. W. Arthy and E. Lafleur ; Negative, 
Messrs. R. W. Boodle and A. W. Atwater. Messrs. Lafleur 
and Atwater being absent, Messrs. Elliot and Campbell said a 
few words in favour of the affirmative. Decision for the 
affirmative. 

At the meeting of the 26th January a new election of Speakers 
for the Public Debate took place, as those already appointed 
had resigned for various reasons. The following were elected : 
Messrs. Arthy, Elliot, F. Hague and J. Mackie ; Reader, Mr. 
R. C. Smith. Mr. Campbell gave notice of a motion to intro- 
duce new rules of procedure, which will be considered on the 
1st inst. The First Vice-President having taken the chair, the 
question “ Ought the Dominion Senators to be chosen by the 
Legislatures of the respective Provinces'?” w'as opened by Mr. 
C. J. Doherty. Mr. Ritchie followed on the negative, and 
Messrs. C. J. Brooke and A. G. Cross on the affirmative. 
Decision for the negative. 

University Literary Society — Programme. 

Friday, 1st Feb. — Subject of Debate : — “ Is the Malthusian 
Theory Sound V Speakers : — Affirmative, Messrs. S. Cross 
and R. J. Elliot. Negative, Messrs. A. McGoun, jr. and 
J. R. Murray. 

Friday, 8th Feb. — No Meeting. 

Friday, 15th Feb. — Subject of Debate : — “ Should Toronto Uni- 
versity receive additional aid from the Ontario Govern- 
ment V Speakers: — Affirmative, Messrs. Donald Downie 
and A. J. Brown. Negative, Messrs. G. B. Mignault and 
II. J. Duffett. 

Friday, 22nd Feb. — Public debate in the Ladies’ Ordinary, 
Windsor Hotel. Subject: — Not yet decided. Speakers: — 
Messrs. E. W. Arthy, R. J. Elliot, J. B. Mackie and F. 
Hague. 

Friday, 29th Feb. — Essay by Mr. C. J. Doherty, President. 

The first annual dinner of the Arts students was held in the 
Richelieu Hotel, on the 23rd of January. This dinner was 
meant to take the place of the old-time class-dinners, but can 
scarcely be said to have done so satisfactorily. The members 
of one year are not sufficiently well acquainted with those of 
another to allow of the merriment which formerly reigned at 
the class feasts. Still, as an experiment, this dinner may be 
pronounced a success. About fifty of the undergraduates 
assembled and did justice to the good cheer provided, after 
which toasts, speeches, and songs became the order. As on 



similar occasions, the speeches were of various nature ; some 
were humorous, others would-be humorous ; some sentimental, 
and others practical. The songs were good and the drinking — 
soft drinks — if we may judge by the length of the bill, was 
deep. The following were the toasts, which were responded to 
by the gentlemen whose names are coupled with them : — The 
“ Queen, Canada and the Governor-General,” W. II. Turner ; 
“ United States,” A. H. U. Colquhoun ; “ Alma Mater,” W. 
Patterson ; “ Sister Universities,” A. P. Solandt ; “ Professors,” 
J. W. Pedley ; “ Literary Society,” E. D. F. Holden ; “ Theo- 
logy,” W. T. Currie; “ Medicine,” W. G. Johnston; “Science,” 
C. Trenholme, B.A. ; “ Law,” C. A. Duclos, B. A. ; McGill 
Gazette , H. S. McLennan ; “ Benefactors,” F. Pedley ; “ Sports,” 

R. B. Henderson ; “ Ladies,” A. L. Blackwood. The speeches 
were interspersed with songs by Messrs. Lochhead, Stewart, 
Clements, Budden, Beaudry and Arnton. The chair was well 
filled by the president of the third year, Mr. Lochhead, the 
president of the fourth year being absent. 

More accommodation is urgently needed for the books in the 
library, which are already overflowing the shelves. Various 
suggestions have been made as to the best means of overcoming 
this difficulty. One is that cases, such as are now in the middle 
of alcove 8, might be placed in all the alcoves. This appears to 
be an objectionable plan, since it would mar the pleasant 
appearance of the library and would also seriously interfere with 
the space necessary for convenience in taking and replacing 
books upon the existing shelves. A better plan would be to 
put some one division of the books into the room now occupied 
by the Professor of German, for whom doubtless a room could 
be found in the main building The present door of the room 
could be blocked up and a passage cut from the library, so that 
those passing in or out would still be under the librarian’s eye. 
The cost of this plan would not be greater than that of the 
other, since the fittings of the room need not be of such an 
expensive kind as those in the library. 

The Annual Science Dinner. 

The Sciencemen have dined — not on sandwiches, carried 
through miles of woods and eaten in primitive style while sur- 
rounded by their much-dreaded enemy, the mosquito — but in 
grand style in the capacious dining-hall of the Richelieu Hotel. 

The progress made by the Science Faculty of late years has 
been so rapid that the events of each session usually excel those 
of previous ones. The fourth annual dinner, held on the even- 
ing of the 15tli January, went far to confirm this fact. Never 
before had so many Science undergraduates gathered around the 
festive board to spend so merry a time. Mr. J. L. Hislop, who, 
as President of the Faculty, occupied the chair, seemed to be 
as much at home at the head of the table as when distinguish- 
ing himself in athletic feats on the college campus. Messrs. 
Trenholme, Watson and Carlyle occupied the vice-chairs. The 
many excellent dishes, prepared by Mr. Durocher, were par- 
taken of with a relish which showed that roughing it during the 
vacations does not tend to destroy the appetite. After the 
menu had been fully discussed, the chairman began the intel- 
lectual part of the evening’s programme by proposing the usual 
opening toasts of “The Queen” and “The Governor-General.” 
Mr. J. A. M. McCarthy, in replying to the latter, found means 
to say a word in favour of his much-abused fellow-countrymen. 
The toast of the “ United States ” was ably responded to by 
Mr. J. Roy, who seems to be an admirer, not only of the form 
of government and enterprise of that vast Republic, but of its 
ladies as well. Mr. Roy is, we believe, too loyal a Canadian to 
desire political union, but would not object to another of a more 
sociable nature. “ Our Alma Mater ” elicited a feeling address 
from the Secretary, Mr. C. B. Smith. “Sister Universities” 
was proposed by Mr. J. Hislop, and responded to by Mr. J. 
Crossley, late of Oxford, who paid a high compliment to 
McGill and its several staffs of professors. Mr. J. S. Garneau 
replied in behalf of the Polytechnic School of Montreal. Mr. 

S. Pitcher responded to the toast of the “ Dean and Professors ” 
in a manner that implied that he had forgiven them for the 
various heavy tasks which they had imposed upon him. We 
fancy however, that, while our friend’s magnanimity may enable 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



him to forgive, it will be long ere lie forgets the weekly task of 
solving the long list of problems in Applied Mechanics. Our 
“ Sister Faculties” were ably represented by Messrs. Davis 
(medicine) and Wright (arts). We regret to state that, owing 
to some flaw in the wording of the invitation sent to Law, their 
representative mistook the date. Mr. J. H. Burland, class ’82 
Science, in replying in behalf of “ Our Graduates,” showed that 
his interest in our welfare had not waned. His friendly advice 
in regard to committee work, and the hope he cherished of see- 
ing the Science Faculty taking the lead in McGill, were well 
received, but the climax was reached when he announced his 
intention of giving, as in former years, what is already familiarly 
known as the “ Burland Exhibition.” The joyful notes of 
“For he’s a jolly good fellow,” which followed, seemed more 
appropriate and student-like than a staid vote of thanks. 
“Class ’84” was proposed by Mr. C. W. Trenholme in words 
so friendly and Sympathetic that led even the 3rd year to believe 
that he was not envious. In response to this toast, Mr. J. L. 
Hislop referred to the individuality of the members of his class, 
and their widely-differing talents. During the course of the 
chairman’s eloquent address, we were forcibly reminded of the 
fact that we were about to lose many of our best Sciencemen. 
The toasts of “ Our Representatives on the Reading-Room Com- 
mittee,” replied to by Mr. II. Hamilton ; “ Ex-Class Mates,” by 
Mr. J. O’C. Mignault ; “Sporting Interests,” by Mr. C. W. 
Trenholme; “The Press,” by Mr. S. Fortier, and “The 
Ladies,” by Mr. W. A. Carlyle, were duly honoured. Mr. J. 
O’C. Mignault made the most humorous speech of the evening 
in response to the toast of “ Ex-Class Mates.” The ex-member 
of the P. W. D. was in a gay mood, and seemed willing to 
sacrifice a little logic in order to promote mirth. 

The musical performances by Messrs. Walters, Ogilvy, 
Saunders, Crossley, Lesage, and others, were attentively listened 
to and added much to the evening’s entertainment. 

After a hearty vote of thanks had been tendered to the 
members of the committee for the efficiency of their work and 
the success which had attended it, the convivial brethren brought 
the meeting to a close by singing “ Auld Lang Syne.” 



"23cfipccn the ,-Secfures, 



Anthropotomic Laboratory Motto for 1883-4. — “For dis- 
sectors of the head only.” 

A Question for Chemists. — Could a man found lying 
drunk in the street be rightly termed an alcoholic precipitate ? 

An Irishman being ill, his physician advised him to take a 
walk on an empty stomach. “Upon whose ?” asked the Irishman. 

Two farmers saw a couple of dudes on a street in Troy, when 
one exclaimed : “ Gosh ! What things we see when we don’t 

have no gun.” 

“ Are you guilty or not guilty ?” asked the clerk of arraigns. 
“ An’ sure now,” says Pat, “ what are you put there but to find 
out r 

An Irishman who lived in an attic, being asked what part of 
the house he lived in, answered, — “ If the house were turned 
topsy-turvy, I’d be livin’ on the first flure.” 

On a Bald Head. 

My head and I are quits d’ye see, 

I first cuts him, he now cuts me. 

Science Freshie at the Annual Dinner: — “ Excusez moi 
monsieur waitaire ce n’est pas Pate a la Richelieu mais Pate 
a la Grand Trunk accident, comprennez ?” — (Faints and is car- 
ried out.) 

' i 

Scene in dress circle, opera house — Factory maiden (raising 
her voice for the benefit of the student just behind): “It’s 

tlirue I’m tellin’ ye, Kathey, I find it exsthremely difficult to 
get over tree pages a day of me Frincli lisson.” — Ex. 

Legal. — A learned professor lecturing the other day on mar- 
riage obligations, told his class that it was not right to make 
advances to a married woman when her husband is absent ! 
“ What never ?” exclaimed one of his hearers. “ Well, hardly 
ever, you’ll be robbed if you do,” replied the bland lecturer. 



“ Nick,” said Nosey the other day to a dude with knee 
breeches and an eye glass, “ you must be the happiest man in 
creation.” “Why, Nosey?” “Because,” said Nosey, “you 
are in love witli yourself, and have not a rival on earth.” “ Un- 
rivalled,” was the laconic rejoinder of the man in hose. 

Over the door of the breakfast room of a boarding-house for 
students, there hangs the following motto, “ Work out thy own 
Salvation at another, “ Grow in righteousness through fasting 
and prayer and under another, which I have forgotten, a wag 
had posted the following notice: “To those who suffer from 
indigestion, from the fact that they eat nothing to digest, who 
are too timid to write in the symbolic juice of the pickled beet 
and in the proper corner, P.P.C., with an estimate of the lbs. and 
<£’s they have lost in this house, I can confidently recommend, 
if taken judiciously at first — Johnson’s Fluid Beef.” 

On a Grand Trunk train during the past summer a German, 
in the employ of an M.D. who had some freight on the train, 
kindly ottered to get some ice for a party of jovial wine-drink- 
ing commercial men. When they wanted more the accommo- 
dating Teuton went to find it, but returned with the sad 
announcement : — “ Der paggage meister will let me haf no more. 
He says der pody vont keep if I dake any more ice avay from 
id.”— Ex. 

A Contrast Between the Natural and the Artificial. — 
An old Scotch ballad begins, 

“ The sun shines fair on Carlisle wa\” 

Perhaps not much poetry in it ; but does the artificial school 
better it in the following ? : 

“ The glorious orb which Phoebus rolls on high 
Shines with transcendant lustre in the sky, 

And fast and fair the fervid sunbeams fall, 

Oh, stately Carlisle ! on thine ancient wall.” 

The Wail of the Waste Basket. By our Poetical Editor. 

The frequent appearance of a protest, or rather an appeal, 
which the readers of the McGill University Gazette may 
have noticed in the columns of this periodical, is one which, so 
far from being limited to it, may be seen in the pages of every 
college paper that ever existed, and is one for an increased 
expression of interest in the paper as evinced by literary as 
well as by monetary contributions. That this is an appeal 
which, to an ambitious minority of our readers, may appear 
unreasonable, we now for the first time, on examining the con- 
tents of the editor’s drawer, are painfully aware. “ Why,” 
doubtless ask these gentlemen, whose rejected addresses now 
lie before us, “ why are these unfeeling remarks as to the merits, 
quantitative and qualitative, of the contributions to the Gazette 
thrust so obtrusively on our notice ? Have we not sent, full 
many a time and oft, contributions teeming with the rich 
fancies of our brains ; withheld from a well-deserved fame only 
by the prejudices of a few editors?” The first of the con- 
tributors, who are all poets, is a bard who signs himself G. W. 
McM. He is, even to a superficial observer, deeply imbued 
with the spirit of the modern apostles of culture, and has un- 
burdened his world weary soul to us in the following fashion : 

Lo ! sad-browed night, her star-embowered throne 
Leaves slow, and swoons int > the arms of day ; 

The moon’s pale orb slants down the purple sky, 

Her silver beams thrill all the darkened air, 

And glances on the golden groves that skirt 
The sheeny radiance of the lake’s blue marge, 

Whose shoreless distance of Tartaric hue, 

Merges the violet mantle of her flood. 

With inky pall of hyacinthine night 

The writer’s fancy is so unfathomable, his intellect of so 
oceanic a profundity, that it is difficult for criticism of an 
ordinary depth to sound the abysmal recesses of his soul, 
whose “ unplumb’d, salt, estranging sea,” must forever be a 
barrier between his meaning and his expression of it. Leave 
we then to higher critics the consideration of a literary gem 
which the writer in a prefatory introduction has assured us con- 
tains the germs of a “ poikilo-cliromatie synchronism,” and to 
workers in a hitherto unexplored field of science, the inves- 
tigation of a too all but pre-Kaphaelitic inkling of a higher 
stellar chemistry, beyond whose bourne we confess ourselves 
unable to pass. Noting, therefore, only that in one place he has 
favoured us with a foretaste of the literary millennium, long 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



ago foretold, when a plural noun shall lie down with the singu- 
lar verb, and a little conjunction shall lead them, we will omit 
the rest of his effusion, and pass on to the consideration of 
another poem that appears above the signature of P. H. I.: — 

The dark clouds hide the sun’s gay light, 

The leaves have flown ; and autumn chill 
In icy fetters chains each rill. 

In sober garb is Nature’s dight. 

Sad is the mateless robin’s lay, 

Sad the soft whispering zephyr’s sigh, 

Sad is my heart as I pass by,— 

The world is drear — can I be gay ? 

But on a sudden, Phoebus gleams 
Through the bare forest’s leafless aisles ; 

W reathed are the trees in golden smiles, 

Unlocked the babble of the streams. 

My love who gladdens Nature drear, 

Whose red lips shame the ruby’s hue, 

Whose bright orbs shame the heaven’s blue. 

My auburn tressed love is here. 

When we first read this, and it was certainly hard to read not- 
withstanding the patchouli-scented note paper and the elaborate 
monogram on it, we were inclined to rave and tear our hair, but 
the calmer moments of reflection assured us that there was 
nothing in the words — for the poem contained no ideas — to 
arouse any such violent exhibition of our feelings. Such an 
“ aching void ” of ideas, so inane a composition it would be 
hard for the most diligent student of modern lyric writers, such 
as Aubrey de Vere, C. Tennyson Turner, W. Cosmo-Monkhouse, 
and others of the inner brotherhood, to produce. We will there- 
fore sum up the substance of this ballad by classifying it as the 
vapid maunderings of a fool, who braces up when his red-haired 
girl comes along, and proceed to set forth in all its ghastly details 
the following atrocity, perpetrated last week by W.A. deW. It 
evidently owes a great deal of its form (if it can be said to have 
any) to the “Salut au Monde” of Walt. Whitman. W.A. de W. 
says : — 

What do you see, W.A. de W. ? 

I see a great square building. 

I see the crowds of students, book-carrying, issuing in — 
walking in gangs, snowballing at lamposts, upsetting asli-barrels, 
leering and jeering at girls in the streets, and generally swear- 
ing. 

I see the gang from the balmy backwoods of cabbage-scented 
Glengarry, unshaven and bleary, nicotian ruminants all — a 
few of them carrying note books. 

I see one fresh from the country with short but patulous 
breeches 

I see a spring-suited itinerant Banshee, a corrupter of youth, 
nondescript, never at Fenwick’s. 

I see a lost photographer. 

I see his fellow antediluvians, bereft of their senses by grief; 
fancying him smitten by disease or perchance devoured by fierce 
monsters ; mourning his loss and destroying his character ; seek- 
ing him in high and low (mostly low) places, haunting the 
Morgue and dragging rivers in vain ; finally submitting to his 
fate with a bad grace ; still keeping watch for him ; then sud- 
denly stumbling against him. 

I see the long, lank ghost, lantern-jawed and sepulchral. 

I see the long-bodied, short-legged saltator, whose ideas of 
meuin and tuum are rather promiscuous, whose rapacious over- 
coat pocket full often at Ford’s illicitly bulges. 

I see next him a long, melancholy individual, with eye of a 
slaughtered assellus, clad in the latest Newmaket, split-up-behind, 
but unpaid for. 

I see another returning home about sunrise with multiplying 
eye and unsteady gait, pensively falling on the hospitable breast 
of the doorstep, and searching in vain for the key-hole. 

In vain in the left lower corner of the door that keeps 
whanging against him. 

I see a red-bearded, straw-haired, blue-eyed indigenous youth, 
cursed with a keen sense of Thackeray’s humor. 

I see the form of a giant, with a plaintive “Got a cigarette ” 
ever on his lips, comely of feature, but harmless of intellect. 
The Thames fears no harm from incendiary proceedings on his 
part. 



I see another unfortunate, roped in and led to the 7mltar. 

Moaning aloud, “The tradesmen I owe, therefore lo hymenoel. 

I see a slender, tan-faced son of the tropics, sluggish of colon, 
barbaloetic 

* 1 see a notorious trio, the three Furies, joined in amorous 
contact, ever inseparable in brawl and jamboree. 

The first of a Saturnine countenance, suspicious, and pendulo- 
canine of aspect. 

The second, the most disreputable, out-at-elbows, flamm- 
go-cephalic — yet generous withal and kindly, thus differing far 
from the others. # 

The third with a harsh, high-pitched, rasping voice ; with 
a weakness for other men’s rubbers. 

His function that of a mouth-piece. 

I see a boisterous bullying body of burgling botanical fresh- 
men ; bursting open hallowed retreats, singing hymns to a fog 
horn accompaniment, in their eager pursuit after science. 

I see the Star of the East, sole hope of New Brunswick, a 
whiskered and speech-making Cato. 

I see the noble army of Chronics, some of then sparse as to 
hair (perhaps from much plucking), old friends who have 
long lingered among us, beloved of Mrs. Smiley. 

“ Au revoir ! ” is their motto at spring-time. 



'IJPeiroonalo* 



John Smith, M. D. ’79, has left Emerson, Man., and is at 
present in Portland, Oregon. 

B. F. W. Ilurdman, M. D., ’82, has returned from England, 
and has begun practice in Inverness, P. Q. 

Kenneth MacKenzie, M. D., ’81, has been appointed Profes- 
sor of Anatomy in Williamette University, Portland, Oregon, 
and Surgeon to St. Vincent’s Hospital in the same city. 

Walter W. White, B.A., ’86 Med. has been elected to fill the 
vacancy on the staff of the Gazette caused by Mr. Porter’s 
departure. No better selection could have been made. 

J. J. Collins, B. Ap. Sc., ’82, visited the College the 
other day, and was looking very happy. He was on his 
wedding tour, having been married recently in Ottawa. Mr. 
Collins is County Engineer for Renfrew. 

D. T. M. R. Salter, M. D., ’80, has given up his practice in 
Dundas, Ont. He purposes taking an extended course in Eng- 
land before settling down. His partner, James Ross, B. A., 
M. D., ’81, continues the practice. 



©bituarg. 



It is with feelings of the greatest regret that we record the 
death of Mr. A. W. Wilkinson, B. A., who died at the hospi- 
tal on January 20th from typhoid fever. 

Mr. Wilkinson graduated at the University of New Bruns- 
wick in ’80, at the head of his class, after a brilliant course in 
which he gained the highest University honors ; and, although 
he had only been connected with McGill for a few months, was 
looked upon as one of the most promising men of his year. 

The remains, which were forwarded to his home in Frederic- 
ton, were escorted to the Bonaventure depot by the students in 
Medicine and Arts and representatives from the Faculty. 

To his relatives we would express our heartfelt sympathy ; 
and while we recognize with sorrow the fact that another 
is taken from among us, we sincerely believe that he has gone 
where merit obtains its just reward. 



John Reddy, M.D., L.R.C.S.I., who died at Dublin, Ir land, 
on the 23rd January, was a Representative Fellow in Medicine 
of this University for ten years. He studied in Dublin and 
Glasgow, in both of which schools he took degrees. He received 
an ad eundem degree from McGill in 1856. Dr. Reddy was 
one of the attending physicians at the General Hospital for 25 
years, and was one of the oldest and most eminent practitioners 
in this city. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



WINTER SILKS ! . 

These Silks are strictly Winter Silks, made expressly for winter wear, 
an I are much richer in appearance and thicker than regular Gros Grains 
or Corded Silks. Very soft and pleasant to handle. 

S. CARSLEY. 

-Kj: WINTER SILKS! JN- 



The following shades of CANADIAN WINTER SILKS can be found 
at S. Carsley’s : 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 



1 Lot- 

2 Lot- 

3 L °t- 

4 Lot- 

5 Lot- 

6 Lot- 

7 Lot- 

8 Lot- 

9 Lot- 



-RESEDA SHADE. 

MOUSSE SHADE. 

-BRONZE SHADE. 

OLIVE SHADE. 

-LIGHT MYRTLE SHADE. 
-DARK MYRTLE SHADE. 
-CARDINAL SHADE. 

TERRA COTTA SHADE. 
-GRENAT SHADE. 

No. io Lot— BORDEAUX SHADE. 

No. ii Lot— CLARET SHADE. 

No. 12 Lot — COPPER SHADE. 

No. 13 Lot— LIGHT PRUNE SHADE. 

No. 14 Lot— SPOTTED LEOPARD SHADE. 
No. 15 Lot— FRENCH GRAY SHADE. 

No. 16 Lot-HUSSARD SHADE. 

No. 17 Lot— ACAJOU SHADE. 

No. 18 Lot— DARK NAVY SHADE. 

No. 19 Lot -LIGHT MARINE SHADE. 

No. 20 Lot— TOBACCO SHADE. 

No. 21 Lot— MAROON SHADE. 

No. 22 Lot— LOUTRE SHADE. 

No. 23 Lot— SPANISH BROWN SHADE. 
No. 24 Lot— CREAM SHADE. 

No. 25 Lot— KOUILLE SHADE. 

No. 26 Lot— CHOCOLATE SHADE. 

No. 27 Lot— DRAB SHADE. 

No. 28 Lot— AMERICAN GRAY SHADE. 
No. 29 Lot— SAPPHIRE SHADE. 

No. 30 Lot— WHITE. 

No. 31 Lot — BLACK. 

CALL SEE THEM. 

S. CARSLEY, 

3 0 5 Shop, 305. 





PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 

PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 

$ gW f 

251 ST. JAMES STREET. 

NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 

OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO II. 

PLEASE CALL AIVD SEE SPECIMENS 

P.S.— The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 

~ -»*C. ASHFDKIB’S 

jew Book and Stationary taop 

(one door west of his old stand) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Book procured to order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL. 



BISI 



UNIVERSITY OF 

OP’S + COLLEGE 

-MONTREAL. ^ 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 




HE Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for thi 8 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice * f either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the ‘ 4 Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 

FACULTY: 

F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L.. Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A.. M.D., C.M., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hospital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D.. C.M., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A., M.D., C.M., Professor of Materia Medica, Ph5*sioian Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M., M. D., Professor of Pathology, Phvsiciau Western Hospital. 
GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professorof Physiology, Pnysician Western Hospital. 
JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D.,C.M„ M.R.C.P I., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physician Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENHOLME, M.D., C.M., B.C.L., Professorof Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, C.M., M.D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C.M., M.D., L. R, C. P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY : B.A., M. L>., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C. P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor ot Botany, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary’. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 

JOSEPH B EM ROSE, F. C.S.. Lecturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D., C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GAHERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY, C.M., M.D., Curator of Museum. 

For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 
or to 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P.I., 

Montreal, December, 1883. Registrar, Montreal. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted , including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, #c., #c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to es ablished rules of art . 

QgT Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale . Price 
50 cents • 

— TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION i^-o — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 

Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 



HENRY GRANT & SON, 

26 Beaver Hall Terrace. 



Students' Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THEEK0HETE2S, 
MICROSCOPES, 
BAROMETERS, &C. 



OPTICIANS, 

/-\ WATCa-XAKiRS, 

$pECTAC^S— 2^ Je we ij l ers. 

HEADQIT ARTERS 



FOR — 




►H-DRYSDALE’S^ 




232 Slj. James Street;. 



Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological lext Books • 

Full assortment in stock and sucolied at Rock Bottom Prices, 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $c , $c., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 9 
Supplies a Specialty • 



232 SU. James StiareeU, 

— ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




I. SANDERS, 

OPTICIAH, 

185 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OP 

MICROSCOPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



CD. HILL 




lO PHIIiLIPS SQUARE, 



Bookseller and Stationer. 

English ancl American Periodicals 

And Illustrated Works 
All Kinds of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 




J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 



JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, COURT HOUSE and CITE HALL 

MONTREAL. 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 



WM. NOTMAH & SON, 



DU 



m 




D 



1J. 



• 111 HIES 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 



MOKTTS 3 E A 3 L« 



^GEO. BROWN & SONS**- 

Aierdbut * Tailors^ 



SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 



21 BLEURY STREET, 



NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 



•❖WILLIAM SAMUEL*- 

367 Notre Dame Street, 



— IMPORTER OF — 




From tiio Soot Englisli I^als.ors, 

— AND — 

Manufacturer of FINE FURS. 



Highest Award for FINE FUF.S, Ecminion Exhibition, 1883. 
Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Meir.l, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 





No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

J\l Montreal, 

Special jElatos iFozr Stua.ci.oaa.ts. - ^ 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUnDJETsTTS. 

% 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

B.0 OKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED To 

3ST O. 2 3 3 ST. J A. IM ES STREET. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL. 

ALL TEXT BOOKS ALL KINDS 

n» use 0r 

IN THE COLLEGES 

OF 

CANADA. 




NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

COLLEGE 
R EQ U I S ITES. 



SIGN Or -HE GOLDEN OWL. 

TsTO. 233 ST. JAMES STREET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS 



BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



