Montreal, Tebruarp 2 , 1894 




'.*7 iff --2V, 

Ifcm 



Editorial Comments 209 

A Picture of Sir William Dawson.209 

Lady Margaret’s Hall, Oxford 209 

Contributions. 

Books 210 

Artsmen at the Club House 213 

A College Girl in England 214 

To the evening Star, Poetry 215 

A Rhyme of Analogies 215 

Applied Science Dinner 216 

Sonnet 




Arts Notes 

Science Jottings 223 

Feathers from the East Wing 224 

Comp. Med. Class Reports 224a 

Supplemental, Poetry 224b 

What I Thinks, Poetry 224b 

Sporting Column 224b 



McGill 

ARCH IV 



university! 

vCHIVES 



ACC. NO. 









RIZF. 



ImJ 




me 



z z 



MUII HAIDDLI1ES 
a AHERICftS GUITARS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE," and 



“DOBSON” . . . 



Qonjos 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 
Strings and everything In the 
Musical Line. 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



KODAKS 



and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 
PBICES : $6 to $75 - 1 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

Montreal Photographic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Aqent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and' Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optrn us and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 

MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO.: 




258 St. James Street, 

Near McGill St. 



WM. FOSTER BROWN, 

<^The McGill Book Store 



2323 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

MONTREAL. 

Telephone 3641 . 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



I>. DRY SDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 



Ageryt for Storrett’s Tools. TeIepI\or\e 169. 



E. A. GERTH, STUD ENTS' HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block, 
MONTREAL. : : 

Havana Cigars 



Direct Importer 
of High-Class 



Wholesale 

ajid Retail. 



Try Gerth’s Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality.: 



Low Prices. 



THE ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPITAL 



Has purchased its entire and magnificent outfit of 

Surgical Instruments, Microscopes, 
0 Sterilizers, Anatomical Models, 
Electric Batteries, Etc., Etc., 

J. H. CHAPMAH, 

2294 St- Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4398. MONTREAL- 



20 : 100 : : $5.00 : X 

Vigentum per centum deductum 
erit ab omnibus “ Sales ” per mag- 
num 

“ Stock Taking Sale ” 

NOW GOING ON AT 

Muuoe Bros. — , 



MM 



2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



.17 Bleurv Street 



TELEPHONES. 



Warehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 




SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



"Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T. W. NESS & CO., 




^CGlkls FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. II. 



MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 2, 1894. 



No. 9 




-3-EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. *94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec*y R H r ( (Comp. Med. and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) * ' Science ’94.) 

J. A. McPhail, B.A., M.D., Graduates* Society, 



-EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts ’94), Chairman 
F, A. Hogle, (Law *94), Secretary 

Miss F. A. Botterbll, (Donalda *95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. '95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $x.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W . 
Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS, 



A PICTURE OF SIR WILLIAM DAWSON. 

In our next issue we will present our readers with a 
fine photogravure of Sir William Dawson, the late 
Principal of the Universit}', which will be no doubt 
highly appreciated. The names of McGill and Daw- 
son will always be historic in the progress and enlarge- 
ment of the College world, and more than that, in every 
country where the.benefits of education are at all appre- 
ciated. Truly, Sir William may be called the second 
father of McGill. Those who heard the University 
Lecture this Session will remember at what a low ebb 
the fortunes of the institution seemed to be when our 
late Principal took hold of the reins of office thirty- 
eight years ago. 

The most casual observer on looking round to- 
day cannot fail to be impressed with the almost magic 
transformation that has taken place. Whilst the most 
cordial thanks of every lover of education are due to 
the generous donors of these buildings, whose names 
will go down to posterity as the benefactors of their 
race, we must not forget that much of this change is 
due to the wise forethought and free generosity of our 
late Principal. Not only has Sir William given freely 



! to the funds of the University, but to him we practically 
owe the collection in the Redpath Museum, which in 
its line is the most complete and valuable collection in 
the Dominion. Much of the lustre which fell upon Sir 
William as one of the greatest of living geologists has 
been reflected upon McGill, and its fame has been 
thus carried far beyond its more immediate sphere of 
action. 

The discovery of that gigantic foraminifer, the 
Eozdon Canadense, in the Laurentian Hills, which 
seems now to be almost universally accepted as the 
earliest of organic remains known to geological science, 
has made Sir William’s name a household word. In 
recognition of his great reputation, the British Asso- 
ciation of Scientists elected him their president at the 
Birmingham meeting in 1886. 

Of his literary work we need say little. He has pre- 
sented the world with a series of excellent works upon 
Geology, many of them written in a popular style. 
His “Acadian Geology ” is still the classic work upon 
that region. One of the recent works, ‘‘ Salient Points 
in the History of the Earth,” has lately been reviewed 
in these columns. All through these works we see that 
the author is not in sympathy with the purely rational- 
istic school of thought, steering a middle course, with , 
those who hold that there is nothing incompatible be- 
tween Reason and Revelation. We trust that Sir Wil- 
liam will be long spared to the University and to the 
world for which he has done so much. With regard 
! to the next issue, we would say that those desiring 
extra copies would do well to notify the Business Man- 
agers in time, as there will undoubtedly be a great 
rush. 



“LADY MARGARETS HALL, OXFORD.” 

Oh ! this our century that is so alive with the birth- 
throes of many a noble off spring— that is ringing the 
knell for many a hope that once seemed so fair of pro- 
mise — where, on thy bush, find we fairer bud than that 
of “ womanhood ? 99 For many a long year this was but 
on the whole, a sickly branch — bearing, it is true, many 
a green leaf of pure and unselfish woman-life : but the 
whole story of its progress has been slow, and even now, 
man is but just learning to look upon woman as his 
equal— the flower is but beginning toburst open its green 
sheath. Truest woman apes not to become man’s shade. 
She will not excel always where he excels, neither will 
she perform only what he performs. She acknowledges 



210 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



that the inherent forces of her nature deny any such 
consummation. Her physical organism ever teaches 
her u'fiat her ideals shall be. She claims for herself an 
equality with men, but it is a diverse equality. 

“ Not like to like, but like in difference.” 

She claims no ‘‘ angelic” superiority and no worship. 
She prefers to be true “helpmeet:” if to men, or to her 
own sell simply ! She will set true price upon her 
womanhood, and she will no longer be bought and sold 
because she cannot win her own way in the world, and 
she will sue at the bar of justice until the right be 
granted her that hers shall become entirely one with 
the real life of th e nation — until anyway she shall be 
free to live that life which “ nature” has fitted her to 
live. Her long death-like sleep, with its fitful wakings, 
is past ; life, wakeful life, courses in her blood. She will 
produce her statue, her picture, her poem — as Eng- 
land’s great “poetess” suggests, and show that the 
privileges which she claims are not for vain purposes. 

There has come to our notice an account of woman’s 
work in one of the two great literary centres of England 
written by one partaking of its advantages —an account 
ofLady Margaret’s — one of the four halls for women 
students, at Oxford. The account is very interesting, 
though it touches not upon the all-important questions 
of “University” life. It tells not of the intellectual 
work accomplished, if it is of the nature to make of man 
or woman an “ individual ” or a “ nonentity, ” though 
the reputation of the great English University is too 
widespread to enable us to doubt its true efficiency in 
this respect. But, even as in the humblest or the 
wealthiest * home, ’ though the deep, underlying 
“love" that is there is the ail essential thing, the lit. 
tie courtesies and the methods of management are too 
of influence in the rendering of it happy and blessed, so 
is it in the great family of the sons and daughters of a 
“ University;” the questions of management and method 
do affect her well-being. The account presents a num- 
ber of contrasts to the “ East Wing ” of our McGill Uni. 
versity. Let us note some of these. “ Lady Margaret's 
Hall ” provides for women what “ McGill ” still lacks 
for men and women alike— a home for those who come 
fiom afar— and this must needs be beneficial, not only 
as regards comfort, but in the promotion of a true college 
spirit between those whose work and aim are, in reality, 
one, however seemingly divergent— in promoting that 
spirit of greater kindliness and toleration towards those 
that gra'e upon us, because they must be associated 
with that toleration which is said to belong to the 
male members of our community ; and in affording 
opportunity for the formation of what are ever acknovv^ 
ledged to be the most lasting friendships— those formed 
in such intimate association when restraint and conven- 
tionality are scattered to the four winds. Our “ McGill ’ ’ 
may be behindhand in this matter, but there is another 
matter in which her “ Donalda” department is ahead of 
the women’s halls in Oxford. McGill grants her worn, 
en-students degrees of equal worth as are those granted 
to men ; allows them, if they will, to proceed to a higher 
degree than that of “ Bachelor of Arts,” while, as our cor- 
respondent tells us, even the degree of B.A.’is denied 



to the “ women-students of Oxford. There is another 
great diffeience between “McGill” and “Oxford.” 
There the men and women have their lectures together. 
Still another difference between the two rests in the fact 
that women there, apparently, neglect not to take recrea- 
tion and exercise. Would ‘'McGill,” think you, draw the 
same crowds to witness her sports as she does now, were 
the fair sex to take bat in hand ? And what shall we 
say regarding the custom, which seems to reign there, 
for women as for men who take the honor courses, of 
putting themselves into the hands of some tutor; 
would not this seem to do away necessarily with much 
of the good fruit of University training— that is, product 
of the necessity for self-cultivation, apart from external 
teaching — with the benefit to be derived from indepen- 
dent search and study ? While there, as here, debating 
and literary societies exist, and must often be the means 
of developing latent talent for public speaking or liter- 
ary work, neither is religious training thrown aside there 
nor the essentially woman’s work of sewing for the poor. 

Perhaps we are very bold to compare a University in a 
comparatively new land, and which is not yet a centena- 
rian, with one of so many centuries standing. But we 
would ask, is the account of “ Lady Margaret’s Hall ” 
entirely in our ‘‘Donalda” Department’s disfavor? 
We think not, on the whole. There are points in which 
we might reflect its image, and, too, there are matters 
in which we consider that ours might be reflected— an 
immaculacy has never been claimed for her by McGill’s 
adherents ; absolute protection is to be found neither 
in a system nor an individual. We simply remember 
our “Alma Mater’s ” comparatively few years of growth 
and acknowledge gratefully what has been done and is 
being done and is to be done for us, and that, in exter- 
nal matters, we belong to a thoroughly well-managed 
body, single in aim and purpose of progi ess, and we 
would that all who leave McGill’s halls might prove 
worthy of her — prove as faithful workers as those under 
whose influence they, for four years, have lived— that 
our Donaldas might prove in action woman’s worthiness 
to attain the further privileges which she claims and 
which are yet denied to her. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



BOOKS. 

What to read , and how to read them . 

“ Owen Meredith ” (son of the famous novelist Bulwer) sings 
in his poem of “ hucille ” : 6 



“ We may liv 
We may live 
We may live 
But civilized 
He may live 
He may live 
He may live 
But where is 



e without poetry, music and art, 
without conscience and live without heart ; 
without friends, we may live without books, 
mau cannot live without cooks, 
without books, what is knowledge but grieving ? 
without hope, what is hope but deceiving ? 
without love, what is passion but pining ? 
file man who can live without dining?” 



Now, if he simply means that we cannot go back to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



21 1 



cannibalism, I suppose we shall agree with him ; but 
if he means that the pleasures of the table and fashion- 
able society are to be placed before 

“ books, poetry, music and art,” 

I venture to say that he does not understand what he 
is talking about. It would require better argument 
than he furnishes tc induce me to give up my Homer, 
or Virgil, my Shakespeare or Milton, or even his 
father's “ Rienzi,” for all the elaborately prepared din- 
ners that were ever concocted. 

I would say of my books : 

“ How sweet to me the charms of home, 

To have around me many a tome, 

Here to revel, there to mu c e, 

Glean or wander as I choose ; 

Endless landscapes cross my room. 

Fancy decked in twilight gloom ; 

Autumn, Winter, Summer, Spring, 

Wizard books, ye changeful bring ! 

Something apt for each emotion, 

Love, or gladness, or devotion. 

Ye at will give up your knowledge, 

Such as may befit a college, 

Or ye proffer information 
With an easy salutation. 

Some of ye are as a stream 
In whose depths rare jewels gleam ; 

Admonishers of strife and folly, 

Cheerers of black melancholy, 

Gentle, most persuasive Teachers, 

Or authoritative Preachers ; 

Comparisons full of life and spirit, 

Mentors who no grudge inherit ; 

Suiting every time and season 
With a rhyme or with a reason. 

Books beloved, ye are to me 
An unretorting family ; 

Ye, for each day’s irritation, 

Always bring a compensation. 

How shall sadness come, or gloom, 

While ye lie about my room. 

Looking down from friendly nooks? 

My benison upou ye, Books ! ! 

Thus, having settled — at least to my own entire 
satisfaction — that books are necessary to our exist- 
ence, it may be worth while to enquire what kind of 
books may be regarded as profitable reading, and to 
do this, it will be well to point out, to begin with, a 
class of books which are to be avoided. 

It is not very long since I stumbled over the follow- 
ing paragraph as a review of “ New Books ” in the 
New York Herald : — 

“ Apparently, only two classes of books are in 
demand : Novels and Books on Popular Science ; at 
least these are the only ones lately published. 

‘‘The novels are, almost without exception, bad. 
The first on the list is a novel of American society, it 
is called a ‘ Brown Stone Front.’ The story is feeble 
to the point of frivolity.” 

A Philadelphia publisher tells us we would much 
oblige Miss D — by reading her latest novel, “The 
Gipsy’s Warning.” We would like to oblige a novelist 
so industrious, but remembering the pain of attempt- 



ing to read her eight previous works, we trust the 
good lady will excuse us this time. 

Another of these books about nothing, entitled 
“ Driven from the Path,” is thus summed up 

“The dialogue is insipid, and the incidents and 
story are in every way commonplace ; ” and so on to 
the end of the Review. 

Of this last mentioned attempt at “ paper staining” 
as Douglas Jerrold would have styled it. a Montreal 
newspaper informed us : 

“ This is a pleasantly written tale of American life. 
Like American life itself, it is perhaps a little too arti- 
ficial, and in some passages of the dialogue what may 
be described as namby-pamby ; but on the whole it is 
a vendable book.” 

One of these pestilential effusions is noticed thus, 
which I presume we must regard as laudatory : 

“ Too Soon. — The authoress gained a fair reputation 
by her previous story ‘ Patty,’ and this one will in no 
way detract from that reputation. It is a domestic 
story, in which the plot is well constructed and skill- 
fully worked out.” 

Now, I am sure that the New York Herald is a very 
low stand point to regard the question from ; but as I 
take it for granted that this sort of trash unfortunately 
finds readers by thousands, and if this opinion is the 
most favorable that the New York Herald can form, it 
is enough to make one pause and determine to do his 
utmost to counteract the influence of such reading by 
every means in his power. 

Let me ask : “ What possible good can result from 
reading such rubbish as this ? ” 

And then think again that these books which I am 
condemning for their stupidity and their utter worth- 
lessness on this account may perhaps be set down as 
harmless when compared with others of a more vicious 
character ; add to this the flood of scepticism and 
materialism and all the other miserableisms into which 
our literature of to-day appears to spread. 

May we not blush for the age that can countenance 
and support it ? 

Let me beg of you, with all the earnestness I can 
command, to ^countenance the trash and to encourage 
a taste for a higher class of reading. To my young 
friends especially I would say that no profit in any 
shape can possibly result from reading such books as 
I have referred to, and the highest view to be taken of 
it is that it is simply, — time wasted. 

Remember, it will not take longer to read a good 
book than it does to read a bad one ! 

It is said, ‘‘Judge a man by the company he keeps.” 
Now, a man’s books are his companions, and I would 
say : “ Let me see a man’s books, and I will tell you 
something of his character.” 

There are some who do not love books there are 
some who do not love virtue and knowledge, and 
refinement and happiness ; but lovers of these are also 
lovers of books. 

Let us for a moment glance at the books of two or 
three men who have made themselves famous. Did 
you ever take the trouble to analyze the catalogue of 
the library of Robert Burns, drawn up by his sons? 



21 2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Dr. Currie tells us that the books of the poet were 
numerous and well selected, and an Edinburgh book- 
seller valued them at ,£90, — a large sum for a miscel- 
laneous collection of volumes brought at once to 
peremptory sale. 

Amongst those enumerated we find : — 

Dugald Stewart’s Philosophy. 

Burke on the Sublime and Beautiful. 

Boileau’s Works. 

Melworth’s Cicero. 

Dr. Johnson, Goldsmith, Swift, Sterne. 

The Essayists as the Spectator, Rambler, Tatler, etc. 

2 Editions of Shakespeare, Moliere’s Plays. 

Encyclopaedia Britannica, in 3 vols. 

Adam Smith’s Wealth of Nations. 

Josephus. 

Hume & Smollett, History of England. 

Robertson’s History of Scotland. 

Hume and Montaigue’s Essays. 

Various Books of Travels. 

And for Poetry : 

Homer, Virgil, Tasso, Chaucer, Milton, and a host 
of others ; and above all : 

Blair, Tillotson and Sherlock’s Sermons. 

Works of John Knox. 

Baxter’s Call to the Unconverted. 

Baxter’s Saint’s Rest, etc., etc. 

This is the sort ol literary food upon which the Ayr- 
shire Ploughman fed ; who shall say how much this 
may have had to do with the production of that noble 
poem : “ The Cotter’s Saturday Night ” ? 

The same remark may be made of some other self- 
made men : Thomas Cooper and Ebenezer Elliott are 
especial instances. Elliott tells us : — 

“ I never could read a feeble book through, and it fol- 
lows that I read master-pieces only.” 

“ The best thoughts of the highest minds: after Milton, 
Shakespeare ; then Assian, then Junius, Swift’s Tale 
of a Tub, Joan of Arc, Schiller’s Robbers, Burgess’ Leo- 
nora, Gibbon’s Decline and Fall, and long afterwards 
Tasso, Dante, DeStael, Schlegel. Hazlitt and the West- 
minster Review.” 

A strange medley, truly, but valuable as revealing 
something of the sources of the author’s peculiarities of 
writing and thinking. 

Cooper gives us a most interesting record of his early 
reading, and furnishes a “plain, unvarnished tale ” of 
how he educated himself through his books. 

Fancy a shoemaker working at his trade, committing 
to memory the major part of Milton’s Paradise Lost 
and seven of the plays of Shakespeare,— learning He- 
brew and Greek, that he might read the Bible in the 
original, and giving up the study of the French lan- 
guage because it was so easy. 

I am afraid that we do not read now-a days as good 
books as our fathers read. I would recommend such 
reading as Plutarch and Josephus; and if we desire to 
read modern History, have we not Macaulay, Green 
Froude, Prescott, Bancroft, Motley, Parkman and others’ 

Books of Travels such as Kinglake’s Eothen, War 
burton’s Crescent and the Cross, and Livingstone’s Ex- 



plorations in Africa cannot fail to be interesting. Other 
African travellers might also be read, as Bruce, Clapper- 
ton, Belgoni, Lauder and McGregor Laird, and Voy- 
ages to the Arctic Regions, too. 

British North America and the Dominion of Canada 
suggest a whole life-time of reading ; and to prove that 
it need not necessarily be dry or dull, try Major War- 
burton’s Conquest of Canada and Francis Park man’s 
charming Histories. 

Biographies of eminent men are a most inviting and 
profitable class of reading — take a few names as exam- 
ples : — Martin Luther; and of modern worthies — Nelson, 
Wellington, Watt, Stephenson, Wilberforce, Have- 
lock, Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and many others. 

And to “ point a moral and adorn a tale,” the lives 
of Napoleon the Great and Napoleon the Little should 
not be omitted. 

If you would read French authors, you are not com- 
pelled to take Alexandre Dumas and Eugene Sue — 
fascinating though they are. Why select such authors 
in preference to Racine, Molfore, or Corneille, to 
Lamartine, Arago, Thiers, Guizot, Louis Blanc, Beran- 
ger, or Victor Hugo ? 

If your tastes be politically inclined, the Lives and 
Speeches of Chatham, Fox, Canning, Peel, Erskine, 
Lyndhurst and Brougham will remain when the effu- 
sions defending “ National Policies ” shall have passed 
away and be forgotten. 

The earth has bubbles as the water hath ; and these 
are of them.” 

If poetry be your taste, in addition to the universally 
acknowledged superiority of Shakespeare and Milton, 

I believe that no language can show such an inex- 
haustible mine of wealth as may be found in the writ- 
ings of the minor poets of Great Britain and America : 
Dryden, Pope, Gray, Cowper, Coleridge, Words- 
worth, Southey, Campbell, Keats, Leigh Hunt, Chas. 
Mackay, Browning, Tennyson, Longfellow, Bryant and 
V hittier. It would be unfair to pass unnoticed the 
writings of the poetesses : Mrs. Hemans, Mrs. Norton, 
Joanna Baillie, Mrs. Sigourney and Eliza Cook. 

“ Blessings be with them, and eternal praise, 

The poets ! who have made us heirs on earth 
Of peace and pure delight, through heavenly lays.” 

A faithful rending of such authors as I have named 
will lead to a just appreciation of other books {unwrit- 
ten books), that we may study to a profit. 

I remember that Eliza Cook wrote verses at 9 years 
of age, and her father threatened her that if she did 
not leave off scribbling, he would burn her books. 
Whereupon th e youthful poetess replied : 

“ Burn, burn them all, it matters not, 

There s earth and sky and sea, 

And those three volumes— Nature’s works— 

Are quite enough for me.” 



~ puciry nas oeen 

to me an exceedingly great reward/’ 

In my denunciation of fiction (or novels) I would not 
wholly exclude them from my reading, for in so doing 
I should shut out some of my pleasures, in such writ- 
ings as those of dear Oliver Goldsmith, Sir Walter 
Scott and Washington Irving, the best of Bulwer’s, Miss 



McGILL fortnightly. 



2X3 



Austen, Miss Porter, Miss Mitford, Miss Muloch, 
George Eliot, Miss Marti neau. the Bronte sisters, and 
others. 

I may perhaps tread on debatable ground, but as an 
Englishman, and a landowner, I have read Charles 
Dickens, Thackeray, and Douglas Jerrold — and to those 
who may be prone to object to these authors, I would 
rest my defence upon the characters of Little Nell , 
Colonel Newconte and La tty Butler . 

I think we should read and accept such influences as 
may fit us to be real men. In the writings of the 
authors I have named, there is not to be found the 
scurrility and low buffoonery, the profanity and blas- 
phemy which you may discover in some of the Ameri- 
can humorists (so-called). 

As Douglas Jerrold said : “ I believe there are men so 
wicked that they would be able to write a comic ‘ Ser- 
mon on the Mount;’ but I sincerely trust that the world 
will grow tired of it.” 

It is somewhat to our credit that Bret Harte, when he 
was at the Queen’s Hall for two evenings some time 
back, read to their audiences, and lost money by the 
venture. 

Profanity is neither wit nor humor. Is it right to 
jest about the Holy Scriptures or to turn sacred things 
into ridicule ? 

Daniel Webster was once asked : “ What was the most 
important thought that you ever had in your life?” 
After a pause, during which his expressive counten- 
ance took on a very solemn look, he replied : — “ The 
most important thought I ever had was the 
thought of my individual responsibility to God.” 

Is it not desirable that this thought should preside 
over our lives, and guide all our actions ; one of the 
first results would be that we should read only authors 
of whom we might say, 

“ They wrote no line 
Which dying they would wish to blot.” 

To be continued . 



ARTSMEN AT THE CLUB HOUSE. 

On Saturday evening last, the Artsinen had their 
annual tramp to the Athletic Club House at Cote des 
Neiges. 

About forty men turned out, and after a very enjoy- 
able walk of three-quarters of an hour the festivities 
of the evening began, and were engaged in with a zest 
which showed that “ poring over miserable books ” is 
not the ideal enjoyment of even an Artsman. 

Dinner was soon announced, and it is unnecessary 
to say that the excellent bill of fare received most 
serious consideration. The first toast of the evening 
was that to our Alma Mater. In proposing it, Mr. A. 
Graham of the Fourth year referred to the great progress 
which has characterized our University for the last 
few years, and prophesied sti.l greater things for the 
future. The toast was drunk amid great enthusiasm, 
and was responded to by Mr. Ireland of the Final year. 
Mr. Ireland congratulated the Undergraduates on their 
being identified with this University. It was a great 



institution for Canada, he said, yet it had its draw- 
backs. The Students were not always given the stand 
at examinations they thought they deserved, but other 
Universities followed the same methods. He thought 
it was not strictly correct to say that ours was an 
un-principal* d institution, for the Faculty of Arts at 
least had lately been working upon a p/inciple which 
yielded considerable interest to the Undergraduates. 
Then followed the toast to the Donaldas, proposed by 
Mr. Keith of the Third year. Mr. Keith referred at some 
length to the “Chinese wall” that stood between 
the gentlemen Undergraduates and the fair denizens of 
the East Wing. He described the condition of affairs 
as quite anomalous, quoting from a Greek author to 
illustrate it, and then kindly giving a translation of 
the passage in response to repeated demands for a ci*ib. 
In responding to the toast, Mr. Dickson, ’94, made a 
short speech, in which he expressed strong disapproval 
of the last instance of interference with the privileges 
of the lady students viz. : the action of the Library 
authorities prohibiting them from the use of the great 
reading room of the Library, and subjecting them to 
the inconveniences of a small room remote from the 
reference shelves. 

It is in general not well to make invidious distinc- 
tions, yet we think it but right to say that Mr. Mc- 
Intosh of the Third year made the speech of the evening 
in proposing the graduating class. Mr. McIntosh did 
not forget to include the graduating Donaldas in this 
toast, which at the close of his happy remarks was 
drunk with prolonged cheering and the emphatic 
assertion that they were “all jolly good fellows.” 
It was responded to by Mr. F. C. Fraser, who thought 
that though the “Chinese wall” before mentioned 
could not be broken down, it might perhaps be possible 
to climb over it. As a practical suggestion to this end, 
he advised all the Students to attend the Arts Conver- 
sazione on the evening of Feb. 9th. It would probably 
be the last occasion on which the members of the 
graduating class would have an opportunity of meet- 
ing the other Students in a social way. Mr. S. Graham 
of the Second year proposed the toast to the Freshmen. 
It was drunk with enthusiasm, and Mr. Howard, *97, 
responded briefly. The toast to the Committee was 
proposed by Mr. Smith, ’94, in a pretty speech, and 
gracefully acknowledged by Mr. Hanson of the Third 
year. After a few pleasing remarks by Mr. Killaly, 
B.A., Ap. Sci. ’96, the President was toasted amidst 
loud applause. In response, Mr. Graham thanked the 
gentlemen for the kindness that had prompted their 
toast, and for the support they had always given him 
while performing the duties of his office. All with 
one accord then repaired to the large hall up stairs and 
engaged in Basket Ball and other varieties interspersed 
with music and a reading by Mr. McMaster. A solo by 
Mr. Hopkins, ’95, is worthy of special remark; the 
words are from the pen of our College poet, “ Cap'll. 
Goun,” and the music is from Wang, “You must ask 
of the man in the moon.” The men grouped them- 
selves together on the platform, and were photographed 
by Mr. Tooke, and then, about 11 o’clock, started city- 



214 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ward. On reaching McGregor street, the column 
turned eastward and passed through to the Trafalgar 
Institute. The men drew up before the building, and 
after giving the McGill yell, sang “ Merrily we roll 
along,” the verse being slightly altered by substituting 
11 Get up ladies, we’re coming to see you now,” for the 
usual words. 

This was the last act in the drama, and the men 
wended their way homeward, feeling that they had had 
the most enjoyable tramp on record. 

ARTS ’95- 



A COLLEGE GIRL IN ENGLAND 

To compare Lady Margaret Hall to an American 
College of the same standing needs a greater know- 
ledge of the women’s colleges on your side of the 
Atlantic than I possess ; therefore I must content my- 
self with giving as well as I can a description of our 
life at Lady Margaret Hall, leaving aside' any attempt 
at comparison. 

In Oxford there are at present four Halls for women 
students : Somerville, Lady Margaret, St. Hugh’s 
and St. Hilda’s ; the last named was opened this year, 
and is generally spoken of as the finishing school for 
Cheltenham College. These Halls were the outcome 
of the formation of the Association for the Education 
of Women, and although all women attending lectures 
given by the University of Oxford must be members 
of the Association, they need not reside in any of the 
Halls, as the number of out-students testifies. To be- 
come a member of the Association is most simple : one 
has a short interview with the Secretary and pays 
a small fee. This entitles you to go to any lecture 
given by the Association or by the University, but, 
provided you have not already passed some equivalent 
examination, before you will be admitted to your final 
schools, you must pass the Women’s Preliminary Exami- 
nation. If you are in residence in one of the Halls, this 
must be done in your first year, or else there is every 
chance of your being sent down. It will be seen by this 
that we are members of the Women’s Association only and 
not of the University. Thisexcludes us from degrees and, 
as we view it, the calamity of having to wear the most 
hideous undergraduate gown. There is a movement 
on foot to persuade the authorities to give us the de- 
gree of B.A. Doubtless they would do that willingly, 
but pertinacious women would be apt to regard that 
degree simply as a stepping-stone to higher things, and 
demand the coveted degree of M. A., which means that 
the possessor has a right to have a finger in every 
University pie. Imagine the feelings of the grave 
reverend dons if a woman M. A. arose in Council and 
suggested some improvement which meant distinct 
progress ! So it rests at present that we win the 
honor but not the decoration. 

The women undergraduates go to the College lec- 
tures. As a general rule, we sit at the don’s table on 
the dais (for you must understand that college lectures 
are delivered in the dining Hall of the College), while 
the men sit at the ordinary long tables lower down. It 



is a distinct pleasure to go to lectures in these grand 
old halls, hung with portraits of rectors or principals 
and patrons, many of them quite mediaeval, reaching 
back to the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. 

Our course of study is conducted on the same lines 
as the men’s. We have our tutors and coaches, write 
our essays and do our collections with the best of 
them. The tutor is a peculiar feature in English 
university life ; perhaps I had better explain his 
function. Every one going in for honors has a tutor. 
You are handed over to him, and he supervises your 
course of study, either coaching you himself or sending 
you to some other coach, who perhaps is better up in 
your subject. It is a great comfort to have one, for if 
your class turns out lower than he gave you reason to 
expect, the most natural thing in the world is to blame 
him. Unfortunately, there are certain coaches em- 
ployed by the Association, and the Secretary in setting 
your course of work usually puts you down for one of 
them, giving you no choice in the matter. 

All the Halls meet at lectures, and naturally there is 
a good deal of rivalry. Somerville is our rival, I fear, 
and to our shame be it, they beat us in the schools, 
while we only retaliate by victories in the field, if one 
can call tennis and hockey the field. Lady Margaret 
Hall goes in a good deal for those two games, and cer- 
tainly plays wonderfully well. We have matches 
between the two Halls, two a term,— a challenge and a 
return match. It may appear strange, but Somerville 
seems to care more for her defeats in the games than 
her victories in the schools. Rather unreasonable to 
expect both brains and muscle. 

The two Halls are associated in a debating society, 
held alternately every fortnight at the two Halls. The 
subject of debate varies from “ Books and Travel con- 
trasted as a means of Education ” to the “ Right of 
women to serve on Juries.” The range of subject is 
certainly wide, and supposed to suit all speakers. In 
connection with this debating society we have another 
at L’M.H. called “ Sharp Practice,” at which one has 
to speak on any given subject at a moment’s notice, no 
time being given for preparation. I do not know if 
Somerville has a similar society, though that is a name 
much too dignified for our meeting. To cement the 
union with Somerville and the other Halls, an inter- 
collegiate magazine is being started, the editors to be 
chosen alternately every term from the two Halls. 
The first number of the Chameleon has not yet 
appeared. It is so called on account of its changing 
its color so often : yellow and white ( Lady Margaret 
Hall) one term ; blue and red (Somerville Hall) next, 
and I think two shades of green (St. Hugh’s) comes in 
somehow. 

Besides the sharp practice meeting we have as many 
meetings as there are days in the week. We have on 
Friday evening, between dinner and chapel, a sewing 
meeting, from whence are turned out garments for 
“ the settlement,” a kind of female Loynbee Hall, in 
London. The place of a Y.W. C. A. is taken at the Hall 
by Miss Wordsworth’s Wednesday evening lectures, 
which we are all expected to attend. 



McGill fortnightly. 



215 



We have very few rules at the Hall, but there 
are many things which we are “ expected ” to do. For 
instance, we are expected to go in couples into the 
town, but as a matter of fact that rule is very elastic 
and unless the young woman is very flighty we might, 
meet the Hall authorities on the High, and nothing 
would be said. The proprieties was very much bowed 
down to a few years ago. We had chaperons at lec- 
tures, certain old ladies making it their business to 
occupy a chair at the various lectures for a considera- 
tion. Fortunately the Times got hold of it, and 
the custom simply withered up under its ridicule, and 
now we go alone. We are expected, I think, to have a 
chaperone at our coaching, but that is dying slowly. 

A day at the Hall is something like this. The maid 
comes in with hot water, and wakes you at 7. Chapel 
is at 8 and breakfast immediately after. From 9 
till 1 lectures go on, but of course one’s morning is 
not always given entirely to them, three a morning is 
as many as one can do. Lunch> is from 1 to 2, and 
from 2 to 4 nobody in Oxford is supposed to work. 
The parks are crowded with football and hockey play- 
ers, and we of Lady Margaret’s play hockey or tennis 
go boating on the Cherwell or take walks into the 
surrounding country. We are not allowed to go on 
the river unless we can swim 50 feet. At 4 comes 
the jolly meal of the day, afternoon tea, when whoever 
is down first makes tea and gets slanged all round for 
her pains. All come in fresh from their walks and 
games, and a perfect babel of voices arises. Some- 
times — we are thankful only sometimes — a lot of 
them sing comic songs, or at any rate very popular 
ones. Whatever we do, we make plenty of noise for 
fifteen or thirty minutes ; then we go off one by one to 
our rooms to work until 7, when hot water again 
appears, dinner being at 7.30. Towards the end of 
one’s first term, one usually works till 7 25, five 
minutes being quite enough to get into one’s gown — 
when one’s accustomed to it. From dinner to chapel, 
about half an hour, we have various societies, and on 
Saturdays a sociable, when the gifted ones recite, play 
the piano and mandolin, or even the banjo, and sing. 
Sometimes we have theatricals. After chapel we have 
coffee, and then go to work or not till ten o’clock, and 
from ten to half-past, cocoas and teas and coffees go on 
in the different rooms. By half-past ten we are all 
supposed to be out of one another’s rooms, but one 
always hears about 1 1 o’clock or later certain stealthy 
footsteps prowling cautiously down the passage, then 
a door shuts not quite gently, and we know the venture- 
some one has arrived safely. There is not much sitting 
up late done, we all find it does not pay in the end, and 
one can get 7 or 8 hours in very well during the day ? 
even with the two hours of play from 2 to 4. 

This is our day at the Hall, only, of course, a bare 
summary of “events.” I cannot tell you what a 
charming life it is, with its friendships and enmities, its 
hard work and thorough-going play. One meets so 
many different characters, and has often to see a good 
deal of a girl who is to a certain extent antagonistic to 
you, so one learns to be more tolerant. The most 



charming thing is one’s friendships, real friendships 
I mean, not simply taking one girl up for one term 
and dropping her the next. If anything, I think they 
are more like those between man and man, more 
tolerant and liberal-minded, for where women are not 
concerned men are wider-minded than we are. 

I am afraid this is a very blurred sketch of our life, 
but if it gives you in the slightest degree an idea of 
Lady Margaret Hall, then I shall be pleased. 

M. C .B. 



TO THE EVENING STAR. 

From Biou). 

Hesper ! sweet Aphrodite’s golden light ! 

Hesper ! bright ornament of swarthy Night, 

Inferior to the Moon’s clear sheen, as far 
As thou outshinest every other star ; 

Dear Hesper, hail ! and give thy light to me, 
Leading the festive shepherd company. 

For her new course to-day began the Moon, 

And is already set — Oh much too soon ! 

Tis not for impious theft abroad I stir, 

Nor to way-lay the nightly traveller ; 

I love ; and thou, bright star of love ! shouldst lend 
The lover light — his helper and his friend. 

J. M. CHAPMAN. 



A RHYME OF ANALOGIES. 

When Adam met sweet mother Eve 
At Earth’s first evening call — 

It was in summer, I believe, 

Or just before the Fall, — 

He loved, and thought that something new 
Had come beneath the sun ; 

But men still find this saying true, — 

Love was since time begiui . 

Its laughter lies in shining skies, 

Its tears in flowing waters; 

And every touch which Fancy tries 
On Adam’s sons and daughters 

We find again in Nature’s moods 
Around, beneath, above us, 

For vales and fields and sighing woods 
Cry, ‘‘ I love thee ! ” or “ Love us ! ” 

The Spring as bride for summer months 
With flowers decks her brow ; 

And Autumn was a sweetheart once, 

For she’s a widow now. 

The glowing hours, Byron said, 

With youth and pleasure run ; 

And every flower perks its head 
To dally with the sun. 

Each murmuring drop in waterfalls 

Which pour their tears like Wertlier 

Pursues the babbling stream, and calls 
The water a deserter. 

The moonbeams kiss the sleeping lake 
With dainty touch and light ; 

And all the amorous zephyrs make 
Sweet serenades to Night. 



216 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



The romping clouds trip overhead 
And winds run swiftly after, 

While shining rivers lie abed 

And watch their play with laughter. 

In chase of shadows, shadows creep 
Across the rippling grain ; 

And all the clouds in heaven weep 
To lose the falling rain. 

Kach morning sky its blushing charms 
To every eye displays 

When ardent Phu»bus flings his arms 
Around Aurora’s stays. 

The Western hills with joyous mirth 
Clasp Hesperus’ fair hand ; 

The sunlight smiles upon the earth, 

The seas embrace the land. 



The songsters rise with pinions fleet 
To court the hastening dawn ; 
And giddy flies their spiders meet 
Upon the dewy lawn. 

The weather-cock with every breeze 
Coquettes and flirts and toys ; 
And even maidens, if you please, 

Do sometimes look at boys. 



Then if all things were made for love, 
Or being made, make love, 

Love surely as a law was laid 
On each life from above ; 

And if on each, on us as well 
Love comes, as on another. 

So let us take sweet love to dwell 
With us, and love each other ! 



Cambridge, Mass. 



R. MACDOUGALL. 



APPLIED SCIENCE DINNER. 

“ The an of feeding, as you understand. 

Is but a fraction of the work in hand ; 

The nobler half is that ethereal meat 
The papers call the intellectual treat.” 

Gastronomy as a branch of Applied Science hardly 
seems to receive the attention which it merits. It has 
no place in the University Calendar, no endowed chairs. 
A few hours once a year is all the time that we can 
officially devote to it. A well-equipped Gastronomical 
laboratory would undoubtedly be a welcome and 
popular addition to our growing list of University 
buildings. Lectures might be dispensed with. Pro- 
fessors ? Proiessors would be quite unnecessary We are 
all professors. We have been examined and have 
passed with Honours. No one who was at the Bal- 
moral Hotel on Friday evening last could have the 
slightest doubt about that. 

By 8 o’clock the parlors of the hotel were filled with 
groups of prospective engineers. A spirit of ex- 
pectancy prevaded the atmosphere. The serious 
business of the evening was clearly not to talk about 
the weather, or hockey matches, or exams. Now and 
then you might meet a restless individual, who 
answered your harmless remarks irrelevantly or not 
at all. You might hear him murmur as he turned away 
something |about “ Mr. Gentlemen and Chairman ” 



Then you would realize, as you “hove” a sympathetic 
sigh, that he was only one of “ Les mist-rabies ” who 
had to make a speech. 

The procession was soon formed for the Dining Room, 
which was just large enough to accommodate the eighty 
undergraduates and guests who surrounded the tables 
without looking empty. The room was appropriately 
decorated with college flags and banners. Mr. W. A. 
Duff occupied the chair. He was supported on the 
right by Prof. Bovey, Dr. Clark Murray, Prof. Bamford, 
Prof. Nieolson, Mr. Shields of the Toronto School of 
Science, and Mr. Ferguson representing Medicine. On 
the left sat Prof. McLeod, Dr. Harrington, Prof. Carus- 
Wilson, Mr. Lea, Mr. Smith, Mr. Strong of Cornell, 
Mr. Hopkins of Arts, and Mr. Hogle of Law. 

Before attacking the first course an opportunity was 
afforded for examining the menu card, cleverly designed 
by Mr. R. O. King, ’95. Our benefactor was represented 
in the foreground, dreaming of the work which he had 
accomplished. The noble Engineering building stood 
in the centre; around it were grouped appropriate 
designs representing the various courses, accompanied 
by sketches of the heads of each department, which if 
not always flattering were at least characteristic. 

Ot the proceedings for the next two hours we have 
no distinct account. Our reporters indulge in a silence 
that is eloquent. But they became themselves again 
when President Duff called for order, and in a few well 
chosen remarks welcomed the guests, and proposed 
“ Our Queen and Country.” 

This was honored in the style which drew forth the 
praises of our distinguished Visitor a few months ago. 
The Secretary, Mr. Dawson, then read letters of regret 
for inability to be present from Sir Donald Smith, Sir 
William Dawson, Mr. W. C. Macdonald, Dr. Mc- 
Eachran, Dr. Johnson, Mr. Kennedy, the Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology, the Royal Military 
College, the Science Faculty of Dalhousie, and the 
Polytechnic School of Montreal. He concluded by 
proposing “ Absent Friends.” 

“ Alma Mater” was then proposed by Mr. Mackay. 
Dean Bovey arose to reply, but could not proceed until 
it had been ascertained beyond all manner of doubt, 
after searching enquiry, that he was “ All Right.” 

Prof. Bovey told the story reported of Sir Walter 
Scott, who, when informed of the desire of a certain 
English gentleman to see the “ Lion of the North,” 
as Sir Walter was called, invited him to dinner, saying 
that the lion was seen at his best at the dinner table. 
“It is not difficult,” continued Professor Bovey “to 
see who are the lions of McGill.” Professor Bovey 
spoke of the progress which had been made by the 
University of McGill, and especially by the Science 
department. He had, he said, just returned from a 
visit to the United States, and had made a careful in- 
spection of the several departments of Harvard Univer- 
sity and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
Eminent and rich as these institutions were, he could 
say that they did not surpass McGill in the facilities 
which they afforded in the departments of Engineering 
and Physics. They had, indeed, preceded us in reaf- 

lzing the necessity of a special training for architects, 



McGill fortnightly 



217 



and they had also a distinct chemical and mining 
building. But in both of these respects he hoped, and 
had reason to believe, that McGill would not remain 
long in the rear. 

Mr. C. B. Smithjproposed “ Sister Universities.’' He 
did not include those institutions which were willing 
to put their Academic stamp on any “ worthy " in- 
dividual for a trifling consideration. For the first time 
a Univeisity on the other side of the “ line ” was re- 
presented at an Applied Science Dinner, and Mr. Strong, 
of Cornell, who made many friends during his visit, 
received quite an ovation. He thanked the reception 
committee for the care they had taken of him, and 
regretted that the Engineering Association of Cornel) 
had not yet got into the way of holding dinners. But 
he would advocate the practice strongly on his return, 
and hoped that they too would have a banquet next 
year, when they would be happy to have any or all of 
the McGill boys with them. Mr. Shields of Toronto 
told, amid cheers, of the kindly feeling which existed 
between his college and old McGill. 

Mr. J. W. Bell, ’97, in a capital speech proposed 
“ Sister Faculties.” Dr. Clark Murray spoke of his 
enviable position as representative of the Donalda 
department. The Lady students of McGill, he said, 
simply sought a fair field and no favor. All would 
agree with him, that even if women were still to be 
limited in a large measure to the domestic sphere, no 
education could be too high for the discharge of its 
duties. Mr. Ferguson told of the strong feeling in 
favor of a Union Club which prevailed in Medicine. 
Mr. Hogle spoke of the difficulties under which the 
Faculty of Law had long labored, and pointed out 
that its present prosperity was due to the benefactor 
who had done so much for Science. Mr. Baker neatly 
remarked that since Comparative Medicine was the 
smallest Faculty, it was fitting that he should make 
the shortest speech. 

“The Dean and Professors'’ was proposed by Mr. 
R. A. King in a few “ discriminating remarks.” He 
evidently had more in his mind than the fear of 
approaching exams would allow him to put into words. 
He was not sure that the Professors always thought 
very highly of our abilities, but he was pretty confident 
that they liked us, and that the feeling was mutual. 
Prof. Nicolson responded in a happy vein. He asked 
the Students not to be too hard on their Professors. 
Much of what the Professors said in their lectures was 
no doubt about right, but infallibility was not to be 
expected. Prof. Carus-Wilson humorously suggested 
that the “counterfeit presentiment’’ of the Professor 
of Electrical Engineering on the menu card was not 
exactly flattering, and he feared that if the card went 
abroad, it might have a deterrent effect on prospective 
students in that course. He was sure that any com- 
mittee of English Professors would acknowledge the 
superiority of the advantages which McGill now 
afforded for the prosecution of Engineering studies. 
But we had not enough time at present. A longer 
session would do something to remedy this and the 
establishment of Post-graduate courses. He suggested, 



amid great applause, the possibilities of joint meetings 
of Professors and Students, in discussing questions of 
common interest. 

Mr. Lambert, in proposing “Benefactors,” made 
particular reference to the Peter Redpath Library, 
which was undoubtedly one of the finest in America. 

Mr. Featherstone, B.A.Sc., proposed “The Profes- 
sion," referring to the great Engineering works in the 
neighborhood of Montreal. Prof. McLeod responded 
in his official capacity as Secretary of the Canadian 
Society of Civil Engineers. He explained the aims of 
the Society, and showed that the term Civil Engineer 
in that connection was not used in the same restricted 
sense as in our College Calendars, but included every 
branch of the engineering profession. 

Mr. Wilkin proposed “ The Class of ’94.” It seemed 
impossible, he said, to suppose that they had ever been 
Freshmen. They surely must have been born Third or 
Second Year men at the very least. But as this view 
had no evidence to bear it out, he set himself philoso- 
phically to make enquiry as to the agencies which had 
wrought the great change. He was forced to the con- 
clusion that the most potent was time— just time, and 
then, of course, the elevating society of the class which 
followed them. He had asked some members of the class 
what they themselves considered their strong points. 
One thought that their chief distinction lay in being so 
much cleverer than any other class. A prominent 
foot-ball player, whose blushes would reveal his 
identity, thought that their strong point was their fine 
personal appearance. The speaker himself, while 
agreeing in ^ large measure, was inclined to give 
modesty the first place among their virtues. 

Mr. A. A. Cole, B.A., the Secretary of the year, in 
response, spoke of the high stand the class had always 
taken in studies, in athletics and in the support of 
College societies. Their destinations were widely 
scattered, but wherever they met, any student of Mc- 
Gill would find a warm friend in any of the 21 mem- 
bers of the class of ’94. 

Mr. R. A. Gunn, in proposing the Freshmen, related 
one or two of his own adventures as a freshman. When 
lie ” first went up to the Molson Hall," he encountered 
at the door a gentleman of distinguished bearing, whom 
being a Science student, he naturally mistook tor the 
janitor, and enquired his way to the examination room 
“ Are you an Arts or an Engineering student?” “I 
am a Science student," was the reply. 11 H— m ! H — m ! 
An Engince) ing student,” corrected his newly found 
friend leading the way to the Hall. Shortly after- 
wards the youthful examiner, finding that his pen was 
not to his liking, beckoned his guide and asked him 
kindly to bring a new one. “ Then,” said Mr. Gunn, 

“ he told me who we has.’ 

Mr. Davidson replied effectively for ’97. Professor 
Bamford was heartily received on rising to propose 
“ The Ladies." He said that while it was unlikely 
that the Engineering Profession would be adorned by 
lady members for a long time to come, their sympathy 
and encouragement could not fail to be of the greatest 
assistance. 



218 



McGill fortnightly. 



The pleasure of the evening was greatly enhanced 
by the musical selections of Mr. J. S. Costigan, the 
songs of Mr. Dyer and Mr. Smith, the banjo solo of 
Mr. McDunnough and the pianoforte solo of Dr. Har- 
rington. 

The success of one of the most enjoyable dinners 
which the Faculty of Applied Scietice has ever held 
was due to the well directed and untiring efforts of the 
following committee : — 

Hon. President.— H. T. Bovey M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.C. 
Hon. Secretary.— C. H. McLoed, M.A.E., F.R.S.C. 
Hon. Treasurer.— J. T. Nicolson, B. Sc. 

President— W. A. Duff, ’94. 

Secretary.— A. S. Dawson, ’94. 

Treasurer. — H. M. Jaquays, B.A. ’96. 

L. Dyer, ’94. 

R. B. McDunnough. ’gs. 

R. O. King, ’95. 

J. W. Bell, ’97. 

G. R. McLeod, ’97. 



SONNET. 

Upon the confines of my thought-world played, 

So faint it scarce could aught of gloom dispel, 

A trembling light, that on a chaos fell ; 

Or through the firmament of fancy strayed, 

A formless mist, a nebula un rayed. 

Wheue’er as drawn by resistless spell 
I strove to fix the phantasm it befell 
That I retreated from the task dismayed. 

At length, from out the infinite unknown? 

Another light upon the dimness shone, 

Another thought world circled into ken ; 

The spheres in their orbits touched, and then— 

No longer thought-mist quivering afar, 

But in the spirit’s firmament, a star ! 

ERIE. 



MEETINGS. 



WHAT? WHERE? WHEN? 

Note.— Items for this column must be in the hands of the Editor bv 7 30 r., „„ 
Saturday. # uu 

Friday, Feb. 2nd. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p . m . 

Wesleyan Literary Society. Perrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p . KI . 
Undergraduates Literary Society. Arts Building, 8 p.m. 

Saturday, Feb. 3rd. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class. 1st and 2nd years Arts, 11.30 a.m. 
Sunday, Feb. 4TH. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 4.30 p.m. 

Monday, Feb. 5TH. 

Law Faculty Dinner. 

Tuesday, Feb. 6th. 

Hockey Match. Montreal vs. McGill, Victoria Rink. 



Wednesday, Feb. 7TH. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class. Science, 5 p m. 

Thursday, Feb. 8th. 

Delta Sigma Society, 3.50 p.m. 

Veterinary Med. Society. 6 Union Ave., 8 p.m. 

Friday, Feb. 9TH. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 
Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 
Undergraduates Literary Society. Arts Building, 8 p.m. 
Students’ Meeting Can. Soc. CE-, 8 p.m. 

Arts Conversazione. Wm. Molsou Hall. 

Saturday, Feb. ioth. 

Y. M. C- A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 11.30 a.m. 
Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

Medical Society. Medical Building, 8 p.m. 

Sunday, Feb. iith. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 4.30 p.m. 
Wednesday, Feb. 14TH. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class, Science, 5 p.m. 

Classical Club. East Wing, 8 p.m. 

Thursday, Feb. 15TH. 

McGill Mining Society. Old Science Building, 7.30 p.m. 



SOCIETIES. 



MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

I he first regular meeting of the Medical Society for 
1894 was held in the upper reading room, Saturday 
evening, January 13th. 

The meeting was called to order at eight o’clock, and 
the president proceeded to auction off last year’s perio- 
dicals. As the attendance was small, not much oppo- 
sition in bidding took place, consequently the sum 
realized was not large. 

Mr. McCarthy read a case report on Motor Aphasia, 
which proved very interesting and gave rise to consid- 
erable discussion. After tendering Mr. McCarthy a 
hearty vote of thanks, the meeting adjourned. 



CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The regular meeting of the Classical Club was held 
on Wednesday evening, Jan. 17th. 

After the usual routine of business the entertainment 
was introduced in the form of two essays, the first by 
the vice-president, Mr. Blackett, entitled “ Marriage and 
the Position of Women in Ancient Rome,” and a 

second by Mr. W. W. Craig on “ Catullus and some of 
his writings.” 

The vice-president, in introducing his subject, first 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



219 



spoke of the low position of women in Ancient 
Greece socially and in the ages of the State, comparing 
this with the dignified and lofty position they held at 
Rome. After mentioning some of the many privileges 
enjoyed by the maidens and matrons of the toga- 
wearing nation, the speaker took up the subject of 
marriage, the law in regard to it, and more particularly 
the ritual connected with the ceremony itself, coupled 
with which were many pleasing and queer customs ; the 
essayist then concluded by touching slightly upon 
the subject of “ Divorces.’’ The morality of the people 
regulated the number of marriage separations. In the 
early times of the Republic, when the people thought 
more of the country and their farms, and when they lived 
a quiet, healthy and virtuous life, divorces were of rare' 
occurrence. But as the Republic increased in age, 
power, riches, and finally when its form of government 
was changed, and the people as a general rule flocked to 
the cities, where vice in every form reigned supreme, 
these marriage separations became more frequent. 

Mr. Blackett dealt well with his subject, and showed 
that he had devoted careful study to it. 

The members of the Club were next treated to Mr. 
Craig’s very interesting essay on Catullus, the greatest 
of the four great Elegiac poets of the Augustan age of 
Roman literature. After speaking of the poet’s birth- 
place, parents, early life and education, he pictures 
him coming to Rome, then the capital of the world, 
the home of elegance and refinement and the great 
attraction for the men of wealth and genius of the Em- 
pire. “ Rome,” said the speaker, “became at once the 
loadstone of his existence. Verona, his Sabine Villa, and 
even his beloved Sirmio, were for him now but retreats, 
to be resorted to for rest and recuperation.” What 
Beatrice was to Dante, Laura to Petrarch, Cynthia to 
Propertius, Lesbia was to Catullus. The poet’s passion 
for her was the mainspring of many of his most beauti- 
ful and touching poems. But Lesbia proved false and 
unworthy of the great love that he showered upon her. 
After terrible mental struggles to rid himself of this 
passion, Catullus finally resolved to seek forgetfulness 
in foreign scenes and travel. He obtained an appoint- 
ment on the staff of the Governor Memmius, and went 
with him to Bethynia in Asia Minor. There he learnt 
to forget Lesbia ; and when he came back to Italy he 
was a free man. The joy of his home-coming is de- 
picted in Carmen IV., where he sings of his delight at 
once more seeing his Sirmian Villa. 

Like our own Shelley, Catullus died young, and the 
grand thoughts that might have emanated from his 
riper imagination and poetic fancy we can only con- 
jecture. 

Some of the finer Carmina of the poet were then 
noticed by the speaker, and renderings of them in 
English given (the members of the class of ’94 and ’95 
know the abilities of Mr. Craig for solving the intri- 
cacies of the Latin language and turning it into well 
put together and flowing English sentences), the 
essayist ending with the touching portrayal of Thesius* 
desertion of Ariadne on the shore of Dia, as drawn by 
Catullus. We can almost compare this scene with 



Shakespeare’s picture of the beautiful Carthaginian 
standing on the strand of Libya, watching the ship of 
iEneas receding in the distance : 

“ In such a night 

Stood Dido with a willow in her hand 
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love 
To come again to Carthage. ” 

After the reading of these two interesting essays, Mr. 
Lambly, president of the Literary Society, gave a mas- 
terly critique of the evening’s entertainment, and the 
members then adjourned, feeling that they had passed a 
very pleasant and instructive two hours. 



THE LITERARY. 

REPORT OF MEETING OF LITERARY SOCIETY ON 
JAN. 26TH. 

The regular weekly meeting of the Literary was held 
on the evening of Jan. 26th, with the vice-president, 
Mr. Hanson, in the chair. After appointing Mr. Solandt 
critic and Mr. Marler reporter, the minutes of the last 
meeting were read and approved. It was decided to 
appropriate the funds now in the treasury of the club 
for the purpose of defraying expenses in connection 
with the Inter-Collegiate debate. The programme was 
then entered upon. Mr. Harrington gave a reading, 
which was rendered in good style. This was followed 
by a duet by Messrs. Kennedy and Edgar, which was 
so highly appreciated that they consented to give an 
encore . The essayist, Mr. Sutherland, not being pre- 
sent, nor having provided a substitute, after some dis- 
cussion the Society passed a vote of censure on him. 
The next item on the programme was the debate 
between the First and Second year Arts, the subject 
being : “ Resolved, that money has more influence over 
man than woman (has over man).” Messrs. Archibald, 
Campbell and Scrimger, of the Second year, spoke well 
for the affirmative, while Messrs. MacMaster, Campbell 
and Saxe, of the First year, supported the negative. The 
debate was well contested, so much so that the vote 
being taken it resulted in a tie, the chairman declining 
to cast his vote, Mr. Solandt gave an admirable 
criticism, after which the Society adjourned. 



Y. W. C. A. 

The annual business meeting of this Association for 
election of new officers was held this year in January 
instead of in March as formerly, in order that those 
newly appointed may become accustomed to their work 
and acquainted with its requirements before the close 
of the Session. 

After the minutes of the last meeting had been read 
and approved, the retiring president, Miss Ogilvy, 
addressed those present in words breathing thankful- 
ness for the good which has been accomplished, and 
hope for future success, which will be certain if the 
Divine injunction “ Abide in Me ” be remembered. 

Reports were then read of the work done by the 
Committees, Executive, Membership, Devotional and 



220 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Tlieo Dora. These reports showed the Association to 
be in a flourishing condition financially and numeri- 
cally. The weekly devotional meeting held every 
Friday afternoon has shown a marked increase in 
attendance ; the credit of this is due largely to the 
Freshmen and Sophomore students. 

Some of these meetings are truly delightful and in- 
structive, the topics chosen were practical, the leaders 
earnest in addressing their fellow-students, and these in 
turn showed good attention and careful preparation 
upon the theme for the day. Once, the pleasure was 
granted the Association of having Sir William Dawson 
present to conduct the Bible Study. 

It is to be regretted that the Missionary meetings 
have been butslimly attended. 

What may have been the cause it is impossible to say, 
Surely not that there have been too many such meet- 
ings, for but three have been held this session. 

Whatever the cause, it is to be hoped that the mission- 
ary spirit will be revived, awakened and increased. 

In the Membership Report, mention was made of the 
plan adopted this year for becoming acquainted with 
the Matriculants, by writing letters of welcome and 
providing receptions at private houses, by means of 
which the strangers may feel themselves among friends. 
This plan has proved so satisfactory that it is urged 
upon subsequent membership committees for further 
development. 

The result of the election of officers is : 

Pres ., — Miss Radford. 

Vice- Pres ., — Miss Krause. 

Cor. -Sec ., — Miss Nichols. 

Pec.-Sec ., — Miss Doull. 

Treas ., — Miss Smith. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

Owing to Professor Callendar inaugural lecture 
having been delivered on the 18th inst., the regular 
meeting of this Society had to be postponed. 

A business meeting was held on Tuesday, the 23rd 
inst , at which Miss Warner and Miss Hammond were 
elected to take opposite sides in a debate, when they 
shall act as assistants to Miss Derrick and Miss Helen 
J. 1 . Reid, these two ladies having been chosen as 
representatives of the Alumnre Society. 

It will be safer to reserve further particulars regard- 
ing our intentions, until this long-talked of joint meet- 
ing shall have become a fact. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

A change in the hour of meeting on Sunday after 
noon has been introduced, which we trust will prove 
far more satisfactory than the old hour. 2 o’clock is 
the time, the meeting lasting 45 minutes. 

An increased attendance is looked for, and men will 
be in a more receptive mood and better prepared to 
enjoy the meeting. 

The Reports presented at the Annual Meeting are 



being published for distribution among members and 
friends. 

Call at the office and secure extra copies for sending 
home or to your friends who take an interest in “ Old 
McGill.” It is believed that this means will make our 
work better known and create and maintain an interest 
both in and out of College. 

The meeting on Sunday, January 21st, was very 
interesting. Mr. Le Rossignol was in the chair, and 
spoke on the subject of “ Go Forward.” Many mem- 
bers spoke on the ways in which the Association and 
its members personally may progress. Emphasis was 
laid on Bible study, and on the necessity for every 
man’s being willing to sacrifice personal convenience, 

’ if by so doing he might aid the work of the Associa- 
tion. 

On Friday, January 26th, a special business meeting 
was held. 

The Bible Study Committee was made independent 
of the Religious Meeting Committee, and it was decided 
that there should be a Boarding House Committee, 
who might aid the new students in obtaining suitable 
boarding houses. 

Mr. J. C. Robertson, Arts ’96, was elected Treasurer 
in place of Mr- Rogers, Arts ’95, who had resigned. 

A vote of thanks was passed to the Faculty of Arts, 
for their kindness in giving the Association the use of 
No. 1 Arts Class-Room for the Friday evening meet- 
ings, and of the room in the East wing for the General 
Secretary’s office. 

Some discussion took place with reference to the 
mode of conducting the Sunday afternoon meetings. 

It was evident that the members were interested, and 
were determined to make these meetings successful. 

It was decided that two new members be added to 
the Executive Committee, one from Eaw and the other 
from Veterinary Medicine. 



McG. U. A. A. 

As most students know, or ought to know, the 
Annual General Meeting of the McG. U. A. A. is held 
next month, and the Officers of the Association request 
that a large attendance may be present, as it is 
essential to its welfare that the members of the Asso- 
ciation should evince an interest in work done by the 
Executive during the year. 

The officers take this opportunity to inform the 
members that the College authorities have been re- 
quested to impose a small compulsory fee which would 
be used for athletic purposes. Under existing circum- 
stances, it is a continual scrambling to make both ends 
meet,' and the Executive desire that, if need be, not 
only the members of the Association, but even all the 
Students will give their hearty co operation to aid the 
officers in this undertaking. 

The Committee think it necessary to refer to what 
has been the most regrettable and discouraging event 
of the year, that is : that the number of men who have 
played Foot ball and otherwise enjoyed all the privil- 
eges of members, yet who have not paid the member- 



McGill fortnightly. 



221 



ship fee, has been great. There are always a few men 
who are mean enough to do these things, and in most 
other matters to esca] e paying what they owe; but this 
year the number of such men is very much greater than 
last year. This is not only very discouraging to the 
officers, but a very bad example to those men who, 
though they do not play themselves, nevertheless have 
sufficient University spirit to support the A. A. There 
is only one way to compel such men to pay, or to stop 
playing, and that is by making the Foot-Ball Club pay 
for their services which would really make them pro- 
fessionals. 

This seems hard on the Foot-Ball Club, yet it is not 
any more so than that the Club should pay the railway 
expenses of these men when travelling with it. It is 
not the wish of the officers of the A. A. to publish the 
names of these men, but they may be compelled to, at 
the general meeting, if asked to do so. Such men, 
aithough they may consider themselves “ prominent ” 
supporters of McGill in Foot ball, are nevertheless very 
poor types of her real men. 

J. C. HICKSON. 



REPORT OF THE THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The 3rd regular meeting of the Theo Dora was heL 
on Thursday, January 25th, at 4 o’clock. 

The meeting was partly one of prayer, it being the 
hour appointed for prayer in other colleges. 

The subject of the meeting was the “ Educational 
Phase of Woman’s Work for Woman in Foreign 
Fields.” A short address was given by Miss Hill, the 
chairman, on educational work generally in foreign 
fields, dwelling on the importance of educational work 
and the good results obtained, followed by an interest- 
ing account given by Miss Cushing of special work 
carried on by schools in Turkey, India and Africa. 

A silver collection was taken up, to go towards the 
missionary fund. 



A. 8. G. C. DRIVE. 

The Annual Drive and Steeple Chase of the Applied 
Science Glee Club took place on Saturday, Jan. 2o f 
the sleighs leaving the College gates at 5.00, the 
steeple chasers started a few minutes later. Greig of 
*95, who won last year, again upheld the honor of his 
class by winning easily in 25 minutes, 194-5 sec. 

The Dinner, the most important feature of the 
evening, was promptly on the table by 6 30, and as 
promptly attacked by the hungry utidergrads. Lar_ 
month at the head and Costigan at the foot of the long 
table had opportunities to display their knowledge of 
Applied Mechanics in applying force to overcome the 
moments of resistance at the joints of their respec- 
tive turkeys. The toasts comprised the following: — 
•‘The Queen,” “ McGill, ” “Sister Universities,” 
“ Freshmen, ” interspersed by a solo by Dyer, whose 
touching appeal to Daisy brought tears to the full 
hearts of the Freshmen, also a solo from Burns, and 
instrumental selections by Costigan, Barborand the ’95 
Cazooband, Becket. 



The Freshmen were given chance to display their 
oratorical talent. 

Boxing and wrestling were next indulged in, fol- 
lowed by an exciting Association football match 
between *95 and ’97, won by '95 by 3 goals to 2. This 
brought the third Annual Drive to a close, and at about 
10.30 the boys left the Club House and had a most 
enjoyable drive home. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

The regular meeting of the Association was held in 
the Lecture room of the Veterinary College, Thursday 
evening, Prof. Baker occupying the chair, which was 
subsequently vacated in favor of the President, Prof. 
Adami, who arrived later. After the reading of the 
minutes of last meeting and transactions of business, the 
Essays of the evening were read. 

Mr. A. H. Hall read a paper on Epizootic Pleuritis 
and Pleuro-Pneumonia in the Horse. 

Mr. J. R. Shaw presented a paper on Pneumonia in 
the Horse. 

Mr. J. V. Solandt read a paper on Colic with treat- 
ment in the Horse. 

These papers were listened to with deep interest, all 
bearing on important subjects to the Veterinary Prac- 
titioner, and brought cut considerable discussion from 
the members present. 

Interesting remarks were made by Prof. Adami, 
Prof. McEachran and Prof. Baker on the above Essays. 

There was a full attendance. The meeting finally 
adjourned for two weeks. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Messrs. W. G. M. Byers and Wm. Fergusson have 
been appointed to represent this Faculty at the Arts 
Conversazione and the Science Dinner respectively — 
Prof Fergusson we should say. 



The Fourth year are at present enjoying lectures on 
Surgery from Dr. Armstrong. I11 a short time they 
may reasonably be expected to know B from a bull’s 
foot ! Time will tell. 



Prof.— “ Can you tell me one form of disease that is 
very common in this region ? *’ 

Student.— “ Can’t, sir.” 

Prof.— “ Correct.” (Collapse of Student.) 



It is reported of a recent graduate of McGill, that 
when he was “ ovali in London, y'know,” he was always 
so faultlessly attired that whenever he appeared outside 
of his Hotel the cabbies invariably accosted him as 
“my lord.” 



222 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



11 In a case of lead-poisoning you are very apt to be 
lead astray ! ” 

The Class of ’95 deeply regrets the sudden illness, 
from blood poisoning, of one of its most prominent and 
popular members, Mr. F. B. Carron. We trust that he 
ma y soon be restored to health. 



^Ir. X. Lr Anthony, ’95, while hurrying from the Hos- 
pital to College (breve enim tempus non satis est longum), 
fell and dislocated his shoulder. Fortunately Dr. Gird " 
wood was at hand and soon replaced it. 

H(e)art murmurs in the Fourth year have been heard 
of late by a Professor. The direct cause seems to be 
infreq uency. 



The blackboard of No. 1 lecture room has been in- 
fected with a dire but as yet anonymous disease. By a 
careful examination, a variety of Pathogenic microbes 
has been discovered which have been classified as 
follows : 

I Micri. 

(a) Stapholus. 

(£) Stipholococus. 

The Pathology class hopes to be able to report more 
fully about the latter part of March. 



Third Year man — “ Please, sir, what is T.D.S.” 

Prof. — “Well, I am very glad to explain this to the 
Second year. Of course the Third year are quite 
familiar with this.” 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The Class-Reporter earnestly requests the Students o f 
all the years to be particularly active during the next 
two months in sending in “memos” from which to 
work up items. It is pretty generally supposed that the 
items have to be handed in ready for press ; this is an 
error. If the note or “memo” is sufficiently clear to 
convey the thought, it will answer. The great sorrow 
of the Class-Reporter is that much of the matter received 
has to be suppressed because it is too funny. Strange, 
is it not? ’Tis true ! Fellows ! don’t write as funny 
as you can . 



The Law Faculty Dinner is to be eaten on the 5th 
February next, and the Students of the Faculty on 
the 27th April. 



Mr. Alex. Hall, B.A., B.C-L- ’93, is on his way to 
France, where he purposes sojourning for about six 
months. May the shades of Cujus, Dumoulin and 
Pothier be round about him, and may the spirit of all 
three come upon him ! 



Several new students have joined the Faculty since 



’Xmas, to all of whom we extend fraternal greetings 
and an invitation to contribute to the sprightliness of 
this column. Our only proviso is to be legal and brief. 



Messrs. Dunlop, Carmichael and Mitchell are the 
Committee arranging for the Faculty Dinner, which is 
to be held at the Windsor on February 5th. 



Prof. — Now, what is delivery ? How do you deliver 
a thing ? If it’s a house you hand over the keys if it’s 
a field, you let him have it. 

Preshy — But, professor, you don’t need a key to get 
delivery of a field. 

Other Preshy — No, you just sit on the fence. 



Some years ago an unsuccessful candidate for the 
borough of Berwick-upon-Tweed preferred a petition 
to the House of Commons, and retained an eminent 
counsel with a fee of fifty guiness. Just before the 
business was about to come before the House, the bar- 
rister, who had in the interval changed his political 
sentiments, declined to plead. The candidate imme- 
diately waited on his advocate, mildly argued and 
remonstrated, but all in vain ; he would not by any 
means consent either to plead or return the money, 
adding, with a sneer, that the law was open, and he 
might have recourse to it if he felt himself injured. 
“ No, no, sir,” replied the spirited client, “ I was weak 
enough to give you a fee, but I am not quite fool 
enough to go to law with you, as I perceive my whole 
fortune may be wasted in retaining fees alone before I 
find a lawyer to plead for me. I have therefore^brought 
my advocate in my pocket ! ” Then taking out|a brace 
of pistols, he offered one to the astonished counsellor, 
and declared that before he quitted the room he would 
either have his money or satisfaction. He got both. 



R. H. Barron, Law ’95, has been appointed to attend 
the Arts Conversat on the 30th inst- 



Arthur Hogle, Law ’94, was representative to the 
Science Faculty Dinner on the 26th instant, and we 
were glad to hear of his appointment as “ Professor.” 



The lawyer and the tailor are not very similar pro- 
fessionally, are they ? and yet, singular, isn’t it, they 
spend considerable time in pressing suits. 



A prominent Freshman affirms that the conventional 
notion of “ Servitude ” tallies largely with liis condition 
after vain attempts to solve the legal application. 



• \ 

The morning professor could make a graceful con- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



223 



cession in the nature of a gift inter-vivos by the substi- 
tution of as light a course as possible. Otherwise his 
exam, in the Spring may prove to some of us a mortis 
causa. (Note : Other Faculties will please not read. 
Too deep.) 



Professor — (Lecturing over time). If anyone is in 
possession of your right you can take an “ actio 
reintegrande ” to have him disposed. 

Another Professor — (Appearing at the door). I have a 
right to lecture at this hour, and will “ ax yer to rare on 
de ground,” aud let me “ rareontegratid ” professional 
chair. 

ARTS NOTES. 

You missed it by not going over to the Club House 
with the boys on Saturday night. 

The members of the Classical Club expect to have 
an interesting meeting on the 14th inst., on which 
occasion Mr. Killaly, B.A. ’93, will read a paper on 
11 Social Life under the Empire.” 



The debate between representatives from Kno x 
College, Toronto, and the Presbyterian College of this 
city promises to be a very interesting event. It will be 
held in the David Morrice Hall on the 2nd inst. 



If the men, who seek fame by scribbling on the walls 
and on the notices that are posted up, would, instead, 
send their inspired productions on a sheet of paper to 
an editor or a class reporter, it would put a stop to a 
nuisance, and might be of benefit to the writer and 
make our class reports more breezy as well. Those 
who try to immortalize their names by carving them in 
the college furniture would do more towards attaining 
immortality by subscribing their names to articles 
written for the Fortnightly. 



The Artsmen will meet next week to elect represen- 
tatives on the Editorial and Business Boards for the 
ensuing year. 

We are sorry to learn that Mr. C. W. Currie of the 
First year has been obliged to discontinue his studies 
for this term, owing to ill health. 



Two new men have entered the list of Freshmen 
since Christmas. 



The Arts Conversazione, to be held on the 9th inst, 
promises to be a brilliant affair. Everyone is looking 
forward to it with pleasurable anticipation. 



It is gratifying to learn that the representatives of 
McGill on the inter collegiate debate held in Toronto 
last week successfully upheld the credit of our Alma 
Mater, Their task was not an easy one, for their oppo- 
nents, we understand, were able men and skillful 
debaters. 



When a carter the other day asked a Junior standing 
on the steps of the Arts building, whether that was “ the 
tchein-ee-cal la bo-rat-o-ry ” or not, the Junior said he 
would speak to the janitor, as he understood the English 
language only. This reminds us of the stranger who 
asked if there was a laboratory in connection with 
McGill, or whether the students just boarded about the 
town. 



At a meeting of the Fourth year, a committee, consist- 
ing of Messrs. Graham, Garrett and Boyd, was elected 
to look after the %i Class Photo.” 



The Class of ’94 wish to congratulate “ Our Willie ” 
on his “ First Class Stand,” and have full confidence 
that what he has done once he will do again in April. 



At the Club House. — Mr. F-s^r (in a desperate strug- 
gle with turkey No. 2) “ I’ll find that joint or perish in 
the attempt.” 

Mr. I d — “ Why is the Conversazione like a tin 

can tied to a dog’s tail ? ” 

Tramp — “ Because it’s so pup — ular.” 

I d — ” No, because it’s bound to oc-cur.” 

(Tramp faints). 



The regulation recently put into force in connection 
with the new library, by which the Donaldas are wholly 
separated from the other readers, is by no means a 
popular measure among those who make most use of 
the general reading-room. When the ladies had the 
privilege of reading in the main room, the most irre- 
pressible Freshman was awed into silence by the still- 
ness that reigned there. Now although it is never 
noisy, owing to the esteem the men have for our popular 
librarian, Mr. Mott, yet we occasionally see a studious 
Senior look up from his work to glower at a couple of 
whisperers not far off, or a hard-working Junior move 
his work a little further from a pair of thoughtless stu- 
dents who are ” doing their grinding ” together. It 
would be just as well if they would let the Donaldas 
“ come off the roof.” 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Mr. A. S. Dawson, ’94, will represent Science at the 
Arts Conversazione. 



Professor (unfamiliar with French names)— “The 

next row begins with J. J. ” 

Class (in chorus) — “ Who’s a jay ? ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



224 



The Fourth year held a meeting on Jan. 25th, to 
arrange for the photograph of the graduating class. 
The meeting was adjourned until Monday. 



Dr. Harrington has lately received from Germany a 
very fine set of crystal models. These models will be 
of very great assistance to the students attending the 
Mineralogy classes. 



“ What’s the matter with M ’s tn xistache ? ” 

“ It’s out of sight.” 



Some of the Fourth year men would like to have the 
tank in the Hydraulic Laboratory painted every week. 



Prof. — “Silence in the class room, gentlemen.” 
Freshie, sot to voce — “ If he won’t let you speak, Sky> 
fire off your gun.” 



The two would-be pool players (?) of ’95 have ceased 
their efforts in that direction. They may now be seen 
any day during lunch hour practising fishing out of 
their bedroom window for a bunch of keys, with a 
string tied to the end of a chair leg, using the hall 
stove poker for sinker, hook, bait, etc. 



Who is the Fourth year man that owns the baby 
carriage and fixings for same lately seen in front of his 
boarding house ? 



The Third year Electrics are getting it where the bot- 
tle got the cork, on every occasion. They can’t sit down 
• to meals now without the fear of the face on the menu 
card. 



The second Students’ meeting of the Canadian Soci- 
ety of Civil Engineers was held in the Society’s rooms 
on Thursday evening, January 25th. Mr. St George 
occupied the chair. The paper of the evening was read 
by Mr. Dyer, Sc. ’94, on the “ Manufacture of wire.” 
Mr. Dyer gave a clear and interesting account of the 
different processes. At the close an interesting dis- 
cussion took place, in which most of those present parti- 
cipated. Consult the Weekly Calendar for the next 
meeting. 



The Molson Hall was fairly well filled on January 
1 8th, on the occasion of Prof. Callendar’s Inaugural 
Lecture. The subject was “ The requirements of a 
Pyrometric Laboratory.” This title has a distinctly for- 
midable appearance, not at all conducive to the pleas- 
ant thoughts of “The fairy tales of science,” and 
doubtless many were frightened away on that account. 
But even harder words lose their terrors when Prof. 
Callendar undertakes to make them clear. The lec- 
turer spoke in the highest terms of the magnificent 
equipment of the Physical Laboratories, and of the 
admirable forethought exhibited in their design, which 
makes them fitted for the highest work in almost every 



department of Physical Research. He went on to speak 
of the importance of Pyrometric investigations, of some 
of the more important instruments used and the accur- 
acy of the results obtained. It is intended to repeat 
some of Regnault's classic experiments, and with the 
unequalled facilities which the laboratories afford, 
more accurate determinations than any hitherto made 
are looked for. 

Professor Callendar’s enthusiasm is contagious, and 
can hardly fail in inspiring his classes to do better work 
than ever before. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

We publish below a contribution from one of our 
graduates. 

Apart from the pleasure which the perusal of all 
such communications affords, there is the additional 
gratification of knowing that we are not forgotten by 
those who have gone from us, and that the interest in 
McGill and its institutions is not bounded by the years 
spent within her walls. 



We welcome Miss Jackson from beyond the seas, and 
are glad to find her once more in lecture room and 
society meeting. 



A meeting of all the years was held on Tuesday, 
January 23rd, for the purpose of electing someone to 
represent us at the Science dinner. Dr. Murray was 
chosen, and has kindly consented to act as our proxy. 



Junior: Not that we are glad our fellow-students of 
the west wing find the inconveniences of wading 
through snow or slush according to the rise or fall of 
temperaure, but...“ Misery loves company.” 



The Donalda who tripped on the library stairs the 
other day ought to take such ponderous volumes up 
by instalments. 

Arts ’96 were the first to have a lunch this year ; 
and if the various opinions expressed on the subject 
were true, it was a great success. If the professors 
accustomed to lecture in the Third year class room 
had looked in there about 1.30 p.m. last Thursday, 
they would have seen a long table beautifully decor- 
ated with flowers, at which sat twenty-four students, 
all forgetful of the sober and weighty duties of college 
life. The menu cards were artistically decorated with 
different flowers, with a quotation in gold applying to 
each. The menu consisted of apt quotations chosen 
from different authors, among which were the follow- 
ing : “ Tame villate fowel,” Milton ; “A wilderness of 
sweets,” Shakspere ; “ Wouldst thou both eat thy cake 
and have it ? ” Herbert, and several others. After the 
lunch was completed, quite an extensive programme fol- 
lowed, consisting of toasts, vocal and piano solos and 
a recitation. The toast 14 Our Professors” was pro- 
posed by Miss Henderson, and Miss Pitcher replied 
to it in a way that delighted all present. “ The other 



McgilL Fortnightly. 



Years” were toasted, and their representatives, Miss 
Smith, Arts ’97, Miss Travis, Arts ’95, and Miss Mac- 
kenzie, Arts ’94, expressed their pleasure at being pre- 
sent, and wished Arts ’96 all success. Our warm friend 
at the library, Mr. Mott, was toasted as “ and that he 
bore without reproach the grand old name of gentle- 
man.” The last number on the programme was a toast, 
to Lady Aberdeen, proposed in a delightful way by 
Miss McPhail, and in the same manner responded to 
by Miss St. James. A few college songs followed, and 
then the national anthem, and Arts ’96 went back to 
commonplace things again. 



Dear Donaldas, 

Just a few disconnected notes about our trip last 
summer, commencing with our entrance into Europe. 

Leaving the steamer at Vlissingen, we arranged our- 
selves and belongings comfortably in the railway car- 
riage, and spent the remaining few hours of daylight 
in observing Dutch dykes, wind-mills and fields of 
waving grain. At about 9.30 p.m., we had to undergo 
the usual Custom ordeal, but apparently satisfied the 
officials by answering all questions regarding the con- 
tents of our trunks with the one word “kleider,” 
frantically ejaculated. 

We arrived in Dresden the following' morning with- 
out mishaps, except a slight misunderstanding with 
the guard, arising from our dullness in comprehending 
his rapid flow of words. We were received by our 
landlady and her husband with such cordiality and 
effusive hand-shaking, that we might have been long- 
lost members of the family instead of complete strangers, 
and felt rather inclined to mistrust such a welcome ; 
happily, we found that the hospitality and honesty of 
the Germans were no myths. 

Owing to the fact that the people (for the most part) 
live in flats, the dwellings are very uniform, and people 
of very different stations of life occupy one house, the 
poorer at the top with many stairs to climb, as eleva- 
tors are extremely rare, in fact almost unknown. The 
streets are very clean indeed, and plenty of public 
squares and parks ensure the free circulation of fresh 
air. The street cars do not compare with ours, but are 
fast enough for such a slow-going people, who seemed 
quite thunder-struck this summer by a short line of 
trolley cars lately instituted. It seemed strange to us 
to tip the conductors, and to notice how gratefully even 
the small sum of 2]^ cents was received. 

Royal blue seems to be a favorite color in Dresden. 
The letter-boxes, cabs, aprons of street porters, of cos- 
termongers, etc., are of that hue. After the profuse 
and flaring advertisements in England, it was refresh- 
ing to notice that in Germany they are all collected on 
pillars at various street corners, and take up very little 
room, besides creating no eye-sores. It is customary 
in Dresden for the housekeepers to send out the ser- 
vants a few minutes before each meal to purchase a 
sufficient quantity of milk, butter, bread, etc., these 
things not being kept in stock in the house. 

Of course we visited Meissen, where the royal Dresden 
china is made, and were much interested in the process 



224A 



of its manufacture. The china was originally (up to 
r863) made in the old castle of Albrechtsburg, which 
stands on an eminence overlooking the Elbe, and which 
forms a fitting birth-place for the exquisite porcelain. 
Specimens of modern art adorn the castle walls, beauti- 
ful indeed, but somewhat out of keeping with the 
antiquity of the place. Our guide was a pretty German 
girl, who told us many historical facts, — interesting, if 
we could have understood them. We were very much 
amused, on our way to Meissen, by the ticket collector, 
who imagined that five individuals had entered our 
compartment instead of four, and who kept rather sus- 
picious watch over us in consequence. 

Our pension might have been called cosmopolitan, as 
the American, English, French, German, Spanish, 
Danish and Russian nations were represented at the 
table ; we, however, did not attempt to master all these 
languages, but often wished for a little less English. 

Amoflg all the glories of Dresden, its art gallery 
stands first and pre-eminent. No words of mine can 
convey any idea of the loveliness of its paintings and 
of the gem of its collection— Raphael’s Sistine Madonna, 
which is justly honored by a room to itself. Where 
all are so beautiful, it is hard to specify, but we were 
especially pleased with a copy of Raphael’s Madonna 
della Sedia, Correggio’s Holy Night and Magdalene, 
Kroninck’s Hermit, Dolci’s St. Cecilia, Hofman’s Christ 
in the Temple, and many, many others. 

I must say of the music what I say of the art gallery, 
that no words of mine can convey any idea of its love- 
liness ; perhaps the adjective “ heavenly ” would not 
be too strong to typify that of the opera house orches- 
tra, especially in the Symphony concerts. But in this, 
as in the other walks of life, the men excel, and very 
few women can rise out of the dreariness of drudgery. 

With music lessons, German lessons, walks, visits to 
the art gallery and other places of interest, trips up the 
Elbe, concerts, operas, etc., our time was easily filled 
up, and four months went rapidly by. 

The English church we attended was a pretty grey 
building, stone inside and out ; but for the 6 o’clock 
service we usually went to a Lutheran church, where 
the men were conspicuous by their absence, leaving 
their religion for the women — about the only privilege 
they have. “ Herr ” does indeed mean “ Master.” 

A. L- J- 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. G. P. Baker represented this Faculty at the 
Science dinner. 

Mr. Solatidt will be our representative at the Arts 
conversazione to be held on February 9th. 

At a recent meeting of the Society for the study of 
Comparative Psychology, a number of the final men 
tendered their resignations as members. 

We are pleased to know that Mr. John Greer is 
making a rapid recovery, and expects to rejoin us 
shortly. 



224I» 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Only about six weeks more, and then exams. Moral : 
work. 



The Trojans are once more represented in the First 
year. 



Mr. J. C. Parker has not been with us during the 
past week, owing to illness. 



We understand that one of the Freshmen intends to 
challenge Corbett for the world’s championship. 



Dr. Wylie, of Owensboro, Ky., who graduated from 
this Faculty last year, reports practice fair in the blue 
grass country. 



It is said that our boy from Binscarth is developing 
great oratorical powers. 



supplemental. 

And what said the Ladies of this fair town 
When they heard of the great fame of Cap’n Goun ? 

“ We now offer our heart and also our hand 
To the man who has taken a first-class stand.” 

But o'er in the E — W. excitement ran high 
When lists of exams first came under their eye, 

And they whispered with smile as proud as ’twas bland, 
“ Ou^ Poet has taken a first-class stand.” 

WHAT I THINKS. 

(Written for a child.) 

I’m certain there ar’n’t no fairies, 

Nor half of a one to be seen, 

For I’ve been all over the whispering wood, 

And the glen, and the green. 

And I’ve been to the midsummer garden 
Where there’s roses red and white. 

It was nurse’s evening out that I went 
In my nightshirt at night. 

And there wer’n’t no fairies nor nothing, 

Only roses white and red ; 

So I said to myself they were just all bosh, 

And went back to bed 

And I asked cousin Charlie next morning, 
Though I didn’t suppose he knew ; 

But he only just laughed and gave me instead 
Something stupid to do. 

He told me to go to the clematis bower, 

That the queen of the fairies w r as there, 

And there wasn’t ; but only Miss Philippa Potts 
With a rose in her hair. 

And I asked my Papa after dinner, 

When I thought he looked jolly and kind, 

But he only jest said I’d a fustrate good brain 
And a modern mind. 

And grandmother says that bad fairies 
Are sulks and rude manner and pride, 

But she only talks that way to make me a saint, 
And a good boy inside. 



vSo Santa Claus don’t bring no presents 
And fairies don’t dance in a ring, 

And there’s no imps or demons or goblins, 

Or any such thing. 

But they all said there was, that’s so funny, 

And I’ve fairy books all in a row. 

And if they think goblins are silly, 

Why don’t they say so ? 

So I’ve just learnt a lesson, like one time 
When I took lots of mustard for fun, 

For I’ll never believe all the things that they say 
About ’Merika, sums, or the sun. 

But I’ll just be an awful agnostic — 

Pa taught me that word yesterday — 

I’ll just be a horrid agnostic 
And I won’t believe nothing you say. 

L. McMILLAN. 



HOCKEY. 

The McGill Hockey team played their first match on 
Monday evening, January 15th, in the Victoria Rink. 
There had been some trouble with the proprietor of 
the Crystal Rink, so that the match could not be played 
there, and our thanks are due to the directors of the 
Victoria Rink for allowing the match to take place 
there. 

The match was against the M.A.A.A. Intermediates. 

The team was as follows G. Lewis, goal; G. 
Schwartz, point ; F. Bickerdike (captain), cover point : 
Kirby, A. Massey, S. Bishop, H. Molson. ^ 

I11 the first half McGill was out played, Montreal 
scoring four games In the second half, however, our 
team picked up a bit, scoring 2 games to Montreal 1. 
The score at the end of time being 5-2, in favor of 
Montreal. 



CRYSTAL vs. McGILL. 

McGill played the Crystals in the Crystal Rink, on 
Monday evening, 22nd January. 

The team was as follows:— G. Lewis, goal; G 
Schwartz, point ; G. Drinkwater, cover point ; F. 
Bickerdike, H. Molson, S. Bishop, A. Massey, for- 
wards. 

This was a very good match, McGill having greatly 
improved since last Monday. The change in the team 
was also beneficial, Bickerdike helping the forwards a 
great deal. 

Better team play was also noticed in the match. 

At the end of time the score stood 2 games all. 

The teams played on for another twenty minutes 
Bishop at length scored for McGill, thus winning the 
match for McGill. 

For McGill, Drinkwater and Lewis played the star 
games. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




Now ready. February, 1894. 

Just received, first consignment of 

SPRING SUITINGS 

Including choicest qualities and 
latest novelties. Before our military 
orders monopolize our time we will 
be glad to give our best attention to 
any of our patrons requiring spring 
clothing, assuring them of perfect style, 
fit and finish. . f 



Prices range from $15.00 to $25.00 



Have you seen our Blue Worsted 
Waterpoof Cloaks ? 

Made to order, only $15.00 each. 



INTERMEDIATE HOCKEY SERIES. 



T. FITZPATRICK , 



Date. 




Teams . 


Rink. 


Won by. 


Jan’y 


10 


Crystal 


Maple 


Crystal 


Maple 


a 


15 


McGill 


Montreal 


Victoria 


Montreal 


u 


22 


Crystal 


McGill 


Crystal 


McGill 


U 


23 


Montreal 


Maple 


Victoria 


Montreal 


it 


29 


Crystal 


Montreal 


Crystal 




a 


3 i 


McGill 


Maple 


Victoria 




Feb’y 


6 


Montreal 


McGill 


Victoria 




a 


8 


Maple 


Crystal 


Victoria 




u 


14 


McGill 


Crystal 


Victoria 




<( 


21 


Maple 


McGill 


Victoria 




«< 


26 


Montreal 


Crystal 


Victoria 




March 


6 


Maple 


Montreal 


Victoria 





Beatiing Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniendy situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



.DENTIST. 



Gold CrouJn and Bridge ufork a specialty. 

54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

Telephone 3755. 



HELEN DRAKE. 



2407 ST. CATHERINE ST., 5aMONTRFAI 

JUST WEST OF PEEL ST. (TlVIUlN I nt-MLi 

. ^ . IMPORTER OF . . . 

Novelties in Materials for Dresses 

Millinery, Mantles, Trimmings, 5c. 

N.B.— Special selection of Novelties for Ball and Evening Dresses. 



DRESS MAKING A SPECIALTY 

Latest Styles from LONDON, PARIS and NEW YORK. 

ESTIMATES GIVEN. 



Sole Agent in Canada for . . . 

F. I. L„ CORSETS 

Highly recommended for Style, Comfort and Durability. Perfect Fit 
and Shape. 



A very fine upright piano is now on view in L . E- N. Pratte’s 
piano warerooms, No. 1676 Notre Dame street. The case is in 
Brazilian rosewood, natural color, and has been manufactured 
at E. E. N. Pratte’s factory. As to its musical qualities, it is 
only necessary to mention that it is an exact duplicate of the 
instrument sold and delivered last week to Prof. R. O. Pelle- 
tier, organist to St. Peter’s Cathedral, for his personal use as 
well as that of his advanced pupils. 



JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER DECORATOR. 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 



F OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. Coliege and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

380 to 386 St. Paul Street, 



/Montreal 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



2 2 6 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor- 



SERVICES SUNDAYS: ii a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 




A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 

Indian *Pea Depot 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

J^ ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb- 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & G. C. LeMESURIER 

5eason 1893--4 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 
complete 

Special Discount to Students. 

Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 

Mlk Lining, $36.00. 



WM, FA RQUH ARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

inspection i nvited. 135 S t. Peter Street. 



WINDSOR MARKET . estabushed r 839 . 

BROWN BROS. 

of Fir ) r Table DeliGaGles. 

The Emporium for Fine Meals, 

Cor- St. Catherine Street and McGill College Avenue 

Telephone 4038. 

SOLLY CIGAR ST0RE_ 




TO ATHLETES. 



Fool Ball 



Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
^Worked on Jerseys. 






( 

r 



CD 



REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 

(Dicro. Accessories 
Clinical Thermometers 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Laryngoscopic (ilirrors 
Opthalmoscopes 
Stethoscopes 
Specula of all patterns 
Skulls and Skeletons 
Aspirators, Batteries 
Pocket Cases, etc., etc. _ 
STUDENTS * OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 

E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, 




and give us your custom for Imported and 
Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— College Cigars and Perique Mixture 



15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 



at very reasonable prices. 



10. BEflGHOLDT ( CO., 



2397— — 

ST. CATHERINE STREET 



PATERSON & FOSTER 

. . WHOLESALE AND RETAIL . 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



227 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR. KRUSE. Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Florist and Decorator, 

43 BEAYER HALL HILL 



) 



IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



Formerly 76 Victoria Square. 

Greenhouses at ROCKFIELD, Lachine. 



The COOK'S FRIE ND is relailei t y all Gool Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL 



Largest Stock of PALMS and other DECORA TIVE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Coods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



CTjAIMIES bray, 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 




SAMUEL S. GRANT. 

¥1 1st Honors Pupil of 



^PlCATO^ Dr - Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 

SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, 

Hours 9 a. in. to 8 p.m. 

HENRY GRANT & SON, Corner Dorchester Street 



VICE-REGAL DECORATORS AND PLORISTS, 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5- Davidson &• Sons, 

Branch : — 174 St. James St. Conservatories Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL . 9324 and 1734. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(Engraver, 

118 Mansfield Street, Corner of st ._ Catherine 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 



QUT FLOWERS 



_y 



JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (Cor. PEEL) 



Tel. 4911 . 



J. A. BAZIN, L.D.S., 

DENTIST, 

imnrjT^rni 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES. 



49 UNION AVENUE. 



199 ST. ANTOINE ST. and 2647 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




228 



McGill fortnightly, 



W. H. HOPE, 

Manufacturer of 

PICTURE FIE^uATVHES 

Importer of 

Steel Engravings, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

telephone 2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., 



The GEORGE RISHOP 



Engraving and Print ing C o. 



3629 . 

REGILDING DONE, MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



pOUNTAIN MARKET 



Telephone 1887 



73 ST. JAMES STREET 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 

IV. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 

ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 

FACULTIES OF McCILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 



UP TOWN STORE: 

2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P<?ns 









Diarie s, Calendars, 

5lanl< Rooks, Stationary. 

BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PRICES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 
MOZKTTT^IELAILj. 



COLL E GE, CLUB AN D 
SOCIETY PltlXTIXG ^jk 

169 St $ ames Street 



PROGRAMMES 

MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

TICKETS 



The American Fur Store 



WHOLESALE 



JRftnujfarturiiu} Jfitrriers 



Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



. . Fish, Game and Oyster s- 

Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Oor. Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St. 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 



BRANCH STORE: 



2257 St. Catherine St., 

Special Discounts to Students 

Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 



. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Kstatoli sited 1859. 

HIELTIR/'Y' IR,. G-BAT, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

1 he Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



229 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWH 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square White Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 



Point St. Charles, Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CRAIG STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Blrcli, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 

JOHN PAXTON & CO- "ST” 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS. MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W REED, 

^latc, gftetat and drauel Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 

Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 
OAK-T AIsTISriEID 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

rail MORISOH S CO, 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal, 

ARTISTS • » « 

— USE ONLY - 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers liave them 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAT . 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men 3 vols., cloth $2.50 reduced from £5.00 

Lord Lytton's Works .13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 300 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ “ 7.50 ** 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 

MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

MONTTBE AL. 

ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 

SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., DUNCAN ROBERTSON 

TORONTO. MONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 

9 

^LUBRICATING :0ILS: ILLUMINATING 

(12 Gold Medals in 6 years.) 

GREASES NAPHTHA. 

Ben Telephone 9i9o. 92 McGill St., Montreal. 

GEO. S. KIMBER^ 

HOUSE, SIGH AHD FRESCO PAIHTEB. 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



GK &c T. ESPLIN 

Box Manufacturers 

AND 

, . Lumber Merchants 

Office, 126 Duke Street. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESIRED MOTOR, 




230 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co 

Largest Fire Office in the Worid. 



. ^CANADA LIFEI>- 

ASSURANCE COMPANY, 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 



Unlimi ed Liability. Absolute Security. 



Every description of property insured at moderate iat.es of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATI.KY, Manager. 

GEO. SIMPSOX, Assistant Manager. 

E. Hurtubise, (Special Agents James Allin, (Special Agents 

Alfred St. Cyr, S French Dept. W. S. Roberts n, J English Dept. 

of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DUKING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

take Ontario, 5300 Tons, Capt. Campbell. Lake Superior, 530ft Tons, Capt. Stewart. 

Lake lltiron, 5000 Tons, Capt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, Capt. Herriman. 

Lake Nipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this 1 ine have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
Trade. The state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
accommodation for all classes of Passengers at very low rates, 
specially reduced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 
MO 



McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Fine 



V 



VARNISHES, JAPANS 
and COLORS 



. . . MONTREAL . . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 




WARDEN KING <£ SORT 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST, MONTREAL. 



HEAD OFFICE, HAMILTON , OXT. 

Capital and Funds over 13,0.0,000 Dollars, 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov, of Quebec Branch. - MONTREAL, 



EDWARD L. BOND 

<dfirc and Jjftarine Underwriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co, 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 



THE MOLSONS BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 | Rest, $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES,— Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound 
Ridgetown, Smith's Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Thomas, Our., Toronto, Toronto 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Out. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London.— Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited); Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool. — Th e Bank of Liverpool. Cork— Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 
Paris— Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp, Belgium. — La Bnnqued' Anvers. Hamburg 
— Hesse, Newman & Co. * 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES. — New York. — Mechanics* National Bank 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S A Sheo* 
herd, Agents Bank of Montreal; National City Bank, also in the princioal cities 
of the United States. 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 



HENDERSON BROS. 

dumber ami timber 

Stecun Sclw ctrul Pltuxi g \ Jills 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling Wood always in Stock 



H. R. IVES 6 c CO. E9tB ^y ^ 

Architectural Iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 



General Founders, etc. 

Quean Street MONTP£ 4 L 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



23 




GURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 

HOT AIR FURNACES PLUMBERS SUPPLIES 

RADIATORS, REGISTERS LOCKS AND SCALES 

STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES/’ sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



3855 cfc 38V St. Paul St. MONTREAL. 



EKTARUKHKI) 1809 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



extraordinary directors. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon. Lord Wolvcrton 
Tne Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen 1 The Hon. Lord Well wood 

The Right Hon. Lord Forbes 



Invested in C'annda, nearly - 85,000,000 

Total Assets, - 52,033,7 10 



— Head Office for Canada at Montreal == 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



The Liverpool X London 5 Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in *he World 

l 

All business accepted at most favorab .sand 
losses liberally adjusted ... , 

Gk : F\ G. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL. 



FIRE IKOrSeSot 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Head Office for Canada, - MONTREAL 



Insure your Property with the 



Phoenix Insurance Co. HARTFORD 



TIME TRIED 



and FIRE TESTED 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., | _ Directors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 



The 



Guarantee Gomp y 



OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

Rail BuildiugM. RKDLAND *V JONES, Agent* 



SMITH & TATLEY, 

Managers for Canada 
114 ST. JAMES STREET 




Northern Assurance Co, 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 
Poticy Holders 



$35.73<>,ooo 
5.495 000 

200,003 



ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canaria. 
City Agent: BROWNING’ British Empire Building. 



232 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




- - 



Hot Water, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 

— TO THE 

McGill Unioersity Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board ,ot Trade Building. 

Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



R OBERT GARDNER & SON 



Established 
. . . 1850 . . . 



MANUFACTURERS OF 






Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth , Brennan and Da/housie Sts., 



MONTREAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 



PRACTICAL 



louse mih jUlemnftaat Jell-Hunger, Jrodtamiil; unit Senerul JBbdtatnillj 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPENTERS’ and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 



762 and 764 CRAIC STREET, West of Victoria Square, 

Bell Telephone No. 2591 



- MONTREAL 



bept IVtitcliell & 



Manufacturers of. 



f@-CL& CULcL s 

(pLpcLhia ^Lc^fuL 




Engineers', Plumbers’, Gas and Steam jitters Goods. 



Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 

3tduocates, barristers, &c., 

35T EW YORK IjIR’H BtTIL OITTG, 

MONTREAL. 



R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. 



PEERS DAVIDSON. 



CEORCE BRUSH -^z=£ fifc tnblinlid Ivio. — - — 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL. 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 



Office 34 King St. 



Tel. No. 435. 



ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 

DRAIN PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, ENAMELLED 
SINKS, CALCINED PLASTER, 
WHEEL BARROWS, &c. 

COAL OIL, 

Portland, Roman and 

Canada Cements. 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 396. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 

BOYD & CO. Telephone looe.y 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal .—Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co ; 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co.. D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 











Special Discounts to Students. 



HEARN & HARRISON, 



TRIANGLE, 
SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

1640 

NOTRE DAME 



W. * F. P. CURRIE * CO. 

100 CREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WH1TEF0RD 4 THEORET 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

3iauj b<>olts(*Uers, publishers and J^oohbind^rs 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Legale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Just out, Craokshui's Criminal Code of Canada, $1 0 

ABBOITS. CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 



J. B. Abbott 
H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague 



C. S. Campbell 
IF. E. Meredith 



ATWATER & MACKIE 

Advocates, barristers, (Commissioners, etc. 

OLD 8 TA N p A Rp BU.LD.NC Jfo 151 ST. JAMES STREET, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 



Telephone 1880 



Cable Address, “Arcfost.” 



Hon. John S. Hal], Q.C., M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



HALL, GROSS, BROWN 5 SHARP, 

^duocates, barristers and Solicitors, 

i .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C. 



Farquhar S. Maclennan 



MAC MASTER & MACLENNAN 

^duocates, barristers, <£tc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 



Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AND THE iEOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 



Largest Stock. No Can vassers. 
Olio price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 
taken in exchange 




Notre Dame Montreal^ 



Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices. 



FURNITURE 



STTTDEITTS 

BUY YOUR 



FOR 



Professors; and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



SPRING HATS 

ALLAN’S, 661 CRAIG STREET, 

He has all the latest English and American styles at most reasonable prices. 
No trouble to show the goods. Come in and see them; 5 per cent, off to Students. 



RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON 

652 CRAIG STREET 



Do You Paint? 




Good Fall and Winter 



• o 



BOOTS 



$2.25, 2-75, 3 5D, 400 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS CORNER ST. HELEN. 



J^ll fainting r$qvi$ites 
and Artists' JNIaterials. 

DRAWING MATERIALS, 

MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, ' 

At special prices for Students at ... . 

WALTER C3TTN8H4M & 00., 

1822 NOTRE DAME ST., 



Full aaBortment of RUBBE RS and OVERSHOES 



MANAGER. 




WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 

It goes without saying that 

Mia WALFORD’S r 

if the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 
Photos of Professors on sale. 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 



136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 

MONTREAL. 

HATS, GAPS and FINE FURS 

p ned a lien store at 2411 St. Catherine Street, I would invite special inspec- 
tion ol a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 

WIL LIAM SAMU EL, 2411 St. Catherine Street 




