jWcGibb Fortnight^ 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. IV. MONTREAL, JANUARY 8. 1896. No. 7 




* EDITORIAL BOARD K 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med. *96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda '96). 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



BUSINESS BOARD & 



S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. '9 6). J. W. Bell (Sc. ’97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



SOME RECENT UNIVERSITY LOSSES. 

The students re-assembling for the final half-session 
will find that in the interval some changes have taken 
place in college affairs, and principally we might 
mention, as affecting their comfort and advantage, 
the first practical step which has been taken towards 
the realization of the much-discussed University club ; 
and others of a less pleasant nature affecting the 
teaching staff, and necessitated by the withdrawal 
from University work of Professors Trenholme and 
Carlyle. For the retirement from work of old and 
tried Professors is always a matter for regret to the 
students and all true friends of the University. The 
return of Doctor Trenholme to the active practice 
of his profession, and his retirement from the Faculty 
of Law after twenty-seven years of continuous, ard- 
uous and unselfish labor in its behalf, is a matter 
which has not failed to excite the lively interest of 
the Law students. And the loss occasioned thereby 
they have just cause to deplore. In view of Dr. 
Trenholme’s position in the University and his long 
term of service, it was eminently fitting, therefore, 



that the students should mark in some tangible form 
their appreciation of his work, and their sense of the 
loss suffered by the Faculty of Law, through his 
withdrawal from it. But we mistake greatly if the 
Law students, in presenting the Dean with an illumin- 
ted address, were prompted wholly by a narrow Fac- 
ulty interest. It was no doubt felt, in response to a 
wider and broader prompting, that the University as 
a whole, not being segregated from its faculties, must 
be affected by, and partake in the advantages and 
losses incident to each and all of them. A glance at 
the list of graduates will show that there is some 
basis for this sentiment. The graduates of the Fac- 
ulty of Law, small as it is comparatively in num- 
bers, have reflected no discredit on the University. 
On the contrary, occupying as they do some of the 
highest positions in the state, being conspicuous on the 
bench of the Province and eminent at the Bar, it may 
be justly claimed for them, that they are most wor- 
thy children of McGill, and have done much to set 
her in a fair light before the world. Most, if not all 
of these, may also be claimed as Dr. Trenholme’s 
students, they having passed under him as Professor 
in the Faculty of Law. Without the slightest dis- 
paragement, therefore, to the eminent men who have 
been associated with him in the Faculty, Dr. Tren- 
holme may justly claim to have done some service 
to the University and to the cause of legal education 
in the Province of Quebec. As a teacher, Dr. Tren- 
holme has been eminently successful. It is no doubt 
true that unless the material with which any teacher 
has to deal be of the right sort, his best efforts will 
not greatly tell ; but where there is the necessary in- 
tellectual stamina, the individuality of the teacher 
and his methods will immensely influence the course 
of the serious student. In this regard, it might not 
be uninteresting to note briefly a few characteristics 
which have always struck the students in connection 
with Dr. Trenholme’s lectures. In lecturing then, 
foremost of all, the Dean possessed the peculiar gift 
of arousing the interest and enthusiasm of the stu- 
dents in the subject in hand. However uninterest- 
ing the branch of law taken up might apparently be, 
it soon became invested with a living interest, and 
the student, instead of being repelled, found himself 
alive to the importance and attractiveness of the sub- 
ject. Dr. Trenholme’s preliminary course on obli- 



1 1 6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



gations was always a mind-opener to the young stu- 
dent. If the student came into the lecture room for 
the first time full of the popular notions as to 
the law and law studies, they were soon dis- 
pelled, and he addressed himself to the work 
not in a hostile spirit, but as to a congenial task, with 
pleasure and alacrity. And the absolute beauty of 
this branch of the science of law revealed itself step 
by step as the lecturer advanced. This course was 
always taken by the Second Year students, and fre- 
quently by the Final Year men. Thus a great force for 
individual work was awakened, and an impetus given 
to each student in his study of the law without which 
real success could hardly be possible. For where 
there is enthusiasm and interest, there is bound to be 
success. In compelling the attention of the students, 
the Dean’s style of lecturing was undoubtedly a great 
assistance. He possessed the faculty of easy, lumin- 
ous off-hand exposition in a remarkable degree. 
Another feature of Dr. Trenholme’s lecturing was 
not lost to the students. He always aimed high for 
them. He disparaged the notion of McGill turning 
out “ mere lawyers.” He took a personal interest in 
the students, encouraged individual research, and 
always urged them to do the best work possible. The 
ideal he set before the students was a true and a high 
one. His lawyer was a leader of men. In another 
respect he always struck a chord of sympathy in the 
students, and evoked their applause. He had abso- 
lute faith in this young country of ours, and in the 
integrity of the British empire. He was strong for 
British connection, at the same time he was broad- 
minded, as every man of culture ought to be, quick 
to see the good features as well as the bad in other 
nations near and distant. 

These are some of the characteristics which marked 
Dean Trenholme’s lectures, and which made them so 
popular with the students, and which also, undoubt- 
edly, contributed not a little to the success which has 
attended his work. The retirement of Dr. Tren- 
holme from the work with which he has been so long 
associated cannot be looked upon in any other sense 
than as a great loss to the Faculty of Law and to the 
University. 



At a meeting of the Governors recently held, Dr. 
Leo H. Davidson was appointed Acting-Dean of the 
Faculty of Law, to succeed Dr. N. W. Trenholme just 
retired. It is scarcely necessary to say that this ap- 
pointment will be received with entire approbation by 
every one. Dr. Davidson is too well known in this 
province as a lawyer and a scholar to need a word in 
that regard. The new Dean may be assured of a 
hearty welcome from the students with whom he has 
always been a most popular professor. 



With the Christmas holidays Professor Carlyles 
connection with the Science Faculty also comes to 
an end. Professor Carlyle’s resignation will certainly 
be felt as a loss in the Science department of McGill. 
He leaves his position in McGill as professor and lec- 
turer of mining and metallurgy, and goes to the Paci- 
fic as provincial mineralogist to British Columbia. 
McGill has a particular claim upon Professor Carlyle 
as one of her own children. He was graduated from 
Alma Mater in 1887, taking the British Association 
of Science gold medal for proficiency in engineering 
subjects, and also first class honors from Sir William 
Dawson in natural science, viz. : geology, mineralogy, 
chemistry, and photography. Subsequently he spent 
two seasons on the government geological survey of 
the Laurentians, and later on became mining engineer 
at Aspen in connection with one of the largest mining 
plants in the State of Colorado. McGill, therefore, 
loses in Professor Carlyle a first class man, but our 
loss is British Columbia’s gain, as the professor will 
certainly be an invaluable assistance to the govern- 
ment of the great Pacific mining province. The 
students wish Professor Carlyle every success in his 
new sphere of labor. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



THE STRUGGLE FOR JUSTICE. 

In 1872 a professor of Law delivered a lecture 
before a society of jurists in Vienna. During the 
same year, the address was published in an amplified 
form. The first edition was soon exhausted ; in two 
months a second became necessary ; the year after, a 
third was issued ; and so on, until now the tenth 
edition has been reached. To-day the work is a 
German classic, and is read by the youngest student 
with as much avidity as it was in its early days by his 
forerunners. A translation exists in every European 
language — even in English, strange to say ! London 
and Chicago have saved our honor, although only 
after Russia, Croatia, Poland, Bohemia, and even 
Greece (not to mention more progressive countries), 
had given the work currency in their several national 
tongues. 

The man was Rudolf von Jhering ; his book was 
“ Her Kampf urns Recht”— a title in the translation 
of which the two versions in our language signifi- 
cantly disagree, the English interpretation being 
“The Struggle for Right,” and the American “The 
Struggle for Law.” The title of this article suggests 
a third rendering, possibly more agreeable to the 
vulgar idiom than either of those already adopted. 

A speaker who can transcend his professional and 
academic environment and make the world his 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ii 7 



audience needs no other title to greatness. The 
orator who commands national applause, the lawyer 
who gains even international renown among his class, 
possess only a simulacrum of that larger meed. The 
pleader who, in putting off his gown and bands, flings 
away his legal jargon with them, and speaks Irom heart 
to heart, through the barriers of manners and language, 
about law and its institutions, belongs to that order 
of genius which, as Heine has said, knows no affilia- 
tion of race, and, we may add. no badge of class. 

This pamphlet — it is not much more — is itself a 
“ struggle for right” in the plane of ideas. Its object 
is twofold : to teach the layman the vital value of law, 
and to free the lawyer from narrow views about law. 

The former end is the more important. The 
author says : “ I was concerned, in preparing it, not 

so much with the promotion of the scientific study of 
law as with the cultivation of the state of mind from 
which the law must ultimately derive its strength, 
viz., the courageous and constant exercise of the feel- 
ing of right.” — (Preface.) 

The basal thesis is that the law is born in strife, 
lives by strife, and can progress by strife only. The 
constant factor in law is thus revealed. The author 
maintains this view with uncompromising ardor 
from the first page to the last. 

“ The end of the law is peace ; the means to that end 
is war. So long as the law is compelled to hold it- 
self in readiness to resist the attacks of wrong — and 
this it will be compelled to do until the end of time — 
it cannot dispense with war. The life of the law is a 
struggle of nations, of the State power, of classes, of 
individuals.” (page i, American edition, to which 
all references will be made.) 

And here follows the first of those wonderful illustra- 
tions which the author can conjure up at will : “ The 

law is not mere theory, but living force. And hence 
it is that Justice, which in one hand holds the 
scales in which she weighs the right, carries in the 
other the sword with which she executes it. The 
sword without the scales is brute force ; the scales 
without the sword is the impotence of law. The 
scales and the sword belong together; and the state 
of the law is perfect only where the power with 
which Justice carries the sword is equalled by the 
skill with which she holds the scales.” (p. 2.) 

A luminous figure, assuredly; and yet a novel 
interpretation of the stock picture of Justice. Others 
have seen in the scales the symbol of civil law, and 
in the sword that of the criminal system. They 
forget that the civil decree is ultimately enforceable 
maim militari , although the display of force is not 
as great as in the case of penal administration. 

The author considers that modern jurists have 
erred by attaching more importance to the scales 



than to thesword. The latter, typifying the struggle 
to obtain and maintain justice, is, in his view, the 
more vital organ of the law. 

Just as pain is the signal of physical disturbance, 
so the feeling of outraged right is the warning 
reminder of impending danger to the moral life. 
The impulse to rectify is instinctive in each instance, 
and is no more dependent on moral advancement in 
the latter case than in the former. “ If I were called 
upon to pass judgment on the practical importance 
of the two principles : ‘ Do no injustice,’ and 
‘ Suffer no injustice,’ I would say that the first rule 
was: ‘Suffer no injustice,’ and the second: ‘Do 

none !’ ” (p. 70.) 

Kant had already said, in his “Metaphysical 
Principles of Law,” that “ he who crawls like a worm 
must not complain if he is trampled under foot like 
a worm!” and stated the same idea in the form of 
a moral commandment : “ Let not your rights be 

trampled under foot with impunity.” (Preface, xi.) 

Von Jhering’s position was an unwitting repetition 
of these words. A breeze of Teutonic liberty invigor- 
ates every sentence of his compact little book. 

Like every other historical or philosophical pro- 
position, the Strife Theory must itself do battle 
before it can be accepted in whole or in part. 

The first position which calls for examination is 
that which places the origin of law in a struggle. 
The Historical School, on the contrary, declares 
custom, or usage preserved by tradition, to be the 
primitive source of law. Savigny and Puchta push 
the Custom Theory so far as to declare that the form- 
ation of law is effected by a process as spontaneous 
and unnoticed as in the growth of language. They 
consequently regard legislation — the issue of bind- 
1 ing commands by a sovereign power — as a secondary 
and less legitimate means of forming the law. Law 
is viewed by them as the mere realization, in out- 
ward life, of the developing spirit of the nation. 

The Custom Theory long constituted the legal ortho- 
doxy of Germany. Von Jhering admits that he him- 
self believed in it when he left college. But his 
virile intelligence soon revolted from doctrines which 
gave the preference to unconscious or semi-conscious 
law, over the conscious and scientific elaboration 
made possible only through legislation. 

The conception of law as a blind growth was intol- 
erable to one who valued the force of individual char- 
acter in other spheres- In this department alone of 
human activity, was individual initiative to count for 
nothing ? Was Law to have no heroes ? Was her 
life to be reduced to a mere process of inflection and 
conjugation, and she herself to be degraded into the 
yokefellow of her servant — Language ? 

The parallel between law and language is destroyed 
in these sarcastic words ; “ The principle of the old 



1 18 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Roman law, that the creditor might sell his insolvent 
debtor as a slave in foreign parts, or that the owner 
of a thing might claim it from anyone in whose pos- 
session he found it, would have been formed in 
ancient Rome, according to this view, scarcely in any 
other manner than that in which the grammatical 
rule that cum governs the ablative was formed.” 
(page 8.) 

The author was thus impelled to choose an active 
principle as the source of law. This he found in Strife. 
And in the recoil from the mechanical ideas to which 
it was opposed, he discarded utterly the passive prin- 
ciple, Custom. 

As a criticism of the extreme views of the Histori- 
cal School, the new theory was a success. But it 
erred in turn by absolutely rejecting the theory of 
custom. Whatever be the value of Strife as a transi- 
tional agency, it cannot claim the parentage of Law. 

Science has demonstrated that the beginnings of 
law are to be found in the rude usages of a primitive 
people. The moment that neighbors or fellow- 
tribesmen interfere in private disputes, to prevent the 
violation of a traditional right, law has begun. When 
an organized force, such as the modern state, enforces 
the body of existing customs, a new influence is intro- 
duced which lifts law to a higher place of develop- 
ment. 

War undoubtedly plays an important part in the 
early life of nations. Their warlike prowess preserves 
them from disintegration ; their military training also 
accustoms them to the ideas of obedience and discip- 
line, the only agencies by which nations are enabled 
to rise out of barbarism. Law is thus tribal, or na- 
tional, during its formative period. 

When law settles into the customary form, it may 
become so hard and fast that improvement is impos- 
sible. Such is the case with the so-called stationary 
civilizations : China, India, the ancient Aztecs and 
others. If improvement is possible, even although 
attended with pain and bloodshed, the national 
future is inimitably progressive. 

Here is the most important function of Strife. It 
consists in breaking up and remodelling the primi- 
tive customs. Sir Henry Maine has explained, with 
great lucidity, how this is usually done. The 
methods are: Fiction, Equity and Legislation. The 
spirit which forces the change, and utilizes one of 
these methods, is that of the struggle of the new 
ideas with the old. The partisans of each side have 
a certain degree of right on their side ; and a com- 
plete triumph of either is not the most beneficial or 
the most usual result. 

The new law should supplement and modify the 
old ; it should gradually prepare its way ; it should 
strike down or throw aside only when the old law 
embodies no principle of present utility. 



This legal evolution may be studied in many 
instructive cases. The laws of citizenship, property, 
inheritance, and wills are prominent examples. 

The importance of individual struggling is thus 
found to be, not in the formation of law, but in its 
reformation or betterment. 

In its highest form, this struggle is shifted to the 
realm of moral principle. The words of our author, 
intended to advocate a different view of the origin of 
law from that here outlined, are of great worth when 
taken as a description of its progressive amelioration : 

“The law can renew its youth only by breaking 
with its own past. A concrete legal right or princi- 
ple of law, which, simply because it has come into 
existence, claims an unlimited and therefore eternal 
existence, is a child lifting its arm against its own 
mother ; it despises the idea of the law when it 
appeals to that idea : for the idea of the law is an 
eternal Becoming ; but that which Has Become must 
yield to the New Becoming.” (p. 12.) 

The author’s second proposition is that the law 
lives by struggling : 

“ Whenever a person’s legal right is violated, he is 
placed face to face with the question : whether he 
will assert his right, resist his opponent — that is, 
engage in a struggle ; or whether, in order to avoid 
this, he will leave right in the lurch.” (p.p. 
20-21.) 

Then follows a demonstration that the decision of 
the above problem is not a mere matter of calcula- 
tion. If the feeling of right is wounded, the wish for 
reparation is instructive. It is almost reflex. And 
this is simply due to the fact that to avoid the strug- 
gle is to imperil the moral life. To take an exam- 
ple : 

Let us drop the consideration of the controversy 
between two private persons, and in their place put 
two nations. The one nation, let us suppose, has, 
contrary to law, taken from the other a square mile 
of barren, worthless land. Shall the latter go to 
war ? Let us examine the question from precisely 
the same standpoint from which the theory of the 
mania for litigation judges it, in the case of the pea- 
sant from whose land a neighbor has ploughed away 
a few feet, 01 into whose meadow he has thrown a 
few stones. What signifies a square mile of barren 
land compared with a war which costs the lives of 
thousands, biings sorrow and misery into the palace 
and the hut, eats up millions and millions of the 
treasuie of the State, and possibly imperils its exist, 
ence ? What folly to make such a sacrifice for such 
an end ! 

“ Such would have to be our judgment, if the 
peasant and the nation were measured with the same 
measure. Yet no one would wish to give to the 
nation the same advice as to the peasant. Every- 



McGill fortnightly 



one feels that a nation which looked upon such a 
violation of law in silence would have signed its own 
death sentence. From the nation which allowed 
itself to be deprived of one square mile of territory 
by its neighbor, unpunished, the rest would be taken, 
until nothing remained to it to call its own, and it 
had ceased to exist as a State, and such a nation 
would deserve no better fate.” (p.p. 24-25.) 

When Professor Von Jhering proclaims that the 
very existence of the law is dependent upon the 
assertion by each citizen of his rights, few will dis- 
agree with him. But when he states that the strug- 
gle for law is a species of holy war which must be 
fought a routrance, there is room for serious excep- 
tion. In the case of violent infractions of rights, the 
doctrine is conceivable ; the defence of a man’s pro- 
perty is then assimilated to that of his person. But 
what about fraudulent attacks, unattended by 
violence? It is then no longer a question of repell- 
ing force by force, but of protecting private interests. 
The “feeling of right” is an exalted standard ; but 
let the disputed object become worthless, and the 
feeling runs out quickly. 

To say that war is the life of the law is like saying 
that strikes are the life of trade. War and strikes 
each have their function ; and a very important one 
it is, in each case. But they mark only the crises, 
the times of transition, the travail of newer ideas and 
institutions. 

If the “ Struggle for Law” had done nothing more 
than to teach the duties of hopefulness and bravery, 
it would not have been written in vain. But it does 
much more. It has vindicated the share of the indivi- 
dual in the fashioning of the positive enactments gov- 
erning his life ; it has also vindicated the right of con- 
scious legislation to be deemed the highest evolution 
of law. It has shown that the heroes who struggled 
for justice, even in the face of existing law, are martyrs 
in the cause of the unborn law. Speaking of 
Michael Kohlhaas, our author says (p. 87) : “ It is 
said that the blood of martyrs does not flow in vain ; 
and the saying may have been true of him. It may 
be that his warning shadow sufficed for a long time 
to make the legal oppression of which he was a vic- 
tim, an impossibility.” 

The book closes with a panegyric of strife. The 
aesthetic theory of law, propounded by Herbart, 
comes in for destructive notice. That philosopher 
sees the basis of law in the dislike of contention. 

The answer obviously is that contention has fulfilled, 
and is yet fulfilling, a high office in the development 
of law and cf all other social institutions. 

The concluding words are : 

“The sentence: ‘ In the sweat of thy brow shalt 



1 19 



thou eat bread,’ is on a level with this other : ‘ By 
struggling shalt thou obtain thy rights’.” 

From the moment that the law gives up its readi- 
ness to fight, it gives itself up ; for the saying of the 
poet, that only he deserves liberty and life who has 
to conquer them for himself every day, is true of 
law also. 

Many other features of the work deserve notice, 
but cannot be treated in the compass of an article 
like this. The criticism upon the iniquitous decision, 
in Shylock’s case, the parallel between law and love, 
the fable of the Englishman and the Austrian, and 
their different methods of dealing with a swindling 
inn-keeper, are all as instructive as they are interest- 
ing. 

A final word upon the main thesis of the book. 
Strife has its uses in law. It is one of its main reform- 
ative agencies. But custom, not private war, is the 
parent of law. Strife is not the life of Law. The 
struggle between two individuals is a common con- 
ception of a law-suit. But the difference between a 
battle and a law-suit is that in the former case there 
is no arbiter, while in the latter there is. It is not the 
prowess of the victor which wins him the suit : it is 
his power to convince the judge. While it is true 
that legal revolutions are frequently consummated in 
a civil struggle, their lasting effects are moulded by 
the succeeding peace, and very often could not have 
been foreseen by the combatants. 

The industrial age has displaced warlike ideals. 
Foreign wars serve to-day mostly as an avenue to 
foreign markets. Law-suits are taken and conducted, 
in the vast majority of cases, purely from the stand- 
point of interest. 

The struggle for justice is shifted to other spheres 
The claim of humanity, purely as humanity, to recog- 
nition, is being hurled into the teeth of industrialism. 
Monopoly in trade, and class-domination in politics, 
are preparing a state of things for which only one 
remedy is possible whereby the honor of mankind 
may be saved. 

The lessons of courage taught by Von Jhering’s 
brave little book are of supreme value in the present 
age of transition. 

The universal struggle for justice will need all the 
energies developed in the various activities of the 
race. The remembrance of the indestructible vitality 
of Right in the past should nerve the arms of the 
combatants of the future. 

“ Truth, crush’d to earth, will rise again ; 

The eternal years of God are hers ; 

But Error, wounded, writhes in pain, 

And dies among her worshippers . ” 

P.C.R. 



120 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



STORIES OF AN IRISH RIVER. 

The Sinh is a river in the west of Ireland, which 
empties itself into the Shannon. The gentry whose 
country-seats stood well up from its banks talked of 
the loveliness of its scenery ; compared it favorably 
with the Thames, and expected their summer visitors 
to sketch “ bits,” or express its charms in song. 

The poor people, inhabitants of the scattered cot- 
tages or little villages situated here and there along 
the river’s course, thanked God after every flood that 
not a larger number of them were dying from the effects 
of some three weeks living in houses two and three and 
four feet deep in water. For after every prolonged 
fall of rain, — a frequent event in western Ireland, — the 
Sinh, disdaining the mild control of its banks, spread 
far to right and left over adjoining lands. Yet, still 
the people would build their houses in the low-lying 
regions which just at the moment might not be abso- 
lutely in the liquid state ; and, still they collected 
their hay into “ cocks ” near the water’s edge, though a 
season had never gone by without the greater part 
having been swept down the river’s course. 

Athleague was one of these periodically inundated 
villages. Probably the same blind faith in a Provi- 
dence, whom, as it seems, the people thought after each 
successive flood might possibly now be appeased, had 
acted in determining them to add house to house 
during the first years of the existence of the village. 
However, that time was far back in the past, and each 
new generation found itself subject to certain condi- 
tions — as it happened unfavorable, but no doubt 
assigned by the inscrutable will of God. 

The village was inhabited by the poorer class, who 
got their living mainly by agricultural labor, or as 
“hands ” at the large corn mill standing at one end 
of the village. 

The Rector and some private gentlemen had 
some variously sized estates in the neighborhood. 
They formed a society of their own, which, so far as 
human interests were concerned, had nothing in com- 
mon with the villagers. They were practically two 
different races. The one employed the other, paid it, 
“ tipped it,” and gave the old clothes to it. In return 
this latter admired, fawned and recognized itself of 
baser blood. 

Therefore it may be questioned whether it was 
simply the wish of alleviating the discomforts of their 
poorer neighbors that eventually led certain gentle- 
men living near Athleague to instigate the county 
members to represent in Parliament the damage to 
the country that was being occasioned by these floods, 
and to propose that works should be set on foot to 
drain the river, for which a necessary grant of money 
should be assigned. 



These particular gentlemen had large estates by 
the river, and it was well known that calculations had 
been made of the increase in value of their lands sub- 
ject to no possible spoliation by floods. 

In course of time the so-called Sinh Drainage Bill 
passed through Parliament, and the grant of money 
was made. The works were set on foot, and became 
the means of beginning a new era in the life of many 
a village along the Sinh. 

Portions of the river were taken one after the other, 
the bed deepened or the main current diverted into 
a newly-cut canal, or tumble-down weirs removed, or 
small obstructive islands cut away. As each portion 
became finished, and the works were moved on to the 
next portion, a more or less large gang of navvies 
followed in the track. 

These latter were spoken of as “ those Sinh men,” 
by the inhabitants of the various localities through 
which they passed. As a rule, they consisted of the 
roughest and poorest class of men, drawn from 
out-of-the-way districts, whose worldly possessions 
consisted for the most part of the ragged garments on 
their backs, a clay pipe and a bit of hard tobacco. 
In common with other animals, however, these men 
did like a shelter at night, and to have some approx- 
imation to cooked food in the shape of potatoes, 
bacon, and stirabout (porridge). 

When the works came to Athleague, the villagers 
found themselves for the first time applied to for 
lodgings. This was a new way of adding to their 
scanty earnings, and there was a sort of dignity, too, 
in being able to take in lodgers, though their houses 
might consist of but two rooms, clay-floored and 
ceilingless. Yet the lodgers were quite content so 
long as they were actually covered, and seven or 
eight perhaps would gather at night into one cottage, 
and with a sack or two under and a sack or two over, 
would sleep well, dispersed about the rough clay floor. 

And now Patsy Farrell’s was not the only one spot 
in Athleague where a man could be sure of meeting 
a friend, but the loafers would often betake themselves 
to the end part of the bridge wall, whence could be 
had a good view of the busy navvies wielding pick- 
axes and shovelling away soil, and with their barrows 
running hither and thither over planks laid from 
stone to stone. It is true, here they were without 
the whisky that Patsy Farrell supplied, but they would 
1 effect that that could wait till later on in the evening. 

The Rector, as he drove smartly by in his neat dog- 
cart, would turn to his companions, and tell them joc- 
ularly that here were the quarters of the village club. 

The Rector himself had a special interest in the 
drainage of the Sinh, for he had been appointed secre- 
tary to the Board which directed the works, and, 
moreover, part of his outhouses and ayard were let to 
the same Drainage Board for the storage of plant and 



McGill fortnightly. 



1 2 1 



for providing accommodation for their smiths and 
carpenters. 

Now, amongst the gang of Sinh men who began 
operations at Athleague in the early part of one sum- 
mer was a young fellow, called Hugh Galvin, up from 
the county Kerry. He was of rather more intelli- 
gence than his companions, and for this reason was 
more often engaged in the carpenter’s shop than in 
actual navvy’s work. Here the Rector’s little ten- 
year-old daughter made his acquaintance. Of course 
she had been told over and over again not to go near 
the stables nor near those Sinh men, but to play in 
the garden or walk on the avenue. Yet the stable 
and the carpenter’s shop were interesting places, and 
the avenue and garden were not, and therefore she 
chose to go to the first. 

The Rector threatened to get a holiday governess. 
She would laugh gaily, and say that she was 
sent right out of the country for nine months in the 
year, she ought to be allowed to please herself during 
the remaining three. And the rector would drive off 
to pay some distant visit, hoping that this temporarily 
associating with the lower class would not counteract 
the benefits he believed she was deriving from life 
at an English private school. 

It was little Norah’s acquired English accent that 
especially captivated Galvin. “ Hughie,” she would 
say shortly and sharply, instead of a long drawl on the 
Hu, which his own companions put on it. Then her 
hair was golden and her form fairylike, and her man- 
ner was gracious in the extreme to anyone she cared 
for. And she used to tell him she liked him, and 
was always suggesting he should apply to her father 
to be coachman instead of that horrid Johnnie Kelly. 
It was her delight to call the servants by their Chris- 
tian names, though the Rector insisted that before him, 
at least, only the surnames should be used. She had 
told Hughie all her private affairs, about the girls 
at school, about the presents she was going to give at 
Christmas, how she would send him a card enclosed 
in a letter to Mary Anne, the cook. Did he like 
Mary Anne ? Well it was no use, for Mary Anne had 
got a sweetheart, and Norah thought it was the 
O’Grady’s butler. And she would be very interested 
then to hear that Hughie thought a great deal of a girl 
down in Kerry, and Hughie had to tell all about her, 
until Norah’s volatile thoughts returned to herself 
and she would interrupt him to lament once more 
over the fact that she hadn’t got a single brooch, and 
every girl at school had one, and her father said he 
was short of money just now and couldn’t get her 
one. 

Hughie used to think about that brooch. He 
would greatly like to buy one for the child. She could 
take it to her school, and be as fine as the other young 
ladies. For of course, being an inferior, he would not 



have thought of offering one that should be worn in 
her father’s house. But brooches such as ladies wore 
he was sure cost much, and his pay of fifteen pence 
a day left a small margin for saving. 

On a hot July morning, when the carpenter’s 
shop was shut for a few days, Hugh put his hand to 
the ordinary navvy work. They were cutting away 
an islet that lay a few feet from the river’s bank just 
below the bridge. The luxuriant, still uncut grass 
that grew down to the water’s edge was being spoiled 
in its looks by the heaps of refuse from the islet that 
the men were depositing along the bank. A group 
of these men were “ taking it aisy,” for a minute after 
an upsetting of their barrows’ contents. 

“ Did you hear that Tommy Casey is a rich man 
to-day ? ” said one- 

“ I did not,” said the man next to him, taking a 
seat on his upturned barrow. 

The first speaker took a pipe from his pocket and 
asked for a match. None of them had any, so they 
called out to Galvin to know if he had one. He put 
down his shovel and came over to the barrows. 
After supplying the match he was advised to “ take it 
aisy ” too for a minute. 

“Well,” went on the smoker, “Tommy found a 
quare old sword-like thing in the river down below 
Fuerty, and when Mr. Dalton, the engineer, saw it, he 
offered him five shillings for it, but wasn’t Tommy 
knowing, for he said he wouldn’t be parting with it 
yet, and a couple of days after he went up with it to 
Mr. O’Grady’s, and didn’t Mr. O’Grady give him 
forty shillings for it.” 

“ Tommy was always a wise man,” remarked one. 

“ Sure, he had heard them tell about the things 
they found beyond Fuerty last year, and that the 
engineers took them, when the men didn’t know 
they were worth a halfpenny, and sold them to a 
place in Dublin that likes those sort of quare things, 
and got a great sum of money for them.” 

“Those quare things they used in a war in these 
parts, a great while ago, they do be saying,” said 
another man. 

Suddenly the men were vigorously wheeling off 
their barrows. One of the engineers was coming 
across the meadow. 

Hughie resumed his shovelling. 

It was very warm. He felt drowsy, and worked 
his shovel almost mechanically. In a vague way he 
was thinking it was a pity to be making the water a 
muddy brown instead of leaving it clear and sparkling, 
as it was away out in the centre of the river. 

Then there was a cling sound on his shovel, — an 
extra big stone in the soil no doubt ; then a wave of 
color rushed into the young fellow’s face. No stone 
could cause that metallic ring. He put the shovel 
down again hastily on the spot it had been rising 



I 



122 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



from. He cast a quick glance round. For the mo- 
ment he was quite by himself. His late companions 
were evidently listening to some instructions from 
the engineer. He had no time to lose. He took up 
his shovel and stooped down. There was something 
brown and rusty and sharp sticking out of the moist 
mud. He drew out this something with his hands, 
finding it of no great size, but of curious shape, and 
seeming under its coating of mud to consist partly of 
wood and partly of metal. He stepped backwards on 
to the firm bank, stooped down as if fastening his 
put boots, the object between his heels, slipped off his 
waistcoat and let it drop over the spot. Then he 
moved a few steps to where his coat was lying, and 
threw it likewise on the heap. 

No one had noticed him. And a hundred thoughts 
were rushing through his mind. He had found one 
of “ the quare old things ; ” he could get money for it. 
Miss Norah could have her brooch ; he would have 
enough to |treat the men at Farrell’s ; and perhaps 
he would have enough to rent a cottage and marry 
his Kerry girl. But what was its worth ? How 
could he find out ? No, he mustn’t consult the 
men around. They would be claiming they had 
found it too, and then there would not be enough 
for him to get the brooch, let alone anything further. 
If he could keep it secret, he would take it up to 
Mr. Dalton after work and get his opinion. But 
Mr. Dalton was grasping. He would take it to young 
Cassidy, the sub-engineer. Cassidy had a regard for 
him, he thought, since, vvhen he required an assistant 
in his surveying work, he always preferred to have 
Hugh. 

For the time being, the best plan was to go on 
with his shovelling and leave the heap as it was. 
When one of the men came over to him presently 
for “ the lend ” of a knife, he was energetically remov- 
ing the soil. The man seemed inclined to loiter. 
He stood a pace or two from the coat. Hugh felt 
sure he was intently scanning it. Yet he moved 
away without making any remark. Then the 
engineer directed other men to work at the spot 
where Galvin was, but immediately after decided 
they should wait till after the dinner-hour. 

That dinner-hour did at length actually come. 
For the first time in his life, Hugh went on working 
after time. Some one called to him, but he paid no 
attention. He waited till the ragged motley crew 
had straggled over the meadow and got on to the 
road and were finally on their way to the village. 
Even then he feared to take more than the hastiest 
glance at the treasure. Yes, it was the queerest old 
thing. Not a sword certainly, but perhaps the handle 
of some other weapon. Wet and muddy as it was, 
he placed it on the fore part of his lower arm and 
rested his coat and waist-coat on top. 



But he could not possibly reach Cassidy’s abode 
and be back to work within the dinner-hour. He 
must wait till evening. Meanwhile, where to bestow 
his find ! He had got to the broken-down wall of 
the meadow now, and for a second thought of put- 
ting his burden in one of its crevices. But it struck 
him, he very possibly might not be able to find it 
again. Then came to him the remembrance of a 
little ledge that stretched under the wall of the 
cottage where he lodged. It was just at the spot 
where his head lay at nights. There would be 
nothing so unusual in his going into the cottage now 
on pretence of taking a sleep. The lodgers occasion- 
ally did so in the middle of the day. He would put 
the treasure in the ledge, and he knew that old Mary 
Doolan recognized too well the utter valuelessness 
of her lodgers to go hunting about for possible con- 
cealed riches. 

Now he lolled in as indifferently as he could. 

“Did you get your dinner, Hughie Galvin ? ” said 
a cracked old voice from the recesses of the smoke- 
filled apartment. 

“ I did so, and I never ate a worse,” said the 
young fellow. 

“ Did she give you cabbage ? ” 

He hesitated a moment to answer, reflecting 
whether an affirmative or a negative would sooner 
end her questions. 

“ She did not, then,” he said. 

“ Ah sure, that same woman was always a mean 
lot ; she — ” 

“ Mary, I’m thinking I’ll take a rest inside,” inter- 
rupted Hugh, 

“ All right,” said she “ but wouldn’t you be after 
taking a drop o’ buttermilk ? Didn’t I get a present 
of a quart a while ago.” 

He took the drink readily enough, for the imaginary 
cabbageless dinner he had partaken of had not 
wholly allayed interior cravings. 

When he had got into the inner room, he dropped 
his coat and began to examine the “ quare thing.” 
Even if the light had not been so dim, he could 
have made nothing of it. It was wholly unlike any 
modern weapon, or any part of a weapon he had 
ever chanced to see. It must be very old, he 
judged from the abundance of rust on the metal part 
and the decayed state of the wood. 

But Mr. Cassidy would know all about it, and 
reluctantly enough he put it in the ledge. He was 
glad to see it was quite indistinguishable in the 
general gloom of the room. 

Not long after, he left the cottage, and completely 
forgot to buy a bit of bread and bacon, so absorbed 
was he in the method of purchasing that brooch. 
He would take a day’s holiday — he could now afford 
that— and he would go to the county-town, to the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



123 



town’s one jeweller, and there he would get a brooch 
suitable, he hoped, for the likes of little Miss Norah. 
Perhaps he would not present it till the day before 
she was going back to her English school, so that 
there should be no risk of its discovery at the rectory. 

The long, hot afternoon passed very slowly for 
Hugh. When his companions asked him to give 
them “ By the Rising of the Moon,” or some other 
Land-League song, he refused. He was “ killed out 
and out,” he explained. So they chaffed him good- 
humoredly, and said he was in love. 

When the six o’clock bell did sound, and the 
younger^navvies almost to a man sprang out of their 
clothes and took a header into the river, Hugh flung 
his shovel aside and strode quickly away towards the 
village. He was soon at Mary Doolan’s, and at her 
pump, washing face and hands. 

“ Ah ! glory be to God ! ” said Mary, looking 
out of her door ; “ is it going to get married, you are ?’’ 

“ I’m going up to Mr. Cassidy’s,’ 7 he explained 
shortly, and went inside for the treasure. 

It was there all right. He rested it on his arm 
again, and then remembered he must put something 
over it. So his coat had to come off, though against 
his will, for it was navvy etiquette to wear one’s coat 
when off work. And on his way to Cassidy’s, not a 
few told him not to be saving the wear of his 
clothes. 

It was close on to seven, and the sky was display- 
ing its last glorious tints before its light-giver should 
sink to rest, when Galvin turned into the avenue 
leading up to the farmhouse, where Cassidy was lodg- 
ing. 

The farmer’s wife came to the door. “ Is it wanting 
to see himself, you are ? ” she asked. 

“No,” said Hugh, who knew she referred to her 
husband. 

“ Well, then, not a bit of you will see Mr. Cassidy, 
if that’s what you’re wanting ? ” 

“ It’s on business,” he said. 

“ And the poor young man is just cleaning himself 
to go to Mr. O’Grady’s to dinner,” said she. 

“Well I must see him, anyway,” replied Hugh deci- 
sively. 

While she reflected on the possibility, she contem- 
plated him slowly and almost ruefully. 

“ Haven’t you got better clothes than them, when 
you come to see a gentleman ?” she asked, for Hugh 
Galvin was well known to her, and she liked him for 
his good looks and pleasant ready ways, and she 
would be pleased that the “quality” should think well 
of him too. 

“ Go on, Ma’am, and tell him that Hugh Galvin is 
wanting to speak to him.” 

So Hugh had his way, and was left standing at the 
door of the engineer’s sitting room. Before he knocked, 



he pulled on his coat and took the treasure in his hand. 

The engineer was discovered with his back towards 
the door and arranging a white tie before the mantel- 
piece mirror. The setting sun streamed in through a 
window to his right, and touched up his hair with 
shades of gold. The bottom of the room where Hugh 
stood was in comparative darkness. 

“Well, Galvin?” said Cassidy, without turning 
round. 

“ I was wanting to speak to your honor on a little 
matter,” said Hugh, waking up from momentary 
forgetfulness caused by his admiration of the engi- 
neer’s elegant linen and evening-dress trousers. 

“ Well, you see, I’m just going out ; but let me hear 
anyway what it is.” 

“Well, your honor, when I was working to-day 
down near the bridge, I was just going to raise my 
shovel, when I heard a kind of a ring sound, and when 
I looked down, I found this quare thing.” 

Hugh paused, expecting Cassidy to look round 
immediately. But the truth was, Cassidy was so in- 
tensely interested in the arrangement of that tie, and 
behind in his thoughts were the calculations of its 
effect on a certain lady or two, that he had hardly 
heard Galvin’s words. 

“And I thought,” then went on Hugh, “that I’d 
bring it up to you, sir, and maybe you could be telling 
me how much some one would be giving for it.” 

The tie was finished, and Cassidy turned around. 
His eyes were dazzled from the brightness of the 
mirror, and for the moment he did not observe what 
Hugh was holding. 

Hugh now became absorbed by admiration of the 
engineer’s front appearance. Cassidy, when his eyes 
could see the end of the room, first perceived this ad- 
miration, and being not so many years in his twenties 
was not wholly insensible to it. He pulled himself 
up more erectly, and then reached for his dress-coat 
lying on a chair near by. 

Hugh remembered his errand again. “And what 
do you think would be its worth, if you please, sir ? ” 

Then for the first time the tenor of Hugh’s former 
words came home to Cassidy. He stopped in the 
middle of his reaching forward for the coat, and looked 
at Galvin expectingly. His eyes travelled over the 
rough, fustian-clothed form, noticing that a late wash- 
ing had taken off something of the becoming general 
brown tinge of the young fellow’s good-looking face, 
and then rested on the hand slightly outstretched. 
From a glance of enquiry on his countenance there 
was apparent a change to a look of puzzled seeking 
to identify, then of the resultant successful identifica- 
tion, and then of the most varied emotions in which 
mirth seemed wanting to triumph. He was even 
unable to speak at once, and flung himself into an 
arm-chair. 



124 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ It’s quare, your honor, ” said Hugh, at a loss to 
understand the engineer’s conduct, and wishing to 
finish his errand. 

“ Galvin, come up to the table and put that thing 
down on it,” said Cassidy in a shaking voice. 

“ Perhaps it has got a great value,” thought Hugh. 

“Now,” said Cassidy at last, “ look at that, and 
think if you ever saw anything like it before.” 

Hugh in utter bewilderment gazed first at the rusty 
object and then at Cassidy. The clock began to strike 
seven. Cassidy jumped to his feet. 

“ Why, Galvin, that’s one of my old surveying ins- 
truments which got out of order, and I threw it into 
the river a month ago Why, man, you’ve seen it a 
hundred times when I used to measure by it and 
you were along with me.” 

A veil almost literally was suddenly removed from 
Galvin’s eyes, and he answered slowly : — 

“ Begorra it is, your honor.” 

Cassidy was not a particularly discriminating young 
man, but he had a good enough heart, and in a dim 
way he recognized that the stories of sums of money 
received by finders of quaint old arms (supposed to 
have been used in the time of the wars of William 
HI. in Ireland) had got into the young fellow’s brains 
and prepared the way for his absurd mistake. 

“ And it’s better for him it should be so,” thought 
Cassidy; “these fellows don’t know how to use money 
when they get it. He’d have himself and the most 
of the gang drunk for a week if he had got an unex- 
pected sum of money.” 

Galvin was moving towards the door, looking some- 
what like a dog that had been beaten. 

“Look here, take this anyway,” said Cassidy pulling 
out a half-crown, “and get a drink, but don’t take 
too much.’’ 

Hughie took it. No other course would have been 
thought of between a superior and an inferior. 

He departed, and found as he went down the hall 
door steps that he was trembling violently. He 
totally forgot he had eaten nothing since seven o’clock 
that morning, and now concluding he required a sti- 
mulant staggered down to Patsy Farrell’s to get the 
only cure he knew of. 

He lay by the roadside that night, and Cassidy had 
an excellent story to tell over the O’Grady’s dinner- 
table. 

K. Bourke-Wright. 

A NATIONAL REVIVAL. 

“ An old and haughty nation, proud in arms.”— Comus. 

When Milton wrote thus of the Welsh people he was 
thinking of the past and not of the actual state of the 
nation, for in 1634 the national life of Wales was at a 



very low ebb. With the fall of Llywelyn in 1282, 
Wales lost her independence ; the men who fought 
so bravely for their homes against Romans, Saxon 
kings, lords of the Border, and kings of England, 
during a period of twelve hundred years, were in the 
end beaten at every point. Nor was this the worst, 
for during the next two hundred years the conquered 
people had to submit to every form of insult at the 
hands of their conquerors. The “ massacre of the 
bards” is said to be a mere fable, and we are glad of 
it, still the Celt might have told many a harrowing 
tale of wrong and oppression without bringing in the 
aid of his imagination. He witnessed with sorrow 
the systematic and too successful effort to obliterate 
his well-beloved language and the ancient and pecul- 
iar institutions of his country, the memory of his 
valiant ancestors and the sweet singers of their heroic 
deeds. He saw nearly every office of importance in 
his country, in church and state, fall into the hands 
of aliens who cared nothing, as a class, for things 
dearer to him than life. No wonder that, when, in 
1485, a Welshman became king of England, there 
was but little rejoicing in Wales — the spirit of the 
Celt was broken. Not quite broken, however, or 
good Bishop Morgan would not have gone to the 
trouble, in 1589, of translating the Holy Scriptures 
into the language of Aneurin and Llywarch Hen of 
Taliesin and Gwalchmai, nor would John Penry, in 
1593, have written from his prison to his benighted 
countrymen with such tenderness. In fact, there is a 
great change coming over the Welsh, the nation is 
awakening from a long and deep sleep, clever Welsh- 
men who have found their way to Oxford and Cam- 
bridge refuse lucrative positions in England, in order 
to devote their lives to the service of their country- 
men. Welsh clergymen at Oxford in 1729 caught 
the spirit of Wesley and Whitefield, and Wales was 
stirred to its depths by their religious enthusiasm and 
patriotism. Many good people deplore the secession 
from the state church which took place then, but it 
is hard to see how this could have been avoided when 
the condition of the establishment in Wales at that 
time is taken into consideration. The religious revi- 
val was quickly followed by a literary revival of far- 
reaching extent, and this took expression in part in 
the formation of societies for the preservation and 
study of the Welsh classics and the fostering of the 
feeling of nationality. Then the renaissance of the 
most characteristic of Welsh institutions, the Eistedd- 
fod took place, and by it, perhaps, more than any- 
thing else the feeling of nationality was deepened 
and turned into healthy channels. The union of the 
religious and literary revivals has culminated mainly 
in the providing of educational facilities, unexcelled 
anywhere, and in the demand for a larger measure of 
self-government. On looking through the recent 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



125 



class lists of the University of London, one is struck 
by the recurrence of the names Aberystwith, Bangor 
and Cardiff, and by the high positions taken by these 
men and women from the Welsh University colleges. 
It still remains to be seen what the new University 
of Wales will do for that country and for the world 
in bringing out and training all that is worth preserv- 
ine in and distinctive of the Welsh character. The 
gospel of the best of the Welsh nationalists is one of 
“ sweetness and light,” it seeks to preserve what is 
true and beautiful, and thus to contribute its share to 
the advancement of the human race. 

Celtiphil. 



A NORTHERN TRANSFORMATION SCENE. 

Let your imagination, my studious friend, wander 
a while, and banish books, while I try to take you in 
the spirit far to the Northwestward, into the heart of 
that lonely country known in scientific lore as the 
“Great Northern Laurentian Nucleus.” 

This is a large sized wilderness. In this wilderness 
many hundred miles in the interior, you might have 
run upon, a lovely August afternoon, a great tranquil 
lake, surrounded by rocky wooded shores, and 
stretching northwards until it vanished among the 
low, distant hills. 

Not a sight or sound of life here, except the white 
tents, which looked like a pair of swans, upon the 
bank half way down the southern shore of the Lake. 
These tents were pitched beside some great rapids, at 
the point where this lake emptied itself out into an- 
other lake still larger. In this peaceful place, beside 
the subdued roar of the falls, two men were waiting, 
happy enough to let the glorious days pass one after 
another and to be alive to enjoy them. 

Presently, amoving object appeared upon a barren 
little hill not far off from the tents, then another, and 
another. These objects turned out to be three lean 
grey dogs, who came trotting quietly down the hill 
towards the camp. 

These were waifs indeed, castaways left by the 
Indians the spring before when the snow melted, and 
their dogs were needed no more to draw their sleds. 
They came quite near, then sat them down on their 
haunches to contemplate the camp, in a manner that 
suggested the probability of their making a raid later 
on. This induced one of the lonely encampers to 
present his gun at them, and the hungry trio jogged 
reluctantly back over the little hill to their lair or 
habitation in the woods. 

This incident served to rouse up the two encampers 
to some activity, and as it was now getting cooler 
they fastened up their tents, looked to see that the 



canoes and camp affairs were all in order, then taking 
their guns set up the little slope from the lake shore 
and went into the woods. 

Now, these woods were very strange and very still. 
They were formed by a growth of pine trees upon a 
sandy plateau above the lake and water falls. Be- 
tween the tree trunks there were no young trees or 
brush, nothing but an even carpet of a grey lichen, 
which contrasted strangely with the dark tree stems. 
As one walked along there was no sound but the 
crushing of the moss beneath one’s feet and the mur- 
mur of the rapids growing fainter all the time. The 
sun now not far from setting cast bright beams ath- 
wart the tree stems. Long vistas of the wood came 
in view here and there, that seemed on this gossamer 
evening as if they might lead down into fairyland. 
But man is ruthless, apparently untouched by the 
peace and beauty of the time. These two men were 
there bent upon the slaughter of partridges, which 
are every- where here very plentiful. 

Perhaps, becoming aware of the brutal want of 
harmony in this sport, or perhaps not being able to 
find any victims, these Philistines turned back early 
towards the encampment, to the peaceful abiding 
place, where the din of city or thought of place and 
power had ever come. 

Just as they reached the edge of the woods above 
the camp, a sound of something striking a canoe 
broke upon the wanderers’ ears. Thoughts of bears 
overhauling the camp gear presented themselves to 
their minds, and they ran down towards the shore. 
Imagine their astonishment to see, — not bears, but a 
group of tall, wild-looking Chipwayan Indians. 

This was an apparition indeed ; the Indians were 
not known to be anywhere in the surrounding 
country. 

Still, here they were, and very much at home they 
seemed to be. They came forward one by one and 
shook hands gravely ; then sitting down in a semi- 
circle, began to smoke. As neither of their hosts knew 
their language, the position was embarrassing, so to 
relieve this feeling they were provided with some 
food. One of their number at last expressed him- 
self in the Cree language of the plains, and then 
conversation became a possibility. It was found that 
they were the advance party of a large camp which 
was coming up from the great lake to the west of us. 

Soon they departed, but before the sun had set, 
they returned with all their tribe, coming across the 
country by the portage path. They arrived, men, 
women, children in bands, and dogs unnumbered, all 
carrying some part of their camping gear, even the 
dogs laden down with a pack, mule-fashion, on either 
side of them. These much-abused beasts would 
every now and then get jammed between two trees, 



126 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



when they took the opportunity to howl most franti- 
cally, or would lie down in an obstinate way until 
some boy or woman came along and beat them out 
of their fixture. 

In the little glade, where but a few hours before 
there had been but two white tents, a score or so of 
smoke tanned leather lodges were set up, and as many 
fires began to curl their smoke in the evening air. 

While the women put up these lodges, the men 
paddled to and fro upon the lake in front, setting out 
their fish nets. 

Bands of half naked children prowled warily along 
the shore, spearing fish, whilst others ranged the 
woods, shouting to one another, and gathering to- 
gether like a pack of hounds when some one of them 
surprised a porcupine, or any other unfortunate beast 
or bird. Such prey after a little preliminary torturing 
was chopped into pieces and scrambled for. Some- 
times these pieces were charred a little in the fires, and 
sometimes they were not, before being eaten. When 
the women had piled up their household effects and 
smallest children into convenient heaps, they went 
into the woods for lodge poles and fire- wood. They 
soon returned, dragging poles toward the camp, and 
they set about the building of their passing home. 
Dogs unnumbered overran the place, meeting rebuffs 
at every point, — such mangy curs, desperate with 
hunger! Too miserable to steal adroitly, they were 
under a continual fire of abuse from the women and 
children. 

So the sun sank that beautiful August evening ; 
and the place, which so short a time before might have 
inspired poetry, became a scene of savagery, full of 
shouting, screeching and restlessness. 

J. C. G. 



DR. TRENHOLME PRESENTED WITH AN 
ILLUMINATED ADDRESS. 

On Friday evening, December 20th, a number of 
the Undergraduates of the Faculty of Law attended 
at Dean Trenholme’s house in Westmount, for the 
purpose of presenting him with an illuminated address 
on the occasion of his retirement from the Faculty. 
The Dean and Mrs. Trenholme received the students 
most cordially, and Mr. Donahue’s appearance, bear- 
ing the very handsomely illuminated address, was the 
signal for loud applause. The address was really a 
work of art, the College arms and the simple Cana- 
dian emblem, the maple leaf, being entwined in a 
very artistic manner. 

Mr. Donahue, the president of the Undergraduates, 
in his usual graceful manner, made the presentation. 
He said that he was sure that the address expressed 
the feelings of every student of the Law Faculty. 
He then read the following address : 



To N. W. Trenholme, Esq,, Q.C., D.C.L., 

Dean of the Faculty of Law. 

McGill University, 

Montreal. 

Dear Sir, 

The Undergraduates of the Faculty of Law have 
heard with deep regret the announcement of your 
resignation as Dean of this Faculty, and we feel that 
we cannot allow you to retire without expressing our 
appreciation of your unwearied labors on our behalf. 

Your long and honorable connection with this 
University, your distinguished position at the Bar 
of this Province, and your high personal character 
have gained for you the respect of your fellow-cit- 
izens, and we who have had the privilege of sitting 
under you as students, and of listening to your histor- 
ical and philosophical expositions of nearly all 
branches of law, find it difficult to express in fitting 
words our regret at your retirement from the position 
which you have filled with so great ability, and at the 
severance of the pleasant relations which, we are glad 
to recall, have always existed between yourself as 
Dean, and ourselves as students. 

To you we are indebted for some of the loftiest 
ideals of our chosen profession, and your kindly words 
of advice and encouragement have been a great incen- 
tive to us in the prosecution of our studies. 

We thank you for the uniform courtesy and con- 
sideration which you have always exhibited towards 
us, and we trust in the future, when you look back to 
these days, you will have only the kindliest recollec- 
tions of the students. “ Forsan ET HEC OLIM MEMIN- 
ISSE JUVABIT.” 

In bidding you farewell as Dean, we desire to ex- 
press our sincere wishes for your future prosperity 
and happiness, and trust you may be Ion > spared to 
take an active and successful part in the practice of 
the profession of which you are so distinguished a 
member, and for which you have so unselfishly 
labored in the past. 

Signed on behalf of the students, 

Wm. Donahue, President. 

V. Evelyn Mitchell, 

Robt. T. Mullin, 

R. Pothier Doucet, 

Leslie H. Boyd, 

Claud J. Hickson, Secretary. 

Christmas, 1895. 

Dean Trenholme in replying thanked the students 
most heaitily for the handsome address just presented 
to him, and said that it would always be a great sat- 
isfaction to him to know that his work as Dean and 
Professor had been thoroughly appreciated by the 
students. He was sorry to leave them ; but circum- 
stances had compelled him to sever his connection 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



127 



with the University and to re-enter upon the practice 
of the Profession which they all loved so well. He 
would not say “good-bye,” because he hoped that in 
the future he would have many opportunities of 
meeting them, not as students, but as confreres, at the 
Bar of this Province. 

The Dean was heartily cheered at the conclusion 
of his remarks. 

The students were most hospitably entertained by 
Mrs. Trenholme to supper, to which full justice was 
done. During supper, the Venezuelan difficulty was 
discussed, and the “ Monroe doctrine” most learnedly 
expounded by our President. 

The rest of the evening was devoted to songs and 
recitations, and Mr. Cooke and Mr. Brossoit displayed 
a talent in singing college songs that delighted every- 
one. Mr. Mitchell recited “ Marmion,” and shortly 
afterwards the party broke up. 

Before separating at the door of Dean Trenholme’s 
house, three rousing cheers were given for the Dean, 
followed by the familiar Law cry. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

The idea of a Uffiion Club or suitable rendez-vous 
for University men, which has been so long discussed, 
is now in a fair way of being realized. Delays and 
discouragements it seems have not daunted those who 
have been actively interested in this matter, and the 
urgent necessity which was felt to exist for such an 
institution has been sufficient to induce them to go on, 
until at last circumstances have permitted of a first 
step being taken towards the permanent establish- 
ment of a healthy and flourishing Union Club. Of 
course, it is recognized that the beginning of such a 
substantial enterprise must be comparatively small ; 
but it is a start, and with proper encouragement ought, 
by next year, to blossom out into more enlarged 
influence and usefulness than is anticipated of it 
during the half session which remains of this year. 
A fine premises has been secured at No. 73 McGill 
College Avenue, which has been thoroughly reno- 
vated, and all the necessary appointments made for 
a Students’ Dining Hall. Living quarters will also 
be supplied to such students as may wish to avail 
themselves of them, while accommodation is being 
reserved by the Management for meetings of Uni- 
versity clubs and societies, according to arrangements 
which we hope will presently be made. The dining 
hall facilities alone will be a great convenience to the 
students, and it is hoped that all will be ready on 
Monday, the 6th of January, with accommodation for 
two hundred students. Information as to rooms, 



rates, etc., will be given to each Faculty by their re- 
presentatives, and any other information maybe had 
by applying to the Secretary, Mrs. J. Clark Murray. 
Further than noting the under items, it is scarcely 
necessary to touch upon this : — 

Breakfast 7 to 10 o’clock... 15 cents. 

Dinner 12 to 2 “ ... 20 “ 

Tea 6 to 8 “ ... 1 5 “ 

Tickets at the following rates : — 

Breakfast or Tea 8 for $1.00. 

Dinner 6 for 1.00. 

These as the minimum dining rates ought to be 
quite satisfactory to the students. The rates at Fox- 
croft Hall, Harvard, are not lower. 

It now lies with the students to carry out this 
enterprise. It is a beginning at any rate, and as such 
ought to receive the students’ first consideration. 



POETRY. 



THE MESSAGE OF THE BIRDS. 
I. The Query. 

1. 

O sweet voice out-welling 
In melody swelling 

O’er the gray earth, — 

From what blessed vision 
Of joyance elysian 

Cometh thy mirth ? 

2. 

The summer is ended. 

The winter descended, 

The flowers are dead ; 

The hours that remain thee 
For mourning should claim thee; 
Pleasure is fled. 

3 - 

Soft winds, purling waters, — 

Song’s gentlest daughters, 

Now can but moan ; 

Thy sisters have left thee, 

All, all is bereft thee ; 

Thou art alone. 

4 - 

Whence, then, O Singer, 

The blithe notes that linger 
Sweet in thy voice ? 

What secret of gladness 
Denying all sadness 
Bids thee rejoice ? 



128 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



II. The Bird’s Reply. 



1. 

The<iutumn comes ; the summer dies ; 
The spring returns ; the winter flies ; 
But faith and hope and joy are here 
Thro’ all the year, — thro’ all the year ! 

2 . 

These sombre lands, this spectral light, 
This shadow of the passing night 
Are rich with promise of the mom 
When joy is born, — new joy is born ! 

3 - 

Beyond the death, beyond the tomb, 
Beyond the sorrow T and the gloom, 

I see the coming dawn arise 
Across the skies, — the darkened skies ! 



4 - 

Oh, then, though present days be drear 
With mourning for the dying year, 

When Faith and Hope with gracious voice 
Thus bid me joy, I must rejoice, 

I must rejoice ! 



He dreamed that gentle spring had come. 

Once more he trod the verdant earth, and heard 
The robin calling to his mate ; and breathing in 
The perfume-laden air. For time he forgot 
The sulphuretted atmosphere he was wont to breathe, 

But, best of all, the exams, were passed, and that 
With honors of the highest class. 

No more dissecting knife he’d wield, and to oblivion 
He’d consign the nerve-destroying isocyanides. 

Rioting thus, the wings of his imagination carried him 
Almost beyond the realms of earthly bliss. 

But looking back upon the record 

Of bygone days, he paused, amazed at the array 

Of golden opportunities forever lost, he thought : 

“ How hard next year I’ll work, and never slope 
Another lecture, grind, or demonstration. ,, 

* * * * 

And thus he slept and dreamed, until 

The afferent impulses to his thermal centre awakening him, 
He realized that ’twas but a dream, that e’en the morrow’s 
Physiology ordeal might “ weigh and find him wanting,” 
Shocked by the thought, a mighty wave 
Of impulses rushed down the vagi to his heart, 

And in diastole, it ceased to beat. 

Spearshake. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



III. The New Vision. 



I. 



Berlin. 



Thanks to the Singer, 

Truest joy-bringer 
Ear ever heard ! 

Mourn we no longer, 

Our hearts waxen stronger 
At thy brave word ! 

2 . 

This night of our sorrow 
Now we pass thorough 
Shall not abide ; 

Cometh the morning 
With songs and adorning, 

Tressed as a bride. 

3 - 

Prepare we to meet her 
And blithely to greet her 
With dancing and praise ; 

For with music and laughter 
There followeth after 
Endless bright days ! 

Robert MacDougall. 



THE SOPHOMORE’S DREAM. 

Low burned the midnight oil, 

But still, poring o’er the bulky tomes, he sat, 
Until the afferent impulses would no longer 
To his cerebral cortex travel. 

Rolandic area and capsule internal 
Rebellious proved to the long continued strain, 
And at last, when o’er the eastern sky 
Aurora flung her roseate hue 
Kind Morpheus claimed him for his own. 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

{These notes revoked the Editors too late for publica- 
tion in last issue.) 

Why is it that the meetings of the four Years are 
so poorly attended ? Is the life and spirit of the 
Medical Faculty a thing of the past? We hope not. 

Let every man make it a point to attend the meet- 
ings. Let Us have some enthusiasm, and make the 
College aware that we are alive. We are not all sil- 
ver-tongued orators, but ballots can often be made 
to speak eloquently. Now, fellow-students, espe- 
cially of the primary Years, turn out en masse , and 
make the next meeting a rousing one. 



Fourth Year. 

The ward clinics, now being held weekly by the 
House Physicians and Surgeons of the R.V.H., fill a 
long-felt gap. If some such arrangement could be 
also made at the M.G. H., it would be much appre- 
ciated by the students. 

Our class is so large, and the professors’ time so 
fully occupied, that it is impossible for each man to 
get a clinic with them oftener than once in three 
months. 



Messrs. Thompson and Moles are back from 
Trinity and Toronto. Each reports a jolly good 
time. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



129 



We are sorry to learn that some of the Final Year 
are still unable to describe the appearance of a con- 
genitally absent kidney. We hope they will look 
the matter up before March comes round. 



The latest cure for spinal curvature, according to 
C — t and C — is Iridectomy. C — also proposes to 
tone up the system in case of severe suppuration, so 
that the pus may be absorbed. The American Text- 
Book of Surgery is certainly out of date. 



Prof. — “ What is one of the most important symp- 
toms of emphysema with venous congestion?” 

C — (after deep thought). — “ A dragging sensa- 
tion-in the region of the femoral vein.” (And 
nobody dropped dead.) 



Prof, (to patient suffering from aphasia, and hold- 
ing a latch key before him). — “What is this?” 
Patient. — “O-o-oh! That’s something good. 
That’s s-s-something when you w-w-want to come in 
in the morning.” (Was he ever there?) 



At a meeting of the Fourth Year, on Monday, 
December 16th, Mr. Geo. Deacon was chosen Vale- 
dictorian for ’96. 

Mr. Deacon, as a student, has always stood near 
the head of his class during his college career, and by 
his unassuming character has won the universal 
esteem of his class. 

We feel confident that when Mr. Deacon mounts 
the rostrum to represent the Class of ’96, and voices 
its last farewell to fellow-students, professors and 
friends, we will feel proud of him, and not only of 
him, but of our Class and of our College. 

Our heartiest congratulations to Mr. Deacon on 
the honor shown him,— one of the highest honors a 
class can bestow on one of its members. 



Third Year. 

Some of the boys complain that there are no lec- 
tures Xmas week ! It is a pity, but they are the 
victims of circumstances, and, no doubt, time will 
hang heavily on their hands. 

Others are going away for the holidays. Joe 
Whatyoumaycallit has obtained special rates for 
those going down East. He has obtained situations 
for a number, so they will be able to work their pas- 
sage home. Corncob has been appointed to the 
command of the smoker ; Billy of head-light fame 
is to run the locomotive ; Joe the speaker is to call- 
off the stopping places ; and Jim Ireland is to handle 
the carpet-bags. And PI.M.S. “Truro” is to be 
shipped overland. 



The Bytown boys, under the supervision of M. 
Prodrique, are getting into fine shape for their cross- 
country run, and intend making an early start. 
Horace Walpole and Calm the sweeper are to 
keep the road clear; Shinny and Robelroy are the 
marshals; while Martin and Climber are to drive 
them on. 

Those going South will make the trip on a bicycle. 
But they wish it understood that no records are to 
be broken. 

At a meeting of the Year on 16th inst., it was de- 
cided to give Dr. Wyatt Johnston some token in 
honor of his elevation to the degree of benedict. The 
officers of the year were appointed as a committee to 
take the matter in hand. 



First Year Anatomy. 

The heart is a comical shaped bag. The heart is 
divided into several parts by a fleshy petition. These 
parts are called the right artillery, left artillery, and 
so forth. The function of the heart is between the 
lungs. The work of the heart is to repair the differ- 
ent organs in about half a minute. 



EXCHANGES. 

It affords us much pleasure to extend a welcome in 
this number to the Sphinx , which came to us for the 
first time a few weeks ago. 

The Sphinx represents the student life of Uni- 
versity College, Liverpool, and it was therefore with 
more than ordinary interest and anticipation that we 
discussed its contents. 

While it was somewhat reassuring to find indica- 
tions of resemblance between our own college life and 
theirs in the subject matter and general tone of the 
various articles, it was also very evident that there 
were many points of difference. 

From a carefully written article on “ University 
Settlements,” we learn that this question, of which 
McGill students have, we believe, heard little or noth- 
ing, has assumed a prominent position in the leading 
Universities of Great Britain. 

When we know that undergraduates at Oxford and 
Cambridge and other leading institutions take up 
residence in Whitechapel, London, or similar districts 
in other large cities, in order that they may know and 
meet the needs of their inhabitants, we must admit 
that they are far in advance of anything we may be 
doing in that direction. 

The following quotations from the above mentioned 
article will explain the principle upon which the work 
is undertaken : 

“ To knowhow the poor live, what are their griev- 
ances and aspirations, it is necessary to reside and 
make friends in their midst ; so the first object of a 



130 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



resident is not to help, but to learn — to feel out, rather 
than to find out, what are his neighbor’s thoughts — 
to breaihe the atmosphere of another public opinion 
till many of his prejudices perish. For want ofknow- 
ledge gained in this way laws meant to help have 
tended to hinder, and philanthropists have spent their 
labor and money on that which has profited little.” 
The second object of a resident is to let himself 
be known, to live his own life without affectation or 
sacrifice or asceticism, to follow his own calling, to do 
his duty, take his pleasure, and keep up his own stan- 
dard of cleanliness and refinement.” 

A few people who, having received good things 
in their day, are seen to be neither brutal, nor cruel, 
nor selfish, but human, and friendly, and dutiful, do 
something to abate suspicion.” 

“ They do away with some misunderstanding, and 
make it more possible that united citizens may inhabit 
an improved city.” 

In the same number of the Sphinx there is also an 
illustrated article, “ On the Links,” in which the glo- 
ries of golf-playing are fully set forth, with shorter 
sketches of College life. 

In the list of the many attractive Christmas num- 
bers of College papers which have been received, a 
leading place should be given to The Columbia 
Spectator , Columbia College, New York city. Among 
other interesting articles which help to make up this 
number, theie are two letters written by prominent 
College officials : one from President Low, the other 
from the Dean, J. H. Van Amringe. The former refers 
chiefly to the removal of the University to its new 
site in 1897, and from the description of the pro- 
posed new buildings, the plans for which have been 
approved by the Trustees, there is no room for doubt 
as to the prosperity of “ Columbia University.” 

The latter we would like to quote in full, for it 
could not fail to be appreciated ; but as space will not 
permit, we gave the closing paragraphs : 

“ If il; were possible, and a student should, on gra- 
duation, forget all the specific information imparted 
to him or acquired by him during his course, still, if, 
day by day throughout, he had faithfully discharged 
every duty, he would nevertheless have secured the 
most important of all the benefits that a college educa- 
tion can bestow, namely, the habit of attention and 
the power of concentration. Of course the forgetting 
would be impossible under the given conditions, for 

attention is the handmaid of memory but it still 

remains true that the principal aim ofa general educa- 
tion is rather to cultivate a habit than to fill the 
storehouse of the mind. The power of concentration 
is, intellectually speaking, the greatest that a man can 
possess, and is correspondingly difficult of attainment. 
Anyone who has it in a high degree must wield great 
influence for good or evil. That it may be for good, 



and not evil, character must be sedulously cultivated. 

“ The great aim of a college, then, to which all its 
other purposes are subsidiary, is to aid young men in 
becoming spiritually and intellectually free. A man 
I is spiritually free just so far as he is possessed of a per- 
manent will and power to do right ;and he isintellec 
tually free just so far as he is able to control all his 
faculties, and bring them, whensoever he pleases, to 
bear upon whatsoever he will. With the acquirement 
on the part of a student of this two-fold freedom, all 
else shall be added unto him — knowledge, wisdom, 
leadership of men in any department of life that he 
may choose for his own.” 

The Owl of Ottawa University has perhaps 
received more notice of late than usually falls to the 
lot of College Journals, for it is not often that we 
hear of a libel suit being threatened on account of the 
editorials having too practical or personal a character. 
We are glad to know, however, that the controversy 
is now at an end, mutual apologies having been given, 
so that the Owl with still be in a position to give 
to all the benefit of its wisdom as of yore. 

The Christmas number is a specially complete 
one, and is gotten up in a neat and attractive style. 

In the contributed articles there is a decided prefer- 
ence for the poets : Cardinal Newman’s Poetry, Macau- 
lay’s Poems, Enoch Arden, The Night Thoughts. 

homson s Seasons are all treated in a very read- 
able form, with appropriate quotations. There are 
also several short original poems, among the names of 
contributors beifig that of Archibald Lampman. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

IT WAS LOST, TOO. 

A young Irishman in want of a five-pound note 
wrote to his uncle as follows : — 

Dear Uncle, If you could see how I blush for 
shame while I am writing, you would pity me. Do 
you know why ? Because I have to ask you for a few 
pounds, and I do not know howto express myself. It 
is impossible for me to tell you. I prefer to die. 

“ I send you this by messenger, who will wait for 
an answer. Believe me, my dearest uncle, your most 
obedient and affectionate nephew, 

“ RS.— < Overcome with shame for what I have 
written, I have been running after the messenger in 
order to take the letter from him, but I cannot catch 
him up. Heaven grant that something may happen 
to stop him, or that my letter may get lost.” 

The uncle was naturally touched, but was equal 
to the emergency. He replied as follows 

“ My Dear Jack, — Console yourself, and blush no 
longer. Providence has heard your prayers. The 

messenger lost your letter.— Your affectionate 
uncle, .” 



McGill fortnightly 




Sir Henry Hawkins has a reputation as a witty 
judge. Recently a prisoner pleaded guilty of larceny, 
and then withdrew the plea, and declared himself to 
be innocent. The case was tried, and the jury 
acquitted him. Then said Sir Henry Hawkins : — 
“ Prisoner, a few moments ago you said you were 
a thief, now the jury say you are a liar, conse- 
quently you are discharged.” 



A lady who was shopping saw her husband exam- 
ining pocket-books at a show-case in another part of 
the store. When he had gone she approached the 
saleswoman in that department. “ Did he get the 
one I wanted ? ” “ Yes, the one with the silver horse- 

shoe. I told him it was the best and would just 
suit.” “ You’re a jewel. I feared he would get some- 
thing I didn’t want. Thank you ever so much.” 

The husband had gone to his favorite drug store, 
where he asked : “ Has my wife been here ? ” “ Yes,” 
said the clerk, with a grin. “ Did she get a tooth- 
brush or a box of cigars for my Christmas present ? ’> 
“ She looked at cigars.” “ Ha ! I know the brand — $2 
a hundred. Well, if she buys a box, change them to 
my regular brand, and I’ll pay the difference — see ? ” 
And the druggist saw. 



Some time ago a barrister had under cross-exam- 
ination a youth from the country who rejoiced in the 
name of Samson, and whose replies were provocative 
of much laughter in the court. ‘And so,” questioned 
the barrister, “ you wish the court to believe that you 
are a peaceably disposed and inoffensive kind of per- 
son ?” “Yes.” “And that you have no desire to fol- 
low in the steps of your illustrious namesake, and 
smite the Philistines?” “No; I’ve not,” answered 
the witness. “ And if I had the desire I ain’t got 
the power at present.” “Then you think you would 
be unable to cope successfully with a thousand ene- 
mies and utterly rout them with the jaw-bone of an 
ass ? ” “ Well,” answered the ruffled Samson, “ I might 
have a try when you have done with the weapon.” 



SHE DIDN’T KNOW THE LADY. 

Mrs. Clancy. — “Yis, Mrs. Muggins. Pat and Oi 
part to mate no more. Oi wint to the hospital to ax 
afther him. ‘ Oi want to see me husband, ’ sez oi, ‘ the 
man that got blowed up.’ * Yez can’t, ’ sez the doc- 
ther ; ‘he’s under the influence of Ann Esthetics.’ ‘ Oi 
don’t know the lady, ’ sez oi, moighty dignified loike ; 
* but if me lawful wedded husband k’n act like that 
when he’s at dith’s door, Oi’ll have a divorce from 
him.” 






“Your Highness,” said the menial, “the man with 
the bullet-proof shirt is waith'g in the ante-room.” 

“ Show him in.” 

Meekly the inventor entered. 

“ Has this garment been subjected to every possi- 
ble test ?” inquired the potentate. 

“ It has, pkase your majesty.” 

“ Er — has it been through the washing-machine 
at a steam laundry ? ” 

The inventor dropped to the floor in a swoon. 

“ Foiled again,” said he, as he fell. 



Debt Collector : — “ I am collecting accounts for Scis- 
sors, Snip & Co.” 

Oxford Undergraduate . — “ Collecting accounts, are 
you ? Very well. I have two or three of their ac- 
counts which you are welcome to add to your col- 
lection.” 



Many amusing stories are told of the famous anato- 
mist, Professor Hyrtl, who has just died at Vienna. 
One afternoon he entered a beer garden, and seated 
himself near a table at which were a few merry Vien- 
nese burghers, who, after eyeing his simple twill suit, 
came to the conclusion that he must be an inmate of 
the asylum for the poor. A good portion of their 
dainty meal having been left uneaten, one of the 
guests called a waiter, saying: “Here, give this to 
that poor man ; let him have a good feed for once,” 
which proposal was loudly acclaimed by his fellow- 
revellers. The waiter placed the dish of remnants 
before the famous savant, who ate a few morsels, and 
after expressing his thanks, left the garden. A few 
moments later two -waiters carried in a big bowl from 
which the gilded heads of champagne bottles were 
protruding. “ We have ordered no champagne,” 
cried the burghers, and their astonishment may be 
guessed on their being informed that “ the inmate of 
the local asylum for the poor ” had sent them the 
champagne as a mark of his gratitude for the stewed 
fowl, and that the donor was Professor Hyrtl. 



A party of young men were talking about what 
they would do were they wrecked far out at sea and 
left buffeting the waves without a plank to assist 
them. Each one gave his opinion except Paddy 
Murphy, who, upon being asked for his, replied : — 
“ Bedad, ye cowardly set of spalpeens, ye’d all be 
after savin’ yerselves, an’ not thryin’ to save another. 
Why, it’s Paddy Murphy that would swim ashore 
an’ save himself, anythin come back an’ try an’ save 
another.” 



132 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The late Dr. W. B. Robertson, the famous Scot- 
tish divine, was once addressing a boys' meeting, and 
had held them spellbound with some of his racy anec- 
dotes. As he drew to a close he said : — 

11 Now, I am going to point out the moral of all 
this.” 

“ Never mind the moral,” shouted a small boy, 
“ gie’s anither story.” 

\ 

The greatest trial of patience is a stammering bar- 
rister examining a stuttering witness in the presence 
of a deaf judge. 

Muggins . — “Ha! ha! ha! My house was robbed 
last night. Ho ! ho ! ho ! ” 

Juggins . — “You seem tickled to death about it. 
Did they get away with anything ? ” 

Muggins . — “ Lots of stuff. Ha ! ha ! ” 

Juggins . — “ What are you laughing at ? ” 

Muggins . — “ My son is — ha! ha! ha! ha! — learn- 
ing to play the cornet, and they — ho ! ho ! ho ! ho ! 
— stole it.” 



Owner of Race-horse (looking closely at scales). — 
“ Jiffkins, you area trifle over-weight. Can’t you 
lighten yourself a little ? ” 

Jiffkins (the jockey). — “ Got on my lightest suit, 
sir. Ain’t ett a bite to day, and ’ave just trimmed 
my finger-nails.” 

Owner. — “Well, go and get shaved.” 



KE DIED BY DEGREES. 

McMulcahey . — “ Shure, docther, an’ is it thrue that 
little Jimmy O’Toole bit your termomty in two and 
swallered the mercury?” 

Doctor . — “Yes, it is, my dear madam; and the 
poor boy is dead. ” 

Mrs. M . — “ Shure, docther, an’ it was a cold day 
for Jimmy, poor bye, whin the mercury wint down.” 

Doctor . — “ Yes, madam ; he died by degrees.” 



Pelletier 



== 



< Jr^anist of St. Jjuifs Cathe- 
dral and Professor of t lie 
Pinno and Oi ‘ran. 




< AJ 






c 'Af- • 

P-A. - 

/> , - 
Y c y A 7 * 

A 

A 'L c y s * A** ^ ^ 4 / ^ « ■* * A 

I /L/ ^ Sr 

| /// X . At f. /* e S’ *-* A* ' YV A ’ 

S A’ st A A* i ff /j s* As A. Ac s' 

r-S A** 



SO 

g* Si ■ €.* * l / 

As * A* st -S S' S sAt s yfr 

C/t * 7 - s Sr 

<t ■ / eras 

A* /+/ * 






./ AJy /Y' j: 

Yr- - 

V 















4*.^ «r 



vT 












'• / 

_ A /Z. S S * ' ^ A ‘ A 

A Ay S z' y A 



,-Y 



A' It s' / 

y/ A /^fs4L. / + Z 




7}./P,A&sAAr^ .. 

A. 

TRANSLATION. 

MR. L. E. X. Piiatte, Montreal : 28tl * November, 1893. 

Wear Sir.— T he upright, pianos of your make— if one mav form a 
jutlginent fn> m the one I have acquired— possess a combination of all the 
qualities esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entire] v 
iree from all overtones and rumbling sounds so Frequent 

lisM »»1 elns.io Jto am,™ , Srom ffiS k 

\ ours, etc. R. Oct. Pelletier. 

It is only necessary to know the delicate and conscientious artist 
who has written the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 

similar to P Mr 01 p uA > ave a lai '8 e assortment of PRATTE Pianos, 
quality * *’ aS WC ‘manufacture only one size and one 

1 1 ices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in exchange 

PRATTE PIANO CO. '"* 



NOTRE DAME ST. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



Reichert's Microscopes 

Acknowledged to he w. -rv . . 



Acknowledged to be the be.,t line in the Dominion 

Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the CT#1M „ 

T, , vr . , mc , _ STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal \ ictoria and Montreal General Hospitals **’ IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 

GET OUR QUOTATIONS^^n^^ 

21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



