JVo. 6. 



Vof. VJJJ. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Sunday , February \st } 1885 . 



• 


CONTENTS : 




Editorials 


PAGE. 

3-4-5 


Societies - 


PAGE. 

13 


Contributions 


6-10 


Personals - 


14 


McGill News 


11 


Between the Lectures 


14 


College World 


12 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



M1CM1STER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

•frflDYecpEg*- 

Barristers , Solicitors , dh?., 

132 St. James Street, 

KOHTREA1.. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.G.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN. 

Robertson, Ritcbii, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. TAMES STREET, 

%. w. janajmst, 

^Svocate, |[arri&er fjomini^ioner, ^c., 
131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. T-A-IETES ST. 

il I El) i CAL WORKS, HOOKS US EMM Ejy ART COURSE, 
SC I E JVC E TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT ROOKS. 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

-0-BEST 1 1ST TOWN. — 4*— 

Stylographic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street. 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jlarrisbrs, jLttarneijs, jlulitiiars, Sty., 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

ssonteibaXm 

J. N. Grehnshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. 



IE. A.. GBRTH. 

IMPORTER OP 

SJ.T&U 6 I§ 4 SI, 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try St-a.sLc 33 .t 3 Mixture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST„ QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



TV. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 
MONTREAL. 




OT MAN 



ON, 




J. J. CJREAVES, 

IMPORTER OP ALL KINDS OF 



^ool?, Joy?, Jewelry, £tatio^ei\y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 <& t 344 St. Catherine Street 9 

MONTREAL,. 

Picture Framing don© on Reasonable Terms. 



New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 

-Kt-FOR STUDENTS, fr* 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. viil] McGill college, Montreal, February 1st, 1885. [No. 6. 




Dl RECTORS. 



Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President . 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary. 

G. C. Stephen. I H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

C. T. Williams. | T. W. Lesage. 



EDITORS. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. A.E. Greenshields, B.A. 

S. Fortier. 



G. F. Palmer. 

C. H. Livingstone. 
T. IIaythorne, B. A. 



The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



Editorials. 



THE EDITORS’ APOLOGY. 

With this number closes the connection of the pre- 
sent staff of editors with The University Gazette ; 
and as the manner in which they have fulfilled their 
trust has been severely criticized, it seems meet tha^ 
the reasons, which actuated them in the course ad- 
opted, should be stated now. We believe that the 
affairs of McGill are at a dangerous crisis. Never be- 
fore had she to compete with such formidable rivals as 
to-day. Yet this session has seen an attempt made to 
divide the resources of the University. Then the 
Faculty of Arts has been guilty of an unheard of 
stretch of arbitrariness. The Fapulty of Law has shown 
no sign either of improvement or promise of improve- 
ment. In the Science Faculty there has been a well- 
grounded complaint of lack of practicality, of too much 
unnecessary mathematics in its teaching. Even in 
Medicine, which is the strongest and most progressive 
of the four Faculties, there has been some carelessness 
in the department of practical anatomy. Happily this 
last defect was at once remedied, when attention was 
called to it in these columns, and tfiis has been the 
one golden reward bestowed upon the editors in the 
performance of an unpleasant duty. A body of men, 



ever willing to meet criticism half way, is so rare in 
the world that we cannot but feel proud that the Uni- 
versity has such men in her service. Would that she 
had more of them ! For three years The Gazette has 
been calling for more effectual teaching in the Faculty 
of Law. For three years it has been asking fora din- 
ing hall. For three years it has been demanding that 
the Arts Faculty should raise its standard, in order to 
keep pace with the advance of rival institutions, and 
of its feeders, the High Schools. These reforms could 
all be effected without further expenditure of money, 
yet no response has been made to our appeals. What 
wonder, then, if this year we adopted a sterner tone ; 
if we attempted, by harsh criticism, to sting the au- 
thorities into action ; if we denounced their indefen- 
sible attempt to establish a new faculty — we say inde- 
fensible attempt, because the leader in it, with all his 
controversial skill could make no other defence than 
one ridiculous in the eyes of all who have any pre- 
tence to logical understanding. Whether our criticism 
will avail anything remains to be seen. That it has 
been felt by the authorities we know, since one of 
them has made anxious attempts to put a stop to it. 
We do not expect much, however, nor have we much 
hope for the future, unless a radical change be made 
in the constitution of the governing bodies. It is too 
much to ask fJhat men who have never had any real 
connection with the University, who have little in- 
terest in, or knowledge of, educational problems, who 
have advanced to that stage of life when the affairs of 
the world are regarded with calm indifference, it is too 
much to demand that such men should take that vital 
interest in the University which alone can raise it to 
eminence throngh all the obstacles that now environ 
it. The only reform that can be of lasting benefit to 
McGill, is one that will substitute her foster children 
for the cold representatives of the city’s wealth, who 
now perfunctorily rule over her. Unfortunately, a 
long course of neglect has chilled the warm affection 
which our graduates should feel for their Alma Mater, 
and they go on their way with a despair of being able 
to do aught in her service, which too often ends in 
utter callousness. If they only would consider how 
great is their number, and how powerful their com- 
bined influence and ability, they might join together 
in an effort which would raise them to their proper 
place, as regards McGill, and rescue her from the half- 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



hearted struggle to keep abreast of the times, in which 
the greater number of her faculties are now unsuccess- 
fully engaged. We trust that this awakening may 
come, andthat our successors will aid it more power- 
fully and wisely than we. 



PRACTICAL EDUCATION. 

Up to the present the chief aim of our educators has 
been to train the mind, but the time is not far distant 
when pupils will be trained to use their hands as well. 
A step was taken in this direction a few years ago, 
when teaching of drawing was made compulsory in the 
public schools. The direct results of such teaching 
may not be so apparent as those of ordinary school 
work, but time will reveal them. To learn to be ac- 
curate is no small part of primary education. It is, 
however, to be regretted that, notwithstanding the 
law, drawing has not been introduced in many of the 
country schools, and in others, where it has gained a 
footing, it is so badly taught as to be almost valueless. 
There is cause, however, for thankfulness, considering 
the slowness with which the Province of Quebec ad- 
vances in elementary education. We hope that the 
work thus begun will be followed up by an effort to 
promote industrial education — an education that will 
better fit the poorer, but most important part, of our 
population for their future work in the world. It is 
by no means a new, untried scheme, but one that has 
been successfully carried on for years in Switzerland, 
Germany and France, and is being fast introduced in 
Great Eritain and the United States. The arguments 
in favor of technical education have been so well 
given by more competent writers that we must rest 
content with glancing briefly at a few, which seem to 
bear on ourselves and the material advancement of the 
Province in which we live. With the early immi- 
grants to this Province came artisans — men who had 
served an apprenticeship of seven years at their re- 
spective trades. These skilled workmen found, on 
their arrival, that their surroundings, the requirements 
and nature of the material at their disposal were differ- 
ent from those which they had left and to which they 
had been accustomed. They, therefore, were obliged 
to adapt themselves as well as they could to their al- 
tered circumstances, but were not long in discovering 
that much of the training previously acquired by them 
would be worthless. Many of these Britons were 
eithei too old or felt too proud to learn of the French 
settlers, and accordingly made numberless mistakes. 
Hence these old pioneer craftsmen were only partially 
successful. This class has now, for the most part, 
passed away, and their places have been filled by 



Canadians who boast that they have picked up 
their trade in a hap-hasard manner without heing un- 
der the necessity of serving a long apprenticeship, as 
their fathers did. Among this class are many un- 
worthy of the name of artisans, who are vain enough 
to believe that a few w r eeks spent in a shop are suffi- 
cient to acquire a mechanical art. These are the 
botches so common in this Province, whom farmers 
and merchants employ because they work for low 
wages. Judging from the manner in which the work 
is done they are expensive. Let us illustrate by re- 
ferring to the common trade of masonry. The skillful 
mason in preparing the mortar to be used summons to 
his aid the knowledge gained through long experience 
in dealing with this material, and careful observation 
as to the effect that the several ingredients exert. It is 
finally made satisfactorily and used to cement the 
stones of the wall. To the uninitiated, or careless 
employer, the botch does equally well. As far as out- 
ward appearances are concerned his work compares 
favorably with that of the more efficient laborer ; but 
the two will not last equally well. The well prepared 
mortar becomes harder and stronger with age ; the 
badly prepared mixture will soon crumble like a piece 
of sun-dried clay, We do not advocate the necessity 
of adopting the old custom of years of apprenticeship, 
by which the learner often paid too high, in valuable 
time lost, for the instruction which was so slowly and 
fitfully meted out to him. Such a custom is not well 
suited to the wants of a new country like ours, We 
cannot, however, hope to have skilled mechanics un- 
less means are provided to prepare them for these use- 
ful occupations. At present there are many difficulties 
in the way of the boy or young man who is desirous 
of learning a trade. If his home is in the country, the 
village blacksmith, carpenter, mason, machinist, etc., 
open to him the sole channels through which the 
necessary knowledge can come, and he will be fortu- 
nate if he secures emyloyment with a really good 
tradesman, and still more so if this tradesman possesses 
the faculty of imparling what he knows to his appren- 
tice. Such men do things — often well — but they can- 
not tell another person how to perform the same. 
They may be good workmen, but are bad teachers. 
For the most part, men possessing a limited amount of 
book learning, they are prone to ignore the benefits 
that have been bestowed on their calling and order 
through the researches of men who have devoted years 
of patient and ceaseless labour to testing and experi- 
menting upon the materials which the mechanic uses 
in construction, and too often blindly follow that 
capricious guide — the rule of thumb. More than this, 
sheer practice covers but a small part of their trade, 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



5 



and the would-be-mechanic finds himself at the close 
of his apprenticeship but poorly prepared for his work. 
In the city, although the men are better qualified, the 
difficulties to be contended with are equally great. 
Here the beginning is so low, the wages so paltry and 
the chance of rising so uncertain as might well dis 
courage a brave heart. In our opinion, the young men 
referred to might obtain a part of the necessary train- 
ing, in shorter time, more thoroughly, and at less cost, 
in a school established for the purpose. By it not only 
would the taste and talent of the mechanic be cul- 
tured, but he would be in a position to gain a more 
thorough knowledge of the properties of the materials 
with which he has to deal. It was not, however, the 
followers of the old trades that we had so much in 
view when attempting to write in their interests. Of 
late years the inventions and discoveries in science, 
by which the forces existing in nature have been made 
subservient to man, have introduced many new trades. 
The present has been aptly styled by Prof. Woodward 
the dynamic age. The power of steam has 'to a large 
extent supplied the place of muscular effort, the 
function of the hands being rather to direct than to. 
perform. Steam, electrical and hydraulic machines 
have lately multiplied enormously and are daily mak- 
ing increasing demands for skilled operators, Is it not 
a matter of deep regret that these operators should be 
almost wholly ignorant of the principles on which ma- 
chines are constructed and of the laws governing the 
forces that impel them ? We do not sanction the ad- 
visability uf producing intelligent but useless theo- 
rists. If the training is to be partial, one sided, far 
better to have the practical part, but the best results 
can only be obtained when both are combined. The 
Government of this Province has for years recognized 
the importance of obtaining more skillful farmers by 
annually granting a considerable sum to support in 
part several agricultural schools, of which the one at 
Richmond is fast coming into prominence as an insti- 
tution well calculated to prepare young men to farm 
intelligently and successfully. In view, however, of 
the financial condition of this Province, it would be 
vain to expect much aid from that source. As far as 
the metropolis of Canada is concerned, the means for 
carrying on practical education within its limits must 
come from its wealthy and liberal citizens, do their 
liberality is mainly due the success which McGill 
University has achieved, and, although interested 
parties, we can truthfully affirm that we know of no 
place where the training could be so effectively con- 
ducted as in a well-equipped department in connection 
with the Faculty of Applied Science — a faculty that 
has accomplished wonders in the twelve years of its ex- 



istence, when we consider the small amount of means 
at its disposal. Railroadmen, we look to you for as- 
sistance. Will you not supply us with a workshop to 
form the nucleus of the great industrial school which 
will, in the near future, form an important factor in 
McGill University ] Part of the money so invested 
will, in time, come back to you through work better 
done by the large number of employees, from the civil 
engineers and master mechanics, whose ability fre- 
quently saves large sums of money to the companies 
employing them, down to the lowest grade of mechanics 
who are required for the establishment, maintenance, 
and operation of railways. We earnestly invite you to 
imitate the example of the wealthy ’citizens of Mel- 
bourne, Australia, who have lately founded a working- 
man’s college, in which free education, suited to the 
wants of men preparing for or engaged in the mechanic 
arts, is given to day and evening classes. This is what 
we need in Montreal, not merely for the benefit of its 
citizens, but likewise for the sixty or seventy students 
in training for civil, mining and mechanical engineers 
in the Science Faculty, the best engineering school in 
the Dominion. Let not outsiders imagine that the en- 
gineering students dislike to labor. With them close 
application to work, both during their college career 
and previous, has been the rule, not the exception. 
Like those of other professions, they aim at reaching 
the first places, and wish to make everything subor- 
dinate to this one definite project. A necessary quali- 
fication to them as well as to tradesmen is a knowledge 
of the nature of the materials used in construction, a 
knowledge that comes of handling, testing, experiment- 
ing upon and constructing, rather than that obtained 
from lectures or books. At present the Science Faculty 
is somewhat like what the Medical would be were its 
undergraduates deprived of the use of the dissecting 
room or forbidden to witness operations performed in 
the hospitals. The engineers should not only design 
machines, wholly or in part, but be provided with work- 
shops where they would have an opportunity of mak- 
ing, as the Cambridge engineering students now do, 
the machine themselves. Have we no Vanderbilts who 
will do as much for practical education as Redpath has 
done for natural science ? 



Perhaps it is safe to say that one-half of the translations 
made in the classics are Bohna fide. 

Professor in Astronomy. — “ What constellation did you 
study last night ?” Senior. — “ Virgo.” 

A young fellow picked up a flower after the ladies had left 
the room and pathetically remarked : “ Tis the last rose of 

some her.” 

Prof, in Moral Philosophy : “ Mr. R., what end has a 
mother in view when she punishes her child ? ” Mr. R. 
blushes and sits down. 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



HIPPOLYTUS. 



{Translated from Euripedes,) 

Hail I Dian, fairest of Olympian maids 1 
To thee this coronal of flowers I bring, 

Plucked, my sweet Mistress, from thine unshorn mead, 
Where never shepherd dares to feed his flocks, 

Nor scythe has passed ; but o’er the vernal lea 
The wild bee ranges, and thy worshippers 
With river- waters tend its pleasant growth. 

These flowers, my Queen, the wicked may not cull, 

But they alone, whose inmost soul is chaste, 

Bv nature prompted, not by training taught. 

Then, dearest Mistress, for thy golden hair 
Receive this chaplet from a guiltless hand ; 

I— only I, of mortals am allowed 

With thee to live, and interchange sweet words, 

Tqhear thy voice, although I see thee not. 

Oli ! may it be my blissful lot to end 
My life’s career as now i^ hath begun ! 

Geo. Murray. 



itontributions. 



TOBIAS GEORGE SMOLLETT, M.D., NOVELIST, 
POET AND DRAMATIST.* 

( Continued .) 

In “ Roderick Random,” which was published in 
1748, the author attempts “to represent modest merit 
struggling with every difficulty to which a friendless 
orphan is exposed, from his own want of experience, 
as well as from the selfishness, envy, malice, and base 
indifference of mankind.” All the characters are well 
drawn, and the story as a whole is inferior only to 
“Humphrey Clinker.” Many of the characters are 
supposed to have been drawn from real life. The sea- 
man Lieut. Bowling is perhaps the one which has been 
most admired. This novel was supposed, at the time 
of its appearance, to contain the real history of the 
author’s life, and although this has been denied, I must 
say that it gives one the feeling of its being a disguised 
autobiography. Roderick Randon indulges in boyish 
pranks, so did Smollett ; Roderick was born of a 
respectable family in Scotland, so was Smollett ; Rod- 
erick was bred a surgeon and served as a surgeon’s 
mate on board a man-of-war, so did Smollett. Crab 
and Potion, the two apothecaries are discovered to have 
been intended for two respectable surgeons in Glasgow. 
Squire Tawky was a character well-known in that part 
of the kingdom where the scene is laid, and so on. 
Smollett conceived himself to have been very badly 
treated by Lacy and Garrick, and lie attacked them 
with the greatest bitterness in this book under the 
names of Brayer and Marmoset. On the other hand 
there were many inconsistencies, which only show, 
however, that the biography was indistinct, not that 
there was no biography at all. 

“ Peregrine Pickle ” was published in 1751. These 
“ adventures,” in the words of Dr. Anderson, “ relate, 
in easy appropriate language, a succession of events, 
forming a natural and well-drawn picture of human 
life, which the thoughtless and the impudent may per- 
use with advantage, and the profligate and the vicious 
with instruction and improvement. From the wild 
unlucky boy, teasing his aunt and Commodore Trun- 

* A paper read before the Morrin College Debating Society, Que- 
bec, 28th November, 1884, and before the Christ Church Cathedral 
Young Men’s Society, Montreal, 6lh January, 1885. 



nion by mischievous pranks, and heading a rebellion 
at school against his master, we trace the headstrong 
youth, of unbroken pride and unbridled appetite, 
plunging into folly, vice and dissipation ; wasting his 
substance, injuring the woman of all others he loved, 
and at last pining in prison. In this forlorn situation, 
detesting the world, abhorring himself, and loving 
Emilia to distraction, he protests to her brother, ‘ that 
he had broke off all connections with mankind, and 
that he impatiently longed for the hour of his dissolu- 
tion, which, if it should not arrive by the course ot 
nature, he was resolved to hasten it with his own 
hands, rather than be exposed to the contempt, and 
more intolerable pity, of a rascally world.’ He remains 
for some time obstinately bent on this frantic deter- 
mination, notwithstanding the zealous efforts of expos- 
tulating friendship ; and but for the unexpected pay- 
ment of a large debt which had been given up as lost, 
would probably have sacrificed himself to that sullen, 
irrational independence, which leads the infatuated 
spendthrift into habits of misery and ruin ; and with- 
out imparting to him sufficient strength of mind to 
resist temptation, or struggle with calamity, — com- 
mences in folly and concludes with self-destruction. 
Roused by the voice of friendship, and again restored 
to affluence, he returns with a stern reluctance, 
founded on a sense of his own unworthiness and 
vicious impudence, to society and love ; convinced 
that after all the bustle of pleasure, and the glitter of 
wealth, real happiness is only to be found in moderate 
enjoyment, domestic tranquility and social virtue.” 

This story is spoiled, as most people admit, by the 
introduction of a long and minute narrative of the 
intrigues of Lady Vane* This is so from an artistic 
point of view, not to speak of the moral aspect. It is 
on the whole, one/ of the most obscene of all his 
novels. 

The sea-characters, Trunnion, Pipes and Hatch- 
way are amusing and very extravagant, but by no 
means to be compared with Lieut. Bowling. They are 
too extravagant to be anything but humorous. Emilia 
is perhaps the best of all his female characters. A 
selection from this novel which is generally given, is 
the account of how Admiral Trunuion went to get 
married in Chap. VIII. Not less amusing is the ac- 
count of the storm which Peregrine and his governor 
encountered on their way to Calais. Chap. XXXV. 

, Then of course you have all heard of the entertain- 
ment after the manner of the ancients. Chap. 44. 

“ Ferdinand Count Fathom,” which is shorter than 
either “Roderick Random” or “Peregrine Pickle,” 
was published three years after the latter. It has a 
more complex plot than the others, and in fact is 
rather too sensational towards the end. For the 
description of an utter villain, repulsive even to loath- 
someness for his ingratitude, cruelty, licentiousness 
and diabolical deceit. I commend you to the character 
of Ferdinand Count Fathom. It is confessedly the 
unfolding of the character of a villain, written for the 
purpose of evoking disgust for a vicious life. As a 
contrast we have, of course, the story of the generous 
nobleman whom Ferdinand so cruelly wronged. The 
story, I am afraid, does not conform to one of the con- 
ditions laid down by Mr. Ruskin as necessary to fair 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



fiction. lie compares fiction to a Greek vase, and 
amongst other things says that it must be “ 4 lipped 
softly’ — full of kindness and comfort : the Keats line 
indeed the perpetual message of it — ‘ For ever shalt 
thou love and she be fair.’ All beautiful fiction is of 
the Madonna, whether the virgin of Athens or of 
Judah— Pan- Atht^naic always. And all foul fiction is 
leze majestS to the Madonna and to womanhood. For 
indeed the great fiction of every human life is the 
shaping of its Love, with due prudence, due imagina- 
tion, due persistence and perfection from the begin- 
ning of its story to the end ; for every human soul its 
Palladium. And it follows that all right imaginative 
work is beautiful, which is a practical and brief law 
concerning it. All frightful things are either foolish, 
or sick, visits of frenzy, or pollutions of plague.” 

In this story the famous robber scene in the old 
woman’s hut, has always been much admired. 

“ Sir Launcelot Treaves ” is a story modelled on the 
plan of Don Quixote. It is the shortest of Smollett’s 
novels, and is universally admitted to be by far his 
weakest production in this way. Of the plan of the 
story itself we may say what Ferrit said when the 
knight explained the reason of his being fantastically 
attired in armour. “ I am a noviciate,” says Sir 
Launcelot “ of that military order, which hath of old 
been distinguished in Great Britain, as well as through 
all Christendom, by the name of Knights-errant. Yes, 
gentlemen, in that painful and thorny path of toil and 
danger I have begun my eareer, a candidate for honest 
fame ; determined as far as in me lies, to honor and 
assert the efforts of virtue ; to combat vice in all her 
forms, redress injuries, chastise oppression, protect the 
helpless and forlorn, relieve the indigent, exert my 
best endeavors in the cause of innocence and beauty, 
and dedicate my talents, such as they are, to the ser- 
vice of my country.” “ What ! ” said Ferret, “ do you 
set up for a modern Don Quixote 1 The scheme is 
rather too stale and extravagant. What was an hum- 
orous romance, and well-timed satire in Spain, near 
two hundred years ago, will make but a sorry jest, and 
eppear equally insipid and absurd when really acted 
from affection, at this time of day, in a country like 
England.” We think, with Ferret, that the scheme 
was too stale and extravagant, and furthermore utterly 
unworthy of such an original writer as Smollett. It 
is neeedless to say that the execution of the work is 
excellent, and the incidents throughout thoroughly 
humorous. The great work of Cervantes was fully 
justified in its extravagance by the aim which the 
writer had in view. Smollett, however, can claim no 
similar purpose in his justification. One of the most 
amusing characters in the story is the lawyer Tom 
Clarke who is continually putting in his law jargon, 
and spinning out technical dissertations to the no small 
annoyance of his uncle Crowe. 

The story contains many amusing speeches, as for 
instance, that of Ferret when trying to sell his Elixer 
of Life which he called the u Cirrus eon pepuromencn 
ek pur os .” It also, in places, is written in the finest 
style and has many passages full of pathos, as for ex- 
ample, the Knight’s Soliloquy in the Mad-house. It 
contains less obscurity than some of the other stories. 

The Rev. George Gilfillan gave it as his opinion 



that “ Humphrey Clinker was the most delightful 
novel, with the exception of the Waverley series, in 
the English language. “ The novel of Humphrey 
Clinker,” says Thackeray, “ is, I do think, the most 
laughable story that was ever been written since the 
goodly art of novel’s writing began. Winifred 
Jenkins and Tabitha Bramble must keep Englishmen 
on the grin for ages to come ; and in their letters and 
the story of their lovers, there is a perpetual fount of 
sparkling laughter, as inexhaustible as Bladud’s well.” 
It certainly is the best of all Smollett’s novels, and 
deserves to go down to all posterity. It is written in 
the epistolary form and was published in 1771. The 
book is full of humour from the first letter to the last 
the prose is elegant, and his observations on human 
affairs agreeably abundant. Moreover, the writer has 
been exceedingly attentive to the proprieties of place 
and character, by which I mean that there is no 
jumbling, no merging of the styles of the different 
writers into one. His descriptions of places seem to 
be accurate, and are certainly anything but tiresome. 
So well are the distinctive points of view of the 
writers of the different letters preserved that after a 
description of some incident has been given in one 
letter we feel a strong curiosity to know how the same 
incident has appeared to the other correspondents. 
Why the story should have been called “ Humphrey 
Clinker ” we do not understand as this individual 
appears but seldom upon the scene. To be sure when 
he does appear he appears in a most ludicrous light, 
an odd mixture of genius, levity and piety. Probably 
his happy sounding name procured for him the honour 
of being made the hero of the story. 

Novels in the epistolary form are not, as a rule, 
successful as narratives, they are rather adapted to 
depicting character from within In “ Humphrey 
Clinker”, however, all the peculiar advantage of the 
style is preserved while the faults are mostly absent. 
The story is comparatively free from indecency. 
The letters of Win Jenkins with their absurd spelling 
are said to bo the first instance of that kind of hu- 
morous writing. Sheridan afterwards employed a 
similar device in his Mrs. Malaprop. 

“ The Adventures of an Atom ” is a political 
allegory. It may have been interesting an hundred 
years ago, when the political characters traduced 
were alive ; it certainly is not interesting to-day. 
Indeed I should not care to ask my worst enemy to 
wade through the book. It is an attempt at an imita- 
tion of the kind of writing in which Dean Swift 
excelled, but without being amusing it seems loath- 
somely scurrilous. Even Lord Mansfield did not 
escape his rough handling. A writer whom I happen- 
ed to come across says that “ it is a romance in which 
the writer lias blended the reckless jollity of Rabelais 
with the withering sarcasm of Swift. With much 
wit and humour the production displays great physi- 
cal indelicacy, a latent ferocity of sentiment, and an 
unqualified abhorrence of the lower order of the com- 
munity, which is far from edifying.” In the first 
place the production is hardly worthy to be called a 
romance, for romances are generally supposed to be 
entertaining. Then the jollity and sarcasm in its 
finest sense, I did not come across to any extent ; per- 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



haps I fell asleep at the most lively parts. Again, 
physical indelicacy is but a mild way of expressing 
the putrid dirt in which the story is conceived. I do 
not advise any to read “ The Adventure of an Atom.” 

This brings the list of his novels to a close, and I 
have only, before passing on, to repeat, in the words 
of the prologue which I placed at the beginning of my 
essay, the opinion which I have already expressed. 

No plea can then avert the dreadful sentence, 
He must be damned in spite of all repentance.” But 
it will not be because “ The wit profess’d turned out a 
dunce in grain.” 

Before saying a few words of Smollett as a poet and 
dramatist I should allude to one very serious and 
direct evil effect which his novels produced. This 
point is noticed by John Moore, M.D. in his “ View 
of the Commencement and Progress of Romance.” 
Dr. Moore in this connection handles the question of 
novel reading in general in such a rational manner 
that I am tempted to quote from him at length, be- 
lieving that his arguments will not be without interest 
and relevance even now. “ The success of Richardson 
Fielding and Smollett, in this species of writing,” says 
the learned writer “ produced, what great success 
generally does produce, a prodigious number of imita- 
tors : but by far the greatest part of them, like Hamlet’s 
players, imitated abominably ; and instead of repre- 
senting tbe manners of the age, exhibited men 
and women, neither having the manners of Chris- 
tians nor Pagans, and who seemed to have been 
made by the least expert of nature’s journeymen. 
There were for a considerable time, so many no- 
vels written of this description, and with so few excep- 
tions, that the very best romance or novel conveyed the 
idea of a frivolous or pernicious book. Even this, 
however, did not diminish the number, though it made 
many people at pains to declare, that for their part 
they never read novels ; a declaration sometimes made 
by persons of both sexes, who never read anything 
else. This is being by much too cautious. They might 
with equal prudence declare that they never would 
read any book because many books are silly or perni- 
cious. The truth is, that the best romances always 
have been, and always will be read with delight by 
men of genius ; and with the more delight, the more 
taste and genius the reader happens to have. Nothing 
can be so interesting to men as man. The modern 
romances are, or ought to be, a representation of life 
and manners in the country where the scene is placed. 
Had works of this nature existed in the flourishing 
ages of the Greek and Roman republics, and had some 
of the best of them been preserved, how infinitely 
would they be relished at present ! as they would give 
a much more minute and satisfactory picture of pri- 
vate and domestic life than is found in history, which 
dwells chiefly on wars and affairs of state. This spe- 
cies of writing may also be made most subservient to 
the purposes of instruction ; but even those which 
afford amusement only, provided they contain nothing 
immoral, are not without utility, and deserve by no 
means to be spoken of with that contempt which they 
sometimes are by their most intimate acquaintance. 
These gentlemen ought to recollect in what manner 
they usually employ that portion of their time which 



they do not pass in reading what they so much affect 
to despise ; they ought to recollect how many languid 
intervals there are in their journey through life ; how 
often they fill them up in a more pernicious way ; and 
if a novel or romance should now and then help them 
to jog along with more % innocence and less yawning, 
they ought to be a little more grateful. It may be said 
that such people had much better study books of 
science, or read moral essays or sermons. T nquestion- 
ably they had: but, unfortunately, they will not; 
although some authors have shown that it is possible 
to write sermons so that they shall be as much or more 
read than the best romance. Yet this talent is ex- 
tremely rare ; and it is often lamented that sermons 
and moral essays, containing much good instruction, 
are less universally perused than many novels, more 
inelegantly written. What does this prove, but that 
there is something so peculiarly attractive in this spe- 
cies of writing, that performances, which would have 
been neglected in any other form, find readers in this ? 
Some very respectable authors have even insinuated 
that romances are moie entertaining than history itself, 
and that they thereby breed a dislike to that useful 
study. I fear this is not a likely argument to prevail 
on mankind to quit romances for history ; and there- 
fore, even if I were of that opinion, which is not the 
case, I should not publish it. 

But it is universally known that books of pure 
science and instruction, which require much thought, 
are not studied spontaneausly by any but those who 
have already a considerable degree of steadiness of 
mind and desire of knowledge. Persons of dissipated 
minds, incapable of attention, who stand most in need 
of instruction, are the least willing to receive it ; they 
throw such books down the moment they perceive 
their drift. But a romance in the highest degree en- 
tertaining may be written with as moral an intention 
and contain as many excellent rules for the conduct of 
life as any book with a more solemn and scientific 
title. This, however, not being suspected by the per- 
sons above alluded to. they continue to read in the 
confidence of meeting with amusement only, and fear- 
less of any plot or plan for their instruction or im- 
provement ; they find folly ridiculed in a pleasant 
manner, vice placed in a degrading light, and a variety 
of instructive lessons so interwoven with an interest- 
ing story, that they cannot satisfy their curiosity until 
they have received impressions of a useful or virtuous 
nature, and thus acquire something infinitely more 
valuable than what they were in pursuit of.” 

Smollett, as a poet, must be given a place not much 
inferior to that which he occupies as a novelist. The 
poems of any considerable lengt h which he has written 
are not many, but the few that he has written are very 
pleasing. “ The few poems which he has left,” says 
Thomas Campbell, “ have a portion of delicacy which 
is not to be found in his novels ; but they have not, 
like those prose fictions, the strength of a master’s 
hand. Were he to live over again, we might wish him 
to write more poetry, in the belief that his poetic talent 
would improve by exercise ; but we should be glad to 
have more of his novels, just as they are.” This was 
written towards the beginning of this century ; 
we, writing towards its close, might wish him not only 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



to write more and better poetry, but also to give us 
new editions of his old stories, while reserving to him- 
self the power to add to their number. 

The list of his poems comprises an “ Ode to Inde- 
pendence,” “ Advice and Reproof; a satire,” “ Verses 
on a young Lady playing on a Harpsichord and Sink- 
ing,” “ A Love Elegy,” “Tears of Scotland,” “ Ode to 
Leven Water,” and others. 

His Ode to Independence,” his best production in 
this way commences thus : — 

“ Thy spirit. Independence let me share, 

Lord or the lion-heart and eagle eye. 

Thy steps I follow with my bosom bare, 

Nor head the storm that howls along the sky. 

Deep in the frozen regions of the North, 

A goddess violated brought thee forth. 

Immortal Liberty, whose look sublime 

Hath bleach’d the tyrant’s cheek in ev’ry varying clime.” 

There is throughout the poem an admirable simpli- 
city of expression, an abundance of bold and appro- 
priate imagery, and a harmonious versification. 

In his “ Ode to Leven Water,” he gives a picturesque 
description of his native place : — 

<4 On Leven ’s banks while free to rove. 

And tune the rural pipe to love, 

I envied not the happiest swain 
That ever trode th’ Arcadian plain. 

Pure stream 1 in whose transparent wave 
My youthful limbs I wont to lave ; 

No torrents stain thy limpid source : 

No rocks impede thy dimpling course, 

That sweetly warbles o’er its bed. 

With white, round, polish’d pebbles spread ; 

While, lightly pois’d, the scaly brood 
In myriads cleave thy crystal flood : 

The springing trout in speckled pride ; 

The salmon, monarch of the tide; 

The ruthless pike, intent on war; 

The silver eel, and mottled par. 

Devolving from the parent lake, 

A charming maze thy waters make, 

By bow’rs of birch, and groves of pine. 

And hedges flower’d with eglantine. 

Still on thy banks so gayly green , 

May num’rous herds and flocks be seen, 

And lasses chanting o’er thy pail. 

And shepherds piping in the dale. 

And ancient faith that knows no guide, 

And industry embrown’d with toil. 

And hearts resolved and hands prepar’d, 

The blessings they enjoy to guard.” 

Smollett was, I think, uncommonly happy in his 
love verses, several of which are scattered through his 
novels. Take, for instance, the verses which Roderick 
Random addressed to his dear Narcissa : — 



i. 

“Thy fatal shafts unerring move, 

I bow before thine altar, Love ! 

I feel thy soft resistless flame 

Glide swiftly through all my vital frame ! ” 



II. 

“ For while I gaze, my bosom glows, 

My blood in tides tempetuous flows : 

Hope, Fear, and Joy, alternate roll, 

And floods of transports ’whelm my soul ! ” 



III. 

My falt’ring tongue attempts in vain, 
In soothing murmurs to complain ; 

My tongue some secret magic ties, 

My murmurs sink in broken sighs ! ” 



IV. 

“ Condemned to nurse eternal care, 
And ever drops the silent tear ; 
Unheard I mourn, unknown I sigh, 
Unfriended live, unpity’d die 1 ” 



Very little need be said of Smollett as a dramatist, 
for in this sphere he was altogether a failure. The 
tragedy of “ The Regicide,” which he wrote at the 
early age of eighteen, possesses great merit as a poetical 
composition but is entirely unfit for representation. 
It is declamatory and the speeches in the dialogues 
altogether too long. The rhythm of the lines is smooth 
so that with its other good qualities it will be pro- 
nounced a pleasing piece by most readers. 

The “Reprisal” is a comedy in which an Irishman, 
a Scotchman and a Frenchman are made to display 
their respective national peculiarities. It is very 
stupid, in my opinion, and the Irishman’s especially 
absurd. The mistakes which he makes in his language 
are entirely overdone, and the whole character a piece 
of extravagance. 

His only other dramatic composition was “Alceste,” 
an opera, written at the suggestion of Rich, of Covent 
Garden. In consequence of some dispute with that 
patentee, the piece was withdrawn and never appeared 
in print. 

I am afraid I have drawn out this paper so too great 
a length, and yet I have but imperfectly touched upon 
a few of the qualities of this great writer. For it must 
be remembered that Smollett was not only a novelist, 
poet and dramatist, but also a politician, a physician, 
a historian, a translator, a writer of travels, a writer on 
medical subjects, and a miscellaneous author. But it 
cannot after all be considered a waste of time to ex- 
amine even in this imperfect way the achievement of 
one of the greatest and most versatile of the many 
great men who Scotland has produced. 

J. R. Murray. 



BY A LADY UNDERGRADUATE. 

Without novelty, and particularly startling novelty, 

life would be to most of us a barren desert. Who 

especially our friends the Medicals, whose nerves and 
general organization, must, from all accounts be of the 
very finest and most sensitive order — does not ex- 
perience a feeling almost akin to regret when the 
evening papers arrive without the semblance of a 
murder, or at the very least on -attempt at suicide in 
their pages l But lately murders, suicides, and even 
liquid hints at the doings of Carnival week have sunk 
into shadow and comparative oblivion besides the all- 
absorbing topics of “the higher education of Women.” 
How imposing it does sound ! To some, it is associated 
with a feel of awe, and vague notion of reform cos- 
tume, short hair, sharp voices, and general air of strong- 
mindedness, but these people are misguided, as I am 
sure all who have seen us will allow. But alas ! 
novelty, even of the higher education type wont la*t 
for ever, and we at length find that there are people 
who actually read the newspapers, without even glan- 
cing at the columns about the grand topic, and who 
may be seen devouring greedily — tremble of learning ! 
— the society-notes, reports of concerts, and even the 
much-abused Carnival paragraphs. And to think that 
we, the lady students, have never given our side of 
the story, and actually have not left upon the pages of 
the world’s history one solitary note of the impressions 



JOTTINGS FROM THE NEW WORLD. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



made by the outside world of McGill upon us, in our 
newly-discovered country. I wonder if the subject is 
too old to warrant my bringing it into prominence. 
Perhaps not. I shall try it at all events. 

To begin with, then, we are not at all impressionable 
in most respects — at least our first-class, full-course 
students are not, who, with the light of knowledge 
burning on their brows gaze tranquilly on the seeming 
monstrosities of Xenophon, and fear not the withering 
scorn of Cicero. They are not overawed and reduced 
to intellectual pulp at sight of those whose degree of 
B. A. is a thing of the near future ; for will they not 
also, in their turn, have conferred on them the degree 
of — what? nor do they mind curious glances with 
which they are often mot. En passant, have the McGill 
students settled conclusively whether we are relics of 
the prehistoric races promising specimens of the Chine 
Panzec-tribe, or being s^elestial ? And will those, whose 
risible faculties seem so hard to control when they meet 
us, remember that we dont indulge in levity at McGill 
The mustiness and general appearance of decay about 
the dead languages reduce us to a neutral slate-gray 
and bring the shady side of life before us. But these 
are new impressions Our inpressions, on the other 
hand, changed rapidly a few weeks ago, we might have 
addr* ssed tQ our fellow student a heart stirring and 
piteous lamentation headed, in characters of fire, 
Moriturce Salutamus. But now the examinations are 
over, we have died the death, and have arrived at a 
paradise of little to do and abundance of time in which 
to do it. Don’t begin now, to settle yourselves in easy- 
chairs and groan at the prospect of a long discourse on 
examinations. I have pity I know the propensity of 
suffering students to dwell upon the horror of exam- 
ination time, cutting the faces of the professors in 
stone, and giving them all the qualities of grim death 
or bringing out in strong relief the different degrees 
of stoical indifference visible in their countenances. 
The subject is to students very much what the French 
Revolution is to France, without which French history 
might be crowded into a very few pages. The experi- 
ence of examinations is certainly terrible, and I own 
that life did seem a vast wilderness and my intellect a 
chaos, when I read the questions for the first one, but 
I still maintain, and shall continue to do so, that the 
professors had a slight resemblance to other men, and 
did not seem utterly indifferent to our sufferings. But 
I find myself being drawn into the very path I wished 
to avoid. And now, I should like to express our 
sincere gratitude for the kindly welcome we received 
from the gentlemen undergraduates they ha\ne shown 
kindly feeling on every possible occasion. In the 
Gazette we have been wished every manner of success 
in our studies, and all kinds of nice little speeches have 
been made about us. Especially have we been grati- 
fied by your showing us so plainly that we belong to 
your number by your cordial and overpowering in- 
vitation to join in the thick of the scrimmage in your 
football-matches. Which invitation, out of considera- 
tion to the other side, we thought best to refuse. Also 
we were charmed being informed in so emphatic a style 
that we were jolly good fellows, it shows a generosity 
of mind scarcely equalled before or since, still, we 
rather do object to being told in so elder-brotherly a 



style to " Hop a-long, sister Mary ” “ hop a-long,” 
especially as we have been carefully practising and 
going through all manner of agonies to perfect, a classic 
and stately glide. Indeed some of our most strong- 
minded ladies have wept bitter tears over this insult. 
Please understand, once for all, we dont hop ! When 
we happen once in a while to take our places at the 
head of the year, we dont hop there, — too much exter- 
tion ! — we merely glide by sIqw, easy stages. Another 
impression is that the way in which Freshmen are 
treated is the most crying evil of the day. As one of 
the “noble army of martyrs” I object to be told I 
have an insufficiency of intellect, and own I feel re- 
bellious when dark stories of wasps boring first of all 
into the solid rock of a Freshman’s “ cheek ” and then, 
with broken drill, penetrating without difficulty the 
youth’s spongy cranium, appear in select paragraphs of 
promising papers. Where is it all to end? Js it one 
day to be the rule that on one who has not finished an 
elaborate course in a lunatic-asylum can compete for 
the Freshmanship ? Really, it would seem so, for some 
of the jokes against this promising body even now can 
hardly be applied to people possessing mental faculties 
at all. But it must be allowed that the Freshmen 
supply wonderful and rich material for the wit of their 
seniors. W lint would valedictorians do without them? 

I shudder to think of it ! Their valedictories would 
lack spirit, the learned men on the platform would 
yawn, and things would be in deplorable condition. 
Suffer on, noble company of Freshmen, as by your 
sufferings you save others from everlasting disgrace ! 
After all the sorrows of Freshdom, do you wonder that 
the noble youths who composed the circle of college 
society, appear in tall hats, make nine-tenths of their 
composition starch, and affect an amount of knowledge 
which would have astonished Solomon. Perhaps they 
really have it. Sorrow makes a man wise. 

One last, great impression is this : gentlemen take 
quite twice as long to settle quarrels as ladies. Over 
and over again after reading the Gazette the question 
has recurred to my mind, “ If two men take almost a 
month to settle a matter, how long will twelve take ? ” 
Dont let it be a century. Say all the bitter things you 
have to say now, and then fill up the space formerly 
occupied by these words with poetry, essays, or even 
sensational stories ! I think they would be almost pre- 
ferable. 

Note. — The editor was a good deal broken up when he had read these 
caustic notes, but was reduced to an indescribable state of limpness 
after he had copied out the alternate panes. Lady contributors will 
in future confer a favor upon that burdened individual if they will 
send in their copy in a fit state for the printer to handle, i, e, with 
the paper written on one side only, 



MEDICAL TEACHING IN LONDON AND 
VIENNA. 

As far as the undergraduate is concerned the course 
in Montreal is much the same as that in London with 
the exception in favor of the latter city of not demand- 
ing such a regular attendance on lectures, giving the 
student more time for hospital work. As there is a 
great abundance of material in London, there is room 
for having more specialists attached to each hospital 
than here. The clinic are held for both Surgery and 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Medicine, etc., at the same hour, in the afternoon, 
thus preventing attendance in more than one. In 
Vienna the Undergraduate can suit himself as there 
are two public clinic on each subject at different 
hours thus enabling time to lay out his time to the best 
advantage. The material is also more classified so 
that we can better see a disease in all its phases and 
varieties. As few of the readers of the McGill Gazette 
will seek either of these cities as undergraduates, 

I will compare them with respect to the opportunities 
which they present for the graduate seeking to acquire 
an extensive knowledge of the Science and Art of 
Medicine generally and specially. 

In London the graduate has to gain information in 
exactly the same manner as an undergraduate, stand 
for hours in the wards of the hospital listening to 
clinics in a crowd of other students scarcely getting a 
view of the patient and often not catching more than 
a sentence here and there from the teacher. At the 
special hospitals they lead you to believe that, you 
will be regularly taught the specialty if you pay a fee 
of from 3 to 6 guineas. After payment of the money 
you are soon made aware of the fact, that there is no 
attempt made to enlighten you. The only exceptions 
which I found were The Womans Hospital at Soho 
Square and the Eye-Hospital at Moorfields but even 
in them teaching is only in its infancy as compared to 
Vienna. 

In Vienna there are two Professors for each subject 
and there are two public clinics at different Hours for 
each subject also. The fees for these public clinics are 
very small, about $1.00; besides as each Professor is 
provided with several assistants who are allowed the 
use of his material and to form private classes, there 
are innumerable private clinics, the fees for which are 
$8.00 for six weeks. The attendance is limited in 
accordance wtth the requirements of the subject, 4 
for gynecology, 8 to 10 for consultation etc. 

VVe can begin hospital work at 8.30 a.m. and take 
clinics from different men all day on the same branch. 
The larger General Hospital contains nearly 4000 beds 
and the Polyclinic adjacent admits an enormous 
number of out patients daily. Living in Vienna is as 
cheap as here, and without knowing the language we 
can learn more there in three months than in a year 
or more in London. My advice to graduates going 
abroad to study is to go direct to Vienna, if they must 
have an English or Scotch degree go to Edinburg and 
get it at once and then go to Vienna. W lien they have 
given as much time as possible to Vienna then see 
* London and its Hospitals and Teachers. — W . Stephen 
M.D. . 



The poet wrote a sonnet, 

“ To the Dimple on her Chin. 
And sent it to a paper, . . 
With request they’d put it m. 



Next morning he was frantic, 

And he swore it was a sin 
When he found his sonnet headed, 
“ i’o the Pimple on her Chin.” 



A young lady admitted to her mother that her beau 
had kissed her on the cheek. “ And what did you 
do ? ” asked the old lady, in a tone' of indignation. 
“ Mother,” said the young lady, “ I cannot tell a lie ; 
I turned the other cheek.” 



JflclBill News. 



The annual dinner of the students in Applied 
Science will take place most probably at the Windsor, 
about Feb. 15th. 

The collection of Shakespearian books from the late 
T. I) King’s library has been received at the Molson 
Hall, where, as soon as they have been catalogued they 
may be consulted. 

The Art Sophomores have invited t-i e other years to 
join them in a petition to the corporation for a dining 
hall. We admire their pluck, but expect their memo- 
rial will share the fate of one prepared some five years 
ago, i.e., be suppressed before it has reached, or been 
heard of, by the body to whom it is addressed. 



ANNUAL DINNER OF McGILL’S AKTSMEN. 

A more thoroughly enthusiastic and enjoyable ban- 
quet was perhaps never held by any assemblage of 
McGill’s undergraduates than that which took place 
at the Richelieu Hotel on the evening of the 21st of 
January when the devotees of the sage goddess 
Minerva celebrated their annual feast. Anyone could 
then have seen diplayed, what should be jealously 
fostered among the students of every college and 
faculty, that generous esprit de corps which recognizes 
neither the restraints of rivalry, nor the sentiments of 
academic superiority, from which our Alma Mater is 
so happily free. The good will, however, which was 
there exhibited, was not assumed for the occasion, but 
was such as is wont to exist continually among the 
students of McGill. The dinner, which was certainly 
the largest and most successful ever held by the Arts- 
men, may in every sense be regarded as representative 
in that every class in the faculty contributed to the 
evening’s entertainment from their members the most 
prominent men, and those who esteem college life as 
a social as well as an intellectual training, and who 
are susceptible to that fraternizing influence engendered 
by a community of interests and pursuits. The din- 
ner was gotten up on temperance principles and in 
tirst.class style, reflecting great credit both on the com- 
mittee of management and the host. After assiduous 
attention had been paid to the elaborate menu, and its 
attractions were heartily appreciated, the guests for a 
few moments indulged in a prominade. after which 
the oratorical part of the programme was introduced by 
the chairman Mr. YVm. Lochead, who proposed the 
time honored toast of “ The Queen,” to which as a 
response the national anthem was sung in a right royal 
manner. When these loyal strains had ceased, Mr. 
Hilton Pedley propesed tee toast of “ Alma Mater,” in 
terms evincing the strong attachment every where 
expressed for “ Old McGill ” by her hundreds of stu- 
deuts as well as by her graduates, who, though now 
scattered over the whole world, still cherish for their 
university an undying affection. To this Mr. Calder 
responded in a few and well-chosen remarks, in which 
he stated that McGill unlike many other of our 
Canadian Universities, was the recipient of no govern- 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



ment subsidies or civic emoluments, but depended 
entirely on the munificence of private benefactors 
among whom the citizens of Montreal were pre- 
eminent, if not alone ; and that thanks to the untiring 
efforts of its governors, and distinguished principal 
and the merits of its most efficient staff McGill 
occupies to-day the position of a national rather than 
a local university. After, Mr. G. W. Stewart had 
sung a very pleasing song and Mr. P. M. Bray ley had 
favored his friends with the new and popular Alma 
Mater song, Mr. Frank Pedley proposed the toast of 
“ Sister Universities ” and in his accustomed eloqent 
and graceful style reminded his audience of the re- 
spect and kindly sympathy with which they should 
regard all subjects and institutions which they digni- 
fied with the title of “Sister.” Referring to the 
Universities of Ontario he complained, and justly, of 
the great laxity of intercollegiate cordiality at present 
existing between them and ourselves, and concluded 
by expressing the hope that some means would be 
adopted whereby this want might be obviated. To 
this toast Mr. J. H. Ferguson, of Morrin College, 
Quebec, responded, assuring us of the attachment 
entertained by his fellow students towards our com- 
mon alma mater, McGill, of their connection with 
which they felt proud. Next followed a song by 
Murray Watson, after which Mr. J. H. Bell proposed 
the toast of “ Sister Faculties,” in befitting terms, to 
which Msssrs. H. Johnson, J. F. Mackie, and Tlios. 
Watson, representatives of the Faculties of Medicine, 
Law and Applied Science respectively, replied. Messrs 
Bourne and Stephens then rendered songs that were 
appreciated a V encore. The toast of “ The Professors,” 
followed, proposed by Mr. Alex. McLennan, and 
responded to by Mr. A. P. Solandt. The speeches of 
both gentlemen were admirable and conveyed to the 
audience sentiments of loyalty and admiration to which 
all were ready to reciprocate. The duet of Messrs. 
Bitchie and Patton, which followed, though comic 
was too restricted in its persomiel to want much 
appreciation. The next toast was the “ Literary 
Society,” proposed by Mr. H. Mason, and responded 
to by the popular president Mr. A. II. U. Colquhoun, 
in a well appointed speech, in which the inestimable 
advantages of the society were well set forth. The 
toast of “ Sports,” was then proposed by Mr. R. B. 
O’Sullivan, and responded to by Mr. E. DeForrest 
Holden, who, as an officer of the University Athletic 
Association, congratulated the Artsmen on the flourish- 
ing aspect of this phase of college life at McGill, and 
hoped that, although we had sustained defeats in some 
departments, our enthusiasm and determination to ex- 
cell would still be maintained. After a song by Hilton 
Pedley, Murray Watson proposed with characteristic 
eloquence the toast of “ The Ladies,” to which Mr. T. 
England replied 

“ With all the wit 

That nature gives and art restores,” 

courageously attempted to do justice to the absent fair. 
The toast to the “ Seniors,” was proposed by Mr. C. 
H. Livingstone, to which Mr. Lochhead replied. The 
evening’s entertainment was then brought to a close by 
Mr. J. H. Bell’s proposing the health of “ Our Host,” 
which elicited a short but apropos reply from Mr. J. 



B. Durocher, the popular proprietor of the Richelieu, 
Coaches were in attendance about one o’clock a.m. 



College Ulorlb. 



The annual catalogue of Tufts College shows quite 
an increase in the number of students. The college 
of letters has seventy-eight in the regular and twenty- 
four in the engineering courses, and the divinity 
school twenty-five. Total 127. The faculty numbers 
twenty professors and instructors, and four lecturers. 
The only change in the list is the addition of the name 
of Josiah P. Rider as assistant in inorganic chemistry. 
Helen Mellen, who has been the real librarian for some 
years, is now given the full title in just recognition of 
her fitness for the position. The courses in engineer- 
ing are two — civil engineering and electrical engineer- 
ing. This college was one of the first to require special 
studies and examinations for the degree of M.A., and 
it has now taken another step in advance as regards 
admission to the divinity school by announcing that 
“ after this year only graduates of some college will be 
admitted as candidates for the degree of bachelor of 
divinity. Others, however, will be recommended for 
the degree who, at the end of the prescribed course of 
study, have made in the judgment of the faculty 
equivalent attainments.” 

The Harvard University catalogue for 1884-85 has 
just been published. It contains an account of the 
Jefferson Physical Laboratory ; a prize for the students 
of the college is also mentioned — the Chauncey 
Wright fund for the best mathematical thesis on a 
subject or subjects announced by the college faculty. 
This prize is open to all persons pursuing regular 
courses of study at the university during the year 
1884-85 as seniors, juniors or graduates. There are 
published, too, in this volume, the Boylston medical 
prizes of $250 and $200 respectively, offered annually 
for the best dissertations on questions in medical 
science proposed by the Boylston medical committee. 
In the college proper there are 1006 students, divided 
as follows : seniors 191, juniors, 234, sophomores 256, 
freshmen 255, special students 70. The total number 
of students connected with the university is 1586, di- 
vided between the different departments as follows : 
College proper 1006, divinity school 26, law school 
153, scientific school 28, medical school 249, dental 
school 35, Bussey institution 6, veterinary school 21, 
graduate department 70. The number of teachers 
connected with the university is 178. A comparison 
with the catalogue of a year ago shows an increase in 
the number of college students of 34, and an increase 
in the number of students of the university of 64. 

Princeton College catalogue for the present academic 
year has been issued. It shows that there are in the 
faculty thirty- nine professors and instructors, twenty- 
two of whom give instruction and lectures in the scien- 
tific department. There are seven fellows at present 
pursuing their studies in Leipsic and Princeton, sixty- 
six graduate students are following higher courses of 
study offered here, nearly all of whom are studying 
with Dr. McCosh in history of philosophy. Among 



1885.] 



McGill univeksity gazette. 



13 



tho 368 undergraduate students in the academic depart- 
ment, 98 are in the senior class, 100 in the junior 64 
in the sophomore, 99 in the freshman, and 7 are spe- 
cial students not studying for a degree. In the John 
0. Green school of science 10 arc seniors, 20 juniors 
20 sophomores, 26 freshmen and 5 specials, making a 
total of 31. This makes the number of men studyTu^ 
in the various departments 519. The new elective 
system in tho two upper classes, which went into 
eilect last September, is given in full, and shows that 
there are seven separate courses for the juniors and 
seventeen for the seniors. There are seven fellowships, 
including the classical, which has this year been made 
a full fellowship, entitling the receiver to 8600 for one 
year. In addition to these fellowships are twenty 
prizes offered to the students — most of them to seniors, 
but some to the lower classmen. .The Lyman H. At- 
water prize for political science is offered" for the first 
time this year. This prize was contributed by the 
class of ’83 as their memorial gift to the college. 



Societies. 



NOTICE. 

The last regular meeting of the Maritime Associa- 
tion for the season will be held in the English Lecture 
room on Wednesday, 4th inst., at 7.30 p.m. A full 
attendance is requested. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY SOCIETY. 

At the weekly meeting of this Society on Friday 
Evening, 16th January, Mr. A. Yates the vice-presi- 
dent occupied the chair. After a reading by Mr. 
Walt, Mr. Lochead gave an essay on “ Coral Reefs.” 
The subject for debate was : “ Shall the English 

language become the language of the world.” 
Messrs. Livingstone, O’Sullivan and Pritchard sup- 
ported the affirmative and Messrs. Patterson, Dalp£ 
and Brayley the negative. The leaders were well pre- 
pared and gave an exhaustive review of the subject. 
With one or two exceptions the other speakers shewed 
evidence of preparation. One speaker after expressing 
surprise at the “ minor points” raised by those pro- 
ceeding him, proceeded to take up the character of 
Mark Twain, and contributed considerable amusement 
to the society. The decision was in favor of the nega- 
tive. 

On Friday, 23rd inst., there was not as large an at- 
tendance as there ought to have been under the cir- 
cumstances, it being the occasion of I)r. Harrington’s 
leGture. The President occupied the chair. Mr. J. 
Higgins gave a reading, “ Death of Marmion,” which 
was listened to with rapt attention, and at its conclu- 
sion was laudly applauded. The address of Mr. Har- 
rington cannot be summarized. If the Professor’s 
consent can be obtained, the intention is to have it 
printed in pamphlet form. The universal verdict of 
the Society places it as a most interesting and in- 
structive address. 



STUDENTS Y. M. C. A. 

Mil. OBER’S VISIT. 

For several days last week we had with us Mr. Ober 
of the International Committee Y. M. C. A. New York. 
He came at the request of our Association and on pur- 
pose to meet students of McGill. As this was his first 
visit to our college there was considerable expectation 
concerning him. As was expected Mr. Ober proved to 
be a straightforward practical speaker; for althrough 
there was not the slighest attempt at oratory in his 
address on Sunday afternoon yet the common-sense way 
in which he spoke, meaning every word he said, could 
not but impress a listener. This practical spirit comes 
to the fore in any business matter, he is a splendid 
organizer and as the association was been hitherto 
rather badly organized his coming was most opportune. 

On Saturday afternoon Mr. Ober with about twenty 
of these most interested met for conference at the home 
of Mr. and Mrs. Kingman, Victoria Street, whose guest 
he was, and who had kindly put their parlors at our 
service. This was probably the best gathering of all ; 
for here Mr. Ober’s experience and practical business 
sense were most helpful ; for plans of work and ways of 
management were suggested by him which will greatly 
help our students in their association work. 

Sunday aftenoon about 225 students assembled in 
the Association Hall when Mr. Ober spoke to Christi- 
ans on personal work. He emphasised the facts that 
students could only be reached by students, that they 
must be reached one at a time by hand-to-hand face-to- 
face contact, that a man must first love his fellow- 
student and be wise in striving to get him to be 
Christ’s. 

For Monday evening the American Presbyterian 
Church willingly gave us the use of their church par- 
lors. Mr. Ober spoke about the college work at large. 
Organized Christian work for students by students 
began in Princeton only eight years ago ; the growth 
has been so rapid that out of 300 colleges with 60,000 
students (and this does not include the large numbers 
of High Schools Academies and Normal Schools,) there 
are college associations in 190 with a membership of 
10,000. During the last seven years 7000 have pro- 
fessed conversion ; of these during the last year 1,700. 

As to ourselves the usual meeting is on Sunday 
afternoon at 4.30 in the Association class room Victoria 
Square, the average attendance at this meeting is about 
40. Our object in inviting college men to an 
association of this sort is to encourage a sincere jnanly 
Christian life among Christian students ; and to induce 
to become Christians these who are not. 

Hitherto our association has been drawing upon the 
purse of the Montreal Y. M. C. A. who have generously 
defrayed all our expenses ; it is thought that we are 
now well able to pay our own way. A motion to this 
effect was made at the last business meeting when the 
membership fee was fixed at 50c. a year. Those who are 
at present members or join this year will pay half that 
amount at the annual meeting about first of March. 



“Why is the dissecting room like the river St. 
Lawrence in winter time 1” “ Because they are both 

subject to s^ening.” “ O, I-ce.” 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



Personals. 

We have lately heard from John Swan, of class 78 
Science: “We are working/’ he writes, at Stoney 

Creek, (Selkirks) on a bridge over this creek, which is 
to be 293 ft. high, the highest wooden structure in the 
world I believe. I have one side cross-sectioned and 
am working at the other. Our contour lines are 5 ft. 
apart. We use three rope ladders and have 1,000 ft. of 
rope in use. It is the roughest work west of Winnipeg, 
but have got it well under control. It is very cold 
now hanging on to a rope with temperature 20o below 
as it has been for the past two weeks. “ Foster ” (R 
A. Sc ’82) is doing first class here — is division engineer 
has charge of six miles of work. I lately gave the 
centres and grades in the tunnel 460 ft. long we worked 
from both ends and struck exactly. 

Fred Miller, B. A. Sc. ’82, has at last been heard 
from. He has been employed as engineer on the Nap- 
anee and Tamworth R. R. and in company with T. 1). 
Green of the same class passed the examination just 
held for Land Surveyors before the Board of Ontario. 

Fred Miller, B. Ap. Sc., ’82 and T. D. Green, B. 
Ap. Sc., passed successfully on the 8th January, at 
Toronto their final examinations for certificates in 
Provincial Land Surveying. 

S. H. Raymond B. A. will resume his studies in 
Medicine about Feb. 25th. 

Mr. J. A. Ferguson, representative from Morrin 
College, Quebec, to the Arts Dinner remained in the 
city during last week to enjoy the Carnival. 

W. W. White B. A. of third year Medicine, will 
take his ad enudem B. A. degree from McGill this 
session. 



Between the Lectures. 



Polite Professor. — “ Construe and translate the first 
verse, please.” Undaunted Freshman. — “ 4 Arma 
virtmque cano.’ I sing arms, a man, and a canoe ! ” 
Co-ed. — “ Yes I am learning crockery painting ; it 
is all the rage.” Male Student — “ Yes, it seems to be. 
Do you paint anything besides your mug ?” And now 
she only considers him as a brother. — Argus. 

Freshie : “ What is the derivation of the word ova- 
tion ? ” Senior : “ Ovation, my little fellow, comes 
from the Latin ovum , an egg. It arose from the cus- 
tom of applying rotten eggs to distinguished political 
speakers, which was called giving them an ovation. 

Professor of Experimentel Physics : “ Will you try 
the full shock? ” Courageous Junior : “ 0 yes, guess 
I can stand it.” — C. J. seizes the handles, which ho 
instantly jerks off the battery, yelling franctically 
“ Oh ! I say, hold up.” — C. J. is still D’F as a result 
of his Hold-en too tightly. 

Scene: Dining room in a Prof.’s house. Time: 
Noon. Prof, of Latin (to student boarder.) — “ Will 
you have some jam ? ” Student Boarder. — “ Not any, 
thanks ; jam satis ! ” Prof., (turning pale,) — “ Are 
you ill, sir?” Student Boarder, (heartlessly.) — “Sic 
sum ! ” The Professor is expected to recover — 
damages. 



THE 

^aqUarium or J[ome J{o$pital, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,) 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical attendance. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

03? Iffrjs,.. SXROSfSr 

dLS "Cr».i-crerclt37- Street, 

MONTREAL. 



BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

MmtersjindFurriers, 

235 JJ~olre Xa.ras Birsez. 



EUR COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

'Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 

£ltc monarch J>hivt Emporium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE 

130 fet. James Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves. Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER -FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv't will Get io p. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



-Me Central 3Dr-u.g- Store.^ 
W. H. CHAPMAN, 

Pharmaceutical Phemist, pNG,, 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

THE DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Fine3t and Purest Drugs only U3ed. 

COR*. OF CRAIG <3c ZBTjETTILY STS . 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMER HAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & \N ALFORD’S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

RJitHE LJELTh iDYE L, 

I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

BSONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL IS THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR McGILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 



RAADT & CO., 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 



h 



-p 

m 

<D 

a 

• I— I 

u 
o 

of 
0 ° 
-p 

m 

10 

o 

CO 



* 



Pi 




GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Me®€M£imip Tamom 9 

jSljirl anil dollar {Qatuifarlmcrs, 

21 BLEURY ST. 



Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques. Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jHiirgirnl Jitslrmninls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

FROM THE 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 



AX INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpe Is 

CBY WEISS &c SON,) 

qkkaf for CASK- 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



J. MAILIE1T, 

Half Hiessei and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MOITTEEAL. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAM POOl NG and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



L. R01 


31 NS ON, 


THJE 

|{urlaq(l Lithographic fjo'y., 


Late of London, England, 


5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

2*. EOISTTISE-A-I-.- 


M\m 


m Tailor, 


General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 



31 BEAUER HALE. 



This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 



LARGE ASSORTMENT OFTCw 



Engraving and Fine Printing. 



JjjUjlligli, $cotch anil JVencli 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 




-AUSTID 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 

Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 

Removable (ijollar^ anil 

FOR OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Psimest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 



SHOW CARDS, GI.OSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER'S USE, 

process, 

We are the only firm in Canada Ileal ly Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In nil tlielr several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

special designs made for 

/VlENU PaRDS, pRESTS, yVIONOGRAMS, j 3 tJSINESS piES 

$ c - , 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 




