



Editorial Comments 13 1 

Athletics 132 

Contribution 133 

University of Virginia 134 

Some Aspects of Education 136 

Innocents Abroad 137 

The Sophomore’s Song 138 

The Toronto — McGill Debate.... 139 

The Law Dinner 140 

Applied Science Dinner 142 

Their Luncheon, Poetry..... 143 



Banjo Club in Burlington 143 

Sporting Column 144 

Correspondence 145 

Between the Lectures 145 

Societies 146 

Faculty Reports 147 

Donalda News 147 

Medicine 148 

Science 148 

Law.... 149 

Arts i 49 

Personals 150 

j McG,U - UNIVEnsT',77 

I ^CH|VE3 

ACC - NO. \ \ '2^ ■ 

Ref. : 

^ 7 




MUNCO CIGARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE GOODS OUR SPECIALTY 






S. DAVIS & SONS, LARCEST CICAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 








FOSE AMEB2CAK eiTITAIRS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 

“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and “DOBSON" 

Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEOliGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 ancl 227G St. Catherine Street. 

N. B.— Special discount to Students. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SPECIAL BARGAINS. 



SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. 

Carbutt’s dry Plate? and Filins. 
Gray's Periscope Lenses. 

Piosch Triplex Shutters. 

Prosch Flash Lamps. 

New York Aritso Paper. 

Peerless Blue Paper. 



1 5x7 Folding Kodak $57 50 

, , ,4x5 “ “ 52 50 

1 4x5 Hawkeye Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 

1 A “ “ 8 50 



IR, E n\/E 1 1ST a- T o 3>T 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 

===== 1892 s== 

model 

CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard. 

SPACKMAN & CO. 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, 




Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. Montreal . 

Ililll QHEIS FOR Kill JOB 

To buy their Winter supply of 

NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

New Good » arriving daily at 

AR Vi STRONG & MUNROE’S, 

.146 it. Cstheiitc Street, 

Foot of Victoria. 



BOOTS 



You •will get full value for 

your money by buying your 
Boots and Shoes at 

A. M. FEATHERS TON, 2243 St. Catherine, 

CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 
BOOK 
CASES 
from 

MONTREAL. | JEES & CO. 

300 St, James St., Montreal. 



TO 



WHEELMEN. 



Before buying your Wheel for the coming season, call in and see the 

"HUMBER” BEESTON 



■ AND TIIE - 

ill 



NEW HOWE/’ 

Tyre and™ he Filial AOEKT, Iuarkel - Tjunk 'P Adjustable 

LOUIS RUBENSTEIN.KITOaioStheet. 



Arlfhow our Rates to 
Students are 
Low, 

We give them the best in 
Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman Sc Son, 17 Bleury St. 



Mill 






la CADENA - and “ LA FLORA ” The Cream of the Havana 



S 

* 

PI 

m 

x 

Z 

o 

M 

2 

N 

m 

co 



m 

r 

u 

► 

Q 

2 

m 

► 



o 

> 

CO 

p 

m 



Crop. 



^CGlbb FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event, 

Vol. I. MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 16, 1893. No. 8 




-^EDITORIAL BOARD<- 



Gordon W. MacDougall, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chief. 

VV. M. MacKeracher, (Arts ’94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



EBUSINESS BOARDS 



H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman. 

E. J. MacIvbr (Arts *93), Secretary . 

J. Featherston (Science *93). Peers Dav’dson, B. A. (Law *93;. 

F. A. Botterell (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. *93). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $i-oo, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
xo cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 

can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chie.f, P.O. Box 37. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 

It was announced in the last number of the Fort- 
nightly that the University had taken a definite step 
towards requiring Students in the professional faculties 
to also take a course in Arts. The importance of the 
movement cannot be too highly appreciated, if McGill 
is to maintain its position and reputation for progress 
amongst American universities ; especially considering 
the opinion so universally expressed in the past few 
years, that of two equally endowed students, the one 
classically trained proves the better student in science. 

Experience has shown that it is impossible to expect 
more than a small minority of men to take the Arts 
course, as it at present stands, before entering one of the 
other faculties. Few can afford either the time or the 
money to spend seven and usually 'eight years in 
University life, and the courses are too heavy to permit 
them being taken simultaneously. Some new plan 
must therefore be devised to enable a student to talce 
two degrees within six years at the most, if the move- 
ment is to be successful. What the plan will be it is 
impossible even to guess, but there is a strong pio- 
bability that all students will devote the first two 
years to Arts alone, the last two to professional studies 
alone, the third and fourth remaining entirely in 
doubt. 



It might be well to glance at the work of other 
Universities ; and as the Faculty of Medicine is the 
strongest in McGill, we will see what are the quali- 
fications necessary for the degree of Bachelor of 
Medicine in Cambridge and Dublin. 

First, in Cambridge, to place them briefly, the can- 
didate must have passed the previous examination 
corresponding to our intermediate in Arts, he must 
have lived three years in residence, he must have spent 
five years in Medical study. There are three examina- 
tions, known as the first, second and third M.B. ex- 
amination, but no medical student can present himself 
for the first unless he have| already conquered his 
Littlego (previous). This latter, however, he can pass 
if he wish, and is able so to do, even before com- 
mencing residence. 

The subjects comprised in the first two examinations 
are : — Chemistry, and other branches of Physics, 
Elementary Biology, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Hu- 
man Anatomy and Physiology. These subjects, along 
with Mineralogy, Geology, Botany, Zoology and Com- 
parative Anatomy, form the Natural Science Tripos 
course, so that the usual course for medical students is 
to enter for this Tripos and take their B.A. degree at 
the end of their third session, and then remove for the 
next two years to a hospital in London, passing their 
third M.B. in that period. 

In Dublin the regulations are more severe. Two 
years in Arts is essential even to obtain a diploma, and 
none but those who have attended four years in Arts 
and obtained the degree of B.A. can get the further 
degree of M.B. The studies, however, can be pursued 
simultaneously, and professional exemptions are granted 
somewhat similar to those in McGill. That these 
exemptions, however, by no means free professional 
students from studies unessential to their respective 
profe-sionsmay be seen from the fact that the following 
subjects are compulsory in the third and fourth years : 
Logics, English Composition, Ethics, Astronomy and 
Mathematical Physics. 

In the first year there are practically no exemptions, 
but in the second, medical students may omit Classics. 

In order to follow either of these two systems a con- 
siderable change must be effected in the curriculum of 
the Arts ’course. Inasmuch as the schools of the 
Dominion do not turn out scholars as far advanced in 
Classics as the English schools, to maintain an equality 
in education in the final result, it would be impossible 
to do otherwise than compel all students to attend the 



132 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



full course in Arts for the first two years. For the 
last two, for those wishing to pursue the study of 
Medicine, a course might be arranged in Arts similar to 
the Natural Science Tripos in Cambridge, but not so 
heavy as to prevent them at the same time from 
undertaking dissecting and attending the hospitals. 
This of course is but a suggestion, and it is for the 
Medical Faculty to say if two years would be sufficient 
to complete the medical course wdth as great efficiency 
as by the present method. 

There should be less trouble with the other pro- 
fessional faculties to arrive at a similar result, as they 
move in more parallel lines. In all cases, however, it 
is apparent that the Faculty of Arts would have to be 
greatly strengthened, as the present staff is utterly 
inadequate to cope with the additional amount of work 
that would be thrown upon it ; and unless some bene, 
factor should come forward to the assistance of the 
main faculty, McGill must remain as it is, and watch 
other Universities lead the way, satisfied with the great 
work she undoubtedly now is doing in the noble cause 
of education. 



ATHLETICS. 



For the last] ten years approximately, and at prac- 
tically the same period in the college session, the an- 
nual meeting of our University Athletic Association has 
taken place.This year the date has been fixed for the 25th 
of February, and a move has been made for the place of 
meeting from the smaller room in the Arts Building 
to the more spacious and commodious quarters of the 
Molson Hall, owing to the large increase in the num- 
bers of the subscribers to the organization. 

As will appear from an article in the Sporting column, 
several questions of great importance will be brought 
up at this meeting for the consideration of our athletes 
and to these it is therefore not our intention to refer at 
greater length. Other and more serious questions 
however, must some day be solved, and each year, as 
the Association grows numerically and as its financial 
resources become greater, they obtrude themselves in a 
more forcible and noticeable manner, and demand a 
solution. 



Does the constitution provide for the best possible 
management for the carrying on of the affairs of the 
Association, and would not a more liberal infusion of the 
graduate element, at least to act as an advisory board 
if not as actual members of the directorate exert 
a modifying influence on what is sometimes hasty and 
ill-advised action ? y 



This suggestion is made in no carping or fault-findir 
spirit, but it is written from a long and personal expl 
lence of the workings of our Athletic organization, 
and as the years roll on, and we find so little substanti 
and lasting benefit accruing to Athletics in general 
the way of the establishment of any permanent, vis’ib 
and tangible institution, the question naturally pre se 
it self-is everything being done that should be done 
foster Athletics in McGill, and are our efforts bein 
directed in the proper channel ? * 



The committees, as formed, have in the past worked 
in a most careful and unselfish manner ; but, as has been 
said, much of their legislation has been necessarily of 
a hasty and immature nature. Too much has been left 
to chance, too much done on the spur of the moment to 
meet what has then been considered an immediate 
necessity. 

The matter of subscriptions has been so lorg a matter 
of debate and difference that it seems almost needless to 
dwell on the subject further. A more equitable manner 
of collecting these most necessary sinew’s of warfare has 
now been inaugurated, and has on the whole w r orked 
very satisfactorily during the session now nearly over. 
A general subscription is a necessity, and a division of 
the amount required fro m each individual to the gen- 
eral fund of the Athletic Association, embracing the 
different organizations, should not be permitted. The 
University Athletic Association should be an organiza- 
tion wdth more or less faculty supervision, composed of 
an advisory board of graduates, and a representative 
committee from the recognized leaders in college 
athletics in the different faculties. The board must be 
a thoroughly responsible one, and the accounts should 
be audited and the report of the same published in 
the Fortnightly at the end of every session. 

These are old suggestions. Graduates of years gone 
by w r ill smile as they again hear them reiterated, but 
they have been so often more honored in the breach 
than in the observance, that a proper understanding 
must some day be come to with regard to these measures, 
and the sooner the better if McGill is to maintain the 
high position she has so far successfully held in the 
Canadian world of manly exercises, and is eventually 
to rise to an even higher degree of importance in that 
sphere commensurate wdth her remarkable growth in 
other respects. 



Disquieting rumors of cholera are in the air, if not 
the actual germs themselves, and opinions are divided 
as to the prospect of it obtaining a foothold here. In 
the event of an outbreak of this veritable plague, the 
Medical Faculty will have a chance of winning 
golden opinions, as the public will instinctively look to 
it for guidance. During the epidemic in Europe last 
summer, the Government appealed to the College of 
Physicians for a set of rules of conduct to prevent or 
cure the disease. If it was bread they asked, it was a 
hard and unappetizing stone they got, and many of the 
laity were found to scoff and jeer and cry, “ Give us 
cholera instead.” The burden of the work will fall upon 
the Pathological department, and it may appear to be 
one of those wise and providential events that Professor 
Adam was sent to preside over it. 



.. ^ . '-cmauian society ot 

Civil Engineers, next week, an important paper will be 
read. It is entitled, “Transmission and Distribution 
is pin ? means of Compressed Air,” and the author 
, ' • mholson, B.Sc. It is understood that 

estimlfr T K b \° fa , highly P ractical »ature, and the 
estimate is to be based upon data obtained in Montreal. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



*33 



Such a paper will be of great value if it presents a 
scheme by which the enormous water power lying at 
the feet of the city can be utilized. Such commercial 
projects are precisely those which the Science Faculty is 
intended to forward, and it is just by such considera- 
tions its value to the country will be made the more 
apparent. 



Much has already been said in our columns of Medical 
Bills and Medical Legislation, but it is hard to resist con- 
gratulating the men in Medicine, especially in the third 
and fourth years, who have had a heavy load lifted 
from their minds by the repeal of the one especially 
obnoxious clause of the Medical Bill which dealt with 
retroactive effect. The representations of the Montreal 
delegation, headed by the Deans of our various facul- 
ties, evidently proved too much for the law-makers, 
and our representatives have the satisfaction of knowing 
that they deserve and will receive the heartfelt 
thanks of those whose little schemes for commencing 
practice in this Province, after the final examinations 
this year, seemed threatened by these provisions. 
Never before has there been such unanimity of opinion 
among the Universities on any one subject as on this 
occasion, and the solid front displayed in opposition 
to this clause of the Bill fortunately had its full effect. 

CONTRIBUTIONS, 

THE FAIRIES OF THE MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S 
DREAM. 

We are told that the publication of Spenser’s “ Faerie 
Queene ” in 1590 made fairy literature more popular 
among English writers. Chaucer, however, long 
before had referred to the popular belief in fairies of 
whom Pluto and Proserpina were king and queen re- 
spectively. At the beginning of the Wife of Bath’s 
Tale we read : — 

“ In olde’ dayes of the king Artour, 

Of which that Bretons speken gret honour, 

All was this lond fulfilled of faerie ; 

Theelfquene with her joly compagnie, 

Danced ful oft in many a grene mede.” 

In the Marcliant’s Tale he describes a well under a 
green laurel tree where 

“ Ful ofte time he Pluto and his quene 
Proserpina, and alle her faerie 
Disporten hem, and maken melodie 
About that well, and daunced, as men told.’' 

But it is certain that in Elizabeths time fairies were 
much in vogue, and no writer has made them so beau- 
tiful, so delicate and so etherial as Shakespere. 

He seems to have blended the elves of the village, 
the diminutive creatures who can creep through key- 
holes and to whom the cowslips are tall, with the Fays or 
Fairies of Romance who are really men with more 
than human powers. His fairies like the elves are 
diminutive, they are fond of dancing, and love cleanli- 
ness. On the other hand, like the Fays of Romance, 
they form a community by themselves ruled over by 
King Oberon and Queen Titania. There is a court 
and chivalry, for we are told Oberon desires the queen’s 



sweet changeling to order that he may make him 
u Knight of his train to trace the forest wild.” Then 
this fairy court has also its jester, in the person of 
Puck or Robin Good-fellow, a shrewd and knavish 
spirit, who is best pleased when things befall preposter- 
ously. 

Oberon and Puck are important characters in Litera- 
ture, and deserve special mention. Oberon or Auberon 
is by Grimm derived from the German Elberich or 
Albrich. I11 passing into French, the / becomes u ) and 
for the German termination ich was substituted the 
diminutive on. Therefore it may be interesting to 
refer to the German legend from which we derive 
the character Oberon. 

The two great collections of German legends are 
known as the Heldenbuch (hero-book) and the Nibe- 
lungen Lied. 

In the Nibelungen Lied the dwarf Albrich is the 
guardian of the Hoard which Siegfried, the hero of the 
poem, captures from the Nibelungen. 

In the story of Otnit in the Heldenbuch he appears 
as Elberich , the most celebrated of dwarfs. The story 
relates how Elberich the dwarf aided the Emperor Otnit 
who ruled in Lombardy to gain the daughter of the 
heathen Soldan of Syria. Otnit having heard of the 
beauty of the Soldan’ s daughter sets out for Syria, 
against the washes of his mother the queen, who, how- 
ever, finding him resolved to go, gives him a ring, and 
directed him to go towards Rome till he comes to a 
linden tree beside a brook, where he will meet with an 
adventure. Otnit rides forth till he comes to the brook. 
And when the Lombarder had looked on the Linden, 
He began to laugh loud ; now list what he said then : 

“ There never yet from tree came so sweet breathing a 

wind.” 

Then saw he how an infant was laid beneath the lind, 
Who had himself full firmly rolled in the grass ; 

Then little the Lombarder knew w r ho he was. 

He bore upon his body so rich and noble a dress, 

No king’s child upon earth e’er did the like possess. 

This child was Elberich w T hom the ring rendered 
visible. After a struggle he is overcome by Otnit, to 
whom he promises as a ransom a magnificent suit of 
armor which is elaborately described. Then Elberich 
persuades Otnit to lend him the ring, upon which the 
dwarf immediately becomes invisible, and rallies Otnit 
upon the whipping he will get from his mother for losing 
the ring. He, however, returns the ring, and promises 
to stand by his friend and to assist him in his enterprise. 

Otnit with his army sets sail from Messina, and when 
they arrive at Sanders (probably Sidon), Elberich, who 
has been sitting unseen on the mast, appears and gives 
his advice together with a stone, which, put into the 
mouth, endows its possessor with the gift of speech 
in all languages. Being admitted to the city under 
the disguise of a merchant, Otnit proposes to murder 
the inhabitants during the night, which the dwarf 
indignantly forbids. Elberich sets out for Muntabur 
(Mount Tabor), the royal residence, but the Soldan, 
enraged at the insolence of the invisible envoy, orders 
him to be put to death. He returns in safety, however* 



134 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and alter a battle in which the Soldan’s people get 
worsted, he, still invisible except to the possessor of the 
ring, acts as guide to the capital Muntabur, seated upon 
a horse and holding a banner. 

The army, when they see the horse and banner ad- 
vancing apparently of themselves, cross themselves, 
but Otuit tells them that an angel is their guide, and 
the troops thus encouraged follow their invisible guide 
to the walls of Muntabur. Elberich enters the city, 
and when the Soldan again refuses, he plucks out some 
of his Majesty’s beard while his guards in vain thrust at 
the viewless tormentor. Meanwhile a furious battle 
rages, and the queen and the princess resort to prayers 
to their gods. The princess is thus described : 

Her mouth flamed like a rose, and like the ruby stone, 
And equal to the full moon her lovely eyes thev shone. 

With roses she bedecked had well her head, 

And with pearls precious—, no one comforted the 
maid : 

She was of exact stature, slender in the waist, 

And turned like a taper was her body chaste. 

Her hands and her arms you naught in them could 
blame, 

Her nails they so clear were, people saw themselves in 
them ; 

And her hair ribbons were of silk costly, 

Which she left down hanging, the maiden fair and 
free. 

Elberich tries to get her to become a Christian and to 
marry Otnit ; and to convince her of the impotence of 
her gods, he throws their images into the ditch. She at 
last is overcome by his representations, and permits the 
dwarf to lead her out of the city to Otnit, who returns 

with her to Messina. She asks Otnit about his God, 

the God of the Christians— and says that He came' to 
bring her to him. Otnit, however, tells her that she 
is mistaken, that the envoy was only Elberich. 

She then desires to see him, and at Otnit’s request 
the dwarf reveals himself. 

Then Elberich, the little, a harp laid hold upon ; 

Full rapidly he touched the strings every one 

In so sweet a measure that the hall did resound; 

All that him beheld then, they felt a joy profound. 

After bestowing upon Otnit riches, and bidding him 
remunerate those who had lost relatives in his expedi- 
tion, Elberich takes his leave of the King, and 
vanishes. 

Leaving now the German Elberich, let us look at 
the brench Oberon of the Romance of Sir Huon de 
Bordeaux. Huon encounters in Syria an old follower 
of his family, who in reply to his question regarding the 
way to Babylon informs him that there are two roads— 
one long and safe, the other short and dangerous, leading 
through a wood, where dwells a king, Oberon the Fay I 
only three feet in height but with an angelic face He 
wishes to speak with all who enter the wood, but thee 
who speak to him are lost for evermore, while with 
those who will not speak to him he is passing wroth 



and will cause it to blow and to hail, with thunder and 
lightning, as if the world were coming to an end. 
‘'Then you will think that you see a great flowing 
river before you, wondrously black and deep ; but 
know, sire, that right easily will you be able to go 
through it without wetting the feet of your horse, for 
it is nothing but a phantom and enchantments that the 
dwarf will make for you, because he wishes to have 
you with him ; and if it so be that you keep firm to 
your resolve, not to speak to him, you will be surely 
able to escape.” 

Huon for a time followed the advice given, but at 
last he determined to await the dwarf. “ The Dwarf 
Fay came riding through the wood, and was clad in a 
robe .so exceeding fine and rich that it would be a mar- 
vel to relate it for the great and marvellous riches that 
were upon it ; for so much was there of precious stones 
that the great lustre that they cast was like unto the 
sun when he shinetli full clear. And there withal he 
bore a right fair bow in his fist, so rich that no one 
could value it, so fine it was ; and the arrow that he 
bore was of such sort and manner, that there was no 
beast in the world that he wished to have, that it did 
not stop at that arrow. He had at his neck a rich 
horn which was hung with two rich strings of fine 
gold.” 

Oberon informs Huon that he is the son of Julius 
Caesar and the lady of the Hidden Island. At his birth 
were many a noble prince and fairy, but one fairy un- 
happily was not invited, and her gift was that he should 
not grow after his third year. Afterwards she repented, 
and made him the most beautiful of Nature’s works. 
Other fairies gave him various gifts : of penetrating the 
thoughts of others ; of transporting himself from place 
to place ; of raising and removing castles palaces, gar- 
dens and banquets. Oberon also informed Huon that 
he was lord ofMommur, and that when heshould leave 
this world his seat was prepared for him in Paradise. 

When after some time Oberon comes to Huon at 
Bordeaux and effects a reconciliation between him and 
Charlemagne, he informs Huon that soon he will leave 
this world, “ en faerie ne veux plus demeurer , M and 
bids him appear at Mornmur within four years, and he 
will crown him as his successor. 

Thus we have glanced at the amiable character of the 
prototype of Shakespere’s Oberon, and have no space 
left for the discussion of Puck, who must therefore be 
reserved for some other occasi on. 

W. J. Messenger. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. 

1 he University of Virginia, while not taking so high 
a rank as \ ale and Harvard, has played and still plays 
no inconsiderable part in the education of the neighbor- 
ing Republic. Its survival of and its growth since 
the War are sufficient proofs of its vitality ; and the 
names that figure in its list of Graduates are faithful 
witnesses of its efficiency. Its existence — due princi- 
pally to Thomas Jefferson, whose name is inseparably 
connected with the Declaration of Independence-dates 



McGill fortnightly. 



from the year 1819. Its buildings were erected under 
that statesman’s supervision, and largely from his own 
p ans, within sight of and about four miles from Monte- 
cello, his picturesque home, among the foothills of the 
Blue Ridge. 

The limits of this sketch will not allow me to refer to 
the beauties of this most charming bit of Virginia, 
amid which the University lies ; nor can I go minutely 
even were I able, into a history of its work. I must 
confine myself to the general characteristics that may 
possibly be interesting to students of another country. 

In comparison with our own Alma Mater, the first 
noticeable difference is that this University is practically 
in the country. It is true the town of Charlottesville 
is close at hand, but the University is outside the limits 
and almost independent of it. For this reason the Pro- 
fessional Faculties seem to me to be at a disadvantage. 
The Medicals have no hospitals to visit, and the Law 
Students no courts to attend. It may be for this very 
reason, however, that their courses are so much shorter 
than ours. But it seems to our advantage to apply our 
theory to actual practice as we acquire it. What we do 
is much more easily remembered than what we read. 

Another difference, this time to Virginia’s credit, is 
that, there, there are students’ residences. To describe 
them it will be necessary to give some account of the 
grouping of the buildings, an arrangement that does 
credit to Jefferson’s architectural ability. The main 
building, from its shape called the rotunda, is topped 
by a glistening dome that can be seen for miles around, 
and has a portico modelled after the Parthenon. 
Although the pillars of the portico are imitation mar- 
ble-bricks painted white— the capitals are Italian 
marble, carved, as tradition saith, by Italian workmen 
brought over by Jefferson, and whose descendants are 
still in Charlottesville. This building is used for class 
rooms and offices, and also holds the library, a spacious 
circular hall just under the dome. Immediately behind 
the rotunda and connected with it by a Grecian colon 
ade is the Convocation or Commencement Hall, under 
which are more class rooms. In front of the rotunda 
stretches a terraced and tree-bordered lawn or series of 
lawns, several hundred yards in length and about one 
hundred in width. On each side of the lawn are Pro- 
fessors’ houses, opening into wide arcades and separated 
from one another by occasional students’ rooms. Above 
the arcades are long terraces, the cool resorts of the 
“ Powers that be” on summer evenings, and vantage 
grounds whence the stranger catches glimpses of peer- 
less Virginia scenery. The Professors’ gardens lie just 
behind their houses. They are enclosed by brick walls, 
that for reasons of economy are but one brick in thick- 
ness, and for increased strength have been built in 
regular curves. At the foot of the gardens, and sep- 
arated from them by grassy lanes, are the main-body of 
students’ rooms. They are but one storey in height, 
and, like their superiors’ houses, open into long arcades, 
of course much less pretentious than those on the 
“ Lawns.” These rooms are called the “ Ranges,” and if 
you have been able to follow my halting description, you 
will see that there are two “Ranges,” — the East and 
West — corresponding to the East and West “ Lawns.” 



135 



These do not include all the residences nor all the 
College buildings ; there are others in different quar- 
ters of the extensive grounds that would be sufficiently 
difficult to describe even had I more accurate know- 
ledge of their position, so I shall merely say that there 
are others. There is a Medical building separate ; an 
observatory on the summit of a neighboring hill, Mount 
Jefferson ; and a charming chapel, where the University 
qbaplain, assisted by a student organist and a students’ 
choir, conducts service every Sunday, has recently been 
built quite near the Rotunda. 

The esprit de- corps that this close companionship 
gives was ably discussed in a previous issue, and I need 
only remark that it produces the same results in Vir- 
ginia as in every other University that is fortunate 
enough to have this system. There are societies with- 
out end, — literary, social and musical. There are prac- 
tical jokes and hazings, and secret societies whose 
initiations are wrapped in awful mystery. One of the 
recognized usages, productive of much mirth among 
the tormenters and maledictions on the part of 
the tormented, called “ dyking,” is never met with up 
here, at least so far as I know. The unfortunate object 
issues from his room in serene anticipation of an even- 
ing to be passed amid the entrancing delights of waltzes 
and rosy cheeks and smiling lips. But no sooner has 
he locked his door and pocketed the key, than every 
pillar along the Arcade sends out a man, and the air 
resounds with the ominous cry of “Dyke! Dyke!” 
and blasts from tin horns and thumps on tin pans. He 
is seized and hurried to the Rotunda steps, where he is 
ordered to make a speech, while his every utterance is 
drowned in indescribable hubbub. When released, he is 
late, his tie is soiled, his shirt is crushed and his temper 
is ruffled. Such was the custom some years ago, and I 
suppose such is the custom still. 

Of athletics the students are not neglectful. A few 
months ago I had the pleasure of seeing them play the 
Pennsylvania College Football Team, and give them — 
a team that has beaten Princeton — only 32 points. They 
have a Gymnasium, a Boat House on the Rivanna 
about three miles from the University, and large though 
rather heavy grounds. Football and baseball fields and 
numerous tennis courts have been laid out as well. The 
subject of athletics is under the general control of a 
committee of the Faculty, and under the special direc- 
tion of the Students’ Athletic Association. 

“Of everyone hundred students,” says an Under- 
graduates’ publication, “sixteen play tennis, fourteen 
play football, thirteen play baseball, and twenty take 
the gymnasium work.” If you multiply these figures 
by five or five and a half you will have about the actual 
number of students who support the different sports. 

The Y. M. C. A. is a large and influential body. It 
is the oldest Association among the Universities, and 
has been in active operation since 1858. It has special 
tennis and football grounds, and supports separate teams 
for baseball and football. This Society is erecting or 
about to erect a building for its members— a movement 
that \tfe hope McGill will soon follow. 

But we must pass on to a glance at the Staff and the 



136 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



work done by the University, which is the only criterion 
of its worth. There are twenty-one Professors and ten In- 
structors, who correspond, I imagine, to our Lecturers. 
These are the Professors of all Schools or Faculties, a 
much smaller number than we have. The difference 
of our systems appears to me, as a McGill man, to be 
decidedly in our favor. Again it lies chiefly in the 
Professional Faculties. In Virginia, taking Medicine 
as an example, there are eight Professors whose time is 
practically wholly devoted to the Students. Here we 
have eighteen Professors and three or four Assistants, 
who give an hour or two a day to the College. I need 
hardly point out our advantage to my fellow-students. 
It is sufficient to mention it. 

The Academical course is presided over by nine Pro- 
fessors and one or two Instructors. The work is very 
thorough ; but the courses are considerably shorter than 
ours, a hard worker being able to take an M.A. in three 
years. It must be remembered, of course, that these 
years are equal to one and a half of ours. The session 
is one of nine months duration, and holidays are few and 
far between. The system is elective. Students are 
therefore allowed to elect for themselves the courses of 
study to which they are led by their individual tastes 
and proposed pursuits in life, so far as the times 
appointed for lectures and examinations permit. This 
system is one very complimentary to the student. It 
recognizes that he has arrived at years of discretion 
when he can choose for himself, and that he has enough 
energy to stick to the road he maps out. Although 
complimentary, it seems to us a little dangerous, espe- 
cially for the younger students. Our system of com- 
pulsory courses for the first two years, and then a 
limited power of election, seems preferable. 

Lectures are delivered from eight a.m. until half past 
four p.m. every week day. Saturday is an ordi- 
nary working day with these Southerners; they are 
probably not far enough South to be touched with the 
proverbial indolence of warmer climes. Christmas 
brings but one holiday. After three years conscientious 
work and regular attendance at lectures, a man endowed 
with ordinary ability, and who has passed the examina- 
tions in Latin, Greek, Modern Languages, Moral Phil- 
osophy, Pure Mathematics, Natural Philosophy and 
General Chemistry may receive the degree of M.A. 

The University Library, originally selected and 
arranged by Jefferson, now contains about 50,000 
volumes. 

The Brooks Museum is a large well furnished build- 
ing, but hardly comes up to ours. The Observatory is 
more favorably situated, and much better equipped 
apparently than ours, but I doubt if any better work is 
done. 

I might extend this sketch to greater length, but it 
is only the general features of a sister University that 
are interesting to us ; and I might be accused of claim- 
ing too much importance for a University that I once 
regarded as my probable Alma Mater. 

• 

A. Rives Haee. 



SOML ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

( Continued.) 

(Occasion of Delivery.) 

In the next place, a few w'ords on the teaching of 
Classics in High schools. Let us get a glimpse of an 
Elizabethan school for a few moments. Mention has 
been made of John Brinsley, the elder, who was the 
master of a school in Leicestershire, and it so happens 
that the autobiography of one of John Brinsley’s boys 
has come down to us. The boy in question was Wil- 
liam Lilly, the famous astrologer, the Sidrophel of 
Butler’s Hudibras. Lilly’s curious life, his strange 
prominence, his dealings with those of rank in the 
social and political world, his almanacs, his relation to 
parlies in the troublous time during which he lived, 
are interesting only to antiquarians and to those who 
fancy the so-called science of which Lilly was a re- 
nowned exponent. The conceit of the man vitiates, no 
doubt, the account of his school days, but allowance can 
be made for that. He was, so he says, in the highest 
class of John Brinsley's school for two years, and “ chief- 
est ” of that form. His knowledge of Latin enabled 
him, according to his statement, to speak it as well as 
English. He could make extempore verses of all kinds 
hexameters, pentameters, phaleuciacs, iambics, sap- 
phics— upon any theme. If any rival scholars came from 
a distance, Lilly was the pupil chosen to uphold the 
honor of his school ; or if a minister chanced to visit 
the school for the purpose of examining' it, the minister 
and Lilly held discourse in Latin, and Lilly tells us 
that sometimes the minister’s Latin was not all that it 
might be. On glancing over the list of books used 
in the school, we find that although it contains certain 
authors no longer read, it does not contain more than 
is read now, with the exception of a little Hebrew. A 
similar curriculum is presented to us if we turn to a 
metropolitan school. At the time when William Lilly 
v as ostentatiously holding his own, and more than his 
own, according to his account, against visiting minis- 
ters, John Milton was on the eve of entering St. Paul’s 
School. We can picture the boy of handsome intellec- 
tual face and bright eye, walking in the shadow of Old 
St. Paul s, with its spire shooting up more than five 
hundred feet into London air much clearer than Lon- 
don air now, and withits long middle aisle the fashion- 
able resort of city loungers in the Elizabethan and 
early Stuart days. In St. Paul’s School he was taught 
Latin and Greek and a modicum of Hebrew. From an 
intellectual armoury like this, increased as years went 
on, he drew weapons that told with marked effect in 
poem and pamphlet. With such weapons he drove 
home arguments in the most solemn and convincing 
p ea for liberty of speech which our own nation or, for 
iat matter, any nation in the world can show, and 
w ich men as long as any instinct of manhood is left in 
them will not willingly let die. The intellectual 
armory which Milton used, his opponents used also. 

e ave ecided that the weapons are antiquated, 
rusty, worn out ; that it is high time to lock up such 

vas^TTa 11 theSe da>S ° f extended horizons and 
vast scientific conquests. Lock it up, if such is the 

universal verdict. The weapons are old beyond re 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



covery, some of them ; but see that your new weapons 
are equally effective, not in the sphere of knowledge 
but in the sphere of education. Yet there is no such 
universal verdict ; there is a cry for readjustment and 
for improved method. Classical verse-making is becom- 
ing a thing of the past, whereas in the days of Lilly it 
was an exercise recognized everywhere ; in fact, a 
short time ago it was expunged from the curriculum of 
the German schools. The decree which effected this 
was no doubt a wise one, and yet on the other hand the 
opinion of classical scholars of a high type like Prof. 
Jebb, that the finest atmosphere of the classics can be 
breathed only by those who have a practical acquaint- 
ance with verse structure, is no doubt true. Behind 
Greek poetical art lies Greek rhythm, just as behind 
English poetical art lies English rhythm. A 
change of feeling or a turn in the action of the play is 
marked by a new metre. What idea of this side, the 
artistic side of a Greek play, can be conveyed through 
a translation which presents everything in blank verse, 
or, worse still, in prose ? However, the change of metre 
can, it is true, be detected, and in some degree appre- 
ciated by a reader incapable of writing Greek verse, but 
this limited appreciation demands a knowledge of the 
beat of poetic rhythm. If modern classical training in 
Latin continues to require knowledge of Latin quantity, 
one cannot say that sporadic references to it, or the com- 
mitting to memory of imperfect grammar lists, is the 
scientific method. Still, this question of composition 
in verse does not bear pointedly on the present 
argument. What is to be aimed at by schools which 
have a fairly developed classical side is to lead their 
pupils to a simple working knowledge of easy Latin 
and Greek. If the steps of our forefathers cannot be 
followed in this matter, then we had better forsake them. 
The greater Universities are moving to the point of 
demanding from candidates for entrance the translation 
at sight of very easy passages from the Classics, and this 
is the one speedy and unerring test of classical acquire- 
ments. So far as Canada is concerned, it would do away 
with the difficulties that perplex teachers of Classics in 
their attempt to adjust their requirements so as to meet 
the courses prescribed in the various Provinces. It may 
be said that the New World sets no store at all by the 
Classics, but appearances Drove far otherwise. Among 
the letters of Arthur Hugh Clough, I find one dated 
February 21st, 1853, in which a reference to Harvard is 
made. Clough was anxious to leave London and to try 
his fortune as a teacher of Latin, Greek or English in 
America. Emerson urged him to cross the water, 
which he did, arriving at Boston about three months 
before the date just mentioned. After speaking of the 
buildings and the social life at Cambridge, Clough says 
that the students “ learn French and history and 
German, and a great many more things than in 
England, but only imperfectly/’ This was an early 
impression, of course, but granting that it was a true 
one in the case of an Oxford man who had devoted 
himself to literary pursuits and to teaching for some 
years, it cannot hold good now— it bears witness to the 
past, not the present. I shall refer to Harvard again 
presently ; but what I wish to point out now is that the | 



137 



Classics are not considered by Americans to belong to 
dead formulas, that is, to formulas which have no 
bearing on the activities of life. Life is not a sum of 
activities ; it is a mixture of activity and thought. It is 
not absolute, but relative to the past as well as to the 
present. America seems to me to possess a fair share 
of classical vigor. American firms publish school 
editions of the Classics, which in the matter of general 
neatness and good type can take their place by the side 
of similar productions from an English house ; indeed, 
the best school Greek grammar written in English 
comes from an American. And the new methods 
repeat the ancient. The old lamp by which Ascham 
led his pupils along the ways of learning is re-lit when 
the mode of double translation is quoted in full as 
being the best known to the educational world. 

If French and German are to take the place of Latin 
and Greek, the same goal has to be striven for — the 
attainment in schools of a simple working knowledge 
of modern languages before a pupil leaves school and 
enters a University. Here again there is no roy al road 
to learning, although many roads profess to be prac- 
tical and speedy. I remember, when I was at college, 
seeing in a shop-window a figure of a man printed on 
a card, and this figure appeared to be resolving itself 
into a coruscation of rays. Rays issued from the eyes, 
the mouth, from every part of the body, indeed. The 
object of this wonderful phenomenon was to teach 
French genders in — I am afraid to say how short a 
time. It is beyond the power of any radiation to teach 
French genders, for French genders can be learnt only 
by practice, and the most practical method in the case of 
pupils who have some knowledge of Latin is the scien- 
tific, the historical. However, it is in the matter of 
German that some of the so-called practical works are 
extremely unpractical and unscientific. A person is 
supposed to come to the learning of German with a 
fair English vocabulary. (To be co?itmued .) 



INNOCENTS ABROAD. 

BY THREE OF THEM. 

The question, “ What shall I do after graduation ? ” 
is no doubt beginning to agitate the minds of many of 
the final class in Medicine. To give what help we can 
in answering this momentous question is the object we 
have in view in writing down a few of our own 
experiences whilst strangers in a strange land. To 
those intending to go to Austria or Germany the first 
piece of advice is “ get a passport.” This may be 
obtained from the mayor of any city, or by British 
subjects in either London or Edinburgh, on payment of 
a small fee. 

The day after we arrived in Vienna we received 
a notice, which by the aid of a dictionary and three 
phrase-books we made out as a command to report 
ourselves at a certain police office without delay. We 
did so, armed with our passports. A polite official 
asked us some questions in German which we answered 
in English. As neither understood a word that the 
other said, the result was no doubt very instructive. 



138 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Then we showed our passports, were recognized as 
honest folk and were allowed to depart. If we had 
not had passports we stood a good chance of being 
locked up pending further investigations. Having 
obtained a passport, the first objective point, or rather 
base of operations, is London. There the traveller may 
remain for a time, or thither he may return after spend- 
ing a time on the continent. Should he desire to 
obtain an English qualification, there are three which 
he may choose from : (i) The double qualification of 
London (M.R.C.S. and L R C P ) ; (2) the triple 
qualification of Edinburgh and Glasgow (LR.C.S.E , 
L.R.C.P.E. and L.F.P.S.G.) ; and (3) The Licentiate of 
Apothecaries Hall of London (L.S.A.). The fees for 
these examinations range from twenty to thirty-five 
guineas (one hundred to one hundred and seventy-five 
dollars). 

But an English qualification may not be desired, 
a further course of study may be what is required. 
Then our traveller must make up his mind whether 
he will remain in London or go to the continent, and 
the decision will depend entirely upon individual 
circumstances. To most, however, we think that it is 
better to push on at once to Berlin or Vienna. In 
either of these places, especially the latter, many of 
the Professors and Instructors speak English, so that 
good work may be done and instruction obtained while 
learning the language, and in that way no time is 
wasted. Having decided to go to Vienna we wend 
our way to either Cook or Gaze and buy a ticket from 
London to our destination. Leaving behind all 1 
luggage (remember we are in England where baggage I 
is unknown) except a couple of bags which can be ! 
carried by the owner, we start for foreign shores. The 
reason for leaving behind our trunks is that it costs 
enormously to carry anything on the train except what 
you can take into the carriage with you. 

Having left London, in a couple of days we arrive 
in \ ieuna, and then our troubles begin. We leave 
our things at the station and go forth to look for 

rooms. This is just where the phrase-book shines. It 
contains all imaginable questions about things which 
no one can possibly want, but in regard to hiring 
rooms and similar useful projects it is silent, absolutely 
and blankly silent. 

Not to be daunted we throw the three phrase-books 
aside and resort to the dictionary. We find that lassen 
means to let and that zimmer is room. Then by a 
herculean effort we, working conjointly, evolve the 
sentence ‘‘ Haben sie zimmer zu lassen.” The effect 
on the inhabitants is wonderful, their politeness 
succumbs and they smile, the smile broadens and they 
laugh. We find out later what they were laughing at, 
but we did not know any better then. Nevertheless' 
we in time hire two rooms for fifty florins a month (a 
florin or gulden is worth about forty cents). This 
divided among three was not very costly lodging. ' 
Our board and lodging cost us each about twenty-five 
dollars a month. At a pension the rate is about thirty- 
five dollars. Having got settled in our apartments 
the next day, after visiting the police station, we ! 
proceed to make enquiries about classes for various j 



subjects. We find that classes are held by the 
Professors, by the Docents and by the Professors’ 
Assistants. The Professors hold the classes required 
by the University and which the Students are required 
to attend. The Pi'ivat Docenten are attached to the 
hospital, but their classes are private and require a 
special fee of from eight to ten dollars. The Assis- 
tant holds classes like the Docents, and in addition 
are always ready, for a consideration, to get up special 
classes in clinical and special subjects, using the 
material supplied by the wards of their Professor. 

To attend classes at the hospital it is necessary to 
register at the University, and this is a complex and 
lengthy process. First the necessary papers are bought 
from the Porter of the University for a cent or two, 
two yellow papers and a large white one. These you 
must fill out and leave at the Dean’s office to be 
stamped. This costs nothing, but takes about twenty- 
four hours. One of the yellow papers is kept here, and 
a green one is given in its place. You then proceed 
with these to the Quaestor’s office and you pay your 
fees. He returns you the white and green papers, 
after stamping them, but keeps the yellow one, giving 
you a matriculation card in exchange. You also fill 
out a small white paper for the Professor. The classes 
last for a month or six weeks, and as soon as one ends 
another begins. When taking a class for the first time 
the fees must be paid to the Quaestor, but if continu- 
ing in the same class the fees may be paid direct to 
the Professor, and he signs your paper, which consti- 
tutes both a receipt and a certificate of having attended 
the class. 

( To be continued .) 



THE SOPHOMORE’S SONG. 

Air — “ I took my charming Dolly to the Windsor assemblee.” 

I took the course in Botany, of which I node a pile 
(Be this profession in my pome no stigma on its style ) ; 

But they stay-men for their anthers , and results depressed my 
soul ; 

I took a drupe and tried to creep within a peti *ols. 

Oh ! I 11 never forget my Botany, I’ll never forget my 
plants ; 

But I m sorry I tramped the Mountain in my newest Sun- 
day pants. 

I studied mathematics, all of cosine and of sine, 

And used to hear about the dyne just when I wished to dine ; 

I pondered o’er the tables when my soul was out of tune 

A very agreeable book it is for Saturday afternoon. 

Oh ! 1 11 never forget m3’ Algebra, fo/ I knew none at all, 
But I’m sorry I ^didn’t hire a 'man to stay and “hold the 
wall.” 

I studied Fransay also, too, till I could read and write 
And parler like a man in-Seine or like a Parasite. 

With Rasselas I»ld wrastle as a lion with a child ; 

The shades of Ponsard and Racine upon my learning smiled. 

° h J rU never for S et niy parlez-vous. I’ll never forget my 
French ; * J 

But I’m sorry the Science men were there and the room had 
such a stench. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



>39 



I watched the lights of Logic flash and wondered at the prism ; 
I learned the Tree of Porphyry and Polly* s -syllogism. 

I know the ode to Barbara which Caesar wrote one day, 

But f all I say were true, they say ’t would be a fallacy. 

Oh ! I’ll never forget my Logic, I will never forget to note ; 
But I’m sorry I took a first class stand and half ashamed I 
wrote. 

I took the course in Classics — when there’s Zeny phun I do. 
And I plugged the blooming Livy till I had a livy'd hue. 

For Socrates old Plato wrote a fine Apology , 

As likewise I for Plato — tc Ah ! you play-too much,” said he. 

Oh ! I’ll never forget my Latin, I will never forget my 
Greek, 

But I’m sorry I sloped the lectures more than once or twic e 
a week. 

I took the English lectures and attended right along, 

And irom the cup of eloquence I quaffed the wines of song. 

The whole of In Memoriam I can repeat by rote, 

And from the Idylls of the King quite frequently I quote. 

Oh ! I’ll never forget my Wordsworth, I will never forget 
my Scott, 

But I’m sorry there’s no machine to read the notes a fellow’s 
got. 

CAP’N GOWN. 



THE TORONTO— McGILL DEBATE. 

‘‘Your Annual Debate was a success — a decided 
success,” said our friends on Friday e\ening, 10th inst, 
as they filed out of the venerable old Molson’s Hall. 
And truly everyone seemed pleased. The ihall was 
packed with an appreciative and admiring audience, 
among whom we saw many of McGill’s staunchest 
supporters. Donaldas, whose presence is always 
appreciated, were there in good numbers ; about two 
hundred boisterous students representing all the faoul' 
ties were there to see that everyone was “ all right 
William was there, and of course Mr. Hamilton, whose 
face, now sober, now smiling, showed that he did not 
forget the responsibility of his position although much 
amused by the proceedings at the other end of the hall. 
The tired reporters had made ready, and about eight 
o’clock President Donahue in his own happy way 
called the meeting to order. 

Before the debate came on the audience was favored 
with a recitation by P. D. Muir, Arts ’93, a solo by 
G- Read, both well rendered and much appreciated ; 
and then Alouette was sung by the Students, F. H. 
Graham, Arts ’94, taking the solo. 

Then Prof. Moyse, who kindly acted as judge, got 
his pencils and foolscap ready as the chairman 
announced the subject of debate, “ Resolved that 
Canada would be benefited by the bestowal on woman 
of the Franchise and Representation in Parliament,” 
and called on Mr. Bull of Toronto University to open 
the affirmative. He is a public speaker of no mean 
ability, and made a capital speech. With eloquent 
words and well rounded periods he maintained that 
woman should share in the actual administration of the 
affairs of the country. Why compel her to obey laws 
she does not enact ? Immigrants come to our country, 
who know little or nothing of the needs of their newly 
adopted land, and yet they are given a voice in the 
administration, while women who have spent long lives 



of hardship perhaps, and usefulness, have no voice. In 
many cases the wife has to toil and support the family, 
but her indolent husband alone has the power of mak- 
ing the laws and electing our legislators. The assessor 
and tax collector both visit woman, but the electioneer 
does not ; it is a mistake to suppose the proposed 
change would cause woman to lose her charms. Is 
she any less womanly because she enters commercial 
life to earn an honest livelihood ? No, she is more to 
be admired on that account. “ Are they not showing 
their grasp of the political situation and their true 
knowledge of statesmanship ? ” See England’s Queen, 
and, farther back in history, Queen Elizabeth and 
Queen Ann, whose reigns mark three of the most bril- 
liant chapters of English History. ‘ ‘ Then why should 
she not have a say in the education of her children and 
in the vaccination of her babies ? ” 

It is nothing but the mere accident of sex that has 
kept her out of Parliament. 

Mr. Bull sat down amid great applause and cheers 
for Varsity. 

Mr. J. T. Brown, Arts ’93, was next called on to 
support the negative, and after the boys assured him 
that he was “ all right,” he commenced what proved 
to be a most vigorous and successful speech. He 
thought woman, at least the woman of Canada, had no 
reason to complain about her present lot. Everywhere 
she meets with respect from the sterner sex. No 
matter how tired he gives up his seat in the street car, 
and however cold the blast he raises his hat. The 
question is not as to woman’s fitness for political life, 
but is that life a fit one for her to enter ? Intellectually 
she is qualified ; but being more emotional by nature 
than man, she should resign political life to him and 
guard rather the interests of society — a work of the 
utmost importance. To send our mothers to parlia- 
ment would be a reversal of the natural order of things ; 
it would be disastrous to the highest interests of the 
family and of the State in general to have the mother 
absent for weeks at a time. “ The hand that rocks the 
cradle rules the world.” Were she to enter the public 
arena, attend boisterous political meetings, and publicly 
confront masculine opponents, she would lose her 
dignity, and the effect would certainly be a blunting of 
those finer sensibilities that are found only in woman- 
Man’s morality is due largely to the refining influence 
of woman ; but let her enter with him into public life, 
and his respect for her will be lessened and her own 
refinement — nay, even her chastity — will undoubtedly 
suffer. “We stand in defence of woman and our homes, 
and follow the lines that Nature has clearly marked 
out.” • 

After the usual applause Mr. Hellems of Varsity was 
called to speak for the affirmative. Mr. Hellems has a 
very pleasing manner, and his speech had a classical 
ring. He is already a great favorite with McGill boys ? 
and will receive a cordial welcome if he should return 
to Montreal at any future time. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, he squandered a few precious minutes in extolling 
the beauties of Montreal and in speaking of the kind- 
ness shown them by the college men. Then he began 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



140 



by tracing the relative position of woman from early 
times down to the present. In the dawn of history she is 
a slave, or lower ; in Persia her position has improved, 
so also in later times in Greece and Rome, but even here 
the chief development of intellect is among men, woman 
being merely “ a social appendage.” On this account 
it may be said these nations sank into licentiousness 
and finally into oblivion. Later on, the Teutonic times 
ushered in the age of chivalry, and woman suddenly 
found herself enthroned on a lofty seat and regarded 
by man as his superior. And to day this question 
simply denotes the onward march of woman’s position 
— a regular progress, not a Utopian or Platonic ab- 
straction but a tangible reality. “ Canada is said to be 
the picture of health, but the flush is that of the 
canker.” Corruption is rampant and becoming irresist- 
ible. Enfranchise woman, and she will cast her vote 
against this ; admit her to public affairs, and her influ- 
ence will be sure to tell, for greater purity. 

It is wrong to suppose .she must sacrifice her chastity 
and womanliness ; she remaius true in the most trying 
crises, and her virtue is not attacked by secular pur- 
suits, nor do her affections become calloused by years 
of endurance. 

As Mr. Hellems sat down the audience applauded, 
and the pent up feelings of the Students in the rear 
found their usual expression, after which Mr. A. Gra- 
ham, Arts ’93, spoke in the negative. His speech 
showed the wisdom of the Students in selecting him. 
He spoke in his usual masterly style, and showed that 
his companionship with Plato, Aristotle, Kant, 
Schwegler, etc., has not unfitted him for the more 
practical studies and duties of life. After referring to 
some of the arguments of his opponents, he went on to 
say that there was no general desire for this proposed 
change, and no alteration was made or should be made 
in nature until there was need for it. Women in 
Canada are free ; their rights are protected by the 
Government. Her interests are indissolubly connected 
with those of her husband, and he really legislates for 
the whole household ; she is his partner, their interests 
are common, — in fact, man embraces woman ! But his 
opponents wish to make her not a helpmeet but an 
“ opponent-meet.” Again, if woman were enfranchised, 
the power of the Roman Catholic clergy would be 
greatly enhanced, since the Roman Catholic woman is 
compelled to lay bare her feelings before her spiritual 
adviser at the confessional. As stated before, she now 
holds an honored place — she is the idol of the race, and 
to her many sacrifices are offered ; but if she has to 
jostle against the .strife and envy of public life, men 
will no longer worship at her shrine ; her womanly 
charms are dearer and more precious than political 
rights. Further, the sterner duties of citizenship would 
fall upon her. If necessary, she would have to fight, 
which was possible only in the days of the Amazons. 
Moreover, to give her the franchise would be to intro- 
duce another “ bone of contention ” in the home ; there 
are enough bones there now. If husband and wife 
were of the same mind nothing would be gained by 
allowing her to vote, for the total number of votes polled 
on each side would simply be doubled. Let woman 



work the reforms the political and social worlds need, 
in the home. There she has power and influence, and, 
if she embraces her opportunity, she can train up a new 
generation of men and women who will do honor to 
her, to her country and her God. 

Mr. Bull then closed the debate, cleverly meeting 
many of the arguments of his opponents. After which 
Prof. Moyse in an admirable manner summed up the 
discussion and allowed the audience to decide who had 
won. The vote resulted in a majority for the nega- 
tive. 

The debate over one item of importance still remained 
on the programme ; this was the reading of a poem of 
177 lines prepared for the occasion by W. M. Mc* 
Keracher, Arts ’94. It was listened to with wrapt at- 
tention, and the men of McGill, especially, were proud 
of the bard of ’94. 

The first part was chiefly remarkable for the number 
and ingenuity of its puns, but when the part became 
more serious and spokeof our friendly attitude towards 
Varsity, of the common bonds uniting us, and of the 
high positions to which the late head of Varsity and 
the present honored head of old McGill have attained, 
he did it splendidly and won well merited applause. 
Referring to the late Principal of Varsity, Sir Daniel 
Wilson, he said : — 

A strong toiler, a liigli soul, and the stay 
Of truth and right, the hater of the wrong, 

The friend of youth and lover of the song, 

The vindicator of the restless boy 

Who would not bide the tardy footed fame 

But quench the fire he could not hope to tame. 

Whose scant existence hereto guerdon won 
But immortality— poor Chatterton ! 

Of Cromwell, too, Great Britain’s greatest king, 

Who needed not the regal crown to bring 
Him homage of a realm he had made free ; 

Nor sceptre to make bend the haughty knee. 

The foreign tyrant from oppression cease, 

Till far off shepherds worship God in peace. 

After a few parting words by the Varsity men, in 
which they expressed their thanks for the hospitality 
tendered them, and for the kind references to their late 
President made by Mr. McKeraeher, a hearty vote of 
thanks was tendered Prof. Moyse, and the audience 
dispersed while the choir in the rear sang “ Hop along, 
Sister Mary,” for the smiling Donaldas as they passed 
out. The Annual Debate is over. We have renewed 
our friendship with Varsity, and now we return to our 
books. 



THE LAW DINNER. 

Last but not least among Faculty dinners came that 
of the Faculty of Law. 

Unfortunately, for several years past, this good old 
custom has been allowed to die out, so that while in a 
sense it was the first annual dinner of the Faculty of 
Law under the new iegime y it was not by any means the 
first dinner to which that good old Faculty has lent its 
name. The committee of management have been very 
busy with preparations for some time past, and the suc- 
cess of the banquet must in a large measure be attribut- 



mcgill fortnightly 



eel to their unselfish efforts. The scene of festivities 
was Walker’s, and he fully justified the good opinion 
entertained of him as a caterer. Covers were laid for over 
fifty. The menu card was an artistic one, the front 
containing a representation of a brief endorsed, “ In the 
Court of Good-Fellowship, Montreal ; the Faculty of 
Law of McGill University, Plaintiff, vs. Defendant ; List 
of Pleadings and Exhibits ; fyled Tuesday, February 
7th, 1893; D. Walker, 231 St. James street, Attorney 
for Plaintiff” 

Mr. Aiine Geoffrion, '93, presided, and to his right 
sat Mr. W. C. McDonald, Mr. Justice Doherty, Profes- 
sor C. A. Geoffrion, Professor Fortin, Mr. Donald Mac- 
master, Q.C , and Mr. C. J. Fleet, while to his left were 
Mr. Justice Wurtele, Professor J. S. Archibald, Pro- 
fessor A. McGoun, Mr. R. A. E. Greenshields and 
representatives of the other faculties. 

After the toast of “ The Queen ” had been submitted 
by the chairman, and loyally honored, Mr. Alexander 
R. Johnson, B. A., ’93, submitted the toast of “Alma 
Mater,” which was ably responded to by Professor J. S. 
Archibald. He directed attention to the progress of the 
Law Faculty. The Bar of the province gave evidence of 
the work of the Law Faculty of McGill, and he related a 
few reminiscences of student life twenty-eight years 
ago. There were no clubs for the purposes of sport 
then in connection with the University, no cricket or 
football team. They used to play Association football 
in a haphazard sort of a way. He referred to these 
accessories of a university because he believed they 
were more important than many necessary features. 

Mr. A. Rives Hall, B.A., submitted the toast of 
“ Dean and Professors” in a speech in which he freely 
criticized the examination papers submitted to the can- 
didates for admission to the Bar, principally on account 
of their length. 

Gordon MacDougall then favored with a song. 
Mr. Justice Wurtele, in reply to the toast of Dean and 
Professors, made a humorous speech, telling a number 
of amusing stories, specially to be appreciated by the 
legal and political fraternity. He referred to Alma Mater 
and his connection with the Law Faculty, recalling the 
time when as a professor he had to lecture to classes of 
four students. They had more professors than students. 
The professors worked for honor, not for emolument. 
He went on to discuss the appreciation of the grand 
Roman system of law,— the French civil law. Among 
the men who had graduated they saw men occupying 
positions of eminence in the land, in the Commons, at 
the Bar and on the Bench, men who did honor to the 
faculty from which they graduated. He referred to a 
few of these, among them Mr. C. A. Geoffrion, Mr. 
Donald Macmaster, Mr. Justice Doherty, Sir John 
Abbott and Mr. J. S. Archibald. 

Mr. Justice C. J. Doherty on rising to speak was 
received with prolonged applause. He referred to his 
early experiences in legal study and in the professor- 
ate, and said he was called on to respond for men whom 
he had studied under. He then treated of the connec- 
tions between the students and their professors, and 
expressed the hope that the students would attain the 
success the professors expected of them. In their stu- 



141 



dent days they did not have the advantages of the 
library, or others of a social nature. They were satisfied 
to jump into -a sleigh and drive to the Back River, and 
they were not sorry if there was not a professor there. 
He was glad to see, however, that they had greater ad- 
vantages in a social way, and were better equipped and 
better able to carry on their work than heretofore, 
thanks to the generosity of Mr. W. C. McDonald. 

Mr. Justice Wurtele then paid a high compliment to 
the generosity of Mr. W. C. McDonald in equipping the 
Faculty, and proposed his health, which was honored 
with enthusiasm. 

Mr. C. A. Geoffrion was given a hearty reception, and 
promised to respond for Mr. McDonald. Twenty-five 
years ago McGill was as great as now, but the students 
had not the facilities they had now, and this change 
was in great measure due to Mr. W. C. McDonald. He 
well remembered three French Canadian students — 
one was Wilfrid Laurier, one Sir Adolphe Caron and 
the other himself. (Applause and laughter.) There 
were now seven or eight of the same nationality. He 
had at heart the success of McGill. He believed it was 
the greatest university in America, and could not see 
why there were not more French-Canadians at McGill 
and more English at Laval. The increase in the num- 
ber of students attending the Faculty was greatly due to 
the munificence of Mr. McDonald. 

Prof. Fortin also made a humorous response in 
French, which was received with the heartiest 
applause, showing clearly that the popular professor 
occupies a warm place in the hearts of his students. 

Vive la Canadienne was then sung by the whole room 
with full orchestral accompaniment. 

Prof. McGoun made an eloquent reply, and Mr. 
Frank Curran favored with a song. 

Mr. L- Gordon Glass then proposed the toast of the 
“Graduates,” which was responded to by Mr. 
Donald Macmaster. Inter alia he said : — It must 
be remembered that the promotion in the profession is 
too often regulated more with reference to one’s 
nationality or religion or politics than to his legal 
qualification, even though a mastery of the dual sys- 
tems should be accomplished. The distinction to be 
obtained in the profession is, after all, provincial, and 
there is little before the aspiring candidate beyond this 
save immolation on the Bench. By which I do not 
mean that the Bench is less worthy of respect in this 
country than elsewhere, but that as a people we have 
failed to recognize that an independent Bench can 
only be secured by placing our judges beyond depen- 
dence. All honor to the men who have struggled to 
maintain independence. As I had occasion elsewhere 
to observe, a judge— European or native— in the High 
Court of India receives a salary of five thousand 
pounds per year, while our judges in a land, which we 
ourselves have designated as the brightest gem in the 
British crown, have to content themselves with one-fifth 
that sum, or precisely the same amount as the salary of 
a Hoogly pilot. And still we boast of our Western 
civilization. One of the first duties of all graduates in 
law, irrespective of politics or origin, is to rally to the 
support of the Bench, and to make their views felt 011 



142 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the political forces of the day. I am convinced that it 
is from lack of united efforts in this direction that the 
bench has not been properly recognized. -If the two 
distinguished lawyers who lead the rival political 
parties of our country would put their heads together 
and get their forces in line on this subject, a measure 
of justice to our profession would soon be wrought more 
potent in its consequences than the raising or lowering 
of the tariff wall by a cent in the dollar. If we would 
support the hand that holds the scales of justice, we 
must strengthen the arm wielding the sword which 
enforces her decrees. There are some anomalies in 
the profession, too. While every one will agree 
that the prizes of the profession — if they be prizes — 
should be distributed with reference to personal worth 
and professional skill, regardless of nationality or other 
like considerations, is it not an anomaly that the letter 
of the statute establishing the Supreme Court of Canada 
is overborne by an amendment, founded in custom 
only, which bars every English judge or lawyer in this 
province from a seat on the Supreme bench ? 

If I may offer a word of advice to the undergraduates 
— quite gratuitously, I assure you — it is this Do 
whatever you undertake as well as you can ; never 
despise the facts of a case ; never give off-hand advice 
and never put your name to an opinion that is not the 
result of careful and conscientious study ; never 
indulge in flash performances in court. Manoeuvre 
like a general till you ascertain your client’s strongest 
position — strongest in law and strongest in fact — and 
then defend it with all the skill and all the courage you 
possess. With all its drawbacks, there are some com- 
pensations in our profession. There is a glory in the 
strifes of the profession in its higher aspects, in 
“ unmasking falsehood and bringing truth to light,” as 
Shakespeare puts it — an excellent definition of proper 
cross-examination. There is a keen mental pleasure in 
the construction of argument and in the destruction of 
sophistry ; in discerning the true intent of an instru- 
ment or a statute deranged by the misuse of words 
and sentences. There is a pleasure, too, and it is one 
which is peculiarly associated with the Bar, in meet- 
ing together for the exchange of views in all the con- 
fidences of a profession founded on confidences, around 
the social board. 

Mr. C. J. Fleet, in answer to repeated calls from his 
brother graduates, sang one of the old-time favorites in 
splendid style. 

Mr. R. A. E- Greenshields also replied to the toast 
by a speech and recitation. 

Gordon MacDougall, B.A., then proposed sister 
faculties, welcoming the representatives ; and Mr. Piche, 
who responded in behalf of Laval, made one of the 
speeches of the evening. He mentioned the fact that 
three Englishmen were studying Law at Laval, and advo- 
cated reciprocity in these matters as tending to the 
fusion of the races. Mr. G. D. Ireland responded also 
on behalf of “ Arts,” Mr. Street on behalf of “ Science,” 
and Mr. Semple on behalf of “ Medicine.” 

The guests and professors then left the hall amid the 
cheers of all the men, and the dinner broke up after 



the toast of “ Class ’93” proposed by C. Gaudet, B.A., 
and responded to by C. A. Harwood. 

Taken all in all, the dinner was an unqualified 
success, and the Faculty of Law may well feel proud of 
their undertaking, resting on the assurances of all those 
who took part in the Annual Banquet of 1893. 

APPLIED SCIENCE DINNER. 

“ The true essentials of a feast are only fun and feed.” 

According to Holme’s standard, the 1 ith Annual Din- 
ner of the Undergraduates in the Faculty of Applied 
Science was an unqualified success. The boys again 
(we would say ” for once,” but we in Science love the 
truth) forgot their M’s, their H’s, their dy's, aye even 
their sins , and entered heartily into the spirit of the 
occasion. We forget who has said that few have learn- 
ed “the art to dine.” Sixty Science students on the 
evening of February 3rd showed pretty conclusively 
that nearly half the Faculty of Applied Science have 
mastered the art fairly well. They certainly had full 
scope for gastronomic discrimination in the St. Law- 
rence Hall’s excellent bill of fare, as set forth on the 
neat menu card, whose well chosen quotations vexed 
the souls of those who didn’t understand Greek, — 
and of some who did. 

Shortly after eight (all too short the preceding half- 
hour to exchange social greetings with guests) the 
company sat down to dinner. Mr. Macphail ’93 pre- 
sided. O11 his right and left were the guests of the 
evening — Mr. W. C. McDonald, Dr. Johnson, Dean of 
the Arts Faculty, Professors Bovey and Macleod, and 
Mr. Lee, assistant professor, while scattered here and 
there among the students, in the best of good fellowship, 
were representatives from the other Faculties, from 
Toronto, and from the Herald and Star. Letters of re- 
gret were read from Professors Harrington, Chandler, 
Nicolson and Cox ; also from the Science schools of 
Kingston, Fredericton, Dalhousie, Cornwall and Boston, 
the students of the latter admitting that this was a kind 
of reciprocity in which they thoroughly believed. 

About 9.30 the toasting began. The heading : 

“ Poor victim prepared for his classical spit, 

With a stuffing of praise and a basting of wit, 

You may twitch at your collar, and wrinkle your 

brow,] 

But you’re upon your legs and you’re in for it now.” 

turned out to be rather inappropriate, as the speeches 
reached an average seldom attained on such occasions, 
and were totally unmarred by any of the symptoms 
above referred to. 

The first toast, the Queen and Canada, proposed by 
the Chairman in most loyal vim, was enthusiastically 
received. Mr. Macleod ’93 then proposed Alma Mater. 
And did we not all feel our hearts bum within us un- 
der the magic influence of his well turned sentences as 
he touched on the affectionate regard of her students 
and sketched her brilliant future ? Professor Johnson 
replied in his usual felicitous style. A reference to our 
beloved Principal elicited unbounded enthusiasm. He 
was kind enough to translate the Greek on the card, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



143 



delighting all by the rendition, “Science, the most 
powerful of all the Faculties. 

The toast, Sister Colleges, proposed by Mr. Wilkin 
’95, was responded to by Mr. Thompson of the Toronto 
School of Science, and by Mr. Barbour, Ph.B. (Yale). 
The witty remarks of the latter fell into good ground, 
and brought forth laughter in abundance. Mr. Thomp 
son was voted on all sides a jolly good fellow, and we 
thought none the less of him because he thought per- 
fection might be found elsewhere as well as in McGill. 
The next toast, Sister Faculties, was proposed by Mr. 
Mackay, B.A. (Dal.) *94. Taking for his text the senti 
ment, “Smoke the calumet together, and hencefor- 
ward live as brothers/' he spoke at some length on the 
relations between the various members ; expressed the 
hope that part of the Arts course at least should be 
taken by all ; and ventured to predict that, as in the past, 
McGill has been best known through her Faculty of 
Medicine, in the near future it might be the Science 
Faculty to which the McGill man would point with 
greatest pride. Happy replies were made by Mr. Pat. 
terson, Arts, Mr. Walker, Medicine, Mr. Hutcheson, 
Law, and Mr. Wiley, Comparative Medicine. In rising 
to propose the toast to the Professors, Mr. Duff 94 ex- 
pressed the regret, shared in by all present, that 
several were unavoidably absent The new text-books, 
as expounded by their authors, he thought would 
prove a great boon to the students. After three cheers, 
rendered in true McGill style, were given for each and 
every member of the Faculty, Professor Macleod was 
called on. His remarks were extremely interesting. 
When he came to McGill as a student in 1873 he could 
find no engineering professor. However, he resolved to 
stay. In the course of a year or so a professor arrived, 
and the Faculty of Applied Science made a start. 
Professor Bovey then proposed our benefactors. He 
believed in these Dinners, and hoped that soon we 
would have one together every day — in a dining hall 
of our own. When he mentioned the name of the most 
honored guest of the evening, Mr. W. C. McDonald, 
the Students rose and cheered as only students can 
cheer ; and it is safe to say that not for many a year 
has such a volume of sound reverberated through the 
spacious dining room of the St. Lawrence Hall. 

The Graduating Class, proposed by Mr. Primrose ’95, 
was abh represented by Mr. Greenberg. Then Mr. 
Street ’93 proposed the Freshmen ; ’twas a pity so few 
of them were present to profit by his admirable advice. 
Mr. Kenny’s modest reply showed a very becoming 
admiration for the more advanced years. The last 
toast, the Ladies, drew forth a capital speech from Mr. 
Lee, Professor Chandler’s popular assistant. 

During the evening songs were sung by Mr.Burns ’93, 
Mr. Holden ’94 and Mr. Walker. The spirited choruses 
of the Glee Club were a feature of the evening. An 
impromptu concert, for assistance in which the “ Dis- 
crete Gondolier ” has our hearty thanks, brought to a 
close a most successful gathering— one of those for 
which, as the Gazette said next morning, McGill stu- 
dents deserve to become famous. 

The committee in charge were 

J. A. Macphail ’93, chairman. 



R O. King ’95, secretary. 

W. P. Laurie ’93, L- Greenberg ’93, J. K. Henry ’94, 
F. H. Pitcher ’94, H. R. Trenholme ’95, A. Purves ’96. 



THEIR LUNCHEON. 

“ There was a sound of revelry ” one day, 

When an old class-room of McGill did ring 
With sounds it ne’er before had heard ; for gay 
Donalda ’96 gathered to sing 
And lunch together, though this was a thing 
Deemed only fitting when the Freshman year 
Had on its verdant pinions taken wing. 

But they believed the time was fully here, 

When they too should a lunch have with their classmates dear- 

And so, in spite of Custom’s stern decree, 

They met, consumed c< delicacies” and then 
Listened while rose, a trifle tremblingly, 

The appointed maids in number almost ten, 

To sound the praises of McGill’s great men, 

Of Alma Mater and those sisters too 

Who, with their kindly words, had welcomed them 
Into this college life so strange and new 
Froui which they almost fled at thoughts of stockings blue. 

After these words there followed many a song 
“ And all went merry” while unknown to them 
The hours sped ; when hark ! a brazen gong, 

With startling clang, bids them drop spoon for pen, 
Toast-card for note book, don the gown again 
Aud at their ink-staiued desks their places take. 

The song is hushed and with “hot haste ” they then 
Take a loug, last bite off the frosted cake, 

And with reluctant steps the banquet-hall forsake. 

Domina. 



BANJO CLUB IN BURLINGTON. 

It was a tired but happy company of McGill men 
that returned to town on Saturday night from Bur- 
lington, Vt., where they had been assisting at a concert 
given by the U.V M. Banjo and Glee Club. They 
were tired, for the two days were almost too short to 
contain all the hospitable entertainment they had ex- 
perienced at the hands of the U.V.M. boys, and they 
were happy, for the concert had been a complete suc- 
cess, and the two days in Burlington were to be remem- 
bered as amongst the most pleasant they had ever 
enjoyed. 

Of the concert itself we need say little, as it was 
similar to that given in the Windsor Hall on January 
20. The beautiful Opera House was filled with the elite 
of Burlington, who were most kind and enthusiastic 
in their reception of all the selections. The programme 
card was especially neat and appropriate, with the 
crests of McGill and Vermont on the covers and the 
name s of the members of both clubs on the centre card. 

After the concert the members of the visiting clubs 
and their friends were entertained at a most enjoyable 
banquet in the “Van Ness Hotel.” About seventy 
Vermont and McGill men sat down to the dinner 
together, Mr. Stewart of Burlington (the editor-in- 
chief of the Cynic) being toast-master. The Hon. 
L- K. Fuller, Governor of the State of Vermont, who 
had occupied a box at the concert, honored the ban- 
quet, and made a very neat and appropriate speech, 



144 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



complimenting both clubs highly on their excellent 
concert. 

One of the features of the evening was a very clever 
poem read by the toast- master, in which he first wel- 
comed the guests, and then introduced the various 
speakers and songs ; a part of it is added below, the 
rest being of more or less local interest. 

The speeches were of unusual merit, especially the 
address of welcome by Prof. Axson, Professor of 
Rhetoric in the University. 

What with the coasting and ice-boating on Saturday, 
driving about the city and visiting the University, 
with its magnificent “Billings Library/’ the McGill 
came away with the very highest opinion of Burlington 
hospitality, all hoping and some intending to revisit 
the beautiful City on the Lake before very long. 



Poem Read at the Banquet (in part). 

By Mr. R. A. Stewart, Toast-Master. 

We’ve gathered here to-night, I judge, to eat and drink our fill. 
But more than this to see Vermont shake hands with old Mc- 
Gill. 

Then let us banish every thought that savors of distraction, 
We’ll thrust aside the rival claims of every clique and faction. 

What care we now for former view’s, for battles fought and won, 
We’re here to have a rousing time, yes, every mother’s son. 

The quaint conceit the pretty jest are not within my line, 

But flickering lights are gathered here which soon will brightly 
shine. 

Then let the memory of to-night in after years come back 
Till fancy paints the Stars and Stripes beside the Union Jack; 
Then let us join with one accord and sing with royal will 
With voices strong, a jovial song, a strain for old McGill. 

To greet you in a fitting way was not an easy task. 

We taxed our several faculties, and knew not whom to ask; 

At last we hit upon a plan which put our cares to flight, 

The jolliest Faculty we have will welcome you to-night. 

The warmest greetings we could speak 
The keenest pleasure you could know 
Would come if we could but repeat 
Your welcome o a month ago. 

We trust that future years may hold 
Full many a scene like this to-night. 

When fettered with the green and gold 
Shall gleam the crimson and the white. 

Agaiu, before we say^good-night 
With true and hearty will, 

A parting song, both loud and long, 

God-speed to old McGill. 

SPORTING COLUMN. 

HOCKEY. 

M.A.A.A. 2nd Score a Win. 

The hockey match in the Inermed iate series on 
February 3rd, between the McGill team and the Mont- 
real 2nd was a keenly contested exhibition of our na- 
tional winter sport, as the score will attest. It was fast 
also, and until the last ten minutes of the concluding 
half it was anybody’s game. Then the Montrealers 



managed to put it in two goals, and the whistle sound- 
ing they were winners by four goals to three. The fol- 
lowing are the teams and officials : — 

McGill. M.A.A. 2nd. 

Lewis Goal Shaw 

Reid Point O’Brien 

Bickerdike Cover Point Janies 

Massey Forwards A. Mussen 

Archibald “ C. Mussen 

Beckett “ Wand 

Smyth “ D. S. Louson 

Referee — S. Davidson. 



Umpires — D. Gillelan and W. Murphy. 
Timekeepers — N. Dawes and Frank Wilson. 



Game. 




Club. 


Scorer. 


Game 1 





M. A. A 


C. Mussen 


Game 2 




McGill 




Game 3 




M. A. A 




Game 4 




McGill 




Game 5 . . 




McGill 




Game 6 






C. Mussen 


Game 7 




M. A. A 


Louson 



THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. 

As may be seen in another part of this issue, the 
Annual General Meeting of the McG.U.A.A. will be 
held in the William Molson Hall on Saturday the 25th 
inst. 

The Executive Committee of the Association desires 
through the Fortnightly to request a large attend- 
ance of members at this meeting. Under any circum- 
stances and in any session it is best for the Association 
and its objects that the members should evince a 
hearty interest in the work of the Committee of 
Management, for if in the past the efforts of the latter 
have not been crowned with that measure of success 
desired by all friends of Athletics in the University, if 
the “ sports ” have not been up to the ideal mark, or 
if the subordinate or affiliated clubs have not received 
sufficient financial support, it is simply because an 
almost studied indifference on the part of the members 
has not produced in the officials that lively interest the 
lack of which on the part of the latter is fatal to any 
undertaking. 

But aside from this, it is expected that there will be 
brought up at the meeting on the 25th at least two 
questions of some moment, on which it is desired to 
ascertain the opinion of ss many as possible of the 
members. 

One of these is that of affiliating the McG.U.A.A. 
with the Amateur Athletic Association of Canada, a 
proceeding which, it is said, will tend to give a stimulus 
to athletic sports in the University — something much 
to be desired. 

The other matter referred to is one which, though 
not so closely allied to athletics as that just mentioned, 
has at least an indirect connection with the Association, 
referring as it does to the evening of the Annual Field 
Day. 

This is the question whether or not it would be 
advisable for the Executive Committee to have the 
direction of the events of “Sports Night,”- provided 
| always that it is the wish of the majority of Under- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



i45 



graduates in the University that the Executive Corn' 
mittee should assume control thereof. 

The question is by no means a new one, but events 
of the past session have paved the way for the centraliz- 
ation of the forces and authority of the different 
Faculties in a University Committee for this purpose ; 
and the Athletic Association will be asked to consider 
the advisability of its Executive being endowed with 
the powers of the proposed University Committee. 

These matters, together with the report of the first 
trial of the new membership system, ought to make 
the Annual Meeting sufficiently interesting to warrant 
the request for a large attendance. 

J. A. C. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

To the Editor of Th n McGill Fortnightly 

Sir, — J n the report on the Annual Dinner of the Undergra- 
duates of the Faculty of Arts, which appeared in the last number 
of the Fortnightly, I am credited with having made a state- 
ment which I certaiuly did not make. 

The report in question reads as follows : “ He also spoke of 
the lack of original work ; though Sir William in his spare 
moments had accomplished much in original research besides 
geology, no other research was made, and he hoped that the 
time would soon come when McGill would be known for ori- 
ginal research.” What I did say was that in the future much 
more original work might be looked for from the University, 
and that in our Principal we had a brilliant example of what 
could be accomplished in this direction, even by a very busy 
man. 

As a testimony to the value of the work accomplished by Sir 
William, I read a short extract from the Report on the Recent 
Progress of Geology in America, prepared for the Smithsonian 
Institution by the well-known geologist, Mr. James McGee of 
the United States Geological Survey, who, giving a short 
account of the various institutions of learning in America, in 
which advanced instruction in Geology is offered, includes in 
his list but one Canadian University, namely, McGill, and refers 
to it as follows “ McGill College— Special provision is not 
made in this institution, either for carrying on or publishing re- 
sults of original investigation ; but Sir William Dawson devotes 
a large share of his time to researches in Geology and Palaeon- 
tology, and McGill College has, in consequence, come to be 
known as one of the principal centres of geological work on the 
American continent.’' 

By no means forgetting the very important and valuable re- 
searches which have been and are being carried out by several 
members of the teaching staff of our University, I merely 
remarked that if such a statement as the above could be made 
concerning every branch of our work, the fame of McGill would 
very soon spread abroad as far as its most ardent admirer could 
desire. 

Frank D. Adams. 



between the lectures. 



O’Hoolihan — Och, Laverty, here comes some 
ladies ! 

Laverty — Ther divil ! O’Hoolihan, run up on ther 
bank and war-r-rn thim aff ! 

It looks bad to see a dog preceding his master down 
the street, and calmly turn down the stairs to the first 
saloon he approaches. It shows there _is something 



wrong, something lacking, a deplorable tendency on 
the part of the dog. 

“ Yes,” said the Chairman sadly, “ our temperance 
meeting last night would have been more successful if 
the lecturer hadn’t been so absent minded.” 

“ What did he do ? ” 

“ He tried to blow the foam from a glass of water.” 

The late Dr. Kemper, the theologian, once com 
menced carving at the table a boiled ham that was 
doing duty for the second or third time. 

“ Why, my dear !” exclaimed his wife, in surprise, 

“ you have forgotten something. You have not asked 
the blessing.” 

“Yes, I have, too,” bluffly responded the doctor. 
‘‘I’ve asked the Lord to bless this old ham all I’m a 
going to.” 

Bobby, a precocious youth of six summers, had been 
indulging in profanity, and, in order to escape the 
punishment for which his mother had made prepara- 
tions, he crawled under a barn, and remained there in 
a state of siege for the greater part of an afternoon. 
When his father returned at night and learned how 
matters stood, he made his way, with much difficulty, 
under the barn in search of the boy. “Hello, pa,” 
said Bobby cheerfully, as his sire approached, “ you 
been swearing too? ” 

The new baby had proved itself the possessor of ex - 
traordinary vocal powers, and had exercised them 
much to Johnny’s annoyance. 

One day he said to his mother : 

“ Ma, little brother came from heaven, didn’t he?” 

“ Yes, dear.” 

Johnny was silent for some time, and then he went 
on : 

‘‘ Say, ma ! ” 

'• What is it, Johnny ! ” 

“ I don’t blame the angels for bouncing him, do 
you ? ” 

Excepting only Harvard, William and Mary, in 
Virginia, founded in 1693, is the oldest college in 
America. It can now boast of not a single student, 
and the last dollar of its endowment will soon have 
been spent. This grand old institution owes its down- 
fall first to the war of the Rebellion, and finally to two 
destructive fires. 



“Oh ! Rachel, Rachel,” moaned Mr. Silverstein, 
wringing his hands, “ some pad man has our Dummy 
mit dose beautiful coat and vest stolen ! ” 

“Ugh!” Rachel screamed. “Why don’t you do 
somedings ? Are you vaitin’ for de tief to brought 
’em pack ? Run queveek and tell all de pleecemen.” 
Jacob started on a run down the street, and presently 
found a patrol man sweetly leaning up against a 
grocery store. 

He had just begun telling the officer of his loss, 
when, lo ! a tramp walked complacently out of an alley 
wearing the stolen goods. Jacob and the policeman 
set out in hot pursuit — the tramp dashed on ahead. 



146 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“Stop!” bellowed the policeman. “Stop or I’ll 
shoot ! ” 

The tramp sped on. Crack ! crack ! rang out on 
the night air. 

“ Mien Gott ! ” cried Silverstein, grasping the officer’s 
arm. “Shoot careful ! ” 

“ What ? Don’t you want him pinched ? ” 

“ Yes, yes,” replied Silverstein, “but please shoot 
him in the pants. Dose coat and vest is mine ! ” — 
Harvard Advocate . 



NEVER TOO LATE. 

“ I hope I am not too late." 

Shakespeare. 



A specimen number of a new Magazine, the Franco - 
English Review , published in Paris, reached the 
library a few days since, bearing the under-noted 
address : — 

Monsieur MacGill, 

University Library, 

Montreal (quebec), 

Amerique. 



SOCIETIES. 



REPORT OF LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The usual weekly meeting of the Undergraduates 
Literary Society was held in No. 1 class room on Feb- 
ruary 3rd, with the President, Mr. Donahue, in the chair. 

After the business had been concluded, and Mr- 
Lambly, 3rd Arts, appointed as critic, the programme 
was entered upon. Mr. Gurd of 4th Arts read a most 
instructive, interesting, and well-written essay on 
Montreal. Then, as the gentleman who was to have 
given the reading was absent, and also the soloist, the 
debate, the next item on the Programme, was proceeded 
with. 

The subject was, Resolved that the republican ten- 
dencies of the 19th Century have not resulted in more 
amicable relations between man and man. 

After some discussion as to the way the resolution 
was worded, the not was left out and the subject was 
then, “ Resolved that the republican tendencies of the 
19th Century have resulted in more amicable relations 
between man and man. 

The speakers after the reversal of sides consequent 
upon the above change were as follows : 

Affirmative Negative. 

Mr. F. Graham, 3rd Arts Mr. J. A. Dresser, 4th Arts 
“ S. G. Archibald, 1st Arts “ J. C. Hickson, 2nd “ 

“ J. T. Scrimger, 1st “ “ W. G. G. Cole, rst “ 

After a lengthy and interesting discussion the affir- 
mative won 

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

One of the encouraging features in the work of the 
Association is the continued interest manifested by 
men who have been active workers in former years. 
A member of the class of ’91 lately expressed himself 



thus: “Since graduating I have felt an increased 

interest in the Association.” 

We do not doubt that this is a feeling that many 
will have, associated perhaps with the regret that more 
was not accomplished by them in their college days. 

Active members ! We are in the service of the King, 
at no time will our Christian influence be felt as at pre- 
sent, shall we not be uniied in a strong effort to extend 
the influence of our Association ? Could effort be 
better expended? Should such an opportunity be 
neglected ? Will you work now ? 

The attendance at College meetings usually thins 
about this season, but we are glad to report no falling 
off in attendance at the meetings, and certainly the 
interest is well sustained. 

The Committee have arranged the following pro 
gramme for the Sunday meetings : — 

Feb. 19 — “A seeming minority, a real majority.” 2 
Kings 6, 15-16 ; Leader, F. J. Day, Arts ’94. 

Feb. 26— Missionary Meeting; Leader, G. H. Manches- 
ter, Med. ’94. 

March 5 — “ Have I made safe investments?” Matt. 6, 

21 ; Leader, Arch. McVicar, Arts ’93. 

The meetings are quite informal, and all are invited 
to take some part ; a new voice is always added with 
pleasure. 

The Prayer Meeting has been changed to Friday, 
7.15 p.m., for 30 brief helpful minutes. 



At the invitation of the Social Committee a number 
of 1st year men from Science and Arts took tea to- 
gether at the Y. M. C. A. Building on Sunday last. It 
was a pleasant reminder of home as the men gathered 
at the table, and afterwards around the piano to unite 
in heart and voice in the old familiar hymns. 



delta sigma society. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday, 9th, the Vice-President in the chair. The 
meeting was very well attended, there being present, 
besides the regular members, a number of visitors. 

After the roll had been called and the minutes of the 
last meeting read and confirmed, the programme for 
the day was taken up. Miss James, the president, read 
an essay on “George Elliot,” whose views were not 
only shown, but their ennobling influence was pointed 
out, and illustrated by well selected extracts from her 
principal works. Miss Millar’s excellent essay on 
“The Faith and Hope of Tennyson” showed a just 
appreciation of the great poet’s genius and the reality 
of his faith and hope. 

Both essays were keenly critical in style. This w^as 
without exception the best meeting held this session, 
notwithstanding the omission of the Impromptu 
Debate on account of lack of time. 

SENIOR SOCIETY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 

The members of the class of ’93 met in regular session 
on Tuesday, '7th Feb. The attraction which lured nine- 
teen men from the] joys of Hydraulic and Thermody. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



147 



namic note-books was the reading of a paper on 
Evolution by Mr. Howard Barnes. Mr. Barnes illus- 
trated his paper by appropriate drawings and casts. A 
lively discussion followed. At the close of the meeting 
refreshments were served and an impromptu pro- 
gramme of songs, reading and stories rendered. What- 
ever may be said of the folly and presumption of students 
in expecting to benefit by such intercourse among their 
inexperienced selves, it will be admitted that the 
evenings thus spent are highly conducive to all that 
tends to make college life enjoyable, 

MCGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

A very interesting, instructive and animated debate 
was held at the meeting of the McGill Mining Society 
on Thursday evening the 31st January.* 

The subject of discussion was : — 

“ Resolved, that Bimetallism should be adopted by 
the nations.” 

The speakers were : — 

Affirmative. Negative. 

J. H. Featherstou, ’93 H. Herdt, ’93. 

A. A. Cole, B.A., ’94. R. A. Gunn, ’94. 

The chairman, Mr. Carlyle, opened the subject by a 
short explanation of the meaning of Bimetallism, 
showing that the solution of the silver question is the 
greatest problem before the world at the present time. 

The speeches showed much careful preparation, and 
were well received. At the close of the debate a vote 
of the meeting on the merits of arguments used was 
taken, which resulted in a victor} 7 for the affirmative. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

It may be interesting to know that a rise in the 
price of silver was reported the day after the debate. 

MOOT COURT DEBATING SOCIETY. 

The first sitting of the Court for the session of 1893 
was held on Friday last, Feb. 10th, in the lecture 
rooms of the Faculty of Law, Prof. Lafleur kindly 
acting as judge. 

The argument was on a petition to set aside a certain 
resolution of the City Council. A plea of fin de non 
recevoir was filed by defendants claiming a prescription 
of plaintiffs rights under 42-43 Viet., ch. 53. Messrs. 
Hall and MacDougall appeared for the city, and the 
plaintiffs were ably represented by Messrs. Davidson 
and Lebeuf. The argument lasted for more than an 
hour, the judge taking the case en delibere. 

MCGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this Society was held on Saturday 
evening last, at the usual hour. After some prelimin- 
ary business, the president called upon Mr. T. P. Shaw 
(’93), who read a most interesting paper, entitled 
“ Photography in Medicine.” After this Mr. J. E. C. 
Tompkins (’93) presented an elaborate essay on the 
“ Human Face.” A review of this valuable paper will 
not here be entered upon, as it is our purpose to pub- 
lish it in full in the next issue of the Fortnightly. Dr. 
Ruttan has kindly consented to address the Society at 
its next meeting, Feb. 25th in$t. 



FACULTY REPORTS. 



DONALDA NEWS. 

At a meeting of the Donaldas held 011 Tuesday, Jan. 
31st, Miss J. Brown was appointed to the editorial staff 
of the McGill Fortnightly, for the session '93-’94, 
while Miss F. Botterell was re-appointed to the position 
she now holds upon that paper. 



Scene — William Molson Hall. 

Time — Friday, Jan. 10th. 

Students. — V-a r-s-i-t-y. Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! 

Donalda indignantly How rude those students 
are ! 

(Yell repeated.) 

Oh ! how can they be so inhospitable, and treat the 
strangers so. I am ashamed of them. 

Companion mystified : — Why, I don’t understand, 
what have they done ? What do you mean ? 

Donalda: — Why, don’t you hear them, they might 
have a little compassion and let victory satisfy them 
it is such a small thing for them to call out rats ! rats ! 
after Varsity. 

Companion overcome. 



Was the Professor of Greek guilty of forming a pun 
when he said that owl and fur were the same form ? 

A very sad accident is depressing the Sophomores. 
One of their number has been affected with paralysis 
of the organs of speech, every Greek lecture, this term. 

Could it have been anything in our personal appear- 
ance which caused the Dean’s question as to whether 
our absence from the Mathematical lecture last week 
was due to the base-ball match ? 

First Senior. — Read that in the Donalda Column.] 

Second “ Well, what of it ?< 

First “ It’s a joke. 

Second 11 You don’t say so, old boy. I’ll read 

it again. 

The Students’ Volunteer Band have just received 
from Walford a very handsome enlarged photo of Mrs. 
Reade (Annie Williams). 

Miss Williams was the founder of this band in 
McGill, and the photo was not needed to hold her in 
remembrance, although it will be highly prized by its 
possessors. 

“So conies a reckoning when the banquet’s o’er.” 

Indulgently we smile at our “ wise folly” of last 
year, when our table simply groaned under the “ feast 
of nectar’ d sweets ” it was called upon to bear. 

This year, O Juniors ! We had enough (had we 
not?) which was just as good as a feast ; and having 
been taught by Divine Philosophy, that through sight 
many ideas for mental life are derived, through taste 
few ; those good things, which were on our table merely 
peeped out here and there from garlands of roses, 
festoons of smilax, and beds of lovely white silk, 
j Speech followed speech, and each seemed more fitting 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 

The dawning of the Spring examinations is precipi- 
tating the extreme freshness of the freshies, and the 
facial expression of some indicate their cognizance of 



148 

than the preceding, until Science in a touching ode 
capped this climax, by laying bare a touching little 
romance which is being enacted under our very eyes. 

Our absent Principal, and cur some time comrades 
who left us “ seven ” were not forgotten by our Presi- 
dent when the opportunity was hers. 

But hark, what is that which breaketh 
On laughter and song so free ? 

’Tis the gong at the head of the staircase, 

Which bids us arise and flee. 

“ Come one, come all, it is lecture time.” 

“Wecome, we will not delay.’’ 

But the mem’ry of those happy hours 
Will never fade away. 

ROUNDEL- 

(In a doctor's waiting room.) 

To sit and wait and while the time away 
With mental railings at the unkind fate 
That this impatient patient brings to-day 

To sit and wait ! 

To watch with jealous eye and almost hate. 

Those who, in turn, may enter ere I may, 

As later grows the hour and still more late. 

To sit and wait ! 

I wish that man of medicine had to stay 
As his poor patients here, in sulky state, 

From morn until the evening shades are grey. 

To sit and wait ! 

An Impatient. 

Montreal. 



MEDICAL, CLASS REPORTS. 



Medicine was represented at the recent Faculty 
dinners by the following gentlemen of the fourth 
year : — 

Law : Mr. E. J. Semple, ’93. 

Arts : Mr. W. Lindsay, ’93. 

Science : Mr. J. Lee Walker, ’93. 

* * 

* 

We are glad to say that Dr. Roddick has now fully 
recovered from his recent indisposition. During his 
absence Dr. Adami delivered a short course of lectures 
on tumors, bearing chiefly upon their surgical connec- 
tion. 

* * 

* 

Owing to continued ill-health Dr. James Henderson 
of the M.G-H. has been compelled to resign his post. 
His successor is Dr. H. B. W. Carmichael. Dr. Nor- 
man Taylor, of lacrosse renown, has succeeded the lat- 
ter as anaesthetist. 

* * 

* 

The Medical Faculty have kindly agreed to grant a 
day’s interval between each of the Final examinations 
this year. Formerly two examinations were held on the 
same day, and it was represented to the Faculty that the 
candidates could probably do themselves more justice 
were they allowed a short interval between the papers. 



tall spring plucking. 

* * 

* 

The constitution of the McGill Fortnightly pro- 
vides that the officers constituting the Editorial Staff 
and Business Board shall be elected during the first 
week in February in each year. In accordance with 
this rule a meeting of the four years in Medicine was 
held on February 3rd. Much enthusiasm was mani- 
fested. A ballot was held on the names placed before 
the meeting, and resulted in the election of Mr. A. G. 
Nicholls, B.A. (’94), faculty editor, and Mr. C. H. 
Fox (’95), business manager. Mr. Goff of the 
Final Year proposed that a hearty vote of thanks be 
accorded to the retiring editor, Mr. G. F. Shaw (’93), 
and business manager, Mr. H. M. Kinghorn (’94), for 
the able and satisfactory manner in which each of those 
gentlemen had conducted their respective duties. The 
duties of the new officers will commence on Oct. 1st. 
The election for class reporters will not be held until 
next session. 

* * 

* 

Class Reports are necessarily very brief, owing to 
the rapid approach of the Ides of March. 

* * 

* 

Fair girl graduates, according to an item in the 
Fortnightly last week, conduct any little casus belli 
that may arise in a very different way from the genial 
Med. This is what a Donalda writes to her beautiful 
opponent : — 

“ You nasty scrabby old cat, you’ll be sorry for this 
when I am dead.” 

The medical, however, thinks life too short to wait 
for any postmortem regrets. He simply pens the fol- 
lowing to his antagonist : — 

“ Come outside, and I’ll give you a biff in the ear ! ” 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Mr. L- L. Street, who represented us at the Law 
dinner, speaks highly of his reception by our sister 
faculty. 



A Students’ meeting of the Canadian Society of Civil 
Engineers was held in the Society’s rooms, Mansfield 
st., on Friday the ioth inst., when an interesting 
paper was read by Mr. J. A. McPhail on “ The Disposal 
of Sewage at Marborough, Mass.” It is to be regretted 
that so few students avail themselves of the advantages 
offered by the meetings of this Society. 



An excellent selection of songs has been made for the 
opening ceremonies on the 24th ; and as the Faculty 
have engaged Mr. Price as musical director, it is hoped 
everyone will bring their voices to the practices on 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings 
at 5 o’clock sharp. 



Messrs. J. K. Henry, B.A., ’94, and A. R. Holden 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



149 



B.A., ’94, have been elected to represent Applied 
Science on the business board and editorial staff 
respectively of the Fortnightly. 



Prof. Cox has cards out for a Five O’Cloclc Tea in 
the Physics Building on the 24th, at which the Glee 
Club is to sing. 



Prof. Carus-Wilson is back from his trip, but his 
health has not wholly returned. 



M — ge. — Please, sir, how many may we invite ? 
Oh ! in families of twelve, six may come. 



H y (wending his way home from Science 

Dinner). — Prof. Macleod is more, than half right in his 
theory of the instability of the earth’s axis. 



Preparations are being made in the foundry for a 
cast of the Governor General to be taken on the night 
of the opening. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

The Law dinner is now a thing of the past, and the 
committee of management are to be most heartily congra- 
tulated on the excellent arrangements made through- 
out. 

The event of the session is over, and a long vista of 
examinations stretches out before our legal minds. 
“ Bear with us gently, great powers that be, and 
remember that our powers of absorption have become 
lessened since the great event of the 7 th.” 

Accept our congratulations, sister Faculties, on your 
choice of representatives. In each and every case, the 
honor of your respective faculties was ably upheld. 

Much is to be expected from “ that great University 
which has accomplished such noble things in the Fu. 
ture,” as also from that noble band of graduates 
crowned with “siestas” of glory — not flower-pot cov- 
ers, good friends. 

The election of officers to act on the staff of the Fort- 
nightly for the session of 1893 4 resulted in the choice 
of S. Carmichael, ’95, as editor, and Arthur Hogle, ’94, 
as business manager. The position occupied by the 
irrepressible J — bs still remains vacant, and the first of 
February has been passed by more than the eight legal 
days. The natural and legal inference must be drawn- 

The Law Faculty boasts an able-bodied M.A., who, 
as occasion has already demonstrated, can turn up a 
reference in Justinian, with only one word as a clue, 
but that word “ Servus ” needs a great deal of explana- 
tion in Roman law. 

The Faculty poet has been at it again : 

There is a young fellow called 

Who of law is now learning a mass 
He’s forsaken his pals 
And likewise the gals 
Determined to get a “ first class.” 



STILL ANOTHER EPITAPH. 

We lost our little Hanuer 
In a very*painful manner. 

We now ask how can such sufferings be borne. 
When her death was first reported. 

Her aunt got up and snorted 
With the grief that she supported, 

For it made her feel forlorn. 



It is reported on unquestionable authority that Com- 
missioner R — n is soon to appear in gold braid and brass 
buttons. He intends to equal Mr. Vallee in every- 
thing but the helmet. 

ARTS. 

W. Patterson represented Arts at the Science Dinner, 
and G. D. Ireland at the Law Dinner. Both were 
splendidly entertained. 



“ At Homes” are the order of the day. Mrs. John- 
son received the Students of the third and fourth years 
on the evening of Jan. 28th, and Mrs. Moyse those of 
the second and third years on Saturday evening last. 
Last Monday evening Mrs. Eaton was at heme to the 
members of the Classical Society. All were occasions 
of much enjoyment to those who attended. 



The Fortnightly elections were held on Feb. 10th, 
and a vote of thanks was passed to the present officers. 
The place of E. J. Maclver, who graduates, will be 
filled next session by E. E. Howard. D. T. Davis was 
nominated in opposition, but declined the nomination 
on the ground that he did not approve of all the articles 
in the constitution . W. M. MacKeracher was returned 
to the editorial staff. 

Fr—s—r (in replying to the toast to the committee). 
— Gentlemen, I thank you all very much for the interest 
you have taken in this Tramp. 



Prof. Penhallow has kindly furnished the students of 
Botany with tickets of admission to the plant house 
and botanical gardens. We are glad they were free, as 
the boys would not likely have bought any. 



Greek Prof. — “Good-morning, my dear Erasmus; 
whence come you so early in the morning ? Where’s 
your gown ? ’ ’ 



Logic Prof.— ' A biped is an animal having only two 
feet.” Student—' Might not that mean that the 
an mal has two feet and nothing else ? ” 



The “Honor” exams, are drawing near. 



Sophomore.— “ How do you separate a skull into its 
component peases ? ” 



The members of the Reading-Room committee sat 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



150 

for their photograph at Notman’s on Friday last. Need 
less to say the photographer had some difficulty. 



It is rumored that the Faculty is about to have the 
student’s bulletin-board removed downstairs. It might 
as well be screwed, face upward, to the ceiling, or 
interred with the bones of the founder, as be where it 
is now. 



On the day following the Debate, the committee of 
the previous evening and Mr. Bull of Varsity were 
entertained at lunch by Prof. Moyse. Mr. Hellemsleft 
early in the morning by the Ottawa train. The visit of 
these gentlemen will be remembered with pleasure. 

MISCELLANEOUS- 



r he fallibility of all human institutions. Reference is 
made to the death of Dr. R. H. Berwick ; the sad event 
is attended wirh general sympathy and regard. The sin- 
cerest mutual greetings of all the members of Class ’91 
are extended to them through the secretary. 

This circular has been printed by the publishers of 
the McGill Fortnightly, upon the Editorial staff of 
which your Secretary was elected editor by the Gra- 
duates. Copies of the paper are sent to each member in 
the hope that they will strengthen their connection 
with the University by subscribing for it. Subscrip- 
tions may be sent to the Secretary. This circular is 
issued to all members of the class, and an acknow- 
ledgment of its receipt is requested. 

J. A. Macphail. 



RUGBY AT HARVARD. 

The First Game played with McGill College in 1873 . 

“ The English Rugby game was introduced at Har- 
vard in or about 1875, where it was first played.” 

It may interest some of our readers to know that 
the exact date of the introduction of the so called Rugby 
game was in 1873 and not 1875. 

The first game under the new rules was played with 
McGill College in 1873, and resulted in a tie. 

Dr. Morton Prince of this city was the first secretary 
of the Harvard Foot Ball Association, and perhaps, can 
give more exact information as to the origin of the 
present game. 

A. B. Ellis (H. C., 1875). 



Mr. C. E. A. Harris has addressed a letter to the 
Students of the different Faculties, stating that special 
arrangements have been made for their accommodation 
in the Windsor Hall on the occasion of the appearance 
of Madame Fanny Woody Manners, on Monday and 
Tuesday* evenings, 27th and 28th February. This is 
the lady who had the triumphal receptions in the 
University towns of Scotland and Ireland. Madame 
Moody carries many trophies of her reception by the 
Students of Edinburgh and Dublin, and there is no 
doubt the Students of McGill will not fall behind their 
comrades. 



The Sodales at the Coetia Suprema Classis in Arte 
Medica, Univ. Coll. McGill, MDCCCXCI, A.D. iii 
Kal. Apriles, to quote from the literature of that mem- 
orable evening, numbered 57. The names and addresses 
of 52 are herewith collected. The missing ones are 
Fulton, Dewar, Hewitson, Internoscia, Martin. The 
members of the class would be grieved to know how few 
have sent in replies to the general request, and how much 
of the present information has been obtained at second 
hand. It is hoped that only the gentlest reminder is 
necessary to ensure fuller and more complete informa- 
tion next year. For imperfections in this list the Sec- 
retary craves the utmost forbearance as being due to 



Dr. W. A. Alexander continues to practise in Hem* 
mingford, Que. 

Dr. A. H. Beers is practising dentistry in Hull, Que. * 



Dr. R. H. Berwick — The class is already broken by 
the death of this excellent member, which took place 
18th January. It was due to phthisis following an 
attack of typhoid fever. 

Dr. R. A. Bowie is now commencing practice in 
Brockville. He returned at Christmas after a stay of 
18 months abroad, during which time he obtained the 
M. R. C. S. and L. R- C. P., and visited the principal 
European centres. 



Dr. J. E. Brouse is on the medical staff of the Cana- 
dian Pacific Railway on construction work with head- 
quarters at Eganville, Ont. 




Dr. W. A. Brown is practising in Chesterville, Ont. 

Dr. J. S. Brunette gives for his last address Cornwall, 'v' 
Ont. 



Dr. J. Busby is practising in Whitehall, Mich. 

Dr. Barry Calkin is practising Medicine in Boston at 
4 Temple st. 

Dr. C. M. Carlow is Professor of Theory and Practice 
of Medicine in Minneapolis. 

Dr. John Clark is practising in Smithport, Pa. 

Dr. J. C. Clemesha, after a year’s study in England, 
has been admitted a member of the Royal College of 
Surgeons and Licentiate of the Royal College of Physi- 
cians. He will remain in Germany for some months. 

Dr. W. A. Far well is practising in Sherbrooke, Que. 

Dr- R. W. Fletcher is practising in Canning, N.S. 

Dr. R. J. Gibson gives as his last address Clinton, 
I Ont. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



. 151 




Dr. A. S. Gorrell is still practising in Ashton, Ont. 



Dr. G. H. Parke has taken up practice in Quebec. 



Dr. E. A. Grafton is ship surgeon on' the <l Lake 
Ontario,’' Beaver Line. 



Dr. E. A. Robertson has commenced practice in 
Lennoxville, Oue. 



Dr. W. F. Hamilton continues to be superintendent 
of the Montreal General Hospital. 

Dr. Joseph Hayes, 33 Guildford street, Russel Square, 
London, W.C., is still pursuing his studies in the 
English hospitals. 

Dr. J. D. Harrison has commenced practice in 
Edmonton, Alberta, N. \V. T. 

Dr. \V. H. Hattie is assistant superintendent of the 
Hospital for Insane of Nova Scotia, and lecturer on 
Bacteriology at the Halifax Medical College. 

Dr. D. B. Holden has abandoned the sea and is now 
practising in British Columbia. His address is Vic- 
toria. 



Dr. T. F. Robertson is still located in Brockville, Ont. 

Dr. G. R. Shirriff is practising at Huntingdon, Que. 

Dr. O. W. Sinclair, after a year’s residence in London, 
is nowJocated in Eureka, Cal., his address being Vance 
House. 

Dr. Smith is practising at St. Mary’s, Ont. 

Dr. O. W. Sparling is practising in Pembroke, 
Ont. 

Dr. J. R. Speir has resumed practice at 2545 Notre 
Dame st., Montreal. During the winter he was sent 
to cope with an outbreak of diphtheria in the Nipissing 
district. 



Dr. E J. Keii is 'practising Medicine in Murray Har- 
bour, P.E.I. 



Dr. J. B. Travers is practising Medicine in St. John, 
N.B. 



Dr. C.J. Kelly is practising Medicine in London. Dr. W. Troy has been practising Medicine in Law- 
after taking the L- S. A. qualification. rence, Mass. 



* Dr. E- M. Lambert is practising Medicine in Ottawa. 

Dr. W. S. Lovering is practising Medicine in Ballard, 
Wash. 

Dr. A. Love gives for his last address New Glasgow, 
N.S. 

Dr. J. A. Macphail has returned from England, where 
he obtained the diplomas of Member of the Royal Col- 
lege of Surgeons, England, and Licentiate of the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. He has resumed prac- 
tice at 2446 St. Catherine st., Montreal. 

Dr. A. E- A. McCann is practising in Lowell, Mass. 

Dn A. A. McCrimmon, who has been up to this 
time surgeon of the S.S. “ Sardinian,” Allan Line, is 
spending the winter in Edinburgh. His address is 
Mona Hotel, James st., Liverpool. 

Dr. J, C. McGuire is in Portland, Ore., Professor of 
the Theory and Practice of Medicine. 

Dr. J. H. McMillan is practising Medicine in Pictou, 
Nova Scotia. 

Dr. G. I. Mader is practising in Halifax, and is 
Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy at the Medical 
College. 

Dr. C. G. Main gives as his last address St. An- 
drews. 

Mr. J. M. Moore is attending McGill Medical School. 

Dr W. S. Morrow has commenced practising at 502 
St. Urbain street, Montreal. 

Dr. J. Neill enjoys a growing country practice in 

Inverness, Que. 



1 Dr. Tunstall was last heard of in the heart of the 
Rockies. He passed through Montreal in May on his 
way from New York, where he had spent the winter. 

Dr.Neil M. Watson is still located in Cornwall, Ont. 

Dr. W. P. Williamson is still resident in Gaspe, Que. 

Dr. R. E. Webster, Lansdowne, Ont., has built up an 
extensive practice since commencing work in that 
place. 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Ba-h for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



Flocueps ! Flocueps ! ! 



The finest ll • \vr\ and most Artistic Floral work, can 
be had at all sea-, ns and for all occasions. 

S. S, BAIN, Florist, 

BEAytR 11 Aid. Ill LL, A I"6W doors below Dorchester St 



* 5 2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




TO ATHLETES. 

Regulation McGill 
Foot Ball 

Jerseys, Caps and Stock- 
ings, 

Running Shirts 

and Pants, 
English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 

etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 St. James St. 

Opposite Witness Office, 
McGill Crests Worked on Jerseys. 



INCREASE YOUR INCOME 

by working during your spare time for a First Class Life 
and Accident Insurance Company, address P. O. Box 
835, Montreal. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS. 



% All the Books required for the 




FACULTIES OF McCILL, 



TO BE HAD FROM 

W. DRYSDALE &c CO. 

Down Town Store, - - 232 ST JAMBS ST. 

Up Town Store, - - 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 

OF THE 

(Mill University iltuieiic Association 

WILL BE HELD IN THE 

WILLIAM MOLSON HALL 

ON 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25th, 

AT 8 P.M. 

Members must present their tickets 
at the door. 

A Large Attendance is Requested. 

TIE 



“ Improvement the Order of the 'Age.” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 




1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 




THE INGHES-COUTELLIEH SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 




100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 

We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing * ucanemy 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A. Duret, late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

Terms : $10 per month, lessons every day 
if desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $60.00 per month. 



THE IN GRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 



Single Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Circula 

rs 






McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



'53 




‘ THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

ft (3 "ILjO"V"!HjS # 

AT THE 

Paris Kid Glov<> Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Catherine Street. 

a-. a 

MEDALS FOR SPORTS. 




Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises. 

LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city, 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

IR. HEMSLEY, 

255 & 257 St, James Street, 



New Firm. New Goods. 



MO£TO£[, pyjkLilFS & (20., 

STATIONERS, 

BlartH Book Wafers ar ld Printers 

1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET , 

agents for 

ME <0AM©1API 

WRITINC MACHINE. 



PATERSON & FOSTER, 

Art Association Building, Phillips Square, 

Wish to introduce themselves and would be pleased to 
meet you and have you inspect their stock. 

TELEPHONE No. 3141. 



SBASON 1392-93^ 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers Friezes, &c. 

IS NOW COMPLETE. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

B B.— DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship 
Silk Lining, $36.00. 

INSPECTION INVITED. 

WM. FflrRQUH'flrRSON. 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZ1NA, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets $l.oo. • 



/V\ansen Molillin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities „ 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 



For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 




merican pun 




-s* 21 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to he the cheapest one in the city to buv 
furs and have repairing done. 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with us than with any other Furrier in Montreal. 



i54 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ADVERTISE NOW 
IN THE 



McGill Fortnightly. 



Read b9 all 




OF THE 

UNIVERSITY. 



AVERAGE CIRCULATION OVER 700 . 



Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



t 







TO THE 

McGill University Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board of Trade Building. 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTT'S, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

KTo, 13. Hospital Street, 
MONTREAL. 



J. B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster, 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 

i3i »t. James Street, 

Telephone 188'i. MONTREAL. 

Cable Address, “ Arcfost.” . — r— 



ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



Surgical Sqstrunients 

arid GhcntfGa! Apparatus. 

f - 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 



... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . . 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 St. Paul Street. 



CROUP 



Photos, Combination or direct^ 
form one of our specialties— first 
class work 



SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & CO., 1 Eleury Street. 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q C ., M.iM*. Selkirk Gross. 

Albert J. Brown. W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN 5 SHARP, 

Advocates. Barristers and Solicitors, 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - MONTREAL. 



MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

ADV03ATS3, BARRISTERS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 



05 QQ 

s fei t 

fe s « 

^ 65 « 

s? £ 
sgg 
£ * 

•I 




AT 



H3SAHK & 31 A IB 33 II SDK, 

1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



W. & F F CURRIE & CO., 

100 CREY NUN STREET, 

IMPORTEB9 OF 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 

ROBERTSON, FLEUTaLCONER 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



- ADVOCATES - 

157 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



AL *~ THg LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT. 



, jco.zhl.jl_.jl_,, MILL.ER tfc OO.f 
(6 and 18 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 

Manufacturers of the I'lBQSt Quality ElgQtT9*Plat&d W^T9» And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons, Etc. 

A. ./. WHIM BET, Manager. 



FURNITURE 


MILLS, ’ • 

Furrier & ftatter, 


— FOE — 


Ppofessops and Students 


ST. CATHERINE ST. 

2nd door West of Peel. 


At Special Prices. 


E. A- GERTH, 

DIRECT IMPORTER OF HIOM CLA88 


RENAUB, KING & PATTERSON, 

i 


HAVANA CIGARS. 

11 . B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for Ryitasi Freres 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETES. 



652 CRAIG STREET. 



Smoke Eerth’a Celebrated Mixtuie. 

2235 8T, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



Good Fall and Winter BOOTS 

$2.75, 3.50, 4.00 PER PAIR. : • 

Just the thins for Students. 

Win- F. SflAliDOK, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
test assorted stock to he found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boot9 and Shoe 9 at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Bleary. 



•ft goes without savin* that 






WAL.PORD’3 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professjrs on sale. Special rates 
as usu.il to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346 . 



Established 1859. 

HEISTR/ Y IR,. GS-R^^T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuiue Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St„ Montreal. 







manasebT ' 136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 

Branch ?8 all over the City. Telephones : Ben. 666 audii 743 . 



McGILL IT IS SMOKING TOBACCO THAT EXPERIENCE 

'<■4 I CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MONEY CAN BUY. 

MIXTURE S.M03gX3STG- TOBAnnn 

Q-VL64 Tobacconist, ‘20$ St. James St. 



ALL THE le ADINC WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 




