Vof. VJJJ. 



JVo. 5. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Thursday, January \$th, 1885 . 



CONTENTS : 



Editorials 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PAGE. 

3-4 


Between the Lectures 


PAGE. 

12 


Contributions 










- 5-9 


Societies 


13 


McGill News 


- 


- 


- 


- 


10 


Personals - 


14 


College World 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 10-11 


Advertisements 


2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1885. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MSCMflSTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

•* 7 idyscpe^ 

Barristers , Solicitors, &g., 

162 St. Tames Street, 

ssonrxREikx.. 

DONALD MACMASTER, QC. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. S. MtLENNAN. 

BoMim, lie, Fleet k Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. TAMES STREET, 

ASesttfeseal. 

ji. w. 'fimjimfi 

^.Svocate, |}arrigter 5 (Jjommi^ioner, JfC., 

131 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 st. j"_a.:m::es st. 

MEDICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED IJ\~ ART COUBSE, 
SCMEJVCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT BOOKS. 

Fall assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

— O— BEST VALUE IN TO WN\— 

Stylo graphic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Sit]) plies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Jam.es street, 

.A. Tl SO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 



GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Jlarriabrs, jUlornmp, jlolitilora, Jy|. t 

2 Chambers : Exchange Eank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

iMi:oisrxRB;A.x.. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin, 



IEj. _A_. G-EIR-TIEi. 

IMPORTER OF 

3K* < *W’ elli* A O 'll d! ? <JH^> S | 

Briar an<l Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try StvLd.ean.to Ifc^inctvLre. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



-A.. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And. Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T^LIMIIES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 
MONTREAL. 




J. J. GREAVES, 

importer of all kinds of 



■Y/ools, T 0y5 > J ewelf^y, ^tatioj^y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, <5cc., &c. 

816 & 1314 St. Catherine Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



New Seale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-HfFOR STUDENTS , %+ 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. VIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 15th, 1885. [No. 5. 



JldSiff University injctte 



DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President . 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer . 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary . 

J. W. McMeekin, I H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

A. B. Osborne, | T. W. Lesage. 



EDITORS. 



W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 



W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. A.E. Greenshields, B.A. 

S. Fortier. 



G. F. Palmer. 

C. H. Livingstone. 
T. Haythorne, B. A. 



The University Gazette will he published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



E&itorials. 



NOTICE. 



A STUDENTS’ DINING HALL. 

There is a rumor that the authorities are bestirring 
themselves to secure a dining hall for the students. 
We heard the same rumor last year, and pointed out 
then that the Registrar was occupying a suite of rooms 
which could be used for the purpose. It is wrong and 
absurd that, when space is so much wanted, a large 
part of it Rhould be occupied by an official whose 
presence, except in office hours, is not essential. For 
years students have been forced to get their meals in 
all sorts of places, in various parts of the town, often 
at a great distance from their lodgings. Now and 
then students living in airy rooms have been stricken 
with typhoid fever — contracted at an eating house. 
Still nothing was done, though after every new out- 
break of fever, a whisper would get abroad that at 
last the authorities were moving. What a distance 
they must have travelled ! To the uninitiated in red 
tape, the matter does not look difficult. Given the 
room, the next thing is the caterer. As McGill has 
nearly five hundred students, one would fancy that 
many purveyors would compete for the profit of 
furnishing three meals a day to this small army. What 
then can be the difficulty 1 Perhaps one of the powers 
that be will kindly endeavor to explain. 



The annual meeting of the shareholders of the 
McGill University Gazette will be held on Monday, 
the 2nd. of February. Only those who have paid for 
the shares they have subscribed for will be allowed to 
vote. 

A CORRECTION. 

In our last number it was announced that the Revs. 
Canon Norman and James Barclay were appointed 
Governors. This statement was made upon the 
authority of a member of the Corporation who, it now 
appears, was in error, since by the terms of the con- 
stitution none but laymen can hold the office of 
Governor. The two gentlemen were appointed Fel- 
lows. Such criticism of the policy of the authorities 
as was based on the supposed appointment is not, 
however, untrue. Our graduates have altogether too 
insignificant a share in the management of college 
business, and the sooner they wake up to a knowledge 
of that fact the better it will be for McGill. 



A GRADUATES’ DINING HALL. 

A modified form of last year’s Club scheme is now 
being mooted among the graduates/ It is proposed 
that those of them who dine down town should make 
arrangements with some caterer by which they could 
dine in one place and by themselves. The expense of 
such an arrangement to each participant would not it 
is said exceed $10 a year. The advantages of this 
scheme, if carried out, w'ould be many. Old fellow- 
students would meet more frequently than now, and 
the graduates would become known to each other. 
Any non-resident McGill man comings to Montreal 
would know where to seek his old friends, and better 
than all, some sort of esprit de corps would be 
awakened. Our graduates are often blamed for their 
lukewarmness with regard to University matters, yet 
circumstances are so strongly against them, that it is 
no wonder their loyalty to McGill is not ardent. 
Still many have long felt that a little more energy on 
their part would perhaps have placed them in a better 
position, as regards their alma mater 9 than they at 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



present hold. Just now the time is most favorable for 
them to assert themselves and make their claim to 
recognition in the settlement of University matters 
felt. To do this, they must have some place of meet- 
ing and opportunities of meeting frequently. How 
can these necessities be better met than by the institu- 
tion of a graduates dining-room ] All must dine, and 
all like to dine in agreeable company. Just now 
graduates, who have never yet met, could not fail of 
having at least one interesting topic in common, so by 
all means let us have the dining-room, and with as 
little loss of time as possible. 

WHICH IS IT TO BE? 

On Wednesday, the 28th day of this month, the 
Corporation will be called to give their final decision 
upon the question of separate versus co-education in 
McGill University. It is currently reported that the 
Principal will attempt to prevent the question being 
discussed at all on the grounds mentioned in his letters 
to The Gazette , or failing that, will resort to the tactics 
so successfully adopted at the October session, when a 
vast amount of routine business was forced upon the 
meeting, though it was known that many of the mem- 
bers had come up solely for the discussion of the one 
burning question. So much time was taken up with 
these matters of detail that many were unable to wait 
for the vote, in which but fourteen participated, seven 
voting with the Principal and six against him. It is 
safe to say that such unworthy generalship, if once 
more attempted, will meet with the check it deserves, 
since a number of the Corporation have announced 
their intention of forcing an early discussion on the 
subject, or at all events of discussing it, no matter how 
late the hour, so that no member of the Corporation 
will be able to vote without having the question before 
him from both sides. How the vote will result is un- 
certain. Two at least of the Representative Fellows 
will not be present, and there are many wavering 
members liable to cast their votes on either side, 
according to the measure of persuasion or intimidation 
which is meted out to them. It will be for the expo- 
nents of co-education to convince these undetermined 
minds by a complete display of the evidence in favor 
of their side. For us, who have not space to enter 
fully into the question, it only remains to present two 
arguments, based on expediency, against the institu- 
tion of separate classes. The income of $100,000, for 
that sum is presumably to be the basis of calculation, 
is only $5,000. How many professors will that 
amount pay] • Will it pay as many as will be neces- 
sary to carry on separate classes ] No, decidedly no. 
Then the main portion of the work is to devolve upon 



the present staff of professors, most, if not all, of whom 
constantly complained of overwork before the ladies* 
classes were instituted. What justice will then be 
done to students of either sex ] But, it may be 
objected, the classes can be brought together in the 
senior years. If so, the basis of calculation is $50,000, 
the money now in hand. But even if that figure be 
doubled it will not suffice to carry on the separate 
classes during two years. Certainly no more than 
three professors of any attainments can be engaged for 
$5,000. Yet three could not carry on the classes 
without much aid. 

Again McGill is menaced with great danger. The 
resources of Ontario’s consolidated University will 
be such as will place it far in advance of the posi- 
tion now occupied by McGill. If the latter is to 
live, it must take an immense stride forward. The 
standard will have to be raised, and the professors pre- 
pare new courses of lectures. How can they do so, if 
overburdened with work, and will it not be suicidal to 
add to the load which these men are now forced to 
carry ] But if the establishment of this formidable 
rival threatens McGill with annihilation, it may also 
prove her salvation. There is great jealousy between 
Montreal and Toronto. More than this, the people of 
Montreal are accustomed to take pride in possessing a 
great institution of learning. These things afford the 
grandest opportunity McGill has ever had. Let her 
appeal to the citizens of Montreal next year for the 
aid which alone can prevent her from perishing, and 
only one thing will prevent them from giving that aid. 
Thanks to a recent controversy, the people of this city 
have been brought to see how great would be the folly 
of establishing a college for women. If the authorities 
persist in that folly, a distrust of their discretion will 
be awakened among the people that will disastrously 
affect a liberality, with which otherwise the authorities 
would be met next year, when they will be forced to 
appeal for money to place McGill beside Toronto. 
Now comes the question. Are the Corporation pre- 
pared to risk the loss of the people’s confidence] 
With a Corporation, in which the balance of power 
rests with men who care little for the University, we 
have fear. Whether that fear is justified, the 28th of 
January will show. 



As a freshman — med. — was # making his way to his 
seat in one of the lecture ro # oms the other day, he 
had to pass the usual habitation of a tobacco 
ruminant but slipped and fell on the salivated boards 
ruining his autumn trousers. And as he gazed sorrow- 
tully on the chocolate stain on his ‘patella, he groaned 
out : — 

“ ’Tis true, * tis spitty, and spitty ’tis, ’tis true.” 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



ANACREON’S MISTRESS. 

To my aid, thou best of painters, 

Paint her for me, best of painters, 

Master of the Rhodi tn art, 

Bring my mistress back before me ; 

As I speak her, thou shalt limn her. 

Paint me first her flowing tresses, 

Black and yielding make her tresses, 

And, if wax can g ve the picture, 

Shew the fragrance breathing from them. 

Paint her brow like ivory, 

Shapely, firm the cheeks beneath it, 

Locks dark gleaming resting o’er it, 

Then the eyebrows touch so deftly, 

Scarce they meet and scarce are sever’d; 

Paint them black, the arching eyebrows 
I m perceptibly com mingling. 

To her eyes (’tis here thou failest,) 

Eyes as bright as are Athene’s, 

Melting eyes like Aphrodite’s, 

Fire alone can give their glances. 

Paint her nose and cheeks like roses, 

Milk-dippd roses, white yet blushing, 

And upon her lips persuasion 
Challenging the kiss of lovers. 

’Neath her dainty chin the graces, 

Round a neck of Parian whiteness, 

See ! th-y hover, none is wanting. 

Violet-hued the robe that veils her, 

Half-reveal i ng, hal f-conc eal i ng 
l ustrous fi sh, that peering through it 
Tells the talc ot hidden beauty. 

’TL enough : she stands before me, 

Wax ere long will learn her language ! 

R. W. B. 



Contributions. 



MONTCALM AND WOLFE. 

In continuing and concluding the sketch of this 
work, we shall endeavour to work out in as few words 
as possible the answer to the question, “ Shall France 
remain here, or shall she not'?” All of us know that 
France lost in the struggle and did not remain here ; 
still we must not forget that the contest was a hard 
one, and that the English suffered many reverses be- 
fore they succeeded in making themselves the rulers 
of Canada. To give a general idea of their victories, 
and especially of their defeats, will be the aim of this 
short article. 

In our last we examined the relative strength of 
England and France in America, and found that the 
latter, though much inferior in point of numbers, was 
greatly superior in organization and united action. 
The want of unison on the pa$t of the English colo- 
nies, and their * sluggishness in perceiving that the 
struggle was one in which, notwithstanding the fact 
that it effected some more directly than others, all 
should he interested and active, go far to explain 
many of the events of this part of our history. 

Let us look at some of the campaigns in more or 
less detail, so that we may be the better able to judge 
of the course of the war. In 1754, the French, by 
their promptness, managed to surprise some 40 Eng- 
lish engaged in the construction of a fort near the site 
which Pittsburgh now occupies, at the junction of the 
Alleghany and Monongahela rivers. By immediately 



surrendering, the English were allowed to leave the 
place unmolested, while the French began and com- 
pleted their large and substantial fort, called Fort 
Duquesne. In the same year we have the actual 
fighting begun by Washington, at this time about 22 
years old, who, with 30 or 40 men, attacked about an 
equal number of French under Jumonville, and killed 
or captured all except one who fled at the commence- 
ment of the skirmish. After this, Washington re- 
turned to his camp at the Great Meadows, a few miles 
nearer the Alleghanies than Yovt Duquesne. and there 
threw up the entrenchment of Fort Necessity. Here 
he defended himself for nine hours amid a heavy fall 
of rain against a French force at least double his 
strength. The French were posted on two heights on 
opposite sides of the fort, and so murderously raked it 
with their cross firing that Washington was glad to 
capitulate and accept the ‘terms of the French. Thus 
the year proved disastrous to the English. “ Not an 
English flag,” in the words of our author, “ now waved 
beyond the Alleghanies.” 

The plans of the English for the campaign of 1755 
were on a large scale. They were to attack the French 
at four points — Fort Duquesne, Niagara, Crown Point 
and Beaus^jour. The general was Braddock, who had 
just arrived from England and from whom great thipgs 
were expected. He took command of the expedition 
against Fort Duquesne — an expedition which turned out 
, so disastrously that it would be difficult to conceive of 
results more terrible. The chapter which describes it 
is one of the fullest in details and most graphic in the 
whole hook. The havoc is frightful to contemplate. 

“ Of eighty-six officers, sixty-three were killed or dis- 
abled ; while out of thirteen hundred and seventy- 
three non-commissioned officers and privates, only 
four hundred and fifty-nine came off unharmed.” 
Braddock himself was fatally wounded, after acting 
with the most determined and unflinching bravery. 
His d» sperate courage, however, cannot entitle him to 
the name of a wise and capable commander. Under 
the circumstances, no orders could possibly be more 
fatal than those given by him. Instead of encourag- 
ing or even allowing his men to fight from behind 
trees and other defences, as the enemy did, he was 
furious in his ardour to have them in regular line and 
order. That he perceived his mistake, we learn from 
his words after the battle. “We shall better know 
how to deal with them another lime.” He trusted too 
much to his regulars, who showed themselves entirely 
ignorant of this mode of bush fighting. His contempt, 
too, for the provincials was as great as it was ground- 
less, and he himself lived to repent it. True, they 
were not as experienced as the enemy ; but they knew 
at least something of this mode of warfare. Washing- 
ton, who was under him in the battle, finds grievous 
fault of him on this score. The expedition to Crown 
Point, on Lake Champlain, was more successful. Be- 
fore reaching its destination it was attacked by the. 
French, who were beaten and forced to retreat. The 
success was not followed up.. The English were also 
successful at Beaus^jour, in Nova Scotia, but the Nia- 
gara enterprise was after a time abandoned. 

Passing over 1756, we can merely mention the 
stubborn resistance which the English made in 1757 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



at Fort William Henry. This fort was at the extreme 
south end of Lake George, and was besieged by Mont- 
calm, who had come out in 1756 to take command of 
the French forces. The army which he brought 
against it was very large, and, notwithstanding the 
courage and capacity of Monro, the officer defending, 
it was, after several days’ bombardment, forced to 
surrender. 

After this we have Pitt, “the great Commoner,” at 
the head of the home Ministry, and soon a great 
change in the affairs of our colonies is evident. In 
fact, it is only when he took the helm of affairs that 
the English here began to show praiseworthy vigour 
and to make headway against their enemies. During 
the years 1758 and 1759 they were almost invariably 
the victorious party ; but it is impossibe for us to en- 
ter into details. Let those who wish to get a lively, 
well sustained and picturesque account of the events 
of those years, read the two volumes of “ Montcalm 
and Wolfe.” From them they will learn in the easiest 
and most impressive way of the fall of Louisbourg, 
Niagara, Quebec and Montreal; and, lastly, of the 
transference of all Canada to Great Britain. 



TOBIAS GEORGE SMOLLETT, M.D., NOVELIST, 
POET AND DRAMATIST.* 

" An ancient sage, when death approached his bed, 
Consigned to Pluto his devoted head; 

And, that no tiend might hiss, or prove uncivil, 

With vows and prjiy’rs he fairly brib’d the devil ; 

Yet neither vows, nor pray’rs, nor rich oblation, 

Could always suve the sinner— from damnation. 

Thus authors tottering on the brink of fate, 

The critic’s rage with nrolovues deprecate ; 

Yet oft the trembling bard implores in vain, 

The wit profess’d turns out a dunce in grain ; 

No plea can then avert the dreadful sentence, 

He must be damn’d—, in spite of all repentance.” 

One very evident result of the overwhelming accu- 
mulation at the present day of what is known as light 
literature will be, that much of it must necessarily be 
left unread, and in a few years practically become ex- 
tinct. Books of this style have now been increasing 
for so long in a geometrical ratio, that even the most 
assiduous novel-reader of our drawing-room will hardly 
undertake to keep pace with the thousand and one 
writers who flood the market with their productions, 
not to speak of his finding leisure for our old literary 
stock. In this domain, as well as elsewhere, that great 
rule will hold — the weakest shall perish, the fittest 
must survive. The trouble will be that, as we go on, 
and have our stock still further added to, the careful 
reader will be compelled to sift and pick and judge 
the more severely, and he will, in the end, have to 
leave many books aside which he would fain have 
perused had life been longer, or his unoccupied hours 
been more in number. And, doubtless, even at the 
present time, many works, by no means altogether 
weak, are left unread on this account — even books 
in particular branches of literature by persons devot- 
ing themselves to these very branches. 

And to do this picking and choosing with judgment 
will be no easy matter. The scholars and men of cul- 
ture have here a task laid out for them, and a very 

• A paper read before the M^rrin College Debating Society, Que- 
bec, 28th November, 1884, .and before the Christ Church Cathedral 
Young Men’s Society, Montreal, Gth January, 1885. 



noble task, in my opinion, it is, to point out and by 
their influence make popular the most worthy books in 
all the different branches. Else much time will be 
lost, much energy be inis-spent, and even much posi- 
tive injury done. As I said before, many productions 
must die quiet deaths. The truth is, that a book to 
survive, requires, even at the present stage, to possess 
very many points of excellence, and to be egregiously 
wanting in few or none of the more important quali- 
ties. In fiction, as the competition is greatest, so the 
slaughter of the innocents, to use a rather inapt meta- 
phor, will be most pitiless. The works of Charles 
Dickens, even, have already been sentenced by a 
brother novelist, who himself will be wonderfully 
fortunate if his stories are read by the next generation.* 
So that it will be no matter for wonder if the success 
of many of our less distinguished writers of fiction 
shall prove ephemeral and their books quickly dis- 
appear. 

Some such thoughts as the above occurred to 
me the other day on looking over the miscellaneous 
works of Tobias George Smollett, M.D. I do not 
know whether Smollett’s novels are much read by or- 
dinary readers at the present day, but that they are 
not altogether discarded may be gathered from the fact 
that they are published by the English booksellers in 
those yellow-backed editions, costing sixpence each, 
which are so dear to some and so much denounced by 
others, and which are withal so very trying, with their 
vile type, to weak eyes. In the course of time, how- 
ever, unless we are very much mistaken, “ Roderick 
Random ” and the rest will practically cease to be ex- 
tant, for with all their good qualities, and they are not 
few, these novels are in their style outrageously repug- 
nant to the taste of the present generation of readers. 
This change in the public taste is to be ascribed, in my 
opinion, in no small degree to the fact that women 
have now come to form the majority of the readers of 
fiction. I hat a most beneficial reform has been 
effected in the language used by novelists cannot be 
denied. Outspoken indecency of style has been sup- 
pressed, and a higher standard of taste set up. This 
is a change welcome to all, and is due in a large 
measuie, as. I have intimated) to the greater free- 
dom at present allowed in the education, thought and 
studies of women. Nor should our estimate of the 
benefit of this change be in any way affected by cyni- 
cal reflections upon the inward state of morals in the 
present generation. Our particularity in the use of 
language is a sign of the times ; it is in reality rather 
a means towards an end than an ultimate good in itself. 

It on the one hand we are not to puff ourselves up and 
comfort ourselves with self gratulations because of this 
particularity in our use of expressions, on the other, 
we must not be provoked by sneers into, imagining 
that a man is any. the better because he persists in 
calling a spade a spade. If the agitation for the 
emancipation of women, which has been goino* on for 
such a number of years, has been in any way conducive 
to this change of taste we must so far be grateful to the 
movement. It is a pity that the agitation, in the man- 
ner ot so many others, is like to run riot in the flush 
ot its success. 

'Anthony Trollope’s Autobiography. ~ 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



7 



But before women could with propriety read novels, 
new novels which they might so read had to be writ- 
ten. And so after the time of Smollett not only did 
women come more and more to read novels, but they 
also became themselves writers in this department of 
literature. The pioneer in this good work was Madame 
D’Arblay. “ It is not only on account of the intrinsic 
merit of Madame D’Arblay’s early works,” says Ma- 
caulay, “ that she is entitled to honourable mention. 
Her appearance is an important epoch in our literary 
history. ‘ Evelina * was the first tale written by a wo- 
man, and purporting to be a picture of life and man- 
ners, that lived or deserved to live Indeed, 

most of the popular novels which preceded ‘ Evelina ’ 
were such as no lady would have written ; and many 
of them were such as no lady could, without confusion, 
own that she had read. The very name of novel was 
held in horror among religious people. In decent 
families, which did not profess extraordinary sanctity, 
there was a strong feeling against all such works. Sir 
Anthony Absolute, two or three years before ‘ Evelina’ 
appeared, spoke the sense* of the great body of sober 
fathers and husbands, when he pronounced the circu- 
lating library an ever green tree of diabolical know- 
ledge. This feeling on the part of the grave and re- 
flecting increased the evil from which it had sprung. 
The novelist, having little character to lose, and hav- 
ing few readers among serious people, took without 
scruple liberties, which in our generation seem almost 
incredible. Miss Burney did for the English novel 
what Jeremy Collier did for the English drama; and 
she did it in a better way. She first- showed that a 
tale might be written in which both the fashionable 
and the vulgar life of London might be exhibited with 
great force, and with broad comic humour, and which 
yet should not contain a single line inconsistent with 
rigid morality, or even with virgin delicacy. She 
took away the reproach which lay on a most useful 
and delightful species of composition. She vindicated 
the right of her sex to an equal share in a fair and 
noble province of letters. Several accomplished wo- 
men have followed in her track. At present, the 
novels which we owe to English ladies form no small 
part of the literary glory of our country. No class of 
works is more honourably distinguished by fine ob- 
servation, by grace, by delicate wit, by pure moral 
feeling.” To these two causes, then, it seems to me, 
is principally due that change of sentiment on this 
head which has taken place since the last century. 

Now, returning to Smollett’s novels, we find them 
alive with what we, with our present high taste, call 
indecency, vulgarity and obscenity. His stories are 
stories which — I shall not say never are, but certainly 
never should be, read by female readers ; and it is for 
this reason I say that these works are doomed to com- 
parative oblivion. 

Of course no one who understands the temper and 
manners of the time in which he wrote will very 
severely blame the author for this outspokenness and 
indelicacy of speech. It was very little if at all 
thought of by the people for whom he wrote, who 
would, no doubt, have been much surprised at anyone 
who should then have called the Doctor harshly to 
task for his expressions. But as a writer on this sub- 



ject remarks “ even making all allowance for the man- 
ner of the age, his grossness is indefensible ; and it is 
much to be regretted that he had not a higher and 
more chivalrous estimate of the female character.” 
Even Smollett himself, we imagine, was conscious of 
having slightly overstepped the usual bounds, not in- 
deed in the matter of plainness of speech so much as 
in that of depicting what he calls “ mean scenes.” In 
the preface to one of his stories he makes somewhat of 
an apology in these words, “though I foresee that some 
people will be offended at the mean scenes in which 
he (the hero) is involved, I persuade myself that the 
judicious will not only perceive the necessity of de- 
scribing those situations to w r hich he must of course 
be confined, in his low estate, but also find entertain- 
ment in viewing those parts of life where the humours 
and passions are undisguised by affectation, ceremony 
or education ; and the whimsical peculiarities of dis- 
position appear as Nature has implanted them. But 
I believe I need not trouble myself in vindicating a 
practice authorized by the best writers in this way.” 
From this it will be perceived that the ideas of our fore- 
fathers with regard to fiction were largely different 
from those held by most of us at the present time. 

In the same preface he says further : “ That the 

delicate reader may not be offended at the unmeaning 
oaths which proceed from the mouths of some persons 
in these memoirs, I beg leave to premise, that I imagine 
nothing could more effectually expose the absurdity of 
such miserable expletives, than a natural and verbal 
representation of the discourse in which they occur.” 
You will all, I am sure, agree with me in saying that 
there is some room for doubting the truth of the con- 
clusion here arrived at. Smollett’s purpose, no doubt, 
was excellent and highly moral, but we must agree 
■with Buskin when he says that such methods are mis- 
taken, and that no good is ever done to society by the 
pictorial representation of its diseases.* I must not 
stay, however, to argue upon this point. 

Smollett’s stories are, after all, interesting and enter- 
taining for anyone who is not repulsed by those mean 
scenes and miserable expletives of which he speaks. 
One may with some aptness apply to him what Emerson 
says of Montaigne, “though a biblical plainness, 
coupled with a most uncanonical levity, may shut his 
pages to many sensitive readers, yet the offence is 
superficial.” 

Most of his scenes are taken from low life, and in 
these alone can he be said to have succeeded. He 
does not seem to have cared to attempt to present 
characters in polite society with any degree of justice 
or delicacy. The reason of this predilection is well 
explained by an able writer on romance., “ When the 
declining popularity of the pastoral and heroic romance 
of the 17th century suggested the necessity of opening 
a new vein in fiction it is probable that the stilted, un- 
natural and exaggerated character of these effete com- 
positions led the public taste, by a natural recoil of 
feeling into the opposite extreme, namely, the selection 
of topics and characters from common and even from 
vulgar life, and a literal adherence to Nature, even at 
the risk of the sacrifice of art.” 

In these, as in many other early English novels, a 
certain quaintness of expression is noticeable, and adds 



i 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



much, in my opinion to the pleasures to be derived 
from them. It is also useful in opening for us to no 
inconsiderable extent the history of words and phrases 
which are at present used in quite different senses. 
Indeed as specimens of English prose Smollett's novels 
are worthy of a high place, on account of their uniform 
grace of diction, and occasional pathos, as well as on 
account of the historical value which I have mentioned. 
For many reasons it is difficult to give extracts which 
shall sufficiently illustrate these qualities. Indeed, as 
someone has remarked “ a passage from Fielding or 
Smollett can convey no more idea of the work from 
which it is taken or the manner of the author, than a 
single stone or brick would of the architecture of a 
house.” Take, however, this passage, though I 
say this is a quite inadequate method for forming a 
.judgement, the description of an abb6, Vol. IV. p. 105. 
Again take the chapter where it is related how Pere- 
grine Pickle was celebrated as a wit and patron and 
and entertained himself at the expense of whom it did 
concern, Vol. III. p. 162 ; also Cadwallader's story of 
the three black crows. Cadwallader for the purpose of 
making fools of his acquaintances had set up as a 
fortune-teller, and in order the more certainly to blind 
them was continually receiving with contempt and an 
assumed air of incredulity the accounts which were on 
everyone's tongue of the conjurer’s wonderful powers. 
Vol. III. p. 142. As I go on I shall give further selec- 
tions which with these will probably suffice to give some 
slight idea of the style of the novels. 

According to his own confession LeSage was the 
model whom Smollett wished to follow, and as a con- 
sequence we find that his novels are greatly after the 
style of Gil Bias — they are rather narratives of adven- 
ture than studied unfoldings of intricate plots. As Dr. 
Moore says “ the romances of Dr. Smollett are not so 
much distinguished for the invention of the story, as 
for strong masculine humour, just observations on life, 
and a great variety of original characters.” The really 
good scenes and incidents which abound in them are 
told with a captivating quaintness of expression whicli 
adds remarkably to the humour of the portraits. 
Roderick Random as he was on his way to London to 
seek his fortune with his faithful attendant, Strap, after 
walking for several days, entered a small village one 
evening in the twilight. They inquired for a public 
house, and were directed to one of a very sorry appear- 
ance. At their entrance, the landlord, who seemed to 
be a venerable old man, with long gray hair, rose from 
a table placed by a large fire in a very neat-paved 
kitchen, and with a cheerful countenance accosted 
them in these words : “ Salvete pueri — ingredimini .” 
Roderick was not a little pleased to hear him speak 
Latin, because he was in hopes of recommending him- 
self to him by his knowledge in that language ; he 
therefore answered without hesitation, “ Dissolve frigus , 
ligna super foco — large reponens , super foco — large re - 
ponens .” He had no sooner pronounced these words, 
than the old gentleman, running towards him, shook 
him by the hand, crying, “ Fill mi dilectissime ! unde 
renis — a superis, ni fallor T' In short, finding they 
were both read in the Classics, the old man did not 
know how to testify his regard enough ; but ordered 
his daughter, a* jolly rosy-cheeked damsel who was his 



sole domestic to bring a bottle of his quadrimum \ re- 
peating from Horace at the same time, “ Depronie 
quadrimum sabina, 0 Haliarclio , merum dista. I his 

quadrimum was excellent ale of his own brewing, ot 
which he told them he had always an Amphora tour 
years of age, for the use of himself and friends. 

In the course of conversation Random came to 
understand that this facetious person was a school- 
master, whose income being small, he was tain to keep 
a glass of good liquor for the entertainment of passen- 
gers, by which he made shift to make the two ends of 
the year meet. He was old, he said, — what then 1 the 
more reason he should enjoy the small share of life 
that remained as his friend Flaccus advised : “ lu ne 
qucesieris ( Scire nefas) quern mihi , quern tibifinerndie 
dederint carpe diem , quam minimum credula postero. 
Having inquired into the affairs of the adventurers, he 
warned them earnestly against the deceits of mankind 
to which, he said, he was no stranger. In the mean- 
time he ordered his daughter to lay a fowl to the fire 
for supper, for he was resolved that night to regale 
his friends — permittens diws cetera. After having 
partaken of supper and drunk several bottles of the 
quadrimum our friends retired to rest. Before going 
to sleep, Roderick and Strap had some conversation 
about the good humour of their landlord, which gave 
Strap such an idea of his benevolence that he positively 
believed they should pay nothing for their lodging and 
entertainment. “ Don't you observe,” said he to his 
companion, “ that he has conceived a particular affec- 
tion for us — nay, even treated us at supper with ex- 
traordinary fare, which, to be sure, we should not of 
ourselves have called for f” 

Roderick was partly of Strap's opinion ; but the ex- 
perience he had of the world made him suspend his 
belief until morning. After having partaken of break- 
fast in company with the old man and his daughter 
they desired to know what they had to pay. “ Biddy 
will let you know, gentlemen,” said the host, “ for I 
never mind these matters. Money matters are beneath 
the concern of one who lives upon the Horation plan 
Cresceritam sequitur cura pecuniam. Meanwhile Biddy, 
having consulted her slate, told them that their reckon- 
ing amounted to so much, naming a most exorbitant sum 
Strap swore that she must be mistaken and recourse 
was had to the father who desired his daughter to 
count again, but she was positive on the subject. 
Roderick got indignant, declared it was an uncon- 
scionable bill and demanded to know the particulars. 
A bill was accordingly made out, one of the items of 
which was “To four bottles of quad rim, 2 shillings.” 
As the old man had not the appearance of a common 
publican, and had raised a sort of veneration in 
Roderick by his demeanour the preceding night, it 
was not in his power to upbraid him as he deserved ; 
therefore he contented with saying that he was sure he 
did not learn to be an extortioner from Horace. The 
schoolmaster answered, that Roderick was but a young 
man and did not know the world, or he would not 
have taxed him with extortion, whose only aim was to 
live contentus parvo, and keep off importuna pauperies . 
His fellow-traveller could not so easily put up with 
this imposition : but swore he should either take one- 
third of the money or go without. Biddy, however, 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



brought in two stout fellows to her assistance and the 
money had to be paid. Just as they departed Strap, 
who was half distracted on account of this piece of ex- 
pense, went up to the schoolmaster, and, grinning in 
his face, pronounced with great emphasis, “ semper 
avarus eget” To which the pedant replied, with a mali- 
cious smile, “ Animum rege , qui nisi paret , imperat” 

In this anecdote I think the old extortioner with 
his pedantic glibness is very well drawn indeed. The 
story reminds us of the fact that throughout his books 
Smollett gives numerous evidences of his having been 
a good classical scholar and an extensive reader. And 
yet with all his knowledge, political, professional and 
general, he never becomes pedantic. As a result of 
his learning his stories are raised to a height far above 
the plane occupied by that class of novels to which 
“ Snarleyow” belongs. It seems very derogatory to 
compare the author of ‘‘Humphrey Clinker” with 
Marryatt, still we must confess that we were often re- 
minded of the latter in reading those sea stories which 
form a large part of “ Roderick Random*” and “ Pere- 
grine Pickle.” The works of both very often smell of 
the sea, but he, of the eighteenth century flavours the 
concoction with a little of the coffee-house, the draw- 
ing-room and the country life of England of a hundred 
years ago. Marryatt is all Salmagundi and British 
naval prowess ; Smollett gives us some glimpses of our 
grandfathers as they courted their mistresses, as they 
criticized the plays, as they worked in Grub-street, as 
they beat the bailiffs or whiled away their time in Mar- 
shalsea prison. Take, for instance, that description of 
a coach journey in “ Roderick Random,” Chap. 54. 

There is a hearty English ring about all these stories 
which makes them peculiarly captivating, and in this 
respect, I may mention, the works reflected the char- 
acter of the author. Dr. Anderson says, “ In his per- 
son and manners, Smollett was fashioned to prepossess 
all men in his favour. His figure was manly, graceful 
and handsome ; and in his air and manner there was 
a dignity that commanded respect, joined with a be- 
* nignity that inspired affection. With the most 
polished manners, and the finest address, he possessed 
a loftiness and elevation of sentiment and character, 
without vanity or affectation. His general behaviour 
bore the genuine stamp of true politeness, the result 
of an overflowing humanity and goodness of heart. 
He was a man of upright principles, and of great and 
extensive benevolence. The friend of sense and of 
virtue, he not only embraced, but sought occasions of 
doing good. He was the reliever of the distressed, the 
protector of the helpless, and the encourager of merit. 
His conversation was sprightly, instructive and agree- 
able ; like his writings, pregnant with wit and intelli- 
gence, and animated with sallies of humour and 
pleasantry. In his opinions of mankind, except where 
his personal and political prejudices were concerned, 
he was candid and liberal. To those who were above 
him he allowed the due superiority ; but he did not 
willingly associate with his superiors, and always with 
a consciousness of his personal dignity, and with 
evident indications of pride and reserve. lo his 
equals and inferiors he behaved with ease and affability, 
without the insolence of familiarity, or the parade ol 
condescension. With his amiable qualities and agree- 



able manners he united courage and independence. In 
the declaration of his opinions he was open ; in his 
actions he was intrepid, and often imprudent. A gen- 
tleman in principle, independent in spirit, and fearless 
of enemies, however powerful from their malignity, or 
formidable from their rank, no danger could prevent 
him from saying or doing those things which he con- 
ceived in themselves to be right, and in their conse- 
quences to be useful to his friends or country.” 

If I may be permitted, without appearing presump- 
tions, to give my opinion as to the rank which Smollett 
should occupy as a novelist I must say that on the 
whole I do not think that he ought to be placed 
amongst the very greatest. The title of a great novelist 
cannot be denied to him, and indeed he excelled in 
tin* particular species of fiction which he undertook. 
But it followed from the very nature of his work that 
he could not reach the highest eminence. His com- 
mand of language is unlimited, but his characters, are 
drawn with a bold hand, the finer distinctions and 
shades being altogether wanting. He was thoroughly 
acquainted with mankind and possessed fine obser- 
vational powers, but it seemed to much trouble to him 
to enquire into the deeper motives. The consequence 
in his own life is well known — he was deceived and 
deserted by those whom he had befriended. Dr. 
Anderson says he had an acute discernment. Well if 
he had he does not seem to have made use of it. We 
can better agree with the same writer in saying that he 
had an active imagination. No one ought to attempt 
to write fiction who has not. Some one has remarked 
that his characters are outrageously impossible, but 
this accusation can hardly be maintained. Again, al- 
though it cannot be denied that he was a most versatile 
writer and created a great variety of original characters 
yet .in his earlier novels there seemed to me to be a 
very apparent sameness. The truth is that in this style 
of fiction it is almost impossible to avoid repeating in 
a disguised form some of your former creations. What 
is not perceptible in the case of Smollett would be 
downright tiresome with a less able and imaginative 
writer, in the first two books, perhaps, everything 
would be new and fresh, but when the fourth and fifth 
dishes were served we should begin to perceive that 
the fare was nothing or little more than rehash of 
what we had before. The author’s amusing adventures 
and incidents become exhausted and he finds he has 
perforce to dress up some of his old anecdotes in brand 
new expressions, with additions and variations, to fill 
up the gaps, which becomes more numerous in each 
succeeding volume. In several of his stories Smollett 
describes the prison life of a London debtor — his hero 
almost invariably finds himself for a time in Marshal- 
sea prison, or in the extravagant lodgings of an exact- 
ing bailiff. Then again, his hero seldoms fails to have 
a profound knowledge of medicine, acquired for his 
own amusement, which gives great scope for placing 
the said hero in amusing positions, and for the display 
of technical knowledge. 

From a moral point of view these novels possess this 
fault, that they seem to take for granted and make 
little of the vices and indiscretions of youthful life. 
There is no doubt that such palliation is a dangerous 
blemish. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



Finally, Smollett must be classified as a humourist 
and a caricaturist rather than a satirist. Fine satire 
is not infrequent in his earlier writings, but he does 
not possess the Swiftian genius. 

J. R. Murray. 

( To bi continued. ) 



JflclBill News. 



At a meeting of the 1st year Arts, Mr. Pedlev was 
elected President, vice Mr. Edgar, who does not pur- 
pose continuing the Course. 

The Annual Dinner of the Undergraduates in Arts 
will be held at the Richelieu Hotel next Wednesday. 
No intoxicating liquor will be permitted to be brought 
to the table. 

The Undergraduates’ Literary Society have had 
their revised Constitution printed in very neat pam- 
phlet form. The principal change made in the Con- 
stitution permits students of any faculty to become 
members. 

The President of the Maritime Association, Mr. G. 
H. Raymond, B.A., has been tendered, through the 
Secretary, The Society’s vote of Sympathy for him in 
his prostrated condition at his home in Springfield, 
N.B., which he visited at Christmas. 

Mrs. Barr of Burnside St. was presented at Christmas 
by the McGill students, who partake of her hospitality, 
with a handsome clock and album accompanied by a 
beautifully illuminated address, executed by McGill’s 
artist librarian. Mrs. Barr is to be congratulated on 
the esteem she has and continues to win from her col- 
legiate friends. 

According to the Librarian’s report, the Science 
students make greater use of the library than Arts 
students. This is principally owing to the large 
amount of reading which is assigned to them by their t 
professors. It may partially arise, too, from the 
greater privileges that have of late been given to them. 
Through the exertions of some friend of the Faculty — 
presumably the Dean— -the library has been extended, 
by furnishing a room, which is already well tilled with 
works on scientific and engineering subjects. To this 
apartment the scientitic students have free access. They 
are at liberty to examine the books, make out a form 
for any one, take it down, and if the desired informa- 
tion is not found within its pages they can try others. 
The students have already been much behefitted by 
the new regulations. It is* to be hoped that they will 
not abuse the liberty so kindly granted to them by 
misplacing the books, and thereby causing additional 
labor to our obliging librarian, Mr. Taylor. 



First Junior: “ Are you going up to recitation?” 
Second Junior: “No, I’ll send up my cutis, same 
thing you know.” 

“ Sic iter ad astra,” exclaimed the Freshman, as his 
head came in violent contact with the ceiling. He 
was at once gagged, and the sport went on as before. , 



A LOVE SONG. 

My heart's a merry rover 
Though innocent of wrong. # 

He’s ever Beauty's lover 
But never constant long. 

When coral lips are pouting 
Their smiling to disguise, 
lie kneels in love, not doubting 
They are his greatest prize- 

Yet if, amid his dreaming. 

He spies a bosom fair. 

At once the rogue is scheming 
To gain admittance there ; 

Though if he sees the tresses 
That irame a pretty head 
His love and his caresses 
He spends on them instead. 

Then if bright eyes confuse him 
With many a saucy stare 
The lips, the curls, the bosom. 

Seem now no longer fair. 

And yet this merry rover 
Is nothing if not true ; 
lie’s but one maiden's lover 
And she, dear girl, are you. 

Ami. 



College TDorlb. 



The majority of the students at Tufts’ College seem 
willing to admit women. 

Yale now holds the championship in rowing, base- 
ball, tennis, and foot-ball. 

The Garfield memorial window at Williams has been 
finished at a cost of §3,645. 

There are fifty-eight officers of instruction at the 
Boston Institute of Technology. 

There is not a chair of philosophy in Germany 
which now teaches materialism. 

Two small steam engines are being constructed at 
the shops by mechanic arts students . — The Tech . 

Many of the industrial colleges of the United States 
have sent exhibits to the New Orleans Exposition. 

Last year the Freshmen in Engineering at Tufts’ 
college numbered five, this year there are seventeen. 

From the Journal we learn that the gymnasium at 
Queen’s has been a failure. It advises the Senate to 
adopt a plan similar to our own. 

Cornell University has devoted the sum of §155,000 
from the University funds to the establishment of 
thirty-six new scholarships and seven fellowships. 

As a reminder of her base-ball victories* Yale has 
69 base-balls, won from clubs. All are painted the 
color of the losing teams, and inscribed with the time 
and place of winning. 

The Russian government has recently sentenced 
nearly thousand of the students of the University 
of Kiev to military service in penal regiments stationed 
in distant regions of the empire. 

At Yale the requirements for admission have been 
changed as follows : One book less of Caesar, of the 
Anabasis, and of the Iliad \ two orations less of Cicero. 
The time gained is to be devoted to modern lan- 
guages. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



It is said that the grounds given by the faculty of 
Harvard for prohibiting intercollegiate foot ball were 
u *h a t foot ball is an untit game for intercollegiate con- 
tests, because notwithstanding however many rules are 
made, the players becoming too much excited by the 
nature of the game, break through them.” 



examine ; that the lecturers never suffered from such 
disability ; and so on. It was decided that the best 
plan to adopt was to appoint a committe, who should 
endeavor to learn the wishes of the majority of the 
undergraduates and report at a future meeting. A 
motion to this effect was made, seconded and carried. 



The attendance at various German universities during 
the summer semester of this year was : Vienna, 4,706 ; 
Berlin, 4,145; Leipzig, 3,230; Munich, 2,511; Pra- 
gue, 2,000; Halle, 1,716 ; Tubingen, 1,500; Breslau, 
1,481; Bonn, 1,241; Wurzburg, 1,232; Gottingen, 
1,000; Heidelberg, 989; Konigsberg, 925; Freiburg. 
924 ; Jena, 636. 

The Tech is responsible for the following : “ A 
striking example of the survival of the fittest recently 
occurred in the biological laboratory* Last May, *a 
box containing some one hundred and fifty frogs for 
dissection was received at the laboratory. In the 
hurry and bustle of the closing hours of the term the 
box was laid aside and forgotten, not to be thought of 
again until the opening of the laboratory at the begin- 
ning of the present terra. The box was opened, with 
the expectation of finding the putrefying remains of 
the hundred and more frogs when, to the great' sur- 
prise ot all, out jumped one enormous fellow , apparently 
in good health. He had survived the whole summer 
upon his comrades ! ” 

Those who wish to abolish residence at the univer- 
sities and to grant the degree on examination alone 
have been accustomed to cite the University of London 
as a model. That institution was the offspring rather 
of necessity than of choice ; it was founded to grant 
degrees to Nonconformists when they were excluded 
by religious tests from matriculation at one of the old 
universities and from graduation at both. Having no 
Professors it is not properly speaking a university at 
all, but merely an examining board. Now, however, 
a movement is on foot to obtain a teaching university 
for London. This shows that mere examination is felt 
to be unsatisfactory. The feeling is perfectly well 
founded ; for that which an ordinary student can take 
into an examination-room is but a small part even of 
the knowledge, much more of the mental training, 
which he acquires in the class-room under an able 
teacher and amidst intelligent classmates. 

The senate having appointed several of the lecturers 
of University college to be examiners in the Univer- 
sity examinations to be held next May, a meeting of 
undergraduates was held at Moss hall on Dec. 10 to 
discuss the advisability of such course. Mr. Acheson 
took the chair and several speekers expressed their 
opinions on the subject. It was argued on the one 
hand that the lecturers would set papers on the work 
lectured upon, giving no scope for outside reading ; 
that there was every possibility of the identity of the 
candidate being recognized ; that other methods of 
obtaining examiners were at hand, such, for example, 
as from United States’ colleges, e. g., Johns Hopkins, 
etc. ; that the college should be more entirely severed 
from the university. It was argued on the other hand 
that it was with difficulty that men could be found 
that kept up their reading sufficiently to be able to 



University Federation. 

Toronto, Jan. 9. — The University federation matter 
was discussed here to-day and this evening by Toronto 
University senate, the regents of Victoria College, 
Cobourg, and the Corporation of Trinity College. At 
the first named, notice of motion was given that at the 
next meeting the senate accepts the proposition as a 
whole and agrees to do everything in its power to 
carry it out and ask the necessary legislation from the 
government to give it effect. Trinity College Corpora- 
tion discussed it for hours and finally adjourned the 
discussion till Tuesday next. The regents of Victoria 
University conclude 1 the discussion of the federation 
scheme at midnight, agreeing to accept it upon the fol- 
lowing conditions : 1. That equitable compensation 
be made to all colleges for losses incidental to their 
entering into the confederation ; 2. Perfect equality of 
all colleges, University College included in relation to 
and rights in the Provincial University ; 3. Such 
arrangements to be made as shall secure to the alumni 
of all colleges an equitable representation in per- 
petuity ; 4. That the chairman of the University Pro- 
fessoriate be appointed by the Government ; 5. That 
the transfer of subjects from the University Profes- 
soriate or vice versa be made only by a three-fourths 
majority of the senate. A committee was appointed 
to take charge of the resolution in furthering the 
negotiations and another committee to take legal advice 
as to what steps are necessary should the conditions be 
satisfactory. 

The following is the proposal as submitted by the 
Minister of Education : It is proposed to form a con- 
federation of colleges carrying on the arts work of the 
provincial university in Toronto — Queen’s, Victoria, 
Trinity, Knox, St. Michael’s, Wyclitfe and McMaster 
to have the right to enter, keeping in abeyance heir 
powers of conferring degrees save divinity, the head 
of each to be ex officio a member of the senate and 
governing body, and each to have one other represen- 
tative ; the university professoriate to have two on the 
senate, and the council of University college to have 
the president and one other member ; undergraduates 
and graduates in law and arts of confederating univer- 
sities, and graduates in medicine who have passed in 
Ontario, to be admitted ad eundem. Graduates in 
medicine to vote as one body and elect four members 
to the senate ; those in law in one body and elect two ; 
graduates in arts to be entitled for six years to the 
following representation on the senate : Queen’s, 
Victoria, Trinity, each four ; those of Toronto twelve. 
After six years separate representation ceases, and the 
entire body unites in the election. University Col- 
lege shall teach Latin, Greek, ancient history, French, 
German, Oriental languages, moral philosophy, and 
may institute additional chairs. Another teaching 
faculty, to be called the University Professoriate, to 
teach pure mathematics, physics, astronomy, geology, 



12 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



I 



[ 1885 . 



mineralogy, chemistry, zoology, botany, physiology, 
ethnology, include g comparative philology, history, 
logic, metaphysics, history of philosophy, Italian, 
Spanish, political economy, civil polity, jurisprudence, 
constitutional law, engineering, and such subjects as 
the senate may determine. Such professors shall be a 
corporation presided over by a chairman, who shall be 
president of University College. Every diploma to 
indicate the college in which the student attended 
lectures. The au hority of the several colleges over 
students remains intact. The university endowment 
and any additions to be applied to the maintenance of 
the provincial university, university faculty, and uni- 
versity college. Staff of college to be one professor 
each of Greek, Latin, French, German, English, 
Oriental languages and moral philosophy, one lecturer 
on ancient history, one tutor each in Greek, Latin, 
French. Germain and Oriental languages, one fellow 
each in Greek, Latin, French, German and English. 
Professorial lectures free to all matriculated students 
of the university who are members of a confederating 
college ; senate shall determine the fees of others. 
Arts course shall include Biblical Greek, Biblical 
literature, < 'hristian ethics, apologetics, or evidences of 
natural and revealed religion and church history, but 
these arranged so as to be optional. University college 
work to be carried on in the present buildings ; uni- 
versity examination hall, senate rooms, registrar’s and 
other offices to be erected. Additions to be made to 
school of science for science students and museum. 
Other subjects for consideration are the completion of 
the collection ‘ of physical apparatus , physiological 
laboratory and apparatus, astronomical observatory and 
instruments, and provision for the education of 
women. 



Between the Lectu s. 



The late medical Orr-deal in Botany was very agree- 
able. 

An un rifled Gunn has just made a bull’s eye in 
Physiology. 

Is it any wonder that McGill students should be 
anxious to display de cal f since they have so long 
possessed De Cow . 

THE CAPTIOUS CRITIC. 

Midnight Rambles ; or , Bright Eyes of the Night. A 
Poem. By F. J. Whishte. 

This long-expected little Volume surpasses all. con- 
ception in the manner and variety of its incidents, the 
vigor and attractiveness of its style, as well as the grace 
of its expression. The metre is very musical, being 
I -am- Betsy try-m e-sir. The choruses are by St — Ale. 



My Slang ; or , Coloquial Decorations , with a Com- 
plete Glossary of the most Popidar Bcw Mots. 
By Le Bell. 

This work in 24 massive volumes has been on our 
table for some time, and we find it infallible for refer- 
ence. Its size will greatly impede its circulation. We 



may remark that the air in the vicinity of the work 
becomes quite blue. 



The Art of Cribbing . Its Uses and Abuses. By 
D’ Harry. With Copious Annotations , by Cost 
0,Gan. 

This little gilt-edged volume may be consulted with 
some apparent advantage, though much real danger 
by all except honour students. The subject treated is 
a vast one, but the above authorities are indisputable. 



The Cook's Friend. By N. 0. Body. Style, Cook- ney ; 
matter, Worth-less. 

Sunrise in the East , or the Boarders af Cas-P-Ann-C. 

An anonymous pamphlet, sentimental rather than 
instructive. The authors dreading detectives suppress 
their names, which are, however, well known to the 
reading public. 



The Sams and Hims of Mag Gill. By Blondin. 

We have as yet only seen the proof-sheets of this 
long looked for and much talked of work. It will be 
just the thing for college nightengales, but its use will 
shatter the delicacy of many tin-pan a. 



Geology of the Pale-eh-O-so-hic Time. ‘By Har Kin. 

“ What are College Journals, father, and what do 
they contain V 9 • • 

" Organs that students do play, my boy, 

To answer the taste of the day, my boy, 

Whatever it be. 

They hit the key, 

And pipe in full concert avftiy, my boy. 

News from all countries and clime*, mv boy, 
Advertisements, essays, and rhymes, my boy. 

Fixed up with all sorts 
Of flying reports. 

And published at regular times, my boy. 

Articles able and wise, my boy. 

At least in the editor’s eyes, my boy, 

And logic so grand 
That few understand 

. To what in the world it applies, my boy. 

Statistics, reflections, reviews, my boy, 

Little scraps to instruct and amuse, my boy, 

And lengthy de v ate 
Upon matters of state, 

For wise-headed folks to peruse, my boy.” 

* — Lantern. 

AN UNKISSED KISS. 

I wish— if I only had dared. 

She frankly held out her hand ; 

And I know that she wouldn’t have cared, 

But I didn’t have quite enough “ sand ” 

I was making my farewell call. 

Fora moment f held her small hand • 

Good-night, Miss Pauline,”— that was all. 

Do you think she would have cared ? 

I wish— if I only had dared. 

— Yale Record. 

” Where, 0 where is my boy to-night ?” 

Whispers a mother dear, 

” He’s been run in for sassing the cops 
And trying to raise a cheer.” 



— Eric . 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



LOVE AND DEATH. 



( From the French of Louise Ackermann ) 



Ye? ! the light clay that doth our ?ouls encrust 

Shall cense with joy to thrill, with pain to smart : 

The winds shall dissipate the noble dust 
That formed a human heart. 

But other hearts shall still renew the tale 

Of hones that wither and of loves that die. 

And tears shall flow, and cherished dreams shall fail 
Till Time no more shall fly, 

All beings, forming one eternal chain, 

Pass, each to each, the torch of love’s desire ; 

I he hands that grasp it, soon, too soon, again 
Transmit the sacred fire. 

Gko* Murray. 



Societies. 



SOME OF McGILL’S ATHLETIC RECORDS. 

Event. Date. Name. Record. 



Kicking Football 

Running High Jump 

Running Long Jump 

Throwing 16 lbs. Hammer 
Throwing 14 lbs. Hammer 

Putting 16 lbs. Shot 

Putting 18 lbs. Shot 

Throwing 56 lbs 

One Mile Walk 

Two Mile Walk 

100 Yards Run 

220 “ “ 

440 “ “ 

880 “ “ 

One Mile “ 

Bicycle Race (1 mile) 



.. 1884. 

1879. 
.. 18*0. 
.. 1883. 
.. 1882. 
.. 1880. 
.. 1879. 
.. 1883. 
.. 1881 . 
.. 1883. 
.. 1878. 
.. 1883. 
.. 1883. 

. . 1884. 



T. D. 
J. A. 
T. W. 
C. W. 
C. W. 
C. W. 
C. W. 
W. A 
W. H 
C B. 
E. J. 
A. F. 

C. W. 

D. D. 
D. D. 
R. E. 



Robertson 
Springle 
Lesage 
. Trenholme 
Trenholme 
Trenholme 
Trenhoimo 
. McKenzie 
. Drummond 
Smith 



160 ft. 

4 “ 10 in, 
18 ” 2 “ 
80 ft. 

$9 “ 6 in. 
32 “ 8$ in. 
29 “ 10 in. 

’ 19 “ 10 in. 

8 min. 27 sec. 
17 “ 58] " 



Wendell (Harvard) 10 j sec. 



Clerk 
, Scriver 
McTaggart 
McTaggart 
Holden 



24J sec. 

58 “ 

2 min. 7 

4 “ 54i 

3 “ 58* 



Running records of 1883 and 1884 were made on a cinder track. 
Before 1883 there was only a grass track. In 1878 M. Cuzner threw a 
shot 37 feet, which was afterwards tound to be under weight, and 
being a “ throw,” and not a “ put,” could not go on record. 



Undergraduates Literary Society. 

This society re-assembled for the present term on- 
Friday evening, January 9th, there being a good 
attendance. A programme got up at short notice was 
successfully carried out. Messrs. Breathwaite and 
Murray Watson contributing readings and Mr. Wat- 
son an amusing paper on “ Boys.” A debate also took 
place on the question whether or not the power of 
England was declining, Messrs. Topp, McOuat, and F. 
Pedley speaking for the affirmative, and Messrs. Mason, 
A. Johnson and Solandt for the negative. If the 
aiguments adduced were not very profound, the dis- 
cussion was deserving of praise as an example of 
extempore speaking Dr. Harrington will deliver his 
promised address before the Society on January 23. 
The following arc the members of the special com- 
mittee charged with the duty of framing the pro- 
grammes, and just elected for the ensuing term : — 
Messrs. Yates, Moore, Bell, Gerrie, and Mason. 

McG. U. A. A. 

We do not know when the annual meeting of the 
McGill University Athletic Association will be held. 
As considerable time may elapse before the annual 
reports can be placed in the hands of the members we 
give below a few statistics obtained from the Treasurer 
of the Executive Committee. The figures there given 
show the association to be in a prosperous condition, 
there being a balance of $161.85 which, we were told 



does not include the balance brought over from the 
previous year. It now seems strange to many that 
such an association was not formed years before. Had 
it effected nothing more than the preservation of the 
athletic records of the University its usefulness would 
now be apparent to all. As it is, many of the former 
records are lost. With difficulty we have rescued 
from obscurity a few of the best done within the last 
five years, and publish them here. 



Expenditure . 



To Prizes % ... 


$182 00 




'* Band services. '.. 






“ Printing 






“ Police 


5 00 


262 50 


Incidentals , including— 


Badges, books, stamps, etc. 




11 35 


Apparatus, including - 

Measuring tape, Football, 






rent 




of tents, casting, etc 




22 10 


Total Expenses 


$295 95 


Cash Receipts. 




Subscriptions from,— 


Medicine- Professors 


$ 89 00 




Undergraduates 




240 50 


A rts— Prof essors 


....$ 43 00 




Undergraduates 


.... 69 00 


112 00 
56 00 


Science total 




Law total 




33 00 


Dawson Bros 




6 00 


Drvsdale 

Ashtord 




5 00 




5 00 


Other sources 




30 






457 80 
295 95 




Cash on hand $161 85 



University Literary Society. 

The programme at the regular meeting of this 
society, on January 8, consisted of an essay by Mr. C. 
S. Campbell, on “ The Acquisition by the Commons 
of control over the Public Purse.” The essay was a 
rapid resume of the steps by which the Commons 
acquired control over the public expenditure of 
England. In the belief of the essayist, these consisted 
simply of the purchase of certain benefits, whether of 
new rights or the redress of old wrongs from the king. 
A more agreeable theory, and one which is supported 
by historical proof, holds that in every age some men 
at least looked beyond the time in which they lived 
and steadily aimed at securing for their posterity, if 
not for themselves, that liberty of governing them- 
selves which they had been deprived of at the Con- 
quest. The discussion which ensued after the reading 
— somewhat too. hurried — of the paper, developed two 
curious constitutional heresies. One, which was 
promulgated by a lawyer, was to the effect that the 
Canadian Senate or the British House of Lords, 
especially if reformed, would be justified in refusing 
to pass the supplies, should they ever see what, in their 
estimation, would be sufficient cause. As this gentle- 
man’s party is now out of power, it is easy to see the 
wish was father to the thought. Another theorist held 
that no principle underlies the question of who shall 
control the public purse, but that it is purely a matter 
of custom. He contended that the power of taxation and 
administering the revenue once pertained in our his- 
tory to the king, another time to the nobility, and later 
to the Commons, the strongest power always having 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



control over the treasury, and the thought of the age 
approving it. As this gentleman did not quote any 
authority in support of his doctrine, one is at a loss to 
know upon what grounds he based his belief. Spite 
of differences of opinion, however, the evening was a 
very pleasant one, and thoroughly enjoyed by the few 
present. But here again we must enter a protest 
against the conduct of many members, who persistently 
stay away unless they have a share in the programme. 
Such a course is neither generous nor fair, and should 
meet the society’s censure. 



Personals. 



J. A. L. Waddell, Ma. E., ’82, is professor of en- 
gineering in the University of Tokio, Japan. 

D. F. H. Wilkins, B!A. Sc., 75 is teacher of Mathe- 
matics and Natural Science at Mount Forest, Ont. 

D. E. McMillan, B. Ap. Sc. ’84, is in Chicago, in the 
Engineering Department of the Chicago & Grand 
Trunk Railway. 

W. B. Dawson, Ma. E. 75, late of the Dominion 
Bridge Co., is now Bridge Engineer for the Canadian 
Pacific Railway Company. 

J. M. McKenzie, B. A. Sc., ’84, has lately gone to 
the West — to Omaha, we believe, where McDonald, 
another ’84 man is placed. We wish them success. 

B. J. Saunders, D.L.S., Class ’83 Science, has just 
passed a highly creditable examination before the 
Board of Provincial Land Surveyors of Ontario. Shake. 

W. H. Howard, B. Ap. Sc. ’83, late Assistant Pro- 
fessor in Chemistry has opened an office at 132 St. 
James St. as Mining Engineer and Assayer. We wish 
him the success which his merits deserve. 

J. W. Motfatt, B. A. Sc. ’84, for two years a repre- 
sentative of the Science Faculty on the editorial staff 
of the Gazette, is now Ass. engineer under P, A. 
Beterson, M. Am. Soc. C.E. of the C.P.Ry 

We were pleased to hear that C. B. Smith, Class ’84 
Science, is rising fast in his profession. He has now 
charge of a Section on the construction of the Northern 
and Pacific Junction R.R., near Lake Nippissing. 

Marriage has lately been epidemic among our recent 
graduates, no less than three having enteied the 
nuptial state and being now in the enjoyment of the 
honeymoon. The three are J. W. Tucker, B.A., ’81, 
M. Parent, B.A., ’84, and J. Marceau, B.A., ’84. 
Who will be the next] Mr. Parent has also been 
called to the ministry. 



Why is a sick beer-toper like a wearied student of 
Oriental lauguages? Because t-he-brew makes them 
ale . 

The zoological students who visit the Redpath 
Museum in the afternoons are said to be seeking for 
the miss-ing link. Some ??ms-chief is evidently in 
view. 



THE 

Rariitarium or |fome jjogpital, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,) 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical attendance. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

±5 UKLi^rerslt^ Street, 

MONTREAL. 



BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 



UPTOWN: QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HsttersandFurriers, 

233 Jforre flame Street. 



FDR GOATS, GAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie 44 McGILL ” liil>l>oii for* Sale. 

ghc BXomxvch jlUivt ^Emporium 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 St. Jumes Street, 

FINEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch WcolUnderwear, Hosiery. Ties, Gloves. Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER-FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv*t will Get io r. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



^Central IDr "O-g- StoreJ<- 

W« H. CHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL pH EM 1ST, pNG., 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

TH1 DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR. OF CRAIG 6c BLETJRY STS. 



/ PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMER HA YES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

RJ0HEL3EU HiDIE L, 

I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL 18 THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR MtSILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 

RAADT & CO., 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St Catherine St„ 

Mc&m 

University Gazette, 

Published 1st anb 15th of the Tflonth. 



Subscription , - - - $1.00. 



PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

MMSCMsfjrr T&ilqr § 9 
jllprt nnb Collar fUamifarlmm, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

JSiinytsil Tuslni infills. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

imported direct 



— FROM the — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery. 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS 6c SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASK. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

J\ IMBAIRGIIEIISr, 

Hair Btesser ah A Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 
MOITTSEAL. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 





-L t j 



Late of London, England, 



Fasliionable Tailor 



31 BEAUER HALE. 



rf LARGE ASSORTMENT OF X— 



JjJn^h, ^cotch and jjrencli 



rr weeds. 






Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 



Fifteen per Gent, discount 
For Spot Cash. 



Removable (^ollarg and 



FOB OVERCOATS 



Made from the Primest Furs, 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. 



THE 



|jiirlai|(l ptl|»(irapliic 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET. 



General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL K I N D H 

OP 

Engraving and Fine Printing. 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



Photo«Engraving, 

BOOKS. PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE, 

■\7\7" AL 0 * 0 . PEOCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all tlielr several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

/VIenU PARDS, PRESTS, yVlONOGRAMS, j^USINESS piES 

SjC., Sf c, 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



