Vol XIII 



No. 14 










UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JUNE 2nd, 1890. [No. 14. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts *90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts '90. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 



EDI TORS. 



J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



S. W. Mack, Arts ' 90 . 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A.Sc. 

D. B. Holden, B. A., Med. '91 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A.. Law *91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science *90. 
H. B. Yates, B A. 



R. N. Walsh, Comp, Med., '90. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 220-221 

McGill News 221-243 

Societies 243 

Correspondence 243-244 

Personals *......, 244 

Exchanges - - - . . . . . 244 

Sporting on 



Editorials. 



With this number the Editors of The University 
Gazette complete their labours for the session of 
1889-90, and in doing so they may fairly consider 
that it has not been in vain. During the past year 
there has been an extension of the subscribers’ and 
advertisers list, help has come from new quarters, and 
the impression is deepened that an honest attempt has 
been made to conduct a paper purely in the interests 
of the University. Early in the session the condition 
was not promising, but since then the students have 
lent their support with characteristic whole hearted- 
ness, in which the ladies of the Donalda Department 
were first, though latterly they considered it advisable 
to take a less active part in the management of the 
paper. To their editors belongs much of the credit 



for the present standing of The Gazette, and in this 
respect, as in many others, their department has been 
a source of strength to the College. The aim of The 
Gazette has been to furnish some bond between all 
the Faculties, and to serve as a means of communi- 
cation between them. To keep a course midway 
between conflicting opinions and interests was no 
easy task, and if the views of some have been in- 
trenched upon, the unpleasantness was unavoidable. 
But, with all their difficulties, the Editors have a 
large measure of satisfaction in feeling that The 
Gazette has kept pace with the progress of the Uni- 
versity of which it has the honour to form a part. 



The annual accounts of Convocations and the edi- 
torials thereon usually present a more or less stereo- 
typed appearance. It is natural that the closing 
scenes of a four years’ course should he stamped in- 
delibly upon the mind. The reward of perseveranco 
and scholarly achievement, the contrast of newly- 
acquired freedom with past drudgery long and weari- 
some, the opportunity of testing one’s theories in the 
arena of active life at length realized, all these things 
serve to make memorable the day of one’s graduation. 

To the professors, friends and benefactors of a uni- 
versity it awakens still higher thoughts. It marks 
another stage in the development of a great institu- 
tion, perhaps an epoch of as much importance to that 
institution as the day of graduation to the college 
student. Of the latter character, we have every rea- 
son to believe, was the 30th of April, 1890, in the 
annals of McGill University. 

The Molson Hall could no longer contain the in- 
terested public. In the new hall of the Windsor 
Hotel over two thousand people had assembled at 
least half an hour before the appointed time. The 
doors were then closed, and hundreds were refused 
admittance. So eager were the public to witness the 
proceedings, that a large number remained standing 
in the crowded aisles for over four hours. 

In many ways the Convocation was a memorable 
one. I he breaking of seats, the college songs the 
noisy and frequently impertinent interruptions, all 
these things had passed away. Unfamiliar with their 
new surroundings, awed perhaps by the vast assembly, 
and themselves scattered heie and there throughout 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



221 



the hall, the students for once were quiet enough to 
merit the approval of Principal, Deans, and Profes- 
sors. As the members of Convocation, headed by 
the venerable Chancellor, entered the hall, the cus- 
tomary greeting — “ See the mighty host advancing,” 
or “ The animals came by two and two” — gave place 
to a more classical selection by the College Glee Club, 
the “ Soldiers’ March,” from Faust. Occasionally 
one or two tin whistles painfully disturbed the rou- 
tine of the proceedings. It was clearly evident to 
all, even to the once irrepressible medical student, 
that a new era had dawned upon McGill. 

* W * * * * 

The announcement of the munificent benefactions 
of Messrs. Workman and McDonald was received 
with great applause. What have heretofore been the 
weaker Faculties of the University, should now be 
able to compete successfully with all other institutions 
of the kind on the continent. To a young country 
like Canada, with almost limitless resources awaiting 
development, a gift of nearly $500,000 to a Faculty 
of Applied Science must prove of untold benefit. 

Late Prof. E. Lareau, M.P.P., who died on April 
21st, at the age of 42, was born at St. Gregoire, 
County of Iberville, March 12th, 1848. He received 
his early education at the College of Sto. Marie de 
Monnoire and at Victoria College, and in 1874 re- 
ceived the degree of B.C.L. at McGill, was called to 
the Bar in 1870, and has been a professor in the 
Faculty of Law since 1876. He had a decided taste 
for literature, and published several works on Law, 
Politics, and Literature, at one time Editor of Le 
Pays, and afterwards of Le National. He was a 
Liberal of the old School, and was elected to the 
Provincial Legislature for Rouville at the last general 
election, and was a supporter of the B.A. Bill. 



We greatly regret that a correspondence should 
have been opened in the public press, in regard to 
the relative merits of candidates for honours, which 
has led to the impression, in the minds of many, that 
there is a feeling of animosity between candidates of 
different sexes. We are in a position to say that 
nothing could be farther from the truth. 

We regret that after holding over this issue, so as 
to be able to give good illustrations and plans of the 
new McDonald and Workman buildiDgs, that the 
architect finds he will not be in a position to furnish 
us with the drawings for a month or more. 

Subscribers to The Gazette for next session will 
receive these illustrations with the first issue. 



JttcSUl News. 



THE ANNUAL CONVOCATION FOR CON. 
FERRING DEGREES IN LAW, APPLIED 
SCIENCE, AND ARTS. 

In view of the expected presence of His Excel- 
lency, the Visitor, it was decided, some time ago, by 
the Governors and Corporation to hold the Convo- 
cation for all of the above Faculties in a large public 
hall, and to condense the whole into one afternoon. 

The Windsor Hall having been selected for the 
purpose, it was arranged that the Convocation should 
assemble iu the ante-room of the hall, and proceed 
thence to the platform or dais extemporized for the 
occasion. Seats were reserved for the graduating 
classes and students in the immediate front of the 
dais, a portion of the hall in rear of these was set 
apart for guests having tickets, and the remainder 
was left open to the public. 

Some difficulties necessarily occurred in marshal- 
ing the procession, owing to the new circumstances, 
and the arrangements in the hall were, to some ex- 
tent, interfered with by the unexpected fact that this 
large room, capable of accommodating 1,500 persons, 
was actually crowded with about 2,000, many of 
whom arrived more than half an hour before the pro- 
ceedings began. 

The procession of Convocation was formed punctu- 
ally at half-past two, and as it entered the hall the 
University Musical Association, under the guidance of 
Mr. Bohrer, sang with excellent effect the “ Soldiers’ 
Chorus,” from Faust, while the audience rose as His 
Excellency the Governor-General, accompanied by 
the Chancellor, passed up the aisle which had been 
kept open for this purpose. 

His Excellency, as Visitor, occupied the chair of 
State, having on his right the Chancellor, and on his 
left the Principal, the members of Convocation and 
distinguished guests occupying the space at either 
side. Among those present on the dais were : — 

Mr. J. H. R. Molson, Sir Joseph Hickson; Messrs. 
John Molson, W. C. McDonald, Hugh McLennan, 
George Hague, E. B. Greenshields, and S. Finley — 
Governors; Prof. Alex. Johnson (Vice-Principal), Dr. 
Robert Craik, Dr. H. Aspinwall Howe, Rev. Dr. Cor- 
nish, Mr. J. R. Dougall, Rev. Prof. Murray, Prof. B. 
J. Harrington, Rev. Canon Henderson, Mr. J. S. 
Archibald, Q.C., Dr. George Ross, Mr. John S. Hall, 
Q.C., M.P.P., Dr. F. W. Kelley, Rev. Dr. Barbour, 
Mr. N. W. Trenholme, Q.C., Rev. James Barclay, Dr. 
T. A. Rodger, and Mr. J. H. Burland — Fellows ; Dr. 
D. C. McCallum, and Mr. Justice Wurtele — Profes- 
sors emeriti ; Chief-Justice Johnson, Mr. Justice 
Davidson, Mr. Justice Cross, Mr. Justice Loranger, 
Mr. Justice Taschereau, Mr. Justice Jette, Mr. Justice 
Tait, His Lordship the Bishop of Algoma, Rev. Prin- 
cipal Adams (Lenuoxville), Rev. J. A. Newnham, 
Prof. Darey, Prof. Penhallow, Dr. Wm. Gardner, 
Prof. C. E. Moyse, Prof. C. H. McLeod, Dr. L. H. 
Davidson, Dr. Jas. Stewart, Dr. George Wilkins, 
Prof. Chandler, Prof. T. Wesley Mills, Dr. J. C. 
Cameron, Rev. Prof. Coussirat, Dr. A. J. Eaton, Mr. 



222 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890 .] 



Arch. McGoun, Mr. Paul T. Lafleur, Dr. W. G. J ohn- 
son, Miss Helen S. Gairdner, M. Aime (Ottawa), Dr. 
Trenholme, Mr. J. W. Brakenridge, Hon. Col. Rhodes, 
Mr. C. J. Fleet, Mr. W. J. White, Prof. M. Hutchin- 
son, Q.C., Dr. D. McEachran (Dean of the Faculty 
of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Science), 
Rev. Principal Henderson, Rev. Canon Ellegood, Rev. 
Dr. Shaw, Sir James Grant, Mr. H. Abbott, Q.C., Mr. 
James Ferrier, Mr. J. Naismith, Mr. N. T. Rielle, Mr. 
R. S. Weir, Mr. W. McLea Walbank, Mr. E. H. 
Hamilton, Mr. George Edwards, Mr. M. Her8ey, 
and a number of graduates, including several lady 
graduates. 

The Graduates’ Society of the Ottawa Valley was 
represented by Sir James A. Grant, M.D., K.C.B., 
President ; Mr. J. H. Burland, B.A.Sc., Mr. H. M. 
Ami, M.A., and Dr. R. Bell. 



Occupying the front seats in the body of the hall 
were Lady Macdonald, Lady Smith, Lady Dawson, 
Lady Stephen, Lady Hickson, Mrs. Molson, Mrs. 
Redpath, and wives of Governors. 

It had been hoped that Sir J. A. Macdonald would 
have been one of the guests. This proved impossible, 
but Lady Macdonald was present, and was seated 
with the ladies of several of the Governors and lead- 
ing officers of the University in the reserved seats. 

The meeting was opened with prayer by Rev. Prof 
Clark Murray. 

. The Chancellor, Sir Donald A. Smith, in his open- 
ing address, referred to the presence of Lord Stanley 
the Representative of the Queen, the worthy descend- 
ant of an illustrious house that had done great and 
good service to the Empire, the Governor-General of 
this great Dominion, which is destined to become 
greater and greater every year. Sir John Macdonald 
was unfortunately, unable to be present, but he was 
glad to see that Lady Macdonald had honored them 
with her presence. It was the aim and desire of 
everyone connected with McGill that it should hold 
a still higher position among the schools of learning 
not only on this Continent but in Europe Thev 
were proud of the position which it already holds 7 
Starting from a very small beginning, it had, in the 
last five years, advanced by leaps and bounds. Hi 
r el erred to the numerous generous gifts that had beei 
made to the University. To Mr. Wm. Molson thei 
were indebted lor the Convocation Hall, which u 
those days, was sufficient for their necessities bu 
was far too small to-day, for their wants. He’mos 

a^ClTh!^ -‘—<1 * 

as Law^ to Tn koduce'the busi 

presence^f ^n^ 8 ^^ 
Governor-General of the country and the SL th 
tative of Her Majesty. Referrimr to th Re P. r c e8en ' 
donations that had been made toother 2lfi sZ 
touched upon the disadvantages underS th 
Faculty of Law labored. The laws to P • he 
differed from those of the rest of tL tV ° VmCe 
so that for pupils they were limited to the^ovto™ 
of Quebec. Even here, the people were of ! 

races and languages, and they constituted on^he 



minority. Thus the supply of students was so small 
that the fees were not sufficient to support the 
Faculty, and it was a question whether they would 
have to give up Jurisprudence or support the Faculty 
of Law. It was in this crisis that a merchant friend 
showed his appreciation of law by coming forward 
with a princely donation. He was proud to see a 
practical people like ours determined to maintain law 
schools. Among the law schools of other universities 
he did not see a single endowment which equalled 
that which Mr. McDonald had given to us. Let them 
be true to themselves, and they would be true to 
their Alma Mater. He closed by urging them to be 
honest and upright citizens. He then read the list 
of those who had attained the B.C.L. degree, which 
was as follows : — 

Warren A. Kneeland, Montreal ; George P. England, Dim- 
ham, Quebec ; Desire H. Girouard, Montreal ; Thos. J. Vipond, 
Montreal ; Alfred E. Harvey, Stanstead ; H. R. Pelletier, 
Marieville, Que ; John D. L. Ambrose, Montreal. 

The list of medals, prizes, and honors having also 
been read, the successful candidates were called up, 
and received their distinctions from the Visitor and 
the Chancellor. 

The graduating class was ranged in line on 
the stand in front of the platform and the declaration 
administered, when the degree was conferred in the 
usual manner by Principal Sir William Dawson. 

Mr. A. E. Harvey, B.C.L., then mounted the plat- 
form, and read the Valedictory, as follows 



— } 



J 



men : — 

If, in the legal profession, there is one virtue which 
outshines all others and which the legal student con- 
sei ve8 with jealous care, it is certainly that respect 
and veneration for those glorious old customs and 
traditions which have been handed down to him with 
pride by his ancestors in that noble branch of science. 

rue to this sentiment am I here before you to- 
day, as the representative of the graduating class in 

u 18 ??’ t ?. S , ay a few V ords in regard to the 
u y with which we are this day to sever our con- 
nection ; to pay our last tribute of respect, as pupils, 
o oui Alma Mater to take a farewell of our pro- 
fessors and to express our parting regrets to those 
whom we leave behind as undergraduates. 

.. 6 a 7? ? ow reached one of those epochs in our 

nl **® whl ® h we . sha11 ever regard with feelings of 
dlv T- n °i Unmin S led with Pride. We have to- 
torv nf 1 An ' 1 T “ ° f ‘f 6 '“ port “ nt stages in the his- 
mention UnJ 'T* °S V 0 ’ 1 the British bard makes 
and , Whlch ,’ “etBinks, it would be wise 

on an P em1neo /““T for * mo »ent, as the traveller 
and prospect ’ ° P ur P oses alike of retrospect 

ject k torsos al i laW ' 3 tluth and '"l u 'ty> and its ob- 
tween man th * mos A absolute justice possible be- 

ktor” Who „ ^ r 0ne of our Canadian Legis- 
said “Add to thaT? 3 “i hlgh I’, oslt, ou in the State, has 
isiLlf • u De ° alogue that other formula which 

Othem as V .a meanin 8 “nd intent. < Do unto 
83 y° u w ““ld that others do unto vou’ • and 
have the completed foundation of the entire'stru^ 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



223 



ture of Civil and Criminal jurisprudence of all civil- 
ized nations." 



Law is as ancient as Time itself, and is as absolutely 
necessary to the progress and advancement of a peo- 
ple as is the atmosphere they breathe. Rome’s great- 
ness, as mistress of the ancient world, can be traced 
directly to ber laws, as they developed, so did Rome 
develop ; upon the sole foundation of truth and jus- 
tice, the Romans succeeded in building up one of the 
grandest systems of jurisprudence the world has ever 
known ; and it may be laid down as a rule, applic- 
able in every case, that just as the laws of a country 
approach a state of perfection, the people of that 
country will prosper, become civilized, intelligent 
and powerful. In a word, law is the basis, the grand 
pivot upon which all else depends. 

Of the legal profession we may say as was said of 
the ancient house of Douglas “Men have seen it in 
the stream, but not in the fountain.” It has been 
present at the birth and has witnessed the gradual 
decay of Empires. It has watched the overthrow of 
religions, and has contested with the Church the merit 
of having been transmitted without intermission from 
the time of the Caesars, and even then, it was hoary 
with antiquity. Demosthenes in the Athenian Court 
three hundered years before the time of Cicero, and 
two hundred years before Demosthenes, Solon com- 
piled and codified the laws. 

Medicine is only in its infancy. During all the 
vast period of history it was a pseudo-science, prac- 
tised only by astrological quacks. Indeed, it was not 
until the discovery of the circulation of the blood, 
some two hundred and fifty years ago, that the pro- 
fession assumed any real importance. Science is also 
in its infancy. Compare with these the glorious his- 
tory of the legal profession. 

It has been said that the lawyer requires the skill 
of a stair builder, the art of an engineer the eye ol 
an artist and the genius of an experienced machinist , 
but we may go farther, and say that he must be 
imbued with noble principles of honesty, integrity 
and honor Like the old Roman junsts, he must feel 
that he was born to be an Advocate, a Judge and a 

St The m Faculties of Medicine and Science may teach 
the anatomy of the human frame and the i mechanism 
of the entire earth, but that Department, the object of 
which is to educate the young man in aknowled.e 
of the laws that are to regulate the conduct of his fe 
low man, society, commerce, and the great business 
affairs of the woidd, is, by the very nature of ite work 
one of the most vitally important institutions oi tin 

01 Grave responsibility rests with the Law Faculty of 
McGm UnTversity. It is the cradle, not only of the 

to share in no small this faculty, 

laws. Has this I'he uSersity and 

justly deserves? We can only 



answer in the negative. But notwithstanding this, 
it has done grand work in the past, and its future 
now looks brighter than ever. It has lately been the 
happy recipient of a magnificent and timely dona- 
tion from one whose name will ever be remembered 
and cherished by the students of McGill College. 
We hope this is only the beginning of a series of 
events which will place the Faculty of Law of McGill 
University upon a footing compatible with the im- 
portant and responsible position it occupies and must 
continue to occupy in this country. 



Gentlemen Professors : 

In taking leave of you as pupils, words cannot ex- 
press our gratitude and thanks for the care you have 
taken in our instruction, and for the kindly courtesy 
which you have shown towards us in the intercourse 
we have had. You have preceded us in the paths of 
legal learning, and you have imparted to us the 
knowledge and experience you have yourselves ac- 
quired by the study and practice of your profession. 
Although differing in politics, nationality and reli- 
gious creeds, you have united to sacrifice all preju- 
dices and labored together for the common interests 
of your students; and our University has reason to 
congratulate herself for the fostering of a liberal and 
cordial spirit among the students of a profession so 
influential as the law, and in a mixed community 
such as ours. Although the relations which have 
hitherto subsisted between us are now to be dissolved, 
yet, we hope soon to have the pleasure of meeting 
vou in the professional arena, if not as equals, at least 
as striving to attain equality. Even then, we feel 
sure, you will have an interest in watching our pro- 
gress, and that our every success will be looked upon 
by vou with satisfaction and pride, since it is to you 
we owe the training which forms the groundwork of 
any triumph we may hereafter achieve. 

As we now pass from your fostering care to give 
place to our fellow students, we would already reflect 
discredit on your instructions did we not pledge our- 
selves to a firm purpose ; to remember with pride the 
institution of which we are the offspring, and never 
to sully the fair escutcheon of that University, whose 
distinctions have been this day intrusted to our care. 

Fellow students, whom we leave behind us, permit 
me to say a few words to you in parting. It would 
ill become me, so lately one of yourselves, to offer 
you anv advice. You are our equals in ability and 
industry, and look forward to the same reward of 
your labors as we have reaped to-day. Although we 
are going out from you, we shall not cease to be ot 
you! and, wishing you every success in your college 
career, we wait to welcome you to the ranks of gtadu- 

But one thing permit me to call to your mind ; 
one of the grandest elements of success in the Di- 
versity is that esprit de corps which exists not only 
between the students of one Faculty, but between 
those of different Faculties. That a new step has 
been taken in this direction during the past year we 
can all bear witness. Do your best to foster it and 
look upon yourselves not simply as students of the 
|, Faculty of law, but as having a common interest m 



224 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



tlie success of your University with the students of 
Medicine, Science and Arts, owning a common 
Alma Mater and devoted to her honor, her aggrand- 
izement and her welfare. 

A most important and pleasing part of my duty 
yet remains unfulfilled, and I know I would incur 
the censure, if not the wrath, of those I represent 
here to-day, did I not return thanks to the Ladies 
who honor and grace this hall by their presence on 
this occasion. The thoughts of mother and sister have 
ofttimes solaced the weary student in the midnight 
hour, and his greatest ambition is to meet with their 
approbation, and I feel confident that I express the 
sentiment of my fellow graduates in saying that we 
have been rewarded to a considerable extent for our 
toil and labor by the presence here to-day of the wit, 
fashion and beauty of Montreal. We do not bid the 
Ladies farewell ; on the contrary, we desire to an- 
nounce that, now, our chains of bondage are broken, 
we are open to all kinds of contracts and engage- 
ments, legal, commercial and otherwise 

Fell oio Graduates : 

Side by side in pleasure and toil have we struggled 
together for the last three years with the same pur- 
suits, the same interests and the same object in 
view 

Although some have fallen out on the way, we can 
still congratulate ourselves on being one of the larg- 
est classes of the Faculty of law. Our daily discus- 
sion of questions, both political and legal, although 
engaged in at times with great spirit and earnestness, 
has never marred that brotherly feeling which has al- 
ways characterized our class. 

Our college days have cultivated friendships and 
interwoven pleasantness never to be forgotten and 
never to be erased from the heart. To-day we have 
met together as a unit for the last time. Soon will 
wo set sail on the same sea of science. The profes- 
sion we have chosen is a dignified and an honorable 
one ; from us it requires no eulogy ; and if I have 
attempted a word in its praise, it is only that we may 
never forget the importance of the sacred duties we 
are about to undertake ; that our great aim should be 
to become rvorthy of the name of Advocate, and to 
throw a lustre on that profession of which we have 
only laid the foundation. True it is, we can never 
expect to reach the heights cf perfection in the at- 
tainments of legal knowledge, for to explore its cav- 
erns, trace its labyrinths and drain its resources, 
would require far more time than the brief term of 
existence allotted to us by Providence. 

We may properly compare the science to which we 
have applied ourselves, to a great and mighty river, 
whose resources none can ever exhaust, but from which 
we can ever receive refreshing draughts. 

In acquitting ourselves of the duties of our pro- 
fession we must not forget our duty to society ; for, 
whether we are practising as advocates or are placed 
in responsible and important positions in the State, 
the people of our country will expect us to lead them 
in the van and we must not disappoint them. 

Owing to the extreme uncertainty of life we can- 
not foretell the result of the voyage we are about to 



undertake, but whether our journey.be long or short, 
let us so conduct ourselves that it may be said of 
each one of us, as has been said of others : that man 
was an ornament to the legal profession and an honor 
to his country. 

The Principal then expressed his regret that an 
accident, fortunately not of a serious nature, prevented 
the Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science from 
being present, and from announcing the great bene- 
factions made to that Faculty, but a printed statement 
of these had been distributed in the hall, and Dr. 
Harrington would announce the results of the ex- 
aminations. 

Dr. Harrington shortly referred to the bequest of 
the late Mr. Thomas Workman of $120,000 to found 
a department of mechanical engineeiing and to pro- 
vide the necessary workshops, and the stimulus given 
by this announcement influencing many of our 
citizens, who are directly or indirectly connected with 
the industrial arts and trades, still further to aid in 
extending the work of the faculty, the result being 
numerous subscriptions, amounting approximately to 
upwards of $25,000. Mr. McDonald’s still larger 
gift to erect a technical building, containing thermo- 
dynamic, hydraulic and electrical laboratories, labora- 
tories for testing the strength of materials, museum, 
library, lecture rooms and drawing rooms. Work on 
the buildings is to be proceeded with at once, and it 
is expected that the workshops will be available for use 
early in next session. He referred to the pamphlet 
prepared by the Dean and to the announcement of 
the Faculty for further details as to the new buildings 
and the apparatus and appliances with which they 
would be furnished, which would far exceed any 
thing of the kind hitherto provided in this Dominion. 

Prof. Harrington then read the list of graduates, 
which was as follows : 

R. S. Lea, E. E. S. Mattice, Orrin Rexford. Albert Howard 
Hawkins, W. Simeon Denison, Charles Herbert Ellacott, C. 
Bowditch Reed, P. W. Redpath, G. W. Mooney, P. N. Evans, 
Arthur E. Shu tleworth, W. Smaill, S. Calvert and R. H. Jam- 
ieson. 

The list of prizes and honours was also read, and 
the successful students called up to receive them, 
after which the degree was conferred. 

Mr. Percy N. Evans read the valedictory as 
follows : — 

Your Excellency , Mr. Chancellor, Members of Con- 
vocation, Fellow Students, Ladies and Gen- 
tlemen : — 

The subject of my address this afternoon, may be 
found on the 124th page of one of our college song 
books. Here the expression “ Farewell ” is used, and 
the writer goes on to say, — 

“ No human sound on earth more drear, 

“In this world’s course there ever fell 
“ Than Ah ! ‘ Farewell.’ 

Another poet, however, says, 

“ Of all sad words of tongue or pen 
“ The saddest are these — “ It might have been ” ; 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



225 



while a third writer expresses his views in the 
words : — 

“ Though of all sad words of tongue or pen 
“ Sad are the words “ It might have been ! ” 

“ More sad are these we daily see — 

“ It is but hadn’t ougliter be ! ” 

These three selections show that the same thing 
does not strike everyone in exactly the same way, and 
the departure of our class from the halls of learning, 
though a most doleful affair to some of us, may cause 
a sense of relief in the minds of some of our teachers. 
However this may he, there is a division of opinion in 
the different minds with regard to the sadness or 
joyfulnss of the present occasion, for the pang at 
leaving our college is lessened by the joy at feeling 
that we have finished our work in that part of the 
college which occupies sj much attentiou during 
April. 

We have often sung the words, 

“ As freshmen first we came to McGill 
“ Examinations made us ill ; 

“ But now we’ve reached our senior year, 

“ Of such things we have lost our fear.” 

but this must have been written by a freshman. 

We have finished our undergraduate course, and 
now with a feeling of mingled joy and sadness, we 
begin life anew as graduates, and as Ave have derived 
so much learning from our Alma Mater, it ought to 
be considered a duty to do Avhat we can for her when 
Ave are reaping the fruits of our college training. To 
make it easier for a graduate to do this, a permanent 
fund has been started this year to which all are ex- 
pected to subscribe something annually, the use to 
which the interest on the money is to be put, being 
determined by the Faculty. Surely Avhen Ave see 
Avhat is being done for the University, by men like 
Sir Donald Smith, Mr. McDonald and the late Mr. 
Workman, Avho never had an undergraduates course 
here, Ave ought to be willing to do Avhat Ave can Iioav- 
ever little toward the same end, the making of McGill 
equal to, if not better than any other school on the 
continent. We may not be able to give much at the 
beginning, for engineers and chemists do not usually 
make large fortunes in less than five years. Already, 
I may say, that though the idea avis suggested only 
a feAV Aveeks ago, six hundred dollars has been 
promised by graduates and the present grad uating class 
has agreed to pay Avithin five years three hundred and 
fifty dollars, each man paying five dollars annually, 
So every little helps, for 

“ Little drops of water, 

“ kittle grains of sand, ) Kaz00 Band . 

‘ ‘ Make the mighty ocean \ 

“And the beautious land.” 

Now, as Ave intend doing so much for the college 
when we leave, have Ave not a right to expect some- 
thing in return 1 For though Ave have already received 
so much, we have paid for it all that was asked, and 
Avhen we Avere aAvarded a second “ sup ” Ave even paid 
for that though Ave didn’t Avant it. One thing that 
Ave hope, and expect to be done for our successors, is 
that the little land so far allotted to athletics, shall be 
alloAved to remain for this purpose and not be taken 
up for buildings or botanical gardens. We acknoAV- 



ledge ourselves behind most colleges in athletic at- 
tainment, but Ave are at a disadvantage on account of 
climate and other things, and beg that we be not further 
handicapped by losing our campus, track, or tennis 
courts. This should be regarded very seriously, com- 
ing as it does from a representative of the Faculty 
holding the college championship in football and 
hockey. 

We continually hear that a college course is of use 
principally as it serves as a foundation and stimulus 
to further study, and Ave feel Avith the student in 
Faust Avhen he says, 

‘ ■ With diligence to study Avill I fondly cling, 

“Already I know much, but would know evertliing !” 

especially the part “ Already I knoAV much.” Long 
years hence Avhen Ave have obtained enough of that 
despicable, though useful article Avhich is the end and 
aim of so many, to make further drudgery unneces- 
sary, Ave shall retire to secluded country residences, 
beside beautiful streams, and surrounded by shady 
trees, on Avhich the feathered Avarblers chant their 
daily praise, and so on. Here Ave shall carry on by 
easy stages our attempts to knoAV everything, and as 
avc sit on the shady laAvn in the evening of an autumn 
day and Avatch the little ones playing Avith their toys, 
Avhile the intervening generation pours over learned 
books, Ave shall look hack and think of college days 
Avhen we Avere as young and careless as those that 
surround us. Then, as Ave begin to doze, familiar 
sounds will come hack, and Ave shall hear again — 
“ Consider the object to be made up of a series of 
points” “South-pole AA r atch-hands ” “Gentlemen, 
either you must lecture or I, but not both ” “ sin 2 
A + cos 2 A — 1 ” “I don’t know whether I ever 
told you of the old lady Avho drank the methylated 
alcohol, but in case you haven’t heard it, it Avas in this 
Avay ” “No iron ore contains 90% of iron The 
only Laurentian fossil is Eozoon Canadense ” 
“ Thomas ! Thomas ! ” “ Do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, and 
then do again ! Isn’t it 1 ” These antf similar sounds 
Avill pass quietly through our minds and then we 
shall be rousd by the sound of the supper bell and 
the patter of little feet. 

This class of fourteen are now open for engagements 
and are Avarranted of the finest Avovkmanship Avithin 
and Avithout. Inspection is invited for the proprie- 
tors feel that the goods display their Avorth to the 
most casual observer, and a single glance in many 
cases Avill be sufficient to secure the approval of the 
public. Some of the articles, which are in assorted 
sizes, are of home manufacture, Avhile others come 
from Ontario, the Maritime Provinces, and even 
England. All goods turned out from this establish- 
ment are in first class Avorking order, and only require 
that a ten-dollar bill be dropped into the slot every 
tAventy-four hours, to do most excellent Avork. Any- 
one Avishing for the services of a chemist or engineer 
cannot do better than apply at once, for already 
several are bespoken. Any handsome and Avealthy 
young lady, also, Avho Avishes to form a permanent 
engagement, should correspond immediately Avith 
the secretary. 

Although it may be a disadvantage to the college 
to lose the year of ’90, Ave feel sure that five years 



226 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[ 1890 . 



hence the shock will be over, and McGill on the up- 
ward road towards being the finest scientific school in 
America, thanks to Mr. McDonald and the late Thos. 
Workman. What can we do to show our apprecia- 
tion of our living benefactor? Very little, for we 
have no bouquet here and the college method is that 
of bouncing, and much as we should enjoy this, the 
fun might be mostly on our side, though we should 
be particularly careful to catch him on his downward 
journey. If our benefactor thinks it advisable to ac- 
cept our thanks in this way, he will find enough of 
us at the close of the present ceremony, ready to do 
the grateful in a becoming manner. 

It would give me great pleasure to propose three 
cheers for our honored friend now, but as it would 
be out of order — would it ? Three cheers for our 
benefactors Sir Donald Smith and Mr. McDonald ! 

finally, dear friends, I come to the point towards 
which I have been steering, and beg to say on behalf 
of my class : Farewell Principal, Dean, and Profes- 
sors ; Farewell benefactors ; Farewell fellow-students ; 
and last of all farewell McGill. 

The Musical Asssociation then sang the following 
verses, composed by a lady of the graduating class : — 

Our hearts are lightened and made glad ; 

feuccess now reigns supreme, 

Instead of anxious doubts and fears 
Which darkened Hope's fair dream. 

But this bright glow of happiness 
Must wane as gladness will, 

When Fate demands with stern decree, 

That we must leave McGill. 

'Tis true that we must leave her halls ; 

But let us not forget, 

Although we must be parted now. 

We are her students yet. 

And in our life-long college course, 

We 11 strive with ardour still, 
lo follow all that we have learned 
As students of McGill. 

Dr. Johnson, Dean of the Faculty of Arts, before 
announcing the results in that Faculty made a most 
eloquent speech, which was one of the prominent 
features of the meeting. He said : — “This convocation 
marks an epoch in the history of this faculty as well 
as of two other faculties in the university, and in 
view of the really extraordinay increase of our finan- 
cial resources, it is desirable to say something about 
its condition and progress. You will remember that 
the Faculty of Arts is the faculty which make an edu- 
cational institution a university. Without it there 
would be merely professional schools in Theology 
Law, Medicine, Applied Science, and Comparative 
Medicine. It is the body, of which the others are the 
limbs ; it is the heart which sends, or ought to send 
the life blood circulating through the rest of the sys- 
tem When therefore, any faculty receives a great 
development, the importance of a proportional de- 
velopment of the Faculty of Arts is obvious. It is 
most gratifying, therefore, to find that this faculty 
will receive a remarkable addition along with the 
others, and that thus besides a fine Physics buildin" 
two new chairs will this year have been established in 
it and not too soon. We are growing rapidly in the 
faculty of Arts. Our present graduating class is the 
largest we have ever had. There are 39 from McGill 
coHege and 4 from Morrin college, making a total of 
43. The number of undergraduates is the largest we 
have ever had, viz., about 180. Two years ago we 



had only 132. We are growing by leaps and bounds 
as the Chancellor has said. The total number of our 
students is about 300 — 298 is, I think, the exact num- 
ber, — but as we have more from other faculties at- 
tending our lectures we may reckon 360 as attending 
in the centre building. As a consequence our rooms 
are inconveniently crowded — in fact, we suffer the 
penalties of rapid growth and feel what are called 
“growing pains.” Our rooms are too small for our 
students, our library too small for our books, and our 
Convocation Hall too small for our friends, but above 
and beyond all (for these statements refer merely to 
buildings, and brains are more important than build- 
ings,) our professors, even with the addition of the 
new chairs, are too few for the number of subjects and 
number of classes to be taught. In another way this 
convocation marks an epoch. For the first time we 
can say at this annual meeting that this university, in 
common with other universities, enjoys the same pri- 
vileges in this our own province which we have long 
enjoyed in other provinces and other countries. It 
has cost no little effort to obtain these privileges, and 
it is very much to be regretted that those efforts should 
have caused an attempt to create ill-feeling among us 
who live in the province of Quebec. There was no 
good reason for such attempt and no justification. 
If an exploring ship in the cause of science is by the 
laws of war among civilized nations free from molesta- 
tion by an enemy’s cruisers, how much more should 
universities, whose duties it is to preserve, to transmit, 
and if possible, to increase knowledge, be free from 
unreasonable animosities. That this is the general 
sentiment of our French Canadian fellow-countrymen 
is shown by the votes in Parliament. It is a most 
gratifying and encouraging fact that what is called the 
B. A. Bill was passed by a majority who voted with- 
out distinction of race, religion or language. We 
owe them our thanks, not only for the justice they 
have done use (it is not easy always to do justice) but 
also for their courage in acting upon their knowledge 
and convictions. All honor to them.” 

Dr. Johnson called up the winners of medals, 
honors and prizes, to receive their distinctions from 
the hands of the visitors and Chancellor. 

He then read the names of those who had passed 
foi the degree of B. A., the honour candidates being 
presented first, and afterward the ordinary in order of 
standing. Their names are : 



H. Inez R. Botterell, William F. Colclough, Carrie M. 
Denck, Daniel J. Fraser, Robert McDougall, Albert G. Nicholls, 
Andrew A. Robertson, Henry M. Tory, Edward C. Trenholme 
an lime A\ llliams, Maude Abbott, Peers Davidson, Elizabeth 
Bmmore, Alexander Tolmie, George H. Matthewson, Hugh C. 
Sutherland, James T. Daley, John Alexander Cameron, Fred- 
w 1C m M i' &y> Jeanie T. Botterell, Alexander R. Hall, Silas 
„ . Mack, H. McL. kinghorn, Wm. Thomas D. Moss, Alex. 
Hunter, Isaac J. Swauson. Alexander W. Walsh, Donald Mc- 
Vicar, Peter L Richardson, William D. Reid, John Parker, 
Alexander M. McGregor, Mira McFarlane, Wm. E. Paton, 

R alV ^ ht i Fl ^ h ’ u Ial 7 Henderson, Joseph J. Ross, Sara 
B. Scott, diaries E. Brodie, Hugh Craig, Charles DeBrisay 
and Duncan Anderson. The last four named were from Morrin 

SfbSffi’E 5ge. e<1 ty ^ Eer ' J “ meS “T- “• A- 

The lady graduates received an extra round of 
cheering on coming f orward to receive their degrees. 



1890.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 227 



The capping of the class was then proceeded with. 
The ladies were received with immense cheering. 
Lord Stanley gallantly set the example of rising as 
each lady presented herself, and the homage of all 
that was great and learned in connection with old 
McGill to a number of simple though clever young 
women, was one of the interesting as it was one of the 
touching features of convocation. 

The Chancellor then called upon Mr. D. J. Frazer, 
who read the following valedictory : 

Your Excellency , Mr. Chancellor, Members of Convo- 
cation, Ladies and Gentlemen : 

The delivery of valedictories is regarded by many 
as a “ custom more honored in the breach than in the 
observance.” The stereotyped form of such addresses 
in Arts, I am told, is an earnest attempt to immor- 
talize the graduating class, some parting fatherly ad- 
vice to the professors and a gush of sentiment m 
bidding a tender farewell to old McGill. However 
monotonous this routine may be, still I shall not in- 
dulge in any intellectual gymnastics in order to de- 
part from the beaten path of my predecessors. Ex- 
cept in its brevity, my valedictovy will therefore be, 
to a largo extent, of the rigidly orthodox style. Of 
the graduating class I shall say but little, because we 
feel confident that my successor of next year will 
have the good taste to imitate the practice of the 
French Academy by devoting his time to a eulogy of 
us. Suffice it to say that nearly four years ago our 
class first made its appearance above the college 
horizon. In coming to Montreal many of its mem- 
bers passed by the door» of several famous seats of 
learning, attracted hither not so much by the social 
or even the educational advantages of this great Me- 
tropolis as by the personal fame of our honored Princi- 
pal, whose name is a household word in the remotest 
corners of the Dominion. Several of those who bold- 
ly entered with us on our student career have un- 
fortunately dropped from the race or have been dis- 
tanced. Others have been “ruled out” by the faculty 
for the simple crime of holding and expressing on 
their examination papers opinions different to those of 
that conservative body ! We would gladly pause to 
weave a chaplet to the memory of our departed class- 
mates who were thus martyrs to their convictions ; 
but time forbids. Others of us could, like Othello, 
tell thrilling tales of “most disastrous chances,” of 
“moving accidents” and “hairbreadth escapes” ; but 
these things only made us persevere more resolutely 
on our rugged path. With us — owing in part, per- 
haps, to the discipline of the Dean — 

“ Resistless burnt the fever of renown 
Caught from the strong contagion of the gown.” 

Others came forward to fill up our broken ranks ; 
and now, as the result of this process of elimination 
and accretion, we are a graduating class of thirty 
men, besides the four who have to-day swelled our 
ranks from Morrin College. Along with the ladies, 
we have been rudely called — by a science man, I pre- 
sume, — “the thirty nine articles .” 

And now we need offer no apology for our being 
graduates in Arts. The “bats and moles” of humanity 
will stupidly ask us, no doubt, what we now have of 



as good market value as the time and money and 
energy which we have spent in our preparatory edu- 
cation. It is true that we are not yet equipped for 
the practice of any profession. Moreover, a great 
part of our vast fund of knowledge in the shape of 
rules and idioms of the Greek and Latin languages, 
mathematical formulae, scientific classifications and 
metaphysical theories will, in itself, be of little direct 
practical value to many of us in after life. But such 
learning is not the only nor the highest reward of the 
patient toil of the Arts student. We may not be able, 
at the command of the utilitarian, to calculate with 
pen and paper how much knowledge we have acquir- 
ed from this part of the University course. But the 
best teaching is not the mere communication of in- 
formation ; nor does true knowledge consist in a dead 
sum or capital of facts or theories stored up in the 
mind. The aim of the faculty in which we graduate 
is higher than this. It aims not so much at impart- 
ing information as at giving mental discipline, intel- 
lectual refinement ; not so much at filling as at ex- 
panding the mind ; not so much at sending out 
students stuffed with facts as men of culture, whose 
mental horizon has been widened, in whom has been 
inspired the love, and whose minds have been trained 
for the attainment of truth. The graduate in Arts 
who has pursued his studies in a broad and sympa- 
thetic spirit has laid that solid foundation of mental 
culture upon which alone can intelligently be built 
the superstructure of professional training. If a man 
is to rise to eminence in any of the “learned profes- 
sions,” he must have received such intellectual refine- 
ment. The clergyman who will rise above narrow 
Sectarianism, the physician who is net content with 
being a mere practitioner, the lawyer who is not will- 
ing to depend for success upon “his quiddits, his 
quillets, his cases, his tenures and his tricks,” must 
all be men of broad culture and of intellectual 
sympathy. Such men it is the office of the faculty of 
Arts to send out. And when on the verge of our gradu- 
ation we take a retrospective glance at our long 
struggle, we feel amply repaid for all our labor, not so 
much because of the knowledge we have acquired as 
of our increased capacity for such ; not so much be- 
cause of our attainments as of our better capabilities 
to attain ; not because we have learned but rather be- 
cause we have been taught how to learn. 

But not to be recreant to the task — unpleasant but 
imperative — which has been assigned me by my 
fellow-classmates, we must briefly tender our fare- 
wells. 

To the professors our parting word is, — we forgive 
you. It is true that occasionally “ the burden you 
laid upon us seemed greater than we could bear,” 
that in tho examination hall you often expected us to 
do a day’s work in three hours, that some of you, at 
least, at times “ went on refining and thought of con- 
vincing when we thought of dining,” — yet in the 
sorrow of parting with you all these things are for- 
gotten — 

“ A spring of love wells from our hearts 
And we bless you unawares.” 

Had we been as diligent in studying as you have 
been patient in teaching, then we should certainly 



228 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



carry away with us “ self-knowledge, accuracy of 
mind and habits of strong mental exertion,” which 
Macaulay said was a greater gain than the honor of 
having been senior wrangler. In spite of our short- 
comings, however, we hope that we have not been 
among the class whom Burns describes as “going in 
sturks and coming out asses ” We tender you our 
heartiest thanks for the assistance you have ever so 
willingly and efficiently rendered us, and extend our 
best wishes for success professionally and happiness 
domestically, to one and all of you. 

Fellow-students, morituri salutamus ! We are sorry 
to part with you. We have associated with you in 
the jovialties of student life, and have always found 
you “jolly good fellows.” We have contested with 
you on the campus, where your conduct has ever been 
generous and manly. We have fought many warm 
battles in debate, armed to the teeth with wordy 
weapons ; and we have always parted friends. One 
piece of farewell advice. Be not discouraged. Do 
not look upon the exalted position which we have to 
day attained as “ the heroic for earth too hard, the 
high that proves too high.” By diligent application 
you yet may occupy these front seats, be the cynosure 
of all eyes, the observed of all observers, the lions of 
convocation. Persevere, and wo are confident that 
when you have received your final summons to ap- 
pear before that weird tribunal — the faculty — to be 
“ weighed in the balances,” you, like us, will not be 
“found wanting.” 

Fellow- classmates, we have fought the fight, we 
have finished our course. We have all looked for- 
ward with eager expectancy to this, the red-letter day 
in the history of every Arts student. But now that 
we have attained the goal of our endeavor, how hard 
a task it is to sever the ties which have been forming 
during our four years’ intercourse marred by never a 
disagreement. Our paths now diverge. We are 
fellow students no longer. But when in future years 
we come together in groups of two or three, to talk 
over the happy memories of by-gone college days, and 
to conform to certain little social amenities which are 
generally considered necessary for the sake of “Auld 
Lang Syne, let us meet as honest men, our lives un- 
sullied by one act which, if revealed, would bring the 
blush of shame to the cheek of any of us or cast a blot 
on the fair name of our alma mater. 

The Chancellor then requested Miss Abbott to de- 
hver the valedictory for the new lady graduates. Miss 
Abbott was loudly cheered and, upon comin" for- 
ward, delivered the following valedictory, verbatim 
and in clear, well modulated tones : 

My Lord, Mr. Chancellor, Members of the Convocation, 

Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow-students. 

As representative of the third graduating class of 
the Donalda Department, my task is an easier one 
than that which has fallen to the lot of those who 
have preceded me in a similar capacity to-day. Too 
little has been said to the women-students of McGill 
with regard to their duties and privileges in this Uni- 
versity ; too little to the citizens of Montreal of this 
the grand educational opportunity laid open to their 
daughters. The subject, being still almost in the 



form of a question, is full of interest, and the eyes of 
the public are on McGill in her women’s classes, 
noting, criticizing and approving the employment of 
the princely donation of Sir Donald A. Smith in 
1884. 

Ninety-one names are this year registered on the 
books of the Department. The formerly unrecognized 
want has proved itself. The magnificent generosity 
of the benefactor has not stopped at that first endow- 
ment. By a gradual and steady growth the “ Royal ” 
college is to arise, the first in Canada of its class, and 
to be ranked high among all institutions for the educa- 
tion of women on this side of the Atlantic. 

The innate vitality of the Donalda Department is 
evidenced by its high standard of study, and also by 
the active life of its societies. In order to a health- 
ful condition there should be among the students of 
any university, a certain amount of surplus energy, 
showing that they are not exhausted by the curricu- 
lum itself. Thus the college which can support 
societies calling for voluntary membership, entailing 
voluntary work, shows itself, through these, strong 
and vigorous. 

Accounts of the Ladies’ Lawn Tennis Club and of 
the Delta Sigma, our two oldest societies, have been 
given in former valedictories. The flourishing con- 
dition of the Glee Club is self-evident to all present, 
for it has, in conjunction with the Musical Associa- 
tion, given ample proof to-day of the success that has 
crowned Mr. Bohrer’s able tuition. 

The Theo Dora was founded in the autumn of ’87 
by the class graduating to-day. It was proposed by 
a new member, and met a requirement supplied 
among the new students by the McGill branch of the 
Y. M. C. A. A strong religious spirit existed 
among the women students, and this society was or- 
ganized for the study of missionary knowledge and 
the spread of Christian influence, it has been most 
successful and now stands second to none. 

The Gymnasium which last year was struggling 
through a somewhat feeble infancy, has this session 
developed into a recognized institution of the Univer- 
sity. Early in March a rehearsal took place, at which, 
evidence was given that Miss Barnj urn’s excellent 
training is doing good work among the Donaldas. 
And some who oppose the higher education of women 
conscientiously, on hygienic grounds, will do well to 
note that the best athletes are among the best students, 
and that the Prince of Wales gold medallist to-day is 
also a prize winner in the Gymnasium. Long may 
these classes, lor physical culture, so newly instituted, 
flourish, only let us hope it will be in a new building, 
where dry feet and a rainy day are a possible combin- 
ation. 



The 19th century is pre-eminently practical, and it 
is well that it is so. Work is fundamental to the on- 
waid march of Science, it is at the bottom of every 
great and good action that was ever done, it under- 
lies the formation of all true character. And it is the 
sin of idleness that is to be counted as the deadliest, 
just because it chokes, with the stifling pressure of 
stagnation, every noble deed, and eventually every 
noly aspiration. J 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



229 



As we stand here on the vantage ground of our 
Graduating Day, taking breath before we step out into 
our womanhood, we can look backward over the past 
and forward into the future, and, as we look, the one 
supreme thought that arises out of the kaleidoscopo 
of memory and hope, is that of this mysterious work. 
To what it ultimately tends, we know not, only we 
press forward towards the mark of our high calling. 
But the immediate ends that vanish as we attain 
them are numerous. During the past four years we 
have been working to fit ourselves for the good fight 
of life, and now that end has itself become a means, 
and we are ready, invested with our University train- 
ing, to battle for home and heart and Fatherland, and 
for the Right itself. 

In common with all other graduating classes we 
cannot but regret many pleasures wasted, and duties 
neglected during our past course. And to our juniors, 
especially to those of them who have but newly en- 
tered the University, I cannot refiain from uttering a 
word of warning, though fully realizing that they 
must gain their own experience, as we have done. 

Let me say to you that the present is your prepara- 
tion time, and your use of it will decide you future 
destiny. You have laid open to you here, a path to 
the acquirement of self-reliance and independence, of 
knowledge of self, of nature and man. You are learn- 
ing the talent of success, that there is no such thing 
as failure. Truly as you think and act here, so truly 
will your opinions be formed in accordance with the 
standard of absolute truth and goodness. You, the 
Donalda undergraduates, are to grow into women of 
judgement, culture, and refinement. Remember, that 
at this early stage of woman’s education in Canada, 
you, as members of the advance guard, are, in your 
own persons, to be pointed out as instances of its 
success or failure. The stand you take in your after 
lives is to reflect honor or dishonor not alone on your- 
selves, not alone on the University, which long ere 
you leave you will have learned to love, but on the 
cause of progress and of liberty itself. The eyes of 
the province are upon you. I cannot do better than 
quote the words of our beloved benefactor, when last 
autumn he admonished us to strive to be, not merely 
highly educated and learned women, but ladies in the 
higher sense, which used to be designated by the good 
old English word “ gentlewomen.” 

Again, the aim in your college-life is self-improve- 
ment, and growth in knowledge. The constant round 
of studies tends to foster selfishness and one is apt to 
forget that duties are owing to the University and to 
one’s fellow students. Try to counteract such selfish 
tendencies by joining the societies, by working and 
studying together. Through all your after lives you 
will be thankful that you did not pass four years 
among your fellows, standing apart in a single-handed 
pursuit of that which should have been a common 
interest. Try to advance towards the great ideal not 
alone, but in company with others. It is difficult to 
be a good man or woman in solitude. “ Help one 
another is a law of life.” 

The whole class graduating in Arts to-day may, I 
think, with justice claim that they are leaving to 
their juniors an example of public spirited support of 



all the college organizations and institutions. I say 
this is no spirit of self commendation, but in order to 
remind you that this our legacy, you are in duty 
bound to hand down in turn to your successors. 

And now before pronouncing our last farewell, I 
turn to the Donalda of ’90 for a moment. Our class, 
Historian, has to chronicle a happy, busy peace- 
ful period, passed by all nine of us in kindred pur- 
suit within the University. But now we are entering 
upon new lives, which will probably lie far apart and 
differ widely. In this future opening to-day, let us 
always be bound to each other and to all graduates of 
McGill, by a common purpose and a common action. 
That we never drift into idleness, but live as women 
who have a work to do in the world and who are doing 
it, as Canadians who bear a triple responsibility to 
themselves, to their country and to their Alma Mater, 
from the conferring of the priceless boon of education 
upon them by one of Canada’s great Universities. 

As we join to-day the vast band of McGill’s gradu- 
ates we are to also swell the smaller ranks of the 
Donalda B. A’s. and, in this last connection, we are 
grateful to know that a hand will be held out to wel- 
come us by the Muiota Society, a hand that will 
strengthen sentiment of patriotism and prove that the 
reunion of even a few is strength. 

To our beloved Principal and Professors, and to our 
fellow-students, in the name of the Donalda class ’90, 

I must now bid an affectionte farewell. It is with 
full hearts that we turn to repeat the word to our 
Alma Mater herself. But surely there is no need. 
The “ Ego Polliceor ” that we have just vowed when 
receiving from her our degrees, is still vibrating on 
the air, and can we ever dream of ceasing to love and 
cherish and reverence, of ceasing to keep holy and 
undefiled the memory of the University that has 
made us her own children ? Let us be still and let 
our whole future life-work prove, that from our 
hearts rather than from our lips, arises to our Alma 
Mater a wish that is a prayer 

“ Farewell.” 

Rev. Dr. Cornish addressed the graduates as 
follows : — 

Lady and Gentlemen Graduates : — 

The proceedings of this day mark the termination 
of your College course. 

You meet with us for the last time, in the capacity 
of students, and the University has now conferred 
upon you those academic distinctions and honours, 
for the attainment of which you have been for some 
years earnestly striving. 

In accordance with our custom, it devolves upon 
me, on behalf of the three Faculties here represented, 
to offer you our hearty congratulations, and to address 
a few parting words to you ere we send you forth into 
the active duties and difficulties of life. 

The fact that you have devoted some of the best 
years of your life to the pursuits and studies of the 
College, shows that you set a high value upon the 
training which thereby may be secured. 

There may be some who think that the student, in 
thus giving up a portion of his young manhood for 
the acquisition of a liberal education, makes a sacri- 



230 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



lice that does not find an adequate compensation in 
the results gained. 

But no man who forms a proper estimate of the 
value of a liberal education, in the true sense of the 
term — that is to say, of the power wherewith it arms 
a man for future usefulness and success, and of the 
benefits which may be made to result therefrom to 
the whole community — can come to such a conclu- 
sion. As a rule, he who acts as you have done, and 
works as you have worked, makes a wise investment 
of his time and labour for future power and profit. 
The error of those who think otherwise lies in yield- 
ing to the tendency, too common in this age, of esti- 
mating the value of a thing by the amount of hard 
cash it will fetch in the market. But it is only those 
things that are “ to perish in the using” that can be 
so estimated ; those matters and principles which find 
their place and scope in the intellectual and moral 
life of men ; I mean the knowledge and mental habits 
which are implied in the training of the schools, can- 
not be weighed in such a balance, because they have 
an intrinsic \aluo of their own far surpassing that of 
money, and because they open up to a man avenues 
of beneficence and of power, which the golden keys 
of mere wealth can never open to him. The past 
and present history of the mother country, and, in- 
deed, of every land, wherein a liberal education is 
appreciated, testify to this. Think of the importance 
to a man of a correct estimate of his own powers and 
tastes in preparing him for his way in life. To how 
many is life a failure owing to the want of this cor- 
rect appreciation of themselves, and how many social 
and professional anomalies are to be set down to the 
account of this self-ignorance? 

Think, too, of the value of proper habits of work 
and correct methods of procedure to the man engaged 
in the activities of life. The function of the Univer- 
sity is not to teach everything that comes within the 
scope of human knowledge and observation, but rather 
by a wise selection of subjects, so to train the minds 
of its pupils that they may be enabled to investigate 
and acquire knowledge for themselves. And when 
you consider those walks of life upon which, as a 
rule, University men enter, you will perceive at once 
the great value there is in such training and culture. 
The Church, the Legislature, the Law, and the prac- 
tice of Medicine demand, each and all, as the condi- 
tion of honourable success in them, the highest cul- 
ture, the most severe habits of thought, and° the most 
correct methods of observation and induction. 

But with all these advantages, a liberal education 
brings with it its peculiar responsibilities. The 
educated man owes duties to his fellows that devolve 
not upon the unlearned rustic. It should be the aim 
of such a man to do all he can to extend to all 
classes of the community the great benefits which 
spring from sound learning; and in young countries 
like ours this is particularly true. In the interests 
of loyalty, and of good government, and of the con- 
servation of all that is good and strong in our national 
life, character, and institutions, it is expedient that 
every member of the community should be more and 
more intelligent and enlightened. 

For with our principles of government, education 



and intelligence in the masses are essential to the 
existence of a rational loyalty to the powers that be, 
and of an unswerving fealty to law and order; with- 
out these, government, as we understand it, becomes 
an impossibility; and tr e way is open to anarchy or 
despotism, the legitimate offspring of national ignor- 
ance. Thus it is, that the School and the College, 
regarded in their proper light, constitute, with reli- 
gion, the very foundation of all national greatness. 

And whatever may have been the place of our 
birth, we are all here as the citizens of one common 
country ; a country of which none need be ashamed, 
but rather proud, when we contemplate its progress 
in the past, and its capacities for greatness in the 
future. You will contribute to that greatness by 
doing all you can to make your fellow-citizens more 
intelligent and better through the education you have 
yourselves received. 

And now, Mr. Chancellor, I may be permitted to 
advert to two or three matters, which are of such 
importance as to deserve special notice. As regards 
ourselves, the dominant note of this day’s proceedings 
may well be that of thankfulness and congratulation. 
During the past year, many good things have 
fallen to the University, especially in the way of 
benefactions, whereby it has been placed upon a 
broader and more assured foundation for future use- 
fulness and success than it ever enjoyed before. To 
one standing here, as I do, on the completion of 33 
years of service, the present aspect, as well as pros- 
pect, wears a very different look from that which 
presented itself a generation ago ; and one is natur- 
ally tempted to indulge, as might indeed be done with 
profit, in a retrospective comparison, or contrast, if 
you will, of our present comparative strength and 
affluence with the weakness and poverty of those 
days. But whilst refraining from this, I must, how- 
ever, say, that we to-day are reaping the harvest of 
the seed then sown by our honoured and indefatig- 
able Principal and by the Board of Governors, who 
gave freely, in season and out of season, of their time 
and best thought and means to strengthen and build 
up this institution, and to awaken in the minds of 
their fellow- citizens a generous interest in its work 
and welfare. How well they succeeded, let the gifts 
of the many, beginning with the year 1856, and the 
piincely munificence of the honoured dead, and of 
the living, in whose presence to-day we rejoice, bear 
testimony. And I am sure that I may, without pre- 
sumption, as representing here the teaching staff of 
the University, give expression to the grateful appre- 
ciation with which each and all of us regard the 
munificence of our benefactors which has placed at 
our command appliances for doing our work, of which 
the need had long been felt. Without indulging in 
extravagant eulogy, one may justly say this, that men 
who give of their substance, as they have given, in 
order to extend the advantages of higher education, 
and to make them more accessible to any class of the 
community, win for themselves, on the Bead-roll of 
their country’s benefactors, a place second to no other 
m honourable distinction. They contribute to the 
true greatness of our common country more even than 
he who wins new territory by the sword, for they are 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



231 



laying the foundations of a power greater and more 
enduring in its results than that of the sword; I 
mean the power of knowledge and of intellectual 
culture. And it is to the lasting honour of this 
city that, in the comparatively short period cov- 
ered by the history of this University, so many of 
its citizens should have given so freely of their time 
and thought and wealth to consolidate and extend 
the advantages of sound learning. 

Before I close a note of sadness must be touched. 
Whilst we have been receiving our good things, a 
sister University, in whose commanding position of 
usefulness and success all lovers of learning rejoice, 
is mourning the loss, by fire, of her beautiful buildings, 
and still more precious library and apparatus. “ A 
national calamity,” was the exclamation of everyone, 
as the startling news was flashed across the land. 
As in other relationships the law holds “ if one mem- 
ber suffers, all the members suffer with it ; ” so in the 
commonwealth of learning the same holds good — the 
loss of one is the loss of all, and the joy of one is the 
joy of all. It is very gratifying to note the wide- 
spread sympathy that has been awakened with those 
who have suffered this loss ; and not sympathy in 
words merely, but help of a material kind, which 
will aid in some degree to repair the damage done, 
in so far as it can be repaired. Let us hope that this 
fiery trial, through which that honoured University 
has been called to pass, will prove a source of 
strength and a stimulus for higher things in the days 
to come ; and that this event, untoward as it may 
now appear, may serve to bind, in a closer union of 
sympathy and of labour, our institutions of learning 
throughout this Dominion. For whilst they may 
laudably cherish our honourable ambition to surpass 
one another in doing the best work they can do, the aim 
and object of each and all alike should be to improve 
the condition of the community at large by the dif- 
fusion of sound learning throughout the land. 

Mr. Naismith, B. A , was then called on to present 
the winner of the Wicksteed medals for physical cul- 
ture — Messrs. Ross andJaquays, and that of the prizes 
in the Donalda Department — Messrs. Williams and 
Smith. 

The degree of M.A. was then conferred upon Mr. 
Wellington A. Cameron, B. A., and Mr. Arch. Mc- 
Goun, B.A., B.C.L. 

The Principal then announced that the Corpora- 
tion had granted to His Excellency the honorary 
degree of LL.D., in recognition not merely of his 
position as the representative of Her Majesty, and of 
a family long distinguished for the pursuit and 
patronage of learning; but as himself a friend and 
benefactor of Literature and Science, and who had 
shown himself able and willing to assume that posi- 
tion which had been held by so many of his pre- 
decessors, as the leader in the advance of the higher 
elements of our civilization. 

The degree was then conferred and was received 
with cheers by the students, “ Three cheers for the 
Doctor,” said one of the students, and the cheers 
were heartily given. 

Sir William Dawson requested Lord Stanley to say 
a few words by way of valedictory. 



His Excellency then addressed the Co n vocation to 
the following effect : 

He regretted that the first address he had to deliver 
to them might be termed a valedictory, but trusted that 
the word was used in no prophetic sense. It was a 
standing evidence of the liberality of such institutions 
that they should admit within their fold one who had 
not had the advantage of an academic career. After 
his eloquent predecessors, Lords Dufferin, Lome and 
Landsdown, he found some difficulty in finding a 
subject on which to address them. He was in the un- 
happy position of being called upon to say “a few 
words on general subjects.” A gentleman who had 
come to Ottawa to lecture on oratory had said that it 
was a long time before he could emerge from the list 
of “ and others,” as the newspapers summed up the 
unimportant speakers He felt sure that after his 
address he would subside into the “ and others.” He 
had tried to think of some new subject that had not 
been threshed out and it had occurred to him that if 
he could formulate the difference between some hum- 
ble animal, say an ascidian and a graduate, he might 
hit upon an idea that would thrill the world. On 
second thoughts, however, it occurred to him that if 
he were brought face to face with the animal it would 
know as much about him as he would about it. 
Other thoughts in connection with modern ideas of 
development had occurred to him ; but he had con- 
cluded that nothing could be more fitting than to 
refer to the development of our country and its edu- 
cational institutions It took as long, ninety years 
ago, to go by river from Montreal to Cornwall as 
it does now to cross the Atlantic. Now there is a 
network of railways all over the country. Electrical 
science at the beginning of the century was scarcely 
known in more than theory, while now messages sent 
from the old world arrived here before the hour at 
which they were sent. Hospitals and the treatment 
of the sick were of the most modest and imperfect 
description, while now there were buildings thoroughly 
fitted up and everything possible done fer the allevia- 
tion of sickness. At that time there was no telegraph, 
no gas and no anaesthetics. He did not know whether 
it was an improvement that medical science had in- 
vited ladies to take part in the work, but the question 
had resolved from one of principle to one of ex- 
pediency. The growth of this University was itself 
an index of our progress. He could congratulate it 
on the wide scope of its work, extending not only to 
a very comprehensive course in the Faculty of Arts 
but to training in so many professors — Law, Medicine, 
Veterinary Science, Engineering, Mining, Practical 
Chemistry and other applications of Science to Arts. 
He felt especial interest in the Donalda special course 
for women established by Sir Donald Smith. He spoke 
of the growth of that department and the success of 
the students as evidenced at this meeting of Convoca- 
tion. He remarked, too, that out of five medals three 
were taken by lady students. Referring to the endow- 
ments this University had received, he said the col- 
lege was the creation of the citizens of Montreal. 
This was an interesting instance of the union of edu- 
cational and commercial interests. He referred to the 
permanence of educational endowments in England, 



232 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



through all political, social and dynastic changes, as 
an evidence that in this country also they would con- 
stitute the surest guarantee of the permanence of the 
institutions supported by them. He spoke of the ends 
to which the endowments were to be applied, and 
closed by urging the graduates to be devoted to their 
Alma Mater and determined to maintain her credit 
and reputation ; to be honourable and truthful men, 
true sons of great sires, and worthy citizens of this 
great Dominion of Canada. 

The Principal, apologising for detaining the meeting 
to so late an hour, and thanking the friends of 
education for the manner in which they had respond- 
ed to the invitation of the University on this occasion, 
said that he could limit his statement to a few impor- 
tant statistics and announcements. 

The past session of this University has in many im- 
portant respects been one of unexampled growth and 
prosperity. The total number of students in McGill 
college alone has been nearly 700, besides 38 in affil- 
iated colleges in Arts and 86 teachers in training. 
We have added a new and prosperous faculty, that of 
Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Science, and 
have received the Stanstoad Wesleyan college into 
affiliation with the University. The liberal benefac- 
tions given to the University have already been re- 
ferred to. In all, the John Frothingham Principal 
fund, the Thomas Workman endowment for the de- 
partment of mechanical engineering, and the great gifts 
of Mr. W. C. McDonald to the Faculties of Applied 
Science, of Law and of Arts, will reach the handsome 
sum of about half a million of dollars, applicable di- 
rectly to the maintenance and extension of the work of 
the Universit}'. It is true that these donations affect 
principally two of our professional Faculties and the 
scientific work of the Faculty of Art 3 . I do not regret 
this, for these 1 acuities and departments are eminent- 
ly in need of endowments. The endowment of our 
i acuity of Law I regard as one of the best guarantees 
that the English population of this province will con- 
tinue to enjoy a fair share of influence in the judi- 
ciary, the Legislature and the Bar, and the endow- 
ment of our h acuity of Applied Science will raise it 
to a level with the best Science schools abroad. While 
some persons entertain the absurd idea that profes- 
sional qualifications can be raised by erecting an 
arbitrary standard of examination, Mr. McDonald’s 
and Mr. Workman’s endowments proceed on the sound 
principle that this can be done only by providing a 
thorough educational foundation. This great princi- 
ple, the source of our great benefactions, has also been 
publicly acknowledged in the recognition of the de- 
gree of B.A. by the Legislature. But it must not be 
forgotten that these great and liberal benefactions 
leave other parts of our work relatively behind. The 
literaiy, philosophical and mathematical departments, 
both for men and women, and which are really fund- 
amental in their importance, should now have their 
turn, and large additions are desirablo in matters re- 
lating to the comfort and health of students, such as 
the gymnasium and dining hall, rooms tor societies 
and convocation room and enlarged library. The ad- 
ditional half million which we hope to receive from 
our friends in the present year, should be devoted to 



these and kindred purposes, and will place us in a 
position in which we shall be able to say that we are 
as well and thoroughly equipped as any university 
requires to be in the present condition of this Domin- 
ion. The actual work of the University in the past 
session is best to be measured by the graduates it has 
sent out. In this and the previous meeting of Con- 
vocation we have conferred in all one hundred and 
sixty degrees in course. Of these, 56 are in Medicine, 
40 in Veterinary Science, 43 in Arts, 14 in Applied 
Science, and 7 in Law. Deducting higher degrees 
and the degrees given to veterinary students of pre- 
vious years under the new regulations, the number of 
new graduates to be credited to the past session 
reaches to 130, a larger number than we have ever 
previously graduated, and we may safely hold in con- 
nection with the growing facilities offered here for 
higher education, be ter trained than any previous 
graduating class. The sending forth into active life 
of so many highly educated minds may surely be held 
to be a great and honorable work in which both we and 
the friends of education throughout the Dominion 
may congratulate ourselves and express our thankful- 
ness to the Author of all good that we have been able 
to do so much. While hoping in the near future to 
achieve still greater results. These results I feel to be 
certain, because I have faith in education and in the 
constitution and methods of this University. I have 
ventured in meetings of Convocation to predict much 
that we see realized to-day, and I believe that with 
God’s blessing on honest and enlightened effort, there 
are those here to-day who will live to see the success 
of which we now boast appear as small and poor, as 
those early efforts of the University to which reference 
has already been made ; but we know that they will 
give us credit for the labors and struggles of to-day 
as we remember those of the past. 

The Convocation was then closed by the Rev. 
Canon Ellegood pronouncing the benediction. 



THE CONVERSAZIONE. 

In the evening about five hundred guests were in- 
vited by the Chancellor, Principal, and Fellows, to the 
Redpath Museum, where they were entertained by 
songs and music provided by the College Musical As- 
sociation, under the direction of Professor Bohrer. 
His Excellency the Governor-General, accompanied by 
the Hon. Edward Stanley and Sir Donald A. Smith, 
were received at the doors of the Museum, and con- 
ducted to the centre of the hall, where the guests 
were presented to His Excellency, after which refresh- 
ments were served. 

1 he guests circulated through the museum, glancing 
at its treasures, and especial attention was given to 
the large sculptured block of granite from Bubastis, 
presented by the committee of the Egypt Exploration 
Fund, through Mr. H. R. Ives, and which forms a 
conspicuous object in the lower hall of the museum. 



PROFESSOR BOVEY'S REPORT ON THE FACULTY OF 
APPLIED SCIENCE.. 

From the foundation of this Faculty it has been 
felt that a training which did not include laboratory 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



233 



and workshop practice was necessarily incomplete, 
but for many years we have been obliged to be con- 
tent with the practical work which the students were 
able to do in the summer months. Although the 
University may well be pleased with the success 
already attained by its graduates in Applied Science, 
it is with no small gratification that it can now look for- 
ward to the development rendered possible by recent 
splendid benefactions, which will enable the student 
ot the future to enter upon his professional career with 
all the advantages offered by modern research and 
invention. We shall now be able to give those facili- 
ties which the student has hitherto had to seek else- 
where, and he will at find at home an institution 
which, in each and all the departments of Civil 
Engineering, Mining Engineering, Mechanical Engi- 
eering, Electrical Engineering, and Practical Chemis- 
try, will rank in point of size and equipment with 
the foremost of the kind in Europe or America. 

THE THOMAS WORKMAN BEQUEST. 

In the autumn of 1889 the public received the 
news of the late Mr. Workman’s bequest of $120,000, 
to found a department of mechanical engineering and 
to provide the necessary workshops. The stimulus 
given by this announcement influenced many of our 
citizens, who are directly or indirectly connected with 
the industrial arts and trades, still further to aid in 
extending the work of the Faculty. Numerous sub- 
scriptions, an interim list of which is appended, have 
been received, amounting approximately to upwards 
of $25,000. 

THE MCDONALD TECHNICAL BUILDING. 

Within the last month another benefactor has come 
forward, and, in addition to other noble gifts, Mr. 
McDonald has signified his wish to erect a technical 
building, containing thermodynamic, hydraulic and 
electrical laboratories, laboratories for testing the 
strength of materials, museum, library, lecture rooms 
and drawing rooms. 

Work on the buildings is to be proceeded with at 
once, and it is expected that the workshops will be 
available during the coming winter. The students 
will then have the opportunity of assisting the in in- 
stallation of the machinery and the adjustment ot the 
shafting. 

WORKSHOPS. 

The workshops are to be a three-story building, 
covering an area of about 9,000 square feet. 

On the ground floor is to be the machine shop, 
containing lathes, drills, planer, milling machinery, 
etc., a special room being set apart for emery grind- 
ing. The first and second floors are to be devoted to 
wood-working, turning and pattern-making, and 
are to be furnished with speed-lathes, band and cir- 
cular saws, etc., etc. At one end of the machine 
shop are the foundry and smithy, with cupola, fur- 
naces, forges, etc. It is hoped also to add a labora- 
tory equipped with stamps and other appliances for 
the crushing, dressing and amalgamation of ores, 
better provision for the assaying oi which will prob- 
ably soon be provided in connection with the chemi- 
oal laboratory. 



The whole of the machinery in the workshops will 
be driven by a compound engine, presented by 
Messrs. J. Laurie & Bro. 

The time spent in the workshops will be from 400 
to 600 hours, and the student will pass regularly 
from bench- work to turning, pattern-making, forging, 
foundry-work, and will finally enter the machine 
shop. The objects of this course are to familiarize a 
student with the tools used in wood and metal work- 
ing, to give him a practical knowledge of the nature 
of the materials with which he has to deal, and to 
teach him the most approved methods of constructing 
machinery. 

TECHNICAL BUILDING. 

The technical building is a structure of five stories, 
covering an area of about 9,600 square feet. Upon 
the ground-floor are to be the following laboratories : 
(a) A steam laboratory 60 x 32 feet, containing a 
triple compound experimental engine with dyna- 
mometers, calorimeters, injectors, graduated tanks, 
and all appliances necessary for the thorough investi- 
gation of the properties of steam ; ( b ) a laboratory 
for testing the strength of materials, 60 x 32 feet, 
containing a 75 ton Emery testing machine, presented 
by Mr. J. H. Burland, B.A.Sc., a graduate of the 
Faculty ; also machines for testing the effect torsion, 
repeated bending, etc.; (c) an hydraulic laboratory, 
in which experiments will be made on the flow of 
water through pipes and mouth-pieces of various 
forms and sizes, also upon pipe friction, etc.; ( d ) a 
laboratory for tests upon cements ; ( e ) an electrical 
laboratory in which will be installed the dynamos. 
Here experiments will be conducted on dynamic elec- 
tricity, and will form a special feature of the course 
in electrical engineering. Ample room will also be 
provided for storage batteries ; (/) a laboratory of 
uniform temperature containing a comparator, divid- 
ing engine and standard gauges. 

Additional laboratories of similar character are also 
provided on the first floor. 

The second floor is to be occupied by lecture rooms, 
library, students’ room, offices, etc. 

The third floor forms the museum, in which will 
be placed valuable collections illustrating mechanical 
principles. Through the further munificence of Mr. 
McDonald we already know that this museum will 
contain the most complete and valuable collection of 
models of mechanical movements on this continent. 
These are world-famed as the Reuleaux Kinematic 
collection, and their value to the student and also to 
the engineer can hardly be over-estimated. In time 
we may hope to possess, through the kindness of 
other benefactors, models illustrating engineering 
structures, and also sectional models showing the con- 
struction of machinery. 

The whole of the fourth floor is to be devoted to 
drawing. 

LABORATORY PRACTICE. 

All the engineering students, civil, mining, me- 
chanical and electrical, will be required to do work 
in the laboratories in certain departments under the 
supervision of the professors. The object is to enable 
the students to study, experimentally, the sources of 



234 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



energy, prime movers, and the strength of materials, 
and to carry on with intelligence original investi- 
gations. 

In connection with the department of mathematics 
and mechanics, there is to be a laboratory of mechanics, 
in which the student, in the early part of his course, 
will make various kinds of experiments, e.g., will 
measure small intervals of time, and determine the 
values of certain important dynamical constants. The 
science of exact measurement will afterwards be still 
more thoroughly investigated by the aid of micro- 
meters, comparators and standard gauges. 

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. 

A portion of the course in the department of ex- 
perimental physics will be attended by all students. 
Special work, chiefly in the laboratories, will be done 
by such of the students as may desire to become elec- 
trical engineers. For this purpose, in addition to the 
laboratories in the physical building, electrical re- 
search laboratories, and laboratories for testing dyna- 
mos, motors, accumulators, etc., are also to be provided 
in the technical building. 

O 

SURVEYING AND GEODESY. 

The course in surveying is primarily designed to 
qualify the student for admission to the practice of 
Provincial and Dominion Land Surveying, and to 
afford a thoroughly practical as well as theoretical 
training in field engineering. The work embraces 
chain surveying, angular surveying, the use and ad- 
justment of the engineer’s transit and theodolite, 
levels, plane-table, and other field instruments, the 
methods of contour surveying and underground sur- 
veying, railway curves and setting out work, hydro- 
graphic surveying, the methods and instruments em- 
ployed in geodetic surveys, and practical astronomy. 
The large drawing rooms are to be fitted with suitable 
mountings for the various surveying instruments for 
the prosecution of triangulation and other instru- 
mental work. The construction and adjustment of 
each instrument is made a special study. Provision 
is made for a course of instruction in transit obser- 
vations for time, in the astronomical observatory, and 
also for advanced courses in geodesy and practical 
astronomy, and for practice in the use of magnetic 
field instruments, in accordance with the course laid 
down for the examination for Dominion Land Sur- 
veyors. Investigation of the errors of graduated 
circles and absolute standards of length will be made 
in connection with the advanced work in geodesy. 

As heretofoie, courses of instruction are to be given 
in free-hand and model drawing, in the various de- 
partments of descriptive geometry, and its applica- 
tions, as in map projection and problems relating to 
machine design. 

Extensive changes are necessarily to be made in 
the several^courses, which will be duly announced at 
the commencement of the next session. 

Also, 'instead of charging a separate fee for tuition, 
matriculation, graduation, gymnasium and library, it 
has been decided to fix the uniform sum of $100 per 
annum as the tee to be paid by all students, which 
sum will include the cost of the material and the care 



of the apparatus and machinery in the laboratories 
and workshops. 

It is not easy to put into words the gratitude which 
must be felt towards those who have made such en- 
largement possible, by all who have the interest of 
the University at heart. We can only hope to show 
it by the endeavor to put such noble gifts to the 
highest use. I may, perhaps, be pardoned for here 
expressing my great personal gratification that the 
development of the Faculty, which I so earnestly 
desired and advocated at the Convocation last year, 
has mot with so complete a realization. 

INTERIM LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS TO EQUIPMENT. 

Abbott, W.; Birks, Henry; Blackwell, Kenneth; 
Bremner, A.; Brown, F. F.; Brush, George ; Burland, 
Geo. B.; Burland, Jeffrey H.; Campbell, Kenneth ; 
Campbell Tile Co., England, per Jordan and Locker; 
Chanteloup, E. (late); Chadwick, F.; Clendinneng, 
Win,; Crosby Steam Valve Co., Boston; Date, John; 
Drysdale, D.; Drysdale, Wm.; Ewan, A.; Fairman, 
F.; Forsyth, R.; Frothingham and Workman; Garth 
and Co.; Gower, W. E.; Graham, Hugh ; Grier, G. 
A.; Gurney, E. and C., and Co., per F. Massey, Esq.; 
Hearn and Harrison, per L. Harrison, Esq.; Hersey, 
R.; Hodgson, Jonathan ; Holden, A.; Hughes and 
Stephenson ; Hutton, W. H.; Ives, H. R.; Jordan 
and Locker ; Kennedy, John ; Kennedy, Wm., Owen 
Sound ; Kerr, R. and W.; King, Warden ; Knight 
(The) Hydraulic Co., California ; Laurie, J., and Bro.; 
Lawson, A. J.; Macpherson, A.; Machinery Supply 
Association, per Wm. S. Gardner, Esq.; McCarthy, 
D. and J., Sorel ; McDougall, Mrs. John ; McLaren, 
W. D.; McNally, Wm., and Co.; Miller Bros., and 
Toms ; Mitchell, Robert ; Norton (The) Emery 
Wheel Co., Worcester, U.S.; Notman, Wm.; Ogilvie, 
W. W.; Pillow, J. A.; Prowse, G. R.; Ramsay, A., 
and Son ; Rathbun and Co., Deseronto ; Reford, 
Robert; Redpath, Mrs.; Reed, G. W.; Reid, Robert; 
Reid, R. G.; Renouf, E. M.; Robertson, T., and Co.; 
Robertson, James ; Ross, James ; Sadler, Geo. W.; 
Scholes, Francis; Scovill Manufacturing Co.; Shearer, 
James ; St. George, P. W.; Tees and Co.; Twyford 
and Co., England, per Messrs. Jordan and Locker ; 
Walker, James, and Co. 



DEGREE AND SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS, 

1890. 



FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE. 



GRADUATING CLA8S. 

Richard Smith Lea — The Stanley silver medal j special 
British Association prize of $30 ; $25 prize for summer report ; 
certificates of merit in theory of structures, hydraulics, steam 
and designing. 

Edward Ernest Stuart Mattice— British Association Exhibi- 
tion of $50 ; certificates of merit in steam, hydraulics and de- 
signing. 

Percy Norton Evans— British Association gold medal ; prize 
for summer report ; certificate of merit in metallurgy. 

Robert Henry Jamieson — Certificate of merit in mineralogy. 

George W. Mooney— Gower prize $25) for mechanical model ; 
certificates of merit in mechanical work, machinery and mill- 
work, and designing. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



235 



Peter Wliiteford Redpath — Certificates of merit in mechanical 
work, machinery and millwork, and designing. 

Sidney Calvert — First rank honours in natural science. 

Arthur Edward Shuttleworth - Certificate of merit in metal- 
lurgy- 

Passed for the Degree of Bachelor of Applied Science. 

Civil Engineering (Advanced Course). 

In Order of Merit — Richard Smith Lea, Edward Ernest 
Stuart Mattice. 

(Ordinary Course). 

In Order of Merit— Richard Smith Lea, Edward Ernest 
Stuart Mattice, Orrin Rexford, Albert Howard Hawkins, 
William Simeon Denison, Charles Herbert Ellacott, Chester 
Bowditch Reed. 

Mechanical Engineering (Advanced Course.) 

George Walworth Mooney. 

(Ordinary Course). 

In Order of Merit — Peter Whiteford Redpath, George Wal- 
worth Mooney. 

Practical Chemistry (Advanced Course). 

Percy Norton Evans. 

(Ordinary Course). 

In Order of Merit — Percy Norton Evans, Arthur Edward 
Shuttleworth, William Smaill, Sidney Calvert, Robert Henry 
Jamieson. 

Third Year. 

Ernest Albert Stone— Scott Exhibition of $66 ; certificates of 
merit in mathematical physics, descriptive geometry, theory of 
structures, surveying, and mathematics. Second prize for in- 
strumental work (levelling). 

William Jardine Bulman— Certificate of merit in descriptive 
geometry and mathematics. Second prize for instrumental 
work (levelling). 

Robert Bickerdike— First prize for instrumental work (level- 
ling). 

William Henry H. Walker— Prize for summer report ; certi- 
ficate of merit in experimental physics. 

Hugh Yelverton Russel— Certificate of merit in mining. 

Prizes for General Standing. 

Civil Engineering. 

Ernest Albert Stone— First prize ; William Jardine Bulman, 
second prize. 

Mining Engineering. 

William Henry H. Walker— First prize. 

Mechanical Engineering. 

Henry Martyn Ramsay — First prize. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations. 

Civil Engineering (Advanced Course). 

In Order of Merit — Ernest Albert Stone, Robert Bickerdike. 



Forest Rutherford — Certificates of merit in mechanical work 
and practical construction. 

Prizes for General Standing. 

Mining Engineering —John Murray McGregor, first prize 
Practical Chemistry — Peter Henry LeRossignol, first prize. 

Passed the Sessional Examination. 

Civil Engineering Course (in order of merit) — Thomas M. 
McLeod, Ellsworth Bolton, Louis B. Copeland, James G. R. 
Wain wright. 

Mining Engineering Course (in order of merit) — John Murray 
McGregor, Charles B. Kingston. 

Mechanical Engineering Course (in order of merit) \V llliam 
H. Warren, Forest Rutherford, William N. Cunningham, W. 

C. Gregory Smart. _ T 

Practical Chemistry (in order of merit)— Peter Henry Le- 
Rossignol, William C. Adams, Alonzo Klock, Walter D. Mc- 
Farlane. 

First Year. 

Howard Turner Barnes— Certificates of merit in mathematics, 
chemistry and drawing. a . 

Alexander Scott Dawson— Certificates of merit in English, 
mathematics, sanitation and chemistry. 

Louis Herdt— Certificate of merit in mathematics. 

Louis Greenberg — Certificate of merit in mathematics. 

Robert Claude Holman— Certificate of merit in mathematics. 
Frank Lambert— Certificate of merit in sanitation. 

Prizes for General Standing. 

Howard Turner Barnes — First prize ; Alexander Scott Daw- 
son, second prize. 

Passed Sessional Examinations. 

In Order of Merit — Howard Turner Barnes, Alexander Scott 
Dawson, Louis Herdt ; Louis Greenberg and Robert Claude 
Holman, equal ; Henri Herdt, William Arthur Bowden, Frank 
Lambert, John Dougall Cochrane, Arthur W. K. Massey, Robt. 
A. Gunn, David A. Murphy. 

Summer Report. 

Fourth Year.— Class I.— Lea, prize, standpipes ; Evans, 
citric acid, and Mattice, Cornwall Canal enlargement, equal ; 
Ellacott, Brockville sewerage system, and Shuttleworth, quan- 
titative analysis of titaniferous iron ore, equal ; Jamieson, ex- 
traction of glycerine from spent-lye. Class II. Redford, Stan- 
stead granite, and Smaill, Portneuf geology, equal ; Denison, 
steam ; Hawkins, Bay of Quinte bridge ; and Mooney, gover- 
nors ; and Redpath, transmission of power, equal. Class III. — 
Reed, cement and concrete ; Calvert, oats. 

Third Year. —Class I.— Walker, prize, Springhill coal mines ; 
Middleton, a spoon dredge. Class II. — Russell, Londonderry 
iron mines, and Wingham, loco, frames, equal; Bickerdike, 
Yaudreuil and Prescott Ry.; Stone, Baie des Chaleurs Ry.; and 
Klock (2nd year), phosphorus, equal ; Ramsay, files and filing ; 
Stuart, Mt. Royal Incline Ry.; and Williams, boilers, equal. 
Class III.— Schwitzer, Lake Temiscamingue Col. Ry.; Bulman. 

Freehand Drawing. 



(Ordinary Course). 

In Order of Merit— Ernest Albert Stone, William Jardine 
Bulman, Robert Bickerdike, John Edward Schwitzer. 

Mechanical Engineering (Ordinary Course.) 

In Order of Merit— Henry Martyn Ramsay, Percy Howe 
Middleton, Thos. Henry Wingham, Miles Lawrence Williams. 

Mining Engineering. 

In Order of Merit -William Henry H. Walker, Hugh Yel- 
verton Russel. 

Second Year. 

John Murray McGregor -Certificates of merit in mathematics, 

‘"St’ of i Borland 

chemistry priJe ; certificates of merit in English, French, mathe- 
matical physics, experimental physics, descriptive geometry, 
practical Chemistry, botany and theoretical chemis tjj 
P William Henry Warren-Certificates of merit ^ descriptive 
geometry, practical construction and mechanical work. 



First Year.— Class I.— Barnes, L. Herdt, Murphy, Greenberg, 
Cochrane. Class II.— H. Herdt, Darling, Costigan, Massey, 
Gunn, Bowden. Class III.— Holman, Churchill, Dawson, 
Lambert, Lorway. 

Mapping. 

First Year.— Class I. - Barnes ; Murphy and Greenberg, 
equal; Cochrane. Class II. L. Herdt, Massey, H. Herdt, 
Churchill, Darling, Bowden, Dawson, Lambert ; Costigan and 
Holman, equal. Class III.— Gunn, Lorway. 

Descriptive Geometry. 

Third Year.— Civil and Mechanical.— Class I.— Bulman, 
Stone. Class II.— Bickerdike, Schwitzer, Wingham, Ramsay, 
Middleton. Class 1 1 1.— Williams, Stuart. 

Third Year.— Mining. — Class II. — Walker. Class III. — 

Russel. , _ , _ 

Second Year. - Class I.— Warren, LeRossignol, McGregor. 
Class IT. - Copeland, Cunningham; Rutherford and McLeod, 
equal ; Bolton and Stevenson, equal ; Kingston, Adams. Class 
III.— McFarlane, Wainwright, Purves, Smart, Klock, Ryan. 



236 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Mechanism. 

Second Year. — Class I. — McGregor. Class II. — Rutherford, 
McLeod, Kingston ; Cunningham and Murphy, equal. Class 
III. — Purves, Copeland, Smart, Tighe, Bolton, Wainwright, 
Ryan ; Warren and Featherstou, equal. 

Practical Construction. 

Fourth Year. — Class II. — Redpath, Mooney. 

Third Year.— Class I. — Middleton, Ramsay. Class II. — 
Williams, Wingham. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Warren, Rutherford. Class II. — 
Cunningham. Class III. — Smart and Pink and Simpson, 
equal. 

Mechanical Work. 

Fourth Year.— Class I. Mooney and Redpath, equal. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Middleton and Ramsay, equal. 
Class II. — Wingham. Class III. — Williams. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Rutherford, Warren, Smart. Class 
II.— Cunningham, Pink. Class III.— Simpson. 

Geometry of Machinery. 

Third Year. — Class II. — Middleton, Ramsay, Wingham, 
Williams. 

Surveying. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Stone, Bulman. Class II.- Bicker- 
dike, Schwitzer. 

Second Year. —Class I. — McGregor. Class II. — Copeland, 

Kingston, Warren, Rutherford, McLeod, Purves, Bolton ; Cun- 
ningham and Rankine, equal ; Stevenson, Ryan. Class III.— 
Wainwright, Smart ; Murphy and Simpson, equal ; Feather- 
ston. 

Designing. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — Lea, Redpath, Mooney, Mattice. 
Class II.— Rexford, Hawkins, Ellacott, Denison. Class III. — 
Reed. 

Theory of Structures (Advanced). 

Fourth Year. — Civil Engineering.— Class I.— Lea, Mattice. 
Mechanical Engineering.— Class I. — None. Class II. — 
Mooney. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Stone. Class II.— Bickerdike. 

(Ordinary). 

Fourth Year.— Civil Engineering.— Class I.— Lea, Mattice. 
Class II. — Rexford. Class III. — Hawkins, Denison, Reed, 
Ellacott. Mechanical Engineering. — Class J. None. Class 
II. — Redpath. Class III. — Mooney. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Stone. Class II.— Walker, Bicker- 
dike ; Bulman and Schwitzer, equal ; Wingham, Ramsay. 
Class III. — Williams; Stuart* and Russell, equal; Middle- 
ton*. 

To pass a supplemental in Analytical Mechanics. 

Heat (Advanced). 

P ourth Year. In Order of Merit. — Lea, Mattice, Mooney. 

(Ordinary). 

Fourth \ear. Class I. — Lea, Mattice, Mooney, Redpath. 
Class II.— Denison, Hawkins, Rexford. Class III.— Ellacott 
and Reed, equal. 

Hydraulics (Advanced). 

Fourth Year.— In Order of Merit.— Lea, Mattice. 

(Ordinary). 

Fourth Year.— Class I.— Lea, Mattice. Class II.— Redpath, 
Mooney. Class III.— Denison, Hawkins, Rexford ; Ellacott 
and Reed, equal. 

Machinery and Millwork. 

Fourth Year.— Class I.— Mooney, Redpath. 

Third Year.— Class I.— None. Class II.- Middleton, Ram- 

say# Wingham. Class III. — Williams. 



Materials (Metallurgy). 

Second, Third and Fourth Years. — Chemistry and Mining 
Courses. — Class I. — Evans, Walker, Jamieson, Shuttleworth. 
Class II.— McGregor and Smaill, equal; Russel, Calvert. 
Class III. — Purves. 

Chemistry (Practical). 

First Year. — Class I. — Barnes, Holman, Dawson, Gunn* ; 
Cochrane and H. Herdt, equal ; Bowden and Darling*, equal ; 
Costigan and Greenberg and L. Herdt, equal ; Massey*, Lor- 
way*, D. Murphy*. 

* Supplemental in Theoretical Chemistry. 

Second Year. — Chemistry Course. — Class I. — LeRossignol ; 
Klock and McFarlane, equal. Class II. — Adams, Jackson 
(Oc.). 

Second Year. — Mining Course.— Class I. — McGregor. Class 
II. — None. Class III. — Kingston: 

Third Year. — Mining Course. - Class I.— Walker. Class II. 
— Russel. 

Essay. 

Fourth Year. — Class I.— Calvert and Evans, equal ; Lea and 
Shuttleworth, equal ; Mattice and Jamieson and Smaill, equal. 
Class II. — Rexford and Redpath, equal ; Hawkins and Mooney, 
equal. Class III. — Denison and Ellacott and Reed, equal. 

Third Year. — < lass I. — Stone, Walker. Class II. — Bicker- 
dike and Wingham, equal; Russel; Bulman and Middleton 
and Stuart, equal; Williams and Ramsay, equal. Class HI. 
— Schwitzer. 

Second Year. — Class I. — LeRossignol. Class II. — Adams ; 
Stuart and Bolton and Copeland, equal ; Rankine ; Cunning- 
ham and Pink and Klock and Rutherford and McGregor and 
McLeod and Fealherston, equal. Class 111. — Purves and Mc- 
Farlane, equal ; Tighe ; Warren and Murphy and Ryan, equal ; 
Stevenson. 

Chemistry (General). 

First Year. — Class I. — Dawson, Barnes, Bowden. Class II. 
— Greenberg, L. Herdt, H. Herdt, Cochrane, Lambert, Hol- 
man. Class III. — Costigan, McLeod (2nd year). 

Second Year.— Chemistry Course.— Class I.— LeRossignol, 
Adams, Klock. Class II. — None. Class III. — Jackson (Oc.), 
McFarlane. 

Second Year.— Mining Course. — Class I.— None. Class II. 
—McGregor. Class III. - Kingston, Purves. 

Third Year.— Mining Course. — Class I.— Walker. Class II. 
— None. Class III. — Russel. 

fourth Year.— Chemistry Course, Ordinary. — Class I.— 
Evans. Class II. — Smaill, Shuttleworth, Calvert, Jamieson. 

Fourth Year. Chemistry Course, Advanced.— Class I.— 
Evans. 

Mining. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Walker, Russel. 

Mineralogy (Advanced). 

Third Year.— Mining Course.— Class I.— Walker. Class II. 
Russel. 

I assed in Theoietical Mineralogy only. — Class I. — Ferguson. 
Fourth Year.— Chemistry Course.— Class I.— Calvert and 
Jamieson, equal. Class II.— Evans, Smaill, Shuttleworth. 

Assaying. 

Fourth Year.— Chemistry Course.— Class I.— Evans. Class 
II.— Smaill, Jamieson, Calvert, Shuttleworth. 



Zoology. 

Second \ear. Class I. — McLeod, Bolton, Ryan. Class II. 
—Stevenson, McGregor, Murphy, Wainwright, Featherston. 
Class 111. 1 urves, Copeland, Rankine. 



Materia. 

Second, Third and Fourth Years.— Civil and Mechanical 
Engineering. — Class I.— Mattice, Stone. Class II.— Bicker- 
dike, Rexford, Ellacott, Warren, Rutherford ; Hawkins and 
Smart and Mooney, equal ; Cunningham, Wingham, Reed 
Bulman. Class III.— Redpath, Denison, Bolton, McLeod! 
Middleton, Schwitzer, Tighe, Wainwright, Copeland, Ramsay. 



Geology. 

Third and Fourth Years.— Class I.— Russel, Stone, Walker 
Class II.— Bulman, Smaill, Jamieson, Bickerdike. Class III 
—Stuart, Schwitzer. 

Botany. 



Second Year. — Class I. — LeRossignol. 
Class III. — Klock, McFarlane, 



Class II. Adams, 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



237 



Mathematics. 

T»- T , hir f, Year (-Advanced). —Class I.— Stone. Class III.— 

Bickerdike. 

(Ordinary). — Class I. — Stone, Bulman. Class 
1A * — Bickerdike, Schwitzer. Class III.— Stuart. 

Second Year.— Class 1. —McGregor, McLeod. Class II.— 
Bolton, Copeland. Class 111. — Cunningham, Purves, Murphy, 
r eatherston, Warren, Rutherford, Smart, Wainwright, Simp- 
son, Kingston. * 

I?iist \ear. Class I. Holman, Greenberg, L. Herdt, Barnes, 
Dawson, H. Herdt. Class II. —Bowden, Cochrane. Class III. 
Lambert, Massey, Gunn, Taylor*, Murphy F. 

# To pass a supplemental in Geometry. 

+ “ “ " “ Algebra. 

Mathematical Physics. 

Third \ear. — Class I. — Stone, Bickerdike, Russel. Class II. 
— Ramsay. Class III. — Wingham, Middleton, Walker, 
Schwitzer ; Bulman and Stuart and Williams, equal. 

Second \ear. — Class I. — LeRossignol, Adams, McGregor. 
Class II. McLeod, Bolton, Warren. Class 111. — Cunning- 
ham, Copeland, Rankine, Kingston ; Simpson and Stevenson, 
equal ; Rutherford, Murphy, Featherston, Purves, McFarlane, 
Smart, Ryan ; Klock and Tighe and Wainwright, equal. 

Experimental Physics. 

Third \ear. — Class I. — Walker, Stone, Bulman, Russel, 
Wingham. Class II. — Stuart, Bickerdike, Schwitzer. Class 
111. — Middleton, Ramsay. 

Second Year. — Class 1. — LeRossignol. Class II. — Warren ; 
Klock and Rutherford, equal ; Adams. Class 111. — Wain- 
wright, Copeland, Rankine ; Bolton and McFarlane and Simp- 
son, equal ; Tighe ; McLeod and Purves and Stevenson, equal ; 
Cunningham and Pink, equal ; Murphy, Featherston, Smart. 

English. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Bickerdike, Walker, Wingham. 
Class II. — None. Class III. — Middleton ; Bulman and Russel, 
equal ; Stuart, Ramsay, Schwitzer, Williams. 

Second Year. — Class 1. — McGregor and LeRossignol, equal. 
Class II. — McFarlane, Tighe, Cunningham ; Bolton and Klock 
and Simpson and Wainwright, equal. Class III. — Adams and 
Rutherford, equal ; Pink and Purves and Warren, equal ; Ran- 
kine, Featherston ; Ryan and Stevenson, equal ; Smart, Cope- 
land, McLeod. 

First Year. — Class I. — Dawson, Lambert, Bowden, Barnes; 
L. Herdt and Taylor, equal. Class II. — Holman, Gunn, Green- 
berg, Darling, H. Herdt. Class III. — Massey, Costigan, 
Murphy, Lochrane. 

French. 

First Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — L. Herdt, Green- 
berg, Dawson, Lambert. Class III. — Taylor, H. Herdt, Bow- 
den, Gunn, Massey, Darling, Lorway. 

Second Year. — i lass I. — LeRossignol (certificate of merit) and 
McGregor, equal. Class II. — Adams, McLeod. Class III. — 
Rankine, McLeod, Featherston, Copeland. 

Girman. 

First Year. — Class I. — Barnes, Cochrane. Class II. — None. 
Class III.— Holman, D. A. Murphy. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Cunningham (certificate of merit). 
Class II. — None. Class III. — Rutherford, P. J. Murphy ; 

Tighe and Bolton, equal. 

Lettering. 

Second Year. — Class I.— Warren, Wainwright, Copeland ; 
Purves and Ryan, equal ; McGregor. Class II. — Rutherford ; 
Smart and Murphy and Bolton, equal ; Stevenson, Rankine, 
Cunningham. Class III. — McLeod, Featherston, Pink, Simp- 

son, Tighe. 

First Year.— Class I.— Barnes, Greenberg, Murphy. Class 
II.— Cochrane, L. Herdt, Massey, H. Herdt, Churchill, Dar- 
ling, Bowden, Dawson, Lambert. Class III. —Holman, Costi- 
gan, Gunn, Lorway. 

Meteorology. 

Fourth Year.— Class II.— Mooney, Denison, Hawkins. 



FACULTY OF ARTS. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 



PASSED FOR TIIE DEGREE OF B.A., IN HONOURS. 

(Alphabetically arranged.) 

First Rank. — H. Inez R. Botterell, William F. Colclough, 
Carrie M. Derick, Daniel J. Fraser, Robert McDougall, Albert 
G. Nicliolls, Andrew A. Robertson, Henry M. Tory, Edward 
C. Trenholme, Annie Williams. 

Second Rank. — James A. Elliott. 

ordinary. 

(In order of merit.) 

MicGxll College • 

Class. I. — Maude Abbott, Peers Davidson, Elizabeth Bin- 
more, Alexander Tolmie, George H. Matthewson. 

Class II. — Hugh C. Sutherland, James T. Daley, John Alex- 
ander Cameron and Frederick M. Fry, equal ; Jeanie T. Bot- 
terell and Alexander R. Hall and Silas W. Mack, equal ; H. 
McL. Kinghorn and William Thos. D. Moss, equal ; Alexander 
Hunter and Isaac J. Swanson, equal ; Alexander W. Walsh, 
Donald McVicar, Peter L. Richardson, William D. Reid, John 
Parker, Alexander M. McGregor. 

Class III. — Mira Macfarlane, William E. Paton, Calvin 
Wright Finch, Mary Henderson, Joseph J. Ross. 

Aegra . — Sara B. Scott. 



Morrin College. 

Class I. — Charles E. Brodie. 

Class II. — Hugh Craig, Charles DesBrisay. 

Class III. — Duncan Anderson. 

BACHELOR OF ARTS PROCEEDING TO THE DEGREE OF 
M.A., IN COURSE. 

Wellington A. Cameron, B.A., Archibald McGoun, B.A. 

ADMITTED TO THE DEGREE OF LL.D., “ Honoris Causd .” 

The Right Honorable Frederick Arthur Stanley, 
Baron Preston, G.C.B., P.C., Governor Gen- 
eral of Canada. 

PASSED THE INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION. 

McGill College. 

Class I. — Arthur B. Wood, W. Hector S. Kollmyer, Edward 
W. Archibald, Robert H. Barron, George D. Robins, Ethelwyn 
Pitcher, Harold B. Cushing, Robert O. Ross, Mabel Boright. 

Class II. — Kate W. Campbell, James Taylor, Edwin G. Par- 
ker, W. J. Messenger, R. J. W. Mitchell, Eleanor E. A. Tatley, 
E. A. Mackenzie, Frances R. Angus, R. George Davey, Ethel 
G. Raynes, H. M. Jaquays. 

Class III. — Maurice B. Day, Milda E. Leach, Clara David- 
son, Kenneth MacLennon, Philip Colquhoun, Helen W. 
Lyman, Walter H. Smyth, James H. Allen, John D. Ander- 
son, s, Henry Blachford, s, Daniel Brown, s , Saumarez Car- 
michael, s 9 Lovisa E. Hunt, s , Minnie L. Macdonald, s, Lovise 
Mewhort, s, William S. Pritchard, s, William Russell, s f 
Edward J. Williams, s. 

s. — With supplemental examination in one subject. 

Morrin College. 

Class I.— None. 

Class II. — Lome Drum. 

Class III. — Samuel T. Sloane, Robert F. McHarg, Edward 
S. Logie, John F. E. Tanner. 

St. Francis College. 

Class I. — None. 

Class II. — Hortense C. Fraser. 



FACULTY OF ARTS. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 

B. A. Honours in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. 

Henry M. Tory, First Rank Honours and Anne Molson 
Gold Medal. 



238 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



B.A . Honours in Classics. 

Albert G. Nicholls, First Rank Honours and Chapman Gold 
Medal ; William F. Colclough, First Rank Honours. 

B.A. Honours in Natural Science. 

Carrie M. Derick, First Rank Honours and Logan Gold 
Medal ; Andrew A. Robertson, First Rank Honours and Medal 
Prize ; H. Inez R. Botterell, First Rank Honours ; Edward C. 
Trenholme, First Rank Honours. 

B.A. Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy. 

Annie Williams, First Rank Honours and Prince of Wales 
Gold Medal ; Robert McDougall, First Rank Honours ; Daniel 
J. Fraser, First Rank Honours; J. A. Elliott, Second Rank 
Honours. 

Gold Medal and Special Certificates for First Rank 
General Standing. 

Maude Abbott, Special Certificate, Lord Stanley Gold Medal ; 
Peers Davidson, Special Certificate ; Elizabeth Binmore, Spe- 
cial Certificate ; Alexander Tolrnie, Special Certificate ; George 
H. Matthewson, Special Certificate. 

Morrin College . 

Charles D. Brodie, Special Certificate. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Walter J. J. Leliossignol, First Rank Honours and Prize in 
Mental and Moral Philosophy ; First Rank General Standing ; 
Prizes in Classics and Zoology ; Janies F. Warne, First Rank 
Honours in Natural Science ; First Rank General Standing ; 
Prize in English and Rhetoric ; William A. Warne, First Rank 
Honours in Natural Science ; George C. Pidgeon, Second Rank 
Honours in English Language, Literature and History ; Wil- 
liam T. Gunn, First Rank General Standing ; Mary L. Pattison, 
First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Zoology ; William 
Oliver, First Rank General Standing ; Lilian B. Robins, First 
Rank General Standing ; Prize in Classics ; John M. McGregor, 
First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Classics ; Eva L. 
Moffatt, First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Latin ; Gordon 
W. McDougall, First Rank General Standing; William R. 
Ellenwood, First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Grammar ; 
H. N. Golf, First Rank General Standing ; John J. McAlpine, 
Prize in Hebrew. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 
LeRossiguol, Gunn, Pattison ; Oliver and Robins, equal ; J. 
M. McGregor and J. F. Warne, equal ; Moffatt, McDougall ; 
Ellenwood and Goff, equal ; B. Hall and Smith and G. Whyte, 
equal ; R. S. Hall ; McAlpine and E. B. McGregor and L. 
Moore, equal; Young; McLeay and McMillan and W. A. 
Warne, equal ; Cole and Tees, equal ; Pidgeon and Russell, 
equal ; J. T. Whyte, Hipp, McLeod, Dobson, Craik. 



senger, Mitchell, Tatley, Mackenzie, Angus, Davey, Raynes, 
Jaquays, Day, Leach, Davidson, Maclennan, Colquhoun, 
Lyman, Smyth, Allen. (The following arranged alphebatically). 
Anderson, Blachford, Brown, Carmichael, Hunt, Macdonald, 
Mewhort, Pritchard, Russell, Williams. 

FIRST YEAR. 

James T. Brown, Huntingdon Academy, P. Q., First Rank 
Honours and Prize in Mathematics. Lizzie M. Fairclough, 
Hamilton Collegiate Institute, First Rank Honours in Mathe- 
matics. John E. Jordan, Coaticock Academy, P. Q., Second 
Rank Honours in Mathematics. Alfred H. White, Peoria High 
School, 111., U.S., First Rank General Standing ; Prizes in 
Classics, and Chemistry and German. Joseph W. A. Hickson, 
.(Eliock School, Montreal), First Rank General Standing, Prize in 
French. Charles Mansur, Stanstead Wesleyan College, First 
Rank General Standing. Agnes S. James, McGill Normal 
School, First Rank General Standing ; Prizes in Latin and His- 
tory, and in English Literature. John S. Gordon, Prince of 
Wales College, Charlottetown, P. E. I., First Rank General 
Standing ; Prize in Hebrew. Mary A. LeRossiguol, Girls’ High 
School, Montreal, Prize in History. Annie L. Jackson, Miss 
Symmers and Smith’s School, Montreal, Prizes in French and 
German. Janet Reay, McGill Normal School, Prize in 
Chemistry. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATION. 

White, Hickson, Mansur, James, Gordon, Killaly, Gurd, Le- 
Rossignol ; Fairclough and Townsend, equal ; J. T. Brown, 
Mahaffy, Jackson, Millar, Reay, Jordan, Seymour, Honeyman, 
Thompson, Allen, Mills, Smith, Hodgins ; Skeels, Stearns, 
C. L. Brown, Ballantyne ; Hutchison and Lee, equal ; Inter- 
noscia, Brittain, J. R. Adams, s, Botterell, s , Donahue, s 9 Hun- 
ter, s 9 Ireland, s 9 McGerigle, s 9 Munn, s 9 Naylor, s 

s. — With supplemental examination on one subject. 



Professor's Prize for Collection of Insects 9 Robert McDougall, 
Fourth Year Student. 

Professor's Prize for Collection of Fossils , H. Inez R. Bot- 
terell, Fourth Year Student. 

Professor's Prize for Collection of Lepidoptera 9 Edward C. 
Trenholme, Fourth Year Student. 

Charles G. Coster , Memorial Prize 9 (to that undergraduate of 
the First Year, from the Maritime Provinces who, in the opinion 
of the Faculty, has passed the most satisfactory sessional exam- 
ination), John S. Gordon, Alberton, P. E. I. 



At the examinations in September, 1889, the fol- 
lowing scholarships and exhibitions were awarded : — 



SECOND YEAR. 

Arthur B. Wood, High School, St. Johns, P. Q., First Rank 
Honours and Prize in Mathematics ; First Rank General 
Standing ; Prize in Classics. George D. Robins, High School, 
Montreal, First Rank Honours and Prize in Mathematics ; First 
Rank General Standing. W. HectorS. Kollmyer, High School, 
Montreal, First Rank General Standing ; * Prize in Logic. 
Edward W. Archibald, High School, Montreal, First Rank 
General Standing ; Prizes in French and German. Robert H. 
Barron, Lachute Academy, P. Q., First Rank General Stand- 
ing ; Prize in Botany. Ethelwyn Pitcher, High School, 
Morrisburg, Ont., First Rank General Standing ; Prizes in 
Logic and English. Harold B. Cushing, High School, Mont 
real, First Rank General Standing. R. 0. R. Ross, Baddeck 
Academy, C. B., First Rank General Standing ; Prize in 
Hebrew. Mabel Boright, Sutton Academy, P. Q., First Rank 
General Standing ; Prizes in French and German. Kate M. 
Campbell, Girls’ High School, Montreal, Prize in Classics. 
William J. Messenger, (Private Tuition), Prize in English. 
Eleanor Tatley, (Private Tuition), Prize in Botany. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Wood, Kollmyer, Archibald, Barron, Robins, Pitcher, Cush- 
ing, R. 0. Ross, Boright, K. Campbell, Taylor, Parker, Mes- 



SCHOLARSHIPS — TENABLE FOR TWO YEARS. 

Third Y^ear. — Classical and Modern Language Scholar - 
ships 9 *W. J. LeRossiguol, **J. M. McGregor. 

Third Year. — Natural Science Scholarship 9 W. T. Gunn. 



EXHIBITIONS — TENABLE FOR ONE YEAR. 

Second Year.—* Arthur B. Wood, St. Johns’ High School, 
P. Q., +W. H. Kollmyer, High School, Montreal, §George D. 
Robins, High School, Montreal. 



First Year. — Higher Entrance and Exhibition 
Examinations. 



Class I. — 1. ^Elizabeth Fairclough, Hamilton Coll. Inst., 
Exhibition. 2. *James Brown, Huntingdon Academy, Exhi- 
bition. Class II.— §§J. N. Hunter, Clifton College, England. 
§§A. H. White, Peoria High School, 111., U. S. 

Bursaries were granted to the candidates in Class II. 



-value ol bchoiarship or Exhibition, $125 yearly ; founder, W. 
C. MacDonald, Esq. 

t Value, $125 yearly ; donor, George Hague, Esq. 

** Value, $120 yearly ; founder, Charles Alexander. Esq. 

\ Yr a ue »l l , ( ^ yearl J r ’‘ founder, Major Mills. 

t Value, $100 yearly ; founder Mrs. Redpath. 

ii Value of eaoh Bursary, [$62.5 0: donor, W. MaoDonald, Esq. 



189O 0 UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 239 



SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS, 1890. 



McGILL COLLEGE. 

The mark* in the following list indicates Partial or 
Occasional Students. 

GREEK. 

B. A. Ordinary.— C lass 1.- Nichols, Colclough, Cameron, 
Abbott, Binmore, Fry, Daley. Class II.— Mathewson, Tolmie, 
Parker, Moss, Hunter, Reid, Mack. Class 111.— Walsh, Hen- 
derson, Swanson, Finch, Richardson, Ross. 

Third Year. — C lass 1. — W. J. LeRossignol, (Prize; Gunn, 
Pattison, Lilian B. Robins, John M. McGregor, R. S. Hall; 
Ellenwood and Oliver, equal. Class II.— Hipp, Levi Moore, 
Young, Tees, E. B. McGregor. Class 111. -Pidgeon, Me-* 
Alpine ; Cole and Russell, equal ; McLeod, Holden, Guthrie, 
Dobson, Craik. 

Second Year. — C lass I. — Archibald and Barron and Wood, 
equal; Kollmyer, Robins, Parker, K. M. Campbell, Taylor, 
Messenger. Class II. — R. 0. Ross, Cushing, Mitchell, Day, 
Blachford ; Jaquays and Pritchard, equal. Class III. — Sadler; 
Brown and Colquhoun and Mackenzie, equal ; Davis and 
Robertson, equal ; MacLennan ; Carmichael and Smyth, equal ; 
Allen, Davey, Russell, Hunt ; Anderson and Graham and 
Jekill, equal. 

First Year. — C lass I. — White, Townsend, Gurd, Hi kson, 
James, Jordan, a ansur, Killaly, Mahaffy ; J. T. Brown and 
Fairelough, equal. Class II. — Millar ; Allen and Honeyman 
and Reay, equal; Carter, Donahue, Naylor, Skecls, Hunter, 
Thompson, C. L. Brown, Byers and Gordon and Ireland and 
Stearns, equal. Class III. — McGerrigle, R. M. McVicar, Hod- 
gins, Hutchison, Brittain, Fraser, J. R. Adams, Lee ; Mac* 
Eeracher and Mimn, equal ; Ballantyne ; lnternoscia and 
Smith, equal. 

Prize. — White. 

LATIN. 

B. A. Ordinary, —C lass I.— Nichols; Colclough and Wil- 
liams, equal ; Abbott and Binmore, equal ; Alex. R. Hall, 
Tolmie, Treuholme ; Jeanie T. Botterell and Kinghorn, equal. 
Class II. — Davidson, Moss; Fry and Parker, equal; Hunter. 
Class III.— Paton, Macfarlane, Henderson. 

Third Year. — C lass I. — W. J. LeRossignol, (Prize) ; Jno. 

M. McGregor, (Prize) ; Moffatt, (Prize) ; Ellenwood and Mc- 
Millan, equal ; Jas.F. Warne, Smith, Levi Moore ; R. S. Hall, 
andE.B. McGregor, and Lilian B. Robins equal. Class II. — Mac* 
Dougall, Bessie Hall ; Oliver and Geo. Whyte and Young, 
equal. Class III. — Guthrie, McLeay, Wm. A. Warne. 

Second Year. — C lass I. — Wood, Barron ; Archibald and 
Kollmyer, equal ; Cushing, K. M. Campbell, Boright, G. D. 
Robins, Parker, McKenzie ; Pitcher and R. 0. Ross, equal. 
Class II. — Mitchell, Taylor, Messenger, Raynes ; Day and 
Tatley, equal ; Jaquays, Angus ; Mewhort and Sadler, equal ; 

N. Johnson ; Carmichael and Leach, equal. Class III. David- 
son and Hunt and McDonald, equal ; Russell, Anderson ; Col- 
quhoun and McLennan, equal ; Brown and Davey and Ellicott 
and Smyth, equal ; Allen, Lyman ; J. K. Ross and Williams, 
equal; Pritchard, R. K. Campbell, McCoy. Prizes. — Wood 
and K. M. Campbell. 

Second Year. — Latin Prose Composition. — Class I. — Wood ; 
Archibald and Kollmyer, equal ; G. S. Robins ; Barron and 
K. M. Campbell, equal ; Pitcher; Boright and Cushing and 
Taylor, equal. Class II. — Mewhort, Parker, Day, R. 0. Ross ; 
N. Johnson and Raynes, equal ; Angus ; Leach and McKenzie 
and Messenger, equal ; Anderson, McDonald. Class III. 
McLennan ; Davidson and Ellicott and Mitchell and Tatley, 
equal ; Hunt, Pritchard, Jaquays, Davey, Blachford, Brown, 
Carmichael ; McCoy and Smyth and Williams, equal; Allen, 
Lyman, Colquhoun, Graham. 

First Year. — C lass I. — Hendrie ; James and White, equal ; 
Fairclough, Seymour; Hickson and LeRossignol, equal; Skeels ; 
Mahaffy and Mansur, equal. Class II. — Allen, Gurd, Jackson, 
Killaly ; Millar and Townsend, equal ; Botterell and Honey- 
man, equal; Carter, J. T. Brown; Ballantyne and Donahue 
and Hunter, equal ; Jordan, Naylor, Gordon, Reay. Class IIL— 
Thompson, Hutchison ; Brittain and Ireland, equal ; Smith 



and Stearns, equal ; C. L. Brown, McDonald, Mills, Byers, 
J. R. Adams, Lee, R. M. McVicar, McKeracher ; Hodgins and 
lnternoscia, equal ; Boyd, McGerrigle. 

Prizes. —James and White. 

GREEK AND ROMAN HISTORY. 

First Year. — C lass I. — Botterell and James, equal ; Le- 
Rossgnol, Gurd ; Gordon and Killaly, equal. Class II. — 
J. T. Brown and White, equal ; Honeyman and Mahaffy and 
Mansur, equal ; Lee, Hunter, Smith, Jordan, Allen and Millar 
and Townsend, equal. Class III. — Hutchison and A. McVicar 
and Seymour, equal ; Hickson, C. L. Brown, Donahue, Brit- 
tain ; Gerrie and Ireland and R. M. McVicar, and Munn, 
equal; Naylor, Mills; Ballantyne and lnternoscia and Mc- 
Gerrigle, equal ; Jackson, Stearns, Skeels, Thompson, Mc- 
Donald, Vipond, Hodgins, Reay, Fraser. 

Prizes. — James and LeRossignol. 

HONOUR EXAMINATIONS IN CLASSICS. 

B. A. First Rank Honours and Chapman Gold Medal 
Albert G. Nichols. 

First Rank Honours : Wm. E. Colclough. 

MENTAL AND MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 

B. A. Ordinary . — Moral Philosophy . — Class I. —Williams, 
Fraser; R. Mac Dougall and Abbott, equal; J. A. Elliott, Bin- 
more, Cameron ; Davidson and Sutherland, equal ; Swanson, 
Mack, Paton, J. T. Botterell ; Kinghorn and Richardson, 
equal. Class II. — A. R. Hall, and McGregor, equal; Tolmie, 
Reid, Parker, Fry, Hunter, McVicar; *Judge, Henderson, 
Walsh, Macfarlane, Mathewson. Class III. — *C. Moore, 
Finch, *Mitchell, Ross. 

Third Yeah . — Mental Philosophy . — Class I. — Gnnn and 
LeRossignol, equal ; *Hendrie ; B. Hall and Oliver, equal ; 
*Clendinneii, G. Whyte, Moffatt. Class II. — Ellenwood, 
Russell, J. Whyte ; Goff and R. S. Hall, equal ; G. W. Mac- 
Dougall and Pidgeon, equal. Class III. — *Flagg, McAlpine, 
Craik, *Massicotte, *Chantler, *S. Moore. 

Prize. —LeRossignol. 

Second Year. — Logic . — Class I. — Kollmyer and Wood, 
equal ; Barron and Pitcher, equal ; Archibald ; Davey and 
Robins and Ross, equal ; K. Campbell and Mackenzie, equal ; 
Brown and Boright, equal ; McKinley and Mitchell and 
Tatley, equal; Class 11. — Messenger and Russell, equal; 
Monk, MacDonald, Angus, Cushing ; Davis and Mewhort, 
equal ; Davidson ; Anderson and Day and Raynes and Taylor, 
equal. Class 111. — *Elliott, Blachiord and McLennan, equal ; 
Burnett, Sadler; Williams, Parker, Logan, Allen ; Colquhoun 
and Morris and Ross, equal ; *Burke and Graham and Leach, 
equal ; Carmichael and Hunt, equal ; Jaquays ; Lyman and 
Pritchard and *fener, equal ; *E. M. Campbell ; Grisbrook 
and Jekill, equal ; R. F. Campbell and # Murray, equal ; 
Robertson and Smyth, equal. 

Prizes. — Kollmyer, Pitcher. 

EUROPEAN HISTORY. 

B. A. Ordinary. — C lass I. — Davidson and Mack, equal ; 
Sutherland, Kinghorn. Class II. — Tolmie ; Daley and Mc- 
Gregor, equal ; J. T. Botterell and Hall and Hunter, equal ; 
Reid, McVicar, Swansou ; Macfarlane and Moss, equal ; 
Parker. Class 111. — Paton, Walsh, Henderson, Finch. 

B. A . Additional in English Lit. and Hist . Class II — Mack. 

ENGLISH LITERATURE AND RHETORIC. 

Third Year. — C lass I. — J. F. Warne, (Prize) ; McMillan 
and Smith; equal. Class II. — Pidgeon, W. A. Warne; 
Holden and L. Moore, equal. Class III. — S. Moore. 

Third Year . — Additional in English Lit. and Hist . — 
Class II. — Pidgeon. 

ENGLISH LITERATURE AND HISTORY. 

Second Year. — C lass I. — Messenger, (Prize), Kollmyer, 
Archibald, Robins, Pitcher (Prize ); Barron and Mitchell, 
equal; Raynes, Wood, Macdonald and Parker, equal. Class 
11. — Blachford and Cushing and R. 0. R. Ross and Taylor, 
equal ; Boright and K. Campbell, equal ; Russell, Mackenzie, 
JVlacLennau, Jaquays, Augus, Day, Sadler. Class 111. — Davey ; 
R. Campbell and Tatley, equal ; Anderson and J. K. Ross, 
equal ; Colquhoun, Pritchard ; Leach and Mewhort, equal ; 
Davis and Lyman, equal ; Tener, Allen, Carmichael, Davidson, 
Grisbiook, Smyth, Williams. 



240 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



ENGLISH LITERATURE. 

First Year — Class I. — James (Prize), Killaly ; Hickson 
ami M. Seymour, equal; LeRossignol ; J. T. Brown and 
Gurd, equal ; F. A. Botterell and Cleland, equal. Class II. — 
J. Brown and Macdonald, equal ; Miller, Mills, Gordon ; 
Elliott and Honey man ami Jackson and Lee ai.d Thompson 
and White, equal ; G. F. Allen and Hodgins, equal; Inter- 
noscia and A. McVicar and Mansur, equal ; McLean, Jordan. 
Class III. — Byers and Coffin and Hutchison and Muuu and 
Townsend, equal ; Mahaffy and Skeels, equal ; Fairclough, 
McGerrigle, F. C. Fraser, Naylor, J. Ballautyne and Vipond, 
equal ; Reay ; Hunter and Morrison, equal ; C. L. Brown and 
Irelaud, equal ; J. R. Adams, and Stearns, equal ; Brittain 
and MacLaren, equal ; Smith, Donahue, Boyd. 



First Year. — Class I. — Mansur, J. Brown, White; Fair- 
clough and Hickson, equal ; Gordon and Jordan, equal ; 
Townsend, Stearns, Thompson. Class II. — Smith, Honey- 
man, Naylor ; Gurd and Hunter and McGerrigle and McVicar, 
equal ; C. L. Brown and James and Seymour, equal ; Lee and 
LeRossignol and Mahaffy, equal. Class III. — Killaly, 
Ireland, Fraser, Reay, Millar; J. Ballantyne and Jackson and 
Munn, equal ; Mills; Allen and R. McVicar, equal ; Brittain, 
Hutchisou ; Boyd and Donahue and Internoscia, equal ; 
Byers, Skeels, Hodgins. 

HONOUR EXAMINATIONS IN MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL 

PHILOSOPHY. 

B. A. First Rank Honours . — H. M. Tory, Anne Molson 
Gold Medal. 



MECHANICS AND HYDROSTATICS. 

B.A. Ordinary.— Class I.— Sutherland Moss, McVicar, 
Tolraie, Hunter, Binmore. Class II. — Cameron and J. T. 
Botterell, equal; Abbott, Daley, Walsh. Class III. — Reid, 
Maclarlane, Parker, Ross, Patou, Henderson. 

Third Year.— -Class 1. — Robins, Ellenwood, Oliver, Goff ; 
Macdougall and Pattison, equal; J. F. Warne. Class II. — 
Moffatt, Young, L. Moore, G. Whyte Class III. — E. B. 
McGregor and McLeay and W. A Warne, equal ; Cole and 
McLeod, equal ; McMillan, J. T. Whyte ; B. Hall and Smith, 
equal ; Tees, R. S. Hall, Dobson, Hipp. 

ASTRONOMY AND OPTICS. 

B. A. Ordinary. — Class I.— Tory ; Mathewson and Walsh, 
equal ; Abbott and Davidson, equal ; Tolmie, Binmore. 
Class II.— Hunter and McVicar, equal; Parker, Fry, Suther- 
land.— Class III.— Mack, Kinghorn ; J. A Elliott and Hal 1 , 
equal ; Ross, Paton. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Oliver, Pattison, McLeay, Robins. 
Class II.— None. Class III.— Dobson, Guthrie, McLeod, 
Hipp. 

experimental physics. Light and Heat . 

B.A. Ordinary.— Class I.— Tory, Sutherland ; Daley and 

Davidson, equal; Tolmie, Ross, Mathewsou. Class II. 

Walsh, Kinghorn, Moss, Reid. Class 111.— Cameron, Mc- 
Vicar, Fraser. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Oliver, McGregor, MacDougall, 
Goff, Cole, George White, "Ferguson. Class II.— Tees, Mc- 
Leod. Class 111.— Holden, Jas. T. Whyte; Dobson and 
Guthrie, equal. 

geometry and arithmetic. 

Second Year.— Class I.— Cushing and li. 0. R. Ross, 
equal ; Taylor ; Barron and Kollmyer and Robins and Wood, 
equal ; Juquays ; Archibald and Davey, equal ; Pritchard 
and Pitcher, equal ; Mitchell ; Boright* and K. Campbell, 
equal ; McCoy. Class 11.— Sadler, B own, Parker, Tatley, 
Anderson, Allen ; Angus and MacKenzie, equal. Class 111.— 
Day, Giaham, Macdonald ; Leach aud Messenger and Wil- 
liams, equal ; Davis, Biachtoid and Russell, equal ; Lyman, 
Smyth, Ellicotr, Morris, Hunt, Coiquhoun ; Jekill, and 
Raynes, equal ; Carmichael, R. Campbell, Roberison, 
MacLennan, Davidson. 

iiRsr Year. Class I. iairclougk, Killaly, A. McVicar, 
Gordon, Hickson, Mansur ; LeRossignol and Reay, equal ; 
Jordan ; Allen and James, equal ; Mahaffy and White, equal ; 
Smith, Hodgins, J. Brown, Guid, Thompson. Class 11. — 
Honeyman and McGerrigle and Townsend, equal ; Jackson. 
Class III.— R. McVicar ; Hunter and Millar, equal ; Fraser 
and Ireland, equal ; C. L. Brown and Lee and Stearns, equal ; 
Internoscia, Naylor, Hutchison; J. B. Adams and J. Ballan- 
tyne and Botterell, and Skeels, equal ; Boyd, Seymour, Don- 
ahue ; Gerrie and Mills and Munn, equal ; Brittain. 

trigonometry and algebra. 

Second Year Class 1. — Pitcher, Wood, Cushing, Mes- 
senger, Barron, Archibal !, Kollmyer ; Robins and ^Taylor 
equal; R. 0. R. Ross. Class II. — Bunght, Mackenzie, Davey 
Parker, Jaquays. Class III.-. Blachford ; K. M. Campbell and 
Pritchard, equal; Russel, Davidson, Ellicott, Angus, Raynes • 
Coiquhoun and Mitchell and Tatley, equal; Allen; Hunt 
and Mewhort and Robinson, equal ; Brown, Williams, Smyth, 
Graham and Leach and MacLennan, equal ; Lyman. J. K. 
Ross. 



Second Year. — First Rank Honours. — Wood (Prize); 
Robins (Prize). 

First. — First Rank Honours. — Jas. Brown (Prize) ; Fair- 
clough. 

Second Rank Honours. — Jordan (Prize). 

FRENCH. 

B. A. Ordinary.— Class I. — Abbott, Binmore, Mathewson, 
*N. Johnson. Class II. — Hall, Davidson, Cameron. Class 
III. — Ross. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Moffatt, (Prize), Pattison J. M. 
McGregor, Oliver, Whyte, Young, Smith, Ellenwood. Class 
II. — Tees, E. B. McGregor. Class III. — Col*, McLeay. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Archibald (Prize), Boright 
(Prize), Barron ; McDonald and Wood, equal ; "A. C. Blach- 
ford and Kollmyer and Robins, equal ; Angus, Raynes ; 
R. Campbell and *H. Johnson. Class II. — Mitchell ; Leach 
and Lyman, equal; Cushing and Pitcher, equal ; Davidson 
and Taylor, equal. Class III.— Allen and Messenger and 
Parker, equal; H. Blachford and Smyth, equal ; Carmichael ; 
Hunt, Day ; Mewhort and Ross, equal ; Brown and Tatley, 
equal ; *Mussen, Graham. 

First YEAR.-Class I. -Jackson (Prize), Hickson (Prize), Man- 
sur. Class II. — Fairclough, Reay, Millar, Donahue, Kirk, Mc- 
Gerrigle, Honeyman, LeRossignol. Class 111.— Killaly and 
Lee and McVicar, equal; Seymour, James; Botteiell and 
Gurd and Jordan, equal; AIRn and Mills, equal ; Internoscia, 
Hodgins, C. Brown, Skeels ; Munn and Stearns, equal ; 
Thompson ; Ballantyne and J. Brown, equal ; Brittain. 



GERMAN. 

Fourth Year.— Class I.— None. Class II.— J. Botterell. 
Class III. — H. I. R. Botterell, McFarlane. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Ellenwood. Class II.— Hall, 

McMillan, McGregor. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Mewhort, Archibald (Prize), 
Boright (Prize), Tatley, Angus. Class II.— Pitcher, McDon- 
aid ; K. M. Campbell and R. Campbell, equal , DavidsoD. 
Class 111. — Lyman and Raynes, equal ; Leach, J. K. Ross, 
Williams, Jekill. 

First Year. — Class I. — Jackson Prize, Botterell, Seymour, 
LeRossignol, Fairclough and Millar, equal ; McDonald, Sey- 
mour, White. Class II.— None. Class III.— Byers, Coffin. 

HEBREW. 

Advanced Course. — Class I. — Swanson, McAlpine (Prize), 
A. Russell, Finch. Class II.— Richardson, A. W. McGregor, 
Dobson. Class III.— McLeod, G. Craig, C. Moore. 

Intermediate Course.— Class I.— Daley, R. 0. Ross 
(Prize), W. D. Reid. Class 11. — Tener, Caldwell, Davey. 
Class III. J. Kennedy, Coiquhoun, Flagg, J. D. Anderson, 
\V m. Russell, Davis, Eadie, K. McLennan, Sanderson, 
Morns. 

Elementary Course.— Class I— McArthur, Gordon, 
(Prize), Townsend, Cleland, Gunn, Burnett, Mahaffy. Class 
r U° 0Urlay ’ ^ ass icotte, Barnby, McKinley, Mackenzie, 
J. R. Adams, Ireland. Class III.— Hunter, Hipp, E. P. M. 
omith, M. Maynard, A. McVicar, Ballantyne, Hutchison. 



GEOLOGY. 

m A* Ordinary. — Class I. — Robertson, Derick, Fry, 
lrenholme, Abbott, H. J, Botterell, Binmore. Class II. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



241 



Cameron, Mack and Matthewson, equal ; Hall and Mac- 
Dougall, equal ; McGregor, Richardson. Kinghorn, J. Botter- 
ell, McFarlane. Class III. — Patou, *Hausen, Henderson, 
Finch, Swanson. 

Additional Department (Practical Geology and Palceonto - 
logy). — Class 1. — Fry. Class II. — *Hausen, (Partial), 

Richardson, McGregor. 

HONOUR EXAMINATION IN NATURAL SCIENCE. 

B. A. First Rank. — Carrie M. Derick, (Logan Gold Medal); 
Andrew A. Robertson (Medal Prize) ; H. Inez R. Botterell, 
Edward C. Trenholme. 

Third Year. — First Rank. — James F. Warne, William A. 
Warne. 

ZOOLOGY. 

Third Year. — Class I. — LeRossignol (prize), McDougall, 
Gunn, Pattison (Lyman prize), Robins, J. Warne, Smith, 
Finley (partial), W. Warne, Clendennen (partial), and B. 
Hall and Holden and McAlpine, equal ; Flagg, Oliver, Me- 
Leay, Goff, R. S. Hall, E. McGregor, Tees, Moffatt. Class 
II. — Cole, L. Moore, Hipp, J. M. McGregor, Ellen wood, Mc- 
Millan and Pidgeon, equal ; Young. Class III. — J. T. Whyte, 
Craik, Russell. 

Medical Students. — Class II. — Beaman. Class III. — 
Lamb. 

BOTANY. 

B.A. Ordinary. — Class T. — Derick and Robertson, equal. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Barron (prize), Parker, Kollmyer, 
Tatley ; Pitcher and *McArthur, equal ; Cushing, Boright, 
K. M. Campbell ; Davey and Pritchard and R. 0. R. Ross, 
equal ; Anderson ; Mackenzie and Mitchell, equal ; *McKin- 
ley ; Archibald and *Logan, equal ; Blachford and Smyth, 
equal ; Raynes ; Jekill and *Barnby, equal ; Morris. Class 
II. — Graham ; Hunt and Sadler and Jaquays, equal ; Gris- 
brook ; Messenger and McLennan, equal ; Macdonald, Brown, 
*Eadie ; Leach and Taylor and *Burnett, equal ; Mewliort, 
Davidson ; Angus and Williams, equal ; Carmichael and Col- 
quhoun, equal. Class III. — Lyman and *Tener, equal ; N. A. 
D. McLeod, R. Campbell, *J. K. Ross, Day, Russell, Gourley, 
Sanderson, Allen, Robertson, Davis. 

CHEMISTRY. 

First Year.— Class I. — *Patton, Cleland, White (prize), Gor- 
don, Reav (prize). Class II. — Gurd and Mnnn, equal ; James 
and Millar, equal ; Murray ; Elliott and Killaly, equal ; Man- 
sur, M. L. Jackson ; Hickson and Townsend, equal ; Hodgins 
and MacDonald, equal; A. McVicar, J. Ballantyne, J. F. 
Brown ; Naylor and Thompson, equal. Class III. — Mahaffy ; 
Brittain and Fairclough, equal ; J. Brown ; Botterell and 
Mills, equal ; Morrison, Kennedy, Internoscia ; Robt. Ballan- 
tyne and Jordan, equal ; Maclnnes ; LeRossignol and Ed. 
Smith, equal ; Hutchison, Seymour, J. R. Adams, Honey- 
man, McLaren, Skeels, Coffin, McLean, Allan, Byers, C. L. 
Brown. 

Passed, unclassified. — Lee, Stearns, Gerrie. 

Passed in Practical Chemistry. — Class I. — White. Class 
II. — None. Class III. — Stearns. 

Passed in earlier Examinations. — Dougall, Chantler, Mas- 
si cotte. 

Note.— T he prizes in the Donalda Department are from the 
income of the Hannah Willard Lyman Memorial Fund. 



GYMNASTICS. 

Wicksteed Silver Medal.— J. J. Ross, Student of Fourth 
Y ear. 

Wicksteed Bronze Medal —H. M. Jaquays, Student of 
Second Year. 

Donalda Detartment. 

Sir Donald Smith's Prizes. 

Fourth Year. — Annie Williams. 

Second Year. — Louise Smith. 



MORRIN COLLEGE. 

B.A. Ordinary Examination. 

Greek. — Class I. — Craig. 

Latin.— Class I. — Brodie. Class II.— DesBrisay, Craig, 

Anderson. 

Mechanics and Hydrostatics. — Class I. — None. Class II. — 
Craig, Brolie. Class III. — McCullough, D^sBrisav, Anderson. 

Astronomy and Optics. — Class I. — Brodie. Class II. 

DesBrisay. Class II I.— Anderson, McCullough. 

Moral Philosophy.— Class I.— Brodie, DesBrisay. CLss 
II. — Anderson and Craig, equal. 

History.— Class I.— Brodie. Class II.— DesBrisay, Ander- 
son. Class III.— McCullough. 

French.— Class I. — None. Class II.— Brodie, DesBrisay. 
Class III.— Anderson. 

Hebrew.— Class I.— Ciaig. Class II.— McCullough. 

Intermediate Examination. 

Greek.— Cla^s I.— None. Class II.— Drum, Sloane. Class 
II.— McHarg, Tanner, Logie. 

Latin. — Class I.— None. Class II.— Drum, Sloane, Logie. 
Class III.— McHnrg, Tanner. 

Latin Prose Composition. — Class I. — None. Clas* II. 

Drum, Logie, Sloane. Class III.— M- Harg, Tanner. 

Trigonometry and Algebra. — Class III. — Drum, Slcane, 
Tanner, McHarg. 

Geometry and Arithmetic. — Class I. — Drum. Class II. — 
Logie. Class III.— Sloane, McHarg, Tanner. 

Logic. — Class I.— Drum. Class II. — None. Class III. — 
McHarg and Tanner, equal ; Sloane, Logie. 

English Literature and History.— Class I.— Drum. Class 
II. — McHarg, Logie. Cla^s III. — Sloane, Tanner. 

French. — Class I. — Drum. Class II. — McHarg. Class III. 
— Sloane. 

Hebrew. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Logie. Class III. — 
Tanner. 

ST. FRANCIS COLLEGE. 

Intermediate Examination. 

Greek. — Class I. — Fraser. 

Latin. — Class II. — Fraser. 

Latin Prose Composition. — Class I. — Fraser. 

Trigonometry and Algebra. — Class II. — Fraser. 

Geometry and Arithmetic. — Class I. — Fraser. 

Logic. — Class I. — Fraser. 

English Literature and History. — Class I. — Fraser. 

French. — Class I.— Fraser. 



FACULTY OF LAW. 



Session 1889 - 90 . 



Results of Examinations. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 

First rank honours and Elizabeth Torrance gold medal — 
Warren Anderson Kneeland. 

First rank honours and second prize for general proficiency — 
George Prevost England. 

First rank liouours — Desire Howard Girouard, Thomas John 
Yipond. 

Second rank honours and prize for law thesis — Alfred Eugene 
Harvey. 

Passed for the Degree of B.C.L. 

Warren A. Kneeland, Montreal ; George P. England, Dun- 
ham, Q.; Desire H. Girouard, Montreal; Thomas J. Vipond, 
Montreal ; Alfred E. Harvey, Stanstead, Q.; Hormisdas Remi 
Pelletier, Marieville, Q.; John David Long Ambrosse, Mont- 
real. 



242 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Standing in the Classes. 

Insurance, Affreightment and Suretyship. 

Professor TRENHOLME. 

First Class.— Kneeland, Vipond, England, Girouard. Second 
Class. — None. Third Class.— Harvey, Ambrosse, Pelletier. 

Constitutional Law. 

Professor ARCHIBALD. 

First Class. — England, Kneeland, Harvey. Second Class. — 
Girouard. Third Class. — Pelletier, Ambrosse, Vipond. 

Roman Law. 

Professor HUTCHINSON. 

First Class.— Girouard, Vipond, England, Kneeland. Se- 
cond Class. — Ambrosse, Harvey, Pelletier. 

Civil Law. 

Marriage Covenants, Gifts and Wills. 

Professor ROBIDOUX. 

First Class. — Kneeland, Harvey, Girouard, Vipoud, England, 
Pelletier. Second Class. — Ambrosse. 

Commercial Law. 

Merchant, Shipping and Banking. 

Professor DAVIDSON. 

First Class.— Kneeland, Girouard, England. Second Class. 
—Ambrosse, Pelletier, Vipond. Third Class.— Harvey. 

Civil Procedure. 

Professor McGOUN. 

First Class.— England, Pelletier. Second Class.— Vipond. 
Third Class.— Harvey, Girouard, Kneeland, Ambrosse. 

Civil Law. 

Assistant-Professor FORTIN. 

First Class. — Kneeland, Girouard, Vipond, Pelletier, Har- 
vey, England. Second Class.— None. Third Class.— Am- 
brosse. 

Second Year. 

First rauk honours and prize— Francis Joseph Hatcliettc. 
Frederick William Hibbard. 

Passed the Sessional Examination. 

Francis J. Hatchette, Montreal, and Frederick W. Hibbard 
Dunham, Que., equal ; Victor Geoffriou, Montreal. 



Civil Law. 

Assistant-Professor FORTIN. 

First Class. — Hatchette, Hibbard. Second Class. — Geof- 
frion. 



First Year. 

First rauk honours and prize — Percy C. Ryan. 
Second rank honours and prize — Harry V. Truell. 



Passed the Sessional Examination. 

Percy C. Ryan, Ottawa ; Harry Valorous Truell, Stanstead, 
Q.; Robert Bennett Hutcheson, Montreal. 



Standing in Classes. 

Insurance, Affreightment and Suretyship. 

Professor TRENHOLME. 

First Class. — Ryan. Second Class.— None. Third Class. — 

Truell, Hutcheson. 

Constitutional Law. 

Professor ARCHIBALD. 

First Class. — None. Second Class. — Ryan, Truell. Third 
Class. — Hutcheson. 

Roman Law. 

Professor HUTCHINSON. 

First Class. — Hutcheson. Second Class. — Truell. Third 

Class. — Ryan. 

Civil Law. 

Professor ROBIDOUX. 

First Class. - Ryan, Truell. Second Class. —None. Third 
Class. — Hutcheson. 

Commercial Law. 

Professor DAVIDSON. 

First Class. — Ryan. Second Class. — Truell. Third Class. 
— Hutcheson. 

Civil Procedure. 

Professor McGOUN. 

First Class. — None. Second Class. — Ryan. Third lass — 

Hutcheson, Truell. 

Civil Law. 

Assistant- Professor FORTIN. 

First Class. — Ryan, Hutcheson, Truell. 



Ranking in the Classes. 

Insurance, Affreightment and Suretyship. 

Professor TRENHOLME. 

First Class.— Hibbard. Second Class.— Hatchette. Third 
Class. — Geoffriou. 

Constitutional Law. 

Professor ARCHIBALD. 

First Class. — Geoffriou. Second Class.— Hibbard, Hat- 
chette. 

Roman Law. 

Professor HUTCHINSON. 

First Class.— Hatchette, Hibbard. Second Class.— None. 
Third Class. — Geoffriou. 

Civil Law. 

Marriage Covenants, Gifts and Wills. 

Professor ROBIDOUX. 

First Class.- Hatchette and Geoffriou, equal. Second Class 
Hibbard. 

Commercial Law. 

Professor DAVIDSON. 

Class.— -Hatcheite, Hibbard. Second Class.— None. 
Third Class. — Geoffrion. 

Civil Procedure. 

Professor McGOUN. 

First Class.— None. Second Class.— Hibbard. Third Class 
— Geotfnou, Hatchette. 



Prof. Bovey breakfasted the graduating class in 
Applied Science on the morning of Convocation. 

On Thursday evening, the 24th April, P. W. Red- 
path entertained the members of the graduating class 
in Applied Science at his own home, where a ver/ 
pleasant time was spent, and Peter pronounced “ all 
right.” 

The authorities of the McGill Y.M.C.A. have sent 
circulars to all graduates, inviting subscriptions, with 
a view to erecting a building upon the College 
grounds. As a home for tho students, a convenient 
place for all kinds of meetings, and a centre for 
Christian influence, such an institution is eminently 
desirable. 

Some member ot the Donalda Department is in 
trouble. While conducting a friend through the East 

ing, a giaduate ot McGill had his attention drawn to 
the sheet of music last used at the piano. Imagine his 
astonishment on reading thereon the following 
lines : — ® 

“ My heart cries out, * Come back to me, 

I think you love me yet ; 

Tho’ parted we must ever be, 

I dare you to forget.’ ” 






1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



243 



The graduating class of Science assembled at “ The 
Balmoral ” on Tuesday evening, the 29th April, to 
hold their last reunion, and, as has always been cus- 
tomary in Applied Science, to accept the hospitality 
of the coming years in the shape of a dinner. 

At the appointed hour (the late man was, as usual, 
late, but appeared before the second course had been 
vanquished), under the guidance of Stone and Rus- 
sell, as chairman and vice-chairman, they marched 
fearlessly to the attack, and the problem that soon 
presented itself to each one was, what is the value 
of “r" for M.E1 

Dinner over, an adjournment to the piano was made, 
and, in company with brethren from Arts, discoursed 
“ sweet music” for the amusement, and we hope, edi- 
fication of all spectators. 

The “ debris” of the feast having been removed, 
the intellectual part of the banquet was in order. 
Eloquent addresses were made and advice given by 
Messrs. Stone and Russell, while Shuttleworth, 
Mooney, and Rexford promised, on behalf of the 
class of ’90, to do their utmost to follow the wise 
counsels of the Juniors. 



Societies. 



THE GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

At a recent meeting the following resution wasol 
adopted : — “ That this Society desires to express the 
opinion that ad eundem degrees should be granted 
only in exceptional cases, and that every application 
should be considered on its merits.” 

At the Annual Meeting the following officers were 
elected : — 

President W. T. Skaife. 

Vice-President Miss G. Hunter. 

Secretary W. Dixon (re-elected). 

Treasurer Prof. McLeod “ 

Resident Councillors : — C. J. Fleet, J. S. Hall, 
Miss Ritchie, W. Patterson, R. A. Dunton, 
Rev. F. M. Dewey. 

Non-Resident Councillors : — Sir James Grant, 
Ottawa ; W. J. Sproule, British Columbia ; 
J. J. McLaren, Toronto. 

It was resolved that the money held by the Society 
for the “ Dawson Principalship Fund,” be devoted 
to the establishment of a Fellowship, to be called — 
“ The Dawson Fellowship.” 

A lengthy discussion took place on the question of 
higher matriculation. The following facts were 
elicited : That the aim of the Faculty is, first quality 
rather than quantity ; they hoped to raise the re- 
quirements to 60% on the papers which are necessary 
to obtain the degree of A. A. That about one -third 
of the candidates fail at matriculation. 

A committee, consisting of Dr. Mills, Dr. Kelly, and 
Rev. F. Dewey, were appointed to confer with repre- 
sentatives of the Faculty of Arts. 



itorresportbence. 



APPLIED SCIENCE. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

This, till about two months since, the infant 
Faculty of our University, has grown, from a very 
small beginning, to hold, at the present time, a place 
which is r.ipidly becoming first. Thanks to the un- 
tiring efforts of our worthy Dean, and generous bene- 
factors, means have been forthcoming which promise, 
before long, to place us on an equal footing with the 
best technical schools in America. 

But while Dean and benefactors have been doing 
their part, the students and graduates, reflecting that 
esprit de corps which has been so conspicuous in our 
department, have felt that they might assist in pro- 
moting the welfare of their Alma Mater by a com- 
bined effort to help her to that place to which she 
aspires, and which they proudly assert “ she shall 
have.” With this end in view, the class of ’90, 
Science, have issued a circular to graduates and under- 
graduates alike, asking their co-operation, and on the 
plan that “ union is strength,” hope to enable the 
Faculty to more thoroughly equip the various depart- 
ments. 

The proposition is to issue circulars, with a sub- 
scription slip attached, containing a promise to pay 
so much per annum, say for five years, to a general 
fund. The interest alone of this would be available, 
and would be spent to assist that department, most 
urgently in need, according to the decision of the 
Faculty. Thus an equipment or improvement fund 
would be founded, and each undergraduate or gradu- 
ate, adding his share from time to time, would soon 
augment the amount sufficiently to produce a very con- 
siderable annual income, and at the same time show 
that the students and graduates have the interest of 
their College at heart. Then, again, when the public 
see such an interest taken by students and graduates, 
the result will be increasing benefactions, and conse- 
quently increased usefulness and fame. 

She has, in the past, thanks to the untiring efforts of 
a few faithful men and women, proudly held her own, 
and now advances, sweeping all obstacles from before 
her, in her irresistible march forward. The struggle 
for existence is now past, and a healthy growth is the 
order. To stimulate this is the duty and privilege of 
every son who proudly acknowledges his Alma 
Mater. 

But especially to the students of Applied Science 
do we address ourselves. We would remind them of 
the proud position we already hold. Among our 
graduates are Professors of Colleges, and men holding 
the highest positions, both in our own country and in 
the neighboring Republic, so that to be a graduate of 
McGill is no mean responsibility to assume or dignity 
to uphold. 

In the College life we hold the proud position of 
champions of the out-door sports, both football and 
hockey ; and this we hand down to our followers , 
with an admonition to look well to it that it is not lost. 

Our final year is the only one in the whole Uni 
versity that is annually banqueted by the jur ; ' 



244 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1890 . 



years ; in fact, the esprit de corps of our students is 
fast becoming proverbial among the other Faculties. 
All these proudly-worn laurels we hand down to you 
who shall come after, almost as a sacred heritage. 
Guard them well ; our Faculty’s proud position must 
not only be maintained', but elevated, and upon you 
devolves the privilege cf doing it in the years to come. 

In conclusion, we would urge every graduate and 
undergraduate to remember his College when the sub- 
scription list shall reach him, and do what he can. 
Though weak singly, when all strike, the object will 
be sure to be accomplished. 

Science. 

[We admire their unanimity and pluck. If the 
idea is carried out, it will, undoubtedly, be a great 
boon to the Faculty, and will be an example which 
older and larger Faculties should follow. 

Science men have always been noted for carrying 
everything which they undertake to a successful 
issue, and it will be another triumph if they alone, 
succeed in carrying out' an undertaking similar to 
one which the graduates as a whole have failed to 
make a success; — Eds. U.G.] 



nostications, for some time circulated with regard to 
its future, will not be realized. 

The Owl, for March, as usual, is up to the standard 
of a good magazine. From their exchange column 
we take the following, as being worthy of assimilation 
by some McGill students : — 

“ Tuftonian, for February, in the course of an editorial, asks 
the question : ‘ Is the College Press free ? ’ We are not of those 
who think that the freedom of. the press, or in fact, freedom of 
any kind, consists in the liberty of enumerating and holding 
up to public gaze, the abuses and deficiencies which are only to 
be expected in the best organized institutions. Tufts students’ 
complaints are but trifling inconveniences, which might be re- 
moved peacefully and easily, but should a serious abuse exist, 
freedom would consist in the privilege of suggesting an effectual 
remedy rather than in the liberty of denouncing those to whose 
charge it may be laid.” 



Sporting. 

McGILL COLLEGE C.C. 

The first game of the season came off ou May 24th, 
between the Undergraduates and rest of the Club, 
and resulted in a victory for the Club by an innings 
and 5 runs. 

The following is the score : — 

Undergraduates. 



Personals. 



W. F. Ferrier, B.A.Sc., ’87, has been appointed 
Lithologist for the Geological Survey of Canada. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, B.A.Sc., ’90, has been appointed 
Professor of Agricultural Chemistry in Prince of 
Wa es’ College, P.E.I. 

Harrington. — On Wednesday, May 7th, of pneu- 
monia, Edith Laura, eldest daughter of Dr. B. J, 
Harrington, aged 11 years and 6 months. 

We deeply sympathize with Professor and Mrs. 
Harrington in their affliction. She was a bright 
child, beloved by all who knew her. 

Another graduate of McGill has been honored with 
a Cabinet position, this time in the Provincial Legis- 
lature. Our interest in the Hon. Joseph Emery 
Robidoux deepens when we remember that, for over 
ten years, and until quite recently, he ably selved 
McGill as Professor of Civil Law. We congratulate 
him upon the attainment of new honors, and now 
feel doubly sure that the interests of McGill Univer- 
sity will be maintained and fostered in our Legis- 
lative halls. 



Exchanges. 

St. John’s College Magazine, Winnipeg, Man., has 
a correspondent who writes “Notes on McGill?’ If 
we catch him we will appropriate him. 

Queen's College Journal announces the re-establish- 
ment, on a firmer footing, of the “Women’s Medical 
College,” Kingston. Anew location has been ob- 
tained, overlooking the Queen’s College grounds, and 
\ staff of Professors have been appointed inferior to 
_o other medical teaching staff in Ontario. Under 
■*h circumstances, it is likely that the gloomy prog- 



First Innings. 

Langley, A. F , b Mast 

Patterson, run out 

Hamilton, W.. b Mast 

Ross, L. L) , c Ramsay, b Mast... 

Kiiilock, J., c aild b Mast 

Hibbard, $\ W , b Muir 

Kingston, U., b Mast 

Yates, hL B., c Dean, b Mast.... 

Russell, Henry, not out 

Dunlop, J H , b Mast 

Hewetson, J., b Mast 1 

Byes . . . . 



3 
0 
2 
0 

0 

o 

0 

1 
2 

4 
4 

it 

1 



Total 20 

Second Innings. 

Russell, c Dean, b Mast 2 

Hewetson, b Stevenson 13 

Patterson, b Dean . 2 

Hamilton, b Stevenson . . 2 

Yates, b Dean 10 

Langley, b Stevenson 0 

Ross, b Dean * 2 

Kinlock, b Stevenson 1 

Hibbard, notout 0 

Kingston, b Dean 0 

Dunlop, b Dean . . . . , 1 , 

Byes 3 



Total 36 

Club. 

M. Mast, c Patterson, b Hibbard*. 6 

J. G Muir, c Mast, b Hamilton 10 

C. W Dean, c Langley, b Hibbard 0 

T. Ramsay, b Hamilton 1 

V. Ramsay, c Hewetson, b Hamilton 5 

E. H. Hamilton, c Ross, b Yates 12 

R G. Stevenson, c Kingston, b Hamilton 2 

Prof. Moyse, c and b Hibbard 15 

Lyman, b Hamilton 0 

Dr. Birkett, not out 7 

A. R Oughtred, c Kinlock, b Hibbard 1 

Byes 2 

Total . 61 



