Vol. XII 



No. 10 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

AIDVOCiLTES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. vTALIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Coaiissioiiers, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD M1CMASTER, Q.C. R. g. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

117 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



Antiseptic Materials, Mm, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
PinmtiEil 4 Jispeisiij Cltiisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, ^Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

Sclool anfl College Text Boots ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St lues Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main street, MONTREAL 
am 73 Sparks street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. ST. 

.yifJIHC. 1 I. U-'OttKS, BOOKS VS fill fJY .HIT COVBSJB, 
SCI fZJVCfi TfJXT BOOKS , 

TUB IMltlOlS THfJOI.OOIC.1f BOOKS. 

Full Assortment iu stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books* &c., &c., 

^ BEST VALUE I TV TO W IV , 

S typographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

333 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 11th, 1889. [No. 10. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., R.C.L., President. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 

C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 

R. McDougall, Arts ’90. A. \V. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 

Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co , 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

. - • 

Editorials • * • 

Contributions - - - * 

McGill News - r 

Poetry 

Societies - 

Personals 

Exchanges 

Between the Lectures 

College World 

Correspondence • • . • 



PAGE. 
113-118 
11 -119 
119-121 
121 
121-123 

123 

123- 124 

124 

124- 125 

125 



Editorials. 



From press of matter, we are obliged to increase 
the number of pages in the present issue, and to hold 
over an amount of valuable contributed material. 



MR. PAGNUELO AND McGILL. 

The patience, perseverance, industry, ingenuity, 
and skill of Mr. Pagnuelo, the champion of the 
Council of the Bar, has recently been laid before the 
public in the pages of the Montreal Gazette. His 
patience in watching and waiting for some sweet 
morsel to drop from the lips of anyone in connection 



with McGill, has been phenomenal. His persever- 
ance and industry in collating special items from the 
reports of Corporation, published by the University, 
from the reports of Convocation, meetings of the 
University Literary Society, and of general Univer- 
sity matters, published in the daily press, has seldom 
been equalled, and certainly never surpassed. He 
has been a faithful watchman at the portals of Mc- 
Gill. His ingenuity in selecting whit would be of 
advantage, and rejecting what would have proven 
most disastrous to the cause of the Bar, from the col- 
lections so carefully made ; in misquoting, misinter- 
preting, and culling from petitions and memorials; mak- 
ing men say and write what they are su prised to learn 
they did ; and imputing sordid and bvse motives to 
the most meritorious deeds, is something appalling. 
His skill in arraying, under the name of patriotism, 
and of classical and professional education, and con- 
cealing the real object in view — the sapping of the 
foundation and usefulness of the English Universities 
of this Province, and the gaining compl )te control by 
the Council of the Bar of admission to the practice of 
Law, and making it a close Corporation — is most per- 
fect. 

To traverse the voluminous and heterogeneous mass 
of correspondence of Mr. Pagnuelo would be unwise, 
imprudent, impolitic, and useless, and tp the pages of 
the Montreal Gazette of last week we refer our readers. 
To parts of that correspondence we must advert. 

Says Mr. Pagnuelo — “ A programme for prelimi- 
nary examination has been adopted, defining what 
constitutes a liberal and classical education. 

****** 

“ It should be known that one of the said exarai*- 
ners was the Principal of Montreal High School, who 
had also, with his colleagues, recommended our pro : 
gramme.” V'stly different was the statement of Dr. 
Howe, at the Teachers’ Convention, held in Montreal 
two ye rs ago, when the question of assimilating the 
preliminary professional examinations was being dis- 
cussed. He stated, in effect, that this would never 
be .accomplished so long as the Council of the Bar 
existed, that he had succeeded in making the exami- 
nation for entrance into Medicine rational, but that 
he could do nothing with that of the Bar. The quib- 
bling in relation to the degree of B.A. as given in 
Laval and McGill is quite apparent. “We stated a 




114 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1889. 



fact which McGill’s petition very cleverly does neither 
deny nor admit, namely — that McGill University con- 
fers the degree of Bachelor of Arts on every student 
who passes successfully through the course of Arts ; 
but the petition very artfully, tries to create the 
impression that numerous special examinations are 
passed yearly in view of conferring the degree of 
B.A. as is done in Laval.” There is no such artifice 
implied in the petition, it states the exact facts of the 
case, viz. — nine examinations in four years. How 
many must have Laval? The same quibbling is ap- 
parent as to the petition of the Law Faculty, referring 
to the pro forma delivery of lectures. When pressed, 
Mr. Pagnuelo admits that McGill Law Faculty was 
aimed at. Perhaps the most ingenuity is displayed 
in avoiding the claims of McGill in reference to the 
rights conferred upon the Law Faculty before Con- 
federation. There is no one denies the right of the 
Bar to its examination, but it is denied that it ever 
had a right to prescribe the number of lectures to be 
delivered. McGill Law Faculty, as Dr. Hutchinson 
stated at the meeting of the Graduates’ Society on the 
2nd instant, is perfectly willing that the Bar exami- 
nation show what the students know, but denies that 
the Bar has any right to say how that knowledge is 
to be acquired by stipulating the number of lectures 
to be delivered. “ For years,” said that gentleman, 
“ I was an examiner, and know whereof I speak, aud 
know that McGill students stood high in the exami- 
nations, and of the two B.C.L.’s of McGill not admit- 
ted during that period, our faculty had rejected 
twice or three times before conferring on them the 
degree.” 

Mr. Pagnuelo “cleverly and artfully” refers to the 
two examinations required to be passed by Law 
students before the Bar in Ontario, but carefully says 
nothing of McGill graduates in Arts being allowed to 
study on the strength of that degree. Of six gradu- 
ates in Arts of ’86, now studying Law, three are in 
Ontario, none of whom had to pass a preliminary ex- 
amination, and are indentured for three years only, 
whilst those who are in this, their naiive Province, 
have been compelled to pass such examination and to 
be indentured for four years, provided they procure 
a certificate of attendance in some eleven hundred 
lectures in law. This is patriotism with a vengeance, 
this is encouragement to stand true and abide by their 
native Province ! Is the Bar of Quebec more learned 
than that of Ontario? 

“ We have no selfish interest in the matter,” writes 
Mr. Pagnuelo, and implies that the University has. 
Which of the two is most likely to have ? “ Public 

good is our only motive,” your’s is the reverse. Let 



the people answer which has the “ public good ” most 
at heart — the man who is striving to make the profes- 
sion of Law a pure monopoly, or the University, 
which is doing its very best to foster and encourage 
the education of the people. 

“The question ought not to be — Is the number too 
large for the convenience of the unpaid professors, 
but is it too large for the wants of the students and 
the good of professional education ? The English 
Universities choose the first ground, we choose the 
second ; that is the difference between us. They have 
personal ends to serve, wo have only the general 
public interest in view.” 

The English Universities do not choose the first 
ground, they choose the second, aud they do siy that 
this will never be accomplished by the delivery of a 
certain specified number of lectures — without refer- 
ence to quantity or quality — aud which may be deliv- 
ered by men who, the less they know about their sub- 
jects the more will they be able to say, and the better 
adapted to meet the absurd and ridiculous demands 
of the Bar. 



THE MEDICAL QUESTION. 

It devolves upon us to discuss, in this issue, a sub- 
ject which we have not yet treated editorially, 
although, from time to time, mention has been made 
of it in our columns We refer to the movement in 
favour of women studying medicine, a movement 
which, although of recent growth, has already gained 
a foothold in most civilized countries, and while 
frowned upon by some with horror, and hailed by 
others with delight, is now accepted as an estab- 
lished fact, and one likely to obtain increased re- 
cognition. 

The question whether women should enter the 
medical profession is one on both sides of which there 
is much to be said, and which, moreover, merits care- 
ful consideration, as referring not only to the present 
but to future generations. The principal arguments 
of the opposing force are based upon the hardening 
effect that the study of anatomy is calculated to pro- 
duce upon the emotions and sympathies. It would 
be impossible, they say, for any girl or woman to 
pursue the thorough and prolonged course in dissect- 
ing necessary for the degree of M.D. without losing, 
in a measure, the maiden modesty and true womanli- 
ness which are her essential charms. Besides, she is 
not fitted nor intended for a public life ; her health 
is uncertain, her powers of endurance are limited, her 
nerves are weak ; home is her sphere ; her part is 
that of the sympathetic companion, the careful house- 
wife, and the tender mother. Let our women be 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



115 



women in the true sense of the word, and not unsex 
themselves, by quitting their own sphere for that of 
man. 

Now, most women, whether medically inclined or 
not, will not admit that the intrinsic feminine char- 
acter is capable of being brushed away like the bloom 
on a peach, although, no doubt, the medical course 
would make them more self-contained and able to 
look upon suffering without flinching. But suppos- 
ing, for the sake of argument, that it is indeed the 
case, that the study required for an M.D. has a tend- 
ency to masculinize the feminine mind, one should 
remember that all women are not going to be doctors. 
Many will marry ; to others belongs the role of 
daughter of the house ; others, again, either from 
necessity or choice, wish to become independent, and 
ot these a very small proportion are anxious to enter 
the medical profession. The would-be doctors are 
not ordinary girls. As children, they take the lead 
among their playmates ; at school or college, they are 
also among the first ; their ability is above the aver- 
age, for they are endowed with a keen sense of obser- 
vation, their powers of association and comparison are 
intense, and their nerves strong. 

It seems as if the main object in life should be to 
do as much good as possible to as many as possible. 
And yet there are those who would, if they could, 
debar these young women from entering a field of 
very great usefulness ; not the parents, who usually 
are sufficiently acquainted with their daughters’ capa- 
bilities to wish to oppose them, but people who have 
no personal interest in the matter, and theorize persist- 
ently about woman’s sphere. We hold that if a girl 
feels herself called upon to enter the medical profes- 
sion, she should be encouraged to do so, for there is 
one unanswerable argument which we need only men- 
tion, namely — the great necessity for lady doctors. 
It may not be generally known that in most women’s 
medical colleges the students are obliged to sign a 
document to the effect that they will attend cases only 
of women, and children under fifteen, unless in 
urgent extremity. So that it is principally to allevi- 
ating the sufferings of their sex that their efforts are 
confined. Then, too, in the case of a foreign mission- 
ary, a medical education is almost essential to her 
influence and usefulness, for as doctor she can obtain 
admission to many of her sex from whom otherwise 
she would be excluded. 

In short, then, women doctors are needed ; and to 
those led to undertake the work a full opportunity 
should be given to fit themselves for it. 

Canada, as usual, is not behind-hand in providing 
a medical education for her daughters. The colleges 



in connection with Trinity and Queen’s are too well 
known to require comment. McGill, whose medical 
school is unquestionably the best in the country, has 
as yet been able to do nothing in the matter ; this 
is looked upon as rather a grievance, for Montreal 
young ladies must spend four years away from home 
for a doctor’s degree, which is not worth nearly so 
much to them as one obtained here would be. Some- 
thing of this feeling prompted two petitions which 
were lately sent to our medical faculty, asking that 
its doors might be opened to women. The answer 
was disappointing, though not unexpected — that the 
thing was impossible ; and when we consider that the 
medical school is supported principally by the stu- 
dents’ fees, we cannot be surprised that the faculty 
should refuse to commit itself to what it cannot pos- 
sibly afford. 

But as the Arts Faculty has now its students of 
both sexes, so without doubt, before long, will the 
Medical Faculty also, and if this is to be accomplished 
in the end, we hope that those interested will leave 
no stone unturned to have it accomplished speedily. 
There are three ways it which it could be done. The 
first and most preferable is the establishment of a 
separate Medical College for women in connection 
with McGill, in every respect equal to that for men. 
This would require a large endowment which McGill, 
whose pockets are but too scantily lined, is unable to 
furnish ; unless, indeed, the money should come from 
an unexpected quarter. The second and most feasible 
plan is to have the lectures, with the exception of, 
perhaps, two subjects, in mixed classes, and the de- 
monstrations separate; while the third, and one to 
which the Faculty would hardly agree, is to admit 
lady students on precisely the same footing as men. 
Without going into the general question of co-educa- 
tion, there is to be considered : that the Medical 
course, unlike that of Arts, is not preparation but life 
work, and that the students would be full grown 
women with formed ideas and a fixed object ; that the 
medical student acquires the greater part of his or 
her knowledge in the dissecting room, where every- 
thing has to be looked at in a practical, scientific 
light, and for which there is always more or less diffi- 
culty in obtaining material; also, that no woman 
would care for a degree, did she not feel that she had 
just as much experience as would entitle a man to 
his M.D. 

We do not know whether McGill can move in this 
matter at present, but we eagerly await further devel- 
opment s, feeling sure that whatever steps our Univer- 
sity takes will he to her credit, and in the direction of 
educational progress — professional and otherwise. 



116 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



PROFESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

For the purpose of rendering admission to the study 
of the learned professions as general and as light as 
is consistent with the dignity and responsibility in- 
cumbent upon professional men, and to relieve the 
candidates from the heavy expenditure and time con- 
sequent to following a regular academical course, 
almost every civilized country has presented certain 
preliminary examinations for an educational test of 
those proposing entering the learned professions ; but 
never, until the Council of the Bar of this Province 
became clothed with unlimited powers by the Legis- 
lature, was the diploma of chartered Universities re- 
jected as an adequate qualification. The members of 
this Council are selected from every district of the 
Province, and assuredly many of them must be wholly 
unacquainted with the essential characteristics of a 
University training, or the spirit of monopoly has 
overpowered their reasoning faculties, otherwise it is 
incomprehensible that they should desire that a purely 
cram examination, which an expert crammer can and 
does, in a very brief period, prepare a boy just leaving 
the High School or Academy, to pass, is a superior 
criterion of educational preparation for the study of 
Law. In this University to-day there are men who, 
after passing the preliminary examination laid down 
by the Bar, are following the course for the degree of 
B.A. This implies four years hard and constant ap- 
plication to study, coupled with nine severe and criti- 
cal examinations upon text books, and lectures regu- 
larly classified and delivered by men specially trained 
in the subjects of their several departments. And 
still these same students, if they had not already been 
admitted to study, if they presented themselves for 
admission, would be required to undergo an exami- 
nation which, at matriculation, they passed with 
credit. This course, on the part of the Council of 
the Bar, must have a most pernicious and disastrous 
effect upon liberal education by inducing young men 
to avoid the better but more toilsome course of the 
Universities and Colleges, and to force them into the 
hands of men whose only object is to push them 
through an arbitrary examination. Moreover, habits 
of industry and perseverance, so essential in the 
laborious and arduous labour of an attorney, will be 
most seriously impaired. 

In support of the opposition to the bills introduced 
into the Legislature by the Hon. Mr. Lynch last year, 
and again before that Assembly this session, the 
Council of the Bar has brought forward a most re- 
markable plea. They declare that the Law Schools 
of the Province have heretofore delivered lectures pro 



forma only, and endeavour to justify the number of 
lectures they have prescribed on that pretence. This 
is a most peculiar and paradoxical position, for it is 
certain to lead to what they complain of — the deliv 
ery of lectures pro forma — for professors who are 
compelled to deliver a certain number of lect res, 
will not feel that they are bound to make their lec- 
tures more interesting and comprehensive, but will 
expand these subjects to unnecessary and useless 
length. There is, besides, the consideration of the 
proper classification and arrangement of subjects for 
the different years, by no means unimportant, and, in 
lecturing to students of different stages of advance- 
ment, it must inevitably follow that some students 
will be obliged to follow the same course of lectures 
twice in order that others may be led up to the more 
deep subjects which require an introduction, especially 
in commercial law. The question of the number of 
lectures, too, is seriously complicated by the work of 
the office, which is as essential to a student as are the 
lectures themselves. We publish in another depart- 
ment the memorials in which the University states its 
case. 



A COURT OF HONOUR. 

The proposal of the Varsity last year, having in 
view the settlement of the hazing trouble in Univer- 
sity College, has been revived this year by definite 
action on the part of the students. Varsity proposed 
the formation of a College Court, having jurisdiction 
over the conduct of the students in their relations 
with each other, the voluntary submission of the stu- 
dents to its fiats, of course, being understood. The 
design of Varsity seems to have been to supersede 
the outlawed and forcible authority of the secret haz- 
ing court by an openly constituted society, formed 
by the body of the students, and ruling by their vol- 
untary acquiescence in its powers. 

Acting in the spirit of this proposal, a motion was 
introduced at the regular meeting of the Literary 
Society, on the 18th Jan., for the resolution of that 
society, at its meeting on the 8th Feb., into a court 
with power to try all college offences and inflict pun- 
ishment, by fine or otherwise, on those who were 
found guilty. In view of the action taken by the 
Literary Society, the Council of the University issued 
an announcement forbidding any interference with 
the liberty of a student, whether by arrest, depriva- 
tion of privileges, or infliction of personal indignity of 

any kind, on pain of expulsion from the Univer- 
sity. 

The question at issue is a crucial one in college 
life. That the resolution of the Council was passed, 






t 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



117 



not in reference to the formation of a college court, 
but with regard to the custom of hazing, matters not ; 
the interdict is against all bodies of students, public 
or private, acknowledged or unacknowledged, which 
claim authority over the actions of the general body of 
students. The action of the Council was necessary and 
unavoidable. To have allowed the active existence of 
such a body, “free and above board ” as it was pur- 
ported to be, and constituted not of private individ- 
uals, but representing the whole body of students, 
would have been to have recognized it as an accredited 
society of the University, and to have acquiesced in 
its claims to authority. Such claims could not be 
admitted. By entering the college the student vol- 
untarily submits himself to the regulations laid down 
by the Council ; if he desires to join any of the col" 
lege societies he must conform to their rules ; but the 
penalties of the University are inflicted only if he 
becomes a member of it, the fines of the societies, if 
he joins them ; the College Court, on the contrary, pro- 
poses to exercise its authority, nolens volcns on all 
alike, whether members of the fraternity or not. The 
recognition of the existence of such a body, much 
more the countenancing of its acts, would be a sub- 
version of all principles of personal liberty and 
freedom, and would be resented first by those who 
are now advocating its formation were its restrictions 
imposed on them by others. 

The only form in which such a body could exist 
would be as a society of voluntary enrollment, whose 
authority would be commensurate with the extent of 
its membership, and whose influence would be uni- 
versal only when all had become members of it. 

There are only two ways in which the hazing diffi- 
culty can be settled ; one method is through the 
intervention of the governing body of the University, 
the other lies in the hands of the students themselves. 
The governors have bared their weapon in the 
announcement quoted above, namely, the expulsion 
of any student who uses personal violence or abuse 
against another. But the power of the authorities is 
restricted. Their jurisdiction applies only to overt 
act of oppression. Against covert acts and the secret 
existence of the hazing court they cannot proceed : its 
fate lies wholly in the hands of the students. They 
have the power of putting an end to its influence, if 
not to its existence, by frowning it down. Turn the 
popular opinion of the students against it, and, 
even though supported by tradition, it will go down. 
We speak only of the method of stamping it out; 
of the advisability of putting an end to it we make no 
question. We all love our college customs and tradi- 
tions ; but a custom that is evil is more deserving of 



death than an honorable one is worthy to live. The 
hazing system, whatever good may have been accom- 
plished by its means, will always be a more potent 
power for evil, and will serve only to aggravate those 
evils which it seeks to cure, aside from the cowardice 
of its methods of punishment, by the latent rebellion 
of those upon whom it seeks to inflict its penalties. 



The question of Canadian History in our Univer- 
sity has at length assumed a practical form. A peti- 
tion has been drawn up, asking that the History of 
Canada be placed upon McGill’s curriculum on the 
same basis as British and Classic History. It is signed 
by students and graduates in Arts and Applied 
Science, and will be presented at the Arts Faculty 
meeting of March 15th. The professors regard the 
matter, some with enthusiasm, nearly all with favour, 
signatures are fast filing in, and we have every hope 
that the calendar for ’89-’90 will bear witness to the 
dawning of a new era of patriotism in McGill. 

Following is the petition : — 

To the Dean and Faculty of Arts, 

McGill University : 

The petition of the undersigned students and grad- 
uates of McGill College, is an earnest and most 
respectful effort to call to mind the position their 
University occupies as an educational centre and 
a source of culture, with a wide influence in direct- 
ing Canadian thought, and moulding public sentiment. 
They are also impressed with the need of developing 
a feeling of patriotism, and of devotion to their native 
country. They are of opinion that this can best be 
done by turning attention to the past history, present 
resources, and future possibilities of Canada ; and they 
believe firmly that McGill University would add to 
its own dignity and value in being the first to officially 
encourage and develope this sentiment, by placing 
the study of Canadian History upon its curriculum, 
on the same basis as the study of the history of Eng- 
land, Greece and Rome. Your petitioners beg to state 
that they are but expressing a general desire, and 
would venture to hope that your body will be inclined 
to consider the details of a scheme that, to them, at 
least, appears feasible. 



A REBUKE. 

It is not often that Tiie Gazette is called upon to 
speak seriously of the shortcomings of the students, 
but when what we generally call shortcomings become 
exaggerated so as to assume the definite shape of vice, 
it is quite time not only that we should call attention 
to the matter, but also that active measures should be 
taken by those in authority. 

The habit of stealing has, at some of the faculties, 
become quite common, and particularly in one 



118 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



chronic, so that it is quite impossible to leave over- 
shoes, rubbers, etc., in the cloak-rooms without the 
strong probability of finding that they have disap- 
peared on return from lecture. 

This state of affairs might be attributed by a phil- 
anthropist to the prevalence of “ Partial Moral 
Mania,” expressing itself in this particular form, but 
we are quite sure that the Professor of Jurisprudence 
would put a different interpretation on the facts, 
especially when he finds some of his most valuable 
specimens missing after a Histological demons- 
tration. 

It is to be hoped that the publicity thus given to 
an unpleasant subject will prove a warning to the 
“ light fingered gentry,” and that any one detected 
at this disgraceful practice will be severely dealt 
with by the proper authorities. This more especially 
when the University is, or at least announces itself, 
irresponsible for property entrusted to its care by the 
students, and which it is morally bound to protect. 



COLLEGE MUSIC. 

One of the best methods of fostering the esprit de 
corp>s in a college, and of making the students feel 
that they are all children of the one Alma Mater , is 
the cultivation of music, especially of college songs. 
Among the distinctive features of a University life, 
next in rank to the unity in pursuit of knowledge, 
are, or should be, its college songs. They separate 
the student from the profanum vulgus, and make him 
feel that he is one with his fellows. When others 
sing the college choruses as they walk the street in 
groups they are mistaken for students, and for this 
reason the college song is recognized as belonging ex. 
clusively to the student, and forming a distinctive 
mark of his character. College songs, therefore, 
should, as much as possible, be cultivated. McGill, 
for years, has neglected her duty in this respect ; the 
singing of college choruses and music of all kinds has 
declined, until scarcely a note is heard in hall or class- 
room from one week’s end to another. 

The execution— murder it should rather be called 
— of songs on Convocation Day are often a slander 
on the musical talent of the University. Scarcely a 
song is heard from the students while awaiting the 
arrival of a delinquent professor; it is with difficulty 
that a singer can be induced to render a piece at the 
“ Literary ; ” and in public assemblies at which the 
students attend in a body, the songs, instead of being 
looked forward to as a feature of the evening, are 
looked down upon as worthy only of contempt. 
Reference is here made more particularly to the 



faculties of Arts and Science. In Medicine, a good 
quartette club has existed, and singing is made a 
more prominent feature of hall and class-room life. 

Last year an attempt was made to revive the dead 
soul of music by the introduction of instrumental 
music into the programmes of the Literary Society, 
and a piano was secured for the purpose. But players 
were lacking, in willingness if not in ability, and the 
attempt wis almost a failure. Still, it showed that a 
desire fora better order of things existed, and augured 
hope for the future. This year a more vigorous effort 
is being made to have the college songs popularized, 
and to make music a more prominent feature of col- 
lege life. 

The musical spirits of the Donalda Department 
who have taken the initiative by the formation of a 
glee club, have been followed up within the last few 
weeks by the organization, on a more extensive scale, 
of a similar club among the gentlemen. The idea 
was conceived among the Sophomores, and the club 
is, as yet, confined to the Second Year. Twenty- 
three members have already enrolled themselves as 
members, and work is going on vigorously. A piano 
has been procured and weekly practices instituted. 
Both these clubs are a movement in the right direc- 
tion, and we wish them the best success. 

Music is always good, and, within certain limits, 
the more the better. If the other years in Arts fol- 
low up the scheme which the ladies have inaugurated, 
and organize glee clubs of their own, McGill and her 
songs will take the rank which is expected of them, 
and to which they are entitled, by the real talent 
which they possess. 



Contributions. 



SOME COLLEGE CUSTOMS. 

In my reading a few days ago I came across a set of 
rules tor the regulation of Freshmen in Harvard 
University, which are interesting for comparison with 
the customs in vogue at the present day, when the 
latitude granted to the “ youngest skirmishers ” is al- 
most equal to that enjoyed by the “ scarred veterans 
of the fourth year.” In these days of unmitigated free- 
dom the Freshman is liable to fall into the delusion 
that, if not really a senior himself, he is, at least, in 
every way equal to one. A profitable hour may be 
spent in drawing a parallel between the good old times 
ot Harvard and these degenerate days, and the 
Ireshie will doubtless thank his stars that his lines 
have fallen in such pleasant places. An account of 
these customs is given in President Quincy’s History 
of Harvard, Yol. II, p. 539. It is entitled 

“the axoient customs of harvard.” 

“ Freshman shall wear his hat in the College 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



119 



yard, except it rains, hails, or snows, provided he he 
on foot and has not both hands full.” 

“ All Freshman shall be obliged to go on any errand 
for any of their Seniors at any time, except in study- 
ing hours, or alter nine o’clock in the evening.” 

“No Freshman shall use lying, or equivocation to 
escape going on an errand, nor loiter by the way when 
he is sent.” 

“No freshman shall ask a Senior an impertinent 
question, or talk to him with his hat on.” 

“ When any person knocks at a Freshman’s door, 
he shall immediately open it, without inquiring who 
is there.” 

“ When a Freshman knocks at his Senior’s door, 
he shall tell his name immediately.” 

“ No Freshman shall call his class-mate by the name 
of Freshman.” 

“ The Freshmen shall furnish bats, balls, and foot- 
balls for the use of students, to be kept at the But- 
tery.” 

“ No Freshman shall lean against the wall at prayers, 
but shall stand upright.” 

“ No Freshman shall wear a gown, or walk with a 
cane, or appear out of his room without being com- 
pletely dressed, and with his hat on.” 

“ In case of a personal insult, a Sophomore may 
obtain leave from a J unior to discipline a Freshman, 
not detaining him more than five minutes, after which 
the Freshman may retire without being dismissed, but 
in a, respectful manner.” 

“ The Sophomores shall publish these customs to 
the Freshmen in the Chapel ; at which time the 
Freshmen are enjoined to keep their places in their 
seats, and attend with decency to the reading.” 

“ Whatsoever Freshman shall break any of these 
customs, shall be severely punished.” 

E. McDougall. 



Jftcl&ill News. 



Notice of 1st Year’s Examination in Anatomy early 
in March, suggests the beginning of blue days for the 
Medicos. 

The Montreal General Hospital will be closed to 
students on the 9th instant, in order to get material 
for the Clinical Examinations. 

A feeling of deep regret has been caused through- 
out the whole body of students by the death of C. 
W. Bayne, Med. ’88. In the painful circumstances 
attending the sad event, his friends have the sincerest 
sympathy of all his fellow-students. 



THE LAW DINNER. 

For some years past this faculty has foregone the 
customary annual festivity, but this year it was de- 
cided by the students that a dinner was essential to 
their prestige among their'fellow-students. The din- 
ner was held at the Balmoral Hotel on W ednesday 
evening, February 13th, and was a success far beyond 



expectation. Mr. Francis Topp, B.A., presided, and 
on his right sat Messrs. N. W. Trenholme, M.A., 
D.C.L., and Matthew Hutchinson, D.C.L.; and on 
his left Messrs. L. II. Davidson, M.A., D.C.L., and 
Professor McGoun. A number of recent graduates 
were also piesent. 

After the excellent menu had been discussed, the 
chairman addressed those present. He pointed out 
the advantages derived by active participation in, and 
deep sympathy with, the societies and institutions of 
the students ; strongly recommended the observation 
of the annual dinner, and concluded by an urgent 
appeal for a University banquet, which, he said, would 
prove a powerful means of extending and making 
permanent the fame and report of McGill. 

The toast to “ The Queen” was then proposed and 
drunk, all joining in singing “ God Save the 
Queen.” 

Mr. G. P. England, B.A., in a few well-chosen 
words, proposed “ The Dean and Professors,” which 
was responded to by the Dean in a most powerful 
and eloquent speech, in which he referred to the 
great advantages a law school conferred upon a com- 
munity ; to the celebrated graduates of the Law 
Faculty of McGill, and to the infringements which the 
Council of the Bar — an irresponsible body — had made 
upon the rights of the University, and declared that 
the Council greatly under-estimated the determina- 
tion and energy of the men of McGill, if the members 
of that body conceived that they would tamely sub- 
mit to such infringements. 

Professor Davidson followed in a similar strain, and 
laid great emphasis upon the study of law, which, he 
said, stood inferior to none but that of theology. 

Mr. F. W. Hibbard, B.A., in one of his usual feli- 
citous speeches, proposed “ Our Alma Mater,” which 
was fitly responded to by Professors Archibald and 
Hutchinson, both of whom referred to the friendly 
feeling existing in the faculty between students and 
professors. 

Mr. C. A. Barnard brought forward “ Sister Facul- 
ties,” responded to very feelingly by Mr. Hall for 
Arts, and Mr. Shuttleworth for Science, the Medical 
Faculty having made default. 

Mr. V. Geoffrion, urging a close union between Mc- 
Gill and Laval, in order to combat their common 
enemy — the Council of the Bar — introduced “ Sister 
Universities,” which was responded to by Mr. Chau- 
veau, of Laval. 

Mr. A. E. Harvey, in a very appropriate speech, 
proposed “ The Bar,” which was responded to in 
exquisite language by Professor McGoun. 

In the absence of Mr. C. 0. Lamontagne, Mr. Eng- 
land proposed “Our Graduates,” and Messrs. Dunton, 
Ferguson, and Fry responded, all extolling the ad- 
vantages of an annual banquet. 

“ The Press” was proposed by Mr. T. J. Yipond, 
and responded to by Mr. Pirie, of the Star, Mr. J. A. 
MacPhail, B.A., representative for The University 
Gazette, having retired. 

The toast to “ The Ladies” was proposed by Mr. 
D. II. Girouard, and replied to by Mr. F. J. Hatchett 
in a somewhat vigorous and humorous style. 

“ The Chairman” was then proposed by Professor 



120 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1889 . 



McGoun, and drunk to the strains of “ He’s a jolly 
good fellow.” 

Songs were sung during the evening by Messrs. 
Girouard, Harvey, and Lamontagne, and a very plea- 
sant and enjoyable evening was brought to a close by 
singing “Auld Lang Svne.” 



The following are the memorials in which the Uni- 
versity states the case before the Legislature as against 
the Council of the Bar : — 

To the Ilon'ble the Legislative Assembly of the Province of 
Quebec , in Parliament assembled : 

The Petition of the undersigned, representing the McGill 
University, humbly slieweth 

That your Petitioners in the last session of the Legislature 
represented to your Honourable House the evils arising from 
certain disabilities inflicted on the University, and through it 
on Professional Education, by the regulations of the Council of 
the Bar, and also the necessity that the Degree of Bachelor of 
Arts should here, as in other countries, be recognized as suffi- 
cient qualification for entrance into Professional study. 

That the relief sought for was not obtained ; but that bills are 
again before the Legislature having this object in view. 

That representations have been made to your Honourable 
House in a memorial signed by the Batonnier General and Sec- 
retary of the Council of the Bar, to the effect that Degrees have 
been granted to Students in Law who had “followed the lec- 
tures proforma only,” and that the Faculty has given “Lec- 
tures pro forma only.” 'These allegatioi s we deny, as altogether 
at variance with fact, in so far as this University is concerned, 
and are prepared to prove the same by the records of our Faculty 
of Law for a great number of years, as well as by the success of 
our Graduates in passing the examinations for admission to the 
practice of Law. 

Representations have also been made in the same memorial to 
the effect that this University “gives the Degree of Bachelor of 
Arts to all students who complete the course in the Faculty of 
Arts.” If under this statement the final examinations for the 
degree are alone referred to, this is only what might in many 
cases be expected, since students in Arts of this University must 
first pass a Matriculation examination in which the average 
failures amount to more than 28 per cent., and must thereafter 
pursue a course extending over three or four years, in which 
eight other examinations have to be passed, in all of which some 
candidates are rejected, so that, though few fail in the final ex- 
aminations, yet less than 52 per cent, of those who enter for the 
degree of B.A. actually attain to it. Statistics proving these 
facts have been published in the public prints and in the Re- 
ports of this University, it is, however, evident that the said 
allegation is made with the view of creating an impression that 
the Degree of Bachelor of Arts is given by this University with- 
out sufficient qualification, which is altogether incorrect. We 
therefore deny the truth of this allegation in the connection in 
which it appears in the memorial referred to, and re-affirm the 
statement made in our previous petition, to the effect that in 
the case of those who have taken the Degree in Arts of the Uni- 
veisities, this Degree should be recognized as qualifying to enter 
on professional study without further examination. * In all other 
countries possessing Universities, this privilege is given, and it 
is obviously expedient, as inducing candidates to pursue a 
thorough and liberal education. It is also submitted in this con- 
nection that the ( ourse of Study in Arts in the Protestant Uni- 
versities is in every respect adequate, and is equal to that given 
in other countries, and to which such privileges are there 
granted. 

In proof of the above statements the most ample evidence can 
be submitted if desired. 

Your 1 etitioneis therefore humbly pray that no credence 
be given to the allegations and mis-statements above contro- 
verted, and that your Honourable House will be pleased to grant 



the relief desired in the premises ; and your Petitioners as in 
duty bound will ever pray. 

On behalf of the University, 



, . I J. H. R. MOLSON, J. W. DAWSON, LL.D., 

signed )< Acting President . Vice-Chancellor. 



(Signed) J. W. BRAKENRIDGE, B.C.L., 

Secretary - 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL. 

FACULTY OF ARTS. 

Comparison of the number of Candidates for entrance into the 
first year of the Undergraduate Course, with the number of the 
same class who obtained the B.A. degree four vears subse- 



quen tly : 




Entrance. 


Session. 


(No. of Candidates). 


1879-80 


32 of whom 


1880-81 


34 do 


1881-2 


36 do 


1882-83 


40 do 


1883-84 


41 do 


1884-85 


43 do 


Total entrance \ 


1 226 of whom 


in six years. S 


Ratio. ... 


..116 

=.513 



B.A. Year. 

16 graduated in April, 1883 



18 


do 


do 


1884 


18 


do 


do 


1885 


23 


do 


do 


1886 


21 


do 


do 


1887 


20 


do 


do 


1888 



116 graduated at the end of 
four years. 



Thus, on the average of these six years, less than 25 per cent, 
of those who presented themselves as candidates for entrance in 
any one year eventually reached the B A. degree with the class, 
i e. y about half the candidates only were successful. 

In drawing up this table all the candidates were counted, 
whether they presented themselves for the Matriculation Exam- 
ination in September of any year, passed subsequently at 
Christmas, or in April following, or joined the class at the Sen- 
ior Matriculation (entrance into the second year) in the following 
September. 

Alexander Johnson, LL.D., 

Dean, Faculty of Arts. 



THE PETITION 

OF THE FACULTY OF LAW OF m’gILL UNIVERSITY, RESPECT- 
FULLY REPRESENTS *. 

1st. That at and before the time of Confederation the said 
University had and still possesses, in virtue of express powers 
granted it by Royal Charter and sanctioned hy law, a regularly 
established Faculty of Law, with a full staff of Professors, whose 
courses of lectures since the establishment of said Faculty have 
formed an important part of the educational work of the Uni- 
versity and of legal education in the Province. 

2nd. lhat among the rights and privileges so expressly 
granted, and subject only to the approval of the Responsible 
Executive of the Province of Canada as provided by the Act 29 
and 30 Victoria, Chapter 27, the said University had, and until 
the unjust interference herein complained of, exercised the right 
of framing and prescribing its course of study necessary to con- 
stitute a complete legal course, entitling Law Students pursuing 
the same to the degree of B.C.L., to admission to the practice of 
the law, after three years contemporaneous clerkship and upon 
an examination by the Bar. r 

3rd. That your Petitioners complain of the unjust and un- 
called for interference of the Council of the Bar with the said loner, 
enjoyed and legally-established rights and privileges of the saul 
University, and that by the Act of the L> gislature of this Prov- 
ince, 49 and 50 Victoria, Chapter 34, Section 49, and the regu- 
lations of the Bar Council made in virtue thereof, the said 
University has in fact been deprived of the said rights and privi- 
leges expressly granted it by Royal Charter and by law of 
flaming and prescribing its course of study in law, to constitute 
a legal course, subject only to the action and approval of the 
Executive of the Province, and has been subjected as regards 
such course, even to the number of lectures to be delivered on 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



121 



each subject, to the absolute and unlimited control of the said 
Bar Council, which is an irresponsible and changeable body not 
entitled to exercise such control over said University and deprive 
it ol the regulation of its course of study, as said Council now 
does, on pain of said University and its law course being effectu- 
ally proscribed as a law school and law course in this Province. 

4th That the number of lectures prescribed by said Council 
ot the Bar under its said regulations as essential to a legal course 
ot study, is, in the judgment of your petitioners, unreasonably 
and uselessly excessive, if not positively detrimental to the de- 
livery of properly classified courses in the different years, and to 
the proper mastering of the subjects and of practice by Students. 

5th. I hat your Petitioners maintain that the said University 
ought not to be deprived, as it hath been, of its said rights and 
privileges and of said valuable constitutional guarantee enjoyed 
by it at and since Confederation in educational matters, of being 
subject only to the responsible Executive of the Province as re- 
gards the sufficiency of its course of legal study aforesaid, and 
ought not to be subjected to the said irresponsible Council of the 
Bar, and power given to the latter, as hath been done, to effect- 
ually close at will the Faculty of Law of said University for all 
practical purposes, by prescril ing courses of study which it is 
impossible for said University to comply with 

That no cause of justification exists for the unjust legislation 
and acts herein complained of by your Petitioners. That the 
statements of the said Bar Council in its Petition, presented to 
your Honorable Body at the present session, praying that the 
relief desired by your petitioners be not granted, are unfounded, 
as regards said University. That the statement in said Petition 
of the Bar Council, “ that Degrees in Law, until very lately, 
were granted to Students who followed the lectures pro forma 
only, and that Faculties of Law gave lectures pro forma only,” 
is not true in respect of said University. That the said Univer- 
sity confidently appeals to the results of its work*, in the large 
number of graduates who have availed themselves of its course 
in Law and the many thereof who occupy high and honorable 
positions on the Bench, at the Bar, and in the Legislatures, not 
only of this, but of other Provinces. That no less than 193 of 
the practising Advocates of this Province, on the Bar list, are 
graduates in Law of said University ; and of the English-speak 
ing Bar of the Province no less than 110, or a considerable 
majority of the whole, are its graduates ; and in the District of 
Montreal nearly the whole English-speaking Bar, admitted since 
the Law Faculty was established, and including, with rare ex- 
ceptions, the men who are doing the Law business of that Bar, 
are also its graduates. Thereco.dof the men trained in said 
University, and their present proud position are the best refuta- 
tion of any aspersions that may be sought to be cast on its 
Faculty of Law, and the best proof as to whether such an insti- 
tution and its courses of study require to be subjected to the con- 
trol of the Council of the Bar on pain of being proscribed. That 
if the statement of the said Bar Council as to pro forma courses 
or degrees be true of any institution in this Province, ample pro- 
tection to the public and Bar against the same is or may be 
afforded through the action of the Executive and the right of 
examination possessed by the Bar, or may be provided for by 
legislation without the necessity of depriving the said University 
of its long-enjoyed r ghts and reducing it to the humiliating 
position presently imposed upon it. That the sa;d unjust acts 
and legislation complained ot by your Petitioners are calculated 
to create, and do create, alarm for the future of said University 
and its most cherished rights and privileges, upon which such 
acts and legislation are regarded as an unwarranted infringe- 
ment, and great injury is and will be thereby done to said 
University and to the cause of education, particularly among 
the minority of the Province. That so soon as said University 
became aware of the said acts and legislation it pi otested against 
the same and hath continually so done to the present time. 

That for the foregoing reasons among others, your Petitioners 
pray, that your Honorable Body may be pleased to pass an act 
repealing the said Section 49 of the said Act 49 and 50 Victoria, 
Chapter 34, and restoring to the said University its said rights 
and privileges and guarantees theretofore enjoyed by it, and that 
your Petitioners may be heard in support of this their Petition ; 
and your Petitioners will ever pray. 

[Signed by the Dean and Professors of the Faculty of Law.] 

Montreal, 19th February , 1889 . 



Poetry. 



A SUMMER DREAM. 

(Rondeau) 

A summer dream that ling’ring stays 
Through snows and storms of winter days, 

Sweet as the breath of opening flower 
Jewelled and kissed by summer shower. 

And warmed to bloom by noontide rays. 

A thought that lights December ways 
With August's glowing, golden haze, 

And makes of many a winter hour 
A Summer Dream. 

’Tis thus the heart its tribute pays. 

While Reason humbly, sadly prays 
For earnest use of present power. 

And pointing where the storm clouds lour 
Strives to dispel the filmy maze. 

A Summer Dream. 

Montreal. Helen Fairbairn. 

Societies. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Thco Dora met as usual on Tuesday, February 
12th. Readings were given by Miss Jeannie Bot- 
terell and Miss Baillie. Miss Whitehead read a very 
good essay upon “ Missions in China.” Miss Wil- 
liams then gave a paper on the “China Inland Mis- 
sion,” which deserves special mention as calculated 
to be the most effective ever read in the Society. It 
was well written, but its merit lay not so much in 
this as in the earnestness with which its writer voiced 
an appeal to her hearers that was nothing short of 
heart-stirring. The vote of thanks passed to the 
essayists was a very hearty one, and all must have felt 
at the close of the meeting, that a more profitable as 
well as enjoyable hour they had seldom spent. 

Another meeting was held on Tuesday, Feb. 26. Miss 
Evans, B.A , gave an interesting paper upon the “Geo- 
graphy of India,” followed by an essay from Miss 
Smith upon the History of the same country. A let- 
ter received from Mr. J. Hudson Tayloi’, founder of 
the China Inland Mission, was read by Miss Williams, 
Secretary. It contained some greatly desired infor- 
mation regarding the different ways open for dispos 
ing of the Society’s funds. The letter was long and 
interesting, and closed with a promise to the effect 
that communication with the Theo Dora should not 
be dropped, but should be kept up in the future 
through one of the lady missionaries. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this Society was held on Saturday 
night at the University Club, at which Mr. Selkirk 
Cross presided, and there were preseut, Professors T. 
Wesley Mills, C. II. McLeod and Mr. Hutchinson, 
Messrs. Dixou, B.A., Skaife, B.Ap.Sc., J. R. Dougall, 
M. A., Dr. Kelley, Dr. Craik, Topp, B.A., Ferguson, 
B.C.L.. Sproule, B.Ap.S., Hamilton, B.Ap.Sc., Rev E. 
M. Tavlor, Walbank, B.Ap.Sc., Hibbard, B.A., and 
MacPhail, B.A. 

The representative fellows, Messrs. Hutchinson, 



122 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1889. 



Skaife, Dougall and Dr. Kelley and Dr. Craik, gave a 
full and satisfactory account of their work in the cor- 
poration during the past year. A general discussion 
followed, in which questions affecting the University 
were taken up and discussed with moderation and 
earnestness. The tendency of it was in the direction 
of encouraging the raising of the standard for matri- 
culation and of introducing the teaching of Canadian 
history into the University. 

A sub-committee was appointed to collect statistics 
of the number of students in attendance at all the 
Canadian universities. 

A vote of thanks was tendered to the retiring repre- 
sentatives, and the following were nominated : For 

medicine, Dr. T. Wesley Mills; for Science, Mr. 
Wilfred Skaife ; for Arts, Mr. J. R. Dougall; for Law, 
Mr. M. Hutchinson. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The meeting of the Delta Sigma Society, delayed 
from February 7th to February 14th, owing to the 
intervention of Carnival festivities, was an unusually 
jolly one, although the attendance was excessively 
small. Miss McLea read an essay upon “ The Dis- 
covery of the World and Natural Science,” in which 
she treated a wide subject in a clear and interesting 
manner. Miss MacFarlane followed with a carefully 
prepared essay on “The Discovery of the Universe, 
grouped around Copernicus.” 

Miss Derick acted as critic. 

The Impromptu Debate—" Resolved, that a wealthy 
leisure class is an evil in a community” — was some- 
what hurried, owing to the lateness of the hour. 
Nevertheless, there was good speaking on both sides. 
Miss Hunter, in particular, carried her audience with 
her. The affirmative won by a very large majority. 

The debaters were— Miss Abbott and Miss Hunter 
on the affirmative, and Miss Williams and Miss Inez 
Botterell on the negative. 

I he Society met on Thursday, February 21st, at 
4 p.m., Miss Botterell, vice-president, in the chair. 

1 lie debate “ Resolved, that patronage is conducive 
to the free play of genius,” was opened by Miss Wil- 
liams in a telling speech, decidedly the best of the 
afternoon. 

The debaters were — Miss Williams and Miss Mac- 
Donald on the affirmative, and Miss Ross and Miss 
Henderson on the negative. The vote was taken in 
favour of the affirmative. Miss Inez Botterell deliv- 
ered a short criticism. 

I here was no after discussion of the subject among 
the members. 

Two songs from the Glee Club brought the pro- 
ceedings to a close. 



THE UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

I he weekly meeting of this Societ}" was held in 
the University Club-rooms on Friday evening, the 
22nd February, Mr. A. A. Oui-htred in the chair. 
The subject of debate—" Is it the duty of the Do- 
minion Government to disallow the Jesuit Estates’ 



Act ? ” which has given rise to such heated discussion, 
especially by theologians in Ontario and the Evan- 
gelical Alliance in this city, was discussed in a very 
temperate and logical manner. Professor McGoun 
led in the affirmative by a very impressive speech, 
and was supported by Mr. F. Topp, and for the nega- 
tive Mr. R. C. Smith, who vigorously denied the right 
of veto of the Dominion Government in this matter, 
in which he was supported by Mr. J. W. Ferguson. 
After some discussion by the members present, the 
question was decided in the affirmative. 

The regular weekly meeting of this Society was 
held in the University Club-rooms on Friday evening, 
1st March, Mr. A. R. Oughtred in the chair. The 
subject of debate — a somewhat one-sided question — 
" Is modern civilization superior to ancient?” — was 
opened on the affirmative by Mr. F. W. Hibbard, sup- 
ported by Mr. A. G. Cross ; and Mr. LeRos- 
signol, in a neat, well prepared address, led the 
negative, followed by Mr. Oughtred. The meet- 
ing decided in the affirmative. The public debate is 
fixed for the 22nd March, when it is expected that a 
debate on some important subject will take place. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Feb. 15th. The meeting was opened in due form, 
the president in the chair. Among other items of 
business, a hearty vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. 
J. R. Dougall, M.A., for his kindness in presenting 
the petition of the Society to the Corporation of the 
University at its late meeting. 

G. Moore opened the literary part of the pro- 
gramme by a philosophical essay on the history and 
character of " Empiricism.” 

The reader, Mr. Archibald, favoured the Society 
with a selection from " Sketches by Boz.” 

The subject appointed for discussion Avas — " Re- 
solved, that Imperial Federation is practicable.” 
Messrs. Kinghorn and Ryan maintained the affirma- 
tive, opposed by Messrs. Henderson and Hall, who 
contested their views. Decision Avas given by the 
Society in favour of the negative, in spite of the bril- 
liant efforts made by the affirmative. 

The Glee Club gave a selection, and A. G. Nicholls, 
the critic for the evening, closed the programme with 
a short criticism. 

leb. 22nd. The regular meeting of the Society 
was held this evening, the president in the chair. 

r ihe programme Avas opened by a descriptive essay 
by F. M. Fry on "A 75 mile' Canoe Trip.” The 
essayist shoAved scenic poAvers of a high order, and 
was complimented by the Society’s critic. 

S. W. Mack, in his energetic style, folloAved Avith 
a reading. 

The debate for the evening was—" Resolved, that 
judges should be elected by the people.” The affirma- 
tive was supported by Messrs. S. Moore, Kollmyer, 
and Trenholme ; the negative by Messrs. W. Rogers’ 
W. Le Rossignol, and Ryan. After an animated, °and 
in some respects strong discussion, the question Avas 
decided in favour of the negative. 

W. D. Gibson, of the graduating class, closed the 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



/ 



123 



meeting with a somewhat eulogistic critique of the 
programme. 

March 1st. — 1'he semi-annual address was delivered 
by S. P. Robins, M. A., LL.D., Principal of the Normal 
School. Dr. Robins, after a welcome from the Society, 
said : — In addressing you I feel especial pleasure, for 
1 have never lost my respect for young men. I have 
seen young men with a fair future go down to igno- 
miny and shame, but I am glad to say that I have seen 
more who have fulfilled their promise of a noble 
career. 

I have chosen to say a few words to you about 
literature Why have we spent so many years over liter- 
ature so long past 1 Is there any reason why we should 
read Homer, and hear of the deeds of heroes and demi- 
gods who never existed 1 

It may be said what we want are facts. Facts are 
what raise us above the ‘ ignomine vulgus,’ but for 
mysell facts are not sufficient. Truth, in so far as it 
is separated from Beauty, must be fragmentary. When 
Truth, Beauty and Goodness go hand in hand, then 
are we satisfied. Loud-voiced Science will not be 
overlooked, but Literature, the meek, is in danger of 
being passed by. The railway system has grown up 
in our time. Morse operated his trial telegraph when 
1 was at school. In 1838 the first steamer crossed 
from England to America. To the science of the 
nineteenth century we owe a vast deal. 

While Science makes some men rich, and many 
comfortable, Literature makes the men themselves. 

From the time when Cadmus invented letters we 
have had men recording their thoughts on paper. But 
this is not literature unless it be the communication 
of power as well as knowledge. A cook-book, or an 
almanac, cannot be called literature, despite the infor- 
mation we receive from it. 

I would not barter Shakespeare for any half-dozen 
scientists. The things which are worth listening to 
are those which appeal to the universal instinct. 

But how are we to study literature 1 There are 
many ways. We may take Spalding and study Milton 
through him. Far better read Milton’s works them- 
selves with diligence. Again, we may study it as we 
do the Latin and Greek poets, by analyzing the gram- 
matical construction, verbage and rhythm. In this 
way we lose much of the beauty of the writing. Let 
it be studied so that one may appreciate the thoughts 
of the writer. 

The study of literature teaches us a moderate esti- 
mate of ourselves and our times. 

The past has achieved much, and to appreciate the 
glory with which it is crowned we must study the 
poets of old days, as well as the works of the present. 
The end of the eighth book of the Iliad surpasses in 
description, anything in my knowledge, either ancient 
or modern. 

I would have you keep alive the beautiful in your 
minds, by cultivating literature which keeps us in 
touch with the unseen and the eternal. 

After a hearty and well deserved tribute of applause 
to the speaker for his excellent lecture, Judge David- 
son, one of the old Presidents of the Society, ad- 
dressed the gathering shortly. The attendance, owing 
to the proximity of examinations, was somewhat slim. 



Personals. 



Ogilvie, B.A. Sc., ’84, now of Omaha, U.S., was in 
town during Carnival week. 

H. S. McLennan, ’85, is located in Banff, N. W.T. He 
still takes as lively an interest in the University 
Gazette as when at College. 

Hamilton, Green and Matheson, not unknown to 
the men of Science in the olden days, are developing 
the industries of Colorado in the Pueblo Smelting 
Works. 

Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor, the eminent young 
artist, who has been spending a few days in the city, 
was “ elevated ” by the meds. while on a visit to their 
buildings. 

The Gazette is always ready to publish informa- 
tion concerning graduates who are in active life, and 
request that they send us any personals that may come 
to their knowledge. 

Late advices from Dr. Macdonell, report him in 
excellent health. He is at present in the south of 
Europe, and will land in Canada about May 5. It is 
expected that he will as usual deliver the lectures on 
Hygiene in the Summer Session, and when the win 
ter term opens, may he be found making the fresh- 
men “ toe the mark ” as only Dr. Dick can. 



Exchanges. 



The University Monthly has a well-filled number 
for February. The editors make a striking distinc- 
tion in the arrangement of their editorials — sugges- 
tive at least if not necessary. 

The distinction might profitably be observed among 
more of our college magazines, and the matter in one 
department — we do not say which — extended. The 
Monthly has a well written article on “ Function of 
Criticism,” and a continuation of the article “ What 
Constitutes an Educated Man 1 ” 

The Dalhousie Gazette always contains a great deal 
of valuable material, and the paper itself covers a 
wide range. The matter at the command of the 
editors is evidently abundant, and all that is left to 
them is to exercise a greater discretionary talent. 

Judging from the Tuftonian, one would say that 
Tufts College was an institution where the students 
are able and willing to support a good journal. 

The breezy and discursive little Almafilian makes 
curious reading as an exponent of genuine college 
life. In the last number there is a deep bewailing 
of the proclivities of the young ladies for squander- 
ing an undue amount of their visible means of sup- 
port in the purchase of candy. We all have our 
weaknesses, and some of us our vices. 

The Varsity possesses an interest that extends be- 
yond the department of exchanges, and editors of 
all college papers could gain some good ideas from it, 
on the selection and arrangement of their material. 



124 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



It appears to be closely in touch with the progress of 
the University and the needs of students. 

In the recent number of the Atlantis the editors 
naively admit that it is their first journalistic effort. 
We would just hint fraternally, that it is customary 
to correct the proofs before the paper is printed. Ihe 
system they have adopted indicates a commendable 
desire for accuracy, and their solution of the difficulty 
is, as far as we are aware, original, but the pencil 
markings through the paper interfere somewhat with 
the artisticness of its make-up. 



Between the Lectures. 



Young man — “ Will you give assent to my marriage 
to your daughter, sir? ” 

Old man (firmly) — “ No, sir, not a cent.” 

Said Bobby to the minister at dinner — “ Can a 
church whistle? ” “ Why do you ask ?” “ ’Cos pa 

owes $10 back pew rent, and he says he’s going to let 
the church whistle for it.” 

Professor : Mr. , you have a wonderful facul- 

ty of learning to forget.” 

Student (aside) : “ Not so much that I learn to 

forget as I forget to learn.” 

At the Philharmonic. — Musical Director : “ Ladies, 
it is de habbet of de Pheelharmoneec always to wear 
black at de concert, so weel you have de goodness all 
to come on Thursday as black as posseeble .” (Ap- 
plause.) 

And so brandy can be distilled from sawdust. We 
are friends of temperance in college and out of col- 
lege, but what chance has it when an impecunious 
student can take a rip-saw and go out and get drunk 
on a fence rail. 

* Yes, Mr. Smith,” said the wanting-to-make-an- 
impression young lady, “ I am the only one of our 
family who is not fearfully lazy. You ought to see 
me fly round in the mornings ; why, I generally have 
the beds made before the others are up.” 

A London daily has been printing Ouidas’ novel 
“ Othman,” and some kind editor has deigned to 
translate the many French phrases which constantly 
crop up. The heroine speaks of laying by funds for 
a rainy day — “ une poire pour le soif,” as Ouida puts 
it, but the kind editor translates it “as a pear for her 
thirstiness.” 

Professor (to student who has covered the black 
board with the working of an example) — “ Put the 
equal to a known quantity.” 

Student — Puts a character on the board like an 
Egyptian hieroglyphic. 

Professor — “ That is W ’s idea of a known 

quantity.” 

Professor (to Mr. C.) — “ Give the symptoms from 
which you would diagnose phthisis.” 

Mr. C. (quoting voluminously from note book), 
gives, among other symptoms — “A disinclination to 
study.” 



Professor— Evidently, Mr. C., you have no con- 
sumptive tendency.” 

Dean Stanley was not equal to his opportunities 
when he performed the marriage ceremony for Profes- 
sor Tyndall. The Dean should have asked the groom, 
“ Do you take this anthropoid to be your co-ordinate, 
to love with your nerve centres, to cherish with your 
whole cellular tissue, until a final molecular disturb- 
ance shall resolve its organism into its primitive 
atoms ? ” 

It is said — 

I. That Cook’s importance will increase steadily to 
the 20th of March. 

II. That the King had better mind his eye. 

III. That a certain professor will use the gad next 
year. 

IV. That Jurisprudence is a hazy subject. 

And lastly, that some youthful Pathologists have 
fertile imaginations. 

Eminent statesman (walking up to reporter) — My 
face is familiar to you, I presume ? 

Reporter — I have certainly seen you somewhere, 
and yet I cannot exactly — 

Eminent Statesman — There is no use in trying to 
keep anything from the watchful eye of a reporter. 
You recognize me, of course, as Congressman Blank ? 

Reporter — Why so it is ! May I enquire, sir, the 
object of your visit to our locality ? 

Eminent Statesman (with dignity) — You may say, 
sir, that I am travelling through here in a quiet way, 
and as far as possible avoiding publicity. 



College T£lorl6. 



T he fourth Greek Letter Society among the young 
ladies of Cornell University has been formed recently. 

Hereafter no student can matriculate from the Uni- 
versity of the Pacific at San Jose, Cal., who uses 
tobacco in any form. 

Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, a Girton graduate, has set up 
a first-class millinery establishment and lunch-rooms 
in London, and is making a fortune at her business. 

The Faculty of Cornell University, in flat footed 
fashion, has lately given formal notice to students that 
they must choose between becoming professional ath- 
letes, or graduates of Cornell. 

Princeton is about to erect her eighth dormitory. 
In cost and architectural beauty it will be second only 
to Witherspoon Hall — at present the second hand- 
somest college dormitory in the United States. 

The woman’s annex of Columbia College has been 
more fortunate than the Harvard annex in finding an 
appropriate and graceful title. It has become “ Bar- 
nard College,” in honor of President Barnard, while 
the Harvard school is still looking for a fitting name 
to take the place of its cumbersome official title. 

At Harvard change has been made in the required 
Freshman Course in Elementary Physics. Formerly 
Electricity alone has been considered, but this year 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



125 



1889.] 



the lectures will be on various subjects in Physics 
and Mechanics. The lectures will be conducted by 
five different instructors, instead of by one, as for- 
merly. 

In Michigan University “a larger proportion of 
women than of men are taking by choice the full 
classical course,” President Angell reports. Men are 
becoming scientific rather than classical, on account of 
the new openings in scientific professions, while 
women study Greek and Latin, to meet the require- 
ments of teachers. 

All the seniors at the Bordertown Female College, 
New Jersey, have withdrawn from the school on 
account of language used by the Principal, liev. W. 
C. Bowen, at one of the recitations recently. The 
subject under discussion was the state of morals in 
England during the seventeenth century as compared 
with that of the present day. 

In Germany, after a girl graduates, she is sent into 
the country to the house of some notable housewife, 
where she remains a year, learning the most approved 
method of household work. Some towns have started 
schools for this work, notably Hamburg. In England 
there is a training college for English housewives at 
“ Goodrest,” near Kenilworth. 

The Gamma Delta, of Boston University had their 
annual reception to the friends, faculty and young 
men students of the ’Varsity, a short time ago. The 
blushing Gammas superintended everything them- 
selves. Seven refreshment tables were presided over 
by different officers. The affair took place in the 
afternoon, and over a thousand people were pres- 
ent. 

The centennial celebration of Georgetown Univer- 
sity was held recently. The following telegram from 
the Pope was read to the assembled Alumni by Father 
Murphy : “ Leo XIII sends congratulations and best 

wishes to the Rector, the Professors, and the Alumni.” 
The University of Christiania, in Sweden, also sent 
congratulations, and letters of a similar character were 
received from Harvard College, Michigan, Vassar, Rut- 
gers, and Lehigh Universities, and many other institu- 
tions of learning. 

One of the latest developments of Western Ingen- 
uity is the American Women’s College of Practical 
Arts, inaugurated in Chicago by Mrs. Helen M. Mott, 
Mrs. Charles B. Smith and Miss Katherine G. Todd, 
well-known ladies of Albany, N Y. It is designed 
to give women a practical insight into the avenues of 
business life, such as law, railroads, life insurance, 
journalism and general office work, its object being to 
enable women to manage their own affairs. It is evi- 
dently calculated to be of value to women of wealth 
as well as moderate means It is the outgrowth of 
modern practical knowledge and has no counterpart 
elsewhere. 

The following list of college colors has been com- 
piled : Dartmouth, dark green ; Rutgers, scarlet ; Har- 
vard, crimson; Brown, brown; Williams, royal 
purple ; Bowdoin, white ; Wesleyan, cardinal and 
black ; University of Pennsylvania, blue and red ; 



Hamilton, rose pink ; Vassar, pink and grey ; Trinity, 
old gold and blue ; Madison, orange and black ; Am- 
herst, white and purple ; Lafayette, white and maroon ; 
Central University, old gold and olive green ; Cornell, 
cornelian and white ; Renssalaer Polytechnic, cherry; 
Adelbert, Bismarck brown and purple; Tufts, blue 
and brown ; University of Mississippi, blue and 
maize ; Columbia, blue and white ; Swarthmore, gar- 
net; Union, garnet; Fordman, maroon ; McGill, red 
and white. 

The latest innovation at Princeton College is the 
foundation of a new magazine to be published quar- 
terly, and to be edited by members of the Faculty. 
The Princeton College Bulletin is its name, and hence- 
forth it will be one of Princeton’s fixtures. The con- 
tents of the Bulletin will consist mostly of papers 
prepared in connection with the philosophic, scientific, 
and literary departments of the college not otherwise 
intended for publication ; in addition there will be 
summaries of papers read or published, reports of pub- 
lic or special lectures, notes on recent original work 
or investigations, notes of current information, and 
notices of elective courses offered for the ensuing 
term. All the professors and fellows of the college 
will be contributors in the especial departments to 
which each belong. 



itorrespon&ence. 



Mr. Editor, — Going into the room of a second year 
student in Arts one day recently, I discovered on his 
shelves a book entitled “ History of England for Be- 
ginners,” by Arabella B. Buckley. On chaffing him 
about the possession of such a book, he gravely 
informed me that it was the work prescribed in Eng- 
lish History for the Intermediate Examination of 
McGill. This aroused my curiosity, and I picked up 
the book and glanced hastily through it, and found it 
to be apparently what its name implies — a child’s his- 
tory. It is written mostly in words of two syllables, 
so as to be within the comprehension of the little dears. 
Its general style, too, is distinctly feminine. The 
authoress describes the color of the hair and eyes of 
almost every being. Almost every chapter begins 
with — “ He was a tall, strong man, with dark hair and 
gentle eyes,” or, “ He was a strong, fierce man, with 
a red face, yellow hair, and keen gray eyes.” This is 
no doubt well calculated to arouse the interest of the 
children of tender years who are making their first 
acquaintance with history under Miss Buckley’s guid- 
ance ; but to the average reader of maturer years 
such formulas after a time become monotonous. 

Now, Mr. Editor, is it not somewhat of an anomaly 
that such a book should hold a place on a University 
Course? It seems to me that the study of the outlines 
of English History belongs anyway to the public 
school and high school rather than to the University ; 
and that to place such a book as the above before un- 
dergraduates of second year standing, grave sopho- 
mores, is little better than adding insult to injury. 

If I am wrong in this or in my estimation of the 
book, I will be very glad if you, Sir, or any of your 



126 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



readers, will set me right. Thanking you for so much 
of your valuable space, I remain, 

Bertal, H. 

[We are not aware that the book referred to if pro 
scribed in the Course of Study — it does not appear in 
the Calendar of the University. — Eds. University 
Gazette.] 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

O. Bose 173-4, - lNzEontrea-1. 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© 0-erra.ra. Street East, Toronto. 

D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

Shirt Mahers and lea’s Faraishers, 

NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cut, Singed and Dressed, 

— (3-0 TO — 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

T77"ir».ca.eor Hotel Bloclc, Peel Street. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO’Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

F’WXeE -WATER. 

FEEFECT WOEK. 

FEOUFT EELIVEET. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

= ) BU Y YOUR ( == 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK. 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire. Life. Accident. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

AcLdress : 

30 ST. JOH1T STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO.. 



335 <Sz 387 Srr. Steeet. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebuhtep Hot Woter Heutebs 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—{•Wholesale Manufacturers-!— 





Hot Air Furnaces 




FOR 


jfe'i-.- ji ,ii 

roman 

t ■■ i 

I g||| | Ml 1 Jf Kijjf 


Coal or Wood. 


ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 


Hill 


Circulars on Application. 


1 j|| SjJ |! f| 






385 & 387 




- St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 

\ 



Established 1850. 

IE3- G-Ti^rz'i 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving ^ printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Gards, Grests, programmes 
JWonogFams, & c., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

IfANTAXTA OIGARS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

K. A. Q'JSRTH* 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Me PHOTOGRAPHY ajN- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., |?o to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



S 5^ till $todk dog^tkritly or) ©kqd, Imported 
©fredt from tl^e I^ekding Jdkgufkdtufefd 
of tl)e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 




Jfevo Beale of 'Prices this year 
for Biudenis. 



THE GENUINE 

Cook’s Fbiend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is tlie BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, Rives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 



MONTREAL STEAM LM1NDRI CO., 

(LIMITED.) 

21, 2H & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special i?iducevietits to 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 



Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

IMTOiTT KE-iLX,. 




1350 and 1352 IT O THE DAME ST., CORXTER. McCILX,. 

The only Strictly First-cla^s 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

ZR/E^iDY-INlE^IDIE CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

J®- SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. ~m 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will repay you. 




