CGlbb PORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. IV. 



MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 19, 1896. 



No. 10 




& EDITORIAL BOARD ft 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretai'y — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp, Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. *96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med. ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda *96) 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



& BUSINESS BOARD & 



S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97), Chairman . 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda *96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. '96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM. 

It has been suggested that the Fortnightly 
might discharge a congenial duty, and help along a 
good cause by directing the attention of the students 
once more to the University Gymnasium. We 
believe it will not be difficult to catch the undergra- 
duate ear upon this subject. It is a matter which is well 
understood by the students, and has frequently been 
discussed both in and out of these columns. Indeed, 
there is a disposition in some quarters to adopt 
another line of action, namely, to stop discussing and 
go to work. As an enthusiastic and representative 
Science student, in a letter to the Editor, not long ago 
said : “There’s no use in discussing the matter; let 
us go to work and have the gymnasium.” If the 
other Faculties were similarly disposed and equally 
enthusiastic, we might expect an immediate move- 
ment towards the object in view. But there must be 
unanimity in an enterprise of this magnitude ; any- 
thinsr else is but to invite failure. We have stated 
that the condition of things at present is thoroughly 
well understood by the students. It is not necessary) 
therefore, to allude further to that. We know what 
we have. We know what we want. We want a 



modern gymnasium adequate to the needs of the 
students, worthy of the University, and not remote 
from the College, but on or near the College grounds* 
If it could be linked in with the University Club in 
some way, so much the better. 

Students of McGill who have visited Toronto Uni- 
versity from time to time have been shown with a 
just and most excusable pride by the Varsity men 
though their gymnasium. It is by acknowledgment 
the most completely equipped gymnasium in Canada, 
and it compares favorably with any University gym - 
nasium on the continent. The various steps taken 
by the students, which finally culminated in the erec- 
tion of this fine building, might be briefly recounted 
here. They will be interesting to McGill men. Not 
to go back further than 1880, it appears that in that 
year a petition was presented to the authorities, ask- 
ing that one dollar should be added to the annual 
University fee, which should be reserved for the 
equipping of a gymnasium. The petition was grant- 
ed, and a room in the old Moss Hall was accordingly 
furnished with gymnasium apparatus. We have a 
suspicion that things were not perfectly satisfactory 
under the old regime. McGill men will be able, pro- 
bably without very deep searching, to discover a resem 
blance between the state of affairs here at present, 
and that which prevailed anciently at University 
College. However, happily for the students of Var- 
sity, an accident intervened, and in 1888 the old 
| gymnasium was destroyed. During all this time and 
up to 1890 athletics were in a very unsatisfactory 
state at Varsity. There was not that system of 
general supervision and control which was felt to be 
an urgent necessity. At length, in 1892, an Athletic 
Association was formed, a constitution duly drawn 
up, and a first board of directors appointed. In the 
meantime, the Literary Society, a much more influ- 
ential and militant body in college politics than ours, 
had appointed a gymnasium committee. This com- 
mittee waited upon the University Senate, and having 
obtained a grant from it of $25,000, the work of 
building was immediately begun and actively pushed 
forward. Upon the completion of the gymnasium 
the Gymnasium Committee passed over its powers to 
the Athletic Association, which from thenceforth 
assumed among its other functions the management 
of the University gymnasium. 



178 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



This in briefest outline is the history of the 
Toronto University Gymnasium. The gymnasium 
stands to-day as a monument to the energy, persever- 
ance and business capacity of the Varsity Gymna- 
sium Committee. We mistake greatly if the students 
of McGill are lacking in any of these qualities. 
What has been done by the students of our great 
rival to the West can be done here. 

It is not proposed to unduly push this undertaking. 
The students of McGill are already interested in an 
important enterprise — the University Club. But it 
is wise to keep the gymnasium subject well to the 
front. Steps need not necessarily be taken this 
session ; but another session should not goby without 
a unanimous and well-directed movement towards 
either a new gymnasium or a radical amelioration of 
the present condition of things. 



CORRESPONDENCE 



A LETTER FROM CAP’N GOUN. 

To the Editor : — 

Dear Sir, — Many thanks for your kind invitation 
to contribute again to the columns of the Fort- 
nightly. I am much gratified that, as you state ; 
“ the boys ” desire to renew their acquaintance with 
Cap’n Goun, “the bard of former days.” But Cap’n 
Goun is dead ; dead, and buried in Kootenay Lake, 
a lake which is notable for the singular fact that it 
never yields back to air the bodies of its victims. 

When Cap’n Goun was still living, and at McGill, 
and consumed with the ambition of poetical fame, 
he penned the following lines : 

Non otnnis moriar ; — Though dead, 

Yet here, this happy throng among, 

Some verse of mine will still be read, 

Some song of mine will still be sung . 

But the poor fellow had no idea that he was going 
to have his mortal coil shuffled off so soon. Abut ad 
pleures , as the classic poet said of the once bright 
Freshman who settled down in his Second Year to a 
reliable third class. 

Under the inspiration, or enthusiasm, of the uni- 
versity spirit, I blossomed into verse- But I have 
abandoned it entirely, and forever. It might have 
been better for me had I done so sooner. Had I but 
served the Dean with half the diligence I served the 
Muse, etc. (Men of ’94 will readily construe.) 

Even if I had not resolved to leave off writing verse, 
I could not continue the practice here in British 
Columbia. The Shakspere of the Universe, the Poet 
of Creation, the Master Maker has been before me. 
And he has a tremendous advantage. His vocabu- 
lary is not of words, but of mountains. His verses 



are mountain ranges and lakes and clouds. In pres- 
ence of his work, the poetical faculty of any but a 
great genius must stand appalled. In presence of his 
work, the verse of even the best poets seems trivial, 
and my own earlier efforts imperfect. 

To such an extent has the scenery of the Pacific 
Province impressed me. I have striven to convey the 
impression in the language of a man who narrowly 
escaped being a poet, and who, I believe, would have 
been one in reality had he been compelled (as at one 
time seemed not improbable) to spend his lifetime in 
the Faculty of Arts ; for the theory of the poet ad- 
vanced by Shelley is the true one : 

“ Most wretched men 

Are cradled into poetry by wrong ; 

They learn in suffering what they teach in song.” 

Yes, I have abandoned poetry. I have left it in the 
classic halls of my Alma Mater (it was very kind of 
me not to take it away, I think) and in the pleasant 
meadows south of the St. Lawrence. 

O Alma Mater, thou wast my only love. I have 
never loved mortal as I have loved thee. A creature 
of the mind, thou wast as I would make thee; and 
thou wast admirable, lovely, most endearing. Fear 
not that I shall forget thee. In the fittest chamber of 
my heart thou art enthroned, and ever and anon I 
draw aside the portiere and gaze upon thee, not with- 
out emotion. I have been lightsome among thy -devo- 
tees ; I have made merry at thy priests, and brought 
unwillingly at times to thine altars the sacrifice that 
they required : but thou hast understood the jest, and 
pardoned the delinquency. When I have paid thee 
homage thou hast graciously overlooked the un- 
worthiness of my praise. Thou hast known me and 
approved me ; for have I not come to thee in secret 
oftentimes, and from the priceless but frail casket of 
a heart made only for devotion, emptied my affection 
entirely on thee, poured out upon thee the ointment 
of a sacrificial adoration, yea, bathed thy feet with an 
unutterable love ? 

0 Alma Mater, mother benign, most patient tea- 
cher of our wayward years, tutelary genius of our 
barbarian youth, be thou a mother of men, a mother 
of heroes ! And among thy sons, we pray thee, raise 
up one who will worthily sing thy praises and entwin e 
in the bond which inseparably unites thy children the 
golden strand of song. 

Convey my respects, Mr. Editor, to all the pro- 
fessors. Assure them that I shall pen no more humor- 
ous poetry, nor serious either, except to write in 
solemn eulogy the epitaphs of some of them. Thus 
shall I be revenged. 

1 also desire you to publish a statement of the 
death and burial of Cap’n Goun, so that no impostor 
may sneak into the temple of fame under the guise 
of the deceased poet’s former renown. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



179 



I wish you, moreover, to announce that I reserve 
all rights to poems by Cap’n Goun, and to affirm 
that none of the numerous editions of his works 
hitherto published has been authorized by me. A 
time may come when I shall publish. When the 
Faculty of Arts sees fit to make reparation by an 
LL.D., or something of that sort, I shall consent to 
immortalize its members by giving to the public the 
complete humorous and posthumorous remains of 
Cap’n Goun. 

And now, in the words of Cardinal Wolsey : 

“ Farewell, a long farewell to all my greatness.” 

Sincerely yours, 

W. M. MacKeracher. 
Kaslo, B.C., Jan. 20th, 1^96. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



AN ENGLISH BURNS. 

January 25TH, 1896. 

The recurrence of the anniversary of the birthday 
of Robert Burns leads me to recite mentally some of 
the poet’s writings; I call to mind his “Cotter’s 
Saturday Night,” “To Mary in Heaven,” “Man 
Was Made to Mourn,” and many other of his poems ; 
his hatred of wrong and oppression, his fierce denun- 
ciation of the oppressor, and his declaration that 
“ An honest man’s the noblest work of God.” 
have endeared him to the hearts of suffering human- 
ity, the wide world over. 

I am reminded of the life and writings of Ebenezer 
Elliott, who, like Burns, has been called the “poet of 
the poor;” he first gained popularity by his fierce 
utterances against the Corn Laws, which appeared to 
him on ail occasions as the “bread-tax.” Elliott was 
the pioneer of the Anti-Corn Law League, and that 
agitation is not a subject that I wish to allude to in 
the language of exultation. 

The event is past, and let it go, the remembrance 
of the struggle is well nigh buried in oblivion, — but 
the subject cannot well be tossed aside, for if it did 
nothing else, it gave birth to sentiments which survive 
in the literature of the nation, and will not readily be 
forgotten. The “ bread-tax,” as it was emphatically 
called, had many expositors among the middle 
classes, but among the people themselves it com- 
menced with a man, whose part it was not to 
expound, but to feel, — not to reason, but to sing. 
The prophetess Poetry is ever sure to make her 
appearance in troublous times and her voice is 
ever heard the richest and wildest amid the clash of 
arms. Her words are truth, her knowledge is 



intuitive, her convictions, inspirations, and she will 
therefore hear of no compromise ; caution with her is 
a coward, and expediency a knave. The people had 
not at that time begun to submit to other influences. 
The winged ministers of civilization had not yet 
commenced their flight, scatteiing a cheap and 
wholesale literature, like vivifying dew, throughout 
the land. The sons of toil would not have compre- 
hended any other than the voice that spoke to 
them, as of old, in songs and ballads. 

But the voice came, it always comes when wanted. 
It is born of nature and necessity ; — so true it is that 
men (whether they understand the cause of the 
befalling evil or not) 

iC Are cradled into poetry by wrong 

And learn in suffering what they teach in song.” 

It was the voice of Ebenezer Elliott, an individual 
who was specially born and bred for the occasion. If in 
another class of society, he would have been heard with 
suspicion ; if possessing more refinement, he would 
have been unintelligible. Coarse, wrathful, bitter, 
presumptuous, intolerant and unreasoning, he was 
exactly the man to be listened to by the working 
classes of his own generation ; but soft, gentle and 
kindly, — because a poet — in everything without the 
pale of political warfare, elevated by noble aspir- 
ings and humanizing sympathies, and full of the 
taste of nature and the fire of genius, his rhymes will 
now command a wider audience. 

How he came to write poetry is best told in his 
own words. One evening he called upon his aunt 
and she showed him a number of “ Sowerby’s 
English Botany ” which her son was purchasing 
monthly. 

“ Never shall I forget the impression made on me by the beautiful 
plates. I actually touched the figure of the primrose, half convinced 
that the mealiness on the leaves was real. I felt hurt when she 
removed the bock, but she removed it only to show me how c to 
‘ draw the figures by holding them to the light with a thin piece of 
‘ paper before them.’ On finding that I could so draw them cor- 
rectly, I was lifted at once above the inmates of the alehouse, at least 
a foot in mental stature. My first effort was a copy of the primrose, 
under which I wrote its Latin name, Primula Veris Vulga?'is . So 
thenceforward, when I happened to have a spare hour, I went to 
my aunt ? s to draw.” 

A few books possessed by his father were very ser- 
viceable, and they paved the way for better ones. 
According to his own account, he was nourished 
only on strong meats. 

“ I never could read a feeble book through ; it follows that I read 
masterpieces only, after Milton, Shakespeare ; then Ossian, then 
Junius ; with my father’s Jacobinism as a commentary ; Paine’s 
‘Common Sense;’ Swift’s ‘Tale of a Tub ; ’ ‘Joan of Arc;’ 
Schiller’s ‘Robbers;’ Burger’s ‘Leonora;’ Gibbon’s ‘Decline 
and Fall ; ’ and long afterwards Tasso, Dante, De Stael, Schlegel, 
Hazlitt, and the * Westminster Review.’ ” 

A man of genius, whose daily literary food con- 
sisted exclusively of masterpieces, might have been 
expected to grow into something extraordinary. 

Here, then, with commercial disasters and distress 
around him, we [reach the origin of the “ Corn Law 
Rhymes ;” — suspicion, anger and dismay were in every 
face, and envy, hatred, malice, and uncharitableness, 



i8o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



in every heart. The name Elliott gave to this com- 
plication of disorders was “ bread-tax ; ” and since a 
name was necessary, it was the best possible name 
that could be devised. It is true the question was 
mixed up with the complications of a highly-artifi- 
cial system of society ; but rough common sense, 
throwing aside the refinement of dialectics, went 
straight to the visible, tangible, practical point. 

Bread-tax, although a political subject in the 
abstract, is anything but that when it comes home to 
men’s business and bosoms in the form of hunger. 
It is then to poetry what politics is to political 
philosophy, and instead of the higher order of feel- 
ings supposed to be peculiar to the lofty rhyme, it 
leads to personal animosities and vulgar abuse. 
Elliott did not sing, but scream ; he did not lament, 
but blaspheme ; his verses were curses showered 
right and left with indiscriminate fury. No matter; 
they stirred the heart of the multitude, and roused 
the curiosity of the refined ; and at length it was 
discovered that this Corn Law Rhymer, an unknown 
author before then, was a true poet. The “ Corn 
Law Rhymer ” is the name by which he is known ; 
but if he had written nothing else, the world would 
not come to his grave, as it does now, to question 
with eager sympathy, “ What manner of man was 
this ? ” Even in the Corn Law Rhymes, however 
coarse and vulgar as many of them are, there is a 
touch of true poetic fire. I subjoin two or three 
specimens, all-original, and all-powerful : — 

What for Saxon, Frank, or Hun, 

What hath England’s bread-tax done ? 

Ask the struggle and the groan 
For the shadow of a bone ; 

Like a strife for life, for life, 

Hand to hand, and knife to knife. 

* * * * 

Bread -tax’d weaver, all can see 
What that tax hath done for thee, 

. And thy children, vilely led, 

Sjnging hymns for shameful bread, 

Till the stones in every street 
Know their little naked feet. 

Child what hast thou with sleep to do ? 

Awake, and dry thine eyes ! 

Thy tiny hands must labor too ; 

Our bread is tax’d, arise ! 

Arise and toil long hours twice seven, 

For pennies two or three ; 

Thy woes make angels weep in Heaven — 

Our England still is free. 

* * * * 

They smite in vain who smite with swords, 

And scourge with vollied fire : 

Our weapon is the whip of word 
And truth’s all teaching ire ; 

The blow it gives, the wound it makes, 

Life yet unborn shall see, 

And shake it like a whip of snakes 
At unborn Villany. 

Wherever there was any wrong-doing, there was 
Elliott, foremost in defence of the poor man ; on the 
occasion of a public footpath being closed (and it is 
necessary to live in rural England, to realize with 
what jealousy the public right of way is guarded) 
Elliott wrote 



Wolves with the hearts of devils, 

They steal our footpaths too, 

The poor man’s walk they take away, 

The solace of his only day, 

Where now unseen the flowers are blowing 
And all unheard, t lie stream is flowing, 

What worse could devils do ? 

In some pretty verses entitled “ Forest Worship/' 
he sings : — 

Within the sun-lit forest, 

Our roof the bright blue sky, 

Where fountains flow, and wild flowers blow, 

We lift our hearts on high ; 

Beneath the frown of wicked men 
Our country’s strength is bowing ; 

But thanks to God ! they can’t prevent 
The sweet wild flowers from blowing. 

His respect for men who, from humble origin, have 
risen to fame is well expressed in his poem entitled 
“ Love.” 

“ Remember Hogarth, and abjure despair, 

Remember Arkwright and the peasant Clure, 

Burns o’er his plough sang sweet his wood notes wild, 

And richest Shakespeare was a poor man’s child/ 7 

His homage to Burns is well sung : — 

That Heaven’s beloved die early, 

Prophetic Pity mourns; 

But old as Truth, although in youth, 

Died giant-hearted Burns. 

O that I were the daisy 

That sank beneath his plough, 

“ Or neighbor meet,” that “ skylark sweet, ’’ 

Say, are they nothing now ? 

That mouse, (t our fellow-mortal , 99 
Lives deep in nature’s heart ; 

Like earth and sky, it cannot die 
Till earth and sky depart. 

Thy Burns, child-honor’d Scotland ! 

Is many minds in one ; 

With thought on thought, the name is fraught, 

Of glory’s peasant son. 

* ♦ * * * 

Be proud, man-childed Scotland! 

Of earth’s unpolished gem ; 

And “ Bonny Doon,” and “ heaven aboon,’* 

For Burns hath hallowed them. 

His principal poems, “ Love,” “ The Village 
Patriarch,” “The Vernal Walk,” etc., are well- 
sustained efforts, and full of charming verses, which 
might be quoted if space permitted ; from the first 
mentioned poem I select the following : — 

“ Love > ’twas my heart that named thee ! sweetest word, 

Here, or in highest Heaven, pronounced or heard ! 

Whether by seraph near the throne above, 

Or soul-sick maiden in the vernal grove, 

Or matron with her first-born on her knee, 

Or sweeter, lisp’d by rose lipp’d infancy ! ' 

\ es. Love, my heart did name thee ! not because 
Thy mandate gave the bright-hair d comet laws ; 

Nor that thy hand, in good almightiest showers 
The ever -blooming, fiery-petall’d flowers 
Wide o’er the fields of hyacinthine Heaven ; 

But that to me thy richest smile hath giv’n * 

Bliss, tried in pain, so, mid my rosy boys, 

In joy and grief, I sing thy griefs and joys.” 

One can scarcely turn a page of his writings 
without a desire to furnish an extract. His prologue 
to his Corn Law Rhymes: 

tor thee, my country, thee, do I perform. 

Sternly, the duty of a man set free.” 

and his “ Poet s Prayer ” give us a fair insight into 
his character * 

“ Almighty Father, let thy lowly child, 

Stiong in his love of truth, be wisely bold 

A patriot bard, by sycophants revil’d, 

Let him live usefully, and not die old 1 



McGill fortnightly. 



i 8 i 



Let poor men’s children, pleas’d to read his lays 
Love, for his sake, the scenes where he hath been. 
And, when he ends his pilgrimage of days, 

Let him be buried where the grass is green ; 

Where daisies, blooming earliest, linger late 
To hear the bee his busy note prolong — 
dhere let him slumber, and in peace await 

The dawning morn, far from the sensual throng, 

Who scorn the wild flower’s blush, the redbreast’s song.” 

Elliott, as I have said, had a passion for flowers, — 
of all passions the most elegant and innocent. 
They glow in every page of his works, and perfume 
the very book. His picture of a mechanic’s garden 
is delightful in its homely simplicity ; but when the 
poor blind patriarch of the village comes to the spot 
where his early loves used to bloom, and bends 
fondly over them, and bids them 

u Speak to a poor blind man. And thou canst speak 
I o the lone blind. Still, still thy tones can reach 
His listening heart, and soothe, or bid it break.” 

We, that is, if we be in good moral health, and true 
manliness of nature, are startled into tears. 

In the space allotted to me I have shown some- 
thing of the consangunity between the poet and the 
man — almost as it is painted by himself in the 
subjoined epitaph. It was for that I have thus dis- 
quieted thee to bring thee up. And now, brave 
Elliott, return to your rest, and may the flowers that 
you loved in life perfume your grave! 

THE POET’S EPITAPH. 

Stop, Mortal ! Here thy brother lies, 

The Poet of the Poor, 

His books were rivers, woods and skies, 

The meadow and the moor ; 

His teachers were the lorn heart’s wail, 

The tyrant and the slave, 

The street, the factory, the gaol ; 

The palace and the grave ! 

The meanest thing,, earth’s feeblest woim, 

He fear’d to scorn or hate ; 

And honor’d in a peasant’s form, 

The equal of the great. 

But if he loved the rich who make 
The poor man’s little more, 

111 could he praise the rich who take 
From plunder’d labor’s store. 

A hand to do, a head to plan, 

A heart to feel and dare — 

Tell man’s worst foes, here lies the man, 

Who drew them as they are. 

It may be that some of my readers may now hear 
of Ebenezer Elliott for the first time ; but 50 years 
ago his name was a “ household word ” amongst the 
working classes in England ; the agitation for the 
repeal of the Corn Law was probably the most note- 
worthy political event of the reign of Victoria, and 
its success may in a great measure be attributed to 
the stainless character of its leaders. It may not be 
uninteresting to record the fact, that Charles Pelham 
Villiers, who first moved the repeal in the House of 
Commons (and on the occasion of that first division 
found only one other member to go into the lobby 
with him), is alive to-day, aged 94, and is still M.P. 
for Wolverhampton, having represented that consti- 
tuency without interruption for 61 years; and in the 
market place at Sheffield, on the spot where, in the 
heat and anger of a public meeting, Ebenezer 



Elliott prayed that the Duke of Buckingham “ might 
come to beg his bread” (and when, subsequently, 
misfortune fell upon the Duke, he publicly 
expressed his thanks that his prayer had been 
answered), there stands to-day a monument, raised 
by the people, to the memory of him whom they 
regard as 

“ Our friend when other friends we’d none, 

Our champion when we had but one.” 

In the words of Sir Robert Peel, it may be said 
that he bore 

u A name remembered with expressions of goodwill in the abodes 
of those whose lot it is to labor and to earn their daily bread with the 
sweat of their brow, when they shall recruit their exhausted streng'h 
with abundant and untaxed food, the sweeter because it is no longer 
leavened with a sense of injustice.” 

H, M. 



LES PRECIEUSES. 

“ Vous n’avez possible pas entendu parler en vos quartiers 
de la Pr£cieuse; et vous allez vous imagmer que e’est quel- 
que raret£ de l’Ouest, ou quelque miracle des Indes et des 
pays 61oign6s.” 

Abbe de Pure . 

Without assuming that the readers of the FORT- 
NIGHTLY are as ignorant of la Precieuse as the 
Reverend Abbe Massare, I may be allowed to 
suppose that a short account of the movement will be 
interesting. Everyone who has read Moliere knows 
what “ Les Precieuses ” were; but as to who they 
were even Roederer and Victor Cousin disagree. 
Before the time of the former it was generally supposed 
that Moliere’s satire was directed against Madame de 
Rambouillet and her friends ; but he contends that it 
was rather against the less distinguished habitues of 
Melle. de Scudery’s Samedis. Cousin maintains 
that the latter was too truly cultured to drop into 
the affectation that characterizes the Precieuses,. and 
consequently passes the satire on to their bourgeois 
imitators. I do not champion either view; but for 
my own part, considering the position that Mile, 
de Scudery holds in the annals of Literature, and 
the illustrious names that we find among the atten- 
dants of her Salon, I am inclined to accept Cousin’s 
theory. Both these ladies did much for the advance- 
ment of woman, and they deserve a great deal of the 

credit for the abandonment of Chrysale’s belief : 

“ Qu’une femme on sait toujours assez a connaitre 
un pourpoint d’avec un haut-de-chausse.” They 
were the leading spirits of the social reformation. 
Too many ladies, unfortunately, of less intellectual 
force, wishing to follow them, and having no real 
culture, assumed the affectation which became the 
object of well placed ridicule. The work of those 
two ladies produced the most elegant and brilliant 
court that the world has ever seen ; their imitators were 
laughed at then, and will be laughed at as long as 
French drama is read or acted. 



182 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



At l’Hotel de Rambouillet, which was situated 
about the centre of the present Place du Carrousel, 
warriors, statesmen and authors received the. polish 
that fair woman alone can give. In the “ Ruelles ” of 
the Precieuses, pedants vaunted their own attain- 
ments and read their silly madrigals to sillier women. 
While the ladies and gentlemen of the Hotel were 
discussing interesting subjects in an agreeable and in- 
teresing manner, at the Ruelle — “ trois ou quatre 
Precieuses debitaient dans un apres-midi tout ce que 
le soleil peut avoir vu dans ses divers tours de difife- 
rentes saisons.” 

We must not imagine, however, that because 
Madame de Rambouillet and Mile, de Scudery were 
not Precieuses, that they were free from all affecta- 
tion. The former had an exaggerated delicacy in 
matters of language, and her daughter an aversion to 
marriage that led to over-refinement in speech and 
the substitution of Platonic affection for love. The 
Precieuses copied their worst features and so reflected 
discredit upon their models. 

Abbe de Pure, whom I have already quoted, dis- 
cribed the Precieuses as — “ Certaines personnes du 
beausexe qui ontsu tirer du prix commun des autres 
et qui ont acquis un espece et un rang tout particu- 
lar.” 

“ C’est un animal d’une espcce autant bizarre 
qu’inconnue.” And after vainly seeking for an 
adequate definition says : “ Les termes sont trop 
grossiers pour bien exprimer une chose si spirituelle.” 

The Precieuses were very particular with whom 
they associated. Simplicity had no charms for them. 
The plan, straightforward conversation of La Grange 
and Du Croisy is scorned, while the noisy conceit of 
Mascarille is applauded as wit of the highest order. 
They are very blind, too, for when their heirs, such 
as Trissotin and Vadius, in Les Femmes Savantes > 
abuse one another and one another’s worx in language 
more forcible than elegant, they still bow down to the 
idols of their imagination. 

The first duty of the woman who withdrew from 
the common herd and joined les Precieuses was to 
discard her name and choose one from the annals of 
antiquity. Cathos becames Aminte, and Madelon, 
Polixene. We meet no more Marguerite, Anne, or 
Charlotte, but find in their place Aspasie, Aracie and 
Citheree. Old Gorgitus becomes indignant ; but the 
opinions of ordinary persons are nothing to these 
daughters of the gods. 

It is surprising to find among women so philoso- 
phic, so superior to all worldly thoughts and emo- 
tions, a special classification of Beauties. Yet such 
there is. To define the genus, they are those beings 
who, by reason of their natural endowments, have for 
their principal aim the approbation and pleasure 
of the eyes. They are divided into Les Fieres and 



Les Severes, who differ very little in theii treatment of 
Lovers. Our Abbe slily remarks that what is com- 
mon to both, however, is that “ ni l’une ni l’autre ne 
sont pas pourtant invincibles. We must conclu 
that Armande was either a Beaut e fere or severe. 
Clitandre fell in love with her first, but her severity 
cools his ardor, when, however her sister, who accepts 
his advances, refuses to take her advice. 

“ Mariez-vous, ma sceur, a la philosophic. 

Beauty ceases to be a Precieuse, and becomes a com- 
mon scold. 

Then we have Beautes journalieres and Beautes 
changeantes. The first charm us one day, the next 
they fail to please ; but a subtle change in their eyes, 
their expression or their manner, and again they claim 
our homage. The second are those who, being passed 
“ la trentieme annee,” will never again be so beauti- 
ful. We recognize in the Beauties d 'encore and de 
plus On rnoins , a division that is still popular. The 
former are those whom the fatigue of society has 
faded ; the latter those who, having no striking 
merit, must be described by comparison. 

There are other decisions also, but these are enough 
to give as an idea of the entertaining concerts of 
these dear girls. Their modesty is charming. They 
must not praise their beauty in so many words; 
but “ la Precieuse doit savoir en douze fafons, pour 
le moins, dire qu’elle est belle, sans qu’on puisse im- 
puter a orgueil ce qu’elle peut dire de soi-meme.” 

The principal object which occupies all the care 
and attention is the search after witticisms and 
extraordinary expressions. The poorest pun is 
highly lauded, and when Madelon wants a chair she 
says to the servant : — “ Vite, voiturez-vous iciles com- 
modites de la conversation.” And in complimenting 
Mascarille on his dress, Cathos says his gloves smell 
“ terriblement bon,” and his feathers are “ effroya- 
blement belles.” 

The poor cook in Les Femmes Savantes is dis- 
missed because, even after thirty lessons she shocks 
the ears of her mistress with ungrammatical expres- 
ions. Old Chrysale wisely remarks in her defence : 

“ Qu’importe qu’elle manque aux lois de Vangelas, 
pourvu qu’a la cuisine elle ne manque pas. Je vis de 
bonne soupe, et non de beau langage.” Their days 
were spent in receiving visits from, or hearing the 
epigram of idle pedants, or in discussing anything or 
everything under the sun. They interrupt the 
author with vapid citicisms, and overwhelm him with 
extravagant flattery. 

Missotin reads his sonnet, and these are some of 
the commentaires : 

Philaminte — “ Ah ! que ce quoi qu'en die est d’un 
gout admirable.” 

Armande — “ De quoi qu'en die aussi mon cceur est 
ainoureux.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



183 



Belise. — “Je suis de votre avis, quoi qu'en die est 

heureux.” 

Armande. — “ Je voudrais l’avolr fait. Ii vaut toutc 

une piece.” 

Missotin compliments them on their learning 
and discoveries, Phitament remarks that she has 
distinctly seen men in the Moon. Belise had 
not seen men, but she saw jpteeples as clearly as she 
sees her companions. Armande caps the modest 
conversation with : “ Nous approfondirons ainsi que 
la physique, grammaire, histoire, vers, morale et poli- 
tique.” But their special study was Love. 

“ L’amour est encore un Dieu pour les Precieuses.” 
But instead of exciting passion, it forms a new reli- 
gion ; and any suitor to be acceptable must present 
himself according to rule. “ II faut qu’un amant, 
pour etre agreable, sache debiter les beaux sentiments, 
pousser le doux, le tendre et le passionne, et que sa 
recherche soit dans les formes.” 

One who visited les Precieuses at home has given us 
an account of what he heard and saw. “ On every 
side,” he says, “ I heard nothing but boastings, silly 
rhymes and stories poorly told in the most extrava- 
gant language and the worst pronunciation that can be 
imagined. “It is a strange thing,” said one, twirling his 
moustache, “that Luck and I are always at war ; she 
never desires my company ; when I have the wealth 
of the Indies I lose all at the table in one day.” “ ’Tis 
a sign,” says another, “ that the stars, unpropitious in 
play, will favor you in love.” “I know not,” answered 
the first, “ what edict Heaven will decree, but I chal- 
lenge you to mortal combat if you will not open your 
soul to the belief that to be the favorite of fortune I 
must win a wife like our fair hostess.” This vein of 
high-flavor compliment is soon exhausted, and the 
visitor hears a new strain. 

“ What do you think of my coat ? Is it not the 
finest stuff that ever passed the Customs at Lyon ? 
Does my tailor not know a thing or two ?” To this 
another replies : “ Seigneur Dieu, what an Adonis you 
are! How many Venuses sigh for you ! I know you 
have other rare virtues ; for your boots are the best 
in the world, and above all your hair is so beautifully 
curled that hearts would be lost therein as in a laby- 
rinth.” Perhaps it was from a Precieuse that Shakes- 
peare borrowed his charrrjing line. 

“ Here in her hair the painter plays the spider, and 
hath woven a mesh so fine as to ensnare the hearts of 
men faster than gnats in cobwebs.” 

This kind of conversation is not elevating, to say 
the least ; but, turning elsewhere, we hear affairs of 
State discussed, “ comme un aveugle des couleurs.” 
This is afairaccount of how the Precieuses conducted 
>mselves in their own salons ; when they went into 

the ^i(- er wor ld they were a little more ridiculous if 

‘he ou] 



Barthelemy, in La Galerie des Portraits de 
Mademoiselle Montpensier, tells us how they appear : 

“ When a Precieuse is alone in a gathering, she is 
dreadfully bored. She yawns, she does not answer 
or if she answers, it is in such a way that one sees at 
once she is not thinking of what she says. If one is 
hardy enough to rally her, or, better, sufficiently 
charitable to tell her what she has said, she bursts into 
laughter, saying : ‘ Ah, Madame, how can one think 
of what one is saying in such an assemblage.’ When 
another Precieuse appears, she is greeted with extra- 
vagant rapture, and immediately the two begin to 
criticize their neighbors, and even laugh in their 
faces. No one, however great or however learned, is 
respected. However, they seldom go to Court, as 
they are not welcomed there Very few of them 
dance, because they dance badly; but they gamble, 
since in something one must be in the fashion. 

Such were the Precieuses. Though they were ex- 
travagant and over-delicate in their language, they 
had a distinct and marked influence in the French 
language. They waged war against “ mauvais mots,” 
and endeavored to simplify the orthography of their 
native tongue. That their efforts were attended by 
success is proved by the following changes that were 
suggested by them : Teste (tete), autheur (auteur), 
aage (age), advis (avis), nopces (noces). Other 
changes that they favored were, however, not fol- 
lowed : Attend (atten), qualite (calite). 

A. Rives Hall. 

• 

Our Library is unfortunately very poorly supplied 
with works on “French Literature and Society,” — that 
of this period at least. Prof. Crane, of Cornell, has 
published a little work, giving extracts from various 
writers on the subject, and to it I am indebted for 
much of my information. 

A. R. H. 

0 

DR. PETERSON’S LECTURE AT THE 
ALUMNAE “AT HOME.” 

After expressing the great pleasure he felt in meet- 
ing the women-students and graduates of McGill 
and especially in regard to the Almunae Society, the 
gratification with which he had listened to Miss 
Derick’s account of the practical work undertaken and 
accomplished by the graduates, Dr. Peterson went on 
to speak of the various University Settlements and 
Social Unions which had been organized in Great 
Britain under the auspices of members of the differ- 
erent Uni vers ities. A great point of contrast, he said, 
between ancient and modern civilization was the 
development of philanthropic agencies, such as hos- 
pitals, asylums, home and foreign missions, etc. But 



McGill fortnightly. 



184 



it was only in comparatively recent times that the 
daily condition of the poor, whom we have always 
with us, had been regarded as a matter involving 
responsibility on the part of their richer neighbors. 
Miss Octavia Hill tells us in her book “ Homes of the 
London Poor ” how the idea came to her of superin- 
tending the housing of the poor as the best practical 
means to their elevation, through the operation of 
steady and continuous personal influence. Miss 
Hill’s scheme was greatly assisted by advice and 
financial aid from Mr. Ruskin, who invested a sum of 
^3000 in the purchase of three houses in London, 
which he committed to her charge. Miss Hill con- 
stituted herself “ factor,” and undertook the weekly 
collection of her rents. Contrary to her expectation 
she experienced little or no distrust among the peo- 
ple whom she visited for this purpose. Gradually Miss 
Hill became the centre of a band of workers, to whose 
care were entrusted the various branches of work which 
she from time to time initiated. A playground for 
the children was handed over to one lady ; mothers’ 
meetings, men’s clubs, various classes of boys and girls 
were begun, and the elder girls in the families were 
enlisted on the side of cleanliness in the immediate 
surroundings of the home. Miss Hill’s system has 
been incorporated in the work of the Women’s Uni- 
versity Settlement in Southwatch which was inaugur- 
ated and conducted by members of the women’s col- 
leges of Oxford and Cambridge. 

Besides organizing clubs, flower shows, country 
visits for the children, etc., this ‘institution fulfills 
another important function in offering a centre where 
women who contemplate taking up this line of work 
may be trained. It was under its auspices that two 
ladies took the first steps in instituting the work of 
the Edinburgh Social Union, — an institution which 
now takes a foremost place among the effective phil- 
anthropic agencies of the Scottish capital. The 
first step was to acquire two properties in the 
historic part of the old town of Edinburgh, which 
are still managed on Miss Hill’s system, described as 
follows : — 

1. Payment of rent is strictly enforced, by which 
means a more regular return is obtained on the cap- 
ital invested, and the injustice is avoided of making 
the thrifty suffer for the thriftless. 

2. The surplus of rent, beyond what is needed for 
working expenses, and to pay 5 per cent, interest on 
the capital, is wholly expended on improving the 
property, and this forms an inducement to the occu- 
pants to remain. 

3. Such improvements are carried out gradually 
as they come to be appreciated, and the tenants 
as far as possible employed in the work. 

4. The rents are collected weekly by ladies, who 



undertake this task as a means of gaining influence 
among the tenants and helping them with their coun- 
sel and sympathy. 

5. The principle is maintained throughout of bet- 
tering the condition of the poor, not by lowering 
their rent (which would merely tend to depress the 
rate of wages) but by giving them greater value for 
their money and thus accustoming them to a higher 
standard of comfort. 

The Edinburgh Social Union now possesses 16 
properties instead of 2. The rents are collected 
weekly as a rule, and every week the superintendent 
meets her rent collectors. Books are gone over and 
checked, and any difficulty or other circumstance that 
calls for notice is discussed and arranged. The work 
is to a great extent done by volunteers, the amounts 
set aside for repairs should not be all spent, the sur- 
plus is given up to providing any additional appli- 
ances the tenants themselves desire. Naturally there 
is a demand for houses managed on such lines, and 
rooms are very seldom empty ; a certain discretion- 
ary power is, however, reserved to inquire into the 
character and habits of new applicants. 

Personal intercourse between the well-to-do and 
their poorer brethren is the foundation on which the 
whole system has been based. In Miss Hill’s words : 

“ If the poor are to be raised to a permanently better 
position, they must be dealt with as individuals by 
individuals. It appears to me to be proved by 
practical experience that when we can induce the rich 
to undertake the duties of landlord in poor neigh- 
borhoods, and ensure a sufficient amount of wise 
personal supervision by educated and sympathetic 
people acting as their representatives, we achieve re- 
sults which are not attainable in any other way. 

The rent collected under the system thus described 
has a great advantage over the ordinary district vis- 
itor. The business footingon which she approaches 
clients provides a basis upon which friendly inter- 
course and mutual sympathy may be established. 
The reproach of intrusion which sometimes attaches 
to district visiting has here no ground. The collec- 
tion of rent is a matter of business ; the collector does 
not go into the house unless invited, and it is a most 
unusual thing foi the invitation not to be forthcoming. 
Under favorable conditions, the business part of the 
v eekly visit fades moie and more into the background, 
and the collector comes to be regarded as a friend 
whose help and advice may be sought in times of 
difficulty or distress. Tact, discernment, and a quick 
and ready sympathy are the qualities mainly called 
for in those who give their services, and it must be 
obvious how the discharge of duties voluntarily un- 
dei taken will reacton the characters of those 
adopt the line of work here described. ' vv h° 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE McGILL DEBATE. 

(From the Varsity — January 29th). 

The blocking of travel by last week’s wild storm 
was quite apparent in the numbers who gathered at 
Association Hall on Friday night, for the annual In- 
tercollegiate Debate, but those who did come were 
well rewarded by the excellence of the evening’s pro- 
gramme, especially the debate. A change was made 
in the order of the numbers, so as to place the chief 
event in the middle instead of at the end, and the 
result was a much better hearing for the speakers. 
The chair was filled by the Rev. E. A. Welch, the 
new Provost of Trinity College, and never have we 
had a better chairman. His manner of controlling 
the gallery and the appropriateness of all his remarks 
helped greatly the success of the programme and won 
unlimited praise. 

The opening number was from the Glee Club, who 
rendered, “In this hour of softened splendor ’’ and 
the tragic tale, “ There was a boy, there was a tack,” 
and in response to an enthusiastic encore gave “ Old 
man Moses.” As the chess tournament had resulted 
in a tie, it was impossible to present it to the winner, 
but instead it was presented by the donor, Prof. Ma- 
vor, to the Club in the person of their President, Mr. 
A. M. Dewar, who neatly replied. The Banjo and 
Guitar Club then gave some selections from “ Wang,” 
arranged by their excellent leader Mr. Smedley, and 
as an encore their halleluia chorus. 

Then all settled themselves to listen to the argu- 
ments of the chosen orators on the resolution main- 
tained by Varsity, “ that the jury system should be 
abolished.” Mr. C. G. Paterson took the affirmative, 
and in a few well-chosen words welcomed the repre- 
sentatives of our sister University. His speech was a 
very able presentation of the evils of the jury system 
in criminal matters, the only fault being some unne- 
cessary repetition. He began by advancing the very 
strong argument that the conditions under which the 
jury system had been needed as a protection against 
tyranny no longer existed, and therefore such a cum- 
brous and unsatisfactory plan was unnecessary. Many 
illustrations were given of ridiculous decisions by jurors 
chosen by lot, taking no notes, often asleep and led 
by the hypnotic power of great pleaders. It was 
contended that it was impossible that men without 
training of judgment and often with little education 
and no experience in weighing evidence could perform 
such vital duties as well as those specially fitted and 
chosen for that work. Mr. R. T. Mullin, in a clear, 
vigorous speech, brought forward a large number of 
arguments for the negative, holding that the system 
of trial by jury was still, as in earlier times, one of the 
best features of our constitution. The only fault that 
could be found in the plan lay in the inefficiency of 
the jurors ; but he maintained that this was being ra- 



185 

pidly obviated by the spread of education, and that 
the ordinary business man was just as capable of judg- 
ing on a point of fact as one versed in the law, and 
also would give weight to extra legal considerations 
of justice which a judge could not entertain. The 
risk of placing so much power in the hands of an 
individual, with the chance of corruption or influence 
by corporations, was forcibly urged, and a strong 
appeal made for continued trust in the people. Mr. 
J. G. Stanbury followed in support of the resolution, 
and, barring the introduction, made an excellent 
address, having perhaps the best delivery. He held 
that there were three great requisites for a satisfac- 
tory judicial system — expedition, certainty and eco- 
nomy, and that in all of these the present system was 
very defective. Although the jurors were less intelli- 
gent and more liable to be influenced by passions or 
prejudice, they were not required to give reasons or 
ask questions, and had no professional honor to main- 
tain. In opposition to the resolution, Mr. J. C. 
Robertson, in a quiet, easy manner, engaged in the 
difficult task of demolishing the position of the affir- 
mative, and thus made many points. He contended 
that in the judgment of fact the opinion of twelve 
was preferable to that of any one person, and that 
there was provision for the exclusion of prejudiced 
or incapable jurors. The affirmative had not proven 
that the evils alleged existed to any great extent, or 
would be less under other circumstances. In the short 
time available, Mr. Paterson made a most forcible 
reply and summary. 

After the debate, Mr. McVicar read the Essay — a 
sketch of Kant — but now the students thought their 
time had come, and the remaining numbers were 
frequently assisted by the gallery. 

Mr. W. L. Forbes, ’99, gave a vocal solo, “ King 
o’er Land and Sea,” which was enthusiastically 
encored. Mr. G. C. Sellery gave a well-rendered 
reading, wh'ch did not receive the attention it de- 
served, and then came the decision which had been 
wisely held to the last. The chairman then shortly 
reviewed the debate and complimented < 11 the debaters 
on the excellence with which they had handled their 
subject, and after expressing the great difficulty he 
found in coming to a conclusion, he decided in favor 
of the affirmative. The announcement was greeted 
with hearty applause, but the splendid showing of the 
visitors was recognized by enthusiastic cheers for 
McGill. Mr. Bristol, President of the Literary So- 
ciety, made a short speech, thanking the visitors who 
had been so kind as to turn out under such unfavor- 
able circumstances, and expressing the hearty tli inks 
of the Society to the chairman who had so ably con- 
ducted the programme, a Sentiment which was res- 
ponded to by the audience by giving three rousing 
cheers for Trinity. 



M. W. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 86 



THACKERAY. 

William Makepeace Thackeray was born at Cal- 
cutta in 1 8 1 1. He was sent to the Charterhouse 
School, which in his earlier works appears as the 
Slaughter house, and where he received a broken 
nose, which suggested to him the name of Michael 
Angelo Titmarsh, the face of Michael Angelo having 
suffered likewise thorough deformity of his nasal 
organ. 

In 1829 Thackeray entered Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge, and in 1830, he left that University, and en- 
gaged in newspaper work, in which pursuit he lost 
considerable money. 

In 1837, he married Isabella Shawe, by whom he 
had three daughters, one of whom married Leslie 
Stephen, who has written many books in the English 
Men of Letters Series. 

In an essay of this kind it is not expedient to go 
fully into Thackeray’s works. It is rather my inten- 
tion to place before you Thackeray as a writer and a 
man, and to strive to give you some idea of his 
character in both of these capacities. 

Thackeray is a satirist. I have heard him called a 
cynic. Now, a cynic is a philosopher who barks, 
growls, or snarls at people or things that he does not 
like. Thackeray does not snarTor growl or bark at 
anything or anybody. When he becomes deeply im- 
pressed with his subject we have him sending forth a 
flood of sarcasm at what he considers wrong ; but 
this sarcasm is tempered and rendered delightful by 
the most subtle humor that has ever appeared in 
the form of literature, known as the English novel. 

If Milton was in his day the champion of liberty 
and truth; Thackeray is in his the champion of 
sincerity. Anything mean, anything put on — in a 
word, anything snobbish is to Thackeray like a red 
rag to a mad bull. Most people who feel deeply on 
a subject are apt to go slightly beyond bounds : 
Milton in his love of liberty was in some instances 
carried to extremities ; Thackeray in the same way 
is inclined to ban too many persons as snobs. 

We have been lately hearing a great deal about a 
character called the New Woman. Personally I 
have never seen one, but they are said to exist. This 
New Woman and her supporters inveigh, and rightly 
too, against loveless marriages, and seem to plume 
themselves on their discovery. We have books 
written like the Heavenly Twins ; but if people had 
only attended to Thackeray when he wrote, Sarah 
Grand and her sisters would have been saved the 
trouble of writing innumerable pages on the subject, 
for listen to what Thackeray says concerning loveless 
marriages. “ We are sold,” ’tis Ethel Newcome who 
speaks, “ we are as much sold as Turkish women ; the 
only difference being that our masters may have but 



one Circassian at a time. No, there is no freedom 
for us. I wear my green ticket, and wait till my 
master comes. But every day as I think of our 

slavery, I revolt against it more.” 

But I am getting on to the books before I have 
done with the man. Thackeray, some might think, 
was a man who was not kind-hearted,— I say readers 
might say so ; they might infer that he was cold and 
satiric, and loved no one strongly. The truth is, 
Thackeray was a most affectionate man, fond of, 
and kind to, his little family of girls, left to his charge 
upon the sad affliction which befel his wife, and 
which necessitated her removal from his home. 

“And when, its force expended, 

The harmless storm was ended, 

And, as the sunrise splendid 
Came blushing o’er the sea ; 

I thought as day was breaking, 

My little girls were waking, 

And smiling, and making 
A prayer at home for me.” 

This shows Thackeray as the loving paterfamilias. 

He was not a slap-you-on-the-back-how-are-you- 
old-fellow sort of a man. He was reserved and 
somewhat severe to those who were not well known 
to him ; but a truer friend no man could desire. 

Many stories are told about him, how he lent 
money to those who needed it, how he lifted an Amer- 
ican lady up in his arms, and held her like a baby } 
so that she could see the opening of the Crystal 
Palace ; but time does not admit of their insertion 
here. 

On his death there appeared in Punch some verses 
of which I cite the last : 

“ He was a cynic ; by his life all wrought 

Of generous acts, mild words and gentle ways ; 

His heart all open to all kindly thought, 

His hand so quick to give, his tongue to praise.’ * 

As an historical novelist, Thackeray stands high. 
No man has, painted the times and the manners of 
the eighteenth century in truer or more brilliant 
colors than has our Thackeray. In Henry Esmond, 
the Virginians, the four Georges and the English 
Humorists, Thackeray brings us with him back to the 
time of rapier and minuet, of coffee-house and gam- 
ing-table. “Not about battles, about politics, about 
statesmen and measures of state did I ever think to 
lecture you,” says he in his lecture on George I., “ but 
to sketch the manners and life of the old world ; to 
amuse for a few hours with talk about the old society ; 
and, with the result of many a day’s and night’s 
pleasant reading, to try and while away a few winter 
evenings for my hearers.” 

True, indeed, are the sketches which Thackeray 
gives us of the English people under the Georges 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



and happy are the comparisons which he makes of 
that age with our own. A professor of history once 
asked for the dates of the “ Good Old Times,” — at 
what time did they begin and when end ? The 
eighteenth century society portrayed by Thackeray 
is, in his own words, “ vast, busy and brilliant,” yet 
listen to how he compares it with our own : “ You 
could no more suffer in a British drawing-room, under 
the reign of Queen Victoria, a fine gentleman or fine 
lady of Queen Anne’s time, or hear what they heard 
and said, than you would receive an ancient Briton.” 
But the general character of the age is not better 
painted than is the private characters of the men ol 
that time. 

Thackeray’s estimate of the characters of Georges 
I, II, III and IV is certainly correct ; and no truer 
guide to a just appreciation of Swift or Addison, of 
Steele or Pope can be found than in the English 
Humorists of the Eighteenth Century. Thackeray 
had a reverence for men of his own craft, for men of 
letters. His sympathies were wide, and he could 
embrace in the arms of his admiration not only quiet 
Addison, and jovial, drinking, loving Steele, but also 
wild 1'ielding, and, to our minds at least, coarse 
Smollett. Addison appears to him the first gentle- 
man of his age, and Steele is he “who first began to 
pay a manly homage to women’s goodness and un- 
derstanding, as well as to their tenderness and 
beauty.” But not only in these lectures or essays 
has Thackeray proved himself a historian, but, as has 
been said before, in Henry Esmond and the Virgin- 
ians, and also we may add in Barry Lyndon and 
Denis Duval has he shown the historian’s art and 
faculty. 

In Henry Esmond are brought before us those 
stirring times whose events we have perhaps too 
quickly forgotten. How precarious and unsure was 
the foothold of the present royal dynasty at one 
time, we learn from Thackeray. “As one thinks of 
what might have been, how amusing the speculation 
is. We know how the doomed Scottish gentleman 
came out at Lord Mar’s summons, mounted the 
white cockade, which has been a flower of sad poetry 
ever since, and rallied round the ill-omened Stuart 
standard at Braemar, Mar with 8,000 men, and but 
1,500 opposed to him, might have driven the enemy 
over the Tweed, and taken possession of the whole 
of Scotland ; but that the Pretender’s Duke did not 
venture to move when the day was his own. Edin- 
burgh Castle might have been in King James’ 
hands ; but that the men who were to escalade it 
stayed to drink his health at a tavern, and arrived 
two hours too late at the rendezvous under the 
castle wall. There was sympathy enough in the 
town — the projected attack seems to have been 
known there. 



18; 



Lord Mahon quotes Sinclair’s account of a gentle- 
man not concerned, who told Sinclair that he was in 
a house that evening where eighteen of them were 
drinking ; as the facetious landlady said, “ powdering 
their hair for the attack on the castle.’ Suppose they 
had not stopped to powder their hair ? Edinburgh 
Castle and town and all Scotland were King James s. 
The North of England rises, and marches over Barnet 
Heath upon London. Wyndliam is up in Somer- 
setshire, Packington in Worcestershire, and Vivian in 
Cornwall. The elector of Hanover, and his hideous 
mistresses, pack up the plate, and perhaps the crown 
jewels in London, and are off vja Harwich and Hel- 
vottsluys, for dear Old Deutschland. The King God 
save him ! — lands at Dover, with tumultuous ap- 
plause, shouting multitudes, roaring cannon, the 
Duke of Marlborough weeping tears of joy, and all 
the bishops kneeling in the mud. 

In a few years, mass is said in St. Pauls; matins 
and vespers are sung in York Minster, and Dr. Swift 
is turned out of his stall and deanery house of St. 
Patrick’s, to give place to Father Dominic, from 
Salamanca. All these changes were possible then, 
and for thirty years afterwards— all this we might 
have had but for the pulveris exigni jactu , that little 
toss of powder for the hair which the Scotch con- 
spirators stopped to take at the tavern.” (Four 
Georges.) 

This represents Thackeray as an historical writer. 
Of course we all know Thackeiay to be something 
more. As a painter of human character he is almost 
perfect. A. R. M., 

Arts, ’9 7. 

POETRY. 



HEIDEUROSLEIN. 

(from GOETHE). 

Baby saw a rosebud rare, 

— Rosebud ’mong the heather — 

Twas so fresh and morning fair 
Gleeful ran to view it near. 

— It was sunny weather. 

Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red, 

Rosebud ’rnong the heather ! 

Said the Babe : “ I’ll gather thee, 

Rosebud ? mong the heather ! 

And the Rosebud : “ Fll prick thee 
That thou’lt ever think on me ; 

We shall grieve together.” 

Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red, 

Rosebud hnong the heather ! 

But the ruthless Baby brake 
Rosebud from the heather ; 

Rosebud fended her, and strake, 

Yet escaped not pain and ache ; 

— Had no choosing whether — 

Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red, 

Rosebud 'mong the heather ! 

Berlin, Robert MacHougall. 



iSS 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



SOCIETIES. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The University Dinner on Friday night had proba- 
bly the effect of making the attendance on the Liter- 
ary small, on Saturday evening ; but those who did not 
attend lost a good reading, a brilliant essay, an enter- 
taining song, and a well-contested debate. 

Our President being sick, and both Vice-Presidents 
absent, Mr. Roland P. Campbell, Arts ’97, w 7 as unani- 
mously voted into the chair, which he filled most 
ably. 

The first item on the programme was a reading by 
Mr. Charles Phillips, Arts ’99, entitled the “Bashful 
Man.” Messrs. Colby and Bishop, representing Arts 
’98, next gave a song relating to the late fiasco bet- 
ween the Sophs and the Freshmen. 

The Society then had the pleasure of listening to a 
carefully written essay on American humorous writers 
by Mr. Arthur K. Trenholme, Arts ’97. This essay 
was much enjoyed by the Society, and when it was 
finished we all knew something we had not known 
before, concerning Saxe, Holmes, Lowell, Burdettand 
Bunner. 

The debate now came on : “ Resolved, that the jury 
system should be abolished.” 

Mr. Burnet, who was to have led , being absent, Mr- 
Ryan of Arts ’97 opened ably for the affirmative. His 
style was calm, collected and sensible. 

He contended that in preference to the jury system, 
a judge or judges would be able to weight evi- 
dence more carefully, being men of trained minds, 
and would be less likely to be influenced by senti- 
mental considerations. He held that under the pre- 
sent jury system the verdict of “guilty” or “not guilty” 
was not so much an evidence of a man’s innocence or 
guilt, as of the pleading powers of the counsels for the 
defence and the prosecution. 

Mr. Laverty next led for the negative. He took up 
his subject systematically, and handled it in a splendid 
manner. 

He said that the jury system gives a proof of im- 
partiality, and that the members of a jury must be 
men of some standing and education. The judge, on 
the other hand, is elevated to the bench, not, as a 
general rule, for his learning or ability, but for services 
rendered to some political party. He is always a poli- 
tican, and will try to serve his party, even on the 
bench. 

A jury is not likely to be affected by such influ- 
ences. 

Mr. Grieg, Arts ’99, next adduced some sound points 
for the affirmative. Men who have formed any opi- 
nions on the subject to be tried are not eligible to 



serve on a jury. All intelligent men read the papers, 
and must form some opinion. Thus only unintelligent 
men can serve on the jury. He also drew a harrowing 
picture of the sufferings of jurymen — how they were 
cooped up in ill-ventilated rooms, not allowed to see 
friends or read newspapers, and guarded like criminals. 
“ It is unjust,” said he, “ to submit citizens to such in- 
conveniences.” 

Mr. Fred. Thompson, of Science ’97, next made an 
able speech for the negative. Men have up to the 
present day, said Mr. Thompson, been unable to ob- 
tain a more just means of obtaining a verdict of a man’s 
innocence or guilt than by the unanimous decision of 
twelve of his peers, 

The jury system is no mechanical device, but the - 
product of a growth. 

Mr. Kingsbury, Arts ’99, next spoke in place of Mr. 
Burnet. He spoke well and without preparation. Mr. 
Gilday, of Arts ’98, next spoke for the negative. Mr. 
Laverty, Law ’97, then summed up ably for the nega- 
tive, and Mr. Ryan for the affirmative. 

The negative won. The able critique of Mr. Ewir.g, 
Law ’97, was then listened to with great appreciation. 

It was a criticism that did everyone present good. 

MEETING OF 1ST FEBRUARY, 1896. 

Albani drew away many of the staunch supporters 
of the Literary on Saturday, Feb. 1st, yet a few en- 
thusiastic members gathered themselves together and 
spent an enjoyable evening. 

Mr. Ferguson, Arts ’96, 2nd Vice-President, filled 
the chair. The programme began with a song by 
Mr. N. R. McMaster, Arts ’97. This was followed 
by an admirable essay on Rudyard Kipling by Mr. 

R. P. Campbell, Arts ’97. Mr. Campbell was fully 
conversant with his subject, and Kipling’s appreciation 
of Tommy Atkins was well set forth.- 

The debate of the evening was then preceded with : 

‘‘ Resolved, that Dickens was a greater novelist than 
Thackeray.” Mr. George Campbell, Arts ’96, and Mr. 
McLeod, Sc. ’97, upheld the affirmative, while Mr. 
McMaster, Arts ’97, and Mr. Robertson did the same 
for the negative. 

The affirmative won. 

Mr. R. P. Campbell next read a short but interesting 
criticism of the evening’s work, and then, after a few 
remarks from the chairman, appreciative of the pro- 
gramme, the meeting adjourned. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAI 
ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting of the Association was held on 
Thursday evening, 6th inst., Dr. M. C. Baker presid- 
ing. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



189 



Mr. J. J. McCarrey furnished a most interesting 
case report on Fistula in the Horse. In the case des- 
cribed, the condition had lasted for over two years. 
An operation revealed as the cause the head of a bolt 
deeply imbedded in the muscles of the shoulder, and 
removal of this foreign body was followed by com- 
plete recovery. Mr. E. H. Morris read a carefully pre- 
pared paper on Hemoglobinemia, in which he detailed 
the theories advanced by continental investigators 
concerning the pathology of the disease, and outlined 
the treatment. 

The discussion following was one of the most spi- 
rited that has occurred during the session, Dr. Baker’s 
remarks on the therapeutics of the disease and observ- 
ations on cases were particularly well received. 

Mi‘. J. Anderson Ness will read a paper at the next 
meeting. 

H. D. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPA- 
RATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

A regular meeting of the above Society was held 
Monday evening, iothinst., with the president, Dr. T. 
Wesley Mills, in the chair. 

The usual business of roll call and readings of mi- 
nutes being over, the reading of papers was next in 
order. 

Memory and Mnemotechnics was the subject chosen 
by Mr. Harri Dell for an essay, which was read in 
his usual pleasing manner. 

The psychic processes by which ideas are repre- 
sented to the mind were described. 

A brief historical resume of the origin and develop- 

•» 

ment of mnenotechnics was also given and their use- 
lessness clearly shown from a psychological stand- 
point. 

Mr. Macaulay read an article from the psycholo- 
gical department of the “ Dog Fancier" entitled “A 
Mother’s Love,” which described the intelligent actions 
of a mare whose foal was in danger. 

A spirited discussion arose over the question : 
“ Were the animal’s actions self-conscious or not ? ” 
Most of the members, however, thought that they 
were more subconscious than otherwise. 

The meeting then adjourned. 

■F. W. K. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

Some time ago mention was made of the pleasant 
reunions of graduates and undergraduates at the 
Alumnae “At Home.” We are glad to be able to 
publish the following report, although not verbatim, 
of Miss Derick’s most interesting address on that 
pecasion : — 



Members of the Delta Sigma Society and Friends: 

Once more the Alumnae greet you upon an anni- 
versary established as a bond of union between our 
graduate and undergraduate literary societies. 

The day is a token of present friendliness, of pre- 
cious memories, and of hopes of a nobler future. It 
is a time when we may pause to review our past and 
to examine our motives and aims, asking ourselves if 
they are worthy of a society of McGill’s women gra- 
duates, and a source of inspiration, which will justify 
us in asking you soon to join our numbers. Such 
considerations and confidence in the sympathy of an 
audience, composed of women associated in some 
way with McGill College, must be my excuse for giv- 
ing a brief history of the Alumnae. 

In 1888, eight women graduated from McGill Uni- 
versity. They were an ardent band, full of enthusi- 
asm, deeply impressed with a sense of their responsi- 
bilities, devoted to one another and to their Alma 
Mater. While undergraduates, they had established 
the Delta Sigma Society, and found in it a valuable 
adjunct to lectures and books. In it differences of 
social position or wealth sank into the background, 
truer standards were accepted, and character was 
recognized as the criterion of worth. Debates and 
discussions furnished opportunities for that conversa- 
tion, which “ is the workshop and laboratory of the 
student.” Precision of thought and facility of ex- 
pression were in some measure gained by practice. 
In addition, a college spirit, an esprit de corps, which 
could never have resulted from work alone, was de- 
veloped. 

Realizing the great advantages of such a society, 
and dreading any break in friendships formed during 
college days, the graduates of 1888 and their worthy 
successors of 1889 organized a Literary Society, in 
which the majority of the resident members were 
officers, and to whose meetings are contributed 
several papers during the season. The early name 
was “The Mu Iota Society;” but, finding the title 
readily lent itself to undignified puns, the members 
adopted the present name “ The Alumnae Society.” 

In the first constitution published, it was stated 
that “ The Alumnae shall have for its object the bind- 
ing together of its members with a common interest 
in striving to further the welfare and extend the in- 
fluence of McGill University.” The amended consti- 
tution says : — “ Its object shall be the mutual im- 
provement of its members in literary work and the 
furthering of women’s interests in Montreal.” No de- 
crease in loyalty to the University is indicated by 
the change, only the belief that, by widening their 
interests and sharing that which they had gained from 
their college, the graduates would best honor her. 

The most noticeable feature of early programmes 
was intense patriotism. Canadian literature, Cana- 



190 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



dian scientists, Canadian history claimed the atten- 
tion of the members. But it was soon felt that the 
truest patriot is in some sense a cosmopolite, and 
papers dealing with various literary, artistic and 
scientific subjects were read at the monthly meetings. 
Great diversity of interest w.is displaye. 1 , and in this 
has always lain the Alumnae’s chief strength, for “ in 
a society of perfect sympathy, no word, no act, no 
record, would be.” 

Affected by the spirit of the age, moved by the 
literature studied, all began to feel that “ the richest 
romance, the noblest fiction that was ever woven — 
the heart and soul of beauty — lies enclosed in human 
life.” Earnest glances were given to the realities 
around them, deep feeling for the sufferings of other 
women stirred their hearts. And in 1890-91, when 
my class had the honor of joining the Society, we 
listened not only to such papers as “ Living English 
Poets,” “ Illustrative Art,” “ The Modern Novel,” but 
to several that dealt with the Labor Question and 
other social problems. 

The inevitable result was action. The sentimental 
gave way to the practical. Even our limited know- 
ledge showed how great were the needs of working- 
women. Therefore, though friends warned us of 
failure, of doing more harm than good, of establishing 
our work upon a false economic basis, we were con- 
strained by our growing human spirit to make some 
attempt to express our sympathy for less fortunate 
women. We believed that all should share in the 
great gifts modern times had given to woman, and> 
though we could not understand the whole scheme of 
things, we decided upon definite action. 

Unable to establish an ideal University settle- 
ment, we opened a Girls’ Club and Lunch Room, in 
May, 1891. The Club prospered, larger rooms were 
obtained, and the work extended in several directions. 
Nourishing food at low rates, a few pleasant rooms 
for lodgers, evening classes, lectures, a lending library 
and a piano have helped to make the work asuccess, 
financially and otherwise. 

Animated by a spirit of mutual helpfulness, “ earn- 
est believers in different creeds work together in 
friendship — remain true to themselves, and yet push 
towards the same ends.” Acquaintances have been 
made upon an equal footing, and have often ripened 
into friends, and a truer sympathy and better under- 
standing is daily developing among us. In every 
direction, the rewards and pleasures we receive far 
outweigh any self-denial exercised or energy ex- 
pended. 

We have made mistakes, we have been discouraged, 
we have doubted ourselves and others ; but we are 
convinced that it is better to blunder than do nothing 
and that we must work out theories of social questions 
in our lives. In regarding special benefits we are 



sometimes in danger of losing sight of the end ; but 
I believe our aims are higher, our sympathies broader, 
our life fuller, since the college spirit has been merged 
in the spirit of devotion to the cause of all women* 
Whatever may be the result, we are certainly finding 
true success in the doing. Though this practical work 
was undertaken in 1891, we have continued the 
literary meetings of the Alumnae without interruption. 
It was felt, however, that our work had been too de- 
sultory, and it was decided to arrange a course upon 
Ruskin for the season of 1894-95. Variety was fur- 
nished by discussions upon such subjects as the 
“ Present course for women at McGill,” u The Ad- 
visability of women working for money,” etc. The 
plan proved admirable, and for this year, also, courses 
have been arranged. Before Christmas, a series 
of papers and discussions, dealing with Greek and 
early Italian Art, afforded us much enjoyment. 
The essays were especially good, and were illustrated 
by fine photographs of the works of the great masters. 
We have thus learned to appreciate many things to 
which we had been indifferent, and to recognize the 
divine idea in all work as the source of power and 
cause of permanence. To-day marks the transition 
from the aesthetic to the practical, which is to be our 
inspiration during the remainder of the year. Such 
social and economic questions as “The Ethics of Giv- 
ing,” “ The Ethics of Labor;” “ Public Hygiene,” 
“Women’s Duty in Municipal Matters” complete 
the programme, and show to what an extent the 
practical work of the Girls’ Club has affected the 
meetings of the “Alumnae Society.” 

I hope this review of the Society’s work has not 
tried your patience. I am afraid it must seem that 
we have attempted too much, and lack the grace of 
humility. But we know we have fallen far short 
of the ideal. We can nowhere point to anything 
final ; nevertheless, we do show a tendency towards 
higher things. Emerson tells us that “ he who aims 
at progress should aim at an infinite, not at a special, 
benefit. The reforms whose fame now fills the land, 
fair and generous as each appears, are poor, bitter 
things when prosecuted for themselves as an end. 
In every reform, in proportion to its energy, early dis- 
gusts are incidents. The soul can be appeased not 
by a deed but by a tendency. It is in a hope that 
she feels her wings.” And we are animated by the 
hope that even in failure we shall find success, that by 
learning our weakness we shall grow strong. We, as 
individuals, expect to do nothing lasting or note- 
worthy ; but by our united efforts we can do much 
towards bringing in that fuller day, when the gospel 
love will be not only preached but shown forth in the 
lives of all. 

Whatever may be the work of each, upon all the 
members Of our Society rests the great responsibility 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of maintaining a lofty standard for the “ higher-educa- 
tion ” women of Montreal. We must strive to attain 
the ideal womanly character, which combines strength, 
learning and wisdom with purity, gentleness, and 
unselfish devotion to the interests not only of a nar- 
row home-circle, but of all who are in need of help or 
comfort. 

McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

The Twelfth Annual Meeting of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association of McGill University was held 
in the Association Building, on Saturday evening, 
8th Feb., at 8 o’clock. The President, Mr. Percy C. 
Leslie, presided. There was a good representation 
of students. Dr. Johnson, Dean of the Faculty of 
Arts, and Mr. Gilbert A. Beaver, Secretary of the In- 
ternational Committee, occupied seats on either side 
of the President. Professor C. A. Carus-Wilson, a 
warm friend of the Association, and deeply interested 
in its work, sat in the audience. 

The meeting opened with devotional exercises. 
After reading the minutes, the names of new mem- 
bers were read, and, on motion, they were duly elected- 
Then followed the reception of reports, beginning 
with the President's. 

In presenting his report, the President stated that 
the present year marks an epoch in the history of the 
Association. But while recognizing this, let us not 
fail to acknowledge the author of this progress. 
“ Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and 
the glory and the victory and the majesty ; for all 
that is in the Heaven and the earth is Thine ; Thine is 
the Kingdom, O Lord, and Thou art exalted as head 
above all. Both riches and honor come of Thee, and 
Thou reignest over all ; and in Thine hand is power 
and might, and in Thine hand it is to make great and 
to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God ) 
we thank Thee and praise Thy glorious name.” 

Appropriate reference was made to the acquire- 
ment of the building and to the furnishing. The 
General Secretaryship was touched on, and it was 
urged that the Association should keep in view hav- 
ing the secretary devote his whole time and energy to 
the work. The committee work and the Northfield 
conference were referred to, and an urgent appeal 
made to engage in some line of definite missionary 
work. The report closed with a review of the 
spiritual status of the Association. 

Then followed reports of the various committees 
as follows : 

Religious Meeting Com. — R. O. Ross, B.A. 

Bible Study Com. — H. P. Archibald. 

Social Com. — Chas. Ogilvy, B A. 

Musical Com. — A. P. Pollock. 



191 



Finance Com. — F. A. Corbett, B.A. 

Graduate Com. — Dr. D. J. Evans. 

Membership Com. — N. D. Keith, B.A. 

Handbook Com. — N. D. Keith, B.A. 

Before the election of officers was proceeded with, 
Dr. Johnson was called upon to make some remarks. 
He was greeted with a round of cheers. He spoke of 
the business-like way in which matters of business 
were disposed of, and complimented the Association 
on the work they were doing in the University in 
creating and maintaining a higher standard of life and 
morals. 

The election of officers resulted as follows . — 

President. — E. M. Campbell, Arts ’9 7. 

1 st Vice- Pres. — H- P. Archibald, Sc. ’98. 

2nd Vice-Pres. — C. Ogilvy, B.A., Med. ’98. 

Rec. Seedy. — R. H. Rogers, B.A., Law ’98, Sc. ’99. 

. Treas. — R. C. Paterson, Arts ’98. 

Asst. Treas. — A. H. Gordon, Med. ’99. 

Rep. from Comp. Med. — R. G. Mathew, ’97. 

Speeches were demanded from each as he was 
elected. The replies were terse and appropriate. 

At the close, the outgoing Social Committee served 
coffee and cake, and thus closed what perhaps was 
the most successful annual meeting in the history of 
the Association. 



On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Gilbert A. Beaver took 
charge of the meeting, and gave a talk on the spiritual 
life of the Association. A short conference on Bible 
Study and Personal Work was held in the parlor at 
8.30 p. m., at which about 25 men were present. Mr. 
Beaver’s visit was very much enjoyed. 



Y. W. C. A. 

To Miss Armstrong was allotted the meeting of Jan. 
31st, 1896. The subject was “ God’s People Chas- 
tened,” and the text to correspond was taken from 
Heb. xii. 6-14. Miss Armstrong divided this sub- 
ject into four parts: 1st. By whom are these chasten- 
ings sent ? The answer to this is to be found in Job 
v. 6, and this must be remembered that God comforts 
those whom He afflicts. 2nd. What is the proof? 
Answered in Job ii. 3. 3rd. Why are they sent or 
permitted to be sent ? For various reasons. John ix. 
3, also in Isaiah xiii. and Heb. xii., and, lastly, 
How are they to be borne ? 2 Tim ii. 3. 

Our meeting of Feb. 7th, 1896, was held to elect 
officers for the ensuing year. Miss Vaudry presided, 
and called on the retiring officers for the several re- 




Missionary Com. — S. H. Mallinson. 






192 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ports which gave great satisfaction. The following 
officers were elected : — 

Miss Ross, President. 

Miss Shaw, Vice-President. 

Miss McBurney, Corresponding Secretary. 

Miss Armstrong, Recording Secretary. 

Miss King, Treasurer. 

Miss Rugg, Reporter to the Fortnightly. 

A vote of thanks was tendered Miss Vaudry, in 
response to which she thanked us for our help and 
sympathy, and reminded us, in retiring from a position 
she has ably filled, of the promises that God will cause 
His light to shine upon us. 

During the past year several improvements have 
been made for the better carrying on of our work. But 
complaints were made against our singing on the 
whole, and therefore a motion was made and carried, 
to the effect that we have an independent society to 
provide music for all occasions. 



GLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

A QUARTER OF-A-DOLLAR. 

(A Law Student's Reverie on finding a Twenty-five cent Piece t) 

Around thy silver iim whose eyes hath traced 
'i he magic circle of a mine encased, 

And with unw onted plenitude and grace, 

Enkindled Hope shone sweetly from his face. 

Whose aching brain a fitful joy received 
At sight of thee, thou sunny coin revered , 

Whose happy heart with blithest note awoke, 

When on the air thy ring enchanting broke ? 

1 

Did husband hold thee with an eager grip, 

Or wife, w.th gladness smiling from her lip ; 

Or boy and girl away from home and friend 
Upon thee smile, then quick to others send ? 

Did peasant run at thy supreme command. 

In haste to hold thee in his eager hand ? 

Thou Angel-Visitantj! his heart didst sway, 

While want and pain thy going charmed away, 

Or trader at his desk, with drafts and bills 
Engulfed, at bay, with credit almost nil, 

In haughtiness thy proffeied aid didst scorn, 

And with tumultuous rage thy presence spurn ? 

The king, in regal splendor on his throne. 

Might speak the treasures of the zones his own, 

Yet spurn the poor man’s silver “ sacrament ” 

A hard-earned quarter-of-a-dollar “ spent.” 

The student, who with “ briefs ” and “ notes ” oppressed, 

Thy cheering presence never hath caressed, 

Will loss thee scornfully aloft, say ; “ Head or tail, 

“ Will Dad send on that cheque by first fast mail ?” 

Uannell Sawyer, 

Law ’94. 



Some days ago a communication was received by 
our Secretary from Osgood Hall, inviting us to send 
a representative from our Faculty to their Annual Re- 
ception to be held on the evening of January 3 Is t* 
The invitation was accepted with pleasure, and Mr. 
R. Pothier Doucet was unanimously elected as our 
representative for the occasion. We understand that 
Mr. Doucet thoroughly enjoyed himself, and was 
treated with the greatest consideration by the Toronto 
men. It is to be hoped that next year we shall have 
a representative of Osgood Hall at our Annual 
Dinner. 



Among the many men of genius in our Faculty 
there are few that equal, and none that excel, as far 
as literary attainments are concerned, the genial Mr. 
Numa B — s — t. Mr. B. has never sought public 
honors. He is, in fact — as is often the case with men 
of exceptional ability — a most modest and retiring 
man. Honors, however, have lately fallen thick 
upon this gentleman. In the absence of our Secre- 
tary some weeks ago, he was elected to this important 
office pro tem , and nobly did he acquit himself of the 
duties attendant thereto. So satisfactory were his 
services on this occasion that he was deemed well 
worthy of still greater honors from the Faculty of 
Law. He has accordingly been appointed as col- 
lector of the subscriptions due by the students to Mr. 
Doucet for expenses incurred by the latter during his 
recent trip to Toronto. Mr. B— s — t has our con- 
gratulations upon the honors bestowed on him by an 
admiring Faculty. 



The course of lectures on the “Law of Real Estate,” 
lately commenced by Judge Wurtele, promises to be 
very interesting. The subject is treated in a very 
pleasant way, and the examination with which the 
lectures end is always most satisfactory. We are per- 
fectly justified in saying that His Honor is one of 
the most esteemed and popular of our professors. 



We are glad to hear that Mr. V. Evelyn Mitchell, 
though not yet completely recovered from the effects 
of his recent most unfortunate illness, hopes soon to 
be with us again. We hope that his work will not be 
seriously affected by his long absence from the 
lectures. 



1 lofessoi Lafleur has finished his course of lec- 
tin cs upon “ International Law,” and an extremely 
interesting course it has been. The examination is 
to be on Saturday, the 15th inst. We hear that the 
professor is shortly leaving for a trip to the continen 
where, we trust, he will thoroughly enjoy himself. 



Montreal, 28ih January, ’96. 



McGILL fortnightly. 



193 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

Fourth Year. 

( These notes came to hand too late for publication in 

last issue.) 

The Dinner is now a thing of the past and the 
Medicos are once more hard at it. Grind, grind is 
the order of the day. 

Mr. J. L. Churchill of Fourth Year Medicine, in a 
very neat and clever address, proposed the toast 
“The undergrads of sister universities.” His re- 
marks were received with loud applause. In res- 
ponse, Mr. McRae of Trinity delivered a very good 
speech doing both his college and himself great cre- 
dit. The gentlemen representing the other univer- 
sities also were well received 

For the Faculty of Medicine, Mr. Hugh Fraser, 
Fourth Year, did the honors. He touched the right 
spot exactly in reference to a gymnasium, evidenced 
by the cheers which greeted him from all sides. We 
congratulate Mr. Fraser on his eloquent treatment of 
his subject. 

Mr. C-q-n (with that “ childlike and bland ” 
smile) — “Yes, sir! It is just 4 inches in diameter 
— across.” 

Student to Patient. — “ Do your feet ever swell ? ” 

Patient (with alacrity and in tones that carry con- 
viction) — “ Yes, sir! Swell like heverything.” 

Prof. — “ The fungus known as actinomyces causes 
in cattle a disease called ‘ swelled head.’ The simi- 
lar ailment in man is rather different in its etiology, 
being caused by a toxin produced by the Saccharo- 
myces. They are, however, alike in that both are 
very chronic and intractable diseases.” 

Third Year. 

H. C. Campbell is improving and is able to sit up 
every day for a short time. 

We are sorry to hear that H. W. Thomas is laid 
up with a sprained knee. 

Caricaturist Williams is getting out a photo of 
some of the boys. It is said to be extremely good 
and true to life. 



That long-looked- for event, the Dinner, is past and 
gone; and, those who had it in charge are to be 
congratulated. 

A1 Laing deserves special mention for carrying out 

his duties so well. 



He sold the tickets to the Year, and didn’t run 
away with the boodle ; he arranged for the class to 
be together, and every man was assigned a seat so 
there would be no scrambling for places and no con- 
fusion. He was also chief encorer, which was quite 
a task for the poor boy, as he could clear his throat 
between times only ; and he complains of still being 
thirsty. 

But, considering his important duties and the many 
calls that' were made upon him, he managed to do 
some little justice to the menu. 

Among others that had important duties to perform 
were Ed. Hayden and Billy Ferguson. Ed. had to 
spend as much money as possible on the medical 
delegates, and from the look of the treasury he did 
his work well. The Trinity man said he never had 
such a time as Ed. and Billy gave him. He said they 
were fairly loaded with Xs and I X L ; and, he would 
like to stay down here and finish his course with 
them. He hoped Ed. would be the delegate to 
Trinity next year, and take up some of the almighty 
to help them out. 

There was a good turn-out of the Year, and every- 
one enjoyed himself immensely, including Geo 
Foster, Shinny and “Our Ab.” 

First Year. 

Mr. Martin was present at the University Dinner 
as the representative of ’ 99. 



Say, did anyone see Mr. L in the push at 

“No. 3” ? It was lovely the way he handled himself. 



We are glad to see Mr. Patterson and Mr. Simms 
one more able to resume their studies. 

MOTION. 

Mr. President, Gentlemen ’99, I have much plea- 
sure in moving that we form a debating society. I am 
sure that we could spend a pleasant evening once or 
twice a month in a literary meeting of our own. 
Wouldn’t it afford an excellent opportunity for our 
stump speakers to spread themselves ? 

Who knows, gentlemen, but that lurking in 
our midst there are rivals of even Demosthenes and 
Cicero. 

Behold it came to pass, in old McGill that a body 
of students calling themselves “ Meds. of ’9 7 ” said 
among themselves : “ Let us prevent the men of ’ 99 
from passing out of the lower doors of ‘ No. 3,’ for have 
we not in our midst some mighty men and some 
skilled in the playing of Lacrosse and the shooting of 
the puck ? ” 



i 9 4 



McGill fortnightly. 



Should not these men be forced to pass out of the 
upper door, so that we may have the right of way 
for we are older than they ? 

But it came to pass also that the men of ’ 99 
gathered together, and said : “We will not be made 
to go out by this back door, for though we are but 
beginners in the study of medicine, we are not so 
fresh in the rougher art of wrestling,” and so they 
gathered together to defend themselves against the 
men of ’ 97. 

And so it came to pass, as they rushed out of the 
lower door, that their opponents fell upon them with 
a great shout, so that the noice of the strife was very 
great, insomuch that the voices of the leaders could 
not be heard above the tumult, and the hall was 
strewn with note-books and fragments wrenched 
from the garments of the men. 

For a time it seemed that the skilled men of ’ 97, 
would overcome their opponents, so gieat were the 
feats of valor performed by their mighty men. 

But it came to pass that the men of ’ 99 were 
more expert in wrestling, and skilled in the scatter- 
ing of note-books in the rending of garments and in 
the smashing of stethoscopes, so that the men of 
’97 were forced to yield, leaving the field strewn 
with many of their possessions as souvenirs that peace 
reigned once more in the halls of old McGill. 



Fourth Year. 

Great is the commotion of the Class of 1896 over 
the class picture. Meetings have been he 1 ’ daily. 
Plans innumerable have been brought up, all 1 •'on- 

fusion. We’ll be lucky if we get a picture at all. 



Mr. SI — s has not yet furnished his list for the 
ward picture. He cannot choose among so many } 
evidently. 



“Luck in odd numbers ” is an old saying, L. D — 
followed the old maxim, and swallowed eleven- 
pills at one dose. It proved a most interesting ex- 
periment, and we are sorry more of the class were 
not present. A strange physiological action followed. 
The cerebral centres become abnormally irritable 
Spasmodic reflex action of the upper extremities 
followed, and ecchymoses of the orbicular region, 
which was secondary to a musical development in 
C — , which was so marked that C — has been offered 
a position in the Vic’s bugle band. 

Teddy is a specialist on the cremasteric reflex. 



Head Surgeon.—" Now ! Mr. F— , is it the portio 
dura or the portio mollis of the 7th pair which forms 
the facial nerve ? ” 

F . — (who has passed his anatomy some time ago) 
“ Portio mollis, sir.” 

H. S.— u No ! It’s the portio dura. You see they 
have to be hard to match the faces now-a-days.” 
(We hope nothing personal was meant.) 



S — . (On seeing some Indian ink brought into the 
operating room), — “ Are you going to tattoo the 
pupil in this case, doctor ? ” 

Dr — “ No. I’m going to the tattoo the cornea over 
the pupil.” 

(Everybody smiles except S. — ) 



M ’• to S. — “ Where’s Schomberg’s line. You’ve 
been reading Musser, haven’t you ? ” 

•S'- — “ Yes ! But I don’t know where that line is.” 
M. — “ Better look it up ; it’s important. 

S. to M. (next da y) — “ Say, M — . Where’s that 
line ? I’ve looked in all the text-books and several 
works of reference, and can’t find it.” 

Tf. — “ Oh ! It’s down between British Guiana and 
Venezuela.” 

(S — collapses.) 



Surgeon (doing an operation on the mouth.) — 
“ Give me another needle. This is broken.” 

House S . — “ Have you got the eye of that one, 
doctor" ? ” 

Surgeon . ‘ No ! We’ll take that out with the 

appendix later. We must have an eye to business, 

. you know.” 

Third Year. 

It is -with profound regret we learn that our vice- 
pi esident, Mr. H. C. Campbell, has been ordered 
away for his health. He left on Saturday, the 8th 
inst., for his home preparatory to leaving for Colorado 
in a week or ten days. 

Mr- Campbell has endeared himself to every mem- 
bei of his class by his genial good-nature and hearty 
co-fellowship. 

A prominent and clever athlete, he in his First and 
Second Years secured “the individual trophy,” and 
aided to a very great extent in winning the “Faculty 
Trophy ” for Medicine, and was thus known and 
honored by every man of the four Years. His skill as 
an athlete and his frank acknowledgment of the 
qualities of his field-rivals placed him at the head of 
the list as a gentleman, and made him respected 
thioughout the whole University. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



As a student his time was well spent, and he gave 
good promise of a brilliant and useful career. It is 
doing him but little justice to say that no man would 
be so universally missed from among us, and none 
would carry with him so much good will. 

He will be especially missed by the members of 
his own class, who ever looked upon him as their 
champion on sports Day and their fond companion 
throughout the year. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year 

What’s the matter with the British Constitution ? 
Dr. Murray says it is all right, and so say we. 



Things are quiet ; very quiet. No jokes, no laughs, 
no joyful faces ; all reminds one of the “ Valley of the 
Shadow of Death.” Some few careless ones did 
attempt to be humorous in the Geology class, but 
the attempts were so labored, and the results so far- 
fetched, that the Class Reporter must ask to be 
excused from inserting them in the courtly pages of 
the Fortnightly. 



Mr. Wm. Turner has been appointed to represent 
our Faculty at the Toronto University Conversazione. 



Third Year. 

The University Club must beasuccess. Such was 
the unanimous sentiment of a meeting of ’97 held last 
Tuesday week. If ever we are to have the Ideal Club 
Building with large halls for Literary, Scientific and 
Medical Societies, with finely-equipped gymnasium, 
reading-rooms and smoking rooms, now is the time to 
commence, and the only way to commence is by sub- 
stantial aid in the shape of one dollar bills. Mr. S. 
G. Archibald was^elected to be Canvasser-in-Chief 
for this worthy object. 

Let us all help him by willingly and promptly sow- 
ing the one-dollar seed that will give to future 
McGillites a plentiful harvest in the form of the 
Ideal Club. 

Arts ’97 also decided that they would have a little 
dinner at the Club For this purpose, Messrs. R. P. 
Campbell, Watters, and J. G. Saxe were elected a 

committee. 



Please answer “ Here, Sir", to your names in the 

roll-call on all occasions. 



195 



To those who find our column dull, the approach 
of the examinations and the following lines may 
afford some excuse : — 

O, really ’taint so easy 
To smile and grin and laugh ; 

You see you must remember 
We've had the Hodograph 
We’ve read a heap of Pliny 

We’ve crammed a million terms, 

We’ve Chaucerized and Socratized 
We’ve classified the Worms, 

We’ve learnt we cantjsee figger, 

We many ores have broke, 

We’ve made our heads into machines, 

We cannot make — a joke ! 



Consider the value of the sand-dollar. It deposits 
itself in the sand-banks that it may give interest to 
naturalists. 

Consider likewise, younger generations, the lesson 
of the postage-stamp, whose value consists in its 
ability to stick to a thing till it gets ther^. 



Second Year. 

Fellow-students, attention ! ! ! ’98 has settled down 
to work ! ! ! As a worthy professor reminded us at a 
recent lecture : “If you don’t do your work, we’ll 

not keep you ‘IN’ like school boys, but later on we 
‘may’ keep you ‘OUT.’ ” This terse yet strong com- 
parison has struck a chill to our marrow. In fact, 
N. D. A. almost swooned at the words, and their 
import struck him. Such a thirst for knowledge now 
possesses us, that every Friday we are eager to enter 
before the previous class has come out. 



L’histoire de Felix !! c’est fini ! ! ! mirable dictu ! ! 



Football is gone — snowball reigns supreme, and 
as usual, ’98 is at the front (steps). 

The floor upstairs will need attention for some 
time to come, so thoroughly was it mopped the other 
morning. 



First Year. 

The Hockey players turned out on Saturday 
morning to play the return match with the High 
School- The most prominent point in ’99’s playing 
was that each man seemed to think that he was 
playing alone. The result was that the High School 
won by two to one. 



The Freshmen feel very grateful to the Faculty for 
their kindness in granting their requests so promptly 



