(WcGibb Fortnight^ 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. IV. 



MONTREAL, JANUARY 22, 1896. 




* EDITORIAL BOARD & 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mow att, B.A. (Med. *96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda '96) 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



* BUSINESS BOARD 



S. G. Archibald (Arts ’97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law ’97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. *96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. Renoufs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman's and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

It was with pleasure that we gave space in last 
issue to a short article, setting forth a few facts with 
regard to the new club. Since then the matter has 
been taken up by the students, and at a mass meet- 
ing held on the 9th instant in the Molson Hail, a 
committee was appointed to draw up and submit a 
constitution and take the other necessary steps. 
The constitution when approved, and such other 
matters relating thereto as may be of interest, will be 
duly published in the FORTNIGHTLY. The students 
in the junior years have reason to congratulate them- 
selves on the establishment at last on a permanent 
footing of a McGill club. They cannot expect all 
the advantages of a strong and long established insti- 
tution at present — at least not this year; but from 
the beginning of next year, they may fairly count on 
all those physical comforts, and those other higher 
enjoyments of inter-faculty intercourse which the 
club is specially designed to furnish and foster. 
The Final Year men who will shortly be leav- 



No. 8 



ingthe University, and who have from the first taken 
a deep interest in this institution, and done what they 
could to promote it, will have the satisfaction at least 
of seeing the club established and on a sound footing, 
to grow and increase in influence, it is to be hoped, 
with the University. It will, no doubt, be a satisfac- 
tion to students hereafter, to recall the fact that they 
had a hand in the establishment of the McGill Uni- 
versity Club. 

So far, the University Club has been well patron- 
ized by the students. The dining hall appointments 
have been pronounced by one and all as entirely 
satisfactory. There can be no doubt that the club 
will, even for the remainder of the term, receive that 
patronage and consideration which it deserves. 



THE UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

The University Dinner, which has been more or 
less on the tapis since the beginning of the session, is, 
to be held on Friday, the 24th instant, in the Windsor 
Hail, and promises to be one of the most important 
social functions of recent years held in connection 
with the University. Several interesting features 
will conspire to make it a most attractive gathering. 
The presence of Dr. Peterson and of many disting- 
uished men in the educational world and in the 
public life of both Canada and the United States 
will go far to make the meeting a memorable one. 
A pleasing feature will be the presence of ladies. If 
the Committee relent towards the undergraduate 
body, and permit them to wear gowns, a much larger 
number will likely attend. It is to be hoped the under- 
graduates will attend in large numbers. An oppor- 
tunity to hear and see so many distinguished men 
may not again present itself. The committee have 
done all in their power to meet the undergraduates 
and to remove or minimize the difficulties in the 
way of their taking part in a full body. These 
efforts will be appreciated and taken advantage of 
no doubt. Let the University Dinner of 1896 mark 
an epoch in the history of McGill Dinners. 



A FLOURISHING SOCIETY. 

The McGill Graduates Society of Montreal is 
deserving of the greatest praise for the commendable 
energy it has lately displayed in the interest of Alma 



-v. £. ' .V,-" > ' . 



134 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Mater. In throwing out the suggestion to McGill 
Graduates in distant parts, that the formation of 
McGill Graduates Societies was very desirable, and in 
lending its friendly aid thereto, it has succeeded, 
most assuredly, in awakening a deeper interest in 
McGill University among old graduates than has 
hitherto existed. As a result of this late appeal on 
the part of the Montreal Society, we have, besides the 
Graduates Societies in Montreal and Ottawa long 
established, others recently formed in Chicago, 
Boston, New York, Toronto and British Columbia, 
and still others in the way of formation in New 
Brunswick, Nova Scotia and elsewhere. Many of 
these societies will, no doubt, soon be in a position to 
do the pioneering work Montreal society has lately 
undertaken, and thus multiply their useful influence 
in behalf of McGill. 

When a Graduates Society has been formed, or 
rather when steps are being taken towards its forma- 
tion, the question may occur : what is the main object 
of the Society ? Through what channels and by 
what means may the objects of the Society best be 
advanced ? How may it make its influence for good 
in behalf of McGill best felt? Feeling that a few 
useful hints might be thrown out on these and 
kindred matters, the Editors have pleasure in announc- 
ing that a special article is being prepared for publi- 
cation in the FORTNIGHTLY, in which some sugges- 
tions will be made on the lines indicated. That the 
Graduates Societies may be successful and useful 
to Alma Mater is the wish of all. They should 
abound all over the continent wherever McGill men 
maybe found. The Fortnightly seizes this op- 
portunity of conveying to all the new born societies 
the heartiest felicitations and good will of the under- 
graduates of McGill. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



Alfred Austin, poet laureate. 

On the last day of 1895, Queen Victoria appointed 
Alfred Austin, Poet Laureate. The office had been 
vacant since the death of Lord Tennyson, on October 
6th, 1892. 

Alfred Austin is a poet, critic, novelist and jour- 
nalist. He was born May 30th, 1835. Both his pa- 
rents being Roman Catholics, he was sent to Stony- 
hurst College, and afterwards to St. ^Mary’s College, 
Oscott. He took his degree at the University of 
London in 1853, and in 1857 he was called to the 
bar of the Inner Temple. 

The publication, although anonymously, of a poem 
entitled “Randolph,’’ when he was 18, showed the 



bent of his disposition. On the death of his father, 
in 1861, he went to Italy. His first acknowledged 
volume of verse, “The Season,” a Satire, appeared in 
1861. A revised edition appeared in 1869. His 
other poetical productions are: “The Human Tra- 
gedy” (1862), republished in an amended form in 
1876, and again revised in 1889 : 

“The Golden Age; a Satire,” 1871. 

“ Interludes, 1 ” 1872. 

“ Rome or Death,” 1873. 

<r Madonna’s Child,” 1873. 

“ The Tower of Babel,” a Drama, 1874. 
c< Leszko, the Bastard,” a tale of Polish grief, 1877. 

“ Savonarola,” a Tragedy, 1881. 

“ Soliloquies in Song.” 

“ At the Gate of the Convent.” 
u Love’s Widowhood, and other Poems.” 

“ Prince Lucifer.” 

“ English Lyrics.” 

All published between 1 88 1 and 1890. He has 
published three novels : — 

“Five Years of It,” 1858. 

“ An Artist’s Proof, ”'1864. 

“ Won by a Head,” 1866. 

Also, “The Poetry of the Period,” reprinted from Temple Bar 
1870 ; and a “ Vindication of Lord Byron,” 1869. 

He has also written much for The Standard and 
the Quarterly Review. During the sittings of the 
Ecumenical Council of the Vatican, he represented 
The Standard at Rome, and he was special corres- 
pondent of that journal at the headquarters of the 
King of Prussia during the Franco-German war. In 
1883, in conjunction with W. J. Courthope, he found- 
ed the National Review , and continued to edit that 
periodical till the summer of 1893. 

In 1892, Messrs. Macmillan issued a collected edi- 
tion of his poems in six volumes, since which time 
they have published “ Fortunatus, the Pessimist,” and 
“ England’s Darling,” and other Poems, and a prose 
work entitled : “The Garden that I Love.” 

During the past year they have issued the poet’s 
latest work, “In Veronica’s Garden,” which has 
already reached a third edition. 

If he has not yet produced a great poem, he has 
written a great deal of very pretty poetry. In his 
pictures of scenes and places he is often very happy. 
He possesses a certain power of expression, and when 
he condescends to write naturally and with good 
humor, he can produce some very readable couplets. 
The Spectator says : “ Mr. Austin is the laureate of 
gaidens, he is, as Addison says, in love with a 
country life, where nature appears in the greatest per- 
fection, and furnishes all those scenes that are most 
apt to delight the imagination.” Of his “Savonar- 
ol^» The Athenaeum said : “ This tragedy is neither 
better noi worse than various other attempts at his- 



McGill fortnightly. 



135 












torical drama in verse, which have been made of late 

years.” 

Speaking of his appointment as poet-laureate, 
Edmund Stedman said : “ His more ambitious 

efforts do not impress me, though they are the work 
of a well-equipped and able man. But his later vol- 
umes do contain some charming songs and lyrics. I 
am glad that a fairly respectable appointment has 
been made, rather than that the office should be 
allowed to expire altogether. The appointment 
shows an official respect for English traditions and 
her ivied institutions, especially those which tend to 
encourage a taste for poetry and learning.” 

Stedman closes his comment on the appointment 
by saying, “ perhaps the touch of the laurel may in- 
spire him but we have read within the last few days 
with literal amazement some doggerel stanzas by the 
new Poet Laureate on “Jameson’s Ride,” which fall 
beneath the level of ordinary rhymes in a country 
weekly newspaper. The poem is in outrageous taste 
from a public point of view, but even that is less 
notable than its grotesque literary demerits. Poets 
cannot be made by Acts of Parliament. “ Poeta 
nascitur non jit." 

I would prefer, however, to take leave of our lau- 
reate in a pleasanter mood, and therefore select from 
his latest book “ In Veronica’s Garden,” the following 
estimate of the equipment necessary for a poet : 

“ A writer cannot take his occupation too seriously. * * * * 

I will say there is no such thing as a Poet, but only a person who, in 
a certain condition of mind, writes what is called poetry, and who can 
no more write it, when he is not in that condition, than the most 
prosaic of his neighbors. The most important thing in life is to be a 
man ; the next most impoitant, I suppose, to be a gentleman. After 
that, one may be anything under the sun, only one must not vociferate 
jts praises from the house-top, because it happens to be one’s own voca- 
tion. 0 * * * Will you bear with me while I try to tell you what I 
think with more accuracy, in verse : — 

“ Were I a Poet, I would dwell, 

Not upon lonely height, 

Nor cloistered in disdainful cell 
From human sound and sight. 

I would live nestled near my kind, 

Deep in a garden garth, 

That they who loved my verse might find 
A pathway to my hearth. 

“I would not sing of sceptred kings, 

The tyrant and his thrall. 

But every day pathetic things 
That happen to us all : 

The love that lasts through joy, through grief, 

The faith that never wanes. 

And every wilding bird and leaf 
That gladdens English lanes. 

{< Nor would I shape for Fame my lay, 

But only for the sake 
Of singing, and to charm away 
My own or other’s ache ; 

To close the wound, to soothe the smart, 

To heal the feud of years, 

And move the misbelieving heart 
To tenderness and tears. 



“ And when to me should come the night, 

And I could sing no more; 

And faithful lips could but recite 
What I had sung before, 

I would not have a pompous strain 
Resound about my shroud, 

Nor sepulchre in sumptuous fane 
Near to the great and proud. 

Ci But only they who loved me best 
Should bear me and my lyre, 

And lay us, with my kin, at rest 
Under the hamlet spire, 

Where eveiy thing around still breathes 
Of prayer that soothes and saves, 

And widowed hands bear cottage wreaths 
To unforgotten graves. 

“ And they might raise another cross 
Within that hallowed ground, 

And tend the flowers, and trim the moss 
Above my grassy mound ; 

But, honoring me, would carve above 
No impious boast of Fame, 

And not for Glory, but for Love, 

Would keep alive my name.” 

Stanzas like these have a truer ring, and serve to 
show better the “ certain condition of mind ’’ neces- 
sary for writing poetry, than any number of verses 
made to order. 

H. M. 



“OLE LIJE.” 

Robert did not want to go in the least. All his 
patriotism rebelled at leaving his country in her 
hour of need, all his manhood, at what he called run- 
ning away. In spite of his studious habits he 
longed to join the other boys at the camp, and do 
his utmost for the Confederacy. But the others said : 
What could a lame, delicate boy do ? The war would 
soon be over, and it was a shame that his studies 
should be neglected ; Germany was the place for 
him. And so with regret he went. He took with 
him old Lije, Liza’s husband, who had tended him 
ever since he left Liza’s motherly arms. When the 
old coach came to the door and the last good-byes 
had been said, Eliza came forward, and taking his 
hand said : “ Marse Bob, honey, Ise mighty glad 
you’se gwine. Dem Yanks won’t be a shootin and 
a stabbin of you. You’ll come back knowin’ a heap 
’bout dose Greek fellahs you was tellin’ me ’bout, but 
I knows you won’t fo’get yo’ old mammy.” 
Sorrowful himself he left a sorrowing group on the 
broad old porch. The master, his mother and sisters 
watched him turn into the drive and down the hill, 
where he was soon lost among the pines. They 
watched him cross the ford at the foot of the hill, and 
followed the coach up the long linden avenue to the 
high road. They thought of the other boys who 
had rode off so gaily with clattering sabres a few 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



136 



weeks ago. Who would return, and when ? From 
their vantage ground on the swelling base of the 
mountain they could look across the fertile valley 
with its hedge -divided fields, so soon to be dotted 
with the tents of a hostile army, to the village half- 
hidden by the trees ; and away on the opposite rise 
they could see the University dome glistening in the 
morning sun. A few weeks before they had been a 
happy, undivided family, the boys at college, and the 
girls at school; then came the wranglings in Con- 
gress, Carolina seceded, Virginia followed suit, and 
war was declared. His brothers joined the Confe- 
derate army, but he,- lame from infancy, was on his 
way to Germany, to prosecute the studies in which 
he had already shown such aptitude. 

The months passed, and the war assumed a very 
serious aspect. The chivalry of the South could not 
contend with the superior numbers of the North. 
Slaves taking advantage of the unsettled state of the 
country ran off with horses and valuables, only a few 
faithful ones remained around the old homestead. 
Sherman’s army encamped in the peaceful valley and 
turned it into a wilderness. The Southern homes 
were the booty of the Northern marauders. At last 
the end came. But cessation of hostilities brought 
no peace. Four long years of anarchy and robbery 
had left the families paupers and the plantations a 
desolation. All this time letters from Robert had 
been as regular as blockades would permit. He 
spoke of his work some, but more of his country’s 
struggle. After three years his letters ceased. At 
first they thought it was only that the blockade was 
stricter. But when peace came and still no news, 
alarm took the place of anxiety. Friends were writ- 
ten to, and after some delay it was learned that, 
unable to endure the thought of his father’s hard- 
ships and his brothers wounds, he had left, the year 
before, with Lije. It was unknown by what vessel 
he had gone, for he crossed to England with the 
intention of trying to run the blockade from the Ber- 
mudas. 

Two long years passed without word. One 
hazy autumn afternoon, the master was riding 
slowly up the avenue, when he noticed a bent figure 
stumbling along in front of him. There was some- 
thing familiar about it that made his pulse quicken. 
Just then the man turned, and in spite of the white 
hair and deeply furrowed face he recognized “ Lije.” 

“ My God, boy, where is your master ?” But before 
the answer came the old slave gave a cry of mingled 
despair and joy, and fell unconscious. He was taken 
to the house, and everything done to restore 1 him. 
The doctor said his fainting was due to utter exhaus- 
tion. Through what hardships had he passed to 
become so prematurely old ? and where was Marse 



Bob ? were the vain questions that puzzled the 
anxious minds around him. His lethargic state gave 
way to delirium, in which his continual cry was : 
“ Yes, Marse Bob, Ise gwine ! Ise gwine, sah. Ole Lije 

wont fo’get Oh dey won’ lemme go, Marse Bob, 

dey won’ lemme go Oh Lordy, how’s I gwine tell 

de Marster Marse Bob, don’ yo’ die, honey 

Dey’s don’ kill him. Dey’s don’ ” 

The hope that had been cherished so long died at 
his words. The mother wept, the master groaned : 
“ My burden is greater than I can bear.” He had 
braved the opinion of his State by speaking long and 
earnestly against secession, he had opposed the arm- 
ing of Virginia, and striven with all his might to 
maintain the Union. And his reward was the sac- 
rifice of three sons to the greedy god of War. 

How anxiously they waited for a sign of returning 
consciousness. It came. With a sigh Lije opened 
his eyes, and looked on the assembled family. A few 
feeble tears welled from his eyes as in broken and 
disconnected sentences he told his story. Marse 
Bob and he left Germany and started for home by 
way of England. They tried to run the blockade, 
but were seen, pursued and captured. Robert was 
tried by Court Martial, and condemned to be shot as 
a spy. His last words to old Lije were instructions 
to take the news home and break it gently to his 
father. In an attempt to resist his master’s execu- 
tioners, the slave received a blow from a musket that 
almost fractured his skull, and deprived him of mem- 
ory and reason. He was taken to Washington, 
where he remained in prison until the end of the war, 
where still half imbecile he was removed to an asy- 
lum. There he remained nearly two years before 
his young master’s dying message forced its way 
through the mists that clouded his brain and told him 
who he was. By an animal instinct of locality he 
wandered South, and at last reached home with his 
sad tale. 

He finished with,— “ Dere Ise don’ it, Marse Bob ; 
Ise don’ tell’d all I knows.” A sigh, a quiver, and 
the faithful spirit had fled. He never knew he was 
free. The awful struggle that gave freedom to his 
race was to him an unholy strife that had deprived 
him of his young master. He was faithful to the 
end. 

Wydown. 



FROM MY STUDY WINDOWS. 

A two-storied house set on the western slope of a 
breezy hill. On the south and east, a street. Be- 
yond the eastern street a shoulder of the hill, open, 
crowned with a slender flagstaff. On the north, a 
nairow field ciossed by diagonal paths; beyond 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



137 



the field a few houses, sparsely scattered ; beyond the 
houses, fields, tree-studded and white with snow ; 
and again beyond, new fields, with more and more of 
trees, and less of snow, until their shouldering tops 
mingle and fill the valley with a tide of branches 
where it slips into the angles of the hills. 

A room in the upper story, furnished in light 
woods, two-windowed, giving to south and north of 
west. Through the southern window, orchards and 
stone-fenced lawns, and the clustering roofs of the 
city. Through the north, the edge of a garden, half 
hid in the flank of the house, the snowy hill-side, 
crossed by the tracks of many feet, a red school-house 
beyond, a further slope, lines of fir-trees, the bars of 
a railway bed, and beyond that, mile after mile of 
valley land stretching away to the heights of Belmont 
and Lexington, which push their ragged edges against 
the glowing sky. 

A cold pallor of snow lies upon the earth. The 
dark masses of the trees rest blackly against the 
white surface, from which their slender stems arise 
suddenly, grimly, unsoftened by shadow or herbage. 
Even in the groves the white beneath gleams through 
the branches, bluish and chill. 

The hither bound of view is a window-ledge oppo- 
site my desk ; the farther, a low, irregular line of 
hills, which cuts the sky four miles away. Between 
me and its wooded crest lies the valley, sloping 
gently down from either side, and level from slope 
across to slope. A valley chequered into squares 
with little open fields, tree-bordered lawns, groves, 
and garden grounds. Everywhere the residences of 
men. 

The sun has set within the half hour. The light, 
withdrawn from the levels and lower slopes of the 
hills, rests now with a faint flush upon a few summits 
to the north. From my window out to the horizon- 
line the full sweep of the valley is dark. In the 
middle distance a white trail of vapor hangs in the 
bright, frosty air, scarcely dispersed ere replaced by 
another from the fast succeeding trains. To the left a 
faint brown haze hangs over the city. 

Above me a cloudless sky, full of sunset light. 
Towards the zenith a pale, pearly gray-blue, slowly 
giving place to an opalescent tint, where a clear, trans- 
lucent green, measureless in depth and purity of tone, 
meets and mingles with the tender blue of the upper 
sky. Over this a slow suffusion of rose, spreading 
like a mantling blush till the whole western heaven 
is aglow. The flush grows deeper and deeper as the 
eye sinks towards the horizon, as if the blush had 
fled from the fair cheek of an English girl to the 
warm olive of an Italian face. At the horizon line 
a sudden crimson stains the edge of dusk. 

In the dark valley below tremble a thousand lights, 



like the shimmering of dewdrops in the breeze ; and 
from out its shadow springs the slender spire of the 
school-house on the hill-slope, cutting the pure rose 
of the sky with its black tapering lines. Above it, to 
the left, hangs a three, days moon, with the evening 
star close by its sickle, on the one that indescribable 
softness of silver light, in the other the exquisite 
liquid clearness of the dewdrop, which can be found 
only in the growing moon and the star of the west, 
when the flawless colors of a clear sunset follow the 
pure light of a cloudless day. 

Robert MacDougall. 



THE NEW YORK STUDENTS’ CLUB. 

New York has no Latin Quartier. Her students 
are scattered here and there throughout the city, 
and nowhere can one point to a certain district, and 
say, “ our students live there.” But this in a great 
measure will soon be changed. The University of 
New York, Columbia College, and the local institu- 
tion of the College of the City of New York, are all 
about to move northward from their present sites. 
The enormous and continual increase in value of city 
property compel these large institutions to give way 
to commercial buildings. 

The locality in which these new buildings are being 
erected lies north of One Hundred and Tenth street, 
with Fifth Avenue on the east and Amsterdam 
Avenue on the west. Already the different societies 
are purchasing land in the neighborhood, and many 
beautiful houses will soon be built for the wealthy 
fraternities. But the students of the three colleges 
mentioned do not aggregate five thousand, and as 
the Students’ Club, to which I wish to draw the atten- 
tion of the readers of the FORTNIGHTLY, caters for 
its membership to sixteen thousand students, its use- 
fulness will not by any means pass away with the 
removal of the above named colleges. 

The history of the Students’ Club is certainly 
unique. As far back as the year 1867, I find that a 
Medical Students’ Christian Union was formed by 
the Young Men’s Christian Association of New York. 
The meetings of this branch were conducted in the 
building of the parent society, and, excepting in name, 
there was but little difference in the two bodies, — none 
certainly in their aims and methods. The result of 
the continual and conscientious labors of this first 
association appears truly wonderful, and the mem- 
bers of the present association are very fond of telling 
new-comers of the little acorn which was planted over 
a quarter of a century ago. 

A second link in the chain was the Bible class 
commenced by Professor William H. Thomson, 



■38 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



which had an unprecedented career of twenty-two 
years. This class vvas attended exclusively by medi- 
cal students, and it was not until 1887 that an idea 
was put forward to include all students of the great 
metropolis. However, a visit of Professor Henry 
Drummond of Edinburgh to New York settled 
matters. He addressed a large gathering of those 
then attending the various educational institutions 
in the city. Enthusiasm was aroused, as is always 
the case when Professor Drummond interests him- 
self in any project, and the present successful and 
progressive society is a direct result. 

The home of the Students’ Club, which is owned 
by them without any encumbrance, is of New York 
State granite, five stories high, and is very comfort- 
ably furnished throughout. Reading rooms, library, 
music and lecture rooms are its chief features. Re- 
ceptions are held once a week, at which refreshments 
are served by the patronesses of the club. The sec- 
retary is a graduate of Toronto University, and it is 
a granted maxim here that it lakes the inventive 
genius of an American to organize anything, and the 
Canadian energy and perseverance to carry it out. 

Sharon Graham. 



CAMPING OUT ON THE LOWER ST. 
LAWRENCE. 

Our canoes were loaded, everything was in readi- 
ness, and, admired by a few small boys, a stray dog 
and a “ wharf rat, ’ we stepped in, and were off. 
Allie C — and Billy M — composed the crew of the 
leading canoe, while Louis P_ and myself furnished 
motive power for the second. 

We soon left the Quebec wharves behind us, and 
passing swiftly by moored barges, with their red- 
shirted owners lazily perched on the stern rail, puff- 
ing contentedly at “habitant shag,” by anchored 
ships of all classes, we were soon dancing merrily over 
the little waves of the harbor. 

Behind us towered the massive promontory, 
crowned by citadel and battery, like some giant of 
old guarding a city of figures nestling at his feet. 
Resting on our paddles we looked with delight on the 
scene- In fancy, I saw the high-pooped ships of 
Jacques Cartier lying at anchor, the Indians decorated 
with paint and feathers darting hither and thither in 
their light “ birch-barks,” while on every side the 
virgin forest stretched down to the river’s brink. 
How different the reality ! The morning sun cast 
his golden light on roof and steeple, windows re- 
flected his rays in flames of fire. The ripples in the 
harbor were tipped with silver and gold ; clumsy 
barge or stately barque alike were decked out in 
gilded sails and shrouds. 



At length Allie broke the spell. “ Say, boys, Billy 
and I can lick you for half a mile.” Hardly were 
the words uttered before we were after them. 

Invigorated by the bracing air of morning, we bent 
to the paddle, and like things of life and light craft 
rushed through the water. Neck and neck we sped 
along, and not till we had fairly entered the North 
Channel did we let up, and, puffed out, declare the race 
a tie. 

Looking about us, to our right lay the Island of 
Orleans, to our left the mainland, alternating patches 
of green and gold. Everywhere the white cottages of 
the “ habitants” dotted the hillsides. Far ahead, like 
a column of snow against the green bluff, the Falls of 
Montmorency were in full view, while behind all, 
forming an ideal background, towered the blue Lau- 
rentians. It was a beautiful autumn day, typical 
Canadian scenery, and where can either be excelled ? 

In an hour we were at the falls, and landing made 
our way up to the foot. It was grand beyond de- 
scription. With a headlong rush, churned up into 
yellow foam, and draped in clouds of spray, the mass 
of water leaped over a precipice of 250 feet. Half 
dizzy, awe-struck, but unexpressibly charmed, we 
stood in silence. Words at length came, our lips 
moved, but the roar of “ the great waters ” was in our 
ears and we heard not. 

All morning we lingered in the vicinity of the falls, 
gathering souvenirs and drinking in the beauty of 
the scenery. At lunch time we dined amid the driv- 
ing spray, the music of the waters vibrating around 
us, and a rainbow dancing overhead. Dinner over, 
we reluctantly turned our backs on Montmorency, 
embarked en route for Cap Rouge. The tide by this 
time was strongly against us. Work now ; no play. 

Steadily down the river we paddled, past wicker- 
work fisheries stretching far out into the water. 
Shortly we were opposite the village of Ste. Anne de 
Beaupre, where so many pilgrims annually come to be 
healed from all parts of America. Leaving it behind, 
we skirted an almost interminable marsh, where hun- 
dreds of noisy geese paddled about in the muddy 
water. 

The sun was just vanishing behind the forest-clad 
mountains, as we rounded Cap Rouge, and entered 
a little bay. Shadows lurked amid the boulders as 
we skirted the shore. Nothing disturbed the silence 
save the rhythmical plash of our paddles, and the lap, 
lap, of the wavelets against the rocks. 

On every side steep bluffs rose above us some 2,000 
feet high, their sides thickly clad with a dense growth 
of pine, spruce and cedar, except where some boulder 
jutted out bare and grim in the fading light. 

Just ahead of us, nestling against the mountain’s 
breast, stood a small log shanty. Beside it a small 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



139 



brook tumbled down the rocks, falling noisily into a 
shallow pool just at the door. 

No sign of life. Everything deserted. So ship- 
ping our paddles, we drifted quietly up to a flat rock 
which served as a natural wharf. 

While the boys hauled up the canoes, I climbed up 
the rocks to investigate. On trying the door, to my 
surprise it opened easily. “ What a snap ! ” I ex- 
exclaimed, and called the rest of the boys. 

The camp was complete in everything dear to a 
camper’s heart : cooking-stove, utensils of every 
kind, a table, half a dozen chaiis, and two nice clean 
bunks filled with fresh straw. We hugged each 
other with joy, for we had expected to sleep amid 
the rocks. 

The ownership of the place mattered but little, we 
were soon perfectly at home. A roaring fire of pine 
knots blazed in the old stove, a rasher of bacon sizzled 
in the frying-pan, and the tea-kettle swung in the back- 
ground. 

Half an hour later, four self-satisfied looking fellows 
lay, pipe in mouth, around the camp, and, strange to 
relate, none were hungry. The room was blue with 
tobacco smoke. We were supremely happy. 

It was hot, very hot, in the shanty, so we adjourned 
to the beach outside, and building a fire picked out a 
soft rock and sat down to enjoy our evening smoke. 

Darkness, by this time, had chased the few remain- 
ing sunbeams over the hills behind us. Not the 
faintest breeze sighed amid the pines nor rippled the 
glassy surface of the St. Lawrence. The lofty bluffs, 
Cap Rouge and Cap Burnt, awe-inspiring in their 
mighty stillness> stood like sentinels on each side of 
the little bay. Myriads of stars looked down from a 
cloudless sky, while like the lanterns of dancing wood 
fairies, the fireflies flitted about on the shore. 

“ It’s about time for one of Louis’ yarns,” suddenly 
broke in Allie from the midst of a dense cloud of to- 
bacco smoke, and with one accord we seconded the 
proposal. After the usual excuses proper on such an 
occasion, and the important duty of reloading his 
pipe, Louis began : 

“ It was the middle of October, 1890, that I put in 
the two weeks hunting with ‘ Old Sam’ Craig, at 
Cranberry Lake, N.B. 

“ Sam is quite a character, — lives by what he can 
shoot or trap. A queer old cuss he is, dried and 
wrinkled like an apple that’s hung on the tree all win- 
ter, but as active and sharp as a fox. The woods are 
an open book to him. 

“ Partridge were plentiful that fall, and one morning, 
taking Sport and Dash, our two bird-dogs, we 
set out on a good day’s hunt. We tramped around 
till nearly noon with fair luck, killing five brace, and 
were just thinking about lunch when the dog started 
something big on a swale just ahead of us. 



“‘What in th’ Old Harry hev tlier’ pups struck 
now ?’ exclaimed Sam, cocking his gun. and break- 
ing into a trot. I followed, and we soon reached the 
place. 

“The dogs were whining and yelping around a tall 
dead stub standing alone in 'a clump of huge hem- 
locks. Every hair on their bodies was standing on 
end with excitement. They evidently were undecided 
whether to follow something into the woods or 
remain with us. 

“ The old man who had been carefuily examining 
the ground, laconically remarked, ‘ Bar ! He war 
arter honey ! See that hole up yonder ?’ 

“ I looked, and sure enough, about half-way up the 
trunk of the old tree, an opening was visible through 
which large numbers of bees were coming and going. 

“ ‘ Got to hev some o’ that honey,’ said Sam, wag- 
ging his head in a thoughtful manner. Then light 
seemed to break in upon him, and with a chuckle he 
turned and started in the direction of the camp. 

“Rather perplexed, I called the dogs and followed. 
I knew the old fellow well enough to be sure some 
scheme was on foot, but what it was I could not make 
out. No grass grew under Sam’s feet, I tell you, boys, 
and when the camp was in sight one of the party was 
puffed — and it wasn’t him. In a few minutes my 
partner had found a long rope, which he carefully 
coiled, and slinging it over his shoulder, picked up a 
sharp axe and the camp water-pail. “ Come on,” he 
said, * Durn my skin if I don’t show you the biggest 
circus ever you seed.’ Then laughing heartily to 
himself, he struck the back trail. Before leaving, how- 
ever, he carefully locked the dogs in the shanty. 

“ All the way back, I tried to find out what the joke 
was, but my efforts were of no avail. 

“ When we reached the bees’ nest, Sam cut a large 
block of wood from a maple near by. I suppose the 
block would be three feet long by a foot in diameter, 
at one end he cut a groove, and attached the rope 
securely. This done, he climbed a tree growing be- 
side the stub, taking the free end of the rope with 
him- Sitting on a limb he could easily reach a branch 
of the tree containing the honey, and directly above 
the opening about fifteen feet further up, Over this 
he threw the rope, and drawing up the heavy log till 
it hung directly over the entrance to the hive, he fas- 
tened it firmly, much to the disgust of the bees. Then 
down he came- 

“ I had been a silent and most astonished spectator 
of all the proceedings. For the life of me I couldn’t 
see what the object was. 

Now, young feller, we’ll cache,’ said Sam, ‘an’ if I 
ain’t mistaken you’ll see Mister Bar back afore 
long. Ef he comes there’ll be a side show an’ he’ll be 
ther clown.’ 

“ I couldn’t understand how that arrangement of 



140 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



his was going to make a bear act the clown, but I 
obediently followed him, and together we lay down 
in a clump of underbrush within gunshot of the 
stub. 

“ You see,” began the old hunter, after we were 
snugly placed, “ a bar’s mortal fond of honey ; he’ll 
dar most anythin’ to get some. Now this teller 
hain’t been scared much, and he will be back afore 
long.” 

“ Then we’ll get a shot at him ? ” I hopefully 
enquired. 

“ Sure ! ” he answered. 

For an hour we lay quietly hidden. Sam wouldn’t 
talk nor let me, but lay like part of the ground watch- 
ing in all directions. Suddenly a sharp His-s-s-st ! 
startled me. 

“ See him ? Thar he comes ! ” 

Sure enough. A big black bear was ambling very 
deliberately in the direction of the stub. After a 
cautious look around, and a sniff or two at the air, 
he began slowly to ascend, hugging the trunk with 
his strong forepaws. He soon reached a limb just 
below the opening, and totally disregarding the 
angry bees, squatted himself upon it, and proceeded 
to investigate. 

The hanging log seemed to perplex him. He 
smelt it carefully, cocked his head on one side and 
thought it over. Then he gently pushed it away 
and stuck his nose into the hole. The block swung 
back and tapped him gently over the eye. This 
startled him, and he looked carefully around to see 
what struck him. 

Turning my head, I saw Sam fairly suffocated with 
suppressed laughter. 

After sitting for a moment, in thought no doubt, 
Bruin gave the log a decided push, and began to tear 
open the tree with his sharp claws. Back swung the 
log, and this time dealt him a hard below on the 
nose. My, wasn’t he mad ! He growled and sna tied, 
fairly danced up and down on the limb. Then he 
noticed the log swinging backwards and forwards in 
front of the hole. It seemed to ^suddenly dawn on 
him. ‘You would, would you,’ thought he, and 
gave the enemy a vigorous swipe with his paw, mak- 
ing it swing away out. For his pains he got a tap 
behind the ear that almost knocked him off the 
perch. 

“ By this time Sam and I were doubled up with 
laughter. That bear did look funny. He, by this 
time, had lost his temper completely, and fairly roared 
with rage. It was a regular sparring match. The 
harder he would strike, the harder the log would 
strike back. 

“ At last the log got the best of it, and hitting its 
opponent fair on the nose, toppled him off the limb. 



Down he came with a resounding thump, and before 
he could recover, we had our guns ready, and finished 
him with a couple of well directed bullets. 

“ It makes me laugh every time I think of that bear 
and the log. The only wonder is that we didn’t miss 
him altogether, we were so convulsed with laughter. 

“ Before skinning the bear, we smoked out the bees, 
and with a little chopping secured a pailful of fine 
clear honey.” 

“ Well, that’s a good one,” remarked A llie as Louis 
finished ; “ and I guess we’d better go to bed before 
Billie gets started.” 

In half an hour all was still, save the nasal melody 
of Allie, and the sigh of the rising wind among the 
pines. 

W. B. M. 

YE PASSYNGE OF DYCKE. 

“ Myne luve sche hath flawin 
Till reggiounes unknawin, 

Alorgge wyth ye manne yn ye fleyinge maschine.” 

Old Ballad. 

Yow haf horde yn tymis paste, gentil reider, hou 
Tomme didde growe ta be ane gret manne, bot 
Herryedidde gange til ye badde, and nou yow schal 
heir of ye strainge fait of thair camrade Dycke. 

Yn ye reccordis of ye aforsayde auncient citye 
manne fyndeth none relacioun of quhat didde byfal 
Dycke, nor yette yn ye reccordis of ye aforsayde 
Colledge, bot ane Machattma, or manne of seconde 
sichte, didde maik knawin til ye riter of thais faythe- 
full taylis ye mainer quhairbye Dycke didde passe 
outwyth ye kenne of hys fellawemenne. Quhen 
thairfor Dycke didde fayle for ta gayne ye Mairheide 
Pryse, he didde saye til hymselve, “Verilie methynk- 
eth yt behoveath me ta lat Laitin abee,” and forth- 
wyth he betakketh hymselve til ye Halle of Sceyence 
the quhilk ys that pairt of ane auncient Colledge 
quhairyn menne maye lairn ta maik dyvers maschinis 
and engynis, and lykwys ta lairn ye curous wyrkyngis 
ofNaitur. Sa Dycke gettyth hymselve alang ful wel, 
and passyth al hys examinaciouns for ye degrie of 
Baccalour of Sceyence, barrynge anlie ye examins yn 
ye Maithematick and ye Phylosophye ofNaitur. 

Sa he gangis til ye examin yn ye Maithematick, 
and wyth hym ane score and fyve ither youthis of 
gude pairtis. 

Nou ye examin was ful harde and styffe bot Dycke 
was ful of hoppe yn hys hert and thocht that hym- 
selve wolds passe. Bot quhan the daye came for ye 
youthis ta be tauld quha hadde passit, behauld yt 
was mayde knawin that anlie twa youthis hadde 
passit, of quham ane was Walschmanne and tither 
was ane Jappanie. Sa Dycke was caste doun yn hys 
her t, and didde saye, “Behauld ane prophit hath 
none honoure yn hys awin countrie. Gyf sa be I 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



canne lieve thys vail of sorrowes, I schal dow sa richt 

hertylie.” 

Nou yt sa byfel that at that tyme menne of Scey- 
ence hadde faund out ane gasse yn ye ayre, the quhilk 
they hadde b) for passit bye unbeknawin, and they 
didde clepe ye sayde gasse argonne. Nou Dycke 
didde saye ta hymselve, gyf sa be that menne of 
sceyence have passit bye thys gasse, yt ys nawyse 
onpossible they may haf passit bye itheris lykwys. 
Sa he settys hymselve ta vvyrk harde at ye ayre, and 
behauld he gettyth yhm from ye ayre ane ither 
gasse, ye quhilk he didde clepe jargonne. Nou 
argonne hadde bene ane ful vvechtie gasse, bot Dycke 
was gled at hert quhan that he didde fynd that hys 
awin gasse, or jargonne, was ful licht, lichter than 
anie gasse that hadde yette bene fand bai menne of 
sceyence, yea sa exceedynge licht that yt was lichter 
nor nothynge. Sa Dycke didde rejoyce ful moche 
for that he didde persaive that quhairas menne of 
olden tyme hadde of needcessitye bene keppit on ye 
airth, hymselve wolds be aible ta gang thorough 
spaice, the quhilk ys ye grait plaice outwyth ye airth 
quhairyn ys nana ayre nor gasse quhairyn ye boddis 
of ye heavnis doth move. Sa Dycke doth mak for 
hymselve ane gret baloune and didde fylle ye saim 
wyth jargonne, and didde prepair for ta gang furth 
from ye airth intil spaice. 

Nou ane aide wyf of Fraunce hadde diet and leivit 
ane gret somme of monie for hym quha schuld ferst 
mak connexioun with ye starre of Maurs. Sa Dycke 
gettyth intil hys baloune provesioun of ayre and foude 
for yejournie, and maniecurous instruments of scey- 
ence, and doth sette furth upon hys parlous taske. 
Nou hys baloune didde flie ful faste intil ye ayre, and 
ere manie seccondis he was outwyth ye atmosphair 
of ye airth and intil spaice. Bot quhen he didde gette 
hymselve thair, behauld hys beloune didde gang 
nowe thys weye nowe that weye, yn sic wyse that 
Dycke was wilderit in hys mynde. Bot he bethynketh 
hymselve ta dunch ye baloune wyth hys fyste, and lo 
hefyndeth yt wol gang quhairsaever he duncheth yt. 
Sa he dunched tyme upon tymeyn ye weye leadynge 
til Maurs, til he commeth at laste intil ye atmosphair 
of Maurs, and hys baloune wolde nat gang doune, sa 
he lettyth out hys jargonne, lytil bai lytil, and ere 
moche tyme he gettyth hymselve doune. 

And lo, ane gret companie of curous peipil didde 
stand thair gaizynge at hym, and I wolde fayne telle 
of quhat forme they wer, bot ye manne of seconde 
sichte seys that yt ys not lawfulle for menne of airth 
ta knaw, and he wol nat telle of quhat kynde they 
wer, quhairfor, methynketh ful moche that hymselve 
dothe nat know. Housamevir they didde gaize 
harde at Dycke, bot nat ane of thaim didde speke, 
for yn that starre menne hathe nat neide for ta speke, 



141 



for thair thochtis dothe passe of thaimselfs. Sa 
Dycke didde feel their thochtis come ta hym, and 
their thochtis didde signifie, “ Lo we haf neide of 
ane clevarre manne for ta dow manie thyngis for us 
and for ta be oure heide.” And Dycke’s thocht didde 
gauge til thaim that he wolde be ful gled ta be thair 
heide, and that he was lykwys ful thenkfull that yt 
and he didde manie wondrous thyngis for thaim, for 
behoavit him not ta be eatit alyve. Sa Dycke was 
mayde thair kynge and thay didde luvhym moche, 
he didde schaw thaim hou to maik gret canallis and 
ta maik schippis for ta sayle on ye saim, and manie 
ither thyngis quhilk tyme wolde fayle ta relait. 

Bot it sa byfel that yn ye aforsayde starre menne 
didde not eate meikle foude, bot wer satisfait wyth 
anelytil pycke of ane curous herbe ane tyme yn ilk 
daye. Sa that albeit Dycke was ful happye yn that 
starre, and albeit that pycke of ye aforsayde herbe 
didde suffyse for ta kepe hym alyve, yette hys stamack 
didde yerne sair for mor bodilye foude, and he didde 
seye ta hymselve that for ane bowle of parridge or ane 
pye ane jinjre here he wolde forgang al hys power 
with richte gude wylle. 

And he bethynketh hymselve lykwys of ye gret 
somme of monye in Fraunce, quhilk he mought nowe 
mak hys awin, sa he settyth ta wyrk ance mor, and 
til hys gret joye he can mak jargonne lykwys from 
yeayre of Maurs. Sa he gettyth hys baloune fyllit 
ance more with jargonne. and he takketh wyth hym 
thrie of ye heide menne of Maurs and leiveth ye 
peipil of ye aforsayde starre yn gret sorrowe, bot 
latteth thaim knaw that he wolde visite thaim agayne 
ere manie yeiris hadde gane bye. Sa ye baloune 
flyeth up ful faste ontil ye didde gette outwyth ye 
ayre of Maurs, and Dycke didde dunch the baloune 
as afortyme, and yt gangeth ful richt for ane lytil 
tyme, bot at ye laste yt started for ta gang ane weye 
for ytselve, and Dycke and ye thrie menne of Maurs 
colde not stoppe ye saim, for that ye menne wer ower 
wechtie for ye jargonne yn ye baloune. Sa Dycke 
didde persaive that he had done wrang yn that he 
hadde takken wyth hym ye thrie menne, and he 
didde thynk, “ Lo, I maun shye thais menne outwyth 
ye baloune, or we schal al perisch.” Bot thay didde 
percaive hys thaughts, and didde holde on fyrme. 

Sa ye baloune didde hauld yts weye, and thair 
fower menne haf nat yette reichit thys airth, and ye 
manne of seconde sichts sayth thay be even nowe 
birylynge thorough spaice, and he knaweth nat 
gyf they schal be swallowitbai ye sonne or ither gret 
feyre or schal yette reich ye airth and maik al peipil 
ta wonder. So Dycke hath nat yette gotten hym 
hys parridge, nor yette ye somme of monie for gang- 
ynge til Maurs, and yt meye be he nevarre schal. 

Ye Morale. — Be nat ower hastylie caste doune 



142 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



bai adverse examinaciouns, for manie of ye saim ar 
yn storre ere manie dayis be gane. Lykwys be nat 
owergreedye for pyes nor for jinjre bere. 

And lastyle, plaice nat yower truste yn jargonne> 
ye gasse quhilk ys lichter nor nothynge, or at ye ende 
yow schal lose yower heide even as diddepore Dycke. 

C. W. T. 

(In Glasgow University Magazine.) 



POETRY. 



AN IMAGE OF A LIFE. 

Methouglit that on a narrow isle I stood 
Ten thousand leagues afar in solitude. 

Before, behind foreshortened : strange it was 
The islet seemed an image of a life. 

Lost scenes came crowding back, unfinished deeds ; 
Dear faces long from human vision veiled, 

Their pleading wants anew displayed. Gaunt forms 
Reproachful threw athwart my way the “ yellow leaf 
Mute-visaged sages, I beheld ; in grief, 

Recalling all those days when life was young, 

And friendehip true, and Love’s caresses strong. 

I heard again Time’s call to guide in truth 
The wayward steps of restless erring youth. 

Anew there came the oft-repeated call, 

To lead in “ wisdom’s ways” the steps of all : — 

Dear happy dreams of hope and fond endeavor 
That, unimproved, had slipt away forever. 

Backward I glanced and saw the gathering gloom 
Of sable night, oblivion’s horrid noon ; 

Next forward turned my eager, anxious eyes 
On waste and quick-dissolving joys, and lo 
A rising, rolling tide before me strives, 

The sands of life in liquid disappearing ; 

And I, the fatal vale of Death a-nearing — 

On every hand thick darkness deepened round, 

While storm-clouds thundered, belched and frowned. 

Opaque, the grey o’ercast translucent day ; 

And shrouded sad, the sun ’neath strangest ray 
Went down. But grief, too sore, that vengeful e’en, 
Malignant struck and cleft my heart in twain. 

Night passed : the sun shines fair and the sky is clear, 
My soul’s in the highlands : He answereth prayer. 

Bannell Sawyer, 

Law, ’94. 



SOCIETIES. 



UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY SOCIETY. 

At the meeting of this Society held on Friday even- 
ing, Jan. 10th, Mr. McMaster made the motion, of 
which notice was given before the Christmas holi- 
days. Mr. Saxe and Mr. Russel, of Arts ’97, sup- 



ported Mr. McMaster. The chief arguments in favor 
of the motion seemed to be those relating to the 
social engagements of those students whose home is 
Montreal. It was also pointed out that the various 
theological colleges have debating societies, all of 
which meet on Friday evening. The motion carried, 
“ Resolved, that clergymen should take an active part 
in politics,” was the subject advertized for debate. 
Messrs. Ives, Rowat and E. M. Campbell supported 
the resolution, while Messrs. Russel and Worth spoke 
against it. Four of these speakers were substitutes, 
and of these Messrs. Ives and Worth appeared before 
the Society for the first time. The speeches of both 
were carefully prepared and well delivered. The re- 
solution was lost on a division of 8 to 12. 

The balance of the programme consisted of two 
readings, the “Revenge,” and a poem on Robert 
Burns. These pieces were read by Mr. McMaster and 
McLeod. 

Mr. Archibald, of Arts ’97, acted as critic. He con- 
demned that preparation (?) for debate which consists 
simply in seeking to pick flaws in the arguments of 
one’s opponents. But in listening to the able speech 
of Mr. Worth, he exclaimed, “ a Daniel, a very 
Daniel.” 

Scribus Junior. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

On Thursday, the 16th, instead of holding a regu- 
lar meeting, the members of this Society attended an 
“At Home” given in the Museum by the Alumnae 
Society to the women-students (undergraduate and 
partial) and to the wives of the Professors and 
Governors of the University. 

At least once a year we meet in a social way with 
our graduated sisters, and feel the inspiration that 
comes from those who have passed through our 
experience and have used it for noble ends. As the 
history of the Alumnae Society, its aims and efforts, 
was given by Miss Derick in a much enjoyed 
address, we realized that its members have shown us 
that college days may fit women for the best work 
in life— that of helping others. We honor their 
example and look forward to the time when we shall 
join in their labors. 

From McGill women in Montreal we turned to a 
broader field ; for, in a most interesting and helpful 
address, Dr. Peterson spoke of the efforts put forth 
by women for the needy in London and other large 
cities. Our new Principal has greatly honored us 
by delivering this address in the first year of his 
Principalship, and we warmly appreciate the kindness 
of the Alumnae in asking us to share with them the 
pleasure of hearing it. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



143 



After these addresses we spent some time in t lik- 
ing with our friends and “ refreshing ” ourselves 
before leaving the scene of this happy reunion. 



VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting of the Association was held in 
the Library, on Dec. 19, the honorary president, Dr. 
D. McEachran, occupying the chair. Roll call 
showed a smaller attendance than usual, several of the 
members having gone home for the holidays. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and ap- 
proved, and reports of committees received. 

Mr. C. H. Higgins requested that the secretary be 
instructed to communicate with the Bureau of Animal 
Industry at Washington, D.C., with a view of adding 
the valuab le reports of the department to the Library. 

Mr. J. Anderson Ness reported, on behalf of the ’9 6 
Journal Club, some interesting experiments with 
barium chloride as a therapeutic agent in the treat- 
ment of Enteralgia in the horse. Mr. Fred. W. Kee 
presented a carefully prepared paper on Actinomy- 
cosis Bovis, with special reference to the pathology of 
the disease. 

A spirited discussion followed, in which the essay- 
ist ably defended his remarks. Dr. Adami favored 
the meeting with a description of the disease as 
manifested in man, and Dr. McEachran spoke at 
length on the disease as it appears in range cattle in 
the North-West. Mr. E. H. Morris furnished a most 
interesting report on a case of Ligation of the Carotid 
in a colt, which was followed by a complete recovery, 
circulation being effected by means of collateral 
arteries. 

Meeting then adjourned. 

H. D. 



SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The Society met in the Library on Monday evening, 
Jan. 13, with the president, Dr. Mills, in the chair. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and adopt- 
ed, and business of a general nature having been 
transacted, Mr. John Greer was called upon forapaper 
on “Instinct.” This was described as “the active 
principle of the mind which is effectively devoted to 
the attention to necessary wants, or to the gratifica- 
tion of some sensual enjoyment.” 

The development of instincts, the lapsing, and, in 
certain cases, final disappearance of, were treated at 
length, as was also the relation of instinct to reflex 
action. 



Mr. C. H. Higgins presented a paper on “The 
Sense of Touch in the Lower Animals.” 

The rudimentary organs occurring in lower orders 
of animals for the transference of tactile sensations 
were described in a concise manner, and the utility to 
the organism of these sense organs were elaborated 
on by the essayist. 

Owing to the lateness of the hour, the discussions 
were somewhat limited, and after closing remarks by 
the president, the meeting adjourned. 

H. D. 



Y. M. C. A. 

The meetings of the Association for the spring 
term were resumed on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 12th, 
at three o’clock. Mr. H. M. Tory continued the 
studies on the “ Life of Christ.” There was a good 
representation of students present. The meetings 
will be continued at the same hour every Sunday 
afternoon throughout the session, and every student 
is invited. Programmes of the meetings have been 
printed, and may be had by calling at the secre- 
tary’s office. 

The Faculty Bible classes have also resumed, and 
will meet weekly as formerly. 

Attention is called to the meetings on Tuesday 
and Thursday mornings at 8.30, for prayer on behalf 
of the Association and its work, and the hope is 
expressed that these meetings may be patronized by 
a larger number of the men. 



Y. W. C. A. 

Miss Holden, our leader, on Friday, January 10th, 
directed our thoughts to the “ Promise for the New 
Year.” 

The promises of renewal of strength and peace in 
our hearts were conditioned on the fulfilment of our 
duties, which may be divided into two kinds, viz., 
those in the spirit and those in the flesh. Miss 
Holden showed how our lives might be productive 
of good to ourselves and to others. 



AFFILIATED COLLEGES. 



INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE. 

The Annual Inter- Collegiate Debate w r as held on 
Friday evening, January 10th, in the David Morrice 
Hall ; Dr. Barclay in the chair. 

A chorus, sung by the students of the Wesleyan 



144 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



College, opened the evening’s proceedings. The Rev’ 
Dr. Barclay then expressed his pleasure at being asked 
to preside over the meeting, especially as it was one 
in which the young men of our different colleges were 
to take part in friendly debate. 

The debate was as follows : “ Resolved, That 
Legislation is more effective than moral suasion in 
uplifting the masses.” 

Mr. Frank J. Day, B.A., of the Congregational 
College, and Mr. A. J. Belton, of the Wesleyan, sup- 
ported the affirmative. Mr. T. A. Sadler, B.A., of 
the Presbyterian College, and Mr. W. W. Craig, B.A. 
of the Diocesan, maintained the negative. 

Mr. Day, in opening the debate, stated the position 
taken by the affirmative. He noticed first the place 
that law has in the development of human character, 
as illustrated in parents’ care in the education and 
governing of their children, and from this he made an 
analogy, to the effect that the masses are in their 
childhood, therefore Legislation affords a simple and 
far-reaching way of teaching them. 

In the second place, he dealt with the actual results 
accomplished by Legislation, the removal of hin- 
drances to the advancement of women and children 
who labor in factories and workshops in England and 
elsewhere, and that Legislation has made it possible 
for these to rise. Then that Legislation has done a 
great deal for the masses in that it makes education 
compulsory. He also set forth other measures that 
have been equally beneficial to the masses. 

Mr. Sadler, in support of the negative, showed that 
the first step in every reform was the creation of sen- 
timent in its favor, and then when the majority were 
convinced of the usefulness of the change, it became 
possible to legislate with success. He maintained, 
therefore, that since moral suasion convinces the ma- 
jority, it contributes more to bring about reforms 
than legislation, which merely records their opinions 
in a statute which restrains the minority. He held 
that from the failures of the natural and Mosaic laws 
it was evident that law could not elevate nations 
when moral suasion was not sufficiently prominent ; 
further, that since laws control outward actions only, 
they cannot possibly elevate. Referring to the 
criminal classes, Mr. Sadler showed that the criminally 
inclined were restrained chiefly by the moral senti- 
ment of the community, and that the machinery of 
legislation would be useless without moral suasion. 
He admitted that law restrained actual criminals, but 
maintained that in doing so it defrauded them. It 
was shown that on account of the Psychological laws 
which govern us, it was impossible that the resolution 
of the debate could be true, but that the reverse must 
actually be the case. The example of Christ and the 
results of Christianity were appealed to as settling the 
matter indisputably. 



Mr. A. J. Belton, in support of the affirmative, held 
that Legislation is the efficient cause, while moral 
suasion is the instrumental. In support of this, he 
cited the history of civilization in Japan, England, 
Greece, Rome and the ancient Hebrews. Secondly, 
that this was seen in the history of the abolition of 
slavery and temperance reforms : in the abolition of 
slavery, because moral suasion could not affect the 
greed of the slave-owners or the prejudices of the 
people — it was brought to bear upon Parliament, but 
was useless till crystalized into legislation. In tem- 
perance reforms legislation will be most beneficial, 
while moral suasion will fail, because of the tyranny 
of habit which is strengthened in the case of the 
masses, etc. Mr. Belton, in conclusion, appealed to 
actual experiences, where he claimed that moral 
suasion produced few permanent or wide- reaching 
effects. 

Mr. Craig reminded us that the question for solu- 
tion was essentially a moral one, and maintained that 
all elevation worthy of the name sprang from the 
moral nature, and therefore must find its ultimate 
source in moral suasion. This was evidenced by 
Science and History. That legislation is only the 
means to enable the application of moral suasion to 
the lines of the masses, as is evident from the fact that 
moral suasion has exerted its influence without it and 
in spite of it, as is seen by many examples, it is seen 
in the case of Socrates, Christ, etc. Mr. Craig appealed 
to the actual results of moral suasion to attest its 
superiority ; and in conclusion, stated “that the su- 
preme wisdom of the Universe has himself condes- 
cended to pronounce upon it,” and tells us with no 
uncertain sound that, “ If there had been a law given 
which could have given life, righteousness would have 
been by the law.” A reading was given by Mr. Geo 
Weir, B.A. Then the judges, Rev. Principals Bar- 
bour, Shaw, McVicar and Henderson, decided the de- 
bate in favor of the negative. 



CLASS REPORTS. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year. 

Among the many evidences that April 30th, 1896, 
is already near at hand, probably the most conclu- 
sive, next to counting the intervening days in the 
calendar, is to see groups of threes and fours looking 
intently and admiringly at something held very care- 
fully in the hands of some grave senior, which some- 
thing on investigation invariably turns out to be a 
pi oof direct from the studio of the photographic 
artist Notman. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



145 



But, strange to say, this interest has not yet ex- 
tended to the whole class, as a small portion still 
“ pursue the even tenor of their way,” possibly they 
are postponing their visit to 14 Phillips Square until 
they are reasonably certain that April will not find 
them “weighed in the balances and found wanting.” 



A young gentleman, who reads everything with the 
eye of a philosopher , has culled the following bit of 
female introspection from the pages of the Harvard 
Lampoon : — 

“ I love to flirt with the college boys 
Because they are so nice ; 

And when they kiss me once, I know 
They are going to kiss me twice.” 



A familiar episode in 

Miss M “ Oh ! Mr. M could you let me 

have ?” 

Mr. M - — “Yes; Mr. P has it, but it doesn’t 

matter ! I’ll get it for you immediately. Mr. 

P. , Miss M has just been asking for ; 

are you done with it?” 

Mr. P Oh ! ah-hem, certainly ! Charmed, I’m 

sure.” 

Mr. M retires with Mr. P puts on his 

hat and leaves the room. 

The above fragment has recently been handed to 
the reporter for publication. 

Possibly some of our readers can fill in enough of 
the missing links to make it intelligible, but it seems 
doubtful, and it may be that it is wholly outside of our 
sphere, so we submit it without any attempt at inter- 
pretation, except to suggest that if it is the FORT- 
NIGHTLY which is so much in demand, applications 
might be made at the Business Manager with more 
satisfactory results. 

Third Year. 

On Thursday, January 9th, Arts ’97 held a meet- 
ing to consider the immediate organization of the 
Annual Arts Tramp. 

Mr. Ives proposed an innovation, which did credit 
to his genius, but he was not seconded. 

It was decided by a large vote to hold the Tramp 
as soon as possible, and to elect two committees of 
two each to see about it 

It is almost needless to state that when the presi- 
dent announced nominations in order for two men 
who knew all about dinners, drinks and eatables, etc., 
Messrs. Macfarlane and Browne were immediately 
elected unanimously. 

Messrs. Howard, Ker, Campbell, Saxe and Mc- 
Master were nominated for the programme committee. 
The last two withdrew their names, and the first two 
were elected. 



On sending in this report we may say that with 
such committees the Tramp is sure to be an unpre- 
cedented success. On reading this paper we hope all 
Artsmen will be able to say that it WAS so. 

Lord Salisbury will doubtless be glad to hear that 

Mr. McM and a few others quite agree with the 

course he has taken in the Venezuelan affair. 

Chinese are queer ducks ; they can’t even make 
mistakes like every day people. 

The late Te To Turn of Aylmer street died from a 
fluke quite unlike the ordinary Bistoma Nepatica. 

Mechanics are changing to Ethics — Here’s the 
latest : — “ A vicious body is one who will yield to any 
influence, though it may be a long time.” 

Mr. S. G. Archibald, ’97, has been elected speaker 
for Arts at the University Banquet. 

We are sure that he’s all right, and will nobly up- 
hold the honor of Arts. 



All students having social ties in Montreal have to 
thank Mr. McMaster for the efforts which he has 
made to have the meetings of the Literary changed 
from Friday to Saturday evenings — efforts which have 
been crowned with success. We hope that ’97 will 
show their appreciation of Mr. McMaster’s efforts by 
their regular attendance at the Society. 



Second Year. 

On the night of Dec. 1 8th, 1895, exams were over, 
and 25 Sophomores gathered at the College gate, 
where the “Prince of Wales ” was waiting to take them 
away from the scene of the late combat, away from 
the stuffy hall, away to a quiet nook beyond the 
mountain. Of course before leaving the lights of the 
city behind, it was necessary to inform the passers-by 
on St. Catherine St. that “ McGill is all right,” and 
that ’98 is her best son. Then as the sleigh sped on 
through the keen, frosty air, the echoes of our songs 
were carried back on the night wind to the city far 
below us. At the Club House there was a spirited 
game of basket ball, which was so hotly contested that 
neither side scored, and Mr. Grace took pity on the 
Year, and blew us off until we were cool. The excite- 
ment increased on the drive back, and when Mr. 
Duff had been bounced till he turned over, we did 
justice to the ample supper he had provided at his 
home. The talent of ’98 was then called upon, and 
more than proved equal to the emergency. Mr. 
Bishop upon the violin, Messrs. Costigan and Mc- 
Gregor upon the pi mo, Mr. Stephens in some Welsh 
songs were much appreciated, and it was a “ wee sma 
hour” when the boys separated. 



146 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Student (translating w\evrj arm). — “ And his legs are 
bound fast.” 

Professor. — “Really, Mr. D, he must have been 
walking on his hands.” 



La Fontaine’s latest and as yet unpublished fable. 
The plot. 

1. Passage way lined with wolves. 

2. Lambs appear and huddle together. 

3. Occasion requires and finds a heroine. 

The door is closed in the faces of the wolves. 

4. Lost lamb appears. 

5. Wanderings of the lost. 

6. Restoration of lamb to the fold — great rejoicing. 

Copyrighted Jan. nth, 1896. 

First Year. 

The Year held its first Hockey practice on Mon- 
day, January 13th ; it was not altogether a success, 
as not enough fellows turned out. The Christmas 
results have a good deal to do with this, but it is hoped 
that a larger number will be on hand next time. 



We have been looking forward to the recommence- 
ment of the illustrated work in Literature, as it was 
greatly enjoyed by the students. 



“ A little learning is a dangerous thing.” 

We all agree with Pope here; especially is it so at 
Exam, time, and when the papers are such papers. 



We regret that so many of our fellow-students are 
now mourning the loss of more or less plumage. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 

We are pleased to see the whole of ’96 returned 
for the final term. We wish all well. 



The Miners of Sc. ’96 feel a deep sense of satisfac- 
tion regarding the Mineralogy Examination, although 
the results will not be posted until next April. 



The Faculty of Applied Science and the Students 
of Mining are to be congratulated for having obtained 
in Mr. Hardman such an able and enthusiastic suc- 
cessor to Prof. Carlyle. 



Mr. Hardman is a man of vast practical mining 
experience, having seen active service in many parts 
of the United States and Canada, which, combined 
with a thorough theoretical knowledge of all subjects 
bearing on the Profession of Mining Engineering, 
gives him a place as an expert equalled by few, and 
also places him in the top rank of those qualified to 
instruct students. 

It is to be hoped that Mr. Hardman will enjoy 
his connections with McGill, and that his students 
will do him justice in the approaching examinations 
and the practical work to follow thereafter. 



At a recent meeting of the Applied Science Gradu- 
ates Society of McGill University, Mr. St. George 
Boswell delivered an interesting address on “The 
Engineer of to-day.” He outlined the extensive 
enterprises for the transportation of food products 
from the interior of our continent to the seaboard, 
which the engineer was called upon to direct, design, 
and operate, and drew attention to the multifarious 
branches of the profession of Civil Engineering, civil 
being used in its broad sense as opposite to military 
engineering, such as mechanical hydraulic railway, 
sanitary, electrical, mining, etc., and showed that all 
these are branches of civil engineering, and not separate 
fields, by the way, in which they overlap each other. 
He spoke of the integrity of an engineer, and pointed 
out the besetting dangers of politically and financially 
interested surroundings, warning his hearers to keep 
their vision clear and their hearts true to a high ideal, 
looking on themselves always as arbitrators and 
judges, not as interested parties. 



We were glad the Mining Students took such an 
interest in the meetings of the Quebec Mining Asso- 
ciation, held in the Windsor Hotel, January 8th, 9th 
and 10th, when numerous and valuable papers on 
Mining subjects were read and discussed. 

Three papers by McGill students were read in 
competition for the prizes offered by the Associa- 
tion : 

1. R. Green, Sc. ’97, Capleton Copper Mines. 

2. W. Morton Webb, Sc. ’96, The Petroleum In- 
dustry. 

3. Geo. Hillary, Sc. ’97, Aluminium. 

After the reading of the papers Thursday evening, 
the meeting assumed a social character, when many 
interesting recitations and songs were heard, and 

where Radnor water ? and cigars were dispensed 
“ Free.” 

It is needless to add the student attendance was 
large. 



McGill fortnightly. 



h; 



At a meeting of Sc. ’96, Thursday, H. M. Jaquays, 
B.A., was elected valedictorian. 



Wm. McDougall, Sc. ’96, was elected to reply to 
the toast to the Science Faculty at the University 
Dinner. 

It is to be hoped that ’96 will give the dinner their 
hearty support. 



REWARD. 

A reward of FIVE CENTS will be paid for the return 
of the GOAT carried off from Mac’s room. If not 
returned in ten days time a warrant will be issued for 
the arrest of the Pat who stole said goat. 



The editor has had a number of rood personal 
jokes sent in, but as he has been threatened with 
severe bodily chastisement to be inflicted in case 
these jokes appear in print, they have been withheld. 
Anyone can hear them by applying to the editor. 



We are delighted to welcome both John Feather- 
stone, B.A.Sc., and Wm. Asquith, B.A. Sc., to 
our midst again, after having spent some time in 
British Columbia in practical work. 



Third Year Notes. 

At Year Meeting. — Voices . — “Let us have the 
minutes.” 

The President . — “ Yes, you will have to wait for a 
few minutes.” 



Robbing Peter to pay Paul. “ When Pete paid his 
subscription to the secretary of the Year at Theory 
of Structures. 

N . — “ What’s the matter in that front seat ? ” 

P. — “ Oh, B — y’s awake.” 



Boorish Freshman. — “ Would you advise me to 
take Mining ?” 

Disgusted Junior. — “ Yes, get a diamond drill and 
go to “ Halifax.” 



Prof. — “ Let us now return to our hollow spheres. ” 
Did he mean that he would have to explain the whole 
thing over again to the Mechanicals and Electricals ? 



Again the Angel of Death has made a break in our 
ranks. This time, the Year mourns the loss of Mr. 
L. R. Kennedy, who went home for the holidays in 
good health, but was taken suddenly ill, and died on 
the 9th instant. Those of us who knew Mr. Kennedy 
best found in him a generous, manly comrade, and 
his loss is deeply felt. His class-mates extend their 
sincere sympathy to his bereaved parents and friends. 



We are glad to learn that Jas. Mackie, who has 
been laid up for the last seven weeks, first with pleu- 
risy, and then with congestion of the lungs, is now 
convalescent, and has gone home for a short holiday, 
before taking up his class work again. We hope to 
see him back well and strong about February 1st. 



Apply to N — w — e or M — L — d for a lecture on 
the action of H. Cl. on steel, particularly on edged 
tools. 



Who began the New Year by being unable to find 
his seat in the Physics lecture room ? 



On Jan. 6th, at Prof. N’s lecture, our attention was 
drawn to a formula that is not only useful for exam- 
ination purposes but also in practice. 



Mr. M — c — n is at present instructing the Third 
Year in “ filin.” 



Why does S — s take a back seat on Tuesday after- 
noons ? 



In a lecture in the Testing Laboratory, one of our 
number has learned that hemlock can sustain a load 
of over 20,000 lbs. And another that the traditional 
9-12 lecture has given way to the present four hour 
demonstration. 



The “club” is “a good thing,” boys ; “push it 
along. 



Prof . — “ Here at the highest point we have ’97 ; ” 

and then, hearing signs of approval — “ see that you 
all get there.” Moral.— Don’t get plucked. 



Note . — Our next number will contain an article 
entitled: — “The Art of Passing Examinations, or 
Hints for the Thick-headed.” Watch for it. 



148 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



If the heating effect x C 2 R, what kept the tempera- 
ture of the Magnetic laboratory so near the freezing 
point ? 



Prof . — “ The deflection is 42 0 . The next deflec- 
tion should be twice this (throws switch over). 
Please read the deflection, Mr. H — 

Mr. H. — (assistant). “ Yes sir, 84. 0 ” 

Then we smiled. 



R — ss answered : “ Here, sir,” and the professor did 
not faint. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

On Christmas Day the students remaining in town 
for the holidays were entertained at dinner by Prof. 
Chas. McEachran at his residence. 

About twenty students partook of the bountiful re- 
past, and after the wants of the inner man had been 
appeased, and who can divine them better than the 
Doctor ? — impromptu speeches were in order, the 
intervals being filled by musical selections. 

A most enjoyable time was spent, and the men 
left, voting Dr. McEachran a prince of hosts and a 
“jolly good fellow.” 

Dr. and Mrs. D. McEachran gave a reception to the 
students on New Years Eve, the entertainment pro- 
vided being of the most pleasant character. 

The students highly appreciate the interest taken 
by professors in their social welfare, and these 
minglings together are, further, a means of bringing 
the teaching staff and students into closer thought 
and feeling. 

Considerable dissatisfaction exists among some of 
the students over the result of the recent supplemental 
examinations in chemistry. Probably with an obli- 
gatory course in practical chemistry the result would 
have been different, and it is earnestly hoped that 
such a course will, in the near future, be added to the 
curriculum. 

The prospect of a University Club is hailed with 
delight by the majority of the students of the Faculty, 
and judging from the interest taken in the organiza- 
tion, its success is assured. 

The “only Jimmy,” wearing a happy smile, an- 
nounces his engagement, but refuses to disclose the 
name of his ladyie faire. We extend our congratu- 
lations. 



How about the work we promised ourselves to do 
during the holidays ? Verily / as the bard of Scotia 
sings : 

“ The best laid plans of mice and men 
Going oft aglee.^ 

“ Kit” rises to enquire if by making a longitudinal 
incision in a dog’s tongue we could produce creases in 
his pants. 

Scene: The Dean’s Reception. 

Dramatis Persons. 

Final Year (?) Student — 

Miss C 

F. Y.S. (loco). — “ Why, what a pretty girl your sis- 
ter is, Miss C. . You don’t look the least bit alike.’ 



Second Year. 

The members of the “Grind Class” in Chemistry 
met for the last grind of the Fall Term on Dec. 18th. 
At the close of the class the President of the Year 
presented Dr. Campbell with a handsome walking 
stick, as a slight token of the valuable services ren- 
dered by him during the term. 



We would like to know what has become of those 
enthusiastic Demonstrators in Anatomy. Have they 
lost all interest in their positions, or is the press of 
work from other quarters too great to permit of their 
attending in the Dissecting Room ? 



Scene.— The Pharmacy, a client has just called for 
a “ physic ball” for his horse. 

F r. “I just gave Mr. a physic ball.” 

Professor — “ Is that so ? Did you give it to him or 
his horse ?” 

F r.—“ No, sir; I gave it to the horse.” 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

“ There is a time for all things.” A time to close 
desks and note-books and a time to open them 
again ; a time to sleep the clock around and a time 
to burn the midnight oil ; a time to dance and sing 
and a time to sit long and silently at our books 
In short, there is holiday time and also the time to 
climb Parnassus. We soon tire of either if too long, 
and for this reason we are glad to be back in college 
halls once more. Again we begin to report our 
doings and sayings in the East Wing. Our notes 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



149 



and comments may often be feeble, and our jokes (?) 
scarce provoke a smile, but think of the difficulties 
under which we labor ! A class-report is frequently 
this verbal one : “ Nothing ever happens with us ; 

we are all too busy to make jokes, and of course the 

members of our class don’t make the foolish mistakes 
dear to the heart of the reporter.” But let it go no 

further, class-reporters. The public must never think 
this is really the case with us. Use your imagination 
if need be, and so skilfully mingle fact and fiction that 
the lack of “ happenings ” and mirth among the 
Donaldas may never be perceived. 

In the long list of good resolutions made by each 
of us on January 1st, 1896, it is hoped the following 
are found : — , 

“ To write for every number of the Fortnightly, 
and that with wit and elegance.” 

“ To heartily applaud all literary attempts of my 
class-mates, even though far inferior to my own.” 
And do not let these suffer the usual fate of New 
Year resolutions. Break all your others, if it pleases 
you, but keep these two. 



Fourth Year. 

No report ; but probably all surplus energy has 
been expended lately in preparing the features to 
“ look pleasant, now.” In a few weeks this unusual 
exercise will have ceased, and we may expect to hear 
from our Seniors again. 



Third Year. 

We are glad to be able to say that but little study 
was attempted during the holidays. To be sure 
some few students took books with them, imagining 
that somewhere and somehow they would work. 
By Christmas day this began to appear improbable ; 
and long before New Year’s they had, after profound 
meditation, decided that it was not only unwise but 
positively wrong to study during holidays. 

As far as class work of this week is concerned, there 
seems nothing to report. And perhaps it would be 
well to begin the year by putting, in the form of a 
resolution, the maxim : “ When you have nothing 

to say, say it.” 



Second Year. 

We should have thought it quite impossible that 
any sober-minded person could go astray between the 
Latin class-room and the passage leading into the 
DonalJa quarters. But this really happened last 
week, and perhaps we can understand the phenome- 



non if we remember that the individual emerging 
from the class room, with a head swimming with “ con- 
structions,” suddenly found herself in the midst of 
many strange faces, and the door leading to safe 
precincts shut by those who had forgotten their class- 
mate. 



It is said that Honor Mathematics and Somnia 
recently formed a most peaceful combination. What 
an inducement to take that course, if we were sure 
this might be a permanent union ! 

Herr Professor . — “ Verstchen sie, meine Damen ? ” 

Sophomore (brightly). — “ Oui, monsieur.” 

First Year. 

* 

Why is it that the Students from the Lower Pro- 
vinces usually do better than those from the Upper 
Provinces ? A light in a valley will burn brighter 
than it would on top of a mountain ; this also may 
apply to the intellectual lights. 



When a litre of gas expands, it becomes a “ lighter.” 

Professor . — “ Whose edition are you reading ? ” 
Donalda . — “ Oh— er — er Kelley’s.” 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

It is a shame that more of the Medical students are 
not patronizing the Club. It is centrally located 
the accommodations are excellent, and the meals are 
superior to any given in the city at the same price. 

Mrs. Clarke Murray deserves the thanks and sup- 
port of the whole College at large. 

We hope that before the end of January the Club 
will be booming, and it will, if the boys know a good 
thing when they see it. 



Fourth Year. 

The all-absorbing topic of conversation at present 
is the Class picture. Rumors of desperate attempts 
to grow the festive “sidelight” fill the air. Men are 
frantically coaxing a downy and backward growth of 
hair to materialize in the upper lip, others cultivate 
“ Limericks,” “ Galways,” “ Chinchillas,” most assi- 
duously, while the common everyday “ whiskerine ” 
satisfies some. Rupie is thinking seriously of pro- 
ducing a “ spitash ” for the occasion. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



150 



It has been discovered that we have a heavy-weight 
scrapper in the Year. It is rumored that he is going 
into training for the purpose of challenging the 
winner of the Maher-Fitzsimmons contest. He 
wishes it understood that no man shall “ take his 
name in vain,” on the penalty of instant annihilation. 
Why, the other day he' was going to wipe up St. 

Urbain street with poor S . He is letting his 

hair and beard grow a la Samson. A jawbone was 
missed from the dissecting room some days ago, so, 
Beware ! Beware ! 



A student recommends the following sure cure for 
’ amylaceous dyspepsia" 

5 Sodii Bicarb. grs. xi. 

Pepsinae Pural grs. xxxvii. 

M. et ft. in chart No. xii. 

Sig. One powder one half-hour before and after 
meals. 



A post-mortem exam : opening a dead letter. 



When does mortification ensue ? When you pop 
the question and get NO ! for an answer. 



Doctor . — “ What do you complain of?’’ 

Patient. — “ A knawing pain in the stomach,” 

Doc . — “ Have you eaten anything that disagreed 
with you ?” 

Patient—" Yes, sir ; I swallowed my false teeth.” 



Be not wise in thine own eyes, O Fourth Year 
man ! for he who knoweth it all getteth the loud, 
resonant laugh from the Faculty in the spring. 



Pleasant words are as honey, sweet to the soul 
but when thou hearest them from Cook, beware lest 
he jolly thee. 



Third Year. 

Dr. Colin Campbell, vice-president of ’97, is seri- 
ously ill at the hospital. He was not well during the 
first of the term, and became much worse during the 



holidays. We hope that he will be able to join our 
ranks again very soon. 



We are glad to see A. A. J. Lang in our midst 
again. 



A large number of the boys were away for the 
holidays, and all have returned reporting a high old 
time. The family stocking of some contained almost 
everything but a Cabinet-portfolio— the “ Bytown ” 
bumblebees are even expecting something in that 
line. 



Two of the boys, venturing out after dark, went 
for a quiet stroll, and met two friendly young ladies 
In course of time one introduced his friend as Mr. 
Duodenum, and in a voice that came from that vicin- 
ity said, “My name is Mr. Jejunum.” One young 
lady inquired “ Are you Jews ?” L — of Pyloric fame 
answered “ No ! but we are closely related.” They 
both smiled, and the band played. 



Doctor at Clinic. — “ Who has been down so far ?’ 
Little Willie. — “All but the jays, sir.” 

Doctor. — “ Have you been down ?” 

Little Willie. — “No, sir.” (And he wondered why 
the boys laughed). 



Second Year. 

The Class were fortunate in being given an opp or 
tunity of seeing the dis-articulated man again this 
year. He seemed to articulate quite as distinctly as 
ever. 



It was noticed that Dr. Scane was not present at 
the last demonstration in Physiology. It is to be 
hoped that his absence was not due to any further 
experiment with those tablets. 



The first meeting of the New Year was character 
ized by both brevity and importance. The “ Cook 
Benefit” was discussed. Messrs. Fox and Bartlett 
were elected to superintend the ceremony. Special 
committees, ushers, etc., will be appointed later. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Mr. Mussen will look after the interests of the 
University Dinner in the name of the Class of ’97. 
Let the Second Year turn out well. 



Let there be no more slopes ! 



EXCHANGES. 

The Christmas number of the Leucocyte , pub- 
lished by the students of Detroit College of Medicine, 
is very handsome, and is a credit to the college. 

The groups of the different classes and the por- 
trait of Augus McLean, M.D., are very good. The 
literary part of the number ranks equally high, and is 
most interesting to “ Medicos.” We congratulate 
the paper on its excellent appearance. 

Two numbers of the University Item are at hand. 
It is a bright, newsy paper, essentially in touch with 
the students. The notes on athletics and class 
reports are written in a most taking style. 

We quote from No. 11 re class meetings : “ It 

should be deemed a privilege by all who can spare 
the time, to attend these meetings, and by calm 
manner and expression you will not only appear in 
an excellent light yourself, but will have the follow- 
ing of many others. Bear no malice against anyone 
who may be unfortunate enough to have a different 
opinion from you, but, if possible, by logical argument, 
win him over to your way of thinking, and you will 
find that such experience will be of inestimable 
value to you, etc.” 

With very great delight we have perused Nos. 2 
and 3 of the University Monthly of the U.N.B. 

The paper is published “ away down by the sea,” 
and comes to us like a refreshing sea breeze in July, 
welcomed by all. 

“ The Making of a Nation,” by Prof. C. G. D. 
Roberts, our well-known Canadian poet and writer, 
should be read by every Canadian. Full of patriotism, 
sparkling with poetry and imbued with power, the 
article, especially at the present crisis, strikes deeply. 
We quote : “ In the eyes of American Statesmen and 
historians it is the manifest destiny of the United 
States to occupy the continent. But to us manifest 
destiny wears quite a different face ! 

“It would share all the sacrifices of our fathers, all 
the blood they have shed in this country’s cause. 
We should be ourselves unworthy of the great people 
into whose bosom we would be carrying our sordid 
purposes and craven hearts. The name of Canada 



151 



would cease to shine across the continent, and in 
departing it would bear but a trail of humiliation. 
That day, I think, will not come while Canada has 
sons to bear a sword. 

“ Both the other alternative— Independence and 
Imperial Federation — come within the range of the 
probable. Either would seem to be a goal towards 
which patriotism might consistently strive.” 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

A long-winded lawyer lately defended a criminal 
unsuccessfully, and during the trial the judge 
received the following note : The prisoner humbly 

prays that the time occupied by the plea of the coun- 
sel for the defence be counted in his sentence.” 



The late Judge Keogh was “a fellow of infinite 
jest.” When he first went on the circuit as judge of 
Assizes, he was entertained in state by his bar, and 
the evening was passed in dignified decorum as grave 
compliments were exchanged on both sides. The 
u counsellors ” present were made to feel that their 
old comrade had become a judge. At ten o’clock, to 
their amazement, he rose, thanked them for their 
hospitality, made a solemn bow, and retired, leaving 
them in blank consternation at the complete change. 
In five minutes a face beaming with fun appeared at 
the door. “Boys, the judge has retired for the night, 
but Billy Keogh won’t go home until morning.” A 
roar of laughter and applause greeted the return, and 
the mirth was fast and furious . — Irish Lazo Times . 



“ Do you mean to challenge the jury ?” whispered 
a lawyer to his Irish client. “ Yis, be jabbers ! If 
they don’t acquit me, I mean to challenge ivery 
spalpeen of them. I want you to give ’em all a hint 
of it too.” 



THE NAUGHTY GREEK GIRL. 

Miss l< Alpha / 5 tho’ she led her class 
Was yet a most unlovely lass : 

She had a little sister “ Theta,” 

And she would often lang and Beta,” 

And push, and punch, and pound and pelt her. 
And many a heavy blow she “ Delta,” 

So that the kitten e’en would u Mu ” 

When Theta’s sufferings she 11 Nu.” 



152 



McGILL FOR T •* .GHTLY. 



This Alpha was so bad to Theta 
That every lime she chanced to meet her 
She looked as tho’ she longed to “ Eta ” ; 
And oft against the wall she jammed her, 
And oft she took a stick and “ Lammda” 
And for the pains and tears she brought her 
She pitied her not one “ Iota.” 

But with a sly and wicked eye 
Would only say a Oh fiddle ‘ Phi V* 

Then “ Theta ” cried with noisy clamor, 
And ran and told her grief to 11 Gamma,” 
And gamma with a pitying “ Psi 99 
Would give the little girl some “ Pi,” 

And say u Now darling musn’t Khi.” 



Two Irish lads of ruddy cheek 
Were living just across the creek. 

Their names ; ct ’Omicron ” and “ ’Omega.” 
The one was small, the other bigger. 

For “ Alpha ” so demure and “ striking,” 
’Omega took an ardent liking ; 

And “ Mike ” when first he chanced to meet her 
Fell deep in love with little “ Beta,” 

And oft at eve the boys would go 
And on the quiet waters Rho,” 

So when the hapless little “ Theta ” 
a n u >> u Alpha 91 was about to “ Beta 99 
She down upon the banks would “Zeta,” 

And cry aloud, and shout like fun 
Run c< Mike ” ! run “ Micky 99 ’Omicron. 



Pelletier 



Organist'of St. James Cathe- 
dral and Professor of the 
Piano and Organ 




Exchange. 



A New York boarding house mistress indignantly 
prints the following: — “If the smart young man 
who changed the letters in our dining room motto so 
that it reads, ‘God bless Our Bone’ will settle for 
what is due me I shall be glad to have him go.” 



■ ■» ^ H I I « 



, Tt> t u xt _ _ . Montreal, 28tli November, 1893. 

Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, Montreal : 

Dear &ir.— The upright pianos of your make — if one may form a 
judgment trom the one I have acquired — possess a combination of all the 
qualities esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entirely 
tiee from all overtones and rumbling sounds so frequently found in upright 
pianos, a touch so light and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack 
and the lightest pressure,— in fact, capable of the most varied effects. Allow 
me to congratulate you on your good work. 

lours, etc. B, Oct. Pelletier. 



It is only necessary to know the delicate and conscientious artist 
y ho has wiitten the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 
such an opinion. S-e have a large assortment of PRATTE Pianos 
similar to Mr. Pelletier’s, as we manufacture only one size and one 
quality. 

Prices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in exchange. 

PRATTE PIANO CO. >m mm *t. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 

Reichert’s Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the beit line in the Dominion 

Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the - TAIiJO , . 

T3 M .. . , STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals — IN STOCK 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 

GET OUR QUOTATIONS 

21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



