UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OP NEW YORK 
ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly - - - - - $109,000,000 

Surplus over - - - - - - 13,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

I'ZeS 1TOTBE STREET, 



MOlTTBE^uL. 



WEDDING CARDS. 



VISITING CARDS, 



MENU CARDS, 



RECEPTION CARDS, 
INVITATION CARDS. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 1 & 9 Bleury St., MONTREAL. 



* * 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

*********** * * * * * * * 




** v |i ****************** 

Jfevu Beale of ^Prices this year 
for Biudenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
IandI CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



S tfull $todk doi\$tki|tly on ?lki|d, Imported 
fifredt from tt)e Treading JVlki}ufkdttfref$ 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AM INSPECTION INVITED. 



384 ST. PA UL STREET. 

HEADQUARTERS 

— FOR — 




DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 



JtlEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USER IJV JIRT COURSE , 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOHS. 

Full assortment In stock & supplied at Rod Bottom Prices, 

STUDENTS' NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 

—•—MB IE ST "VJLXjTJE H>T TO'WlNri--*- 

Stylographic Pern, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St- T3.32G.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. x.] McGill college, Montreal, October 22nd, is86. [No. i. 



Unibmitn SmtU. 

Qs n 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’S7, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’S7. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’88. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Edit or-in -Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A., Med. ’87, 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, B.A., Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B. A., Med. '88. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 

Box 1290. 



CO N TE NTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 3-6 

Poetry 6-8 

Contributions' 6-8 

McGill News 8-11 

Societies 11-13 

Personals 13 

Between the Lectures 13-14 

College World 14-16 

Correspondence 16 



Advertisements • 2,16,17,18,19,20 



Editorials. 

With this issue, begins Volume X. of the University 
Gazette. Fortunately for us and for all those who 
with us take a deep interest in the welfare of this 
paper, we need, in this our initial number, make no 
protestations other than this, — that The Gazette will 
in the future as it has in the past, guided by what ex- 
perience it has gained from mistakes made and success 
achieved, pursue an independent line of action, hold- 
ing an unprejudiced and, we hope, equitable course 
of conduct between whatever of antagonistic interests 
there may be among the different elements which go 
to make up our University life. We shall consider it 
the greatest misfortune of all, should we ever be called 
upon to justly condemn any of the acts of the author- 



ities of McGill in anything that pertains to her 
welfare and greatness. We are, however, too conscious 
of the importance of the duties which the editorial 
staff of this paper assume, to shrink from an honest 
criticism of all that pertains to the institution which 
we hold in such deep reverence and esteem. We trust 
that neither the enthusiasm of youth, nor the im- 
maturity of our knowledge shall ever betray us into 
what might appear a disrespectful expression regard- 
ing any of the University authorities. But, on the 
other hand, we are equally anxious that neither faint- 
heartedness nor misplaced and misapplied respect 
shall ever discourage us from a temperate, but not un- 
certain statement of our convictions. 

To the undergraduates, we look for much assistance 
in the way of literary contributions, and of using the 
Gazette as the medium for the expression of their 
wants and their aspirations. The recent graduates of 
the University have done much for the undergraduates : 
mainly through their efforts, the paper has been placed 
upon so sound a financial basis that all doubts as to 
its stability are now expelled. They have laboured 
themselves towards supplying our columns with in- 
teresting and valuable material : they have not lost 
sight however of the fact that the paper’s chief raison 
d'etre is in the interests of the undergraduates ; and so 
the editorial staff numbers among its members a repre- 
sentative from every Faculty of the University. 
Experience has taught us, that these Faculty editors 
are our most important members ; and we now appeal 
to the undergraduates to look to their own editor, to 
see that he is representing their interests, and at the 
same time to give him their assistance in the arduous 
duties which he has undertaken at their call for the 
common weal. 

As in former years, we now again earnestly solicit 
literary contributions from all friends of the Gazette. 
In another column Ave publish a list of some of those 
who will contribute acticles to our pages this season. 
Among them will be found the names of some of the first 
literary men of this city, and indeed of the Dominion. 
We aim at improving even the past high record of the 
paper. We shall miss the ready pen of our first editor- 
in-chief of last year : to him, the Gazette owes very 
much of its success ; but it is not in the line of McGill 
men to regard any such loss as irreparable. Deeply 
as we may feel the loss, deeply as we do feel it, we 



4 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



should have profited little from the good work which 
he did among us, and little from the influences which 
have given us birth, did we not hope, as we grow 
older, to see better work done and greater successes 
achieved. 

A word may be necssary as to the actual position 
the Gazette now occupies. We have said that it is 
now on a solid financial basis. Thanks to the energy 
and good judgment of the Board of Directors, the paper 
is, in fact, in a very flourishing condition financially. 
The joint stock company, formed some time ago to take 
hold of the paper, has, since last session, become incor- 
porated. Our readers will note with pleasure, wo have 
no doubt, the very much improved appearance of the 
paper. The Board of Directors have thought that our 
success in the past would warrant them in having pre- 
pared the new cut of the college buildings which 
adorns this issue. 

The paper is now incorporated under the name of 
“ The University Gazette ” : the name McGill 
has been dropped. Those who sought for and 
obtained incorporation felt that, if the paper was 
to continue and increase its usefulness, it must be a 
thoroughly independent organ. On the other hand, 
so long as the name McGill appeared, it was almost 
impossible for the general public to dissociate its 
opinions and utterances from those of the authorities 
of the University, who, therefore, found themselves 
in some instances compromised by its articles. Now, 
however, there can be no danger of this. It is the 
organ of the undergraduates and graduates of the 
University. Through it the authorities may learn 
what are the feelings and aspirations of her sons and 
daughters concerning her career. She has a right to 
expect from us the most intelligent and the most 
fervent support, and we from her a cherishing and 
warm sympathy. We are happy to be able to say 
that the most cordial relations exist between us and 
the University authorities, and we hope and believe 
that we shall each do our allotted work so faithfully 
and so well that the one will, as the years roll on, 
strengthen and assist the other. 



In the final number of last year’s issue we had occa- 
sion to refer to the fact that the College Y. M. C. A. 
contemplated erecting a building in which to meet. 
We supported the idea at the time, and are pleased to 
find that it has not been allowed to lapse. Already, 
by a subscription among the students, $100 has been 
collected, and arrangements are being made to begin 
a systematic canvass among the outside friends of the 
University. We advance no arguments in favor of the 
scheme, for it must present itself favorably to every 



one. Certain it is that, with the exception of our Y. 
M. C. A., there is no society in the college which 
seeks out the new-comer from distant towns or villages 
and makes him welcome, and only those who have 
felt the pangs of homesickness and loneliness can realize 
the pleasure of seeing a kindly face and pressing a 
friendly hand. For this, if for nothing else, the society 
merits success. 

The association is evidently in earnest and very 
enthusiastic, and must eventually succeed in its inten- 
tion. But we need, a building for our Athletic Asso- 
ciation, and very shortly we will find the sporting men 
of the University waking up and inaugurating a move- 
ment in that direction with their usual irresistibility. 
And then the long suffering subscriber will naturally 
ask: “Why do you want two buildings? Will not 

one building of double size do the work of the two, 
and be cheaper?” What reply can be made? The 
Y. M. C. A. can surely not say that it has nothing to 
do with the sporting men, nor can these avow antago- 
nism to the former, for the conclusions drawn there- 
from would be as humiliating as untrue. Let the Mus- 
cular Christians join with the Y. M. C. A. and at once 
set about raising funds for a building suitable for both 
Associations, and the two organizations will interact 
most favorably. That sanctimonious piety, self eleva- 
ting or self-debasing — for one is as bad as the other — 
which expresses itself in words and dogmas and in 
pitying the sinner, without helping him, will be avoided 
and a broad, genial, manly, non-denominational reli- 
gion become the spirit of the college. The strongest 
athlete, whom one never hears to speak of religion, 
will not be ashamed to belong to an organization whose 
creed is outlined above. Besides the effect for good 
that the two institutions will have upon one another, 
there is this to be said, that the two will have no more 
in common under one roof than they have now, unless 
they desire it. The amalgamation will be natural and 
not forced. So that, on whatever side of the question 
we look, it will be unfortunate if the Athletic Associa- 
tion cannot see its way clear to join with the Y. M. C. 
A. to erect a building. 



It is no news to the observant, that the science 
faculty of McGill University has been making rapid 
progress during the past few years. The number of 
students in attendance has been constantly incieasing 
and the accommodation been as rapidly enlarged, as the 
funds of the faculty permit. An advanced course has 
been inaugurated in Practical Chemistry and Mining 
Engineering ; and new laboratories have been erected 
that compare favorably in point of accoutrement with 
those of other American Colleges. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



1886 .] 



On Thursday evening, Oct. 21st, the new course of 
lectures to students — at which, we understand, gradu- 
ates also will he made welcome — will be opened with 
a lecture by T. Sterry Hunt, L.L. D., (Cantab.) F. R. 
>S , on the Iron Industries, a subject of which, no one 
is more competent to treat than the distinguished 
scientist, who has consented to deliver the inaugural 
lecture. It is to be hoped that when the faculty is 
making such efforts, on behalf of the students, these 
will show their appreciation of these endeavors, by a 
large attendance. 

AV hile upon the subject of this faculty, we may add 
that an Engineering Laboratory, will probably be the 
next addition to its efficiency. But little is required, 
except an engine and a few instruments for accurate 
measurement. Should there be any philanthropic 
mind seeking to do good, we hope it will give this 
idea some consideration. AVe intend in some future 
issue, to revert to this subject. 

ft # 

THE LAW FACULTY. 

The changes that have been made in the regulations 
of this Faculty since last session claim some short 
notice at our hands. The alterations, so far as we see, 
are two, namely : in the hour when the lectures are 
given, and the division of the course of study. 

To speak of the latter first, we consider it an excellent 
move, and perhaps only those who have attended the 
lectures are capable of appreciating the change. 
Formerly, about six subjects were taken up at the 
beginning of the session iu October, and the lectures 
on each were continued„throughout the whole college 
year with the examination at the end in March. It 
was difficult for a student to concentrate enough time 
and attention to any one of the branches to give him 
a clear insight into it, and the fact of the subjects 
being more or less nearly allied to each other, was not 
calculated to keep one’s knowledge as distinct as de- 
sirable. The idea now adopted, that is, of taking up 
only three or four branches during the first term, 
giving the lectures on each more frequently, and 
having an examination on the work of the term at 
Christmas, is a good one, and will, we are sure, be 
not only beneficial to the students, but make the Pro- 
fessors’ task an easier and more interesting one. An 
occasional grind at the beginning of the lecture hour, 
such as is now given by the Professor of Civil Pro- 
cedure, would be a help to the students and appreciat- 
ed by most of them. 

The other change referred to is one on which there 
is likely to be more difference of opinion. Instead of 
the hours being from four to six, they are now from 
half past four to half past six. We know that it is 



very difficult to please all in a matter of this nature, 
and that some professors and students found it incon- 
venient to leave their offices as early as four o’clock, 
but the alteration of the time of meeting makes the 
closing too late and the tendency will be to cut down 
the length of the second lecture. We fear that a lec- 
ture in the morning, at any rate in the present quar- 
ters, would seriously interfere with the other duties of 
many, particularly those attending lectures in Arts ; so 
that we think the present time should be given a good 
trial, especially as we feel confident that the Faculty is 
desirous of meeting the needs of all as far as is possible 
and of doing what it can to improve the course. 



THE CHAIR OF MIDWIFERY IN McGILL 
UNIVERSITY. 

Under this heading, the Canada Medical Journal 
for October notices the change that has been made in 
the above-mentioned chair, and in that connection 
goes on to say, — “ Dr. James C. Cameron, late Pro- 
fessor of Obstetrics in Bishop’s College, has, ever since 
he graduated in McGill, paid special attention to 
obstetrics. Shortly after graduating he spent a con- 
siderable time in the Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, and 
quite recently he acted as assistant in Professor Braun’s 
obstetrical wards in the Allgemeine Krankenhaus, in 
Vienna. This, the great midwifery school of the 
world at the present day, offers advantages that are not 
elsewhere attainable. Dr. Cameron is well known as 
a clear, forcible and enthusiastic teacher. He has a 
field before him of unlimited usefulness, and it is our 
earnest wish that he may long live to cultivate it.” 

Dr. Cameron is entering upon his duties with much 
enthusiasm, which shows itself in a very practical 
manner. He ha# brought out with him from the ‘ old 
country’ the most complete set of papier-mach4 casts 
that has ever been brought to America. 

In addition to these casts, he has imported several 
wax models from Paris and a complete outfit of German 
instruments, of beautiful workmanship. 

Thus fully equipped, Dr. Cameron should make of 
still greater interest what has hitherto been an inter- 
esting study, and should turn out students thoroughly 
trained in the theory and practice of obstetrics. 

We wish him success and the appreciation of the 
students for the efforts he is making in their behalf. 



OBITUARIES. 

McGill has had occasion to mourn the death of two 
of her most worthy sons. As the students already know, 
especially those of the Arts Faculty, Mr. Thomas 
Pritchard was drowned on the 16th of June, at 



G 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Hawkesbury. He had been preaching there, and had 
just begun to be beloved by the people, when the sad 
accident occurred, which removed him from us. Ihe 
body was recovered on the following Sunday, and 
buried at Harriston, Ont., his native place. 

The other death that we have to record is that of 
Mr. Ferguson, a former student and member of class 
’87. Mr. Ferguson had an attack of Typhoid fever in 
1885, soon after his return to college, from which 
illness he never completely recovered. Symptoms of 
Phthisis showed themselves, and in September last he 
died at his home in Berlin, Ont. 

Both men had won the respect of their fellow 
students and their untimely death is sincerly regretted. 
To their afflicted relations we offer our deepest sym- 
pathy. 

THE LATE VEN. ARCHDEACON LEACH. 



Poetry. 



A PAUPER POET. 



In a vast city’s swarming street, 
tv fiwpfin wave- like 



I saw a face that moved my heart, 
That haunts my memory yet ; 

Its phantom never can depart, 
Although but once we met. 

I may not tell the wretchedness 
1 hat glared from out its eyes ; 
Touched by its silent, sore distress, 
I could not check ray sighs. 



He pass’d : men mutter’d, and I heard 
Ilis life’s eventful tale— . 

What marvel if my soul was stirr d 
That stranger to bewail ? 



A Poet once— his magic strains 
Through Italy had rung, 

And with wild music pierced tne brains 
And hearts of old and young, 



In the death of the Ven. Archdeacon Leach, McGill 
University loses one of her warmest friends and ripest 
scholars. 

Perhaps no man, not even excepting the distin- 
guished Principal of this University himself, has 
wrought more unceasingly or more devotedly in the 
interests of McGill, than did Dr. Leach. At a time 
when the college was not in nearly so flourishing a 
condition as it is now, Dr. Leach occupied an import- 
ant position on the the teaching staff, and thus having 
borne the burden and heat of the day, he lived to en- 
joy the esteem and regard of the able body of men 
who now compose her professorial staff, as well as the 
heartfelt respect of the students, who now in these 
latter years crowd her halls. 

The deceased gentleman was born at Berwick-on- 
Tweed, in 1805, studied for tne ministry, and was or- 
dained in 1831. 



He hnd sung Love, Liberty, and Light, 

And, by some weird control, 

Had troubled, as an Angel might, 

The waters of each soul. 

And now he threads the crowded street, 

A care-worn pauper old — 

White-haired, ill-clad in summer’s heat, 

Ill-clad in winter’s cold. • 

Methought, that Bard, bow’d down and weak. 

Was like some leafless vine. 

Which, storm-tost, on a hill-side bleak, 

And white with snow, doth pine ; 

While the rich juice that from it ran. 

Like song from a Poet’s heart. 

Cheers, warms and fires the soul of men 
In climes that oceans part! 

Geo. Murray. 



Contributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 

Written for the University Gazette. 



NOTICE. 

The following well known writers will contribute 

articles to this paper during the ensuing year 1886-7 : 

Geo. Murray, B. A. (Oxou.) 

John Lesperance, (Laclede.) 

Prof. Archibald. 

Prof. Trenholme. 

Prof. Hutchinson. 

Mr. Mott. 

W. Dixon, B. A. 

W. J. White, B. A. 

A. McGoun, Jr., B. A. 



A Sunday school teacher told bis infants to ask any 
questions they had in their minds, and a little one asked, 
“ When’s the circus coming ? ” 

Patient. — What do you think of a warmer climate 
for me, Doctor? 

Doctor. — Great Scott ! man isn’t that just what 1 am 
trying to save you from ] 



CHAP. I. 

“ Long may our Alma Mater stand, 

Her worth be known in every land ; 

And may her sons remember still, 

To love and honour old McGill .” — College Song . 

It. was a wet, sultry morning in the month of Sep- 
tember, not twenty years ago, that two young men 
alighted Irom the Eastern train at Bonaventure Sta- 
tion. As the engine came puffing and blowing from 
the Point, the aspect seemed to deepen in gloominess, 
until at last by dint of bell-ringing and hoarse 
whistling the passengers were landed in the shed, 
euphuistically and grandiloquently styled, in com- 
mon parlance, the deeput. Everything was damp and 
muggy ; even the engine seemed to have caught a 
severe cold, and to be in a cross, grumbling, hoarse 
mood in consequence. The porters, too, must evi- 
dently he all laid up with influenza, for none of thorn 
aie on the scene, ihe only representative of official- 



1886.] * UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 7 



dom present, as far as one can make out, is an old 
white-haired, much-to-be-pitied cripple, whom they 
have apparently nicknamed “ policeman,” for they 
have that superscription placed upon his cap. 

Having given orders that their baggage was to be 
kept till called for, the two young men before alluded 
to made for a cab, which they succeeded in securing 
alter some difficulty. Cabmen have a little weakness 
which leads them to cry out “engaged” when they 
see single gentlemen with no baggage about to employ 
them, and I have myself frequently been obliged to 
take a cab through the intermediation of a policeman. 
Our two young friends, for such we may at once call 
them, having secured the cab, were in some doubt as 
to where they should go. The elder and stouter of 
the two, Brown by name, was for driving to Mrs. 
Barlow’s, who at that time kept a kind of general 
eating-house in the vicinity of University street, for 
the young men who were attending McGill College. 
His companion, however, said that they had better 
go to the St. Lawrence Hail and have a good break- 
fast, as he was deucedly hungry. To the St. Law- 
rence Hall they decided to go, and in a very short 
time were comfortably enjoying a meal sufficient to 
satisfy the most ravenous of appetites. 

The latter of the two young men, who was no more 
than seventeen or eighteen years of age, had come to 
Montreal from one of the Lower Provinces to enter 
McGill University. His companion, Brown, had 
already completed his freshman year, and was return- 
ing to prosecute with renewed vigour his studies at 
that famed institution. Of Brown 1 never knew very 
much, but in Clonardo Blake I have ever taken the 
liveliest interest. Brown died early. \ In this world, 
alas, he never took his degree. Who knows whether 
in that other world he still engages in those studies 
which in this he was so fond of. Typhoid fever, 
contracted in a Montreal boarding-house, cut off this 
promising youth, and I remember one cold morning 
following his remains, with three or four hundred 
other students, from the General Hospital. Blake’s 
relations I subsequently became intimately acquainted 
with, and for many a day Clonardo himself has been 
my most intimate friend and companion. I think I 
know his character better than his own wife. His 
father was Chief- Justice of Shediacto in the Maritime 
Provinces. At the time of which I am writing the 
Blakes were tolerably well off, though they were 
afterwards somewhat unfortunate, as we shall presently 
see. They were of Irish extraction, but had been 
settled in Shediacto for many a long day. His father 
was an extremely clever man, and had made rapid 
strides in his profession. His mother was one of the 
kindest-hearted women I ever met. His sister — but 
why enter into the charms and graces of each member 
of that family circle ! 

I remember well that September morning — the 
first time I ever set eyes on young Blake. I was sit- 
ting in my room in a boarding-house on McGill Col- 
lege avenue, now designated, I believe, Jerusalem 
Walk, when my landlady entered in a meek and 
humble way and asked me if I would consent to share 
one of my rooms with another young gentleman who 
was below stairs. Mrs. Slitherum was naturally of an 



aggressive and rather violent nature, but when she 
had a favour to ask no one was more sleek and agree- 
able. I knew the minute she entered my room that 
she wanted something from me, and I accordingly 
determined to be rather stiff with her. 

“ You know very well, Mrs. Slitherum, I want my 
rooms to myself. I came here to be quiet, and if 
you are not satisfied with what I am paying you just 
let me know.” 

“ I didn’t say nothing about pay,” responded Mrs. 
S. with more force than I had expected, “ I on’y 
asked ye if ye wouldn’t be more comfortable if ye 
had a nice young gentleman to share this room with 
ye and pay half the charge.” 

“ Well, who is the fellow who wants it?” 

“ He’s down stairs — a rather nice-looking young 
man.” 

“ What’s his name 1 ” 

“ I didn’t ask him. L>on’t you think you might let 
him share this room with you ? He wants two rooms 
just—” 

“ That’s all right, but what do you know about the 
fellow ? I don’t want to live with every Tom, Dick, 
and Harry. Why, you don’t even know the fellow’s 
name.” 

“ That’s easily mended. I’ll call him up to see the 
room. He wants two rooms ; a sleeping-room and 
some place — ” 

“ I don’t care a d what he wants, Mrs. Slitherum. 

I pay for my rooms and I am going to have them to 
myself.” 

I am happy to say that I very, very seldom swear, 
but on this occasion I was exasperated by my land- 
lady’s deprecative manner. Not an hour before, she 
had been most insolent to me when I complained of 
my breakfast not having been kept tolerably warm for 
me. To be sure, I was a little late in rising, but a 
man who takes two rooms in a house surely deserves 
some little attention. 

Mrs. Slitherum left my room and proceeded to in- 
form Messrs. Brown and Blake, for these gentlemen 
it was who were down stairs, that through the pig- 
gishness of her lodger she was unable to meet their 
Avishes. Our two friends, after having partaken of 
breakfast, had- sallied forth to find lodgings — a plea- 
sant experience which most students entering McGill 
must at some time or other go through. Brown hav- 
ing been in the city before, Avas quite up in all that 
pertains to boarding-houses. He kneAV at least a 
hundred places from which they might choose a rest- 
ing-place, and before coming to our house they had 
visited some three or four others without beinsr satis- 
fied. Of the hundred places, however, Avhich he had 
in his mind’s eye, there Avere probably only a dozen 
which he Avould have thought of taking his friend 
to. Some Avere too expensive ; some Avere too dirty ; 
some Avere too much frequented by noisy medicals ; 
some were presided over by too angelic mistresses ; 
and so on. Practically, then, the choice of lodgings 
Avas lather limited, and BroAvn, Avhen he heard Mrs. 
S.’s verdict, Avas beginning to feel rather disgusted. 

From pure curiosity, Avhen the landlady left my 
room I Avent to the top of the stairs and looked doAvn 
to see Avhat kind of fellow Avas beloAV. I heard Blake 



8 



university gazette. 



[ 1886 . 



say that he wouldn’t think of forcing himself on any- 
one, that he was much obliged for the trouble taken 
by Mrs. S., and that they would try and find a suit- 
able room somewhere else. I have never been able 
to tell to this day what it was that made me run 
down stairs, rudely put my landlady to one side, and 
with a polite bow to the strangers otter to do all m 
my power to make the gentleman comfortable it he 
would share my sitting-room with me. W hether it 
was Blake’s voice I know not, but somehow or othei 
I was irresistibly attracted towards that young fellow. 
If he had asked me for the loan ol a dollar I think I 
should have given it to him at ouce, so completely 
had he fascinated me in the space of two minutes. 
This was most foolish of me, of course. He might, 
for all I knew, have been a most disreputable youth. 
He might have been in the habit of drinking, or 
playing cards, or he might have been a penniless 
adventurer. You must remember that I had never 
seen the fellow before, and that from the merest 
caprice I asked him to live on the most intimate 
terms with me ; I took him to my bosom just as if I 
were a romantic school girl, and he a brand new girl 
friend. He accepted my otter with a few words of 
thanks, and after some further matters had been set- 
tled between the high contracting parties, it was 
agreed that Bi’own and he should go to the station 
and bring up their baggage. Brown, whom strangely 
I had never met at College, always went to the same 
house, where only one boarder was taken in, and 
where he was kindly treated. Coming from the same 
part of the country as Blake, he had travelled up 
with him. and was anxious to see him comfortably 
settled. I had come up to town rather early that 
year, as I was trying for a scholarship, and had taken 
two rooms, a luxury not often indulged in by an 
undergraduate. Blake also, as we have seen, was 
desirous of having two rooms, as he was to have a 
good allowance from home, and his father had recom- 
mended him to have them. Thus fate threw us to 
gether as students. We are now both growing old, 
but still we often see one another, and recall over a 
glass of wine those, on the whole, happy days which 
as undergraduates of McGill, we spent together 
What I am going to write is a mere attempt to 
chronicle a few years in the life of my friend, between 
the time when he entered College and the time when 
he took upon his shoulders the serious duties of prac 
tical life. I have no plot to unfold, no sensational 
developments to relate. A few chapters of an every 
day life, that is all I have to tell, and those who 
expect more will most surely be disappointed. 

(To be continued.) 



Mr. Minks (horrified). — Do you mean to say, Mrs. 
M., that you are going to the party in such a dress as 
that 1 

Mrs. Mink. — Why, certainly, the neck isn’t half so 
low as Mrs. Dash’s. 

I think you better wear your old dress and keep 
that one for the musicale next Thursday. 

The Musicale ! Where ? 

At the blind asylum. — 



THE WISH.* 

Link fingers and wish ! 0! Bright Eyes, 

Is there aught I can summon for you . 

Shall I summon a lover s<> true. 

Who will turn out a prince in disguise . 

As a L r ein on your forehead to wear 
I would wish down a star from the skies, 

But ’( would pale at the splendor that lies 
In the wealth of your brown, silken hair. 

Shall I wish you more wise than the wise ! 

That your charms may iorever endure . 

I will wish your young heart ever pure. 

And that joys may increase as tune tlies. attik. 

•When two young people utter the same word at the same time, it 
is customary to link fingers and each wish something tor the others 
benefit? Under these circumstances the wish is certain to be fulfilled. 



JtlciBill News. 



There are over GO freshmen in medicine. 

The Law faculty has four in the third year, and 
seven each in the first and second. 

Arts has a freshman class of 44, a senior year of 25, 
a junior year of 22, and a sophomore class of 19 men. 

The first year have elected Mr. Campbell, B.A., as 
their president; E. J. Bowes, vice-president; and 
Mr. C. Ault, secretary. 

The Undergraduates’ Literary Society has elected 
R. B. Henderson, president ; Hilton Pedley, vice- 
president; and J. A. McPhail, secretary. 

A meeting of the final class in Medicine was held 
on Wednesday morning last, to pass resolutions in 
connection with the death of Mr. James Ferguson, a 
former student and member of the class of ’87. 

On the night of October 11th, the Reading Room 
Committee held their first meeting and elected officers 
as follows : — President, A. Macarthur ; Vice-President, 
M. L. Hursey ; Secretary, W. F. Ferrier ; Treasurer, 
Mr. McPhail. 

To Prof. McLeod, of McGill College, we believe the 
credit is due of being the first on the continent, if not 
in the world, to successfully apply electricity to the 
timing of bicycle races. This was accomplished at the 
late C.W.A. meet, the times being recorded to the 
100th part of a second. In every case there was a 
very slight discrepancy between the time as given by 
the electric timer and as recorded by stop watches, the 
former making the race the fractions of a second 
slower than the latter. This was caused by the fact 
that the electric timer started simultaneously with the 
report of the pistol, being connected with the firearm, 
when the watches would not start for a moment or 
two. I he watches, therefore, give the actual time of 
the race perhaps closer than the electric apparatus, but 
the latter possesses the great advantage of being in- 
variably exact. — The Canadian Wheelman. 

The following is the result of the recent examina- 
tions held at McGill at the opening of the present 
scholastic year: — 

Scholarships Tenable for Two Y'ears. 



THIRD YEAR. 

Natural Science Scholarship, _Le Rossignol, James. 
Classical and Modern Language Scholarship,— Day, 



Classical and Modern Language 
Brynan, Andrew. 



Scholarship, — 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



Exhibitions Tenable for One Year. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Natural Science Exhibition, — Giles, Win. J. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Deeks, Wm. E. 

FIRST YEAR. 

McDougall, Robert 
• Nicliolls, A. G. 

Robertson, A. A. 

Reed, Thomas B. 

Trenholme, Ed. C. 

Fry, F. M. 

The law students have elected the following officers 
for the ensuing year : — 

President, — Wm. II . Burroughs. 

Vice-President, — A. W. Craigie. 

Secretary, — H. Fry, B.A. 

_ ~ ( H. A. Budden, B.A. 

Sports Committee, j R H Clerk> B A 



This has been a favorable year for Held work, espe- 
cially railroading, and a larger number than usual have 
been engaged during the past vacation in practical 
work. These are some of those thus engaged : 



Hydrographical Survey ot the Mattawasca rivei 
Mines in Eastern Townships. 

Lachine Railroad Bridge ol C. Y. K. 

C. P. R. “ Short Line. ,, 

Topographical Survey, P.E.I. 

Western Ontario Pacific RR. 

C. P. RR., east of St. Jerome. 

C. P. R. Machine shops. 

Fensom’s Elevator Works, Toronto. 

G. T. R. Workshops. 

Lachine. 

G. T. R. Workshops. 

Gatineau Exploration. 

Asbestos Mines, Danville, P.Q. 



OFFICERS FOR THE YEAR 1886-87. 



At a meeting of the students in Law held on the 
6th inst., the following officers were elected : 
President, W. H. Burroughs, ’87 ; Vice-President, A. 
W. Craigie, ’88 ; Secretary, Henry Fry, ’88 ; Delegate 
to the Sports Committee (vice Mr Bourgeoins, left 
the faculty), R. H. Clark, ’89. 

Officers in Medicine : — Final classes (3rd and 4th 
years), Mr. Wm. Bowen, President : second yeai, Mr. 
Claude L. Wheeler, B.A., President. 

The following are the officers in Science Fourth 
year; President, Wm. A. Carlyle ; Secretary, P. Ball; 
representatives on Reading Room Committee, W. 
Ferrier and R. Rinfret : — Third : President, C. Ib^P" 
kins, Reading Room Committeeman, F. Ogilvie. The 
second and first years have not yet elected their officers. 

The officers in Arts are -.—Fourth year ; President, 
Mr. Cla" ; Secretary, W. A. Cameron ; Reading Room 
Committeemen, R. Johnston and A. Macarthur 
Third year : President, W. Giles ; Secretary J- 
Rossignol ; Reading Room Committeemen W Duke 
and J. McPhail Second year : President, W. Gibson 
Secretary, D. Holden : Reading Room Representative, 
Mr. Meighen :_First year ; President, Mr. McDougall ; 
Secretary, P. Davidson; Reading Room Committee- 
man, A. Nichols. 

FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENC . 

This year opens under favorable auspices for this 
Faculty. Except one, all the old faces, whom we 
would expect, are with us, along with a goo J 
ber of new ones. The Freshmen number fifteen, and 
to them we offer the hand of good fellowship, wishing 
them every success and many pleasant hours under 
the care of our honored Alma Mater. The second 
and third years are both large m numbers ° 
in material, while the fourth, numbering ei D ht, h p 
to maintain the prestige of their I acuity. 



Jas. McCarthy, 

W. Ft rrier, 

R. Rinfret, 

P. Taylor, 

P. Ball, 

W. A. Carlyle, 

S. Lovelace, 

W.Carmclia 1, 

E. May, 

A. Childs, 

C. Walters, 

A. Aeneas, 

C. McNutt, 

C. McKenzie, 

A request was sent up to Dean Bovey, by the Chief 
Engineer of the Harbor Commissioners, to allow such 
students as should desire to assist on the parties now 
engaged oil the survev of the St. Lawrence, and some 
have already been out. Ihe prospects lor next year 
are even brighter, and we hope all will make an en- 
deavor to secure practical experience, which means 
everything to an engineer. 

The new laboratories, intended especially for quan- 
titative analysis, will be opened about Christmas time, 
and will, when finished, be unrivalled in Canada. 
Under the able direction of Dr. Harrington, the ar- 
rangements are of the latest and most approved de- 
signs, while the tables, which are entirely of his own 
plans, seem perfectly adapted for the work. 

We hope health and success will be the lot of each 
member of this Faculty, and that much real useful 
work will be accomplished by all. 



ASSOCIATION OF PROTESTANT TEACHERS. 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT, SIR WM. DAWSON. 

In selecting from the multitude of topics, local and 
general, which present themselves in connection with 
the occasion on which we are assembled, I have 
thought it well to descend to first principles, and to 
notice a few of the general questions that lie at the 
foundation of educational work. 

At the present time no doctrine is more popular 
than that of evolution, and many enthusiastic persons 
are willing to believe in the principle even in cases to 
which it cannot legitimately apply, where there is, in 
fact, nothing to be evolved or unrolled, and no 
adequate cause to produce its unrolling if there were. 
But evolution is a perfectly legitimate principle where 
there is a germ to be evolved and the proper conditions 
for its development. We may all safely believe in 
the development of a germ lying in a seed into a plant 
or of the embryo cell in an egg into a chick, though 
even in these, adequate and suitable causes must be at 
work to further the development. In like manner 
nothing is more certain than the development of the 
child into the man or woman, and in this there are 
two factors, or groups of factors, one consistiDg of the 
life and power of growth present in the child, the 
other in the external influences to which it may bo 
subjected. The one group of factors may be styled 



10 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1886 . 



the individual potentialities ol the child ; the other 
constitutes its education. A child is the germ or bud 
of a man or woman. If left to itself it will be evolved 
into manhood or womanhood by its own spontaneous 
vitality. If we wish to regulate this process, we must 
know and observe its natural laws. 

The old-fashioned comparison of the child to a block 
of marble to be hewed into shape by the educator is 
therefore altogether incorrect. The true educator is 
a cultivator training a living plant. The Heavenly 
Father himself can educate in no other way, for we 
are the vine and He is the husbandman. It this fact 
of constant continuous growth is neglected, there can 
be no true education, or in other words, the growth 
itself will be the practical educator, and the work of 
the so-called teacher will be merely the patching of 
extraneous matter upon it, like tying artificial leaves 
in a living plant. It may be worse than this, for if 
the work of education runs counter to the natural 
growth of the pupil’s mind, it may be like the placing 
of a board or a tile over a tender plant, by which it 
becomes blanched, deformed and worthless. 

Admit these general principles and we must hold 
that the work of education is one of the most complex- 
and difficult of scientific arts, an art which must deli- 
cately suit itself to all the elements physiological, 
psychical, and ethical in the constitution of the pupil, 
and requiring for its successful practice the knowledge 
of a great number of scientific principles. We may 
well ask — Who is sufficient for such a work and I 
feel sure that the greater number of experienced 
and successful teachers have long ago become im- 
pressed with a deep sense of their own weakness and 
insufficiency. More especially will this be the case 
when we bear in mind the necessary limitations and 
disabilities of the work of the educator, arising from 
the short time available for its prosecution, and the 
rapid development of mind and body during that time, 
from the varied requirements for special studies, de- 
pending in the needs of society, from the necessity of 
teaching large numbers of children having varied 
powers and tendencies in the same class and by the 
same method, and from traditional mistakes, as for 
example, a defective method of spelling and artificial 
classifications in grammar. 

Thus the thoughtful educator, while rightly appre- 
ciating the problem he has to solve, is placed in the 
midst of difficulties which are in individual cases often 
insoluble. It would, I think be easy to show that 
the discordant views which prevail on such subjects 
as the range of school studies, the relation of these 
studies to health, the expediency of payment for 
results, the conducting of examinations, the relations 
of scientific and literary studies, and the bearing of 
moral and religious culture in the work of the school, 
largely depend on the more or less wide and accurate 
views which may be held in relation to the fundamen- 
tal point above stated, that the educator has to train a 
being in a state of active growth, and differing in 
every succeeding day from its capabilities and attain- 
ments of the day before. Keeping this principle in 
view, we may now glance at a few current topics of 
educational discussion. 

If we ask what studies should first occupy the atten- 



tion of the youthful pupil, two apparently contradic- 
tory answers are at once given ; first, it is unquestion- 
able that the child is naturally an observer and ex- 
perimenter with everything within his reach. Ihere- 
fore his early lessons should be object lessons, and he 
should begin his education with science. But then it 
is also evident that memory and speech are de\ elope 
more rapidly than thought, therefore he should begin 
with words and memory-lessons. The truth concealed 
under this apparent antagonism is that the average 
child conducts his own education in the way of accu- 
mulating facts and experiences, trying to express these 
in speech, and thus learning to think and generalize. 
This is the natural process, and one absolutely scienti- 
fic, and to be imitated as far as possible in our clumsy 
methods. 

It was supposed to be a grand discovery when the 
framers of the English educational law hit upon the 
method of payment by results, but nothing could have 
been more disappointing if we are to judge by what 
may be called the ultimate results of the method itself, 
in complaints and controversies, yet surely it is reason- 
able to pay rather for what is done than for the mere 
form of doing it. The real question is as to the results 
actually desired. If the resubs are the cramming of 
a certain amount of brain-racking technicalities tested 
by severe examinations, it may well be that such re- 
sults are dear at any price. But let us suppose that 
the increase in weight, muscle, and healthy com- 
plexion among the pupils, their actual growth in 
practical, mental resources and high moral qualities are 
among the results looked for, then payment by results 
may not be so bad as it has been called, if proper 
methods could be devised for measuring the results 
attained. 

The time allowed for education is all too short, 
but are we justified in lengthening it by exacting of 
children five or six hours of brain-work per day. If 
we do this what is to become of the physical, esthetical, 
mental, and spiritual growth 1 If we could judiciously 
unite all these kinds of education, it might be possible 
to go on educating all day without weariness or undue 
pressure. But it would be better for the teacher to 
content himself with two hours of mental work per 
day, if the rest of the time can be spent in something 
useful and profitable ; one thing at least is certain 
that when fatigue of brain or mind begins, education 
ceases. 

The taste of the present time runs strongly in 
favour of examinations. Block up with chevaux de 
prise ot hard examination papers the access to every 
distinction and profession, and take these examina- 
tions out of the hands of the educator and place them 
in the keeping of crotchety old gentlemen educated 
at least a quarter of a century ago, and all will be 
well j but examination without previous good educa- 
tion is as worthless as a well dug in a dry sand bank, 
and examination itself is a scientific art amounting to 
no less than the accurate testing of tne whole develop- 
ment of the learner up to a certain point — an art to 
which no one is systematically trained, and which 
comes naturally or by experience to only a very small 
peicentage, even of men ot learning. The examina- 
tion craze of the present day is one of its features, 



1886 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



com* 



which will be most heartily condemned by the 

ing age. 

The battle as to the question of health and educa- 
tion has lately raged with great violence around the 
higher education of women, and the trumpet-blast 
which the President of the Medical Congress at 
Brighton, Dr. Moore, felt it his duty to blow, has 
stirred up the strife with new acerbity. We are all 
wrong, according to Dr. Moore, in attempting to edu- 
cate women. Woman is a physiological machine 
understood only by medical professors, and cannot be 
touched by the educator without a strain and over- 
pressure fatal to all her proper functions. In reading 
Dr. Moore’s address one begins to feel thankful that 
the old-fashioned Moslem and Hindu Zenana still 
exists, with its happy inmates, secluded from the 
march of education, occupied only with their baths 
and perfumes, and destitute of all undue pressure of 
learning and ideas. It is clear to such properly nur- 
tured womanhood that the world must look for the 
mothers of the great and good of the coming time, 
and it is to be hoped that “ Zenana Missions” may 
not interfere with their healthful continuance. Some 
of Dr. Moore’s illustrations are, how'ever, fitted to 
raise doubts as to his own infallibility. He informs 
us that the mother of Bacon could not have written 
the Novum Organum. That may be, but surely it 
did not constitute her special fitness to be mother of 
the great philosopher. We rather trace this in her 
active intellect and in the fact that she had viewed 
a thorough education at a time when education was 
at least threefold as hard a process as it is at present. 
He tells us that the mother of Bonaparte was obliged 
to share the fatigues and dangers of her husband’s 
campaigns, but I am sure that it we were to send the 
prospective mothers of England on campaigns in the 
iSoudan, or those of Canada to wnde through the snow 
and mud, with our volunteers in their expeditions in 
the North-West, we should find the pressure even 
greater than if we sent them to College, and that oui 
future Napoleons would be purchased at a too dear 
rate. If Dr. Moore had thought of enquiring as to 
the physiological effects of late hours, luxuiious diet, 
and the over-pressure of tight garments in one class 
of women, and those of the hard manual labours^ and 
burden-bearing of the peasant women on the Conti- 
nent of Europe, he might have thought less of the 

evils of education. , . 

Still one wrong does not excuse another, anc 1 
must be admitted that brain-work alone, without air 
and exercise, will not produce either perfect man or 
woman, and that woman, owing to hei more active 
temperament and greater ambition, is muie < asi j 
stimulated to excessive exertion than man, not can 
there be any doubt that the present desire of women 
to have precisely the course of study vine i < us o 
and routine have prescribed for men is scaice y wise. 
They could do much better for themselves by sink n, 
out a new course, as has practically been < uin ^ 
more advanced of the Colleges for women. Ihcs 
are questions of the highest interest for educators, but 
are not to be discussed on the low phjsio ogiu 
occupied by Dr. Moore and some other old -fashion 

physicians. 



While physiologists deprecate the overstrain to the 
physical system caused by severe study, other doubters 
are concerned about the moral and religious tendency 
of education, and are continually insisting on the 
necessity of some special doctrinal teaching. I have 
always felt that it is a poor compliment to Christianity 
to hold that the Christian family,. the Sabbath school, 
the Christian Church, and the word and spirit of God, 
will be unable to convert the world without the help 
of the poor over-tasked teacher. I have also seen 
that it is the life and personal influence of the teacher 
rather than any form of religious lesson that can really 
benefit children. Farther, there can be no doubt that 
even a secular school, with good discipline, self-denial, 
and kind guidance, is nearer akin to spiritual life than 
is the training of the street. 

But we must not forget that Christianity is the 
religion of a book. Its founder came to give intel- 
lectual light as well as salvation. He says that he 
came to bear witness to the truth, and affirms that 
truth alone can make men free, and he sent forth 
apostles and evangelists to fix in writing this testi- 
mony to truth. He thus appealed to the educated 
inteiligence of men, and proclaimed that his true 
followers must be readers and thinkers. The Bible 
thus becomes the Magna Charta of education, and it 
is only where it is a household book that education 
can have its full opportunity, and that mental activity 
and progress can co-exist with active and enlightened 
Christianity. It follows that with Christ as our guide 
and as Protestant educators, we have little to do with 
the teaching of any particular creed, and that our 
main business in connection with religion is to train 
men capable of reading and understanding God s word 
for themselves. That was a grand and far-reaching 
resolution of the New Hngland Puritans, that they 
must have enough education to enable every man to 
read the Bible, for while the Bible contains much that 
the simplest reader can understand, it also affords 
scope for the neglect of study of the most cultivated 
minds. 

(To be concluded in next issue) 



Societies. 



INTER-COLLEGIATE MISSIONARY 
CONVENTION, 

The Missionary Convention which would have been 
held here had not the small-pox prevented, has been 
arranged to be held at the end of the present month. 
Delegates will be present from the Toronto, Cobourg 
and Kingston colleges During the day, papers will 
be read and discussed by the students in session. In 
the evening public meetings will be held. One 
of these is expected to be held in the Molson Hall 
and to be addressed on the subject ol Medical 
Missions by Mr. D. L. Wishard of New York. A pro- 
gramme will be out about a week before the con- 

vention. . . 

Students in Medicine will be interested in know- 

in" that the subject of Medical Mission, will be pre- 
sented at the coming Missionary Convention, by a 



12 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



gentlemen who is probably as well informed on the 
subject as any man in America, D. L. Wishard, oi 
New York. Besides the public meeting in the Molson 
Hall, on the evening of October 29th, to be addressed 
by Mr. Wishard, there will be a conference with 
medical students on this question on the following 
day. A notice of the details of these meetings will 
be out later. 



Y. M. C. A. RECEPTION. 

The evening of Saturday, October 9th, saw one of 
the most enjoyable receptions ever known at McGill 
College. The reception was under the auspices of the 
College Y. M. C. A., and was held for the purpose of 
bringing the freshmen into contact with their elder 
fellow students, and also to allow these latter to meet 
one another after the holidays. The guests were re- 
ceived by Sir Wm. Dawson, the patron, and Mr. J . K. 
Unsworth, B.A., the president, and then wandered 
at their own free will up the polished staircase and 
through the magnificent museum. Many lair heads 
were seen bending over the mineral and geological 
cases, little thinking that the greatest attraction for the 
student at their side was the presence of the post 
pliocene specimen at his right. Venus’ llairstone, 
seemed much more romantic that Saturday, than it 
does at examinations. The stereoscope and piano 
below stairs in the Lecture Theatre, were in demand, 
and the boys woke the echoes heartily. Among the 
guests were noted the professors and many graduates. 
The reception committee owes a debt of gratitude to 
the ladies of Montreal, for their kindness in providing 
refreshments and for the tastily arranged tables, which 
betrayed their handiwork also, if we mistake not. The 
number of guests must have reached three hundred, 
and in this respect, and in that of pleasure and 
smoothness, the reception was a great succes 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

To those who assisted last year in the formation of 
The University Club the success which has so far 
attended the movement must be very gratifying. The 
Club has again changed its quarters, and is at last 
comfortably settled in a house of its own in a very 
central part of the city. We must express our hearty 
approval of the action of the Committee in thus risk- 
ing a little and making a step in advance. In thus 
renting and furnishing a house they are of course 
taking a large measure of responsibility upon their 
shoulders, and we take this opportunity of appealing 
earnestly to the graduates of the University not to 
belie the confidence which has been reposed in them, 
but to come forward and support the Committee in 
what must undoubtedly be considered the critical 
period in the history of the Club. We understand 
that in the new house there is a very fine billiard- 
room, in which it is the intention of the Committee to 
immediately place a table, so that with 'a well-stocked 
reading-room and free billiards the excuse will no 
longer exist that there is nothing to attract members. 

In order to suitably furnish the house a special 
fund is being raised, and we are glad to say that be- 



teen three and four hundred dollars have been cheer- 
fully subscribed already. A greater sum than this, 
however, will bo necessary, and any graduate or friend 
of the University who can afford to give something 
ought at once to show his public spirit by sending in 

The success of the Club so far is in the greatest 
measure due to the energy and generosity of the -Pre- 
sident and the Committee. Professor Harrington 
certainly deserves the gratitude of every member for 
the interest which he has taken in the matter. He 
has spared neither time nor trouble in endeavouring 
to make the Club a success, and it is only due to him 
that we should all join heartily and see that his 
efforts are not in vain. Other professors, too, have 
shown their interest in a marked way, and if this 
opportunity of providing a common place of recrea- 
tion for all members of the University is lost, the 
fault must lie entirely at the door of the graduates. 

During the present week we believe a house-warm- 
ing is to take place, when we hope every member 
will nnt in an aDnearance. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

At the Annual Meeting, held last spring, the 
following officers were elected : President, Arch. 
McGoun,B.A., B.C.L. ; Vice-Presidents, John S. Hall, 

B. A., B.C.L., Thos. A. Rodger, M.D., B. J. Harring- 
ton, B.A., Ph. D. ; Secretary, J. R. Murray, B.A., B. 

C. L. ; Treasurer, W. T. Scaife, B.A.Sc. The resident 
councillors are Messrs. C. H. McLeod, Ma. E. ; C. J. 
Doherty, B.C.L. ; James Stewart, M.D. ; A. H. U. 
Colquhoun, B.A.; A. Falconer, B. A., B.C.L ; W. Dixon, 

B. A. The non-resident councillors are Wm. Osier, 
M.D., Philadelphia ; J. J. McLaren, B.C.L., Toronto ; 
Brown Chamberlin, M.A., B.C.L., Ottawa; Rev. E. 
I. Rexford, M. A., Quebec ; Hon. W. W. Lynch, B. 

C. L., Quebec; Rev. W. J. Dey, M.A. From the 
secretary’s report for the year 1 885-86, we learn that 
thirteen meetings of the executive committee took 
place during the year. At these or at general meetings 
the By-Laws were codified, the foundation of the 
University Club approved of and assisted, the state of 
the Law Faculty considered and suggestions proposed 
and forwarded to the faculty, which has since adopted 
many of them. The committee suggests that the 
subject of a higher matriculation, be considered ; that 
the Graduates endeavor to strengthen the hands of the 
Law Faculty and enable it to adopt those suggestions 
of the society which from lack of funds it cannot do 
unaided ; and that, as the resolution concerning the 
nomination of representative fellows is not all that it 
was expected to be, it be repealed and a better method 
of nomination sought for. It thanks the University 
Gazette for assistance in the matter of reforming the 

Faculty, and refers to the extensively signed 
petition requesting that the library of McGill Univer- 
sity be opened one night in each week, and hopes that 
the petition, when forwarded to the faculty, will be 
favorably received. 

The treasurer’s report is very satisfactory. Out of 
$105.82 available for current expenses, only $70.47 
were spent, leaving a balance of $34.85. 



1886 .] 



University gazette. 



13 



The Life Members’ Commutation Fund lias increased 
to 55630, and the Library Fund to $2,645, the latter 
giving, with a balance from the McLaren Dinner Fund, 
the sum of $161.25 for the purchase of books. The 
Dawson Principalship Fund is now $3495. 

The treasurer recommends a better investment of 
the $1,536 now in the Molson’s Bank and draws 
attention to the need of a personal canvass among 
recalcitrant subscribers. 

At a meeting of the Executive Committee held on 
the 12th inst., it was decided amongst other things 
that a big effort should be made to complete the 
Dawson Memorial Fund this year by increasing the 
amount to $20,000, and also that steps should be taken 
towards amalgamating the University Societies. With 
a view to the former object, a personal canvass will 
almost immediately be commenced. 

Personals. 

Ritchie, B.A.,’86, is a teacher at Lennoxville School. 

T. H. Orton, M.D., ’86, is practising in Hamilton, 
Out. 

C. W. Wilson, M.D., ’86, is practising in Bucking- 
ham, Que. 

R. A. Kennedy, B.A., M.D., ’86, has settled in 
Rockland, Que. 

Patterson, B.A., ’86, is a teacher in the Sherbrooke 
Street School. 

Kerry, British Association Gold Medallist ’86, is in 
Algoma on the C.P.R. 

R. Turnbull, M.D., ’86, has gone out west. He is 
practising in Moose Jaw. 

J. H. Y. Grant, M.I)., ’86, is at present resident 
accoucheur in the Maternity. 

Harry Hamilton was last heard of from a snowy 
mountain top in British Columbia. 

L. F. Ross, B.A., M.D., ’86, was in town last week. 
He has started practice in Brushton, N.A. 

McDougall, B.A., ’86, is lecturer in classics in the 
Presbyterian College. We wish him every success. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B C.L., ’86 is now practising in 
this city, in partnership with Messrs. Atwater & Cross. 

A. D. Blackader, M.I)., 71, of this city has gone to 
Vienna for a few months’ attendance at the hospitals. 

A. N. Worthington, M.D., ’86, late resident accouch- 
eur to the University Maternity Hospital, is in Edin- 
burgh. 

D. McG. Decow, M.D., ’86, has lately returned from 
London where he spent the summer. He will piac ice 
in the city. 

J. Ralph Murray, Law, ’86, has entered upon the 
practice of his profession in partnership with 
Cruikshank, Esq. 

W. Pringle, M.D., ’86, has lately returned from 
Edinburgh, where he has been for the past six mon 1 
pu ing his studies. 



A. J. Brown, gold-medallist Law, ’86, has entered 
upon the practice of his profession in partnership 
with L. N. Benjamin, Q. C., of this city. 

R. B. O’Sullivan, B.A., ’86. was in town last week - 
He has just returned from Jamaica, (his native place) 
and is now rector elect at St. Andrews, Que.' 

F. 1>. Adams, Sc., 78, of the Geological Survey, is 
still at the Indian and Colonial Exhibition, in connec- 
tion with the Government’s Geological exhibit. 

J. A. Kinloch, M.D., ’86, is at present in Vienna. 
He left Montreal in April last, and spent his summer 
in Edinburgh, where he took the L. R. C. S. He 
has only lately left for the continent. 

G. Herbert Dawson, ’86, Science, has been working 
on the Engineering Staff of the C.P.R. , at St. Anne’s 
Bridge, since last session. Gordon Forlong, Science, 
’84, has also been working on the same bridge. 

E. de F. Holden, B.A., ’86, and an ex-member of 
the class of ’88, in Medicine, has joined the Benedicts. 
He was married in J une last, and has settled down on 
a farm in his native place, St. Armand Centre. 

Mr. Fred. II. Larkin preached his last sermon at 
Petitcodiac on the 26th of September, and left for 
McGill College. He has left a very favorable impres-. 
sion on all who attended his ministrations, and will be 
welcomed back. Such is the opinion of a local paper 
about one of our men. 

Rev. D. L. McRae, of Cobourg, Ont., will, it is ru- 
mored, be called to Prince street church, Pictou. He 
is a graduate of the Presbyterian College, Montreal, 
and has been pastor of Woodlands, Ont., and latterly 
at Cobourg, and at both places has met with great 
success in building up the churches. 



Between the Lectures. 



O’Hoolihan. — Och, Laverty, here comes some ladies ! 

Laverty.— Ther divil ! O’Hoolihan, rin up on ther' 
bank and war-r-rn thim aff ! 

It looks bad to see a dog preceding his master down 
the street, and calmly turn down the stairs to the first 
saloon he approaches. It shows there is something 
wrong, something lacking, a deplorable tendency on 
the part of the dog. 

“ Yes,” said the Chairman sadly, “ our temperance 
meeting last night would have been more successful if 
the lecturer hadn’t been so absent minded.” 

“ What did he do 1 ” . 

“ He tried to blow the foam from a glass of water.” 

The late Dr. Kemper, the theologian, once com- 
menced carving at the table a boiled ham that "w'afe 
doin" duty for the second or third time. \ / 

a my dear ! ” exclaimed his wife, in surprise, 

« you have forgotton something. You have not asked 

V ^ , , ! „ „ V • , • V *. ++ i » • 

“ Yes, I°have, too,” bluffly responded the doctor. 
« T> ve asked the Lord to bless this old ham all I’m a 

* 4. . >> ' 

going to. — 



14 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Bobby, a precocious youth of six summers, had beeu 
indulging in profanity, and, in order to escape the 
punishment for which his mother had made prepara- 
tions, he crawled under a barn and remained there in 
a state of siege for the greater part of an afternoon. 
When his father returned at night and learned how 
matters stood lie made his way, with much difficulty, 
under the barn' in search of the boy. “ Hello, pa,” 
said Bobby cheerfully, as his sire approached, “ you 
been swearing too ? ” 

lhe new baby had proved itself the possessor of ex- 
traordinaiy vocal powers, and had exercised them 
much to Johnny’s annoyance. 

One day he said to his mother : 

4< Ma, little brother came from heaven, didn’t he?” 
“ Yes dear.” 

Johnny was silent for some time, and then he 
went on : 

“ Say, ma ! ” 

What is it Johnny ?” 

“ I don t blame the angels for bouncinpr him, do 

o I) O 7 

you r 

A Detroiter who recently paid a visit to Harper’s 
Ferry accosted a citizen with : 

“ I suppose you know all about old John Brown ? ” 
“John Brown — old John Brown 1 ? Did he live 
here?” 

“Why, I mean old John Brown who tried to free 
the slaves.” 

V anted to free the slave, eh ? did he have any 
middle name ? ” 

“ I am speaking of John Brown who got up the in- 
surrection.” 

j-j* v e8 ‘ ^ su PP ose 3’ 0U are. Got up an insurrection, 

did he? He shouldn’t have done it. When did he 
leave here ? 

“ Is it possible you have never heard of John 
Brown ? ” 

Seems to me I have heard his name mentioned here. 

>\ hat did the insurrection amount to, and who insur- 
rected ! ” 

“ He captured the engine house down there. Hav- 
en’t you ever read the sign on the building ? ” 

Lots ot times, but I didn’t suppose it mounted to 
anything. .John Brown? John Brown? How old 
a man was he ? ” 

“ Never mind,” replied the Detroiter. “ I’ll proba- 
bly find some one here who can tell me wdiat 1 want 
to know.” 

Let s go out together, then. \ ou’ve got my curio- 
sity excited, and I’d really like to know who he was 
and what reasons he had for leaving the place Say 
we go and ask the bridge-tender. He’s a great hand 
to lemember picnics and insurrections.” 



ExcE pT iN G only Harvard, William and Mary, in 
\ lrginia, founded in 1693, is the oldest college in 
America It can now boast of not a single student, 
and the last dollar ot its endowment will soon have 
been spent. This grand old institution owes its down- 
tall first to the war of the Bebellion, and finally to 
two destructive fires. J 



Hollege TjUotld. 

The students in the normal schools in Japan have 
begun to wear foreign clothes. 

The oldest German -speaking university is Prague, 
founded in 1348; next comes Vienna, founded in 
1365 ; Heidelberg follows, being the senior of the 
universities in the German Empire, founded in 1386; 
then Leipsic, in 1409; Freiburg, (Baden,) in 1454; 
Griefswald, in 1456 ; Bale, in 1460; Munich, in 1472 ; 
Tubingen, in 1477 ; Marburg, in 1527; Konigsberg, 
in 1544; Jena, in 1558, Wurzburg, in 1582 ; Giessen, 
in 1607 ; Kiel, in 1665 ; Halle, in 1694; Breslau, in 
1702; Gottingen, in 1 1 37 ; ErlaDgen, in 1743; Berlin, 
in 1810; Bonn, in 1818; Zurich, in 1838; Berne, in 
1834; Strasburg, re-established in 1572, originally 
founded in 1567. 

Plans of the new Dalhousie university are now 
completed and tenders will be asked for at once. 
The building will be one of the finest in the mari- 
time provinces, and outside of the universities of 
r I oronto and McGill, the finest in the Dominion. In 
accommodation it will be second to none. The work 
will be proceeded with immediately and the university 
will be ready for the session of 1887. It will cost 
§50,000 tor the building alone and the equipment 
§5,000 extra. When finished every cent will be paid 
up, as this was the agreement made by the governors 
with Sir Wm. Young when he presented them with a 
donation ot §20,000. The number of students 
has been steadily increasing for years, and in a 
tew years the present attendance will probably be 
doubled. When all improvements are complete, the 
building will be of pressed brick with freestone trim- 
mings, three storeys high with a tow T er rising from the 
centre 158 feet. Its extreme length will be 138 feet. 
Three will be a wing at each end, 74 feet in width. 

I lie JciM department will occupy the north win rf , will 
have a separate entrance and be completely cut off in 
^ from the arts faculty. The gvmnasium 

will be one ot the features of the university, as it is 
to >e furnished with the most modern appliances. 

CO-EDUCATION IN GERMANY. 

A ou are aware how obstinately German universities 
have shut their sacred Aula from the tread of women. 
Aow at once we see these sacred precincts invaded by 
a female student. It was in Leipzig, the very place 
u liere the Academic Council had a sitting, some years 
ago to discuss the question if ladies were to be ad- 
mitted as students, and where a peremptory “ no ” was 
the answer. Since that memorable veto, all hope 
seemed lost of ever gaming admittance, and the greater 
is now the surprise when in that very town where 

Ihf !w nf lY 18 0 xf ende ?’ a y0Ung lad y stepped through 

the 1 w, ° ^ OISaa *’ and to °k her seat quite near 
the lecturer Professor A. W. Hofmann, and listened 

cH L V ” y She had \° 8ay on “ Organkch* 

1 : J he wa ® y° un S and pretty, was beautifully 

dressed, and wore a straw hat that sat becomingly on 

at ei CamV ° a ! Ue from En S la nd, had studied 
at Cambridge, and is admitted by Professor Hofmann 



1886 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



15 



as pupil iu his laboratory, where she is practically 
employed and shows advanced knowledge. II n't/ a 
que le premier pas qni coitfe. If her example he fol- 
lowed by a dozen fair Americans, the exceptions will 
soon prove a rule, and Germany no longer will bear 
the blame of withholding education from women. 

Another triumph, which 1 have to mention, was 
the arrival of Mrs. Weber, the wife of Professor Weber 
at the University of Tubingen, to lecture on the neces- 
sity of extending the sphere of women’s duties, beyond 
the precincts of the family. This lady for some years 
has addressed ladies’ societies wherever they met, but 
this time it was not a ladies’ society in which she came 
to speak, but a convention of men, who came from all 
parts of Germany to Wiesbaden to discuss the question 
of the mental development of the laboring classes. In 
proposing to take a part in their proceedings, this lady 
certainly transgressed the sphere until now open to the 
female sex iu Germany, and she not only was received 
and heard with politeness, but also met with such 
marks of approbation and encouragement that she felt 
quite overwhelmed by the flattering praises bestowed 
on her. The president of the convention, commission- 
ed by the society, gave her a beautiful bouquet of 
roses, with a memorial card iD gilded letters in acknowl- 
edgment of her praiseworthy proceeding in coming as a 
pioneer of what women of this century ought to do. 
It was impossible to say more. Mrs. Weber has pub- 
lished her essays and speeches in a volume, under the 
title of “ Social Duties of Families,” a book well worth 
reading, and already in its second edition. It Ameri- 
can ladies will visit the University of Tubingen, they 
may be sure to find in Mrs. Weber a friend who will 
helpfully further their claim to admittance to the 
lecture-rooms. 

Mrs. Howe latterly has discussed the question of 
women’s work as competitors in the market, and it 
would seem as if the opening for them was limited in 
consequence of unfitness. In America they seem to 
try the pen, just as they do here, with the notion it 
will be easy work. But why not do earnest work ? A 
great opening for women is painting. V iesbaden has, 
for instance, a manufactoi'y of cartoons, which sells 
cards painted with flowers or ornamented with bou- 
quets of leaves, which offers employment to many 
ladies of the better classes. These ornamented caids 
go to England, to America, over the whole world, and 
considering the immense number of cards required loi 
sale, the demand is greater than the supply, tor uant 
of women workers fit for the task. An eye tor colois 
and for graceful forms must be carefully educate , 
and we neglect to develop the sense ot the beauti u 
Frobel wished to correct this deficiency in oui ttain 
ing, in his kindergarten j but lie did not succeed, tor 
our schools undo what the kindergarten begins. ® 
are as far off as ever from being a nation with ai -is-ic 
tendencies, where the sense of the beautiful crvenu es 
everything, as was the case in Greece. Ameiican 
women, however, have taste by nature. 1 cu uie 
helped them, they could bring back the golden eia or 
which we long. If only stress were laidon < 11 
application in that line when young, and i sc ioo * 
existed to develop what nature has given them u e )• 
— Am ely Bolte, in Woman's Journal. 



A LITTLE TALK TO STUDENTS. 

It is no easy matter after weeks or months of vaca^ 
tion from text book to get one’s self into the right 
trim for systematic and continuous study. The mind, 
permitted to wander from one topic to another, as fancy 
or circumstance impels, and without fixed or definite 
pur] »oses, is unable at first to set itself to the success- 
ful accomplishment of certain intellectual tasks in a 
certain fixed time, and according to a certain ideal 
standard. But use makes everything easy. It will 
take two or three weeks, perhaps longer, for some 
students to become adjusted to the routine of study 
and the recitation-room so it will not be difficult for 
them. But what young people go to school for is to 
learn how to study. The acquisition of knowledge is 
a vaulable part of schooling, but its main object is to 
shape and sharpen and round and smooth and develop 
and harmonize the various faculties of the mind, so 
that when the student goes out into the world he may 
know just how to apply his mind rightly and success- 
fully to the solution of the problems of life, and to 
the due and orderly acquisition, arrangement and 
digestion of its facts. In solving an arithmetical or 
algebraic problem he is learning how to solve far more 
difficult problem that will be forced upon him in the 
course of his future life. In mastering a chain of logic 
so that he can state clearly and consecutively, iu their 
proper order, its various links, he is learning how to 
find his way through future labyrinths quite as per- 
plexing as "any figured in the books. In making a 
translation from a foreign language into his mother 
tongue, he is cultivating taste, discrimination, expres- 
sion, force, all of which will be of service to him every 
time, he opens his mouth to speak or takes a pen to 
write. In preparing a composition, every power of 
his mind is, or ought to be, laid under contribution, 
and he shows here the possible height of his hightide 
mark. Uniform submission to the rules and regula- 
tions of the institution of which he is a student forms 
in him the habit of obedience to lawfully constituted 
authority and prepares him for the duties of intelligent 
citizenship. And so every study and every exercise 
has its intrinsic value in developing, educating and 
training his various power. If at the end of an 
academic or collegiate course of study he has learned 
how to use his mind, how to control it, how to direct 
it, then he has attained the object and end of pre- 
paratory study. 

The student who is obliged to go over and over and 
over again the same lesson before he can master it often 
envies°him who at one reading or at two reading can 
make the lesson his own, and with but little effort shine 
in the recitation-room. But what is easily learned is 
easily forgotten. There are minds, but they are rare, 
that are as wax to receive impressions and as steel to 
retain them. In the great majority of cases, “ slow 
and steady wins the race.” Great erudition, like great 
wealth, is built up by slow and steady accretion. 

Prizes, marks, honors, are very well for those who 
need such stimuli, or who are so made that they can- 
not willingly take second place in the ranks ot their 
fellows. Biography shows that the taking of these in 
school and college signifies little with regard to high 



16 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1886. 



ultimate success in life. It is better to have a thorough 
knowledge of the subject of the lesson in its various 
aspects than to “cram” so as to make a brilliant re- 
citation. The gain by such a course is for the mo- 
ment only 5 the loss is for a lifetime. 

In preparing one’s lessons for the next day it is well 
to begin with the hardest. If it contains difficulties 
that defy immediate conquest, let them lie in solution 
in the mind and return to the attack later. Often the 
tangle will unravel itself, or seem to, and what was 
obscure will become clear and definite. It is well to 
go over all one’s lessons the night before recitation, 
and let them lie in the mind while one is sleeping. 
Then go over them again in the morning. The third 
repetition of them in the recitation-room will be likely 
to fasten them permanently in the memory. 

To such students as have the grasp of mind to do it, 
we recommend that they read carefully the preface, 
the introduction and the table of contents of each of 
their text -books, and get, so far as they can, an out- 
line of the whole subject treated of, and then in pre- 
paring each lesson note its place in the general plan of 
the book. This method of procedure they will find will 
give them, to an extent, Avhile first going through the 
book, - the advantages of a review, and make their 
labors easier and more efficient. 

As far as possible the student should arrange the 
succession of his studies so that his mind will be kept 
fresh. Nine hours of sleep, at the most, is all one 
needs. There are fifteen hours left to be occupied 
and they may be so occupied, that every minute 
shall count, and not one be wasted. Recreation 
and rest are as much a duty as is study, and ’ 
many of the exercises of the student may well stand 
in the place of recreation. Learning how to make 
such an adjustment of one’s time to his duties as gives 
the largest results for the hours invested is no mean 
accomplishment . — Ncio York Weekly Tribune. 



itorresponbence. 



Mr. Editor : — ; 

Dear Sir.— I see by Saturday’s “Star” that a class 
of some twenty students from the Polytechnic College, 
of Troy, N.Y., have arrived at the Windsor, accom- 
panied by Prof. H. B. Nason, for the purpose of 
examining the new C. P. R. bridge at Lachine. Now 
Mr. Editor, when these gentlemen find it profitable to 
them to come such a long distance to examine into the 
construction of this bridge, surely our “ Faculty of 
Applied Science,” can afford to appoint one of our 
Professors to take the Science students over this 
structure to see its principal points. It is true that 
at any time, any student can go out by himself, but he 
would not likely be able to see or learn as if he went 
together with one of our professors to explain any 
points. 

Hoping that I am not taking up too much of your 
valuable space, 

Yours truly 

Student in Applied Science. 
McGill College, 1 1th Oct., 1886. 



DIED Oil the 13th, instant, at his residence, 16 Univer- 
sity St., Montreal ; The Venerable Archdeacon Leach. Vice- 
Principal of McGill University. 



THE HvXOEEHXT 

TURKISH OR ROMAN BATH, 

14.0 HT. MONIQL’K S I'REET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, Montreal. 

ESTABLISHED, 1869. REBUILT AND ENLARGED, 1873. 

RENOVATED AND IMPROVED 1884. 

BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a m. 2t09p.n1. 

LADIES, jo to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed Turkish 
Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every facility for the adminis- 
tration of all forms o f •• Hydro-Therapeutic " treatment as well as for the 
practice of the “ Swedish Movement Cure," ard of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident patients. 
Special attention being devoted to the treatment of chronic cases. Conval- 

escents, as well as others who are interested in health matters, will find at 
this Institution a quiet and comfortable home, and many advantages not 
obtainable elsewhere in the Dominion. 



D. B. A. MACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



OTST~KS .A.T ^.LL HOXTP.S. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

Established 

Heist ies-st <3-:r^-2 \ 

CBBAtgST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty, 
f nysicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock 

ZElTrersr pen gru-strsianteed.. 

:E - G-RAPTOI^T 6Z SOISTS, 

St. James Street. 



S, J. BRISSETTE. JOS COI 

BR1SSETTE & C0URT01S, 



White’s Lane, 




— manufacturers of — 



Machineryfcr Pipes Makers, Piper Box Manufacturers, 

^BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.*- 

Specml attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

* -,»» 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

and to order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 

[ 

HEADQUARTERS IN THE CITY 

for 

Overcoats, Suits, & Gents’ Underwear 

largest Stooli in Sanada to Select from. 




Corner 

McGill 

* ‘ * t 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



SUITS aeaOverco ATS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



BT TIT TOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES * MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor, of Craig St. 

f*inc Confectionery, 

R qNBONS and (C HOCOLATES 







PHILIPS SQUARE, 



* “»* 



MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS “fMoitil Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Jf ortc, 



PREPARED BY 



W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



ARTISTICALLY 



■j-Engraved and Printed,*- 



— IN — 



RELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 



The Burland Litho. Co., 



5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

AEVOCATSS, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

“fjOBERTSON, FLEET l FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. STREET, 



Atwater, Cross & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Macmastee. Hutchinson, Weir Si McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &C., 
175 St. James St., Montreal. 



DONALD MACMASTFR, Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l. 



Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c. f 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 



Hon. L. RUGGLFS CHURCH, Q.C. 
Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



IN. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T^IZCES ST,, 

(near the court house,) 

MONTEEAL. 



BICYCLES ! ! 



Vi aw II Tenni* Set*, Fool 
Ball*, Boxing Glove*, 
Fencing Foil*, 
I?Ia*k*, Arc. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 





Watson 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



, ^ 33 ^ j 

Hairdressina; anil Shavini ii the Latest Style, 



IF.A.XjIMIIEIR-’S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

brushes, Coirit^, Strops, 

< Perfuir|ei‘y, ki‘|d Toi let 
Article^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 



A.V*.. • . . O. 




7t<- '< 

*LL 



I lit OP-FAT LWigoratingtoNIC the DAT 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving ^ fprinting 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL 



limitations, CaFds, Crests, programmes, 
Jtflonograms, &e M &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

sJewellei^y § Fancy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

| FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR Timing) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

, Al 7%vTvTo C oJ{ SIL t '7; R r n u R /y CLOCKS , BRONZES, and 

1 ANC J 6 OODS, suitable for Hedding Gifts or Presentations. 

OIT-DOOR GAMES, 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

U L , | ALSO 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1078 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3 S 5 eSc 3 Q 7 St. Steeet, A x . 



Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



R elebrated Hot Water Heaters 



— AND— 





Hot Air Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circularsjon Application. 



385 & 387 



St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 



Paper Manufacturers, { 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 

Brown Paper, 

Grey Paper, 

Straw Paper. 

Building Paper 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper. 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes a.ZLd. ’VT" eights Made to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO. ~™.. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBresole* Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

HEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AHR STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 




WORKS AT 

U J, CORNWALL, ONT. 

C - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, ^Machine 

Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and ® rea “E a Tithoeraphic Papers! 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithograpwc rap 

Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

, . Snpcial sizes made to order. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. 



Sharpe’s City Express Co. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

Freight and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

Teams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 



Freshl Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. # # 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

are among our specialties. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

173 Ht Janies street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



QUEEN’S BLOCK,” 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St., 

Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 
£mporbr$ anit jJnnufatlarBrs 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONTREAL. 



E. -A- GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF t 

n^.T7"-^.nsr .A. oio-^-iRS jm* 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OE 25. 

Tx-y Sfu.cLeM.ts Miact\a.xe. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THK GENUINE 

Oooi^’s FBiEur 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensini Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages. Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book ; Stationery , 



-A.JSTID 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SOIT], 

FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

6784 MD 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GREY NUN 8TREET • 
IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Clay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHIITA CLATT, c See., <$ec. 
Manufactnrers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARGE S TOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 

TELEPHONE No. 580. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21. 21t & 23 St. Antoine Street. MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to whDh 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

SiIjIec jkjstjd Httir, Hats 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

■W. HVE. SAMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 No tre Dame St. 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For CROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, golto 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



