Vol. XIII 



No. II. 










168 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

AUDTTOCATZE S , 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET 
MONTREAL. 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 




The STANDARD of the DOMINION. 



$1.50 per Ills. 



0. McENTYRE & SOM 



Fine Custom Tailors. 



Antiseptic laterals, Battflaies, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO.. 
Plmnlltil t Dispensing: Ctaisls, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalvptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucajyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTE RS 

-FOR— 

Scliool aid College Teit Bools ! 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST 



• llKUiCJiij li'OUKS, HOOKS VS f ,’ if IJ\~ .HIT 4 Of USE 
S CM E JVC MS TEXT HOOKS , 

THE lTJMKlOVS THEO V OUlC.il, HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rocl Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. &c., &c., 

* *" I* E ST VA DU E IN T <> AV N , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 



SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

53 BE AYER HALL HILL. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

233 St. James Street, 

.ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 10th, 1890. \Xo. 11. 



Stnibemtg (Sautte. 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

.1. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

John Clark, Med. ’91. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, Science ’90. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A 
S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law ’91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 
H. B. Yates, B A. 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 



The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 169-170 

Contributions 170-171 

McGill News 171-174 

Societies 174 

Poetry 174 

Correspondence 174-175 

Personals 176 

Exchanges 176 

Between the Lectures 177 

College World 177-178 



Editorials. 



and though his work is carried on by other hands, he 
yet speaks to us of high aims and of duty in Medical 
work. To say, then, that the session of ’90 is the 
most successful in the history of the College, is only 
to justify the foundation laid by the men who have 
gone before. That it has been the most successful, 
must be apparent to all who have watched its course. 
The Dean, though not thrown into close connection 
with any students but those of the fourth year, has 
won the esteem and regard of all, and in the lectures 
of the Vice-Dean they feel that the Practice of Medi- 
cine is still a stronghold of McGill. Other important 
changes have been made, looking to the unifying of 
the courses and consolidating the teaching. The 
number of students has increased, and all has been 
harmony, and on the part of the students there is an 
abiding faith in their school, and a clearer conception 
of the end and aim of Medicine, as scientifically ex- 
pounded. 

It is a matter of regret that among all the different 
departments of undergraduates who responded to 
toasts at the University Banquet, that department 
alone was omitted which, more than any other, con- 
tributed to the brilliancy of the occasion. If reports 
are reliable, the followers of the Donalda course are 
not in the least behind other students in oratorical 
ability, and surely the time ought long since to have 
passed away when it was considered unbecoming for 
women to speak in public, and especially on educa- 
tional matters. 



That was a ready German method of explaining, 
to a number of American students, why it was not 
thought desirable that they should continue their 
studies at Berlin University : — 



THE MEDICAL SESSION. 

On Saturday the lectures of the fifty-seventh ses- 
sion of the Medical School will close. In another 
week the Examinations will be over, and by the first 
of April the class of ’90 will have “gone forth into 
the world,” as the Valedictorians say. The session 
that is past illustrates that, in the course of events, 
if one is cast down another is raised up to take the 
burden. No loss is irreparable, and though, when 
the late Dean died, a wide breach was made, yet it 
is healing, and the work flowing in other channels, 



“ Your American Colleges differ too greatly in character, 
your institutions of real worth being established side by side 
with tho>e that are practically humbugs. We cannot spare 
the time to distinguish and decide between the two classes.” 

No such charge can be brought against men from 
McGill. 

We regret that, owing to the fact that the returns 
of the names of the Arts’ students who were at the 
dinner not having been handed in in time, the list 
published was incorrect. Some of the names appeared 
under “ Science students.” The number was 49. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [ 1890 



There are still a number of subscriptions outstand- 
ing, and students of Medicine are mildly reminded 
that it was upon their advice the weekly issue was 
undertaken. It is hoped that during the present 
week all the amounts will he handed in. 



Contributions. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF LEIPZIG. 

The importance of a German University may he 
roughly estimated by the number of students attend- 
ing its lectures, and to a certain extent by the num- 
ber of professors on its teaching staff. During the 
summer semester of 1889, there were at Berlin 6,626 
students, at Munich 3,646, while Leipzig took third 
place with 3,391. Berlin has 324 professors and 
docents, Munich 172, and Leipzig 184. If we then 
consider the number of students, Leipzig is the third 
University in Germany, if we look only to the pro- 
fessors, it holds the second place. 

The teaching body of Leipzig University is divided 
into four faculties — Theology, Law, Medicine, and 
Philosophy — the last including Natural Science, 
Political Economy, History, Philology, Mathematics, 
Philosophy, and in general what ever does not come 
within the province of the first three. 

The Principal of the University, at present the 
philosopher Wundt, rejoices in the title of Rector 
Magnificus, and holds office for one year. At the 
head of each Facult} r is the Dean, and under him in 
order of rank are Ordinary Piofessors, Extraordinary 
Professors and Private Docents. Many of the profes- 
sors in ordinary receive very large salaries, the extra- 
ordinary professors as a rule, receive very little, while 
the Private Docents are not paid at all, except by the 
students attending their lectures, and these fees are 
regulated by the University authorities. One may 
safely say that nearly all the professors are authors of 
repute, and also many of the docents have written 
books of considerable value. One of the best Histor- 
ies of Modern Philosophy has lately been written by 
a docent in the University of Jena, and the like is 
occurring continually. A docent who thus dis- 
tinguishes himself is soon promoted to be extra- 
ordinary professor, and if his ability continues to be 
manifested, in time becomes professor in ordinary. 

The usual mode of teaching is by means of lectures, 
but there are also, in almost every subject, seminaries, 
and private studies with the professor, thus affording 
advanced students direct contact and intercourse with 
the professors, an element of education formerly 
much neglected. 

At the beginning of the semester the famulus 
posts on the blackboard the professor’s announce- 
ment of the subjects on which he intends to lecture, 
with the place and time. On the appointed day the 
students assemble in the auditorium, and at precisely 
fifteen minutes past the hour in comes the professor, 
walks up to his desk, pronounces in an undertone the 
conventional words “ Mein Herren,” and forthwith 
launches out into his subject. When forty -five 



minutes have gone aDd the gong has sounded, he at 
once seizes hat and cane and straightway departs the 
way he came, to appear and disappear the next day in 
the same manner. 

Many of the professors take great pains to make 
their subject clear to the minds of the students, but 
too often there is great lack of teaching ability dis- 
played, and the perfunctory way in which the 
lectures are delivered is by no means inspiring to 
the student. To an English speaking student, who 
knows little or nothing of the German language, 
the difficulties are at first very great. German is a 
most difficult language, no matter who asserts the 
contrary. This every English student in Germany 
admits, and only those doubt who know nothing 
about it. Mr. Edwards, pastor of the American 
Chapel in Leipzig, finds, as the result of long exper- 
ience. that an average American student, with no pre- 
vious knowledge of the German language, can learn to 
understand the lectures in one year from his arrival, 
provided he works faithfully, and even then he will 
occasionally miss the full meaning of a sentence. 
This statement I at first thought much exaggerated, 
but have come to think it not far from the truth. 

I know a man of forty years of age, a professor of 
an American college, who has studied German for 
years and has spent eight or nine months in Germany, 
who cannot yet understand his lectures satisfactorily, 
nor can he speak with any fluency. But I know other 
students who, having studied the language thoroughly 
at home, have found very little difficulty in the line I 
have indicated. 

A bit of personal experience may not be out of the 
way just here. I arrived in Leipzig, July 25th, 
1889, and at once found a boarding place with a 
German family. For three months I worked pretty 
steadily at Otto and my German reader, writing tire- 
some exercises, and practising my villainous German 
on my innocent friends. When the lectures began 
on October 25th, I secured a seat in Prof. Heinze’s 
class-room, where he was announced to lecture on 
History of Philosophy. At my first attempt to take 
notes I secured about a page of detached words. Then 
I procured a German student as teacher, and with 
him read Grimm’s fairy tales and two or three of 
Tessing’s plays. I also began reading Heinze’s own 
text book on History uf Philosophy, with a view to 
acquiring his vocabulary and becoming acquainted 
with his style. I found this plan to succeed so well 
that I can now understand the substauce of the 
lectures, and take notes as fast as I can write, though 
it will be a long time before I shall be able to grasp 
the full meaning of every word and sentence. If I 
can do this at the end of my first year in Germany, 

I shall be perfectly satisfied. 

Matriculation for a graduate of a Canadian College 
is not at all formidable or difficult. On a certain day 
he presents himself at the University Court, shows 
his passport and graduate’s parchment, pisses through 
the hand of nine or ten officials, tells his age, parent- 
age, nationality, birth-place, and subjects of study, 
pays twenty-one marks, receives a College book, and 
is allowed to depart, but instructed to appear on a 
certain day at the Aula, or Convocation Hall, to be 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



171 



finally received by the Rector. When he appears at 
the proper time, he finds the Aula filled with other 
new students. One by one the names are called out; 
finally, he hears his own ; and, tvalking up to the 
front, shakes hands with the Rector Magnificus, re- 
ceives a student’s card, a large paper certificate, de- 
claring him entitled to all the rights and privileges 
of a student of Leipzig University. 

A friend of mine, neglecting to appear on the day 
appointed for this ceremony, was, a few days after- 
wards, much alarmed when he received a summons 
trom the University Court, commanding him, on 
pain of Recalcitration, to report himself, and explain 
why he had disobeyed orders. Upon humbly sub- 
mitting that his fault arose from ignorance of the 
German language, he was let off with a fine of twenty- 
five pfennigs, and another day was fixed for his re- 
ception. in this way do the University authorities 
keep the students in subjection. 

A student may not be arrested by the civic authori- 
ties, except for certain grave offences ; but if he breaks 
the laws, his name is reported to the University 
Court, by which he is judged, and, if found guilty, 
is punished according to the gravity of his offence. 

There are two Canadian students at Leipzig, and 
sixty from the United States. Almost all of these 
are college graduates, and many have taught in 
school or college for several years. Some have been 
professors at home, and after two or three years of 
study in Germany, will return to their work in 
America. The average age of the American students 
at present in Leipzig is 27 years. The average age of 
the German student is about 23 years. 

Of German University Societies it would be super- 
fluous to speak, for they are known by reputation to 
students everywhere, especially in America. The 
American Students’ Club, however, is a Society of 
more than ordinary interest. Founded during the 
summer semester of ’89, with the object of bringing 
the American students together for mutual help in 
their work, it has since greatly increased in popu- 
larity, and its meetings have, no doubt, been of great 
value to the members. Canadians are not eligible for 
active membership, but are heartily welcomed as 
honorary members. Strictly speaking, then, the 
title, “American Club,” is a misnomer, but since it 
would be difficult to find a more convenient name, 
no objection is made. Every second Saturday even- 
ing the meeting is held in Kretschman’s Restaurant, 
a large room having been there found convenient to 
the purpose. The literary part of the programme 
consists, generally, of an informal lecture by some 
student, explanatory of the methods of work and 
advantages for study, in his special branch, in 
America and Germany. A discussion follows, where- 
by further information is elicited irom the speaker, 
and the views of other students are obtained. The 
meeting is tnen adjourned, though the members do 
not yet leave, but mix with one another, exchange 
ideas, compare notes as to colleges at home, and in 
general become acquainted with one another. Sing- 
ing of college songs enliven the proceedings, and 
sundry glasses of beer are not wanting, with lemonade 



for temperance men, and when the meeting breaks up 
the members depart, with the satisfaction of having 
spent a profitable and enjoyable evening. 

J. E. LeR. 



JficiBill News. 



There have been no Clinics in the Hospital since 
Thursday. The institution was closed to prepare for 
the final Examinations. 

In the Library statistics of last issue, we stated the 
total volumes in the Library to be 28,494. In this 
we omitted 12,000 in the Medical department. 

The lectures in Pathology are over. Last week 
lectures were given on Tuesday, Wednesday, and 
Thursday, with demonstrations in the afternoon. 

The fund, for the erection of a tablet, in honour of 
the memory of the late Dean, Dr. Howard, has grown 
to a sufficient size to warrant the work being put in 
hand at once. 

Chief Benoit, of the City Fire Department, made 
a thorough inspection of McGill’s buildings, with a 
view to perfecting the arrangements for fire protec- 
tion, impelled to do so by the disaster at Toronto. 

A meeting of the Graduates’ Society was held on 
Saturday evening, to hear and discuss the reports of 
the Representative Fellows, and to make nominations 
for the ensuing term. The disposal of the Principal’s 
Fund was also to be considered. 

The regular meeting of the Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers was held in the Applied Science 
department, on Thursday evening, '27th February, 
when a paper on “ Canadian Cements,” by Mr. But- 
ler, of Napanee, was discussed. 

How many students, vho enjoy the splendid course 
in Natural Science in McGill, ever stop to think 
that it is due to wonderful energy and liberality of 
two of the greatest practical geologists of the age — 
Sir William E. Logan and Sir J. William Dawson? 

On Thursday, a very neat present was made to the 
Hospital porter by the members of the third and 
fourth years. There are few men about the place 
better deserving of considerate trea ment at the hands 
of the students, in return for his courtesy and kindly 
attention to their needs. 

The ball opened for the Primary Years on Mon- 
day, Dr. Stewart leading with the following for the 
Sessional : — 

1. Mention the more important actions of Calomel and Cor- 
rosive Sublimate. 

2. Compare the action of Digitalis and Aconite on the heart. 

3. Compare the purgative action of Aloes, Castor Oil, and 
Jalap. 

4. When the constitutional effects of Mercury and Iodine are 
desired, how are these agents administered ? 

Many of my fellow-students will remember the 
opening ten lectures of one of our fondest examiners, 
giving us the most fatherly advice as to the way to 
keep our health, and to invest in the proper sort of 
a text-book. I am afraid my experience tallies with 
similar ones of my fellow-students, and was a failure. 






172 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



As to whether my investment in the means of know- 
ledge is of the same class, time will tell. The follow 
ing was the result of my athletic aspirations : — 

I commenced my course of exercise in my bed- 
room, which was not far to go for it, with a pair of 
six pound dumb-bells. 

The first night, before going to bed, I went through 
various motions over and over again. It was splendid 
fun — for the first time ; but it had this result — that 
l was no longer sleepy when I turned into bed. Then 
I felt quite equal to a five-mile walk. As the second 
pie is more difficult to eat than the first, so I found 
the second performance with the dumb-bells less 
agreeable than the first. The novelty of the thing 
was gone. At any rate, 1 reduced my task about fifty 
per cent., entering into an engagement with myself 
to do the other half in the morning. When the 
morning came, I reminded myself more than once of 
my engagement, but I could not get myself out of 
bed ; and when I turned out I found that I must 
either miss my lecture or my dumb bell exercise. 1 
decided to take the lecture. 

At bed-time that night my arms were so stiff from 
the exercise of the previous night, that I did not 
think it would be right to go at the thing too violently, 
and so overdo it. 1 put the dumb-bells on the dress- 
ing-table, and went to bed and dropped off asleep, 
feeling a sympathy for the poor fellow who lies awake 
half the night, because he goes to bed so thoroughly 
tired out that he cannot sleep. In speaking with a 
friend, who goes in with such regularity for this kind 
of thing, that he says he could not live without it — a 
pretty pass to come to, I must say — I was told that 
the proper way to take exercise/is to get as much 
variety out of it as possible ; to make a pleasure, in- 
stead of a task, of it. Upon his recommendation, I 
purchased a pair of Indian clubs, which I do not 
believe any Indian ever used. I took as small a pair 
as I could find, to start on, at any late. By the time 
1 had knocked the chandelier out of the ceiling by 
the roots, and fetched myself a few raps on the spinal 
column, I decided to give up the clubs in favour of 
boxing. 

Jt was easy enough to get the gloves, but I could 
not get anything to box with but a stuffed bag. There 
is a certain amount of pleasure in boxing with an op- 
ponent that never gets angry and cannot strike you 
back ; but one day the bag swung back, and caught 
me such a cowardly blow that I would have nothing 
more to do with it. I began to think that 1 had had 
enough of violent exercise, and I remembered the 
cases of men who had shattered their constitutions 
by too much of it. I determined not to do that. 
Better by far exhaust my vitality by an easier pro- 
cess. 1 made up my mind, then, to let nature have 
her own way, which she always does in the end. It 
is the privilege of the sex to which she belongs. She 
accommodated herself very kindly to the change, 
which was suited to me much better. Now, when 1 
want to take my liver out for a walk, it is usually 
round a billiard-table. That is my favo. rite exercise, 
and I am quite well, thank you, and hope to make a 
ood pass. My punching-bag I seldom use, and when 
do it is only as a sofa-cushion ; my dumb-bells serve 



as paper weights, though they sometimes come in 
handy as hammers. As for my boxing-gloves — well, 
one of them is my pin cushion, and I have my suspi- 
cions that the other has superseded the newspaper as 
a bustle for my landlady. ^ 

On Saturday evening at 6 o’cIock, about 60 students 
assembled at the college gates to tramp to the Club 
House ; some one had ordered two large sleighs, and 
the boys soon decided that they could tramp with less 
exertion in the sleighs, and all were speedily 
aboard and on the way to the Club House, accom- 
panied by the melodious toot of Taylor’s horn. Once 
at the Club House every one began an investigation 
of the place from office to ball-room, till the call 
“dinner,” when all promptly adjourned to the dining 
hall, where ample justice was done to the good things 
provided. 

Order was called by A. E. Harvey, the chairman, 
who, in an eloquent address, proposed “ The Queen,” 
eulogizing Her Majesty, Canadians, and Our College 
to the satisfaction of all. Having disposed of our 
Gracious Sovereign, the next toast in order was “ Alma 
Mater,” proposed by G. McDougall. Hatchett replied, 
and regretted there were not more opportunities for 
making acquaintances. Denison proposed “ The 
Faculties.” li. McDougall responded for Arts, and 
thought the Dinner was better prepared than he, 
and gave a general description of the “ good quali 
ties” of the Faculty. Wingham, of Science, did not 
like bombast, but without a doubt you could learn 
anything in his fa ulty ; in fact it was by all odds the 
best. Ryan referred touchingly to the modesty of the 
Law Faculty, and concluded his address, thanking the 
Dinner Committee lor their efforts. Richardson 
responded on a two minute notice, for “ Societies,” 
reviewing the good and bad qualities of theY.M.C.A., 
Literary, and Athletic Associations. G. McDougall 
led in singing “ My Bonnie,” after which the follow- 
ing responded for Societies : Hawkins, for Y. M.C. A., 
wished all students to respond as liberally to the 
Associations appeal fora new building as they could. 
Hall responded for the Literary Society. Prof. 
McLeod and Mr. Fleet entered just at this ‘time, and 
were received with a becoming enthusiasm. Russell 
thought Athletics weie too much let alone by juniors, 
and urged that every member of the University should 
be interested in their success. Rev. S. Moore was 
then introduced to propose the health of “The 
1 adies, and in his usual philosophic and elo- 
quent style, heaped glowing encomiums upon them, 
but thought he should be rather careful, as his subject 
was a delicate one, and confessed the occasion only 
required their presence to be perfection. 

“Good Night, Ladies,” was then chanted Avith 
solemnity. Immediately thereafter Kinghorn was 
called upon to propose “ Our Guest,” and in a neat 
speech, referring to Mr. Botterell’s efforts in con- 
nection Avith the Club House movement, proposed his 
health, Avhich was heartily responded to, and “ he’s a 
jolly good fellow ” properly rendered. In replying 
ill. Botterell referred to the great benefit the Club 
House might be made to students, and dwelt strongly 
on the idea of fostering a stronger college spirit. 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



173 



“We should forget we were Arts, or Theolegians, or 
Science, or Medicals, or Law, but always remember 
we were McGill men.” 

Mr. Fleet responded for “ Graduates,” and told us 
the happiest time of his life was spent as an Under- 
grad. He knew what a good time meant then, and 
so did Prof. McLeod, and gave a short sketch of the 
reason the University lecture was now held in the 
afternoon instead of evening. Prof. McLeod finished 
the story, but it is still a matter of doubt who turned 
off the gas. 

An adjournment to the ball room was then made, 
and the proceedings opened by a song from Kinghorn, 
followed by a very clever exhibition of dancing by 
Smaill. The tug-of-war came next, Law and Arts 
pulling first. Harvey, Hall, Fleet, Ryan and Costigan 
represented Law, while G. McDougall, R. McDougall, 
Rev. S. Moore, Hunter and Tolmie did duty for Arts, 
and succeeded in pulling the legal lights completely 
over the line. After a song by Richardson, and a set 
of “ lancers,” the tug between Arts and Science was 
in order. Prof. McLeod, Schwitzer, Bickerdike, 
Russell and Hamilton did their best for Science, but 
to no avail — Arts won. 

Walking, three-legged, and chain races were then 
laid under tribute to add to the evening's fun. Leap 
frog was then instituted, and the way to do it made 
plain by Messrs. Fleet and Botterell. Singing and 
dancing then seemed to be about the order, and at 
10.30 all-aboard was called, and we were soon safely 
packed away and off for home, via Outremonf. 

“ Syzygy.” 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

Fortunately for the Final Year, Dr. Cameron is 
going to give a couple of lectures on children’s 
diseases, to make up for those we were to have had at 
the Hospital. 

* * 

The difficulty experienced by the clinical pro- 
fessors in getting the theatre, to lecture in, clearly 
demonstrates the crying necessity of a new room, 
specially for lectures and clinics. 

* 

* * 

M.C.P.S.O. and H.G.T.U.L. are the letters after 
Dr. McRitchie’s name, in a western paper. Let the 
embryo grads, figure it out. 

* 

* * 

Some one said that the Hospital staff celebrated 
Ash Wednesday by a drive to the Back River. 

* 

* * 

It would almost seem that if text books were 
reduced to say two hundred pages, the men would 
have a clearer and broader idea of their work. 

* 

* * 

Orals in the old style, are now things of the past ; 
the information being extracted by modern and im- 
proved methods of torture at the bedside. 



Dr. Gardner recently related the romance of the 
Staffordshire Knot, used so much in surgery. In old 
days rogues were so many in the county, that the 

knot was devised to hang two at a time. 

* 

* * 

The vulgar habit of defacing a man’s letters with 
offensive nicknames is still practised by some final 
men. 

* 

* * 

It is about as impossible to expect Niagara to fall 
without roaring, as to expect Archie to walk out of a 
class room, without stopping the lecture. 

“ Nix Forstay.” 



EXAMINATIONS IN MEDICINE. 
FIRST YEAR. 

Saturday, March 15th, 10 a.m. Botany, written. 



u 


u 


u 


4 p.m. 


Monday, 


u 


17th, 


4 p.m. 


Tuesday, 


a 


18 th, 


4 p.m. 






SECOND YE 


Monday, March 


17 th, 

18 th, 


10 a.m. 


Tuesday, 


a 


10 a.m. 


W ednesday, 


u 


19th, 


10 a.m. 


Thursday, 


u 


20th, 


10 a.m. \ 


Friday, 


u 


21st, 


10 a.m. f 


Saturday, 


a 


22 nd, 


10 a.m. ( 


Monday, 


u 


24 th, 


10 a.m. ) 


Thursday, 


u 


20 th, 


3 p.m. \ 


Friday, 


u 


21st, 
22 nd, 


3 p.m. r 


Saturday, 


u 


3 p.m. ( 


Monday, 


u 


24th, 


3 p.m. ) 


Monday, 


a 


24th, 


2 p.m. » 


Tuesday, 


(l 


25th, 


2 p.m. I 


Wednesday, 


u 


26th, 


2 p.m. f 


Thursday, 


It 


27 th, 


2 p.m. ) 


Monday, 


u 


24th, 

25th, 


10 a.m.(W.) 


Tuesday, 


a 


3 p.m. (O.) 



Histology, written. 
“ oral. 

U U 



Physiology, written. 
Chemistry, 
Anatomy, 



u 

a 



Orals in Anatomy. 



Orals in Chemistiy. 



Orals in Physiology. 



Sutherland Medal Exam. 



Monday, “ 
Tuesday, u 
Wednesday, “ 
Thursday, “ 
Friday, “ 
Saturday, u 

Thursday, u 
Friday, “ 

Saturday, 11 

Monday, “ 
Tuesday, “ 
Wednesday, “ 
Thursday, “ 
Thursday, “ 
Monday, u 

Friday, u 



THIRD YEAR. 

17th, 3 p.m. Materia Medica, written, 

lbth, 4 p.m. Pathology, “ 

19th, 4 p.m. Jurisprudence, “ 

20th, 3 p.m. ) Orals in Materia Medica, 

21st, 3 p.m. Pathology and Juris- 

22nd, 3 p.m. ) prudence. 

FOURTH YEAR. 

Surgery, written. 
Medicine, “ 

\ Obstetrics & Gynaecology, 
\ written. 



20th, 


10 


a.m. 


21st, 


10 


a.m. 


22 nd, 


10 


a.m. 


24 th, 


3 


p.m. 


25 th, 


3 


p.m. 


26th, 


3 


p.m. 


27 th, 


3 


p.m. 


6th, 


1 


p.m. 


10 th, 


1 


p.m. 


28tli, 


11 


a.m. 



Orals in Medicine 
Surgery. 



and 



Medical Clinics. 

Surgical “ 

Clemesha Prize in Clini- 
cn. I Theraneutics. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

“Miss Barnjum and the Donalda Gymnastic Class. 
At Home. Monday, March 3rd, at 8 p.m. The Gym- 
nasium, 19 University Street.” 

The above neat invitation cards, issued some few 



174 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890.] 



days ago to the lady students and their friends, were 
an intimation that a novel event, in the shape of 
the first Donalda Gymnastic Rehearsal, was to take 
place. 

Quite a number of friends of the University and 
of the Gymnasium assembled at the appointed hour. 
There were seated on the platform — Principal and 
Lady Dawson, Dr. Alex. Johnson, Dr. and Mrs. 
Murray, Prof, and Mrs. Penhallow, Rev. Prin. Hen- 
derson, D.D., and others. 

The Donalda class, arranged in their becoming 
costumes of black and scarlet, with jaunty caps upon 
their heads, formed a pretty sight as they filed down 
the stairway and marched round the hall in a long 
procession. A full programme, consisting of exer- 
cises in Bar-bells, Clubs, and Dumb-bells, and of Ring 
Marching, was carried out. The leaders in the dif- 
ferent exercises were as follows : — 

Bar-bells — Miss Williams, Miss Kennedy, and Miss 
Finley. 

Clubs — Miss Inez Botterell, Miss Smith, and Miss 
Kennedy. 

Dumb-bells — Miss Williams. 

Miss Barnjum said a few words in commendation 
of the “energy and enthusiasm” displayed by the 
class during the few months that it had been in train- 
ing, and then requested the Principal to make some 
remarks. 

Sir William, in speaking, announced that prizes 
were offered for competition by the class, which 
would be awarded at the close of the session, and 
also drew attention to the significant fact, that the 
present Gymnasium building is now placarded “ For 
Sale.” He spoke of the good fortune of the Univer- 
sity in securing Miss Barnjum’s efficient services as 
Instructress, and expressed himself gratified with the 
rapid progress that had been made. He congratu- 
lated Miss Barnjum and the Donalda class on the 
success of the evening’s entertainment. 

This brought the evening’s regular programme to 
a close, but after an interval for refreshments, an im- 
promptu performance was organized. Swings, lad- 
ders, and rings were brought into action, and the 
merry athletes kept up the fun until quite a late hour. 

The Rehearsal, the first given by Donalda students, 
was eminently successful. That it should be so was 
almost a foregone conclusion, for Miss Barnjum’s un- 
tiring energy and thoughtfulness are sure warrants 
that all under her hand will prosper. 



HEREDITARY RELIGION. 

A little Brooklyn girl returned from Sunday 
School in a state of mind, because she had heard 
that Jesus was a Jew, and appealed to her mother. 

“ Yes, my dear, Jesus was a Jew,” said her 
mother. 

“ W ell, mamma, he was the Son of God, wasn’t 
he?” 

“ Yes, dear.” 

“ Well,” said the little one, “ I don’t see how 
Jesus came to be a Jew, when God himself is a 
Presbyterian.” 



Poetry. 



[For “The Gazette.”] 

THE TOILET OF CONSTANCE. 

(From the ballad of Casimir Delavigne, as abbreviated by Ruskin, 
in Vol. III. of his “Modern Painters. ”) 

“ Haste, Anna! Did you hear me call ? 

My mirror, quick ! The hours advance : 

To-night I'm going to the Ball 
At the Ambassador’s of France. 

Just think— those bows were fresh and fair 
Last eve— ah ! beauty fades apace: 

See, from the net that binds my hair 
The azure tassels droop with grace. 

Your hands are awkward, girl, to-night— 

These sapphires well become my brow : 

A pin has pricked me— set it right— 

Dear Anna, I look charming now ! 

He, who my fancy has beguiled, 

(Anna, my robe !) will be a guest— 

(Fie, fie ! that’s not my necklace, child ! 

Those beads the Holy Father blest). 

Oh ! should his hand my fingers press, 

(At the mere thought I tremble, dear), 

To morrow, should I dare confess 
The truth in Pere Anselmo’s ear? 

Give me gloves— now, all is well — 

In the tall glass one final glance — 

To-night, I long to be the belle 
At the Ambassador’s of France.” 

Close to the hearth she stood and gazed : 

0 God ! a spark ignites her dress — 

“ Fire ! Help ! ” When every hope was raised. 

How sad such death for loveliness ! 

The flame voluptuously gnaws 
Her arms — her breast — around — above — 

And swallows with unpitying jaws 
Her eighteen years, her dreams of love ! 

Farewell to all youth’s visions gay! 

They only said : “Ah! poor Constance ! ” 

And waltzed until the dawn of day 
At the Ambassador’s of France. 

Geo. Murray. 



Societies. 



THEO DORA. 

The Theo Dora met on Thursday, February 27th. 
Essays, dealing with “ Missions in Japan” and the 
“ Future of Japan,” were read by Miss Finley and 
Miss Cochrane. Both papers were excellent. 



ttorrespon^ence. 



A VISIT TO THE NEW TORONTO BUILDINGS. 

I here i3 always a certain pleasure in visiting public 
institutions which are in a state of prosperity and 
progress, for their character and success are very fair 
guides as to the character and welfare of the people 
who uphold them. Certainly no stranger visiting 
Toronto and its University, can help but feel that 
behind such an institution there must be not only a 
prosperous but a generous Province. The Univer- 
sity of loronto, unlike its sister in Montreal, has had 
everything in its favour ; there have been no racial 
or religious difficulties to retard its advancement in 
aDy way. Whilst we are congratulating ourselves 
upon the Workman bequest and the greater facilities 
it will give to our Science Faculty, Toronto is 
making some most important additions to her Science 
department. The school of Practical Science is bein" 
very much enlarged. In fact, from the size of the 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



175 



new, as compared with the old building, one might 
truly say that the Schuul of Science is now being 
built. But in addition to this, the University is 
developing further a department in which she is 
already strong, and which in McGill can hardly be 
said to exist at all, viz., the Department of Biologv. 
The new Biological building, officially opened last 
summer, is a fine stone building, standing at little to 
one side of the school of Science. Briefly, it is 
arranged somewhat as follows : Entering by the main 
hall, first on the left is a large room for holding ap- 
paratus and specimens. Leading out of this is a small 
chemical laboratory, for the purpose of giving such 
special chemical knowledge as may be needed to the 
Honour students in Arts. To the right of the hall, 
passing through a room for containing drawings and 
diagrams, there is a fine lecture room with the seats so 
arranged in ampin-theatre style as to afford a full 
view of the lecturer and his diagrams. In the center 
is a fine Stereopticon, facing a large circular screen, for 
the further illustration of drawings. Above this is a 
general histological laboratory for the special use of 
third and fourth year students. A certainly amusing 
department is what one might call the “ live stock ” 
room, in which live subjects such as rabbits, dogs, 
etc., are confined until wanted for dissection. Every- 
thing is very neat, and there is no lack of light, 
which is so essential in microscopic work. 

C. 

[It is true we have no special building for the 
Biological Department in McGill. But we fear our 
correspondent does not quite understand what is cov- 
ered by the term Biology. We believe our courses 
in Biology superior to Toronto. The Botany lectures 
delivered by Prof. Penhallow, in the beautiful lecture- 
theatre of the Redpath Museum, and his course in 
Physiological Botany, with demonstrations in his fine 
new laboratory on the top flat of the Arts building, 
certainly are. In Bacteriology, Dr. Johnston devotes 
his whole time and energy to the study and demon- 
stration of the subject, while his stock of bacteria is 
one of the largest in America, certainly in Canada. 

In Histology, Dr. Wilkins demonstrates, with the 
aid of half a hundred microscopes, every part of the 
human anatomy, with specimens from the lower 
animals for purposes of comparison. 

And for live stock we would suggest a visit to Mr. 
Cook’s menagerie — Dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea-pigs, 
white rabbits, and mice, monkeys, pigeons, frogs, 
turtles, alligators, etc., etc. 

And, best of all, there is a something which 
neither money, or brick and mortar brings. It is 
nearly always wanting in government institutions, 
and which we in McGill are peculiarly fortunate in 
possessing, viz., a stimulus to work with a deep 
sympathy and love between professor and student. 
— Eds. University Gazette.] 



J. A. M’acPhail, B A., 

Editor-m-Chief University Gazette. 

Dear Sir, — I write to inform you that I have 
placed my resignation as editor, representing the 
Faculty of Law, in the hands of my constituents, and 
that my resignation has been accepted. 

I feel it to be my duty towards my late co-editors, 
aud The University Gazette in general, to simply 
state the reasons that urged me to this step, lest it 
should be supposed that anything connected with 
either the management of The Gazette or its editing 
should have prompted me to resign a position which 
was, in a great measure, a source of interest and plea- 
sure. On the contrary, I have been, and am, in com- 
plete accord with the present conduct and policy of 
the paper, which, I believe, if persisted in, will even- 
tually make The Gazette thoroughly representative 
of University interests, and worthy of the confidence 
of all classes as the organ of McGill in every sense of 
the word. 

My resignation is, then, due entirely to the posi- 
tion which the students of the Faculty of Law have 
taken in regard to The University Gazette. Hither- 
to, I had been representing a Faculty which contri- 
buted nothing to the support of the paper, either as 
shareholders, subscribers, or even as readers ; and I 
felt that the time had come when the Faculty of Law 
should manifest its interest in the University organ 
by uniting, in some degree, at least, with the other 
Faculties of the University, in affording The Gazette 
that support and encouragement which was such an 
impetus to the paper in the present year, and gives 
great promise of excellent and abiding results in the 
future. Personally, I very much regret that my co- 
students in the Faculty of Law thought otherwise, 
and decided, for this year, at least, not to identify 
themselves with the movement in support of the 
paper. Under the circumstances I felt it would be 
anomalous in me to occupy a representative position 
on the staff of a paper, towards which my constitu- 
ents were at least indifferent, if not hostile, and after 
a manifest exhibition — on two occasions — of the 
feelings prompting my fellow-students, I duly tend- 
ered my resignation. I firmly believe the Faculty of 
Law have adopted a mistaken policy, and sincerely 
hope it may be no source of detriment to the paper, 
in which I shall continue to take a warm and hopeful 
interest. 

In conclusion, let me express my feelings of deep 
regret at parting with my late fellow-workers in the 
generous task they have undertaken in issuing our 
University journal weekly. I know the severe 
amount of labour this entails, and, if I may, still 
hope, in a private capacity, to assist in what I feel to 
be a good work in the interests of McGill. 

With sincere good wishes to you and the members 
of the staff, 

I remain, yours truly, 

F. W. Hibbard. 



Things are not always what they seem. So thought 
one of the cleverest house surgeons the other day at 
Dr. Bell’s operation. 



176 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Personals. 



P. L. Naismith, B.A.Sc., ’89, lias been appointed 
Assistant-Engineer on the City Water Works, Ogden, 
Utah. 

Mr. Sam. Dawson has received the degree of Doctor 
of Laws from Laval, a compliment certainly due him 
on account of recent articles in the Week. 

J. W. Spencer, B.A.Sc., who graduated with first- 
rank honours in 1874, passed through Montreal last 
week on his way to Europe. He is now attached to 
the Geological Survey of the United States. 

D. D. Fortier, B.A.Sc., ’85, formerly a Gazette 
editor, has resigned his position on the Water Works 
at Denver, Col., to accept the superintendence of the 
“ Bear Lake Reservoir, Bear River Canal, Ogden 
City Water Works,” Ogden, Utah, U.S. He claims 
to “ have the prettiest boy (‘d. d.’) in all the West.” 



Exchanges. 



In Edinburgh they do things well, and amongst 
the best things they do is the Student, the organ of 
the Students’ Representative Council. Its opening 
page is adorned with a portrait of John Stuart 
Blackie, accompanied by a life notice, from which 
the following characteristic sentences are taken : — 
“Blackie is a true poet. Behind all his ruggedness 
there dwells fineness and delicacy of feeling, hardly 
equalled by any in our age. But though he loves 
at times to dwell on the intricate phases of man’s 
existence, yet he is most in his element when he sings 
of the rugged hills, and the rushing streams, and 
gentle vales of his native Scotland. Personally, 
Blackie is known to the people of this country chiefly 
as a lecturer on nearly all subjects of human 
interest ; and who, having attended one of these 
lectures, will ever forget the picture of the vigorous 
old ‘ Athenian,’ with flowing snow-white hair and 
classically cut features encircled by his historical 
plaid, holding forth in that characteristic manner 
which has made his lectures so entirely unique. 
Those who know Blackie in his private life, know 
him as a thoughtful, considerate and high souled 
friend, and a man noble and generous in the 
extreme, and that he follows in his life his favourite 
motto ‘ Speaking the truth in Love.’ “To the world 
of letters, Blackie has appeared, first as a translator, 
secondly as a poet, and thirdly as an essayist and 
prose writer ; to Scotland as a patriot and a defender 
of its dearly purchased rights ; and to the public in 
general as a lecturer ami singer on all things human 
and divine. His most popular work is ‘ Self Culture.’ 
This work, besides finding its way into nearly every 
home in the kingdom, has been translated into some 
thirteen different languages, the latest being into that 
of the Japanese ; and it is no doubt a fact that this, 
the shortest of his works, has produced the greatest 
financial success. There are few lovers of literature 
who are not well acquainted with Blackie’s well- 
known style. Force and candour of expression, com- 
bined with a certain characteristic nervous phraseo- 



logy, has given an individualistic charm to this robust 
Scot’s writing. We are somehow always carried 
away by the simplicity and whole-heartedness of the 
man. He has never written on a subject on which 
he has not been thoroughly convinced.” 

It is something for the students of Edinburgh to 
say “ we have received with pleasure a recent number 
of the McGill College Montreal University Gazette. 
This magazine is attractive and interesting through- 
out.” 

This, also, is from the Student: — The Medical 
student, by many outsiders, is maligned and misun- 
derstood. He stands perpetually in the shoes of the 
dog who has got a bad name. It is a matter of his- 
tory that every disturbance is made by him. Nobody 
ever thinks of contradicting this. It would be folly 
to suggest mildly that there might, once in a while, 
be other disturbers of the peace abroad. The myth 
has grown until it has become hoary with antiquity, 
and can no more be disputed than the fact that part 
of Ossian’s anatomy is buried in every Highland glen. 
This outsider, however, has good reason to believe 
that the Medical student is, in the main, a decent, 
hard-working, honest sort of soul, who, in spite of 
universal testimony to the contrary, entertains a 
healthy view of life, and a not ignoble aim for the 
future. The outsider further boldly asserts that 
the hidden goodness of heart to be found in that 
peculiar sinner, the Medical student, is more to be 
depended on, in the long run, than the tender mer- 
cies of many “ saints.” 

In 1854 a stripling entered the philosophical arena, 
and dealt a reeling blow to the giant who, up to that 
time, held undisputed sway. That giant was Sir 
William Hamilton ; that stripling is now Professor 
Calderwood. The position defended by Hamilton — 
viz., that the infinite must be the subject of faith and 
not of knowledge ; though regarded by many as a 
doctrine favourable to the tenets of religion, gave rise 
to the scepticism of John Stuart Mill, as well as to 
the piety of Mansel. Mr. Calderwood, perceiving 
the danger of a doctrine so doubtful and diverse in 
its results, wrote a reply to Hamilton, entitled — the 
“ Philosophy of the Infinite,” in which he maintained 
that God was the subject of human knoivledge, how- 
ever imperfect, and not of faith. The Edinburgh 
Student has a well-cut picture of Professor Calder- 
wood, whom every Arts’ man knows since his second 
year. 

The Dalhousie Gazette for Feb. 20th is an excellent 
number. It is full of good reading matter, and con- 
tains an especially interesting article, entitled 

“ Advice^ to Students.” Also, it has a friendly notice 
of The University Gazette, speaking of it as “ Never 
late, never dull, full to the brim with interest.” Its 
jokes pass even our “ Between the Lectures” column 
in point of obscurity. 



“ I’ll send my boy to boarding school.” 

“ What for 1 ” 

Oh, he asks such infernal questions. He wanted 
to know last night if a shoemaker could breathe his 
last.” 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



177 



Between the Lectures. 



I lie proper study of mankind is man,” 
llie poet says. He s wrong ; inhuman : 

The proper study of mankind 
Is woman. 

40 stars in some 40,000,000 can be located with 
some definiteness in space. Room for Donalda 100 
per centers. 

It was not a Donalda student who was overheard 
the other day alluding to a certain “lip-tilted” fea- 
ture as her petit nez repousse. 

At the last lecture, for the first time : “ I better 
call the roll, it’s a good rule, and I wouldn’t like to 
break it.” 

We regret that our stenographer failed to report 
the speech of the representative from Cambridge, at 
the University Banquet. We will do better next 
time. 

“ I wish you every success, and hope not to see 
any of you again,” was the paradoxical statement of 
one of the lecturers, as he dismissed the class for the 
last time, with much mutual good-will. 

There is a movement on foot to raise a subscription 
to buy a bell, to be swung in an easily accessible 
position in Lecture-room No. 1, and which will be 
duly rung after all bull-dog and horse-chestnuts. 

* * * 

Mr. B., of the Fourth Year : “ Doctor, what instru- 
ment would you use in such a case 1 ” 

Doctor : “ No. 4.” 

Mr. B. : “ Indeed, Sir ! I use No. 2 myself.” 

The air of conscious superiority which has been 
observed on the countenances of certain members of 
the graduating class is directly attributable to the 
association with lords and dukes, which these gentle- 
men enjoy (even if it is only at lunch). 

Teacher : “ Name an oxide.” 

Smart Boy : “ Leather, sir.” 

Teacher : “ Indeed ; and pray, of what is leather 
an oxide 1 ” 

“ Smart Boy : Oxide of beef, sir.” 

The experience of Dr. Macdonnell with the pre- 
sent fourth year is unique in the history of the Col- 
lege. In their embryo days, as Freshmen, he nour- 
ished them with bones, etc., and saw them through 
their infancy up to the second year; now he turns 
them loose on the world, a well-grown lot, creditable 
alike to themselves and their teacher, who has watched 
over them for four years. 

A FACT. 

A short time ago, a musical professor and director 
of the choir at one of our city churches, was conduct- 
ing the practice one Saturday evening ; it was pur- 
posed to sing the well-known anthem “ As pants 
the hart,” and the, ladies and gentlemen of the choir, 
on the first trial, “took it” a little too fast; the 
director requested them to try it a second time, with 
the exclamation (uttered impatiently) “ No, no, no ! 



that will not do ! you cut your pants too short ! ” As 
fully half the number of those present were ladies, it 
can be well understood that the gravity of the occa- 
sion took flight, and the result was a burst of genuine 
laughter. 

MEDICAL ADVICE GRATIS. 

The following “ tips” may prove useful to the 
graduating’class in their approaching “orals”: — 

To bring on a free perspiration, wear an overcoat 
during the month of July. 

Scarlet fever patients should go to the Gulf coast 
if they desire to change their fever to the yellow 
brand. 

To bring a healthy color to the face, draw on a 
boot a couple of sizes too small for your foot. 

To avoid indulging in the wretched habit of snor- 
ing, keep awake. 

Sufferers from cold feet have been known to obtain 
relief by putting them near the stove. 

Biliousness, especially when caused by high living, 
may be remedied by living at a cheap boarding- 
house. 

A black-snake whip, properly applied, never fails 
to act as a strong stimulant. 



College TUorlft. 



Miss Hodges, who was recently appointed in- 
structor in the University at Lund, is the first woman 
ever employed as a teacher in a Swedish University. 

The Anatomy School of Trinity College, Dublin, 
has been fitted up with 78 incandescent lamps of 25 
candle power each, arranged in groups of 4, and 
fixed over the dissecting-tables. The lamps are fed 
by an overhead cable, the motive power being sup- 
plied by an “ Otto” silent gas-engine of 7-H.P. nomi- 
nal . — Electric Review. 

Professor Fraser, of Edinburgh University, gives 
the following advice : — “ Don’t smoke on an empty 
stomach. Drink coffee while smoking. Smoking 
produces a gentle mental excitement in some persons, 
and facilitates labour and suspends hunger. The in- 
dulgence is not injurious in moderation. If you 
have the ‘ Dyspeptic Diathesis,’ avoid it. Tobacco 
is generally more or less injurious after forty years 
of age.” 

A VERY RICH COLLEGE. 

Columbia College, in New York City, is the most 
richly endowed educational establishment in the 
world. Her property is valued at $8,788,910, and 
her annual income is $3' 7,546. Harvard University 
comes next and is but little behind Columbia. Her en- 
dowment is $8,000,000, from which she enjoys an in- 
come of $363,121. Cornell does not make a bad third 
with her $6,268,457 assets and $314,811 income. 



178 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



Delegates from the Universities of Oxford, Cam- 
bridge, Durham, Dublin, and Victoria, the Royal 
Academy of Music, and the College of Music, called 
upon Lord Knutsford, Secretary of State for the 
Colonies, and presented a protest against Trinity 
College, Toronto, granting music degrees in Great 
Britain. Lord Knutsford replied that Trinity Col- 
lege appeared to have exceeded the powers conferred 
upon it by its charter, and said he would take the 
opinion of Crown lawyers on the subject. 

Winchester College has a number of quaint and 
curious customs peculiarly its own. The pupils’ rules, 
written on the north side of the old school-room at 
so remote a year as 1687, may still be considered 
illustrative of its scholastic system. Some of the 
rules are as follows : — 

% 

In the Church— Worship God. Say your prayers 
with a pious alfection of the mind. Let not your 
eyes wander about. Keep silence. Read nothing 
profane. 

In the School — Let each one be diligent in his 
studies. Let no one give disturbance to his neigh- 
bour. Take care to spell your theme aright. Have 
all your school implements in constant readiness. 

In the Hall — Whoever says grace, let him repeat 
it distinctly. The rest are all to answer him. Whilst 
you sit at table, behave with due decorum. 

In the Court — Let no one throw stones or balls 
against the windows. Let not the building be de- 
faced with writing or carving upon it. Let no one 
approach the masters with his head uncovered, or 
without a companion. 

In the Chambers — Let cleanliness be attended to. 
Let each one study in the evening, and let silence 
prevail in the night. 

In the Town, Going to the Hill — Let the 
scholars walk in pairs. Let them behave with pro- 
per modesty. Let them move their hats to their 
masters and other respectable persons. Let decency 
regulate your countenance, your motions and gait. 

Whoever disobeys these rules, will be sentenced 
to condign punishment. 



Professor : “ Who wrote Caesar’s commentaries? 
Student : “ Why — er — Bohn.” 

During the War, one of those local nobodies who 
so often got high military positions through a “ pull,” 
was made a brigadier-general, and could talk of 
nothing else. Meeting a farmer of his acquaintance 
one day, he asked him : — 

“Well, Jim, I suppose you know I have been 
appointed brigadier general 1 ” 

“ Yes,” said Jim, “ 1 heerd so.” 

“ Well, what do folks say about it 1 ” 

“ I hey don’t say nothin’,” replied truthful James: 
“ they jest laugh.” 



Professor Penballow has been elected to the 
Presidency of the Dominion Fruit Growers’ As- 
sociation. 

McGill graduates are going to form a Society in 
Ottawa and vicinity. There are upwards of eighty 
residing in that district. 



LITERATURE. 



W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

orders FOR 180 St. JaMES StREET, 

BOOKS, 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building f 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. # WIONTREAL. 



OTJR ADVERTISERS. 



Armstrong k Radford, 








PAGE, 

181 


Ashford, C., 








182 


Atwater k Co., 








168 


Birks, H., k Co., 








1>2 


Chapleau k Co., 








168 


Clarke, G. W., 








182 


Gumming k Brewis, 








180 


Doughty, A. G., 








181 


Drysdale, Win., k Co., 








168 


Dyer, W. A., k Co., . 








168 


Featherston, A. M., 








181 


Gerth, E. A., . 








180 


Gray, Hy. R. , 








180 


Greenshields k Co., 








168 


Gurney, E. and C., k Co., 








179 


Henderson, John k Co., 








179 


Hirsch, M. . 








168 


Jensen, J. L., . 








179 


Lyman, Sons k Co., 








179 


Macaulay, W. B. T., . 








182 


Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 








181 


Murray, Wm., 








181 


MacBean, D. B. A., 








180 


McEntyre k Son, 








168 


McLaren, W. D., 








182 


Ness, T. W., . 








179 


Nightingale, D., . 








180 


Nordheimer k Co., 








182 


Notman & Son, 








182 


Payne Geo., 








180 


Periard, A., 








180 


Reid, Robert, . 








180 


Robertson k Co., . 








168 


Ross, Hugh, 








181 


Sharswood, W. H. F., 








178 


Sheppard, Geo. J., 








180 


Summerhayes k Walford, . 








181 


Tarrante, Sami., 




# 




181 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



179 




Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

X. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and chemical APPARATUS. 

S 3? ull $to£k don^tki|tly oq Imported 

©ifedt ffon\ t^e I^ekdii^ ^lki]ufkdttide:dd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


ROY/IIl DYE W0RK& 


Hatters aid Furriers, 


706 CRAIG STREET. 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 




Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

% 

3 S 5 387 St. IF-Z^-crx Steeet, n^oosTTKE^x, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



C emmtei H»t Wrc» Hewers 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—^Wholesale Manufacturers v— 




Hot Air Finices 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 



18 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Pfioto(|ra|ifiic Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

GUMMING & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 



SPECIAL HATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4620. Satisfaction Guaranteed, 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 

Established 1859 . 

HEnsna-z" G-ie^"sr, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA U CHE'l'IERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N .Ik — Observe New Address, 



The Iota Misti or Roman Batli, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Joot of McGill College Ave. 



LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies tlic Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

rxsra aidt-ams* 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. A. GcERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 

GEORGE ZP^YTHSTIE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing Skates. 

GP~Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer, 

AND 

■ • • LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 

ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. SI. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 



loinmental & Cemetery fort of every description. 



WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING. 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “Victor” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $ 50 each . 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $50 each . 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students . 



D. NIGHTINGALE. 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Fool & Billiard Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



Improved Billiard Cushions. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



181 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A . C . TROTTER, 

O- Box 173-4, - dZontreal. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG 8 RADFORD, 

Hatekliers anfl Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Centle- 
men’s Wear . 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (Opposite Victoria St. ) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Kate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

Photos, of Professors on Sale ! i* 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 

)BUY YOUR C 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

The West Enel 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TAR R ANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

| fine | fxxvs a wet ftith, 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral , ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 



Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFOHMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Snecial Discount to Students. 




182 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



wja. jmm § son, 

Photographers, 

STUDENTS’ PORTRAITS 

CL.MSS GROUPS 

: : : : PRIFjtTE GROUPS 

: PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 

COEEEGE FMEIFS, he. 

17 IBlet tir/y - Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion l 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES, HOTELS, COL- 
LEGES, AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, T. H. LOVE, 

580 &L 24 82. 1683. Manager. 



44th YEAR. NORDHEIMER’S: ESTABLISHED 1845. 




OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 



STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIIXIER, 

213 ST. J\A_IMIES STREET, JvrO"NT l T 1 T?.Tr! a t . 

HENRY BIRKS * CO. JEWELLERS, &c. 

■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c. 

A LARCE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

235 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St. Ja me s Street, Mont real. 

G - W- CLATt Iv E, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, . Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods. 

Ladies’ and Gent’s Fitted Travelling Bags , Toilet Cases , <£c. 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTH DAY and COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS. 



THE GENUINE 

OOOIX’S IF Pi I :E3 2>T n> 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



O. ASHFORD, 
Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

Montreal 3-exx. □^ospiteLl 3?lxeLxxan.a.c©pceia,, 25c. 

G. ASHFORD, 

Near University St. 818 Dorchester St, Montreal. 




