Vol. VII. 



No. 1 



McGILL' 




Thursday, November 1st, 1883. 




C O NTENTS : 



Song 














PACE. 

1 


College World 










PAG 

- 9-12 


Editorials - 














- 1 5 


Between the Lectures 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 12 


Contributions 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5-7 


Personals 










12 


Sporting News - 














- 7 9 


Notes and Queries 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Cover. 



MONTREAL: 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE, ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



‘tSCo ©ur Subscribers. 

Our Subscribers will greatly oblige us by remitting their 
subscriptions as soon as possible. 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the Gazette 
is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be remitted to the Treasurer , Mr. H. S. 
McLennan, McGill College . 

Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 

I 

jidvocazcc, jdzzorneys, dec. 



JOHN HEHDERSOH & CO. 




283 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlx© “ Mc&IIjIj ” Ribbon fox* sale. 



13 HOSPITAL STREET, 



HILL-:#*- 



MOWTTIVEA.IJ. 

N. W. TRENHOLME. M.A., B.C.L. A. D. TAYLOR. B.A., B.C.L. W. E. DICKSON, B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 




Commissioner for the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 



118 ST. JAMES STREET. 




Qss + KOOIMIS ^.T + jrvS 



No. 132 3 St, Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



Magmaster, Hutghinson & WEIR, 

-McflDYeCflJPEg#*- 
B&rrisiers, Solicitors, doc. 

ie2 ST- JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.c. M. Hutchinson, B.C.L. r. s. weir, b.c.L. 

Greenshields, busteed & Guerin, 

AJW ©CATES, 

Jhtomey &, StylhM ® r4 , dc . 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 St. Francois Fouvicr St., 

MOKTTHJEAIj. 

J. N. Greenshields, b.c.L. E. B. Busteed, B.C.L. Edmund Guerin, B.C.L. 

CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

| ofmks, Commissions, ^omiepncm, H. 

-Mcja?IRRI^ 6 E 4 -LICB]SSB?!+IgJ 5 aBD*<. 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

IIJL/^clWu/t |paifoT, 

NO. X3S ST. PETER STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREAI 

MILITARY UNIFORMS A. SPECIA 1 .TT. 

fmjSLG/Ui IN gTRUJJEpg 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

<?-« AN INSPECTION INVITED, ^3 

lymanYons & CO. 

384 ST. TA VL STREET. 




Vol. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 1st, 1883. 



[No. 1. 



SEsSIbb ZIGIFERSEH SE2EME. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J.. W. Moffatt, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. S. McLennan, B. A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
J. Porter, B.A., ’86, Med. 

S. D. D. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



SONG. 

Life’s Fair is full, and Cupid is crying 
His wares aloud, while about him flying 
His young Loves crowd, with each other vieing 
In brilliancy and grace. 

His face is like sunlight on waters playing, 

He laughs like a maiden out a-maying ; 

Just listen to what the rascal’s saying 

As he looks into that young girl’s face. 

“ Will it live ? I cannot tell fair maid. 

Will it be what you hope to find ? 

I cannot tell. But be not dismayed, 

No one can keep Love with a heart afraid, 

You must always choose Love blind.” 

“ Here’s True Love that knows not the meaning of dying, 

Here’s Love for those maidens who ever are sighing, 

Here’s Love that is light, with a fashion of lying. 

Here are Loves for the old and the young. 

Here’s one that is bold, and therefore a rover, 

Here’s one for June days, made of sunshine and clover, 

He’ll gladden your heart till the sunshine is over, 

And then die like a song sweetly sung. 

“ Will it live ? I cannot tell fair maid. 

Will it be what you hope to find ? 

I cannot tell. But be not dismayed, 

None can keep Love with a heart afraid, 

You must always choose Love blind.” 

Philip Hay. 



(Sdiforiats. 

In this, the first number of our seventh volume, it will not be 
inappropriate for us to take a brief retrospective view and at the 
same time to say a few words concerning our present prospects. 
In the first place, we may mention that, from a financial point 
of view, the McGill University Gazette was a decided success 
during the past year. How far the same may be said of it in 
other respects it would not be becoming for us to discuss. 
Those who had charge of the paper during last session could 
not very well blame or praise themselves, and it is certainly 
not for us who succeed them to criticise their work. It requires 
no little tact and administrative power to resuscitate a journal of 
any kind, but especially in the case of a University paper are 
there many obstacles to overcome which requires moderation 
and patient ability. We know as a fact that the Gazette exer- 
cised during last year a very beneficial influence in more than 
one direction, and that its appearance was at all events not 
altogether without interest for many of its readers. In com- 



mencing a r.ew volume we wish to convey our hearty thanks to 
those who helped the paper during the past year by subscribing 
and to those also who contributed to its columns. We ask that 
all those who have assisted in the past will continue their sup- 
port in the forthcoming year. We must also thank those of 
our contemporaries, both in the city and throughout the coun- 
try, who so kindly encouraged our predecessors in their literary 
efforts 

One thing indeed we have to regret, and that is the compara- 
tively small amount of interest shown by the Graduates of our 
L T niversity in the welfare of the Gazette. Some, it is true, have 
helped well ; but as a body they have been perfectly indifferent, 
very few even subscribing for the paper. To remedy this, if pos- 
sible, we have this year invited them to elect one of their num- 
ber to occupy the position of Consulting Editor to the committee. 
Last year Prof. Moyse very kindly and with great ability per- 
formed the duties of the office, and we are glad to see that the 
students showed their appreciation of his kindness by unani- 
mously passing him a vote of thanks. By having a Graduate 
connected with the paper we hope to increase outside interest 
in University matters, and we also hope to prevail upon the 
University as a whole — Professors, Graduates and Under- 
graduates — to make use of the Gazette as a medium through 
which they may make known their opinions upon matters of 
public interest. If students have grievances we desire them to 
use the Gazette to make them known, and if their complaints be 
reasonable we shall give them our support so that such griev- 
ances may be removed. But this should certainly not be looked 
upon as the highest purpose for which a college paper exists. A 
college paper ought rather to be looked upon as affording a very 
excellent opportunity to students for improving themselves in 
one of the most important branches of a university education — 
it ought to be looked upon as a great encourager of original 
thought and as a means of developing the power of expression. 
In addition to this, such papers as our own tend largelv to pro- 
mote mutual good feeling and a fellow-understanding among the 
students of the different L T niversities all over the country. We 
shall try to keep our readers posted in the general news of the 
college world, and at the same time to supply a kind of record 
of our own college life and to let others know of our doings. 

Again, most of us must be aware that at the present time, 
questions of the greatest interest and importance are coming up 
for discussion among those who govern the affairs of the 
University and those who help to govern. We should like, if 
possible, to have these questions of passing interest discussed 
in our columns. We ourselves intend from time to time to 
speak of the actions of those upon whose judgment and conduct 
the advancement of the University largely depends. We shall 
support all true reforms, and unflinchingly express our opinions, 
but at the same time we shall strive to maintain the gentle- 
manly tone which was so characteristic of the Gazette in the 
past year. 

Recognizing that if we are to live at all we must advance, 
and relying upon the support which last year’s experience leads 



o 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



us to expect, we have determined to publish the Gazette once a 
fortnight instead of only once a month as during the past year. 
The advantages of this are too obvious to mention. The size of 
our pages, as our readers will perceive, has been somewhat dim- 
inished but not their number. Other improvements, too, will 
be noticed. All this means, of course, so much more expense, 
and so much more work for the Editors, and it is earnestly to be 
hoped that every reader who can possibly do so will write some- 
thing for us, and try to diminish to the utmost of his ability, 
the burden of our editorial work. We can scarcely hope to 
escape the commission of many faults before we shall finally 
lay down the pen next May, but we rely for encouragement 
upon the expectation that our readers will freely extend to us 
their indulgence. 

In another column will be found a report of the doings of the 
Undergraduates’ Literary Society during this session. It is 
encouraging to note that these early meetings have been well 
attended. Hitherto the students as a body have rather neglected 
this society, although strenuous efforts have been made to offer 
an attractive programme at every meeting. We hope that this 
year the students, and more especially the younger students, 
will wake up to the important advantages which they may derive 
from attending the meetings and taking part in the exercises 
of this association. We question if any of the various courses 
in the curriculum of McGill offers such a combination of mental 
training with practical advantage. The present fourth year 
students, to whom much credit is due for the manner in which 
they have always supported this society, can attest the benefits 
they have derived from it. As it is composed entirely of students, 
new members do not find themselves much behind the oldest in 
their power of expressing their thoughts, while the remembrance 
of their own still recent experiences as beginners makes the 
older members very indulgent to even the crudest efforts of 
new ones. Owing to these circumstances the “Freshman” or 
“Sophomore” is deprived of the excuse which he usually 
advances to shield his own laziness, namely, that he feels diffi- 
dent about attempting to speak before others much more capable 
than himself. If such false modesty clings to him after he 
leaves college, his chances of success in life will be small. But 
this excuse is really so shallow and has been advanced so often 
that it is now quite worn out. However, while blaming the 
junior students for the little interest they take in the Literary 
Society, we must not forget to urge upon its officials the neces- 
sity of using every effort to make the programmes successful. 
It is true that in the past, when this has not been the case, the 
fault did not rest with the officers, but rather with the mem- 
bers who have occasionally been unwilling to go to the labour 
of preparing a speech or writing an essay. When this has 
happened, we say the members have forgotten the objects which 
they sought to attain in joining the society. Like the “ Fresh- 
man” and “ Sophomore” they have at these times sheltered them- 
selves behind a flimsy excuse. They have alleged want of time 
as the reason why they have neglected the duties they took 
upon themselves on becoming members. It is one of the pet 
foibles of students to fancy themselves overworked. Over- 
worked ! why there are not a dozen students in the Arts Faculty 
who do not spend more time in idling than they do in study. 
The day surely is come, if it ever is to come, when the McGill 
student can afford to throw aside this delusion which he has so 
long hugged to his soul in undisturbed complacency. There is 



work for students in McGill, as much work perhaps as is whole- 
some for them, but no more. They have ample leisure, yet 
for years they and their predecessors have been industriously 
employed in creating the impression that their burden is more 
than they can bear, it is time, we say, that this should be put 
an end to. It is unworthy of us. Let any student, who has 
beguiled himself into the belief that lie has no spare time, sit 
down and reflect over the number of hours he has spent in 
study while at college ; and, if he be honest, he will never again 
put forward the plea of overwork. Since the student has so 
much leisure then, is it too much to ask that he should devote 
some of it to his own and his fellows’ culture by assisting in the 
carrying out of the literary Society’s programmes ? We think 
not. 



A question not without interest to University students has 
of late been earnestly discussed in certain educational circles 
in this province. We refer to the stand taken by the profes- 
sional bodies with reference to the qualification of students 
for entrance to the study of the different professions. Our 
readers all know that, in order to enter upon the study of 
medicine or law, it is necessary to pass an examination 
conducted by members of these professions, the examinations 
not being of a technical nature, but entirely literary or general. 
With the character of these examinations, indeed, most of us are 
acquainted by report, if not by sad experience. Not upon one oc- 
casion only has a gold medallist of this University had to bow 
his head before gentlemen learned in the law ; and the medical 
students, if we are to judge from the results of a late examina- 
tion in Quebec, in which nineteen candidates out of sixty-seven 
were successful, have probably no very sweet recollections of 
these ordeals. These preliminary examinations are veiy general 
and very mixed, and, of late years at all events, sufficiently 
fair for an average schoolboy. It is true that occasionally a 
question in philosophy will creep in, which, to be answered pro- 
perly, would require no mean metaphysical powers; while in 
the same examination, the student’s knowledge of arithmetic 
would probably be tested by a sum not much more difficult than 
simple addition. That the Bar and other professional bodies 
have a perfect right to determine in what way students shall 
be admitted to the study and practice of these professions, no 
one will deny. If these gentlemen choose to exact a thorough 
knowledge of Chinese and the higher mathematics, they are at 
liberty to do so as at present constituted ; but in such a case 
we should advise them, just for the sake of consistency and 
uniformity, not to examine the candidates at the same time 
in the English alphabet. We are told that the professions re- 
ferred to are becoming rapidly overcrowded, and that for the 
sake of all concerned, it is wise to make admittance to them 
more difficult. We quite agree with the contention that all 
possible means ought to be taken to keep out incompetent 
men, of whom, perhaps, there are already too many in these 
professions ; and we consider that the tests applied at present 
might be made more stringent without any harm. So far these 
examining bodies will find cordial supporters in intelligent 
people who have thought at all of the subject. But what the 
highest Protestant educational institutions in this province have 
protested against, and what they continue to protest against, is 
the monstrous anomaly which exists in the assumption, by 
professional bodies, of functions which most manifestly belong to 
educational institutions. As we have just said, these bodies have 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



a perfect right to restrict the persons entering upon the practice 
of these professions to those whom they shall reasonably 
consider to be qualified for the same ; and they are quite right in 
demanding, first of all, that those wishing to become students, 
shall be possessed of a good, general education. But it is the 
means adopted for the attainment of this object that we find 
fault with, not the object itself. We shall take, as the most 
prominent instance of what we are speaking about, those pre- 
liminary examinations conducted by the Bar of this province. 
Heretofore these examinations were conducted by members of 
the Bar themselves, and we have not the slightest hesitation in 
stating that they were utterly worthless. Latterly, however, 
the task of examining has been delegated to two or three 
schoolmasters chosen for the purpose ; and accordingly matters 
have considerably improved. The Bar, in taking this step, 
went just so far in the right direction ; all we want is that 
they should go just a little further, and delegate altogether to 
the Universities what is now imperfectly attempted by two or 
three schoolmasters. It is a very grave question, whether a 
professional body of this kind should constitute itself an examin- 
ing body in literature and science. In thinking over it, one feels 
inclined to call out ne sidor . This particular assumption, 

indeed, has been designated by the most distinguished scholar 
in Canada as worthy of the middle ages. Without going quite 
to this length, we should like to notice two suggestions which 
have been made, so far, however, without any effect. The first 
is that which has been urged, and is still being urged, by 
the Principal of this University, the Chancellor of Bishop’s 
College and others. This is the more modest and just so much 
the less desirable of the two. It is that the Bar should recognize 
degrees from the Universities as equivalent to the passing of a 
preliminary examination. The second proposal, which we our- 
selves make, is that in the case of the legal profession a B.A. 
degree from a Canadian University should be the necessary and 
sufficient qualification for entering upon the study of that pro- 
fession ; and that in the case of the medical profession such a 
degree should be sufficient, but not necessary. To the first 
suggestion one objection, and one only, has heretofore to our 
knowledge been made. It has been urged that University 
degrees cannot be recognized, because if those of one University 
were recognized, then the degrees of all the Lhiiversities must, 
and for rather obvious reasons the degrees from one, at all 
events, of our provincial Universities are wort! dess ; that there- 
fore on account of the one of low standard, all must be dis- 
carded. Our answer to this is that if the degrees referred to 
are more or less worthless in comparison with the degrees of 
other Universities, as they certainly are, nevertheless they still 
are a better qualification than the passing of an examination 
such as carried out under the bar. We maintain that in how 
slipshod soever a manner the teaching and examinations may be 
carried on in the University referred to, nevertheless a training 
for three or four years, even of this imperfect kind, is a better 
surety for some approach to a medium education than the pass- 
ing of a questionable examination extending over the space of 
two or three days. All we can say is that if this be not the 
case, then the University, of which we speak, must be very 
much deeper in the mire than even we imagine. We can hardly 
bring ourselves to believe that this is the case. 

The same objection would be urged to the second plan which 
we suggest. The only other objection we can think of as likely 
to be urged is, that such a regulation would* fall very heavily 



upon a certain class of young men, namely, those who could 
not well afford to spend the time and money necessary to get a 
University degree, but who are nevertheless desirous of becom- 
ing lawyers, and who would, perhaps, make very eminent 
lawyers. But we are told by the legal profession itself, that it 
is necessary to restrict the number of those entering this pro- 
fession as much as possible ; and besides, in laying down rules, 
one is not found to frame them so as to meet the individual 
convenience of every person who may ever come under them. 
If a person is very desirous of becoming a lawyer, he will pro- 
bably find the means to get a University education if he knows 
that such is required. This rule would save the legal gentle- 
men an immense amount of trouble, and they would be then 
able to devote themselves entirely to the technical examinations 
in the law itself, which qualify for practice, and which they 
ought to make as searching and exhaustive as possible. This 
is really the point at which the thinning process ought to take 
place by the Bar, the first discrimination being left to the 
Universities. In the case of the medical profession, it would 
hardly be possible or desirable to make a University degree a 
necessary qualification for the reasons inter alia that the 
technical education in this case extends over a longer space of 
time, and because the number who can advantageously enter is 
necessarily much greater than in the case of the legal profes- 
sion. But we can see no earthly reason why a University degree 
should not be a sufficient qualification for leave to study. 

If the views which we have expressed above are based upon 
wrong conceptions, we shall be heartily thankful to anyone 
who will enlighten us upon the subject. 

We may just mention that in no other country, that we are 
aware of, does a system exist similar to that in vogue here. In 
Upper Canada a University degree is fully recognized, and in 
England and Ireland there is no barrister who has not obtained 
his degree in some University. 



We have always maintained that the standard of a university 
or school may, to a very large extent, be gauged by the degree 
of excellence to which the students have attained, in lawfully 
organizing for their own purposes and especially in organizing 
for the encouragement and development of out-door sports of 
every kind. We do not mean to say that an absolute rule of 
such a kind could be laid down, since to a very great extent the 
success of such societies and organizations depends upon wealth 
and numbers ; but, other things being equal, what we have said, 
will be found generally true. In McGill, we are glad to say, a 
healthy spirit has always been manifested and a tolerable amount 
of interest has generally been taken in the sports of all kinds. 

As in other matters, so in this, we have had to contend with 
obstacles which have prevented us from attaining what other- 
wise we would and could do. In the first place, our numbers 
are not very large, so that what can without perceptible effort 
be accomplished in many other universities by mere force, as it 
were, has in McGill to depend upon the enthusiasm and self- 
sacrifice of the few. Until very lately, the authorities of the 
college have been so straitened in circumstances that no help 
was to be expected and none was obtained from them. Indi- 
vidually, of course, they always have given, and they continue 
to give us generous support, but no grant of any kind has ever 
been made by the college for the encouragement of our sports, 
nor have they even kept the grounds in any kind of order. 
We have no house for dressing in, no place to keep our neces- 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



sary articles and tools in, and the grounds themselves, which 
might with some care be made an ornament to the city, resemble 
in their present condition an uninhabited wild. Thus it has 
long since become evident that whatever improvements are to 
be made must be done by our own unaided efforts. The recog- 
nition of this fact by all will be a better surety for advancement 
than continuing to have faith in a truly broken reed. All who 
attended our late autumn meeting must have been struck with 
the improvement which the new track affords compared with 
the old arrangement. The time, if we mistake not, was better 
on this very account, and besides, for the first time we were able 
to have a bicycle race. Much, of course, still remains to be 
done, but for even the present track we ought to feel thankful 
to those gentlemen who undertook its construction and to all 
who subscribed towards the cost. Some of our readers will 
remember that upon the suggestion of Prof. McLeod, a com- 
mittee was appointed at the end of last session for the purpose 
of having a track constructed round the football field. Much 
praise is due to Mr. McLeod, not only for suggesting the idea 
but for his great kindness in superintending the carrying out of 
the work. He was ably seconded by the committee, who also 
deserve great praise for their efforts for the public welfare. A 
statement from the Treasurer of the committee, together 
with a list of those who subscribed, will be found in another 
place. As will be seen from that statement a small balance 
remains in the Treasurer’s hands, which together, with some $30, 
which, we believe, was voted by the Annual Sports Committee, 
towards the maintenance and improvement of the track, will 
now form the nucleus of a permanent fund. The Committee, of 
which we have spoken, was elected for a certain purpose, and 
that purpose having been effected, they are justified in con- 
sidering their labours at an end. But the question now arises, 
to whom is this balance to be handed over for future use ? The 
Track Committee has decided to send a recommendation to the 
Sports Committee to take steps for the formation of a permanent 
Association, having for its object the superintendence of the sports 
of the University in general, and the management of the College 
grounds in particular. This Association, it is to be hoped, will soon 
be in actual existence. It may be remembered that in May or 
June last, a strenuous effort was made to form some kind of a 
University Athletic Association, but the matter was deferred 
until a more suitable time, when all the undergraduates would 
be in Montreal. By the proposed plan it was intended, if we 
mistake not, that a permanent fund should be raised among the 
graduates and undergraduates, quite independently of the 
different College Clubs, this fund to be administered by 
a committee appointed by the whole. No one Club should 
have a monopoly of the advantages to be gained, but all should 
be impartially benefited according to their needs. Some 

Association of this kind must be formed, if we are to hope for 
improvements in our out-door sports, and the members of the 
different clubs should not let any jealousies prevent them from 
giving the scheme their cordial support. If the suggestion 
is carried out we will soon be able to erect a house 
on the grounds suitable for our needs. We feel sure 
that this would do much towards strengthening the in- 
terest now taken in the football practices, a consummation 
much to be desired when we consider that hard practice can 
alone make up for the shortness of the season available to our 
College Club. The Association might take steps also, if it were 
thought advisable, to resuscitate some winter sports, in which at 
present very little interest is taken by the students. 



Students and others accustomed to use the University 
library, will, by this time, have had experience of the working 
of the new regulations which came into force at the beginning 
of the present session. The chief changes are, that the deposit 
has been increased from four to five dollars, that it must be 
paid to the Bursar instead of to the Librarian as heretofore, that 
a deposit once made cannot be recovered until the end of the 
session, and the change in the rule referring to fines which 
makes it more stringent, and states that all fines shall be deducted 
from the amount of the deposit. What the circumstances are 
which have arisen to necessitate these changes we do not know ; 
but as far as we have seen up to the present, the changes 
themselves have given rise to -increased inconvenience and 
annoyance. It is certainly right that the affairs of the library 
should be carefully attended to, and that measures for its pre- 
servation should be taken, but we fail to see what is to be gained 
by adding $1.00 to the amount of the deposit or by having 
it paid to the Bursar. The Librarian is always present in the 
library, but a prolonged search after the Bursar is not generally 
successful. The rule that the deposit shall remain for the 
whole session when once made, is probably the most reasonable 
of all the changes, as great trouble was given by the continual 
making and withdrawing of deposits. We are of opinion 
however, that all deposits should be returnable twice a year at 
least, namely, at Christmas and at the end of the session. We 
know, as a matter of fact, that if this is not done, a good deal 
of inconvenience will arise to many students. The aim which 
the Committee ought always to keep in view is to make the 
library as generally useful as possible, and for this end to give 
every facility to readers. The amount of study which is done 
in the library itself, except in the intervals between lectures, and 
in hunting after references, is very small. The chief advantage 
is obtained by those who take books for study at home, and we 
maintain that every facility ought to be given to these, who form 
the larger number, which is consistent with due precaution for 
the safety and preservation of the books. We hope that the 
new deposit of five dollars will have the required effect where 
that of four dollars has been heretofore insufficient. We sup- 
pose the new rule with regard to fines will be as rigidly carried 
out as that which was previously in force. We are sorry, 
however, that the Committee omitted to insert any rules which 
should govern professors in their use of the library. We respect- 
fully suggest the following one for consideration : — “ That 
no professor in any of the faculties be allowed to keep more 
than three hundred volumes for more than three years at any 
one time, whether the same be for reference or otherwise, under 
a penalty of two cents for the first offence and five cents for the 
second, the same to be deducted from the defaulter’s salary by 
the Bursar.” 



McGill and Toronto University meet on Saturday, November 
3rd, to compete in the first of what we hope will be a long and un- 
broken series of intercollegiate sports. The details have not been 
decided by the two representative committees as we go to press. 
The events, however, will be modelled on the Oxford and Cam- 
bridge programme. The ties which kindred interests have 
created between the two great universities of Canada are at last 
drawing them together. Two years ago the McGill foot-ball 
team went to Toronto, last year Toronto University sent a 
team to Montreal ; the result on each occasion was the same : 
McGill won, and each team vowed it the most satisfactory 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY CAZETTE. 



5 



match of the season, and returned to its college delighted with 
the hearty reception it had received. This fall a mass meeting 
of the Graduates and Undergraduates of Toronto University was 
held, and it was unanimously resolved to abolish their own 
local sports and in their stead open up, with the approval of 
McGill, annual competitions between the two colleges. 

Toronto, then, has taken the initiative, invited our athletes to 
Toronto, and borne the brunt of the expenses of the first meet- 
ing. The trophy, which is to be the temporary property of the 
winning college, is to be found by the joint subscription of the 
alumni of the two colleges ; and to judge by the enthusiasm 
shown by the Graduates at the Toronto meeting their quota 
towards this emblem will be a most liberal one. It then remains 
for us as Undergraduates, in whose interest these sports have 
been largely established, to use our united influence to put this 
very important matter properly before our Graduates in Mont- 
real. This is an inter-university event which, like the famed 
Oxford and Cambridge boat races, will bring into great 
prominence the two universities. It will have the effect of 
making the two universities stand out in bold relief before the 
public, and as they are, perhaps, the only two in Canada whose 
interests do not clash, and as they undoubtedly form the great 
educational centres for their respective provinces, these inter- 
university games will acquire an interest of broader character 
than as mere readable sporting items for the daily press. 

Physical education is fast forcing itself on the attention of 
college authorities. The intimate connection and interdepen- 
dence of mind and body is now no longer a matter of doubt, 
and if these athletic contests are entered into with proper 
enthusiasm not only will the latent esprit de corps of each 
college be aroused to higher pitch, but the working mass of 
students may be induced to take a proper view of the necessity 
of physical as well as mental culture. 

[Just as we go to press a telegram has been received from 
Toronto declaring the Intercollegiate Sports off. Further par- 
ticulars will be given in our next issue.] 

(Sontributions. 

Remarks on Shakespeare’s “ Tempest.”* 

Ever since the philosophers of the 19th century in Germany 
and elsewhere succeeded in persuading Shakespearian students 
that William Shakespeare was a moral philosopher like them- 
selves, busied upon the noble task of darkening counsel by 
words, of dressing out moral apothegms in apposite stories, the 
Tempest has been a battlefield of contending theories. If we 
may compare the play of Hamlet to the homoousion and liom- 
(riausion of the Arians and Athanasians, the Tempest has been 
as the book of Job or the Apocalypse to modern theorists. To 
one who conies fresh from reading and assimilating their dif- 
ferent theories there is a delightful freshness about what I)r. 
Johnson called his critical summary of the play. “In a single 
drama” he writes “are here exhibited princes, courtiers and 
sailors, all speaking in their real characters. There is the 
agency of airy spirits, and of an earthly goblin ; the operations 
of magic ; the tumults of a storm, the adventures of a desert 
island, the native effusion of untaught affection, the punish- 
ment of guilt, and the final happiness of the pair for whom our 
passions and reason are equally interested.” 

In the present paper I propose to take Dr. Johnson’s sum- 
mary as my starting point and to tell you what this beautiful 
piece of romance looks like in the eyes of one who feels that 
Shakespeare was above everything else a dramatist who wrote 
for the stage, whose main purpose was to entertain his hearers 
for several successive hours, but who was, besides and above this, 

*Read before the Shakespeare Club, Montreal. 



the highest intellect of his day, one who could not have been 
without interest, one way or another, in the thoughts and specu- 
lations that agitated the age in which he lived. 

There are three points which a careful student of the Tempest 
will remark as distinguishing it from Shakespeare’s other plays. 
First and most prominently we find in it a supernatural charac- 
ter , severing it from all the other plays with the exception of the 
Midsummer Night’s Dream. Though witches play a prominent 
part in Macbeth, and ghosts are to be found in other plays, they 
were part of the beliefs of the age, their representation upon 
the stage was the means by which the author embodied for his 
hearers the supersensual. They are thus a natural outgrowth of the 
feelings and actions of personages of the dramas in which they 
appear. In the Midsummer Night’s Dream, on the other hand, 
and in the Tempest, we find a supernaturalism of quite a differ- 
ent kind. 

Secondly, everyone must have remarked the musical character 
of the piece. Not only is it frequently interspersed with songs, 
but the blank verse rises at times to a height of poetry little 
short of lyric. Among such passages are Caliban’s description 
of the magic beauty of the island, “ Be not afraid ; the isle is 
full of noises, <fcc.;” or again, Alonzo’s 

“ Methought, the billows spoke, and told me of it ; 

The winds did sing it to me ; and the thunder, 

That deep and dreadful organ- pipe, pronounc'd 
The name of Prosper !” 

Thirdly, the inattention to dramatic requirements is notice- 
able. There are few scenes that could have been effective from 
a dramatic point of view, however perfect they are to the 
student. There is an absence, too, of definite characterisation 
in the personages, who are rather types of character than indi- 
viduals ; qualities personified, than creatures of flesh and blood. 

These points, it seems to me, should lead us to regard the 
play before us as different from Shakespeare’s other works. In- 
deed, this conclusion is one which has long been arrived at by 
the great majority of modern commentators on Shakespeare. 
But then they most of them insist upon a further conclusion, to 
which I am unwilling to assent. Forgetting the genius of 
dramatic poetry, they further see in the Tempest an elaborate 
allegory which, however, none of them interpret in the same 
sense. To take you through the different interpretations which 
have been confidently offered of this play would require more 
space than the subject deserves. I think it will be sufficient to 
show you that no such allegorical interpretation is necessitated 
by the play itself. After having myself been a convert to the 
theory which I now reject, and after having studied the play 
carefully, I can think of but one passage — that which follows 
the sudden dismissal of the spirits by Prospero in the 4th Act — 
which points to this conclusion, and the sentiment is here jus- 
tified by the mental perturbation under which Prospero is 
labouring at the time. 

If, however, we reject the allegorical interpretation, some 
justification is still needed for the presence of the supernatural 
element, some explanation of the typical character of the per- 
sonages introduced. And this, I think, we find in the musical 
character of the drama, and in the tradition that it was acted, 
if not originally produced, at the marriage of the Princess 
Elizabeth with the Prince Palatine of the Rhine in 1613. On 
such occasions it was usual to have masques presented, of which 
we have so many from the pen of Ben Jonson. I conceive, then, 
the Tempest to be what the Midsummer Night’s Dream is 
generally allowed to be, viz., a romantic drama conceived in the 
spirit of a masque , that is, a drama in which absence of distinct 
characterisation was compensated for by musical accessories and 
by the introduction of supernatural and other personages. In 
looking through the numerous masques of Ben Jonson I find 
the following among many other supernatural characters intro- 
duced. Of creatures of heathen mythology: Jupiter, Juno 
Saturn, &c., from among the gods — Satyrs, Penates, Fates, 
Graces, Nymphs, Silenus, Sphynx and Januarius, among the 
lesser demons. From mediaeval mythology we find Angels 
Fairies, Genii, Hags, Arthur, Merlin, and Robin Goodfeffow! 
Among other personifications there are the Iron and Golden 
Ages, Reason, Chivalry, Christmas, Poesy, Fame, <fee. These 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1883 . 



are but a few among the crowd that anyone will find if he turns 
over the pages of Ben Jonson. To introduce such characters 
upon the stage was nothing strange in those days, and their 
presence was needed, as we find in the case of the play before 
us and in the conclusion of the Midsummer Night’s Dream, to 
give solemnity to the marriage or other ceremony which was the 
occasion of the performance. “Let anti-masques,” Bacon writes 
in his essays, “ not be long ; they have been commonly of fools, 
satyrs, baboons, wild men , antiques, beasts, sprites , witches, 
^Ethiopes, pigmies, turquets, nymphs, rustics, Cupids, statues 
moving, and the like.” Here we find wild men , sprites , and 
witches distinctly enumerated, under which would fall the 
Caliban, Ariel, and Sycorax of our play. 

Let us suppose then that, instead of writing a short and un- 
interesting masque such as we find in Ben Jonson, Shakespeare 
determined to write a play after the fashion of a masque, short, 
— the Midsummer Night’s Dream and the Tempest are among 
the shortest of all Shakespeare’s dramas — with rapid action, in- 
troducing supernatural personages, and culminating in a 
marriage. What better scene could be chosen to give proba- 
bility to his supernatural personages, than a wild, uninhabited 
island, such as one of the many the story of which came to 
Englishmen over the wide Atlantic, and which had lately been 
brought home to the minds of all by the account of Sir John 
Somers’ shipwreck in the book entitled “A Discovery of the 
Bermudas, otherwise called the Isle of Devils.” His mind 
grasps the scene. He pictures therein the spirit Ariel 
and the monster Caliban — creatures unhackneyed by 
previous treatment. For suggestions of detail he goes 
to the voyages of yEneas in the First and Third books 
of the ^Eneid, and to his never-failing source, the Meta- 
morphoses of Ovid — probably in Golding’s translation. He has 
to paint a native in the lowest state of debasement, and he 
turns to Montaigne’s Essay on Cannibals. On the one side 
he depicts Ariel, the tricksy spirit with more than human in- 
tellect, but without human affections; on the other, Caliban, 
with the potentialities of human nature, but without its morality ; 
with a human shape and a mind sensible to physical and natural 
beauty, and though smelling like a fish, and with long nails, yet 
full of scorn for “apes with foreheads villainous low.” Between 
these two extremes he places a series of personages hardly in- 
dividualised though possessing the qualities of men. Prospero 
of the highest human intelligence, and therefore inclined to 
goodness ; Antonio, like his brother, ready in resource, but of 
lower nature and prone to evil. Gonzalo is commonplace good- 
ness, and Alonzo and Sebastian are feeble natures, easily led 
into evil paths. Ferdinand represents the beauty of youthful 
manhood, Miranda of youthful womanhood. Below these come 
the debauched Trinculo and Stephano, the former with a turn 
for wit, the latter like Bottom, the prey of immeasurable self- 
conceit. 

All these personages may not be characters conceived to the 
life, as their author painted Falstaff, Mercutio, Rosalind, the 
two Harries, and a score of others ; but yet again, they are not 
mere allegories like the characters of Bunyan. They seem to me 
like “pius ^Eneas” and “fidus Achates,” conceived rather upon the 
classical than the modern type. It is curious, from this point 
of view, that in a play, where our author is working in the clas- 
sical manner, he has voluntarily chosen to observe strictly, and 
without apparent detriment to his work, the classical unities of 
time and place. 

In such a drama as the Tempest, suggested by and suggesting 
the wider scope of life, with which the course of discovery had 
impregnated the imagination at the beginning of the 17 th 
century, what was more natural than that Shakespeare should 
glance for a moment at the political theories that were begin- 
ning to find their way abroad ever since the Renaissance had 
set men thinking anew ? The changes that have come over our 
life, politically, socially and morally, have been mainly effected 
by the mutual influence of two schools of thought, typified in 
the last century by the great names of Rousseau and Voltaire, 
with whom we may compare respectively the influence of Mon- 
taigne and Bacon upon Shakespeare’s age. The former school, 



inspired by imagination, looked back to a glorious and happy 
past from which the present had degenerated ; the latter, listen- 
ing to the teachings of history and science, sees in a future, 
moulded by intelligence, a worthier substitute for the impossible 
dream of a revived past. To neither of these schools can 
Shakespeare personally be said to belong ; for Shakespeare was 
an artist and not a politician. Y r et it must have been impossible 
for a man of his intelligence to be unaffected by the tide of 
life in which he lived. At times, as in Coriolanus, we fancy 
that we can detect a protest against the growing power of the 
people, or again, as in Hamlet, he seems to cast a lingering 
glance at the martial, heroic type of character which the mer- 
cantile life of the long peace was fast obliterating. In the 
Tempest we may, perhaps, read a passing protest against the 
extravagant laudation of the noble savage, which is the subject 
of the essay in Montaigne, from which Gonzalo’s ideal state is 
taken. Of the glorious state of barbarism, Montaigne writes 
that he is sorry that Plato and Lycurgus had no knowledge 
of it ; that these natives surpass the glories of the Golden Age, 
and so on. To such ideals as these, to this stream of tendency 
that culminated two centuries afterwards in the writings of 
Rousseau, Shakespeare answers by his picture of Caliban — 
drunken, brutal and ungrateful. “ Abhorred slave,” says 
Prospero : — 

“ Which any print of goodness will not take, 

Being capable of all ill ! I pitied thee, 

Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour 
One thing or other ; when thou didst not, savage, 

Know thine own meaning, but would gabble like 

A thing most brutish, I endow’d thy purposes 

With words that made them known : but thy vile race, 

Though thou didst learn, had that in ’t which good natures 
Could not abide to be with ” 

We have next a justification of what often seems the harsh 
treatment of the natives by the white men that settled among 
them. But Shakespeare also gives the other side of the picture. 
In the scene in which Stephano and Trinculo are captivated by 
the gilded trumpery of Prospero’s house, which even Caliban pro- 
nounces to be “ trash,” we have perhaps a hint at the colonists’ 
passion for an Eldorado, and for gold-digging when their sup- 
plies were failing. 

To one more point in the Tempest, I would call your atten- 
tion ; — what we may call its subjective element. One of the 
latest, and by no means the least, interesting developments of 
Shakespearian criticism, is the attempt to trace in his writings 
the workings of Shakespeare’s own mind. In his earlier plays 
the sky is unclouded ; he seems to write without after-thought. 
His characters surrender themselves without stint to love and 
merriment. After a time a strain of melancholy begins to run 
through his plays, and with Measure for Measure we date the 
middle period of Shakespeare’s mental development, during 
which life seemed to be robbed of its beauty and joy, the 
period that culminates with the misanthropy of Timon of 
Athens. The play before us belongs to his latest period, when 
the sable cloud which gathered over the sky has “ turned forth 
her silver lining.” In his middle period, Shakespeare seems to 
have realised to the full the misgivings of pessimism. Life con- 
stantly presents itself to his imagination under the similitude of 
a stage. In Macbeth its unreality is uppermost. “ Out, out, 
brief candle !” Macbeth exclaims. 

“ Life’s but a walking shadow ; a poor player, 

That struts and frets his hour upon the stage, 

And then is heard no more : it is a tale 
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, 

Signifying nothing.’* 

In the Tempest, the sudden disappearance of the spirits, whom 
Prospero had called up to play before Ferdinand and Miranda, 
suggests to his mind solemn thoughts about life and its import. 
The passage in Act IV., beginning with the words, “ These our 
actors, :as I foretold you, were all spirits,” is too well known to 
need quotation. But after his outburst, Prospero is almost 
ashamed of himself. These gloomy thoughts are unfit for minds 
aglow with youth and love, so he adds apologetically, 

“ Sir, I am vex’d ; 

Bear with my weakness ; my old brain is troubled,” 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



But if Shakespeare seems still to ponder on the brief dura- 
tion of life, he acknowledges its dignity. In the Midsummer 
Night’s Dream mortals are the sport of fairies, in the Tempest 
the spirit world is subservient to human control. The evil 
deeds of men are noticed and punished by <( the powers, delay- 
ing not forgetting,” and destiny presides over the world. 

The curious imagination of Hamlet busied itself in brooding 
upon the changes that pass over our bodies after death : 

“ Imperious Caesar dead and turned to clay 
Might stop a hole to keep a wind away.” 

Nay more, “a king may go a progress through the guts of a 
beggar,” and “ your worm is your only emperor for diet ; we fat 
all creatures else to fat us ; and we fat ourselves for maggots ; 
your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service.” 
But in the Tempest, Shakespeare’s mind no longer dwells 
upon these mournful thoughts. Our life may be rounded with a 
sleep, but after death our bodies are glorified : — 

“ Full fathom five thy father lies ; 

Of his bones are coral made ; 

Those are pearls that were his eyes ; 

Nothing of him that doth fade, 

But doth suffer a sea-change 
Into something rich and strange.” 

I seem, then, to see in the Tempest the latest thoughts of our 
great dramatist upon life and its import. He would dwell 
by preference upon its brighter side. In the words of Mr. 
Swinburne, in his suggestive work upon Shakespeare, the beauty 
and truth of which grows upon us the more we study it : “ In 

Measure for Measure where the adult and gigantic god has 
grappled with the greatest and most terrible of energies and of 
passions, we miss the music of a younger note that rang through 
Romeo and Juliet ; but before the end this too revives, as pure, 
as sweet, as fresh, but richer now and deeper than its first clear 
notes of the morning, in the heavenly harmony of Cymbeline 
and the Tempest.” 



VERSES WRITTEN IN A LADY’S ALBUM. 
Veni , abii ! 

As the native you trace by the blazes 
He cuts with his axe on the trees, 

Wherever I go, I leave traces 
Of inferior verses like these ; 

And yet if they manage to please, 

I would not desire them unwritten— 

Though but breath of a wandering breeze ; 
For the tree may be carelessly smitten, 

But the mark is R. W. B’s. 



-Sporting 'UfteiPS. 



Our Athletic Sports. 

Our sports this year proved a great success, notwithstanding 
the unfavourable weather. Everything went off smoothly, 
under the efficient management of the Committee. By some 
unfortunate mistake the band failed to turn up, and the want 
of music on a damp afternoon is sadly felt. There was no tent 
on the ground, which was a decided mistake, but the arrange- 
ments in other respects were admirable. 

On the morning there was a very good turn out of students, 
and in the afternoon a fair number of ladies, considering the 
inclemency of the weather. 

The following are the results : — 

MORNING. 

Kicking Foot Ball — 1st, Haythorne (Med.), 144.6 feet; 2nd, 
Budden (Arts), 132.4 feet. 

Running High Jump— 1st, Klock (Med.), 4 feet 8 inches; 
2nd, J. A. McFarlane (Arts), 4 feet 7 inches. 

Throwing the Hammer — 1st, Walker (Med.), 75.6 feet; 2nd, 
Trenholme (Sc.), 75.4 feet. 

Running Long Jump— 1st, McFarlane (Arts), 16.8 feet ; 2nd, 
Lesage (Sc.), 16.5 feet. 



Putting the Shot , 16 lbs. — 1st, Trenholme (Sc.), 32.7 feet; 
2nd, Walker (Med.), 30.5 feet. 

Throwing Heavy Weight , 56 lbs. — 1st, Church (Med.), 
19.45 feet; 2nd, Trenholme (Sc.), 18.75 feet. 

Throwing Cricket Ball — 1st, Klock (Med.), 93 yards ; 2nd, 
Fairbanks (Med). 

AFTERNOON. 

Two Mile Walk — 1st, C. B. Smith (Sc.), 17 min. 58f sec. ; 
2nd, McRae (Arts). 

Half Mile Race — 1st, McTaggart (Sc.), 2 min. 7 sec. ; 2nd, 
Haentschel (Med). 

One Hundred Yards — 1st, Clerk (Law), 11£ sec.; 2nd, 
Lesage (Sc). 

Two Hundred and Twenty Yards , Open — 1st, W. R. Thomp- 
son, 23 1 sec. ; 2nd, T. Moffatt. 

Four Hundred and Forty Yards — 1st, Hutchison (Sc.), 
59 sec. ; 2nd, McCormack (Med). 

Mile Race — 1st, D. McTaggart (Sc.), 4 min. 54£ sec. ; 2nd, 
Haentschel (Med). 

Tug of War — Medicine pulled Arts twice running, and then 
pulled against Science. This was the most exciting event of 
the day, as the Medicine and Science teams were very evenly 
matched. Notwithstanding the earnest exhortation of the club 
officials, the spectators repeatedly crowded around the contest- 
ants. Science won the first pull, and Medicine the second and 
third pulls, amid the thundering cheers of their brother Meds. 
Following is the team in Medicine : — J. R. Church, G. B. 
Rowell, I. C. Sharpe, W. Bowen, G. C. Richardson, J. K. 
Wilson. 

Two Hundred and Twenty Yards — 1st, Clerk (Law), 24£ sec. ; 
2nd, T. Tesage (Sc). 

Bicycle Race , One Mile — 1st, Holden (Arts), 4£ min. ; 2nd, 
Walters (Sc). 

Hurdle Race — 1st, Lesage (Sc.) ; 2nd, Clerk (Law). 

The prizes were presented in the William Molson Hall by 
Mrs. Molson. After the distribution of prizes the students 
partook of some refreshments, which were kindly provided by 
Mrs. Molson in the Faculty room of the Arts budding. The 
audience were very noisy during the distribution, especially in 
one of the corners of the hall where several benches were 
destroyed. 

McGill vs. Royal Military College Cadets. 

One of the best matches of the season was played by the 
above teams on the College Grounds on Friday, October 26th. 
Both teams were in splendid form, the Cadets being the heavier 
of the two. Much interest was taken in the game throughout 
by a large number of spectators of both sexes. 

First three quarters. — Play commenced by MacDonnell kick- 
ing off for the Cadets. Elder got the ball and passed to 
Ogilvie, who made a good kick, which was well followed up by 
McGill. After a long kick from Budden the Cadets were 
forced to rouge, the ball. Shortly afterwards a beautiful kick 
from Hamilton, which was well foUowed up by the McGill 
forwards, forced the Cadets again to rouge. The ball was 
brought out by the Cadets and kicked to Hamilton, who got in 
another of his telling kicks. This was beautifully followed up 
by Campbell, who forced the ball past the Cadets, and secured a 
“ touch.” McGill failed to kick a goal. After some splendid 
play by Duffus, of the Cadets, the ball was forced down to the 
McGill goal, but was quickly brought back by a beautiful run 
by A. W. Smith, whose play was excellent throughout the 
whole game. Shortly after time was called, when the game 
stood two rouges for McGill, to the Cadets nothing. 

Second three quarters. — Very good play was now shown by 
both sides. Yon Iffland, Duffus and MacDonnell for the 
Cadets, and A. W. Smith, Hamilton, Elder and Ogilvie for Mc- 
Gill, doing splendid work. After a good run by Yon Iffland, 
the ball was secured by Hamilton, who kicked hard against the 
Cadets’ forwards. The ball rebounded behind McGill’s goal, 
and was touched down by Duffus. The Cadets failed to kick a 
goal, and were once more forced to rouge , before time was 
called. When time was called, the game stood : McGill one 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



try and three rouges , to one try for the Cadets, being a draw in 
favor of McGill. 

A match was played on Saturday, October 27th, between the 
second fifteen of the Britannias and a team picked from the 
students of the first and second years of McGill. The game re- 
sulted in a victory for McGill by a try and three rouges , the 
Brittannias scoring nothing. 

In the annual match between the High School and McGill 
Freshmen, which took place on Tuesday, October 23rd, the 
former were defeated. 

A Great Struggle at Princeton. 

“ I’ve seen prize fights, dog fights, cock fights, and rat fights,” 
said a Princeton student on Tuesday evening, as he adjusted 
his knitted brown college cap to his closely cut, tow-coloured 
head, “ but I have never seen a better test of muscle and endur- 
ance than one of our preliminary cane sprees. The man who 
can cross two of these trophies on the wall of his room, tying 
them together with his society colors, has an immense prestige 
during the rest of his college career, and commands the respect 
of students and professors afterward. Better see the cane spree 
to-night between representative sophs and freslis. You can’t 
see a better thing here in a year.” 

Rivalry between the present freshman and sophomore classes 
has run high, though but little hazing has occurred. The 
freshmen guarded the cannon which is embedded in the college 
campus very closely during the early part of the year ; but one 
day the sophomores rallied in force, and preserved the college 
tradition by painting it a bright green and decorating it with 
“ Fresh, 1887,” as indicative of their contempt for the freshman 
class. One day the freshmen rallied in turn, surrounded the 
cannon, and, presenting a firm front outward to the sophomores, 
burned off the paint. Then the sophomores placed the 
opprobrious epithet, “Fresh, 1887,” wherever they could find 
an available point on fences, billboards, hitching posts, and at 
lofty heights on buildings and telegraph poles. With the 
expenditure of much time and labor, the freshmen carefully 
removed the inscriptions. 

When the sophomores learned that a New York photographer 
was coming over to picture the freshmen they were happy and 
kept a vigilant watch over members of the other class. At last, 
with both flanks guarded, the freshmen were posed in 
picturesque attitudes, with a stone building for a background. 
But the irrepressible sophomore had invaded the building and 
suspended an immense placard by a cord from an upper window, 
so that “Fresh, 1887,” appeared on the class picture. Another 
attempt was made, and this time the rear was successfully 
guarded from approach by the sophomores. But they met the 
emergency from another quarter, for with mirrors they threw 
dazzling jets of sunlight into the faces of freshmen in various 
quarters of the group, with disastrous effect on the picture. 

The annual proclamation of the sophomores was more pro- 
nounced than usual. The incoming class was compared to the 
animals entering Noah’s ark, and the comparison was illustrated 
by numerous puns on the names of individual members, for 
which there happened to be unusual facility. The freshmen 
were warned that, being children, they must not be seen with 
those insignia of manhood, canes, before Jan. 1, 1884. As the 
sophomore was the larger and physically the stronger class, 
there have been few violations of this edict, and these the 
subjects of rigid discipline. Unusual interest centred in the 
preliminary cane spree on Tuesday night between men from the 
two classes. 

A full moon lighted up the portion of the college campus in 
front of Wotlierspoon Hall and in the rear of East College and 
Reunion Hall when loud shouts summoned the students for the 
spree. Boisterous, rollicking, and jostling, they swarmed into 
the campus from every quarter. The freshmen gravitated 
together and began singing, “ Way Down on the Bingo Farm,” 
but the sophomores a few yards away diowned them out with a 
chorus of the college yell, which, well organized, is generally 
sufficient at 12 o’clock at night to awake every resident of 
Princeton. “ ’Rah — ’Rah — Ti-ger — Siss — Boom — ah ! !” was 



thundered again and again, with constantly increasing volume. 

Suddenly a group appeared, armed with some mysterious 
authority, and quickly formed the students into a ring, about 
100 feet in diameter. The men at the front locked their arms 
together, and braced firmly against the pressure from the rear. 
Few of the six hundred students in the college were absent. 
Sophomores were grouped on one side and freshmen at another. 
Three men approached with slow step from one of the buildings, 
and were permitted to go inside the ring. Two from another 
followed. These were Griffith of ’86, and Sternburg of ’87, 
the first two contestants ; Miller of ’84 and Smith of ’85, their 
seconds, and Referee James Thompson, the college trainer. 

At a signal, the contestants removed their coats, and, standing 
side by side, grasped a stout hickory canfe an inch and a quarter 
in diameter. One hand of each clinched the cane with the 
palm upward, the other with palm downward. To the freshman 
was allowed the advantage of the outside hold. Both were 
young, of middle weight, thick set, and muscular, but Griffith 
appeared a trifle the older and heavier of the two. There was a 
short, sharp struggle, like a contest at wrestling, and by sheer 
strength Griffith forced his opponent inch by inch backward to 
the ground and fell upon him. Then he braced his knees on 
either side of Sternberg and tugged at the cane. The referee 
and seconds leaned over the two and watched every movement. 
If one had both hands off the cane for an instant he had lost it. 

“ Here will be fun,” said a junior. “ Griffith is the better 
wrestler, but Sternburg has been in constant practice for three 
weeks, and knows all the tricks that are going.” 

They squirm, the legs of both are in the air, and they crawl 
like some strange animal from point to point, but Griffith 
remains on top, and Sternburg clings to the cane until time is 
called, five minutes being the limit during which they may 
struggle together while prostrate on the ground. They rest for 
two minutes, during which the friends of each chafe his arms 
vigorously, pat his hands sharply with their own, and talk 
encouragingly to him. 

The second round is like the first, except that at the outset 
Sternberg is thrown with great violence, and toward the close 
rolls over with his face to the turf, and with the cane beneath 
him, to which both cling until time is called. 

In the third round Sternburg drops quickly Upon his back of 
his own volition, and attempts to secure the cane by hurling 
Griffith violently over him ; but Griffith is anticipating this 
trick, and lands squarely on Sternburg. 

“ Bear down ! Bear down !” one of Griffith’s friends shouts. 
It now looks as if the pressure of the stick across Sternburg’s 
chest will soon bring him to terms. But his arms partially 
support the cane and protect his chest against Griffith’s most 
violent attack. He squirms and rolls over to his side, while his 
second howls with delight, “Another twist like that, Sternburg,, 
and you’ve got him.” 

In the fourth and fifth rounds Sternburg falls upon his back 
as before, and remains under until time is called. His second 
pats him upon the back, mops off his brow, and, calling for a 
glass of water, drips it into his mouth from a handkerchief. He 
seems to be getting the worst of it, and it is the general opinion 
that another round will settle him, though his second has a 
confidence which to those on the outside seems unjustifiable. 

Sternberg falls again upon his back in the sixth round, and 
remains a little while nerveless. Suddenly he doubles into a 
ball, with his knees up under his opponent, and braces his 
elbows inside of his opponent’s arms. Here is the crisis. 
Sternburg has been trying to husband his strength, but, in 
spite of all, he is becoming the weaker. He has resolved to put 
forth a great effort and win or lose. Like a flash the ball 
opens. Griffith’s body rises in the air, and his hands, crowded 
by two vengeful elbows, fly off the cane. 

“ Sternburg has it !” the referee shouts, and a wild yell goes 
up, compared with which the previous noises of the evening 
are a whisper. 

The ring breaks, the men crowd tumultuously to the centre* 
and, seizing Sternburg, lift him to their .shoulders and rush 
toward the cannon in the centre of the main campus. Here 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



they congratulate him and sing over him. It is pronounced the 
pluckiest cane spree in many years, and it has lasted more than 
half an hour. 

Forsyth of ’86 and Livingood of ’87 came together in the 
next contest. Most of it was fought standing. Forsyth won 
the cane in one round of six minutes. 

In the last contest McLaren of ’86 defeated Sloane of ’87. 
The first cane was broken in the second round after ten minutes’ 
struggle. In the third round, and after a struggle of five 
minutes, McLaren secured the cane. 

The sophomores had won two and the freshmen one, and the 
sophs went singing through the town. It was 2 o’clock when 
they separated . — Amer can Paper. 

Football. 

Britannia vs. McGill . — This match was played on the 
college grounds on Satin day, Oct. 13, resulting in a victory for 
the Britannias by three touch downs. 

First three-quarters — The Britannias scored two “ touches ” 
to McGill’s nothing. 

Second three-quarters. — After a few minutes sharp play on 
the part of McGill, the ball was forced down in front of the 
Britannias’ goal, where a free kick was secured by “Chicken.” 
A “ place” was then taken by Hamilton, who sent the ball 
beautifully over the goal. Both teams now set to with a will, 
and play seemed to be pretty even for a long time, until the 
ball was brought towards the McGill goal, when a touch-down 
was shortly after scored by the Britannias. 

Kinghorn took the “try” and kicked a goal. This was 
quickly followed by another touch-down, which concluded the 
second three-quarters, the game standing : Britannias, a goal and 
three touch-downs ; McGill, one goal. 

McGill vs. Montreal . — This match, for the championship, 
took place on the grounds of the Montreal Cricket Club on 
Saturday, Oct. 20th. 

In the first three-quarters the game was well contested, 
nothing being scored by either side, although McGill were 
forced to “ rouge” several times. 

In the second three-quarters McGill had the upper goal, where 
the ground was in a most wretched condition, being very soft 
and covered with pools of water. The ball was kept well to 
this part of the field by the Montrealers during the whole of 
the second three-quarters, in which time they secured two 
goals. 

Of the McGill team, the weak point was evidently in the 
the half backs. The “forwards” deserve credit for their plucky 
play; also Hamilton, who made some magnificent “tackling.” 

Both teams returned from the field in the best of feeling, 
wet to the skin and besmeared from head to foot with mud. 



(Sol(e<je 'HS>or(D. 



McGill. 

The first meeting of the McGill College Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society for this session was held on the 5th ult., when 
the following were elected officers : — President, G. C. Wright 
’84 ; first Vice-President, A. H. U. Colquhoun ’85 ; second Vice- 
President, N. P. Yates ’86 ; Treasurer, E. D. F. Holden ’86; 
Secretary, W. Lochhead ’85; Assistant Secretary, J. P. Gerrie ’86. 

At the second meeting, which was largely attended, the 
subject for discussion was, “ Resolved that a Canadian should 
have been appointed to the office of Governor-General instead 
of Lord Lansdowne.” The affirmative side of this question was 
supported by Messrs. Colquhoun, Mahon and Ritchie, and the 
negative by Messrs. Pedley, Patterson and Hargraves. The 
debate was carried on with great fluency, and on the part of 
some of the speakers with considerable eloquence, but all the 
speeches were deficient in argument. The younger speakers, 
too, often embarrassed themselves in endeavors to embellish 
their addresses with rhetorical figures which they had not pre- 
pared before rising to speak. The gentlemen, who upheld the 
negative, strove principally to confine the discussion within limits 



fixed by their own interpretation of the question and refrs3d 
to discuss any side issues. It was owing to this, we believe, that 
they lost the debate. They should remember that, while per- 
fectly justified in bringing forward what they believed to be the 
true meaning of the subject and in protesting against any ether, 
yet the audience might not agree with them ; and that it, there- 
fore, behoved them to discuss even what they might consider 
side issues, when these were mooted by the opposing speakers. 

There was no meeting on the 20th owing to the Athletic 
Sports having been held on that day. 

[Note. It is our intention to publish in every number of this 
paper a brief criticism of the programmes of the Literary Society. 
This will not be done in any carping spirit, but solely for the 
benefit of the members, and with an effort to be entirely 
impartial and honest. — Eds.] 

At the general meeting of the students in Arts held last 
month to hear the report of the Editorial Committee of the 
University Gazette, the following vote of thanks to Prof. 
Moyse was unanimously passed : — Resolved, that a vote of 
thanks be tendered to Prof. C. E. Moyse for the great services 
which he so generously and freely rendered to the Committee 
of the McGill University Gazette during last session. 

Track Committee. 

Treasurer’s Report. — Receipts: Subscriptions, $64 ’50. Ex- 
penditure : Labour, cinders, carting, etc., $57*35 ; incidentals, 
20c. Balance on hand : $7*05. 

List of Subscribers. — Profs. McCleod and Moyse, $5 each ; 
Messrs. W. H. Turner, E. I). F. Holden, A. Shearer, A. P. 
Low, B. Ap. Sc., AY. L. Sproule, B.A., R. F. Smith, C. AY. 
Trenholme, B.A., AY. S. Maclennan, D. D. McTaggart, J. 
McEvoy, E. C. P. Guy, F. AY. Kelley, Ph. D., Aspinwall Howe, 
L.L.D., Budden, AY. C. Bessey, Bishop, W. T. Ferrier, AA r m. 
Graham, J. A. Robert, D. Ogilvy, G. Forlong, I). E. McMillan, 
A. R. Davis, J. McKenzie, J. Roy, J. AY. AA^atson, A. H. 
Costigan, H. Hamilton, AA r . L. Murray, C. B. Smith, N. N. 
Evans, C. P. Brown, R. M. Robertson, G. S. Coultlee, Carlyle, 
Christie, Kirkpatrick, Blackader, Marceau, Cameron, G. C. 
AA f right, A. A. Mackay, G. Rogers, Lochhead, Hargrave, Calder, 
Matthewson, McCarthy, Lerrice, J. K. Unsworth, A\ r . Reid, 
Davey, Saunders and A. Johnson, $1 each ; Stewart, 50c. 

J. R. Murray, Treasurer. 

The authorities of this University are again called on to 
acknowledge the munificence of Mr. Peter Redpath. This 
gentleman has just sent out from England an addition to the 
collection of historical works formerly presented by him to the 
Library. The new donation consists chiefly of calendars of 
state papers, bound periodicals, and materials for history in 
general, in all some seventy volumes. 

A general meeting of the undergraduates in the faculties of 
Arts and Applied Science was held on the 24th ult., to consider 
the subject of the establishment of annual inter-collegiate Ath- 
letic Sports, as proposed by the students of Toronto University. 
The plan suggested by them is that these Sports be held alter- 
nately at Toronto and Montreal. It is further suggested that 
the two universities compete for a trophy to be purchased by 
the graduates, the competition to take the following form. A 
fixed number of events to be contested ; the first man in each 
event to count eight points for the university to which he 
belongs, and the second, five ; the university gaining most 
points to hold the trophy for one year. 

The students present at the meeting were unanimous in their 
approbation of the scheme ; and appointed a committee to con- 
fer with the undergraduates of the other faculties, and, if these 
should prove favorable to the proposal, to act with such repre- 
sentatives as the other faculties might appoint, as a committee 
to make the final arrangements with the Toronto students for 
the carrying out of the proposed plan. 

The following compose the Reading Room Committee for the 
present session : — President, Mr. G. C. AYright, ’84 Arts. 
Treasurer, Mr. E. H. Hamilton, ’84 Ap. Sc. Secretary, Mr. A. 
A. Mackay, ’84 Arts. Messrs. J. L. Hislop, ’84 Ap. Sc., J. J. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[188?. 



Roy, ’85 Ap. Sc., H. A. Budden, ’85 Arts, J. A. MacLean, 
’85 Arts, N. N. Evans, ’86 Ap. Sc., D. D. Macrae, ’86 Arts, 
W. A. Carlyle, ’87 Ap. Sc., R. Johnston, ’87 Arts. 

Professor and Mrs. Moyse entertained the students of the 
fourth year Arts at an “at home ” last Friday night. A very 
enjoyable evening was spent by those who were able to be 
present. Unfortunately for themselves some of the students 
had made previous engagements, which prevented them from 
enjoying Prof. Moyse’s kind hospitality. 

FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

The following gentlemen have been appointed from medicine 
on the committee to represent McGill in the interuniversity 
sports to be held this year in Toronto : Messrs. Ruttan and 
Elder. 

The choice of the Rev. I). P. Merritt as President of the 
Final Years, has proved, as everyone knew it would, most feli- 
citous. Besides having the thorough respect of all the class, Mr. 
Merritt has a happy knack of keeping the meeting to the point, 
and the business of the class has been conducted in a much 
more speedy manner than heretofore. “ Palmam qui Merruitt 
ferat.” 

The Primary years have elected Mr. John Elder as President, 
and Mr. Wishart as Secretary. 

McGill Medical Society. 

The meetings of this Society were held regularly during the 
summer session. The officers at present are : President, Dr. J. 
A. MacDonald ; Vice-Presidents, Mr. W. S. Renner and Mr. 
Rowell ; Secretary, Mr. J. II. Darey ; Treasurer, Mr. J. L. 
Addison ; Council : Dr. G. T. Ross and Mr. W. McClure ; 
Pathologist, Mr. W. G. Johnston. 

During the winter session at the first meeting, Mr. G. B. 
Rowell read a paper upon “ Abscess of the Brain,” and a dis- 
cussion was held as to the means to be adopted for increasing 
the membership of the society, and improving the facilities of 
the reading room. Three were appointed from each year to 
canvass for new members, and a committee was appointed to re- 
port upon the reading room, as the present mode of conducting 
it has proved unsatisfactory. At the second regular meeting, 
held October 20th, a number of new names were proposed. A 
paper was read by Dr. Osier. Subject, “ The Duties of a 
Medical Examiner for Life Insurance.” The paper was an ex- 
haustive and very practical one. Dr. Mullin, the President of 
the Canada Medical Association, was a most welcome guest at 
this meeting, and related some of his numerous interesting 
experiences, in which the would-be applicant for insurance had 
come off second best. It is to be hoped that the good attend- 
ance which that meeting attracted, will be kept up during the 
session. 

University Literary Society. 

The first meeting of the above Society for the present session 
was held on Friday, 12th October. There were 16 members 
present, Mr. J. S. Archibald, late President in the chair. Mr. 
Archibald read extracts from a speech in the House of Lords, by 
Lord Chancellor Thurslow, and from a speech delivered at the 
time of the American Revolution by Patrick Henry. Mr. Mc- 
Goun read a paper entitled “An Economic View of Commercial 
L T nion with the United States.” After discussion and formal 
business the meeting adjourned. 

At the meeting of 19th October there were only twelve 
members present, Mr. Archibald in the chair. Mr. R. C. 
Smith kindly gave a recitation as the appointed reader was not 
present. The debate had unfortunately to be postponed on ac- 
count of the absence of several of the speakers. Mr. Barry, an 
old member of the Society, made a few remarks, The plan of 
having public meetings once a month was then discussed and 
approved of, and many suggestions made for increasing the in- 
terest in the meetings of the Society. 

The annual meeting of the Society was held on October 
26th. After the reading of the minutes, Mr. E. W. Arthy, 
Graduate of Oxford University, was unanimously elected a 



member. The annual reports of the Treasurer and Secretary 
were then read. The election of officers for the present year re- 
sulted as follows : —President, Mr. C. J. Doherty ; 1st Vice- 
President, Mr. A. McGoun ; 2nd Vice-President, Mr. A. G. 
Cross ; Treasurer, Mr. C. J. Brooks (re-elected) ; Cor. Secretary,. 
Mr. H. J. Hague ; Rec. Secretary, Mr. John Mackie ; Council : 
Messrs. R. W. Boodle, R. C. Smith, L. T. Leet, Oughtred, 
Ritchie and J. R. Murray. We may mention that Mr. Archi- 
bald was again offered re-election, but declined. Mr. Doherty, 
on assuming the chair, was loudly cheered, and returned thanks 
in very appropriate words. A vote of thanks was then passed 
to Mr. Archibald, for the devoted way in which he had filled the* 
office of President. We must say that this gentleman deserves 
much praise for his indefatigible efforts on behalf of the 
Society. Amendments to the constitution were then discussed. 
An amendment by Mr. McGoun, and one by Mr. Smith, were 
lost, and after protracted discussion, one by Mr. Archibald was 
carried, allowing the Committee greater latitude in providing 
programmes than heretofore. A vote of censure having been 
passed on Messrs. John Calder and B. C. Maclean for failing to 
appear on the previous evening, the meeting adjourned. 

We are requested by the General Committee of the Society 
to invite all graduates and undergraduates to attend the meet- 
ings during the winter. 

We are glad to perceive that the prospects for the Society in 
the present year are very bright. If we mistake not an 
increased energy is manifest amongst the members, who include, 
as we were glad to see, many new graduates. 

LAW FACULTY. 

At the general meeting of the Undergraduates in Law, the 
following officers were elected : President, Mr. A. Falconer, B.A. ; 
Vice-President, Mr. A. W. Smith, B. A. ; Secretary, Mr. R. A. 
Greenshields, B.A. 

The Committee for the Moot Court is composed of Mr. F* 
McLennan, B.A., Mr. C. Duclos, B.A., and Mr. N. T. Rielle, 
B.A., Mr. Francis McLennan, B.A., and Mr. J. R. Murray, 
B.A., were also elected as co-editors of the Gazette . 

The total number of students attending the law lectures in 
the three years is only 25. There are two reasons for this, 
decrease in numbers : 1st. The fact that the Faculty have raised 
the fees, making them the same as at Laval. This has natural- 
ly caused all the French students to desert us for an institution 
in which their own language is exclusively used. We may pro- 
phesy that we have seen almost the last of our French-Canadian 
confreres in McGill ^ 2nd. The greater prosperity in business, 
for it is a noticeable fact that in years of financial depression 
young men flock into the professions, and especially to the 
legal, as being more nearly related to commerce, and vice versa 
in good times. 

But if we are few in numbers, we may justly feel proud of the 
quality, for of the 25, we can point to 15 graduates in Art& 
from McGill and other Universities, and it must not be supposed 
that the falling off in the number of students in this Faculty 
is any evidence of a failing prosperity in the case of the whole 
University, for the number of undergraduates in the other 
I acuities is this year fully twenty per cent, greater than at any 
previous time. 

GENERAL. 

Dartmouth and Amherst will publish dailies this year. 

The Ontario Ladies College at Whitby begins the new term 
with several changes in its teaching staff. 

Harvard football team, besides practice in kicking goals and 
passing, plays every afternoon, regularly. 

The Crimson, after a life of ten years, has ceased to exist. 
A combination, “ The Herald-Crimson,” takes its place. 

There are sixteen persons on the new staff of the ’Varsity 
four of whom are graduates. 

Mr. James Russell Lowell, U. S. Minister, will be nominated 
a candidate for the rectorship of the University of St. Andrews. 

“ The Dartmouth ” claims to have the largest circulation of 
any college journal in America, 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



Harvard has the best ’Varsity crew this year that it has ever 
had. The Yale crew were coached all summer in their new 
stroke. 

The “ Five O’clock Tea ” of the ’Varsity has given place to 
Xi Our Wallet.” May there always be plenty of spondulix. 

The Argosy has in its last number a well-written and instruc- 
tive article entitled “ The Canadian Student in London.” 

The “Star” of “Old Albert” has again risen high above the 
horizon, to shine with modest brilliancy among the constella- 
tions of college literature . — Astrum Alberti. 

The attendance at the Y. M. C. A. of Toronto University 
was* not so large last week, owing to a meeting being held at 
the same time of those interested in the Inter-Collegiate sports. 

The Literary and Scientific Society of Toronto University 
appears to be in a flourishing condition. The ’Varsity has just 
devoted a page to no less than fifty-eight subjects for debate. 

It is stated that Mr. Ryckman, son of the Rev. I)r. Ryck- 
man, has taken all round honors, and won three scholarships. 
This achievement is unprecedented. 

The freshman class is unusually large, and the scholastic year 
opens at Victoria with brilliant omens of ever increasing pro- 
sperity. 

The University of St. Andrews has been left a legacy of 
$150,000 dollars for bursaries, subject to the life of the testa- 
tor's brother, half of the sum to be devoted to male students and 
the other half to female students. 

Mount Allison College claims that its new Memorial Hall, 
when finished, will be one of the finest structures of its kind in 
the Maritime Provinces. It is expected that the present college 
will be remodelled and many improvements made. 

The Bishop of Carlisle, i s Chairman of the Board of Gover- 
nors, opened the new grammar school buildings at Carlisle on the 
20th September last. The buildings, which have cost over 
$60,000 in addition to $16,000 paid for the site, will accom- 
modate 250 boys, including 30 boarders. 

The University Quarterly, — a new exchange, — is published 
by the students of the University of New York. It is in its 
sixth volume, and is very neatly got up indeed, being well 
printed and well arranged. Its first article, “The University,” 
is the Commencement Address by Chancellor Hall. The 
editorials are on interesting University subjects, and are well 
written. An excellent Book Review is a leading feature. 

Dr. Nelles’ reception to the matriculants and undergraduates 
of the University of Victoria College took place on Friday 
evening. From an early hour till midnight the spacious 
drawing-room and parlors of the President’s residence were 
crowded with a gay throng. The festivities were ably presided 
over by Mrs. Nelles and Miss Nelles, assisted by a number of 
ladies. 

The State Teachers’ Institute closed at New Haven, Conn., 
Saturday, and adopted resolutions asking the Lnited States 
Government to provide for schools where there are not enough 
already, and particularly for an industrial training school in 
Alaska. Professor Summer of \ale “ pitched into the rural 
schools, in which he says there is u indifference, bigotry and 
robbery.” 

The agitation among the students of Victoria University ask- 
ing the authorities to render compulsory the donning of the 
regularly prescribed cap and gown continues unabated. A 
memorial has been presented to the faculty, signed by tlnee- 
fourths of all the undergraduates, requesting the enforcement 
of this time-honored practice. A small radical faction exist* 
who demand the abolition of it. Ouly three students signed in 
favor of the retention of the custom now in vogue at the col- 
lege. — [We ask Jake to note the above. Eds.] 

There are two vacancies in the regular professorships in ^ ale, 
one in civil engineering, caused by the recent sudden death of 
Professor Norton, and the other in homiletics, which, for the 
third or fourth year, remains unfilled, and in which instruction 
will be given by Professor Barbour. The name of Mr, ( *eorge 



Bendelari appears in the catalogue for the first time as assistant 
professor in modern languages. He is a graduate of Harvard 
in the class of ’74, and was instructor in Italian and Spanish in 
that college for four years. Mr. Alfred Ripley, ’78, succeeds 
Mr. Hadley as instructor in German. Messrs. V illiam E. 
Waters and Horatio M. Reynolds, both graduates of Tale, have 
been appointed tutors in the classics. Mr. Jay V . Seaver, who 
has been appointed gymnastic instructor, was of the class of 
’80, and comes from a position in Williston Seminary in East- 
ham pton. 

The students of Toronto school of medicine held their elec- 
tion lately of officers for the annual dinner. J. W. 
Patterson, M.A., was elected chairman; Horace Bascom, 1st 
vice-chairman ; Chas. Ilodgetts, 2nd vice-Chairman. G. S. 
Wattam, B.A., was chosen to represent the school at Trinity 
medical school dinner. At the conclusion of the meeting the 
attention of the students was directed to an article in the 
’ Varsity's issue of Saturday, Oct. 20, in which certain remarks 
were made uncomplimentary to members of the dinner com- 
mittee. They immediately showed their unanimous disapproval 
of the conduct of the writer by tendering to him divers groans 
and hisses, and adopted the following resolution : 

Resolved, that we, the students of the Toronto school of medicine 
hereby condemn the attitude assumed by the ’ Varsity in discussing affair 
of our school. In addition, we will consider it our duty to show our dis- 
approbation of the ’ Varsity's course until ample apology is made. 

The annual meeting of the ’ Varsity Stock company was held 
on Wednesday evening in Moss Hall, about thirty shareholders 
being present. The treasurer read a satisfactory annual state- 
ment showing, for the first time, a balance of receipts over 
expenditure. After several changes in the institution, includ- 
ing the addition to the list of officers of two associate editors, 
the following were elected for the year 1883L-84 : — President, R. 

E. Ivingsford, M.A., L.L.B. ; Vice-President, W. F. W. Creel- 
man, B.A. ; Editor, J. McG. Young; Associate-Editors, W. H. 
Blake, B.A., and A. H. Campbell, B.A. ; Business Manager, G. 

F. Cane ; Secretary, John McGillivray ; Treasurer, J. F. Edgar ; 
Directors, IV. year, J. M. McWliinney, G. W. Holmes ; III., 
F. H. Sykes, A. J. McLeod ; II., B. B. Cronyn, A. D. Crooks ; 
I., A. G. Smith, T. H. Halstead. The ’ Varsity now stands at 
the head of Canadian college journalism, and has shown steady 
improvement, and if it fulfils the promises given in its first 
number of this year, is deserving of the support of every graduate 
and undergraduate of Toronto University. A call has been 
made through convocation to the graduates, and it is to be 
hoped it will be well responded to. — Toronto World. 

The Richmond Literary Miscellany is also a new exchange. 
It is published by the Alpha Literary Society, and “ is devoted 
to the Literary interests of Richmond, Va.” It is not the 
neatest of papers, though it does contain “A Word to the 
Girls.” Its leading article is entitled “Albert Sidney John- 
ston ” an oration delivered before the Alpha Literary Society. 
The composer, Mr. A. S. Morton, beautifully describes John- 
ston’s life from the time when “the fire of the warrior was 
kindled in his breast, and, entering the Academy at West 
Point, he offers his services to his country,” up to the time 
when “ the soul of the great warrior had winged its flight to a 
brighter world.” The oration ended with “Be that as it may, 
Albert Sidney Johnston is one of a nation’s heroes, and his 
name is for ever emblazoned upon the tablet of American 
history as one of the brightest stars in the brilliant galaxy of 
America’s statesmen and warriors.” 

The Dundee University College, founded by Miss Baxter and 
the late Dr. Baxter at a cost of $720,000, was opened recently 
by Lord Dalhousie. His Lordship spoke highly of the muni- 
ficence of the donors, and rejoiced that the college was available 
for all classes of both sexes, irrespective of religious belief. The 
inaugural address was delivered by Professor Stuart, of Cam- 
bridge, who referred to the success of the Scotch University 
system, and spoke of the satisfactory progress that was being 
made in providing technical instruction to all classes in the 
various large centres of industry. While, however, this branch 
of education would be one of the chief features of the Dundee 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



College, he was glad to think that literature and the arts were 
not to he forgotten. Miss Baxter’s portrait in oil was afterwards 
presented by the Earl of Camperdown on behalf of the sub- 
scribers, and acknowledged by W. E. Baxter, M.P., who handed 
it over to the college authorities. At the close of the ceremony 
the freedom of Dundee was presented to the Earls of Dalhousie 
and Camperdown. — Star. 

The classes by correspondence in connection with Newnham 
College reopen this month. The results of the higher local ex- 
aminations held in June last have been very satisfactory with 
regard to correspondence students. Of these, nine obtained 
places in the first class, fourteen got marks of distinction, and 
two were elected to scholarships at Newnham College — one for 
distinction in Group A (English language and literature), the 
other for Group E (natural science). The student who obtained 
the prize for divinity in Group R (divinity) was also a corres- 
pondence student. Applications for admission to these classes 
should be made to the honorary secretary, Mrs. Peile, Trump- 
ington, Cambridge. — Ex. 

University of Toronto. 

At the meeting of the Senate on Saturday night notices were 
given : — (1) By Mr. Gibson, of a resolution asking the legisla- 
ture so to amend the University act as to allow the Senate to 
grant the decree of LL.D. as an honorary one only ; (2) by Mr. 
Houston, of a statute abolishing the age limit in connection with 
junior marticulation scholarships ; (3) by Mr. Buchan, of a 
statute providing that French and German may be substituted 
for Greek throughout the whole course ; (4) by Mr. Houston, of 
a statute providing for the creation of a new graduating depart- 
ment, including, besides fourth year English, the subjects of 
constitutional history, constitutional law, civil polity, political 
economy, and jurisprudence ; (5) by Prof. Loudon, of a resolu- 
tion recommending the establishment of a chair of romance lan- 
guages with a salary of at least $2,000 a year. On motion of 
Prof. Loudon the Senate resolved, after a spirited discussion, 
that “ it is desirable, in order to encourage the pursuit of special 
studies amongst graduates in arts in this University, to establish 
the decree of Ph. D.” This resolution was referred to the board 
of arts studies with instructions to prepare the details of a 
scheme for giving it effect. On motion of Mr. Falconbridge it 
was resolved to request the government to delay making the ap- 
pointment of a French tutor until the Senate should have an 
opportunity of considering the expediency of creating a chair of 
the romance languagues. On motion of Prof. Loudon it was re- 
solved to abolish scholarships in the second and third years of the 
University course, as the Senate had already resolved to accept 
for those years the examinations of affiliated colleges in lieu of 
its own. 

The statement of the ’ Varsity managment shows a balance on 
hand of over $400. — Ex. 

The will of the late Henry Farnham, of New Haven, leaves 
an estate of four millions to his widow and five children. His 
property, valued at $200,000, he leaves to Yale College. — Ex. 



^ 23 efa>een the lectures. 



“ Welcome little strangers,” is the remark recently overheard 
from an irreverent Med. He is supposed by some to have re- 
ferred to his new professors. 

The entrance to the shrine of Themis has been removed to 
St. James street, where her votaries may now be seen daily 
ascending its lofty steps. 

“ Sunt, quos curriculo pulverem Olympicum collegisse 
juvat.” We do not doubt it ; but all the same we are not likely 
to have another bicycle race until the track shall be improved, 
or the wily accident insurance agent shall offer greater induce- 
ments. 



Will the Science Sophomore, who, with note book and pencil 
in hand, went down among the fishes, in the St. Lawrence 
River, near St. Helen’s Island, kindly forward to the Local News 
Editor the notes which he may have taken during his subaque- 
ous flounderings. 

The men of science who witnessed his return to the surface,, 
forbore to question the explorer at the time, as he seemed 
intently interested in illustrating the power of waterspouts by 
means of a small model. 

Concerning the late visit of the Marquis of Lome and the 
Princess Louise to this city, a good story is told. It is said that 
the Princess was observed chatting in a friendly way with a 
worthy senator of the Dominion. The latter was afterwards 
approached by a friend who remarked : “ The Princess seems 
to be quite familiar with you.” “Yes,” replied the senator, 
“me and her is good friends.” 

A prominent phrenologist has made the discovery that the 
“ bump of combativeness ” is remarkably well developed be- 
hind a well-known Med’s left ear. He infers that it was brought 
to its present state of perfection during the last football match 
by the sudden exercise of the faculty it represents, either in 
himself or one of the Cadets. Those interested in the science 
will find the bump on exhibition at its lodgings, 20 Cathcart st., 
between the hours of 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. — Come one, come all. 

A great change has been wrought in the culinary department 
of our medical school. Under the present Chef cle cuisine the 
entrees will consist entirely of cold meats, served up with anti- 
septic sauce. Pickled feet and potted head will also form fea- 
tures of the programme. The guests have already discussed 
the first course, and although the whole subject is shrouded in 
mystery, their appreciation of the improved cookery is shown 
by the well picked bones. 



'^Personal#, 



We regret to learn the death of Mr. John Menzies of Pem- 
broke, formerly of Class ’84, Medicine. 

Y . H. Howard, B. Ap. fee. ’83, assists Dr. Harrington in the 
Laboratory. 

D. B. Dowling, B. Ap. Sc. ’83, is on the Engineering Staff 
of the Ontario and Quebec Ry. 

. ^ Shaw, who is at present taking the Engineering Course 
m our I* acuity of Applied Science, graduated about two years 
ago from Kingston Military College. 

. Tl‘ e Rev. J. F. Sweeney, who graduated from this College in 
l b <8 and took Ins master’s degree in 1881, has been granted 
the degree of Bachelor of Divinity by the University of Trinity 
College, Toronto. J 

It is with pleasure that we notice one well known name after 
another figuring in all the glory of a gilt sign-board ; among the 
latest which grace our streets are Stuart & Fair ; Trenholme 
lay lor & Dickson. 



The Gilchrist Scholarship has been taken this year by Mr 
II Graham Creelman of Upper Stewiacke, Nova Scotia! 
Mr. Creelman graduated from Dalhousie College in 1881 ob- 
taining the gold medal for Mathematics and Physics. He’ has 

now gone to London, where he purposes continuing his mathe- 
matical studies. ° 



[The Gilchrist Scholarships were founded about twenty years, 
ago with a view to the encouragement of learning in the British 
Colonies One of them, of an annual value of £100 and 
tenab e for three years, is yearly offered for competition in 

hlTt t C ) US f lll u leS- , Tlle holder of this Scholarship, 
m entffkd to study at either the University of London or that 
of Edinburgh. Candidates must be under twenty-two years of 
age, and ninst pass the matriculation examination of London 
University, the Scholarship of course falling to the competitor 
who passes the best examination.] r 



