Vol. X 



No. II. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal 






UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 



OIF 1 NEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly ------ $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve Mr circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General' Managers, 

I'T'SS ITOTBT 1 STBEET, - - T\/fri-KTT'T?.-n A T ■ 




WEDDING CARDS, 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS, 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS - 

IMlL chemical apparatus 



A Lull Stodk doi^taptly or) Hapd, Imported 
Ditedt ftom tl,e Leading jVapufadtudei^ 
of tl\e World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



— FOR — 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 

AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 232 ST - J AM ®s st 




unit iifiimniF imi ttOOiiS ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



THE BURLAND L1TH. CO., 

5, 7 & 9 Blenry SI., MONTRIJAL. 



JIEMHC&Ij U'OHKS, boohs VS Kit US' JiKT COVRSi 
SCIEjycjE TEXT ROOKS, 

THH l \1 RIOVS I ItEO /. « /<’.# V ROOKS. 



Wm. -Notman & Son, 



* -*l*_*_*_* *_* *_» ■ * * * 



* * 



hotographers 



* * **•***#- * * * *"* * * * * * 
- • Scale oj Tricss this year 
fcr Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



nOOHS. 

Foil assortment in stock & soppM at Root Bottom Pric 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 



Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 

* '-ib_est ’nt.a.XjTtie ihxt to'wtstf 
StylogravMc Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. T ames stree 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. X.] 



McGill college, Montreal, April 13th, 1887. 



[No. 11. 








BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Pice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-'lreas. 

Oils. W. Hoaue, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Edit or -in -Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc 
Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. '88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CONTE NTS: 

PAGE. 



Editorials 

Poetry 

Contributions 
McGill News - 
Societies 
Personals 

Between the Lectures 
College World 
Correspondence - 



143-144 
- 145, 153 

- 145-152 
152-153 

153 

153 

154 
154 

- 154-155 



Subscribers who are in need of back numbers 
of the Gazette, to complete this year’s issue, will 
be furnished with them if they will communicate 
with Mr. Mackie, Secretary Board of Directors, 
P. O. Box 1290. Give numbers wanted and P. O. 



address. 



'Editorials. 



McGILL’S ANNUAL REPORT AND MR. 

PAGNUELO’S REPLY. 

In our last issue we made some reference to the 
annual report of McGill University for 1886, and 
referred especially to the reference therein made to 
the subject of professional examinations. In the 
Montreal Gazette , of date 28th March last, there ap 



peared a long letter from Mr. Pagnuelo, Q.C., Secre- 
tary of the Bar of this Province, in which he criti- 
cizes that report. We have not space to follow the 
learned Secretary through all his letter, but wish to 
remark upon a few of the points raised. 

Mr. Pagnuelo insinuates that Sir William Dawson 
has endeavoured, in this report, to rouse Protestant 
against Roman Catholic with the sordid motive of 
getting funds for the University, charges him with 
want of reliable information, and of appealing to 
Protestant prejudices, and finally takes him to task 
for his heterodox educational views. Much of Mr. 
Paguuelo’s letter may be passed over with the simple 
observation that it is a capital, though, perhaps, ill- 
advised, exhibition of the lawyer’s art, but displays 
little argument worthy either of his position or of the 
document which he has undertaken to criticize. 

The answer that “ no university graduate has ever 
yet been admitted to the study of law without a pre- 
liminary examination,” is no answer at all to the com- 
plaint urged in the report. It is one of the many 
evidences that Mr. Pagnuelo clearly understands the 
subject, but evades the point at issue. Protestant 
schools train men to enter the learned professions ; 
Roman Catholic schools do the same. The council 
of the Bar now steps in and imposes a programme of 
examination, drawn up by itself, the result of which 
is to place Protestant candidates at a great disadvan- 
tage. We have already referred to this disadvantage 
in a previous issue, in the matter of Mathematics and 
Philosophy. IIow shall Protestants get over the 
difficulty 1 evidently by accepting the Roman Cath- 
olic curriculum for preparatory study ! In this con- 
nection we take the opportunity of denying Mr. 
Pagnuelo’s assertion that the English Protestant 
examiner on the Board “ has recommended our pro- 
gramme.” We are, well informed when we say that 
Dr. Howe has done nothing of the kind ; but that, on 
the contrary, he has, on several occasions, written Mr. 
Pagnuelo himself on matters in connection with this 
very programme, and has stated his objections to it 
clearly and forcibly. 

“ To insinuate that the council of the Bar decides 
for universities the course of studies adequate for a 
decree is most mischievous, and as untrue as mischiev- 
ous,” says Mr. Pagnuelo. That the council of the 
Bar does this, we answer, is quite true, and as mis- 



144 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



chievous as it is true. McGill is certainly second to 
no school in Quebec ; Sir Wm. Dawson, the Dean of 
the McGill Law Faculty, and some of her ablest pro- 
fessors, hold that they are able to turn out men well 
prepared to practise law by a course of, say, 500 
lectures. In proof of the correctness of their system 
they point to the actual position taken by their 
graduates at the Bar as compared with men trained 
according to other systems. The council of the Bar 
again steps in and says to McGill — “ You must give 
a course of 1090 lectures, or we shall not grant your 
students any privilege because of their degree.” Will 
Mr. Pagnuelo undertake to say that McGill's degree 
in law is inferior to Laval’s ? What business has the 
council with anything but the legal acquirements of 
the candidate who presents himself before it for 
admission 1 The council, we presume, has a perfect 
right to grant no privilege to any candidate bearing a 
University degree, if it thinks proper, but we submit 
it has no right to discriminate between degrees. The 
object of the council of the Bar is, evidently, not to 
improve professional training so much as it is to ex- 
clude men trained at McGill from the legal profes- 
sion. The council of the Bar does not decide for 
universities the course of studies, but it says — “ do 
as we tell you, or we’ll kill you.” 

Mr. Pagnuelo’s calculation about the proportion of 
English to French on the Council and on the Board 
of Examiners, is the veriest clap-trap. The majority 
is French, and the majority rules. Dr. Howe’s ob- 
jections have been of little account, because he is in 
the minority. Besides all this, it would be interesting 
to know how many of these Englishmen, to whom 
Mr. Pagnuelo refers, are Roman Catholic and trained 
in Roman Catholic institutions. 

One word in conclusion. We are sick and tired 
of hearing about the “generosity of our French 
fellow-citizens.” They are just about as generous as 
the English, and not a whit more so. We are discus- 
sing this question as a matter of business ; the selfish 
interests of a class are just as likely to assert them- 
selves as are those of individuals, and it is no answer 
to an agitation against either to pitch at our heads, 
every time a dispute comes up, the opinions of Mayor 
Abbott or any other man, no matter how eminent, 
especially opinions expressed at such times as those 
when the stock introductory sentence is — “ I am quite 
unable to express my feelings on this occasion ; we 
have achieved a splendid victory, &c , &c.” 

Columbia College will celebrate on the 13th of 
April next the one hundredth anniversary of its incor- 
poration under its present title, though it was originally 
established by royal charter in 1754 as King’s College. 



THE GRADUATES’ SOCIETY AND THE 
COLLEGE ELECTIONS. 

This society, by reason of its being situated in the 
city and comprising a large number of the graduates 
resident here, is taking an unfair advantage of those 
graduates who are not members of it. What right has 
this society to enclose the names of candidates, no- 
minated through it, in the same envelopes as are en- 
closed the official papers sent to each voter from 
the office of the registrar 1 The seal of the society 
is very like that of the University itself, and the 
ordinary voter, on receiving the papers, is very apt to 
come to the conclusion that he has no right to vote 
for any men except for those whose names are on the 
enclosed slip. 

It is evident that it would be highly inconvenient, 
not only for the registrar, but also for graduates, to 
have the names of every nominee outside the Graduates’ 
Society enclosed in the official envelope : this being 
the case, none should be so enclosed. The Graduates’ 
Society has a perfect right to communicate with voters 
in what way it pleases, so long as the rights of those 
who do not belong to it are not by its action prejudic- 
ed ; but the University has no right to give the no- 
minations of this society an official character. The 
matter may be considered unimportant at present, but 
the time may come when graduates resident in Montreal 
shall see fit to claim as a right that which is now grant- 
ed them as a favour. 

There is a wheel within a wheel, too, to which we 
wish to refer. The society, by certain By-laws, pre- 
scribes the method of nomination. This By-Law 
is, we understand, in the possession of the secretary, 
whom it is not always easy to find. Members have 
virtually no means of taking communication of the re- 
gulations governing nominations for Representative 
Fellows, which are known only to the inner circle. 
For want of information, and not through any lack of 
care, we understand Mr. Hutchinson’s nomination was 
not regular ; who knows but that it might have been 
rejected had it not been that the time consumed in 
selecting an opponent to him, made it desirable not 
to insist very strongly upon formalities. 



The Heidelberg Quincentennial Celebration last July 
has left a surplus of 1,840Z. after all the heavy expenses 
of the festivities. Ten marks have been put aside as the 
nucleus of a fund towards the celebration of the 
Thousandth Anniversary of the University — rather a 
far cry as yet — and this sum with the interest is ex- 
pected to swell to about 100,0002. by the time it should 
be used. The majority of the surplus will be given 
to the Municipality for charitable purposes. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



145 



Poetry. 

THE EAGLE AND THE KINGS. 

( From Victor Hugo.) 

An eagle sought the desert’s spring beside 
A lion’s cave : 

Meanwhile, two Kings, (God willed it so), espied 
The sparkling wave. 

Beneath tall palms, where pilgrims quench their drought 
Fresh strength to gain, 

These Kings, sworn toemen, fought their duel out 
Till both were slain. 

The eagle hovered o’er each lifeless brow, 

4 And, mocking, said : 

Ye found the universe too small, and now 
Your souls have fled ! 

0 Princes, lately jubilant ! your bones 
To-morrow must 

Be mixed with indistinguishable stones 
Amid the dust 1 

Ye fools ! what gained ye by your savage feud ? 

Behold, the end ! 

I, the proud eagle, haunt this solitude— 

The lion’s friend. 

From the same spring we drink, each morn and eve — 
Kings, he and I : 

Hill, dale, and forest depths to him I leave, 

And keep the sky.” 

Geo. Murray. 



tLontributions. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



President’s Address, Delivered in the William 
Molson Hall, Dec. 3rd, 1887. 



(Continued.) 

The second type of courtship, if such it may be 
termed at all, was of the reckless and desperate type 
as contrasted with the obsequious mode of Hercules. 
It is exemplified in the manner in which Pluto paid 
his addresses to Proserpina, the daughter of Ceres. 
While she was gathering flowers on the Nysian Plain 
he literally “ carried her by storm” to his dark regions 
below. You know the sequel. She spent only half 
the year with her husband, and the remaining half 
away from him with his mother-in-law. It is ques- 
tionable whether even such a course as Pluto pursued 
be not more nearly worthy of respect than the effemi- 
nacy of Hercules, but I commend the result as a warn- 
ing against undue haste. 

The third and last type I shall notice you find por- 
trayed in the charming little story of Hippomenes 
and Atalanta. This young lady was surpassingly 
fair, but, having been brought up by a she-bear, she 
was not the most convenient young lady to woo. 
Her father wished her to wed, and she consented 
upon one condition, viz. : that each of her suitors 
should, in turn, compete with her in a foot-race, and 
the one who should outrun her should become her 
spouse, while those who failed should forfeit their 
lives. Even upon these terms, numerous competitors 
were found. The stakes were high and the races 
exciting beyond measure. Well did the fleet-footed, 



but cruel, beauty know that she could distance all 
the runners. One after another entered the race only 
to see her fly like a vision before them, laughing con 
templuously at their untoward fate. Probably, Hip- 
pomenes had never betrayed his passion at all, but 
warily he went to the altar of Venus, and laid his 
sorry case before that goddess. Equally mistress of 
the intrigues of love and of the foibles of feminine 
nature, Aphrodite gave to the suitor three golden 
apples, bidding him cast one at a time upon the race- 
course during the contest. All was ready. The 
fable does not say that a pistol was fired, but some- 
how or other the competitors were started — she run- 
ning for freedom, he for life and love. As she was 
distancing him despite his frantic exertions, he cast 
one of the golden apples upon the track. Its glitter 
was too much for Atalanta. She stooped to pick it 
up, and Hippomenes passed her. Thrice was this 
repeated, and the breathless suitor finally reached the 
goal, won the race, saved his neck, and, no doubt, 
with what measure of serenity his agitated frame was 
capaple of, gazed out upon the elytian prospect of 
married life. But, alas for his hopes ! He gained 
his bride, but they were both changed into lions. Of 
course, this story will not be confounded with the 
modern Atalanta race. You remember, four years 
ago, we sent a yacht called “Atalanta” to race at 
New York, but the American yacht both won the 
race and gathered in the gold. The Canadian may, 
in a sense, have been lionized, but the whole thing 
has, of course, an entirely different moral. But what 
am I to say of Hippomenes and Atalanta? We have 
had examples of obsequious effeminacy, and then of 
desperation and rashness, and now we have deceit. 
Hippomenes could not win her by fair competition, 
and so he resorted to device. The moral requires no 
elaboration. Let the youth beware how he dispense 
with candour. Hippomenes and Atalanta were 
united through deceit, and they were doubtless 
changed into lions in order that they might fight the 
rest of their journey through with very appropriate 
ferocity. 

Having thus, at least as far as good intentions are 
concerned, discharged rny paternal duties in enlighten- 
ing our younger members upon so delicate a subject, 
1 might pass on to other themes, were it not that the 
consideration of the fabled young ladies I have been 
speaking about recalls another poetic little myth, 
which I will mention. You remember there was a 
youth, named Narcissus, who was so beautiful that 
when he saw his reflection in the water he was so 
transported that he could not withdraw his eyes from 
the sight, and so was changed into the pretty flower 
that still bears his name. There was a young lady, 
named Echo, who very deeply loved the vain youth, 
but he was too much absorbed in admiration of his 
own comeliness to treat her with more than callous 
indifference. She was so much distressed that she 
faded away until nothing but her voice remained. 
Now, I must approach this pretty story in an enquir- 
ing lather than an expository frame of mind, and 
merely suggest possible interpretations of it. The 
one which will, of course, naturally suggest itselt to 
all minds is, whether the fact of the voice remaining 



146 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



is an illustration of Mr. Darwin’s doctrine of the 
survival of the fittest or most robust ? I hat, of course, 
I leave with the science students to determine. For 
my own part, I think it more prudent to give the 
ladies the benefit of the doubt, and to argue that it 
is greatly to the credit of Miss Echo that she had so 
much voice left, for if she had imprudently expended 
it upon Narcissus, it is highly improbable that after 
her dissolution she would have had what, I suppose, 
Matthew Arnold would call such “a mighty all-trans- 



forming remnant.” 

But while we are speaking of woman, we ought 
not to forget the truly typical woman of mythology — 
Pandora, or all-gifted. She was the first woman. 
Venus endowed her with beauty. Mercury conferred 
on her some of his own cunning; in fact, every god 
did seem to set his seal to give the world assurance 
of a woman, and hence her name. Pandora brought 
with her from heaven (even her enemies admit where 
she came from) a box containing every species of 
human ill and misfortune. She was consumed with 
curiosity, and got some one to open the box, so that 
all the evils escaped and spread over mankind, “hope” 
alone remaining in the bottom of the box. Now, 
pursuant to the tenor of this version, man has ever 
since been laying to the charge of his helpmate “the 
slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,” “ the sea of 
troubles,” “the heartache, and the thousand natural 
shocks that flesh is heir to.” Now, to begin with, he 
claims that before Pandora came to this planet, men 
never used to stand at the mouth of their caves and 
say they were not at home when they were at home, 
and that, in fact, all “ the social lies that warp us 
from the living truth,” which Tennyson has so anathe- 
matized, were unknown to the world, and that among 
the first misfortunes which the typical woman hurled 
upon us from that mysterious box were the deceptions 
and intrigues ot social life — the direct consequence of 
Mercury’s endowment. We hear this sort of argu- 
ment every day, and the unfair male critics seldom 
give us the other side. They say there have been 
more duels fought concerning Avoman than from all 
other causes put together, but they do not expatiate 
upon the chivalry thus developed. WRere Avould 
the glorious annals of knight-errantry be had Pandora 
never come? They tell us that before Pandora came 
there Avas no such thing as dry goods trade, and that 
to her advent is to be attributed the great industry in 
mirrors ; even so, surely the stimulation of trade is 
not an evil. But they say the Avorst calamity of all 
is just beginning to crawl out of that terrible box. 
The Avomen are going to enter the professions and 
trades, and we will have to stay at home and take 
care of the children. Pandora enter the trades? 
Surely, never ! With her characteristic cunnin^ she 
might mix some slates with coal, or “accidentally” 
spill some sand in the sugar ; she might put "reen 
wood into window sashes ; she might say of a piece 
of goods that it was all wool, when, as a matter of 
fact, it Avas not all avooI; and she might even so 
tar as to say that some blue stulf Avould wash°and 
Avhen the poor old Avasherman at home had finished 
wrestling with it in the laundry tubs, he would find 
that the pattern had faded into nebulous azure What 



Avould then become of the immaculate morals of our 
commercial community? Pandora enter the profes 
sions? Shame on such a proposal ! With her mono 
poly of deception, she might enter the chamber of 
the patient, roll out a feAV of those terrible Avords 
used in anatomy, prescribe a tolerably harmless de- 
coction, and then go doAvnstairs muttering to herself, 
“ I Avonder Avhat is the matter Avith the felloAv ; the 
fair laAvyer might ahvays advise a suit, and the poor 
client Avould occasionally have a bill of costs to pay ; 
the clerical lady might, from the eminence of the 
pulpit, declaim against the modern drama for ten 
months in the year, and the other tAvo be found 
rapturously applauding in Covent Garden or the 
Grand Opera of Paris. What Avould then become of 
the noble ingenuousness of our profession ? 

Whether Mercury’s gift has absolutely disqualified 
AAoman for any of these callings or not, I Avill leave 
to the frankness of the audience to say, but, I think, 
my felloAvs Avho are afraid of this latest calamity from 
Pandora’s box are borrowing trouble, and before Ave 
raise our voices too high we ought to wait until the 
evil gets fairly out of the box, if it be there at all. 
She has not, as yet, corrupted our commercial 
morality, nor invaded the singleness of purpose that 
inspires our professions. Until these fears become 
better founded, let us look at Avhat is said to have 
remained at the bottom of the box — hope. Butler 
says — 

“ Far greater numbers have been lost by hopes — 

Than all the lfiagazines of daggers, ropes, 

And other amunitions of despair, 

Were ever able to despatch by fear.’’ 

I need not tell you that the hope Avhich Pandora 
brought is not one of the delusive expectations that 
Butler complains of, for it is singled out and set apart 
from the misfortunes and calamities. It is rather 
that of Avhich CoAvley sings — 

“ Hope, of all ills that men endure. 

The only cheap and universal cure — 

Thou captive’s freedom, and then sick men’s breath, 
Thou lover’s victory, then beggar’s wealth — 

Thou manna Avhich from heaven Ave eat, 

To every taste a several meat.” 

I 

And Avhy did this hope remain in the box — why Avas 
it not poured out at once to counteract the ills ? May 
it not be that Avoman could not bestoAA r this benedic- 
tion upon the Avorld until she Avas given her rightful 
position l Nothing in history more clearly marks 
the course ot ciA r ilization than the treatment of Avoman 
Horn a position ot inferiority to one of equality or 
superiority, accordingly as you vieAV it. What is 
modern progress developing in the direction of this 
hope ? I will not dare to express any opinion upon 
tie deliberations of those mysterious parliaments 
known as women's rights commntions, though, I be- 
ieA e, they must be characterized by Avonderful 
AMsdom, nor yet as to the desirability of endoAving 
AAomankind with the franchise, though, I believe, she 
could not use it less intelligently than a portion of 

t u P r .. ese ^ ^ r . ee an< I independent electors ; but Avhen 
link ot this hope in Avoman, it is not to these my 
mind turns. If Ave could blot out the Avord “home,” 
with ail its significance, what stability Avould there 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



147 



be in our social fabric ? If we should take away from 
lile all the comfort, the beauty, the inspiration 
woman has brought it, how could man repair the 
waste ? The tramp of many legions was heard upon 
the fields of the Crimea. The valour of three great 
nations was brought together with all the pomp and 
circumstance of war. Among the myriads seeking 
glory in the mad rush of battle there moved a slender 
figure, clad in no emblazoned uniform, brandishing 
no glittering sword, starting no shell on its mission 
of death, and yet what name of all the bright galaxy 
of heroes that war produced compares in lustre with 
that of Florence Nightingale? Was there ever a 
period when life could more truly be likened to a 
conflict than the present? In the rush of our too 
often unkind competition, are there not wounded 
hearts by the million ? are there not fevered brows ? 
are there not multitudes stricken and wavering in 
their allegiance to the highest ideals of purity and 
goodness ? Aye, and are there not sweet spirits, not 
embroiled in the strife, performing the tender offices 
of healing and cheering, and of inspiring to lofty 
purpose, and when the din of battle is ended, when 
greatness will mean more than reputation, when, in 
its truer import, success will far transcend the ringing 
plaudits of time, then will these heroines, Avhose 
patient vigils of love and devotion the noisy world 
has left unsung, be found eminent in that company 
of the truly great of all ages, whom a diviner intelli- 
gence will honour and crown with immortal dignity 
and glory. 

The founding and early history of cities always 
present matter for study of exceptional interest. The 
archaeologist of the present day, who enters some 
great centre of commerce, paces its solidly paved 
streets, gazes upon the tall and unbroken rows of 
granite buildings, is very likely to have his specula- 
tions as to its dim and distant origin somewhat curtly 
dispelled, for the first man he speaks to is likely to 
say — “ When my father came here there were only 
two shanties, three stables, a barn, and a swamp,” 
and, judging by the number of people whose fathers 
went there when there were only two shanties, those 
two shanties must have afforded shelter to a popula- 
tion at least half that of the present Chicago, and they 
must have been much better ventilated than shanties 
are now. Concerning the origin of the great cities 
of antiquity we have not as many sources of informa- 
tion, but it is entirely due to the fact that there is an 
end to the credulity of a very credulous public, that 
we are not daily accosted by the grandsons of those 
who helped Cecrops to found Athens, or hob-nobbed 
with Romulus on the site of Rome. I he founding 
of Carthage by the unhappy Dido introduces us to 
something novel in the way of a land deal. She 
wished to build a city, and negotiated with some 
landed proprietors for as much land as could be com- 
passed by a bullock’s hide. Poor fellows, they no 
doubt thought Dido was about to shuffle oft the 
mortal coil, and merely wanted enough land to dig a 
rrrave in— or, rather, that is what they would have 
thought if they had been in the habit of digging 
craves. Probably they imagined she had some secret 
about ass’s ears to dispose of. At all events they 



covenanted, and sold to her for a mere trifle as much 
land as could be compassed by a bullock’s hide. She 
immediately cut the hide into the thinnest imaginable 
strips, and, fastening them together, compassed a 
parcel of land large enough to build a great citadel 
upon. And so, I suppose, it comes to pass that when 
people set about possessing themselves of land that 
does not belong to them, that — in the classical phrase- 
ology of the period — they may be said to raise didos. 
Land is represented to us as the most stable thing — on 
earth I was going to say. It remains a determinate 
quantity amid the inci’ease and decrease of all other 
commodities, and all the mutations of commerce, and 
this is utged as a reason why it should be sub- 
jected to different rules from all other species of pro- 
perty. One would imagine that nothing could be 
freer from hazard than investment in this most stable 
article, and yet more than one young man who, a few 
years ago, listened to the roseate utterances of auction- 
eers, and purchased four or five blocks of future cities, 
have, in the meantime, been anxiously endeavouring 
to dispose of the fishing rights over their property. 
There was an old Roman divinity, named Terminus, 
whose especial duty it was to look after boundaries. 
If thought progress too rapidly concerning land, it 
may be that Ave will . have to invoke his aid again. 
The land question, however, is one of those subjects 
which I said I would not discuss. It is quite true 
that the Mayoralty contest in New York is over, and 
that Mr. George’s defeat or election could not be 
attributed to anything I might say, but the fact is, 
there is not Ainanimity of opinion among our mem- 
bers upon this question any more than upon any 
other question, saving, always, their admiration of 
woman, concerning which I took the liberty of speak- 
ing more freely. I will only say this, that in discus- 
sing the land question and many other of the leading 
questions of the day, it avould be well for us to study 
'the fate of that fabled youth Icarus, Avho had wings 
fastened upon him with Avax. He had to fly over the 
sea, and his father Avarned him not to fly too high 
lest the heat of the sun should melt the Avax, nor yet 
to fly too Ioav, lest, absorbing the moisture from the 
Avater, it should lose its adhesiveness. In the pride 
of his youth he flew upAvard until the sun’s warmth 
despoiled him of his Avaxen Avings, and he plunged 
headlong to ruin. Literally translated into modern 
speech, he waxed warm in discussion and fell. Lou 
remember Avell the other warning against exti ernes— 
hoAv difficult it Avas to steer the middle course, be- 
tAveen Charybdis and Scylla — and yet inclination to 
the Avhirlpool on the one side, or the rocks on the 
other, was equally disastrous. Procrustes was a famous 
robber, Avho used to Avay-lay travellers, and seizing 
them, place them on a bed he had. If the victim 
happened to be shorter than the bed, he stretched 
him so as to fit it, Avliile, if he happened to be longer 
than the bed, the monster cut off his limbs till he 
Avas the proper size, and thus the bed of Procrustes 
came to be a byAVord of terror Robbers of this 
period do not usually put their victims to bed, but 
Iioav many people deal with great questions in pre- 
cisely the same manner. They approach them with 
pre-conceived ideas, and have no scruple about lop- 



148 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



ping oif the truth to make it fit the theories they have 
constructed, or without a single qualm they will dis- 
tort fact or stretch a point until it coincide with the 
doctrine they have accepted. Many great questions 
have beset this generation, questions far exceeding in 
complexity those which have puzzled past ages — 
questions that in their origin seem to reach back until 
they are fairly lost sight of in the tangled net-work 
of secondary causes, and to branch out in all direc- 
tions, until, upon careful examination, interests that 
seemed the most remote, are found to be atfected by 
them. There is the land question I have referred to, 
which was once, and is by some still, thought to be a 
very simple one ; there is the real or apparent conflict 
between capital and labour, the causes of commercial 
depression, the problem of the honourable conciliation 
of race antipathies and the eventual union of oppos- 
ing factions, and many other kindred questions. In 
their discussion, what is more needed than dispassion- 
ate moderation 1 Are we not too eager to form strong 
opinions on broad questions like these 1 ? There is 
a sort of satisfaction in having made up one’s mind, 
though, too frequently, when it is made up, the sub- 
ject is treated as one with which reason has no longer 
anything to do, and rash invective takes its place. 
It is not by hasty conclusions and impulsive action 
that lasting reforms now seem to be brought about. 
Questions that would formerly have been determined 
by revolution are now determined by evolution, the 
gradual development and adaptation of law to an 
increasingly complex social life, and it is not by 
frantic appeals to the populace, but by the steady 
enlightenment of the masses, that abuses will be 
checked and the way made clear for the ultimate 
triumph of the true principles of democracy. 

I hope I will not be understood as advocating a 
temporizing policy. I he men who accomplish any- 
thing worthy are the men of strong conviction, and 
when I quote these myths, which are so evidently 
intended to indicate the faith of mediocrity or mod- 
eration, I do so merely against the impetuosity and 
intolerance which so often mar the discussion of such 
pioblems. It is the furthest possible from my inten 
turns to plead for the middle course where moral 
principle is involved. These are gordian knots which 
are never to be untied by compromise, or by that 
doctrine too much preached and still more practised 
that whatever may be comprised in the term 
‘‘exigencies” may justify departure from rectitude, 
buch gordian knots are to be severed by sharp and 
stern decision, if we would aspire to conquer, or even 
to have dominion of ourselves. Even where princi- 
ple is involved, has there not, in the past, been too 
much aggressiveness and hostility where, without any 

S' fir T eSS ’, thc i e mi « ht W ^ considera- 
tion and courtesy) How many of earth's bitter 

quarrels might have been avoided if moderation had 

pervaded all counsels ? We frequently hear the 

quest, on asked_“Is civilisation not a failure 1” and 

this because human nature is still often violent and 

deceitful. Ought the question not rather to be— “ Is 
mankind civil, «dt» As men progress toward the 

common goal of civilization, they must, of necessity 
be drawn nearer together and understand each other 



better. As they understand each other better there 
is the less chance of conflict, and one of the most 
hopeful aspects of our times is the movement toward 
unity in so many departments of life. Men are 
understanding that it is the points of community, and 
not the points of antagonism, that are to be emphas- 
ized if harmony is ever to be attained. No brighter 
example of this could be found than the manner in 
which the various Protestant churches are approach- 
ing the subject of organic union, and whether, after 
full consideration by the gifted and devoted men to 
whom it ha? been for the time committed, corporate 
union be found absolutely desirable or not, the fact 
remains that a generous, a noble, and an inspiring 
sentiment has been declared to the world. 

But I am trespassing upon your kind indulgence. 
The periods of such myths as I have been speaking 
about have long ago passed away, and new forces 
govern the world. The half-opened scroll of history 
held by the fabled muse Clio, has, through the cen- 
turies, been unfolding without her aid. Cadmus is 
said to have introduced an alphabet into Greece ; 
Guttenberg and Caxton introduced printing to the 
world. The ancient Prometheus is said to have stolen 
fire from heaven for the benefit of man ; Franklin 
has snatched the electric spark, once known but as 
the fire that played in the heavens, girdled the 
world, annihilated distance, and brought mankind 
together. The myriad mythical divinities of the old 
days live only in the poetry which created them, 
while the cross, that was an emblem of ignominy, 
has, through the ages, been emblazoned on the gorgeous 
trappings of crusader, has crowned the stateliest 
domes of earth, and become the symbol of Faith — one 
of the three later graces, far excelling in their reful- 
gent beauty the fabled graces of antiquity. 

In the beginning of winter, in the early morning, 
after a night of frost, I crossed the lake when the thin 
and brittle ice formation was broken by the rising 
waves and grated ha’shly on the prows as we slowly 
moved from the shore. The white, cold mis s arose 
from the waters dark as Erebus, seen here and there 
between the ever-shifting ice, which ground itself into 
rude crystals with a dismal, hissing noise that made 
one shudder. It was the early morning. In the 
evening, after a day of warm sunshine, I returned. 
No ice grated on our keel as we launched away to- 
ward the west. Not a cold crystal was seen on all 
the surface of the lake, now ablaze with the reflected 
glory of the changing sunset. As the amber clouds 
in the Occident deepened into purple, they outlined 
the distant belfry, from which came over the placid 
waters, with the soft radiance of evening, the mellow 
cadences of the vesper chimes. 

As I looked upon that sunset glory, with its pro- 
mises of a still brighter day, I thought of the dim 
past as humanity’s morning, with its chill, harsh, 
changing surface, its cruel grinding of violence and 
oppression, its brittle instability, the clashing of its 
inharmonious sounds, and rising anon from its bosom 
the dim, curling vapours, in which plaved the mere 
phantoms of truth. 

But now the frozen surface of society is free, and 
a calm reigns where turbulence was then) the mists 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



149 



are well-nigh dispelled, and in the broad expanse the 
liitting symbols and shadows have given place to the 
stern, but dignified, actualities of life, and the vesper- 
bell, what is it but that which the world’s rapt ear 
has so long been straining to hear, that note of 
universal harmony tho brotherhood of man — that 
shall, ere long, usher in the full, mellow eventide of 
peace and joy ! 



a McGill man. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



w ritten for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. X. 



“ All the world’s a stage — 

And all the men and women merely actors ! 

They have their exits and their entrances, 

And each man in his time plays seven parts.” 

— Shakespeare. 

Death ere thou hast slain another 
Good and fair and bright as she, 

Time shall throw his dart at thee ! ” 

— Sir Philip Sydney. 



The night of our entertainment was a memorable 
one. Clooney and his rival glowered at one another 
in the green-room, and kept Charley and me busy in 
inventing means to keep them apart. Molkenstone, 
the rival aforesaid, rehearsed his part with great 
gusto, and as he exclaimed — “ 0 ! most adorable, I 
love you distractedly ! ” Clooney grated his teeth and 
roared out his part — “Villain, thou shalt die ten thou- 
sand deaths ! ” There was a large audience present, 
and it seemed to be in perfect good humour with 
itself and tho actors. The wheezy piano was made 
to do duty as orchestra, and to play slow music in 
the death scene of the robber chief, and, I have no 
doubt, it added to his death agonies, and tended to 
reconcile him to his approaching dissolution. 

At eight o’clock the curtain was rung up, and at 
ten minutes past eight the last corner had cleared the 
ground, and was slowly vanishing into the flies. 
During this ten minutes the actors had been standing 
on the stage, their feet visible to the audience, but 
that was all. I was stage manager, and Charley 
prompter. He lay under the centre table, hidden by 
the long cloth, and it was laughable to the initiated 
to see how affectionate the actors were towards the 
table. They continually leaned upon it. 

Clooney was in the first charade, and, dressed in 
his stage costume of a mountaineer, looked extremely 
picturesque. The sympathy of the female portion of 
the audience was with him from the first, and he was 
frequently applauded. Then came a tableau — “Ajax 
defying the gods.” I was Ajax, and had given Clooney 
and Charley particular instructions in the methods of 
raising the curtain, but they lacked practical experi- 
ence. I took my position close to the curtain, the 
bell rang and the curtain shot up several feet. Then 



it stopped. Clooney laboured with the cord on one 
side, Charley on the other, but it moved not. The 
ineffectual movement of the curtain began to make 
the audience laugh. It rose and fell on one side and 
the other like a ship in a gale, and still I stood half 
visible to the audience. 

“ For goodness’ sake, raise it,” I whispered. 

The two bent their backs to the work, but the cur- 
tain did not stir. 

I shrieked to them to let the curtain drop, but it 
would not drop, and the audience began to clap and 
stamp. 

Charley wiped his brow with his handkerchief and 
looked at me. Suddenly he went upon the stage, 
crawling under the curtain, and I heard him say — 

“ Ladies and gentlemen, — the programme calls this 
scene ‘Ajax defying the gods.’ Ajax authorizes me 
to state that he defies the gods to move that curtain. 
I am also authorized to state that the scene before 
you is called the ‘walking legs’ — a remarkable freak 
without a body. They can walk any way. For 
example, they will now walk to one side of the 
stage.” 

They did walk to one side of the stage, and would 
have got off all right if Clooney had not given the 
curtain an extra pull. However, he did so, and the 
whole affair came down, the curtain enveloping my 
form and the rod smashing my skull. I was angry, 
and, springing to my feet, marched off the stage with 
the curtain entangled about me and the broken rod 
clattering at my feet, while the audience roared itself 
hoarse. If ever I am persuaded to engage in theatri- 
cal performances again my friends have my permis- 
sion to put me into an asylum. 

The curtain was fitted up in a very few minutes, 
and the next charade began. Miss Mayflower was 
certainly the success of the evening. She looked 
superb, and though her acting showed a trace of con- 
straint, it was otherwise exceedingly natural. Clooney 
thought it too natural, and I was afraid there would 
be another quarrel on this account. Nor was I wrong. 
Clooney left the place as soon as he could be dis- 
pensed with, and went to his room. There was a 
dance after the entertainment, and I was sent by 
some of his admirers to find and bring him to them 
for congratulation. I found him sitting in the dark 
at the window, looking out into the night, his head 
between his hands, and had to speak to him several 
times before he answered me. After much persuasion 
I succeeded in getting him to come down to the hall 
with me and receive his congratulations. As soon as 
this was over he left me, and sought Miss Mayflower. 
I saw him whisper to her, and they went out, as 
others were doing, to walk up and down the verandah. 
What passed between them I afterwards heard — 

“ Permit me to congratulate you upon your acting,” 
said Miss Mayflower. 

“ Thank you,” replied Clooney, “ my acting was far 
inferior to yours ; but then I had not my heart in it 
as you had.” 

What he meant was conveyed by his tone so clearly 
that Miss Mayflower could not pass it over. 

“ What do you mean, Mr. Blake 1 ” she said. “ Do 
you mean that the part was agreeable to me 1 ” 



150 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



“ I mean that you seemed content with Mr. Mol- 
kenstone’s rendition of the reckless lover,” replied 
Clooney, bitterly. 

“You are unjust, Mr. Blake, and I did not expect 
that you should have made such an accusation. You 
impose somewhat upon our friendship. No one but 
you would have dared to say what you have said.” 

Now, had Clooney had sense he would have let 
the matter drop there, or rather taken the advantage 
to repair the breach. But, lover-like, he blundered 
on : 

“ Pray, was it necessary to give him your hand to 
kiss ? I did not see such directions in the book.” 

“ I was not aware, sir, that you had the bestowal 
of my hand,” was Miss Mayflower’s reply, haughtily 
given. 

“ No,” replied Cloouey, hotly, “ or it had not gone 
there. But they have spoken of you in a way I do 
not like to hear my friends considered. You should 
never have accepted such a part — especially with 
him.” 



^ “ Kindly take me back to the ball-room, Mr. Blake. 
^ ou have insulted me and my friend, and even your 
friendship cannot excuse your conduct.” 

“ Certainly,” said Clooney, as they turned back. 
“ Shall I leave you with Mr. Molkenstone ? ” 

He at least will not insult me,” was her reply, 
and the two parted. 

I missed Clooney, and sought him once more. He 
was in our room, packing his trunk. 

“ Hello, old man, overhauling your duds ? Trying 
to see how long you can go without a washerwoman ? ” 

I m going home by to-night’s boat,” he answered, 
shortly. 

“ Phew ! what’s up ? ” 

“Everything; we’ve had a row; I’ve made an ass 
and a brute of myself, and the sooner I get away the 
better,” he replied, savagely. 

“ Apologise.” 

“ C an V’ and lie shook his head. “ She’s setting 
her cap at Molkenstone, and I’d smash his head if I 
stayed.” 

I argued as long as I could, and found him immov- 
able. As a last resource, I did what I should have 
done at first — set out after Charley. Poor Charlev ! 
He was slumbering blissfully when I entered Ids 
room— about two in the morning— and proceeded to 
wake him up. Charley does not waken easily. I 
have seen him sleeping through an attack of mos- 
quitoes, that kept everyone in camp, except himself 
awake and voiceful, and I have known him, once, to 
sleep— after portaging through three miles of bush 
at night— so soundly that, though he sat up and ate 
« heaity meal after his first few winks, he remem- 
bered nothing about the occurrence next mornin" 

After rolling him over and over, and sitting on 
him several times, I at last got him to say— 

Lemine lone.” 

him U Tuh°urs d aidi raSPed hiS thr ° at “ d Ch0ked 

“ °I )en the window, it’s terribly close.” 

A pin run into his arm elicited the remark— 

wni^ 0nf0Un n the Tnosc l u ^oes ! ” — at least, mosquitoes 
will do as well as any other word. 



[1887. 



Finally, after he had been held up by the hair of 
his head, and shaken for a few minutes, he woke up 
in reality, and demanded to know what the mischief 
I wanted. When Charley is awake he is very wide- 
awake, indeed ; and I had not half explained the 
situation before he understood me, and bolted along 
the corridor, like an angel, to Clooney’s room. 

Clooney was all dressed, and his satchel was packed 
and locked. As he saw Charley he frowned, and 
looked uneasy. 

“Look here, Clooney,” said Charley, “what does 
this mean ? Jay tells me you want to go home.” 

“ Yes, I leave in ten minutes.” 

“Not in ten days,” remarked Charley, pleasantly. 

“ Now, what’s up ? ” 

“ That I cannot tell you.” 

“ Then I’ll tell you. You’ve had a row with 
Edith.” 

“ Well.” 

“Well, then, if you care for her at all, and I think 
you do, you will stay here. Can you imagine what 
people will say ? And, remember, you leave her 
here to face it. What right have you to quarrel Avith 
her? None, whatever.” 

“ I cannot stop,” replied Clooney, dejectedly. “ I 
Avould only do something even Avorse when I see hoAv 
she favours that felloAv Molkenstone.” 

“That’s Avhere you’re Avrong. You do not deserve 
to be told it, but i’ll tell you. She detests him, and 
it you had seen her, as I did, before she Avent to act, 
you would pity her instead of being angry. The 
real truth is, that you are angry because you did not 
get his part.” 

Clooney did not ansAver. 

“ Noav, just think for an instant,” continued 
Charley. “ If you had had his part could you have 
acted as he did before everybody? And if she cared 
tor j'Ou could she have been so loving and tender in 
public ? I tell you, you tAvo would have been as cool 
as enemies together on that stage, and Avould have 
spoiled the play. You Avould have been afraid of 
each other.” 

C barley’s stream of logic, invective, and appeal ran 
on for quite a time, and Clooney, beaten at every 
point, finally took refuge in a silent resistance- Then 
Charley brought his last resources into use, and sug- 
gested that, it Clooney Avas determined to leave 
Murray Bay, the Saguenay trip might be made use of. 

It- Avould give Clooney a day to reconsider his resolve. 

( looney acquiesced in this, and at daylight, Avhen I 
heard the tooting of the departing steamer, he Avas 
tossing restlessly in his bed beside me. 

I rose early that morning, for I could not sleep, 
and went doAvn to the beach for a smoke. I Avalked 
along as far as the little stream that flows into the 
head of the bay near the Murray River, and Avhen I 
letumed to the beach opposite the hotels it Avas about 
seven o clock. As I dreAv near the rocky portion of 
t ic shore, I noticed a familiar figure sitting in a 
sheltered nook and leaning dejectedly against the 
ioc . It was Edith MayfloAver. She Avas alone, and 
lewind Avas playing Avith her hair, which had become 
(is levelled. I was about to approach her when 
E ooney appeared on the scene, striding along furi- 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



151 



ously over the leach, and kicking the pebbles about 
as he came. I turned aside and left them together, 
for Clooney was advancing towards Miss Mayflower, 
lie did not catch sight of her until too late to retire, 
and, raising his hat, bowed coldly and walked on. 
l>ut his gait slackened. I noticed a look of irresolu- 
tion upon his face, and then he stopped still. After 
a moment he turned, like one under the influence of 
mesmerism, and strode up to where Edith sat — still 
motionless. 

Almost in spite of myself I saw what took place, 
although too far away to hear, and unwilling to ap- 
proach. I saw Clooney stand for several minutes 
before Edith, his arms folded, and even at that dis- 
tance I could mark them rise and fall with his heavy 
breathing. Edith did not move. Then Clooney 
spoke, his whole form eloquent with entreaty, and 
slowly bending down towards that motionless figure, 
which was all he recognized or valued on earth at 
that moment. He had thrown down his hat, and 
the breeze just ruffled the wavy masses of his hair as 
he stood, speaking now, rapidly and vehemently. I 
could eavesdrop no longer ; I had as lief attend a 
hanging as see a man trembling before a woman, who 
has his happiness at her caprice ; there is something 
humiliating about it. And so 1 left them, a touching 
picture, on the rocky beach, with the tide rushing at 
their feet and the sun alone for a witness. "What 
happened was known only to themselves, or rather 
was known to nobody — not even themselves — for at 
the supreme moment of a declaration the words are 
forgotten in the thoughts they express, as a raindrop 
is lost in the immensity of the ocean. 

When breakfast was ready, the two came saunter- 
ing in as unconcernedly as if they had not mortally 
offended one another the night before, and had a 
romantic scene an hour since. Charley winked at 
me across the table, and, after the meal, whispered as 
we left the hall — 

“ They’ve made it up again.” 

I had not told him of the interview I had partly 
witnessed that morning. 

It was now about nine o’clock, and we were all 
sitting on the verandah planning the campaign for 
the afternoon, when a little, shock-headed fellow came 
in at the gate with a telegram in his dirty fist. He 
handed it to the first person he met, who happened 
to be Charley, and waited patiently for him to find 
the owner. 

“Hello! Clooney,” said Charley, “here’s a tele- 
gram for you.” 

Clooney took it and signed the book. Then he 
opened the telegram. 

He dropped it with a suppressed cry, and I sprang 
towards him. 

“ Read it,” he said. 

And I did so. 

I read it over once, twice, three times, before I 
understood the full meaning of the words, and then 
it struck home like a bullet — 

Lulu was dying ! 

Clooney turned and entered the house, Charley 
with him, and that oppressive silence which is bred 
by such sudden ill-tidings in a jovial circle, fell upon 



us. I leaned against one of the pillars. 1 had foi - 
gotten all about Clooney, and then began to wonder, 
vaguely, why. I heard the whispers around me, some 
seemingly addressed to me, but it did not seem as if 
an answer were required. Edith was sitting directly 
in front of me, and I saw her face pale and troubled. 
Hers was the only one I seemed to see at all, and I 
wondered how she would miss her old acquaintance. 
In a few moments she rose, and, slipping her arm 
through mine, drew me away, and we walked up the 
road. There was a scent of flowers in the air that I 
had never noticed before. 

“ Mr. Wolfe,” said Edith, “ I have read your secret. 
Will you not confide in me ? I, too, loved her.” 

And it was only then that I knew my own heart. 
Lulu, with her moods of merriment and fits of sedate- 
ness, had crept into my heart, and had been there 
long before I ever guessed it. It is not in the nature 
of man to give way so pliably as Avoman. He stands 
like an oak, and like an oak he falls, if sorrow over- 
comes him at all, while woman is much like the pro- 
verbial reed — which bends to the storm and rises 
after every gust ; or, at least, lives on even in an 
inclined position. It was not at this moment that I 
gave way. Neither Clooney nor I quite realized the 
truth until we stood by the bedside of the dead. 

But, enough ; even Edith could not arouse me to 
my former sensibility, and it was fortunate for 
Clooney that Charley was with us, for I, who should 
have been his staff, was not clear-headed enough to 
be of much service. Charley it was who made 
arrangements for a yacht to cross to Cacouna and 
catch the down train, leaving to us the task of pack- 
ing our trunks. 

I shall never forget our departure. Every one 
crowded around us with the usual trite condolences, 
of which we grasped the true meaning for the first 
time. Clooney bore up like a man, except in his 
interview with Edith, when, for an instant, his form 
shook like a reed in the wind. There was no love- 
making between them, but just as he was parting, 
Edith, whom his grief had subdued, suddenly threw 
her arms around his neck and kissed him. There 
was nothing unmaidenly about it, reader, though it 
may seem so in cold print, and I know that, for the 
first time, it brought home to me the utter loneliness 
of my life to come. 

And then we passed out, with the sun streaming 
down upon us, upon our sad journey, for I accom- 
panied him as one having the right to do so, and he 
never questioned me or said me nay. 

As long as I live I shall never forget that journey. 
Hying ! and we hundreds of miles away. Clooney 
never stirred, and spoke only the names of the stations 
upon the way as we passed them. 

Night came on, and I persuaded him to go to bed. 
For me there was no sleep, and I wrapped myself in 
my coat and went out upon the platform. I think 
the moon was shining. It must have been, for l 
remember the scenery was deathly and cold, yet 
visible, and for this effect there must have been a 
moon. Hid I think during that terrible night 1 
Rather was my mind ever free from thoughts'? 1 
laughed sometimes, for hope would not abandon me, 



152 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



and I was happy in thinking what a sweet surprise it 
would be to see Lulu come lightly out to meet us 
when we arrived, and laugh her old silvery laugh at 
our fears. On and on and on went the train, at its 
highest speed, yet I felt like leaping off and running 
on ahead. - 

And still, in spite of all, we were too late. I can- 
not even now write with the cold pen of the historian. 
I know they left me alone, with my secret, for even 
Clooney had not divined it, and that I passed the 
day on which we arrived in agony and solitude. Ask 
to see her I could not. But that night, as she lay 
sleeping, with her hands clasped as in babyhood, I 
sought and found her, by instinct. I remember it 
well. The moonlight again : streaming in at the half- 
open window, through which came the sound of the 
tide, the curtains swaying in the air, and the white 
figure ol the dead — I shall never forget them. I 
remember that I knelt by her side and prayed to her 

not to God, but to her. I understood then what 
the Virgin Mary is to the Roman Catholic Church. 
And then I rose and sat beside her. I had long worn 
a diamond ring, which had been an heir-loom in the 
family, and as I saw it sparkle in the moonlight a 
strange idea came into my mind, which, I think, was 
already developing the fever that ensued. 

. ^ unclasped the dead fingers, and withdrawing mv 
ring from my finger, slipped it easily upon one of 
Lulus Then tenderly clasping her hands again I 
kissed her. ° 

And then two thoughts forced themselves upon 
me one that I had out-witted death himself, and the 
other that it was absurd to wed the dead ; and at my 
triumph and foolishness I laughed louder and louder 
until the whole house must have run" with mv 
merriment. J 

This is all I remember, until one morning I woke 
ami found myselt at home. I never dared ask what 
nad happened, and no one ever dropped any hint. I 
heaid only that 1 had been very ill. 

(To be continued.) 



CARNIVAL NOTES. 

BY A STUDENT. 



Now that the Carnival and the elections are over 
and our heads have resumed their normal size, we 
begin to try and remember what did happen any wav 
during that festive week. Of course, with some U 
was one prolonged “slope,” their excuse to the pro- 
fessors being that “their mothers, sisters, etc , were 
in the city, and had to be toted around. A petition 
tor a week 3 holidays was sent into the Faculty t 0 
which the Dean replied by granting two days, one 7 the 
city civic holiday, the other Saturday. But ti e 
students refused to take advantage of this , 
kindness, and objected to Saturday unless Sunday 
was thrown m also. As far as we know, none of u7 
overcome by all the excitement, went so far as to find 
it necessary to add to the civic treasuries thou” 
many were compelled, owing to the great crowd In 
the city, to show their friends the sights of the ci v 
m the morning. ° e Clt y 



For Wednesday eve, a grand turn-out, in College 
attire, was called for, but, owing to other pressing 
engagements, only about twenty met at the gates. 
Perhaps it would have been better had they dispersed, 
but, nothing daunted, they marched down under their 
piratical-looking flag, which, being mistaken by our 
“ brave bobbies” as indicative of dark deeds and hid- 
den designs, was borne away in triumph by these 
intrepid guardians, much to the surprise and disgust 
of the standard-bearer and his followers. 

Moral : — Boys, don’t march out unless you are able 
to stick up for your colours and retain them. 

Some of the Science boys, to the number of thirty, 
inaugurated a sleigh-drive in the procession, and, 
aided by the kindness of Mr. Ogilvie, who placed 
four fine horses and a sleigh at their disposal, they 
were able to have a turn-out that was a complete suc- 
cess. Under the able management of C. H. Macnutt, 
“Buff” Ogilvie, and W. F. Fenir, who obtained the 
excellent “baby” level, the sleigh attracted many 
complimentary expressions. C. P. McKenzie and W. 
Hamilton acted as leveller and assistant, rigged out in 
full summer engineering outfit, and any old engineers 
present must have had the memories of days gone by 
awakened by the sight of C. P. and “ Billy” hard at 
work. 

As far as we know, all have recovered from the 
effects of the week’s gaiety, to find themselves face 
to face with the student’s nightmare — the exami- 
nations. 



JflctBUl News. 



It is to be regretted that mention has not been made 
long ere this, of the kindness of Prof. Bovey, who last 
fall offered a fine silver cup, to be won in two years, 
in the hurdle race at our athletic games. The thanks 
of all those interested in our college sports are due to 



the Professor for his gift 



MEDICAL CONVOCATION. 

. meeting of Convocation, for conferring degrees 
in Medicine, was held in the William Molson Hall, 
on Tuesday, the 20th March last. A large number of 
people was present to witness the ceremonies. The 
proceedings were remarkably quiet ; the mysterious 
disappearance of Albert Hamer, a member of the 
graduating class, put a damper upon the usual fun 
t lat the Meds. indulge in upon Convocation day. 

ie graduating class this year was a large one, number- 
ing 45, as follows 

F 'I' Ahoin Goderich, Out.; J. A. Berry, Seeley’s Bay,Ont. 

cri,L N B w R ' *• W - B» one. B.A., Fred 

la iiiii 9 ’ Quebec Que ; Jas. fioyd,Vank 

V M rw; m V ‘^ ari ? eron ’ Montreal, W. Christie, Lachute, Que 
r J A ‘ D ‘<*son, Treuholineville, Que.; C 

Que W F S- 0n ° Mt ; C J - EJ g ar ’ Napierville 
() t • T i) L Fi E1 V atharines ’ 0nt -; E- -1. Evans, Seaforth 
N H V T V v gg ’ Mo , r r nsbur "> ( >nt.; E.W. Fillmore, Baie Verte 
wall Out Eraser Hawkesbury, Ont; A. W. Gardner, < orn 
Out • aY H G Ha n f ra »klin. Que. ; W Hall, Walkerton 
ville ’Ont L ' ?T Cr A ld ’ ° nt ; J ' W ’ Johnson, Farmer, 
Perth Out’ Ft a A T Ke i ly ’ Durham > 0llt J A. M. Latterly 
Ton A, q-Y H ‘ Lafleur B -A., Montreal, Que.; W. F 
Loucks, Stirling, Out. ; A. D. Macdonald, Wickham, N B. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



loo 



1887 .] 



A. L. Macdonald, Glendonald, Out ; 1). D. McDonald, North 
Lancaster, Out.; H. McKinnon, Alexandria, Out.; V. H. Mor- 
gan, Aultsville, Ont. ; T. J. Norman, Schonberg, Ont. ; J. A. 
Porter, B.A., Kemptville,Ont.; J. C. Potheir, Woonsocket, K.I.; 

E. Keavely, Port Robinson, Ont. ; G. C. Richardson, South 
March, Ont. ; D. 1,. Ross, Winthrop, Ont. ; J. M. Scott, Phila- 
delphia, Penn. ; D. J. Scully, Lindsay, Ont. ; G. C. Stephen, 
Montreal, Que. ; H. E. Trapnell, Harbor Grace, Nfld. ; P. H. 
Warnford, Norton, N.B. ; H. P. Wilkin , Toronto, Ont. ; E. 

P. Williams, Ottawa, Ont. ; A. A. Young, Barton, Vt. 

The following were the medal and prize men of the 
different years : — 

Medals, Prizes and Honors. 

The Holmes gold medal, for the best examination in all the 
branches comprised in the medical curriculum, was awarded to 
Edward Evans, of Scaforth, Ont. 

The prize for the best examination in the final branches was 
awarded to Henri A. Lafleur, of Montreal. 

The prize for the best examination in the primary branches 
was awarded to Alexander E. Garrow, of Ottawa, Ont. 

The Sutherland gold medal was awarded to John Creasor, of 
Owen Sound, Ont. 

The following gentlemen, arranged in order of merit, deserve 
honorable mention : 

In the primary examination — H. McKerclier, G. G Campbell 
J. A Creasor, W. S. England, W. G. Stewart, H. E. Young, 
D. H. McIntosh, G. A. Brown, D. A. Murray. 

lu the final examination — J. A. Fraser, J. A. Kelly, L. D. 
Ross, W. Hall, A. L. Hamer T. J. Norman, A. D. McDonald, 
W. Christie, E. H. P. Blackader, and J. W. Johnson. 

Professor's Prizes. 

Botany — Robert McKechnie, Winnipeg. 

Practical anatomy — Demonstrator’s prizes ; second year, W. 
G. Stewart ; first year, R. McKechnie. 

Obstetrics — Ed. Evans, Seaforth Ont. 

Pa hology— 0. H. Hubbard. Gilsam, New Hamsphire. 

Dr. Buller addressed the students, and gave the new 
doctors much sound advice of a practical nature, inter- 
persed with poetry, religion and morals. 

The valedictory was read by Dr. A. D. McDonald. 
It was well written, hut scarcely audible in all parts 
of the large hall. In opening, the valedictorian said 
he was not going to lead his audience to believe that 
their grief was inconsolable at quitting Alina Mater , 
nor did he intend to display his technical knowledge 
He humourously reviewed their experience as Fresh- 
men, and portrayed in vivid colours the importance of 
the janitor in their eyes in those days, detailed the 
hardships to which Meds. have to submit to get a lodg- 
ing house, having in some cases actually to pass them- 
selves of as Theologs. The story of the four years’ 
course was pleasingly told, and the address concluded 
with the following apt quotation from Sydney Smith: 

any young man have embarked his life in the 
pursuit of knowledge, let him go on without doubt- 
ing or fearing the event : let him not be intimidated 
by the cheerless beginnings of knowledge, by the 
darkness from which she springs, by the difficulties 
which hover around her, by the wretched habitations 
in which she dwells, by the want and sorrow which 
sometimes journey in her train ; but let him ever follow 
her as the Angel that guards him, and as the Genius 
of his life. She will bring him out at last into the 
1 i rr h t of day, and exhibit him to the world comprehen- 
sive in acquirements, fertile in resources, rich m 
imagination, strong in reasoning, prudent and powerf ul 
above his fellows in all the relations and m all the 
offices of life.” 



EXAMINATIONS. 

Scribbling in the hall 
Hard as e’er I can, I 

Struggle to recall 

Formulations many. 

Walking up and down, 

See the staid professor 

In his black stuff gown 
Like a grim confessor. 

Through the panes the rays 
Of the sun are breaking, 

Of the shabby baize 

Cloth of bright gold making. 

In the springtide air 

Birds are gaily singing ; 

Nature everywhere 

With delight is ringing— 

Save where in the hall 
Hard as e'er I can, I 

Struggle to recall 

Formulations many. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Societies. 



The adjourned meeting of graduates in Applied 
Science was held on March 5th, in the University- 
Club rooms, Prof. McLeod in the chair ; Mr. Hamilton 
acted as sectretary y>/*o tern. 

A letter was read from Mr. P. Adams, of Ottawa, 
declining to become a candidate for Representative 
Fellow in Applied Science. Mr. W. T. Skaife then 
received the unanimous nomination. 

A committee was appointed to report to an ad- 
journed meeting on the best mode of forming a com- 
mittee to obtain nominations, in future, of suitable 
candidates for representative fellow in Applied 
Science, and also on the powers of such a committee, 
if formed. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on the evening 
of Friday, March 25th. Eight members were present. 
The President occupied the chair. The subject for 
debate was — “ Should public offices be the rewards for 
political service 1” Messrs.Ritchie and Oughtred spoke 
on the affirmative, and Messrs. MacLennan and J. P. 
Cooke, on the negative. The question was decided in 
favour of the negative. 



Personals. 



G. W. Boggs, M.D., C.M. ’86, is practising his pro- 
fession at Parrsboro, N.S. 

Nevil Evans, B. Ap. Sc., ’86, has been appointed 
assistant examiner in chemistry, for the first year 
Arts. 

H. Lunam, M.D., C.M., ’81, W. W. Doherty, M.D., 
C.M., ’85, and D. L. Murray, M.D., C.M., ’86, are all 
practising their profession, with considerable success, 
in Campbellton, N.B. 

Albert Hamer, one of this year’s graduates in 
Medicine, has been missing since Thursday, March 
24th. He drove to the Back River with several of 
his friends, stopping at Frigon’s Hotel. Here he dis- 
appeared. As he had about $100 on his person, foul 
play is feared. His fellow-students, assisted by the 
detectives, are seeking him. 



154 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



Between the Lectures. 



A lawyer recently lost a bride in a peculiar way. 
He appeared at the wedding, but on being called to 
the ceremony, from sheer force of habit, protested 
that he was not ready to proceed, and demanded 
delay. And so the bride got vexed, and would not 
have him. 



MR. COHEN WATCHES THE DEAL. 

It is Mr. Blumenthal’s deal, and Mr. Cohen polishes 
his glasses hurriedly Avith a view to make a careful 
survey of the shuffle. Mr. BlumenthaPs friend, Mr. 
Dinkelstein, considers it an appropriate occasion for 
a remark : — 

“ Mi\ Cohen, I heart you vas a coot chudch of 
diamonds. Vill you gindly look at dis chenuine 
blue-vite, seffen karat ” 

“ Oxguse me,” replies Mr. Cohen, without remov- 
ing his eyes from the pack, “ I giffs no addention to 
diamonds on Chakey Blumenthal’s deal. I vas look- 
in’ for glubs.” 



while only 54 exceed 114 marks. Of 217 Real- 
gymnasien, Realprogymnasien and Oberrealschulen 
20 charge fees less than 70 marks, and 112 charge 
100 marks and over. Of 177 Realburgerschulen 
and higher Burgerschulen 87 have fees lower than 70 
marks, and 35 fees exceeding 100 marks. Between 
the minimum and the maximum rate of school money 
there is, of course, a great difference, but the higher 
rates are exceptional. Thus in Bavaria and Wurtem- 
berg the minimum is nine marks, and in Saxony a 
maximum 300 marks is reached. The fees charged by 
Prussian Gymnasien are higher than the fees of other 
States, but in Prussia the average per head of the 
scholars is only 96 marks. In other words, less than 
£5 is charged for an education which will often bear 
favorable comparison with that given in some of our 
highest schools. 



£orre$pon6ence. 



THE FELLOWSHIP ELECTIONS. 



“ CHESNUTS.” 

The following is authenticated as the true origin 
of the term “ chesnuts ” : — A company of Amateurs, 
in Brooklyn, got up a Minstrel Show, called “ The 
Chesnut Avenue Company ” (the avenue on which 
theii hall is situated). I hey made up a selection of 
new jokes, and played with great success before their 
friends. A little while later, they got news that a 
Professional Minstrel Troupe was using their jokes, 
in New York; so one evening a number of them 
crossed over and attended the theatre. As soon as 
they heard their own jokes, they called out, alto- 
gether 6 Chesnuts !” intimating the source from 
which the wit was stolen. At first the word was 
exclusively used in the theatrical connection. 



College l£lorl6. 

For Great Britain’s 35,000,000 inhabitants the 

?^* 2 A 5, . 8 l°i.“ edlcal men — that is to say, one to eve 
l,3o0 inhabitants. In France there is one physici' 
to every 1 400 individuals. In Austria, Germany, ai 
A oi way there is one doctor to every 1,500 souis • 
the l nited States of North America, one in every 61 
persons. Russia is very badly served, there bein'" b 
one doctor to every 6,226 people. The total numb 
ot doctors among the Russians is not above 15 00( 
even to reach the level of England 65,000 would 1 
required. 

GERMANY’S CHEAP EDUCATION. 

secret of the success and gratifying resul 
o the German higher school system consists in tl 
cheapness of education. English educationists wi 
do well to ponder over these figures : Of 500 Germi 
Gymnasien and Progymnasien 125 fix 70 marl 
(roughly £3 10s.) as the maximum school fe 
-01 have maximum rates varying from 70 to 9 
marks, 120 rates varying from 100 to 114 mark 



To the Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs : — It is time the mode of electing the 
Representative Fellows should be reformed. Each 
year now brings a nasty squabble about the personal 
qualifications of the candidates, and it is the hardest 
thing in the world to introduce a question of principle 
into the college elections. So-and-so is a good fellow, 
vote for him ; professor thingumbob recommends so- 
and-so ; or, so-and-so is one of the boys — these are the 
arguments which meet the voting graduate in the 
month of March. Why ? 

Because — 1. The graduates have no formulated 
platform. 

2. I lie Representative Fellows are never called to 
give an account of their trust. 

3. The Corporation transacts business with closed 
doors, and the graduates never hear of college doings 
except by accident. 

The Graduates’ Society will shortly be given an 
opportunity ot remedying this loose state of affairs. 
It they do not avail themselves of it, there is a possi- 
bility that another organisation may be formed to do 
this work. 

Auother thing I wish to call attention to, is the 
cumbersomeness of the electoral machinery, and par- 
ticularly the nuisance of the fifty-cents registration 
e ®‘. was imposed at the suggestion of the coterie 
" , ic 1 formerly controlled college elections, and 
v ose interest it was to confine the vote to graduates 
resident in the city. 

Why should not the registrar mail a ballot to each 
gi ad uate every year 1 The University would certainly 
gain. by * le change, as it would re-establish the con- 
nection between graduate and college which, under 
le piesent system, is finally severed on Convocation 
• -m le strength of the great American universities 
is the esprit de corps of their alumni. 

Yours faithfully, 

W. II. Turner. 

Montreal, March 23, 1887. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



155 



To the Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — Iu your Gazette of the 23rd March, appeared 
a short paper on Physical Culture, signed “ P.” This 
article is so full of incorrect statements that I feel it 
my duty to protest against the attempt to discredit 
the faithful and excellent work Avhich has been car- 
ried on by Mr. Barnjum, as instructor to the Univer- 
sity, for over twenty-live years. 

I take exception to “ P’s ” first statement, that “ for 
students in Montreal, exercise for health is not a 
necessity.” I and many others can testify to the 
contrary, and also to the benefit we have derived from 
attending the gymnastic classes. AVe have gained in 
health, strength, and also capacity for study. As 
regards his second statement, either “ P.” has never 
been in the gymnasium, or he is stating what he knows 
to be untrue. The admirable Indian Club exercise, 
which he in his ignorance undertakes to belittle, is 
only a part of the course, which consists, besides, of 
Bar-Bells, Bridge Ladders, Parallel Bars and Vaulting. 
If “ P.” thinks these are not enough fully to supply 
all the needs of “ a man of active habits,” and if he 
does not think them to be of a nature “ somewhat 
sturdier than that which is said to be so desirable in 
the health lift department of schools for girls,” all I 
can say is that he had better come and try them before 
undertaking to write upon a subject about which he 
evidently knows very little. 

As to “ swinging clubs in an ill-ventilated room,” 
one would think he was speaking of some back parlor 
at a sporting resort, instead of the spacious, lofty and 
ventilated hall at the gymnasium. As for “ exercising 
their muscles in such a way as their inclination points 
out,” this would reduce Physical Culture to a farce. 
The course prescribed by Mr. Barnjum is such as most 
certainly “ stiffens the sinews, summons up the blood,” 
and gives precision of movement, without unduly tax- 
ing the vital forces, and having regard to the fact 
that exercise in its highest and truest sense should 
tend to build up the body, so as to enable a student to 
pursue his studies to greater advantage. But further 
than this, the course develops harmoniously every part 
of the body, which latter is not the case with ordinary 
exercise. The drift of “ P’s ” letter seems to be that 
he and some of his friends do not care for Physical 
Culture in its true sense, but wish to have “a good 
time.” And they evidently think that fencing will 
give them all they desire. Now, fencing, as all know, 
does not form part of the regular course in a gymna- 
sium, but is to all intents and purposes an extra, like 
boxing. If “ P.” and his friends wish to indulge in 
fencing, let them put their hands in their pockets and 
pay for it ; but, to endeavor to get the Faculty to pro- 
vide this form of amusement for them, by running 
down the work of a gentleman who has for so many 
years taken a deep interest in the physical welfare of 
the students, and done all in his power to benefit 
them, is most unjust and unworthy. I think it well 
to state that after the regular classes are over, those 
students who can spare the time are always welcome 
to stay and practise any specialities they may fancy. 
We have always found Mr. Barnjum or his assistant 
ready and willing to give any advice or aid needed at 
such times. I also feel sure that had a sufficient 



number of students come forward in a manly way, 
Mr. Barnjum would have been ready to provide them 
fencing instruction at a moderate rate. 

As regards the “handful,” there was last session an 
attendance of from sixty to seventy, and this session 
of from forty to fifty, during the earlier part of the 
winter. The “ exams.” always thin the classes, but 
this, I am convinced, is a great mistake on the part of 
students. Those who persevere in taking the exercise 
will gladly acknowledge the immense benefit they have 
received. Five students who graduated in honors last 
session were all hard workers at the gymnasium. After 
four years experience of this exercise, these men should 
be able to form a correct judgment with reference 
to this matter, and we have yet to meet with one who 
has taken the full course and will not recommend 
his fellow students to take it. J. Naismith. 

Montreal, March 30th, 1887. 



1TOTICE. 




— OF — 



MCGILL UNIVERSITY. 




Priie Competition foi the Best Poem on the Queen’s Jubilee, 



A Prize of Fifty Dollars will be given by the Graduates' 
Society of McGill University for the best Poem on the Queen's 
Jubilee, to be read at the annual University Dinner on the 30th 
April, 1887. 

The following Rules will govern : 

1. The competition shall be open to any British Subject resi- 
ding in Canada or elsew T here. 

2° All manuscripts are to be addressed to the Secretary of the 
Graduates' Society, University Club, 8 University Street, and 
must be in his hands on or before the 15th April, 1887. 

3. The writer's name must not appear on any part of the 
manuscript. Each manuscript must have a motto, which must 
also appear on the outside of a sealed envelope containing the 
writer's name and address. 

4. The Judges will be Professor Moyse, Samuel E. Dawson, 
Esq., and Rev. Canon Norman, and their decision shall be final. 
The prize will be given only in case the Judges report that some 
one of the poems submitted is of sufficient merit to justify its 
being awarded. 

5. All manuscripts shall belong to the Society, which reserves 
the right, besides that of reading the successful poem at the 
Annual University Dinner, of publishing the successful or any 
or all of the poems. No manuscript will therefore be returned. 

ARCH. McGOUN, Jr., 

President. 

WILFRID SKAIFE, 

Acting Secretary. 

Montreal, 26th February, 1887. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE IMIOIDIEiRJSr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 

BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D. B. A. MACBEAN, I.D., Proprietor. 



CRIDIFOHD & ROBERTSON, 

ENGINEERS AND MILLWRIGHTS. 

25 Bleury Street, MONTREAL. 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YACHTS and. ENGINE8. 

ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE, 

SAVES ONE-FOURTH OF FUEL. 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER CO. 

Capital Paid-up - - $100,000.00 

Directors: D. H. Henderson, Norman Henderson, 

Chas. H. Walters. 

Saw Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM ST- 

Branch Yard: 130 ST. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL. 

manufacturer** and General Dealer** In every Des- 
cription of Lumber and Timber. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

^'NOVELTY IRON WORKS *♦ 

40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 



Confectioners, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 

OTST^KS -A-T ALL HOXTKS. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 



Established 1839. 

Cm? mist. 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock. 

IETrer3r pen guaranteed. 

IE. GEAPTCN <Sz scosrs, 

250, St. James Street. 



S. J. BRISSETTE. 



JOS COURTOIS. 



BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

TV hite’S Lane, 




— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Paper Makers, Paper Box Manufacturers, 



■3- BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.** 

Spectal attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

designed and Built to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Has the most beautiful Lines of 

Spring Ready-Made Clothing ever Manufactured in Canada, 

Manufactured under Special Supervision. 



SPRING SUITS ! ! SPRING OVERCOATS ! ! 

Latest Cuts, All Shades, All Grades. 

JXTST OIPEHN-IEID 15 CASES OIF 1 HATS 

Direct from London, Eng. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



buy your 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Ma in St. , cor . of Craig St. 

f$iue Confectionery, 
P oNBONS and (C HOCOLATES 




PHILIPS SQUARE, 






ARTISTICALLY 



•^Engraved and Printed,*- 



— in — 



BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 



MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS Mounting; Liquids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work , 

prepared by 

W. H. CH APMAN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



The Burland Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 






UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - MONTREAL 
J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET i FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JTAEMHES STREET, 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k,. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

Macmaster, Hutchikson, Weir & McLemnan, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal , 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l. 



Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 



Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. 
Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAHES ST., 

(near the court house,) 

MONTREAL. 



BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, Ac. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, &c, 





53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



'E A R » * E* ,, 

Hairdressing and Shaving ia the Latest Style, 



QUEEN’S BLOCK 



Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

Coir)b$, 

Perfunjefy, cuqel toilet 
sA^tidle^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST, 



Wi 

Mm 



P rfS S i 



















O 



is 



CAMPBELLS 

QUININE 



ao 






m'm 




Ss 



■ j 



m 



w 




^^ALL 



Tilt 1.3 ' ' 

I HE G PPAT INVIBORATINGTONIC TBE D Ai 







THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
Engraving ^ printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



limitations, Cards, GFests, programmes 
JMonograms, &e., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

slEWELiLiE^Y § FANCY GOODS. 

every description of 

fine gold and silver jewellery. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

A large assortment of S 1 L VER WA RE CEO CMC R 7? n KT7 j? c 

FANCY r nn no. m ,, . > v.c<ycAj>, BRONZES , ana 

° GOOD $- st able for Wedding Gifts or Presentation. 

OUT-DOOR G A IRES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball.Wn Tennis, and Cricket. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



— H IIIZZZZIZI!ZZIZIZ~~ — 

E. & C. GURNEY & CO.. 

3S5 cSs 387 St. IE^txl Street, Montreal. 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



Ce lebrated fjoj Water Heaters 



—AND— 




t Bundy Radiators. 




HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Woodi 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 



Paper Manufacturers, { 



MILLS AT 
JOLTETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 
Grey Paper, 
St 



traw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes sl r*.d. T*7"eig-2vts iMade to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

might and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T eams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries ! 

Our Fall Supplies of (JfROCERTES ami PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONC OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grooer, 

“ QUEEN’S BLOCK/’ 

1315 and 1317 St. Catheiine St. 

Telephone No. 1392. 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

r.'J 8t .Jmnes street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO. .XS. 

Office and Warehouse: Nurds Building, 

21 and 23 »eBresx>les Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA. BROWN. GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 




it 



WORKS AT 

, UUl CORNWALL, ONT 

C-A-^XT^-X., - $ 250 , 000 . 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-cnlendered). Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 
Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to or cr. 



Beuthner Bros., 

Importers mifr jJmmfathimV j[gente, 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 



MONTREAL. 



IE. -A. G-BRTH, 

IMPORTER OF 

-Me CIGAKS jM- 

Briar an<l Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try 3t\id.e33i.ts IMH^ctvLre. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $ 1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE GENTIINE 

Cook’s Friend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



Antiseptic Materials, BaMaps, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing; Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages. Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhdlers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Garncree’s Euealvotol, Sanitarv Towels. Ladies*. 

C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book ; Stationery, 

-A. 1 TID 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 



Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SCOT], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England k the United States 

816 MD 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 

MONTREAL. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GREV NUN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OP 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Ciay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHI2 >T-A. CLA"T, dec. 

Manufacturers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 

TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21. 21i & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application, 

GOODS CALLFD FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 

FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

SixjIec ^intid IF’ttir, IETylTS 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

"W. 3 UE. SAMUEL, 

H atter and -Furrier, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD'S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



