Vol. XI 



No. 9 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal, 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields 

ROBERTSON, FLEET i FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Aivocates, Barristers, Commissioners, fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

(V1ACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR l MCLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &o., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



Mliseglic Materials, Biiaps, 1., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
rtninliial & Diipeut: Ctni:l!, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton W ool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percba Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS &. BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 

CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

-A_d.T7-oc ates, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(near THE COURT-HOUSE,) 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

Sclool and Collep Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 st, st. 

medical works, books used ijv art course, 

SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Snpplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, See., Sec., 

►i-BEST VALUE I IV TOTTN A . ■ 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and. Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XI.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 10th, 1888. [No. 9. 



THE UNIVERSITY. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Asst. Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, ’88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 103-105 

Poetry 105 

Contributions 106-110 

McGill News Ill 

Societies 111-112 

Personals 113 

Exchanges 113 

Correspondence 113-114 



Editorials. 



An article was sent in for publication in our last 
issue which, as it stood, we deemed unsuitable, and 
applied the editorial pencil very freely. We should 
have carried the pruning process further, and excluded 
a reference which, we are extremely sorry might have 
been taken amiss by a member of the teaching body, 
who holds the very highest esteem of the profession 
and students. 

At the same time, we cannot understand how it 
could be thought that the Gazette would make any 
wilful reflection on any one of the attainments and 
manners of the gentleman referred to. 



The University Annual Report is before us. It 
has a tone of satisfaction with the work of the past 
year and of encouragement for the future. In recent 
years the reports have announced so many endow- 
ments and gifts that their absence from this one is a 
little disappointing, especially when taken with the 
enumeration of the University’s needs. The financial 
outlook is not so promising as friends could wish. 
It necessitates a “ rigid economy ” and prevents in- 
dulging hope of immediate advance in supplying the 
deficiencies in the work. It is regre table that the 
authorities are so hampered when they have in mind 
the need of a further endowment of chairs, of a 
building for the science faculty, of a college dining 
hall, a convocation hall and better accommodation for 
the classes for women. They are also waiting for 
means to make provision for political science, for 
classes in voice-culture, and hygiene, for education in 
fine art, for additional gymnastic facilities and fuller 
provision for some departments of practical science, 
with the ultimate object of granting degrees in this 
subject. It is more than unfortunate — it is unfair — 
that an institution should have such a list of wants, 
and no immediate prospect of having them met, when 
it is making so great an effort to give students a 
training, to stimulate and aid industrial and profes- 
sional pursuit and be a centre for literary and scien- 
tific culture. It is on individual energy, self-sacrifice 
and generosity that McGill is entirely dependent. 
The general Government gives no grant to higher edu- 
cation. What is obtained from the province is given 
back as scholarships. But in spite of all this, the 
report has a pardonable pride in the advancement of 
certain courses, notably, chemistry and botany. These 
are pointed out as an instance of the good effect of 
efficient instruction and suitable appliances. The 
botany, however, owes its “ remarkable progress ” less 
to the appliances than to the instruction, for the re- 
port calls for additional space and instruments. 
Special stress is laid upon the evidence of public 
approval because the Donalda special course is meet- 
ing a “ real educational want.” The death of Mr. 
Baynes is spoken of with feeling, and the new 
appointments discussed. There is no favorable issue 
to announce as to the adjustment of the relations 
between the University and the professional bodies. 



104 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



The case remains as stated in the principal’s univers- 
ity lecture, and the report has a good digest of the 
claims of the Protestant minority. The graduates are 
appealed to, especially in medicine and in law, to aic 
in a definite adjustment. 

Along with this candour as to the needs of the Uni- 
versity, there is_a modesty as to its progress which 
must not be misunderstood. Indeed, this progress 
has been so rapid and so firm that a more sanguine 
tone might have been adopted with full justice. The 
condition of every department warrants a full 
confidence in the future of McGill. At the close of 
last session eighty-five degrees were granted, and the 
number of students now number 639, as against 552 
in ’86. 



CIRCULARS AND COLLEGE ELECTIONS. 

In our last issue we published a series of resolutions 
by graduates in Applied Science resident in Chicago, 
condemning certain circulars sent them by candidates. 
W e published at the same time Mr. Burland’s circular 
that our readers might see what it contained. Our 
own opinion of it is that no objection could be taken 
to it : it was, in fact, neither more nor less than a state- 
ment that he was a candidate for re-election. We have 
now secured a copy of Mr. Torrance’s circular, and 
are able to understand what the Chicago men meant 
by “ the spirit of self-advertisement,” by “ the ward- 
politician manner of conducting the election,” by “ the 
misleading circulars issued to the Graduates at a dis- 
tance. ’ W e wish to be perfectly fair in this matter, 
and to that end we here publish the two circulars for 
comparison. 

MR. BURLAND’S CIRCULAR. 



Montreal, February, 1888. 

Dear Sir, My term of office as Representative Fellow ii 
Applied Science, to the Corporation of McGill University, expire 
on 1st May next. 1 liad determined not to again appear as ; 
candidate for that honor, but as a number of Graduates ii 
Applied Science desire me to present myself for re-election J 
have decided to do so. * 

fa ™“ r m J candidature, please sign the enclosed blanl 
and letuin to A. P. Lowe, B.A Sc., Geological Survey, Ottawa. 



Yours truly, 



Jeffrey H. Burland. 



MR. TORRANCE’S CIRCULAR. 

The Dominion Safety Boiler Co. 

P. 0. Box 1707. 



Montreal, February, 1888. 



J. F. Torrance, M.E. 

Manager. 

Dear Sir, — 

I feel soriy to be compelled to call your careful attention 
the circumstances attending the present election of a Represe 
tative Fellow m Science. The simple facts are as follows •— 

nil A l au 1 a A° UrU ! d “ eetin g ® f Graduates in Applied Science,' hi 
on the 14th mst., it was found that the nomination papers 
Mr. Burland and myself were signed by precisely equal numbi 



of graduates. (Please find copy enclosed.) In order to avoid all 
the annoyance and scandal of a close contest, I proposed then 
that we should both withdraw, and unite in supporting one of 
Mr. Burland’s own supporters ; but he could not make up his 
mind to sacrifice himself in this way for the sake of harmony and 
good-will among the graduates. As this contest is forced upon 
me, I feel compelled to state the facts plainly, and then leave 
our fellow-graduates to judge between us. 

Mr. Burland obtained the signatures to his nomination paper, 
and now asks for your support “ owing to the efficient manner in 
which he filled the office 99 for the past term. What are the facts ? 
Many of our prominent graduates of all the Faculties were pre- 
sent at the special meeting of the Graduates 1 Society, held on the 
12th December, to consider the question of altering the present 
mode of election, so as to permit the graduates of each Faculty 
to elect their own men. The voice of the meeting was almost 
unanimously in favor of such a change, and a resolution in that 
sense was passed without division. Mr. Burland was present, 
and he declared that he only wished to know what the gradua- 
tes really wanted. The speeches of Doctors Mills and Shepherd, 
Messrs. C. J. Doherty, G. W. Stephens and Wilfred Skaife 
clearly showed what the wishes of all the Faculties are, endorsed 
as they were by the undivided vote of the meeting. 

But, on the very next day, Mr. Burland deliberately cast his 
vote as Representative Fellow against this change. Now he has 
the magnificent modesty to ask the members of the Graduates’ 
Society and their fellow-graduates to give him the opportunity 
of misrepresenting them for two years longer. 

Altogether apart from this, it seems to require no argument to 
demonstrate that an engineer busy in his profession must inevit- 
ably prove a more valuable adviser on questions of technical 
education than a man otherwise engaged. And this is the chief 
function of our Representative Fellows in Applied Science. I 
may add that efficient technical education is a matter of very 
grave importance to our City and our Dominion. 

Under the circumstances, I have no hesitation in asking for 
your support by both vote and influence. 

Let me respectfully impress upon you the necessity of qualify- 
ing yourself immediately by remitting the fee of fifty cents (or 
the commutation of Five Dollars) to the Registrar, McGill Uni- 
versity. No voting papers are issued until this fee is paid. And 
I do not ask for the support of any graduate who is not sufficiently 
interested in old McGill to exercise his franchise at his own 
expense. 

I remain, yours obediently, 

J. Fraser Torrance, A.B., B.A. Sc. 

Mining Engineer . 

We ask every graduate of the University to give his 
conscientious opinion as to which is the more manly 
and candid statement of the case. 

In the interest of truth and honest dealing, we 
“ feel sorry to be compelled” to follow Mr. Torrance 
through his circular and show that it is a deliberate 
attempt to deceive the graduates. 

The first meeting of Graduates in Applied Science 
was held on the 9th of February : at that meeting Mr. 
Builand was nominated by a majority of Science gra- 
duates. In all justice that meeting should have de- 
clared him the choice of Science men. Did they do 
so ? No, Mr. Torrance in the magnanimity of his soul, 
finding himself in a minority, offered to withdraw if 
Mr. Burland would do so ! Ordinary men will find 
it not a little difficult to understand why the defeated 
candidate should not have stepped out manfully and 
gracefully. But Mr. Torrance is not an ordinary 
man : he immediately expresses his great desire to 
“avoid the annoyance and scandal of a close contest.” 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



105 



So far as the annoyance is concerned he is likely to 
feel that most himself, and that too because the con- 
test won’t be close by any means ; and as regards the 
scandal he probably holds that any evidence of inter- 
est in college matters is so foreign to the dignity and 
self-composure of McGill as to amount to a scandal. 
Mr. Burland’s answer to this request was, — give me 
time to consider. The meeting was consequently 
adjourned for that specific purpose. Under the 
circumstances, this was very natural ; he was 
elected in 1880 by the largest vote ever 
polled in any of our University elections. He 
was nominated by a majority of Science graduates 
at the meeting on the 9th. He was opposed by 
the very same wire pullers who objected to his elec- 
tion last term, and whose opposition did not cease with 
their defeat, but prompted them to introduce a peti. 
tion for a change in the regulations, not for any benefit 
that would accrue to the University or Science faculty, 
but in order to narrow Mr. Burland’s constituency 
down to what they thought controllable limits ; how- 
ever, even as “engineers busy in their profession” they 
failed to accomplish their object. But to make it 
impossible for Mr. Burland to retire, his opponents 
go to work after the meeting of the 9th and drum up 
additional names for Mr. Torrance’s nomination, and 
at the adjourned meeting held on the 14th, to receive 
Mr. Burland’s answer as to whether his supporters 
would allow him to retire, they insist on opening the 
ballot for the purpose of adding these names, secured 
in the interval , to reduce Mr. Burland’s majority, a 
proceeding only worthy of ward politicians, as the 
nomination was absolutely closed on the 9tb. 

This is how “ the contest is forced upon ” Mr. 
Torrance, and why “ he could not sacrifice himself 
for the sake of harmony and good-will among the 
Graduates.” 

Further on Mr. Torrance asserts that Mr. Burland 
asks for support, “owing to the efficient manner in 
which he filled the office.” He does nothing of the 
kind, Mr. Torrance; read his circular ; you must have 
been planning and composing your own circular for 
1891, but don’t trouble, you won’t need one. Why 
will Mr. Torrance persist in distorting facts ? Will 
he undertake to say that at the meeting on the 12th 
December, to which he refers, there were a dozen 
votes cast in favor of the proposed change in the elec- 
tion of Fellows 1 If he will, we will undertake to 
prove there were not. We recognize the value of 
the opinions of the gentlemen mentioned, but do they 
represent the wishes of all the faculties ? We venture 
to say no, for there are hosts of graduates who hold 
directly opposite opinions. 



Mr. Torrance’s circular viewed in the light of the 
true facts of the case, is in its terms an exhibition of 
unparalleled presumption, for he (Mr. Torrance), in 
his “ magnificent modesty,” deems himself “ sighing 
that nature formed but one such man,” the very 
embodiment of all essential knowledge developed 
in its highest and most arrogant form, therefore emin- 
ently fitted for the position he aspires to fill. 

Paragraph number five of this precious circular 
tells us who Mr. Torrance is : “ an engineer busy in 
his profession ” — the manager of “ The Dominion 
Safety Boiler Company,” therefore a man eminently 
qualified to instruct the graduates in their duty to 
McGill. 



Poetry. 



A PAIR OF GEESE. 

I. 

They’re the veriest pair of geese I ever knew. 

Are these two, 

As they nestle in the sunshine, wing to wing, 

Queen and King 

Of an empire of delight, and of youth, 

Love and truth. 

He with blue eyes into hers looking down — 

Hers are brown— 

While their elders hiss as loud as they dare 
At the pair. 

II. 

Notwithstanding he’s a goose, not a bird 
Ever heard, 

Neither nightingale nor lark, no, nor thrush, 

Has so lush 

A love song as his own, nor so choice, 

When his voice 

For the sweet one at his side he doth raise 
In her praise— 

Such a foolish little goose that she is, 

To be his. 

III. 

Do the dullards honor him for his song? 

They are wrong : 

’Tis the goose and not the gander they should praise 
For the lays. 

He’s the harp and she’s the harper, and she brings 
From the strings 

Strains that fill him with surprise that her art 
Should impart 

To so ill-attuned a lyre melodies 
Such as these. 

IV. 

Yet this youthful pair of geese often fight, 

Hiss and bite, 

Over trifles light as air —not a few 
Lovers do. 

For the sake of making up, I suppose, 

No one knows— 

Yet woe to him who comes in between 
King and Queen, 

For they’ll peck him nigh to death ere they cease, 

Will these geese. 

V. 

" And this loving pair of geese, who are they ? 

Tell me pray.” 

Surely, Sweet, there is no need to tell who : 

One is vou, 

And the other. .. .pardon me?.... Do you not? 

Why, 1 thought 

That you really were in love You deny 1 

So do I.— 

And there is no pair of geese, and my tale— 

What avail ? 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



106 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



Contributions. 



A COUNTRY BOY. 
[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER VI. — ( Continued .) 



“ I know the whole story,” she said, “ and despise 
him, as you should. But though you recognize his 

sins, you love him still, and ” here her fortitude 

gave way, and, throwing herself upon the couch, 
Edith hurst into a fit of violent weeping. 

At this juncture Bertha entered the room. 

“ What ! you here] ” she said to Lizzie. “ I should 
have thought you had left the house by this time.” 

“ Why ] ” asked Lizzie, turning pale at the unkind 
words. 

Bertha shrugged her shoulders. 

“ Oh ! well, to-day or to-morrow ; it does not mat- 
ter much,” she said ; “ in the meantime, you are not 
wanted here. I will attend to Miss James.” 

Eo persuasion, no threats, even, could draw from 
Edith any explanation for her tears, or any account 
of what Lizzie had told her. She insisted upon going 
home, and persisted in her resolve in spite of the 
advice of Bertha and Alice, who had joined them. 
Alice determined to accompany her, and Charley was 
dragged in as an unwilling escort. Peter volunteered 
himself through Charley, but Edith flew into such a 
passion at the idea, that his name was instantly with- 
drawn. Charley shrugged his shoulders, and was 
rather glad than otherwise, for, like everyone else, he 
was a little shy of Peter just then. 

Undoubtedly, Peter was under a cloud. 



CHAPTER VII. 

“ Oh, Love ! oh, fire ! once he drew 

With one long kiss, my whole soul through 
My lips, as sunlight drinketh dew ."—Tennyson. 



When the guests had departed, Bertha summoned 
Lizzie, and began to question her. But her questions 
were vain, and Lizzie chose rather to’ lie under the 

worst of suspicions than break her word to Peter 

that she would never betray their relationship as 
sweethearts. 

To Bertha’s reiterated demands for an explanation 
she only murmured— 1 “ Oh ! you are pitiless,” and 
then she threw herself upon the sofa, sobbin^ 
violently. Bertha crossed the room and locked 
the door, putting the key in her pocket. Then 
she approached Lizzie, and putting her hand upon 
the girl’s shoulder, said to her 

“I have locked the door, and you shall not leave 
the room until you have answered my question. 

“ I am innocent of any wrong,” wept Lizzie. “ That 
is all 1 can tell you. If you have a spark of pity in 
your heart let me go, or I shall go mad ! ” 

She rose, the tears streaming down her cheeks, and 



staggered towards the door, which she vainly tried to 
open. Then she turned towards Bertha — 

“The key — the key!” she said. “Quick! let me 
go, my brain is on fire ! ” 

Bertha stepped towards her, and, laying her hand 
on Lizzie’s wrist, replied — 

“ Yes, the key ; give me the key to this mystery, 
and you may go into oblivion for all I care.” 

So saying, she rudely withdrew Lizzie’s hand from 
the door-handle, and the two once more stood face to 
face. 

Lizzie passed her hand across her forehead, throw- 
ing back the mass of hair that hid her brow — 

“Father,” she said, wistfully, “father, where are 
you] Little Lizzie wants you now.” 

And then she swayed, and with a gasp fell forward 
at Bertha’s feet. 

The hard-set face of the society girl changed in an 
instant. Her woman’s heart had got the mastery 
again, and hastily calling assistance, she had Lizzie 
carried to her room. 

Prompt measures saved her from a severe illness, 
but when she boarded the train for Prankville a few 
days afterwards, there were few people who would 
have recognized in her the once merry daughter of 
farmer Tilton. 

She wrote a formal letter to Peter, releasing him 
from any implied promises, and settled down to the 
drudgery of home life. Her father heard her story 
with great agitation, but she carefully veiled her own 
feelings, and led him to believe that she had forgotten 
Peter. Mr. Forbes, to whom she unbosomed herself 
even more freely than to her father, set himself to 
work to make her life as pleasant as possible. He 
became a boarder with the Tilton’s, and his slender 
stipend, added to their own, kept them from want, 
and made it unnecessary for Lizzie to go to service 
again. When Bolton heard his sister’s story, his face 
grew livid with passion, and he swore it would go 
hard with Peter whenever they should meet. But it 
was destined to be some time before the meeting 
should take place, for Peter did not visit his home, 
except for a day or two, for over a year, and his visits 
always chanced to be when Bolton was away. 

Matters at Prankville dropped back into their usual 
routine with Lizzie and her people. Mr. Forbes often 
took her for country walks, and told her tales of the 
plants and the birds that they met with. He had a 
lesson to teach in everything, but never thrust it 
ollensively before her. He showed her the deserted 
nests, but also pointed out the new ones being built. 
He spoke of the fading flowers, only to suggest to her 
that the seeds lay ripening within. And in the 
autumn, when the ice-encased boughs were being torn 
from the trees by the wind, he only spoke of the 
added beauty and sturdiness the trees would have 
now that the superfluous and weak branches had been 
piuned away. Often in the summer evenings, when 
the cattle were drinking from the stream, Mr. Forbes, 
lzzie, ana her parents would take their places under 
a spreading maple on the bank, and spend the hours 
in conversation and music. Mr. Tilton was growing 
feebler every day, and Mrs. Tilton more querulous, 
and Lizzie had no easy task in caring for them. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



107 



Bolton absented himself more and more, and it 
began to be whispered about that he was engaged in 
illicit distilling, though where his still was no one 
seemed to know. Whatever he was engaged in, it 
brought him in money, which, however, disappeared 
in some unaccountable way. 

Mr. Forbes received a letter from the city one day 
and after considerable deliberation, he made known 
his resolve to go to town. 

Lizzie followed him as he left the room, and timidly 
asked him if anything was wrong. 

“ What ! ” he said, angrily, “ do you still care for 
that selfish fellow ? ” 

She slipped her hand into his as she said — 

“Now, don’t be angry with me. But it must 
be something important that will take you to the 
city.” 

“Well, child,” he replied, the cloud clearing from 
his brow, “ it is something important, but it does not 
concern Peter particularly. Tell me,” he continued, 
wistfully, “ will you ever forget him, or has he ruined 
your life entirely ? ” 

The girl shook her head sadly — 

“ He has not ruined my life. Only I do not think 
I shall ever — ever love again as I loved him. There 
are no ideals now in my life, except you.” 

“ And what ideal am I?” he asked, eagerly, looking 
down into her young face with a look that made her 
eyes fall before it. 

She toyed with the button of his well-worn broad- 
cloth coat as she replied — 

“ Kindness — and firmness — and — goodness — and 
strength. Do you know,” she added, “ I wanted to 
go to you when — when I was so unhappy.” 

“ Thank heaven for that ! ” he exclaimed ; “I am 
glad you know that if ever you are in trouble there 
is one man you can come to, who will protect and 
comfort you so far as it lies in his power. But there, 
there, you will be laughing at me for an old fool 
when I am gone.” 

There was nobody near, and she stood looking into 
his face so innocently that he were more than human 
if he did not take advantage of the circumstance and 
his quasi-guardianship over the girl and kiss her. At 
least, he did kiss her suddenly, and hurried away, 
leaving her standing with the blush still upon her 
cheek. Indeed, the blush seemed persistent, and 
even increased, as she stood there looking after the 
departing form of the schoolmaster as he walked up 
the road. Whatever her thoughts were, they stirred 
her very deeply, and instead of returning to her 
parents she sought her own room, and opening the 
window, sat down and let the cool breezes play against 
her cheeks. 

As Mr. Forbes proceeded towards Mr. Simson’s 
farm-house, for he was bound thither, he muttered to 
himself, and shook his head over something in a man- 
ner highly amusing to the squirrels, that ran in and 
out of the fences after him, with the mercenary view 
of getting the nuts he was wont to bring them. But 
their rudeness had its own reward, for he completely 
ignored them in spite of their angry chirping. “ Tut, 
tut, John Forbes,” he said to himself, “what were 
you thinking of when you did that? You had 



your day of happiness once, and you know it never 
comes twice.” 

Whatever Mr. Forbes was thinking of, we have no 
right to play the squirrel and follow him. He reached 
the farm-house of Mr. Simson, and was closeted with 
that gentleman for some hours. Then he returned 
to the cottage, and made all his arrangements for de- 
parture next morning. He met Lizzie in the evening, 
and for the first time there was a constraint between 
them, which he set down to his hasty kiss, and blamed 
himself for most earnestly in his thoughts. 

Upon his arrival in the city he at once proceeded 
to the office of Mr. James, and here, again, there was 
a long and earnest discussion. Whatever it was 
about, Mr. Forbes seemed well pleased, and took 
possession, with evident satisfaction, of several docu- 
ments given him by an attorney, whom he had met 
by agreement at Mr. James’ office. 

After the attorney departed, Mr. James congratu- 
lased his old friend, and said — 

“ Is it not about time, Mr. Forbes, that you gave 
up your school and rejoined us in the city? Surely 
you will teach no more, now ? ” 

Mr. Forbes laughed nervously. 

“ I don’t know,” he said ; “ I am contented in 
Prankville, and besides,” he added, “ I am a little 
king among the good people there, while here I should 
be nobody.” 

“ I am afraid you have found a wild rose there that 
consoles you in your exile,” said Mr. James. 

“ Tut, tut, don’t talk nonsense,” rejoined Mr. 
Forbes, testily ; “ a man of my age to find any wild 
roses ! ” 

“At your age ? ” said Mr. James, heartily. “Ha, 
ha, I like that. Why, man, you’ve not reached the 
forties yet.” 

“ There are more ways of growing old than with 
years,” was the reply. 

“Well, well, have it so, if you wish. By-the-bye, 
Forbes,” and Mr. James’ face grew grave, “ that 
lad?” 

“What lad?” 

“Young Simson, that you sent to me. I suppose 
you want to know how he is getting on here ; or does 
he keep you posted? Perhaps he would not tell you 
as much as I would about himself.” 

Mr. Forbes was silent, and his companion con- 
tinued — 

“ There has been one mystery about him that I did 
not like. At my friend Hartley’s, recently, he was 
recognized, or, at least, I judge so, by a very pleasant 
girl. I have tried to get an explanation from him, 
but all he could say was that he had never seen the 
girl before, and she must have mistaken him for some 
one else. I had no reason to disbelieve him, as there 
was no especial scene, and the girl certainly did not 
claim to know him, so I have not felt quite justified 
in doing anything in the matter. Has he told you of 
the affair ? ” 

Mr. Forbes rose, and began excitedly pacing the 
room. 

“ I will tell you the truth,” he said. “ It was his 
sweetheart whom he denied to you. Your city air 
has done that for him ! Wild flowers are fit for 



108 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



rustics now, not for him. He is of the city, and lias 
dropped in his upward flight everything that might 
hinder him, even the heart that trusted him ! ” 

With vehement words the schoolmaster related 
Peter’s history in so far as it showed his connection 
with Lizzie. When he had finished, Mr. James 
said— 

“I am glad you have warned me of him. He is a 
lad of great intelligence, and I had given him the 
run of ray house. From this out he shall never enter 
it .again.” To himself he added — “ Heaven send my 
little one has not given him her heart ! ” 

“Where is Peter now?” asked Mr. Forbes. “I 
will make him confess the truth in your presence ! ” 
“Peter is probably not here. He was to have left 
for a fishing trip to some lake near Prankville to-day, 
and Charley with him. I would not bother with 
him, Forbes. I, of course, believe your tale. You 
must know the girl well,” he added, “since you seem 
so put out about his conduct?” 

“No, no, no,” replied Mr. Forbes, quickly. “I 
only know the girl slightly. Her people are very 
respectable. I’m not very much interested ; only, he 
was a pupil of mine, and I’m ashamed of him.” 

“ Well, will you come up to dine with me? ” asked 
Mr. James. “ I avant you to see Mrs. James and the 
girls.” 

Mr. Forbes accepted the invitation ; and, for the 
first time in many years, the poet-souled schoolmaster 
mixed with his equals. The girls had grown to 
womanhood now, and blushed as he congratulated 
them, in his old-fashioned way, upon their appear- 
ance. He was a man who won the affection and con- 
fidence of all he met, and when he left next day for 
Prankville they all saw him off regretfully. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



“ Es gingen drei Jager wohl auf die Birsch, 
Sie wollten erjagen den weissen Hirsch. 
Sie legten sich unter den Tannenbaum.” 



Mr. James was right when he said he thought Peter 
and Charley had gone to the lakes near Prankville. 
1 hey took a companion with them, a college mate of 
Peter’s, noted for his lightness of heart, and arriv. d 
in 1 rankville in the afternoon, and drove out with 
“Fighting Tom,” who had been written to to meet 
them, as far as that worthy’s house, which was about 
four miles from the first of the chain of lakes. All 
three slept in the one room, and Charley, for the first 
time, began his experience of roughing it. From 
eight until nine the young fellows talked over their 
plans for the campaign, and then rolled over to go to 
sleep. But from nine to ten was the hymn-sin "in" 
hour of “Fighting Tom’s” family, and lusty voices” 
accompanied by a very wheezy harmonium, filled the 
house with acoustic waves of fundamental tones and 
harmonics. 

“ Oh ! gracious ! ” groaned Charley, as he tossed 
from side to side. “ That’s the fourth time they’ve 
sung Pull for the Shore.’ I don’t like boatin" son"s 
anyway.” ° ° 



“Chestnuts !” said Harry. 

“Are you awake, too, Peter?” asked Charley. 

“ Yes, worse luck.” 

“What’s to be done?” 

“ We may as well sing, too; this is a free country.” 

“ Well, here goes for ‘ My Meerschaum Pipe,’ ” 
said Harry, and, assisted by the others, he trolled it 
forth. 

Tom at once appeared at the door. 

“Is there anything the matter, Mr. Peter?” he 
asked, anxiously. “ You haven’t got cramps, have 
you ? ” 

“ Cramps, indeed ! ” said Frank. “ We thought we 
might have a song, too.” 

Tom laughed. As noted before, Tom always 
laugned when spoken to. 

“Jane,” he shouted, “shut up that harmomicum.” 

Thus silence was restored. But somehow or other 
the young fellows did not go to sleep even then. 
There is sometimes something worse than “ harmomi- 
cums” in a country house, and city-fed bodies are rare 
eating ! Dawn found the three haggard-eyed, hot- 
tempered, and ruffled generally, and it was not until 
breakfast had been eaten that harmony was restored. 

Then came the four-mile tramp through bush and 
fern, down hollow and up hill, by creek and marsh, 
to the lakes. The party were loaded down with bag- 
gage, for they very wisely took provisions with them. 

(To be continued .) 



“ EVANGELINE.” 

After perusal of this thrilling and pathetic poem of 
Mr. Longfellow’s, the sentiment of the reader will be 
naturally that of hostile feeling towards the government 
which perpetrated the inhuman act (the story in con- 
nection with which, and its sad consequences, are told 
in so graphic a manner by the writer), and of deep 
and blind sympathy with the Acadian peasants, who 
suffered from the carrying out of the harsh edict of the 
British King. But because the story of Evangeline 
records an historical fact, it is natural and reasonable, 
upon reflection, to enquire into the truth of the matter, 
with a view to discover whether Mr. Longfellow’s 
version of the incident is a correct one, and if not, to 
find out in what respects it is a misrepresentation of 
the real facts. For, although the poet is at liberty to 
use his skill and inspiration in the embellishment of 
his productions, to heighten their effect, nevertheless, 
he is no less under obligation to rigidly confine him- 
sell to the truth when facts of history are concerned, 
than the prose writer who makes it his business to 
record such facts. If, in the execution of a painting, 
an artist should, by unfair manipulation of light and 
shade, give a wrong representation of a landscape, it 
would not be doing justice to one who wished to have 
an exact counterpart of the particular view reproduced 
on canvas. The picture, indeed, might be more beauti- 
ful than its original, but not wholly satisfactory, 
owing to its unnaturalness. And so, in regard to 
history, tacts may be related with care and skill and 
atti activeness by the poet, but not at the sacrifice of 
truth ; else they are apt to, and doubtless will, give 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



109 



wrong impressions, even if they have an otherwise 
beneficial influence on readers at large. Not that Mr. 
Longfellow has flagrantly transgressed in this respect; 
but he has certainly painted the life and environment 
of the Acadian in such glowing colours, that the 
heinousness of King George’s mandate stands out in 
somewhat unfair contrast. The plain realities of the 
condition and fate of the French colonists are touch- 
ing enough, and need no exaggeration. That they 
were as pure, and virtuous, and blameless as he re- 
presents them to be in their home life and the life of 
the community, is a matter to be questioned ; and in- 
deed it has been proved otherwise. Dr. Francis 
Parkman, in an article, “ The Acadian Tragedy,” 
which appeared some time since in Harper's Magazine, 
gave an impartial account of the true particulars of 
the expulsion of the Acadians from Grand Prd. This 
account is based upon proceedings set forth in two 
large volumes of papers, about a thousand pages in all, 
copied from the archives of the Colonial Department 
at Paris. After denying the truth of the ideal picture 
of Acadian life drawn by Abbd Reynal, and copied 
and embellished by later writers, he proceeds to give a 
sketch of the social and religious life of the peasants, 
the following extract from which will be seen to be 
far different from the impression given by the poet. 
“Nor were they without a bountiful share of jealousy, 
“ gossip, and backbiting, to relieve the monotony of 
“ their lives, and every village had its turbulent 
“ spirits, sometimes by fits, though rarely long, 
“ contumacious even to the cure, the guide, counsellor, 
“ and ruler of his flock. Enfeebled by hereditary 
“ mental subjection, and too long kept in leading 
“strings to walk alone, the needed guidance, not for 
“ the next world only, but for this ; and their sub- 
“ mission, compounded of love and fear, was com- 
“ monly without bounds.” He further shows how 
lenient the English were with the Acadians after 
the cession by France to the British Crown in 1713 ; 
how the peasants were entirely free from any onerous 
obligations consequent thereupon, but remained un- 
molested in matters spiritual and temporal ; how the 
population was left substantially to the government 
of its own priest ; how the Acadians, for many years, 
delayed to take the oath of allegiance to their new 
sovereign, and when they did, it was upon the con- 
dition that they should not be required to bear arms 
against their former countrymen, the French ; how, 
when war broke out again in 1 / 45, many of them 
put aside their oath, and sided with the enemy; how, 
upon the conclusion of the war in 1748, the British 
showed great forbearance, only insisting that all the 
adult male population should take an oath of 
allegiance, without any reserve or restriction what- 
ever. Finally, he shows, as set forth in the archives 
referred to, that their incessant intrigue was carried 
on by the agents of Louis XV., to stir the Acadians 
into bitter hostility against the British government. 
The clergy became the agents of this plotting, and 
taught their parishioners, that fidelity to King Louis 
was inseparable from fidelity to God, and that to swear 
allegiance to the British Crown would be an eternal 
perdition. And all this was carried on, that in case 
of renewed hostilities between the two countries, 



France might recapture Acadia. Le Loutre, vicar 
general of Acadia, under the Bishop of Quebec, is 
proved to have received, upon one occasion, from a 
French official 1800 livres, to pay for English scalps. 
Dr. Parkman says of this man : “ With a reckless dis- 
“ regard of the unhappy people under his charge, he 
“ spared no means to embroil them with the govern- 
“ ment under which, but for him and his fellow con- 
“ spirators, they would have lived in peace and 
“ contentment. An entire heartlessness marked the 
“ dealing of the French authorities with the Acadians. 
“ They were treated as mere tools of policy, to be 
“ used, broken, and flung away.” Seeing all this, 
and having in mind the jeopardy in which the 
English provincials in Acada found themselves, on 
account of which they solicited the protection of the 
government ; and moreover, considering the relative 
belligerent positions of the two countries at the time, 
it is not to be wondered at, that the British Govern- 
ment took exceptionally harsh measures in securing 
to the Crown what had been lawfully and constitu- 
tionally ceded by the French. That such extreme 
and harsh measures, as the expulsion of the Acadians 
and the confiscation of their property, were justifiable, 
cannot be maintained ; but viewed in the light of con- 
temporary history, perhaps the most that should be 
said is, that the fate of the Acadians is a striking 
example of the misery that war hasentailed upon the 
human race. To put the matter in the most reason- 
able light, the Acadians were not free from blame. 
If there were such faultless characters amongst them 
as Mr. Longfellow introduces us to, they must have 
been rare exceptions, and of course it cannot be 
denied that there might have been such ; but it is 
evident that the narrative of “ Evangeline ” should 
not be taken as a true picture of Acadian life. So 
much, then, for the historical connection of the poem. 

(To be continued.) 



GLEANINGS. 



Matthew Arnold opens one of his lectures in this 
way : — “ Forty years ago, when I was an under- 
graduate, there were voices in the air.” May it not 
be that there are voices for us, too, at McGill, and 
that many of them are passing into silence because, 
having ears, we hear not 1 

It is good for men to live in an atmosphere where 
there are such utterances as these : — “ Here is the 
mystery of the Universe — dust returns to dust, in an 
ever-recurring circle, to the accompaniment of pain.” 
“ There is good enough in the world ; let us view 
men in the light of their better qualities, as we view 
the moving river, and not the ripples that break on 
its surface.” “ Let us be careful how we take away 
the luxuries of the poor.” “ Theory may go ; facts 
may go ; there will be one thing remaining — Char- 
acter.” 

* 

* * 

Examinations possess, in the minds of students, an 
importance they do not deserve. It should be felt, 
that a man who does his work well, in any session, 



110 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



should proceed to the next, as a matter of course, and 
that examinations are merely a form, to exclude men, 
not for failing in an ordeal, but because they neglected 
their work during the year. This consciousness, on 
the part of good men, would give a calmness of mind, 
without which they cannot gain the full advantage of 
the course, any more than a man swimming for his 
life can make extended observations on the specific 
gravity of the floating bodies, prevalently supposed 
to be present on such occasions. 

* * 

* 

The other day, in answer to a student who asked 
how he should answer a certain question, the Ex- 
aminer replied — “ In any one of ten thousand ways, 
so long as that one way is good.” An examination 
paper that admits of this many-sided treatment, is a 
model for all examiners, and requires for its framing 
a many-sided talent. Such a paper probes a man to 
the bottom, and brings out every important item of 
specific knowledge that he has on the subject in 
question. 

* * 

* 

There is a rhythm in the Universe that extends to 
our bodily cells. It is literally true, that the spheres 
make music in their course, and the morning stars sing 
together. In Nature that monotone does not exist, 
which is the enemy of all life, and which makes of 
men, not living beings, but unthinking machines. 
This tendency to a regular recurrence seems to be the 
deepest law underlying our being. It holds, as well, 
in the mental life, because, for every mental act, there 
is a corresponding, correlated, physical one. Over 
all the vital processes come with rhythmic regularity, 
periods of activity and rest. The rhythm swells and 
increases ; new parts are stimulated, weary ones are 
wakened into life, the machinery is working in beau- 
tiful harmony. The wave reaches its height, and 
begins to descend ; one part after another drops into 
silence ; the vital processes alone are in operation, 
and sleep comes. The rhythm decreases ; these, too, 
are lulled into sleep — the individual is dead. From 
Life to Death, there is one great wave, rising higher 
and higher, and gradually subsiding to whence it 
came. This is the true music to which all things are 
tuned, and death is not an untuning, but a passing 
into silence, or into a harmony too fine for mortal 
ears. Night follows day ; the tides go and come ; the 
seasons return ; cold follows warmth ; repentance 
follows excess ; generation succeeds generation ; one 
form of life depends upon another; there is the pul- 
sating of heart, blood-vessels, and organs of the body ; 
the reappearance in offspring of hereditary tendencies ; 
and subject to all these are numberless recurring 
circles in the progress from waking to sleeping — from 
Life to Death. 

* * 

* 

This principle of rhythm extends far into our emo- 
tional and intellectual life, and many manifestations 
of this nature owe their existence wholly to it — such 
as poetry and music. It is seen nowhere more clearly 
than in the maxim of poets — the “ sound should imi- 
tate the sense ; ” that is, the poem should be in har- 



mony with the rhythm, set up in the organism, by the 
ideas it contains. Its application is readily seen in 
the following lines : — 

“ Autis epeita pedonde kulindeto laas anaides.” 

— Oddyssey, II., 593. 

suggests at once the rolling stone, and this line the 
sea : — 

“Be d’akeon para thina poluphloisboio thalasses.” 

— Ilias, I. 34. 

The galloping of a horse is well imitated by Virgil — 

“ Quadrupedante putrem sonitu qualit uugula carupum.” 

— Aen., VIII., 59 6. 

The Greek choruses were constructed especially with 
this object in view. 

In Tennyson we have this description of Sir 
Bedivere carrying the dying knight : — 

“ The bare black cliffs clanged round him as he based 
His feet ou juts of slippery crag that rang, 

Sharp smitten with the dint of armed heels.” 

Pope explains and illustrates at the same time the 
twelve syllable line : — 

“ A needless Alexandrine ends the song, 

That, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length along.” 

The maxim is well laid down in these lines — 

“ Soft is the stream when zephyr gently blows. 

And the smooth stream in smoother numbers lined, 

But when loud surges lash the sounding shore. 

The hoarse, x - ough verse should like the torrent roar.” 

There is another good instance in “ Midsummer’s 
Night Dream ” — 

“ The raging rocks. 

With shivering shocks, 

Shall break the locks 
Of prison gates.** 

In Dryden, the rhythm pervading nature is referred 
to, and the effect of the organ stops well brought 
out : — 

“ From harmony — from heavenly harmony — 

This universal frame began ; 

From harmony to harmony, 

Through all the compass of the notes it ran, 

The diapason closing full in man.** 

Referring to the sound of the trumpet — 

At tuba terribile sonitu tdrdtant&rd dixit." — Ennius. 
li Sternitur exanimisque tremens procumbit hu mi bos.** 

— Virg., Aen. V., 481. 

Observe rare caesura on last foot, and effect it pro- 
duces : — 

Tramp ! tramp ! along the land they rode, 

Splash ! splash ! along the sea.” 

~ „ „ —Scott, “William and Helen.” 

Onorus of frogs — 

“ Brekekekex ; koax ; koax.” — Ar., Ran. 269. 
Squealing of pig — 

KORA. 

“ Koi, koi.” 

MEGAREUS. 

“ Auta oti Choiros.” — Av., Ach. 780. 

Further instances are found in E. A. Poe’s “ Bells ” 
and in Tennyson’s “ Owl in Belfry.” 

[We thought it better to print the Greek lines in 
English type than to omit them. — Eds. University 
Gazette.] 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Ill 



JttcSUl News. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Theo Dora is the name of the ladies’ missionary 
society. The members lay great stress upon its being 
written as two words. 

Mr. Lafleur has kindly altered his lecture hours in 
this department since January, in order that the Delta 
Sigma may continue to meet at four o’clock. 

Mrs. Ross, who was for three years a member of the 
class of ’88, spent a few days in town on her way 
home from Bermuda. She was warmly welcomed by 
many of her college friends. 

Dr. Kelly, of the High School, has presented the 
Theo Dora Society with two volumes, “A Missionary 
Band ” and “ The Crisis of Missions.” The books were 
accompanied by a note expressing kindest wishes of 
success. The society is also indebted to an unknown 
friend for a copy of “ China’s Spiritual Need and 
Claims.” 

Some time ago the Delta Sigma announced a prize 
essay competition on the subject : “ Higher education 
in relation to domestic and social life.” The com- 
mittee decided that no prize should be awarded un- 
less there were at least twelve competitors, and more 
than that number of ladies promised to write. Four 
essays have been sent in to the secretary. The com- 
mittee had gone to a good deal of trouble in the 
matter, and it seems a pity that their efforts failed to 
awaken interest in a subject, upon which every intelli- 
gent lady student should be prepared to give an 
opinion. 



Come and hear, and we are sure you will want to 
come again. This is to especially invite you to be 
present. Sunday meetings in City Y.M.C.A. Rooms, 
Victoria Square, 4.30 — 5.15 sharp. 

Prayer meeting every Tuesday evening in No. 1 room, 
Arts building, 7 to 7.30, only half an hour; just as 
you are through tea, come up. 

D. J. Evans, A. H. Hawkins, 

President. Secretary. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

Dr. W. G. Beers, one of the leading dentists of 
Montreal, delivered a lecture before this Society on 
Saturday evening, Feb. 18th. 

The subject of the lecture was — “ Dentistry in 
Relation to the Practice of Medicine,” and the posi- 
tion which dentistry holds to the other departments 
of medical science was shown to be so intimate, that 
a knowledge of the diseases and troubles attending 
the first appearance and the decay of the teeth, often 
explains some otherwise obscure affections. 

Dr. Beers then gave a short description of some of 
the conditions requiring immediate attention, which 
are likely to be met with by a country practitioner. 
The proper course of treatment to be pursued in each 
case was marked out, reference being made in most 
instances to cases which had come under the lecturer’s 
own notice. 

Lastly, the methods of extracting teeth were ex- 
plained, the various instruments used being shown to 
those present. 

At the conclusion of his lecture, a vote of thanks 
was tendered to Dr. Beers for his eminently practi- 
cable and useful paper. 



Delta Sigma Society. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 



At the usual fortnightly meeting, on Feb. 23rd, 
essays were read by Miss C. Richardson, ’91, on “ Mine. 
Schumann and Miss J. Bailey, ’91, on “ Catherine 
de Medici.” The subject and speakers for an extem- 
pore debate were then drawn, with the following 
result : “ Should not all punishment be reformatory 1 ” 
Affirmative, Misses McLea, Derick and J. Botterell. 
Negative, Misses Mooney, Abbott and Finley. The 
debate was conducted with much spirit, and after the 
vote had been taken in favor of the negative, the dis- 
cussion became general. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Mr. Selkirk Cross, lectured on the 24th February, 
before the University Literary Society, on Edward 
Gibbon, the writings of the great chronicler of the 
“ Decline and Fall ” being analyzed and described. 



COLLEGE Y.M.C.A. 
PROGRAMME OF MEETINGS. 



March 11.— To be chosen 

“ 18. — Missions 

« 25. — Farewell meeting for Medicals. 



Rev. Dr. Macvicar. 
J. McDougall, B.A. 



The debate of the 17th February by the Undergra- 
duates’ Literary Society, was on the Chinese question. 
After a spirited discussion, it was decided that the tax 
is unjust. Pedley, Rodgers and Monk spoke for the 
affirmative ; Bryson, Deeks and A. Hall, for the nega- 
tive. McCallum read an excellent essay on the 
Chinese language. Gibson acted as critic. The new 
constitution received a six months’ hoist after a pro- 
longed discussion. 

• At a meeting of the Undergraduates’ Literary Society 
of McGill College, 24th February, the debate was on 
the question. “ Is a prohibitory temperance law 
preferable to a high license law 1 ” The affirmative 
was supported by Harvey, Ellemwood, and Walsh, 
first year Arts ; the negative by Gibson, R. S. Hall and 
Martin. After an interesting debate the question was 
decided in favor of the negative. McKenzie gave an 
able essay on the “ Sun Dance ” of the Blackfeet 
Indians, the materials having been collected by per- 
sonal observation. H V. Truell, 3rd year Arts, acted 
as critic. 

The Undergraduates’ Literary Society held its regu' 
lar meeting on Friday, March 2nd. An exceedingly 
interesting essay — “ History ol McGill University ” — 
was read by Mr. McDougall, of which the following 
is an index : — It was founded by James McGill, who 



112 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



was born at Glasgow in 1744, and died at Montreal in 
1813. He was described as a tall, graceful man, witha 
heavy head and square, massive face. He had no family 
dependent upon him, and he left the bulk of his 
property and £10,000 for the founding of a college. 
A charter was obtained in 1821 and in 1829 the 
college was founded, it consisted of one faculty of 
three professors, and lectures were delivered where 
the Fraser Institute now stands. A medical faculty 
was established at the same time, which shortly after 
coalesced with the Montreal Medical Institute. In 
1839 the main building was erected, and opened four 
years later Principal succeeded principal till 1855, 
when Sir William Dawson took control, and he has 
guided the University with firm hand and wise coun- 
sel for the past thirty-three years. At that time there 
was a crisis in affairs. The professors received no 
salaries, there were but seventeen students, and the 
funds were exhausted. This was the task that met 
the principal. McGill to-day bears witness as to how 
it was accomplished. Within four years following 
1881 an endowment of $200,000 was obtained. In 
1862 the Molson Hall was built. The museum has 
been opened and medals established in six courses. 
In 1855 the museum consisted of one fossil, carefully 
preserved in the bursar’s desk, and still preserved. In 
1871 the engineering school was re-opened, and in 
the same year the Ladies’ Educational Association 
was organized. In 1863 the observatory was built on 
the hill and on faith. It was for some time without 
a telescope. In the same year Dr. Hunt was engaged, 
at the principal’s private expense, to teach chemistry. 
At that time the University owned all the land above 
Dorchester and between University and Mansfield 
streets, and there were only six houses above St. 
Catherine. Such was the early life of McGill, and 
to-day it stands a monument to the energy of the 
principal, the faithfulness of the professors and 
generosity of its friends. 

The subject of debate was as follows : — “ Resolved, 
that freeing the slaves in the United States, without 
a reimbursement to the slave owners, was an unjust 
act.” The affirmative was supported by Messrs Gib- 
son, Hall, and McGregor; the negative by Messrs. 
Craik and Harvey. After an interesting discussion, the 
negative came out victorious. Mr. Patterson, B.A., a 
former student, acted as critic. 



THE Y. M. C. A. 

About four or five years ago our association met week- 
ly in one of the small buildings in the city association 
building. The meetings were small, the members 
few, but amongst them were such men as Kendall and 
Unsworth, earnest, good-hearted fellows, who felt that 
the work must go on. Year by year since that time 
has the work gone on quietly, steadily increasing and 
widening out, until to-day it far trancends the most 
sanguine expectations of its early promoters. From 
a few members it has increased until now it has ah 
most reached 200. 

Its doors are open to all, irrespective of denomin- 
ation or nationality ; to everyone, who wants to live 
a manly, straightforward life. This is its aim and 



object, to help one another so to do. It appeals to 
the better nature of man, deals with those things 
which tend to elevate one both morally and spirit- 
ually. 

It takes no part in the political life of the Univers- 
ity. This is to be distinctly understood. It has no 
secrets ; its aims, objects, manner of working — every- 
thing about it is open to all. 

Its members are divided into active and associate. 
Active, all who are members of some evangelical 
church. Associate, those who are not members of 
any church, but who wish to identify themselves with 
the work of the Association ; who sympathise with its 
object, and who wish to enjoy its priveleges. 

It is run on regular business principles. There is 
an executive committee composed of president, two 
vice-presidents, recording secretary, corresponding 
secretary, treasurer and assistant-treasurer. This com- 
mittee meets on the 1st Tuesday of each month to 
discuss matters in connection with the Association. 
Then there is the devotional committee, membership 
committee and the social committee. 

Meetings are held every Sunday afternoon in the 
city Association rooms from 4:30 to 5:20. This is 
presided over by one selected by the devotional com- 
mittee from the members of the Association. These 
meetings are usually well attended, and will be 
remembered with pleasure by many after they have 
done with college life and get out into work. 

Sometimes these meetings are addressed by an out- 
sider. Among those who have addressed the meetings 
this session are : Sir William Dawson, the honorary 
president of the Association ; Dr. McKillop, of the 
U. S. ; Messrs. Redfern and Sanders, missionaries to 
China ; Dr. Barbour, late preacher to the students 
and professors of Yale College, now principal of the 
Congregational College in this city. 

Every Tuesday evening a short meeting is held for 
prayer in the Arts Building. 

Two semi-annual meetings are held during the 
session, one in November and the other in February. 
Here the reports of the various committees are read 
and discussed, and other matters of interest in con- 
nection with the Asssociation. 

At the commencement of each session a brilliant 
conversazione is held in the Redpath Museum, to 
receive the freshmen. To this every student of the 
University is asked. 

Occasionally social evenings are spent by many of 
the members at some of the homes of our wealthy citi- 
zens. Among those who have been especially kind 
are : Messrs. E. H. Botterell, R. H. Holland, John 
Kennedy and J. Jos. Claxton. 

Such then is an outline of our work. 

Every university now has its Y. M. C. A. A good 
many of them are putting up special Y. M. C. A 
buildings. Yale has one which cost $50,000. To- 
ronto University is the first in Canada to have one. 
We hope McGill will be next. 



Professor Moyse had a Social Meeting of the Gradu- 
ating Class in Arts, on Saturday evening. On the 
same evening. Sir Wm. Dawson met the Third Year 
Students at his house, for Microscopic Study. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



113 



1888.] 



Personals. 



Hall, Med. ’87, is “gathering in the golden” at 
Ormstown. 

The freshmen (little f) have placed their veto on 
the Cook testimonial movement. 

We are glad to find Professor Chandler in his place 
again after a somewhat serious illness. 

H. C. Macdonald, B.A., ’82, is contesting the Bel 
fast district, P.E.I., in the Liberal interest. 

Addy, Med. ’90, has taken a position in the hospi- 
tal which, we hope, will he very temporary. 

W. Hall, Med. ’87, who has settled in Brampton, 
Ont., is at present attending the New York Poly- 
clinic. 

Dr. Finley has been appointed Visiting Physician 
to the Montreal Dispensary, instead of Dr. Birkett, 
who had resigned. 

Dr. Murray will lecture before the Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society, 16th March, on the relations exist 
ing between such Societies and Universities. 

At a meeting of the Faculty, on 28th Feb., Morri- 
son, ’88, was allowed his B.A. degree, c eger, he hav- 
ing been compelled to leave College and take com- 
plete rest for twelve months. 

The graduating class in Arts has lost two of its 
members by death during its College course, viz., 
Brown and Pritchard. Only nineteen are now left 

of its large freshmen class. The rest have been 

left. 

Professor Penhallow delivered the third of the 
Somerville Course of lectures on Thursday, 1st March, 
before the Natural History Society. The lecture was 
on “ Climate in Relation to Vegetation,” a subject 
in which Ihe professor is perfectly at home. 

Some complaints have reached us that a gentleman 
who did not pass at the head of his class, urged as an 
excuse that the examination was too easy. As a re- 
sult, the work has been increased by one-fifth, causing 
an undue flurry of feathers in the East Wing. 



Exchanges. 

We are glad to welcome again, the Cornell Era. 
This is the first for this session. Would our exchanges 
kindly inform us of any irregularity in the receiving 
of this paper, and send their own punctually. 

Serious and solid, the Presbyterian College Journal 
comes. We are glad to see that many of the Alumni 
of the college take sufficient interest in it to contribute 
articles. 

The King's College Journal sensibly advises its read- 
ers not to neglect the gymnasium. Fifty years ago it 
was fashionable for a scholar to be a gaunt-looking in- 
dividual, with bow-back, wasted frame and dimmed 
eyes. Now, we want men capable of holding their own 
in the class-room and on the College campus. 

From the capital of the Dominion comes The Owl. 
It hoots for the College of Ottawa. As one of our new 
exchanges, we wish it success. 



£orre$pon&ence. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Dear Sms, — In your issue of the 22nd Feb., Mr. 
MacPhail takes to task The Week's Montreal corres- 
pondent for “ information which is, in the main, incor- 
rect, and comments which are wholly unfair.” I am 
sorry my remarks were so thoroughly misunderstood 
by your correspondent. To others, I have reason to 
believe, the letter was quite comprehensible. How- 
ever, since many who read the University Gazette 
never see The Week, permit me to give them some 
idea of what I really did say. 

The first of my statements quoted by your corres- 
pondent is that the two courses at McGill are kept 
separate. This he says is true ; thus far we agree. 
But now I come to amaze of “ Joint-Conversaziones,” 
“ Joint- Meetings,” and “ Joint-Management ” that are 
not a little puzzling. A “ Joint-Conversazione ” I 
hold to be one having a joint executive committee. 
Now your correspondent says that “ the University 
could not have allowed any such infringement on the 
terms of the endowment as a joint-management would 
have involved ; ” yet in the preceding clause he in- 
forms us that the authorities encouraged the “ joint- 
meetings.” Either Mr. MacPhail or the University 
is wofully inconsistent. I was informed upon the 
best authority that it had been the intention of the 
undergraduates — men and women — to give a Joint- 
Conversazione, but that the authorities forbade it. If 
the authorities did not look with horror upon a Joint- 
Meeting, but encouraged it, why was it not held 1 If, 
on the other hand, what took place on Monday even- 
ing was a Joint-Conversazione, why did the ladies 
give a reception on Saturday afternoon 1 For my own 
part I am very glad things were as they were, 
inasmuch as I had the pleasure of being present at 
two delightful entertainments instead of at only one. 

It is not the case that I “ attempted to create an 
impression that there is anything else than the truest 
relations between the students of the two depart- 
ments.” 

The subtle difference which Mr. MacPhail has 
discovered to exist between the word “compliment” 
as applied to the Ladies’ Reception, and the words of 
the “ authorized report,” I leave him to discuss with 
some long-suffering philologist. 

Trusting you will pardon my thus having trespassed 
so long upon your time and patience, 

I am, Sirs, 

Yours truly, 

Louis Lloyd. 

[We publish the above as a matter of courtesy, not 
admitting, however, that it meets the position taken 
by Mr. MacPhail, nor commending the temper with 
which it is written. As to questions of fact, we know 
of no higher authority than the president of the con- 
versazione committee, whose statement we published 
in our last issue. At the same time, it is quite justi- 
fiable for Louis Lloyd to attempt to put himself right 



114 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



in the eyes of people whose hospitality he admits. 
Is this best done by evasions and a trifling playing 
with words i In a later issue of the Week, we are 
glad to notice that Louis Lloyd has decided, in future, 
to refrain from entering into questions unsuitable for 
the “ Uninitiated .” — Eds. University Gazette.] 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

:o: 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole Agents for lv£om.trea.l a.m.d. 'Vicxaa.itjr. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and Billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 

Special to the Doctors and Students ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts made to order. 

SPECIAL TERMS TO THE STUDENTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 



= ) 3BPY TOVR(= 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 

* * * tt************ 

hotographers 

* * * * * *** * * * * * * * * 

Jferu Beale of "Prices this year 
for Bindenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 




* * 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 



$115,000,000 
16,000,000 



OF 2STIEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, ------ 

Surplus, ------ 

The MUTUAL of Hew fork is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen. Manager. 

NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

335 337' St. Steeet, 1£onteeal. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebrated HoTWhter H eaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Furnaces 



Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

:EE- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving ^ Pointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

limitations, Cards, GFests, programmes 
Monograms, &c., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

rnra savasta 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extm Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

K. A. QBRTB, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Hfc PHOTOGRAPHY aN- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleurxf Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
JnT CH EMICAL APPARATUS. 

S! tfull $to6k dog$tkr|tly or) 8-kqd, Imported 
©ifedt fdon\ tl\e I^ekdiqg ^Ikgufkdtufedd 
of tl\e Wodld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 211 & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re- finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned anH Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hard 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders Hr work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



THE GENUINE 

COOK’S Fbieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



if 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

cash. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MOITTBE^AL. 




Cczmer ^zTcO-ill amd. IbTotze Dame Streets. 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA OF 

READY-MADE CLOTHING, 

— CONSISTING OF— 

Overcoats, Suits, Boy's & Children's Clothing, Hats, Caps & Gentlemen's Furnishings, 

CUSTOM DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY. STUDENTS USUAL DISCOUNT. ” 

2>vdla,il Ord.ers receive special attention. 




