Vol. X. No. 2. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF NEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

_ , , $109,000,000 

Assets nearly 13,000.000 

Surplus over 

The MUTUAL of New folk is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation, 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 



1762 ^TO'T’IR.IE STREET, 






WEDDING CARDS, 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS. 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 

MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 A: 9 Bleury St., ITIONTKEAL. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

W - • ^ 

S tfull $tock doqdtaqtly oq Skqd, Imported 
Direct frtirq tl(e Leadiqg ^Taqufadtufe^ 
of tl|e Wodd. 



AX IXSPIXTIOX IXVITED. 



W 






384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 







DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CLA-IMIIES ST. 



* *. 



•f 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

hotographers 

**J| ******** 

New Beale of Trices this year 
for Bindenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



.TIRIUC'A 1. WORKS, BOOKS II SR It IJT ART COIR SB, 
SCMRJS'CR TRXT BOOKS, 

THR VARIOUS THRO I. O HI CAL BOOKS. 

Fall assortment in stock & snppliei at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., See., 
■^•I’BEST "V" _A.XiTTIE ITsT TOWZtsTH*- 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Ta. 32 n.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



VoL - x 0 McGill college, Montreal, November 5th, i886. [No. 2. 




♦ 



conducted, the graduates of a faculty who are nu- 
merically weak, c.g , those in science have practically 
no voice in the selection of the man who shall repres- 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. AVilliams, Med. ’87, Pice- President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. AV. IIoare, Med. ’88. 

AV. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in -Chief . 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur AVeir, B. Ap. Sc. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

AV. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, haw ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. AVheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CON TENTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 17-19 

Poetry 19, 26, 29 

Contributions 20-23 

McGill News 23-25 

Societies 25-26 

Sporting 26-28 

Personals 26 

Between the Lectures 28 

College AVorld 29 

Correspondence 29-30 



Advertisements .... 16, 30,31, 32, 33, 34 



Editorials. 



ent them, being outnumbered by the graduates in law, 
medicine and arts. At first sight there may appeal 
to be some reason in this complaint and an actual evil 
in connection with the mode of election now in vogue. 
But we are of opinion that when seriously considered 
it will be found that the change proposed would not 
only not be an advantageous one, but one positively 
injurious : not advantageous because it would be select- 
ing a man on the opinion of a fewer number, who 
might possibly look more towards furthering the 
interests of their own faculty than those of the Uni- 
versity at large : injurious because it would have tho 
appearance of countenancing the fact of divided and 
antagonistic interests where really none such exist. 

These are the days of “ Home Buie ” cries. In all 
friendliness we urge upon the friends of the Faculty 
of Science at McGill, who we believe are chiefly 
agitatiDg this change, to look well to it that their 
demands are not extravagant. Before any such pro- 
posed change is entitled to serious consideration, its 
promoters are in duty bound to shew wherein injustice 
has been done by the present state of affairs. It will 
not do merely to state, the graduates in medicine elect 
the science representative, for this in itself is not 
necessarily an evil. This might very properly be the 
charge of those who look rather to their own passing 
success than to the general interest, but we doubt very 
much if it can be called the plaint of a faculty, for, as 
intimated above, there is no reason to believe, in fact 
we do not believe that any one Faculty has special and 
individual interests separate and distinct from the 



ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE FELLOWS. 

The time will soon have arrived when the graduates 
of McGill will be called upon to again elect Repre- 
sentative Fellows. We understand that a movement 
is on foot having for its object a change in the method 
of electing these men. The change, so far as it has 
been made public, would have the effect of allowing 
graduates to vote and elect the representative for their 
own Faculty alone, e.g., graduates in medicine could 
vote for the Representative Fellow in medicine, but 
not in law, and vice versa. It is claimed by those who 
advocate this change that, as these elections are now 



"eueral interests of the whole institution : nor that 
© 

there is any rivalry among the different faculties in 
the sense of the one hampering the other with a view 
to its own aggrandisement. 

The true statement of the case is this, — that Faculty 
which is numerically the strongest should have a pro- 
portionate controlling influence in regulating Univer- 
sity matters, in so far as they can be regulated by these 
representatives. The reason that it should have this 
controlling influence must be evident to all. The 
University exists for the people of this country, and 
these people seek a training within its walls in that 
Faculty which they esteem most highly because of the 



18 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



benefits it confers on the community at large ; hence 
it follows that the importance of a Faculty is pretty 
accurately measured by the number of its graduates, 
and this standard of measurement has the additional 
advantage of being gradually self-adjustable to the 
changes in thought and development, that are con- 
stantly actuating men. 

v O 

It might be, it certainly is, a legitimate task for the 
friends of a weak Faculty to educate the public mind 
up to a just appreciation of the usefulness and im- 
portance of its work, but it certainly is not a tenable 
position to ask that such a Faculty should exercise as 
much control as do those Faculties which are ten times 
more numerous in graduates. 

We cannot countenance any method of election 
which does not recognize this principle of “ representa- 
tion by population.” But if the “Home Rule” idea 
is so firmly rooted in the minds of the friends of the 
proposed change, that they would bo in danger of 
contracting a chronic complaint which will be con- 
tinually coming to the surface and asserting itself, we 
would in that case (notwithstanding however much we 
deprecate the creation of artificial divisions where no 
natuial ones exist) be in favour of a change in the 
number of representatives, and allow each Faculty to 
elect its own Fellows in proportion to the number of 
its graduates. 



MEDICAL AND LAW EXAMINATIONS. 

. -^ e recent changes in connection with the examina- 
tions for the admission of candidates to the study of 
the medical profession, have gone very far in the 
wrong direction. We are sincerely desirous that these 
examinations, as well as those in connection with law 
should be made as thorough and as searching as 
possible. But there is no use denying the truth, they 
are not so now. They are such that in them a re- 
markably well-informed man might fail, and an ill- 
informed, examination-crammed man might succeed. 
Those who have these examinations in hand will do 
well to take warning in time : reform the system 
a ogether. What we need are men well-instructed in 
subjects useful to their future profession, and not men 
•vvho can give a parrot answer to some particular pet 
question upon every science under heaven. The idea 
has gone out, it is prevalent, and we are bound to say 

nkn^d 7 f ° Unded ’ that these ^minations are 

planned and arranged not to protect the public against 
the licensing of ignorant and therefore dangerous men 
but to protect those who are already in the profession 
and to prevent competition as much as possible. 

this 7 beC ° me thorou ghly seized of 

is fact, we fear a misguided and ill-advised blow 



which will in the end be hurtful not only to the pro- 
fessions but to the public at large. We therefore 
urge those upon whom the responsibility for this 
matter rests to put these examinations on some rational 
basis, and make them as searching as possible upon 
subjects of actual importance. 

We are informed that a movement is now on foot 
to oblige all medical graduates to submit themselves 
to an examination before being licensed to practise, 
as has been the practice for years past, and still is, in 
the case of all graduates in law. The idea is in itself 
a good one. It will have the effect of keeping all 
medical schools up to a certain standard of efficiency. 
But the Bar examinations, as now conducted, are open 
to very grave objections : more time should be taken 
and a larger number of questions submitted to the 
candidates. Take, for example, the last Bar examina- 
tion held at Three Rivers, for admission to practise. 
There were in that paper two questions on Roman 
law, neither of which for answer required an intimate 
or even a fair general knowledge of the subject, and 
yet either of which might escape the notice of a man 
who notwithstanding had a very respectable knowledge 
of that part of his work. Now, according to present 
regulations, unless a man takes one-half marks on this 
subject (and it is only a specimen brick) he is not even 
admitted to an oral examination. Are we too severe 
when we say that the primary object of such an ex- 
amination is to exclude not to admit candidates 1 Is it 
reasonable, is it just that a man’s success or failure 
should depend upon his answering one of two questions 
selected by chance from such a multitude as are to 
be found in every branch of law 1 We are confident 
it is not, and with all due respect we urge, either that 
an option in questions be given, or that there be no 
departure from the old plan of making the total 
percentage of marks gained, the test. 



THE ANNUAL SPORTS AT McGILL. 

The annual sports day, the one great autumn event 
in the college world, has come and gone. The sports 
on the v hole were good, yet hardly up to the average. 
The entries for the different events were not so nu- 
merous as in former years, and two of the events on 
the programme, viz., the pole leap and the running 
broad jump, had to be passed over, as there was only 
one entry for the former and none at all for the latter. 
This is to be regretted : in former years these events 
rou e ht out a large number of competitors : then why 
the failure in this particular this year 1 We have heard 
no good reason assigned for it. It certainly could 
lave been for want of time in which to make 
entries, as because of the postponement the lists did 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



19 



not close until a week after the time advertised. Nor 
could it have been due to any fault of the members of 
the committee, who were very anxious to have the 
number of entries as large as possible. The only con- 
clusion we can arrive at is, that the fault lies with the 
students themselves. 

Another circumstance to which we wish to draw 
attention was the action of certain students on the 
grounds during the afternoon. Because one member 
of their class saw fit to compete in some of the events 
without having complied with the rules of the 
Association, and on that account was disqualified by 
the committee, they took upon themselves to cham- 
pion his cause, and acted in anything but a proper 
manner towards the members of the committee, and 
were anything but courteous to some of the field 
officers. Conduct of this kind cannot be too severely 
condemned. It is unfair to both the committee, who 
work hard to make the affair a success, and to our pro- 
fessors, who unselfishly devote the day to what must 
be anything but a pleasant task to them. Any mistakes 
about entries were quite inexcusable, as every member 
of the Association received a programme on which 
was printed the rules governing the different events. 

In contests of this kind which are strictly amateur, 
anything which resembles crookedness or third rate 
professionalism cannot be too severely dealt with. 
Some dispute, and not a little unseemly conduct was 
occasioned by this competitor to whom we have already 
referred, and who, as he himself states the case, had 
deputed a fellow student to make certain entries for 
him which were incorrectly made. The committee, 
through kindness no doubt, allowed this man to com- 
pete, subject to the judges’ approval. It has been 
said that the committee should have prevented him 
from competing in any of the events, and this was 
clearly their duty. Had they so decided, it would 
have done away with a great deal of trouble and dis- 
pute. On the whole, however, the committee are 
deserving of great credit for the manner in which they 
proformed their duties, and, excepting the one un- 
pleasantness mentioned, everything passed off 
splendidly. 

TO THE FRESHMEN. 

Welcome to McGill, 0 ye freshmen ! verdant and 
cheeky, but withal the hope and promise of our future 
years. Take up your burdens and bear them cheer- 
fully a while, and lo ! in a few short years, ye shall 
go forth intellectual giants to battle with the world. 
You are a favored class in McGill, needing not to 
tremble in your beds for fear of hazing, as do many 
under the freedom of the Stars and Stripes. You 



have rebelled against paying your footing, and we 
have borne no malice, but smiled grimly in the know- 
ledge that when you too, reach your finals, you will 
wish you had not ignored old customs in your young- 
er days, so that you might now justly eat at the table 
of the freshman. 

You are petted by the professor, who knows and 
feels for your unhappy state, and the Y. M. C. A. 
seeks you in your loneliness and calls back the smile 
to your pallid lips. 

Yet, though you be a favored class, take heed lest 
you stumble and fall from your high estate. Give 
heed once in a while to the wise and brotherly mon- 
itions of your seniors, that you yourselves may with 
propriety give advice to future generations of fresh- 
men. Join the Athletic Association and subscribe to 
the Gazette, that the muscle and brains of your col- 
lege may be known and feared throughout the world. 
Give the football team its fill of practice, that it may 
wax the Torontos, till they verily believe that the 
mislaid cataclysmal earthquake of El Madhi Wiggins 
has, as Mark Twain elegantly puts it, taken them in 
the seat of their inspiration, and they wend their way 
wearily westward. Challenge the universe with the 
glorious confidence of youth — but don’t play the 
Victorias on their own ice — and you will attain to the 
hood and sheepskin, even as the sparks fly upwards. 

Above all and in all that you do within McGill’s 
classic halls or in the outside world, remember that 
you are undergraduates of the greatest college in 
Canada, and that she looks to you to keep her so. 

Poetry. 



AN EASTERN JUDGE. 

Ref ore a Judge two Arabs came, 

One to deny, and one to claim : 

And one was young, and one was old — 

They differed, like the tales they told. 

The young man spake : “ Nine days have flown, 
Since the hot sands I crossed, alone. 

My gold, meanwhile I left in trust 
With yon old man reputed just. 

My journey o’er, his tent I sought ; 

He swears I trusted him with naught !” 

“ Name,” said the judge, “ the sum of gold : 
And where, I pray thee, was it told?” 

Four score gold pieces did I tell, 

Beneath a palm-tree, by a well.” 

Then spake the Judge : “ Go seek that tree, 
And hither bid him come to me ; 

But take my seal, that he may know 
To whom thou biddest him to go.” 

The youth went out into the plain— 

The old man and the Judge remain. 

An hour passed by, and not a word 
From either of the twain was heard. 

At length the Judge : “He cometh not : 

Dost think the lad hath reached the spot?” 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 




The old man, startled, answer’d : “ No 
Far o’er the sands the tree doth grow. 

The Judge spake sternly, like a King : 

“ How know’st where that one palm doth spring . 

For in the desert, near and far, 

I trow that many palm-trees are. 

The youth came back, and said : “ The tree 
Returned answer none to me. 

“ He hath been here,” the Judge did say, 

“ The gold is thine : go now thy way. 

Geo. Murray. 



Contributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. II. 

“ If anyone should importune me to give a reason why I 
loved him, I feel it could not otherwise be expressed than by 
making answer : * Because it was he ; because it was I.’ There 
is, beyond what I am able to say, 1 know not what inexplicable 
and inevitable power that brought on this union. — Montaigne. 

“ How Thackeray like ! Why, I think that last 
sentence is taken straight out of one of his books.” 

Thus exclaimed my friend upon my showing him 
my first chapter. You see he does not approve of 
my writing his life, and tries to be satirical over the 
attempt, but he had better take care or else I shall 
completely expose the fellow. And he can be satiri- 
cal, too, when he likes, as I found out not many days 
after he had taken up his abode at our highly-recom- 
mended boarding-house, in that September in the 
year of grace one thousand eight hundred and some- 
thing. 

“ How do you like our landlady 1 ” I innocently 
asked one day, as we sat after dinner and smoked our 
pipes. 

“ She is a most remarkable woman,” was his 
answer. “ She has a remarkably bad temper, and 
she has it remarkably under control. I don’t think 
she has lost it more than six times since I have been 
here, which is very reasonable, considering the im- 
penetrable imbecility of that servant of hers that 
waits on us at table.” 

This remark convinced me that he was no fool. 
In the first place the girl referred to was densely 
stupid, always handing one the potatoes when she 
ought to have brought the cauliflowers, or leaving you 
entirely unprovided for while leisurely and with a 
nonchalant air attending every other person at the 
table but youiself ; and in the next place, to be able 
to describe an objectionable person in the vigorous 
terms employed by Blake is at all times a sign of a 
strong, masculine mind. When I hear one person 
describe another as an idiot, or a fool, or a stupid 
donkey, or an ignorant pup, I begin to admire the 
speaker, and to picture him as necessarily a very 
giant in intellect. And then Mrs. Slitherum, there 
was no denying, was a remarkable woman. That, in 
fact, was the only word which would at all adequately 
desciibe her. Her figure might be said to be like 



were 



time, for it had a tendency to lapse. Her feet 
larrre and flat, and invariably appeared clad m a pair 
of 'carpet slippers which had originally belonged to 
the late lamented John Henry — thus Mrs. o. habitu- 
ally designated her deceased husband — and which 
had been made a present to him on the morn when 
he led to the altar their present owner. Her eyes 
shed tears like rain drops at will, and her tongue, 
like a bell-buoy, sounded to the weather ; now low 
and plaintive, now loud and strong. 

Miss Jennie Slitherum was young, and, in her own 
opinion, fascinating. For more than a year she made 
a habit of sitting next the writer at table, and if I 
it without appearing to be wanting in 



may say u wiinuui# ^ ^ ** 

modesty, I imagine she had a sort of esthetic regard 
for my red hair. Women, you know, are most 
capricious in their tastes. Miss Jennie was very 
much interested in all college matters^ and delighted 
in nothing so much as attending the Convocations in 
Molson Hall. She spoke of Professor Milksop as if 
she had played with him in knickerbockers, if Pro 
fessor Milksop ever did wear knickerbockers, which 
I think improbable, my own opinion being that he 
was born with trousers on ; and cracked jokes about 
Dr. Bunion in a manner that would have caused that 
high dignitary to turn scarlet and his hair to stand 
more on end than ever, could he have heard her. 
Women had not then been admitted within the 
Academic precincts, or Miss Jennie, I am sure, would 
have enrolled herself as a partial, if not as a full 
undergraduate. She was the mainstay of the conver- 
sation at our dinner-table, forming, so to speak, an 
inexhaustible Attic salt-cellar. Finally, she had a 
great regard for her mother, and let her do as much 
of the housework as possible, while she acted the 
charming and slangy young lady. All this is some- 
what of a digression, however. 

For the first few days of our acquaintance, Blake 
and myself were rather distant in our manner toward 
each other. I agree with Bacon that “ It is good 
discretion not to make too much of any man at the 
first, because one cannot hold out that proportion,” 
and as a matter of fact 1 was very much engrossed in 
my scholarship, which, by the way, I managed to 
secure by the skin of my teeth, and he in his matricu- 
lation examination. Our shyness gradually wore off, 
however, and as he became more communicative we 
used to have little chats, in which he spoke much of 
home and of his brother and sister, to both of whom 
he seemed passionately attached. I am bound to say, 
though, that he was by no means what is called a 
softy. I was beginning to get quite interested in his 
sister, when he suddenly bethought himself that it was 
rather boyish of him to speak of her, and so ceased to 
refer to her at all. At a later date my interest in her 
was revived in a more intense degree — but why should 
I anticipate. 

Of Blake himself, as the days went by, I grew 
fonder and fonder ; he seemed, in some unaccount- 
able way, to twine himself round my heart. Of course 
we were thrown very much together. In the morn- 
ings we were occupied at College, and being in differ- 
ent years saw little of one another, but in the after- 
noons we took long walks on Sherbrooke street, or 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



21 



played football. On my advice he had joined the 
football club, and after a little practice became a first- 
class player. He also became a regular attendant at 
the Literary Society, where he got into some disrepute 
by making a habit of calling members to order on the 
most trivial points. 

That year our football team carried all before them, 
and much interest was taken in the matches. I re- 
member the last match of the season. It was against 
the strongest club in the country, and excitement ran 
very high. Make had been put on the team, and 
had already played the match half a-dozen times across 
the table with Miss Jennie during the preceding 
week. They had punted, and scrimmaged, and 
kicked until the whole of the boarders were worked 
up by their conversation into a state of enthusiasm 
which almost caused them to lose their appetites. 
Even Mrs. Slitherum went so far as to say that it 
reminded her of the time when her husband, the 
late lamented John Henry, was a boy and played 
hockey. 

The eventful day arrived. A large number of 
spectators surrounded the College grounds, among 
whom, you may be sure, was Miss Jennie. She loved 
to see the fellows in their football attire, and never 
lost an opportunity of inciting them to valour by 
giving them the encouragement which her presence 
on the field of battle was so calculated to afford. As 
I passed her on the field on this occasion she was ex- 
plaining the principle of the game with volubility to 
her friend, Louisa Catchrabbit, and criticising the 
appearance of the different players. 

“ Look, Loo, there’s Mr. Bullsnide. He’s our cap- 
tain. What fine legs he has ! He’s the strongest 
man on the team. Wait till you see how he’ll knock 
those fellows over.” 

“ 0 Jennie, I don’t like football, it’s so rough and 
dangerous. Who is that tall fellow over there with 
the handsome moustache and the blue stockings ? ” 

“ That’s Jim Duncan. He used to board over at 
McGarry’s. That’s the fellow that sent Minnie 
Stewart the valentine last year.” 

“ I see Miss Murphy on the other side of the field, 
Jennie. I can’t stand that girl. Last year at the 
rink she used to sail along as if she owned the whole 
place.” 

“ Hullo ! there goes the kick-off,” and Miss Jennie 
drags her friend off to a coign of ’vantage, where the 
game may be more easily viewed. 

As Miss Jennie had foretold, Bullsnide did great 
execution, but the teams were so evenly matched that 
nothing of importance had been gained by either side 
when half-time was called. After a few moments of 
rest, at it they went again, and “Go it, McGill,” 
“ Follow up, McGill,” and such like cries resounded 
on all sides. The excitement of the spectators in- 
creased momentarily. When only about ten minutes 
of the time remained, the McGill forwards seemed to 
weaken, and the ball was slowly but surely worked 
down the field towards their goal. To make matters 
worse it was beginning to get dark, making the de 
fensive work more difficult. To everyone it was now 
apparent that the only hope for our men was that 
“ no side” might be called before there had been time 



for the others to work the ball over the line, in which 
case the game would have been a drawn one. Men 
all round were nervously jerking out their watches, 
and shouting excitedly. Only three minutes re- 
mained. The ball was on the very line. But, hullo ! 
and before we have time almost to exclaim, a man is 
already half-way up the field, and has the ball with 
him. A great shout goes up to heaven, which is re- 
peated again and again, as the McGill man cleverly 
dodges the backs, and after a magnificent run lands 
the ball safely behind the goal line just as the three 
minutes have expired. The whole field makes a rush 
towards the man who had saved the day, and pro- 
ceeded to “ bounce” him in orthodox fashion. What 
was my delight, on coming up, to perceive that the 
hero of the hour was none other than my chum 
Blake. Then Gosling, the most comical of ducks, 
called for three cheers for Clooney Blake ; the three 
cheers were given, and Clooney Blake had passed 
through his second christening. From that time for- 
ward he was always known as Clooney, which, I sup- 
pose, had occurred to Gosling as an Irish abbreviation 
of Clonardo. Blake was Irish in many ways, so that 
the name stuck to him naturally. Amongst other 
things Hibernian, he had rather an Irish accent, as, 
indeed, most people from the Maritime Provinces 
have, although the majority of them are Scotch to the 
backbone. 

So far I have not described our hero’s appearance. 
Let me do so now in a few lines. Between five feet 
ten and six feet, stout for his age, and of a fine gait, he 
presented even at a distance a haudsome figure. But 
it was only when one spoke to him that that peculiar 
charm which I have spoken of made itself felt. His 
open countenance became animated, his large, deep 
blue eyes twinkled, and his boyish manner betokened 
the soul of frankness. His laugh was musical and 
infectious, but never loud. His hair, which was of a 
very dark brown — indeed, almost black — flowed in 
waving curls over his broad, intellectual forehead. 

I have not got a woman’s power of personal descrip- 
tion, and must apologize to the subject himself and 
to my readers for this inadequate picture. There are 
some novelists who describe a man as if he were a 
horse, who love to detail the minutiae of his features, 
and would have us believe that the high-spirited man, 
like the high-spirited quadruped, is distinguished by 
the distending nostril and the graceful neck. This 
kind of anatomical criticism disgusts your humble 
servant, who rejoices, as before intimated, in hair of 
a red colour, and in a short, stumpy appearance gener- 
ally. I must remark, though, that Blake’s mouth 
now and again assumed a slightly cynical smile, and 
at times a sadness came over his whole face, like a 
cloud from another world. 

As I said something above about our sitting smok- 
ing our pipes after dinner, I wish it to be distinctly 
understood that he had contracted that nefarious 
practice before ever I set eyes on him. I do not 
want to have the tobacco-abstaining public imagine 
that I had anything to do with teaching him to 
smoke. I can even say that on sundry occasions I 
took upon myself to point out to him the evil conse- 
quences which sometimes ensue from an over-indul- 



22 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



gence in that habit, but the pungency of my precepts, 
I am forced to admit, was in this case, as in so ma y 
others, so diluted by the inconsistency of my practice, 
that no appreciable effect was produced on my com 
panion. He even retorted by making such shallow 
remarks as that some of the greatest men of past and 
present times were smokers, and referred me o 
Newton and a lot of others. But, of course, that s 
no argument. How often have I not foresworn the 
weed, and, after a struggle, returned to the pipe with 
its comforting and soothing influence. Give it up, 
my friend. Just think how much a year you would 
save. My peculiar constitution requires it, and I find, 
like the Irishman, that it “bothers confusion.” 

(To be continued.) 



THE WORKINGMAN OF THE PERIOD. 

It is now some years since we first began to make 
an idol of the “Working man.” Possibly at the great 
Exhibition held in London in 1807, he made his 
debut under this name, and appeared, much to his 
own astonishment, mounted on a pedestal suddenly 
raised for him by his now new-found patrons and ad- 
mirers. The worship of the workman — to use an 
older and more vulgar, but perhaps less affected term — 
has not been confined to England — the land of strange 
enthusiasms. At the Paris Exhibition of 1867, 
Napoleon III. with a generosity that looked magnani- 
mous, received the coming hero of the hour with open 
arms ; and the whole band of humanitarians, progres- 
sists, friends of “ the people,” and leaders of “ civili- 
sation,” in France and elsewhere, combined to burn 
incense at the shrine of the modern fetish. It is easy 
to call to mind the pretty picture sketched out, from 
time to time, for the working man of the future. The 
golden age that was to rise for him was to be one of 
moral as well as material progress. Thenceforth the 
artisan — sober, intelligent, and industrious — was to 
become an ornament to the society of which he was 
the prop and the mainstay. His intelligence, devel- 
oped by technical training, enlarged by visits to in- 
dustrial exhibitions, and promoted by the wise en- 
couragement of employers, ( !) was to make of him a 
new being, worthy of himself, of his countrv, and of 
Humanity, worthy of the political franchise, and why 
not ot a seat in Parliament itself? His increased earn- 
iDgs would be deposited partly in. the savings’ banks, 
partly in the treasuries of Friendly Societies, which 
would, of course, receive a new and salutary impulse ; 
and his spare hours would be profitably and delight 
fully whiled away in the reading-rooms of Institutes, 
and the galleries of art, and science museums. Such 
was the sketch which hope and fancy drew for the 
“ working man,” starting from twenty years or so a^o. 
Nor was it a sketch which the incredulous or cynical 
were allowed to criticise. A distinguished English 
statesman, far removed from any suspicion of Toryism 
got into dire hot water, and almost into disgrace for 
describing in uncomplimentary but all too” truthful 
terms the conduct and character of the wage-earning 
population. Such insulting language was intolerable” 
such sceptics were not to be endured j and everybody 



joined bon gre mat gre , in the chorus of honour to 
the workingman. 

The time which has elapsed since the two great 
Exhibitions mentioned, has given us a full opportunity 
to test the merits of our modern hero. The fetish has 
been rr lorified ; it has been petted and pampered to 
the very top of its bent, or rather to the utmost limit 
of the goodwill which its worshippers professed for it. 
We have arrived at a moment when we are ably com- 
petent to judge how far the reality has justified^the 
fancy picture drawn a couple of decades ago^ Need 
we affect any mystery as to the result? Need we 
make a show of argument at all about the matter, or 
pretend to suppose that anyone of the aforetime en- 
thusiasts retains the flattering delusions of that period ? 
If there is any faith in trade returns, in the history of 
strikes, in the annals of Mechanics’ Institutes, and the 
registers of Friendly Societies, we may admit without 
further parley that our anticipations were mistaken, 
and that, by reason of certain causes which do none 
of us much credit, the silk purse of which we dreamed 
has not yet been made out of the homely materials 

that were ready to our hand. 

The failure is humiliating ; but it is one to which 
most enthusiasts must submit, who expect suddenly to 
develop a special class of their fellow-creatures into 
patterns of special excellence, and forget that such 
short cuts to virtue are beyond the lot of common 
humanity. 

The “workingman” was and is a fair type of ordinary 
humanity — not a great deal better nor a great deal 
worse that any other class in the community. 

A VOICE FROM THE CROWD. 



THE PROVERBS OF DOUGALD, THE SON OF 

MALCOLM. — An Undergraduate of McGill. 

Be not high-minded, oh man of medicine, for the 
time cometh, yea and now is, when the esthetic arts 
man shall clean you out, root and branch, in the tug 
of war. 

How sayest thou, O Esculapius, that the wily arts 
men, seizing time by the fore-lock, when thy wind 
was gone but a little, wrested the rope from thy grasp ? 
Surely I shall enquire of this thing : I foresee many 
Quebec politicians. 

They left the race-paths and the hurdles and the 
pleasant fields, they flouted in the halls of learning 
and smashed the pleasant benches thereof : surely said 
I in mine heart this is the end of these things, but the 
damage is great. 

They mounted unto the skies, with much exultation, 
with many shouts, with flags and with flowers they 
sought the “ gods ” in the Academy, but the sweet 
songs of former days had given place to the vulgar 
shout, and I was sad at heart. I communed with 
mine own self and was in the blues. 

They went out from the house of Rh<$a, they passed 
through the streets of the city, breaking the lamps 
thereof, and rejoiced much in their folly : they set at 
naught all my counsel, therefore I laughed when the 
Bobbies swooped down upon them. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



23 



Shall the midnight howler go unpunished : nay 
verily, five dollars and reproof therewith is the cost 
thereof. 

Hear instruction and be wise, ye young men, when 
ye do these things ye are nuisances upon the earth, I 

have enquired of P d s, the mighty man of 

valour who reigneth in these parts. 



JflctBill News. 



The class of ’87 in Arts have chosen as their 
valedictorian, Mr. R. Johnson. 

The class of App. Sci. ’87, have appointed Mr. W. 
A. Carlyle to be their valedictorian, next Spring. 

At a meeting of the third year Arts, Oct. 14th, it 
was unanimously resolved that a resolution of sym- 
pathy be sent to the parents of Thos. Pritchard, former 
student in Arts at McGill. 

On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Wishard addressed the 
college prayer meeting. His visit has been very help- 
ful in encouraging the members of the College 
Christian Association, and in advising them concern- 
ing the proposed building. He is this week visiting 
the colleges in Ontario. It is expected that he will 
return, some time after Xmas, for a few days. 

On Wednesday, Oct. 13th, the students of the 4th 
year App. Science went out to watch some of the 
operations on the new C.P.R. bridge, Lachine. They 
were met at the works by Mr. Motiatt, B. A., Sc. ’89, 
who is now one of the Assistant Engineers on this 
structure. He very kindly placed his services and 
time at our disposal, and summonnig a boat-crew of 
Indians, had us rowed out to the two remaining piers 
under construction. The one was nearly completed, 
while on the other the cement bottom was being de- 
posited in a caisson 115 long, 44 feet deep, and in a 
current of 8 miles an hour. Mr. Moffatt explained 
the many interesting points and methods of the con- 
struction of the piers, and then took us over the steel 
superstructure, which extended across eight spans. 
After a very interesting and highly instructive after- 
noon, the party returned to the city, with a keen 
appreciation of Mr. Moffatt’s courtesy and kindness, 
in devoting his services to the class of ’87. 



LECTURE BY MR. KENNEDY, C.E. 

Last Friday evening, October 29th, the students of 
the Faculty of Applied Science were favored with an 
excellent lecture by Mr. Kennedy, Chief Engineer of 
the Montreal Harbour Commissioners, on “ Pumping 
and Pumping Engines.” This gentleman is consid- 
ered to be one of the best, if not tbe best expert on 
this continent, in this department of engineering, and 
the students appreciated very highly his valuable 
lecture, though he had only one hour to deal with an 
extensive subject. Mr. Kennedy had prepared many 
elaborate designs to aid him, and when we remember 
that this is about the busiest part of a very busy 
season, his disinterested kindness is heartily appre- 
ciated. We are again indebted to Mr. and Mrs. 



Kennedy for a delightful evening at their home. We 
know it is no easy task to entertain a lot of students, 
and we thank them very much for their kind hospi- 
tality, now repeatedly shown to us. When we cease 
to be students, we shall cherish the memories of the 
pleasant evenings spent at their home, as among the 
brightest during our college days. 



ASSOCIATION OF PROTESTANT TEACHERS. 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT, SIR WM. DAWSON. 

[Continued from, last issue.'] 

Another and very different point on which the 
principle stated in the opening of this address, throws 
light, is the question of technical education. The 
pupil must be a boy or a girl before being an artisan 
or a worker. Hence the first duty of the educator 
relates to that general culture which shall fit for any 
trade or occupation. Whether the educator shall go 
beyond this into the specialties of particular arts must 
depend on the requirements of the case. In com- 
munities where certain arts are of special importance 
it may pay to provide special apparatus and means of 
training in these. Where the aims of life are very 
various and one man may have to play several parts, 
it may be best to give general culture only. It is how- 
ever in all cases good, whenever possible to give some 
varied training in ordinary handiwork and the use of 
tools, in working for example in wood and metal ; and 
it is most useful to give some insight into those laws 
which regulate that great art of agriculture which lies 
at the foundation of all other arts. This can for- 
tunately be done as an accessory and help to the 
ordinary school work. 

Lastly, we are brought, by our principle of simultane- 
ous growth and training, face to face with the pro- 
blem of science teaching and of the relation of science 
to literature in education. Here I shall content 
myself with quoting, with some little change of terms, 
from an essay of my own : — 

In the wider sense of the term science, it really 
includes all that intellectual education can effect. 
Knowledge logically arranged and traced to the in- 
ductive and deductive conclusions to which it leads is 
science in this wide sense. Scientific habits of 
thought cover all that is necessary for the practical 
working of mind. Applied science includes what- 
ever men can do by turning to account the mastery 
which mind acquires over matter. Even the teaching 
of languages should not be divorced from science, for 
there is a true science of language, aiding the pupil 
in its acquisition and use, and cultivating his mind in 
the process. The question here is not as to teaching 
children or young people botany, chemistry, or physics, 
but as to accustoming the mind, by the study of some 
subject or subjects in a scientific manner, to the 
orderly pursuit and use of knowledge, and the orderly 
exercise of mental power. 

Whence then comes the conflict, in our educational 
courses, of older with newer studies, and especially of 
ancient languages with modern science ? One cause 
is a mere question of time. Before the great extension 
of modern science, the literary element of culture, witq 



24 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1886 . 



some abstract mathematics and philosophy, engrossed 
the whole course of study; and these things, taught in 
large quantity and by crude and unscientific methods, 
occupied the whole time of the student. But modern 
science strides into the field and imperiously demands 
room. The time of the student cannot well be ex- 
tended. His mind must not be overtasked. So there 
comes a conflict, and each department of study strug- 
gles for the possession of the unfortunate learner, or 
lie has to be content with a smattering of all, odious 
and of little use ; or, under a paltry compromise, he is 
permitted to substitute one for another by a system 
of options and exemptions. 

If it were desirable that the old learning and the 
new should fight out their battle to the uttermost, it 
would be difficult to decide between them. The old 
culture has much in its favor. It is refined, thought- 
ful, literate, bookish, leading to what is termed 
scholarship, and to much that is pure and beautiful in 
taste and expression, as well as to that power which 
comes of well-ordered thought and language. Such 
polish and mental grace as result from it are certainly 
much to be desired. But it is eminently unpractical ; 
and but for the traditional custom which places it at 
the door of entrance into learned professions, or for 
its leading to teaching positions in which the old grind 
is to be gone over with a new generation, it would be 
of little service in the struggle for existence beyond 
the habits of study and application which it may foster. 
The new science, on the contrary, is full of the spirit of 
the time. It is fresh and vigorous and full of practical 
^Pji^fions. It trains the mind for the actual work 
of life, and furnishes it with the knowledge likely to 
be needed in every-day affairs. On the other hand, 
its methods are yet somewhat crude. It wants the 
finish and polish of age, and has little of the refined 
culture of the literary course. It often exaggerates 
these defects by a defiant sceptical turn, which gives 
it a hard and unfeeling aspect, and places it in con- 
nict with the higher sentiments of humanity. But 
this last evil has no essential connection with it. 

1 he statement of the case shows what is wanted, 
et young men study either languages and literature 
or physical sciences, or parts of both, but let the whole 
be thrown into the educational crucible and fused 
together. Let the languages and literature be imbued 
with the scientific spirit. Let the science be refined 
by higher literary and aesthetic culture. Let both be 
treated as preparations for practical life, in imparting 
usefui knowledge as well as gymnastic training, so as 

flexibility! men 6 aDd give * P° wer and 

The practical difficulty in this, at present, is that ave 
cannot find enough of teachers of the right kind. Few 
teachers of language and literature have been trained 
m scientific habits of thought. even in the science 
of then own subjects. Science teachers are often mere 
specialists with limited culture and limited ran -e of 
thought. It is usually only by eombining tl,ese°men 
in large institutions, and under skilful orv.anTratTon 
that even moderately good results can be secured ’ 
e us urn now to the more special subiect of 

to see thiuhe C mind fb^ educator has first 

to see that the mind of his pupil is stored with facts, 



healthy food whereon mental digestion may work, 

supplied in ample yet moderate quantity. By facts 

I mean here not merely verbal statements, but things 
or processes actually perceived — things seen, heard, 
handled, tasted, felt by the student himself. These 
are grateful to all young persons of any intelligence, 
and they constitute the real foundation of knowledge, 
that on which general principles and abstract truths 
must be built. In the science of rocks and minerals 
it were a vain, useless, and pedantic kind of teaching 
to discuss the geometrical laws of crystallization with 
a student who had never seen a mineral. The first 
thing is to see and handle the crystal and measure its 
angles. Then comes the desire to know the causes 
which produced this beautiful form, and the laws 
which regulate its growth. Taught in any other way, 
elementary science bears much the same relation to 
mental growth that a lecture on cookery would bear 
to the bodily growth of a child. 

In the getting of the facts which are the raw mater- 
ial of education in science there is much training. 
There is necessarily observation, educating the senses. 
Inseparably connected with this is that art of mental 
analysis by which we take apart the general conception 
of a complex object, examine its constituent parts one 
by one, and then endeavor to conceive them as a whole. 
To the ordinary onlooker a flower is merely a flower 
or little more than a patch of color, more or less beauti- 
ful or showy ; but to the trained observer it is a com- 
plex mechanism, made up of several circles of parts, 
each having its special form, and the whole conspiring 
to make up the symmetry and beauty of an organism 
having important uses and adaptations. This train- 
ing of observation and analysis is of great practical 
value in the ordinary business of life, independently 
of its scientific applications. 

The collecting of facts implies also another valuable 
mental exercise. This is comparison. We cannot 
see rightly any two objects related to each other in 
any way without making comparisons. They may 
differ from or resemble each other in different degrees 
with reference to form, color, size, weight, hardness, 
and a variety of other properties. The scientific mind 
and the practical mind are constantly occupied in 
making comparisons, the results of which constitute 
the most valuable kind of practical knowledge, while 
the act of comparing develops and strengthens the 
power of discrimination. 

Another mental exercise connected with the study 
of science is classification. The due ordering of de- 
grees of resemblance and difference, not in trivial and 
accidental but in essential characters, not by one 
single character only, but by the aggregate of all 
characters, is au invaluable power, and its exercise is 
at once demanded so soon as we know any consider- 
able number of objects. Following this comes the 
gioupingof objects in classes, orders, genera, or species, 
each of these groups having its logical status and its 
va ^ ue re l a fively to other gioups of the same or 
l. 1 , C1 . en ^ raD k* But for such classification the mul- 
titudinous objecls in nature would become to us a 
m< le incomprehensible muddle. With it they resolve 
lem.sc ra tional order, while in the process we 

acquire habits of clear, orderly, systematic thought and 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



25 



arrangement, of the highest value both in science and 
in ordinary life. 

These are, after all, among the lowest things in 
scientific culture ; for the mind of the student is next 
directed to the principles of causation, and to that 
grand idea of natural law under which we generalize 
phenomena. It is here, perhaps, that our science- 
teaching most fails ; for few text-books and fewer 
teachers have any true grasp of natural laws and their 
grades and interactions in the grand unity of Nature. 
This is, perhaps, the principal reason why science in 
our times occasionally falls into disrepute, by lending 
itself to the service of a corrupt and shallow philo- 
sophy — a “ pseudonymous gnosis ” or “science falsely 
so called,” too common at present. We shall best 
understand this by looking at the other side of the 
question and noting how true science may connect 
itself with the higher interests of mankind. 

Such connection appears in the mastery which 
science gives us over nature. It is true that much of 
this appears in ordinary life as mere routine and rule 
of thumb. But even what the multitude practise by 
mere tradition must have been invented long ago by 
some thoughtful mind, and without the continuance 
of such thought the practice will gradually deteriorate. 
New scientific facts skilfully used, scientific habits of 
thought brought to bear on old facts and processes, 
constitute the material of discovery and progress. For 
such work the most gifted minds must be thoroughly 
trained that they may take the foremost places in the 
march of society. It is equally necessary that the 
actual workers shall have such culture as may enable 
them intelligently to execute scientific plans and pro- 
cessess. It is also necessary that the general public 
shall have such culture that it may appreciate, sustain, 
and use for its ordinary purposes the new powers be- 
stowed by scientific discovery, and that it may distin- 
guish real invention and discovery from mere pretence. 
The highest special training and the most rudiment- 
ary science-teaching of the elementary schools should 
co-operate with reference to these utilities. The dead 
level of absolute stagnation, or the want of compre- 
hension which causes the discoverer and inventor to 
be persecuted as a wizard, represents the lowest stage 
of humanity, as opposed to a progessive science sup- 
ported by an intelligent community. 

Science as an expositor of nature is closely connec!ed 
with our perceptions of beauty and our advance in 
taste. Good works of art are rare and costly, and 
abortions of art, hideous and depraving to taste, are 
too often those ordinarily presented to the eyes of men. 
Good works of nature, beautiful, symmetrical, har- 
monious, and withal perfectly adapted to their uses, 
are strewn around our daily paths, and are as access- 
ible to the poorest country child as to the millionaire. 
What a great lever is here for the elevation of the com- 
mon mind, if only we put our hands firmly upon it ! 
We must do this; for tho’ a certain perception of beauty 
is a natural gift, it becomes so dulled by familiarity 
and neglect, that it is necessary to throw the light of 
science on the most common and the most attractive 
objects in order that they may be fully perceived and 
have their due effect upon the mind. Science effects 
this in two ways; first by disclosing minute and 



microscopic beauties not visible to the ordinary eye, 
and secondly by enabling us to perceive the great 
harmony and unity of nature. Science-training is 
not what it should be unless it keeps both objects in 
view, and accustoms its pupil to work minutely and 
accurately, and at the same time to rise to broad 
general views. 

I am far from maintaining that science education, as 
it exists in our institutions of learning actually fulfils 
the utilities thus sketched, and it would be interesting 
to inquire as to the reasons of its defects, but the time 
at our disposal is not sufficient for such an investiga- 
tion. 

In conclusion, I have referred to these several and 
disconnected topics in illustration of the truth that 
certain profound general principles underlie the work 
of education, and that it is only by constant attention 
to these that we can hope to avoid unecessary con- 
troversy and to arrive at sound theory and practice. 



Societies. 



The second annual meeting of the “ Delta Sigma 
Society” was held Oct. 11th, in the Ladies’ Reading- 
room, a large number of members being present. The 
election of officers for the coming year had the follow- 
ing results : President, Miss Simpson ; Vice-President, 
Miss J. Botterell ; Sec.-Treas., Miss Ritchie. Com- 
mittee, Misses Squire and McLea. It was decided 
that a debate should be held on the subject of the 
papers after each meeting. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this society on the 22nd of October, 
1886, was well attended. 

The topic of the evening was “ The Relation of the 
French and English in Lower Canada,” upon which 
Mr. J. S. Archibald read a very interesting essay. 
After reviewing the class of people composing the 
early French colonists, and the strife against the 
English settlements, he proceeded to speak of the 
troubles of 1837, and claimed that whether the “ pa- 
troits” of that day are rightly or wrongly called rebels 
we, to-day, owe to them, in no small degree, the liberty 
and constitution we possess. The position the able 
essayist took on the present relations was that what 
keeps the two people apart is not so much difference 
of origin or creed, but the fact that the two languages 
exist here, and that one nor the other, nor both, are 
familiar to the entire people. If the children of both 
origins were educated together in the common schools, 
and each made completely conversant with both lan- 
guages, the Professor maintained that the two nation- 
alities would be drawn together and, long before it is 
possible under present circumstances, become one 
united people. 

The essayist was followed by Mr. Desrivffires, who 
in a great measure coincided with his views, and by 
Messrs. Downie and S. Cross, after which Mr. Archi- 
bald closed the discussion. 

The Annual Meeting of the Society was held at tho 
University Club on the evening of the 29th October. 



26 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1886 . 



The Reports of the General Committee and of the 
Treasurer, were read and received. The latter shewed 
a balance to the Society’s credit of $20.21, and was 
regarded as highly satisfactory. The question of the 
confederation of the various societies connected with 
the University was then brought up, and the draft of 
such an arrangement, prepared by a Committee of the 
Graduates’ Society, was read. The idea is to form a 
Union of the Graduates’ Society, the Club, the Uni- 
versity Literary Society, and the Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society, and as many others, either now in 
existence, or to come into existence, as can be induced 
to join, on a basis similar to that which unites the 
various clubs composing the Montreal Amateur Athle- 
tic Association. A man will be at liberty to belong 
to any one of the component clubs at the present rate 
of subscription, but it desired one subscription, which 
will possibly not exceed for undergraduates that now 
paid to the Club alone, will confer all the privileges 
of the whole Union. The question will be further 
discussed in committee and reported upon at a future 
meeting. 

I he election of officers for the current year resulted 
as follows : President, R. C. Smith ; 1st Vice-President, 
Selkirk Cross ; 2nd Vice-President, J. Ralph Murray; 
Treasurer, Henry Fry, jr. ; Corresponding Secretary, 
R. A. Dunton ; Recording Secretary, D. R. Murphy ; 
Councillors, A. McGoun, A. R. Oughtred, C. J. 
^ r< j oke > J - E. Maclde, R. J. Elliott, and C. S. Camp- 
bell Mr. McGoun received a cordial vote of thanks 
for his untiring exertions in the Society’s behalf as 
President, and, in replying, declared his belief in its 
continued prosperity. 



Personals. 



G. Mass<$, Arts ’84, has joined the Benedicts. 

Co il uhoun > Arts ’85, is managing-editor of 
the Ottawa Evening Journal. 

Gerrie, Arts 84, is settled in the pastorate of George- 
town, where he is as popular as he was in McGill. ° 

Archie Mackay, Arts ’84, is studying law at Dal- 
housie, in the office of Sedgewick, Ross & Sedgewick. 

Jack Macdonald, Science ’84, has, we are told, been 
very successful in Omaha. We congratulate you, 

We neglected to state that Mr. R. E. Palmer, Sci 
87, was engaged on the survey and construction of 
the Baie des Chaleurs R. R., N. B., during the past 
season We are pleased to hear that he has been 
asked to return to this work on the completion of his 
course next Spring. 1 ls 

George Rogers, Arts ’84, has met with an enviable 
measure of success in his work at the east end of the 

about to buMbt a 
be will follow the example of’other 
year, and take a wife. ° 01 lliat 



THE HUNTER. 

My home is in the forest shade, 

My rifle is my bride 

From whom not e'en the fairest maid 
Can win me to her side. 

My bed is on the scented pines, 

My coverlet the sky, 

Yet not the queen herself reclines 
On sweeter couch than I; 

Nor sleeps more soundly till the dawn 
Breaks in a flood of gold 

O’er forest dense and dewy lawn, 

The mountain and the wold. 

For then we rise, I and my bride, 

And wander through the wood. 

And woe the noble deer betide 
That breaks our solitude. 

So loud my sweetheart’s voice and clear, 
I love to hear her speak ; 

She makes the woodland thrill with fear, 
The strongest limbs grow weak. 



Arthur Weir. 



Sporting. 



ANNUAL FIELD MEETING OF THE McGILL 
AMATEUR ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. 

Ibis meeting took place on the College Grounds on 
Iriday, Oct. 22nd. The meeting was all arranged for 
the Friday previous, but was postponed on account of 
the death of the Ven. -Archdeacon Leach. It was a 
lovely day, and on that account a very large number 
of spectators were present, the majority of whom were 
ladies. The meeting, on the whole, was a very credit- 
able one to this Association. The following gentle- 
men were on the Committee : Jas. Naismith and \V. 
T. Jamieson, from Arts; 0. Taylor and J. E. May, 
from Science ; W. Inglis Bradley, B.A., and W. B. 
Taylor, B.A., from Medicine ; H. A. Budden, B.A., 
and Ronzo Clerk, B.A., from Law. 

The field-officers were : Referee, Prof.B. J. Harrnm- 
ton ; Time-keepers, Prof. C. H. MacLeod, Dr. Jas. 
Bell, and Dr. R. F. Ruttan. 

tt J ™ d ?> es at the finish : Prof - c - E - Moyse, and Prof. 
H. T. Bovey, and Dr. R. L. McDonell. 

Starter : Prof. D. P. Penhallow. 

Judge of walking : Dr. R. J. B. Howard, 
le o low ing is a list of the different events, givin" 
names of the successful competitors : 

MORNING— 9.30. 

nr“To‘“® ‘ T" 1 " — lst » Warden L 
May (Science), 126 ft. 

Throwing hammer (16 lbs.)— 1st, ] 

McEwan, 64 ft. 11 in. 

Throwing heavy weight, (56 lbs.)— 

2nd, Carlyle, 18 ft. 6^ in. 

Throwing Cricket ball— 1st, Brow 
2nd, 280 ft. 9 in. 

iigh jump— 1st, Conoll 
in. 

,, „ - e shot— 1st, W. D. Sir 

McEwan, 29 ft. 3 in. 

Standing broad jump— 1st, Bring 
W Rodgers, (Arts), 9 ft. 5j in. 

ie tug of war was won by Arts, with Medicine second. 
afternoon — 2.30. 

A s: x.tmta s,7'- st> A - jo,mso “ < Arts ' • *** 



)> 138 ft. 8 in. ] 


2nd. 


en, 65 ft. I 


5 in. ; 


2nd, 


McEwan, 


19 ft. 5 


l in. ; 


(Med.), 233 ft. 6 


in. ; 


4 ft. S£ 


in. ; 


2nd, 


, 29 ft. 


in. ; 


2nd, 


9 ft. 1IJ 


in. ; 


2nd, 



sec. 



1886.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



27 



One mile walk, (three entries) — Carmichael (Sci.) 1st, ; 2nd, 
Nichol (Arts) ; time, 9 min. 15 sec. 

880-yards run, (three entries) — 1st, Brown, (Med.) ; 2nd, W. 
Hamilton, (Sci.) ; time, 2 min. 22 l-5th sec, 

100-yards run, (four entries) — 1st, Hopkins, (Sci.) ; 2nd, 
Hughes, (Med.) ; time, 11 2-5tli sec. 

One mile(open to all amateurs), three starters — 1st, J. W. 
Motlatt, M.A.A.A. ; 2nd, S. D. Jones, M.A.A.A. ; time, 4 min. 
41 l-5th sec. 

440-yards run, (three entries) — 1st, W. Hamilton (Sci.) ; 
2nd, Taylor; time, 60 l-5th sec. Hughes, who came in first, 
was disqualified. 

120-yards hurdle race, (three entries) — 1st, Walsh ; 2nd, H. 
Budden, (Law) ; time 21 sec. 

Three-legged race (100 yards) — 1st. May and Palmer (both 
Sci.) ; 2nd, Colby and Johnston ; time 17 2-5th sec. 

220-yards run — 1st, Hopkins (Sci.) ; 2nd, Springle. (Med.) ; 
time, 25 h sec. 

One mile bicycle Pace — D. B. Holden (Arts) ; 2nd, Ogilvie 
(Sci.) ; time, 3 min. 28 sec. 



FOOTBALL. 

This season opened with brighter prospects for Mc- 
Gill, as much good material had been added, yet the 
college, as a whole, is not as enthusiastic about their 
football club as they should be, and the 1st team ex- 
perience great difficulty in getting good practice. 
Still a faster and better team has been turned out than 
has been seen for several years. Captain Macdonell 
has been indefatigable in his endeavours to get his 
men into trim, and he has the confidence and good- 
will of all the boys. The inter-faculty matches have 
been very interesting, though not yet decided. The 
first was between the Arts and Science, ending in a 
draw in favor of Arts, many of Science having been 
disabled, thus making a gap, through which the points 
were made by Arts. 

The Arts-Medicine match was played in a pelting 
rain, ending in a score of 14 to 14. These matches 
will have to be played over again to determine which 
Faculty is first. 

So far, three matches have been played. Quebec 
failed to turn up to play off her match with McGill 
in the championship games, thus forfeiting it to Mc- 
Gill. 

Garrison Artillery vs. McGill. 

This match was a runaway for McGill, who finally 
ceased to count the points scored. 

Britannia vs. McGill. 

This was acknowledged by all the city papers to be 
an excellent match, as McGill played up much faster 
than in previous years, and the white jerseys were 
seen swarming about the Brits in a flash. During the 
first half a heavy wind was dead against the McGills, 
which died out in the second half. The forwards 
played an excellent game, following up and tackling 
very quickly, and the different backs gave good sup- 
port, but were not always sure, nor quick enough in 
returning the ball. It is hard to particularize, but 
Macdonell, May, McNutt, McLean, Drummond, 
Springle, Blanchard, all played a fine game, as can be 
equally said of the others. Henderson and Kirby 
are fine scrimmagers and Flip Robertson showed up 
in better form than ever. McNutt secured a touch- 
down, and Blanchard kicked a beautiful goal. Though 



the score was 17 to 8 against the boys, still they knew 
that they had played a fine game. McGill loses in 
not being able to pass to each other securely, nor to 
return at once the ball when it gets back behind the 
forwards. But it cannot be expected that a lot of 
strangers can become accustomed to each other in 
two or three weeks’ time so as to play a perfect team 
game. 

The players were as follows : 

Forwards — Palmer, Drummond, McNutt, Kirby, 
May, Robertson, Henderson, Lucas. 

Quarter — Dunlop, Macdonell (Captain). 

Half — Budden and McLean. 

Back — Blanchard and Hamilton. 

Montreal vs. McGill. 

This match excited great interest among the boys, 
as the team had been reinforced by some good ma- 
terial. A beautiful day favoured them, bringing out 
a good number of spectators. The Montrealers had 
on a heavy team, determined to win, while McGill 
lined out with the following : 

Forwards — Hughes, P. Robertson, Palmer, Hender- 
son, Drummond, Kirby, McNutt, May, Springle. 

Quarter — Macdonell (Captain), Dunlop. 

Halfs — Blanchard and McLean. 

Backs — Lucas and Hamilton. 

In the 1st half the sun was in McGill’s faces, while 
in the 2nd the wind was against them. Drummond 
kicked off for McGill, and a strong tackling game 
began, both sides fighting hard, with McGill steadily 
holding the Montrealers back. It was soon seen that 
the two clubs were about equally matched in the 
scrimmage, and for the greater part of the 1st half 
McGill had slightly the advantage. When the scrim- 
mage was near the McGill 25 yards, an error was made 
by passing the ball back to one of the half-backs, who 
missed it, and in a moment a touch down was secured 
against them. The try was missed by the Montrealers, 
and on the kick off McGill forced them to rouge, by 
a fine bit of passing between Hughes and “ Flip ” 
Robertson, thus ending the 1st half, with a score of 
5 to 1. In the 2nd half, Montreal did more passing, 
and the ball seldom reached the centre line. The for- 
wards played a splendid game, every man doing his best. 
Unfortunately, Blanchard was put at a disadvantage 
by being placed, at the last moment, in a position 
in which he never played before, and he did not do 
himself justice. Again McGill’s weakness was evident, 
they were unsafe in their passing and slow in return- 
ing, as the Montrealers generally tackled before the 
ball was kicked. Their defence is almost impenetrable, 
as the Brits found to their cost, and McGill never got 
passed them. McGill tackled beautifully and quickly, 
and Carter and Owens were seldom allowed to get far 
before they were “ downed ” in great style. McLean 
played a beautiful game as half-back, bringing his 
man down every time . The backs were followed so 
closely that when the ball was kicked behind the goal 
line, they were compelled to rouge. Owens slipped 
away as Springle got entangled for a moment in the 
scrimmage, and after a fine run, got a try, which soon 
was changed to a goal. Macdonell played a fine game 
as quarter-back; May made a good run, and with 



28 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Hughes and Springle on the wings, did much for 
McGill. Of those in the scrimmage, not too much 
praise'’ can he given, though in the 2nd half they 
seemed to give out, or to get discouraged. The scrim- 
mage is the hardest, yet the most ungrateful work of 
all, as this good work is invaluable, while the praise 
meted them is very inadequate. Drummond could 
hardly play a better centre-scrimmage, while he was 
well supported by Henderson, McNutt, Palmer and 
Kirby. 

The game ended with a score of 20 to 1, against 
McGill, and Montreal thus won the championship for 
Quebec. 

Mr. Low, of Ottawa F. B. Club, kindly acted as 
referee, while Kemp was umpire for McGill and 
Cairns for Montreal. 



Between the Lectures, 



He — You are the only college girl I ever liked. 
She — Why, how so ? He — 0, the others all know so 
much. 



Educational Intelligence. — There was an examr 
nation of the graduating class of the University of Texas- 

“ If one bushel of wheat costs forty cents how much 
will ten bushels of wheat cost? ” asked a visitor. 

There was an awkward pause. 

“ Well,” said the visitor, “ I’ll ask you another 
question, “ if you go into a saloon and one whiskey 
toddy costs fifteen cents how much will two cost ? ” 

“ You get two for a quarter ! ” yelled the graduat- 
ing class in chorus. 

Judge Wright of Cincinnati and Mr. Corwin were 
travelling together during a political campaign, and 
they stopped for the night at the home of a pro- 
minent citizen in the central part of the State. At 
supper the host’s daughter waited at table, and know- 
ing the distinguished character of their guests, put on 
a good deal of “ side.” Before pouring out tea, she 
inquired first of Judge YV right, “ Do you take condi- 
ments in your tea?” The old judge was too polite to 
say anything but “ Yes,” and let her prepare his tea 
as she pleased. When she came to Mr. Corwin, she 
repeated the question. The opportunity for a joke 
was so good that he could not resist the temptation to 
improve it ; and he replied, “ Peppqr and salt, if you 
please : but no mustard.” 



One of the waiters at the hotel in Grenada, Miss., 
told us that a colored wedding was coming off that even- 
ts* and several white people went over to the house 
designated to witness the affair. The happy couple 
finally stood up before the minister, who said : 

“ Samuel, you an’ Lucinda am shortly to be jiued 
together. Does you desire to back out ? ” 

“ No, sail.” 

How am it wid you, Lucinda ? Does you want to 
flunk afore dese yere white folks?” 

“ No, sah.” 

“ Den you two hitch hands.” 

They hitched. 



Samuel, does you take her fur better or wuss 1 An 
you gwme to do de fa’r thing by dis yere gurl, whos 



fadder was killed on the railroad up nigh Jackson ? ” 
“ Yes, sah.” 

“ Lucinda, does you realize de seriousness of dis 
opportunity ? Am you gwine to stick to Samuel clean 
frew to the judgement day, or am you gwine to trifle 
around arter odder men?” 

“ Ize gwine to stick.” 

“ Den, chill’en, in de presence of dese yere white 
men from the Norf, one of whom subscribed two bits 
yesterday to help build up de meenin’ house dat was 
blowed down by de sighclone, I denounce you as 
hitched, jined an’ mar’d ’cordin’ to de law an’ gospel. 
Now you go Tong an’ behave yerselves ! ” 



A MASTERPIECE OF FICTION. 

The following is an extract from a masterpiece of 
French fiction : M. de Makeshift, when the file of 

soldiers left him, found himself in a dungeon. Not 
a ray of light penetrated the dismal abode, but De 
Makeshift’s eyes gradually became so accustomed to 
the darkness that he saw a broom straw lying in a cor- 
ner. He caught up the broom-straw, uttered a stifled 
cry, and pressed it to his heaving bosom. Then, in 
his despair, he tickled his nose with the straw and 
laughed “ Who laughs ? ” demanded a voice. “ I 
do.” “ Who are you ? ” “ De Makeshift. Who are 

you?” “ The Abbe So-Long.” “Ah!” “Ah, hah.” 
“ How long have you been here ? ” “I have now, 
alas ! no method of reckoning time, but I must have 
been here since since sunrise this morning.” De Make- 
shift groaned. “ Where are you now,” he asked. 
“In a tunnel,” the Abbe replied. “A tunnel?" 
“ Yes.” “ You make my heart beat. Where did you 
get the tunnel ? ” “Made it.” “You astonish me.” 
“ Ah ! ” “ Ah, hah ! Where did you get your shov- 
el ? ” “ Had none.” “ Then how did you make the 

tunnel?” “Listen.” “I will.” “I scooped it out 
with a shirt button. Have you a button on your 
shirt?” “No.” “Alas! you are married.” “No.” 

“ Then why have you no buttons ? ” “A Chinaman 
does my washing.” “ Ah, hah ! ” “ Well, wait till I 

gouge my way through this rock, and I will lend you 
my button.” “ Oh, thank you.” “ Hist ! the turnkey 
comes.” After a long silence, “ Has the turnkey 
gone ?” the Abbe asked. “ Not yet.” “ Well, then, 
when he goes tell me, and I will resume work.” “ All 
right ; he’s gone now.” “ I am at work.” Scoop, 
scoop, scoop. A long bony arm was thrust into De 
Makeshift’s cell. De Makeshift seized it and pressed 
the elbow to his lips. The Abbe stepped into the cell. 

“ We must escape from here,” said the Abbe. 
“ How ? ” “ By scaling the walls.” “ How can we 

scale them without a knife ? ” “ Wait.” The Abbe 

took off his shirt, tore it into shreds, and in a marvel- 
ous manner made a ladder. “ Got a couple of pins? ” 
“ What do you want with them ? ” “ Make hooks to 

go on the end of the ladder.” “ Here they are.” 
“ Now,” said the Abbe, bending the pins and fasten- 
ing them on the ladder, “ follow me.” They passed 
out into ,the court-yard. De Makeshift uttered an 
exclamation. He saw the man who had poisoned his 
grandfather. The Abbe threw the ladder. The pins 
caught hold. The two men escaped. 



!886.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 29 



15th FEB., 1843. 

(From Victor Hugo.) 

Love him who loves thee and in him be blest. 

Be now his treasure— thou was’t lately ours : 

Go, my sweet daughter, find another nest ; 

Leave us the thorns and take with thee the flowers. 

Here we would keep thee — thou art wanted there. 

Daughter and wife! thy duties reconcile. 

With him thv hopes, with us thy sorrow share, 

Depart in tears, but enter with a smile. 

Geo. Murray. 



College TiUorl6. 



Mrs. Phebe Stone Beeman, A. M., is assistant pro- 
fessor of mental and moral philosophy in the East 
Greenwich Academy, R. I. 

The 401 members of the United States congress 
comprise 158 college graduates. Harvard leads Avith 
ten men and the University of Vermont follows with 
eight. 

The salaries of college professors are notoriously 
small. A statistician who has devoted some attention 
to the subject says that the average salary in the United 
States paid to a college professor is $1,530. 

In the United States every two hundredth man 
takes a college course ; in England, every five hun- 
dredth ; in Scotland, every six hundredth ; and in 
Germany every two hundred and thirteenth. 

Miss J. Rose Colby received the degree of Doctor 
of Philosophy from her alma mater, Michigan Uni- 
versity, at its last commencement. Miss Colby has 
been a student at the Harvard Annex, and is now a 
teacher in Michigan University. 

A University for women, founded on private capi- 
tal, is contemplated in Moscow, if the government 
will sanction the scheme, which proposes to have three 
faculties — mathematical, natural history (with medical 
studies), and philological. 

Very few graduates of Harvard know that the gilded 
cross over one of the doors of Gore Hall at the college 
is a trophy of the capture of Louisburg by New En- 
gland troops in 1744. It was taken from a French 
church, and its present location is the more appro- 
priate since the motto of the colonist troops was, Nil 
desperandum Christo duce/' and that of the college is 
“ Christo et ecclesia.” 

“ Nature ” states that during the present summer 
a university will be opened at Tomsk in Siberia, the 
first of its kind in this part of the Russian empire. At 
first, it will consist of two faculties, — an historical- 
philological and physical-mathematic. It already 
possesses a library with fifty thousand books, a very 
valuable paleontological collection, presented by Duke 
Nicolaus of Leuchtenberg. 

The Yale College class of 1837, of which Samuel 
J. Tilden was a member, numbered such well-known 
men as Chief- Justice Martin R. Waite, Senator William 
M. Evarts, Attorney-General Edwards Pierrepont, Pre- 
sident A. L. Chapin of Beloit College, Professors 
Benjamin Silliman and Chester S. Lyman of Yale, 



the Rev. Drs. George Duffield, David B. Coe, Andrew 
L. Stone; Judge J. P. Putman of Massachusetts; the 
Hon. John Hooker of Connecticut; and others of 
scarcely less prominence. 



Correspondence. 



THE PROPOSED Y.M.C.A. BUILDING. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — The amount subscribed among the 
students towards the proposed Y.M C. A. Building, has 
risen to five hundred dollars. A circular is issued this 
week, asking the co-operation of every student in this 
movement. Plans will shortly be prepared so that 
the size, accommodation and cost, may be announced. 
The University of Toronto structure cost seven 
thousand dollars. A building as good and even better, 
will be required here, and it is reasonable to expect 
will be as readily provided for : the interest already 
taken in this matter, in the college, is certainly an 
augury of early success. J. K. Unsworth. 

Montreal, November 1st, 1886. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

As there is already considerable discussion among 
the students in Medicine regarding their annual din- 
ner, it may not be out of place to state what I believe 
to be the views of a majority of the liberal minded 
students of that Faculty. 

The Freshman class of last year, having unani- 
mously and profanely decided not to pay the custom- 
ary footing, were excluded from the dinner by the re- 
mainder of the students, thus creating a good deal of 
ill-feeling between the classes, and certainly no little 
displeasure with the Professors. 

This year, the Freshmen have already, I believe, re- 
solved to follow the example of the previous class, 
a decision which was certainly to be expected. 

I do not wish to deal with the merits of the foot- 
ing custom. The facts are, that the men refuse to 
pay it, and cannot be compelled to do so. The ques- 
tion is — what is to be done about it ? 

It is open to discussion whether or no the third and 
fourth year men have the power to exclude the second 
and first years from the dinner. But this is not the 
important side of the question. We should consider 
if it be advisable to cause such a rupture among our- 
selves. 

Should the final years include the other students, 
what are the probable results ? If the primaries pos- 
sess the slightest degree of pluck or ambition, they 
will have a dinner of their own. Both factions will 
have an equal right, if either possess it, of calling their 
dinner the Annual Dinner of the Faculty of Medi- 
cine, for the primary men are just as much members 
of the Faculty as are the finals. 

The probability is, that to make the dinners success- 
ful, both parties will invite the Professors to be pre- 
sent. 

Now, it is not at all likely that the Professors will 
countenance such a split in the Faculty — they will 



30 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



certainly not attend both dinners. Neither is it pro- 
bable that they 'will do such a manifest injustice as to 
attend one dinner in preference to the other. 

In all likelihood they will remain at home, and both 
dinners will suffer in consequence, if indeed the 
students can themselves be persuaded to attend, as 
very few wish to go back to the old time carousals, 
which frequently ended in a free fight. 

It took hard work and perseverance, with much 
help from our Professors, to start our first annual 
dinner in ’82-’83, which, like the subsequent ones, 
was so successful. And as we have all enjoyed these 
dinners so much, it would be a great pity, even a 
disgrace, for the classes of ’87 and ’88 to permit such 
a thing to happen, merely through a petty quarrel 
with the Freshmen. But there is no necessity for 
all this, if the final men will only act magnanim- 
ously, and forgive those who so rudely trampled 
into oblivion the ancient custom of Freshman taxa- 
tion. 

Drop the footing question and let by-gones be by- 
gones — let the whole college join in the dinner — let 
the different years have equal representation on the 
committee — let the price of admission be the same to 
all, and then past differences will be forgotten, and 
the entire Faculty of medicine, Professors included, 
will have a united dinner, equal to any in former 
years. It will be a gathering of which the University 
may well be proud, and which will be remembered 
with pleasure by those present long after they have 
left their Alma Mater. K. 



THE IMIOiDIEIRdN* 

TuRKistf or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Eebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884, 



BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, - - - 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D, B. A, IACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor, 



R. GARDNER * SON, 



— manufacturers of — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

novelty iron works*- 



40 to 54 Nazareth. Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



OTSTEES A.T -A-XjXj HOTTES. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

JEstft Id i sit cd IS 30 . 

Pea cei’txcee Chemist* 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock 

Every pen g-naranteed. 

IT. IE. GEAPTON Sz SONS, 

S5S St. James Street. 

S. J. BRISSETTE. JOS. COURTOIS. 

BR1SSETTE & COURTOIS, 

"W hite’s Lane, 

Kiujinveis' on3 Machinists, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Machinery for Piper Mirers, Piper Box Manufacturers, 

<*B00K BINDERS and PRINTERS.*- 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery . 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

Designed mi a .Built to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Stree s. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



for 

Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 



largest Stocfi in Canada to Select from 



SUITS aeeOverco ATS Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



BTJY TTOXTE. 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

ffiue Confcctioucnj, 
R qNBONS and ( j HOCOLATES 
“ JOTCES ” 

PHILIPS SQ UARE, WONTKEAL. 

STAINING FLUIDS “flonntins Lipls 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPM AN, Ph. C., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 




ARTISTICALLY 

^Engraved and Printed,*- 

— IN — 

BELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 

Tee Burl and Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greensh i elds, 

advocates, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - MONTREAL 

J. N, Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

FjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ABVOGATE8, 

157 ST. XAIMIIES STREET, 

aCOSTTSUSAX*. 



Atwater, Cross & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, 4c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



Macmaster, Hutchinson, Weir & McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal. 



DONALD MACMASTER. Q. C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

f. s. Mclennan, b.c.l. 



Church, Chapleau, tt at.t, & Nicoles, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 



Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C, 
Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST,, 

(near the court house,) 

monteeal. 

BI CYCLES !! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

Fencing Foil 
Masks, Arc. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 

W edding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
booDs, Electro Plate, «fcc. 





« 3 c Felton, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



Hairdressing anil Slaving in lie Latest Style, 



QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



ZP^LIVEIEIR/’S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

fjiules, Cones', ^UzoiM, jStfoptf, 
‘Perfunierv, ai|<l Toilet 
ArtidlesS. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST, 

1 jamas**. 

hhIk 






IHE ERBtr ihvigoratingtqnic "he: uAT 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
^ngiyaring ^ printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

limitations, GaFds, GFests, JlFogFammes, 
J^IonogFams, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

(Jewellery ^ Fancy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR Timing) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

f/v V £ R f CLOCh :s > BRONZES, and 

FANCY GOODS, suit able for Wedding Gifts, or Presentations. 

OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball. Lawn Tknnis. and Cricket. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 dz, 387 St. Street, H^oibTrr^E^Xj. 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



P elebmted Hot Water Heuters 



—AND— 






HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Wood. 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 



Paper Manufacturers, i 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper, 
Brown Paper, 



Grey Paper, 
SI 



traw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper, 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes and "V7" eights 2v£a.d.e to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

' 173 St James Street, 

Telephone No. 11191. 



NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO, S 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s Building, 

21 and 23 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANILLA, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 

WORKS AT 

|, CORNWALL, ONT. 

CiLPITiLL, - $250,000. 

MANUFACTURES THE FOLLOWING GRADES OF PAPER : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, (Machine 
Finished and Super-calendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Foolscaps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 

Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made toTYrder. 




SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

FreigM and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of tne City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

T eams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fresh Groceries I 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK," 



1315 and 1317 St. Catherine St , 

Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

|mparbr$ anfr jljmuiFadtirm* 

821 Craig street, 821 

MONTREAL. 

IE. o-ieiR/TIh:, 

IMPORTER OF 

CIGARS Hw- 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr;y Stm-cLe:rvts 2v£i2Zt'CLre. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



THK GENUIIVE 

COOK’S Fbieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 












'j 



MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing; Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages. Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk-, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 

C ASHFORD’S " 

Cheap Booh Stationery , 

FANCY ®9©SS SH@F» 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS & SON], 

CHEAP fox* cash. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 MD 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GREY NUN STREET. 
IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Ciay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 

CHIUA cScc-, eSco. 

Manufacturers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARCE S TOCK ALWAYS ON HA ND. 
TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21. 21i & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 

FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Simiic IEUttiel Hats 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

TX7". IMI. SAMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



•HE PHOTOGRAPHY i|e-» 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



