The McGill 

Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I. No. 7 


PRICE 10 CENTS Saturday, February 20, 1926 




CONTENTS 




EDITORIAL 




BOOKS: The Curé of St Michel.... 


S. 


A Free Trade Father 


Eugene Forsey 


Skin for Skin 


A.B.L. 


The Morrows 




Thunder on the Left 


E.C.C. 


The Imperial Debate 


F.R.S. 


Save in Frenzy 




College Debating. 


A. 0 . liny A 


Saturday Night 




Frost in Autumn 


T. T 


Changement D’Esprit 


. Joseph Peralta 


Chiaroscuro 




The Theory of Stationary Population. . . 


.Bernard Cohen 



McGTCl UNIVERSITY 
FEB 19 
LIBRARY 



EDITORIAL 

O F all the educational methods of the Universities 
on this continent which the undergraduate 
delights to attack, none is so frequently the 
subject of his criticism as the compulsory lecture 
system. Anyone who reads the American college 
papers, or even such extracts from them as find their 
way into the Daily, knows how common it is to see 
articles in support of the principle of voluntary lectures, 
and that this view is entertained by many zealous 
undergraduates at McGill is evidenced by the Daily 
editorial of February 10th and by several of the con- 
tributions that we have had occasion to publish. The 
opponents of the present system, however, seldom go 
beyond the point of maintaining on the one hand 
the truism that it is better to fill a lecture room by 
attraction than by compulsion, and on the other hand 
the rather questionable thesis that the college youth 
is the best judge of the things that tend to his intel- 
lectual development and may safely be left to exercise 
his own discretion as to what lectures he shall attend 
and what books he shall read. These undergraduate 
reformers forget that a curriculum of voluntary lectures 
will only be fruitful of results if it exists in connection 
with some very real form of supervision, such as is pro- 
vided by the tutorial system. At Oxford, for example, 
where lectures can be cut at will, the student has one 
or more compulsory hours per week with the tutor to 
whom he has been assigned, and this tutor will take good 
care to prevent his pupil from interpreting as license 
the liberty which he enjoys. Were this method, or 
something approaching it, adopted at McGill, and 
were each student to have even one hour only of per- 
sonal attention per week, it is evident that the staff 
of the University would have to be very greatly en- 
larged. Whether or not such a plan is feasible is a 
question involving financial considerations upon 
which the undergraduate is scarcely qualified to ex- 
press an opinion. It is puerile to clamour for voluntary 
lectures without taking this factor into account, for 
we fancy that it is not a disbelief in the voluntary 



principle, but the difficulty of applying it, that prevents 
its adoption forthwith at McGill. 

Nevertheless, while recognizing the extreme difficul- 
ties to be overcome before we can hope to have vol- 
untary lectures, we think that it should be possible, 
without undue disturbance, to relax the present strict 
rules of attendance in favour of students who have 
given evidence of particular ability. We would ad- 
vocate, since the topic is before the public, the grant- 
ing of complete freedom from attendance to all those 
who have obtained first class honours at the end of 
their first year of college work. 

This would at once be a stimulus to and a reward 
for able study. The undergraduate who achieves a 
first has won his intellectual spurs; he is, so to speak, 
of age; why not grant him that for which he has prov- 
ed his fitness — the unregulated leisure which is the 
best environment for research and independent 
thought? 

There is, in our opinion, a universal benefit which 
would result from the adoption of this suggestion. 
At the present moment the athlete in oui midst 
occupies a position of importance far greater than 
that occupied by the man of corresponding ability 
in the purely academic sphere. 

There is no balance in our judgment in this matter; 
the fame of the physical specimen is established so 
soon as he is photographed, in some crouching or 
aggressive attitude, for the front page of the Daily, 
while to the man who is the very raison d'etre of the 
University but a passing tribute, if any, is paid. 
This unequal state of affairs would in some degree 
be rectified if the person who has won his exemption 
from compulsory lectures, thiough a display of quali- 
ties at least as worthy as those shown by the atnlete 
on the field, were able to enjoy the spectacle of 
famous, brawny men dashing hurriedly to their 
scheduled periods of note-taking while he was left 
to wander unmolested the “paths of unexplored 
delight.” 



54 



The McGill Fortnightly Reoievù 



A Free Trade Father 

Eugene Forsey 

T HERE is a delicate aroma of the Ku Klux Klan 
in the demand of a Western Ontario M. P. ( 
during last autumn’s political comedy that 
Adam Smith’s “Wealth of Nations” should be barred 
from Canadian Universities. So far the proposal has 
had no direct support. But Mr. T. L. Church, whose 
spiritual home is in Tennessee, has come forward with 
an impassioned denunciation of pernicious Free Trade 
doctrines which corrupt the minds of Canadian 
students; and presumably he too would make short 
work of the illustrious patron saint of political economy. 

As far as my experience goes, Adam Smith is quite 
as much a nightmare phantom to the average student 
of economics as to these excellent statesmen; and the 
vast majority of Canadian students are as guiltless 
of first hand knowledge of the “Wealth of Nations” 
as the most hardened Parliamentarian. Nor is Smith’s 
personality more familiar. Even to his admirers he 
is Dryasdust. Yet his comparatively brief and com- 
monplace career had unexpected flashes of humour, 
romance, and adventure. 

A posthumous child, and of very delicate health, 
only native force of character seems to have kept him 
from being hopelessly spoiled by an indulgent mother. 
At the tender age of three he was kidnapped for a 
few hours by gypsies (who seem to have lived before 
their time); but no other incident of his early child- 
hood is preserved, probably because it ended so soon. 
Entering the University of Glasgow at fourteen, he 
gave himself up to Mathematics and Natural 
Philosophy, and after three years, was sent up to 
Balliol College, Oxford, as Snell exhibitioner. 

At the time, no more dismal intellectual atmosphere 
could be imagined, and Smith was far Irom happy at 
Balliol. His countrymen as a class were very 
unpopular; he himself was notably absent-minded; 
and in his early years perhaps had more than his share 
of the national virtue, of thrift. His first quarter’s 
expenses at Oxford were only 7 pounds 5 shillings. 
Altogether we can hardly be surprised that his six 
years in residence were “overworked and solitary.” 
His health, too, seems to have been poor, for in a letter 
to his mother he complains, among other things, of an 
inveterate scurvy and shaking of the hand. We have 
his own testimony that this malady was eventually 
cured by tar-water, perhaps the most famous of the 
weird specifics beloved of that rational age, and 
credited with the most astonishing powers. But un- 
happily there is no record of the treatment used to 
cope with “a violent fit of laziness” which confined 
him to his elbow-chair for three months! 

By 1751, Smith’s reputation was sufficient to procure 
for him the Chair of Logic at Glasgow. Four years 
later he resigned to become Professor of Moral Philo- 
sophy, in which capacity he delivered the famous 
lectures which afterwards took shape in the “Theory 
of Moral Sentiments” and the “Wealth of Nations.” 
Most of his ninety students were theologians, and 
fully one-third were Irish Presbyterians: which may 
possibly account for a custom which is fortunately 
no part of the heritage of our own Economics Depart- 
ment. Whether from choice, or in deference to the 
stern Calvinism of his hearers, Smith invariably 
lectured at seven-thirty in the morning! As the 
“Wealth of Nations” shows, he had a low opinion of 
Professors in general. His own salary came to some- 



Pp. un ds; but he had no hesitation in saying 
that he and his fellow craftsmen were as a rule grossly 
over-paid. It was prime article of his belief that Univer- 
srty lectures should be worth listening to; and to that 
end he kept a watchful eye on one specially responsive 
student who acted as a barometer for the class. This 
admirable practice seems to have become obsolete; 
but we respectfully suggest to the Governors that it 
may well be included in any future plans for restoring 
the Scottish atmosphere of McGill. In Smith’s case 
at least the idea seems to have worked well, for Millar 
assures us that “he never failed to interest his hearers. 
His reputation as a professor was accordingly raised 
very high, and a multitude of students from a great 
distance resorted to the University, merely upon his 
account.” 

Growing reputation brought with it added respon- 
sibilities. In 1760 Smith was made Dean of the Faculty, 
and in 1762, Vice- Rector of the University. Neither 
office was a sinecure; for his estimable colleagues 
often grew heated in discussion, and there were times 
when it needed all Smith’s great authority and judicial 
temper to keep the peace. He seems, however, to 
have been a thoroughly efficient executive head, and 
to have won the loyalty and friendship of his subordin- 
ates in a remarkable degree. 

In his own way, Smith was quite a clubman. He 
belonged to several learned societies of Glasgow, and 
in later years, in Edinburgh, with the geologists Black 
and Hitton, was a respected member of the “Oyster 
Club. It is rather startling to find that he was also 
one of the original members of the Poker Club, an 
organization ostensibly founded, as McCulloch lucidly 
explains, to foster the establishment of a Scottish 
militia. Whether the militia were to be armed with 
P°kers does not appear; nor does it particularly 
matter, for the Club soon lost sight of its avowed 
object (toward which it made no progress,) and gave 
itself over to conviviality, where it scored a distinct 
triumph. But the imposition of a duty on claret, its 
favourite beverage, proved a fatal blow, and in 1764 
the Poker Club broke up in disgust. Its place was 
taken by a less jovial “Select Society” which included 
most of the literary notables of Scotland, and seems 
to have been a precursor of the Political Economy 
Club. 

After the publication of the “Wealth of Nations”, 
Smith went to London, where he at once took 
his place as a literary lion. As a member of the famous 
Club, Johnson’s Club, he knew the most celebrated 
men of the day, and often took part in their debates. 
With Johnson himself his relations were far from 
cordial, though the more scandalous anecdotes on the 
subject are mythical. But with the other members, 
especially Burke, he was on the most friendly terms, 
and he held frequent economic discussions with Ben- 
jamin Franklin. 

As a literary critic, Smith was lamentably orthodox. 
A fervent admirer of Dryden, Pope, Swift, and Gay, 
he shared Johnson’s contempt for blank verse, perhaps 
the solitary instance of agreement between the two 
philosophers. It moved Johnson to exclaim: “Sir, had 
I known he loved rhyme so, I should have huggedhim!” 
But the grounds of Smith’s opinion were his own. He 
used to declare scornfully that though he could never 
make a rhyme, he could do blank verse as easily as 
speak. It was probably for this reason that he placed 
Racine above Shakespeare. 

“The enthusiasm with which Smith was received 
by politicians of the first rank may be gathered,’’ says 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



55 



Lord Haldane, ^ rom w hat took place at a dinner to 
^nich he was invited by Melville. Pitt, Grenville, 
Addington, and several others were among the guests, 
oinith was late and apologized. The whole company 
rose, and Pitt exclaimed — ‘we stand till you are seated, 
for we are all your scholars!’ ” 

In contrast to this is a similar social function also 
described by Lord Haldane, which gives perhaps the 
most amusing example of Smith’s absent-minded- 
ness. "He had been invited to Dalkeith Palace to meet 
an eminent statesman. After dinner, he fell into a 
reverie, and began to discourse aloud on the merits or 
rather demerits, of this very politician, in language 
which was neither guarded nor indirect. On being 
recalled to consciousness of his surroundings, he was 
so covered with confusion that he again relapsed into 
reverie, muttering to himself— ‘Deil care, deil care, 
it s all true.’ ” 

Whether this embarassing frankness had anything to 
do with Smith’s celibacy, we do not know. Certainly, 
love-interest” is remarkably absent from his career. 
Stewart mentions an early and long attachment to a 
lady who survived him; McCulloch has an apocryp- 
hal story of a French Marquise desperately smitten 
with the great philosopher, who did not return the 
affection; and finally, there flits across the stage the 
shadowy figure of Miss Douglas, his cousin, and his 
mother’s lifelong companion. But none of these fur- 
nish any real material for the cinematograph enthu- 
siast. Smith may have been no lover; but he was a 
devoted son; his work was exacting; and his private 
charities were immense. It is quite possible that he 
agreed with Meredith’s beggar: "Lord, women are 

such expensive things.” 



The Morrows 

( From the French of Charles Rivieres du Fresny, 

1648 - 1724 ) 

P HYLLIS, greedier than tender, 

A sparing yet exacting miss, 

One day demanded from Silvander 
Thirty sheep for just one kiss. 



The morrow saw some further business; 
The wily shepherd traded cheap, 
Demanding from the shepherdess 
Thirty kisses for one sheep. 



The morrow, Phyllis, grown more tender, 
And fearing to dispell her bliss. 

Was only too glad to surrender 
All her sheep just for one kiss. 



The morrow, Phyllis, far less vain, 
Would give sheep, dog and everything 
For one kiss which the fickle swain 
Bestowed upon Lisette for nothing. 



J. Speclor. 



The Imperial Debate 

D R. Leacock, whose first lecture at McGill, as the 
readers of the Fortnightly may remember, 
caused a throne to totter, and whose first debate 
brought a rebel to the gallows, contributed to the last 
number a discussion of college debates as interesting 
as it was humorous. Those who heard, early in the 
month, the McGill debating team speak against the 
Imperial team that is now visiting our country, must 
feel the force of his generalisation that our public 
speaking, at least as it is developed in the University, 
tends to develop a preference for fact rather than 
argument; the speaker does not so much speak for 
himself as produce facts that are intended to speak 
for themselves. The Canadian too often is satisfied 
with supplying the audience with information which, 
when received and digested by it, will compel it to the 
conclusion that his point of view is the only possible 
one; the Englishman, with more reliance upon the 
general knowledge and less upon the reasoning ability 
of his audience, endeavours to persuade it that any 
opinions it may hold contrary to his own are erroneous. 
The one marshals, the other re-interprets. But though 
this general difference in method was noticeable in 
the debate, it would be wrong to suppose that it was 
so marked as to render the conflict unequal, or the 
victory predictable. The verdict was justly awarded 
to the visitors, but only by a narrow margin. Spector, 
indeed, of McGill, spoke with a lucidity and force- 
fulness as convincing as any other speech made on 
that evening, and Forsey, though perhaps less orderly 
in his arrangement of material, displayed to a high 
degree the essentially debating faculty of meeting, 
point by point, the arguments of his opponents. We 
need hear nothing more of this "inferiority complex.” 

It was a slight deficiency in the more decorative 
attributes of public speaking that cost McGill the 
victory. The Imperial team had a certain easiness 
of manner, a poise and concinnity, that strengthened 
their arguments a hundredfold. They were obviously 
enjoying themselves. They went at the subject as 
the Englishman goes at his games — with a determina- 
tion to have a good time, be the result what it may. 
Molson of Oxford exemplified this attitude best, 
because in a slightly exaggerated form, induced, no 
doubt, by long training in a debating society that has 
always preferred error in finery to truth in rags. 

If our Literary and Debating Society would take 
to heart Dr. Leacock’s advice about the choice of 
subjects, avoiding the more ponderous and selecting 
those which offer scope for humour, originality and 
imagination, it would help greatly towards over- 
coming the deficiency noticeable in its representatives. 
But no amount of conscious effort on the part of 
an institution can achieve a rhetorical gracefulness for 
its members. This is a subjective quality, bom of taste 
and culture, and of a genuine appreciation of the 
subtleties and refinements of our language. When 
the undergraduates of a University respect the written 
and the spoken word, loathe as the plague all journalese 
phraseology, smart repartee and tub-thumping, they 
may safely be allowed to debate even the most fun- 
damental problems without danger of injury to their 
oratorical style. Without this background of taste 
and culture, practice and precept are vain guides. 



F. R. S. 



56 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



College Debating 

A. O. Lloyd 

President McGill Literary and Debating Society 

It has been suggested to me by a recent article in 
these columns that there might be room for another 
article on College Debating. College debating is a 
wide subject, it is carried on in every college and uni- 
versity in the country, and of course, it has defects. 
That these defects are very obvious is certain — a col- 
lege professor has observed them. 

But it is my opinion that the advantages of the 
present system far outweigh its defects. The system 
now in vogue is to announce the subject some two 
or three weeks before the date for debating, to allow 
the participant time to become familiar with the 
subject, and to arrange his knowledge so that he may 
present it in decent, orderly fashion. The older system, 
that practised forty-one years ago, was to announce the 
subject in the morning, have the participants talk it 
over between munches at the dinner horn, and then 
talk about it during the evening. This is still followed 
in some circles, and it has the old failing. As you 
listen you realize that very few hours have been spent 
in preparation, in fact, entirely too few. This system 
may be heard in operation at any farmers’ political 
picnic or at the House of Commons at Ottawa. In 
the first instance an opiate has been placed upon the 
intelligence of the listeners by the huge lunch basket 
with which they fortify themselves for the ordeal, 
in the second by an indemnity of four thousand dollars. 
Too many speeches suffer from too little preparation 
and too much talk. More thought and less talk would 
relieve many a suffering, patient, audience. 

It hardly seems possible to the writer that too much 
preparation can be made. A debate is an attempt to 
set forth and develop opposing arguments upon a 
certain subject. The first requisite would seem to be 
that one should know something of it. It is not necessa- 
ry that one should know all about the subject, upon 
which one is speaking — college professors are a classic 
example of men speaking on a subject of which they 
know more or less, often less, but it is essential that the 
subject should be studied from more than one angle 
and that facts which are essential should be presented 
to the exclusion of others that are irrelevant. It is. 
of course, true that the subject may not be exhausted 
in the short time given for preparation, but surely 
it is true that the main facts favoring or opposing it 
may be obtained. It is not necessary that a man should 
travel every mile of the C. P. R. to form the opinion 
that it is a railroad. Yet certain facts are necessary. 
All the thought in the world would not tell one what 
the constitution of the World Court is. Yet if the consti- 
tution is studied or even read, certain objections will 
readily come to mind and the longer it is studied the 
more objections. The present system does not place a 
ban upon thinking. Having obtained the facts the 
speaker is allowed to do all the thinking he wishes, 
provided his thinking is not contrary to fact. Unless 
a substratum of fact underlies thinking, the latter 
will usually result in rot. We think the sun rises in 
the east but it would not be fair or sane to argue on 
that basis. 

An audience is surely entitled to this amount of 
respect that the speaker should spend as much time 
as possible becoming acquainted with the subject, 
and also a certain time should be spent in preparing 
the presentation of the case. For style in speaking 



ought to be as style to a well-dressed woman — enough 
everywhere and not too much anywhere. And style 
is not a natural gift. It must be long and patiently 
cultivated. It is only by constant and patient effort 
that the average person can say what he wants to 
say in a manner that is worth while. Talking is not 
public speaking, although some people confuse the 
two hopelessly. 

Nor does a man learn to become a public speaker 
by embracing every opportunity to get upon his feet 
in public and utter the resounding thoughts that echo 
and reverberate in an otherwise empty brain chamber. 
The old style of debating, some forty-one years ago, 
in which a subject was thrown into the ring and any 
man after a few hours thought was capable of “holding 
forth” for fifteen or twenty minutes, has died. It was 
probably talked to death. The dearth of oratory to- 
day is the result. What speaker, apart from Prime 
Minister Mackenzie King and Premier Howard 
Ferguson, has it produced? By their fruits ye shall 
know them. Its products condemn it far beyond 
recall, though some of the graduates of the system 
may look back with wistful eyes and long fora return 
to the good old days. The first essential for a good 
speaker would seem to be to learn when to keep silent, 
and to speak only when he has a real contribution to 
offer upon the subject under discussion. 

The subject will depend upon the type of student 
engaged in debate, and the various interests he may 
have. One generation may demand a subject requiring 
a minimum of thought while other students may be 
interested in more serious subjects. But certainly if 
debates are to be any training for the life following 
graduation the subjects ought to be taken from those 
topics which are of public concern. To debate upon 
purely academic questions which will be of no interest 
after leaving the university would seem futile and 
foolish. Or to choose a freakish subject capable of no 
conclusion or one too trivial to be worthy of serious 
thought would seem to be a waste of time both to 
those who listen and to those who speak. The present 
endeavour is to get a subject worthy of study which 
offers room for opposing viewpoints and then to engage 
students who having studied it will endeavour to 
present the arguments in a logical fashion. It may not 
be the best method of training men for later public 
speaking but it certainly cannot turn out a class of 
men more uniformly mediocre than the older system 
has done. 



Frost in Autumn 

W HEN the first ominous cold 

Stills the sweet laughter of the northern lakes, 
And the fall of a crisp leaf 
Marks the eternal victory of death. 

In the presence of granite mountains. 

Ice-rounded valleys and rock shores, 

I cannot bring myself to your embrace 

For love is an impudent defiance 
Flung into the teeth of Time, 

A brazen denial 

Of the omnipotence of death, 

And here death whispers in the silences. 

And a deep reverence is due to Time. 

T. 1\ 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



57 



Chiaroscuro 

T HIS one was somewhat chary of a smile 
And something underconfident it seems: 
For he who very seriously dreams 
Of death imagines in a little while 
That the grinning jaws and the rasping file 
Are what even the dearest face’s gleam 
Will presently become, or at least seem: 

This one was somewhat chary of a smile. 

And acidly at last upon the lips 

That met and answered his most fleeting kiss 

He tasted the inevitable mould. 

He thumbed his skeleton at breast and hips, 
And naturally distrusted after this 
A smile as something cynical and cold. 

A. J. M. Smith 



BOOKS 

The Curé of St. Michel 

By Maurice Caron 

{Hodder & Stoughton, London) 

r ) be reviewing the novel of a man with whom 
one has worked on The McGill Daily and, during 
summer holidays, on The Montreal Star makes 
one feel somewhat old and wasted and uncreative. 
Where is that novel of yours that was to startle the 
discriminating critics of two continents and bring not 
only wealth but reputation? Certainly not here be- 
tween material blue covers, and in black and white on 
tangible paper as is “The Curé of St. Michel.” I am 
not affirming that Maurice Caron’s first novel is a 
masterpiece or that it has the mysterious ingredients 
of the best seller. The young author has, however, 
chosen wisely to lay the scene of his story among 
surroundings with which he has long been familiar, 
and to find his characters among a race which he knows 
both by ties of blood and through personal observation. 
Simplicity is the keynote of “The Curé of St. Michel” 
as it is of the race which it attempts to portray. Each 
of its characters is motivated by one idea. Cecile, the 
kindly Curé, the doctor Vladamir, the Charbonneau 
family, all are essentially simple folk, loving, trusting 
in God and the Virgin, honest, kindly, capable of 
hardship and suffering. We are tempted, to ask at 
times whether all these characteristics which can be 
summed up in the one word naivete are not stressed 
at the expense of the fuller characterization that might 
have resulted from a freer mixture of chaff with the 
grain. 

Inevitably inflenced by “Maria Chapdelaine,” and 
though artistically inferior to Louis Hémon’s classic, 
“The Curé of St. Michel” is one of the most interesting 
books that has come out of Quebec. It is written in 
English by a French-Canadian, and it deals in a simple, 
homely manner with the homely everyday life of the 
habitants of Northern Quebec. It is primarily an out- 
of-door book. The writer has roughed it in the bush 
of the country he describes, and has paddled a canoe 
down the same rivers and carried a pack over the same 
portages, and in the same manner, as the woodsmen 
and trappers who move through the pages of his book. 
Mr. Caron is a young man — this, his first novel, was 
written three years ago while its author was an un- 
dergraduate at McGUl — and if there is a trace of 



immaturity in these pages it can be excused as inevi- 
table. There is promise in “The Curé of St. Michel” 
that will make us look with more than ordinary in- 
terest for the coming of Mr. Caron’s second novel. If 
this should show an advance in technique and a more 
mature point of view, we shall be justified in hoping 
that the novelist of the French-Canadian race has at 
last appeared. That he writes in English will be but 
another link in the chain that binds the two great 
races in Quebec. 

S. 



Skin for Skin 

By Llewelyn Powys 

(Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York ) 

I N “Skin for Skin” Mr. Powys has given us a series 
of sketches out of his own life, from the time he 
learned of his disease to the last stage, where he 
settled down to die at the Davos Platz in the Alps. 
It is the story of a lover of life and art, who learned 
at the age of twenty-five that he must die (as he and 
most of his friends then thought) and who feared 
death mightily. 

"Skin for Skin” makes one feel that its recorded 
impressions were actually experienced by the writer; 
and they were such as only a highly sensitive artist 
would experience. The spell of mortality was upon 
him, and he wrote only as a natural word painter could 
write, making death itself and the harbingers of death 
beautiful. 

The father of the eleven Powys children was a 
Christian priest, and the Christian ideology of his 
boyhood days comes often to the surface in these 
sketches by Llewelyn Powys. Nevertheless, he had 
become an infidel — an infidel of the aesthetic, “pagan” 
type. Perhaps this fact may account for the inordinate 
fear of death — that fear which haunts every page of 
the book. We are not naively to suppose, however, 
that Mr. Powys was so greatly affected in mind as 
he was by thoughts of mortality on account of a dread 
of mere self-extinction or a lack of belief in a beneficent 
god. Some of the over-zealous among Christians would, 
it may be, have us interpret his fears thus; but we 
know that he did not want to die, because he loved the 
world of sense and flesh so well and because he knew 
that this life is occasionally very beautiful and 
beguiling to persons of keen and appreciative sensi- 
bilities. 

A. B. L. 



Thunder on the Left 

By Christopher Morley 

(S. B. Gundy, Toronto) 

T HIS is a most disturbing book. The reader who 
knows the Christopher Morley of “Parnassus 
on Wheels” and “The Haunted Bookshop”, of 
literary gossip in The Saturday Review and elsewhere, 
comes to it in the reasonable belief that he can foreteli 
fairly well the form if not the substance of what awaits 
him. He will enjoy this book, he thinks, because the 
author himself enjoys books so, and likes to tell you 
all about it in that leisurely but discriminating style, 
which is a vanishing art in a crowded age. 



SS 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



The sequel is a surprise not unmixed with shock. 
Who would have thought good old Morley capable of 
attempting a novel, using the inarticulate-husband- 
neurotic-wife formula? It is really too bad. But this 
is not all. Against this background of “realism” 
wanders a creature of purely Barriesque fancy— Martin, 
a little boy who wished to spy on grown-ups to see if 
they were really happy, and who has been projected 
into the future, bearing in the form of a handsome 
young man the soul and touching innocences of a 
child. The crowning ironies ensue when the wife, 
madly attracted to this naïf young man, can elicit 
m response only a love of a most elusive description 
Meanwhile the husband (who is really Martin’s 
matured self) while well on the way to convert the 
eternal triangle into a quadrangle, is prevented from 
doing so by the wraith of a dead child, his little sister, 
who speaks dissuasion to his enamorata. (Involved, 
isn t it?) Then Martin finds the magic toy, which, 
upon a wish, whisks him back to his childhood, and 
the book ends on a rather terrible note of childish 
disillusionment and revulsion. 

A strange, strange tale. But the telling of it is at 
least as startling. In the earlier chapters, especially, 
one runs across many of those happy little phrases 
that Morley’s readers have learned to look for. But 
for the most part, there is a throwing together of drab 
realism and mad fancy, which produces in the reader’s 
mind, as to the whole, an eerie sense of unreality and 
unreason. Here is a fair sample: 

For 3 moment transparent Time swung in a warm, 
dull, uncertain equilibrium. Phyllis could see Lizzie 
jolt heavily down the kitchen steps and bend over 
the garbage can. The grinding clang of the lid came 
like a threatening clap of cymbals. How glorious it 
would be if she and Lizzie, each with a garbage can 
and lid, could suddenly break into a ritual dance on 
the lawn, posturing under the maddening sunlight, 
clashing away their fury in a supreme dervish protest. 
How surprised George and Mr. Martin would be. 
bhe and Lizzie making frantic and mocking gestures 
sweating the comedy out of their veins, breaking 
through the dull mask of polite behavior into the great 
rhythms and furies of life.” 

And this from Morley, the placid essayist! 

I note from the jacket flap that the editor of Harper’s 
(a not altogether disinterested critic) has pronounced 
7 humer on the Left to be “the best piece of work that 
has been done in this country in ten years.” 

E. C. C. 



Save in Frenzy 

F you study a loveliness 
Like a lesson in grammar, 

Or inspect the first kiss 
When the heart is tamer, 

Or analyse and parse 
A poet 's verse, 

You’ll find that the Whole is 
More than the sum of its parts, 
And that the Holy of Holies 
Of devout sweethearts 
Is inaccessible save 
In frenzy you move. 

Vincent Starr 



Saturday Night 

C ome, you dancers, one and all. 

Come and dance to Creepy Crawl, 

King of jazz in Montreal. 

Crammed in a low and tawdry room 
Smelling of dinner and old perfume 

Straining couples in close embrace 
Slide and wriggle, contort, grimace. 

Sinuous threads of suggestive sound 
Drive them clumsily round and round; 

A ceaseless, even, mechanical beat 
Giving the time to obedient feet. 

White haired-mothers, and maids and men 
Seeking release in a dancing den. 

Seeking release, they know not why, 
Though they know the end is satiety. 

And here and there in the crazy whirl 
One sees the face of a lovely girl; 

A face created for lovely things, 

Lost in a rabble that sways and swings. 

Sax. 



Changement d' Esprit 

Joseph Peralta 

T HE sickly light of an autumn sunset falls through 
the gray gloom of coming twilight. 

Sinking over the horizon, the sun sends its 
crawling shafts between the trees, and casts weird 
shadows — the end of day. 

But no stars come to greet the coming night, no moon 
gleams upon the world on its trip through darkness, 
for overhead — dark, deep clouds are floating, and cold, 
cold winds are blowing — ; 
wind shadows. 

The indistinct rivers of the sky and firmament seem 
to intensify the moonless night. 

The sombre, sere stretch of the city below seems to 
ascend, diffusing with the gloom of the night. 

And so — the dimness of the land and the dimness of 
the air close together — ; 
a black symphony. 

The brown trees quiver, and each new breeze sends 
many crisp, withering leaves to the dying earth. 
The sky becomes blacker, the winds more chilled — 
and from the Mountain one looks about beneath 
him- and thinks. 

Place of Dead Hopes! 

Blind, struggling half-brute City of Hate; confused 
thousands wandering about in your streets — the roar 
and dust. 

What misery you hold, what grotesque mysteries are 
hidden in your blackness. 

Gazing out into the lovely darkness — the many lights; 
red, yellow, green, blue — silent; the steady pale glow 
of street lamps, and the many window lights of living 
people, and about it all— blackened ashes. 

Then the River — unseen, but its presence felt, a slowly 
moving thing of ugly murkiness. 



i 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



59 



The canals — slimy, oily water flapping against the 
rotting docks — the stinking warehouses along the 
water front. 

O City of the Royal Mountain — fate smeared you 
at the bottom of this stone knoll so your people could 
climb to the black throne and curse your dismal dirt- 
iness. 

# # # 

The hours are now breathing faintly of spring. The 
world has shaken the months of death, and nature is 
again reborn. 

The calm sun-ray light has awakened the sleeping 
earth to new life — and the season of rainbow and 
gentle rains has come once more. 

The soft light of the sun filters through the trees, and 
casts dancing shadows on the fresh earth — swaying 
lace. Overhead the sky is blue, and a breeze murmurs. 
Pale leaves have come forth on the trees, the whole 
world appears a mass of moving greeness. 

Looking down from the Mountain — a sweeping ex- 
panse flooded with a dazzling radiance. 

The sun falls upon the slate shingles — moist with dew, 
splinters of silver splashed with gold; — here and there 
a church spire — a gilded, glittering needle pointing 
to Heaven. 

Far out, the river mysteriously glides — glittering 
diamonds. From far below the faint chimes of 
Cathedral bells float up on the river breeze. 

O Fantastic, Mystic city! 

Some Invisible Presence took you from a dreamy, 
continental haze — and tossed you down ’midst this 
Western radiance. Glittering, commanding — you sit 
upon your Island throne, a precious gem bathed by 
the waters of the St. Lawrence. 

Down there are sunlit places — and music, and laughter 
— and people touched with the magic of spring time. 



The Theory of Stationary Population 

Bernard Cohen 

A T no time in history has there been given so 
much attention to the social and economic con- 
ditions of mankind as at the present time. In 
civilized countries opinion is universal that these 
conditions might be improved. While the defects 
of the present social order are fairly obvious, it is 
exceedingly difficult to devise any practicable sfcheme 
for their removal. The most popular scheme is, of 
course, Socialism. There can be no doubt as to the 
great influence of this movement upon the progress 
of civilization. Intelligent people of to-day are all, 
to some extent, impressed by Socialism, and favor 
state intervention in industry in greater measure than 
was formerly allowed. Socialism is usually thought 
of as being opposed to what is called Capitalism. 

The Capitalist system is believed to be responsible 
for the ills of the social order, and is therefore to be 
replaced by one which is superior. Let us inquire into 
this. The Capitalist system may be regarded as an 
enormous instrument, by the means of which civilized 
communities carry on the production of wealth. Its 
essential feature is the use of machinery. The existence 
of machinery would itself be of but little value, were 
it not for the assistance of banks with their elaborate 
system of credit. We may therefore regard machinery 
and credit as the twin pillars of Capitalism. 



Capitalism is a product of science and human ingenui- 
ty, and we can only with difficulty conceive of it as 
being destroyed. It provides the only possible method 
of producing commodities on a large scale. Not even 
the most extreme form of Socialism can contemplate 
its disappearance. There are, to be sure, a number 
of problems which present themselves as secondary 
features of Capitalism. Such, for example, is the 
relation between worker and employer. It is this 
problem which Socialism attempts to solve. Its pos- 
sibility of doing so is, however, limited by the conditions 
of a system which fundamentally remains unchanged. 

The great inventions of the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries have built up the Capitalism system. The 
realization by men that great changes had overtaken 
their ways of living led them to study these changes. 
It was then that the science of economics was evolved. 
The understanding of this new system enabled them 
to adapt themselves to its conditions. Thereupon 
began the movement of laissez-faire, which swept 
away the effete mediaeval laws, now found to be a 
hindrance. This was scarcely accomplished when 
Socialism presented itself, with the aim of ameliorating 
the lot of the workers. As a result of such 
movements there have been beneficial adjustments 
in the position of employees under the capitalistic 
system. It is certain, however, that the basic existence 
of Capitalism has not been affected. Nor would it 
have been possible for any economic theory to do so. 

Let us suppose the Socialist program to be 
fully realized. The Capitalist has disappeared. The 
product of each industry is divided up entirely 
among its workers. The latter now derive more from 
their labor than heretofore. There remains however 
one question to be answered. What will all this do 
for the unemployed — for those who are neither workers 
nor capitalists? The theory of Socialism provides no 
answer. Its limitations are here manifest. We are 
here confronted with a different problem from that of 
providing higher wages. There is in every country a 
certain part of the population which has no share in 
its industry. These are paupers. The bulk of the work- 
ers, which Socialism concerns itself with, though their 
earnings are not high, nevertheless are able to earn 
their living. There is a certain proportion of able- 
bodied men who are unable to find secure positions, 
however humble, within the industrial organization. 
These constitute a more urgent problem. Inequality 
of wealth is not the greatest evil. Rather is it poverty. 
It is here that the fundamental problem of social jus- 
tice presents itself. 

Now unemployment is inherent in Capitalism. The 
problem is beyond the scope of Socialism, or indeed 
of any economic theory. The solution must be sought 
for in another direction. The problem of unemployment 
is closely connected with that of population. Were it 
not that population is continually increasing, poverty 
and unemployment would in time disappear, for the 
total wealth of the world is also continually accumu- 
lating. This is due to the fact that mankind does not 
consume annually all that it produces. Concurrent 
with the tendency to save, there is a desire to improve 
the standard of living. This means a demand for more 
commodities, and the additional demand makes pos- 
sible the employment of what has been saved as new 
capital. The increase of wealth is therefore determined 
by the combination which exists between the desire 
to save and the desire to spend. While there is a nor- 
mal equilibrium between these opposite instincts, the 
growth of wealth may go on indefinitely, or so long as 



60 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



there are sufficient natural resources. There is, more- 
over, this noteworthy fact: namely, the expansion of 
industry does not require an increase of population. 
It is true that a larger population may mean an in- 
creased demand, but a fixed population may likewise 
increase its demand. 

A stationary population would, in the course of 
time, profoundly alter the aspect of capitalism. The 
expansion of industry would gradually absorb what 
is now regarded as surplus population. There would 
be work for all who desire it, and forced unemployment 
would be unknown. The stationary population would 
bring an end to pauperism. It would do more than this, 
however. The further expansion of industry would 
result in a scarcity of labor. The workers then would 
be in a position to obtain a greater share of the products 
of industry. What is now the aim of the Socialist 
would be attained without revolution and in the natural 
course of events. Nor would loss be suffered by em- 
ployers. New processes and technical improvements 
would allow industry to expand, despite scarcity of 
labor. The result would be that the ratio of the amount 
of capital to the number of workers would be very 
much higher than now. This would permit generous 
wages to the comparatively few workers, while still 
leaving to the employer normal returns on his capital. 
Out of a given industry the income of the average 
employee would approach that of the owner. At present, 
only a little of the increasing wealth accrues to the 
worker in the shape of higher wages. With the popu- 
lation stationary, the relative position of capitalist 
and worker, in this respect, would tend to reverse 
itself. The wealth of the Capitalist would increase 
more slowly. There would, however, be an increase 
in the number of Capitalists. 

We have considered unemployment and the unequal 
distribution of wealth. A third feature of the Capi- 
talist system is o v er product ion . There is always a 
tendency to expand industry beyond safe limits. The 
reason for this is that the growth of saving tends to 
outpace the growth in demand. There is, at the same 
time, a strong temptation to employ the whole of such 
savings in new industries, with the result that much 
of it is continually lost. With the population constant, 
and income more equally distributed, there would be 
less savings. The difference, instead of being swallowed 
up, as now, by wild-cat undertakings, would be con- 
sumed by the workers. The growth of wealth and 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editorial Board: A P.R Coulbom, A.B. Latham, 
E-B- Scott, A.J.M. Smith. Managing Editor: L. 

JuQeii 

The Editorial Board is responsible only for 
opinions expressed in the editorial columns, and 
hopes to publish articles on controversial questions 
by contributors of widely divergent views. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one 
of the editors, or mailed to The McGill Fortniehtlv 
Review, Apt. 16, 989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. 
Unsuitable contributions will be returned. 

Subscription rates are one dollar for this year’s 
complete issue. Cheques should be made payable 
to the McGill Fortnightly Review and sent to the 
Managing Editor at the above address. 



and industry would be slower and more gradual, but 
there would be far less insolvency of traders and des- 
truction of capital. Moreover, since large returns 
from capital could no longer be looked for, its owners 
would not be inclined to risk its loss in unsound ven- 
tures; while the worker, whose savings might tempt 
him to become a Capitalist, would likewise proceed 
with caution. New industries would be started only 
when they are called for by increase of demand. 

The stationary population would put an end to 
unemployment. The elimination of unemployment 
would be followed by an increase of income for the 
workers. This, in turn, would pave the way for sound- 
ness and stability in industry. Mankind would be freed 
from economic thraldom, and we might at last con- 
ceive of the development of a higher type, not in a 
chosen few, but in the average of humanity. 

A stationary population would therefore be of 
inestimable benefit to mankind. The means of bring- 
ing this about is, of course, birth control, the value of 
which from the eugenic point of view has been often 
made clear. There is also much to be said for the 
practice from the standpoint of politics, as well as 
that of world peace. 

This has been a treatise of the merits of stationary 
population, without any discussion as to methods 
whereby it may be achieved. It is sufficient to say that 
there are many difficulties in the way, the greatest of 
which is perhaps prejudice. One could not expect such 
a thoroughgoing change in ideas within a short time. 
The stationary population is a worthy ideal for the 
reformer, and might be set up as the goal of progress 
to be finally attained in the distant future. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton’s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 





