Vol. VII. 



' -t 



No. 5. 



McGILL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Tuesday, January 15th, 1884. 




To thb New Ybar 
Editorials - 
Contributions 

COBRBSPONDBNCB - 



C O NTENTS : 



PACE. 

1 

1-2 
2-4 
- 5 



College World 

Between the Lecturbb 

Personals 

List op New Books 



page. 

5-11 

11 

11 

11 



MONTREAL : 

« WITNESS" PRINTING HOUSE ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 

ms. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 

Jia.vocs.zss, Jiizovnsys, dec. 

13 ECOSPITAIj street, 

MON TREAL. 

N. \i. Trenholme, M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor. B.A. B C.L. w. b. Dickson. B.C.L. 



WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 






Commissioner for the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 

Magmaster, Hutghinson & WEIR, 

-Hic^DYSC^Eg^ 
Barristers, Solicitors, etc. 

1G2 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster. Q.C. M. Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.I- 

Qreenshields, mgGorkill & Querin, 



Jhlormyi, Salitiior-i , . 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 St. Francois Farrier St., 

IMDOTNTT 

J. N. CREENSHIELDS. J. c. MCCORK1LL EDMUND GUERIN. 



I 




JOHH HEHDERSOH & CO. 

mm 



283 NOTRE DAME ST. 



& lyp©jps $&& 1 

\ 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Gash Prices . 

Tli© “ McG-H-uXj 9f RitolooTX for sal©* 



-Hk-WM. HILLvJH- 

HmciM Jaw 



*■ BOOMS -A.T a^9 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 



— AND — 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

oteross, |,ommii 58 icner^ ||om«pncm, &c. 

-HcU7IBBI^GEvLICFx^5E5vI > S.SaED:i;^- 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 

-►* a. 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST. JAMES ST., ^^ A „T“ d MONTREAL. 



Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 

WM. FARQUHARSON, 

f§a i to z , 



3NTO. 135 ST. P33TER STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA- 



MILITARY UNIFORMS A. SPECIALTY. 

grawm instrument? 



A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 



— FROM THE— 



LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

6 AN INSPECTION INVITED, 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. JPA UL STREET . 




VOL. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, JANUARY 15th, 1884. 



[No. 5. 



SGc&lIili ZIKIYERSISH SHEESSE. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 

Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
J. Porter, B.A., ’86, Med. 

S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, '84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



TO THE NEW YEAR. 

In “ New Dominion Monthly .” 

Hark ! is’t thy step, New Year ? 

With sure but stealthy pace thou aye dost come ; 

And in thy train are gladdening gifts for some ; 

O haste thee, glad New Year ! 

Too swift thy step, New Year ! 

The past had gathered friends from many lands, 

And thou dost come to part their clasped hands : 

Alas, so near, New Year ! 

“ O haste ! ” “ Delay ! ” New Year ; — 

Two prayers together rising up to Heaven : 

Trust in the answer ; is it not God given ? 

Meet bravely the New Year ! 

Welcome the new, New Year ! 

O clear- voiced Truth, lead in the coming morn ; 

And gentle Charity, our lives adorn : 

Hope lives in the New Year ! 

Gowan Lea. 



(Editorials. 

For a considerable length of time there has been felt 
amongst the Graduates and Undergraduates of this University, 
the want of a club similar to those which exist in connection 
with several of the English and American universities. Pro- 
posals for the formation of such a club have been frequently 
discussed by our Graduates, especially by those resident in this 
city, and an attempt, we believe, was at one time made to give 
a practical shape to the scheme. The attempt, we are sorry to 
say, failed, and for some time the matter was allowed to rest. 
Of late, however, a feeling has been gaining strength, more par- 
ticularly among some of the younger graduates, that measures 
ought to be taken to carry out what is the so evident desire of 
a large majority of the alumni of the University. The matter 
has been freely discussed and quite a large number have already 
expressed their willingness to aid in carrying out the project. 
Something in this direction was, indeed, attempted last winter 
when the Graduates’ Society held several reunions in Joyce’s 
rooms. These social gatherings were highly appreciated and 
it was resolved to continue them during the present winter, but 
we believe it has been found impossible to carry out this intention 
because of the difficulty of obtaining suitable rooms. These 
meetings, although they took place only at considerable inter- 
vals, served to show the desirability of forming such a club as 
we have mentioned. Being, then, convinced that what is alone 
wanted to set the project on foot, is that some one should take 
the initiative, we have determined to take up the matter and 
do our best to establish on a firm basis a McGill University 



Club. To dilate upon the advantages to be gained by the es- 
tablishment of such an institution as this seems to us unneces- 
sary. The only question appears to be how the scheme can 
best be carried out. And here we may say, that we shall be 
glad to receive suggestions from any of our readers who may 
take an interest in the matter, and to hear from those who 
approve of our course. One thing we feel it necessary at tho 
outset to point out, and it is this, that we must begin on a 
small scale and work gradually upwards. It is very important 
to remember this because, although some may wish to make a 
start on a larger scale, yet the fact remains that the number of 
our Graduates in this city is not very large, nor are their resources, 
as a rule, very great. Experience, too, shows the wisdom of this 
course. At Yale, for instance, the club which is now so well 
known, and which has a very extensive membership, took its 
rise from an association formed amongst the members of one of 
the classes in the University. Our friends in Toronto it is true 
have lately endeavoured to organize a club on a somewhat larger 
scale, but we have not yet heard whether the attempt has met 
with success or no. In any case, our position is not exactly 
similar, and we shall have to proceed somewhat less ambitiously. 
To make a beginning we require very little. Rooms will have 
to be taken in a convenient part of the city, somewhere, say, 
about Beaver Hall Hill, or in the vicinity of Philips Square, 
and these should be furnished for reading and other purposes. 
There would thus be afforded a rendezvous for University men, 
and a suitable place of meeting for the Graduates’ Society and like 
associations. It will be especially convenient for Graduates living 
in the country, who may happen to be in town, and wish to meet 
college friends, and for strangers from sister Universities, who 
will find here a friendly reception amongst congenial spirits. 
After a time we shall, no doubt, be able to improve and enlarge 
the Club so that Graduates engaged in professions or business 
in the city, will be able to obtain their meals with convenience 
and at reasonable rates. The Undergraduates should also be 
allowed to participate in the advantages of the Club, and should 
be represented on the committee of management. As the 
college session is now pretty well advanced, we cannot hope to 
see the scheme fully carried out this winter, but such prelimi- 
nary steps can be taken as will insure the establishment of the 
Club early next Fall. We propose to issue, in a short time, 
circulars calling a meeting of Graduates to discuss the whole 
project, and, if they see fit, to appoint a provisional committee 
to take the matter in hand. We hope that all will give their 
hearty support, and thus carry the enterprise to a successful issue. 



Among the many imperfections of which the Arts student 
is at various times conscious as existent in his course, the 
one which to many presents itself with most force and frequency, 
is the need of sufficient instruction in Rhetoric. No deprecia- 
tion of the present lectures is to be understood by this remark • 
for all that can be done, and much more than could be expected 
is accomplished in a course of one lecture a week during a single 
session. But a compendium of rules and a collection of practical 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



hints, even although the rules are stated with a simplicity and 
clearness seldom found in textbooks, and although the hints are 
given in a pleasing and forcible maimer, are not nearly adequate 
for those who earnestly desire to become writers or sp akers. 
Something more practical is needed. All that is now given can 
be acquired, not so easily or pleasantly perhaps, but still 
acquired from the ordinary textbooks on the subject. What 
cannot be so gained is fair, painstaking criticism of both written 
and spoken compositions, and instruction in the management of 
the voice and the art of gesticulation. These things are of 
supreme importance to a large number of the students, and 
many, failing by their own efforts to gain the necessary cultiva- 
tion, despair of ever doing so, and are tempted to believe that 
“ the orator is born, not made.” Something then ought to be 
done to enlarge the usefulness of the present course, and we 
trust the authorities will soon see their way to help the students 
to those advantages of which a great man has spoken in the 
following words : “Statement, thought, arrangement, however 
men may struggle against them, have an influence upon them, 
and public men, however they may dislike it, are forced to 
admit that, conditions being equal, the man who can state any- 
thing best, who can pursue an argument most closely, who can 
give the richest and most felicitous illustrations, and who 
can command some kind of beauty of diction, will have the 
advantage over his contemporaries.” Another quotation and we 
will have done : “ Attractiveness of style is part of the instru- 
mentality by which a writer or speaker accomplishes his ends. 
If a man would convince, he must not disdain the arts by which 
people can be induced to listen.” 



V e are sorry that it has been thought fit not to organize 
the Glee Club this year. It is true that last year there 
vas a small financial deficit, but with a little careful manage- 
ment we imagine that this could have been made up and the 
club successfully carried on. A meeting was called before 
Christmas to consider the matter at which, we are told, only a 
few students were present. The reason of this, we think, was 
the way in which the meeting was called. Notices were posted 
up in the Arts and Medical buildings, but to our knowledge it 
was unknown to a great number that any such meeting was to 
take place. The decision not to continue the club was arrived 
at, we believe, on the suggestion of the late Secretary who was 
called upon by the meeting to give his opinion. Our opinion 
differs from that of the late Secretary. Had it been the 
Treasurer, who had to make good last year’s deficit out of his 
own pocket, that advised this course, we should not have been 
surprised. But such a lover of music as the Secretary ought to 
have been prepared to work with a will to endeavour to°keep 
alive this excellent institution. Perhaps next year some one 
will be found with sufficient enthusiasm to take the matter in 
hand, and perhaps we may be even fortunate enough to be able 
to give some-concerts if the club is formed early enough in the 
autumn. In the meantime we are to have a new song-book. 
Let us be glad for even this small blessing, and let us wish the 
committee appointed for this purpose every success in their 
efforts. 



It is pleasing to be able to chronicle the formation of a 
society which will encourage the study of the Celtic languages 
and literature. Like the comparatively recent researches into 
Anglo-Saxon lore, this revival of interest in the Celtic remains 



of Britain, will undoubtedly be productive of valuable philo- 
logical and literary results. Mr. John MacLennan, the 
honorary president, is well-known as a gentleman of great 
ability, while the president, Rev. Dr. MacNish, has taken much 
interest in the various Celtic languages, and is certainly the best 
educated Celt in this country. A gold medallist in classics of 
Toronto University, in the good old days of Dr. McCaul, when 
taking a medal “ meant something,” Dr. Mac Nish has never 
ceased to prosecute his studies in Greek and Latin, and in spite 
of a pardonable predilection for classical literature, still testifies 
to the vigor and worth of ancient Celtic literature. Various 
lectures on Ossian and kindred - subjects, delivered by him 
before the Canadian Literary Institute, have been published, 
and it may be that some day a book on these questions may 
swell the volume of our native literature. The Celtic Society, 
though formed in connection with the Presbyterian College, is 
meant to include all of Celtic descent who wish to join. 



(Sonfribuficms. 



The Study of History. 

Of all the departments of literature, the subject of history is 
in some respects the most interesting; for it has attractions 
peculiarly its own. It may be said to contain the essence of all 
others ; for each in some degree enters into its composition. 
The philosopher will there find abundant materials for his 
study, for the philosophy of history is a life-study in itself, 
whether it be reducible to a science or not. He will there find 
the facts upon which his conclusions are grounded, and by 
which his speculations may be tested. He will find what his 
predecessors have done on the same ground, and the results of 
their labours. He will learn something of the moral govern- 
ment of the Universe, and of the principles which have guided 
the conduct of men. The scientific man must look to history 
for a record of the changes which the world of nature has 
undergone, and of its bypast phenomena. The geologist will 
there find valuable aid in his suppositions regarding the origin 
and growth of rocks and fossils, and the crust of the earth. The 
antiquarian finds it throwing great light on the fragments and 
relics which constitute his study, and leading him to reliable 
information regarding these, which their appearance and nature 
would not of themselves afford. The poet and romancist will 
there find abundant materials for thought and the cultivation of 
their arts. The student of biography will find the lives of all 
kinds of men, the circumstances that led to the formation of 
their characters, and the influence they exerted on their con- 
temporaries and on posterity. And the student of prophecy will 
find there the data upon which his surmises regarding the 
unseen future must be built. He will gather together , 0 as it 
were, the tangled web of past ages, and looking at their issues, 
he will have some guide as to what is likely to spring from the 
events going on around him, and a clue to the movements and 
changes to which these in turn will give rise. History is thus 
common ground on which men of all tastes and pursuits can 
meet; and it presents fields of research which the most 
indefatigable laborers will almost never overtake, and sources of 
instruction and delight which can scarcely be exhausted. 

It is almost appalling to think of what history is ; to think 
of its boundlessness and the variety of the materials composing 
it. It would be impossible to write a complete history of the 
world for a single year, for no building would contain the 
books that would have to be written : a lifetime would not suf- 
fice to write it a lifetime would not be long enough even to 
read it. It v ould be necessary to chronicle, not only the great 
occurrences which had taken place, but also the countless 
incidents which these had originated ; and in pursuing their 
endless ramifications the mind would be confused and lost. In 
such a history nothing would be valueless, for the veriest trifle 
would throw [light on something else ; and that again would af- 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



feet another, onward and onward, until the greatest of all was 
reached. History may be said to include a narration of all facts 
in connection with a given subject — the subsidiary, as well as 
the most important ones ; and it may also embrace comments, 
explanations, or parallels by the author ; for if these were 
excluded, it would be annals only, and not history. Tradition, 
poetry, tales, biography, old letters and accounts, state papers 
and other such documents, are undoubtedly all parts of national 
history, a 1 though not precisely known by that name ; for every 
one of them supplies valuable materials for its compilation. 

True, indeed, many an historian in the past has not taken 
advantage of all such materials, but has fallen far short of our 
ideal of true history. There are histories of every variety be- 
tween Herodotus’ most interesting work, and Froude’s delight- 
ful volumes. Some of these historians have gone to the one 
extreme of relating everything they knew, however improbable, 
and whether they believed it themselves or not ; and others 
again have given us only a dry matter-of-fact recital of the great 
occurrences in the world’s progress. Many have thought they 
have done all that could be required of them when they have 
narrated this battle, or that great national victory, how such a 
hero emerged from obscurity and astonished the world, or when 
such a king, nobleman or prelate was born and died ; while no- 
thing was said about the common people, and information as to 
the manner in which these classes lived and died will be 
sought for in vain. Some people may think it beneath the dig- 
nity of history to condescend to such particulars as these, yet 
there cannot be a perfect history without them. A writer who 
gives us only a dry description of the great events of the 
period, is like an artist who would paint a fine landscape, filling 
in the mountains, rivers, and dells, the houses, roads and trees, 
but without filling in the grass and the rustling foliage, tl e 
blossoms on the hedges, or the weeds by the water’s edge. Such 
a picture would manifestly be a failure ; and so is such a 
history. 

This voluminousness of historic details brings with it one or 
two drawbacks. One of these is that it is impossible to over- 
take all history, ; nd it is therefore needful to confine one’s 
attention to a comparatively limited portion of it. No doubt a 
man might, in the course of years, make a rush through univer- 
sal history, and read something about all nations, and during all 
their periods. But what the better would he be? He would have a 
confused notion of many things, and a thorough knowledge of 
nothing. It is true he must know something of the other parts 
of it, as well as his own special study ; for it would be discredit- 
able to him if he did not know whether Julius Caesar was a 
Roman or a Greek, whether Socrates was a philosopher or a war- 
rior ; though he might well be excused if he did not know 
that the former had twice landed in Britain and conquered its 
inhabitants, and that the latter had a very ill-tempered wife. A 
student must know something of general history, but his 
strength should be given to some particular part of it, and his 
attention confined to it till he has mastered its minutest details. 
Each one should select an epoch or country best suited to his 
own taste, and make that his study and the focus of his reading, 
everything being greatly subordinated, and in connection with it. 
British history in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries may 
be quoted as an illustration, which is one of the most interest- 
ing periods, and for which abundant materials can easily be 
had. This begins in Scottish history about 50 years before the 
Reformation, and until the union of the Kingdoms, and in Eng- 
land during the reigns of Henry VIII. and his family, the 
Jameses, the Charleses, and William and Mary. The introduc- 
tion of printing into Scotland, the battle of T lodden, Knox, and 
the Reformation, Henry VIII. and his many wives, the martyr- 
dom of Ridley, Latimer and Cranmer, the Armada, the Gun- 
powder Plot, the Cavaliers and Roundheads, the execution of 
Charles I. and Oliver Cromwell’s Protectorate, are some of the 
great subjects included in it. More, Latimer, and Fox ; 
Shakespeare, Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher ; Spenser, Cow- 
ley and Milton ; Hooker, Bacon and Baxter ; Butler and Dry- 
den ; Tillotson and Bunyan ; Clarendon and Burnet, are some of 
the great stars of our literature, whose lives and writings at once 
adorn and illustrate the period. 



This abundance of historic materials is the cause of another 
disadvantage. As it is impossible for an historian to mention 
everything, a selection is necessary, and room is thereby opened 
up for partiality and unfairness. An historian’s great object 
should be to give a clear idea of the period about which he 
writes ; and as he cannot give all the details, he should present 
his readers with those that furnish a true idea of the w’hole. 
But this expectation is often sadly disappointed. Some have 
written under party bias, or with strong feelings in favour of 
certain personages ; and some have written with the express 
purpose of creating certain opinions, and to accomplish a 
definite object. And this may be done to a very large extent 
without falsifying, or even exaggerating facts, by simply leaving 
out those that would interfere with the intended impressions, or 
explaining them away, and giving full prominence to those on 
the other side of the question. This makes it necessary to read 
as much as possible on the subject, so as to learn all the versions 
of the story, and the different opinions concerning it. The his- 
tory of Queen Mary may be referred to as an illustration. Dr. 
Robertson wrote of her in a somewhat condemnatory strain, be- 
lieving her guilty, and William Tytler wrote in refutation of 
his views. More recently Glassford Bell has written a history 
in her defence, but he is so partial that his ’work may be said to 
be more like an advocate’s special pleading than anything else ; 
and P. F. Tytler, in his History of Scotland, (the best we 
have,) after careful enquiry, takes an opposite view to that of 
his grandfather, and gives probably the most correct view of her 
character that can be had. Knox’s history also is a very good 
one, and his account of her may be accepted as true, in spite of 
his dislike of her, and his intense hatred of her religion. Thus 
by reading all the different histories — one supplying what the 
other has omitted — weighing conflicting evidences, and consid- 
ering opposite opinions, a true conception of the subject may be 
secured, and the most reliable information obtained. 

“ An historian, we conceive, should transport himself in 
spirit to the age and country about which he writes. His whole 
being should be as much suffused and influenced by them as if 
he lived amongst them, having actually seen the deeds he 
relates, and heard the tales he recounts. He should stand on 
the battle-field, and give us not merely an outline, but a photo- 
graph of the scene, telling us not only where the commander 
stood and directed its movements, where the fighting was 
fiercest, and the carnage greatest, but also how the soldiers were 
clothed and armed, what kind of armour they wore, with what 
weapons they fought. All these should be told ; for they con- 
tribute not less to the interest of the picture than do the quar- 
rels and subterfuges, the mistakes and crimes which provoked 
the contest. But this vivid imagination should be tempered by 
a clear judgment and sound discretion. While desiring a strik- 
ing and attractive picture, he ought never to create incidents for 
the sake of embellishing his story. He should possess the 
faculty of rightly analyzing character, giving his readers an in- 
sight into the feelings and dispositions of those about whom he 
writes, and showing how they thought in private, as well as how 
they acted in public. Then we would have histories truly 
worthy of the name, and combining the good qualities of all 
with the accuracy of Tytler, the impartiality of Hallam, and the 
eloquent brilliancy of Macaulay.” 

As already hinted, many of our historians confine themselves 
to the great movements in the world’s progress, and tell us little 
or nothing of the more personal and domestic life of the times 
about which they write. But these are to be found elsewhere ; 
and it is well worth while going a little out of our way in search 
of them. Let us suppose that some information is desired re- 
garding English life and manners about five hundred years ago, 
and although we may obtain some details in histories, we will 
get them far more fully and vividly from Chaucer in the Intro- 
duction to his Canterbury Tales. The plan of the work is, that 
a company of people from all ranks are assembled at the Tabard 
Inn, in Southwark, before proceeding on a pilgrimage to the 
shrine of Thomas-k-Becket, at Canterbury. It is 'Suggested 
that each in turn should tell a story, to beguile the long journey 
over the rough roads ; and before relating these, Chaucer, in his 
prologue, describes the narrators themselves. Thus, the country 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884 . 



parson and the doctor are described, the monks as we know, 
were not all ascetics, for some of them were as jolly fellows as 
Friar Tuck, and in the account of the yeoman we have a 
glimpse of the good old days of Merry England. 

Again, if we require some such particulars about the 
Elizabethan age, it is not so much in histories as in the writings 
of Shakespeare that we will find them. If we want some infor- 
mation about the country Justices of these days, there are Jus- 
tice Shallow, and his constables Verges and Dogberry. The 
Boar Tavern in Eastclieap, and the hostel of Mrs. Quickly, in- 
vite us to learn something of the tavern life of our ancestors. 
Mr. Ford and Mr. Page will show us middle-class society ; and 
in the company of Goodfellow and Peaseblossom, Snug the 
joiner, or Snout the tinker, we learn a great deal about the 
amusements and follies of the common people. Take some of 
the characters in Henry IV. as an illustration. The King sends 
an officer to demand the liberation of some prisoners, and he is 
described as follows : — 

“ Came there a certain lord, neat, trimly dressed, 

I 1 resh as a bridegroom ; and his chin new reaped, 

Showed like a stubble land at harvest home ; 

He was perfumed like a milliner.” 

Prince Henry is a well-drawn figure. He was what in 
modern phraseology would be called a “ fast young man.” He 
gave himself entirely up to the follies of the hour, and spent 
his days in pleasure and amusements among a set of men of 
congenial tastes whom he had gathered around him. Tired of 
the constraints and ceremonies of court life, he spent his even- 
ings in the taverns and theatres ; and although not actually lik- 
ing low company for its own sake, he yet took part in it, believ- 
ing that he could see life better there than anywhere else. But 
his father s death, and his accession to the throne, seemed to 
have called forth his better nature, and like one who had been 
roused from a dream, he stirred up his dormant faculties, and 
became a new man. As he himself says : — 

“ Presume not that I am the thing I was ; 

For Heaven doth know, so shall the world perceive, 

That I have turned away my former self ; 

So will I those that kept me company.” 

. H cre > too, there is Falstaff, perhaps the best known character 
in Shakespeare’s writings. He was a regular man of fashion 
without any principles of honour, and, indeed, a hoary old sin- 
ner. Shakespeare has displayed considerable ingenuity in de- 
scribing him, for lie had to make him both attractive and re- 
pulsive, attractive to account for Prince Henry’s partiality for 
him, and repulsive in the interests of virtue. He was rendered 
the former by his humour, which he possessed in a more than 
ordinary degree, and which he turned to account on every 
possible occasion, thereby getting himself out of many a scrape 
by his humourous excuses. He was what the Yankees would 
call cute, always looking sharply after himself, and far too 
wide awake to be imposed upon. He excites our laughter by 
his cowardice, even when lie is telling the most improbable 
stories of Ins own hardihood and bravery. 

Such details and hints of life and manners as these cannot be 
obtained from history ; and it is well that we can thus get them 
from other sources. We like to stand behind the scenes, and 
see the King and his courtiers, not only in their crowns and 
coronets, and engaged in state ceremonials, but as they were in 
their private lives, in their amusements, loves and hatreds, and 
it may be in their follies and sins. We desire to accompany the 
housewife to the markets and booths, as she purchases 
provisions for her family, and, true to her instinct, tries to 
cheapen her bargains. We wish to see the handicraftsman at 
his labours, and see how he did what is now bein" done by 
machinery. We want to stand at the corner of the Streets in 
the market-places, in the play-houses and taverns, where every 
part of social life is opened up to view, and where everythin" 
and everybody can pass before us like the figures in a panorama 
All this is true history ; and in reading old poetry, plays or 
novels, we are not only wandering among the flowers of liter- 
ature, but gathering solid information, and studying history in 
the best possible manner. J 



It is especially interesting to read the past history of Eng- 
land, from the striking contrast it presents to its present con- 
dition. We have indeed wars, and rumours of war flying 
about, yet these affect us but slightly. There was the Crimean 
War, now nearly thirty years ago ; still later the Abyssinian 
expedition, and recently the exploits in Egypt; and the differ- 
ence these made to us was a little excitement and anxiety to 
hear the latest news from headquarters. But how different from 
the days of our forefathers, when the country was rent asunder 
by civil war, the people fighting with the Government, and 
faction against faction, the plains and hill-sides dyed with 
blood, and their fellow-men lying unburied around them ! 
These men had literally to defend their families and property ; 
everyone looked askance at his neighbour, the burgesses had to 
mount guard over their cities ; and the watchword was demanded 
at every gate. We can never read of the long and weary 
struggles which our ancestors made for civil and religious 
liberty, without deep interest and gratitude for the rich inherit- 
ance they have won for us. Especially are we grateful for the 
toleration and religious freedom now enjoyed by all ; and when 
we read of the sacrifices made by the Covenanters in Scotland, 
and the Puritans and Nonconformists in England, we feel there 
is a close bond of connection betwixt them and us, since we are 
every day reaping the fruits of their labours. It is difficult to 
realize the true state of these troublous times. Traditions 
and stories have floated down to us on the stream of time, now 
elevating such a man into a hero of romance, and describing 
another of the worst possible character. And yet when we dive 
deep into the recesses of history, we often find how erroneous 
such impressions are, and how much some men have been mis- 
judged, and their motives and lives misunderstood. Oliver 
Cromwell is a case in point. He has often been described as a 
stern and inflexible despot, a gloomy fanatic, or a canting hypo- 
crite. That he was the greatest of men, the most unsullied of 
patriots, or the best of Christians, we cannot aver ; and yet the 
latter description of him is far nearer the truth than the for- 
mer. He was a man who set duty constantly before him, and 
ever acted up to the light he possessed ; and although he had 
many faults, these we think were overshadowed by his virtues. 

T\ e can form no true or adequate conception of him by merely 
reading his biography ; we must also know a great deal of con- 
temporary history. It is not enough to know that he usurped 
the government, but we must find out why he did it, and 
the results which followed. He must be judged, not by the 
light of the present day, but by the views of his own time, and 
by the circumstances with which he was surrounded. Most of 
his biographers present to us quite a different man, therefore we 
must judge for ourselves, and gather the materials from the 
whole range of historic details. 

And now, may I not say in closing, that the attentive reader 
of history will find a higher hand than man’s guiding it all, and 
disposing it for his own high purposes ? Not that he will be 
able to see the reason of everything, or trace the divine hand 
work in every event ; for many things will often appear inscrut- 
able to his limited knowledge, and about which he must be 
content to remain ignorant. As a man could not be expected 
to understand the contents of a book by only reading a few 
pages in the middle of it, so he cannot understand the plans of 
God, from the little he knows of the past, or the little he sees 
going on around him. He feels that history is not the record of 
a confused mass of irregular events, carelessly thrown together, 

AV ^ | 10 ut puijose or utility ; that it is not the working out of a 
cold and inflexible destiny, which lias no regard to individual 
welfare, but which moulds all things according to its own pur- 
pose. But he feels that it is Supreme Intelligence carrying out 
a grand and comprehensive purpose, beneficent in its design? and 
g onous in its working ; that it is the development of certain 
moral principles, and that the whole is presided over by one 
whose power is inexhaustible in its resources, unfettered in its 
exercise, and unlimited in its range. 



Conundrum. Why is McGill this year like a cattle show? 
.because there are so many fat calves on view. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



(Sorresponi>errce* 



Our Irish Letter. 

Dublin, December, 1883. 

The year just closing lias not seen many changes in educa- 
tional matters in Ireland. The public schools are in much 
the same state as they were this time last year — struggling 
hard to keep themselves alive. During the last few years 
those Irish public schools which do not happen to be blessed 
with large endowments, have suffered much from the state of 
general depression in the country. Kingstown School for 
example, which was established nearly a century since, and 
which had for many years been recognized as the first school in 
this country, in the year 1875, had on its roll 80 boardeis and 
120 day boys whereas now it has only 20 boarders and about the 
same number of day boys. English schools receive a large number 
of Irish boys, while many read with private tutors, or at grinding 
establishments. It is difficult to say exactly what the reasons 
are for so many parents sending their children to England, but 
many assert that they receive a certain polish and a nice 
English accent, and that this takes the fancy of their fond 
parents. Certainly the solid educational advantages to be 
derived are not greater on the other side of the channel. 

At last a new Lord High-Chancellor for Ireland has been 
appointed. The distinguished post has been conferred on Sir 
Edward Sullivan. He obtained the appointment because of his 
adherence to Mr. Gladstone, and his really great legal talent. 
Mr. Porter has been appointed to succeed him as Master of the 
Rolls, which has given general satisfaction. 

Plans for a new theatre for Dublin have just been published. 
Since the burning of the Theatre Royal some years ago, we 
have not had any first-class theatre, in fact we have had none 
fit to bring the Queen’s representative to. 

Mr. Oscar Wilde delivered two lectures lately in Dubin, but, 
sad to relate, his audiences were very small, and those who did 
honour him with their presence paid no attention to his lecture. 
Nevertheless before he quitted his native city he succeeded in 
finding his better half, a charming young lady with a charming 
fortune. 

Footfall is now at its zenith in Ireland. It commences in 
October and continues generally until late in March. The 
International Match, England vs. Ireland, will be played in 
February. So far Ireland has never beaten England at foot- 
ball, but let us hope that that day is not far off, and that 
February, 1884, will see our efforts crowned with success. 

Your Correspondent. 



General. 

A short-hand class has been organized at Yale. 

A Moot Court has been organized at Dalhousie. 

Thirty-five per cent, of the students of Dartmouth are said 
to be sceptics. 

Two of the students of the Harvard Annex are to be married 
to professors. 

H.R.H. Prince Swash Sobhow, brother of the King of Siam, 
is studying at Oxford. 

In the United States there is on an average a university to 
every hundred miles of territory. 

Some Illinois college students are wealing knee breeches and 
silk hose. — [So are some McGill students.] 

There are five papers published at Johns Hopkins University, 
all devoted to original scientific investigations. 

There are 186 students taking classes in the different de- 
partments of Dalhousie University. 

The various Colleges conducted by the Jesuit Fathers in the 
United States have 331 professors, and 4,844 students. — Ex. 



We are always glad to receive the Kincjs College Record. 
The November number contains an interesting article on Robert 
Bloomfield. 

The Knox College Monthly shows an improvement in its 
second number. The articles on general subjects are good, and 
the editors on the whole deserve praise for their efforts. 

The Hartford Courant says the sickness at Yale College this 
fall has been no more than usual, and traces the newspaper 
scare to an exaggerated “ special” to the New York Sun. 

The admission of females into Delaware College does not, 
according to the Review, seem to have been beneficial to that 
institution. — Queen’s College Journal. 

The Skinners’ Company have offered a scholarship of the 
value of $250 a year for three years, to be held at Girton Col- 
lege, Cambridge. 

The St. Mary’s Sentinel of the 15th December, contains a 
rather silly poem entitled “ Two Maidens.” The Sentinel has a 
habit of copying into its exchange columns what other papers 
say about it, which is not very good form, to say the least of it. 

The November number of the Richmond Literary Miscellany 
contained some pretty verses entitled, “Song of the Light- 
house Girl.” A good deal of space is devoted to clippings and 
selections. 

Harvard graduates in Washington are to form a club similar 
to those in Boston and New York. Hon. George Bancroft will 
be the first president, and a series of dinners will be given 
during the winter. 

The Pot Pourri (Yale University) for 1883-84 is excellently 
got up. The cuts are very amusing, while the printing and 
whole mechanical work is tastily executed. Pictures of the 
superb buildings of the University grace the front pages. 

Prince Napoleon’s eldest son has been for some time a 
pupil at Cheltenham College, in England. His studies have, 
however, been suddenly cut short, as he has just been sum- 
moned back to France in consequence of his having been 
drawn in the conscription. — St. Mary’s Sentinel. 

Professor W. Garnett, Mathematical Professor at the 
Nottingham University College, and organizer of the technical 
school which has just been successfully started in that institu- 
tion, has been nominated by the Dean of Durham as Professor 
of Mathematics and Principal of the College in that city, at an 
income of about £800 a year. Professor Garnett follows Mr. 
Aldis, who has resigned. 

A Few days since Dr. Anderson, demonstrator of anatomy in 
Queen’s College, Belfast, was appointed to the Chair of Natural 
History in Queen’s College, Galway. The vacant lectureship 
has been conferred on Dr. Thomas Sinclair, of Belfast. Dr. 
Sinclair’s academic career was one of exceptional brilliance, and 
terminated with the highest University honours. His present 
appointment will no doubt prove highly satisfactory. 

The question of allowing students the option of substituting 
modern languages for Greek is approaching a decision at 
Harvard. The battle appears to be between the faculty and 
overseers, and in the anti-Greek party are President Eliot, Rev. 
Dr. James Freeman Clarke, Superintendent Seaver of the 
Boston public schools, and of course Charles Francis Adams, Jr. 
Prof. Agassiz favors the reform party. 

A Dental institute is to be added to the Berlin University, 
and plans for its organization have been submitted to the 
medical faculty. The consideration in which American dentists 
who have established themselves in European cities are held 
and the prices which they are able to charge, furnish sufficient 
proof that such an institution is needed in other countries 
besides Germany. 

The Morrin College Review has entered upon the second year 
of its existence. The first number exhibits an improvement in 
the general appearance of the paper, which was much needed. 
The articles, however, are nearly all marred by an evident 
effort after wit. We think it would be better for the Review 
to condense the fun into a separate column,. and preserve a 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



serious tone in the rest of the paper. W e are glad to see that 
the number of students attending the College is increasing. 

The Students’ G .ild of Cornell University was organized 
about seven years ago, to assist students who might be taken 
sick while pursuing their studies. The membership consisted 
of three members of the faculty, and one student from each of 
the four classes. The guild as first organized was allowed to 
lapse in consequence of Mrs. Fiske’s bequest for the erection 
and maintenance of a hospital, but since this bequest is rendered 
inoperative by litigation, it has been thought best to reorganize 
the project. 

A Freshman named Moulton was hazed at Bowdoin lately, 
his room being entered and his property disturbed and injured. 
Under the new jury system of college discipline, a hearing of 
the matter took place a few evenings after. The case will 
require the attention of the full board for such cases, and will 
be the first in which the jury chosen by the students from the 
various secret societies will have a part. The best results are 
expected. The sentiment of the college is in decided support 
of the jury system. 

Professor Sylvester has been elected to the Savilian Pro- 
fessorship of Geometry at Oxford, in succession to the lamented 
Henry Smith. The contrast between this and the last appoint- 
ment to the Chair is remarkable ; for while Henry Smith was 
a young man much below the usual professorial age, and was 
not known beyond a small circle of experts, Professor Sylvester 
is already a long way past middle life, and has long been known 
in both hemispheres as one of the most profound mathema- 
ticians of the age. 

The Harvard University Catalogue for 1883-84 makes a 
volume of 278 pages. The government teachers and other 
officers of the university number 231 persons, of whom 167 are 
teachers. The senior class numbers 209, the juniors 195, the 
sophomores 248, the freshmen 253, and the special students 67, 
a total of 972 students. There are 21 students in the divinity 
school, 146 law students, 26 scientific, 243 medical, 30 dental, 
and 88 others, making a total of 1,522 students in all the 
departments. 

The November number of the Portfolio contains a “woman’s 
rights” tirade by Adonis. The writer thinks that Venus must 
soon take her seat in the legislative assemblies of the world. 
When this happy time arrives (happy for Adonis if he happens 
to be a legislator then), it will be only fair that our regiments 
and police be recruited from amongst the gentler sex. They 
will probably like to have some share in carrying out their own 
laws. A far different spirit is breathed in the pretty little 
poem “ Dear Mother ” in the same number. 

The late Professor Sophocles was once approached by a 
visitor of the Shapira genus, who had some manuscripts alleged 
to be autographs of some of the early Fathers of the Church, 
The venerable Greek exposed the pretensions of several without 
losing his composure ; but when at last the original manuscript 
of the Athanasian Creed, in the writing of St. Athanasius (?), 
was produced, he called his visitor’s attention to a large club in 
the corner of the room, and pointed significantly toward the 
door, by which the terrified man made his escape with some 
precipitation. 

The report of the Board of Mediaeval and Modern Lan- 
guages recommending the establishment of a Modern Languages 
Tripos and containing the regulations for the same was discussed. 
The report met with general approval, Professor Seeley express- 
ing a hope that no further delay would occur in bringing it up 
for adoption by the Senate, as he knew cases of men anxious to 
read for the Tripos. Mr. Tilley, Mr. Oscar Browning, and Mr. 
H. W. Eve expressed their pleasure at the prospect of an early 
establishment of the examination. The meeting then separated. 
— Cam b. Revieiv. 

The proposition of Washington C. De Pauw, of New 
Albany, to give $240,000 to Asbury University at Greencastle, 
Ind., in return for $180,000 additional endowment and the 
change of name to De Pauw University, has at last been 



accepted, and the millionnaire manufacturer’s name will now 
supersede that of the early Methodist divine and bishop. Mr. 
De Pauw has also, with the consent of his wife and children, 
signed an agreement to give the institution forty-five per cent, 
of the remainder of his estate at his death. It is estimated 
that the endowment will aggregate about a million and a half 
of dollars. 

The Dalhousie Gazette , of November 23rd, contains a good 
article on Elective Studies. The writer thinks that the stan- 
dard of matriculation should be raised, and that the student, 
after the first year, should be let choose his own studies. This 
is pretty much the opinion which we ourselves entertain with 
regard to a university course. The difficulty, however, is to 
get the universities to make their matriculation examinations 
sufficiently difficult to allow of the plan of special courses being 
properly carried out. The law school has been already pre- 
sented with 2,785 volumes, and subscriptions to the amount of 
$1,100. We wish Dalhousie every success in its new depar- 
ture. 

The Sunbeam , in its November number, discusses the ques- 
tion of the study of medicine by women. It claims that every 
advancement gained by women is opposed by a certain class of 
men, merely on the ground of their losing just so much as 
women gain, and that their opposition is selfish and mercenary. 
Though women by nature are tender and careful nurses, and 
would make equally good doctors, yet the Sunbeam thinks that 
they will never, to any great extent, compete with men, but 
they should have every encouragement to qualify themselves 
for greater usefulness at home, and as missionaries. The same 
number contains a history of the Sunbeam from the time it left 
the sun until it struck mother earth, on November 1883, A.D. 

A contribution on the subject of “ Betraying Confidence ” is 
somewhat lengthy. It appears to be written by a man , an ex- 
aide surgeon of the French army, Dr. Souvielle. As parts of 
this looked familiar, we were going to accuse the Sunbeam 
of plagiarism, but noticing an account of a taffy pull, we con- 
cluded he was called in on account of some cases of consumption 
that resulted from it, and that his marvellous cures gained him 
the favor of the insertion. 

The Monthly , published by the ladies of the Hamilton (Ky.) 
Female College, opposes co-education. The November number, 
in one of its editorials, defends the study of the ancient languages. 

“ The work of translation alone,” says the writer, “causes 
the constant exercise of reasoning, comparison and taste. By 
these faculties being brought daily into play, accuracy of 
thought, elegance of diction, and a correctly educated taste, are 
effectually acquired.” Again, “It seems strange that anyone 
who has had an opportunity to study, should be content to pass 
through life totally ignorant of the great writers of antiquity ; 
to see Virgil and Sophocles mentioned continually by modern 
writers, and hear the Iliad and Odyssey daily spoken of, with- 
out being able to understand. No one can study and appreciate 
the works of the great ancient writers, without delighting in the 
study of his own literature, and appreciating its master-works. 
He whose mind is so cultivated as to derive pleasure only from 
the works of the best authors, has certainly attained one great 
object of education. Surely the majority are in favor of liberal 
education, and no education can be considered very extended 
which does not embrace some knowledge of the master-pieces of 
antiquity. ” 

Almost simultaneously with the revival, if it may be so 
called, of the “ Birds ” at Cambridge, the Philothespian Club 
at Oxford began its legitimate existence by the production of 
Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice. The Philothespians are to 
be recognized by the University so soon as they shall have 
satisfactorily produced a play of Shakespeare. * The club is 
naturally anxious to attain as soon as possible to such an envi- 
able position. But there was one more injunction laid upon 
them by the Vice-Chancellor— all female characters are to be 
played by ladies. The Merchant of Venice was put into 
rehearsal. Ladies whose names are not unknown in Oxford 
were found to kindly volunteer their services for Portia, Nerissa 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1884.] 



and Jessica, and the leading parts find most fitting exponents 
among the members of the Club, assisted by Mr. Courtney, of 
New College, as Bassanio. Shylock is taken by the active 
president, Mr. Bourchier, of Christ Church. Mr. Mackinnon, 
Trinity, is Gratiano, and Mr. Gordon, of Merton, the persecuted 
and surely double-sided merchant. A special feature of the 
production is that the incidental music, which will be performed 
by an undergraduate orchestra, has been composed by an under- 
graduate musician, Mr. Monckton, of Oriel. Mr. Jowett, who 
sanctioned it, and Canon Scott Holland and Mr. Bourchier who 
were instrumental in obtaining that sanction, are to be con- 
gratulated on having turned the hitherto clandestine and not 
always well-directed efforts of the Philothespians into worthier 
channels . — London Daily News. 

The standard for admission at Princeton has been raised by 
the addition of a chapter in Hart’s Rhetoric, four books of the 
Anabasis instead of three, the second book of Euclid, and 
Quadratics of Two Unknown Quantities, to the requirements 
for admission to the academic course. After the present year 
the tuition in the academic course will be $100 instead of $75 
as heretofore. The course in psychology has been changed by 
the addition of physiological psychology, under Drs. Osborn 
and Scott, the former confining himself to the anatomy of the 
nervous system, and the latter to the functions of the brain 
and spinal cord. The historical course is to be greatly strength- 
ened by Prof. Sloane. In the sophomore year one exercise a 
a week will be taken up with the outlines of universal history, 
Freeman’s “ General Sketch of History ” being used as a text- 
book, and lectures, narratives and discussions being introduced 
as occasion requires. In the junior year there will be two 
exercises a week, occupied with lectures and recitations on the 
“ Transitional Epochs of History,” with special reference to the 
science of politics, and the progress of civilization. For the 
seniors there will be one exercise a week, consisting of lectures 
and recitations on(l)“The Rise and Growth of European 
Colonies in North America, and the Causes of the War of In- 
dependence (2) “Comparative Politics from the Standpoint of 
American Institutions.” It has been proposed at Princeton to 
make a course in the gymnasium compulsory. — Ex. 

In the November number of Acta Vidoriana there is a good 
article on the Pulpit. We quote one or two passages : “ There 
was a time when the preacher came to the poor as a reformer, 
and held out to them a long hope. Their restless longing was 
on his side. Now he is mainly regarded as a part of the 
system of Church pomp. * * * Then there is the rapidly 

growing intellectual class, which we are told is coming to regard 
the preacher and his unverifiable assertions with quiet indiffer- 
ence and scorn. And can there be much doubt that for this 
antagonism the pulpit is mainly responsible ? The preacher, as 
we have found him, readily entertains the notion that the whole 
scheme of things is laid out “to order” at the instance of his 
small understanding in the Word of God. He seems as if he 
came down on the vast range of subjects which he is tempted 
to handle as from a superior height. The place of theology in 
the sphere of men’s knowledge tempts its doctors to believe 
that it confers the right of speaking with a certain voice of 
infallibility on all kinds of topics ; and there has always been 
a sort of omniscient tone in the pulpit method of handling 
intellectual questions which stirs fierce rebellion in cultivated 
minds and hearts. * * * The pulpit has had a grand oppor- 

tunity and has wasted it. In all ages there have been preachers 
who have borne on the torch in the van of progress, and like 
their Master, have paid by suffering for their power to lead 
mankind. Such lofty spirits have not been wanting to our own. 
But the pulpit on the whole has cast in its lot with the narrower 
view and the poorer realm.” 

An in every respect excellent and successful performance of 
the Eledra of Sophocles was given on the evenings of Thurs- 
day and Friday, and the afternoon of Saturday, by the students 
of Girton College, Cambridge. The acting and general appoint- 
ments left little to be desired, the acting of the title role 
especially being quite a superior and finished performance. 
Admirably was the deep woe, the long weary despair of Electra 



rendered by the actress, and equally excellent was her change 
to happiness when Orestes makes known to her that he is yet 
alive and stands before her. This scene was deeply touching, 
as was also that in which the grief-worn daughter of Agamem- 
non turns to the Paidagogos and thanks him for his tender care 
of the child she had committed to his charge. It was a happy 
inspiration on the part of the actress to sink down on her knees 
before the grey-bearded old man, the proud princess thus 
humbling herself before her faithful servant. Of the many 
picturesque groups in which the play abounded, this was per- 
haps the most beautiful. But indeed it is not so easy to say 
when Electra was best, so excellent was she throughout, and 
she even succeeded where amateurs usually fail, namely, in the 
parts where she had merely to be a silent performer. She filled 
the stage even when sunk in mute despair on the steps of her 
father’s palace. She could never be overlooked, yet never thrust 
herself unduly forward. Haughty, supercilious, and overbearing 
to the life was Klutaimnestra, while Aigisthos could not, had 
he tried, have made himself look more like the villain that he. 
was. Indeed, it is almost invidious to specialize, so excellent were 
the performers. A word of praise must, however, be accorded 
to the Chorus, whose singing and rhythmical talk were most 
effective. There being no music written to the Eledra , the 
students very ably adapted that written by Mendelssohn for the 
Antigone. — London Daily News y Nov. 26. 

At a recent meeting of the Senate of Toronto University, a 
communication was received from Mr. Justice Taylor of Man- 
itoba, resigning his position on the senate. His successor will 
be chosen by the senate at next meeting. A letter from the 
board of Woodstock College was read, certifying that Rev. Mr. 
Wolverton had been chosen to represent that institution on the 
senate. Mr. Wolverton was present at the meeting, and took 
his seat. Letters were read from Dr. Nevitt, asking that the 
Toronto Women’s Medical College be affiliated to the Univer- 
sity ; from Mr. R. E. Kingsford, asking the senate to appoint a 
committee on University finances, to meet with the executive 
committee on convocation; and from the clerk of convo- 
cation, transmitting a copy of the report of the committee 
of that body on the Starr medal question. This report was 
referred to the board of medical studies ; a large committee 
was appointed to confer with the committee of convocation, 
and the application of the Medical College was held over for 
future consideration. In connection with a question from Mr. 
Seath, principal of the St. Catharines Collegiate Institute, the 
senate resolved that a junior matriculant taking French and 
German should be allowed to compete for honors in Latin, and 
should be credited also in proficiency competition with marks 
obtained in pass Greek, though under such circumstances it is 
an optional subject. The report of the Upper Canada College 
committee, dealing with the position of certain masters, was 
adopted. After considerable discussion, Prof. Loudon’s resolu- 
tion looking to the abolition of medals in the fourth year in 
arts was carried, and his proposal to substitute a system of 
three classes in honors was affirmed. It is proposed to make 
the minimum for the first class 75 per cent., for the second class 
66, and for third class 50 per cent, of the maximum number of 
marks. This and former resolutions connected with it will be 
considered by the board of arts studies before any statute is 
introduced to give effect to them. On motion of Mr. Houston, 
seconded by Mr. Falconbridge, the following resolution was 
carried after a brief discussion: — “That it is expedient to 
create a department of political science in the curriculum of the 
University ; to include in it the subjects of constitutional his- 
tory, constitutional law, civil polity, political economy, and 
jurisprudence ; and to separate civil polity in the third and 
fourth years from the department of mental and moral philos- 
ophy.” After conferring the degree of B. A. on Mr. Cline the 
senate adjourned to the call of the chair . — Toronto World .’ 

While Cambridge is discussing new Triposes, Oxford is 
giving as much of its mind as it can spare from theatricals to 
such congenial subjects as theological differences and the 
abolition of viva voce. It is difficult to imagine what Oxford 
would do if the theological party were suddenly to cease to 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1884. 



exist. Probably Oxford would cease to exist with it. In 
the good old times, before Mr. Goschen and Lord Coleridge 
abolished Tests, no term elapsed without its pulpit denuncia- 
tions and its expenditure of Union eloquence upon the 
wickedness of schismatics and the need of keeping the 
University pure from all taint of Dissent. Tests were abolished, 
and unwilling Masters of Arts were no longer forced to sub- 
scribe to a number of theological propositions couched in the 
language of the sixteenth century. The grievance of the Dis- 
senters was removed, and the point of dispute between the 
Theological and the Liberal parties was shifted. Since then 
there has been a gradual tendency on the part of the orthodox 
Dissenters to withdraw from the alliance of those who are not 
orthodox, and to incline towards the party of those who are. 
It is, therefore, with a sense of something like a return to a 
bygone age that we hear of an agitation among the Oxford 
Churchmen on the question whether a Nonconformist may be 
appointed to act as Examiner in Pass Divinity, or, as it is 
officially called, in the Rudiments of Faith and Religion. 
Vice-Chancellor Jowett, it appears, has appointed to that post a 
Nonconformist minister, who is also a distinguished Fellow of 
New College ; and this appointment is now seriously exercising 
the minds of many devout people in the University. The 
examination is in the books of the Old Testament, with the 
Gospels and the Acts in Greek ; and to these are added, except 
for those candidates who claim exemption on conscientious 
grounds, the Articles of the Church of England. Ought a 
Nonconformist to examine in these ? That is the question now 
being discussed. As, however, Mr. Horton will have two 
colleagues, presumably Churchmen and probably clergymen, it 
will not be difficult for them to relieve him of the definitely 
Anglican part of the examination, if it is thought improper 
that he should deal with a subject which has frequently been 
intrusted to the hands of not too orthodox laymen. More 
important than this little theological dispute is the question, 
often mooted and now apparently becoming a practical proposal, 
about the abolition of the viva voce part of the examination. 
There is much to be said on both sides, but, for our own part, 
we must confess that we should see the change with regret. 
University teaching, in the higher branches, has now almost 
entirely lost its catechetical character, and is carried on by 
means of set lectures, note-books, and written essays. The 
system is excellent for creating good lecturers and good writers, 
but it is not at all adapted for making a man quick, ready, and 
able to call up his knowledge when it is asked for. Viva voce 
is a valuable corrective to the faults incidental to a system of 
lectures and essays. It enables an examiner to pierce" through 
a rhetorical disguise. Often, too, it helps a weak man, or°a 
man whose power of expression is not equal to his knoweledo-e. 
It will require very strong arguments to convince us that the 
abolition of this part of the examination will be of service 
either to candidates or examiners . — London Times . 

Oxford, Dec. 13. Considerably more than 700 Masters of 
Arts mustered to-day from all parts of the country to record 
their votes in the matter of the nomination of Mr. Horton as 
an Examiner in the Rudiments of Religion. As is sometimes 
done on the occasion of large gatherings, the Convention was 
held in the Sheldonian Theatre, the area of which was occupied 
by the Masters of Arts, while the superior degrees found their 
place in the semi-circle on either side of the Vice-Chancellor 
and the gallery was crowded with ladies and a sprinkling of 
undergraduates. The area itself was, as may be supposed, quite 
but not disagreeably full. Shortly after two o’clock the Vice- 
Chancellor (Professor Jowett), taking his place between the 
Proctors, announced in the usual formula in Latin the object of 
the Convocation. Then, with a change of tone, he be^an in 
English with the words “ To avoid mistakes,” but was °inter- 
rupted by an universal peal of laughter, something in the words 
or the change of language appealing to the sense of humour of 
the Convocation. The Vice-Chancellor, however, upon silence 
l>eiug restored, severely rebuked the giddy triflers with the 
sarcasm “ I am afraid, gentlemen, that if I had spoken in Latin 
many of you would have been unable to understand me.” He 



left it, indeed, an open question whether it had been his own 
powers of expression, or theirs of interpretation of which he 
had been in doubt. This interlude over, the Vice-Chancellor re- 
sumed his explanation. The ayes and noes were to give their 
votes filing out at opposite doors, at one of which was posted 
the junior, at the other the senior Proctor, each armed with a 
bodkin and a strip of paper, on which he pricked the vote~ 
As soon as the affirmative votes were disposed of, the Vice- 
Chancellor diverted a portion of the negative voters through 
the same door — a step which greatly abridged the process of 
voting, and was a convenience to voters. There were some 
stragglers present, presumably residents, who did not vote. It 
was apparent from the first that the opposition to the nomina- 
tion was in a large majority. When the last “non placet” had been 
recorded, and the Proctors had compared their lists, the senior 
Proctor announced the result with the formula, “ majori parti 
non placet.” The declaration of the numbers which followed 
— Placet 155, Non-Placet 576 — was followed by a loud burst 
of cheering ; some surprise being felt — not at the issue — for 
of that there could be no doubt, but at the largeness of the 
majority, being in the proportion of nearly four to one. So 
ended, as it was apparent from the first must end, this well 
meaning but most injudicious attempt to recognize the unsect- 
arian character of the University. It is not impossible that 
the result may be to draw attention afresh to the examination 
itself, which, as all who have taken part in it confess, is of a 
most unsatisfactory character, and to lead either to an extensive 
modification of it, or, though this is, perhaps, less immediately 
probable, to its entire abolition. As it is, the most sacred 
topics have to be handled with a painful familiarity, and are, in 
consequence of the large amount of matter nominally required, 
necessarily dealt with in the most superficial and unprofitable 
manner. Regarded as a test of religious instruction, it cannot 
be said to be worth very much, except in so far as it secures a 
degree of acquaintance with portions of the Greek text of the 
New Testament. 

The attempt to break the will of Mrs. Jennie McGraw Fiske 
has been fairly inaugurated in Ithaca. The first effort is to 
show that at the time of her death — Sept. 30, 1881 — Cornell 
University already had in its possession property worth $3,000, - 
000, and that under its charter it was incompetent to possess 
more. In this the interests of Professor Fiske, the husband of 
the testatrix, and of her own kin are identical. Emmons L. 
Williams, acting treasurer of the institution, swears that at the 
date mentioned, the property of the University, including 
buildings, grounds, experimental farm, libraries, apparatus and 
funds, was worth $2,226,974.36, exclusive of 375,276.49 acres 
of Western land. He also deposes that about that time a sale 
of land was made at $5.50 an acre. Some has since been sold 
at $16.50 an acre. The next move is to learn the value of 
this land two years ago, and an open commission issues from 
the surrogate to make inquiries where the land lies in Wisconsin 
and neighboring States. A litigation probably prolonged has 
been begun. The University may plead that this estimate 
of the value of its buildings, grounds and apparatus, perhaps 
representing cost, does not represent value. It may and doubtless 
will plead that since the death of this last benefactor, and 
before the actual transfer of any of her property to it, it had 
become by act of the Legislature competent to hold property to 
any amount, and therefore to receive the legacy. Possibly an 
argument may be built upon the fact that Mrs. Fiske’s gifts 
were not to the general funds of the College, but for particular 
objects, the care and maintenance of a building erected by her 
father for a hospital for sick students, and for the library. 
Questions, complicated indeed, will be presented to Surrogate 
Lyon. His judicial spirit will be tested. He is doubtiess 
aware that the limiting clause of the University charter was a 
part of a compromise, made when the institution was first 
started, to quiet the clamor of envious persons. He likewise 
knows that all the funds have been and are now admirably 
managed, and that if allowed to receive what its friends have 
given it, the institution will become one of the most promising 
in the country. And happily for them, judges are not to right 



18S4 0 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 9 



wrongs or prevent them. They are to interpret and apply the 
laws. — Utica Herald. 

About forty professors of modern languages from the prin- 
cipal institutions of learning in the country met in convention 
lately, at Columbia College, with a view to establishing an 
association for the purpose of promoting the study of modern 
languages in American Colleges. At the morning session 
Professor E. L. Walter, of the University of Michigan, 
presided. The subject discussed was “ The Best Method of 
Teaching Modern Languages.” Professor Brandt, of Hamilton 
College, thought that the method of teaching should vary with 
the aim of the student, as some wished to study German or 
French simply for the sake of reading works in those languages 
which would aid them in some specialty, while others studied 
them to learn to speak them in business, or for the sake of 
literary culture or philological research. The discussion was 
participated in by Professors Andrews, of Columbia College ; 
Worman, of Vanderbilt University ; Cooke, of Harvard Col- 
lege; Elliot, of Johns Hopkins University; and Rice, of 
Williams College. At the afternoon session President Carter, 
of Williams College, presided, and “ The Most Efficient Means 
of Raising the Standard of Study of Modern Languages,” was 
discussed. Professor Brandt, of Hamilton College, proposed 
that a journal in the interest of modern language study be es- 
tablished with several departments — one for English, another 
for French, a third for German, and a fourth, under one editor, 
for Italian and Spanish. The journal should be devoted to 
book reviews, original matter and pedagogics, and should not be 
of a popular nature, Professor March, of Lafayette, favoured 
the establishment of a journal of popular philology, which 
would be self-supporting, and would be of interest to a large 
and growing class of educated men in different walks of life. 
Professor Eliot, of Johns Hopkins University, thought many 
sections of the country sadly in need of trained teachers in 
modern languages. He knew of one place where a teacher had 
the title of “ professor of French and dancing,” and another 
where a course of study was called “lectures on French and pre- 
servation of the teeth.” The speaker did not wish to have the 
modern languages substituted for Greek. Comparisons were 
odious, he thought Greek should be used for a thorough prepa- 
ration for students, but when they came to College they should 
have the opportunity to take what they wished to. It was 
almost impossible to have a good superstructure of modern 
languages without a good foundation of the ancient languages. 
The professor thought that the modern languages should be 
placed on an equality with the classical languages. The inferior 
position which modern languages had occupied lowered the 
respect for them of teacher, students and the public generally. 
Professor Williams, of Brown University, said that modern 
languages would never reach the plane of equality with mathe- 
matics and the ancient languages until by efficient instruction 
they should be made as difficult and as solid as mathematics, 
Greek or Latin. Professor Calvin Thomas, of the University 
of Michigan, said that professors would do well to respect the 
abilities of their students, and to assume that they would famil- 
iarize themselves with any range of idea which was constantly 
presented to them. He consequently did not think, as some 
instructors did, that students were not benefited by the study 
of Greek plays, Lessing’s “ Laocoon” or Goethe’s “ Faust,” 
because they could not understand these works completely. 
From the discipline which resulted to the memory, and 
especially from that broadening of the mental faculties called 
culture, the study of the classics was most beneficial, he 
thought, and to many men the reading of Homer in the origi- 
nal had been one of the most important events in their lives. 
A report of the Committee on Organization was adopted, by 
which a permanent association was formed with the name 
“ The Modern Language Association of America.” Any pro- 
fessor of modern languages in a college which confers the 
degree of B.A. may become a member of the association, and 
any teacher may join it who has been invited to do so by the 
Executive Committee. President Carter, of Williams, was 
elected president for the coming year. — N. Y. Tribune. 



Your readers shall have a glimpse this week of English uni- 
versity life. We will go to Cambridge, as that place enjoys a 
degree of social pre-eminence over Oxford just now on account 
of having among its undergraduates Prince Albert Victor, the 
eldest son and heir of the Prince of Wales. Where there are 
3,000 young bloods, most of them belonging to the aristocracy, 
and many having a great deal more money than sense, we are 
sure to find something to interest, if not to instruct us. The 
chief features of the town are its narrow streets and the seven- 
teen colleges it contains. An English writer would descant 
rapturously upon the river that runs through it, but looking at 
this narrow stream with American eyes we cannot regard it as 
being anything but an ordinary creek. Its banks, however, are 
beautifully kept, and besides affording boating facilities to the 
students, it gives an air of picturesqueness, such as a wider 
stream could not, to the college grounds. One thing about 
Cambridge will shock you, and that is the names, derived, of 
course, from the colleges, given to some of the streets and 
public places. The regular habitues may see nothing wrong 
in such titles, but it seems awful to the visitor to walk through 
Jesus’ Lane, to see the town children disporting on Christ’s 
Pieces, and a match played by “children of a larger growth” on 
Corpus Christi football grounds ! You will soon know by the 
street scenes that you are in a great centre of high-class educa- 
tion. In the forenoon about every other man you meet will 
have on a black gown and a mortar-board hat, and in the after- 
noon you will see an equal number who have exchanged this 
toggery for some fantastic sporting suit, and are now hastening 
to their favourite rendezvous for a few hours of play. At cer- 
tain times of the day you will be reminded of your where- 
abouts by even the vehicles in the streets, for most of these 
will contain dishes and ample cans, and will be pushing about 
through the town with the meals of the students who have pri- 
vate apartments. Only a limited number can room in the col- 
leges, and these get in by priority of application. The rest must 
lodge elsewhere. But the dons, it appears, exercise control 
over the stomachs of the young men, as well as their minds. In 
other words, the townspeople may “ sleep ” these young hope- 
fuls, but they are not allowed to “ eat ” them, as the old 
woman expressed it, for their hash and other delicacies are sent 
regularly from the colleges. It takes three years to get a degree 
at Cambridge, and the examinations both for admission and 
graduation are very stiff. Up to a few years ago none were re- 
ceived either here or at Oxford except adherents of the Church 
of England. The colleges are still under the control of that 
church, but Dissenters now have equal privileges, for they are 
excused, if they desire, from the chapel services, to which the 
others must go three or four times a week and twice on Sun- 
day. In their enjoyment of this privilege the Dissenting boys 
are greatly envied by their chums of the orthodox faith, and I 
should not be surprised to hear of converts being made, for one 
of their number assured me that chapel duties are in general 
disfavor among the students, and are shirked whenever pos- 
sible. There are three terms during the year, covering about 
eight months, They have a month for kicking up their heels 
at Christmas, and a long vacation of about three months in the 
summer. These periods of rest and refreshment, I need hardly 
say, are very popular. With the exception of the few deser- 
ving young men who have to stay here to earn the money 
necessary for the next term, the students all “ go down ” at 
vacation times, and the old town looks like a deserted village. 
The lectures cost about two guineas a course, the total expendi- 
ture in this direction depending upon the number of subjects 
the student goes in for. Board amounts to from fifteeen to 
twenty guineas a term, a guinea being equivalent to a five dollar 
bill. Those who have rooms outside pay from ten to fifteen 
guineas a term for them. I am told that one who is economical 
and virtuous can get all the advantagesof this magnificent Univer- 
sity, with a large amount of innocent sport thrown in, for about 
forty guineas a term, which would aggregate only $600 a year. 
But you may be sure that only a very few get off with anything 
like so low a figure as that. The legitimate expenses are only 
a fraction of what the majority spend.- I hear of as much as 
$2500 being dropped by some of them over a single game of 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



cards, for card playing is allowed even in the rooms of those 
who live at the Colleges, and of course it is impossible, under 
those circumstances, to prevent gambling. I hear, too, of 
enormous bills run up by some for wine, clothing and carriage 
hire. The trades-people of the town are forbidden to trust the 
students, and those who lend them money are objects of special 
malediction on the part of the College authorities. But many 
do both, and there are numbers of men in Cambridge who have 
grown rich on the interest derived from the loans of the need- 
ful. A hundred percent is a common rate for these local 
Shylocks to charge for such accommodations, and very needy 
applicants, with great expectations and little brains, have often 
been fleeced to the tune of two and three hundred percent 
The fines paid for infraction of University rules make up a con- 
siderable proportion of the expense bills of many of the 
students. Every such breach that is detected depletes the 
pocket-book to the extent of from $2 to $4, and it is a pro- 
verbial saying here that some of the young fellows get receipts 
enough from the Proctor in the course of the year for money 
paid out in this way to paper their rooms with. The Proctor, 
by the way, is the nightmare of University life. But for him 
the students would have the nicest time in the world. They 
do not object to reading and attending lectures ; it is when the 
dons, as represented in the august personage in question, throw 
restrictions about their private lives and place their conduct on 
the streets under surveillance that the shoe pinches. This 
awful individual parades the thoroughfares at the most inoppor- 
tune hours, accompanied by his “ bull-dogs ” — a couple of men 
who act as his detective and police officers — and when a young 
man is caught napping he is at once halted and mulcted in a 
fine, and should he take to his heels the “ dogs ” would follow 
at full tilt and bring him back. Such occurrences as this 
happen quite frequently. If. the young men would only con- 
sent to have their moral and social conduct made to order 
according to the pattern marked out by their superiors they 
would be just too proper and good for anything. You would 
never, in that case, see them out after dark without their caps 
and gowns, and 10 p.m. would always find them tucked in bed, 
or at least in the safe inclosure of their own apartments. They 
would not smoke on the streets, nor frequent taverns, nor 
consort with females' of questionable character. But many, 
unfortunately, honor these rules more in the breach than in the 
observance, and some systematically break them all with the 
utmost impunity. If a student is out after ten the lodging 
house keeper must report the fact ; otherwise, if the omission 
be discovered the house will be tabooed. But those who 
imagine that this rule is not often broken, and that when it is 
the authorities are always duly notified, must form a poor 
estimate both of the ingenuity of the young man and of the 
susceptibility to bribes of the ordinary landlady. As to 
smoking, there are only a few who do not indulge whenever the 
fancy takes them, and, of course, the number of fines are wholly 
out of proportion to the number of offences in this line. The 
regulations forbid students from being seen on the streets with 
females of any description — young, or old, good, bad or in- 
different. Of course, if a fellow’s cousins or aunts come up to 
see him, he can get a special license for a sidewalk promenade ; 
but he must be sure that the Proctor and his bull dogs 
know the circumstances, or, just when their tete-a-tete reaches 
its sweetest heights, they may all be pounced upon and made 
the subjects of a humiliating street scene. Some painful 
mistakes of this kind have been made, leading to bad blood, 
not to say bloody noses. The penalty of being found in the 
company of abandoned females is dismissal from the University, 
and the females are sent for a term of imprisonment to a local 
reformatory known for some inexplicable reason as the “ Spin- 
ning House.” But few are dismissed, and it is not often that 
lost feminine virtue airs its woes within the confines of this 
University bastile. Human nature may be very bad, but it is 
likewise very ingenious, and the boys here furnish a fine illus- 
tration in this, as in other matters, of the sage saying that 
“ where there’s a will there’s a way.” Those who get introduced 
into the best female society of Cambridge are objects of peculiar 
envy to the less fortunate, and they escape many perils. It 



can be truthfully said, however, that the moral atmosphere 
surrounding this English University is far superior to that which 
envelops similar institutions on the Continent, and despite its 
blemishes and social snags the life of the student flows on 
almost as smoothly as the peaceful river that winds through the 
place, its current set, doubtless, in the main, toward purity and 
sound learning. The University, of course, gives character to 
the town. In many of the affairs of the municipality, the Vice- 
Chancellor has co-ordinate authority with the Mayor. Notably 
is this the case in regard to the amusements permitted. Not 
many years ago the town had no theatre, and only the very best 
of plays are allowed under the more liberal regime which now 
tolerates such places. Once a year Greek plays are rendered by 
the students in the original language. At the present time, 

“ The Birds of Aristophenes ” are on the boards. The extent 
to which these three thousand representatives of the flower and 
strength of English youth devote themselves to the character- 
istic sports and pastimes of their native land can be easily 
imagined. Boating has the largest number of votaries, at least 
one-half of the young men pursuing this exercise with the 
regularity and assiduity with which a monk says his prayers. 
One of the results of this passion for rowing is witnessed in the 
magnificent contest which takes place annually on the Thames* 
an object of interest and delight to the whole world. Other 
and more beneficial results are seen in the fine physical develop- 
ment and remarkable powers of endurance acquired by the 
devotees. Cricket, foot-ball, hockey, racquets and lawn-tennis 
all have their followers, and the University annually turns out 
those who are as expert in these various games as in wrang- 
ling within the arena of mathematics. To an outside observer 
there appears to be more sport than study here. But the 
authorities are evidently of opinion that all work and no play 
would make J ack a dull boy ; and some of the students, taking 
advantage of the latitude allowed, seem bent on showing that 
all play and no work will just as certainly make him an idle 
Turk. But I must not forget the Prince. There are several 
of this rank at the University who come from India and have 
the dark skins peculiar to that clime. But your readers will 
only care to hear about that fair-skinned and light-haired youth 
of nineteen summers, who, if he lives long enough, and his 
father dies soon enough, will one day sit upon the throne of 
England. His features are those of the Prince of Wales in 
embryo, but he will be taller. If he possess also the engaging, 
gentlemanly manners that now so happily distinguish his father, 
and can manage to get through early manhood without sowing 
quite so many wild oats, we may confidently predict for him a 
career of great usefulness and unbounded popularity. At 
present he makes the impression of a modest, well bred boy, 
fond of his books, and with just enough regard for out-door 
sports to save him from effeminacy. Racquets and hockey are 
his favorite pastimes, though he occasionally takes a spurt on 
the river. He has no carriage, but keeps several horses, and, 
v ith his young friend Lieut. Henderson, often goes out riding. 
Ho is not much lionized by his fellow-students, for many of 
those are not much inferior to him in rank, and, besides, an 
English University is a little Republic in which all are equah 
But oh, how the Cambridge girls dote on this scion of royalty ! 
There is no danger, however, of any of them capturing him, for 
the wives of the dons have taken him in charge, and no single- 
woman who might aspire to set her cap for him is allowed°to< 
come near. And now, wishing the young Prince and all the- 
other young fellows long life and much happiness, we brin* this 
brief sketch of English University life to a close.— Correspon- 
dence of the Louisville Courier- Journal . 



We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the following 
exchanges : The Argosy, Presbyterian College Journal , The 

Thielensian, Rouge et Noir, Queen’s College Journal , Hamilton 
(Ky.) College Monthly, The ’Varsity, King’s College Record, 
The Educational Record, The Dalliousie Gazette, The V. P. 
Journal, Richmond Literary Miscellany, Astrum Alberti, Normal 
News, Harvard Advocate, and The Si Mary’s Sentinel. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



'23efit>een the lectures. 



OUR WASTE-PAPER BASKET. 

The following morceau we extract from the advance sheets of 
a volume of “ Dejected Verses ” by the author of “ He would 
be a Poet ” : 

THE SPARROWS. 

“Ye dusty little scavengers, 

One always may be sure 
To find you lightly perching on 
A newly made manure. 

No thought have ye of fly or snail, 

Or lively hopper grass, 

Or worm or slug or little bug ; 

On these ye always ‘ pass.’ 



We have been taught by Doctor Watt, 
A great authority, 

That t’other side the ocean wide 
Birds in their nests agree ; 

But going down our way to town, 

We see another sight ; 

Ye in your little nests fall out, 

And scratch and bark and bite. 

Why should this be ? from what we see, 
This inference must be drawed ; 

That now ye are and ever were 
In Canada a fraud.” 



A Sedative. — “ Doctor, I want you to look at my tongue/ 
said a loquacious belle to her physician. “ What do you think 
is the matter with it ?” “ It wants rest,” was the reply. 

Judge Ritchie has sixteen beautiful and accomplished daught- 
ers, only one of whom is married. This is what the French 
would call an embarrassment of Ritchies. 

Brown says he hates inquisitive people and, he thinks, that 
the worst kind of inquisitiveness is that exhibited by the man 
who stops him in the street and wants to know when he is 
going to pay him that little bill. 

Nothing makes a woman so mad as, on going to a shoe shop 
to buy a pair of cheap slippers for her husband, to have a shop- 
man try to sell her the identical pair she has just worked for a 
present for her minister. 

A Schoolboy being asked by his teacher how he should flog 
him, replied : “if you please, sir, I should like to have it on 
the Italian system of penmanship — the heavy strokes upward 
and the downward ones light.” 

Scottish Economy. — One bonnet had served Maggie a dozen 
years, and some ladies in offering to present her with a new one, 
asked whether she would prefer a silk or a straw one. “We el,” 
said Maggie, “ I think I’ll tak’ a strae one, it will maybe be a 
mouthfu’ to the coo when I’m through wi’ it.” — Portfolio. 

Secrets of the Confessional. — “ Is it a sin,” asks a fash- 
ionable lady of her spiritual director, “ for me to feel pleasure 
when a gentleman says I am handsome?” “It is, my daughter,” 
he replies gravely, “we should never delight in falsehood ! ” — 
Astncm Alberti . 

Scene at the Salvation Army. — Evangelist endeavouring to 
persuade Junior to come up to the altar : — Junior : — “Are you 
a sinner?” Evangelist : — “ I am glad that I can stand up here 
to-night and confess that I am a sinner.” Junior: — “Well, 

my Bible says, ‘My son, when sinners entice thee, consent thou 
not/ ” — Ex. 

We have it on the best authority that a crisis in the dry 
goods trade is imminent. Owing to the rapidity with which 
the knickerbocker movement has spread, the market has become 
glutted, the demand for cloth being reduced by fully one-half. 
On the other hand, the demand for hosiery of all kinds is on 
the increase, and it is feared that an unhealthy inflation will be 
the result in this department of trade. 



A Freshman, pompous and dignified as all freshmen are 
when outside of College, entered a down-town bookstore the 
other day, and in a haughty tone demanded “a copy of 
Xenophon’s Anabasis, and please be quick about it.” The 
name of the book was unfamiliar to the shopwoman who 
received this order, so she cast a rapid glance at the freshy in 
order to determine the style of literature he was likely to affect, 
and then asked — “Is it in the Seaside Library, sir?” 

“ The idea of putting John on a jury !” exclaimed Mrs. 
Tomkins, when she heard that her husband had been drawn. 
“ They might as well order a new trial right off. They won’t 
get John to agree on a verdict. He is the most obstinate man 
I ever saw. I never knew him to agree with his own wife in 
anything, and it isn’t at all likely he’s going to agree with 
people he don’t know anything about. A pretty juryman 
he is !” 

A sad misfortune lately befell a well-known Q. C. It is re- 
lated of him that, as he was riding in a first-class railway car- 
riage, from a single glance at the countenance of a lady at his 
side he imagined that he knew her, and ventured the remark 
that the day was pleasant. She only answered, “Yes.” “ Why 
do you wear a veil?” Lest I attract gentlemen.” “ It is the 
province of gentlemen to admire,” replied the gallant man of 
law. “ Not when they are married,” said the lady. “ But I am 
not.” “ Indeed ! ” “ Oh, no ! I am a bachelor.” The lady 

quietly removed her vail, disclosing to the astonished counsel 
the face of his mother-in-law ! 

General Sherman recently had some shirts made at a fur- 
nishing store in Washington, and the cutter a few weeks later, 
met the General with a friend walking down the avenue. The 
General remembered the face, but could not locate him, and the 
cutter greeted him with, “ Good morning, General. How are 
you to-day ! ” The General stopped, shook hands, and the cut- 
ter perceiving that the General’s mind needed refreshing, said 
quietly, “ Made your shirts.” “ Oh, I beg pardon,” said the 
General quickly, and, turning to the gentleman with whom he 

was walking, he said, “ Colonel , allow me to introduce you 

to my friend, Major Schurz ! ” 



^Personals. 



J. 0. Stewart, Class ’80, Medicine, has lately returned from 
the West to visit his relatives. He expressed much surprise at 
the changed aspect of the surroundings of “Old McGill,” 
caused by the new buildings which have been erected since he 
graduated, and hoped that the Meds and Methodists would 
fraternize well. 

We regret to have to announce that Mr. J. A.Porter, ’86, Med., 
will not return to College this year. Mr. Porter’s numerous friends 
will be sorry to hear that sickness in his family has been the 
cause of his rather sudden departure. We all hope, however, to 
see him with us again after next Christmas, when, we believe, 
he will resume his College course. Mr. Porter was on the 
Editorial Stall of the Gazette , where his eminent ability and 
conscientious work were much appreciated. 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 

Merrill. — Iron Truso Bridges for Railways; Perry. — Practical Mechan- 
ics ; Trigonometrical Survey of India. — Vols. VII. and VIII.; Royal 
Dublin Society Scientific Proceedings ; Smithsonian Institute, Report for 
1881 ; British Association Advancement of Science, Reports 1881 and 
1882 ; Malmesbury.— Diaries and Correspondence of — 4 vols.; Encyclo- 
paedia Britannica-vol. XVI.; Urquhart.— Electric Light ; Montreal City 
Reports for 1883 ; U. S Coast and Geodetic Survey Reports for 1881 ; 
Acland, (Dr.) — Groundwork of Culture ; Flinders Petrie. — The Pyramids 
of Gizeh ; Royal Astronomical Society’s Proceedings for 1883 ; Report of 
the Commission for the Rivision, Etc., Statutes Province of Quebec. 



To Our Subscribers. — Our Subscriber's icill greatly oblige us 
by remitting their subscriptions as soon as possible. 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the Gazette 
is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be sent to the Treasurer*, Mr. H. S. 
McLennan, McGll College. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



Holiday Presents 

—AND— 

JVew Year’s Gifts 

-—AT— 

S. CARSLEY’S. 



UNIVERSITY OF 

BISHOP'S+COLLEGE 



First choice Kid Gloves just received, from 2 to 12 buttons. 

LADIES’ KID DRIVING GAUNTLETS. 

LADIES’ KID EMBROIDERED GAUNTLETS. 

LADIES’ BUCK DRIVING GLOVES. 

MOUSQUETAIRE. MOUSQUETAIRE. 

Ladies’ Mousquetaire Kid Gloves in opera, white, black and colored, from 
2 to to button length s. s. Carsloy’s. 

NEW YEAR— 1084. 



As we have just a few more days before the New Year is in, and as com- 
fort is the most important thing for health, you can best accomplish personal 
comfort and elegance by laying in your supplies of Winter Underclothing, 
Scarfs, Ties and Silk Handkerchiefs at jgj_ Carsloy’s. 

All the above suitable for New Year’s presents. 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS.— SILK HANDKERCHIEFS. 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS. 

On Christmas Eve we had a perfect rush for the above, so we were about 
cleared out. We have now laid in a new stock suitable for New Year’s 
Presents. 

MEN’S SILK SCARFS.— MEN’S SILK SCARFS. 

MEN’S SILK SCARFS. 

S. Carsloy’s. 

MEN’S TJNDEECLOATHXN Gr- 



MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SHIRTS. 

MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SHIRTS. 

MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SHIRTS. 

MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL DRAWERS. 
MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL DRAWERS. 
MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL DRAWERS. 
MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SOCKS. 

MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SOCKS. 

MEN’S SCOTCH WOOL SOCKS. 

MEN’S CARDIGAN JACKETS. 
MEN’S CARDIGAN JACKETS. 
MEN’S CARDIGAN JACKETS. 



s. CARSLEY, 

387, 389 391, 393. 395* 397. 399 Notre Dame Street. 



m^wiLEdstmir mE&qjdj) wjmtjeeb 2 

PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 




PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 




251 








em 




ST. JAMES STREET. 



NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 

OPEN EVENINC FROM 7 TO 11. 



PLEASE CAT iTj AND SEE SPECIMEN’S 

P.S.— The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 



^HOo ASHFOKIPgS 

Jew jook and Stationery jjljop 

(one DOOR WEST OF HIS OLD STAND) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels , 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Boots procured lo order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL. 



MONT11AL. 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE. 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 



( Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
f (3j)J support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for this- 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
^ Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice of either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H-spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the “ Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 

FACULTY: 

F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L R.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L., Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A., M.D., C.M.. Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hospital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D.. C.M., M.R.C.S, Eng., Professor of Surgery, Physlciau to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A., M.D m C.M., Professor of Materia Medica, Physlolan Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M.. M.D., Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 
GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professor of Physiology, Physician Western Hospital. 
JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.PI., Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physician Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENIiOLME, M.D., C.M., B.C.L., Professor of Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, C.M., M.D., Professor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLEY, C.M., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy, Physician. 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. REDDY; B.A., M.D., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.L., Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor ot Botany, Physician. 
Montreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 

JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S.. Lecturer on Practical Chemistry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT. M.D., C.M., Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Oculist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GAHERTY. C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. 

ANTHONY KERRY. C.M., M.D., Curator of Museum. 

For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 
or to 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P.I., 



Montreal, December, 1883. 



Registrar , Montreal . 



McGILL' university gazette. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, $c., $c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to es dblished rules of art . * 

m* Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 
50 cents • 

— TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION — 




L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 

Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 




HENRY GHAUT 4 SON, 

26 Beaver Hall Terrace. 



Students' Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THEBMOMETEBS, 
MICROSCOPES, 
BAROMETERS, &C. 



G Prfk 

s pECTAct| 



IP TIC I A NS, 

r*T^T WATCH-MAKERS, 



I'^3 oqr)lCATof? je 



WJ 3 LLERS. 



HEADQUARTERS 



• FOR - 




m 



b 






Ms ! 



DRYSDALE’S*- 



232 Sts. James Street., 

Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books • 

Full assortment in stock and suoolied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $c , , $-c., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty- 

W. D1Y SDAUE & CO» 

232 S*b. James Stinreeti, 

— ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




H. SANBE1S, 

OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

MOUTH EAXj. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OF* 

MiCEOSCOFES, 

— ?, A , 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOH, 



D 



,m 




D 



IS to Hit II 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MOITKIAL. 

•^WILLIAM SAMUEL*- 

367 Notre Dame Street, 






— ■ IMPORTER OF — 



Prom til© Best Engllsli Makers, 

— AND — 

Manufactu rer of F INE FURS. 

Highest Award for FINE FURS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Frizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 

SCMMERIAYES &WALF0RD 
-Hie PJIGTOGI^PJIEI^S 3{H- 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

yW.ONTREAL. 

^“Special Rates for Students. 



C. EC ILL, 

library 




lO PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 

English and American Periodicals 

A nd Illustrated Works • 
All muds oT Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 



IAS 



mMwmBSmmmw 



J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIEH SQUARE, opp, CUURT HOUSE and CITY ILL 



M: O w T PL EIA.XJ . 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 

BROWN & S 0 NS 3 ^ 

Merchant * Taiforst 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

_A_ SPECIAL IDISCOTJISrT TO STUDENTS. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

X>TO. 233 ST. JAMES STREET. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL 

ALL TEXT BOOKS ALL KINDS 

or 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

° F 1HR8 COLLEGE 

CANADA. REQUISITES. 






SIGN OF T HE GOLDEN OWL 

3ST O. 233 ST. J-A.MIES STREET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



IN USB 

IN THE COLLEGES 







