Vol. XII 



No. I I 











UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET l FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. CTAUVUZES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Aitates, Barristers, Commissioners, fc, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MACWIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k NIcLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B-C-L. F. 8. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS &. BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes .^Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gameree’s EucalvotoL Sanitarv Towels. Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTE RS 

-FOR— 



DRYSDALE’S 



OEUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY 




254 Si James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Snarls Street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. CTAlIMIIES ST 



MEHICAL WORKS, ROOKS USER IJV J1RT COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL ROOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS. 

Scribbling Books, Ac., &c 

— *i-BE8T VALUE I IX T O W JV ^ , 

Stylographic Pens , Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. xil] McGill college, Montreal, April 2 nd, 1889. \No. 11. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 

C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Beers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 

R. McDougall, Arts ’90. A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 

Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 127-129 

Contributions 129-131 

McGill News 132-134 

Societies 134 

Poetry 135 

Personals 135 

Exchanges 135-136 

Between the Lectures 137 

College World 137-138 



Editorials. 

THE B.A. DEGREE REJECTED. 

By the overwhelming evidence in favour of the 
B.A. degree being accepted in lieu of the preliminary 
examination demanded by the Bar of this Province, 
the Legislative Assembly was constrained to pass a 
Bill for its adoption ; but as the legislation of this 
Province cannot be entrusted entirely to that body, 
the Bill requires to be acted upon by the reverend 
and grave men who form what is known as the Legis- 
lative Council. This sage body, one of whose mem- 
bers, this session, brought forward a Bill — since fallen 
to the ground — for its entire dissolution, with that 
wisdom begot of dotage and irresponsibility, deemed 
it expedient, in the interest of the public over which 



they preside, to vote down the Bill. Had the 
Legislative Council, as the Assembly is, been liable 
to be called to account for their conduct, the result 
must have been different. How it is possible, in the 
face of the petitions sent in to the committee of the 
Legislative Assembly at Quebec, by this and other 
Universities of this Province, that any sensible, not 
to say learned, body of men could reject such a Bill, 
is incomprehensible, more especially when, in addi- 
tion, there was the following statement of the Profes- 
sors and Lecturers in Arts in McGill, comprising, as 
they do, graduates of nine different Universities in 
Canada, Europe, and the United States : — 

“ We, the undersigned, professors and lecturers in the Faculty 
of Arts of McGill University, desire to express our surprise and 
regret that any doubt should be thrown on the superiority of the 
education required for the attainment of the degree of Bachelor 
of Arts to that necessary for passing the examinations required 
for admission to study at any of what are called the learned 
professions. As graduates of many different Universities in 
different countries, it may be deemed that our opinions on this 
matter should have some weight ; but as additional testimony, 
we quote the following extract from the regulation for admission 
to study at the Bar of England : ‘ Every person not otherwise 
disqualified who shall have passed a public examination at any 
University within the British Dominions, shall be entitled to 
be admitted as a student without passing a preliminary exami- 
nation.’ Thus, much less than the requirements for the B.A. 
degree, suffice for the English Bar. 

J. W. Dawson, M.A., Edinburgh ; LL.D., McGill ; geology 
(Principal). 

Alexander Johnson, M.A. , LL.D., Dublin ; mathematics 
and natural philosophy (Dean of Faculty). 

George Cornish, B.A., London ; M.A., LL.D., McGill ; 
classical literature. 

P. J. Darey, baclielier es lettres de l’universite de France ; 
officier d’academie M.A., B.C.L., LL.D.; professor de litterature 
Fran 5 aise. 

J. Clark Murray, LL.D., Glasgow ; mental and moral 
philosophy. 

B. J. Harrington, B.A., McGill ; Ph.D., Yale, U.S.; 
chemistry and mineralogy. 

Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., London ; English language and 
literature. 

D. P. Penhallow, B.Sc., Boston University, U.S.; botany. 

D. Coussirat, bachelier es lettres et en theologie, universite 
de France ; officier d’academie ; Semitic languages. 

A. J. Eaton, B.A., Harvard, U.S.; M.A., Ph.D., Leipzig; 

classics. 

G. H. Chandler, M.A., McGill ; mathematics. 

P. T. Lafleur, M.A., McGill ; English and logic. 

P. Toews, M.A., Toronto ; German language and litera- 
ture.” 



128 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Truly ours is a progressive age, when our Legisla- 
tive coach rolls on five wheels, and the fifth continu- 
ally dragging us in the mire ! But as Dr. Trenholme, 
Dean of the Faculty of Law, declared at the annual 
dinner of that faculty, “ these men little know the 
determination of the men of McGill if they conceive 
that they will tamely submit to the trampling of their 
rights,” and we safely augur, that with the Hon. Mr. 
Lynch, as heretofore the enthusiastic supporter, the 
last of the B.A. Bill has not been heard, and, per- 
chance, the rejection of that Bill this year will he the 
funeral note of that feeble and useless body tho Legis- 
lative Council. McGill’s forces are rallying to her 
aid from all sides, and it remains only to make one 
grand charge to vindicate her rights, and once and for 
all remove those obstacles which are to-day hindering 
her progress. 

One word more with regard to Mr. Pagnuelo. In 
a letter to the editor of the Legal News of this city, 
of the 16th ult., that gentleman expressed a desire 
to know the opinion of Dr. J. Clark Murray in regard 
to the preliminary examination of tho Bar. We ob- 
serve his name subscribed to the statement of Profes- 
sors above, but with Mr. Pagnuelo we would be 
highly gratified to know, specifically, what Dr. Mur- 
ray’s opinion is, and would likewise suggest that the 
two other reverend gentlemen co-examiners, both of 
whom are actively engaged in education, give an ex- 
pression of their opinion on the relative value of a 
properly graded and classified training and an exami- 
nation of the nature of the preliminary examination 
of the Bar. 



THE MEDICAL QUESTION. 

The medical education of women in connection 
with McGill University is, we believe, an accom- 
plished fact, and we have nothing but admiration for 
the energy and enthusiastic persistency with which 
the young ladies who are concerned have set about 
their task, and for the Faculty and University who 
have so liberally offered to do everything in their 
power for the success of the movement. The ques- 
tion of the need of providing a medical education for 
women has been fought out long ago, and the decision 
all must assent to. It now resolves itself into a ques- 
tion of practicability, and the young ladies have de- 
cided to settle it by making it practicable in provid- 
ing the funds. They are meeting with success, and 
the citizens of Montreal are responding to the appeal 
on behalf of professional education. Under these 
circumstances the movement cannot but succeed — the 
governors are in favour of it, the Principal has long 
ago promised assent when the demand was sufficiently 



great, and we are able to state that the professors are 
ready and willing to provide for women as good a 
medical education as they now give to the men, if the 
means are forthcoming. The cause of medical educa- 
tion for women at McGill is fortunate in having for 
its apostles young ladies of the attainments, social 
standing, and personal qualities of those who are ap- 
plying for admission. But there is another side to tho 
question — the advantage that will accrue to McGill. 
By the increased salaries the professors will have 
more leisure for study, and will be obliged to devote 
less time to the drudgery of private practice, and it 
would be a great loss if ladies so clever were permitted 
to leave their own University. There is no Ameri- 
can College providing a better medical course for 
men, and no College in existence provides so good a 
course for women as will be the case when McGill 
develops her new undertaking. It follows from this 
that a large accession of students will result, and add 
by their talents a new glory to McGill. The details 
of the scheme will be a matter of future arrangement, 
and we have full confidence that whatever will be 
done will be to the advantage of the University and 
to the profession at large. 

TEXT-BOOKS OF HISTORY. 

In our last issue we published some correspondence 
concerning a “History of England for Beginners,’’ 
said to be prescribed for the Intermediate examina- 
tion, but which we failed to locate in the calendar. 
Upon inquiry, however, we see that this session a 
change was made from Collier to the book in question. 
It is not our present intention to discuss the text- books 
in use at McGill. The professors, each of whom is a 
specialist in his own subject, are responsible for them. 
However, we feel constrained to state that had our 
correspondent examined the volume more carefully, 
he would probably have moderated his opinion 
of it. 

It is a publication of 1887, by Arabella B. Buckley 
(Mrs. Fisher) — whose writings, scientific and other- 
wise, are well-known — comprising 364 pages, as well 
as maps and geneological and chronological tables. It 
is written on tho modern lines of rise and develop- 
ment, simply though comprehensively; of the 26 
chapters we noticed three only opening with personal 
description. The title is somewhat misleading, and 
the Sophomore who makes himself master of its con- 
tents will find his dignity in no way diminished. 

While not strictly speaking a University book, it 
lumishes an excellent account of the “ Essentials of 
British History,” as prescribed for McGill’s Interme- 
diate Examination. This subject constitutes one-third 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



129 



1889.] 



of the second year English, and is introduced as a 
preparation for the third and fourth years’ History, 
which include such writers as Macaulay, Leslie, 
Stephens, Buckle and Freeman. The work of the 
second year is heavy, and the students would not 
have time to prepare for an examination on Greene, 
however desirable it might be. 



DR. HOWARD. 

McGill is called upon again to mourn the loss of 
one of one of her staunchest friends and one of her 
most notable sons. In the death of Dr. Howard, 
Dean of the Medical Faculty, there has been removed 
a man whose name was a tower of strength, and whose 
work raised the Faculty and the University to a place 
among the first American institutions. The loss is 
not a local one ; the city will feel it deeply, the coun- 
try at large will miss him, and the profession of 
Medicine will mourn one of its most notable members. 
He had earned the right to die, and his influence 
remains in the hearts and minds of the graduates in 
Medicine, and will be a power for the good of human- 
ity so long as they continue their life-work. For a 
long time he has stood in the first rank of his profes. 
sion, and was looked on as the greatest living author- 
ity in certain branches of it. Foi; McGill his death is 
nothing short of a calamity, for it would be an un. 
usual thing if his successor could unite all the qualities 
that have for so long made Dr. Howard remarkable 
amongst remarkable men. He was a persistent and 
zealous worker, an earnest advocate of all that is high- 
est in Medicine, and enthusiastically devoted to the 
teaching of the deep truths he had himself learned. 
In addition to all this he had a talent for organizing 
and inspiring men with his own confidence and feel- 
ing. He kept by his silent power every member of 
the school in a true relation, and developed the feel- 
ing of forbearance and good will to such an extent, 
that only one idea existed amongst the members of 
the Faculty and between that body and the students 
— the advancement of the profession they had all 
chosen. To his son, an esteemed member of the same 
profession, and a well-liked teacher in the same fac- 
ulty ; to his family left over to mourn a deep loss, we 
tender on behalf of the students a real and earnest 
sympathy. 



The question has been mooted — “ Why should not 
the lady undergraduates,- as well as the men, be 
obliged to pay library and gymnasium fees 1 ” and no 
satisfactory answer has as yet been found. The ladies 
are very particular that they should stand on an equal 



footing with the men in regard to study and exami- 
nations ; and as we see no reason why a difference 
should be made in the one case, neither do we see 
why any should be made in the other ; the Donalda 
students are quite as well able to pay these fees ; and 
it is a source of revenue to the College which, though 
small at present, would ever increase as the classes 
become larger. 

And while we are upon this subject, there is an- 
other thing that may as well be said. The men and 
women do not stand upon the same basis in regard to 
Matriculation. The women are allowed to enter 
without passing an examination in Greek, it being 
admissable to substitute for that language German or 
French. In the interest of the ladies themselves, they 
should see to it that they do not take advantage of 
the latitude which the regulations allow. 



Mr. Jeffrey II. Burland, at the last meeting of Cor 
poration, brought up the question of Sanitary Science 
in connection with McGill, and urged its introduc- 
tion into the course. The Dean of the Faculty was 
asked to prepare a report on the matter, which is to 
be submitted in April. There can be no doubt that 
the report will be favourable ; there is a demand for 
a scientific sanitation, and new fields of usefulness 
will be opened up to graduates. It will probably re- 
solve itself into a question of means, for McGill is 
always on the alert for any improvements in its 
courses, and we feel sure that in this case an ample 
support will be forthcoming. 



Contributions. 



LIFE AT CORNELL. 

The work of education is truly one of universal in- 
terest, and no university can afford to remain ignorant 
of the work done in other universities, irrespective of 
their locality, importance or nationality. Relying 
upon the progressive spirit growing ever stronger and 
stronger at McGill, I venture to give some few facts 
concerning life at Cornell University, feeling sure 
they will be of interest to some few, at least, of the 
students of my Alma Mater. 

On arriving for the first time at Cornell, the stran- 
ger is, perhaps, most struck with the exceeding beauty 
of the situation chosen for this great University. For 
miles around the country is broken by gently sloping 
hills, enclosing between them broad and fertile val- 
leys ; indeed the scenery here reminds one forcibly 
of the Magog region of Canada, though the hills are 
not so high, and the valleys broader and more level. 
On one of these many hills the University is built, 
overlooking the quaint, pretty town of Ithaca, Avhicli 
nestles in the valley, and the beautiful blue waters of 



130 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Lake Cayuga winding far beyond till lost among the 
distant hills. The University grounds, comprising 
about seventy acres, are bounded to the north and 
south, respectively, by Fall Creek Ravine, and Casca- 
dilla Gorge. These ravines, or gorges, are quite char- 
acteristic of this region, and the two just mentioned 
are very beautiful. Through them noisy brooks flow, 
breaking here and there into picturesque falls, and 
again broadening into still and glassy pools, in which 
are mirrored the lofty pine trees from the cliffs 
above. 

The grounds are traversed by two main avenues, 
Central and East Avenues, running parallel from north 
to south, while a third, Sage Avenue, cuts them diag- 
onally. At the northern extremity of the Campus 
stand the University buildings, six in number, ranged 
in the form of a quadrangle. These are handsome, 
large four storey buildings, two of brown stone and 
the remainder of grey stone, resembling our Montreal 
limestone. On Central Avenue, overlooking the 
brow of the hill, are the three buildings devoted to 
the work of the Arts Department, the middle one of 
which, called McGraw Hall, is somewhat larger than 
the other, and contains the Library and Museum, and 
has also a fine clock tower, with a beautiful chime of 
bells, which is played very sweetly at 8 a.m., 12 noon, 
and 6 p. m. daily. The other three buildings, Sibley 
College for Engineering, the Physical Building, and 
another new engineering building, almost completed, 
are used in the work of Science and Mechanical Arts, 
in which departments Cornell is especially strong, and 
indeed, in its equipments stands unrivalled among 
American Colleges. Just back of Sibley, on the mar- 
gin of the ravine, are the workshops, the water power 
to run the machines being drawn from the falls be- 
neath. A walk through these shops, and a visit to the 
Physical Building, well repay the visitor. The fine 
chemical and physical laboratories, with their wonder- 
ful wealth of instruments for scientific researches, and 
splendidly equipped Department of Electrical Engin- 
eering, and the workshops with their foundry, carpen- 
ter shops and testing rooms, attract large numbers of 
students from all parts; indeed, of the 1200 students 
now at Cornell, about two-thirds are in these depart- 
ments. In the midst of this magnificent group of 
buildings stands the old wooden structure in which 
the first work of the University was carried on, and 
which is still preserved with a feeling of reverence 
for the past it represents, and still used in connec- 
tion with the department of Mechanical Arts. 

The remainder of Central Avenue, and the whole 
of East Avenue, are occupied by the houses of the 
professors, which show that great variety of architec- 
ture so common in most American towns. In Sa^e 
Avenue we have Sage Chapel, a pretty little brick 
chapel, built as a memorial to Ezra Cornell, and there 
every week eminent preachers are brought from all 
the large cities to preach to the students. Just next to it 
is the new Barnes Hall, a handsome building of red 
brick, surpassing all the others in beauty of design. 
This is the gift of the late Alfred S. Barnes, one °of 
the benefactors of the University, to the University 
Christian Association, now a flourishing organization, 
through which the religious life of the University is 



maintained, the work being carried on wholly by the 
students themselves. Going still further towards the 
Southern end of the Campus, just where Sage and 
East Avenues meet, you come upon Sage College, 
a large and handsome brick building surrounding 
three sides of a court, the fourth side being occupied 
by the ladies’ gymnasium, and a fine conservatory, the 
latter open at all times to the students, and used in 
connection with the Botanical Courses. This build- 
ing is the gift of the Hon. Henry W. Sage, and is 
designed for the accommodation of ladies studying 
here. In it a very pleasant home is provided for about 
a hundred students, the management being ably con- 
ducted, so that every freedom and comfort are secured. 
Coming up from the town, and entering the Campus 
from the south side, you come upon two handsome 
houses, belonging to the Greek Letter Fraternities, 
which form quite an important feature in American 
collego life, being represented at Cornell by many 
societies, each having a fine club house, where many 
students find comfortable and even luxurious lodg- 
ings. Just next to these houses is the Armory, where 
the men have their gymnastic exercises, and where 
they prepare their tri-weekly drill, which during the 
fall and spring terms is compulsory upon all students 
of the first and second years. Besides the buildings 
already mentioned, there are many more in contem- 
plation, among others a fine library building, which 
is already commenced, and is to surpass in grandeur 
all the other buildings. The Campus and many of 
the buildings are lighted by electric light from the 
Physical Department, and all the buildings used in 
the work of the University, as well as Sage College, 
are heated by steam from a central heating apparatus 
in Sibley College. 

I have thus far tried to describe, in some measure 
at least, the external aspect of this great Institution, 
and to give some idea of the great wealth of buildings 
it now possesses, but I cannot hope to give any ade- 
quate conception of the beauty of the surroundings in 
summer, when the grounds are as beautifully kept as 
any city park, the lawns sloping down from Sage 
being dotted with brilliant flower-beds, and the 
avenues shaded by beautiful trees. On a fine after- 
noon there the Campus is alive with tennis, base-ball 
and foot-ball players in their bright costumes All 
of these games are well maintained at Cornell, while 
the proximity of Lake Cayuga has made rowing a fav- 
orite sport, and this year a tund has been raised to 
train a crew, which, it is hoped, may win again for 
Cornell the championship of which in former days it 
Avas so justly proud. Thus the University, with all 
its busy life, has a world of its own up on these hills, 
shut off as it is from the town below by a steep hill 
almost as formidable an ascent as our own ' Mount 
Royal, the elevation here being something over three 
hundred and eighty feet. 

Turning now to the internal equipment and work- 
ing of the University, it has been said that few insti- 
tutions touch at so many points the life of the nation 
as does Cornell, and indeed, when we look at the 
vast extent and variety of the work done here, we can 
readily beheve this statement. In the scope of this 
article, however, I cannot do more than mention many 



1889.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



131 



of the departments of work carried on here. Besides 
the department of Mechanical Arts already referred 
to, in which the University is especally strong, there 
is also a good department of Agriculture, the Univer- 
sity farm, situated on the hills hack of the Campus, 
aflording ample scope for experiments in this line of 
work. A fine “ Insectary,” where the student can 
study the habits of the insects which create such de- 
vastation in the vegetation of the country, and a well 
appointed museum and conservatory add greatly to 
the efficiency of the Science courses. There is also a 
good Law School and a School of Pharmacy, but no 
Medical School, for the lack of hospital practice, 
which large cities alone can afford, makes it unwise 
to attempt such work here. The department of Archi- 
tecture is also thoroughly equipped, and is very 
popular among the ladies, who find there pleasant 
and congenial occupation. A new experiment has 
been tried this year in a School of Journalism, which 
is doing very good work, evidence of which may be 
seen in college periodicals, the three principal of 
which are — the Sun, a daily nows sheet ; the Era, a 
weekly, both literary and newsy ; and the Magazine, 
a monthly, of a purely literary character. 

We may now consider more in detail the work of 
the Arts department, in which I am more especially 
interested. Three degrees are given in this depart- 
ment — Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Philosophy, and 
Bachelor of Letters, the former requiring the most 
severe course of study, including, as it does, both 
Latin and Greek. In its Historical department Cor- 
nell takes the lead of all the American colleges; with 
such men as ex-President White and President 
Adams at its head, this is not surprising. Much 
original research has been done in this subject, and 
the library is enriched by many rare MSS., which it 
was my privilege and pleasure to have shown me 
during the Christmas vacation. Besides this, the 
historical method of study prevails in every depart- 
ment of work here. At the meeting of the Inter- 
Collegiate Alumnal Association, held here last fall, 
the subject under discussion was — “Patriotism: and 
how to foster it ; ” and in all the addresses of the 
ladies present, great stress was laid upon the study of 
national history as the best means of creating a na- 
tional spirit. One cannot fail to be struck by the 
large place given to American history in this Univer- 
sity, and one is forced to ask if Canadian patriotism 
does not demand some such fostering care. It was 
pleasing to see this subject referred to in the McGill 
Gazette, and McGill called upon to take the lead in 
this good work by founding a chair of Canadian His- 
tory. I hope the suggestion may soon become an 
accomplished fact, and that with it a chair of Political 
Economy may also be founded. Here the department 
of Economies is thoroughly well equipped, and has 
been much strengthened under the able direction of 
Professor E. Benj. Andrews, who was this year called 
from Brown’s University, Providence, E.I., to fill this 
chair. The Greek courses have also grown in effici- 
ency under Dr. Wheeler, so that now the advantages 
here in this department rival those offered by older 
Eastern Universities, which have long made this sub- 
ject a specialty. The same is pre-eminently true of 



the Philosophy courses, which, under Dr. J. G. Schur- 
man, formerly of Dalhousie College, Nova Scotia, 
have now risen from the least popular to the most 
popular courses in the University. His clear exposi- 
tion of his subject, and fine oratorical powers, make 
his lectures especially attractive, and his lecture-room 
is always crowded to overflowing with an appreciative 
audience. The whole method of work here differs 
from that adopted in our Canadian colleges, the Ger- 
man Seminary system of teaching prevailing in most 
of the courses. Instead of our system of lectures, 
from which the student takes notes, they have besides 
almost daily recitations, and in the more advanced 
courses the professor leads a discussion upon the text 
book studied, and the student is required to take part 
in it. This method is admirably adapted to bring out 
the originality of the student and make him think for 
himself, while it teaches him how to make a critical 
study of his text books, and gives him greater facility 
in expressing himself upon any subject. Essay writ- 
ing forms a large part of every course in the Univer- 
sity, even of the Mechanical courses, so that much 
reading is required of the student. The fine library 
of 97,000 volumes, which is for reference only, is open 
from 9 a.m to 9 p.m. daily, and is always filled with 
students reading for this department of their work. 
To one educated under a different system these daily 
recitations in the less advanced courses are less satis- 
factory, and bring one back very forcibly to school 
days ; however, they are quite justifiable under this 
system where the session is so long; time can be 
allowed for them, and where only term examinations 
are required of the student, at which a large percent- 
age of the marks are counted from these daily recita- 
tions. In addition to all this, eminent men from other 
places are brought here every week to lecture in the 
different departments, more especially on subjects of 
a technical character. However, among these we 
have had many very popular lectures on subjects of 
more general interest, by Professor Gildersleeve and 
Professor Eemson, of Johns Hopkins; Professor Bell, 
electrician ; General Walker, president of the Insti- 
tute of Technology, Boston ; and Hon. Edward Atkin- 
son, also of Boston. These lectures are much appre- 
ciated by the students, judging by the crowds that 
attend them. 

But I must not close without mentioning specially 
the admirable advantages offered here for graduate 
study. Besides special courses prepared for graduates, 
all the work of the University is open to them, with 
no charge of tuition fees, the sole expense being for 
materials consumed in practical work, if the course 
requires it. The courses in English Literature are 
especially popular under Professor Carson, who, by 
his fine elocutionary powers and true poetic insight, 
opens up the great works of poetic genius, as no 
amount of commentary or analysis can do, and it is 
little wonder, therefore, that so many pass by even 
Harvard to study here. Graduate students are wel- 
comed from all parts, and I trust that McGill may, in 
future, be yet more largely represented here, until our 
own Canadian colleges are in a position to offer like 
advantages for graduate study. 

Donalda McFee. 



132 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



JflcSill News. 



It is a curious fact that at the three students’ meet- 
ings of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, all 
the papers were read by students from the one Pro- 
vince, and that Prince Edward Island. 



dent and secretary, and preparations made for a large 
public meeting, to be held near Easter. In the mean- 
time the scheme will be thoroughly ventilated through 
the press. 

There is no doubt but that the endowment will be 
forthcoming. The movement is a popular one, and 
is hacked by men of money and position. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

As the examinations are approaching, the Donalda 
Reading-room may be seen full, to overflowing, of 
embryonic B.A.’s, anxious to review old examination 
papers, and with note book in hand and pencil poised 
in air, ready to jot down hints and helps for the final 
“cram.” The Reading-room has become a very cosy 
place in which to spend one’s odd half-hours. A kind 
friend has most thoughtfully contributed to the girls’ 
comfort by sending three sumptuous arm-chairs, which 
are never found empty, you may be sure. A picture 
of Girton College, England, presented by Mr. Bovey, 
occupies a prominent position on the wall among the 
other Avorks of art ; the writing appointments are of 
the choicest, and altogether the committee may be 
congratulated on a very successful session for the 
Reading-room. 

There is some talk of continuing the gymnastic 
classes for a few weeks after the college closes. This 
shows considerable enthusiasm on the part of the 
members, and augurs well for next year. 

All the societies have held their last meetings, and 
from now till the 25th of April the piano will be 
dumb and the black boards clean. Then comes the 
Lunch ! ! ! 



The young ladies who sent in their petition to the 
Medical Faculty, although discouraged by its cold 
reception, determined to leave no stone unturned to 
gain their point. Pressing several sympathizing friends 
into their service, they held a solemn conclave, and 
resolved that, since money was required, they them- 
selves would raise it by subscriptions. Having ob- 
tained the Principal’s sanction, they went to work. 
They visited the governors and professors, told them 
of the necessity that McGill’s Medical Course should be 
open to women, and urged that they would use their 
influence to bring this about. Jn the East Wing a 
Cyclostyle was employed in turning out letters to°be 
sent to the leading women in Montreal, telling them 
of the movement, and asking for their co-operation ; 
and a petition was framed and sent in, begging Mc- 
Gill’s acceptance of an endowment for the medical 
education of women. 

I he results, so far, have been most satisfactory. 
The governors were very encouraging, proffering ad- 
vice and promising support, and have shown their 
approval of the scheme by voting unanimously in 
favour of the petition. I his petition must also pass 
before the Corporation and the Medical Faculty, but 
as the doctors have, one and all, agreed to support it, 
there is little danger of its being refused. But, acting on 
the advice of one of the governors, the ladies will, for the 
present, confine their efforts to organization. A com- 
mittee will be formed, with influential ladies for presi- 



The closing exercises of the Veterinary Medical 
School were held 28th March, when addresses were 
delivered by Sir Wm. Dawson, Hon. Mr. Rhodes, 
Mr. Gadsen, Mr. Blackwood, Mr. J. N. Perrault, Bry- 
don and the Principal, Dr. McEachran. The Valedic- 
tory was read by Mr. Skaife, and it was short and 
sensible. Dr. Mills and Professor Penhallow also 
spoke to the students. 

The following is the graduating class : — 

Messrs. Austin, Darling, Dillon, Goddard, Harris, McCurdy, 
McWhinnie, Mylne, Parker, Simpson, Skaife and Wieland. 

The following students have passsd in the different 
subjects as follows : 

Botany — Simpson, Sturrock, Willyoung, St. Louis, Watson, 
Scott, Townsend, Cannon, Comstock, Gorham, Higginson, Joel, 
McCrank, Macaulay, T. B. McDonald, D. M. McDonald, Scan- 
lan. 

Histology. — Messrs. Hayman, Ramsay, Cannon, St. Louis, 
Macaulay, Watson, Gorham, Joel, Mylne, Miller, D. McDonald, 
McCrank, T. C. Simpson, J. F. Scott. 

Materia medica — Messrs. York, Scott, Walsh, Willyoung, 
Scanlan, Darling, McGlue, Goddard, Joel, Hayman, Barton, 
Baker and Crossman. 

Physiology— Messrs. Walsh, Scott, McGlue, York, Willyoung, 
Crossman, Mylne, Scanlan, Darling, A. Joel. 

Chemistry— J. F. Scott, R. N. Walsh, H. Scanlan, M. Hay- 
man, A. Darling, J. McGlue, A. M. York, L. E. Willyoung. 

Anatomy— Messrs. Simpson, McWhinnie, Harris, Parker, 
Wieland, Skaife, McCurdy, Austin, Goddard, Darling, Dillon, 
Mylne. 

Cattle pathology — Messrs. Wieland, McWhinnie, Simpson, 
Hams, Parker, McCurdy, Dillon, Darling, Mylne, Austin, 
Skaife. 

Practice of medicine and surgery - Messrs. Harris, Wieland, 
McWhinnie, Simpson and Darling (equal), Parker, Austin, Skaife, 
Goddard, McCurdy, Mylne, Dillon. 



JLUOI. 



The following prizes were awarded : — 

Silver medal, the gift of the Council of Agriculture, for the 
highest number of marks in all subjects of the three years, won 
by Mr. Robert Darling. 

Practice of medicine and surgery— 1st prize, J. G. Harris • 
2nd pnze, E. J. Wieland. 

„ C ,^! e pathology— 1st prize, E. J. Wieland; 2nd prize, H. 
McWhinnie. 

WhiSr y_1St FiZe ’ Wm ' M ‘ Sim P son ! 2nd prize, H. Mc- 

Special prize given by Prof. T. Wesley Mills, for his efforts in 
connection with the study of comparative pscychology, to J. M. 
I arker. 

* u° r h e 1° ral e . xa miaation, prize given by Prof. J. A. Couture 
to H. McWhinnie. 

. , JUNIORS. 

Scott yS1 ° °° y l3t PriZC ’ R ' N " Walsh ; 2nd prize, J. F. 

Chemistry— 1st prize, J. F. Scott ; 2nd prize, M. Hayman. 
Materia medica-lst prize, A. M. York and J. F. Scott, 
equal ; 2nd prize, R. N. Walsh. 

Anatomy— Junior prize, A. M. York. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



133 



Dr. Howard, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, died 
at 7.45 on Thursday morning, 28th March. 

Dr. Howard was horn in Montreal on the 12th of 
January, 1823, and studied Medicine in McGill 
University, Great Britain, and France. In 1849 he 
returned from Europe, and commenced the general 
practice of medicine. In 1880 he gave up the prac 
tice of surgery, and limited his duties to those of the 
pure physician. In 1856 he was appointed Professor 
of Clinical Medicine in McGill, and in i860, upon 
the death of Dr. Holmes, succeeded to the chair of 
Theory and Practice of Medicine in the same institu- 
tion. About three years ago the degree of LL.D., 
honoris causa, was conferred upon him by the Uni- 
versity, in which he had been a professor for thirty- 
four years. He had been Dean of the Faculty for six 
years, and in that position his zeal for the interests of 
the College earned for him the admiration of his col- 
leagues. In the course of his career, Dr. Howard was 
President of the Canada Medical Association, Presi- 
dent of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of 
Quebec, President of the Medico-Chirurgical Society 
of Montreal, Vice-President of the Association of 
American Physicians. In 1887, on the occasion of 
the centennial of the College of Physicians of Phila- 
delphia, he was made Fellow of that body. For 
twenty-two years he was one of the attending physi- 
cians and surgeons of the Montreal General Hospital, 
and was the secretary of that institution for thirty- 
three years. He was a member of the Board of Gov- 
ernors of the Medical Council of his native Province, 
and endeavoured for years, but without success, to 
bring about a General Medical Council for the Do- 
minion of Canada. As an author, Dr. Howard con- 
tributed largely to medical literature. He has written 
upon pneumonia, phthisis, heart disease, and anaemia, 
and his works upon these subjects made him a recog- 
nized authority in the profession; and in 1885 he 
contributed a series of articles, in Pepper’s System of 
Medicine, on Rheumatism and Allied Subjects, which 
were considered to have great medical value. Dr. 
Howard was twice married — in 1855, to Mary Frances 
Chipman, daughter of the late Judge Chipman, of 
Halifax, N.S.; and afterwards to Emily, daughter of 
the late Thomas Severs, of London. His family 
which remain numbers four. 

His funeral took place on Saturday at two o’clock, 
when the whole University, and nearly every repre- 
sentative citizen of Montreal, were present to do 
honour to the name and memory of the great 
physician. 



MEETING OF CORPORATION. 

A meeting of the Corporation of McGill University 
was held on Friday afternoon. The following ap- 
pointments by the Board of Governors were reported 
for the session 1889-’90: — 

P. Toews, M.A., Lecturer in German Language and Litera- 
ture ; Jas. Naismith, B.A., Instructor in Gymuastics ; Miss 
Barnjum, Instructress in Gymnastics for Women in Donalda 
Course. 



The Principal having officially announced the death 
of the late Dr. R. P. Howard, Dean of the Faculty of 
Medicine, it was moved by Mr. J. H. R. Molson, and 
seconded by Hon. Judge Church : — 

“ On the occason of the recent removal by death of Robert 
Palmer Howard, M.D., LL.D., Dean of the Faculty of Medi- 
cine, and Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine in 
this University, the members of this Corporation desire to place 
on record their high estimation of the eminent qualities of mind 
and heart of their deceased colleague, and their sense of the 
value of his services to the University, and more especially to 
the Faculty of Medicine, as Professor and official head of the 
Faculty, as well as their sorrow in parting from one so loved and 
respected. That a copy of this resolution be communicated to 
Mrs. Howard and to Dr. R. J. B. Howard, with the expression 
of the sincere sympathy of the members of the Corporation.” 

A petition for medical education for women was 
submitted, along with a resolution of the Board of 
Governors, and by request of the ladies interested, 
was referred to next meeting. Amended regulations 
and by-laws of the Normal School Committee were 
presented to Corporation. An application from the 
Stanstead W esleyan College, for affiliation as a college 
of the second class, was laid before the Corporation, 
and ordered to be sent to faculties for their represen- 
tation thereon. The following report of Wickstead 
medals was read : — 

Fourth Year. — R. T. McKenzie, gold medal. 

Second Year. — Wm. Oliver, silver medal ; A. A. Cole, bronze 
medal. 

Honourable Mention. — J. T. White and J. Tees. 

A suggestion was made that a docket of business 
coming up at meeting of Corporation be sent along 
with notice of meeting. This was agreed to. The 
Dean of Faculty of Applied Science was requested to 
report at the next meeting on the means for establish- 
ing a course of sanitary engineering. 



MEDICAL CONVOCATION. 

The Convocation for conferring degrees in Medi- 
cine took place on Monday, 1st April, having been 
postponed till that day on account of the death of the 
Dean. There was an air of depression and gloom 
over the proceedings, and the duties incident to the 
day were discharged with an unusual decorum. The 
valedictory address was delivered by Mr. Mac- 
Donald, and the reply was made by Dr. Mills. 
Following are the results of the Examinations : — 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

Aylen, W. W., Aylmer, Que.; Booth, J. S , Montreal, Que.; 
Brown, G. A., Charlottetown, P.E.I.; Campbell, G. G., Truro, 
N.S. ; Creasor, J. A., Owen Sound, Ont. ; Delaney, W. J., 
Peterboro’, Out.; England, W. S., Dunham, Que.; Esson, F. 
G., Halifax, N.S-; Garrow, A. E , Ottawa, Ont.; Gemmill, E. 
W., Almonte, Ont.; Holmes, A. D., Chatham, Ont.; Hopkins, 

F. A., Cookshire, Que.; Hubert, P. J., Harbor Breton, Ntld.; 
Irwin, W. T., Pembroke, Ont. ; Kerr, N., Holyrood, Ont. ; 
Low, D., Palmerston, Ont.; Martin, J. M., Brown’s Creek, 
P.E.I ; Matheson, C. S., Harrington, P.E.I.; Moorehouse, 0. 
E , Gibson, N.B.; Mowat, M. M., Williamstown, Ont.; Muir- 
liead, D. A., Carleton Place, Out. ; Murray, D.D., Black 
Meadows, N.S.; McCurdy, T., Ormstown, Que.; McDonald, A., 
Iroquois, Out.; McDonald, H. N., Loggan, Ont.; McDonald, 

G. , Renfrew, Out.; McDonald, P. A., Alexandria, Out.; Mc- 
Ewan, H., Carletou Place, Ont.; McIntosh, D. H., Carleton 



134 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Place, Out.; McKercher, H., Stittsville, Ont.; McKinnon, P. 
N., Lockport, N.S.; McLellan, A. A., Indian River, P.E.I.; 
Philip, W. S., Montreal, Que.; Shanks, A. I., Huntingdon, 
Que.; Vipond, A. E., Montreal, Que.; Wheeler, C. L., Mont- 
real, Que.; Whyte, J. J., Lancaster, Ont.; Wylde, C. F., Hali- 
fax, N.S. 

PRIMARY EXAMINATION. 

The following gentlemen, fifty-one in number, have 
passed their primary examination : — 

W. W. Alexander, C. A. Ault, A. H. Beers, R. Bennie, J. S* 
Booth, R. A. Bowie, W. A. Brown, J. Busby, B. H. Calkin* 
J. C. Clemesha, Alex. Dewar, W. A. Farwell, R. W. Fletcher, 
R. J. Gibson, A. S. Gorrell, E. A. Grafton, T. J. Greene, W. F. 
Hamilton, N. M. Harris, J. D. Harrison, W. H. Hattie, John 
Hayes, P. T. Hubert, Antonio Internoscia, W. E. Jenkins, E. 
J. Keir, C. D. Kelly, H. D. Kemp, V. L. Lambert, W. T. 
Lovering, A I. Mader, M. M. Martin, W. S. Morrow, E. A. 
Mulligan, A. A. McCrimmon, J. H. McMillan, J. C. McGuire, 

C. O’Connor, A. J. Oliver, G. H. Parke, E. A. Robertson, T. F. 
Robertson, C. F. Smith, A. J. Sparling, J. R. Speir, W. Troy, 
A. Tunstall, R. E. Web, H. M. Williamson, W. P. Williamson, 

E. H. Woodruff. 

PHYSIOLOGY. 

The following have passed in physiology : — 

C. M. Carlaw, J. Clark, Fulton, D. B. Holden, M. J. Moore, 
J. Neill, E. A. McCann, T. H. Smith, A. G. Smith, N. M. 
Watson. 

CHEMISTRY. 

The following have passed in chemistry : — 

C. M. Carlaw, J. Clarke, C. Martin, J. Neill, T. H. Smith, 
A. G. Smith, J. A. Fulton. 

ANATOMY. 

The following have passed in anatomy : — 

J. Clark, N. M. Watson. 

PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. 

The following have passed in practical chemistry : — 

C. M. Carlaw, D. B. Holden, H. V. Kent, J. W. Moore, F. 
McEwen, J. Neill, T. H. Smith, A. G. Smith, N. M. Watson. 

PATHOLOGY. 

The following have passed in Pathology : — 

C. A. Ault, G. A. Addy, A. H. Beers, E. I. Broderick, E. J. 
Bowes, C. P. Bisset, Burritt, J. W. Clark, A. J. Connolley, F. 

G. Corbin, A. H. Coleman, J. H. Ellis, D. J. Evans, A. S. Gor- 
rell, John Hayes, A. E. McKechnie, M. W. Murray, Morris, 
McKinnon, M. S. McDonald, E. E. Mulligan, H. D. McManus, 

F. McGowan, C. T. Noble, McKay, 0. J. Oliver, C. O’Connor, 

H. M. Patton, N. M. Hams, Joseph Hayes, H. D. Hamilton, 
W. E. Inksetter, C. P. Jento, W. E. Jenkins, H. V. Kent, D. 
N. Kee, Irwin, G. L. Liddell, A. A. Lewin, A. G. Morphy, N. 
McKee, A. C. McLellan. 

MATERIA MEDICA. 

The following have passed in materia medica : — 

C. A. Ault, G. A. B. Addy, C. P. Bissett, A. H. Beers, R. A. 
Berwick, E. J. Broderick, E. J. Bowes, C. H. Burritt, J. W. 
Clark, A. H. Coleman, A. J. Connolley, P. J. Clune, T. B. Cur- 
tis, F. G. Corbin, D. J. Evans, T. H. Ellis, A. S. Gorrell, H. 

D. Hamilton, John Hayes, Joseph Hayes, N. M. Harris, W. E. 
Inksetter, W.E. Jenkins, C. P. Jento, D. N. Kee, H. V. 
Kent, G. L. Liddell, A. A. Lewin, E. A. Mulligan, A. G. 
Murphy, M. W. Murray, M. S. McDonald, A. C. McLellan, 
F. McEwen, G. L. McKee, 0. Morris, H. D. McManus, 
A. E. McKechnie, C. T. Noble, C. O’Connor, 0. J. Oliver, 
H. M. Patton, H. R. Ross, James Ross, J. T. Reid, W. 
Robertson, W. D. Smith, W. J. Teller, F. E. Thompson, D. 
D. White, H. M. Williamson, W. A. Wilson, F. S. Yorston, 
P. Bissett, A. H. Beers, R. A. Berwick, E. J. Broderick, E. 



J. Bowes, J. W. Clark, A. H. Coleman, A. J. Connolley, P. J. 
Clune, J. B. Curtis, F. G. Corbin, D. J. Evans, J. H. Ellis, A. 
S. Gorrell, H. D. Hamilton, John Hayes, Joseph Hayes, Win. 
Harris, W. E. Inksetter, W. E. Jenkins, C. P. Jento, D. N. 
Kee, H. V. Kent, G. L. Liddell, A. A. Lewiri, E. A. Mulligan, 
A. G. Murphy, M. W. Murray, M. S. MacDonald, A. C. Mc- 
Lellan, F. McEwan, F. S. Yorston, H. D. McManus, A. E. Mc- 
Kechnie, C. T. Noble, C. O’Connor, 0. J. Oliver, H. M. Pat- 
ton, H. R. Ross, James Ross, J. T. Reid, W. Robertson, W. D. 
Smith, W. J. Telfer, E E. Thompson, D. E. White, H. M. 
Williamson, W. A. Wilson. 

The Holmes gold medal was awarded to A. E. Garrovv. 

The final prize was awarded to H. McKercher. The Suther- 
land gold medal was awarded to J. C. Clemesha. 

The total number of students enregistered in medi- 
cal faculty during the past session was 233, of whom 
there were, from : — 



Ontario 106 

Quebec 57 

New Brunswick 19 

Nova Scotia 23 

United States 10 

P. E. Island 10 

Newfoundland 2 

Manitoba 4 

British Columbia 1 

West Indies 1 



Societies. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Society met as usual, on Tuesday, March 
12th. Miss Abbott read an essay on the “Religions 
of India.” Readings were given by Miss Radford 
and Miss Lyman, consisting, in the latter case, of 
selections bearing upon the position and the life of 
women in India at the present day, which were taken 
from the writings of the Rev. Wm. Butler. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The last regular meeting of this Society was held 
Thursday, 21st. An interesting debate on “The Paint- 
ers of the Renaissance, versus, Modern Painters,” was 
opened on the affirmative by Miss Kennedy. The 
negative side was led by Miss Monk, who was 
answered by Miss Radford, in an impressive speech. 
The second speaker on the negative was Miss Lyman. 
Miss Kennedy closed the debate by reading some 
admirable quotations from Ruskin. The affirmative 
won the vote, after which Miss Finley gave a short 
but instructive criticism. Miss McNaughton followed 
with a remarkably fine essay on “ The Philosophy of 
the Renaissance,” with especial reference to Bacon 
and Luther. After a few parting words from the re- 
tiring President, the Glee Club brought the meeting 
to a close with a few choice selections. 



n ] aan b the tramp, gratefully, as he 

shouldered his bundle and prepared to start on again, 
T>n < i° n ^ k eer fur nothin’ more to eat, thank you, but 
■ L- ^ you 11 give me two or three o’ them 

there biscuits. I don’t carry no weppins, and they’ve 
got a savage dog at that next house.” 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



135 



[For “The Gazette.”] 

Poetry. 



Each human heart hath in itself the germ 
of the sublime, 

And human feet may scale the height 
that saints and angels climb ; 

Earth’s victor host may count her braves 
amid the rank and file, 

And humblest souls reflect the most 
God’s sunshine aud llis smile. 



Unconscious heroes that we meet along our 
daily path. 

Shall yet bring home their full ripe sheaves 
for Heav’n’s great after-math ; 

The world is full of souls supreme, mute 
conquerors of fate, 

Of whom we know not, nor shall know, 
till the great Ultimate. 

Erol Gervask. 



Personals. 



Dr. Osier has been in town in connection with the 
sickness of Dr. Howard. 

W. I. Bradley, M.D., ’88, might be seen a few days 
ago in the old haunts around McGill. 

Miss Alice Murray, B. A., ’88, is an efficient member 
of the teaching staff of the Trafalgar Institute. 

J. W. McOuat, B.A., ’86, Principal of the Lachute 
Academy, spent a day in town lately. His looks do 
not betray his double charge. 

Peers Davidson, ’90, one of the directors of The 
Gazette, is investigating the conditions of existence 
in the Southern States and Mexico. 

Mr. Jeffrey II. Burland, B.Ap.Sc., has returned 
from his winter’s trip in Europe, with fresh ideas 
on college subjects, in which he has always taken so 
firm an interest. 

The essayists at the last two meetings of the Society 
of Canadian Literature were McGill graduates : Mr. 
J. Eraser Torrance, on “ Judge Haliburton,” and Mr. 
Leigh R. Gregor, on “ Louis Frechette.” 

Edward E. Braithwaite, Arts, ’86, and Andrew P. 
Solandt, Arts, '87, are studying theology in Oberlin 
Theological Seminary, Oberlin, Ohio. To hear from 
Solandt is like a gleam from the old days, when 
deep discussions convulsed the management of The 
Gazette. 



Exchanges. 



The Manitoba College Journal is a good criterion 
of the progress Western education is making, but 
there are more than student hands apparent in its 
management and writings — a thing not bad in itself, 
if the management is of the right kind and the writ- 
ing on proper subjects. Its editorials are too homi- 
letical, and the contributions, which make up the bulk 
of the last number, are upon the widest possible range 
of subjects. 

• 

The Owl, published by the students of the Ottawa 
College, is always creditable, and in the late numbers 



there is a marked moderation of tone in the discussion 
of those semi -religious questions of which it is so fond. 
There is also a large college element, and its lighter 
attempts are rarely objectionable to individuals, and 
always graceful. It keeps itself well informed on 
current events, and is altogether a dignified and cap- 
able paper. 

The Queen's College Journal, for a University 
paper, is the most theological of our exchanges. In 
the last number, with the exception of one paragraph, 
the main editorial department deals exclusively with 
religious questions. So much so, that there is a dan- 
ger of developing the paper away from the life it is 
meant to reflect. Nor in the associate editorial is 
there any indication that the paper is published by 
and for the students of Queen’s College. 

The last number of the Presbyterian College Jour- 
nal is strong in its contributed articles, as all the 
numbers are, but the editorials indicate a hastiness in 
preparation that the pressure of examinations will 
go far to excuse. 

We have also received The Atlantis, The Sunbeam, 
published by the ladies of Ontario College, Whitby, 
and The Almafilian. 

In a magazine like the Acadia Athenaium, whose 
very paper is the pink of perfection, we are compelled 
to see everything, whether we will or no, through 
roseate glasses, and are in danger of forgetting our 
character of critic in the aesthetic gratification of its 
pages. Its excellencies, however, are marred by some 
defects. Its editorials can hardly be characterized by 
that purity of tone which should distinguish every 
college paper, and even its most matter-of-fact reports 
must be highly coloured. The Athenaeum touches on 
two facts in connection with college life — the one rare, 
the other remarkable, and both true. The first is exces- 
sive study, and the second, the fact that the great majo- 
rity of students are of modest means, and frequently 
self-supported. 

The Varsity, in its goodness, might be a cause of 
jealousy to its - les3 pretentious contemporaries, if it 
were not for the favourable circumstances in which it 
is placed. In a late number it deals with the Matricu- 
lation question, and says : — 

“ Some time ago the Varsity advocated the abolition of the 
present First Year Course as laid down in the University Curri- 
culum on the ground that it contained too much of ‘purely elemen- 
tary work in many branches.’ As we then pointed out : — ‘A large 
proportion of this (First Year) appears to us unnecessary, at least 
so far as the University is concerned. It should be done in the 
Secondary Schools.’ And again : * The work is not really Uni- 
versity work at all ; and also, that it would be done much more 
thoroughly and with better results in the High Schools and 
Collegiate Institutes, whose very existence pre-supposes the pro- 
secution of such comparatively advanced studies.’ In regard to 
the elementary work prescribed in the Curriculum our position 
was this : That its retention was prima Jade evidence that it 
was regarded by the University authorities at least as having 
been indifferently taught in the High Schools aud Institutes, 
and therefore had to be taught all over again in the University. 
This position we again unhesitatingly assume.” 

Our School Times is an honest effort to do some- 
thing in the way of college journalism — creditable 
though elementary. 



136 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



The Educational Monthly has an abundance of 
material of use to teachers, but it appeals to a wider 
constituency than that profession. A recent number 
contains a full synopsis of Sir William Dawson’s 
speech before the Inter-provincial Convention of 
teachers, held at St. John, N.R 

The King's College Record is more than a college 
paper ; it has a good literary flavour, in which are 
notable Canadian elements, and it seems to have 
caught something of the spirit of the poet professor 
of Kings. Its biographical sketches and illustrations 
are a valuable contribution to the understanding of 
literature as it is in Canada. 

The Dominion Illustrated we count a credit to 
Canadian journalism, and an important factor in de- 
veloping a healthy national life. To neglect to read 
it is an offence against one’s mental advancement — to 
fail to support it is a sin against Canadian literature. 
It appeals especially to students, and we hope the 
graduates and undergraduates of our University will 
be discerning enough to appreciate the good work 
this literary and artistic journal is doing. In every 
case it gives the preference to Canadian subjects, and 
the treatment of them is typical without being local. 
Through this medium Canadian writers, if they are 
fortunate enough to gain access to its columns, will 
find a ready means of putting themselves in com- 
munion with those working along similar lines, and 
in any case the literary judgments of the editors, they 
may look upon as trustworthy and reliable indications 
of the value of their work. 



Huttings. 



LAST WORDS. 

Byron — I must sleep now. 

Sir Walter Raleigh — It matters little how the head 
lieth. 

Chancellor Thurlow — I’m shot, if I don’t believe 
I’m dying. 

Haydn — God preserve the emperor. 

Goethe — Let the light enter. 

Queen Elizabeth — All my possessions for a moment 
of time. 

Cardinal Beaufort — What ! is there no bribin" 
death 1 

Mme. de Stael — I have loved God, my father, and 
liberty. 

Tasso — Into Thy hands, 0 Lord. 

Anne Boleyn — It is small, very small, indeed, 
(clasping her neck). 

Sir Thomas More — I pray you, see me safe up, and 
for my coming down, let me shift for myself (ascend- 
ing the scaffold). 

Sir Walter Scott — I feel as if I were to be myself 
again. 

Thomas Jefferson — I resign my soul to God, and 
my daughter to my country. 



Washington — It is well. 

Adams — Independence for ever. 

Taylor — I have endeavoured to do my duty. 

Frederick V. of Denmark — There is not a drop of 
blood on my hands. 

Mozart — You spoke of refreshment, my Emilie ; 
take my last notes, sit down to my piano here, sing 
them with the hymn of your sainted mother ; let me 
hear once more those notes which have so long been 
my solacement and delight. 

Franklin — A dying man can do nothing easy. 

Mirabeau — Let me die to the sounds of delicious 
music. 

Dr. Adam — It grows dark, boys ; you may go. 

Dr. Johnson — God bless you, my dear. 

John Knox — Now it is come. 

Hood — Dying, dying. 

Humboldt — How grand these rays ; they seem to 
beckon earth to heaven. (The sun was shining bril- 
liantly into the room in which he was lying). 



CONVERSATION. 

A human foot has never yet ascended the Jungfrau 
nor the Finsteraarhorn. 

The summit of the Alps — a perfect chain of steep 
rocks — the depths of the heart of the mountains. 

Above the mountains a pale-green heaven, still and 
clear. Hard, severe frost ; firm, glittering snow; from 
under the snow protrude gloomy, ice - incrusted 
weather-beaten twigs. 

Two Colossi, two giants, rise on either side of the 
horizon : the Jungfrau and the Finsteraarhorn. And 
the Jungfrau asks her neighbour — “What is the 
news ? Thou canst gaze around more easily than I ; 
what is happening there below 1 ” 

A thousand years elapse — a minute. And Fin- 
steraarhorn thunders in reply — “ Impenetrable clouds 
veil the earth — wait ! ” 

Another thousand years elapse — a minute. 

“ What now 1 ” asks the Jungfrau. 

“ Now I can see : there below everything is un- 
changed, confused, and small. Blue water, black 
forests, masses of gray, piled-up, towering stone. And 
all around those little beetles still swarm ; you know 
them, those with two legs ; who, hitherto, have never 
been able to sully my summit nor thine.” 

“ Mankind 1 ” 

“ Yes, mankind.” 

A thousand years elapse once more — a minute. 

“ And what now! ” asks the Jungfrau. 

“ It appears to me as if a few of these beetles had 
become visible,” thunders Finsteraarhorn ; “ it has 
grown clearer there below ; the waters are diminished 
the forests less dense ! ” 

And yet anothei' thousand years go by a minute. 

What seest thou now 1 ” asks the Jungfrau. 

“ Around us, close at hand, it seems to grow clearer,” 
replies Finsteraarhorn ; “ but there, in the distance, 
there are still specks in the valleys, somethin" still 
stirs there,” 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



137 



“And now!” asks the Jungfrau, after another 
thousand years — a minute. 

“ Now it is good,” answers Finsteraarhorn ; “ it is 
pure everywhere ; perfectly white, wherever one 
looks. Our snow is everywhere, spotless snow and 
ice. All is frozen. Now it is good and quiet.” 

“ Yes, now it is good ! ” assents the Jungfrau. 
“ And now thou hast chattered sufficiently, old one. 
Let us now sleep a little.” 

“ Yes, it is time.” 

So they sleep, those giant mountains; and the 
clear, green heaven slumbers above the everlastingly 
silent earth. 

Ivan Turgenief. 



Between the Lectures. 



The best known lady killer lives in Whitechapel. 

The one bright spot in the gambler’s life is the 
ace. 

The worst form of writer’s cramp is being cramped 
for funds. 

“ Samson ” is a most popular oratorio — it always 
brings down the house. 

Don’t allude to the dollar that keeps lent. It is an 
old joke and is little used nowadays. 

The railway sandwich is an instance where they 
never succeed in making both ends meat. , 

It is rumored that Postmaster Wanamaker is 
anxious to have a picture of John Calvin placed upon 
the two-cent stamp. 

Obituary notice in a Louisville, (Ky.) paper: “Thus 
doth old time still swing its lusty scythe, and thus 
shall it ever be till time is no mower.” 

When a strand of feminine hair gets entangled in 
a masculine scarf-pin it does not require a very heavy 
step in an adjoining room to make two hearts beat as 
twenty. 

Young lady in one of our city schools studying 
“ Outline Study of Man : ” “ Oh, dear, this theme 

is just delightful ! ” Classmate : “ And so practical, 

you see.” 

Mrs. Morbid — I have called, sir, to offer some words 
of sympathy to the unfortunate wife-murderer in cell 
100 ! 

Prison official — Take a chair, madam. As soon as 
a new block of six is made up, we will dismiss the 
ladies who are calling on him now. Our corridors 
are very narrow, you know.” 

During President Grant’s term of office a picture 
was exhibited in the Gallery of Design, at New York, 
bearing the title, “ Companions of Ulysses,” and re- 
presenting the enchanted creatures feeding at a trough. 
A gentleman, of rustic tendencies, was visiting the 
collection, and when he came to the painting he ex- 
claimed— “ Well, if that a’int the best political hit 
ever I seen. 



College Ulorlb. 



Michigan University has established a course in the 
art of writing plays for the stage. 

His Holiness, Leo XIII, has canoncially erected 
Ottawa College into a Catholic University. 

At Strasbourg a German newspaper of the year 1609 
has been found, which is the oldest German paper 
known. 

The Mail and Express of February 13th, contained 
the first part of a directory of American Colleges and 
College papers. 

The question of female physicians has been settled 
in Russia in the affirmative, with the stipulation that 
ladies shall only attend on adults of their own sex and 
on children of both sexes. 

A library is to be established in Paris, in which only 
books and writings by women are to be admitted. 

“ Carmen Sylva,” the poetry writing queen of Rou- 
mania, has accepted the presidency of the library. 

Mile. Marguerite Gidel, the daughter of the Princi- 
pal of the Henri IY. College, has just passed her ex- 
amination as Bachelor of Art at the Paris Faculty of 
Letters. The young lady is only sixteen years of age. 

J. Edward Pfeiffer, who lately died in London, left 
nearly half a million dollars to his wife, Mrs. Emily 
Pfeiffer, the English poetess, to be used for the advance- 
ment of women. Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer have been 
much interested both in the collegiate education of 
girls and in woman suffrage. 

Every recipient of a scholarship at Amherst College 
must sign a document saying that he has not entered 
a billiard room, except in the college gymnasium, dur- 
ing the term, nor used tobacco, nor drunk liquor as a 
beverage, nor paid any money as tuition for dancing, 
and must also send in a signed account of his expenses 
for the year. 

Professor Shaler, of Harvard College, who has given 
much thought to a scheme for providing the necessi- 
ties of college at the lowest possiblo price, has, with 
some other instructors, organized the “ Economic 
Club,” which will provide board for $3.50 a week, 
and text books and other things at low prices. About 
one hundred students have decided to go into the 
scheme. 

Of the growing colleges in the States, Colorado 
College deserves mention. Young men and women 
can there build up their constitutions while acquiring 
a goodly store of knowledge. The regular classical 
course does not vary essentially from that of Amherst 
or Yale, and graduates are admitted to the Society of 
Collegiate Alumni. The college is co-educational, 
and last year the highest standard of scholarship 
was attained by a young girl. 

At Hanover College a week ago the freshmen classes 
in both classical and scientific departments absented 
themselves from the Greek and German recitations 
and were notified by the faculty that their action, if 



138 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



not apologized for, would lead to suspension. The 
freshmen unanimously decided not to apologize. At 
a joint fraternity meeting later it was decided that in 
event of the suspension of the freshmen the fraternity 
men in the sophomore, junior, and senior classes, num- 
bering sixty men, would leave. The literary societies, 
numbering sixty-four, also decided to do likewise, and 
thus the matter stands. 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King." 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

3P- O- B 022 : 1734, - ^Eoxitresil. 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© O’erraarcL Street Esist, Toronto. 

D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

Shirt lakers aid lea’s Furnishers, 

& NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cnt, Singed and Dressed, 

<3-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

TViadsor Hotel tBloclc, Feel Street. 



TROY STEAK LAONDRY CO’Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

watek. 

PERFECT WOEE. 

DELIVEKT. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine street, opp. Qneen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

— ~ ) jBxyy 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe: stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A.d.d.re©s z 

30 ST. JOHN STREET. 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



305 ds 387 St. rF^-crx, Steeet, n^o^TisE^-Xj 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— ^Wholesale Manufacturers*— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on A pplication. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

HEn>r:Ere“ 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 



(Fngijaving ^ Jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Crests, programmes 
plonograms, See., See. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

FISTS SAV&2F& 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



and 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
id TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

B. A. OBRTH. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-HR PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
an d CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

s5 fSill $todk doi^tkntly op Skpd, Imported 
f)fredt from tl\e I<ekdigg ^Tkipifkdtifrefd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 




TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21 2U & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 





THE GENUINE 

Cook’s Friend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 







C. ASHFORD'S 

CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHMP FQFt CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



Jfeu . 7 Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 




1850 and 1852 TTOTRE DAME ST., CORlTEIt McGILL. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

IR/IEA.ID'Y'-IMIA.IDZE] CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHItLAS, MELTONS- FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. -®a 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




