No. 8 



Vol. X. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreat. 











UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



Th© Mutual Lif© Insuranc© Co. 

o'F nsTEW 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

^ ^ - ... - - $109,000,000 

Assets nearly - _ . 13,000,000 

Snrplns over - - - 

The WIUTimL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world) with the best recordi 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Slmltiit! ta lipme lair tirtnislates consideniWp If atlns as Agents in Heir own Localities dnring VaaDon. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

_ - > i IT 



l.'zes l^OTI^DE! 






WEDDING CARDS, 



VISITING CARDS, 



MENU CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
iml CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



RECEPTION CARDS, 
INVITATION CARDS, 



^ ^todk (foii^taiitly oq ftar|d, Iippoi^i 

f)ii‘edt f/oni tLie I^eadiri^ ^Ma^ufadtui^ef^ 
of tl\e Wodd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITEO. 









384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES, 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

TME BURLAND LITH. CO., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury St., MONTREAL. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 

j^Jl^ographers 

* * Jj ******* At 0, * * oT*-* IT 

}/evu Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 



ilfoolopd|o((f 9 fpt|o 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CTAAn^/ilTlS ST. 



jnEmc^aij vronns, books vseu iJ\*jntT course, 

SCJEJS'CE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE V\aB10US 1BEO/.OtHCJE BOOKS. 

Full assortieiit in stocl & snpplled at Rod Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., Ac., 
-^IBEST ■VJLLTJE IliiT TOWIT’i*-^ 
StyJogravhic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students* 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO.. 

232 St. Ta.i3Q.Gs Street, 

A.X.SO 

Branch Store U23 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

VoL. X.] :McGILL college, MONTREAL, MARCH 2nd, 1887. [No. 8. 



Slnibctsili 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 
5. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. CAMF.RON, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 



EDITORS. 



Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 
Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc 
Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 



The Untvebsity Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer mus 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, u. u. 



Box 1290. 



CONTENTS: 



- Editorials 
Poetry 

Contributions 
McGill News - 
Societies - - * 

Personals - - - 

Between the Lectures 
College World - 
Correspondence 



Ebitorials. 



PAGE. 

101 

102,112 

102-108 

108-111 

111-112 

112 

113 

113 

113-114 



UNDERGRADUATES AT PRINCETON. 

Princeton College has recently inaugurated a new 
era in its government. It has recognized the fact that 
the university is not like a school where the Faculty 

rules the students, but acknowledged that the studente 

are equal in standing to the Faculty. The Faculty r 
to be strengthened by 

undergraduate years, who will assist it in jus y 
in" all undergraduate subjects that come up or 
sid'eration. Such a plan might not d“tagecmsly 
be introduced into McGill. At present, the only le- 
presentatives of undergraduates are men who no » 



attend lectures in the department which they repre- 
sent, and who, in consequence, are sometimes and un- 
avoidably ignorant of what the undergraduates desire. 
Their day is not our day, and the training which de- 
veloped them might in some cases stunt the present 
generation of students. 

In the minor matter of the quantity of matter to he 
studied annually, the student representatives would 
he ahle to give valuable advice, and this gauging of 
the intelligence of the classes would lead to a higher 
instruction, a desideratum much to he desired. Fur- 
ther than this, the students would have a voice in 
choosing new subjects for study, as the finances of 
the college permitted an enlargement of the schedule. 
For example, there is little doubt that a course in 
political economy, such as is now given in very many 
American colleges and at Toronto, avould not be long 
omitted from the Arts curriculum. 

Apart from all this, the fact of possessing a voice 
in the government of the University would lend an 
air of dignity to the students, would lead to an un- 
wonted cordialty between them and their professors, 
and would produce an ardent esprit de corps which 
could not fail to redound to the advantage of the 
University throughout the Dominion. 

Of course it is understood that the Princeton 
authorities have been led to this novel change by the 
past difficulties in the management of the students at 
that institution. We, very fortunately, have no need 
to seek new methods of controlling the students, and 
any change that might be made would only be in 
adding to the complete understanding now obtaining 
between the governing body of McGill and the under- 
graduates with regard to study. Nevertheless, the 
Princeton idea is a good one, and a great advance 
towards true University life, where undergraduate 
and professor are students together, both aiming to 
attain the highest peaks of knowledge. 



We must apologize to our readers for our delay in 
issuing this number of the Gazette. Our staff had 
become considerably disorganized owing to absences 
from the city ; but we hope to be able, by issuing 
weekly for a few numbers, to redeem the past. 

We take this opportunity to again appeal to the 
Undergraduates to assist us with literary contribu- 
tions. 



102 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. [1887. 



cognising the presence of an unruly element, the 
judge’s face grew stern, and the crier became red in 
the face over his screams of silence see- lance, he 

called it). Then followed the usual prelude — 

“ 0 ! yis, 0 ! yis, 0 ! yis.” 



Poetry. 

A STUDY IN BLACK. 
(from victor HUGO.) 



When to the youngest he had given his alms. 

He mused, and stayed to watch them. Frequent fasts 
Had pinched each cheek, and withered up each brow. 

All four sat close together on the ground : 

Then, having shared a morsel of black bread 
Filched from the gutter, they began to eat, 

But with an air so hopeless, and forlorn, 

That seeing them, all women must ha\'e wept. 

Yes I they were lost upon this earth of ours — 

Four children friendless in a crowded world. 

Father and mothers dead— and not a barn 
/ To give them shelter : all with hare torn legs. 

Except the youngest, who, poor innocent child I 
With steps, that staggered, on his limping feet 
Dragged some old shoes — too large— tied up with string. 
They crouch all night in ditches, where they sleep : 

How numb they feel at morning when the wind 
Nips their thin bodies, and the leafy tree, 

That quivers with the carol of the lark, 

Rears a black profile on the clear cold sky. 

Their hands that God made rosy now are red. 

On Sunday to some village near they stray 
To find a meal. The little one so pale 
And fragile, in his childish treble sings 
Some wanton song, unconscious what it means 
To raise a laugh (though tears are in his eyes) 

From some coarse rufl&an at the tavern’s door. 

He sings so sweetly that from out that den 
To buy them food some paltry pence are flung — 

The alms of hell; contributed by sin, 

Unhallowed coins on which the devil has spat. 

But now they screen themselves behind a hedge 
And munch in silence, timorous as fawns. 

Off* they are beaten, always hunted down : 

And thus, condemned though innocent, the waifs 
Tramp daily, starving, close to happy homes. 

Borne by sheer chance, where’er the oldest leads. 

Then, he who been musing, looked on high 
His gaze found nothing but the calm warm day— 

The blessed sun — the air with golden wings 
A-quiver, and the azure vault of heaven : 

While songs of triumph, strains of ecstasy 
Fell on those children from the birds of the sky. 

________ Gko. Murray. 



Contributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLPE. 



JF rittcn for the University Gazette. 



CHAP. VII. — {Continued.) 



Still you keep o’ the windy side of the law.” 

— Shakespeai 

A crowd of little urchins followed our process 
numbers at every step, until, when 
reached the court-house, it was doubtful which pi 
ban the larger representation— the medicos or 
gamins. Delegates from other colleges were alre 
there, and as we filed in the faces of the policemen 
guard perceptibly lengthened. As we behaved c 
selves with decorum, these fingers of the law had 
reason to bar our entrance. At the comin'r of 

^ whispered chan 

” See the mighty host advancing — 

Satan leading on before ” ° 

showed the turbulent feelings of’ the audience. : 



“ Oh ! no. Oh ! no. Oh ! no,” 

came a responsive echo, evidently from nowhere in 
particular. The docket was brought in — a tangled, 
tattered, slouching set, mostly, with faces unintelligent 
and brutal, but with here and there a bright one, 
lowered in shame, or eager to establish innocence. 
Cutler and Eellek appeared from the audience, and 
took positions near the judge’s bench, to be ready 
when called. 

“ Hurrah ! for the musician,” cried some one, and, 
amid cat-calls, the cheers were given. The police 
made a rush, but were met by a passive resistance, 
which, together with the silence that ensued, caused 
them to fall back. 

There was silence while the cases were being tried, 
broken only by a sotto voce comment upon the evi- 
dence or pleading, such as “ that’s a lie,” or “ injured 
innocence,” “ dizziness ! yes, spr. vini rect.” One or 
two cases that were tried were laughable, but the 
majority were insipid, or pitiful only. 

The celebrated case soon came up. The judge 
looked at his list, and called out “Joe Eellek, John 
Smith, and Blooney Clake, for disturbing the peace. 
On bail ; crier, are they here 1 ” 

Eellek and Cutler made themselves known, and 
the crier called out — 

“ Blooney Clake ! Blooney Clake ! ” 

There was no answer, except a simultaneous peal 
of laughter from the clustering students, who recog- 
nized the name in spite of its mutilation. 

“Where’s Blooney?” “Be a man, Blooney!” 
“ Blooney’s no looney I ” “ Oh I vere, oh ! vere, is 

my leddle dawg gone ! ” These were a few of the 
cries that followed the crier’s utterance. 

“ Silence I ” roared the crier, and then addressing 
his honour, said — 

“ The prisoner is not in court, yer honour.” 

“ Forfeit his bail, then, and make out a warrant 
for his apprehension,” said the judge to his clerk. 

And now, sirs,” he said to Eellek and Cutler, 
after examining the policeman, “ what have you to 
say for yourselves 1 ” 

Eellek stepped forward. “ Our arrest is a gross 
rights of Englishmen, sir,” he said. 
We were behaving as peaceable citizens when the 
policeman— whose instant dismissal I shall at once 
demand dared to interfere in our conversation, 
nere was no disturbance of the peace, except by 
im. I am acquainted with the law, sir, being a 
student, and was acting within my rights, when that 
pointing scornfully at the policeman — 
poured upon us with ghoulish glee and arrested 
® understand English, and in his 
egotistical autotheism assumed that he was right and 
were wrong. We accompanied him to the station 
y 0 procure his dismissal into innocuous disuetude, 
^ chief, whose extraordinary 

6 o 1 y IS extremely reprehensible, and succeeded 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



103 



in convincing him of our guilt. We look to your 
judgment to set matters to rights, and secure the city 
from a suit for damages by forcing an apology from 
the chief and dismissing the policeman.” 

“ Hurrah ! ” shrieked the students. 

“ Ten dollars, or two weeks,” said his honour. 
“ Call the next case.” 

“ What-t ! ” shrieked Rellek, 

“ I’ll be blanked ! ” exclaimed Cutler, “ I’ll not 
pay it ! ” 

“ Remove the prisoners,” said the judge. 

There was an ominous movement among the stu- 
dents — a turning up of wristbands and a tightening 
of the grasp upon the ghastly weapons they held. 
Cutler glanced up quickly among the spectators, and 
followed the policeman. 

No sooner had the procession of prisoners passed 
the door, than the students streamed out and pressed 
upon the little guard of police. 

There was a shrill whistle, and Cutler, taking the 
police by surprise, sprang into the crowd, which opened 
to receive him, and closing again, offered a solid wall 
against the onslaught of the police. With derisive 
cheers the students bore away into Notre Dame street, 
closely pressed by the police. As yet no open resist- 
ance had taken place, but the officers were losing 
their tempers, and began to use their clubs. Then 
the students retaliated, femurs were brandished, and 
with a wild cheer the handful of police were driven 
back. Again they attacked, and once more were they 
overwhelmed and chased to the very doors of the 
court-house. In the meantime, other police had ar- 
rived under the chief, and the students fell back, fol- 
lowed, but not pressed, by the police. Away they 
'went, cheering, singing, and brandishing their wea- 
pons up Notre Dame street, St. James street, and Beaver 
Hall Hill. Here the party began to break up. Cut- 
ler had long ago been sent otf in a carriage, and Rellek 
had been rescued. Now, the lynx-eyed chief tried to 
get his work in and break up the party. He tried in 
vain to make arrests, for the students melted away like 
snow. Clooney and I had been apart from the throng 
for some time, when we noticed a policeman eyeing 
us. Clooney nudged me and said — 

“There’s the bloke that ran us in last night. We 
had better slope.” 

We sloped round a corner, but the policeman fol- 
lowed, not demonstratively, but still with doggedness. 
He spoke to others on his way, and all joined in the 
chase. 

“By Jove,” said Clooney, “this beats us. We 
must get out of the scrape somehow.” 

We dodged around another corner, and came right 
upon a stylish turn-out with two gorgeous footmen 
upon the box. 

Clooney ran up to the carriage — 

“ Two dollars for the use of your hats and coats, 
my men, for five minutes,” he said. 

“ Certainly, Mr. Blake,” said one, and in an instant 
Clooney and I were on the box, and the two footmen 
in our coats lounged against the dry-goods store at 
which the carriage was standing. 

Not an instant too soon was the change made, for 
round the corner came a pcsse of police, who gazed 



curiously at the loungers, and then turned to Clooney 
and me. 

“ ’Ave you see two mans run by 1 ” asked our friend 
of the night before. 

“ Yes, sir,” replied Clooney, touching his hat, 
“they turned into St. Peter street, I think.” 

“ Ah ! zank you,” and away the posse ran. 

Clooney and I were about to spring down and ex- 
change our toggery again, when the door of the dry- 
goods store opened and two ladies came out. Ignor- 
ing the dethroned royalties, who half started forward 
to open the door, the ladies came directly to the car- 
riage, opened the door, and got in, the elder saying — 
“Home, George.” 

“ Mrs. Mayflower,, by jimminy,” I whispered to 
Clooney, whose curt answer — “ For heaven’s sake, 
shut up ! ” — told what his feelings were better than a 
direct confession could have done. 

The real coachman came forward ostensibly to 
straighten a rein, and whispered — “ What shall I do, 
sir ? ” 

“ Follow in a cab,” replied Clooney, as he drew the 
whip sharply across the horses’ backs. 

The drive home was rapid and silent. 

Tilting our hats over our faces, Clooney and I pre- 
pared to face the music. I, as footman, would have 
to open the door of the carriage on arriving, and it 
would be a miracle if I was not recognised by the 
ladies. Behind us we heard the cab that contained 
the real dignitaries of the box, and we would have 
given every cent we had, even our chances of a pass 
in the examinations, to be in that cab. However, it 
could not be helped. I saw that Clooney had some 
vague idea of getting up a runaway, but Miss Edith 
was there, and he refrained from endangering her 
life. We arrived at the house, and drawing my hat 
still further over my eyes, I got down to open the 
door, standing half-sideways as I did so. The two 
ladies got out, and there was silence for a time. I 
could not see them, of course, but expected they were 
looking at me. After an hour or so, as it seemed, I 
heard Mrs. Mayflower say — 

“Well, I never ! Straighten your hat, Tom.” 

“ Yes’m,” I replied, fumbling with it. 

“ Tom, you’re drunk ! ” 

“ Yes’m,” I answered, not knowing what I said. 

“ You, a servant in ray employ, how dare you get 
drunk, sirl And then to tell me so. I suppose 
George is drunk, too.” 

Jove pardon me, but I actually felt glad to think 
that Clooney was to get his share. I waited to hear 
Clooney’s reply. He shuffled in his seat and flecked 
the horses’ backs with his whip, but that was all. 

“ Did you hear me, George 1 ” asked Mrs. May- 
flower. “ Are you both drunk, or crazy, or what! ” 

“ No, ma’am,” muttered Clooney. 

If love is blind, he has good ears. I looked up 
into Miss Mayflower’s face and saw her change 
colour. 

“ Come, mother,” she said, “ send the horses to the 
stable, and talk to the men when they are sober.” 

“ Bless you for that,” I muttered. 

“Very well, my dear,” said the elder lady, resign- 
edly. “It always comes sooner or later. As Mr. 



104 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



Blake said only the other day — ‘ The better the coach- 
man the easier he gets drunk.’ Straighten your hat, 
Tom. You may be intoxicated, but my livery isn’t.” 

“Although it is claret colour,” I whispered to 
Clooney, as I climbed the box. 

“ One moment, George,” we heard Miss Mayflower 
say, as we were preparing to start. She tripped down 
the steps, and, coming to the carriage, said imperi- 
ously — 

“ George, Tom, take oflf your hats ! ” 

There was such an air of command about her words 
that we instinctively obeyed her. 

“ I thought so,” she said. “ I shall expect a satis- 
factory explanation, gentlemen.” 

“ Believe me, Edith — Miss Mayflower — it was acci- 
dental,” broke in Clooney. 

“Excuse me,” she said, coldly, “You had better 
explain by letter,” and she left us. 

“ D nation,” said Clooney. 

I laughed. “ Come, old boy, let’s get these things 
off.” ® 

I had to take the reins from Clooney and drive 
round the corner, where we met the real George and 
Tom. Clooney was moody and silent. Just as we 
were leaving the men, he said — 

“ Confound you fellows, why didn’t you refuse to 
change with us ? ” 

M hy, Mr. Blake,” said George, “ we recognised 
you, and saw the police were after you. We thought 
you knew the carriage.” ® 

“I’ve a great miud to take it out of your hide,” 
said Clooney, clenching his fist. 

r ^interrupted, “it’s not George’s 

I ault. And slipping my arm through his, I took him 
nome. 

(To he continued.) 

“ A FEW WORDS ON ORATORY.” 



(Paper read before the University Literary Society, 17th Dec., 

1886 .) 



(Continued.) 

The powerful aid of such an orator, who could 

ZVtS""""" popular opinion by 

his matchless eloquence, was a factor of immense 

V eight with the party which should be fortunate 
enough to gain his adherence to their cause 
The story of the trial of Verres forms interesting 
rea^ng, and is exceedingly curious when compared 
with how a process of similar nature would be ti^ated 
m out day Vertes, Ptooonsul in Sicily \ad obb d 
, he chose to covers 

stolon the gold and the statues from their temples 
delivered over the people themselves to the pirates 
that nfested their coasts, broken down honourable 
families by iniquitous suits at law, and oommUMoZ, 
enormities too numerous to mention, and neither life 
libeity, not even the virtue of the dau'.htcr of hi.’ 
host were safe from the "ragr, of tbi« tin ^ • 
despot. At length, replete “wS ht SfcofteS 
he returns to Rome, boasting of his deed!, and ready 



to divide a liberal share of the booty with other 
powerful men of his own oligarchical class ; a depu- 
tation of the Islanders come to complain and to seek 
for justice, and engage Cicero, then a young man, as 
their advocate ; his rival, Hortensius, the other next 
foremost pleader of the day, being retained by Verres. 
But difficulties there are at the outset, and others 
supervene ; the judges themselves belong to the same 
class as the accused, and hope some day to hold 
similar positions, with like chances for plunder. 
Metellus, the Praetor elect for the coming year, was 
keen for Verres, and the aristocracy of Rome was all 
on the same side. Delays are sought. Another is 
put up as a more proper person to act for the prose- 
cution, and in such case the judges themselves are 
held to decide, by a preliminary trial, styled Divinatio, 
which of the advocates shall be selected to undertake 
the task. On this issue Cicero makes his first speech 
in the trial called In Quintum Calcilium divinatio, 
directed against Calcilius, the rival named to supplant 
him, and the oration is a model of sagacity and 
courage. He has to plead his own fitness, the unfit- 
ness of Calcilius, and the wishes of the Sicilians, 
which were, of course, all well-known to the judges, 
but Cicero has to make such a strong case as to com- 
pel a favourable verdict for very shame. He ridicules 
Calcilius, attacks Hortensius, and appeals to the people 
of Rome at large — and wins his point. Then he has 
to go to Sicily to collect evidence, and asks for 110 
days delay, but only takes 50, crossing over in a small 
boat from an unknown part, so as to escape the 
dangers contrived by the friends of Verres, and tra- 
verses the island as quietly and secretly as possible ; 

returns and makes his second speech in the trial 

the Actio prenta contra Verrem — wEich is almost 
entirely confined to an exhortation to the judges, 
whom he would so appal as that they would not dare 
to^ acquit the accused. He begins : “ Not by humane 
wisdom, O ye judges, but by chance, and by the aid, 
as it were, of the gods themselves, an event has come 
to pass by which the hatred now felt for your order 
and the infamy attached to the judgment seat may 
be appeased ; for an opinion has gone abroad, dis- 
giaceful to the republic, full of danger to yourselves, 
which m in the mouths of all men, not only here in 
Rome, but through all nations, that by these Courts, 
as ey are now constituted, a man, if he be only rich 
enoug , '^ill never be condemned, though he be ever 
so guilty. y * * And he ends : “ This is a trial 

in w ich you, indeed, will have to judge this man 
who is accused, but in which, also, the Roman people 
will have to judge you. By what is done to him will 
be determined whether a man who is guilty, and at 
-pie ®^nie tirne rich, can possibly be condemned in 
it the matter goes amiss here, all men will 
ec are, no that better men should be selected out of 
your order, which would 'be impossible, but that an- 

select the^udge^- 

J'itnesses were examined during nine days, 
"ave wl > Hortensius, scarce attempting a reply, 
?erdi7t condemned by their own 

the ew L* oratio, or summing up of 

) w ich Cicero had carefully prepared in five 



1887.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



105 



parts, was never delivered in the trial, but was after- 
wards published to the world. 

Let us now spend a few moments in considering 
the art from a practical standpoint, and for this pur- 
pose it will be found convenient to follow the method 
usually adopted, and regard a speech from two points 
of view 1st, as concerns the subject matter, and 2nd, 
the delivery. While it is, as has been already men- 
tioned, undoubtedly true that many are born with a 
greater aptitude than others for public speaking, and 
although the off-hand speeches of some of the greatest 
orators have been those which have gained for them 
the most renowned fame, as they came direct from 
the heart, and were the outburst of feelings which 
refused to be controlled ; yet, the greatest orators of 
every age have, almost without exception, reached 
their high positions by dint of incessant toil and 
indomitable energy ; they have taken in effect as their 
motto the lines of Shakespeare — 

‘ ‘ Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie 
Which we ascribe to heaven.” 

Both Demosthenes and Cicero had a horror of being 
called upon to speak unprepared ; the latter, even 
during his busiest times, being in the habit of com- 
mitting the important parts of his pleadings to writ- 
ing. Pliny the younger, also shared the same feel- 
ings as to extempore speaking, and advised constant 
reading, writing, and speaking. The occasion which 
drew forth the special impassioned harangue is not 
always present, and the speaker thrown back on his 
own uncultured resources, amidst the common-place 
facts of every day life, will find that nature has not 
stored his brain with that knowledge and experience 
of human affairs which can only come from study, 
and which must form the stock-in-trade of the suc- 
cessful orator. Cicero, indeed, conscious that he was 
at the top of his profession, as Chesterfield says, in 
order to set himself off, defines, in his treatise, De 
Oratore, an orator to be such a man as never was or 
never will be, and, by this fallacious argument, says 
that he must know every art and science whatsoever, 
or how shall he speak upon them ? But, with sub- 
mission to so great an authority, my definition of an 
orator is extremely different from, and I believe 
much truer than, his. I call that man an orator who 
reasons justly and expresses himself elegantly upon 
whatever subject he treats. Problems in geometry, 
equations in algebra, and experiments in anatomy, 
are never, that I have heard of, the objects of elo- 
quence, and, therefore, I humbly conceive that a man 
may be a very fine speaker, and yet know nothing of 
these. 

It is needless to repeat the painful drudgery to 
which Demosthenes subjected himself in the pursuit 
of the great object of his life ; but the wonderful 
results attained in his case against obstacles at first 
sight almost insurmountable, give room for encourage- 
ment to the most feeble and difiident speaker, pro- 
vided he will only determinedly make up his mind 
to succeed. Aiit Gcbsolt ciiit tiiliil should be his motto, 
but the Coesar should always be kept in view and 
the nihil dropt behind. He may, not improbably, 
experience many failures, and even encounter ridicule 



and laughter, but let him remember Disraeli’s defiance 
to those who made fun of his maiden speech in the 
House of Commons — “ I am not at all surprised,” 
said he, “at the reception which I have experienced. 
1 have begun several times many things, and I have 
often succeeded at last. I will sit down now, but 
the time will come when you will hear me” — and he 
will assuredly meet with success, perhaps not such as 
to give him rank as a first-rate orator, but at any rate 
such as will amply repay him for the labour bestowed 
on its attainment. 

With regard to the method to be followed and the 
materials to be used by the student of oratory, I would 
direct your attention to the advice given by Lord 
Brougham in a letter to Macaulay’s father with regard 
to the latter’s son, Avho was then thinking of entering 
the legal profession. He says that the first thing to 
be acquired is a habit of easy speaking, of being able 
to say what you think, and of clothing your thoughts 
in graceful and appropriate language, and for this end 
he recommends much writing and frequent talking — 
talking in conversation and speaking in debating 
societies, always saying something, more for the sake 
of learning how to speak than with a view of learn- 
ing what to say. This was the plan followed by Fox 
in the House of Commons, for he once remarked to a 
friend that he had gained his skill at the expense of 
the House, having made it a point during a whole 
session to say something on almost every subject ; by 
this means an extensive command of language is 
acquired, the speaker gradually rids himself of the 
diffidence with which he was probably hampered at 
the outset, and his mind becomes stored with a copi- 
ous vocabulary of words and expressions. To be able 
to command a complete assortment of words suited 
to every occasion. Lord Chatham went twice carefully 
through Nathan Bailey’s Dictionary of the English 
Language, and thus made himself thoroughly ac 
quainted with almost every word in his mother- 
tongue, and put himself in a position never to be at 
a loss for words to exactly express his thoughts. 

As in every other art wliich is not new, so in that 
of eloquence every great speaker, with the exception, 
perhaps, of Demosthenes, has endeavoured to frame 
his work upon models of what he has considered the 
nearest approach to perfection, and as oratory arrived 
at its highest state of culture and elegance amongst 
the ancients, especially the Athenians, undoubtedly 
the best models which the student can adopt are the 
Attic writers, of whom Lord Brougham says, in his 
letter to Macaulay — “ If he would be a great orator 
he must go at once to the fountain head, and be 
familiar with every one of the great orations of 
Demosthenes. I know from experience that nothing 
is half so successful in these times as what has been 
formed on the Greek models, h: * and I do 

assure you that both in courts of law and Parliament, 
and even to mobs, I have never made so much play 
as when I was almost translating from the Greek. I 
composed the peroration of my speech for the Queen 
in the Lords after reading and repeating Demosthenes 
for three or four weeks, and it certainly succeeded in 
a very extraordinary degree and far above any merits 
of its own.” 



106 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



After the Grecian writers, Cicero probably deserves 
the next place as a model of elegant composition, 
although he lacks the close, hard reasoning, accom- 
panied by the lofty dignity, of the Greeks, yet for 
beauty, polish, and keen*observation and knowledge 
of the human heart, he stands without a peer. 

If, however, the ancient classics are closed to any 
who seek for models upon which to build, our own 
language will not be found wanting in this respect. 
Amongst the writers whom Lord Brougham recom- 
mends are Burke, especially his “ Thoughts on the 
Cause of the Present Discontent,” speech on the 
“ American Conciliation,” and some others from 
amongst his finest productions ; Fox’s speech on the 
“Westminster Scrutiny,” with some of Wyndham’s 
best. 

Burke made a special study of Bacon, Shakespeare, 
and Milton. Of the last-named of whom Dryden 
says — 

“ Three poets in three distant ages born, 

Greece, Italy, and England did adorn — 

The first in loftiness of thought surpassed, 

'I'he next in majesty ; in both, the last : 

The force of Nature could no further go — 

To make a third slie joined the former two.” 



Lord Mansfield admired and studied deeply the 
works of Chillingworth. Milton, Dryden, and Shake- 
speare were the favourite authors of Daniel Webster. 
Lord Erskine, while confined for two years in the 
Island of Minorca, studied assiduously the wide field 
of English literature, but gave special attention to 

the works of Milton, of which Lord Brougham says 

“The noble speeches in ‘Paradise Lost’ may be 
deemed as good a substitute as could be discovered by 
the future orator for the immortal originals in the 
Greek models.” 

To make certain that there is no royal road to the 
attainment of excellence in oratory, we have only to 
look at the drudgery which almost all successful 
speakers have gone through before arriving at their 
high positions. Lord Mansfield read all the works 
on oratory he could find, and while at Oxford he 
translated into English and then back into Latin, the 
whole of Cicero’s orations. Sheridan, of whose 
speech on the trial ot Warren Hastings, Pitt re- 
marked, “ that it surpassed all the eloquence of 
ancient and modern times,” only overcame a thick 
and indistinct delivery and failure at the beginning 
of his career by incessant toil and careful preparation 
Chatham, Burke, Pitt, Fox, Grattan, Macaulay, Cur- 
ran, and almost all the famous speakers of modern 
times, succeeded eventually only after continued an- 
plication and toil. ^ 



Mr. Pitt once told a friend that he owed his "i 
readiness of speech to a habit enjoined upon him 
his father, Lord Chatham, of reading in En^^^lish fr 
a work in a foreign language and stopping *whene 
he was at fault for a word, till he thought of the n 
per one. ^ 

Toil and labour, then, are as much necessary 
order to become a good speaker as to become a ^0 
lawyer— the memory must be stored with a conic 
supply of various knowledge ; a command of a su 
cient number of words must be ensured, with th 



exact meaning and adaptability, to avoid wearisome 
repetition and roundabout tautology, and this can be 
acquired only by a thorough acquaintance with his 
mother tongue. Lord Brougham began by writing, 
and wrote on almost every subject ; to the first four 
numbers of the Edinburgh Review he contributed 21 
articles, and to the first twenty numbers 80 articles on 
subjects the most varied — science, politics, literature, 
poetry, surgery, mathematics, and the fine arts. 
Cockburn said of him that he once wrote off a whole 
number, including an article on lithotomy and an- 
other on Chinese music ; and, besides constant writing, 
he so reverenced the ancient classics that he learnt 
the orations of Demosthenes almost by heart ; in his 
defence of Queen Caroline he is said to have written 
the peroration to his speech seventeen times, and 
Lord Erskine, probably the greatest forensic orator 
that has graced the English bar, made himself com- 
plete master of the whole field of English literature 
before he ever began the study of his profession. 

Next, as to the mode of delivering what you have 
prepared. The most elaborate and weighty speech, 
if delivered without due regard for effect, and an 
endeavour to please and interest the audience, will 
always appear dry and uninteresting, and will assur- 
edly fall very much short of the success its intrinsic 
merit may deserve. You will often read in the news- 
papers a speech which pleases and convinces you, 
and afterwards another which seems insipid, shallow, 
and of little moment, yet your friend who has heard 
them both delivered, will wonder at the bestowal of 
your praise on what seemed so dull and heavy in 
the hearing. Lord Chesterfield, in talking of two 
different speakers of his time, said that the one could 
always command the attention of the House, no mat- 
ter on what subject he spoke, although his re- 
marks were of the most common-place and ordinary 
nature ] while the other, a man of solid worth, could 
scarce ever gain a decent hearing. 

One of the great secrets of Lord Brougham’s suc- 
cess in public speaking, besides his passionate energy, 
was the care and attention he bestowed on his manner 
and action, and in the modulation of his voice. 
Demosthenes, Cicero, and all the ancient masters, 
paid very especial attention to their mode of delivei'y, 
playing, as it were, upon their audience ; the Athen- 
ians adopted a lofty dignity, which suited well the 
stern democratic notions of their countrymen, while 
the Italians relied more on an exuberance of style 
^ appeal to the feelings and passions of 

t eir hearers, not disdaining to resort at times even 
to tears. 

It is said of Whitfield that he could affect his 
learcrs to weeping by the mere pronunciation of 
tne word Mesopotamia, and it is related of Lord 

les eifield that his attention was once so completely 
absorbed when listening to either Wesley or Whit- 
e , who was describing the gradual approach of the 
sinner to the brink of the bottomless pit, that he 
involuntarily shouted out, “Stop him! stop him! 
before he gets too near ! ” 

It would be needless in an assemblv like the pre- 
sent to dilate further on the importance of the art of 
pu 1 C speaking ; in our democratic country all men 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



107 



1887.] 



start equal ; there are no vested rights, no barriers of 
inequality of birth to shut men out from the highest 
positions ; men rise into political power through the 
medium of the press and the platform ; almost all 
take an active interest in public alhiirs, and nearly 
every village and hamlet has its orator, no one being 
refused a hearing provided he can make himself ac- 
ceptable to his audience ; and, although the hard, 
practical factor of these days of steam and telegraphs 
seldom offer an opportunity for the display of the 
lofty eloquence of former times, a study of the best 
efiorts of the great masters will enable our speakers 
to express their thoughts with elegance, and tend to 
preserve in our legislative halls the beauty and 
purity of our mother tongue. 

S. C. 



NOTES FROM FLORIDA. 

What the temperature may be at the present 
moment in Montreal, I know not, but lam pretty safe 
in imagining a state of rain and slush, or a big snow 
storm, or a bright sky with 20*^ below zero. But 
whether it be 20® above zero, or 20® below I envy 
you not. I am now enjoying the balmy breezes of the 
South in Florida, that land of dreams, and I may add, 
of lies. To be carried in a couple of days from three 
feet of snow and piercing cold, to a country where the 
mercury is about 80®, where the orange may be seen 
growing on the tree, where one may sit in the open air 
as the sun is about to set, and watch the glories of the 
western sky, is indeed a novel and pleasant experience. 
Leaving New York by steamer, one is almost immedia- 
tely enjoying the delights of a summer sea voyage, 
that is to say, if certain well known, unpleasant cir- 
cumstances do not supervene. What a change it is 
for one who has just left the land of ice, to be bound- 
ing over the blue waves, with the sun shining brightly 
and the warm wind blowing from the South ! For 
most of us there was another side to this picture, but 
let that pass. 

Florida has the reputation of being the most lied 
about State in the Union, and, I am afraid the accusa- 
tion is well-founded. It is said to contain the hugest 
liars in the world, and indeed I have heard it asserted 
that a person who has spent five months within its 
boundaries, is actually incapable of telling the truth. 
As the person who told me this, however, had lived 
some years in the country, I was rather in a mental 
quandary, because if I assumed what he said to be 
true, I was bound to conclude it Wiis a lie. One fact 
with regard to this class, I found out for myself, viz, 
that a person once inoculated is impervious to truth 
for all time. We had a gentleman on board coming 
down who had not been in Florida for seventeen years, 
butwho entertained the smoking room with an incessant 
flow of anecdotes, which shewed him to be possessed 
of no mean ability in the story telling line. At the 
time of the Civil War, he was settled, so he said, in a 
small town where martial law was in force, and hap- 
pening one day to insult a man by making disparag- 
ing remarks about his horse, a duel was the upshot, 
although, as a matter of fact, there was no shooting in- 
dulged in. When the combatants arrived on the field. 



they were surprised to find the seconds standing each 
beside a wheel-barrow full of nice round stones. On 
enquiry, they found that fire-arms not being allowed 
in the district, they were to fight with stones instead. 
Our friend at first refused to engage in stone throw- 
ing, thinking it derogatory to his dignity, but his 
second immediately drew a revolver, and told him he 
would shoot him on the spot, if he did not stand to 
his guns, so to speak. The distance was measured, 
lines were drawn, and the duel proceeded. At short 
intervals time was called and the drinks served, which 
may account in some measure, for the fact that at the 
close no casualties were reported on either side. In an 
account published at the time, it was said that all 
parties were carried from the field. 

The spot where I am rusticating is a new settlement 
in the interior, about three hours run in the train from 
Jacksonville, situated on the ‘orange growing belt. 
You no doubt have seen pictures of Florida with the 
train running through orange groves ; you have perhaps 
heard people speak of it as the country where oranges 
are eaten ott' the trees, and so on. How different all 
this from the reality ! Florida, so far as I have seen 
and can find out, is an immense swamp, with two 
ridges or belts of high land running through it, dry, 
sandy and healthy. The rest of the country is wild 
and uncultivated. The scenery consists of pine forests, 
and a few rivers and lakes. Orange groves are by no 
means so numerous as I imagined before I came here. 
In my journey from Savannah to Jacksonville, I did 
not see a single orange tree, and from Jacksonville to 
this I saw one grove of fruit-bearing trees. This is 
not the time of year to see fruit on the trees in any 
great quantity, February being the first month of 
Spring. Consequently the charming occupation of 
eating oranges off the trees cannot be indulged in. 
The oranges we get are indeed off the trees, but they 
have been off some time, and are not in my judgment 
nearly so juicy as those I used to get when I was down 
marketing at the Bonsecours Market. In about a 
week or ten days, however, we shall have strawberries 
in abundance, and they continue in season, I believe, 
for four or five months. 

At present a beautiful sight is afforded by the peach 
trees in blossom, in one or two of the orchards. When 
the dew covers the trees in the morning, before the 
sun rises high, we have nature sparkling in her finest 
jewels. I have not yet, myself, witnessed the fine 
effect produced, having been detained on one or two 
occasions, on which I intended to go and see the trees 
by that inexorable mistress, sleep. My intention is, 
however, to go to-morrow morning. In another week 
or so, the orange blossoms will be coming out, and 
then we shall have another fine sight in the groves. 

But the glory of Florida is her sunsets. Nothing 
like them, I imagine, is to be seen in our nothern 
climes, although I have seen very fine sunsets on the 
lower St. Lawrence in Summer. We have here no 
twilight worth speaking of, but then the western sky 
is bright for nearly an hour after the sun has actually 
gone down, with the most beautiful tints, thrown 
hither and thither, like heavenly flowers on the path 
which has just been trodden by the golden monarch. 
I am getting poetical, so must refrain, and leave to 



108 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE, 



[1887. 



your bright imaginations what no pen could adequately 
describe. 

I must not close without some reference to the 
“ cracker.” I think we had not been well under 
way for Savannah, before I noticed that this class was 
constantly forming the subject of conversation 
amongst those on board our steamer, and since landing 
the name has become as familiar to me as sweet 
potatoes and pumpkin pies. When a person speaks 
of a “ cracker,” he always does so in a contemptuous 
tone. The word represents to the northern mind, the 
essence of all that is lazy and unprogressive in 
humanity ; it calls up visions of pork and beans, black 
bread and sweet potatoes /while cutaneous concretions 
(that is a good expression) are not wanting from the 
picture. The “ cracker” is the original settler of this 
country, who once cracked the whip over the backs of 
the poor colored people, — I was going to say niggers, 
but one has to be careful not to insult the majority 
of the population. The cracker is brown and wizened 
in appearance, and specimens may be seen at any of 
the railway stations, holding up the house, or trying 
to keep cool on the nearest available seat. They do 
not congregate to work nor to drink beer, (in ‘this 
country prohibition reigns) but to “swop lies,” as 
the expression is. 

And now let me say in conclusion, Mr. Editor, if 
you can dispose of these few notes for a guide-book, 
you may do so, as I feel sure that there are not more 
misrepresentations and evidences of imperfect know- 
ledge of the country in them than are to be found in 
the average guide-book, and thestyle,! Hatter myself, is 
not althogether unsuitable. Under any circumstances, 
kindly keep my name a secret, else I shall be obliged 
to leave this land of sunshine for ever. 

February 3rd, 1887. T S H 



It is a matter for congratulation and thankfulness that since 
we last had tlie honor of presenting an address to Your Excel- 
lency, while the number of our students and the eflSciency of our 
stalls of instructors in McGill college, and its affiliated institutions 
have increased, several imj)ortant endowments and benefactions 
have been received by the university, enabling it among other 
things to extend the benefits of the higher academical education 
to women as well as to men, to enlarge the class-rooms and labora- 
tories for the faculties of arts and applied science, and to erect 
extensive new buildings for its faculty of medicine. 

The university has thus largely shared in the growth and 
prosperity of the Dominion under the administration of Your 
Excellency. 

It will be our earnest effort in the future as it has been in the 
past to merit the approval of our visitor and the support of the 
Iriends of education, and to employ as advantageously as possible 
the means committed to our trust in the advancement of that 
higher academical and professional education so important to the 
welfare of all classes of the people. 

We beg leave to tender to Your Excellency our sincere good 
wishes that under God’s blessing the greatest prosperity and 
success may continue to attend your administration of the affairs 
of this country. 

We also beg leave respectfully to offer our most cordial good 
wishes for the welfare and happiness of the Marchioness of Lans- 
downe, and of Your Excellency’s family. 

Signed on behalf of the ) James Ferrier, 

University, J Chancellor. 

McGill College, Montreal, 22nd February, 1887. 



3Tlc(Bill Keuis. 

THE GOVERNOE-GE^IERAL AT McGILL. 

His Excellency the Governor-General and Lady 
Lansdowne paid a visit to McGill university at 3.30 
p.m. yesterday. They were received by the chancellor 
and principal at the door of the William Molson hall 
and proceeded, followed by the members of the convo- 
cation to the convocation room, where the students 
were already assembled and received the procession 
with the natioiml anthem and with college songs. The 
address to His Excellency, on behalf of the university 
was then read as follows , 

J’o (fe Itight BotmMe and Host Kohh the MaremU of 

coming Your Excellency within its Ss 

In doing so they have now not only the honor and nrivilecrp nf 

^ official visitor of the^unive?sitv 

under its royal charter and as the renresentativp nf HpJ m 

Gracious Majesty, but of expressiuo- their gratitude for ti 
ost which you have ever mLifest^d in ^ 1 ^ 0 ^ 
more especially m connection with this uiiiversitv and for ^ ' 
encouragement given to important branches of lelrning hv the 
medals presented by Your Excellency. ^ 



His Excellency replied as follows : — 

Mr. Ferrier, Honorable Members of Convo- 
cation, Ladies and Gentlemen, — After living for 
the last fortnight under the shadow of the McGill 
University, I am very glad to find myself again within 
its walls, and to listen once more to the kindly terms 
in which you have been good enough to speak of my 
official connection with you as visitor of the Univer- 
sity. Before I refer to the satisfactory and reassurinfif 
statements contained in your address, I must be ah 
lowed to express my deep regret at the loss which 
the Board of Governors has sustained since I was here 
last by the death of more than one of its best known 
members. Archdeacon Leach, who, if I mistake not, 
was here as your Vice-Principal to receive me in 1884, 
IS but one of several distinguished men who have 
since passed away, leaving to the University— in the 
administration of which they took so important a 
part names which will be ever remembered with 
onour and affection by its members. (Applause.) 
it affords me much pleasure to be able to congratulate 
you on the encouraging report which you are able to 
give ot the position and prospects of the University 
and to learn that you are able to describe it as sharing 
m the general growth and prosperity of the Dominion. 
(Applause.) There is another statement in the ad- 
dress to which I listened with satisfaction. It is not 
too much to say that McGill University owes its ex- 
^ generosity of your wealthy citizens, 
nd It IS satisfactory to reflect that, during the last 

tiunArl^f stream of their liberality has con- 

ant nrlrl’r enabled you to make import- 

rippo ^ ^ your buildings, and to the equipment 
to wS^ Ih Prosecution of the different studies 
f^rtb^ fl applause.) The 

is steadilv^V^f.^-^'^^i number of your students 

instituting shows that, as an educational 

fidencp nf if command the con- 

lie public. I feel no doubt that you will 



1^87.] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 109 



continue to command and to deserve that confidence. 
The closeness of your relations Avith the community 
in which you are placed is one of the distinctive 
features of the University. It is, indeed, of vital 
importance that a body, to which has been entrusted 
the weighty privileges of conferring public degrees, 
should never lose its touch of the nation. The official 
connection of the Queen’s representative with McGill 
University has always seemed to me to have a special 
significance in this respect, and to point to the fact 
that, although you do not depend upon the public 
})urse, your position is scarcely that of a private body 
or association. A degree-giving university occupies, 
iu the domain of education, a position analogous to 
that occupied by a public mint in the domain of 
finance. (Applause.) It is authorised by law to 
affix its distinctive marks upon the intellectual cur- 
rency of the country. That is a privilege Avhich car- 
ries with it both an obligation and a right — the 
obligation is that of seeing that the purity of the 
coinage is maintained, and that temptations to debase 
the standard are resisted. I have never heard it said 
that that duty has been discharged otherwise than 
conscientiously here. (Great applause.) If that is 
the case — if you have respected the obligation which 
lay upon you — you have, I think, a right to expect 
that the coinage issued by you shall be accepted as a 
legal tender by your countrymen, and that the value 
of your degrees should be fully recognized in the 
great professions and by those who control the con- 
ditions under which they are pursued. I have no 
doubt that, so far as your degrees are concerned, this 
recognition will be forthcoming, and that if, as I 
gather from the annual report which you have I’ecently 
submitted to me, any misunderstanding has arisen 
upon this point, you may, Avhen your case has been 
adequately put forward, count upon equitable treat- 
ment at the hands of those with whom a decision 
rests in regard to these matters. (Hear, hear, and 
cheers.) Let me express my satisfaction at learning 
that, since I was here last, a special course for women 
has, by the munificence of one of your citizens, whose 
great wealth has been liberally expended in the pro- 
motion of all kinds of intellectual culture, taken place 
amongst your studies. (Loud cheers.) I shall watch, 
with interest and with confidence, the results of this 
experiment, which will soon have been in operation 
long enough to enable us to form a correct estimate 
of the degree of success Avhich has attended it. (Ap- 
plause.) Allow me to express the pleasure which it 
affords me to meet here a number of the students 
of McGill. I feel sure that they have one feeling in 
common with the students of our British universities 

I speak as a graduate of one of them — (applause) 

I mean a tender regard and a passionate loyalty to- 
wards the place of their education. That feeling is 
one which becomes, perhaps, even more fully devel- 
oped after the student has become separated from his 
college or university, and when, amidst the rough 
Avaters of the outer world, he turns his face backwaids 
to those Avho first taught him how to struggle with 
them, and who provided him Avith whatever equip- 
ment he has carried with him in his journey through 
life. (Loud applause.) I feel sure that the students 



of McGill will feel that they cannot put before them- 
selves any better rule for their guidance in life than 
that they Avill do all that is in their power to bring 
credit to their University and to add to its re])utation. 
That reputation is an edifice which must be built up 
by the efforts of each of you. You cannot begin too 
soon or realize too fully that whatever be the profes- 
sion which you adopt-— whether you are, or mean to 
become, laAvyers, or doctors, or men of business, or 
politicians, or teachers, or instructors of others, you 
can each and all of you, by the industry and by the 
sincere and upright conduct of your lives, do some- 
thing not only to adorn and ennoble that profession, 
but also to gain additional honour and estimation for 
the University to which you OAve so much. (Loud 
cheers.) Sir, — Permit me, in conclusion, to thank 
you for ypur kind reference to Lady Lansdowne. 
(Great applause.) It is ahvays a pleasure to her to 
accompany me upon occasions of this kind, and noAv 
that the gates of the University have been opened to 
the gentler sex, her presence here is, perhaps, more 
than ever justified. [A student here called for three 
cheers for Lady LansdoAvne, which Avere given with 
great heartiness.] This, at all events, I may take upon 
myself to say, that Avhenever you allow me to exercise 
ray duties as visitor, she will be found at my side. 
(Cheers.) 

The members of convocation were then presented 
to His Excellency and Lady LansdoAvne, who bestoAved 
upon each a cordial greeting. The viceregal party, 
folloAved by members of the convocation, then pro- 
ceeded to the library, Avhere the facsimile of Doomsday 
Book recently presented by Mr. Peter Redpath, at- 
tracted attention, as did also the collection of books 
presented by Hon. Judge Mackay, and arranged in 
separate rooms. Thence their Excellencies Avere con- 
ducted through the buildings to the physical appara- 
tus room, Avherc the principal objects were pointed 
out by Dr. Johnson, the dean of the Faculty of arts. 
The party then visited the new chemical laboratory, 
the arrangements of which Avere explained by Dr. 
Harrington, more especially those of the upper labor- 
atory room, fitted up by the liberality of Mr. W. C. 
McDonald. 'I'honce, passing through the ncAv class 
rooms for women, (in connection with the endowment 
of Sir Donald Smith,) their Excellencies Avere con- 
ducted to the medical building, where they Avere re- 
ceived by the dean and professors of that faculty, and 
visited the library, museum and spacious new class 
rooms and laboratories. Finally the party returned 
to the Peter Redpath museum, visiting the lecture 
theatre, the botanical laboratory of Prof. PenhalloAv 
and the magnificent collections in the large hall, where 
some of the more important recent acquisitions Avere 
pointed out. 

The following are the names of gentlemen presented 
to their Excellencies : — 

Governors — Hon. James Ferrier, Senator, M L.C., president 
and chancellor of the university, Hon. Robert Mackay, Messrs. 
Wm. C McDonald and Geo. Hague aud Mayor Beaugrand. 

Principal — Sir William Dawson, C.M.G., M.A., LL.D., 

F.R.S., vice-chancellor’. 

Fellows —Henry Aspinwall Howe, LL.D., governors’ fellow ; 
Alexander Johnson, M.A., LL.D., dean of the Faculty of Arts; 
Rev. George Cornish M.A , LL.D, elective fellow, Faculty of 



110 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



Arts ; Pev. D. H. MacVicar, D.D., LL.D., principal of the 
Presbyterian collefie, Montreal ; John Redpath Dougall, M.A., 
representative fellow in Arts ; Wm. H. Kerr, Q.C., D.C.L , dean 
of the Faculty of Law ; Rev. J Clark Murray, LL.D., elective 
fellow, Faculty of Aits / Henry T. Bovey, M.A., C. E., dean of 
the Faculty of Applied Science ; Bernard J. Harrington, B.A., 
Ph.D., F.G.S., elective fellow, Fac. App. Science ; Rev. Canon 
Henderson, M.A., D.D., principal of the Montreal Diocesan 
Theo ogical college; Rev. R. W. Norman, M.A , D.C.L., 
chairman of Protestant Board of School Commissioners ; R. P. 
Howard, M.D., LL.D., dean of Faculty of Medicine : S. P. 
Robins, M.A., LL.D, principal of McGill Normal school; 
Thomas A. Rodgers, M.D., representative fellow in medicine. 

Secretaiy, registrar and purser — William CraigJBaynes, B.A., 
Cambridge. 

Otficers of instraction— Charles F. A. Markgraf, M.A., pro- 
fessor of German language and literature ; D. C . McCallum, M . D. , 
emeritus professor in the Faculty of Medicine ; Pierre J. Darcy, 
M.A., B.C.L., LL.D., professor of French language and lit ra- 
ture ; Hon. J. S. C. Wurtele, D.C.L. , Q C., emeritus professor 
ill the Faculty of Law ; Gilbert P. Girdwood, M.D., professor of 
Chemistry ; Charles E. Moyse, B.A., Molsonprofessor of English 
language and literature ; Matthew Hutchinson, B.C.L., associate 
professor of civil proceciure ; Francis J. Shepherd, M.D., pro- 
fessor of anatomy ; James Stewart, M.D , professor of materia 
medica and therapeutics ; D. F. Penhallow, B.Sc., professor of 
botany ; Richard L. Macdonnell, B.A , M.D., professor of 
hygiene and demonstrator of anatomy ; Rev. Daniel Cou.sirat, 
B.A., lecturer in Hebrew and oriental literature ; Paul 'I'. 
Lafleur, BA., lecturer in logic and English ; Robert J. B. 
Howard, B.A , M.D., assistant demonstrator of anatomy : M. 
Williams Taylor, assistant librarian. 

Dr. Eaton, Nevil N. Evans, B.A. Sc. ; Rev. Prof. Shaw, 
Wesleyan college ; Rev. Prof. Scrimger, Presbyterian college ; 
Rev. Dr. Jackson, Congregational college ; Dr. James Bell, H. 
H. Lyman, M.A., William D. Roberts, B.A , Rev. George 
Rogers, D.A., H. A. Budden, B.A., J. H. Higgins, B.A., A. 
McWilliams, B.A., etc., etc. 



THE ARTS DINNER. 

The fourth annual dinner of the Students in Arts 
was held at the Windsor, on the evening of January 
31st. Promptly at eight o’clock, Mr. W, L. Clay, 
the chairman, led the way to the dining room ; he 
was accompanied by Mr. R. Hamilton (from Toronto), 
and followed by Messrs. J, M. McLean (from Queen’s), 
C. B. Ryckman (from Victoria, Cobourg), Lavall^e 
(from Laval), and P. Williams, H. Fry, and W. F. 
Perrier (from Medicine, Law, and Science), who were 
attended by various members of the committee ad hoc, 
and other students, who took upon themselves the 
pleasant duty of chaperoning the guests. 

The first part of the programme was opened by 
“ Huitres,” the translation of which caused many a 
mental struggle ; somewhere, let us hope among the 
90’s, was heard — “ Say ! what’s huitres — a new way 
to spell in French the hour of dining?” Many and 
amusing were the attempts to render other parts into 
English; some of the more deeply read could be 
heard muttering — “ French of Paris was to her 
unknowe * * Stratford-atte-Bowe.” When 

the Roman Punch came around many of the Genus 
Theologicum were seen to “pass ; ” the representative 
from Medicine did the same — what could it mean ? 
Was the reason similar? Mr. Arthur Weir came in 
to enjoy a cup of coftee with his old-time acquaint- 
ances, and members of a faculty closely related to 
that from which he graduated. 

After the menu there was a conversation period, or 
time for rest ; as the newspapers reports had it, this 



was to allow the guests to become acquainted with 
more of the students ; it was to “ pump up my speech 
from the overlying mass,” as the speakers said. 

When all had resumed their seats, or obtained 
more suitable positions, the chairman, Mr. W. L. 
Clay, proposed the loyal toast of “ Our Queen and 
Country ; ” after a very eloquent and patriotic speech, 
the Avhole assembled mass greeted the toast with 
“ God Save the Queen,” and shouts to which students 
alone can give vent. 

Messrs. Patton and Matthewson, a hastily-arranged 
substitute for the Arts Quartette, sang the first song 
of the evening. 

Mr. W. A. Duke then brought out his well-known 
eloquence to propose the health of the “Sister Uni- 
versities.” In order to give the representatives time 
to collect their thoughts so scattered after this im- 
passioned speech, Mr. 0. B. Kingston took up the 
musical programme. Mr Hamilton replied to the 
toast on behalf of the students of University College, 
Toronto ; Mr. Ryckman followed with the greetings 
from Victoria ; he was most enthusiastically welcomed 
as the first representative of that institution at our 
festive boards. Mr. Lavallee, in his reply, made 
manifest the good-will between those seeking know- 
ledge, though it be in different garb ; his speech, 
thanks to our French course, was appreciatively 
understood throughout. Mr. J. M. McLean, of 
Queen’s, was now called on ; he did not immediately 
follow our friend from Toronto by reason of the 
University Federation question. Mr. Hamilton took 
Toronto’s view, while the Kingstonian aspect was 
defended by Mr. McLean. 

“ Alma Mater" was proposed by Mr. C. W. Colby, 
in a very neat and classical speech. When Mr. Eng- 
land rose to reply, his popularity somewhat destroyed 
the chance of his being heard. Mr. A. P. Murray 
introduced the toast to our “Sister Faculties,” leaving 
most of the speaking to be done by those who were 
to reply. Mr. E. P. Williams returned thanks from 
Medicine, and told stories of how ready Meds. were 
to help Arts’ men, and vice versa. Mr. H. Fry 
humorously defended the usually stigmatised pro- 
fession of Law. Science was then brought into rela- 
tion with Arts by Mr. W. F. Ferrier. 

Notwithstanding all the eloquence so far displayed, 
there was something yet in store. Mr. H. V. Truell’s 
speech, in proposing the toast to “Lady Undergrads, 
and Ladies,” and Mr. L. P. McDuffee’s reply, rank 
among the best post-prandial productions of our 
Faculty. 

All those miscreant wi'etches who stayed away will 
say, “ That is a nice programme, where is the music? ” 
Ihey should have been there to hear it. There were 
songs, with solos and choruses, sentimental and rol- 
licking, interspersed all through the “ dry ” part. 
Messrs. Kinghorn and Davidson, two of the 90’s, were 
always ready to lead in any song, while Messrs. King- 
ston, Patton, and Lucas were prepared with solos. 
One of the many merits of this year’s dinner was the 
comparative brevity of the toast list, which allowed 
for a long list of songs and choruses. Every speech 
was followed by an appropriate song or chorus. But, 
while noticing these features of the musical pro- 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Ill 



1887 .] 



gramme, a very important factor must not be forgot- 
ten ; in fact, a most essential factor— Mr. W. A. 
Nichols was on the piano stool almost the whole 
evening. 

The Chairman, wishing to add to the programme, 
proposed the “ Press,” and called on Mr. Weir for a 
reply. After his reply, someone got up on a table, 
or chair, or something, and, amid immense excitement, 
and cheers and counter-cheers, and groans and coun- 
ter-groans, proposed the “ Hon. Ed. Blake ; ” during 
the uproar the fellows began to disperse, and so one 
party claims that the health was honoured, and an- 
other that it was not. On the way out, England, as 
the most “ conspicuous” man, was bounced. 

“ What is the matter with the dinner 1 ” 

“ What is the matter with a conversazione 1 ” 



Societies. 



The McGill Students Medical Society met in their 
rooms at the college, Saturday, January 29, at 7. .30 
p.m.. Professor James Stewart, President, in the 
chair. 

The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, 
which were adopted. 

Mr. E. J. Evans read a very concise surgical report. 

The Professor of Physiology, Dr. T. W. Mills, gave 
a most interesting account of some of the recent ad- 
vances in Physiology, confining himself to one research 
in each subject. The following is a brief summary of 
his paper : 

Al l studies of unicellular organisms were now es- 
pecially interesting to medical men. Dallinger’s in- 
vestigation of a one-celled creature found in septic 
fiuids had shown that its development proceeded from 
and depended on the nucleus. 

Recent researches on muscle had gone far to estab- 
lish the view that rig-or mortis is the last act of the 
living tissue, a genuine contraction induced by the 
waste products of the tissue metabolism accumulating 
in the muscle on the cessation of the blood-flow. This 
theory did not exclude coagulation of myosin as a 
later phenomenon. 

In connection with the circulation, the latest view 
in regard to the action of the vagus on the heart was 
to the effect that this nerve consisted of two sets of 
fibres : inhibitory proper, tending to increase con- 
struction (an abolic) metabolic processes, and sympa- 
thetic fibres, which favour destructive (kalabolic) pro- 
cesses. The electrical condition of the heart varied 
according as one or the other set was stimulated, which 
was favorable to this view. 

A lengthy paper, detailing experiments by a French 
physiologist, had helped to make clear the existence 
and the action of respiratory centres in the spinal com. 
The medullary respiratory centre being isolated by 
division of the cord, the respiration subsequent y 
arising was characterized by rapidity, irregularity an 
shallowness, with often a preponderance of the expi- 
ratory act ; after section of the cord artificial respi 
ration was, of course, necessary for some time. 

It was now established that the thyroid body had 
no blood-forming function; when removed, the 



nervous system seemed to suffer greatly, if not the 
general health of the animal. 

Miss Greenwood, Demonstrator of Physiology at 
Newnham College, had studied digestion in Amoeba 
and Actino sphaerium, interesting because these are 
one-celled organisms. 

Amoeba cannot digest fat globules, but Actino 
sphaerium digests them slowly ; starch grains are not 
digested by either ; protoplasm within cellulose walls 
is digested by both (osmotic action). 

The recent surgical achievements of Horsley in 
the removal of cerebral tumors, diseased brain cortex, 
etc., founded on experiments on the monkey by 
Horsley and Schafer, have established a practical 
localization of function for at least the most important 
“ motor area.” We did not as yet perfectly under- 
stand how to reconcile conflicting views, but were ap- 
proaching that. 

Professor Mills presented to the society several 
monographs, giving accounts of his own researches in 
physiology. 

The Medical Faculty have not been altogether un- 
mindful of the existence of the above society. Pro- 
fessors Stewart, Shepherd and Mills having remem- 
bered it in a substantial manner. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The regular weekly meeting of this society, on the 
evening of February 11th, was opened by an Essay 
on “ Our Country,” from the pen of Mr. T. Quimby. 
An extract from Shakespere was read by Mr. A. P. 
Murray. Mr. J. Naismith opened the debate on the 
question of “ Resolved that an M. P. should vote in 
accordance with his own principles rather than those 
of his constituents : ” he brought up quite an array of 
arguments in favour of the affirmative. Mr. H. M. 
Patton led the negative side. The other speakers were 
Messrs. Hall, Mack, Robertson and Cushing, most of 
whom appeared for the first time. The vote of the 
meeting must have followed the rules of order in 
deciding in favour of the affirmative : all one’s pre- 
judices would naturally be on the negative side. Mr. 
A. McArthur was critic, — and after his remarks the 
meeting adjourned. 

A meeting of the society was held in No. 1 class 
room, Central Hall, on the 18th. Mr. Colby read an 
Essay — one quite \Vorthy of himself. The leader of 
the affirmative, on the question of “Resolved that 
Free-trade is possible for Canada in her present state,” 
was absent : Mr. A. P. Murray took his place, and 
merely stated the case. In a very forcible speech, Mr. 
J. Nicholson opened the debate in favour of the 
negative. Mr. E. C. Trenholme made his first appear- 
ance, but owing to a hoarseness, could scarcely make 
himself heard ; he supported the affirmative with most 
of the very few arguments brought forward. Mr. 
Gibson followed on the negative ; and Mr. F. Charters 
filled a blank on the affirmative. The speech of the 
evening was from Mr. Peers Davidson, — in favour 
of the negative. 

When the question was put to vote, the affirmative 
received three (there were three speakers). Notice of 
motion was given to send back the piano. 



112 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



ANKUAL MEETING OF McGILL UNIVEESITY 

Y.M.C.A. 

The University Y.M.C.A. is becoming one of the 
most influential factors in college life. The progress 
of this movement has been very rapid, as will be seen 
from the fact that three years ago the Association was 
organized with 13 members, Avhile at present 130 
members are enrolled. The third annual meeting was 
held in No. 1 class-room, on Saturday evening the 
19th inst, the President, J. K. Unsworth, in the chair. 

The first business of the evening was the election 
of new members, 17 in number, representing four 
faculties. Several amendments were made to the 
constitution, one of which provides that members of 
all affiliated colleges are eligible for membership. By 
this provision students of the Veterinary College and 
the Theological Colleges can be admitted. The Social 
Committee reported that the members of the Associa- 
tion had been very hospitably entertained at different 
homes during the session, twice by Mrs. Kennedy, 
once by Mrs. Claxton, once by Mrs. Holland. Eefer- 
ence was made to the reception of new students 
last fall in the Eedpath Museum, and suggestions 
were given about a similar meeting early next session. 

The Correspondence Committee had communicated 
with all the Canadian Colleges, by this means aiming 
to create a warm feeling between this and sister 
institutions. 

The Devotional Committee had arranged for meet- 
ings on Sunday afternoon, one of which had been 
addressed by Sir Wm. Dawson and another by Dr. 
Kelly. The week day prayer meeting had been changed 
from Tuesday evening to Thursday afternoon at live 
o’clock. 

The report from the membership committee was very 
favorable ; 70 new members have been added during 
the session, making a total membership of about 130, 
of which about 50 are of the Medical Faculty. Two 
classes for bible study have been organized, which 
will be of great benefit to the members. 

The following officers were elected for the ensuin^T 
year. ® 

President — J. McDougal, B.A. 

Is^ Vice-President — W. G. Stewart B.A., Med. 

2nd Vice-President — F. W. Macallum, Arts. 

Treasurer — G. M. Campbell, Med. 

Ass't. Treasurer — Hilton Pedley, Arts. 

Cur. Secretary — A. E. Childs, Science. 

Rec. Secretary — A. H. Hawkins, Science. 

Votes of thanks, to those who had entertained the 
members during the session, and also to the city 
Y.M.C.A. tor the use of their reading room, were 
passed. 

J . McDougal, B.A., gave an informal report of Avhat 
had been done by the building committee. By a vote 
of the association, full power was given to the com- 
mittee. The question of a separate or combined 
building having been discussed, the meeting expressed 
an unanimous opinion, that a separate building would 
best serve the interests of the Association. This closed 
a meeting which was full of promise of a greater 
future, in connection with Christian activity in 
McGill. 



A GLIMPSE. 

The jealous curtains were off their guard, 

And shivering in the December gloom, 

I looked— Ah I sweet, do not judge me hard, 

Think, man is human— within the room. 

If you know how slowly the days have passed. 

How every hour brought its shade of pain 
Since we met and spoke and parted last, 

For pardon I should not sue in vain. 

I saw you leaning against the wall, 

The gaslight gemming your nut-brown hair, 

And to me your figure, graceful and tall. 

Seemed poised with a weary, dejected air. 

A faded rosebud I saw you hold. 

Blood-red, and kiss it. I was not near, 

But as lips touched petal, I thought there rolled 
To the rose's withered heart a tear. 

The rose revived at the tear you wept, 

And lent your cheeks its awaking life. 

And out of my heart by the tear were swept. 

As before a torrent, all hate and strife. 

I thought till then I had schooled my heart 
To throb no longer with love for you, 

But it leapt, till I feared it would burst apart. 

When the rosebud told me that you were true. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Personals. 



Dr. H. Fraser, (80), of Perth, Ont., was in the city. 

Dr. L. Clarke, (86), Waterloo, was in town last 
week. 

Dr. 0. Ely, (85), of Ogdensburg, was in the city for 
a few days. 

Dr. Shufelt, New York, was in the city for a few 
days last week. 

Dr. Jamieson, (80), of Winnipeg, was in the city 
for the Carnival. 

Dr. C. W. Wilson, (’86), of Cumberland, was in 
town for the Carnival. 

Where was the Arts sleigh in the Carnival drive ? 

Did the Theologues kick, or did the Dean forbid 
it? 

Ernest May, formerly a member of the class of ’87, 
Science, Avas down for the Carnival, and was on the 
Science sleigh in the street parade. 

The Medicos did not appear in this carnival drive, 
but instead showed their hospitality to the visitors by 
holding a reception in the Windsor Billiard Room 
every afternoon and evening. 

The College Y. M. C. A. went in for entertaining 
the young ladies who visited the city, by showing 
them round and pointing out the places of interest, as 
the Presbyterian College, Mrs Tuff’s boarding-house, 
the ice palace, and other places. 

Did you hear the ne\v song the Science men sang 
in the drive ? It was Sui de la wiedum bum with 
variations in C minor. It was not very melodious, 
but sounded quite as well as the kazoo band belong- 
ing to one of the snoAvshoe clubs. 

Chas. Swabey, B.A., (86), Avas in town last week. 
He is studying law in Toronto, and says he don’t like 
that city as Avell as Montreal. He is probably amor- 
ously inclined toAvard a certain young lady of our ac- 
quaintance, with whom he used to spend a "ood deal 
of time. ° 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



113 



Between the Lectures. 



ItoUege 13;)orl6. 



A BLOODLESS BATTLE. 

LOVE. 

Sweet love. 

Out late, 

Young dove, 

Front gate. 



Nearly 40,000 doctors have been graduated from 
the various medical colleges during the last ten years. 

Five Presbyterian students are attending Princeton 
theological seminary this winter from the Maritime 
Provinces. 



HA-HA I 
Loud smack I 
Sweet fruit— 
Loud crack 1 
Dad’s boot I 

WAR. 

Y'oung man 
Gets mad. 
Goes for 
Girl’s dad. 



VICTORY. 

“ Knock out,” 
Dad falls. 
Young girl 
Loud bawls. 

SURRENDER. 

“Hold, sir 1” 
Cries dad— 

“ Take her. 

My lad I” 

INDEMNITY. 

Hanpy 
\ oung pair— 
Brave man 
Gets there ! 



A father by the name of Jams always hesitates be- 
fore calling his eldest boy James. 

Another gi-eat discovery of diamonds in Kentucky. 
A man got five of them on the first deal. 

Arthur and Clarence are so devoted to the game, 
that they have just pawned their overcoats to enable 
them to indulge in billiards. 

Attendant (briskly) : ’Goin’ ter play th’ three ball 

game, gents 1 

“John,” said a wife in the middle of the nightj 
rousing her husband, “ I declare, I foigot to put the 
mackerel to soak.” 

“Urn Yum — Ah — I don’ b’lieve youd — Urn — 

Yum — got much on it if you had,” said sleepy John. 



Pastor— En I says again, bredderin, put not yoh 

trust in kings ! . -r,- v. • 

’Still Small Voice in Congregation— Right yoh is, 
chile; right yoh is is. Aces is bettah, ’n dats de 
reason I’se come ter chu’ch wivout no obercoat dis 
mawnin’. 

“ I will add,” concluded the young man who was 
applying for a situation, “that I am a college graduate. 

“ Oh, that wont make any difference,” was the re- 
assuring reply, if you stick to your work ; f ^ 
sides, we want somebody about the place who is s ron^ 
enough to carry in coal.” 

Western Young Lady (unacquainted with college 
terms)— Oh, Mr. Snodkins, did you have a good con- 
cert at McGill last Aveek 1 

Mr. Snodkins (of McGill) — Oh, yes. There was 



double quartet of ’90 men. i + 1 T 

Western Young Lady— Gracious, what a lot . x 
thought there were only eight men in a double quar e 



Miss Alice R. Jordan, who took the degree of L.L.B. 
at Yale last June, is but 23 years old. She pro- 
mises to make her mark as a lawyer in Michigan. 

An art museum to cost $40,000 is to be erected in 
connection with Princeton College. Valuable collec- 
tions are all ready to be placed in the building. During 
the college term Dr. Baldstein and Dr. Lanciani will 
lecture on archseology, and Dr. Mildner on music. 

Ladies of wealth are beginning to consider their 
duty in regard to the education of their sex, and are 
apportioning some of their possessions to this purpose. 
Lately a Miss Gamble, in England, left nearly one 
hundred thousand dollars to Girton College, the most 
conspicuous Avomen’s college in Great Britain. 

Ip a young man cannot afford to pay a thousand 
dollars a year to support him at Harvard, he can go 
to Atlanta University and get through for less than a 
hundred dollars. Tuition is sixteen dollars; and board, 
including meals, heated room, lights, and Avashing, is 
nine dollars a month, and no expenses for secret 
societies. 



(Dorresponbence. 



RE-UNION OF ’82 ARTS AND SCIENCE MEN. 

To the Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, — Five years have almost passed away 
since the class of' 1882 had their last annual dinner, 
and on that occasion, before graduating, it was decided 
that a re-union of the class of ’82 take place in Mont- 
real five years hence. Many felloAvs of this class hai'e 
kept constant intercourse with one another, either by 
letter or by contact at different times. Perhaps more 
than any other year ’82 has kept well together, and,^ 
whilst only referring to this matter in the columns of 
the Gazette as one of that year, I am sure that both 
our President and Secretary (Messrs. N. T. Rielle and 
W. T. Thomas) for Arts, will take the matter in hand, 
that the proposed meeting take place. 

The class has very recently been called upon to 
mourn the loss of one of its most prominent members, 
and it may be a question whether the said re-union 
ou"ht to take place. I, for one, am of the opinion 
that it Avere Avell to have a re-union. Had the class 
met last year— four years hence— there would have 
been no breach in its ranks. Now there is one, 
let the class meet, and the esprit de corps which has 
ever characterized ’82 will be further strengthened. 
As a suggestion, it may not be out of place to men- 
tion that the other officers of the year, both in the 
Applied Science and Arts Faculties, resident in 
Montreal, will form into a committee for the dinner, 
and will receive the cordial and hearty support of 



114 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1886 



every one, and ensure a re-union at no distant date — 
on or about Convocation Day — as. the joint committee 
of both faculties may decide. 

Yours, &c., 

Henry M. Ami. 

Geological Survey, Ottawa. 

THiE iMionDEi^nsr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

I 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL, 



R. GARDNER ^ SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 





mes. Ml 




Established, 1869. Bebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Eenovated and Improved, 1884. 



BATHING HOURS; 

GENTLEMEN, - - - S to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “ Hydro- Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D. B, A, MACBEAN, M.B., Proprietor, 



BAKERS' and CONFECTIONERS' MACHINERY, 

Reel Ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 

A SPECIALTY. 

^NOVELTY IRON WORKS#-" 

40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 



CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 

O'S’STEiaS .A.T ^XjIj 

Fine (bandies and Confectionery. 



Entnhlished 1859. 

lEE. 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Fnysicians, Hospi^Is, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



CRIDIFORD & ROBERTSON, 

ENGINE[RS UNO lyilLLWfilGllTS, 

25 Bleary Street, MONTREAL. 

— manufacturers of— 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders' ^ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 
yachts and ElVGIJVES. 

ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE 

save s ONE-FOITRTH OF FUEL. 

THE HENDERSOiTlUMbFr CO 

Capital Paid-up - . $ioo, 000.00 * 

D. H, 

Sa„ Mm., ROXTON falls. P.Q., andmio 380 WILLIAM ST 
I>r.n,h Yard, i30 ST. CONSTANT ST.. MOXTJIBAL ^ ' 

Manufacturers and General Dealers in ,v 

criptlon of Lumber and Timber. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Quality and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CIIOSS smo PENS kept in Stock. 

E-vexjr pen. g-«-a.ra,aa.teed.. 

SZ SOItTS, 

Q5Q St. James Street. 



S. J. BBISSETTE. jqq cOURTOIS. 

BRISSETTE & COURTOIS, 

WHITE’S Ij^isrE, 

lfflgj8ni®ep§ ant Maeftinilsls, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 

Michinenkfob Pipeb Miikeiis, Pipeb Box Miifictoiieiis, 

«BOOK BINDEES and PEHTTEES.-J> 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

r>eslg:ne<i and JBnllt to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Corner 

McQill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 




Corner 

McQill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



-5-3ic ^ 



FOR 



Overcoats, Suits,- and Gents’ Underwear. 

iti ^ditGidci to frottiv 

Suits'^ Overcoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

irairiiiMi, 



BTJir nscDxrsj 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor, of Craig St. 
f-iue ©oufcctionnij, 

R oNBONS and (I hOCOLATES 



ARTISTICALLY 



•■5-Engraved and Printed, •5^ 



— IN — 



relief, cameo or PLAIN. 



PHILIPS SQUARE, 



79 

MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS “? lomtini Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 



prepared by 



W. H. CH.VPHAN, Pli. C., Central Drug Store, 
Corner Craig and Bleury Streets. 



The Burl and Litho. Co., 

5,1 Sl 9 Bleury Street, 



MON T 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 
Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitorsj &c., 

ChamlDers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 


Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

Perfuir|efy, kqd toilet 
1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 


\mmm, fleet & falconer, 

ikOVOCAXSS, 

157 ST. J'^lvdlES STK.T3ET, 


Atwater & Mackie, 
Aivocates, Barristers, Coimalssloiers, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 


IHE great INVIEOlUriNSTONICraEDAl 


Macmaster, Hdtchinson, Ieie & McLehnah, 

ikDVOC/kXKS, 

Barristers, Solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L. 


Chuech, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C, JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS, 


^ M bishop 

fpijinting 

Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 


A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Pobllsher, Inrpoiter i Legal Stallooer, 

23 ST. T.A.lvIES ST., 

(near the court house,) 


Invitations, Gards, Grests, ppogFammes, 
Nonograms, &c., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 


BICYCLES ! ! | 

Lwawii Tennis Sets, Foot [j 

Balls, Boxing Gloves^ | 

Fencing Foils^ 

yyi^ Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, «fec. 

WATSOIff ate ]PEI.XO»r. 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 


E. SHAEPLEY & SONS, 
5bwbllei^y ^ Rangy Goods. ■ 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

^%ANcTrnnj{ CLOCKS, BRONZES, and 

FANCY GOODS, suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations. 


Hairflressiof aifl Slavii ia tie Latest Style, 

QUEEN'S BLOCK. ’ 


OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc., etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



3S5 cSc 3QT St. Sttseet, IL^03srT:REA.x^- 

Wholesale Manufacturers 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 






—AND— 



M Bniiy 





Hot Air Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or W^ootli 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN CRILLY & CO., 

-K/r ( MILLS RT 

FiiPER Manufacturers, t joliette.p.q. 

— MANUFACTURERS OF— 



Han^nj? Paper, 

Brown Paper, 
rey Paper, 

Straw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Oarpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper. 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper. 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Slzeo -y^elgrla-te Ma,a.e to Or3.ex. 

twines of all descriptions. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Flour Sacks. 

Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 

Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

reiglit ad Panels MM Par and Delivered in anv Part of tie City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, *«• 

Teams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738. 

SHAEPE 4 WALTEES, P EOPEIETOES. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



ffiW ENGUIffl PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun’s 
21 aud 23 DeBresolea* Street, IWontreal. 

manufacturers OF iT^nmno 

HEWS, MAH1LI.A, BROWN, GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

.,.0 H,.gine, SheelLf ."V Ro.linS Pape'S 'a-a "'aa'"- 




WORKS AT 
I, CORNWALL, ONT. 

- ^ 250 , 000 . 

manufactures the folloa.no grades (Machine 

ngine Sized Superfine g, u^gjgjmXaid&WoveFo^scaps, 

inished andSuper-c.al^der^ . and Lithographic Papers, 

osta, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, tnve op 

Coloured Cover Papers sup made to order. 

AddIt at the mill for samples and prices. 



Fresh Ohocekies I 

Our Fall Supplies of GROCERIES and PROVISIONS are to hand, 
and we invite inspection. • « 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIE^ 

DAVID CKAWFOED, GENERAL Grooer, 

ITALIAN WABEHOUSE. 1 StPcath.iiD. St. 



Beuthner B ROS., 
^itiporlErs nni) ^aitufatiurtrs 

821 CRAIG STREET, 821 

MONT REAL. 

^ -nrr 

Briar and ^eerscltaum Pipes, 

SULTANS KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOES OF 25. 

bULlAna, unnu ^ sfu.cLexxte l^ixtvLxe. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET Queen's Block. 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



rrnij: genxjiis^e 

COOI^’S 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 

lOO GKEV jNUN street. 
IlttPORTEKS OF 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Roman Cement, 

Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, 
Whiting, 

Plaster Paris,' 



Chimney Tops, 

Vent Linings, 

Flue Covers, 
Fire Bricks, 
Fire Clay, 



Portland Cement, 

<&c. 



Borax, 



Mannfaclnrers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 



MtisBiitic Materials, Banilaies,Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Plarmaceiitical & Dispeasini Ctaisls, 



A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 
TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(Xj I ivc X T,E :n , 

21, 2Jh & 23 St. Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. tLOV£« Managing Director. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandage^ Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool. Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 

Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, \^ite on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



€. ASHF01B*S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

J^ISTJD 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 



Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels. Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of xM ANUFACTURED FURS, to which 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

IETj^^TS 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

•W". ZvZ, 

H ATTER AND FuRRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St» 



^ PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOEE’S. 



Students’ Note Books, Bissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY -WEISS & S03Sn, 

CSEB.A.P’ FOR CJisSR. 

Books procured to order from England & the UnitedStates 

816 MJ) 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES Sc WALFOED'S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



