
Fortnight^ 



Vol. IV. 



A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 5, 1896. 



No. 9 




* EDITORIAL BOARD & 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary— J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Ver.Sc. '96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. ’96). 

W. B. Mowatt, B.A. (Med. ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda ’96) 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



* BUSINESS BOARD & 



S. G. Archibald (Arts *97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law *97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 
Wm. Proderick (Med. *96). J. W. Bell (Sc. *97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. '96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is £1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s, E. M. Renouf’s, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



FRIDAY, JANUARY 24TH. 

It is not too much to say that McGill has looked 
forward with eagerness to the Annual Lecture and the 
University Dinner. The same sort ofinterest which is 
felt by Great Britain in the Prime Minister’s speech at 
the Guildhall was felt by McGill in Dr. Peterson’s 
address. Since his arrival in Montreal the Principal 
has shown himself most gracious in accepting the in- 
vitations of college and city societies to deliver 
addresses upon all sorts of occasions. He has been 
often heard, and always heard with attention. But 
his first public address to the University in all its 
members, from the Chancellor to the freshman over- 
whelmed with Christmas supplemental, was of 
another class than these uterances. A chance was 
given him to make an avowal of policy, and it was 
seized. No one who heard the Principal speak last 
Friday week, could have gone away with the im- 
pression that he was an opportunist , — anglice that he 
was drifting. He has made a careful diagnosis of 
McGill’s present condition, and on the whole we gather 
that he finds our venerable mother all right. Yet no 
University, as no person, can stand still. If 



progress is not visible, there must be back-sliding. 
President Eliot, our chief academic guest on this 
occasion, once said of Harvard that with an annual 
income of a million dollars she found herself poor. 
What is true of Harvard must a fortiori be true of 
McGill, which only spends a little more than two 
hundred thousand dollars a year. In short, we need 
money. Less acumen than Dr. Peterson possesses 
would have sufficed to work out this obvious con- 
clusion. The obtusest millionaire in Canada can 
see that we were poor. The Principal’s care was 
to decide which department of the University 
is most immediately in need of relief, and to urge 
its claims. Who can question his wisdom in singling 
out Arts for the dubious palm of impecuniosity ? 
Medicine, Science, Law, have all been fertilized by 
the rich alluvial deposits of recent gifts. And every 
field in each of these Faculties is showing golden grain. 
Poor old Arts alone remains forlorn in the sterility 
of her unsatisfied expectations President Eliot at 
the Dinner spoke with force and conviction about the 
practical use of such an institution as McGill to the 
millionaire. It enables him to escape the epitaph 

“ The rich man died also, and was buried.” A 
single glance at the achieved good which has 
been wrought by the gifts of our benefactors ought 
to be a goad to still further donation by every well- 
to-do friend of McGill. In no narrow spirit we say it. 
The vital spot of the University is the Faculty of Arts. 
What a pity that its name should be such a mis- 
nomer! The German phrase, “ Philosophical Faculty,” 
comes much nearer thetrue idea. The Faculty of Arts 
sees to it, or ought to see to it, that the general powers 
of our minds are trained, and that our characters are 
enlarged by familiarity with the best in literature and 
in action. Allgemeine Bi Idling, general culture, this is 
the ideal of the Faculty which Dr. Peterson now 
seeks to strengthen. Would that he- might be able 
to say of McGill as Mathew Arnold of Oxford, that 
she, “ by her ineffable charm, keeps ever calling us 
nearer to the true goal of all of us, to the ideal, to 
perfection, — to beauty, in a word, which is only truth 
seen from another side — nearer, perhaps, than all the 
science of Tuebingen.” It will be a long time before 
we shall have the quadrangles of Magdalen and 
Oriel ; but the love of knowledge for itself, and the 
love of the ideal are not beyond our grasp. What- 



154 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ever lends strength to the Faculty of Arts will 
bring these things nearer to us. 

We cannot leave the subject of Dr. Peterson’s 
lecture without referring to the eloquence with which 
he advocated culture, — culture in the widest sense of 
that maltreated word. We need to remember that the 
arts of expression have not a natural root in this 
community. But with encouragement they live, and 
wherever they live, happiness of the highest kind is 
self-sown along with them. Music, and the fine arts 
in their narrow sense, should have some place in 
a properly equipped University. When we shall have 
turned the reservoir into a Pierian spring, and Mount 
Royal into a Canadian Parnassus, the graduates of 
McGill will win fame beyond the banks of the St. 
Lawrence. Such a man as Dr. Peterson will not be 
content — to take his own special field of teaching — 
with the presentation of anything less than the life 
and thought of classical times. Casts and photo- 
graphs innumerable are necessary adjuncts of such a 
task. Without aiming at the stars, if we wish to live 
in the spirit of Dr. Peterson’s Platonic quotation, let us 
set ourselves to secure such a collection of reproduc- 
tions as will illustrate the historic progress of the best 
art of the world. 

The presence of Their Excellencies, of two college 
presidents, and of the Minister of Education for Onta- 
rio, was a compliment to Dr. Peterson and to the Uni- 
versity. All these guests attended both Lecture and 
Dinner. Of the latter function we shall not say 
much. It was a great success. The decorations, music, 
and management were a credit to the Committee, the 
menu to the Windsor. Weshall not pretend that the 
speeches were uniformly excellent, but perhaps 
that is because the best of them were very good. 
If we were to select a single one for comment and 
praise, we should take that of President Eliot. 
Besides being compact with ideas, it was full of the 
personal dignity which breathes through all his words 
and actions. He brought us the congratulations of 
the foremost University of the United States, and 
Principal Loudon brought us the congratulations of 
our foremost Canadian sister. We are grateful for 
the good fellowship of both these great Universities. 
May McGill always deserve to make a third in such a 
company ! 



CORRESPONDENCE 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

Dear Mr. Editor, 

The formation of a University Club has been ad- 
vocated more than once in the columns of the 
Fori NIGHTLY, and the need of such an organization 
has long been felt by those who take an interest in 



the welfare of the Students of McGill. It is there- 
fore highly gratifying to be able to state that the 
project has at length taken definite form, and ma- 
chinery has been set in motion which, it is hoped, 
will effect the desired end. 

Shortly after the Christmas vacation, a meeting 
called by the presidents of the five Faculties, for the 
purpose of organizing a University Club, was held in 
the Molson Hall, Appropriate resolutions were 
adopted, and a committee was appointed to draft a 
constitution and by-laws and report at a subsequent 
meeting. The second meeting was held January 21, 
when a constitution and by-laws were passed and 
officers were elected in accordance therewith. The 
rules adopted were few and simple, and expressed in 
very general terms, and ample provision was made 
for their amendment, for it was felt that the constitu- 
tion, like the association whose activities it was in- 
tended to direct, must grow, and that a set of precise 
rules wrought out in elaborate detail would be 
dangerous to the efficiency if not to the very ex- 
istence of the young organization. 

The annual meeting for the election of officers, 
reception of treasurer’s report, etc., is to be held on 
the second Thursday in March, the officers to assume 
their duties on September 1st. The fee for the pre- 
sent session was fixed at one dollar ; the amount an- 
nually payable was not decided on, being left to the 
discretion of the annual meeting to be held in 
March. 

Through the kindness of Mrs. Clark Murray, the 
Club has been provided with rooms at 73 McGill 
College Avenue, where a Students’ Dining Hall has 
recently been opened by the same generous lady. 
For the present, however, the two enterprises are 
quite distinct, the existence of the Club being in no 
way bound up with the success or failure of the 
Dining Hall. In connection with the latter, Mrs. 
Murray has assumed all pecuniary risk ; and this 
very practical expression of her interest in the wel- 
fare of the students should be responded to by an 
equally practical expression of appreciation on their 
part. Sentiments of gratitude will not avail to make 
the Dining Hall a permanent institution; what is 
needed is that the students not resident in Montreal 
board there. 

In commending both the Dining Hall and the 
Club to the sympathy and support of the students, 

I feel that the claims of these two institutions are so 
patent that little need be said. They will, if properly 
supported, supply a very keenly felt need in our 
College economy. The practical advantage of good 
meals at low prices, and in a building within a 
stone’s throw of the College gates, cannot be 
doubted ; and the pleasure of spending an “ off” 
hour at a game of billiards, or in a comfortable 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



155 



smoking or reading room, should appeal to most 
students. But a more important if less obvious 
benefit will be the fact, that many men of many 
minds will thus meet in friendly intercourse ; and 
this cannot but result in education in the truest 
sense of the word, — an education of the highest ef- 
ficiency in fitting the individual for the activities of 
practical life. It would also tone down the lines 
which now so sharply mark off the students of each 
Faculty from those of all the others ; promote the 
solidarity of the whole student body ; and foster that 
esprit de corps which has always been so sadly lacking 
in McGill. 

Such is indeed “ a consummation devoutly to be 
wished.” The first steps towards its accomplishment 
have been taken. All that is needed now is active 
support from the students generally. 

R. H. ROGERS. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



GRADUATES SOCIETIES. 

HOW THEY MIGHT PROMOTE THE INTERESTS OF 

ALMA MATER. 

Apropos of the formation of Graduates societies, I 
have been frequently asked, what is the main object 
for which these societies are organized ? After you 
collect the McGill graduates of Boston, New York, 
Chicago, Toionto, Ottawa and British Columbia into 
societies ; after you elect officers and make speeches ; 
what is the programme or the platform that each of 
these societies is to occupy ? No question is more 
natural, and steps should never be taken to form such 
an association until the answer is less hazy and in- 
definite than it at present is, in the minds of the great 
majority. 

With members scattered over a wide district or a 
larger city, it becomes impossible to hold frequent 
meetings, and one can quite imagine the meetings 
being reduced to an annual one, which would natur- 
ally take the form of a dinner. At such a dinner, 
besides the renewal of acquaintance, there would be 
read by the secretary a circular letter taking up the 
work done by the parent society in Montreal, with 
reports and greetings from all the other societies 
scattered over the continent. The president’s speech 
would take up the year’s progress in the University. 
Other speeches would be made, and the gathering to- 
gether and the utterances of so many of the prominent 
men of a city or district being reported could not but 
attract most favorable attention and comment. 

The secretary would be supplied with all the litera- 
ture necessary to answer any enquiry as to courses of 



study, matriculation, and all other matters pertain- 
ing to entrance and study, and thus the society would 
become a distributing point of information to the 
whole district in which it was found, and the name 
and advantages of McGill would be brought before the 
very people from whom we get our best students. 

The graduates themselves would by that means be 
kept fully abreast of the latest improvements and 
additions to the working strength of the University, 
and this very knowledge would keep up their enthu- 
siasm in their task. In this connection the matricu- 
lation papers could be sent to the secretary, or other 
member appointed to that post, and local examinations 
could be held, just as is now done by Toronto Uni- 
versity and Queen’s. 

If there are in a society members of a literary turn, 
— and what society of McGill men would not contain 
many such ? — a series of articles to the local press 
would be valuable, and would be gladly received by 
the editors. If the writer is a medical man, a descrip- 
tion of the hospitals and college would be interesting 
and attractive, especially if embellished by personal ex- 
perience and reminiscence ; if an Artsman or clergy- 
man, an account of the college with its library, mus- 
eums and theological colleges would make a good 
subject ; if a Science graduate, several articles could 
be taken up in describing our magnificent buildings 
with their museums and laboratories. The advan- 
tages of the various courses could be shown with our 
unparalleled facilities for the original research that will 
be so needful in developing Canada’s mines, building 
her railways and public works and developing her 
industries. How valuable would be such a series of 
articles to the press of British Columbia, for example. 

The Ottawa Valley Graduates Society has now 
been in active life for some years, and among their 
many goods works is one that might well be followed 
by all others as soon as they become strong enough. 

I refer to the founding of scholarships to be given to 
deserving students from the city or province in which 
they work. It is often the only chance for a young 
man of ability but not of means, to get a college 
course ; and anything that will lighten the burden of 
the fees, that may shut out often the best student and 
admit his inferior but more fortunately situated fellow, 
is a good work done. 

One of the principal objects of a Graduates’ society 
is to supply books to the library, and thus to accumu- 
late a stock of reference books, relating to their parti- 
cular country and its industries, to be freely con- 
sulted by every enquirer. 

These are a few of the lines of work that could be 
undertaken by the organized and united graduates of 
McGill ; but the real benefit to the members of such 
societies is the keeping in touch with University 
thought and progress, the noting of the growth of 



156 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



post graduate courses in the technical faculties with 
their bearing on each individual and his particular 
aims. W ith a few healthy societies dotted over the 
continent, we may soon expect to see again old gra- 
duates who have gained that practical knowledge of 
their profession that years and experience only can 
give, coming back to combine a few months holidays 
during the summer months, in this beautiful city so 
rich in natural beauty and historical memories, with a 
course of study embracing the last discoveries of 
science, or even to undertake original research in the 
many fields of labor, both in Applied Science and 
Medicine, for which McGill so fully supplies the 
means. 

R. Tait McKenzie. 



UNITY OF LEARNING. 

University Lecture— by Principal Peterson. 

The annual lecture in connection with McGill Uni- 
versity was delivered on Friday afternoon, Jan. 24th, 
in the Queen’s Theatre, by Principal Peterson, who 
took for his theme : “ The Unity of Learning.” The 
friends of the University were present in large 
numbers, and, pending the commencement of the 
proceedings, the students, who occupied the gallery, 
entertained them to the usual selection of collecre 

o 

songs, which were given with a vis and a swing that 
have characterized their rendering for many years 
past. The Donaldas who made a goodly showing, 
were accommodated with seats in the orchestra. 
The Governor-General and Lady Aberdeen attended 
the proceedings, their entry, which was made some- 
what late, on account of their having attended the 
opening of Aberdeen School, being greeted by the 
audience rising en masse , and heartily singing “ God 
Save the Queen.” Sir Donald Smith, as Chancellor 
presided, and, besides the Governor-General and 
Lady Aberdeen, he was accompanied on the platform 
by Hon. G. W. Ross, Minister of Education for 
Ontario ; Sir William Dawson ; Dr. Eliot, Presi- 
dent of Harvard University; Principal Loudon, of 
Toronto ; Messrs. W. C. McDonald and S. Finley, 
Governors of McGill, and most of the professors 
and lecturers connected with the different Faculties. 

The Chancellor opened the proceedings by briefly 
introducing Principal Peterson, who now made his 
first appearance before a meeting composed of the 

whole assembled Faculties of McGill, and the friends 
of the University. 

DR. PETERSON’S LECTURE. 

It is fortunate for me that the usage of the Univer- 
sity permitted the delay which has taken place this 



year in regard to the delivery of the annual University 
lecture- The feeling of strangeness which marked 
the early days of my arrival among you has now, to 
a great extent, worn off and disappeared. I have 
had time to accustom myself to the idea of citizen- 
ship in what was, to me, a new continent- Ample 
opportunity also has been afforded me of acquainting 
myself with the nature of the conditions under which 
my work here must go forward. I have learned to 
appreciate the magnitude of the operations that are 
carried on in the name of the University. I have 
been able, also, to take the first steps in the policy of 
earnestly identifying myself, so far as my poor ability 
may serve, with each of the various manifestations of 
our academic activity. In the four months that have 
elapsed since my arrival, I have learned a great deal : 
for there was a great deal to learn. Above every- 
thing else, I have realized the high character of the 
traditions that pertain to the office of Principal of 
McGill. It is an office which it is altogether un- 
necessary for a humble individual to magnify ; it 
magnifies itself. Whether it be considered as gather- 
ing up the results of strenuous activity and princely 
munificence in the past, or as reaching forward with 
hopeful endeavor into the future, the position of 
Principal of this great University is a position of which 
any man may well be proud. It is a position which, 
with its far-reaching opportunities for usefulness, 
ought to call forth the very best energies of which an 
individual may be capab'e. I feel this honestly, 
sincerely. Ihe feeling has been growing in intensity, 
day by day, since I began my work at McGill. And, 
in the presence of this great audience, I renew the 
vows made to the representatives of the University, 
assembled in Corporation, when I dedicated to their 
service whatever qualifications I can bring to bear on 
the work of consolidating and advancing our common 
academic interests. 

After the continuous activity of the past few 
months, I feel that I am no longer a stranger address- 
ing strangers. And I am reminded that, for the com- 
fortable sensation of familiarity with my surroundings 
which it is now my pleasant lot to experience, I am 
indebted to nothing so much as to the uniform court- 
esy and kindness with which I have been received 
on every hand. I have not been silent since coming 
among you ; indeed, a great part of my activity 
seems to have been taken up with the making of 
speeches on numerous occasions, in every kind of 
circumstances, formal and informal. But nothing that 
I have succeeded in saying yet has conveyed an 
adequate expression of my appreciation of the cor- 
diality which marked my reception in Montreal. 
No cxpeiience could have been more grateful to one 
who had literally “ torn himself up by the roots ” 
;rotn the position which he had been honored by hold- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



157 



ing in the home-country than the experience which 
has been mine during these short months of initiation 
in your service ; and it becomes me to endeavor, once 
more, on this great occasion, to find words which 
shall serve to express — so far as it can be expressed 
in words — my deep sense of gratitude to all the con- 
stituent members of the University, whether gover- 
nors, fellows, professors, or students, as well as to the 
general body of the community, for the encourage- 
ment which I have been able to derive from their 
kindly and sympathetic attitude towards me. I 
recognize in that attitude the surest evidence of the 
interest which is shared by all classes here in the wel- 
fare and prosperity of our University, and of the wish 
to secure that prosperity, and advance that welfare, 
by lending the support of solidarity to the individual 
who has been called, under you, Mr. Chancellor, and 
your colleagues on the Governing Board, to preside 
over our high academic destinies. * * * * 

To the labors of Sir William Dawson as Principal 
the most fitting reference that I can make, speaking 
in his presence, is to say that he has rendered it hard 
even doubly hard, for anyone to follow him. In the 
year 1855, before an audience that was, no doubt, the 
prototype of this, Sir William pleaded his youth and 
inexperience as disqualifications for the office to which 
he had been called ; to-day, in 1896, full of years 
and honors, he still holds incomparably the foremost 
place in the hearts and affections of those who, in 
more than one country and on more than one con- 
tinent, are watching with interest the progress of 
academic development in Montreal. To the work 
that has been accomplished during these long 
years of strenuous and unsparing activity I bring, 
to-day, the tribute of a most respectful homage. 
I know, and can appreciate, the intensity of purpose 
that can induce a man to merge his own interests, 
almost his very existence, in the advancement of a 
cause which may seem to appeal to him most when 
it is, in a measure, helpless and unprogressive. To 
Sir William, and his colleagues of early days, diffi- 
culties would appear to have presented themselves 
merely as incentive to further progress. And, in the 
end, earnest and unremitting effort won the victory, 
which was potentially its portion from the first. It 
becomes us, now that we are basking in the sunshine 
of assured success, to remember what we owe to the 
great leader whose name will always be inseparably 
connected with the story of Old McGill. It is no 
mean record of achievement to have consolidated a 
University and to have made at the same time a 
name in the Scientific literature of two hemispheres 
And if the forecast should prove correct— as in the 
early days of my appointment Sir William, writing 
to me in my old home, most generously expressed 
the hope would be the case— that the future of 



McGill is to be “ even more successful than the 
past ” I for one shall never forget the obligation 
which is owed to him by all of us alike for far-sighted 
statesmanship, for ceaseless activity, and for whole- 
hearted devotion. 

The world is older now than it was in the days 
when Universities first were founded, and the forces 
on which they depend in our time manifest them- 
selves in forms which it may sometimes appear hard 
to identify with those that led to the institution of 
the earliest seats of learning in Europe. The inevit- 
able law of change has asserted itself conspicuously 
in the sphere of higher education. But though con- 
ditions have become very different from what they 
used to be, it is not difficult to trace something at 
least of the same spirit continuously operative 
through the centuries. McGill is by no means the 
newest University of this continent ; but even 
between the most recent foundation and the old 
universities of Bologna and Paris there is an inner 
bond of union which difference of external circum- 
stances cannot avail to weaken or annul. The earli- 
est Universities were the nurslings of the Church 
— the Church which, after fostering learning through 
the darkest of the Dark Ages, had now become the 
great centralizing and unifying agency of mediaeval 
Europe. Princes and people had combined their 
efforts with those of learned men to develop them 
out of the old cathedral and cloister schools, where 
the only teachers were the monks. They aimed at be- 
ing cosmopolitan in character : the Studium Geuerale, 
as its name implies, had nothing about it that was 
merely local, and the Universitas Liter aria was the 
first concrete embodiment of that community of 
letters which has since grown to greater things. 
And yet there is a sense in which the early universi- 
ties were the models also of those technical schools 
which in our day have found shelter — and, let us 
hope, inspiration also — under the broad cegis of our 
academic establishments. For were they not pro- 
fessional schools, and — where they were not founded 
expressly in the interests of one faculty.such as 
Law or Medicine, — were not the subjects which they 
taught mainly such as were intended to prepare 
priests and monks for their work in life ? 

The march of time has brought with it many 
changes in the aim and methods of education. But 
identity of spirit is traceable in the spontaneous and 
enthusiastic desire for the advancement of knowledge 
which has always asserted itself— in all ages, and in 
nearly every country. This desire it is, that is the 
mainspring of the activity of the university which 
claims our homage to-day. It is a grand ideal that 
there should exist, in the very midst of a community 
naturally and necessarily much occupied with other 
things, an institution which aims at reflecting— no 



i5» 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



doubt, with many imperfections— the highest culture, 
and the greatest scientific triumphs of the age in 
which we live. I have referred to the earliest uni- 
versities as, in a sense, technical schools; but it is 
more important to realize that, if we claim to be 
their lineal successors, we must keep well to the 
front that conception of the unity of learning, and 
the inter-dependence of studies, which, in their 
different circumstances, they found it comparatively 
easy to foster. There is a greater variety of aim 
among our students now. We train not only those 
who are to be clergymen, but those, also, who are 
to become lawyers, doctors, teachers,— all, in fact, 
who are to do the work that the world cannot leave 
undone. But a certain unity of purpose ought to 
inspire our whole activity, though, at times, we may 
be somewhat apt to lose sight of it. Even amid the 
diversity of modern conditions, we ought to keep 
alive our consciousness of common sympathies, and 
a common inspiration. After all, the true position 
of a university, as such, is not to turn out recruits for 
the professions, but to prepare men and women, by 
the discipline of study, for the whole of their after 
life. It is necessary to emphasize the word “ whole.” 
For there is a narrow view which limits life to busi- 
ness-life and occupation, forgetting that the leisure 
of life also needs to be prepared for, if it is to be used 
and enjoyed aright. In the ideal of university 
teaching, subjects are not ranked low on the ground 
that they are of little or no practical value. The 
standard by which they must be judged is their 
effect on the mental training of the individual. 
Again, it is true, no doubt, that universities exist in 
order to extend the bounds of human knowledge, as 
well as for the training of the average man ; and no 
university can be in a healthy condition where the 
spirit of original research is not actively at work. 
But, after all, a university can do no greater service 
to the community than is implied in the turning out, 
year by year, of a number of young men — and young 
women — who have received the benefits of a sound 
and comprehensive education, and who have become 
fitted thereby, with whatever of special study they 
may have been able, individually, to add, to take 
their place worthily in the arena of life. 

If I seem to be digressing to the well-worn theme 
of the true purpose of academic pursuits, it will, I 
trust, be pardoned to me, inasmuch as the broad view 
of the case may well bear to be re-stated in McGill. 
We must never lose sight of that aspect of the func- 
tions of a university according to which it seeks to give 
a structural unity to the various constituent parts of 
knowledge. To do so would be to check the devel- 
opment of what we may call the university spirit. No 
mere aggregation of professional faculties, however well 
equipped they may be,— no groups, of departmental 



schools — can suffice of themselves to form a univer- 
sity. This is only the counterpart of the statement, 
that, for the individual, the worst possible attitude is 
to regard his own studies and pursuits as the only ones 
worth consideration, and all others as of little account. 
Specialized activity is, of course, a necessity of exis- 
tence in days when the field of human knowledge 
has become so vast that many subjects must practi- 
cally withdraw themselves beyond the ken even of 
earnest workers- It is better to know some things 
well than to have a mere smattering of a great num- 
ber. But there is such a thing as a sense of the 
w'hole, a consciousness of the proportion of the parts, 
a reaching forward to the full amplitude of knowledge, 
a feeling of the unity which — revealed as it often is 
in similarity or even identity of methods and princi- 
ples — knits together branches of study which may 
seem at first sight to lie apart. We must endure to 
be in a great degree practically ignorant of what lies 
outside our own immediate studies, but we need not 
be indifferent to it. An intelligent and enlightened, 
sympathy with what others are doing is the best coun- 
teractive to the tendency towards that contractedness 
of mental view which is often the penalty of absorp- 
tion in some paiticular pursuit. 

This obvious truth is reflected in the constitution 
of our universities, and in the interdependence of the 
various Faculties of which they consist. Take, for 
instance, the Faculty of Medicine, which represents 
what is, perhaps, the most indispensable of all the prac- 
tical sciences. It is a well knowm fact that the status 
of medical schools which carry on their work in isola- 
tion — as is the case with some of the great London 
hospitals — is not so high as that of schools which 
enjoy the benefit of close association with a teaching 
university. In such institutions there is apt to be a 
premature assertion of w hat, for the purpose of my 
present argument, and without the slightest dispar- 
agement, I may designate the professional spirit ; and 
even the great sciences, which ought to lie at the very 
foundation of a medical curriculum — physics, chemis- 
try, botany and zoology — are in danger of being 
regarded in their professional and utilitarian aspects 
merely, hortunately, we have the opportunity, in 
McGill, of making these very sciences the bridge to 
secure an even closer union than exists at present 
between the Faculty of Medicine, which has done so 
much foi the University in the past, and the Faculty 
of Arts, of w'hich so much may be expected in the 
futuie. And I may say, incidentally, that the friends 
of both h acuities — and all who aim at the very high- 
est attainable results— ought not to rest until biology 
(including botany and zoology) and chemistry are as 
well housed and as adequately equipped and provided 
for as the sister department of physics. Take again 
the Faculty of Applied Science. It could easily exist, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



159 



apart from the university altogether, as a well 
equipped technical school. But what a limitation 
of aim would not this involve ! To say nothing 
of the severance that would thus result from other 
university studies that go to the making of an educated 
man (studies which the students of the Faculty of 
Applied Science are well known not wholly to des- 
pise), the very subjects which underlie the whole work 
of the department- - mathematics, mechanics, and 
physics — would be in danger of assuming, more of 
less prematurely, a professional colour. However 
tempting and attractive the offer of a definite and 
independent curriculum might be made to youthful 
entrants who are'hastening forward (or whose parents 
wish them to hasten) to the goal of their aspirations, 
it must be remembered, on the other hand, that there 
is such a thing as what the Germans call the “ ideality 
of the scientific sense, the interest in science not de- 
pendent upon, nor limited by, practical aims, but 
ministering to the liberal education of the mind 
as such, the many-sided and broad exercise of the 
thinking faculty.” I must not attempt, within the 
limits of this address, to cover the whole ground of 
university education ; but I may venture one more 
reference, this time to the Faculty of Law, which we 
have recently welcomed inside our College buildings. 
The excellent syllabus of the work of that Faculty 
which appears in the University Calendar, shows the 
comprehensive nature of the aims which it cherishes. 
It offers the opportunity of a systematic study of law, 
not only with a view to its practice as a profession 
but also “as a means of culture, and as a qualification 
for the discharge of the higher duties of citizenship.” 
When the philosophical department of our Faculty 
of Arts has been opened up so as to embrace — in 
addition to chairs of Logic and Moral Philosophy — 
a chair of Social and Political Science, including Eco- 
nomic Theory, we shall see more clearly than we can 
at present how close a connection there is between 
such subjects (Along with History) in the Arts curri- 
culum, and the studies which it is desired to foster 
and encourage in the Faculty of Law. 

The sum and substance of what I have been 
endeavoring to state is, firstly, that we must do noth- 
ing to obscure the fact that knowledge is valuable 
even apart from its practical applications ; and 
secondly, that there is a vital interdependence, 
among all studies. An excessive devotion to the 
isolated applications of science must tend to obscure 
the broad principles on which all science rests ; and a 
proper appreciation of the educational value of science 
is apt to be endangered when scientific knowledge is 
looked on mainly as a concrete means of profit and 
advancement in connection with some particular pro- 
fession or pursuit. Again, studies throw light on each 
other; and even when the relation is least obvious, it 



will generally be found that some deep-lying principle 
exists, which, when discovered and applied, will bring 
into the closest union with each other branches that 
may appear to be totally unconnected. It is by 
apprehending the similarity of the methods that run 
through all the sciences that the student will be 
enabled, amid the multiplicity of subjects which strain 
for recognition, to hold fast to the ideal of the unity of 
learning, to keep the parts in due subordination to 
the conception of the whole, and to bring himself 
into sympathetic contact with the comprehensive 
circle of human knowledge. 

In fostering and developing this faculty of viewing 
knowledge as a whole, a great part must be played 
by the Department of Arts, of which I must now 
proceed to say a few words. I have no wish unduly 
to exalt the studies to which my own teaching activity 
has been devoted, though my colleagues in the 
Faculties of Law, Medicine and Applied Science 
could well afford — now that they are popularly 
supposed to have had their every want supplied — to 
listen with equanimity to such a eulogy, even if it 
were to take the practical form of an exhortation to 
all intending benefactors of the University to concen- 
trate their attention during the next few years upon 
the Faculty of Arts. If I were to make such an 
appeal, I do not know that any particularFaculty could 
object, except, perhaps, that of Comparative Medicine, 
whose wants are well known to all of us. Comparisons 
are invidious : they are sometimes even stigmatized 
as odious. It is, however, no disparagement of other 
work to say that there is still a virtue in the old ideal 
of a “ Faculty of Arts” that was to precede — and, fortu- 
nately for us here, does often still precede — the 
special study of Law, Medicine or Theology, It is 
thus at once the pledge and the expression of the 
unity of learning — the connecting link which unites 
academical and professional study. It projects into 
outlying regions, and finds common ground every- 
where. Law and Theology rely on History and Philo- 
sophy, Technology on the Mathematical and Mechani- 
cal Sciences, Medicine on Physics, Chemistry, Zoology 
and Botany. Let us hope that we shall always have 
in McGill a large and ever-increasing body of students 
who will aim at acquiring, in a more fully developed 
Arts curriculum, a truly wide and liberal culture, before 
they seek to superadd to their previous studies the 
professional training that may be requisite to fit 
them for their work in life. There is an old maxim 
that a liberal education consists in learning something 
of everything and everything of something. The 
field of human knowledge has in these latter days 
become greatly extended, and perhaps somewhat 
unwieldy and unworkable. But so far as this maxim 
is still applicable to the multifarious subjects of which 
education must now take cognizance, it finds its best 



i6o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



realization in the Faculty of Arts. Even in these 
times of specialized activity, a really comprehensive 
education may still remain a realizable ideal of those 
who have adequate leisure and opportunity. For 
such students it is attainable within the limits of 
school and college life, provided they do not begin 
to apply themselves to some special training in the 
very first year of their collegiate course. A truly 
liberal education must therefore still include, what- 
ever else it may embrace — as conspicuously a sym- 
pathetic acquaintance with the literature of the mother 
tongue — some knowledge of the language, the 
literature, the art and the life of the great nations of 
ancient times, that the student, besides undergoing 
the discipline of linguistic study, may learn to know 
and value his intellectual ancestors — the Romans, who 
imposed their language and their law on a world they 
had bound fast in the fetters of their imperial sway, 
and the Greeks, from whom have emanated the crea- 
tions that will remain for ever the patterns of art 
and the models of literary excellence. It should 
include a training in Mathematics, for the cultivation 
of exact habits of thought and consecutiveness in our 
reasonings ; and in some branch at least of Natural 
Science, the study of which will foster the faculty 
of observation, and will enable the student, by induc- 
tive processes, to develop order and law out of the 
multiplicity of phenomena that meet him when he 
surveys the realm of nature. Lastly, not nature only, 
but man,— his mental and moral constitution, and the 
obligations and responsibilities which rest upon him 
in virtue of his position as a member of Society and 
of the State. 

This is not an impossible course for those whose 
education is carried on under favorable conditions, 
and who are not under the necessity of hurrying on 
to what the Germans call their Brodstudien. It is 
certainly an ideal on which it behoves us in McGill 
to keep our eyes steadily fixed. A complete and 
comprehensive education is a more or less constant 
factor : it aims at the culture of the entire self, the 

harmonious development of all the faculties, that so 
their possessor may be able to keep pace with all 
that is highest and best in moral and intellectual 
aspiration. The character of special training, on the 
other hand, varies in different circumstances and under 
different conditions, and the demands of one age are 
not the demands of that by which it is succeeded. Our 
ideals in the Faculty of Arts are a standing protest 
against an exclusively utilitarian theory of education, 
if any such theory anywhere exists. The studies 
which it offers are not intended to be selected with 
care and calculation, on the ground of being profitable 
for some special profession or pursuit. On the con- 
trary, it is here that the warning of the greatest of the 
early Greek theorists on education may still come 



home to us, when he said that education “ must not 
be undertaken in the spirit of merchants or traders, 
with a view to buying or selling, but for the sake of 

the soul herself." 

The old antagonism between Arts and Science, of 
which one hears so much in the popular talk of the 
day, may be partly resolved and reconciled in the 
true conception of a Faculty of Arts, such as it has 
been attempted to realize in McGill, though with 
very inadequate resources. To a great extent, it 
arises from a misapprehension of terms. The word 
Arts itself is a misnomer: it makes one think of the 
fine arts and of elegant accomplishments generally, 
— if not of the black arts. The word science again, 
which is merely an equivalent for knowledge — organ- 
ized knowledge — cannot properly be limited to any 
special department of study. The antithesis is more 
intelligible when Literature is pitted against Science, — 
the knowledge of the best thoughts of mankind, wor- 
thily expressed, against the knowledge of the laws of 
the external universe. But Science and letters are 
not mutually exclusive : there is a literature of 
science, and scientific method is applicable to the study 
of language and literature. Everythingin fact depends 
on method. It is absurd, for example, to regard phy- 
sics as scientific and philology or history as non-scien- 
tific ; just as though the study of these subjects does 
not call for the application of method, — does not offer 
a sphere for exercising the faculty of analogy, for 
reasoning from evidence towards law, from distin- 
guishing between the rule and the exception, the es- 
sential and the accidental. In so far as they are 
dealt with on scientific principles, all departments of 
human thought, all manifestations of human life may 
be regarded as falling within the sphere of science. 

It will continue, therefore, to be the aim of our Arts 
Faculty I hope under improved conditions — to har- 



b(J d,S LO 

render unnecessary, at least in the earlier stages of 
the curriculum, any rigid choice between the two. 
We recognize that it would be the proof of an incom- 
plete development if a man were able to read the 
classics, but remained grossly ignorant of the physi- 
cal universe ; just as, on the other hand, we should re- 
giet the emergence of a fully-titled science graduate 
say, an engineer, who was unable to clothe the results 
of his work in tolerable English. Eminence in either 
branch need not be attained at the cost ofone-sided- 
ness- The crown and flower of all education is that 
philosophical spirit which Bacon spoke of as Univer- 
sality the enlargement or illumination of mind the 
mental breath, the sanity of judgment that come 
from an all-round training. 

To general considerations such as these it may not 
be mappropriate to append an attempt to forecast 
how. when additional endowments are forthcoming 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 6 1 



the existing curriculum in Arts may be strengthened 
and extended. My apology for presuming to refer 
to such a subject, after so short an acquaintance with 
the University system, is, in the first place, that I 
understand the need for some forward movement is 
fully realized by all the friends of McGill, and no- 
where more fully perhaps than in the Faculty of Arts 
itself ; while, in the second place, the conditions of 
Arts teaching here bear a strong family resemblance 
to those of the country which I have just left, where 
we have all quite recently been engaged in giving a 
Commission appointed by Parliament our best assist- 
ance in the work of re-organizing the whole teaching 
system of our national Scottish Universities. Noth- 
ing that I may say in endeavoring to anticipate fu- 
ture improvements need be taken as implying the 
slightest disparagement of the work that has been ac- 
complished in the past — often in the face of grave 
difficulties, and with very inadequate resources. It 
was expedient in the past that the generosity of bene- 
factors should be guided to flow in channels which 
have raised some of the other Faculties to a level on 
which they can challenge comparison with similar 
institutions anywhere. That the ideal of complete- 
ness was never lost sight of is evident from the fol- 
lowing passage, which I wish to give myself the satis- 
faction of quoting from one of Sir Wm. Dawson’s 
published papers : “ I would wish the student to have 
before his mind an ideal university — one complete and 
perfect in all its parts, with every subject, literary, 
scientific, or professional, adequately and uniformly 
provided for; with every professor at once a model 
as a man, and a perfect specialist in his subject, and 
supplied with all the means and appliances for his 
own progress and for teaching what he knows ; with 
all facilities for the comfort and progress of the stu- 
dent ; and with all its regulations so framed as to 
afford the greatest possible facilities for higher cul- 
ture, both in general education and every useful de- 
partment of study.” The ideal of a nation’s culture 
is that all branches of valuable knowledge, all depart- 
ments of intellectual activity, should be fully repre- 
sented in its national Universities. In the course of 
progress towards this ideal in McGill it seems now to 
be the turn of the Faculty of Arts, of which we may 
say at present, in the words of the poet, that like man 
himself, it “partly is and wholly hopes to be.” 

One of the first necessities of the situation, as it 
presents itself to me, is the need for more tutorial in- 
struction in the great disciplinary subjects which 
ought to form the staple of the earlier portion of our 
Arts curriculum. At home, the Scotch universities . 
have been making an earnest effort to raise the stand- 
ard of admission required from all students who intend 
to proceed to a degree ; but they have been unable 
to shut their eyes to the fact that, till the schools 



throughout the country can rise to such a uniform 
standard, it will be expedient to continue those jun- 
ior classes in Latin, Greek and Mathematics, in which 
— though they are now outside the regular Arts cur- 
riculum — tutors and professors unite to work up, by 
vigorous teaching, the somewhat crude material out 
of which they hope to develop the — more or less — 
finished graduate. A similar condition of things 
seems to me to exist in Canada, where, especially in 
country districts, the lack of previous opportunity for 
adequate preparation for university work is, of course, 
much greater than it is in Scotland to-day. Next, I 
venture to think that we have need of greater con- 
centration, where that can be secured, throughout 
the whole curriculum. The conditions that are na- 
ural and necessary for the work of school are too 
closely reproduced in a university where candidates 
are sometimes occupied with as many as seven or 
eight subjects at a time. The intellectual maturity 
that ought to be the mark of the university student 
can hardly be attained to under such conditions as 
these. If he has to apply his mind to languagesand 
literatures, ancient and modern, mathematics, history, 
physics and natural science, surely we must endeavor 
so to divide his work that he shall be mainly occupied 
with one set of subjects at onetime, and with another 
set at another. 

It may be of interest to indicate briefly how this 
problem has been dealt with in Scotland. The old 
system was beautifully simple, if somewhat limited in 
its scope. It implied for all but the best students a 
four years’ course in Classics, Mathematics and Philo- 
sophy. During the two first years of the curriculum, 
a student might occupy himself exclusively with 
Classics and Mathematics, and he would then pass, 
say, the classical part of the degree. In his third 
year he would take up the study of Natural Phil- 
osophy, which he would combine with his mathema- 
tical studies for the purpose of passing in that depart- 
ment. But as a subsidiary subject he would also take 
Logic and Metaphysics, which would lead him on to 
specialize in Philosophy during the fourth or last 
year of his course, at the close of which he would 
graduate in that department (with English Literature 
thrown in as an extra subject), and then be dubbed 
Master of Arts. 

That was a scheme which had all the merits of 
simplicity and straight-forwardness, and which may 
still be favorably compared with more pretentious 
systems elsewhere. Its defect was that it took little 
or no account of modern subjects. Accordingly, 
when the Commissioners came to remodel it, they pro- 
ceeded on the plan of taking the two subjects which 
had in each case made up the departments of Classics, 
Mathematics and Philosophy, and offering them as 
options. After giving sufficient evidence of good 



162 



McGill fortnightly. 



standing in his school subjects (evidence that is ob- 
tained through the medium of a University Prelim- 
inary examination, which has now been made iden- 
tical for all Scotland — just as it has sometimes been 
proposed to institute an identical examination for all 
Canada), the candidate for a degree is invited to 
choose between Latin and Greek, between Mathema- 
tics and Physics, between Logic and Moral Philosophy. 
Along with the seventh branch of the old curriculum — 
English Literature — is conjoined Modern History, or 
French, or German. A choice of one subject out of 
each of these departments will yield four in all ; and 
for the additional three subjects that are still required 
to make up the “sacred seven,” a candidate may take 
any of those which he has rejected, or Political Econ- 
omy, or Chemistry, or Zoology, or Botany, or Geo- 
logy* or Education, or Archaeology, or Hebrew, or 
Sanskrit and Comparative Philology. To guard 
against excessive dislocation, it has been enacted that 
the whole subjects taken shall include at least one 
special department of allied subjects : i.e., the student 
must take either {a) both Latin and Greek, or (b) both 
Logic and Moral Philosophy, or (c) any two of the 
following three subjects : Mathematics, Natural Phil- 
osophy and Chemistry. 

From this brief sketch it will be seen that the prin- 
ciple of options, already recognized to some extent 
in McGill, has now been introduced into the Scottish 
University system ; and it is a principle which, in 
my judgment, is capable of an almost indefinite 
extension, provided certain preliminary conditions 
are realized. I do not speak at present of the liberty 
the student enjoys of beginning his studies at once 
in one of the professional Faculties, without any pre- 
vious training in Arts. I applaud the efforts which 
have been made to lay down a course in Arts, which 
shall be preliminary to the professional study, for 
example, of medicine ; and it seems obvious to me 
that if the full Arts course cannot be taken by medical 
students, they should have the option of studying 
in the Arts curriculum - along with literary subjects 
especially English— the great underlying sciences of 
Physics, Botany and Zoology. But in the Arts 
course itself— given a satisfactory Matriculation ex- 
amination, and also an Intermediate which shall 
represent proficiency in the disciplinary portion of the 
curriculum, — I should not object to seeing the student 
receive full latitude to pass on to more specialized 
study in one or more of certain related groups. For 
there does seem to be a point in intellectual develop- 
ment after which the learner may be left to choose 
judiciously between Language and Literature, for 
example, whether ancient or modern; Philosophy 
in its widest applications ; Mathematics and “Physi- 
cal” Science generally ; Chemistry and “ Natural ’’ 
Science. There is a period during which one may be 



helping to mould one’s mental constitution by bestow- 
ing attention even on subjects for which one may feel 
little or no natural aptitude; but that period cannot 
profitably be made to last forever. And there is even 
a virtue in the exercise of the faculty of choice. 
“ The new obligation, ” to use the words of the late 
Prof. Seeley, “ which falls upon the student of deciding 
for himself between several courses of study, calls him 
to make an effort which may certainly be very bene- 
ficial to him. The old uniformity which was so tran- 

quilizing to the mind deprived the student of 

one of the most wholesome of mental exercises, — the 
exercise of appraising or valuing knowledge.” And 
again: “The student should be always consider- 

ing what subjects it is most important for him to 
study, what knowledge and acquirements his after- 
life is likely to demand, what his own intellectual 
powers and defects are, and in what way he may best 
develop the one and correct the other. His mind 
should be intent upon his future life, his ambitions 
should anticipate his mature manhood. Now, in this 
matter the business of the University is by a quiet 
guidance to give these ambitions a liberal and elev- 
ated turn.”**^ “ If by the new variety of our studies, 
and the new difficulty of choosing between several 
courses, students should be led to a habit of intelli- 
gently comparing the different departments of know- 
ledge, a great gain would accrue from a temporary 
embarrassment.” 

But it is comparatively useless to speak of the fur- 
ther extension of the principle of options in the Arts 
Department of McGill, so long as the curriculum 
remains incomplete, and so long as the work under- 
taken is hampered by insufficient resources. The 
vast subject of Philosophy is represented at present 
in the person of a single professor, with a lecturer 
attached. And there is no provision at all for that 
teaching of Social and Political Science (including 
the Theory of Economics), which is so living a force 
in most modern universities. The development of 
political theory, the comparative study of constitu- 
tions, the origin and functions of the state, modern 
municipal systems and administration,— the study of 
topics such as these could not fail to create a better 
informed public opinion in regard to subjects that 
are of the highest importance to our common citizen- 
ship. Sociology, Economics, and Political Science 
— taken along with History as a living study — would 
form the best possible training fpr those who may, 
in after life, be called upon to take some part in the 
administration of social affairs, or the direction of 
social thought, or the improvement of social condi- 
tions. These subjects would be a training in them- 
selves for journalists and members of the Civil Ser- 
vice ; in a young country such as this, they might 
even prove a very school of statesmanship. Again, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 




we have no properly-endowed Chair of Zoology ; 
and, though excellent work is being done in this 
department, the appliances and accommodation for 
practical teaching cannot be considered adequate. 
The Chair of Botany is also in need of additional 
endowment and equipment ; and I look forward — as I 
have said already — to the day when the two depart- 
ments shall be housed together in a Biological 
Institute, which shall loom as grandly on the campus 
as our present Physics building. Chemistry, too, 
has long been in want of additional accommodation 
and equipment for practical work ; by migrating to 
new laboratories of the approved modern type and, 
provided with a sufficient staff, it would not only 
relieve the pressure on the old buildings, but would 
also be enabled — in association with Mining and 
Metallurgy — to stretch forth helping hands to the 
work of the Faculty of Applied Science. The 
interest of modern languages and literatures might 
also be further secured by the extension of the 
teaching staff, regard being had, in the appointments 
made, not only to practical skill in teaching, but also 
to evidence of special research in the literature and 
philology of the Romance and Germanic tongues. 
Lastly, I will venture to record my conviction that 
the equipment of no university is complete which 
does not make some provision — though not neces- 
sarily as an integral part of the regular curriculum — 
for the study of Art and Music. These subjects 
ought not, in my judgment, to be relegated to esta- 
blishments for the higher education of young ladies. 
They are as necessary, as counteractives to the 
exclusive cultivation of the intellect, as are the indis- 
pensable exercises in which nerve and muscle are 
strengthened and developed on the campus. Our 
function as educators does not stop short at the 
accumulation of knowledge. We must strive after 
beauty as well as truth ; we must cultivate imagina- 
tion and sympathy as well as intellect. Otherwise, 
how shall we realize that ideal of spiritual culture 
that was sketched for us long ago by Plato, when he 
prayed that the youth of his Republic, gifted with 
the faculty of discerning the “ true nature of beauty 
and grace,” might “ dwell in the land of health amid 
fair sights and sounds ; and beauty, the effluence of 
fair works, will visit the eye and ear, like a healthful 
breeze from a purer region, and insensibly draw the 
soul into harmony with the beauty of reason.” 

The mention of Plato reminds me that I have 
omitted to speak at any length of the place of classical 
studies in our University — not because the subject does 
not lie near to my heart, but because it might seem to 
deserve a lecture in itself. Though I am a Professor of 
Classics, I do not hold the view that Greek and Latin 
have still a paramount — far less an exclusive — 
claim to dominate the whole field of education. Such 



163 



supremacy belonged to them of right in the days 
when ancient literature was the main storehouse of 
human wisdom — when it was recognized as contain- 
ing the best things that could be known at the time 
— what will always be valued as “ imperishable 
thoughts expressed in noble language.” The lessons 
taught by the classics — though they still retain all 
the freshness of their originals — have naturally be- 
come absorbed in modern literature, and have passed 
into the general body of our common inheritance 
from the past. I still maintain, however, that Latin 
and Greek are unsurpassed as disciplinary studies, 
and that they hold the key to one of the greatest and 
most important chapters of human history. And that 
is why I hope, in directing the work of the classical 
department, to be able to give effect to broad views 
of classical teaching, so far as these may be realizable 
in the conditions under which the main -body of our 
students come up to the University. Parents and 
guardians, who are inclined to revolt against what 
they consider as the lumber of dead learning, ought 
to remember, with regard to the disciplinary side, say 
of Latin, that a knowledge of that ancient language 
is accepted by cultivated opinion everywhere as 
affording the “ highest guarantee for a proper under- 
standing of the scientific principles of grammar and 
analysis, the best security for ability to use one’s own 
language intelligently, and the fittest introduction to 
the study of any other.” But the study of the clas- 
sics, in a broad sense, ought to mean a great deal more 
than that. It ought to embrace, not the language 
only, but the literature, the history, the art, the life, 
and the institutions of the two greatest nations of 
antiquity. It is in this aspect of the subject that — 
even on a comparison with other departments — the 
truth will still hold that on classical studies the edu- 
cated world will never be able to turn its back. 

The linguistic side may not attract the sympathies 
of every student : some may even be repelled by the 
comparative study of grammar and syntax, though it 
is here that recent advances have given classics their 
greatest claim to a place among the exact sciences. 
But there will always remain the human side of the 
subject, — that which justifies the grand old title of 
“ The Humanities,” in which the learner may look 
out on the whole field of ancient life and thought, 
moral, philosophical, religious, literary, social and 
political. To those who will follow this leading, and 
who will patiently provide themselves with due equip- 
ment, literature may come to take the place of gram- 
mar, poetry of prosody, reading and appreciation of 
translation and composition, — the spirit, in fact, of the 
letter. And it will be here, in my judgment, that 
classical studies will most continue to assert their 
vitality . s The idea of Rome has impressed itself too 
deeply on the fabric of our common civilization, and 



164 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



on the onward march of history, ever to be lightly 
effaced — especially, if the word may be said, among 
the people, and the offshoots of the people, which in 
the arts of government and law may claim to be the 
lineal successor of the old Senatus Populusque Ro- 
manus ; and the literature, the art, the philosophy of 
Greece will forever remain the clearest expression of 
the whole spirit of classical antiquity, and the most 
perfect intellectual product to which the world has 
ever attained. 

I end where I began. In a harmonious develop- 
ment, the enthusiasm for scientific discovery will be 
reconciled with the spirit of reverence that loves to 
dwell on the thoughts and literary achievements of 
the past. Those among us, whether teachers or stu- 
dents, who are engaged in following the triumphs of 
physical science may let their imagination rest at 
times on the patient labors of scholars who busy 
themselves with deciphering from new discoveries 
fresh lessons in the history and the life of the nations 
of antiquity ; on the other hand, the (scholar will do 
well to learn to appreciate the methods and results of 
scientific research. While we cultivate each our little 
corner of the fruitful field, we may all look out with 
sympathetic interest on the ample prospect which un- 
folds itself to our view. This attitude of mind will be 
the best guarantee of that catholicity and universality 
which is the central feature of what I have called the 
university spirit. It will enable us to realize in some 
degree that sense of the unity and continuity of 
learning which is the mainspring of all university 
work. In wise old Bacon’s words, “ Let this be a rule 
that all partitions of knowledge be accepted rather for 
lines and veins than for sections and separations.” 
The various departments which claim our intellectual 
energies do not lie isolated and apart, but are mu- 
tually interconnected. “ They resemble a vast 
forest”— to use an image employed by the historian 
Gibbon— “ every tree of which appears, at first sight, 
to be isolated and separate ; but on digging beneath 
the surface, their roots are found to be all interlaced 
with each other.” In all the various forms of intel- 
lectual activity it is one and the same human spirit 
that is endeavoring to assert itself ; and in propor- 
tion as we sympathize with our fellow-searchers after 
truth and knowledge shall we be successful in realiz- 
ing the idea of that community of letters, that Uni- 
versitas Literarum , of which here in Montreal our 
University is intended to be the concrete embodiment 
and expression. 

With an eloquent re-enforcement of his main 
theme, the Principal, amid great cheering, closed a 
lecture which was listened to with the deepest atten- 
tion, and was highly appreciated by all present, from 
the most learned of professors to the humblest of 
undergraduates. 



On the motion of Sir William Dawson, a hearty 
vote of thanks was accorded Principal Peterson for 
his address, after which the Governor-General, whose 
rising was received with prolonged cheers, made 
a brief, but happy, speech. He alluded to the fact 
that his late arrival at that gathering was owing 
to his having been engaged elsewhere in an educa- 
tional pursuit — at any rate, it was a matter con- 
nected with education — and he might, in a sense, 
say that he had been on his native heath, having 
been in the school of Aberdeen. (Laughter.) He 
was grateful for the opportunity of being present, 
as, he was sure, all others were, to listen to 
the inaugural address which had been given, 
and to have an opportunity of saying Godspeed 
regarding the work upon which Dr. Peterson had so 
well entered. Having made a happy allusion to the 
presence of the students, His Excellency concluded 
by referring to the presence of Sir Donald Smith, 
whose name, he said, would ever be indissolubly con- 
nected with Montreal’s great seat of learning, as well 
as with many another patriotic work of national im- 
portance. (Cheers. 

Principal Eliot, of Harvard University, with 
which institution he has been connected for twenty- 
five years, spoke in favor of a system of elective 
studies, and said that at Harvard almost a complete 
system on this line had been developed. 

“ God Save the Queen ” was then sung, and the 
gathering dispersed. 



THE UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

This important function of the University is now 
a matter of history, and most of the readers of the 
FORTNIGHTLY are probably well acquainted with 
the nature and success of the evening’s celebration. 
Those having charge of the affair have every reason 
to be proud of the unqualified success which attended 
their efforts. 

The dinner itself was sumptuous, and did credit 
to the cuisine of the Windsor. Concerning the 
decorations of the beautiful dining hall of the hotel, 
little need be said. McGill colors and arms were of 
course everywhere. The red and white streamers 
encircling the entire hall made a pretty effect. The 
floral decorations too were gorgeous ; and when the 
large company had seated themselves at the already 
beautifully decorated tables, the effect was one long to 
be icmembered by those who had the opportunity of 
viewing the scene from the balcony. A large number 
of ladies graced the company, and their pretty toilets 
mingling with the academic dress of the members of 
the University formed a scene hardly to be met with 
outside a university function. Excellent music was 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



furnished by Gruenwald’s orchestra during the evening, 
which was occasionally varied by well-known college 
songs, given with a gusto known only to McGill boys. 

The Chancellor of the University, Sir Donald Smith, 
occupied the chair, supported on the* right by His 
Excellency the Governor General, and on the left 
by Lady Aberdeen. Seated at the table of honor 
were : Presidents Eliot and Loudon, Hon. G. W 
Ross, Sir Wm. Hingston, Judges Tait, Archibald, 
Davidson, YVurtele, Curran, Doherty, Principal 
Peterson, Principal Adams, and many others promi- 
nent in social and educational circles. 

So great was the number present that it looked at 
one time as if it would be impossible to seat every- 
one ; but this was eventually accomplished, and the 
company set earnestly to work at the task before 
them. 

Feasting being over, the Chancellor arose to propose 
the toast of Her Majesty. This he did in his usual 
graceful manner, making special reference to the 
death of Prince Henry of Battenburg. 

The toast was honored with great enthusiasm, as was 
that of the Governor General, likewise proposed by 
the Chancellor, and to which His Excellency re- 
sponded in a clever speech. 

The following toasts were then honored : — 

» 

“The University, her Principal and Graduates,’ 
proposed by the Hon. G. W. Ross, and responded to 
by Dr. Craik and Principal Peterson. 

“Sister Universities,” proposed by Principal Peter- 
son, and responded to by President Eliot of Harvard 
and President Loudon of Toronto University. 

“The Undergraduates,” proposed by Donald Mac- 
Master, Q.C., D.C.L., and responded to by Messrs* 
Fraser (Medicine), Archibald (Arts), MacDougall 
(Science), Higgins (Comparative Medicine), and Don- 
ahue (Law). 

Of the speeches little need be said. They were what 
the occasion demanded. Nobody was reminiscent 
and hardly anybody too prolix, some gravely jocula^ 
everybody laudatory. 

By carefully discerning between the hubbub of 
sounds that were at times prevalent, one might con- 
clude that there must have been a few Science men 
in some part of the hall, and during Mr. Fraser’s ex- 
cellent speech the same conclusion would be reached 
as to Medicine. The other Faculties were in evidence 
too, Mr. Donahue’s capital oration calling forth the 
greatest enthusiasm of the devotees of the owl. 

President Elliot’s address was really fine, and did 
credit to the fame which had preceded the respected 
head of Harvard. His allusion to the impossibility 
of war between England and the United States was 
greeted with great applause. 



165 



There was no reference, however, that evoked 
greater enthusiasm than that occasionally made to 
the British Empire, and our connection with it. 

College songs were not wanting, and they appeared 
to be much appreciated by the guests. 

The toast of the Undergraduates was honored with 
great eclat by the guests, and the assurance that they 
were “jolly good fellows ” was not lost to the appre- 
ciation of the blushing students. 

About midnight the Chancellor left the chair, and 
the guests filed out of the hall to the stirring strains 
of “ Hop along, sister Mary.” 

This did not conclude the evening’s celebration, 
for the students reassembled about the festive board, 
with Mr. Donahue in the chair, and iistened to enthu- 
siastic speeches from representatives of ‘ Varsity, 
Queen’s and Laval. We must say that these speeches 
deserved the vociferous applause which they received. 
It is almost a pity they could not have had a place on 
the regular programme. 

The whole event and the management of the details 
reflect the greatest credit on the Committee in charge, 
to whose energy and assiduous supervision the success 
of this great function is undoubtedly due. The com- 
mittee was composed of the following gentlemen : — 

President . — Charles T. Fleet, B.A., B.C.L. 

Secretary. — Prof. C. H. McLeod. 

Treasurer.— Prof. Frank D. Adams. 

Dean McEachran, Prof. Arch. McGoun, Prof. J. 
G. Adami, Prof. B. J. Harrington. 

C. H. Gould (Univ. Lib.). 

Undergraduates. — Louis Boyer, B.A. (Law ’96) ; 
T. S. Tupper (Med. ’96) ; C. Howard (Arts) ; G. A. 
Walkem, (Science) ; j. A. Ness (Veterinary Sc.). 



POETRY. 



SONNET TO TRILBY. 

O weird and wondering fancy thus to die, 

Or sink into that neither death nor sleep ; 

To those who loved thee and their v igil keep 
What pale strange fading, and with no “ Good-bye,” 

But only breaking of the mystery tie 

That moved thy life, no harvest reap 
Of soul’s sweet self, for that hath fast and deep 
Did long ago to some far refuge fly. 

Yet as thou went ; then did’st thou live in vain ? 

Gav’st thou no good to those hnong whom thou moved ? 
Did some live better for some fond caress 

Thou gav%t as pastime, knowing not the stain 
Thou carried from the past ? Ah ! those who loved 

But for a time perhaps were better for thy “Trilbyness” 

C. B. D. 

Med. ’98. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 66 



SYMPATHY. 

He was a poet, to the purple bom 
Of Nature* the all-mother ; at his birth 
Five spirit-shapes of beauty did appear, 

Each with a gift so great that any man 
Would, with but one , among his fellow-men 
Be as a king ; but all the five combined 
The perfect poet -nature did assure ; 

One spirit fair, with fingers lily-white, 

Lightly did press his eyelids ; from that touch 
There came the power of Vision — sight of things 
That from most men forever hidden lie, 

Unless by some strong master-hand the veil 

Is rent, and Beauty is to them revealed 

In things that to them once seemed poor and mean. 

The second spirit’s gentle blessing fell 

Upon his brow, and in his mind did place 

The power of noble thought that would, one day, 

Work for the greatest good of all mankind — 

Purest ideals, aspirations high. 

The third great gift was Music — by whose might 
He heard sweet sounds divine where others felt 
But discords. The fourth shape did gently kiss 
His lips, and thus the force of Eloquence 
Unlocked, by which he ever might have power 
To rule the minds of men, and to them give 
His own high thoughts .... and now remained 
One spirit form, whose perfect loveliness 
Overshadowed all her sisters’ beauty, as 
The glorious moonlight far surpasses all 
The beauty of its own reflection on 
The mirror-like still lake. This shape advanced 
And laid her hand upon the Poet’s heart : — 

“ The gift I bring,” she said, “ is greater far 
Than sound of Music, than even mighty thought 
Or power of speech ; it is the greatest of 
All gifts man can possess ; without it none 
Can reach the heart of any fellow-man 
Or know the feelings, struggles, passions, griefs, 
That in another work, the man to whom 
’Tis given knows the inmost weaknesses 
Of human souls. My gift is Sympathy . 

M. T. W. 



SOCIETIES. 



MONTREAL GRADUATES SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the Graduates Society of McGill 
University was held in the Society Rooms at No. 844 
Sherbrooke street, on the 7th January, at 8 p.m. The 
president, Trof. Frank D. Adams, Ph D., occupied the 
chair. The President stated that all formalities hav- 
ing been observed, the meeting had full authority to 
dispose of the Dawson Fund, which was originally 
intended to endow the principalship. 

The treasurer stated that the amount now actually 
on hand belonging to the fund was $2,506.00. 

It was moved by Mr. Sproule, seconded by the 
Hon.J. S. Hall, and resolved unanimously : — “That 
a committee be named by the President and Secre- 
tary to canvass among the more recent graduates for 



additional subscriptions, and to report at the next 
annual meeting. 

“ That the Fund be handed over after the next 
annual meeting to the authorities of McGill Univer- 
sity, to establish a Fellowship in the Faculty of Arts 
to be known as the Sir William Dawson Fellowship.” 

It was understood that the Society would retain 
possession of the Fund until the required sum is 
raised. 

Dr. Birkett, Wm. Patterson, Francis Topp, Dr. 
Finley, Prof. McGoun, Hon. J. S. Hall and others 
took part in the discussion. 

The secretary, H. V. Truell, announced that two 
hundred circulars had been sent to graduates resi- 
dent in British Columbia, the Maritime Provinces, 
Chicago, and other parts of the United States, urging 
the desirability of establishing local societies of Mc- 
Gill graduates. Several hundred copies of the con- 
stitution and by-laws of the Society have also been 
distributed in a similar manner. 

A large number of letters in reply were read to the 
meeting. 

The following gentlemen graduates of the Univer- 
sity having made application were proposed and duly 
elected members : — 

Arthur H. Cole, B.A. ; R'g. Rogers, B.A. ; Or- 
mopd LeRoy, B.A. ; A. D. Nicholls, M.A., M.D. ; 
C. A. Harwood, B.C.L. ; A. S. Blaxton, B.C.L. ; A. 

S. Wade, M.D. ; S. Carmichael, B.A., B.C.L. ; N. 
Keith, B.A. ; A. R. Holden, B.A., B.A. Sc. 



Y.W.C.A. 

Our missionary meeting of Friday, the 17th inst., 
had for its subject “ South America.” 

Miss Codd read a paper on the geography of this 
continent, at the same time giving some of the charac- 
teristics of the natives. 

Physiologists do not agree as to the characteristics of 
the aborigines, some discussion having arisen as to 
whether they should be classed as one race or divided 
into several. 

1 he people are warlike, cruel and unforgiving 
Averse to all kinds of civilized life and to education 
they are for the most part incapable of continued pro- 
cess of reasoning on abstract subjects. Their minds 
seize eagerly simple truths, but they detest investiga- 
tion and analysis. 

As to their social condition, they are probably as 
they were at the earliest period of the national 
existence. 

The most common trait in the character of a Peru- 
vian, who may be taken as a type of the race, is an 
incuiable apathy. 1 hey are slow, indolent, timid and 
secretive, and the love of intoxicants is deeply rooted 



McGill fortnightly. 



in their nature. Christianity imposed upon them by 
the priests has scarcely gained admission to their 
understandings, and has no hold on their affections. 
They meet death in the same stupidly indifferent 
manner as they meet ordinary accidents. 

Miss Armstrong’s paper was on the “Conditions 
and Needs of South America.” I quote the opening 
paragraph : — 

“Imagine an empire extending from England to 
India and from India to Khartoum. Scatter across it 
thirty-seven million people, plunge them for the most 
part in practical paganism, and then with four hundred 
workers — clerical, laymen and women — preach the 
Gospel to every creature. Can this be done ? Impossi- 
ble ! And can it be the will of God that no more than 
this be attempted ? ” 

A glance was then given to the separate republics, 
and one or two instances may be interesting. 

Ecuador, with its 4,000,000, has no missionary, and 
never has had. 

Brazil, occupying about one-half the continent, has 
16,000,000 people, and, so far as we can learn, has on 
an average one missionary to 138,000 souls- 

Chili has more to aid its spiritual growth than other 
of these States with four American Presbyterian sta- 
tions and thirteen missionaries. 

“Shall we not do all we can to spread the Gos- 
pel to this neglected continent even by our prayers 
and our mites ? ” 



CLASSICAL CLUB. 

On the evening of Wednesday, January 22, the 
Classical Club met in the theatre of the Physics 
Building, to listen to Dr. Adams’ lecture on 
“ Pompeii.” 

Dr. A. J. Eaton, the Hon. President of the Society ) 
presided, and in a few happy remarks introduced the 
speaker. The lecture, which was illustrated by a 
large number of limelight views, was delivered in the 
presence of a large audience composed of the mem- 
bers of the Club and its friends. 

We attempt to give a short resume below. Much 
interest centres round Pompeii, as it affords an ex- 
ample of an old Roman town as it appeared in the 
first century of the Christian era. At that time fer- 
tile vineyards covered Vesuvius even to the summit, 
while at its base stood the flourishing cities of Her- 
culaneum and Pompeii. One pleasant day a black 
cloud in the shape of a pine-tree appeared over the 
mountain, which spread over the city, and bmsting in 
showers of burning ashes completely buried it. 

After frequent excavations had been made by 
private persons chiefly for the sake of plunder, the 
Italian Government in i860 toon: the work in hand, 



167 



and many valuable remains have been unearthed. To- 
day the ashes have been cleared from about two fifths 
of the city. 

Like all ancient towns, it is entirely surrounded by 
a thick wall. 

The streets are paved with irregular blocks of lava, 
and are, as a rule, broad and straight; at the crossings 
are found large blocks of stone — stepping stores. 
(Does Horace’s transpondcra refer to these ?) 

Many a deep rut in the hard stone brings vividly 
before our minds the picture of the young Pompeian 
bloods of 2000 years ago guiding their swift steeds in 
the chariot along these very streets. 

The houses are built of limestone and brick, 
covered over with a very fine stucco polished to 
simulate marble. They have no roofs, as these, being 
of tiles, were destroyed by the burning ashes which 
overwhelmed the city. 

The public buildings present many points of inter- 
est. The Pompeians rejoiced in the possession of 
two theatres,— one for Tragedy and one for Comedy, 
the latter of which is smaller and less perfectly con- 
structed, “owing, no doubt, to the fact that it was 
erected by contract.” 

A gladiatorial school has been discovered, where 
the gladiators were trained for the bloody conflicts of 
the arena. 

It is interesting to note that among the forms of 
punishment in vogue among the Pompeians was that 
of the stocks, and the skeletons of men have been 
found fastened in them who were probably forgotten 
in the mad rush from the city at the time of the 
eruption. 

The walls of buildings are scrawled over with 
various legends such as “ This is no place for idlers ; 
move on, loafer.” Others are amatory in character 
as “He whom you love has sent me to thee. Fare- 
well.” 

The houses of the Pawn and the Tragic Poet may 
be taken as examples of Pompeian houses. In enter- 
ing, you pass through the vestibulum, where was 
posted the slave who attended the door, and who, to 
secuie his attention to duty, was chained to the spot. 
The next chamber is the atrium or public part of the 
house, with its impluviurn to catch the rain water ad- 
mitted through a hole in the roof. After the atrium 
comes the peristyle or private apartment, and in the 
rear there is usually a garden. 

Standing at the door you can gaze right through 
the house. 

The walls are decorated with many beautiful paint- 
ings, some of them in tints so gorgeous that they seem 
almost tawdry to our modern taste. Mosaics are 
especially numerous and elaborate. Among the best 
known and most wondrously wrought are those of the 
large dog with the motto “ Cave Canem,” and the 



1 68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Battle of Issus. These are preserved in the museum 
at Naples, whither the paintings on the panels of the 
villas are removed when uncovered. 

Among the relics gathered to Naples are kitchen 
utensils for almost every conceivable purpose — pots, 
pans, flagons, egg poachers, etc. 

The discovery in the ancient city of numerous 
shops of bakers, carpenters, goldsmiths and other 
tradesmen testify to a flourishing artisan life, while 
gambling-places and taverns lead us to think that 
“ though some of the virtues may be modern, all the 
vices are ancient.” 

Dr. Adams treated his subject in a very masterly 
way. Uniting a thorough knowledge of the locality 
with an exact acquaintance with the historical value 
of the unearthed remains, and exhibiting an almost 
unique collection of photographs of the interesting 
points, he presented to his audience the ancient town 
in so vivid a manner that we feel sure that no one 
who heard him departed without having Pompeii in 
his mind’s eye almost as distinctly as if he had just 
paid it a visit. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

A regular meeting of the Association was held on 
Thursday evening, Jan. 23rd, Dr. Chas. McEachran 
presiding. 

Minutes of previous meeting were read and approv- 
ed, and roll call showed a good attendance. 

Messrs. Higgins and McCarrey were appointed to 
act on the experimental committee, and report at the 
next meeting. 

Mr. J. Anderson Ness furnished the case report 
for the meeting, which proved of great interest. 

Mr. J. J. McCarrey read a valuable paper on Post 
Mortems, describing in a lucid and entertaining man- 
ner the methods to be pursued in conducting autop- 
sies, with especial reference to those on animals dying 
from contagious diseases. 

An enthusiastic discussion followed, after which ad- 
journment took place. 

H. D. 



McGILL Y. M. C. A. 

Last Sunday afternoon the Association was highly 
favored in having an address by Dr. Grenfell on his 
work among the deep sea fishermen of the coasts of 
Labrador. We were very fortunate too in that Miss 
Daly consented to sing. On account of Dr. Gren- 
fell’s address, Mr. Tory kindly consented to curtail 
his remarks on the lesson for the day, and to confine 
himself to the first half hour. The meeting was very 
much enjoyed. 



We would like to draw the attention of the mem- 
bers to the fact that the Annual Meeting of the Asso- 
ciation will be held in the Building on Saturday 
evening, Feb. 8th, at 8 o’clock. Reports of commit- 
tees will be received and considered, officers for the 
ensuing year will be elected, and other business will 
be disposed of. An informal reception will be ten- 
dered Mr. Gilbert C. Beaver, the secretary of the 
Intercollegiate Young Men’s Christian Association, 
and light refreshments will be served. It is hoped 
that every member will make it a point to be present. 

The nominating committee has made the following 
nominations : 

President . — E. M. Campbell, Arts ’9 7. 

1st Vice-President. — H. P. Archibald, Sc. ’98. 

2 nd Vice-President. — Chas. Ogil vy, B.A., Med. ’98. 

Rec. -Secretary . — R PI. Rogers, B.A., Law ’98. 

Treasurer. — R. C. Paterson, Arts ’98. 

Asst.- Treasurer . — A. H. Gordon, Med. ’99. 

Representative Comp. Med. — R. G. Matthew, C. 
Med. ’97. 

Any active member may make other nominations 
at the Annual Meeting. 

On Sunday afternoon, Feb. 9th, Mr. Beaver will 
address the meeting. Mr. Beaver is at present mak- 
ing a tour of the Canadian colleges, and can give us 
the benefit of a wide experience in Association work. 

It is hoped that there may be a large meeting. 

THE DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, Jan. 30th. 

An essay on Arthurean Legends was read by Miss 
Hurst, and an essay on “ Pippa Passes ” by Miss 
Holden. It is very much to be regretted that more 
were not present to hear about the interesting Arthur 
Saga, and to enjoy a delightful little description of 
“ Pippa Passes.” 



GLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

THE CRIMINAL. 

Black-robed and stern the judge looks down, 
And from the bench pronounces doom ; 
The prisoner hears the solemn words 
That tell of death and gloom : 

Let the accused be ta’en from hence 
To yield his life for his 0116006.’* 

The prisoner standing in the dock 
Eagerly I turn to scan, — 

Not poor misshapen criminal — 

Behold a regal type of man : — 

He recks not of his fearful lot, 

He hears the words but heeds them not. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



169 



For she that ruled that fail domain, 

Reason from her throne is hurled, 

And dark confusion reigns supreme, 

Within that mystic inner world, 

With no mind-star to guide him on, 

What marvel that a crime was done. 

And high above him in a niche 
Sculptured, I see Justitia stand, 

Besworded, and with pendant scales 
And o'er her eyes a blinding band — 

Blinded that naught but th* evidence 
May weigh upon her perfect sense. 

Bereave her of her sword and scales, 

Take from her eyes that blinding band, 

And Argus-eyed let her look down, 

And sentence stay with her strong hand, 

For Justice cannot Justice be 
That pities not Humanity. 

M. 



The students of this Faculty were deeply grieved 
to hear of the death of John Allan, the porter of the 
Faculty, which occurred on Saturday last, after a very 
short illness. At a meeting of the students held on 
Tuesday, at 8.30 a.m., a resolution of condolence was 
passed, and the secretary instructed to forward a copy 
to the family of the deceased. 



The genial C k received an ovation from his 

fellow-students, on his re-appearance in the class 
rooms after his late indisposition, scarcely to be 
equalled by the applause which greets our worthy 
President as he saunters in at 5 o’clock, and requests 
the lecturer in haughty tones to “ kindly give 
him credit for the lecture.” 



The senior military officer of the Faculty has con- 
ferred a boon on his fellow-workers by supplying us 
with the munitions of war in the shape of blotting 
paper of brilliant hue duly endorsed with his name, 
armed with which we hope to struggle successfully 
with the subject of Criminal Law, and “soak” each 
lecture as we proceed, and thus keep abreast of our 
work. 



Last Tuesday and Thursday, quite a number of the 
boys took a walk up to college and back again before 
going down to their offices for the day. The morning 
air at 8.30 a.m. is most refreshing, and we are sorry 
that all do not take part in this preliminary pro- 
cedure. 



We would recommend to the careful consideration 
of the students of this Faculty, the University Club. 
This much discussed plan has at length taken defi- 
nite shape, and the hearty support of all the students 
of the University is expected and required to keep 



the scheme in active operation, and enable the pro- 
moters to present an encouraging report at the first 
annual meeting which is expected to be held early 
in March. 

We are glad to hear of Mr. V. Evelyn Mitchell’s 
recovery from his recent illness, and hope to welcome 
him back among us at a very near date. Without the 
restraint imposed by his cold and chilling glance, 
Willie Pitt is liable to become more or less obstre- 
perous, and to hurl questions at the lecturer in regard 
to Article 42a of the Code of Civil Procedure, that 
would make a strong man eat buckwheat cakes for 
breakfast 8 times a week. 



ARTS NOTES. 

FOURTH YEAR. 

Dr. Adams deserves the gratitude of the Fourth 
Year class in Geology, for the interesting way in 
which he is illustrating his lectures this term. Some 
of us may have hopes of soon seeing the chief “won- 
ders and beauties of creation” in reality, more of us 
have only a far away hope of so doing, and most have 
no such hope at all. To us, therefore, the splendid 
lantern views to which Dr. Adams treats us, along 
with his lucid explanations, are doubly acceptable. 

There are no Fourth Year jokes this issue. Life is 
too serious just now. It is hard enough even to “look 
pleasant” for the class photo ; and as. for feelmg plea- 
sant enough to make jokes, that is utterly out of the 
question. 



THIRD YEAR. 

The Reporter wishes to express his profound re- 
gret that there is not more matter in the space allot- 
ted to him this month. 

Jokes are evidently flying as thick as ever, but they 
take good care to avoid the scribe’s pen. Not this 
alone, but our two funny men have not uttered a syl- 
lable since Friday last, and in one case, at least, we are 
compelled to wonder whether this unusual dumbness 
and solemnity is due to the Punch vieux McGill, or 
to the Promenade a la lentement. 



Prof . — “ Thus chaperone really means a large 
cape.” 

A. R. S. (who has been there). — “ Ah, yes, sort 
of a wet blanket as it were.” 



When the Professor asked his Censor why he dis- 
appeared so hastily through the rear door, that mighty 
officer is said to have responded: “ Because I was 
sent , sor !" 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



170 



Is the question as to what is the best edition of Latin 
authors never to be answered ? 

Some person seems to think that he has done the 
needful by deciding that the best edition is “another 
fellow’s,” for behold the notice that greeted our eyes 
last Monday week. 

“ LOST ” 

A key to Livy (edition Dr. Kelley). — Finder please 
return to etc., etc. 

’9 7 is glad that it can say that never did one of its 
members employ a base blue-book. ’97 would fur. 
thermore recommend the younger generations to fol- 
low its lofty example and let such notices as the 
above exist only in the minds of the imaginative. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Our Year turned out eighteen men to the Dinner, 
and all declare that they had such a good time they 
were nearly “ tickled to death,” while those who 
stayed away are metaphorically “ kicking them, 
selves.” 



Here’s to the University Club ! ! Come, fellows, the 
president of our Year has been elected secretary ! 
Let us show that we are able to distinguish the true 
interests of McGill undergraduates from those that 
are superficial and passing. If we are true to our- 
selves as ’98 men and to our University as McGill 
men, we will one and all give to the University Club 
our undivided support. If you are ignorant on the 
subject, get one or two of the back numbers of the 
Fortnightly, or ask some one who is interested and 
knows, and you will not have to look very far for such 
a man either. 

Questions to be answered : 

Who got into the wrong room when he arrived 
home on Saturday morning ? 

Who was asked to blow his breath through the key- 
hole that a fond parent might learn ? 

Who wrestled with a lamp chimney and came out 
on top ? 

Who won the “ Arts trophy ”? 

Who knows what “ iactatio maritima” is ? 

The Class Reporter has been instructed to ask “ who 
has that knife?” 

The ’98 Club has been at last formed, and has had 
three good meetings. Members of the Year who have 
not as yet joined are invited to attend one of the 
meetings and we’ll guarantee the result. “She’s the 
class that’s up to date.” 



’98 take great pleasure in congratulating the 
Juniors upon their jolly and efficient conduct of the 
Arts tramp. The Sophomores did battle against the 
other three years, and after a desperate resistance were 
beaten at basket-ball by a score of two to nothing. 
This is an indication of our growing modesty, as at 
last year’s drive we as freshmen defeated the Sophs, 
juniors and seniors combined, by 2 too. We remained 
for some time after the rest of the Faculty had gone 
home to their “ mammas,” and marched home in a 
body to the strains of that inspiring music of which 
’98 is famous. 

First Year. 

? ? ? ? ? ? 

FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Very many of the “ Sister Marys” attended the 
Annual Lecture delivered by Dr. Peterson, which will 
always be regarded as one of the peaks in our colle- 
giate landscape. Many of our own thoughts and 
aims, as regards education, showed up small and mean 
in the light of the great conceptions of our Principal, 
and we mean to call them up if “ marks ” or “ medals ” 
begin to assume a prominent place in our minds. 



It was a small representation, but a very much 
delighted one, which partook of the University Din- 
ner. Although the menu held us forth as New 
Women, once man’s superior — now his equal, we 
drank our toasts and listened to the speeches with no 
malice in our hearts towards the jesters. The New 
Woman is not a favorite with us. 



A PROBLEM IN PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Is it possible to combine a “pleasant” look with 
an intellectual one ? and if so, what is the effect pro- 
duced by such a combination ? 



The good news that Miss Barnjum is gradually re- 
covering from her severe illness was warmly welcomed 
by the Donaldas, especially by those to whom she 
has endeared herself by her untiring efforts with them 
in the Gymnasium. Since the holidays the class has 
been very small. It is hoped the poor attendance is 
not due to the anticipation thus early of April’s 
balmy days. The best way to prepare for that inter- 
esting time is to come to the Gymnasium at least for 
two months yet. 



The sentiment of the following verses, which cele- 
biate a bygone event, may not be appreciated by 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



those who follow the tale of the Dolphin in Pliny 
beneath a skylight, which, we are told, now admits light 
only. But ours wete the good old days when snow 
and rain were believed to stimulate thought, espec- 
ially if applied to the crown of the head. It certainly 

had a poetic effect on one of the class of 'g 6 , for thus 
she wrote of it : — 

BENEATH THE SKYLIGHT. 

Beautiful, sparkling, glimmering snow, 

Purity’s emblem to men below, 

Thus art thou sung in strains sublime, 

We know thee alas ! in far other rime. 

Shivering, chattering maidens blue 
Canst thou blame, if not on thy heavenly hue 
They dwell ? as down on each classic pate 
Sprinkle thy flakes, relentless as fate. 

Uplift your minds, ye maidens fair, 

As doth your grave example there, 

’Bove things of sense and nether cold 
To the wondrous feats of the Dolphin old. 

Ah ! snowflakes heard have ye not I ween, 
u Distance enchantment doth lend to the scene.” 

Thus might we too, calm as stoic sage, 

Our thoughts in wisdom’s lore engage. 



Truly the generosity of some of the Juniors to- 
wards the Sophomores is worthy of praise and imita- 
tion. One of the Juniors being caught in the storm 
of January 24th with no umbrella, and seeing a 
forsaken article of that name in the corner of the cor- 
ridor, borrowed it. Shortly after, she most gener- 
ously offered to shelter under her umbrella one of the 
Sophomores who had none, having in fact “ loaned ” 
hers some time previous. It can be reckoned only 
under the head of a catastrophe, that the appropriated 
umbrella of the Junior and the lost umbrella of the 
Sophomore were suddenly discovered to be identical. 



Harper's Monthly Magazine for February contains 
an article on “Premonitions of Insanity.” 

It is somewhat startling to find how prevalent 
amongst McGill students are the signs there set forth 
of approaching lunacy. 

The writer says : — “ Delusions, hallucinations and 
illusions generally show themselves in one form or 
other, — eg., such as we had before the Christmas 
exams.” 

Again he says : — “ the memory often becomes de- 
fective, — eg., such as happened at the Christmas 
exams.” 

Then he adds : — “ Sometimes there is a sensation of 
drowsiness and giddiness,”— and a little later — “an 
exaggeration of the natural temperament is often 
found.” We will admit the first is a condition occa- 
sionally prevailing in the Donalda classes of an after- 
noon ; and the existence of the latter state in regions 



171 



not so far off from the East Wing can only account 
for the very strange sounds that, at times, penetrate 
thitherwards. 

The writer goes on to say that — “flightiness of 
manner and an unnatural exhilaration of spirits are 
frequently found. There is a sullen aspect, an inab- 
ility to smile, a peculiar wrinkling of the forehead and 
one continuous frown is depicted on the brow. The 
mind wanders,” etc., etc., all of which last symptoms 
are frequently perceptible in the Library during an 
afternoon. 

Is there any hope for us? 

Others might also be glad of a friendly warning we 
received in a recent class. 

The lecturer said, that in answering examination 
questions to beware of using that abominable phrase, 
“from which it is clear,” for, on its appearance, the 
examiner, who may have been almost in his slumbers, 
at once wakes up, becomes keenly alert, and is quite 
ready for a “ pluck.” 



We now see the reason for a certain marked unwil- 
lingness on the part of one of our reporters to send 
in all she receives. 

The following are her ideas on the matter : 

“ Let us gather up the contribs 
Showered in from every Fac. ; 

Let us keep the many poems 
Till the days which poems lick ; 

Let us find our sweetest pleasure 
In the month Tore sunny May, 

In dealing out those treasured jests 
When there is naught to say.” 



Prof . — “ What is our characteristic of Dream- 
poetry ? ” 

Donalda . — “ Somebody always fell asleep. 



Virgil up to date. 

Enavit ad Arctos = he sailed into the bears, (ac- 
cording to Miss ) 



The First Year French Lectures are so interesting 
and at the same time so simple, that even our canine 
friends drop in sometimes. 



SCIENCE NOTES. 

At the last meeting of the Graduates Society, Dr. 
Adams delivered a lecture on the “ Mineral Resources 
of Canada.” In opening he gave a short sketch of the 
geological formation of the country, and with reference 
to this showed the impossibility of finding certain 
minerals in certain areas, as, for instance, coal will 
never be found in Quebec or Ontario. 

Taking the principal minerals in order of their im- 



172 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 

/ 



portance, he described the locations in which they are 
found, the way in which they occur. The whole 
illustrated by maps, charts, tables, etc. The follow- 
ing are some of the minerals spoken of: coal, gold, 
iron, copper, silver, nickel, platinum, lead ; among 
the metallic minerals : asbestos, mica, apatite, 
gypsum, petroleum, salt, and a large line of con- 
structive materials of the non-metallic ones. A very 
interesting and instructive lecture. It is a pity more 
of our students do not attend these lectures, as they 
amply repay anyone for the time spent attending 
them. 



Fourth Year. 

The Miners of ’96 have resolved to mend their 
ways forthwith, as they have had their first taste of 
the infernal regions— the Assay room. 



We were very sorry to see that some Science stu- 
dents forgot themselves so far, at the University Din- 
ner, as to light their cigars before the ladies had left 
the room. 



Mr. K , of Mech. ’96, should listen before he 

calls u hear, hear,” so audibly another time. 



It grieves us very much to report the disappear- 
ance of a number of Magazines from the Reading 
Room. 

Whoever the person may be that thinks he can 
read these periodicals better at home than in the 
Reading Room, he should stop and consider for a few 
moments the fact, that there are more readers than 
himself in the College, who would like very much to 
have a peep at the books ; and also that those books 
are sold to students, most of whom are eager to get 
the old copies as soon as they are replaced by newer 
ones, and who, failing to receive them, fall back on 
the Committee for new copies, which they cannot 
afford to replace continually. 

Whoever the person may be who is taking these 
books, we take this opportunity of warning him to 
desist, for should he keep on and be found out, he 
will certainly rue the consequences. 



W e congratulate the Committee on the wonderful 
success of the University Banquet. 



Third Year. 

Professor . — “ Will the bow go up or down ?’» 

1st Student . — “ Guess it will bow down.” 

2nd Student . — “You don’t know anything ab(ou)t 



It is said that W ’s walk resembled the motion 

of a gyroscope coming home from the Windsor Jan. 
25th, a.m. 

Harry wants to know how many horse power of 
Vet. Science is in the land. 



Milk is white. Therefore White is milk and Skim 
White is “ skim” milk. 

Football Euchre — “ I pass,” said the quarter. “I 
take it up and go it alone,” said the half-back. 



Somebody has remarked that the ministers who 
resigned their portfolios are like “ Jack the Ripper,” 
because they tried to disem-Bowell the Government. 



Help along the club, boys. Now is the time that it 
needs most support. If you don’t join now, there 
may never be a club to join. 



We regret to hear that Mr. J. M. Simpson has been 
obliged to drop his course on account of his eyes 
failing. 



“ Needle-shaped crystals of rutile called ‘ love-darts’ 
are found piercing masses of quartz, which has a 
hardness of 7. The hardness of the average maiden’s 
heart must be about 16.” 



Fac. App. Sci is going to have a drive to the 
Athletic Club House ; ’97 must turn out in full force. 



Now that we have “ Dr. Parkhurst” among us, there 
will probably be a Lexow Committee as well. But 
we are confident that the Committee will have nothino- 

t> 

to do, unless they are given authority over the other 
Years as well. No more slide-rules will disappear. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

The Massachusetts Alumni Association held their 
second annual reunion at the Quincy Hotel, Boston, 
on the 1 8th inst. 

Profs. D. McEachran and M. C. Baker were pre- 
sent, and report as having a most pleasant time. 

Dr. Baker was elected to honorary membership, 
and the following officers were elected for the ensu- 
ing year : 

Hon. President.— Dr. D. McEachran. 

President. — Dr. Jas. McLaughlin, ’77. 

Secretary.— Dr. John M. Parker, ’89. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



T 73 



A Second Year man, with a reckless disregard of 
the laws of Physics and Physiology, was seen endea- 
voring to drink champagne jelly at the University 
Dinner. 



The psychic effect of post rr.ortems has been sug- 
gested as a subject for discussion for the Psychologi- 
cal Society. Certain it is that the effects are of the 
most amusing and varied character on the men who 
are detailed to hold autopsies at the kennels. 



Prof. — *• What is the septum pectiniforme ?" 

Soph . — “ A hairpin, sir !” 

One of the candidates for a “ sup ” in Chemistry 
has discovered a new compound. He has not yet 
named it, but will do so before reporting the results 
of his investigations to the Royal Society. The for- 
mula for the compound is H 2 NO. 



One can now stand in the lecture room and see the 
“ sunrise ” and “ sunset ” and a bright “ star ” at 
mid-day. 



The above state of affairs is probably the reason 
why all the equine cadavers supplied to the mortuary 
have, with one exception, been white. 



Herbert appeared in the lecture room one day this 
week, and gravely announced that this would posi- 
tively be his last tour. 



Personal. — Wallie, come home at once. Mike is 
broken-hearted. — B ill. 



ATHLETICS. 



Association Foot-Ball. 

The annual business meeting was held on January 
23rd with a large attendance. Encouraging reports 
were given by the officers, after which the election of 
officers for the ensuing year was proceeded with. 

Hon. President. — Dr. Gunn. 

Preside 7 it . — W. Johnston, Arts ’97. 

Vice-President . — J. W. Blackett, B.A., Med. ’98. 

Secretary. — D. A. Myers, Med. ’98. 

Treasurer . — Kennedy, Law. 

Curator. — G. H. Ryan, Med. ’99. 

Committee. — D. M. Robertson, Med. ’97 ; Ewing, 
Law; Ryan, Arts ’97 ; Suter, Science. 



EXCHANGES. 

The number of the Glasgoiv University Magazine 
before us contains an excellent article on Carlyle, be- 
ing the substance of a lecture delivered to the Eng- 
lish literature class by Professor Bradley on the cen- 
tenary of the birth of the Philosopher of Chelsea. 
We cannot do better than quote the following para- 
graphs to show the professor’s estimate of Carlyle as 
a philosopher and as a litterateur. “ Apart from other 
effects, Carlyle made men feel the mystery of life, its 
greatness, and, therefore, its responsibility. A man’s 
life, the reader felt, was the conflux of two eternities, 
a point where the immensities of the past and of the 
future met together. He seemed to himself to stand 
on some high mountain ridge. Below him the foot 
of the mountain was hidden in mist. Above him 
the mountain top was enveloped in clouds. Behind, 
in front, on each side of him, nothing was visible but 
a few yards of solid earth ; beyond this, mist and 
cloud. But out of the mist strange cries came to him 
at times, sounds as of spirit-voices, or of an infinite 
sea of spiritual meaning ; and an unearthly light lit 
up the grey around him. Thus Carlyle made his 
reader feel that life was mysterious, and yet that there 
was greatness in it ; and, therefore, that he was 
greatly responsible.” 

“He was as much a poet as a man can be, who 
neither has nor understands the gift of song; and, 
even in the age of Ruskin, he was the greatest master 
of poetic prose. His works may not be the best that 
Victorian literature has produced, but I cannot doubt 
that he was the man of greatest literary genius in 
his time, though it was the time of Tennyson and 
Browning.” 

The Students’ Representative Council, a report of 
a statutory meeting of which body is given, seems to 
be a very important institution. Will our newly or- 
ganized University Club do for us what this council 
does for the students of Glasgow ? Here is a sample 
of the resolutions passed at the meeting referred to : 
“ That the Senate be requested to grant permission 
to Prof. Murray to institute a class for Greek prose 
composition as exists in the case of Latin.” 

A large number of the jokes in this issue are made 
at the expense of the staff. An interesting announce- 
ment is that of the proposal to celebrate the jubilee 
of Lord Kelvin’s professorship by electing him Lord 
Rector, thus following a precedent set in 1787 when 
Adam Smith was thus honored. 

The place of honor in the January number of the 
Queen's Quarterly is given to a memoir of the late 
venerable Vice-Principal of Queen’s, James William- 
son. A fine spirit is manifested by the writer as he 
weaves his “ chaplet of flowers ” for the grave of a 
brave and good man. In an article entitled “Are 



174 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



our American newspapers degenerating ?” a platform 
is laid down which is all right theoretically, but which, 
we should say, would be attended with some difficulty 
in practice. “Vegetable Physiology,” “The gods 
of Greece,” “Classical Notes” are all well worth 
reading. We are glad to note the high standard of 
this magazine. Its managers are to be congratulated 
upon its uniform excellence. 

The University of Toronto Quarterly is filled as 
usual with very valuable reading. Perhaps the dig- 
nity of a quarterly calls for half a dozen “ heavy ” 
articles such as we have here, still it must be admitted 
that to the general reader, even the average under- 
graduate, the majority of these articles are a sealed 
book. 

Nevertheless we are proud as Canadians of Var- 
sity's Quarterly , for it certainly is equal to the best of 
its kind. The titles of the articles in the number be- 
fore us are as follows: — “The Scottish Philosophy, ” 
“ Astree,” “ Some Phases of Altruria,” “ The Develop- 
ment of the Science of Mineralogy,” “ Celestial 
Mechanics, Ptolemy, Copernicus and Newton,” “ The 
Fall of the English Monasteries.” 

READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

A GEOLOGICAL FIND. 

First Scientist — “ Eureka! What a find ! Here 
is conclusive proof of all our theories. See this rock ? 
It is as round as a barrel, and just about the same 
shape and size. It must have rolled for ages at the 
bed of some swift stream. Note how smooth it is.” 

Second Scientist — “ It is unlike any rock in this 
vicinity. It must have been brought from a great 
distance, probably by some mighty iceberg in the 
ages that are gone.” 

Third Scientist — “ There are mountains near here. 
It may have come down in a glacier.” 

Fourth Scientist—" It is unlike any of the rock on 
these mountains. In fact, it is unlike any rock to be 
found on earth. It must have dropped from the 
moon. Here comes a farm hand. I will ask him if 
there are any traditions concerning it. See here, my 
good man, do you know anything about this strange 
rock ? ” 

Farm Hand — “That use ter be a barrel of cement.” 



RATHER EMBARRASSING. 

An Absent-Minded Minister Gets Himself Into a 

Predicament. 

A well-known Washington minister tells this 
story : “ In a country circuit in Virginia, it was the 

custom to wear week-day shoes and stockings to 



church, because the dust would get them soiled. 
Sunday footgear was carried along in the hands of 
the wearers, and when the church was reached a 
change was effected. One of the ablest ministers in 
the conference preached at the church, and being 
told of the custom, and having some distance to walk 
from where he was being entertained, adopted the 
same method. One of the leading characteristics of 
the minister was his absent-mindedness, and thrust- 
ing his hosiery into his pocket he mounted the 
pulpit. When in the middle of his discourse he drew 
out what he thought was his handkerchief, and after 
wiping his brow laid the article down on the pulpit, 
when, to his dismay and the amusement of the con- 
gregation, he discovered that it was the pair of extra 
socks that he had worn to church. He completed 
his sermon, but it was the last time he ever con- 
formed to that particular custom of the country. 



MIXED METAPHORS. 

During an exciting debate in the house of repre- 
sentatives the members sometimes indulge in mixed 
metaphors. A member, referring to one of his col- 
leagues, said : “ The gentleman, like a mousing owl, 
is always putting in his oar where it is not wanted.” 
In another speech occurred this expression: “The 
iron heel of stern necessity darkens every hearth- 
stone.” And another member, in a very forcible 
and dramatic manner, asked the house this startling 
question : 1 ‘ Would you stamp out the last flickering 
embers of a life that is fast ebbing away ? ” 



d he following excellent illustration of Irish readi- 
ness was furnished by an engineer belonging to a large 
Atlantic cattle steamer. 

Before sailing, the vessel is always carefully search- 
ed for stowaways. If any are discovered they are 
immediately, and not very gently, put ashore. Never- 
theless, as soon as the vessel passes Innistrahull — the 
last place at which they can be landed — two or three, 
at least, of these uninvited guests often contrive to 
make their appearance. How they are able to conceal 
themselves is always a profound mystery ; but there 
they are, ragged and famished. 

Of course they cannot be allowed to starve. But 
they ate not fed sumptuously — weak skilly, hard tack, 
and thin soup forming the staple of their diet, espe- 
cially if they are numerous. 

One day, as the first mate — for whom the captain 
had been calling for some time— passed along the 
deck, an Irish stowaway, who was vainly fishing in his 
bowl of soup for beef which was not there, looked up, 
and with a comical grin on his face said— 

“ Puzzle— find the mate." 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



175 



The captain overheard the remark, and ordered the 
Irishman a substantial dinner in payment of his 
double-barrelled pun. 



The father of Mr. William Dean Howells, the well- 
known American author, was remarkable for his dry 
vein of humor. When he wished to get rid of an 
intiusive visitor who had worn out his welcome, he 
had recourse to this formula. He would be called out 
on some business, and would say to the guest 

“ I suppose you will not be here when I return, so 
I will wish you good-bye ! ” 

Even more original was the superb stratagem as- 
cribed to another Ohio worthy in such emergencies, 
who used to say in his family prayer after break- 
fast — 

“ May blessings also rest on Brother Jones, who 
leaves us on the ten o’clock train this morning.” 



“ WHAT’S A VISITATION ? ” 

Two honest farmers in riding along together en- 
countered a large number of clergymen ; and one of 
them said to the other : — 

“ Where be all these parsons coming from ? ” 

To this his friend replied : “They’ve been at a 
visitation.” 

The other, no wiser than before, says: “What’s a 
visitation?” and the answer was: “ Why, it’s where 
all the parsons goes once a year and swops their 
sermons.” 

His friend, on being thus enlightened, quietly 
remarked — 

“ Hang it, but oor chap mun get the worst on it 
every time.” 



EQUAL TO IT. 

An Irishman was hauling water in barrels from a 
small river to supply the inhabitants of the village, 
which was not provided with water works. As he 
halted at the top of the bank to give his team a rest 
before proceeding to make his round with the water, 
a gentleman of the inquisitive type rode up, and, 
after passing the time of day, asked — 

“ How long have you been hauling water for the 
village, my good man ! ” 

“Tin years or more, sor,” was the simple reply. 

“ Ah ! And how many loads do you make a 
day ? ” 

“ From tin to fifteen, accardin’ to the weather 

sor?” 



“ Yes. Now I have one for you, Pat,” said the 
gentleman, laughing. “ How much water have you 
hauled altogether ? ” 

The Irishman jerked his thumb in the direction of 
the river, at the same time giving his team the hint 
to start, and replied — 

“ All the wather that yez don’t see there now, 



LOGICAL. 

A philosophic Oxford professor was walking by 
the Bodleian Library one evening, when his atten- 
tion was arrested by a man who was leaning out of 
one of the windows, and shouting to him to ask 
some one to come and unlock the doors, and let him 
out, as he had been locked in by the caretaker. The 
philosopher stopped, gazed at him solemnly, and 
said, quoting from the rules of the library — 

“ * No man can be in the library after 4.30 p.m.’ 
You are a man; therefore, you are not in the 
library.” 

And having delivered this logical utterance, the 
learned professor calmly continued his perambula- 
tions, unmoved by the cries of the unlucky student 
above him. 



TO THE LAST. 

A story is told of a dying miser, by whose bed- 
side sat the lawyer receiving instructions for the pre- 
paration of his last will and testament. 

“ I give and bequeath,” repeated the attorney 
aloud, as he commenced to write the accustomed 
formula. 

“ No, no,” interrupted the sick man, “ I will 
neither give nor bequeath anything. I cannot do 
it.” 

“ Well, then,” suggested the man of law, “ suppose 
we say lend. ‘ I lend until the last day. ’ ” 

“ Yes, that will do better, ’ assented the unwilling 
testator. 



TO DRAW HIS SALARY. 

The genial pastor of one of the suburban churches, 
whose salary is somewhat in arrears at present, stepped 
into the hardware store of one of his parishioners the 
other morning, and asked to see some corkscrews — 
very large and strong ones, he explained. 

“ Why, Dr. — , what in the world do you want with 
such an article, anyhow ? ” said the dealer. 

“ My dear sir,” replied the doctor, as quick as a flash, 
“ I want a corkscrew large enough to give me some 
assistance in drawing my salary.” 

The story reached the ears of his congregation, and 
the indebtedness was cancelled forthwith. 



176 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



NOT RESPONSIVE. 

A well-known clergyman from London, who is 
generally credited with the possession of a political 
turn of mind, has lately been spending a holiday at 
a charming seaside resort on the coast of Norfolk. 
The other Sunday morning he started out to walk a 
few miles into the country, intending to take part in 
the service at a quiet little church. As he neared 
his destination the bells rang out merrily on the 
summer air, and feeling his poetical soul stirred with- 
in him, he rapturously exclaimed to a deaf old 
countryman who was passing — 

“ Good morning, my man ; aren’t those bells 
heavenly ?” 

The old fellow lifted his hand to his ear and 
shouted at the top of his voice — 

“ Eh ? ” 

The clergyman repeated his question with the 
utmost emphasis and distinctness. 

The countryman, still with his hand to his ear, 
yelled more loudly than before — 

“Eh? What?” 

The clergyman, nothing daunted, with greater 
vehemence repeated his question once more. 

Then the old countryman replied, with the utmost 
disgust and annoyance expressed on his face — 

“ Bother them stoopid bells ! I wish they’d stop 
their ugly row. I can’t ’ear a word thee’rt sayin’.” 



REBOUNDED. 

At apolitical meeting held recently near Bolton, a 
certain employer of labor (whole hands were working 
short time), was holding forth in favor of the candi- 
dature of a local Liberal, and roundly abusing his 
opponent. He concluded thus : — 

“ Conservatism, indeed ! What have you, my 
friends, as working men, to conserve ? Why, nothing 
— absolutely nothing.” 

Whereupon a man in the body of the hall shouted 
out — 

“ Thou’rt reet theer, owd mon, thou’rt reet, and 
we’ve nowt to be liberal wi’ noather.” 



m 

Pelletier 



Organist of St. James Cathe- 
dral and Professor of the 
Piano and Organ 




j yfj * < 

/*!>£**. t* is 1 


















e S O , /* / - //; 7 ^ 

for e ^ Y , 









/; /d< s ^ v /-’ * 

/„< .'/moS-Sss 



A 

i e4f 

■ /s L- £ Arrt 


















TRANSLATION. 

Montreal, 28th November, 1893. 

Mr. L. E. N. Pratte, Montreal : 

Dear Sir.— The upright pianos of your make — if one may form a 
judgment from the one I have acquired— possess a combination of all the 
qualities esteemed by musicians, a liquid and singing quality of tone entirely 
free from all overtones and rumbling sounds so frequently found in upright 
pianos, a touch so light and elastic as to answer to the most vigorous attack 
and the lightest pressure, — in fact, capable of the most varied effects. Allow 
me to congratulate you on your good work. 

Yours, etc. R. Oct. Pelletier. 

It is only necessary to know the delicate and conscientious artist 
who has written the above letter to form an idea of the high value of 
such an opinion. 6°e have a large assortment of PRATTE Pianos, 
similar to Mr. Pelletier’s, as we manufacture only one size and one 
quality. 

Prices reasonable. Terms easy. Old instruments taken in exchange. 

1676 



PRATTE PIANO GO. 



NOTRE DAME ST. 




PATERSON & FOSTER 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



Reichert’s Microscopes 

Acknowledged to be the best line in the Dominion 



Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the 
Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals 



STAINS and ACCESSORIES 
IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

Auu all Students’ Requirements 

GET OUR QUOTATIONS 

21 Phillips Square, MONTREAL 



