f 



Voi. 'xil. No. I. 


















UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N, Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



MllseiOt Materials. Bandages, Bit, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO.. 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 



ijOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JCAIMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

WIACNIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percba Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James St., 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN.* 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR — 



DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CAN DY.Si 

254 si. James Street, am 15 St. Lawrence lain street, MONTREAL 
and 73 sparlrs street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. CTA-IMIIES ST 



Jfl ERICA L WORKS, BOOKS USED IJV ART COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL ROOKS . 

Ml Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Ml Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. &c., &c., 

^-BEST VALUE I TV TOVW . 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 




Supplement to University Gazette, Vol. XII, 



No. 1 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

% 

Vol. xil] McGill college, Montreal, October 15™, 1888. [No. 1. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec. -Precis 
A. Drummond, Science ’88. C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Acting Editor-in-Chief. 
Blanche B. Evans, ’88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 
C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. I H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 
A. P. Solandt, B.A. I W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 3-5 

Poetry 6, 13 

Contributions 6-8 

McGill News 8-9 

Societies 9-11 

Sporting 11 

Personals 11-12 

Between the Lectures 12 

College News 13 



Ebitorials. 



AN ANNOUNCEMENT. 

It falls to the lot of the Board of Editors of the 
preceding year to issue the first number of The 
Gazette in each session, and as the personnel of the 
Board will change before next issue, it is not our 
place to lay down any line of action or form any plan 
of operation for conducting the college journal. We 
cannot think our successors will retreat from the posi- 
tion we have taken on questions of vital interest to 
the University, and we are sure they will not, if they 
take their key-note, as we have done, from the body 
of students in whose interests the paper is conducted. 
But Avhatever action may be taken in determining the 
attitude of The Gazette, we are transmitting to them 
material of an amount and quality such as any maga- 
zine might well be glad to advertize. Through the 
great kindness of many of our leading writers, we 



have been put into a position to promise most inter- 
esting articles and poems from their pens. Among 
our contributors this year will be : Professor Charles 
G. D. Roberts, M.A., of King’s College, Windsor, 
N.S., the author of “ Orion and other Poems,” and of 
“In Divers Tones;” Mr. John Reade, F.R S.C., au- 
thor of “ The Prophecy of Merlin, and other Poems,” 
and of many articles in the Popular Science Monthly 
and other leading periodicals ; Mrs. S. A. Curzon, 
author of “ Laura Secord, and other Poems ;” Mr. J. 
M. Lemoine, F.R.S.C., author of “ Maple Leaves,” 
“ Chronicles of the St. Lawrence,” etc., and one of 
our leading historians; Mr. Hy. Mott, one of the 
leading members of the Historical Society ; Wilfrid 
Chateauclair, the author of that phenomenal work, 
“ The Young Seigneur ; ” W. D. Lighthall, M.A., au- 
thor of “ Thoughts, Moods and Ideals ;” Mr. George 
Murray, B.A., F.R.S.C., author of “ How Canada was 
Saved,” and many other poems ; Mr. John Lesper- 
ance, author of “ Les Bastonnais,” and of various 
shorter tales and poems; and Mr. A. Weir, B. Sc., so 
well-known to the thoughtful by his ringing Canadian 
poetry, and author of “Fleurs de Lys, and other 
Poems.” 

A number of the contributions from these authors 
are already in our hands, and will be published 
shortly. Professor Roberts has sent us a sonnet en- 
titled “ The Cow Pasture,” in which that homely sub- 
ject is treated in a manner which sustains his reputa- 
tion as Canada’s leading nature-poet. 

Mr. John Reade has contributed a thoughtful article 
upon The Range of Greek and Roman Literature, and 
promises to follow this up with a few poems. As 
poems from Mr. Reade’s pen are now almost as rare 
as they are prized, our readers will undoubtedly look 
for his with interest. 

Mrs. Curzon has sent a poem, addressed to students, 
and which, we feel convinced, will be greatly ad- 
mired, not by students alone, but by all lovers of true 
verse. It is a well-known fact that Mrs. Curzon, by 
her comedy of “ A Sweet Girl Graduate,” did much 
to open the doors of our colleges to the ladies. Her 
contribution to The Gazette is for students of both 
sexes. 

We have also in hand an extract from an unpub- 
lished poem by Mr. Weir, which, when it sees the 
light, will give an additional lustre to his talent. 



4 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



In addition to the authors already mentioned, there 
is every reason to believe that other noted writers will 
avail themselves of the columns of The Gazette. In 
effect, this magazine will this year reach the goal to- 
wards which it has long been striving — namely, to be 
one of the leading literary organs, not of the students 
nor of the graduates merely, but of all Canadian Uni- 
versity thought. It should be the Editors’ care, how- 
ever, so to conduct the paper as to devote its columns 
as fully as ever to the immediate needs of the students 
themselves. No college enterprise, no college griev- 
ance should be neglected by them, and they should 
look now, as we always have looked, to the students 
for their chief support and encouragement. 

OUR UNIVERSITY. 

Another year of labor lies out before our great 
University, and as we look for tokens of progress we 
are met by most promising prospects. Perhaps one 
of the most certain proofs of this is the increased 
number of students, gathered from all parts of the 
Dominion, from Nova Scotia to New Westminster, to 
receive instruction within the walls of McGill. It is 
indeed gratifying to know that the number of 
students entering the college this year has never been 
equalled in the history of the University. So crowded 
are some of the class-rooms that it has become almost 
an absolute necessity to at once find larger space. 

In the teaching staff of the University we have but 
one change to notice— the death of the oldest pro- 
fessor in the Arts faculty, and the filling of his place 
by a new man. The quiet, conscientious labors of C. 
1. A. Margraf, M.A., Professor of German Language 
and Literature, and his unassuming scholarship, will 
be missed by those who knew him, and especially 
those who studied under him. Mr. Toeis, M.A., of 
Toronto University, steps into the breach, a compara- 
tively young man, but of high scholarly attainments. 
A German by birth, he has studied in some of the 
great schools in France, and was Professor of Modern 
Languages and Literature in London Collegiate In- 
stitute, during five years. We would give him a 
hearty welcome to McGill, and venture to hope that 
a good future lies before him. 

The Medical Faculty is filled with life, and this 
year, as usual, will go on its powerful way, leading up 
to a high level of healing knowledge. The Law 
Faculty is waking up to a new condition of things, 
and we hope to be able to note steady and uniform 
progress. The Science Faculty has overflowed its old 
bounds, and is now spread all over the main build- 
ings* ^ith new facilities and additional accommoda- 
tion. . 



There are several changes to be noted in connection 
with the Arts Faculty. Notice is given that “ candi- 
dates are expected to have some elementary know- 
ledge of French ; if not qualified to attend the lec- 
tures, they are required either to prepare for the ex- 
amination with the aid of private tuition, or to study 
German.” And an honor course has been established 
in Hebrew and Semitic languages. 

On and after April, 1889, the Honor Examinations 
of the Third and Fourth years will be divided into 
two groups. 

No candidate shall be admitted to Part II. unless 
he has passed in group one. First and second rank 
honors will be given to those who have passed in 
group two, while third rank only is awarded to those 
who pass Part I. only. 

The healthy condition of the Donalda Department 
may be gathered from the facts we publish under the 
heading “ Feathers from the East Wing.” 



TRINITY’S DISGRACE. 

The medical faculty of Trinity College, Toronto, 
has been brought into disgrace by the conduct of a num- 
ber of its students. Dr. Johnston, a graduate of the 
college and one of the most praiseworthy of mission 
workers among the blacks of Jamaica, was insulted 
by students in the faculty in a manner that one could 
scarcely expect in this age 

The occasion was the opening lecture, which Dr. 
Johnston had been asked to deliver. At opening 
lectures a turbulent element is always present, and 
the authorities are generally prepared to overlook a 
certain amount of uproar. But when the uproar is 
not witty, and is so great as to prevent the order of 
the day from being carried out, it is time that severe 
measures be taken. Dr. Johnston had an interesting 
lecture to deliver upon a topic that medical students 
should appreciate, and both as their guest and as a 
man whose words were valuable, he should have been 
listened to. But a few drunken men — we take the 
leport of the Mail by their brutal remarks and con- 
stant interruptions, broke in upon his speech and 
compelled the rev. gentleman to leave the platform. 
Dean Geikie himself could not quell the disturbance, 
and dismissed the students. 

An investigation is being held, which will result 
in the expulsion of several of the ringleaders in this 
disgraceful affair. 

No true student will sympathize with the culprits 
in their disgrace. They have overstepped the bounds 
of decency, and shamed that honour which among 
students is so highly esteemed,— the love of fair play°, 
and the desire to treat guests with consideration. 



1888 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



THE LATE R. J. ELLIOT. 

V e mourn, for Elliot is dead, “ dead, ere liis prime 
and hath not left his peer.” And when we say we, it 
means as large a band of friends as ever were attract- 
ed by a man’s ability and brilliancy and retained by 
honesty of living aud warmth of nature. We miss 
him as much as we mourn ; we miss his strong assur- 
ing presence, his keen intelligence, always active in 
the service of his friends, his calm counsel, and the 
example of a serene purposeful way of life. Nothing 
can be lost, and these high things are with us still, en- 
twined with the memory, and not to be separated from 
the name of our dead friend. We are not permitted 
to peer behind the veil that shuts us olf in some de- 
gree from him, but we can never cease wondering why 
he should be taken and another left, why we can no 
more be cheered by his friendly grasp, his bright 
speech, and earnest, sympathizing face, why his light 
should be transferred from where it is so much needed. 

Raleigh J. Elliot was born 29th February, 1856, in 
the Township of Durham, Drummond County, and 
after attending St. Francis College, Richmond, for 
three years, entered the McGill Normal School in 
1872, where he remained two years, and went out with 
a Model School diploma. During 1875 he taught 
the High School at Durham, and next year went to 
McGill again, where he obtained the Academic diplo- 
ma and carried off the Governor-general’s gold medal. 
For the six years following 1877 ho taught in the 
academies of Inverness, Shawville, and Aylmer, then 
he returned to the University for another period. His 
next change was the Dorchester Street School and 
Boys’ High School ; at the same time he \yas carrying 
on his law studies, and was admitted to the Bar of the 
Province of Quebec in 1886, after passing a brilliant 
examination and reading the valedictory for his class. 
In the counties near his home he was known by every- 
body and pointed out with pride ; he came prominently 
before them in election times, and on one occasion was 
publicly complimented by his opponent, Hon. Mr. 
Laurier, for his management of a contest and his vic- 
tory for their party. 

While at Richmond, Mr. Elliot belonged to the 
58th Regiment, and on coming to Montreal entered 
the 6th Fusiliers, in which, for the past year, he was 
a captain, and by whose members he is sincerely 
regretted. 

Wherever he moved he drew men to him, in Uni- 
versity, legal and military circles, and it is needless to 
add one tribute of worldly praise, for this has been al- 
ready done by the graduates, by his confreres at the 
Bar, and by the officers and men of his regiment. 



Every one was astonished at the promise he gave, no 
less than at the work he had already done — and with 
good reason ; for the qualities of a hard and diligent 
student, a close observer and brilliant speaker, with a 
chaste and genial manner, and tastes cultivated and re- 
fined, are indications of no mean things. What though 
they Avere nipped in the bud and the thread of his 
vigorous young life clipped by the “abhorred shears 
with this neither Ave, nor the steadfast, conscientious, 
brave one himself, had anything to do. Let one but 
remember the tributes he received, and the soitoav and 
sense of loss his death inspired, if he Avould know 
Avhat manner of man has gone from amongst us. His 
opponents joined his friends in their testimony to his 
honesty of purpose and goodness of heart even Avhen 
they disagreed, and his thorough Avay of Avorking, 
even Avhen they were beaten. 

We might sum up his Avork on behalf of education 
in his OAvn Avoids, Avritten in his eulogy upon the lale 
Mr. Ralph Murray, a man of his OAvn stamp : — “ He 
Avrought hard for the Graduates’ Society, and assisted 
very materially in infusing that new life and vigour 
into its meetings Avhicli have marked its recent 
history ; he Avas one of the organizers of the Univer- 
sity Club, and a regular attendant at the meetings of 
the University Literary Society. In all these insti- 
tutions he was a leader among his felloAvs ; of urbane 
and polished manners, of great good humour, and an 
agreeable disposition, his influence Avas deeply felt 
and seldom resented.” 

The details of his death are fresh in the mind ; it 
Avas purely accidental, and Ave can only say “ he is 
not.” Those Avere sad days, but his companions Avere 
not sIoav in shoAving their sympathy Avith the bereaved 
family, and it is there he Avill be missed and longed for ; 
they, too, Avere accustomed to look in his clear mind 
for guidance and in his large nature for comfort. As 
Ave laid aAvay to rest all that remained of the brilliant, 
young attorney and true friend, amidst the hills of his 
Ulverton house, the companions of his youth and 
later years gathered around the grave and Avept to- 
gether chastening tears for themselves and not for him. 

A word about his connection Avith The Gazette : he 
Avas The Gazette, and hisAvhole course Avas nobly in- 
dicated by an expression that fell from one of the most 
honored members of the Graduates’ Society and the 
Bar, “ I feel quite sure that all he said Avas in his be- 
lief based on truth, and I am not prepared to say but 
that his articles on the LaAv Faculty Avere largely in- 
strumental in actually accomplishing the object for 
Avhich they Avere intended.” The space in this issue 
that Avas to gloAv Avith his brilliant ideas and vigorous 
style is occupied by his portrait, but the blank in the 
minds and lives of his friends is not so easily filled. 



6 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



DEATH COMES TO US ALL. 

I. 

Death comes to us all. 

It is the return 

Of man to his God. 

We are leaves, and we fall 

And mix with the sod, 

But our spirits that yearn 
For the unknown, and burn 
With vain hopes, naught can kill. 

II. 

Mankind, like a rill 
To ocean that flows 

Through woodland and plain, 

Makes his murmurings fill 

With a ceaseless refrain 
All the world as he goes. 

Till he finds his repose 
In the depths of the grave. 

III. 

’Twas ocean that gave 
The streamlet to earth, 

In the cycle of years 
To return to its wave. 

God gave not for tears 
Us that soul, but for mirth, 

To teach us life's worth ; 

Then recalled it again. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Contributions. 



THE ODES AND EPODES OF HORACE. 

A METRICAL TRANSLATION INTO ENGLISH. 

BY LORD LYTTON. 

The translations of the poems of Horace are in- 
numerable. This gentlemanly poet of old Rome has 
possessed, still possesses, and, we think, ever will 
possess, an indescribable fascination for the refined, 
the intellectual, the student, and the man of the 
world, which is probably without example in the 
history of literature. His muse never excites passion 
or enthusiasm. He seems the “ idle singer of an 
empty day,” but he sings the life of his own age and 
day, and not simply the traditional stories of a by- 
gone epoch. When he draws upon the lyric poets of 
Greece for an illustration, or for a happy thought and 
pleasant simile, the past is not the spirit which in- 
spires him. He is par excellence the cultivated poet 
of the cultivated era of Augustus — the age of Virgil 
and Cicero, and of the patron Moecenas — the age 
when Rome was losing the strength and vigour which 
made her the conqueror of the world, and was just 
entering upon the period of luxury, refinement, gen- 
tility, and scepticism, which ended in the final de- 
struction of the power which afterwards became rotten 
at the core, and whose Capitol degenerated into a 
mere cesspool of wickedness and vice — a cesspool 
which is truthfully described in the first chapters of 
St. Paul’s Epistle to the Romans. 

Jn Horace’s days, however, only the beginning of 
the end was visible, and that only to such men as 
Brutus, and he had been slain on the plains of 
Philippi. As it has often proved since in the history 
of mankind, the Emperor, who found Rome brick 
and left it marble, was the saviour of society, the 
restorer of order, the subduer of anarchists and revo- 
lutionists, and above all he made trade possible, and 
wealth accompanied his rule. Politics were banished 



from literature ; the Senate became the mere mouth- 
piece of the Imperator ; and all free public life was 
crushed in the great city of Rome, the capital of the 
civilized world. Virgil looked to the past, and found 
scope for his calm and placid genius in singing the 
story of the life of the divine HSneas, and of the foun- 
dation of the empire of which Augustus was now the 
deified ruler. Horace, with more genial bonhomie , 
lived more in the present. “ Garpe diem ’ was his 
motto, and “woman, wine, and song” the themes 
which inspired his muse. His whole nature was 
refined and unimpassioned. He was patriotic — that 
is, he loved Rome, if not .his country, as much as a 
gentleman without any definite politics, and who 
accepted Caesar Augustus as a god, could possibly be 
patriotic. He loved nature with a light, easy love, 
that enables him to sing gracefully, and to produce 
pretty pictures of his villa and of its rural surround- 
ings ; of the “ she-goats browsing amid the arbute 
and the wild thyme ; the pebbly slopes of Ustica ; 
the green nook sheltered from the dog-star ; the 
noon-day entertainment ; the light wines and the 
lute.” Of all this he sings with a grace and melody 
which makes his odes the delight of youth, and the 
happy remembrance of old age ; for while they please 
men with whom “ years have brought the philosophic 
mind,” they have the charms which make “ ungener- 
ous youth ” find a pure, if not deep, joy in their 
perusal. 

In his love song3 he is also the same Horace. In 
these he is the easy-going gentleman who finds a joy in 
looking at and coquetting with a pretty face, a graceful 
form, a bright eye, a merry laugh, and a sweet voice. He 
has nothing of the passion and pathos of Burns, and 
never even touches the chords which the modern poet 
has entirely under his command. Still, his songs to 
Pyrrha, who binds in wreaths her golden hair ; to 
Latage, the sweet-smiling and the sweet speaking ; to 
Glycera, with the saucy charms ; and to the other 
fair maidens of ancient Rome who had attracted the 
poet’s fancy, and in whose praise he sings his light 
and graceful songs, are, to our minds, written for real 
flesh and blood realities, and ai’e not mere myths and 
creations of the imagination. With all their ease and 
grace the love-songs are too personal for that, and 
have the mark of reality too strongly impressed upon 
them to leave a doubt but that Latage, Lydia, Pyrrha, 
and the rest, are as much real Roman girls living in 
Horace’s time, and known to the poet, as were the 
Jeans, the Marys, and the rest of the heroines of 
Burns. 

And what pleasant and graceful songs thej r are ! 
Never a line, never a word, never a figure, or an 
image too much ! So skilful is the workmanship, so 
original the genius, so exquisite the taste ; the thought 
and expression are alike so rich in exquisite terms 
and rare felicities, and the language is so admirably 
compressed, that, like the songs of Beranger, and of 
Heine, they defy translation. Perhaps their very 
difficulties have excited scholars to attempt it ; for 
certain it is that no classical author has inspired so 
many competent men to translate his works as Horace ; 
the veteran novelist (Lord Lytton) published his trans- 
lation of the Odes and Epodes. This work of love 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



displays a vast amount of labour, and a conscientious 
attempt to give a faithful interpretation of his author; 
and the prose introduction is so good that we should 
he glad if we were able to pronounce the translation 
a success. Truth, however, compels us to express 
our disappointment, and to say that it is one more 
failure to be added to the many which have preceded 
it. Nay, in some respects, it may be regarded as one 
of the least successful attempts which has been made 
to convey to English readers an idea of the genius of 
Rome’s most popular poet. 

Lord Lytton has not attempted to make his trans- 
lation in ordinary English metres. It is metrical, 
but without rhyme. The veTse of Horace is above 
that of almost any poet, distinguished by its smooth- 
ness, by its lightness, its tripping rhythm, which 
make it so melodious and pleasant to read. Lord 
Lytton’s lines, on the contrary, are harsh and un- 
melodious in the extreme. One or two examples 
Avill show this moro clearly than columns of comment. 
Take, for example, the universally-known Ode XXII. 
of Book I. 

Here is the first verse of Horace : — 

“ Integer vit;c scelerisque purus 
Non eget Mauris jaculis neque arcu, 

Nec venenatis gravida sagittis, 

Fusee, pharetra.” 

This is thus rendered by Lord Lytton : — 

“ He whose life has no flaw, pure from guile, need not borrow ; 

Or the bows or the darts of the Moor. 0 my Fnscus ! 

He relies for defence on no quiver that teems with 
Poison-steept arrows ” 

The meaning is there, but all the beauty and grace 
of the original is lost. 

The equally well-known passage in Ode IV. — 

“ Pallida mars aequo pulsat pede pauperum tabernas 
Regumque turres,” 

becomes — 

“ But all the while, with equal step, pale Death strides on 

unpausing, 

Knocks at the lowly shed and regal tower. ’ ’ 

Cowper thus renders the same passage : — 

“ Pale Death with equal foot strikes wide the door 
Of kingly palaces and hovels of the poor.” 

- | 

Milton, in his unrhymed translation of the famous 
ode to Pyrrha, has proved how sucessfully and poeti- 
cally a classical metre could be used in rendering 
Horace into English. Lord Lytton has judiciously 
reproduced this translation instead of attempting one 
of his own. Had he given us a version it would have 
afforded a curious comparison of the difference be- 
tween a truly great poet’s translation and that of one 
who, whatever else he may be, is certainly not a great 
poet. Although we should be sorry not to have 
Milton’s translation of this ode thus reproduced, we 
should like to have seen what Lord Lytton would 
have made of it ; as it is, however, the comparison 
cannot be made. 

In some of the odes his lordship has succeeded in 
producing very good translations. That of the Ode 
to the Bandusian Fountain is exceptionally good, and 



as we have spoken rather disparagingly of the work 
as a whole, we have pleasure in quoting this : — 

“ Fount of Bandusia, more lucid than crystal, 

Worthy of honeyed wine, not without flowers, 

I will give thee to-morrow a kid, 

Whose front, with the budding horn swelling, 

Predicts to his future life Venus and battles ; 

Vainly ! The lymph of thy cooling waters 
He shall tinge with the red of his blood, 

Fated child of the frolicsome people ! 

The scorch of the dog-star’s fell season forbears thee ; 

Ever friendly to grant the sweet boon of thy coolness 
To the wild flocks that wander around, 

And the oxen that reek from the harrow. 

I will give thee high rank and renown among fountains, 

When I sing of the ilex o’erspreading the hollows 
Of rocks, whence, in musical fall, 

Leap thy garrulous, silvery waters.” 

This edition will, nevertheless, prove a valuable one. 
The general introduction is all that could be desired, 
the introductions to each ode, the excursus which 
follows some of them, and the notes are all very use- 
ful, and reveal the ripe scholarship of the writer and 
his exceeding love for his author. With all this, how- 
ever, which is deserving of the warmest praise, we 
are compelled to say that the translation of Horace 
yet remains to be accomplished, and we have to ex- 
press a doubt that a really satisfactory translation can 
never be produced. Whether this be so or not, the 
one given us by Lord Lytton will satisfy neither the 
student nor the general reader. The exquisite charm 
and grace of the original are not reproduced, and the 
metres adopted by the translator are not pleasant 
reading, and the difficulties of preserving them have 
compelled him to resort to words not familiar to 
English ears, and to intricate constructions and trans- 
positions which only obscure the meaning of the 
poet. In a word, the translation is neither poetical 
nor, in the true sense of the word, accurate ; and the 
labour which has evidently been bestowed upon the 
work has been, to a great extent, lost from the want 
of the genuine poetic spirit so absolutely essential for 
the right rendering of even a single ode. 

In closing, I take pleasure in reproducing a charm- 
ing translation of “ U fons Bandusiae,” from the pen 
of my esteemed friend, Mr. George Murray, of the 
High School, Montreal : — 

“ Bandusian spring, as crystal clear, 

With flowers, thy due, and pleasant wine, 

A kid to-morrow shall be thine, 

Whose horns just budding forth appear, 

Portending love and war. In vain ! 

Child of the wanton flock, his blood 
Tlie ice-cold current of thy flood 
Ere long with crimson hue shall stain. 

The blazing dog-star’s scorching heat 
Doth touch thee not. 0, grateful thou 
To oxen weary of the plough, 

And the faint herd with wandering feet. 

Thou, too, ennobled shalt be found 
Among earth’s fountains, while I sing 
Thy bubbling rills, that downward spring 
From hollow crags with ilex crowned.” 

H. Mott. 



8 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



TFlcSill News. 



THE EDITORS. 

R. J. Elliot, B.C.L., the Editor-in-chief, is with us 
on more, hut his life and light remain — we grieve 
for him and mourn for our loss. He had so identified 
himself with the interests of The Gazette, that a tra- 
dition of him will exist so long as the paper is pub- 
lished. 

. A- HacPhail, B. A., Asst. Editor-in-chief, is indulg- 

mg his botanical habits in the Peter Redpath Museum, 
and driving the quill with his old vigor for the Mon- 
treal Gazette. 

. A. P- Solandt, B.A., is gathering in weighty sheaves 
in the Congregational Parish of Brigham. 

C. L. Wheeler is still devoted to the study of his 
piofession, and his comfortable figure is seen any day, 
the centre of an amused group of admiring listeners. 

W. J. Delaney, M.D., ’89, will graduate this year, I 
and if he does as well by his patients as he did for 
The Gazette, “ he’ll be all right.” 

H. E. C. Mason, B.A., has not yet returned from 
England, where he was visiting his friends and early 
home. J 

M. W. Hopkins, B.Sc., is still in town, assistant- 
engineer to the Montreal Sanitary Association, and 
is taking his place among authorities on sanitary 
questions. J 



before a large attendance of professors and students. 
The lecture was a fine plea for honest, painstaking 
work, as preparatory to the practice of the noble pro- 
fession of Medicine. 

Strolling along Notre Dame street a few days ago, 
a friend of one of the editors saw in a pawnbroker’s 
window a silver cup bearing the following inscrip- 
tion : — “McGill University Championship, 440 yards. 

Governor’s Cup. Won by . Time, 58 seconds. 

October, 188 — .” We do not give the winner’s name, 
“ out of consideration for his friends,” as the news- 
papers say. 

Last year the Board of Editors consisted of eight 
members, six of whom were students, and of the 
seven directors, four were also undergraduates. It 
may be thought that the graduates are not fully 
enough represented in view of the financial interest 
they have in the paper, but the only excuse for this 
large undergraduate influence is, that The Gazette 
is essentially a students’ journal. 

The honourable Chancellor will no more give 
dignity to our convocations. He has lived a long, 
lull life, and has left behind lasting evidence of his 
presence in the progress of religion and education. 
He had an interest in McGill almost paternal ; he is 
identified with its success in a degree only second to 
the Principal, and the vacancy caused among her 
counsellors is one not to be lightly thought of or 
easily filled. 



iIiss Blanche B. Evans, B. A., has contributed much 
to the success of The Gazette, and her clear, scholarly 
style adds even yet to its value. 



The Medical building at the opening of the session 
was a model of cleanliness, thanks to our worthy 
janitor; now, the floor is begrimed with clay and 
strewn with hay-seed. 

The Medical Museum has lately been enriched with 
several expensive models, through the kindness of 
E>r. J C. Cameron, who spares no effort or expense 
to make his branch of the course second to none on 
the continent. 












Representative Editor on University Gazette, R Mc- 
Dougall. , 

Fourth Year. — President, — Robertson. 

t»I HI m n Y ^ AR 'Y Pl ' esillent T ’T H ‘ M - Tor y; Vice-President, 
Lewis McDuffy ; Secretary, H. Paton. 

Second Year. -President, — McDougall. 

Kolimyer^ EAR,— ' Rresident > Artlu,r Wood; Secretary, W. J. 

Undergr^uates’ Literary Society.— President, H. Y. 
Tiuell ; \ ice- President, Peers Davidson ; Secretary, A. R. Hall • 

Treasurer, Earnest Mattice. J ’ 



The following exhibitions and scholarships have 
been awarded to undergraduates, in the September 
examinations : 



A genuine proof of our college worth was the 
recent election in Washington of Dr. R. P. Howard 
Dean of Medicine, to the Presidency of the American 
1 Association. Both the Association and Mc- 
Gill will share in honours. 

It is a matter of deep loss to the students of the 
Primary Classes in Medicine that Dr. Macdonald is 
not m charge of the Practical Anatomy this session. 
U e sincerely hope he will return from Europe with 
renewed health and unabated vigour. 

M e wish to remind our readers that whenever the 
word “ Cook” flourishes in the pages of this journal 
it must not be construed in a culinary sense ; but 
rather as the name of the greatest janitor that ever 
combed down a freshman. Long may he wave ! 

The inaugural lecture of the Medical Session was 
delivered on Monday, 1st October, by Dr. Stewart, 






w T t lU *? a Year ‘ “Mathematical Scholarship, H. M. Torv • 

Modern 1®™* S " h ^ rsh [P> H - C - Sutherland ; Classical and 
Modern Language Scholarship, A. G. Nichols, R. McDougall. 

II- — Exhibitions Tenable for One Year : 
for study of Natural Science, J. S. Daly, S W Mack 

FirsTye^r " W N / H^hoof ^ntreal. 

B Wood HiJhT.R 1 J -^° 1 T ll ? yei '’ Hl § h School, Montreal; A. 

L;S H E h W h A°’vK‘ B - Robins > High School, 

K n'; Archlbald ’ High School, Montreal ; P. e! 
Ryan, Ottawa Collegiate Institute. 

For many years we have not been able to open a 
new volume of The Gazette without having to 
mourn for some student who will return no more. 
This time it is Mr. Hilton who has fallen out, and 
the particulars of his death are yet fresh in memory 
He was a member of the ’91 Class in Medicine, and 
will be remembered as a diligent student and a genial 
manly member of the class. He was somethin! more 
than a student, and in outside life he had a wide 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



influence, always for good. Those of his class will 
miss the warmth of his presence, and those who 
knew him well will long have in mind his kindness 
and gentleness, and the free use he made of his many 
social and intellectual talents, and they will mourn 
for him for their own sake and for the sake of the 
friends more near to him. 

In his death he was a hero. There is little doubt 
that he could have saved his life had he been willing 
to sacrifice that of the lady who was with. him. He 
died as he had lived, kindly and brave. He died 
lamented and honoured to an extent not less than he 
could have been had he lived to the allotted span of 
three score and ten years. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Drowsily McGill blinks her eyes and awakes from 
her summer slumber. Back to her halls flock the 
students, brown and merry after the long vacation. 
She numbers them, and some are missing; for the 
full-fledged brood of ’88 have soared far from the pro- 
tecting shadow of her East Wing. Two have entered 
other universities. One over the border, will even 
tually add Ph. D. to her well won B.A. The other, 
first girl graduate to adopt the medical profession, 
still sees from her college window the waters of our 
own St. Lawrence. One, in a quiet Ontario vil- 
lage, fills a position both useful and honorable — that 
of a “Country parson’s” wife ; while her companion of 
former years strives to master the works of great mu- 
sicians and German poets, by the blue Rhone, and 
historic lake Leman. Another is teaching iu the sea- 
girt capital of one of the Maritime provinces. Three 
still remain at home. Here, in our lonely and inuch- 
loved city, they, too, will find many opportunities 
wherein to bank their golden talents. 

Fondly McGill cherishes the memory of the eight 
girls whose picture hangs in her reading- room ; ever 
will she watch with anxious eyes their future life 
work ; and they, although now among new scenes and 
interests, will ever continue to love and reverence 
their Alma Mater. 

There are 33 undergraduates attending lectures in 
the Donalda department. One in the second year, 
who has not yet returned, intends to do so, and five 
partials taking full first year work will matriculate at 
Christmas. This makes a total of 39 ladies reading 
for the degree of B.A. 36 partials and occasionals 
bring the complete list up to 75. Last session our roll 
numbered 102 ; of these but 21 were undergraduates. 

Recently, the lady students in the several years 
elected their officers, with the following result : — 

4th year Pres Miss Squire. 

•* Vice Pres “ Wilson. 

“ Sec “ Reid 

3rd year Pres “ Abbott. 

“ Vice Pres “ Henderson. 

“ Sec “ Williams. 

2nd year Pres “ Hall. 

“ Sec * Mewh'rt. 

1st year Pres “ Pitcher. 

“ Vice Pres “ Raynes. 

“ Sec “ Campbell. 

We are glad to welcome to the East Wing quite a 
number of new students from the country. 



Societies. 



The Natural History Society of Montreal has among 
its members a large University element, and some ac- 
count of the Autumn Field Day at Abbotsford, the 
hospitable residence of Mr. Chas. Gibb, will be of in- 
terest iu The Gazette : 

When the excursionists left the Canadian Pacific 
depot at 7.45 in the morning, of 29th September, the 
three special cais to convey the party contained over 
one hundred and thirty passengers. 

Nothing could be finer than the morning, cool and 
clear, just fitting for scaling hedges and leaping from 
rock to rock, with massing clouds and the sun breaking 
through the grey of an autumn sky and spreading over 
the shorn fields in a flood of yellow light. The trip 
carried the scientific ones over the new bridge, with 
Lachine on one side and the Indian village on the 
other, where a dusky maiden was seen standing knee 
deep in ferns, shading her eyes with one well-shaped 
arm ; past great heaps of stored fruits, and workers in 
the field, over the limestone formation of the island 
of Montreal, the succeeding Utica shales, Chazy and 
Potsdam series, but never past the light and shade 
that lurk on the hills and the soft colors that Septem- 
ber brings to wooded slopes. Here and there were 
huge boulders of granite and gneiss standing as ever- 
lasting memorials of glacial days, but the interpretation 
of such marks as these is in itself a landmark of an 
age as wonderful as any which geology recounts. These 
marks are printed deep in civilization and will last 
when rocks and cliffs have weathered away. Every 
scientific effort is placing a mark to show what man- 
ner of men lived in these days, and it is no small thing 
to have contributed to this end. This, the Natural 
History Society is doing, but it is working not so much 
for the future as to direct the tendencies of its mem- 
bers to that work. It aims to place them in connec- 
tion and harmony with the long foretime that the de- 
velopment of every plant and animal reveals, and that 
there is a far reaching purpose in every event leading 
to a better understanding of the condition of things 
in which we find ourselves. 

At 11 o’clock Abbotsford was reached and the party 
met by Mr. Gibb, who, in addition to the things to be 
spoken of presently, captivated every one by his art- 
less honesty and straightforward earnest generosity.. 
They understood what he meant when he said simply 
“ Some one had to go to Russia, and I went.” The 
road leading up to his residence was lined on both 
sides with flags that led into a perfect forest of fruit 
trees. On one side was a nursery containing from 
two to five specimens of one hundred kinds of Russian 
and German apple trees, upon which experiments are 
being made as to their adaptability to Canadian con- 
ditions of soil, temperature and moisture. Of orna- 
mental trees, Mr. Gibb has two hundred species and 
varieties not natives of Quebec, and one very fine cut 
leaved alder was shown. There are also twenty varie- 
ties of Russian pear which have grown rapidly but 
have not fruited as yet, and twenty-five from eastern 
Europe which promise to prove hardy, and some spe- 
cies of dwarf cherry from the same place, the fruit of 



10 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



r* 



which is dark in flesh and borne when the tree is very 
young. An exhaustive test was made of the Desolo 
plum, the Imperial variety of the native American 
fruit, and it was considered very good. From an 
economic point of view the timber plantation was the 
most interesting ; there are twenty-five varieties of 
the best American and European trees side by side, 
planted ten years ago, and the results are watched 
with great interest. As a further addition to orna- 
mental trees, there were fifty new and rare species of 
the beautiful catalpa. All modern apples are the re- 
sult of imtercrossing with the Siberian crab, and in 
one caso noticed the result of the first cross was fruit 
two and a half inches in diameter. When the house 
was reached three quarters of an hour remained till 
lunch, and four methods were ottered for wearing away 
this time. The first was to visit the orchard, which 
was placed at the full disposal of the party, excepting 
some experimental varieties, marked with a red flag, 
which was forbidden fruit. This plan seemed to be 
most in demand, for there could be seen scattered here 
and there rosy apples bearing traces of many a pretty 
tooth, but it is to be hoped there was no Eve among 
the visitors. Again, there was a summerhouse that 
would accommodate fifty persons, and from whose top 
the spires of sixteen villages could be counted, and a 
smaller house that would hold but two, embowered in 
trees, which with intertwining branches will in a few 
years shut the place in so completely that, as Mr. 
Gibb, with an eye to the future remarked, none but 
the eye of heaven could enter. The remaining resort 
was a stone fence, and from it could be heard the 
clink of the geologist’s hammer, “ and many a little 
hand glanced like a touch of sunshine on the rocks ; 
many a light foot shone like a jewel set in the dark 
crag.” And then there was a repast in which the 
generousness of rural hospitality was tempered with 
the refinement one would expect from a man of Mr. 
Gibb’s culture. This was the time fruit came to the 
front — apples Russian, apples Canadian, of every com- 
plexion and texture, crabs of impossible sizes, and 
grapes of an incredible number of varieties. The next 
move Avas towards the top of Yamaska mountain, and 
here a word about the situation of Abbotsford. It 
lies on the slope of Yamaska mountain, looking to- 
Avard the east, aud extending ten miles to the foot of 
Rougemont. The party streamed up the sides over 
the “mingled broAvn,” as Amelie Rives Avould call it, 
of the drift soil, Avhich a kind sea had AA r ashed up, for 
Mr. Gibbs to plant apple trees in ; they had under- 
foot the “ greenth ” of lichens and club mosses, and on 
every side the sombre evergreens contrasted with the 
flaming maples. Arrived at the top Sir Wm. DaAvson, 
ahvays as leader, took his stand on a granite rock, and 
addressed the members grouped around him on the 
geological history of the site. His remarks Avere a 
further instance of the Avork he has done in extending 
the roots of science deep into public sympathy, from 
Avhich some day it will draw an ample support. The 
vieAv from the top Avas striking. By the aid of a glass 
fifty-five steeples are visible, and in a clear day the 
citadel of Quebec can easily be made out, so the in- 
telligent guide said. To the north was Mount John- 
son, overlooking the town of St. Johns, to its right 



the pointed peak of Beloeil, and on the other hand 
the “ Pinnacle” of Frelighsburg, Avhich the interna- 
tional boundary line crosses. The Green mountains 
were easily seen and Mt. Mansfield stood out above 
the rest ) justaboA r e the horizon Avere the Adirondacks, 
with the conical summit of Mt. Marcy. lo add to the 
charm a snoAVstorm came up and it Avas a grand scene 
— the clouds rolling up, shedding their burden on 
their admirers, cutting off the lighter shades of color 
and leaving the mountain enveloped in a sombre grey. 
But it generated a pleasing solicitude for the care of 
each other’s Avraps, and gave to some frivolous ones a 
bout at snoAV-balling. At four o’clock the house Avas 
regained, and from the front piazza Professor Penhal- 
Ioav spoke to the members on the trophies brought in 
and on material Avhich he had betwitched from spots 
apparently inaccessible, from peat bogs and rocks. His 
address Avas in feAv Avords, his remarks clear and 
explicit, and illustrated by specimens obtained during 
the day. Some geraniums plucked from a warm slope, 
Avith their pinnate leaves and delicate odorous floAvers 
Avere shoAvn as instances of the effect of locality in 
keeping flowers in bloom till late in the season. There 
were asters in abundance, Avhose many floAver heads of 
Avhite or purple, he thought more beautiful and artis- 
tic than the cultivated forms. Thesolidago or golden 
rod Avas spoken of as one of the most graceful of Aoav- 
ers and one too little appreciated. The common brake 
or pteris aquilina Avas shoAvn Avith its massive roots 
Avhich in eastern countries are used as an article of 
food, like asparagus, and are found delicate and suc- 
culent. Three species of lycopodia or club mosses 
were found Avhich are the representatives of an an- 
cient flora noAV nearly extinct. Then the professor 
brought out a collection of fungi and other plants 
growing parasitically on unicellular algae. The “ rock 
tripe” Avas mentioned as being used for food in northern 
countries and sustaining the lives of explorers by its 
mucilaginous qualities, and saprophitic plants Avere 
exhibited growing on decaying organic matter. The 
edible properties of mushrooms were discussed, and 
European fungologists’ opinions quoted that tons of 
useful food material is annually going to Avaste, but as 
some species are harmless only when young, and others 
always poisonous, and as the classes needing them 
have not an expert acquaintance with cryptogramic 
botany he did not see that their salvation lay in mush- 
rooms. Highly colored members of this group, how- 
ever, are usually poisonous. Sir Wm. DaAvson then 
spoke on the geological side of the day’s work, and 
complimented Mr. Gibb on the small amount of en- 
tomological material collected. \\ here an old vulcano 
had blazed and rocks were fused in nature’s melting 
pot, they stood that day amidst falling snow ; he 
AYOuld not tell of the beauties they had seen, but they 
Avere better reAvarded than those who “remained behind 
with the stuff'.” 

A start was made at 4.30, and Farnham Avas present- 
ly reached, Avhere the party stopped for an hour, and 
in true PickAvickian style did the town, visited “ The 
School of Arts,” looked into the river Avith its shadoA\ T s 
gliding under the bridges, passed remarks more or less 
irrelevant on Avhat they saAv, and in one or tAvo cases 
a tendency to facetiousness Avas noticed. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



On the return trip fruit was not in much demand, 
hut it allowed a display of magnanimity that was very 
commendable in the “ gentlemanly news agents” who 
were dispensing Mr. Gibbs’ favors. Montreal was 
reached at nine, and the members separated with a 
feeling lurking deep somewhere that Mr. Gibb was a 
pretty fine man and the Natural History society a fine 
institution to belong to. 



THE THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The first annual meeting took place on Tuesday, 
Aug. 2nd. After the opening exercises, the secretary 
read the report of the year’s work. Last winter this 
association was organized by the enterprisiug class of 
’90, as the “ Donalda Missionary Society.” Since 
then it had been recognized by the faculty, under the 
name, however, of “ Theo Dora,” as being less restric- 
tive. Through its influence much missionary litera- 
ture had been placed in the ladies’ reading-room, and 
a sum of money sent to the China Inland Mission. 
The efforts of the President had been untiring ; the 
great interest felt by members had shewed itself in the 
many admirable papers of last session, and voluntary 
contributions to the mite box. 

The names of 12 new members were then enrolled. 
Miss Gairdner kindly consented to take the chair dur- 
ing the election of officers, which resulted as follows: 

President — Miss Derick, ’90. (Re-elected by ac- 
clamation.) 

Vice-President — Miss Bailey, ’91. 

Secretary — Miss Williams, ’90. 

Commitee — Misses I. Botterell, Hall and Finley. 

Misses I. V. Palmer, B.A., former vice-president, 
A. Murray, B A., and B. Evans, B.A., were elected 
honorary members. Also, some slight alteration was 
made in the constitution. 



Sporting. 



The Annual Field Meeting of McGill University 
Athletic Association will be held on Friday, 19th Oc- 
tober. From the energy of the members who form 
the Committee, the numbers in training, and the en- 
thusiasm displayed, a good day’s sport is assured. We 
commend the events to the consideration of the new 
students. 

We compliment Mr. Jas. Naismith, B.A., and the 
gymnasium on the recent appointment. The new in- 
structor will bring the institution more into touch 
with the students, and they will profit by the high 
class of teaching of physical culture transmitted from 
the esteemed Mr. Barnjum through the medium of 
Mr. Naismith. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY F.B.C. 

The general meeting of McGill University Football 
Club was held on Thursday evening, 4th October, and 
was well attended. The election of officers was as 



follows : Captain, Walter L. Jamieson, Arts ’88 ; Pre- 
sident, D. McLean, Med. ’90; Vice-president, Jas. 
Naismith, B.A. ; Treasurer, Douglass Hamilton, Med. 
’90; Secretary, E. S. Mattice, Sci., ’90 ; Committee — 
Medicine : Mulligan and Blanchard, ’90 ; Arts : King- 
horn, ’90, and Walsh, ’89 ; Science : Smart and II. Jam- 
ieson, ’91 ; Law : Dunlop, ’90. The inter-faculty ties 
will probably be played off as follows : Wednesday, 
October 1 1th, Arts vs. Medicine ; Wednesday, October 
17th, (winner of October 10th) vs Science; Wednes- 
day, October, 24th, Arts and Science vs. Law and 
Medicine. 



NOTICE ! 



The Annual General Meeting of the Share- 
holders of “The University Gazette Co.” will 
be held in the University Club, on Thurs- 
day, 18th inst., at 8 p.m. 



Personals. 



J. H. Kennedy, Med., ’88, is practising at Guelph, 
Ont. 

D. S. McDougall, Med., ’88, has put up his shingle 
in Russel, Ont. 

W. W. Chalmers, ’88, is located at Magog, Que., 
where he is rapidly prospering. 

Norman Lindsay, B.A., will carry on his theological 
studies at Knox College, Toronto. 

J. S. McCarthy and F. H. Woodruff, Medicos, ’88, 
are walking the London hospitals. 

Miss McFee, B.A., is at Cornell L T niversity, taking 
the post-graduate course in philosophy. 

W. J. Giles. B.A., is studying in the dental depart- 
ment of the University of Philadelphia. 

J. A. Morrison, B.A., has returned from the North 
West to study in the Presbyterian College. 

We are glad to see Moss, who was a member of the 
Arts class of ’88, back to win his sheepskin. 

Miss M. II. Henderson, ’90, Arts, has returned from 
the Old Country as loyal a Canadian as ever. 

Miss Blanche B. Evans, B.A., is still in Montreal, 
continuing her Art studies in music and painting. 

Miss M. C. Murphy, B.A., sailed in July for Gen- 
eva, where she will continue her studies in music and 
German . 

Dr. R. J. B. Howard has returned from Europe, 
and has taken up his work again to the delight of all 
he students. 

F. T. Metcalfe, Med., ’88, is one of a dozen house 
surgeons in the New York City Lunatic Asylum, 
“Blackwell’s Island.” 

Dixon, B.A., ’88, has passed into the next stage and 
discarded the celibate condition ; it has not hurt him, 
however ; if anything, has mellowed his good qual- 
ities that always made him one of the best of the boys. 



12 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



James McFarlane, M.A., and A. S. Grant, B.A., go 
to Edinburgh in a few days to take a post-graduate 
course in Theology. 

Miss 0. G. Ritchie, B.A., headed the list in the re- 
cent examinations at Quebec, and is now studying 
medicine at Queen’s College, Kingston. 

Mr. Joe. Bruce, the Hospital dispenser, has resumed 
his duties again after a refreshing trip to New York. 
He returned full of good health and chestnuts. 

N. D. Gunn and J. E. Orr, Class ’88, in Medicine, 
have joined forces and settled in St. Marys, Ont. A 
considerable decrease in the death rate may be looked 
for. 

We congratulate Dr. Potts on his appointment to 
the Staff of the University Maternity Hospital. Jim 
is McGill’s baby graduate, finishing his course at nine- 
teen. 

Pedley, and McCallum, Arts ’88, will return from 
their respective mission fields, at the opening of 
the Congregational College, to prosecute their theolo- 
gical studies. 

W. S. Stewart and R. H. Smithson, Medicos, ’88 
and ’89, are both lying ill at the General Hospital ; a 
speedy recovery is anxiously looked forward to by all 
their fellow students. 

Larkin, B.A., ’88, and a graduate in theology of the 
same year, has girt himself about with the gentle bonds, 
and he is now breaking bread with much acceptance 
to the members of the Presbyterian church in Lynn. 

Some time during the holidays Miss E. C. Cross, 
B.A., mysteriously disappeared. It is rumoured, how- 
ever, that a certain Mrs. Currie, of Glencoe, Ont., 
bears a striking resemblance to our lost sister graduate. 
She has our very best wishes for her happiness. 

Between the Lectures. 

Physician — “What’s the matter ?” Patient — “ Rheu- 
matics.” Physician — “ Cause ?” Patient — “ Attic 
rooms.” 

Adolph — Aint nary a key that will unlock it. 

Eddie Eugene — Well, then, all we can do is to wait 
until mamma comes home, and ask her for a piece for 
being good boys. 

In spite of the popular belief, it isn’t true that the 
rain falls alike on the just and on the unjust. The 
just generally get the most of the shower, because the 
unjust have coolly walked off with their umbrellas. 

Teacher — Try to remember this : Milton, the poet 
was blind. Do you think you can remember it?” 

“ Yes, ma’am.” 

“Now, what was Milton’s great misfortune?” 

“ He was a poet.” 

Little boy — “ I say, mister, do you know why you 
are like water?” Fat man — “No, my little boy, I 
do not.” “ Neither of you can run up hill.” Eat 
man chases boy twice around the block and whacks 
him with his cane. 

“ Young man,” he said, what is that stuff you are 



drinking ?” “ Whisky and seltzer, sir.” “ Don’t you 

know that whisky is bad for the stomach ? ’ “ Yes, 

sir ; but seltzer isn’t. One of the most prominent 
physicians in the city has advised me to drink it.” 

Maiden lady — “ I think I jvill visit a chiropodist 
while I am in the city.” Friend — “ Have you corns !” 
M. L.— “No.” F.— “ Bunions?” M. L.— “ No.” 

F. — “ Why, then,' visit a chiropodist ?” M. L. — “ I 
want to have it to say that I had a man at my feet 
once in my life.” 

They were sitting on the porch and it was growing 
late. “ Would you mind if I lighted a cigar, Miss 
Clara?” he asked. “ Certainly not, Mr. Sampson,” she 
replied. And presently the old man, who was getting 
desperate, spoke from an open window above : 
“ Daughter,” he said, “ I left my rubber overshoes 
near the kitchen stove, and you had better see to ’em. 

I can smell something burning.” 

A foreign lady, who prided herself upon her Eng- 
lish, on one occasion wished to direct a servant to kill 
a chicken, and, after plucking it, to bring her the 
feathers. The form which her directions took was : 
“ Die me that beast, and bring me his vestment.” 

On another occasion she had spoken with a carpen- 
ter about some work, and had got an estimate from 
him. Later on, at another meeting, he advanced his 
price, when she said : “ Why, sir, you are dearer to 

me than when we were first engaged.” If the carpen- 
ter appreciated a joke, he should have scaled down 
his figures. 

William H. Seward was a bright man, and must 
have been a fairly bright boy, but he tells a laughable 
story of his first attempt at composition. To begin 
with, he had not the least idea of what was expected 
of him. So he finally made up to one of his older 
school-fellows, a wise youth of about eighteen, and 
besought his assistance. 

A composition? Why, nolhing could be easier, his 
friend assured him. “ You first take a subject, and 
then all you have to do is to write about it.” 

“ But what is a subject?” inquired the future Gov- 
ernor of New York. 

“ Why, a subject is anything you want to write 
about.” 

Hate Teacher to Sharp Boy — Phillie Stine, come 
here. Ephraim Jones complains that you have abused 
his little sister, is that true, sir? 

Sharp Boy — Yes, mum. 

I. T. — What did you do it for? 

S. B. — Ephe called me a dirty Philistine and kick- 
ed my sister. So I pitched into Ephes’, damn ’im. 

I- T. — What do you mean, sir, by such profanity 
here ? Where did you learn such language, sir ? 

S. B.— In the Bible. 

I. T. — What part of the Bible, sir ? 

S. B. (triumphantly/— First Samuel, seventeenth 
chapter, first verse. 

The verse referred to reads as follows : “ Now the 
Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, 
and were gathered together at Shochoh, which be- 
longeth to Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and 
Asekah, in Ephes— clammin. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



1888.] 



TIIE CIGARETTE SMOKER. 

I. 

Mark her, as she stands. 

Match alight, 

Eyes as bright, 

Shielding with her hands 

The tender flame ; 

Holding in her lips, 

Where the bee, Love, sips, 

Joy of leisure 
Beyond measure, 

Cigarette by name. 

II. 

There 1 it makes her cough. 

If she smoke 
Must she choke 
When the fumes come off? 

Now she denies 
Cigarette her lips 
Holds it burning. 

To ash turning 

Till at last it dies. 

III. 

Thus she lit my heart, 

Lit it well 
With the spell 
Of love's magic art ; 

And just as I 

Burned with all love’s fire, 

Shrank from my desire, 

Let my yearning 
And heart burning 
Into ashes die. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

II. 

Bachelor. — A mule who shirks his load. 

Candle. — One whose fate is to die of consumption, 
hut who constantly makes light of his 
misfortune. 

Child. — The ever-renewed hope of the world. 

Civilization. — The monster train on the World’s 
railroad, pushed on by the Past, and 
pulled on in front by the Future. 

Ignorance. — A dark place where poor people are 
allowed to grope about till they hurt 
themselves or somebody else. 

Metaphysics. — Words to slay the appetite till facts 
are ready. 

Miser. — A man who makes bricks that his heirs may 
build houses. 

Monk. — A man who commits himself to prison for 
being religious. 

Napoleon. — A naughty boy who was put in a corner 
because he wanted the world to play 
with. 

Novel. — A wholesome fruit, greatly vilified by those 
who pluck it unripe. 

Paper. — A field of ice, on which some exhibit to 
advantage, and others stumble and 
make fools of themselves. 

Shop. The saddle on which Capital rides Labour. 

Sleep. — A cloak thrown round us at the side-scenes 
as we leave the days awhile. 

Sun. — The lighted altar in the Temple of Nature. 

Taxes. The Government’s “little account” for 

board and lodging. 

Theatre. An homoeopathic hospital, where small 

doses of society are given to cure 
society. Q- 



itollege News. 

A novel and excellent feature has been introduced 
in the high school at Caldwell, Kan., which keeps a 
file of all the leading country papers, with magazines 
and papers for young people, all of which are acces- 
sible to the students at unemployed moments. Every 
afternoon a portion of the time is devoted to live 
topics of the day. On a recent Friday one of the 
students gave an extended account of the railroad 
strike, another of the death of Emperor William, and 
his successor ; others of the life of Miss Alcott, of the 
eastern blizzard, Oklahoma, etc. 

The English Anthropological Society has been cul- 
ling from reports of school- masters’ observations on 
the symptoms of mental fatigue. The observations 
reveal that weariness of mind reveals itself under the 
aspects of irritability and incapacity. 

Children at school showed such signs of mental 
irritability as sleeplessness and nervous laughter, while 
those who were fatigued could neither sleep nor get 
up their taskwork. The flagging will showed itself 
by lolling, yawning, and a languid manner. Head- 
ache also resulted from overstrain in study, when com- 
bined with defective ventilation. 

The London Lancet, commenting on these observa- 
tions, says that mental and bodily overwork is the most 
general and the least regarded form of illness in this 
age. I ts^ treatment requires that due attention be paid 
to the two great essentials of timely rest and whole- 
some diet. 

A man, says the Lancet, may work on a liberal 
scale, provided he will interrupt its continuity by 
timely and adequate intervals of rest, and will eat 
heartily of plain food. So long as appetite and sleep 
are unimpair< d, there is little danger of overwork, but 
the failure of eitheris nature’s warning signal that the 
strain must be relieved. 

“ The sweet girl-graduate is becoming very much 
in evidence in Belgium,” says the St. James Gazette. 
“ During the last three or four years the number of 
female students at the Belgium universities has greatly 
increased ; but the increase has been in directions 
which were originally unexpected. When girl gradu- 
ates were curiosities it was thought that most of them 
would study law and medicine ; but of late years the 
ardor of the studious * young person ’ seems to have 
cooled. It is difficult enougn for men to achieve even 
moderate success as lawyers or doctors ; and the task 
of women, even when it is not illegal for them to 
practise medicine or jurisprudence, is even harder. 
The majority of young Belgian ladies who go to the 
universities study either the natural sciences in order 
to become teachers, or pharmacy with a view to be- 
coming chemists’ assistants. The large number of girls 
who study pharmacy is accounted for by its being the 
shortest, the cheapest, and in some respects the easiest 
of all the courses. But there is another consideration 
which these canny young ladies are said not altogether 
to overlook. There is always the possibility that they 
may, during their career as dispensers, fascinate some 
country doctor ; and obviously a medical man whose 
wife can make up his prescriptions has a help-mate in 
a double sense. 



14 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



STUDENTS AND “THE GAZETTE.” 

A movement is on foot among the students to bring 
themselves into more intimate relations with The 
Gazette. And we are truly glad of it, for the 
journal finds its reason for being, only in their needs, 
and succeeds only in so far as its interests are theirs. 
This is a question we have been trying to solve for 
years, and now that the students themselves have 
taken hold of it, we may look for a satisfactory issue. 
Hitherto they have been satisfied that their work was 
done when they had appointed their editors and 
directors, and if it is now felt that it should he more 
thoroughly under the control of Undergraduates, that 
control must come about by personal effort on their 
parts, and not from additional representation on the 
Boards — that is, if the Graduates are to have any part 
at all in its management. Since the incorporation of 
The Gazette in 1884, there have been 56 editors and 
directors, of whom 42 were undergraduates and 14 
graduates. In 1884 there were 12 undergraduates 
and 3 graduates; in 1885 the proportion was 12 and 
2 ; in 1886 it was 11 and 4; and last year it was 11 
and 5. The graduates obtained a representation just 
one quarter as much as the students possessed, while 
the money they invested in it was more than ten 
times as great. 

If representation was according to capital invested, 
the position would be more than reversed, and the stu- 
dents will have to put their hands deeply in their 
pockets to contribute to The Gazette in proportion 
to the influence they already hold. They can best do 
this by subscribing more freely and extending the 
circulation of the paper ; besides, by increased sub- 
scriptions they would give a moral support and exert 
a larger influence than if they acquired an increased 
number of shares. 

The whole history of The Gazette shows in whose 
hands its management lay, and it is now in very bad 
taste for men, who never contribute an iota to its sup- 
port, financially or otherwise, to attempt to place it at 
a false advantage before the incoming students, for 
whose benefit the present article is written, and these 
men as well may find some facts by which they can 
estimate the course they are taking. 

In the month of October, 1884, a meeting of under- 
grads. and graduates was called to discuss the feasi- 
bility of forming a joint stock company to run The 
Gazette, as it was felt by those most interested in the 
journal that it should be placed upon a firm basis, and 
not be wholly dependent upon the shifting classes of 
undergraduates for its very existence. A large number 
of undergraduates and several graduates responded to 
the call, and the meeting was held, resulting in the 
organization of the present University Gazette Co. 
(since incorporated) with stockholders, all undergrad- 
uates with one exception. It was arranged that a 
board of directors be elected annually, consisting of 
one or two representatives from each faculty, and such 
others as might be deemed expedient to appoint, the 
only condition being that these directors must all be 
shareholders. It was also agreed that a board of edi- 
tors be elected annually, consisting of four shareholders, 
undergraduates or others, together with four other 



editors, one from each of the faculties. The result of 
such elections has already been stated, and if there 
has been any fault, it was not that the graduates did 
more than their duty, but that the students did less 
than theirs. 



THE GENUINE 

Cook’s Friend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(near the court-house,) 

MONTREAL. 

C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CKEAF FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MOITTBE-AL. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 



MONTREAL STEAM LAUNDRY CO, 

(LIMITED.) 

21, 2H & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Pdblic Intitutions, 

f?, r " aS j‘?f and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new- 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
replication Contracts made . and T ^ d ers for Work furnished on 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



385 <S z 387 St. Steeet, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



R elebruted Hot Water Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— ^Wholesale Manufacturers *— 




Hot Am Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St, Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 18, 5 9. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers fup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
(rngraving ^ Pointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 




Inuitations, Cards, CFests, programmes, 
plonograms, &e., 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

S>XXf33 cics-a-ns, 

Sniller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extr» Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, ik. QERTH. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Hjc PHOTOGRAPHY iM- 

For CABINET PHOTO., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleurnj Street. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



$ tfull $todk dogdtkgtly ot\ Skgd, Imported 
f)ifedt ffoig tl\e I<ekdig^ ^Ikgufkdtufefd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

KDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 



:o:- 



The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 



-:o:- 



CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole Agrents for 2v£orvtrea.l arid. TTicira-lty. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and Billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Oues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, & c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

irt lakers and lei’s Firni 

•£> NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY .<■ 



fa 



mmmA, 




t 



AND C^^U LL 

I HE CReat invigoraungtonic the DAT 



i)BUY YOUR (= 



Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 





10 per cent. Discount to Students. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 



* * 



*********»»»■»»»»»» 

m Jjhotog raphers 

* * * * * * * * * # 

Jfeuc -Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OIF 1 ILTIEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, - $115,000,000 

Surplus, - 16,000.000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen. Manager. 

1769 NOTRE DAME STREET, - MONTREAL, 



