The McGill Gazette. 

Vol. II. Montreal, January 15, 1876. No. 5. 



CONTENTS. 



PAG1. 



Literary. 

Science among the Romans 51 

Cribs 52 

Editorial. 

A Happy New Year 53 

University Literary Society 54 

A College Reading-room 54 

Obituary 55 

Skating Rink 55 



TJL9 *. 

Our Song 5 ^ 

Colleges in the U. S 56 

University Literary Society 56 

Personals 57 

College Items 57 

Exchanges 5 ^ 

College Song 5 ^ 

Advertisements 49, 5 °> 5 ^> 59 



The McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University . 
Terms , $1.00 per annum; Single Copies, 10 Cents . For sale at Drysdald s, Dawson's and Hill's . Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary, McGill College . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill 
College . 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales , essays, and all suitable literary matter from L niversity men . It 
“drill open its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner . 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a scaled envelope, which 
will be opened if the contribution is inserted, but will be destroyed if rejected . This rule will be strictly adhered to . 

H H. WOOD, Secretary. 



SAVAGE, LYMAN & CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIN, of Locle, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 

in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, ROBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 
ALSO IN STOCK : 

Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., &c. 

226 & 228 St. James Street . 


J. D. ANDERSON, 

MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 

206 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 


ALWAYS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS , 
SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 


PROFESSIONAL. 


John C. Becket, 




STEAM 


A. WRIGHT, L.D.S., 


Book and Job Printer, 


SURGEON-DENTIST, 


658 & 660 CRAIG STREET- 


38 BEAVER 11 A EL TERRACE . 


MONTREAL. 



5° 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



G-O TO 

Walsh’s Clothing Houss, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing and Tailoring Establishment, 

463 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

A large assortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys’ Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Prices very moderate. A call solicited. 

W. WALSH k CO. 

LORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




Wholesale and Retail 

« 

No. 21 St. Lawronco Strset, 

MONTREAL. 

437 and 439 Hotre Cams Street* 

(3-0 TO 

CheapsidE 

FOR YOUR 

DRY GOODS, 

And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 
answer to an advertisement in the McGill Gazette. 

A. A. MURPHY. 



S. R. PARSONS, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF THE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&c., &c., Ac., 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the new Post Office ) 

MONTREAL. 

NEW LIST! 

Baldwin and Walker’s best Four-ply Fingering Yarn 

$1.38 per lb. 

John Paton & Sons’ best Three-ply Scotch Alloa 



Wheeler Yarn 90c. 

Canadian Four-ply Fingering Yarn 75c. 

Best English Cocoa-nut Matting 30c. 

English Stair Oil-cloth nj^c. 

English Floor Oil-cloth, yard wide 28c. 

Lace Curtains, good quality $1 05 per pair. 

Lace Curtains, 3j£ yards long $1 25 

Lace Curtains, four yards long $2 65 



Three Cases White Quilts, to be sold very cheap this 
week, from $1 25 to $4 each. 

Two Cases Colored Cloth Table-covers, from 50 cents 
to $7 each. 

One Case Piano Covers, from $6 50 to $12 each. 

notice . — We are selling goods much below value 
for X’MAS PRESENTS. 

s. O^IR,S ILIEY, 

Bio. 399 BfOTRE DAME STREET. 

TO SUBSCRIBERS. 



We would remind all those to whom copies of the 
Gazette have been sent that subscriptions are now due 
and that after the FIRST of JANUARY no more 
papers will be sent to unpaid subscribers. We hope to 
receive a large amount in response to this notice. 

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.00 PER ANNUM. 

Remittances to be sent to 

HOLTON WOOD, 

Faculty of Arts, 

McGill College. 



Vol. II., New Series. McGill College , January 15 th, 1876. No. 5 



LITERARY, 

Sketches of the history of science. 



III. SCIENCE AMONG THE ROMANS. 

The Romans were descended from a Celto- 
Pelasgic tribe and combined the character, 
religion, and early language of the Celtic 
race softened and harmonized by those 
of the Grecian. It was from the Etruscans 
who were of similar origin, and who had spread 
themselves over a large tract of Italy, and 
become highly civilized, that the warlike 
barbarians derived their earliest civilization. 
Very little is known of the Celtic Institutions; 
but their doctors, philosophers and legislators 
appear to have been entirely dependent on the 
Druids. These priests sought to prevent the 
diffusion of knowledge, of which they were the 
repositories, by requiring the student to pursue 
a course of twenty years of oral instruction, 
and by preventing the extension of writing. 

The early Romans, whose exclusive purpose 
was aggrandizement by conquest were for a long 
time as might be expected opposed to the cul- 
tivation of knowledge. The dawn of Roman 
Scientific Literature began when Cato the Cen- 
sor (who flourished 120 years B.C. produced his 
“ De Re Rnstica .” This work was a well infor- 
med treatise on practical agriculture, rural eco- 
nomy, and veterinary medicine. Rome, throw- 
ing off its barbarity, at last began to be sensible 
of the intellectual richness of the conquered, and 
after the fall of Carthage, her Senate caused 
the treatise of Mago on Agriculture, to be 
translated into Latin. This work and the 
Periplus of Hanno are the only scientific monu- 
ments that have been left of Carthaginian 
origin. After Cato, the next writer was Varro, 
who had studied at Athens, and wrote on the 
same subject as Cato. When Pompey con- 
quered Mithridates he found among the treas- 
ures, several works on Medicine written in 



many different tongues ; these he caused to be 
translated into Latin. The doctrines of Hip- 
pocrates were generally admired in Rome, and 
met with success. Julius Caesar, although a 
warrior, was a close observer of surrounding 
objects. He has handed down to posterity a 
considerable knowledge of the animals inhabit- 
ing Germany in his day, some of which have 
disappeared before the advance of the human 
race. In his day the forests were inhabited by 
Aurochs ( Bos Bison,) elks, reindeer and others 
which we find only far north. The Aurochs 
are now only to be found in Lithuanian forests 
where they are protected. The Ure On (Bos 
Urus) became extinct in the sixteenth century. 
Other species of mammals, belonging to the 
farther South are now also locally extinct. 

The whole Roman Nation seem to have 
given themselves up. to pleasure and licenti- 
ousness. one of the most repulsive of these amu- 
sements being gladiatorial combats. Large 
sums of money were paid for the introduction of 
new species of animals. In one day Augustus 
caused 3,500 wild beasts to perish, and on the 
event of the victory of Trajan over the Par- 
thians, during the short space of twenty-three 
days of feast no less than n,cco domestic 
animals were killed. Yet with the immense 
number of exotic animals brought to Rome 
and slaughtered to satisfy a most depraved 
taste, no one appears to have made a study of 
the habits, structures, and varieties of all these 
animals arising from different climates. 

The number of scientists are few r . Of plants 
there have been left some descriptions by 
Musa, the physician of Augustus, by Apuleius, 
by Celsus, and by Virgil, who in his Georgies 
mentions and describes very accurately a great 
number of plants and animals. Augustus 
having collected some bones of dead mastodons 
regarded them as the bones of giants. Ovid 
describes fifty-three species of animals with 
sufficient accuracy to enable them to be recog- 



5 2 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



nized. Diodorus of Sicily left some writings on 
the different branches of Natural History. 

Strabo, (B.C. 50,) a Cappadocian, belonged 
to the Roman civilization. This celebrated 
geographer mentions the natural products of 
the countries which he describes. He is the 
first to describe the sugar-cane, and to mention 
the silk cocoon, which he regarded as the fruit 
of a tree ; he also left an accurate description 
of the fishes of the Nile. From this philoso- 
pher we learn many of the speculations of the 
Greeks of his day with regard to the occur- 
rences of marine exuvise on the mountains. 
Some of these considered that the sea had been 
at different heights and that having made an 
outlet it sank to the present level, but Strabo 
regarded this as insufficient to account for 
their presence, and considered the occurrence 
of marine organic remains on mountains to be 
due to the upheaval of the ancient sea-bottoms, 
and he accounts for their situation, and all 
terrestial changes by the agency of causes 
every day in action as volcanoes, earthquakes, 
and gradual elevation or subsidence of conti- 
nents above or below water. He was aware 
of the effects of aqueous degradation and 
recognized that islands were separated from 
the main land by this means, and some 
islands, he says have risen from the bed of 
the ocean. He considered volcanoes as safety 
valves, this theory not being a modern doctrine. 
Strabo informs us that the Druids of Gaul, 
believed the universe to be immortal, able to 
survive the catastrophies of fire and water. 

Until the time of Vespasian, the Roman 
Emperors favoured science very little indeed. 
But during his reign there appeared one whose 
name is as widely known as that of Aristotle, 
Pliny the Naturalist. Although he died at the 
early age of fifty-six, when the eruption of 
Vesuvius destroyed Pompeii and Herculaneum, 
he left 160 large volumes of extracts from 
authors which he had read. He was a compi- 
ler rather than a producer, and copied matter 
without questioning its accuracy, yet when he 
made original observations, his descriptions 
were exact. He divided organized beings into 
terrestial, aquatic and aerial. He described 
the cetaceous fishes, which then inhabited the 



Bay of Biscay. His Ornithology is a fable ; 
by his description of the Phoenix, the Golden 
Pheasant is designated ; he also mentions the 
Tregopan as being a horned bird. In his 
Entomology he describes the habits of the bee, 
and thought it came spontaneously from the 
putrefaction of the ore. He recognized that 
the silk, which came from a far distant country, 
was produced by different insects. His 
Zoology is a confusion, and his Botany is still 
more confused. His classification of plants is 
arbitrary, and his descriptions are inaccurate, 
but his observations on their flowering is 
worthy of notice, and his while of therapeutic is 
erroneous. His Mineralogy is interesting as a 
history of the fine Arts and of technology. 

(To be continued . ) 

‘ CRIBS. 

“Vetitum nefas” — Hor. 

It is still a doubtful question among the 
educators of youth, whether a judicious use of 
translations of the classics should be sanctioned 
or even recommended in Schools and Col- 
leges ; and if so, to what extent, and with what 
restrictions ? As usual, those who know 
nothing whatever about the question are those 
who prate most glibly about it, and who 
express their opinion most loudly. The un- 
learned public are, as a rule, strongest in their 
wholesale condemnation of what they deem an 
unfair practice, and by many persons a student 
who avails himself of these aids while compet- 
ing for academical honours, is regarded as 
little better than a dishonest candidate who 
endeavours to secure his election by bribery 
and corruption. Many good parents entertain 
this unreasoned aversion to cribs, though they 
do not object to their son’s having a tutor, and 
would not think it unfair that he should be put 
up to the ‘ dodges,’ when his competitors can 
not afford to pay for the same advantage. 

Competent judges, however, are by no 
means at one on this question. Some think 
that the present state of science demands that 
more attention should be given to it, and that 
the long years spent in picking up fragments 
from authors who died two thousand years 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



53 



ago, would be more profitably employed in 
studying the great questions which are discuss- 
ed in the learned world. That the classics 
should be studied, they admit, but they would 
have them studied only as a means to an end, 
and would have us get at the thoughts of the 
ancients, without puzzling so much over their 
words. If the Hamiltonian system were 
adopted, they are of opinion that a young 
man desirous of obtaining what is called a 
liberal education, would be able to acquire a 
much better acquaintance with the classics in 
a short time. 

Others again, deprecate the use of trans- 
lations altogether, alleging that it only engen- 
ders slothful habits of mind, and in the end 
saves no time. A third and (we think) wiser 
class, endeavour to keep clear of extremes, 
and, following the golden rule : medio tutissim- 
us ibis , advocate a judicious use of translations. 

As far as school-training is concerned, we are 
rather inclined to side with the prohibitionists, 
excepting perhaps in the highest form of an 
ordinary High School. For a school-boy the 
temptation to shirk labour is so strong, that if 

he were allowed to use a translation ad 
libitum , there is every reason to fear that the 

Lexicon and the Grammar would be entirely 
superseded by the crib. But when a young 
man enters College he is placed in a very 
different relation to his instructors. No longer 
made to study by compulsion, he is at liberty 
to improve his opportunities or to neglect 
them : faber quisque suae fortunae. Now we 
persuaded that a student who makes a judici- 
ous use of translations, can only derive benefit 
therefrom. Let a fair and even stubborn 
attempt be made to master the original before 
opening the translation, and then employ it to 
check and revise the work done. This would 
save a great many unnecessary notes in class, 
and would allow the student to give closer 
attention to the really difficult and important 
questions which the professor discusses. At 
the same time this would give him a more 
connected view of the whole passage, and he 
would be less likely to miss the sense, which 
is often forgotten in laborious attempts to con- 
strue the words of the author. Of course there 



are some who do not feel the need of such 
assistance, but we speak for the great majority 
of students, and more especially for the unfor- 
tunately very large class of these who come to 
College with insufficient preparation, allured 
by a Matriculation Examination, which is 
anything but formidable on paper, and in 
practice a ridiculous farce. We make bold to 
say that nine out of ten of these men take no 
interest whatever in the subjects which are 
appointed, and take their classics as they would 
take an unpleasant medicine. 

We have always thought that free and well- 
rendered translations would enable such men 
to see beauties which are hidden from them 
under a verbiage which w r earies and disgusts 
them. It is of course an important thing to 
select suitable translations. We are far from 
recommending the miserable interlinear trans- 
lations, which neither give the beauties of the 
orginal, nor call forth the energies of the 
student in the slightest degree. Such transla- 
tions as Mr. Jowett’s Plato or Mr. Kenedy’s 
Demosthenes clothe the original in an attract- 
ive English dress, and w r ould be perused with 
great pleasure and advantage by those who 
fail to find interest in the old authors. 



The McGill Gazette. 



Saturday , January ijt/i, i8j6. 



In making our first appearance this year, w'e 
have much pleasure in wishing our readers a 
happy new year, and we assure them that though 
the time of expression is late still the good 
wishes are none the less sincere. For our non- 
appearance on January first we have no apolo- 
gy to offer for we are firmly convinced of the 
fact that editors should enjoy the festive season 
as well as other students and adding to this the 
fact that most of our staff w’ere out of town 
during the vacation we trust due allowance will 
be made for w r hat might be mistaken for negli- 
gence on our part. We w r ish our readers 
one and all A HAPPY NEW YEAR in the 
fullest sense of the term. 



54 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY 

This Society has secured new and commo- 
dious rooms in the Academy of Music and 
under its new President is likely to have a sea- 
son of prosperity. A public debate will be 
held on Monday 17th inst. on the question 
“ Should voting at Parliamentary elections be 
compulsory ?” On Saturday, the 8th inst. at the 
ordinary meeting of the Society the question. 
“Has the Canadian rebellion of ’37 had benefi- 
cial results?” was discussed and decided, by the 
casting vote of the President, in the negative. 
Mr. C. H. Stephens led on the affirmative and 
Mr. H. H Lyman on the negative. 



A COLLEGE READING-ROOM 

There is at present, no reading-room, in the 
strict acceptation of the term, for the use of 
McGill students. And in spite the efforts of a 
few of the more energetic students to obtain 
one, it seems as though this consummation is 
• still as far away as ever. Shortly before the 
Christmas vacation a meeting of students in 
Arts and Science, was called, to take into con- 
sideration the deplorable state of the present 
reading-room, and to devise some means of 
calling into existence a reading-room that 
should be managed by a committee of students 
and that should give more satisfaction than can 
be expected under existing circumstances. 
This meeting, we are sorry to say, adjourned 
after much stormy discussion without accomp- 
lishing anything of importance. The great diffi- 
culty appeared to be that a very large major- 
ity of those who attended the meeting had given 
the subject under deliberation, no previous 
thought whatever, and were accordingly suffici- 
ently devoid of ideas. We shall endeavour now 
to show our readers (since some appear to 
require proof of the fact) that a student’s read- 
ing-room would be both advantageous and easily 
attainable if only the proper steps to secure it 
be taken speedily. 

Of the advantages to be derived from the 
reading-room it will not be necessary to say 
much, for every student must be conscious of 
them. There are very few students who are 



not obliged to pass spare hours (hours which 
come between lectures) on some days of 
every week. These hours are now usually 
wasted and are spent in any manner that may 
suggest itself to the student- It can hardly be 
doubted that if there were a pleasant room with 
sufficient light and instructive reading students 
would spend many of these hitherto squandered 
hours in it. Indeed there is quite a large number 
who even under the present regime, manfully 
endeavour to spend these hours profitably byad- 
joining to the little room in the Library build- 
ing which is at one time literally at freezing tem- 
perature at another not very far from the boiling 
point, and there pouring over some musky 
number of the Journal of Education, or if fortune 
smiles, over a stray number of Blackwood a 
year or two old. Assuredly if there are spirits 
in college who so thirst after reading that they 
avail themselves even of this ghost of a reading 
room, their taste should be encouraged by af- 
fording them greater facilities. 

Moreover many of the Science students 
spend the interval between morning and after- 
noon lectures in the College buildings and they 
would gladly avail themselves of the comforts 
and pleasures of a reading-room during this in- 
terval. So much then, for the advantages of a 
reading-room. 

And it appears to us that the attainment of 
this object is by no difficult. We have been in- 
formed that the Faculty would in all probability 
regard with favour a movement on the part of 
the students to improve the existing state of 
things ; and a grant might be obtained from 
the Governors but only by specifying exactly 
the amount required. This grant however 
would in our opinion be unnecessary. For the 
expenses of furnishing a room and of obtaining 
the leading periodicals, could be easily defray- 
ed by a small subscription from every student ; 
and as every individual student would reap 
advantage from a reading room, it seems to us 
at least, that the contribution should be levied 
upon every student in Arts and Science. Of 
course the first thing to be done is to deter- 
mine exactly the funds which would be neces- 
sary to carry on the reading room after it is 
furnished. The cost of furnishing the room 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



55 



should be met by an additional subscription 
which would be by no means large, and we are 
convinced that if this course be pursued the 
students of McGill may have a pleasant and 
valuable Reading-room, without feeling the 
expense in the least degree. The only real diffi- 
culty of which we are aware is the choice of a 
room suitable for these purposes, for the room 
which is now called a Reading-room though 
it might be improved, is too small, and 
the arrangements for heating it in winter are 
too defective, to make it desirable. How- 
ever if no other room can be found, this 
might be employed, if and only if every stu- 
dent subscribes. For the present room is em- 
ployed for reading the books taken from the 
library, so that every student is at liberty to 
enter it. And if it be changed into a reading- 
room proper, it will still be impossible to ex- 
clude any student from it, for the room must 
continue to fulfil its original functions in ad- 
dition to its new ones. If however every stu- 
dent paid besides his library fee a small yearly 
subscription to the reading-room this difficulty 
would be done away with. 

We hope that this matter may not be allowed 
to pass out of notice, but that a meeting will 
be speedily called to bring to a satisfactory 
issue, that which was so imperfectly attempted 
by the meeting which was convened last Dec- 
ember. 



OBITUARY. 

JOHN A. PERKINS, M.A.,B.C.L. 

It is our painful duty to be obliged to record 
the death of one of McGill’s foremost graduates 
Mr. John A. Perkins. Mr. Perkins died very 
suddenly of typhoid fever which it is believed 
he contracted in the Court House. The de- 
ceased gentleman graduated in Arts in ’58 and 
in Law in ’6o. He practised his profession with 
great success in Montreal. By his unusual talents 
and energy he gained a large and extensive prac- 
tice. He also took a leading part in politics 
and we feel certain would have attained to 
eminence in this respect had he been spared. 

The members of the bar turned out in latge 



numbers at his funeral which was one of the 
largest ever seen in Montreal 

His loss will be greatly felt by many to whom 
his genial nature had endeared him, we offer 
our sincere condolence to his family in their 
affliction. The members of the University Li- 
terary Society at a late meeting passed resolu- 
tions of sympathy with the relatives of deceased 
by a standing vote. 



As a usual thing weather as a topic of conver- 
sation is stale and uninteresting ; but not so of 
late. The hitherto unbroken laws that regulate 
a Canadian winter have been compelled to 
relax their stringent regulations and to allow 
fickle weather a holiday. The accepted theories 
in reference to the causes and conditions of heat 
and cold have almost been proved fallacious 
whilst the advocates of an approaching dissolu- 
tion of this planet have been confirmed in their 
belief by the dissolution of the climate. But 
whilst such a state of affairs may be very agree- 
able as a change, the attending results are not 
always of a pleasing or profitable character. We 
refer more particularly to the skating rink. The 
enthusiasm of the students which prompted them 
to forego their principles so far as to lend a 
hand in clearing snow has received a damper, 
and their labour has been in vain. Some 
hard work on the part of the students and a 
great deal of work on the part of those others 
engaged upon the rink had almost accomplish- 
ed the desired object when old Sol, in spite 
of the restrictions that have been placed upon 
him by natural philosophers, looked down upon 
our efforts and appropriated the rink to him- 
self. Our hopes faded as daily we visited the 
scene of our labours and as often saw the ice 
fading rapidly away until one afternoon some 
students were seen ruthlessly playing foot ball 
o’er the grave of the departed. 

We are happy to see that operations are being 
recommenced and hope that the second attempt 
will meet with more success than did the first 
Perseverance on the part of the Committee, 
of management combined with an unfailing ex- 
chequer may succeed in procuring a rink, but 
we fear that the season will be so far advanced, 



5 6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



that this the first trial will not meet with the 
success necessary to encourage the students to 
attempt such an undertaking in future years. 
Still whilst lamenting the adverse nature of the 
elements we must compliment the committee 
upon the energetic manner in which they have 
attempted to surmount all difficulties. 



OUR SONG. 

We publish in the present issue an excellent 
chorus which some years ago attained wide 
popularity in Montreal. The words of this 
«‘Song of the Northwest ” are by Alfred Bailey, 
and the music by Harold & Palmer ; it was 
published originally by J. W. Shepherd & Co. 
a firm now extinct, and was dedicated to the 
Snow Shoe Clubs of Canada. It is now out 
of print but we are informed that Mr. DeZouche 
intends shortly to issue a new edition which 
we are sure will meet with an extensive sale. 
This cannot be claimed as strictly a McGill 
song but we have great pleasure in reproducing 
such a valuable chorus for the benefit of our 
College Snow Shoe Club. 



There is a custom prevalent in the Colleges 
of the United States which, were it to be in- 
troduced here would be very beneficial indeed. 
We refer to the appointment of class presidents 
and secretaries. The advantages of this system 
are so apparent that to dwell upon them at any 
length would be altogether unnecessary. The 
object of the system is to have men from each 
year to act as agents and general managers of 
the various classes, to call meetings &c., and 
after graduation keep books containing the 
name and address and other particulars of 
every man in the class. Each member of the 
class will be bound to notify the secretary of 
any change in his circumstances and to give 
the secretary information about himself at 
stated intervals. Then when one graduate 
desires information about another graduate 
of the same year he will write to the secretary 
and obtain it. 

During College life the appointment of these 
officers would effectually abolish the present 
anomalous method (if the expression is not too 



paradoxical) of calling meetings of students. 

Altogether we think it will be admitted that 
the system is an admirable one, and we hope 
that some steps will be taken to appoint these 
officers in the various years 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The best means of rendering this Society 
efficient in the prosecution of its w r ork, has long 
been a question of considerable difficulty. 1 he 
year ending last October, was as successful as 
could reasonably be expected, under the cir- 
cumstances in which the Society has heretofore 
been placed. A number of its most active 
members and warmest friends entertain the 
opinion, however, that some improvements 
must be made, in order to secure for it the 
zealous support of those who ought naturally 
to avail themselves of its advantages. To the 
writer the most serious existing difficulty in the 
way of its greater success, appears to be the w r ant 
of proper rooms in which to hold its meetings. 
In this city there are many very successful clubs 
formed for a great variety of objects. The mem- 
bership of some of the Masonic Lodges, is large 
and increasing. The Ancient Order of Foresters 
and the Oddfellow Clubs, appear to meet with 
little difficulty in obtaining a large membership 
roll and considerable revenues. Quadrille 
Clubs and Musical Societies, flourish in abund- 
ance. But heretofore, literary clubs have in 
nearly every instance failed to establish them- 
selves on a firm basis. There exist a few 
connected with our churches, but these are 
obliged very frequently to resort to extra- 
neous devices to sustain the interest of the 
members and retain popularity with the out- 
side public. Perhaps there has been no such 
Society started under more favourable auspices 
than the University Literary Society, but 
although it has maintained its standing in the 
city, there has not been that continued progress 
which is to be expected in any institution that 
is vigourous and strong. In the writer’s opinion 
the members of the University Literary Society 
deserve high commendation for confining them- 
selves to the legitimate w'ork of a Literary Club, 
not allowing the introduction of exercises of a 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



57 



foreign character ; and for exhibiting a proper 
appreciation of eminent talent by affording to 
Montreal the opportunity of listening to lec- 
turers of world- wide fame. Still there is much 
that requires to be done to advance the interests 
of the Society by an energetic attempt on the 
part of present and old members to perpetuate 
the work of its founders. 

Following the example of the Masonic 
Lodges, the Society should secure if possible 
two commodious rooms in a desirable locality 
for the exclusive use of its members. This 
could be done for an annual rental probably 
not exceeding a hundred and fifty dollars. 
These rooms might be suitably carpeted 
for about one hundred dollars. The cost 
of furnishing one of the rooms for the 
ordinary meetings of the Society could scarcely 
exceed one hundred dollars. The other 
room, to be used as a reading room would 
require to be furnished in the first instance 
with a large table and a small number of sofas 
and chairs. This could be done in a somewhat 
plain manner for a hundred more. It appears 
then that for the sum of three hundred 
dollars a fair start could be made in furnishing 
a proper set of rooms ; and increased ele- 
gance might follow with the enlarged revenues 
of the Society in subsequent years. If the 
Society therefore were to pledge itself to 
the subscription during the year 1876-77 of 
the rental $150, which would exceed the ordin- 
ary rate paid by about $50 ; and of half of the 
sum neccessary for furnishing say $150 ; in ad- 
dition to the ordinary revenues of the society ; 
arrangements might be made by the Committee 
during next summer to engage and furnish 
proper rooms for occupation by the 1 5th Sept. 
1876. It is not improbable that thirty of the 
members would be willing to subscribe ten dol- 
lars each, as an extraordinary subscription. 
And the result of such a movement would be 
that the Society would be able to start next 
year with comfortable rooms, the attractiveness 
of which would be a great inducement to mem- 
bers of the University to connect themselves 
with it. Of there being sufficient talent in the 
university to raise this Society to a very high rank 
as a Literary Society, and to an even greater 



degree of popularity than it has already acquired 
in the city, there cannot be any doubt. Even in 
its present condition, supported by a comparati- 
vely small number of McGill’s graduates and 
undergraduates, it has won the respect of the 
community at large ; and if it were in a position 
to take a more prominent place among the in- 
stitutions of the city, we might predict for it a 
great future. It is hoped that the present mem- 
bers will make an effort to advance its interests 
in the direction we have ventured to indicate. 

A. M. 



PERSONAL. 

’74 S. C. Stevenson B.A. is Secretary of the 
Foard of Arts, and also Secretary of the Advi- 
sory Board of the Centennial from Quebec. 

’75 M. O. Ward, M.D. is practising in L’Ori- 
gnal 

'75 O’H. Baynes, B. C. L. has commenced 
practising the Notarial Profession. 

’74 H. W. Wicksteed, B. App. Sc., is in 
Ottawa, Ontario 

Three of our graduates are engaged on the 
Canada Pacific Survey Stewart and Brodie 
’73, and Harvey ’74. 

’77 We regret to hear that C. S. Pedley ’77 
has left College and hope sincerely to see him 
amongst us next session. 

’74 J. S. Hall, Jr., B. A. B. C. L. and 
R. W. Huntington B. C. L. have been admit- 
ted to practice at the Quebec Bar 



COLLEGE ITEMS. 

The Students in Law complain of the irregu- 
lar attendance of the Professors. 

The Snow Shoe Club met last night and a 
very enjoyable time was spent. 

A game of football was played on the College 
grounds on the 4th inst. a feat never before 
heard of in the Province of Quebec. 

A Concert will be given by the Glee Club 
this month. 

We are glad to observe that the authorities 
have acceded to the requests of our correspon- 
dent “ More Light." 

We hear it stated that a Chess Club is about 
to be formed in College. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



5« 

EXCHANGES. 

Received. — Harvard Advocate. — Nassau 
Lit. — Amherst Student. — Cornell Era. — Cor- 
nell Review.— Dartmouth.— Tuff s Collegian.— 
Dalhousie Gazette.— Trinity Tablet.— Univer- 
sity Monthly. — College Courier. — high School. 

— Queens College Journal. — Acadia Athenaeum. 

— Winnowings from the Mill . — Eurhetorian 
Argosy . — Christian Worker , (Montreal Y. M. 
C. Association.) 

Our exchanges from the States are largely 
taken up with boating news, and the action of 
the Boating Convention of American Colleges ; 
the College Worid having been throAvn into a 
ferment over the withdrawal of Harvard and Yale 
from the Association. Not being personally 
concerned McGill cannot feel a very lively 
' interest in the action of the two “ representative 
American Universities,” yet we can understand 
that the crews of the other Colleges must feel 
as though they were not contending for the 
championship of American Colleges but only 
with certain institutions, whilst there were 
others who held aloof and against whom they 
could not contend on equal terms. The 
Harvard Advocate treats of the subject with 
more impartiality than do any of the Journals 
emanating from those Colleges which are inter- 
ested, as they all get too warm on the subject 
in their own behalf. 

The Nassau Lit. is well got up and its arti- 
cles well written. 

We have not received the “ Amherst Student ” 
for some time. Does the fault lie with the 
P. O. or with the “ Student 9” Albeit it is thin, it 
is large and we find a good deal in it. 

The Cornell Review , is as good a Literary 
College paper as we have seen. We notice 
an item in it, however, which complains of the 
dearth of poetical talent at Cornell. Let us 
advise the Review not to encourage any such 
corrupter of College papers, as College poetry 
invariably is. In the majority of cases if a 
student begins to think himself a poet, he will 
make a fool of himself and ruin the reputation 
of the paper for which he writes. 

The 7 uft’s Collegian is well got up, and its 
editorial on “ Political Education” contains 
good ideas and is well written. 

We congratulate the “ Dalhousie Gazette ” on 



its improved appearance. It compares very 
favourably with any of our exchanges, and we 
are heartily glad to see a paper from a Cana- 
dian College which is not calculated to give 
outsiders a poor opinion of the College from 
which it comes. It appears a little heavy in 
some of its articles, but has improved in this 
respect since its first number. 

“ Winnowings from the Mill” comes from 
the University of Vermont. It is a new 
paper, and we forbear comments. 

There has been much complaint lately both 
from our own subscribers and from those of our 
city contemporaries, with regard to irregulari- 
ty in the receipt of their papers. The fault 
lies with the Post Office, with whom remon- 
stance has no effect, and we can assure our 
subscribers and exchanges that we do the best 
we can, and if there is any delay in the receipt 
of the “ Gazette” that the fault does not lie 
with us, as their numbers are regularly posted. 



COLLEGE SOHSTO. 

SNOW SHOE TRAMP. 

Up ! up ! the morn is beaming 
Through the forest breaks the sun, 

Rouse, ye sleepers, time for dreaming 
When our daily journey’s done. 

Bind the Snow Shoe fast with thong too 
See, that all is tight and sure 
All is a bliss to — naughts amiss to — 

A brave young North west voyageur, 

Chorus.— Tramp, Tramp on Snow Shoes tramping, 
All the day we marching go 
Till at night by fires encamping, 

We find couches on the snow. 

On ! On ! let men find pleasure 
In the city dull and drear, 

Life is freedom, life’s a treasure 
As we all enjoy it here. 

Ha, ha ha ha, Ha, ha ha ha, 

See the novice down once more 
Hear him shout, then pull him out, then 
Many a fall he’s had before. 

Chorus. — Tramp, Tramp on Snow Shoes, &c., 

Men may talk of steam, and railroads 
But full well our comrades know, 

We can beat the fastest engine, 

In a night tramp o’er the snow. 

It may puff sir, it may blow sir, 

It may whistle, it may scream 
But lighty tripping, gently dipping, 

Snow Shoes leave behind the steam. 

Chorus. — Tramp, tramp on Snow Shoes, 4c., 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



58 



DEVLINS 
Hat and Fur 

DEPOT, 

416 Notre Dame Street, 

MONTREAL. 

THE 

{Jsaiitiii ||eat ant jjfrato {5., 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 

The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of — 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, la Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, ia Tins 
POTTED MEATS, ia Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 
And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Bre,kfast and Supper Table. 

McG & B. cm confidently recommend these 
Goods as equal ani, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES ST. 

• *. 

ADVERTISE IN , 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. ; 



Gents Furnishing Goods. 

Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 

Only the BEST GOODS kept, and ONE price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL 

3S7 HOTEE DAME STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

genii’ Jnr {eats, Jap $ {loves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Ilat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

367 JS OTRE DAME ST. 




NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 



IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO THE BOOKS USED IN 

McEcichran’s Veterinary Colley e, 

AT 

HILL’S LIEEARY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 







FINE ASSORTMENT 

Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY, 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 



McGill College Text Books 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books in use at the College, 

lso 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY, 



STUDENTS’ NOTE -BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NO 'IE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students , 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. MES ST. 



SUBSCRIBE TO 

, THE McGILL GAZETTE 



GO TO 

I9EJ ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 

IFI RST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PIIO TO GRAPHER . 

COHEN & LOPEZ , 

IMPORTERS OF 

FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

Daramt fljujars, 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 

C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, Spc. 

PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver Mounted Sc Engraved to Order. 

CORNER PLACE D’ARMES & ST, JAMES ST„ 

ALSO 

231 ST, JAMES STREET, 



OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 




G. BISHOP & CO., 



Engravers, 

Jmthographers and Printers, 
169 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONT REAL. 

Printed by J. C. Becket, 658 & 660 Crai- Street. 



59 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



I 



