TheMcGILL GAZETTE 



Vol. III. — New Series. 



MONTREAL, MARCH i, 1877. 



No. 5. 



Poetry - 
Modern Literature - 
Theological Degrees - 
Answers to Correspondents 
Editorial - 

University Men in Parliament 

The McGill Gazette is ]mblished Monthly during the College Year by the Undergraduates of the University . Terms ^ 

$1.00 per annum j Single Copies , 20 Cents. For sale at Drysdale's , Dawson s f Mill’s and Clarks. Subscriptions and Adver- 
tisements to be sent to the Secretary , McGill College . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of Tales , Essays , and all suitable Literary Matter from University men. It will open 
its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the communications are written in a gentlemanly 
manner. 

All Matter intended for Publication must be accompanied by the Name of the Writer in a Sealed Envelope , which will be 
opened if the Contribution is inserted , but wifi be destroyed if rejected. This 'i'ule will be strictly adhered to. 

W. D. LIGHTI1ALL , Sec. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

37 

37 

39 

40 
40 
42 



Slang - - - 

University Literary Society 
College World - 
Exchanges - 
The Lost Flower 
Personal — Items 



PAGE 

- 42 
43 

- 43 

43 

- 44 

44 



MACMASTER, HALL & GREENSHIELDS, 

No 181 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

D. Macmaster John S. Hall, Jun. J. N. C-ree n shield 




mech; A- isrxos 3 hall building, 

206 ST. JAMES STREET. 



FRANK J. KELLER, 

uhwah, Barrister, folmtcr, &t. t 

Chambers, 1, 2, 3 & 4, First Floor, Up-Stairs. 

— OVER— 

CITY AND DISTRICT SAYINGS BANK, 

No. 178 ST. JAMES STREET, 



Wo s*s>vsa.ks&9 

President of the Centennial Photographic Co Philadelphia f 



AND 




MONTREAL, CANADA. 






CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER. 



YALE 

HARVARD 

PRINCETON - 
DARTMOUTH - 

McGILL 

WESLEYAN COLLEGE - - 

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE - • 

PRINCETON SEMINARY - - 

ANDOVER SEMINARY - - 

PHILLIPS’ EXETER ACADEMY 
ABBOTT ACADEMY - - 



’72 73, 75. 76, and 77 
- 74, 75, and 76 

74, 75, and 76 

- 74, 75, 76, and 77 

74, 75, and 76 

• • ■ - - 75 

- - - - 77 

- • 74, 75, and 76 

- - 74, and 75 

- - - 74, and 75 

- • . - 76 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 




CROWNS OUR EFFORT 

IN OFFERING THE 

BEST FITTING CLOTHING 

IN THE MARKET. 



o’hapfA db ©oisr 3 

19 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET. 



ULSTERS AND OTHER OVERCOATS A SPECIALTY, 

AND AT VERT LOW RATES. 

Students will find it to their advantage to trade here . 



TO MED ICAL MEN. 

SPECIAI.TV, 

OUTFITTING OF MEDICAL STOCKS 

COMPRISING A GOOD ASSORTMENT OP 

SHELF BOTTLES, SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, &o., 

EM CASES AND OTHKBWHlf 

THE PUREST OF DRUGS GIVEN AT REASONABLE PRICES 

LAVIOLETTE & NELSON, 

chemists, 

218 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

(Second door west of Si. Gabriel) 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books in use at the College, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIhlY. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 

0 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

Standard Library Books 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 



CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 



232 ST. JAMES STREET. 232 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 



HEARN & HARRISON, 




IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS O? 






f 



AND 



Levels and Surveying Instruments, 



NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Drawing Instruments, Magic Lanterns, 

MICROSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, dc., dc., 

SIGN OF THE ADMIRAL, 

Nos, 242 & 244 NOTRE DAME ST., 

MONTREAL. 



TheMcGILL GAZETTE 



Vol. III.— New Series. MONTREAL, MARCH i, 1877. 



No. 5. 



MODERN LITERATURE. 



THE LITTLE DRUMMER. 

As Macdonald’s army was crossing the Alps, a little 
drummer boy was carried over a precipice by a storm ; he fell 
unhurt to the bottom of the gulf, and there, deep down 
amid the crushed forms of avalanches, the poor fellow stoocf 
beating the rapid strain which had so often rallied his 
companions. 

Beat on ! little drummer, thy call is unheeded ; 

Beat on ! thy companions are deaf to thy call, 

The sound of thy drum can no longer be needed, 

And thou ’neath the snow-flake art destined to fall. 

The clash of the sword and the musketry rattle 
Were silenced erstwhile at the tap of thy drum, 

Its sound oft decided a hardly fought battle, 

But now it is powerless t’ avert thy dark doom. 

Tap ! tap ! went the drum, and the snow-covered vallies 
Reechoed the sound that seemed weaker to grow, 

But oft as the lost one his waning strength rallies, 

The drum is heard louder from ’mid the deep snow. 

The soldiers above hear the poor drummer calling. — 
Alas, ’tis in vain they would lend him their aid, 

For ’round them they see their companions are falling, 
They know to sustain life their strength they will need. 

Still fainter the call of the drummer ascended, 

And weaker and weaker his little arms grew, 

His comrades at last knew his miseries were ended, — 

No longer they heard the drum sound ’mid the snow. 

Blow on Alpine winds ! for his soul has departed, 

This body no longer can feel your chill breath ; 

Plunge on, rolling avalanche ! your hopes have been 
thwarted, 

Already he sleeps in the cold arms of death. 

Darius Wintertown. 



A SONNET TO TATE. 



I’m sad to night: my spirit’s fading slow, 

My heart is full, my hopes are growing dim ; 

The tears adown my cheek unbidden flow, 

The future comes upon me fraught with wo, 

And life seems wearisome, and joy a whim. 

She whom I love and cherish and adore. 

Whose every wish I sought t’ anticipate, 

In whom my life is centered, — she no more 
Responds to my affection as of yore, 

But leaves me sadly to my bitter fate ! 

Ah ! pity me at least, if Love hath fled 
The sacred temple of thy virgin heart : 

Tate, Darling, Come ! ere every hope hath sped, 
Some solace to my flickering soul impart. 

Darius Wintertown. 



In heading this essay with the above words unqualified 
or unexplained, we would lay ourselves open to the charge 
of attempting to compress within the limits of an article 
in a monthly magazine, what would furnish matter for 
volumes. What we wish to do is merely to turn over a few 
thoughts concerning the uses and tendencies of the modern 
forms of English Literature; and there can be no fitter 
occassion for such an attempt, than the inauguration of a 
new candidate for monthly honors, especially when it is 
considered how important a part in our modern Literature, 
such periodicals play. 

It is owing entirely to such ready and such wide-reaching 
means of the people that the literature of our da}' differs so 
much in character from that of the times of earlier writers. 
Then the author penned his lines without a thought for the 
great mass of the people ; now magazines, pamphlets, news- 
papers spread intelligence and independent thought among 
the toiling crowds of the city, among the rugged culturers 
of the soil ; and that writer who cares to obtain a favorable 
hearing, must make-his thought as clear to those whom ho 
addresses as it is to himself. It is the difference which 
exists between a work prepared for the use of advanced and 
well-trained students, and a popular lecture ; between a 
University text-book and a public-school primer. 

No modern writer thinks of limiting himself to any stated 
mode of expression, such as epic, dramatic, lyric, etc. He 
knows that the great majority of his readers can not appre- 
ciate an attempt on his part to confine his thoughts within 
given limits. We have not had a poem written during the 
last century which one may call an epic proper, excepting 
perhaps Bulwer’s ‘‘King Arthur,” we have not even had a 
poet excepting Tennyson but who has also written in prose. 

What are the advantages of the present Literary expres- 
sion f They are the advantages which the free citizen of 
a mighty Empire possesses over the enslaved and super- 
stitious subject of an eastern despot, over the trembling 
inhabitant of a priest-ridden State. Happy, respected and 
independent can the writer now live; not hanging on the 
capricious favour of a patron, nor compelled to force thought 
to run in the narrow channel prescribed by orthodox power. 
No one who is now able to use a pen can languish in neglect, 
where so many and as varied openings lie before him. No 
Chat.terton now a-days sinks into a self-sought grave ; no 
Burns after one swift flash dies of neglect and vexation ; no 
Johnson spends a youth in want and disease until he con- 
tract habits which terrify and disgust those around him ; 
and where a genius like Edgar Poe dies after shaming and 
disgracing his lofty abilities, it is only when the friends 
which these abilities drew toward him have -again and 
again failed in earnest attempts to draw him from his lower 
nature. And not only to authors do our multiform periodi- 
cals ensure hearing and reward ; permeating through every 
throbbing pore of the nation, they educate and purify, and 
give to the hard-working men and women something of 
enjoyment for the moment and hope for the future; and 
though there is another side to this picture in the shape of 
low novels and other worse prints, yet these, the darker 



38 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



faces of our hydra-headed literature are only as the passing 
clouds which obscure for a moment the face of the sun. 

Men may obtain also in the pages of the magazine or 
newspaper that training which is almost indispensable, 
according to modern views, to becoming a successful writer. 
We say according to modern views, because we cannot help 
remembering that Milton’s first production was the Hymn 
on the morning of Christ’s nativity, and that the famous 
essay on that great poet was one of the first attempts of 
Macaulay. These were not ordinary men however, and 
whether indispensible or not, practice in writing is always 
useful, and it is much pleasanter to obtain it where it costs 
one little, than to publish a book and find it fail — fail utterly 
and stamp one with the mark of an unsuccessful writer, if 
a paper be sent to the editor of a magazine and be rejected,' 
a person’s sensitiveness is quieted by the knowledge that he 
alone is aware of the failure, and pride is consoled by the 
reflection that his individual judgment alone has found one 
wanting. 

But, although we cannot question the great importance of 
so-casily found outlets to literary expression in regard to 
average writers and the world generally, and must acknow- 
ledge that many a valuable thought and happy phrase, the 
production of men who may never be again heard from, are 
thus preserved, still there are other aspects in which the 
literature of the present may be viewed. Who can confi- 
dently deny that many a poem which might have opened 
the gates of fame to its writer, has been consigned to the 
flames in disgust after an adverse opinion from some addle- 
headed editor? Tom Hood’s “ Song of the Shirt ” went 
begging for some time. Keats is supposed to have received 
a mortal blow from savage criticisms in the Quarterly 
Review. 

That unity is strength is a truism ; and in our opinion it 
holds good in literature as elsewhere. View the numberless 
short pieces, trifles thrown off on every possible occasion, 
in which our modern poets indulge; call up the tales and 
essays innumerable of our prose writers. Each little verse, 
if it be worthy of its author contains some happy thought, 
or line, is prompted by warmth of feeling or by a moment’s 
inspiration ; each essay must draw forth something of the 
mental strength of its writer. All very well in the present 
hour or day; each of these efforts adds to fame, to wealth 
perhaps, to self-confidence, if writers ever want self-con- 
fidence; but unless they be of such power as to go down to 
posterity by their own innate worth, as Campbell’s fiery 
ballads, or Macaulay’s Essays, who will read them fifty 
years hence? Certainly in all times have there been 
dabblers in literature who wrote short verses, and nothing 
but short verses, and even the greater poets of old have 
sometimes relaxed, but still for every short piece from 
Virgil, Dante, Spenser or Milton, we can show twenty from 
Byron, or Longfellow, or Tennyson ; and with the inducements 
which modern writers have, we believe, that, had any of these 
great poets of former times lived in our whirling nineteenth 
century, they would have frittered away their strength in such 
emphemeral productions, as living men with their genius now 
do. Of course there are other causes why these ancient 
names tower over those of modern writers ; they had that 
advantage over our contemporaries which a painter well pre- 
pared for work, has over one chalking pictures on an old 
barn-door : they had clean canvas , and their readers had less 
reason and a freer imagination than we have, and therefore 
received impressions more readily. 

The great feature of the age not only in literature but in 
everything, is the readiness with which ability finds vent. 
Children whose youth gives evidence of a particular bias, are 



generally not only allowed but encouraged to choose that 
business or profession for which they have a desire. Even 
the traditional wish of the obstinate Scotch farmer to see his 
son wag his pow in a pulpit has given way somewhat before 
the influence of the age, and a clever son is permitted to wag 
his pow where he pleases. David Wilkie would surely have 
been a minister if he had been his own great-grand-father, so 
to speak ; but now genius of whatever kind is usually able 
to shape its own course. We say genius of whatever kind 
because we believe that genius is merely supeminent ability 
in some particular line'. 

Samuel Johnson we think, said that genius was great 
general ability turned by accident in some special direction ; 
and Craik, in his “ History of English Literature ” repeats 
and endorses the definition. Now this remark, if true, may 
mean that even after the faculties of a man of genius have 
been directed towards some particular object, he may yet 
remain in possession of general ability ; or it may infer that 
once exclusively devoted to that object he can be only a fool 
in reference to any other matter. If the first view be correct, 
how comes it that Shakespeare was not a good actor, that 
Oliver Goldsmith was plucked at college, and was such a 
failure all through life ? Why did Blackstone become so 
famous as a lawyer and yet write epics which are a byword 
and a scoff? Why did Hogg lose as a sheep farmer all the 
money he made as a poet ? And finally how was it that 
Wellington, of such military genius, was declared by the vox 
populi to be so bad a statesman that he was compelled to 
barricade his house against an infuriated mob. Again, if the 
second supposition be the true one, we can cite against it the 
names of Caesar, general, historian, statesman ; of Milton, 
poet, debator, statesman ; • of Bonaparte, of Sheridan, of a 
host of others. Nearly every prominent man in Grecian 
history was at once orator, statesman and soldier. In all the 
instances we have given, however, one trait of character 
predominates over the others ; and this is where the genius 
of the man lies ; but, if Johnson’s definition were true, the 
possessor of genius would be equally great in everything he 
attempted. Other facts militating against such a view are to 
be found in the peculiarities of literary genius. The great 
soldier, the great statesman, scientist, philosopher, seem to us 
to differ entirely in character from great literary men. The 
faculties which make a successful writer seem to be altogether 
apart from the remainder of his character. Pope’s name 
comes down to us in the halo of poetical fame ; and when we 
look back through the years, and trace his earthly career 
through its windings, we see a peevish invalid, half pitied, 
half despised, by those with whom he is in close contact ; a 
little caricature of a human being, squabbling like a spoila 
child with the sharp-tongued Mary Wortley Montague ; fult 
of petty animosity and useless chicanery. A youthful poacher 
marries a woman half as old again as himself, goes to Londonr 
becomes a second-class actor, then a manager ; and were the, 
half-dozen greatest men whom this world produced placed 
side by side, this man would stand amongst them, — Shake- 
speare ; whom his age regarded so little, that we have no 
certain record of his life or death ; the authorship of his plays 
disputed even. A Goldsmith becomes a proverb for child- 
dishness, “ talks like a parrot.” Burns gives so little evidence 
of the poet in his home life, that his eldest son afterwards 
declares that he did not know his father had ever written 
anything, until he learned the truth from strangers. 

And the rewards of the literary man are as uncertain and 
as varied as his productions ; and often in this life he gets as 
little notice as they do, although if there be merit in man or 
work, he has little chance now-a days of missing the mark so 
completely as some now famous names did during their life. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



39 



Of the great army which marches under the standard of 
literature, the majority are professional men, that is, are 
engaged as editors, jonrnalists, etc., or contribute regularly 
and solely to periodicals. These have little regard for future 
lame ; they are of this world, and get their reward entirely in 
this world. But others there are who set out with different 
ends in view, and though glad enough if part of their dreams 
be realized in their life time, yet write with the resolve of 
gaining a foot hold on the slippery hill of. fame. And even if 
they are partly rewarded before they are where the reward 
will not effect them, still the noblest return they can but hope 
for, since it is rarely granted to any human being to live in the 
certainty that for ages to come his name will be a household 
word in the land, and that his words will give pleasure and 
profit to thousands, long after his mortal frame has been 
consigned to some silent home of the dead What a proud 
yet sweet and solemn thought it is, that hundreds of years 
after a man has quitted this sunny world, some human being 
may trace his steps with the reverent feelings of a favourite 
pupil, and the admiration of one who knows only of the 
qualities which secured fame, and not of the faults and fail- 
ings of every-day Jife ! How reverently the haughty front of 
a Byron is bared before the church in which lie some of 
Italy’s great sons : — 

“In Santa Croce’s holy precincts lie 
Ashes which make it holier, dust which is 
Even in itself an immortality.” 

What is it that impels a young man, as yet knowing nothing 
whatever of his own mental calibre, to write, and to publish 
his writings ? Apart from those almost inevitable productions, 
li Sonnets to his Mistress’ Eyebrow,” what induces him to set 
his thoughts, or very often his want of thought, upon paper ? 
When a novelist — especially a lady novelist — brings forward 
a coming poet in his or her volumes, we have an impossible 
young man who astonishes all around him by his mighty 
intellect, and whose writings are intended to raise and educate 
the world with the abundance of a full mind and the lofty 
aims of a philosopher. Again, some stony Diogenes will tell 
you with a sneer that it is petty vanity and ambitious conceit 
which are the moving causes of the work. We do not incline 
to either of these opinions. It is difficult to discover high 
purposes in “ Hours of Idleness,” or in the earlier works of 
any great writer, excepting Milton, whose Muse set out with 
a purpose and a strength well worthy of all that she finally 
achieved. It is also difficult to perceive in “ Pleasures of 
Memory,” the first work of the wealthy banker, Rogers, any 
petty vanity. And if in a certain period of life a young man 
will write the sonnets before mentioned, he rarely desires to 
make them public. For our own part, therefore, we believe 
that the composing, in the first place, and then the anxiety to 
put in print, are owing to an inward instinct, similar to that 
which makes men soldiers or engineers when other and more 
profitable paths lie before them ; an unconscious possession 
of mental power or aptitude. No hope of fame, of wealth, of 
reward of any kind could have actuated the nameless writers 
of historical chronicles who dreamed their lives away in the 
dim cloisters of the stone-built monasteries of Saxon England. 
And another instance of this writing for the love of writing is 
seen in Sterne’s “ Tristram Shandy.” He began it intending 
to write two books every year wlfile he lived, but he died very 

shortlv after. . . 

This same unreasoning desire to write also lets us into the 
secret, on the one hand, of the restless chaffing of eager 
spirits against failure, and on the other, to the quiet persistence 
which strives on in the hope of writing something the “ world 
will not willingly let die”; it explains both the death of 
Chatterton and the life of Milton. It explains also why a 



writer would compose poems and then give them to the world 
as a collection of translated Gaelic traditions, content to be 
thought of merely as a compiler of other men’s thoughts, and 
why he persisted in denying to the last that these, the 
so-called poems of Ossian, were original pieces of his own. 
No reasonable supposition can account for the fact of 
Macpherson refusing to acknowledge them as his own No 
lofty purpose can account for the lie ; no petty vanity for the 
dislike to make a confession which would have shown him to 
be a poet as original as powerful. 

Now, leaving aside the Old World with all its wealth 
of literature and glorious memories, we might turn to the New, 
comparatively so bare and practical, and look around at 
the literature of the present. But time does not now permit. 



THEOLOGICAL DEGREES. 

We must confess that we feel very thankful that an effort 
lately made— we know not by whom— to give the power, of 
granting Theological degrees to McGill has been unsuccessful. 

McGill University, it has b?en said time and again, is not a 
denominational institution, and though it is protestant in 
character, no one sect has every acquired any undue predomi- 
nance either in the management of the affairs of the University 
or in the privileges derived from it. To this fact we owe much 
of our past prosperity and success, and it would have been 
tantamount to suicidal to have introduced any regulation which 
could in the slightest possible degree create any open class 
feeling or excite any sectional strife amongst those to whom 
the government of the University is entrusted. In other 
colleges similar enactments, corresponding rights, have been 
productive of much harm, and no one who has the welfare of 
McGill at heart, can desire that she should become, on the 
one hand the scene of religious squabbles, or bitter and 
sectional fights, or that she should on the other hand degen 
erate into a purely denominational College, puny, cramped, 
inactive as these must from the very nature of the case be. 
And yet, what would have been the effect of McGill being 
allowed to grant Theological degrees ? It would in the first 
place have been an eternal struggle as to the requisites for 
examination, a discordant attempt to assimilate divergent 
dogmas and to amalgamate doctrines diametrically opposed, 
and then one sect having worsted the remainder, McGill 
would become simply a training school for clergymen instead 
of being what she is, what she was intended to be, and what 
we trust she long will be, an establishment for the advance- 
ment of education and learning, irrespective of creed or sect, 
but widely protestant in character. — As we have said, we are 
not aware who the originators of this scheme are, but who 
ever they may be they have received a decided check, and 
they know now if they did not before, that those in power 
in McGill have a proper conception of the aim of the founder, 
and entertain a higher idea of McGill’s future than her 
existing as a sickly Theological Seminary.— The opinion of 
the enlightened press has been, we are thankful to say, against 
the proposal. One journal, ever hostile to McGill’s interests, 
and which we suspect of some share in the late scheme, has 
attempted a justification of it, which is a bad endeavour to 
sustain a worse cause. — However, the proposition was rejected 
and a death-blow given to those who wish, for personal or 
party purposes to prostitute the University and its interests. 



—Valedictorians for Arts and Science have just been elected. 
Messrs R. Robertson and Sproule, the respective appointees, will 
both do full justice to their duty. 



40 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 

ist MARCH, 1877. 

Bditors for 1876-77. 

Managing Editor, ’78, D. C. McLAREN. 

*79, W. D. LIGHTHALL, Secy. ’ 7 3 , W. R. SUTHERLAND, Treas. 

’77, A. JAMIESON, B.A. ’78, J. ROSS. 

’78, P. D. ROSS. ’7Q, G. H. GROVES, 



ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS. 



“ A Junior.” — Your communication cannot be noticed 
so long as you withhold your name. We would ask you, and 
some other of our friends to read and consider the directions 
on the cover, which are in all cases strictly adhered to by us. 

B. A. — Notwithstanding your importuryty, we cannot 
disgrace our columns by inseiting your trash. 



The Annual Report which the authorities of the University 
are required by law to make to the Governor General as 
Representative of the Crown, has been lately published, 
together with a financial statement. This Report gives some 
statistics as to the number of students etc., the figures being 



as follows : — 

Students in Law 96 

“ in Medicine 140 

u in Arts 164 

400 



Or, deducting eight students entered in more than one faculty, 
in all 392. In Morrin College there are eleven full, and sixty 
occasional students, and these with 119 teachers in training in 
the Normal School, and 340 pupils of the Model School 
make up the whole number of persons receiving educational 
benefit from the University to be 922. Forty-eight degrees ’ 
were conferred last year. After comparing these figures 
with those of previous years, the report goes on to refer to 
the completion of the catalogue of books in the library 
which now number 12,813, an d to the improvements effected 
in the Molson building. The illness of I)r. De Sola and the 
resignation of Professor Armstrong are then adverted to, and 
the appointment of Mr. Duff as Mathematical Tutor, is 
noticed. The report states, that “after carefully weighing 
“the merits of the several candidates, the governors have 
“decided on the appointment of Henry T. Borly C.E., M.A., 

“ of Cambridge, and at present Assistant Engineer on the 
“Mersey Docks, to the Chair of Engineering and Applied 
“ Mechanics. 1 ’ We trust that this appointment will prove 
more satisfactory than some others mentioned in the report, 
and we hope that the principle of always inviiing applications, 
and making appointments with all fairness will soon be made 
universal at McGill. In the past, several appointments have 



■ shown signs of nepotism amongst the appointing body, and we 
must say that such conduct is by no means conducive to the 
welfare of the College. Instances of favoritism during the 
past two or three years could be adduced, where the best men 
were not appointed, where applications were never invited 
but we hope nothing of the kind will occur in future. The 
University is a public institution, not a private concern, and 
as such, partiality and favour must be put out of the question 
in making appointments. The need of a new building for 
the Science School is then noticed, but want of funds is pleaded 
as the reason for inaction. The recent Act of the Quebec 
Legislature is then deplored as being iniquitous, and the 
satisfactory working of the Observatory under its able Super- 
intendent, is touched upon. The report concludes by noticing 
the recent Board of Trade order, which we spoke of in our 
last number, and the inadequacy of the resources of the 
College is stated to be the only cause for sorrow on the part 
of the Governor. So much for the report which is satisfactory 
as far as it goes. Into the details of the Financial Statement 
we have neither the desire nor the space to enter. There are, 
however, one or two items to which we should like to refer. 
School Examinations we notice, have cost the University 
$314.90. Now, this seems to us rather extravagant, and we 
might suggest that a small fee be exacted from each candidate 
which might cover the expenses of the Examination. Among 
the items of disbursements appear the following : — 



College Buildings $944.40 

College Repairs.. 531.46 

Furniture and Fixtures 629.45 



Now, when it is remembered that this financial statment 
extends from August 1875, to July 31st 1876, and that the 
plumbers’ work in the library is not included in this account, 
these disbursements are inexplicable. A few petty changes 
have been made in the building, the Reading Room has been 
erected, but these would not make even a moiety of the above 
sums. But we forgot that the east-wing was “ altered, repaired, 
“ furnished and fixed,” for the reception of the Bursar and 
Secretary. We question very much whether in view of the 
“ lack of funds ” mentioned in the report, it was right for the 
Governors to sanction any such expenses as those mentioned. 
If the east-wing had been unfit for the requirements of this 
official and his family, if their wants were not met 
by the building as it was^when Dr. Cornish left it, then 
we think it would have been more en rapport with the inade- 
quacy of resources, for this individual to have secured some 
suitable residence in the city. But to spend any large sum 
in providing a nest for an already well-paid official is, simply 
wanton misuse of the money of the College. Had this 
money been appropriated to the arrangment of an office 
and laboratory for the. Principal, every one would have 
pronounced it exceedingly well spent, but as it is, it has been 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



41 



squandered. Again, the advertising account seems large, 
$ 440 - 93 > * n addition to the printing account $1,576.35. And 
here we might ask the person who distributes the advertis- 
ments, what possible use can there be in publishing the College 
calendar in a paper such as the Public Health Magazine > 
whose circulation is extremly limited, and whose columns 
have been devoted more than once to attacks on the College ? 
The remainder of the statement is satisfactory, and the 
resources of the College save in these one or two cases, seem 
to have been carefully expended. 



We notice with pleasure the announcement, in the speech 
from the Throne, delivered on the 8th ult., in the House of 
Commons, that it is intended to bring in a bill to render the 
Geological Survey, hitherto carried on under temporary enact- 
ments, a distinct and permanent branch of the Civil Service. 
Legislation of this nature is always pleasing to notice. * It 
evinces on the part of the government a desire for something 
more than that popularity gained by pandering to mere 
mercenary commercial exigencies, and it also shows that our 
rulers have a due and proper regard for this most necessary 
part of our Civil Service. By making the Survey a permanent 
institution, its efficiency and stability will be greatly increased 5 
and of those reforms in the Civil Service, now talked of in 
political circles be carried out, in no case will they prove 
more beneficial than in the Geological Survey. The reform 
to which we refer particularly, is of course, the introduction of 
competitive examinations in assigning positions in the Service. 
More especially in scientific pursuits like the Survey, a man’s 
political stripe and personal connections have to be left out 
of consideration, and appointments should be made by means 
of examinations which will test thoroughly the candidate’s 
scientific attainments, experience and ability. If this pro- 
jected bill becomes law and of course it will, unless press of 
work makes it share the fate of the “slaughtered innocents,” 
it will give an impetus to scientific education, and thus 
directly benefit McGill which has the only Scientific School 
except the Military College, in Canada. McGill men will 
have something to look forwaid to, merit will be the criterion 
of appointment, not party connection, and a healthy tone will 
be given to this most important branch of exploration, which 
has of late not been quite so satisfactorily carried on as it 
might have been. 

Although often a disagreeable and even painful task to 
read any thing that is at all dry, yet every one, when he has 
written an article answering to that description, is most anxious 
to have it read. This one is piobably as dry as is the 
subject, — a subject, nevertheless, that has been much discussed 
and talked about, not only by the Board of editors, but also 
among University men in general. We refer to the establish- 



ment of the Gazette as a permanent institution. Numerous 
plans and propositions have been, and are before us, regarding 
this important matter. A private letter received a short time 
ago from a prominent graduate of this city, mentioned a few 
points that he considered indispensible to success. That 
editors be elected by the students be general ; that they be 
chosen from the senior classes ; that all do not resign office 
at the close of one year ; and that the paper be a semi- 
monthly. With regard to the first of these, viz : the election 
of editorial Boards, there is much to be said both pro and con. 
It ought to be an efficient means of creating a general interest 
in the paper, by making the students feel that its success is 
largely dependent on them, and on their choice of editors ; 
unfortunately, experience teaches us differently. In many of 
the American colleges, the editors are selected by the Board 
of the previous year. Each Board passes out at Christmas ; with 
regard to this, it would be obviously a successful plan for us to 
adopt. It would be well to have the retiring editors nominate 
their successors, and submit their choice to a general meeting 
of the students. Another very serious difficulty the Gazette 
has had to contend with, is that of keeping up its financial 
as well as its literary repute. The editors have hitherto had 
to provide not only copy, but also the necessary funds. Next 
year, it is proposed to obviate this by having a financial 
committee, thus allowing the editors proper to devote them- 
selves entirely to the conduct of the paper. We hope, by 
these few remarks to draw forth the opinions of the students 
on this important matter, nor are we at all disinclined to 
listen to any advice our graduate friends may have to offer. 



We have been informed by members of the Foot-ball 
Club who have been attempting to collect subscriptions to 
aid the fifteen to go to Toronto in the spring, that the 
students in general are very apathetic, and that many of 
them ask what they have to do with the Foot-ball Club that 
they should be solicited for a subscription. Let us give a 
few reasons why they should subscribe. The Club is very 
strong (in players) at present, and will therefore do credit 
to the College ; and any student who cares anything for his 
Alma Mater should be glad to see her foremost in athletic 
sports even if he does not care for such things himself. 
Secondly, by keeping up a college institution, and one so 
deserving as the Foot-ball Club, you produce a kindly feeling 
among the students, and make your own stay here more 
pleasant to yourself, and if you have any pride, you will be 
glad to be able to say that you belong to a college which 
takes a high rank in athletic affairs. We grant that such 
reasons are not mathematically convincing. But we think 
little of any student who has the meanness to contemptu- 
ously refuse to deny himself one concert, one night at the 



42 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



theatre, one Turkish-bath, any petty enjoyment, for the 
sake of his brother students. One reason only for refusal 
we regard as valid, and that is because a student can really 
not afford it. There we have nothing to say. 



We observe that Mr. James Knowles, late of the “Contem- 
porary Review,” has established a new monthly called ‘ The 
Nineteenth Century.’ The list of writers to the new review 
comprises the most eminent contributors to the “ Contem- 
porary ” with many new names. Mr. Tennyson, Professor 
Huxley, Cardinal Manning, Dr. Martineau, Mr. Gladstone, 
and a brilliant galaxy of able writers have promised their 
aid. We hope to see ‘The Nineteenth Century ’ in the 
Readi ng-room. 



UNIVERSITY MEN IN PARLIAMENT. 



Below will be found a statement compiled from “ Morgan’s 
Parliamentary Companion ” of the number of University men 
in the Senate and House of Commons of Canada and in the 
Legislative Assembly of Quebec. McGill it will be seen, 
makes a very creditable show. 

Senate. 

McGill ! 

Harvard 2 

Cambridge (England) x 

King’s College — Fredricton I 

Laval ! 

House of Commons. 

McGill 8 

Laval y 

Toronto 4 

Victoria (Cobourg). 5 

Dartmouth 2 

Queen’s (Kingston) 2 

Harvard, King’s (Windsor), New- York, Trinity (Dublin) 
Oxford, Dalhousie, Michigan, St. Andrew’s (Scotland) 
London (England), Vermont. Edinburgh (Scotland), Acadia 
and Oberlin each one. Among these are a Moderator and 
Silver Medallist of Trinity (Dublin), two Honour Classics 
men of Toronto, and a Mathematical Medallist of Toronto. 

In the legislative Assembly of the province of Quebec the 
University men are as follows : — 

McGill 9 

Harvard 2 

Bishop’s ! 

Paris j 

Of the McGill men, one (Hon. Dr. Church) took primary 
and final thesis prizes, whilst Mr. Lynch gained the 
Elizabeth Torrance Medal in Law. The above figures are 
significant - They show us that McGill men have in the past 
attained high positions, and we trust they will serve to nerve 
present students to imitate and surpass the examples afforded 
them by old McGill men. 



—The Reading-room Committee were lately the recipients of a 
number of photographs of graduating classes from Dr. Cornish, 
which, when suspended will add much to the appearance of the 

room. 



SLANG. 



It has always been very much the fashion, among those 
who approve an invariable use of polished manners and 
proper language, to decry the invention and emplo3 r ment of 
those spicy epithets and phrases that are popularly known 
as “slang.” These persons would engraft upon familiar 
conversation the precision of language that befits a carefully 
written essay. They would destroy the peculiar charm of 
an every-day chat, by stripping off its old, easy covering, 
and dressing it up in the stiffest of prim costumes. They 
would turn familiarity into pedantry, and what is now 
delightful would become the dreariest of things dreary. 

But no project for driving out slang will ever succeed ; for 

there is, in the human mind, an innate love of such words 
that will always hold its own. Favorite phrases come into 
use and then disappear, sometimes keeping their hold on the 
popular taste for years, and sometimes living only a butterfly 
existence. The scale of merit on which they are marked is 
a very long one, and the highest point is almost out of sight 
of the lowest; for instance, the species of admiration 
expressed by the word “swell” is far above that which 
elicits the monosyllable “ boss.” But, whether of a high or 
low character, slang is one of those ingredients of “ small 
“talk” as necessary as wine to a good sauce. Its great 
office is to impart to conversation that familiar air tha 
makes one feel that he is conversing out of pure pleasure,, 
and not for the sake of avoiding a reputation for stupidity. 
When a friend stops you with “ How you was,” and begins 
to converse, you feel that there is no need of ceremony, — 
of polite interchange of inquiries regarding health &c. The 
chat is nonchalant, and for that, if for no other reason 
interesting. Of course, one never uses slang in conversing 
with a stranger, for, not knowing your other qualities, he 
would be apt to judge of your character by your facility in 
the use of slang, — a by no means desirable criterion. It is 
only with friends that you descend to this delightful species 
of vulgarity, and I always regard any one who addresses 
me in terms of slang as willing to repose confidence in me, 
a doubtful kind of confidence it may be said, a similar bond 
with that which joins thieves, a kind of “ pal-” ship ; but 
the connection is a pleasant one, and its wickedness extremely 
mild. I11 fact, slang is like a good ballet in a tiresome 
drama, — somewhat objectionable, perhaps, in point of good 
taste, but then it comes in so very pat. 

But the whole office of slang does not consist in merely 
forwarding familiarity and good-fellowship. It has as wide 
a range as language itself. It is pre-eminently the dialect 
of the streets, and seems to flourish in the open air. It is 
the language of the Many to the One; of the crowd to an 
object of ridicule, or to an object of popular admiration. 
Indeed, all street wit is slang, and it is often very comical. 
Even a stale joke, when given out in the fresh air, seems to 
lose its Joe Miller properties. Theatre wit, too, is slangy. 

It is here that the squelching effect of an apropos bit of slang 
may be perceived. Imagine the feelings of George Rignold 
when, in the course of th.e beautiful love-scene between 
Catherine of France and Henry V., a chorus in the second 
gallery put in the refrain, “Yum! Yum! Yum f Oh 
“George!” 1 1 

If we turn to places of more culture than the street or 
the theatre, wo shall find that slang is equally indispensable 
theic. How could Plautus or J u venal be appreciated through 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



43 



any other medium than that of the current street “ lingo ”? 
The most fertile mind would exhaust itself in fruitless 
efforts at translation were it not supplied by the ingenuity 
of newsboys and boot-blacks, But as plenty of slang new- 
coined, is always on hand, we are enabled to do full justice 
to the refined conversations of the old Romans. Even the 
vile atmosphere of a University recitation-room seems to 
grow lighter when we read of Nero, at the point of suicide 
exhorting himself to “brace up.” And, therefore, in view 
of all these utilities, I call upon every boot-black, school-boy, 
student, horse-car-driver and Latin professor, to join me 
heartily in the verdict, that slang is “just immense.”— 
Harvard Advocate. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



On Friday, the 16th ultimo, Mr. C. H. Stephens read a 
carefully prepared essay on “ Public Speaking,” which shewed 
extensive reading on this important subject. A vote of thanks 
was tendered to Mr. S. for his paper ; and it was suggested 
that as the attendance was rather small, the paper be read 
again and discussed by the Society. We trust the suggestion 
will be acted upon ; and we predict not only a profitable and 
instructive evening, but a large attendance of students, all of 
whom have a direct interest in acquiring facility in what is 
now a sine qud non of every educated man— the art of public 
speaking. At the regular weekly meeting of the U L.S., held 
on the 23rd ult., Mr. Monk’s resignation of the Recording 
Secretaryship was considered and accepted. Mr. D. C. Mc- 
Laren was unanimously elected to fill that office. Those 
present recieved a great and noble treat from the four essay- 
ists; all were so excellent it would be invidious to particularize 



COLLEGE WORLD. 



— A Chair of Practical Theology, is to be established in 
the University of Berlin. 

— Mr^Kikuchi, the nineteenth wrangler in the mathema- 
tical tripos at Cambridge, is a native of Japan. 

— Mr. Froude, the historian, has accepted the nomination 
to the Lord Rectorship of the Glasgow University at the 
next election. 

— A sum of £2.100 has been offered to the University of 
Glasgow as an endowment of a demonstrator of physiology 
in connection with the chair of institutes of medicine. The 
object of the endowment is the promotion of medical science, 
by the training of young men of suitable capacity to become 
teachers and investigators of physiology. 

— Mr. McAlister, senior wrangler, and Mr. Rowe, third on 
the list, are both Nonconformists. This is the eighth time 
in eleven years that a Nonconformist has been senior 
wrangler. Another fact in connection with these examina- 
tions is, that this is the eighteenth time that the same gentle- 
man (Mr. Routh) has been tutor to the senior wrangler. 

— Mr. H. J. B. Marston, a blind gentleman, has obtained 
a first class in the examination for the degree of B.A., in 
classics and general literature, in the University of Durham, 
(England.) Mr. Marston obtained an open scholarship on 
entering, and during his academical career the Newby scholar- 
ship ; he was University scholar, and obtained the prize for 
Hellenestic Greek. 



EXCHANGES. 



— The Acadia Athenaeum well maintains the reputation 
of Canadian college journalism. The “ Mosaics ” are a 
novel feature, and the idea is one which might well be 
followed by other papers. The Athenaeum , however, is 
rather too sweet upon its exchanges to be fairly' critical. 

— It is p’easant to handle such a paper as the Boston 
University Beacon and the contents are also pleasant. It 
opens with the assertion that “ what we propose to contri- 
bute to these colums are not learned essay r s and wordy 
disquisitions of great length and equal stupidity.” Bravo ! 
A short essay r headed “ A sunset picture,” is worthy" of 
preservation. 

— The Tufts Collegian contains but little matter for a 
paper issued monthly, but what it gives is good as to subject 
matter, and the style is better than that of any' other college 
paper we have met with. We suspect that a single writer 
has a good deal to do with its columns, for such a clear and 
readable yet simple style is not often the common attribute 
of a Board of editors. 

— We have generally" avoided any attempt to review the 
larger magazines we find among our college exchanges, 
because we feel that it requires a somewhat extended notice 
to do justice to their contents; but having been struck by 
some articles in the Cornell l eview for February, we make 
an exception to our usual rule in its favour. Passing over 
the paper upon “ Latin Pronunciation,” which seems to us 
to display learning far above that of our ordinary student, 
we come to a review of Nathaniel Hawthorne and his 
works, which gives on the whole, a fair, perhaps somewhat 
high estimate of that writer’s genius. The essayist, how- 
ever, seems to us to leave out entirely' one great consideration 
in forming his judgment, he does not take the power of 
amusing into account at all. Wc believe that such a power 
combined with that of instructing, is the great end of a 
novel. The average reader rarely opens Hawthorne’s 
volumes a second time, for they are but prose tragedies, and 
though he may appreciate the refined thought and delicate 
tints, y r et he will be loath to retrace the hopeless downward 
course of characters so vividly personified. As to the 
article itself, it is well written and well connected, one of 
the few opinions to which we take exception is that pro- 
nouncing Hawthorne to be “ undoubtedly the great genius 
“ in American Romance.” Most undoubtedly he is not . 
The great genius in American romance is a man who died 
comparatively unregarded, who has never been fairly 
estimated — James Fen i more Cooper, whose name will yet 
be to Americans what Scott’s is to Britons. A most reckless 
enthusiast is the writer of the paper on “ Dante.” He 
winds up thus: “ In him we find the lofty flights of Homer, 
“the melody of Virgil, the mysticism of Goethe; he is 
“ more vivid than Milton * * * * he(Dante) stands alone, 
“unparalled, unrivalled, unapproached.” Leaving aside 
the “ mysticism,” a questionable attribute for any poet to 
possess, we think that had the writer of these words known 
as much of Homer, Virgil and Milton as he seems to know 
of Dante, he would never have penned these lines. They 
destroy' all confidence in any opinion he may have previously' 
expressed. 



— Our Literary Society is flourishing in tropical luxuriance. 
The change that came over Pygmalion’s statue seem to have 
spread, like the Moody and Sankey movement, to many a mute, 
inglorious Demosthenes. 



44 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



THE LOST FLOWER. 



I lost a flower, and I would give 
To get that flower again, 

The loveliest of the flowers that live 
And laugh upon the plain. 

Tis not because its leaves were fair, 
And perfume could impart, 

That I would like those leaves to wear 
The nearest to my heart ; 

It is because the girl who gave 
The flower I lost to me, 

Was livelier than the laughing wave 
And lovelier than the lea. 

The flower my lady gave is gone, 

Its leaves I ne’er shall press ; 

But had I lost the flower alone 
My sorrow had been less. 



PERSONAL. 

— "76 F. Job. Bisaillon B.C.L., was married last month. 

— ’76 Thos. Cream M.D., is walking hospital in London, Eng. 

— ’80 Klock has been obliged, owing to illness, to leave College. 

— ’75 W. Frank Scott, M.D., is at present in Ottawa, but in- 
tends, we hear, to go to Minnesota in the spring, there to practise. 

— Mr. J. N. Green shields has been lately admitted into partner- 
ship with Messrs MacMaster and Hall under the style of MacMaster, 
Hall & Greenshields. It is always pleasing to us to chronicle the 
progress of University men, and we wish Mr. Greenshields all 
success. 

—’74 Major S. C. Stevenson, who, it will be remembered, acted 
as Secretary of the Quebec Centennial Commission, was lately the 
recipient of a flattering address, and a handsome gold watch and 
chain, from the Quebec exhibitors at the Exhibition, in recogni- 
tion of his courtesy. 

—Mr. Notman takes the class photographs this year. 

— Freshman translating.— 4 ‘ Sic fatus est,” “Such is fate.” 

—An auction of periodicals in the room will soon be held. 

— Mr. Vandenhoff will not read under the Society’s auspices 
this season. 

—A junior translates" legaretur A. Gabinius,” “ Aulus Gabinius 
44 was left as a legacy.” 

—It is probable that a free lecture will be delivered before the 
Society by some Canadian statesman. 

—Logic class.— Enterprising Soph,— “All fishes are not men.” 
Converted . — u But some men are very queer fishes.” 

—In a late football match between Oxford and Cambridge 
played under association rules, the former won by one goal. 

—We hear that several pupils of the Girls High School of 
Montreal,. will come up for the School Examination in May. 

— Original translation by a plucky Scconcl-year man in French 
class— 4 Les enleveurs d’ enfants.’ 4 The people who raised him. ’ 

— We fear the Faculty of Arts are begining to realize 4 how the 

money goes,* in the case of such little matters as students ‘skatino* 
rinks.’ & 

— To quote the words of one of the members, there has been 
4 anarchy and rebellion hurled iuto the very midst ’ of the Reading 
room Committee. 

—The Hockey Club in their late match against the Montreal 
Club, acquitted themselves bravely, winning two games and their 
opponents one. — May they never do otherwise. 



— We hear that some students propose to petition the Faculty to 
be allowed to enter the alcoves in the Library, and consult books 
without going through the forms now necessary. 

—Examinations in Law and Medicine begin on the 8th. In the 
former Faculty extra precautions arc being taken to prevent the 
miserable practice of cribbing, which we are very sorry to say was 
rather prevalent last year. 

—The Irish Catholic prelates have communicated to Mr. Butt 
their intention to support his University Bill, and it is stated that 
this decision in its favour has created quite a sensation among the 
students of the Catholic University. 

— There has been considerable excitement in England over the 
proposal to convert Owen’s College iuto a University. Mr. Lowe 
has an article on the subject in the “ Fortnightly ” for February 
which we shall notice in our next number. 

—The University Literary Society programmes are as follows: — 
March 9th, Reading, Essay and Debate. Subject : 44 Should Church 
“Property be Exempt from Taxation.” March 16th, Debate, 
subject not yet chosen. March 23rd, Conversazione at the Society’s 
rooms. 

— The Reading-room Committee decided to make a report to a 
general meeting of students, which will be called shortly. It 
is rumoured that there will be some lively discussion at the 
meeting, as grave dissensions have occurred between several of 
the members. 

— A certain well-known second-year man, whose head seems to 
possess the traditional thickness of a negro’s, has been exciting 
the terror and admiration of all beholders" by his amateur exhibi- 
tions at the Gymnasium. He should sing 44 Just before the battle 
mother,” previous to going there. 

—In a private school in this city, the junior form in Geography 
were being questioned on Ontario, and were asked 44 What are the 
44 principal places of interest in Toronto ?*’ None of the class 
knew, so to help them the teacher asked 44 What corresponds to 
44 McGill College there ? ” When nearly round the class one bright 
youngster exclaimed 44 The Lunatic Asylum ! ! ” 

—The Glee Club concert came off on the evening of the 13 ult. 
Everything was done in the usual able manner of the Club. Great 
pra se is due to Mr. Houghton for his untiring efforts in training 
his Club. Dr. Davies very kindly assisted at the organ. The 
evening passed off very pleasantly, and we can assure those 
students who were so conspicuous by their absence that they lost 
a great deal. 

—A Soph’s recipe for Cicero Take of subjunctives a very 
large lot 1 

And, well mixed with gerundives 
Throw them in the pot. 

Add ‘ quums ’ in profusion 
Then stir to confusion 
And serve up the whole to 
The populace, hot. 

—As we go to press we are informed that part of the Bi.l of 
Hon. Mr. Mills, to which we refer editorially, stipulates that the 
Museum of the Geological Survey shall be removed to Ottawa. 
This created considerable opposition from Hon. Mr. Masson, feebly 
assisted by the city members. Montreal as the metropolis, as the 
chief educational centre and as the seat of commerce, deserves the 
Museum and it would be wrong to deprive her of it. The collec- 
tion has been much used by McGill men, and would be a serious 
loss to the University. 

— We are informed by a member of the Reading Room Com- 
mittee that there is a considerable number of students who are in 
the habit of making use of the periodicals, and yet refuse to 
contribute anything to the funds of the Room. If a student cannot 
afford to pay, he can at least remain away from the Room. But it 
is the essence of meanness for any student to avail himself of the 
advantages and refuse to participate in the maintenance of this 
institution. We trust that every one to whom the above statement 
applies will immediately hand in his subscription to the Treasurer, 
Mr. Lafleur. The Committee have not the power to eject non- 
subscribers, and must rely solely on the honour of the students for 
funds, and we hope to see that their confidence has not been 
mistaken. — Subscribe. 



the McGill gazette. 



S. CARSLEY’S PRICES. 



Gents’ Four-ply Linen Cuffs 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Collars 

Gents’ White Shirts 

White Shirts, very good quality 

Night Shirts 

Single-breast Wool Undershirts 

Double-breast Wool Undershirts 

Long Black Silk Ties 

Dogskin Driving Gloves 

Gents’ Fine Kid Gloves 

White Silk Handkerchiefs 

White Cashmere Mufflers 

Gents’ I land-knit Socks 

CHEAP CARPETS. 

Useful Yard Wide Carpet 

Good Hair Carpet 

Bed-room Towels 



... 25 cents per pair 

15 cents each 

. .only 95 cents each 

$1.25 

$1 each 

43 cents 

75 cents 

10 cents each 

... 50 cents per pair 

75 cents 

20 cents 

33 cents 

... 22 cents per pair 

15 cents 

14 cents 

5 cents each 



CtiEZAF LOT. 

Large lots Gents’ Silk Scarfs, in black and colors, all at 25 cents each 



GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

SL~ James St., adjoining Wesleyan Church, 

% 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS, CANES, &c. 

lO PER CENT. OFF TO STUDENTS ONLY 



S. CARSLEY, 

393 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



C. & W. CLARKE, 

^flohsellers, Stations, 

AND 

IMPORTERS OF FANCY GOODS, 

238 ST. GT A. .MIZES STREET, 

(Next door to Ottawa Hotel) 



Keep constantly in stock a large assortment ol 




Stationery of all kinds. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

0 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

§EHTS’ JfuR if OATS, t|APS&f LOVES 

NOW ON HAND. 

c 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon* and a 
varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS 

IN THEIR SEASON. 

367 1TOTBE ID-A-IMI 3±J ST. 



HILL'S LIBRARY, 

6A6 DORCHESTER STREET. 

ffcfiLL .'College f ext Books, 



3N7 OTE BOOKS, 

AND 




IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

ALSO, ALL THE BOOKS USED IN McEACHRAN’S VETERINARY COLLECE. 



m consequence of declining liealtli, the Proprietor intends disposing of the 
above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



ESTABLISHED 1850. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET. 

McBWBON & BMBD. 

BRANCH, ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1385 ST. CATHEEINE STEEET, 

(Comer Mansfield Street .) 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

o 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the 
Dominion to choose from at either of the above Establishments. 

o 

FRESH GOODS "BY EVERY STEAMER. 



THE MeGILL GAZETTE. 



KEMP & CO., 



(ESTABLISHED 1859.) 

Importers and Manufacturers of 




GLOYES, &cc., <Sco., 

306 Notre Dame Street, 306 



(SECOND DOOR EAST OF THE FRENCH CHURCH J 

UOffTBS All® 

A good stock of CARTWRIGHT & WARNER’S Underclothing 
always on hand. Also, the latost novelties m SCARFS AND CRAVATS are 
being constantly received from the best London Manufactures. 



LORGE& CO., 

FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND DETAIL, 

No. 21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 





ONOGRAMS, $ 4 RESTS AND 
7 




VISITING AND PROFESSIONAL CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Dissecting Cases, Pocket Cases, Cupping Cases, &c., &c. 

FORCEPS— 1 TOOTH. MIDWIFERY. DRESSING. DISSECTING, to. 

Knives— Dressing, Amputating, Pocket, &c. 

SCALPELS IN EBONY AND IVORY. 
LANCETS -TOOTH A3NTD ABSCESS. 

Catheter 8 — Gum Elastic, Silver and Ele,ctro- Plated, dec., dsc. 



BT 

GEORGE BISHOP & Co., 

Engravers, 

1G9 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Also, Physicians supplied with Bottles, Labels, Scales, Drugs, &c-, at 
the lowest Cash Prices. 

JAMES GOULDEN, 

175 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 

0 

F. GROSS, 

fuRGiCAL Instrument §(aker, 

690 CRAIG STREET, 

MONTREAL . 

0 

DISSECTING INSTRUMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 







REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

ARB HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHILIP’S SQUARE, 

ON 

FRIDAY EYFNI1TG-S, 

To which all Students and Graduates of the University are cordially 
invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the Meetings 
of the Society. 

D. C. McLaren, Bee. Sec . 



Skates f Ra2ors } and ell kinds of Surgieai Instruments f Ground , Set and 

Repaired 



THE MONTREAL HERALD PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY. 



the mcgill gazette. 



S. CARSLETS PRICES. 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Cuffs 25 cents per pair 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Collars 15 cents each 

Gents’ White Shirts only 95 cents each 

White Shirts, very good *|uality $1.25 

NightShirts $1 each 

Single-breast Wool Undershirts 48 cents 

Double-breast Wool Undershirts 75 cents 

Long Black Silk Ties 10 cents each 

Dogskin Driving Gloves. 50 cents per pair 

Gents’ Fine Kid Gloves 75 cents 

White Silk Handkerchiefs ,....20 cents 

White Cashmere Mufflers . . .38 cents 

Gents’ 1 land-knit Socks 22 cents per pair 

CHEAP CAPLPZ TS. 

Useful Yard Wide Carpet 15 cents 

Good Hair Carpet 14 cents 

Bed-room Towels ,5 cents each 

oh nr .A. I? X.O T. 

Large lots Gents’ Silk Scarfs, in black and colors, all at 25 cents each 

S. CARSLEY, 

393 NOTRE DAME ST. 

C. & W. CLARKE, 

^oobellers, Stationers, 

AND 

IMPORTERS OF FANCY GOODS, 

238 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Next door to Ottawa IToteV) 

Keep constantly In stock a large assortment of 

Stationery of all kinds. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 

HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET 



GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St^James-St., adjoining Wesleyan Church, 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS, CANES, &c. 

id Per cejstt. off to stxjodeisits only 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 



[EMS’ jfuR t§0ATS, sfAPS£|jL0VES 



NOW ON HAND. 



College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, and a 
varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS 

IN THEIR REASON. 

367 WOTBE DAME £>T. 



I C<w ILL COLLEGE SEXT [BOOKS, 



a 



NOTE BOOKS, 



STASIOH1SY ©1* AM KIHB& 

• IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

ALSO, ALL THE BOOKS USED IN McEACHRAN’S VETERINARY COLLECE. 



ESTABLISHED 1850. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET, 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH, ESTABLISHED 1876. 

1385 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

(Comer Mansfield Street .) 

McGIBBON , BAIRD & CO , 



in consequence of declining health, the Proprietor Intends disposing of the 
. above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



T}ie largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the 
Dominion to choose from at either of the above Establishments. 
o 

FRESH GOODS BY EVERY STEAMER. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



KEMP & CO., 

(ESTABLISHED 1859.) 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

j^Turts, Collars, Sirs, glosiwj), 

GLOVES, <Sec., See., 

306 Notre Dame Street, 306 

(SECOND DOOR EAST OF THE FRENCH CHURCH ,J 



A good stock of CARTWRIGHT & WARNER’S Umlerclothmg 
always on hand. Also, the iatost novelties in Scarfs and Cravats arc 
being constantly received from the best London Manufactures. 



LORGE& CO., 

FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

No, 21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 




VISITING AND PROFESSIONAL CARDS, 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Dissecting Cases, Pocket Cases, Cupping Cases, &c,, &c. 

FORCEPS — TOOTH. MIDWIFERY, DRESSING, DISSECTING, to. 

Knives— Dressing, Amputating, Pocket, &c. 

SCALPELS IN EBONY AND IVORY. 
LiVNCETS - TO OTH .AUNTIE) ABSCESS. 
Catheters — Gum Elastic, Silver and Electro- Plated, &c., dec. 



GEORGE BISHOP & Co., 



Also, Physicians supplied with Bottles, Labels, Scales, Drugs, Ac., at 
the lowest Cash Prices. 



Engravers, 

169 ST. JAMES STREET. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

175 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 

0 




Jumrt#. 



F. GROSS, 



iURGICAL 



Instrument 




REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

ARE HELD A3 USUAL IN THE 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHILIP'S SQUARE, 

ON 



690 CRAIG STREET, 

MONTREAL 

0 

DISSECTING INSTRUMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 



Skates , Razors , and all kinds of Surgical Instruments, Ground, Set and 

Repaired. 



FRIDAY EVEFTIITG-S 

To which all Students and Graduates of the University are cordially 
invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the Meetings 
of the Society. 

F. D. MONK, Rec. Sec. 



THE MONTREAL HERALD PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY. 



