



CQonireal, December 8, 1893 

- 

M 



i'll , c/ rt'i^ . 





, vv<i*a»v 



\\ 




TKIs'' 
Nil 



Ml ihf 




/ 



/ 













)> 




;ol .i\\:»^ 



OW-TES^T*^ 










PAGE 

Editorial Comments 105 

Contributions 108 

To a Kitten, Poetry 110 

Wit and Humor i ii 

Reflections suggested by my First 

Biology Lecture, Poetry 114 

The Choice, Poetry 114 

From the German, Poetry 114 

Four Days in Rome 114 

Correspondence 1 1 7 



The University Lecture n8 

Societies 



.120 



Sporting Column 124 

Class Reports 125 



Art Notes. 



•125 



Feathers from the East Wing 126 

Legal Briefs 126 

Medical Class Reports 128 

Science Jottings 128 



Comparative Medicine Class R eports. 120 




McGlLL UNIVERSiTt 
ARCHIVES 





rinc * ® 

JIMLiSllS 

- AMERICAS COITABS 



In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“ STEWART " 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
“DOBSON” . . . 




BEST RUSSIAN CUT 



Strings and everything in the 



Musical Line. 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



KODAKS 



and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 
IPI^TC.ES : to S75. 1 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 



Montreal Pliotograpliic Supply, 



R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for rana</a .-—Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 




S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 
MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 



258 St. James Street, 

Near McGill St. 



o • XMAS, 1393 . • o 

A Choice Selection of 

BOOKS, CARDS and STOTIONERY 

. . . AT . . . 

The McGill Shoe Store, 

/ ^ ^ Foster Brown, 

Catherine Street, 



r>. DRYSOALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHAMCS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL. 

Ager^t for Storrstt’s Tools. TeIepI\or^c 169 . 

M A. GEBTH, STUDE NTS' HEADQUAb ERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block. 
MONTREAL. : : ’ 

OF UiohClass Havana Cigars AND Retail. 

Try Gerth's Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres* Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality, Lovv Pric^ 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty. 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4390. MONTREAL 

natljfi/vl wool 

WINTER - 

ONDLRWL/^R $1.50 pep Suit. 

Just the thirg for the cold weather, and 

A BARGAIN 

[Bros. 

TTTt 

2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 

'BBZBBno.^17 Bleurv Street 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 




TELEPHONES. 



W arehouse Telephoues for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGUT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call ''and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 



T. W. NESS & CO., 



749Crai^St., 

MONTREAL 




j^CGlIst) FORTNIGHTfey. 



A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



VOL. II. 



MONTREAL, DECEMBER 8, 1893. 



No. 5 








^EDITORIAL BOARD‘S 



Edifor - in - chief — AL^nRT G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. *94 
S. Carmichael, B. A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y 
Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) 

J. A. McPhail, B.A., M.D., Graduates* Society 






EBUSINESS board- 



er ANK J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrbll, (Donalda *95) J.C. Cutting, (Com. Med.& Vet. Sc. 95) 
VV. F. Angus, (Sc. ’95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is j^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown’s, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE COLLEGE WORLD. 

Harvard boasts of a thriving Canadian Club, with | 
a membership of fiftj^-one, four of whom are McGill j 
graduates : i 

Culvert, Sc. '90, 4th year graduate. I 

MacDougall, Arts ’90, 2nd year graduate. 

Rev. I. F. Langton, Arts '88. | 

Parker, Arts ’93, ist year graduate. 

“Last year there were but two. 

“ The opening meeting this year was held the second 
week in October. It took the form of a reception, which 
was held in the president’s rooms, and was very success- 
ful.” 

Should the club not rather be styled American, since j 
the object is to bring Canadians to Harvard, which in j 
the majority of cases means Americanizing them ? 

McGill, for some reason or other, is not so widely I 
known as she deserves to be, although her Medical | 
School has attracted students from many and various I 
quarters. This P'aculty, however, wwild be even more | 



famous had it a good Biological laboratory, where ori- 
ginal work could be done. Still, it is encouraging to 
notice the additions w*hich have been made to McGill 
within the last two years. Undoubtedly, the Faculty 
of Science has been most benefited by the.se recent ac- 
quisition.s, and although her post-graduate students can 
be counted twice over on the fingers of one hand, still 
we rejoice in this small beginning which, we believe to 
be but the source from whence shall have come the 
great river of the future. 

“The world is to him who has patience.” And for 
Arts and her sister Faculties we are expecting more 
than we care to put on paper. 

Let us hope that the day is not far distant. when 
McGill will be in a position to offer post-graduate 
courses sufficiently attractive not only to retain our own 
students, but to draw graduates from other Universi- 
ties to ours. 



HOCKEY. 

Sport is to a certain extent at a discount at this time 
of year, when our whole energies are bent on prepara- 
tion to satisfy the professorial curiosity concerning 
our knowledge which manifests itself just a little later 
on in the session. However, one cannot grind 
steadily, and in an odd interval, a sort of breathing 
time between studies, the mind reverts to the lighter 
side of college life, and the question comes up. What 
about hockey for this winter ? What are our chances 
of success ? The more we think of it the more we feel 
convinced, that if every man in McGill who goes in for 
hockey plays his best for McGill this winter, then our 
chances stand very high for coming out “on top” to 
the fullest extent which our position allows us. 

The casual or uninterested student who reads this 
will possibly wonder at the condition mentioned, and 
will take for granted that every hockey player in Mc- 
Gill will play for his College, and play his best ; but be- 
fore agreeing in this view, his more interested fellow 
students will consider the facts regarding our present 
position in the Hockey series. 

For some reason or other, McGill has dropped from 
the ranks of the Senior championship series into those 
of the Intermediate, — that is, there is no Hockey team in 
McGill which competes for the Senior championship. 
Whether this was a wise step or not is a question which 
we will not argue at present, but the effect of it is that 
we are unable to re-enter the Senior series until we 
have taken the Intermediate championship. 



io6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



If we can place a team on the ice this coming winter 
which will carry off this lesser honor, although it is by 
no means a small one, then next year the McGill Hockey 
team will have a chance to re-enter the Senior series 
and make a noble effort, as it has done in the past, to in- 
clude the Senior Hockey championship among the 
honors which the McGill U.A.A. has already obtained 
in the world of Athletics. 

McGill has this year enrolled upon her books the 
names of several of the finest hockey plaj^ers in this 
province if not in the Dominion. Some of these are 
new men in the University, "and it is the old hockey- 
players in McGill who have worked hard and faithfully 
for the game who, together with the men new to Mc- 
Gill, but tried veterans on the ice, can win the Inter- 
mediate series for their Alma Mater. 

There is, of course, one objection which might arise 
when the matter is looked at from the point of view of 
an experienced Hockey player, apart from the considera- 
tions which the fact of being an undergraduate lends to 
the question, and this objection is that it is unreason- 
able and unfair to expect men, who have for a long 
time held the foremost places amongst Hockey enthu- 
siasts, and who have for the last few seasons played 
wholly on Senior teams, to lose their prestige as Sen- 
ior men and descend to their old position of members of 
an intermediate team. 

The objection is, we acknowledge, a serious one, and 
the argument deserves and should obtain due consid- 
eration, for, from the point of view which we have just 
mentioned, it is almost an insurmountable one. 

However, when we add to the fact of position and ex- 
perience in Hocke}% the'considerations which arise or 
should arise from the status as an undergraduate in 
McGill, then the point of view is inevitably and mater- 
ially changed. 

From the standpoint of the student loyal to Old Mc- 
Gill, his first duty is to do everything in his power to 
add to her fame as one of the greatest educational in- 
stitutions in America ; his second duty is to make the 
same effort for the same purpose as regards college life 
outside the class-room, in athletics as well as in other 
fields. 

Every Undergraduate who takes a prominent part in 
any of these branches of student life has to make certain 
sacrifices of both time and energy and to undertake a 
certain amount of hard work. 

In the special case with which we are dealing, the 
same principle applies. It is undeniably a sacrifice for 
men to content themselves with positions on a junior 
team when they could and would, as a matter of course, 
obtain foremost places on a senior one ; but if as stu- 
dents they can see their way to make this sacrifice, then 
they will have the satisfaction of knowing that they 
are indirectly benefiting their Alma Mater by directly 
helping and elevating one of the Societies which it 
recognizes ; and the sacrifice is one which will be will- 
ingly and gratefully acknowledged by their fellow-stu- 
dents. 

The very fact that one of last year’s Senior teams is, 
if we are not misinformed, this year going to drop into 



the Intermediate series only increases the necessity of 
the very best material we have in McGill playing for 
the College Club, for this new competitor for Interme- 
diate honors lessens our chances of obtaining them ; 
and unless we can counterbalance this by the combin- 
ation of our most experienced players, then we will 
be farther away than ever from the chance of holding 
next year the position which an association like the 
McGill U. A. A. in a university like that of McGill 
College ought never to have lost. 

It has been frequently stated, and in all probability 
will often be reiterated, for it is the great fact under- 
lying the existence of the Fortnighti^y, that its great 
object is to promote, in so far as it can, everything 
which tends towards the good of McGill and the inter- 
est of her students, whose benefit is the paper’s raison 
d'etre^ and it is with this end in view that we hope that 
this year a more general interest will be taken in 
Hockey by our students, and that the burden and re- 
sponsibility of the work in connection with it will not 
be thrown on the shoulders of a devoted few as it has 
been to a great extent in the past, and whose services 
too often have not been sufficiently recognized. 



UNIVERSITY NEWSPAPERS. 

We have no wish to steal Jove’s thunderbolts, but the 
following lines, written by a correspondent of the 
Droghedean^ will serve as a convenient peg on which to 
hang a few pertinent thoughts : 

‘ ‘ There was a time when I imagined that to edit a 
School newspaper was a laudable and innocent ambi- 
tion. I pictured the Editor sitting at his desk, with a 
large pile of manuscript before him and a waste-paper 
basket by his side, into which he occasionally threw a 
contribution which did not come up to ‘ our standard.’ 
But sad experience has driven the vision from my eyes. 

I have learned the truth, and the truth is proverbially 
unpleasant. The pile of manuscript is a delusion and 
a snare ; it is non existent. In its place there is a pile 
of blank paper, and the horrible thought that that pa- 
per must be converted into manuscript by the Editor 
must press with a wear}’ weight upon his heart and 
brain. The printer’s boy has asked for more ; he is in- 
satiable. In vain does his hapless victim search the 
Editorial box in the hope that someone, anyone, has 
deposited a contribution there ; in vain does he implore 
the School muse to furnish him with a set of verses. 
Pegasus will not be forced.” 

A great deal might be written upon the subject of 
College papers. 

In fact, at the very outset, there is room for consi- 
derable debate as to wdiat a College paper really should 
be. The probability is that if a’thousand and one differ- 
ent persons w’ere asked to express their views on this 
subject, they would give a thousand and one different 
opinions. This is well illustrated in the endless variety 
of college papers which reach us, from the pretentious 
Quarterly^ which grapples with the great questions 
of the day, to the sheet which is little more than a com- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



107 




Cornell University, Barnes Hall, Ithaca, N.Y. 








io8 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



peudium of trivial personalities and doubtful jokes. 
Like others we have our own opinion as to the proper 
characteristics of a college paper. The qualities which 
it possesses must of necessity vary in accordance with 
the needs of that society to which it appeals. Our own 
Universitj' paper is defined on the first page to be “ A 
fortnightly Journal of fiterature,JJnwersity llioughtand 
Event." Whether it lives up to its profession is perhaps 
an open question. We think it does. We have “ our 
standard ” and also our “ waste-paper basket,” and the 
latter is getting rather full, it might be as well to men- 
tion. At the same time, we do not desire to present 
“ our standard ’’ as a sort of bogey to frighten would-be 
contributors. Anything that is sent in is welcome even 
if it is not published, inasmuch as it denotes an inter- 
est in the paper that is always gratifying. Very few 
of the contributed articles come from the pen of under- 
graduates, and we think that they might help us more 
than they do. The Editors endeavor in the Fort- 
nightly to chronicle every scrap of University news 
that can be of interest to our readers. The class reports 
give dry gossip or fun that may be going the rounds, 
and the contributed articles are intended to give cohe- 
.sion, weight and solidity to the whole. 

Withal, we desire to keep up a high tone in our pages 
and to avoid anything that offends good taste, and we 
have no wish to reduce the paper to the level of a comic 
almanac or an advertisement for Soothing Syrup. Yet 
the question of “jokes ” is agitating the editorial cran- 
ium at the pre.sent time. A good joke has its place 
like everything else, but it mu.st be a good one. This 
is a department in which “our standard” might be 
raised with advantage. Some of the elass reporters 
seem to be possessed of a violent desire to emulate 
Mark Twain or Tom Hood, and, as might be expected, 
fail dismally in the attempt. When anyone sits down 
n cold blood to fnatiufadure (there is no other name 
for it) a joke, the production, lacking that effervescence 
and .spontaneity which characterize true wit, is sure to 
fall flat, and as a consequence should find a peaceful hid- 
ing-place in the waste-paper basket. 

Tho.se who criticize adversely the jokes which have 
appeared.so far would probably be rather surpri.sed could 
they see the amount of so called wit which has already 
found its way to that all-absorbing receptacle. Far- 
fetched wittieisms and paltry gibes with little meaning 
and less sense are out of place in class reports. A good 
joke or a really funny incident is, however, always ac- 
ceptable. Then class-reports should contain the Hot 
sam and jetsam of our daily life, and might be better 
than they often are. They should come like glints of 
suiLshine dancing upon the crest of a stately tree to il- 
lumine what would otherwise be a too .serious and 
weighty production. A word to the wise is .sufficient 
with regard to the form which all College news should 
possess; we would hint that it is no part of the Editor’s 
duty to grapple with a stark staring heap of heteroge- 
neous matter, void and without form, in the vL 
hope of bringing order out of chaos. And further O 
all ye race of scribblers, we beseech you with tears in our 
eyes, an ye love us, write only on one side of the paper. | 



We hope that these few gentle hints will be taken in 
good part, as a very little attention to these details will 
do much to lighten our work and increase the efficiency 
of the paper. “ Our standard ” must be kept up. Cer. 
tainly, if the cla.ss-reports do not improve both in tone 
and quality they \\dll have to be curtailed. 



CONTRIBUTIOMS. 



THE INTERCOLLEGIATE MOVEMENT OF 
THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATOIN. 

( Continued). 

MISSIONARY DEPARTMENT. 

The development of this interest is led by a Mis- 
sionary Committee, who, having a personal interest in 
Missions, seek to make their fellow-students conversant 
with the needs of the w'orld and encourage personal 
missionary activity. Some Colleges have a special 
mission which they supply with workers ; others sup- 
port a man either at home or abroad, while numbers 
have spent their summer vacation in the slums of the 
great cities. 

In reply to a question frequently asked, '' Why 
should a man of education and ability throw away his 
talents among the poor and fallen of our own land, or, 
worse still, bury himself in some foreign country?” 
We ask in return ? “ Can Education and Ability of the 
highest type find a better sphere or reap a higher 
reward than, even with apparent loss to the man him- 
self, by raising the fallen and enlightening the blind ? ” 
Surely this is one' of the topmost rungs upon which 
there is no such crowd, that, while one succeeds, an- 
other is suppressed. 

With reference to the “ Student Volunteer Move- 
ment ” we take occasion to speak elsewhere. 

THE WORKING FORCE. 

It is a firm principle that the Association does its 
work through as many men as possible, seeking to 
enlist each nominal member as an earnest, active 
worker. 

There are evident reasons for this : (i) The accom- 
plishment of more work than if a few controlled the 
field. (2) Securing the interest of Christian men in 
aggressive Christian work by actual participation. (3) 
The more men at work, the greater the interest main- 
tained. (4) The development of Christian character by 
association w'ith other and more mature Christians. 

The officers constitute the executive committee to 
whom is entrusted the general supervision and man- 
agement of the Association. The President, acting as 
chairman, is naturally chosen for the qualifications of 
leadership and executive ability which have previously 
marked his connection with the work. To him falls 
the work of planning the policy which the Association 
IS to pursue, being ahead of others in his activity and 
intelligence concerning the work. He is to see that 



McGill fortnightly. 



109 



others do their work, help them in their plans, stim- 
ulate them to increased efficiency, and hold them re- 
sponsible for their departments. 

It will be the work of the other officers to support 
the President in his responsibility, and give earnest 
thought and energy to the interests of the work. 

Lach department is under the management of a 
committee whose work will be to maintain the object 
and increase the usefulness of that special work. Each 
committee works under a chairman, who necessarily is 
chosen for previous experience and active interest. 
His purpose should be to have each member of his 
committee engaged in definite work. The efficiency 
of committee work is greatly increased by a good 
knowledge of the work and hearty co-op«ration of all 
members. 

To the Voluntary force may be added the office of 
“General Secretary.’' In institutions of importance 
it is found that there is need for a man who will give 
his best thought and his time to the work of the As- 
sociation, not to take the work out of the hands of the 
members, but to confer with the president and assist 
him in effecting his plans, to lead the workers in their 
departments, and secure additional men who will take 
an active interest, seeking to enlarge the field of ac- 
tivity. 

While not possessing the function of an organ of the 
Association, yet by affording a framework for activity 
we must mention the influence which an Association 
building renders. It is possible for a University to 
exist without possessing its own head-quarters ; it is 
likewise possible for a Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion to exist under similar circumstances ; but as 
buildings have increased the usefulness of educational 
institutions, so we may state that the possession of an 
Association building has increased the usefulness of 
the organization wherever this has been secured. Yale, 
Princeton, Cornell, Toronto and many others are in 
possession of buildings which have been greatly ap- 
preciated by the Students, and rendered the work 
increasingly efficient. 

OUTGROWTHS OF THE WORK. 

1. The College Young Women’s Christian Associa- 
tion is indirectly a development, maintaining the 
same relations in the Ladies’ Colleges and departments 
and pursuing much the same line of effort. During 
the last few years the organization has become a re- 
cognized feature and a strong influence in the Ladies 
Institutions. 

As the last few years have brought women to the 
front in many of the religious and moral movements, 
doubtless the Women’s Christian Associations of our 
Colleges will furnish able leaders among women for 
such work. 

2. The Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign 
Missions is the direct offspring of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, and retains an intimate relation- 
ship to the mother organization. 

It took its origin at the Students’ Conference, in the 
summer of 1886. Two hundred and fifty men were 



gathered at Mount Hernion, at the invitation of D. L. 
Moody, for the purpo.se of Bible study ; among this 
number were 21 men, whose purpo.se was to become 
Foreign Mi.ssionaries, and they prayed earnestly that 
God would call men from among the gathering to serve 
Him in the Foreign Field. A stirring address by Dr. A. 
T. Pierson, followed by the meeting of the Ten Nations, 
kindled a veritable missionary fire in the Conference. 
The latter meeting was addressed by natives or repre- 
sentatives of ten different nations, each appealing in 
three minutes for his own land. Before the close of this 
gathering, one hundred students pledged themselves as 
“ willing and desirous, God permitting, to become For- 
eign Missionaries this became the recognized pledge 
(now slightly altered) of the Volunteer Mis.sion Band, 
already one of the largest Student organizations of the 
day. 

During the college session of 1886-87, Robert P. 
Wilder and John Foreman visited one hundred and 
seventy institutions in the United States and Canada, 
presenting the need which heathen lands had for the 
Gospel, securing no less than twenty-two hundred col- 
lege men and women as Volunteers. The succeeding 
years have been marked with wonderful results, the 
number of Volunteers to-day being over 7,000. 

Can we have a reply to the question whicliDr.McCosh, 
ex-president of Princeton, asks : “ Has any such offer- 
ing of living young men and women been presented in 
our age, in our country, in any age or in any country 
since the day of Pentecost ? ” While the last decade has 
marked a decided Missionary revival, the Volunteer 
movement has held no insignificant relation to its pro- 
motion, and is answering the problem of the word of 
God : “ Who will go for us ? ” Will the Church arise 
to a corresponding position to reply to the cry, “ How 
shall they preach, except they be sent ? ” 

From this “ Student uprising ” has developed the 
“ Volunteer Missionary Union of Great Britain,” which 
is the first organization to effect an “ Intercollegiate 
relationship ” in Christian work. While very young, it 
is exerting a decided influence on University life in 
the British Isles. 

3. Summer Schools — This can hardly be termed an 
“ outgrowth ” of the Association, as it practically is in- 
cluded in the work of supervision, but on account of 
its importance and singularity we speak of it as distinct 
from the organization. 

As mentioned above, Christian students gathered at 
Mt. Hermon, Mass., in 1886, and spent four weeks in 
Bible study; this gathering has become an annual occur- 
rence, the Conference now being held at Northfield, 
across the river from Mount Hermon, and, in addition, 
gatherings are now held in other sections of the coun- 
try, viz.. Lake Geneva, Wis., and Knoxville, Tenn. 

The primary idea of Bible study has been adhered to 
every year, but a broader aspect now marks the gather- 
ings ; the purpose may be defined as the training of 
leaders for the work of the Young Men’s Christian As- 
sociations in the colleges of North America, each de- 
partment being thoroughly considered. 

These summer schools are at once unique and sigtii- 



no 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ficant, and are taking no small part in promoting the 
eligious life of the colleges ; one man has been known 
to state : ‘Hf I had to make a choice between, losing 
one year at College and Northfield Conference, I would 
choose the former.*' 

It is impossible to do justice to the Summer Schools 
at this time ; the subject itself deserves separate treat- 
ment. 



principles and methods of the work, men of prayer and 
power, men willing to deny themselves to serve the in- 
terests of their fellows, men who believe and live out 
the principle, “ That they are not their own but are 
bought with a price." 

PERCY C. LESLIE. 



THE LOCAL POSITION. 



TO A KITTEN. 



The question may well be raised, ‘‘ What relation does 
the McGill Association hold in this continental move- 
ment?" Numerically, the home Association counts one ; 
but in comparison to the possibilities and obligations 
which a University like McGill throws upon an Asso- 
ciation of Christian men, we feel very humble, for we 
readily recognize that our efforts have not shown the 
enterprise and earnestness which the field demands. 

For ten years there has been a Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Association in McGill, with varying and yet grow- 
ing influence. The organization took effect with a 
membership of fifteen ; but this handful of men have 
made possible a present membership of three hundred, 
and such names as Joseph K. Unsworth, B.A., and Dr. 
H. E. Kendall should be held in great esteem as the 
early promoters of the Association movement. 

‘‘ In those days,” writes Mr. Unsworth, “we did not 
know what Christian fellowship was. No man knew 
what flag the others fought under, and every man fought 
his own battles." The times are different now, — men 
enjoy Christian fellowship in college, the Christians are 
known to one another, and no man need fight his bat 
ties alone, for there is a friendship afforded, which is 
both true and lasting. 

The social feature has had considerable emphasis, and 
many men will remember the acquaintances formed, 
both in and out of College circles, which have been a 
pleasure and help to his life. We are quite conscious 
of many failures, perhaps one of greatest moment is the 
lack of Bible study which has existed in former years, 
but provision has been made that all men may enjoy 
associate Bible study during 1893-94. 



PRESENT NEEDS. 



An Association building worthy of the Institution, 
and adapted to the extension of the work. As early as 
1886-87 the need of a building was recognized, and a 
Building Fund opened, which met with a hearty re 
sponse from the Students, $3,800 being subscribed at 
the time, largely by undergraduates. 



Other Colleges, many of less importance than Me 
Gill, have adequate Association buildings which are 
largely used by the Students. Some of these have been 
the gift of one man, others have been erected through 
subscription lists i in all, we believe the Students have 
been the first to shew their faith in the enterprise 
We are confident that the time is fully matured for 
an Association building on the College campus, that the 
same would promote the interests of the University and 
be largely used by the Students. 

One other need exists, and must not be overlooked 
the need of MEN, -men of intelligence concerning the 



Dearest'kitteii, while thou’rt busy 
Playing with thy mother’s tail, 

I am plugging till I’m dizzy 

With the law of ‘‘Gifts” and “Sale.” 

There thou sittest, ruunest, tumblest, 

As thy tiny will directs, 

And at shadows wildly fumblest. 

While no care thy miud dissects. 

Where’st thou found thy happy humor 
That finds fun in fancies vain ? 

Tell me, kitten, does not rumor 
Ever fright thy feeble brain ? 

True thou hast no trials horrid, 

No examinations dread, 

But to-morrow’s sun so *torrid 

May behold thee lifeless, — dead- 

Well, I like thy foolish gambols. 

Come, and scramble to my knee. 

I shall tell thee of my rambles 
Thro’ the laws of Bottomry. 

What ! my tale will not entice thee 
As thy mother’s tail has done ? 

Go, I care not. I’ll return me 
To my studies all alone. 

Stay, sweet kitten, let me whisper 

Words that should thy nonsense stay. 

Thou may’st croon them like a vesper 
As ’tis sung at close of day. 

Thou shalt sing or hum or mew 
In these soft melodious terms. 

That do form the motly crew 
Of our legal wisdom’s germ. 

Obligations, jus civile 

Lease and hire and Emptio. 

Usufruct, I hate most vilely. 

Roman Law’s an f empty show. 

Replications, Respondentia (r) 

Inter nois Gifts as well 

Seizures are a source of censure 

All convert our joy to sorrow. 

So, my kitten, wilt remember 
All I’ve whispered in thy ear. 

And recite me next November 
When I’ve no exams to fear ? 

What ? asleep so soon, you Beauty ? 

Well I must to work again. 

Thou wouldst have me honor duty 
Though that duty be a pain. 

*This is wrong —author, 
t This is a pun. 

WYDOM, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



WIT AND HUMOR. 

In a previous number of the Fortnighti^y I gos- 
siped concerning “ Books ; and as I then spoke in 
terms of censure of the so-called Wit and Humor of 
the present day, an inference might possibly be drawn 
that I am a sour ascetic, and that in my reading I put 
from me all books of Humor. If such an opinion has 
been formed, I take the opportunity of assuring you 
that nothing can be further from the fact ; on the con- 
trary 

“ I dote upon a jest, 

“Within the limits of becoming mirth.*’ 

I would say with Shakespeare : 

“ With smiles and laughter, 

Let old wrinkles come,” 

but to please me, the quality of the wit must be good. 

You must not lose sight of the fact that the kind of 
writing that I should denounce as being positively 
hurtful is not wit or humor at all, and it so frequently 
drifts into immorality, indecency and impiety, that I 
think it best to avoid it altogether. 

I venture to introduce two or three specimens as illus- 
trations of what I desire to convey, and this I do, as 
one would taste poison, so that, knowing the flavor, it 
may be avoided in the future. 

Artemus Ward, speaking of George Washington, 
calls him “ an angel in a cocked hat and bteeches ; " and 
Mark Twain, alluding to the number of churches in 
this city, says, you cannot throw a stone in Montfeal 
without breaking a church window^' and so on. 

Another phase of modern “ humor ” is the stupid 
wit-less style of newspaper reporting of accidents of all 
kinds ; as, describing an accident by which a woman 
lost her life by burning, the report concludes thus,‘‘ the 
coroner earned a fee that day,"' or there was afu7ieral 
from that house I' 

If a house is broken into, it is ''burglarized if a 
man takes poison, he '' suicided^' Quite recently we 
had the report of an earthquake having happened at 
some time in South America, when a house was thrown 
down and six persons were killed, and one of our 
moving papers called it “ A businesi^ like earthquake^ 

The most provoking feature of such writers is that 
they seldom fail to place the matter in such a ludicrous 
shape, that we laugh at it before we discover what we 
are about, just as we might laugh at a man running 
after his hat which had been blown off his head, but 
before we get to the end of the street we feel iishamed 
of ourselves for having done so. 

Before giving a few illustrations of what I regard as 
Wit and Humor, it will perhaps be worth while to en- 
quire into, and briefly analyse my subject. If we turn 

to our dictionaries, we find : 

—The association of ideas in a manner natural, 
but unusual and striking, so as to produce surprise, 
joined with pleasure. 

The faculty of associating ideas in a new and unex- 
pected manner. 

Humor. — That quality of the imagination which 
gives to ideas a wild or fantastic turn, and tends to ex- 
cite laughter or mirth by ludicrous image or represen- 
tation. 



1 1 1 



Humor is less brilliant than wit, hence it is always 
agreeable — Wit, directed against folly, often w^oundsby 
its severity ; Humor, makes a man ashamed of his fol- 
lies, without exciting his resentment. 

Wit is the clash and reconcilement of incongruities, 
the meeting of extremes round a corner, the flashing 
of an artificial light from one object to another, disclos- 
ing some unexpected resemblance or connection. The 
case, I think, is the same with Humor, it deals in in- 
congruities of character or circumstance, as Wit does in 
those of arbitrary ideas. The more the incongruities 
the better, provided they are all in nature, but two, at 
any rate, are as necessary as the two ideas are to Wit, 
and the more strikingly they differ yet harmonize, the 
more amusing the result. 

Such is the melting together of the propensities in 
some of the characters that will at once occur to us 
of the objectionable and the agreeable in Falstaff, 
of folly and wisdom in Don Quixote, 
of shrewdness and doltishness in Sancho Pauza, 
and further in the discordant yet harmonious co-oper- 
ation of Don Quixote and his attendant considered as 
a pair, Sancho himself being a compound of sense and 
absurdity heaps duality on duality, contradiction on 
contradiction, and the inimitable associates contrast and 
reflect one another. 

Wit, apart from Humor, generally speaking, is but an 
element for professors to sport with. In combination 
with humor it runs into the richest utility, and helps 
to humanize the world. I propose to offer specimens of 
both, bringing the two streams together, till I show 
you their united fullness. 

The lowest form of Wit may contain a quintessence 
of it, the shallowest pun include the profoundest 
wisdom. 

I believe that WIT is very seldom the only eminent 
quality which resides in the mind of any man, it is 
commonly accompanied by many other talents, and 
ought to be considered as a strong evidence of a fertile 
and superior understanding. 

Almost all the great poets, orators and statesmen of 
all times have been witty. 

There is no more interesting sight than to see the 
effects of wit upon the different characters of men. It 
is pleasant to observe how it penetrates through the 
coldness and awkwardness of society, gradually bring- 
ing men nearer together, and giving every man a glad 
heart and a cheerful countenance. 

It is scarcely within my purpose to do more than 
simply lay before you some illustrations in support of 
the proposition which I have set up, otherwise I should 
have to call your attention to the great improvement in 
morality which marks the pages of our modern authors 
as compared with the humorists of the last century. 
Fielding, Smollett and Sterne, and the lampoons of Dean 
Swift. 

There is scarcely a page in the writings of these 
authors but has something that were better away, a 
latent corruption, a hint as of an impure presence— 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I 12 



some of that ^'double entente'^ maybe attributed to 
freer times and manners than ours, but not all. 

I think of these past writers, and of those who have 
lived amongst our English authors of the present gen 
eration, and are grateful for the innocent laughter and 
the sweet and unsullied pages which I can lay before 
my children. 

One author of the time I have referred to, I desire to 
except,— I think of the career, the sufferings, the genius, 
the gentle nature of Oliver Goldsmith, and the esteem 
in which we hold him. Who, of the millions whom he 
has amused, doesn’t love him ? To be the most beloved 
of English writers — what a title that is for a man ! 
What is the charm of his verse, his style, his humor ? 
His sweet regrets, his delicate compassion, his soft smile, 
his tremulous sympathy, the weakness which he owns 
— your love for him is half pity ! 

With that sweet story of the “ The Vicar of Wakefield'' 
he has found entry into every castle and every hamlet 
in Europe. 

None of us, however busy or hard our lot, but have 
passed many an evening with him and undergone the 
charm of his delightful music. 

His humor.is delighting us still, his song, fresh and 
beautiful as when he first charmed with it, — his words 
in all our mouths, — his very weaknesses beloved and 
familiar — his benevolent spirit seems to smile upon us 
— to do gentle kindnesses,^ to succor with sweet charity 
— to sooth, caress and forgive — to plead with the for- 
tunate for the unhappy and the poor. 

One author of the present generation I would claim 
place for along with Goldsmith, for his rich humor, his 
world- wide benevolence and sympathy with the poor — 
that author is Charles Dickens, especially in his Christ- 
mas Carol and the Cricket on the Hearth. 

True wit, true humor, never offends. 

“ Let wit and mirth, and friendly strife, 

Chase the dull gloom that saddens life. 

True wit, that, firm to Virtue’s cause. 

Respects religion and the laws. 

True mirth that cheerfulness supplies 
To modest ears and decent eyes ! ” 

Epigrammatic Wit generally announces itself by its 
title and brevity, and thus substitutes expectation for 
surprise, a higher principle in great things, but not in 
small. We may select from Pope : — 

Here thou, great Anna, whom three realms obey. 

Dost sometimes counsel take, and sometimes tea ’’ 

Or a remonstrance from Thomas Moore : — 

“ When late I attempted your passion to prove. 

Why were you so deaf to my prayers ; 

Perhaps it was well to dissemble your love, 

But why did you kick me downstairs ? ” 

Or some of the aphorisms of Longfellow : — 

“ The best Medicines, 

Joy and Temperance and Repose, 

Slam the door on the doctor’s nose.” 

Poverty and Blindness. 

‘‘ A blind man is a poor man, and blind a poor man is, 

For the former seeth no man, and the latter no man sees.” 



Truth. 

« When by night the frogs are croaking, kindle but a torch’s fire, 
Ha ! how soon they all are silent ! Thus Truth silences the liar.” 

Puns are supposed to be banished from good society, 
though kings have encouraged them, and Caesar, 
Bacon, Cicero and Shakespeare seemed to have thought 
them part of the common property of good spirits. 
They are tire.some when engrossing, and execrable if 
bad ; at least if not deliberately bad, and of malice pre- 
pense. The puns of Thomas Hood are astonishing for 
their cleverness, abundance and extravagance. 

‘ Ben Battle was a soldier bold, 

And used to war’s alarms, 

But a cannon-ball took off his legs. 

So he laid down his arras. 

And as they bore him off the field. 

Said he, ‘ Let others shoot. 

For here I leave my second kg 
And the Forty-Second foot’.” 

And again, in another song, he speaks of a sailor 

“ His death, which happened in his berth, 

At forty odd befel ; 

So they went and told the sexton, 

And the sexton toll’d the bell.” 

Doubtless you all remember that extraordinary pun- 
ning song of Hood’s, “ Lieutenant Lufi[V' 

“ All you who are too fond of wine, 

Or any other stuff ; 

Take warning by the dismal fate 
Of one Lieutenant Luff. 

A sober man he might have been. 

Except in one regard, 

He didn’t like soft w’ater. 

So he took to drinking hatd. 

Said he, ‘ Let others fancy slops, 

And talk in praise of tea, 

But I am no Bohemian y 
So do not like Bohea. 

If wine’s a poison, so is tea, 

Though in another shape, 

What matter whether man is killed 
By canister or grape’ ” 

And so ou to the end of the song. 

I may here say that Hood was an intimate friend of 
my family, and although I was too young to remember 
him very distinctly, I can say that no purer or gentler- 
minded name is on the roll of my family acquaintance 
than Thomas Hood. I call to mind with reference to 
this song of “ Lieutenant Ltiff," that one day Hood was 
at a dinner party with my father and uncle, when one 
present (entirely unconscious of Hood being the author) 
sang it, and my uncle, sitting next to Hood, said to 
him, “ That is your song ! ” “ Why, what makes 
you think so? ” replied he. “ Because no other man 
could have written it.” On Hood acknowledging the 
authorship, my uncle asked him for a copy of it, to 
which he cheerfully consented ; his fellow-diner on 
his other hand, overhearing the conversation, also 
asked for a copy, when Hood instantly replied “ Does 
it follosv because I have the copy right, that I have a 
copy left ! ” 

Pjtns a\so are frequently to be found in epitaphs. I 
may instance that remarkable one which comes to us 
without the name of the author : — 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



113 



ON THE EARL OK KILDARE. 

“ Who killed Kildare ? Who dared Kildare to kill, 

Death killed Kildare, who dares kill him who will.” 

Of proverbs, Lord Bacon says : — 

The genius, spirit and wit of a nation are dis- 
covered in its proverbs.” And Earl Russell defined a 
proverb admirably as “ The wisdom of many and the 
wit of one.” 

So also Alexander Pope : — 

“ True wit is nature to advantage dress'd, 

What oft w’as thought, but ne’er so well express’d.” 

But we have not time for this branch of the subject, 
and must therefore dismiss it with two or three speci- 
mens. Sterne has left us one which may well stand as 
a set-off for much of his other writing “ God tempers 

the wind to the shorn lamb.” 

Shakespeare, I need hardly say, would furnish the 
best, if we had time, as Poor and content is rich, and 
rich enough,” and “ All that glitters is not gold.” 

And American literature makes amends by two, 
which I cannot pass over : — 

“ God never strikes with both hands,” and “ It 
don’t do to pray cream, and live skimmed milk.” But 
perhaps the most striking illustrations on record are 
tiie flashes of wit of Douglas Jerrold, sudden and 
harmless as summer lightning. Anyone to see him as 

I have seen him, with his eyes staring with the sudden- 
ness of some impromptu, and his face beaming with 
good humor, would never forget him, and yet to think 
that if one of his jokes was repeated to him next day, 
he would ask in all simplicity : “ No ! did I really say 

that ? ” 

Like Sydney Smith’s wit, Jerrold’s was of the keenest 
and most transparent character. 

You must be on the alert for wit ; it flashes and is 
gone. Wit gives you a nod in passing, but with 
humor you are at home. 

“ Take a walk upon an empty stomach,” said his 
doctor to Sydney Smith. Upon whose ? ” asked the 
Dean. That is wit. 

So is Hood’s description of a fellow whose height of 
folly constituted his own monument : 

A column of fop, 

A light-house without auy light a-top.” 

So was Sydney Smith’s reply to the churchwardens, 
when he wanted a wood pavement round St. Paul’s : 
“Lay your heads together, and the thing is done.” 
The wit of Douglas Jerrold is often equal to that of the 
Dean. A score of stories occur to me. Though it is 
too late to add any new ones to the record, there are a 
few good things which will bear repetition. 

“Nature has written ‘ hone.st man’ upon his face/’ 
said a person trying to make interest with Jerrold for a 
friend. “ Then nature must have had a very bad 
pen,” was the prompt reply. Everybody remembers 
how he revenged himself upon a pompous fop, who 
had made himself offensively conspicuous at a club 
dinner where sheep’s head was a favorite dish. Push- 
ing his plate aside, the stranger exclaimed, “ Well, I 



say .sheep’s head forever.” “ What egotism,” remarked 
Jerrold. 

This, no doubt, led up to a kindred flash of wit on 
another occasion, at the expense of a literary friend 
who had just ordered, “ Sheep’s tail .soup, waiter!” 
“Ah,” said Jerrold, looking up, and smiling with his 
great eyes, “ extremes meet.” 

There was an old gentleman who drove a very slow 
pony in a ramshackle gig, and he was anxious one 
day to pay Jerrold a little special attention. The 
humorist was on his way from his house to the railway 
station. “ Ah, Mr. Jerrold,” said the old gentleman, 
“.shall I give you a lift?” “No, thank you,” said 
Jerrold, “ I’m in a hurry.” 

Let us take a score of further illustrations at random : 
“ Whaf s going on ? ” asked a great bore one day, meet- 
ing him on the street ; I a?nl' said Jerrold, and on he 
went- 

Take this for a golden rule through life, never have 
a friend that’s poorer than yourself.” 

“ Men’s hearts ! Do what you will, they won’t break. 

I doubt if even they’ll chip.’’ 

“The scoundrel, .sir! Why, he’d sharpen a knife 
upon his father’s tombstone to kill his mother.” 

“ Contenfment is the poor man’s bank.” 

Dogmatism he defined as “ puppyism arrived at full 
growth.” 

Amongst his definitions : 

Poetry he called “ thought in blossom.” 

War was with him, “ murder set to music.” 

A negro slave he called “ God’s image carved in 
ebony.” 

Of gambling he said, “ I never by chance hear the 
rattling of dice that it does not seem to me like the 
funeral bell for a whole family.” 

Once upon a time Patience wanted a nightingale — 
“Well ! Patience waited and the egg sang.” 

“ Earth is so good-natured,” said he, “that you have 
but to tickle her with a plough, and she laughs her- 
self into a harvest.” 

The conversation one evening turned upon music, 
and a certain song was spoken of as an exquisite 
composition. “ That song,” exclaimed an enthusiastic 
member of the company, “ always carries me away 
when I hear it.” Said Jerrold (looking eagerly round), 

“ Can no one whistle it?” 

“ Call that a kind man,” said one, speaking of an 
absent acquaintance, “ a man who is away from his 
family, and never sends them a farthing. Call that 
kindness ? ” “ Yes,” replied Jerrold, “ unremitting kind- 
ness.” 

Talking of the dinner-loving propensity of the 
English, he said : 

“ I believe that if London was destroyed by an earth- 
“ quake to-morrow, the next day, two or three citizens 
“would be found amongst the ruins enjoying a bit of 
“ dinner to celebrate the event.” 

On the publication of one of Robert Browning’s 
books, in which the author’s meaning] was somewhat 
ob.scure (a criticism, which, by the*bye, may be uttered 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of more than one of that author’s works), Jerrold read 
a few pages, and it was not very clear to him, he 
handed the book to his wife, and asked her what she 
thought of it. She confessed she could not understand 
it, upon which Jerrold exclaimed, “ Thank God ! I am 
not mad.” Browning, meeting him said: “I hear that 
you say that my last book is the worst I have written.” 
Said Jerrold, “ My dear fellow, I did not say so, I said 
it was ‘ the worst book that was ever written.’ ” 

On the occasion of a stormy discussion between two 
friends, one present rose to settle the dispute, and 
waving his hands majestically over the disputants, he 
exclaimed, “ What I want is common sense ! ” 

Exactl}^” Douglas Jerrold interrupts, and the discus- 
sion is lost sight of iii'a burst of laughter. 

A rich city magnate being dead, the whole city was 
astir asking how much he had died worth. A friend, 
meeting Jerrold, asked, “ What had he left ? ” the reply 
was, ‘‘ All he had, he took nothing with him ; it might 
melt, you know.” 

I have given some specimens of his definitions,” I 
might furnish one instance of his taking part in an 
evening’s pastime of furnishing “epitaphs” for the 
company present. Jerrold had been asked to give one 
for Charles Knight, the well-known author and pub- 
lisher. He pretended (as I believe) to look unusually 
dull and stupid, and confessed his inability to give 
one, — the two walked homewards together, and when 
they were about to part compaity en route to their re- 
spective homes, Jerrold said suddenly, “I have that 
epitaph for you,” H. M. 

“ Good Knight.” 

(7b be Co7iti?med). 



reflections suggested by my first 

BIOLOGY LECTURE. 

Of the primal protozoa I would sing 
Of the ancestral Papa of all the sort, 

Of the state in which he somehow found himself 
And we’ll call him Adam, if you like, for short. 

He flourished in a garden, this of course. 

For vegetables then were quite the thing. 

He doubtless thought it quite a paradise. 

This protoplasmic happy little king. 

He lived awhile and then he split in two. 

So Eve was made right out of Adam’s side. 

Then two amoebas floated gaily on 
With leaps and bounds and gambols jellified. 

Then one amoeba how, I don’t quite know 
By law or chance, or something that she ate, 

Took quite an odd idea in her head, 

And thought she ought to differentiate. 

vShe differentiated, sad to say. 

And so commenced our dire unrest and pain 

For primal protoplasmic innocence 
Can never any^more be ours again. 



And so my story of creation’s ended, 

You’ll find it merely Moseses— amended. 

L. IV 

THE CHOICE. 

(From Moschus.) 

When on the wave the breeze soft kisses flings, 

I rouse my fearful heart, and long to be 
F'loating at leisure on the tranquil sea ; 

But when the hoary ocean loudly rings. 

Arches his foamy back and spooming swings 
Wave upon wave, his angry swell I flee ; 

Then welcome land and sylvan shade to me, 
Where, if a gale blows, still the pine-tree sings. 

Hard is his life whose nets the ocean sweep, 

A bark his house — shy fish his slippery prey ; 
But sweet to me the unsuspicious sleep 

Beneath a leafy plane — the fountain’s play, 

That babbles idly, or whose tones, if deep. 

Delight the rural ear and not affray. 

J. M. CHAPMAN 



FROM THE GERMAN. 

I think of thee 
When thro’ the vale 
The nightingale 
Pours melody, — 

When thinkest thou of me ? 

I think of thee 
By fountain side, 

When even-tide 
Falls glimmeringly, — 

Where thinkest thou of me ? 

I think of thee 
With gnawing pain 
And longing fain. 

Insatiably, — 

How thinkest thou of me ? 

Oh, think of me 
Till, sorrows past. 

We meet at last ! 

Where’er I be 
I think of only thee ! 

R. MACDOUGALL. 

Cambridge, Mass. 

(N.B. In the sonnet by Prof. Moyse, which appeared in 
last issue, we regret that an error has appeared. 

The line which read 

“ Where my fierce spirit wakes from sweet sleep ” 
should be : 

“Where my fierce spirit wakes from secret sleep ” 

Ed.) 



FOUR DAYS IN ROME- 

“ I am in Rome ! Oft as the morning ray 
Visits these eyes, waking at once I cry, 

Whence this excess of joy ? What has befallen me ? 
And from within a thrilling voice replies, 
riiou art in Rome ! A thousand busy thoughts 
Rush in my mind, a thousand images ; 

And I spring up as girt to run a race ! ” 



our 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ns 



Metaphysicians discriminate between the clearness 
and the distinctness of an idea. My ideas, however, 
were neither clear nor distinct when I awoke and 
found myself in Rome for the first time. Dimlj' I 
remembered the journey from Florence ; the old castleS 
and sleepy villages ; the orchards of mulberry trees 
with vines trailing from tree to tree ; then darkness 
and sleep came on together, and I knew no more till 
roused about midnight by the porter’s shout “ Roma ! 
Roma ! ” Half asleep, I entered a bus ; offended the 
driver by putting my feet on the cushion opposite ; 
effected a compromise by means of a Daily News 
placed between the offending feet and the cushion ; and 
then down we went into the city. We drove loudly 
down stony streets, turned many corners, and at last, 
just as my mind was hovering between doubt of the 
sanity and suspicion of the villainy of the driver, he 
pulled up at the Cavour Hotel. After an interesting 
but unintelligible conversation with the porter, I was 
conducted to the room in which I found myself on the 
eventful morning of the 2nd of June, 1893. 

When young Byron, on succeeding to the title of 
Lord, asked his mother if she saw any difference in 
him, he felt that his new condition of lordship ought 
to bring some outward and visible effect. A similar 
feeling comes to one who, for the first time, wakes to 
find himself in the Eternal city. While trying to 
analyze my thoughts, and before I had discovered how 
I really did feel on this eventful morning, hunger, 
which seizes people even in Rome, drew me down to 
breakfast, and so this great question has ever since 
remained unsolved. 

At Piale’s in the Piazza di Spagna I bought a guide 
book, and taking a bus soon found myself in front of St. 
Peter’s. A magnificent covered stairway, constructed 
by Bernini, and containing a fine equestrian statue of 
the Emperor Constantine, runs between the Cathedral 
and the Vatican and leads to the Sistine Chapel and 
the Raffael Rooms. At the foot of the stairway were 
several of the Pope’s Guards, who made a very pic- 
turesque appearance in their uniforms of yellow, black 
and crimson. The Sistine Chapel is wonderfully rich 
in frescoes, both on the ceiling and walls. Covering the 
wall, above the altar, is Michael Angelo’s great picture 
of the Last Judgment, which at first is bewildering 
from its multitude of figures. 

The Hall of the Immaculate Conception, so called 
from the frescoes by Podesti on that subject, is next 
reached ; and farther on are the Raffael Rooms, four in 
number, containing some of Raffael’s best frescoes. 
These are especially interesting to a student of History. 
Unfortunately, many of them are much faded. The 
Hall of the Fire of the Borgo takes its name from the 
principal painting. In this room the Saxon king, 
Ethelwulf is represented with a vase full of coins ; 
underneath is an inscription referring to the fact that 
he was the first English king who agreed to pay 
Peter’s Pence. 

The Hall of the Signature, so called because the 
papal Bulls were signed here, contains Raffael ’s great 
picture of the School of the Philosophers. 



In the Hall of Heliodorus are the finest frescoes in 
the world. There one may see Heliodorus driven from 
the Temple, Pope Leo I. staying Attila the Hun, and 
St. Peter delivered from prison by the angel. The 
last room, the Hall of Constantine, contains frescoes 
illustrating events in the life of that Emperor. In the 
picture gallery are some fine pictures by Raffael, Reni 
and Guercino. Raffael’s Transfiguration is here. 

Just opposite St. Peter’s is a restaurant. There, 
sitting under the awning outside one can satisfy the 
needs of his physical nature and feast his eyes on the 
magnificent cathedral in front of him. 

It is a gigantic pile of reddish stone on the farther 
side of a vast piazza, in which near the centre is an 
Egyptian obelisk, and nearer to the Cathedral two great 
fountains. The piazza is flanked on each side by a 
grand series of columns three deep, running on a curve 
towards the church. These support an entablature, 
on which are gigantic statues of saints and apostles. 

After lunch I felt able to explore the interior of the 
Cathedral, and here the chief thing that struck me, 
apart from the grand general effect, was a piece of 
statuary by Michael Angelo, representing the Virgin 
with the dead Christ in her lap. This is a most beau- 
tiful work. There are three naves, each 613 feet long, 
and the transept is 417 feet. Beneath the dome is the 
High Altar, on which only the Pope celebrates mass. 
Looking upwards around the base of the dome we .see 
the Latin text : “ Tu es Petrus et super hanc Petram 
sedificabo ecclesiam meam et tibi dabo claves regni 
coelorum.” The letters do not appear to be very large, 
but when looked at from the gallery around the inside of 
the dome they are seen to be between 5 and 6 feet in 
height. 

After spending about two hours in the church, I 
took the train for the Piazza di Venezia, and from there 
walked to Trajan’s Column and Forum. The column 
is in a perfect state of preservation, and covered with 
bas-reliefs representing Trajan’s victories. It is 130 
feet high, and is built of 34 blocks of marble Then 
I strolled along, noticing fragments of old walls and 
columns, until I reached the Colosseum. This great 
ruin covers 6 acres, and was the work of Jews taken 
captive at the siege of Jerusalem by Titus, who 
dedicated the building in A. D. 80. The arena is 278 
feet long and 177 feet wide. The cells for wild beasts 
underneath the arena have been partly unearthed. 
One side of the great outer wall shows us what it was 
in the old days. 

Arches on arches ! as it were that Rome, 

Collecting the chief trophies of her line, 

Would build up all her triumphs in one dome, 

Her Coliseum stands 

While stands the Coliseum, Rome shall stand ; 

When falls the Coliseum, Rome shall fall ; 

And when Rome falls — the World.” 

Near by is the Arch of Constantine, and on the 
summit of the Via Sacra, which leads from the Colos- 
seum to the Forum Romanum, is the Arch of Titus, 
with bas-reliefs undimmed by time, representing the 
Triumphal Procession of Titus. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 16 



The vast ruins of the Roman Forum are well de- 
scribed by Rogers : 

“ In many a heap the ground 
Heaves, as if Ruin in a frantic mood 
Had done its utmost. Here and there appears, 

As left to show his handiwork, not ours, 

An idle column, a half-burned arch, 

A wall of some great temple *’ 

Here I wandered for some time, passing over the 
Curtian Lake, and at last went towards home, stopping 
on the way at a little cafe near the Pantheon. 

Early the next morning I explored the Pantheon, 
which is the most splendid monument of antiquity in 
Rome. It was erected by Agrippa 27 B. C., and is in a 
perfect state of preservation. In 1882, the houses 
built against it were pulled down, and at the back 
were discovered remains of a great hall belonging to 
the Baths of Agrippa. Passing through a magnificent 
portico of 16 columns of Oriental granite, we reach 
the interior— an immense rotunda 132 feet in height, 
and the same in diameter, and lighted only from an 
aperture in the cupola. The tribune of the high altar 
and the six chapels are cut in the thickness of the wall, 
and ornamented with different colored marble columns 
and pilasters. Raffael and Victor Emmanuel were 
buried here. 

‘‘ Relic of nobler days and noblest arts! 

Despoil’d yet perfect, with thy circle spreads 
A holiness appealing to all hearts— 

To Art a model ; and to him w'ho treads 
Rome for the sake of ages, Glory sheds ' 

Her light through thy sole aperture ; to thosi 
Who worship, here are altars for their beads ; 

And they who feel for genius may repose 
Their eyes on honor’d forms, w^hose busts around them 

close.” 

Leaving the Pantheon, I stopped for a moment at the 
church of S. Maria sopra Minerva, to see Michael 
Angelo s statue of Christ, and then took the train to 
St. Peter’s 

After listening to the singing (for mass was being 
celebrated) I ascended the dome. From the stone 
gallery above the great dome was a glorious view. The 
Mediterranean looked like a white line in the distance 
The city of the seven hills itself lay at our feet, and far 
away to the East rose the Pyrenees and Albanian Moun- 
tains. It wa here that I got my first clear conception of 
the extent of the Vatican buildings. From the stone 
gallery outside the ascent is partly by ladders to the 
great iron ball capable of holding sixteen persons. There 
are four slits to let in the light, and when some boys held 
their hands on these there was total darkness. To sit 
up there in the dark with one’s feet towards the hole 
gave one rather a queer sensation. The great heat soon 
made the enterprising sixteen who had been waiting half 

an hour for the privilege of a.scending disappear one bv 
one. ^ 

Having done my duty by St. Peter’s, I went towards 
he Capitol, which is approached by a magnificent 
ascent made for the entrance of the Emperor Chas. V. 
At the left of this is a garden in which a living wolf, 



the sacred symbol of ancient Rome, is still kept ; in the 
same garden lower down is a bronze statue of the Tri- 
bune, whom Byron addresses as 

“Redeemer of dark centuries of shame — 

The friend of Petrarch, hope of Italy — 

Rienzi ! last of Romans ! ” 

The Museum of the Capitol contains some fine stat- 
uary, the Venus and the Dying Gladiator being the most 
famous pieces. The Palace of the Consecration oppo- 
site is very interesting to one who has time to examine 
its treasures — pictures, bronze work and old tapestry. 
Nearby is the church of the Aracoeli. Down the steps 
of the church Rienzi was dragged by the mob. The 
sacred Bambino is shown on application to the priest 
there. It is kept under the altar in the sacristy. It 
looks like a doll. A lady asked if she might kiss it, 
and although the priest gave her permission, I noticed 
that he wiped it very carefully afterwards with his hand- 
kerchief. Then I strolled to the Tarpeian Rock, a very 
unpleasant place to fall over ; and afterwards to the 
Mamertine prison. At the back of the Capitol are two 
churches one above the other, and between them is the 
Mamertine prison. Here Jugurtha, Simon the de- 
fender of Jerusalem, and other heroes have been ex- 
ecuted. The dungeon is circular, about 18 ft. in 
diameter and 6 ft. in height. It contains a well which 
is accounted for by the following story : St. Peter and 
St. Paul were imprisoned here, and the jailors, being 
converted by their prayers, and wishing to be baptized, 
a sponge miraculously appeared to supply the water. 
By the light of the torch we saw a picture on the wall 
(the walls and floor are simply the natural rock) of St. 
Peter baptizing the jailors. The torch was carried by a 
cripple, who, with a most unpleasant smile ever on his 
wizened countenance, looked liked the evil genius of the 
place. Fiction no doubt formed a large part of his de- 
scriptions, but I think that coming from him the most 
undoubted facts would be found difficult of belief. 

By this time— it was between three and four o’clock— 

I began to feel tired of walking, so hailing a cab I started 
for the Catacombs. We passed the Circus Maximus, 
at the foot of the Palatine hill, entered the old Appian 
way, leaving the Baths of Caracalla on the right, and 
travelled on between high walls till we reached the 
Catacombs. At an opening in the wall on the right, a 
path led through a pleasant field of yellow corn to a 
little wooden building, where we found the monks who 
were in charge of the Catacombs. Having paid the 
franc demanded of us, we were furnished with a taper, 
and set out on our explorations under the guidance of 
one of the monks, who had wisely provided himself 
with a heavy shawl and a taper. Soon we reached a 
descent, reminding one of Avernus, only no Sybil’s 
ecstasies were needed, for the way was open. 

We had only reached the foot of the steps when we 
heard someone shout above, and soon another tourist, 
a German from Zurich, came down and joined us. 
The passages and chapels are all lined with spaces 
hewn out for the burial of the dead. The monk said we 
could travel for half an hour along one passage before 
reaching the end. There are three series of passages, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



117 



one above another. It is a dismal place, and one is 
very glad to get into the sunshine again. My German 
friend suggested that we drive together along the 
Appian way for a few miles, so he dismissed his cabman, 
and away we went together. I forgot to mention that 
his chief reason for suggesting that we go together 
was that it would be safer. The Campagna is unsafe 
at night and not very safe during the day, and therefore 
my German friend, who, though a tall man with a fierce 
moustache, was very timid, thought that two would be 
much safer than one. Soon we left the walls behind us 
and got into the open countr}", when the German abruptly 
turned and enquired ‘'Have you a knife?” I had a 
knife, but it was old and battered, utterl}^ worthless 
as a weapon of defence, and so I told him, at the same 
time expressing a hope that our safety would not depend 
upon our knives. 

I doubt if one can ever forget a drive along the 
Appian wa}’ just before sunset on a lovely afternoon 
in early June. In the bare i^asture lands away on the 
left stand the great arches of Claudian’s Aqueduct ; all 
along by the wayside are ruins of tombs ; in front, a 
little to the left, lie the Albanian Mountains. It was 
a glorious drive, — a drive never to be forgotten. Rogers 
felt the charm of the Campagna when he wrote : 

“ Ah, little thought I, when in school I sate, 

A school-boy on his bench, at early dawn. 

Glowing with Roman story, I should live 
To tread the Appian, once an avenue 
or monuments most glorious, palaces. 

Their doors sealed up, and silent as the night, 

The dwellings of the illustrious dead *’ 

The country is as silent as the grave ; there is 
nothing to keep your thoughts in the present ; and the 
old arches and tombs take full possession, they carry 
all before them, and you live for the time in another 
age. 

Two thousand years seem to vanish, the 19th century 
becomes a myth, the old Roman days return. It seems 
As though it still were theirs, 

And they might come and claim their own again. ’ 

Such impressions never wholly fade, they become 
a part of oneself, the choicest of the pleasures of 
Memory which, with the pleasures of Hope, make up 
the sum of human joy. To the vividness and strength 
with which Rome’s great ruins strike the mind and imag- 
ination the world owes the history of the decline and 
fall of that wonderful Empire, grand even in its decay. 

My friend brought me back into the present very 
effectually, by remarking that if I should wish to exam 
ine the arch of the Aqueduct I had better not go across 
the fields. It was dangerous. He had tried it once with 
some ladies, and had had a desperate fight with a bull. 
In seeking for details, I found, however, that thr affair 
was not nearly .so sanguinary as I had imagined,— in fact, 
the bull had merely looked over a fence at the party ; 
but the look was so expressive that it was quite easy 
to conjure up a picture of what might have taken place 
had the bull been on the other side of the fence. 

On returning to the city about dark, we took dinner in 
an hotel just opposite the magnificent column of Marcus 
Aurelius in the Piazza di Coloiina. It was very charm- 



ing afterwards to sit outside, drinking coffee and listen- 
ing to the band which played at the foot of the Column, 
and as the electric light, at times, revealed the words, 
Armenia, Germania, and the bas reliefs of the vic- 
tories of Aurelius over the Germans, it seemed marvel- 
lous that this great monument should have been stand- 
ing there in all its impre.ssiveness nearly two thousand 
years. 

W. J MESSENGER. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

7b the Editor oj the McGill Fortnightly ; 

Dear Sir, 

Asa graduate of McGill University, and one who 
has college interests at lieart, I wish to draw your at- 
tention and that of your readers to what dangerously 
resembles a species of petty tyranny, now being exer- 
cised over the “ East Wing ” of the College. 

In your last i.ssue, you note the fact of the Alum- 
nae Society wishing to hold a joint meeting with the 
Delta Sigma Society. 

This movement, which was inaugurated by the 
women graduates, with the idea of increasing college 
spirit and of widening the college sphere socially and 
intellectually, was settled without satisfactory reason 
— “ The Donaldas were too fond of innovations, and 
such a plan was not to be considered.” 

An innovation which was ?iot requested by the Don- 
aldas, and which could be more easily dispensed with 
than occasions for the cultivation of college spirit, 
has, however, been arbitrarily imposed upon students 
taking a post-graduate cause, viz.^ that of having all 
women-graduates attending lectures appear in acad- 
emic dress. A fine of five dollars ($5.00) is quoted as 
the penalty, should the new regulation be broken. 

This is not in accordance with the Calendar law, 
which reads as follows : “ Undergraduates wear the 
Academic dress ; others do not,''" 

The cap and gown are in favor among the ladies» 
but they object to the rule for wearing them being 
enforced to such an extent that they are obliged to go 
in all kinds of weather from their building to the 
museum and library in this comparatively light winter 
costume. If pegs were provided in these buildings, 
the students might keep extra gowns on hand, but it 
is a que.stion if the regulation is so rigid that no ex- 
ceptions can be made in the observation of it. 

Again, an able lecturer on mission work, who was 
passing through Montreal a few days ago, would have 
addressed the “ Theo Dora’’ Society, but opposition 
and objections were met with in this case as well, and 
the scheme had to be abandoned. 

Now, it is all well and good to have certain forms 
attached to the movements of any organization, but 
in the same .spirit of courtesy and obedience in which 
the students greet these, so should the reasonable 
requests made by them be met and answered. It is 
surely more than the letter of University law that 
should be observed. The students are no longer school 
children, and are supposed to have got beyond the rule 
of pedagogue and strap. 



ii8 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



To many, I may seem to be making “ much ado al)out 
nothing,*’ but it is just by such little things as I have 
cited that the character of college life is made pleasant 
or unpleasant to the student. 

In these cases, I see no reason why due consideration 
should not be paid to the wishes of the students. They 
form an important part, if not the important part, of 
University life, and the harmony which such consider- 
ation would establish between the governing body and 
themseU^es would be conducive to the welfare not only 
of a part of the college, but to the University at large. 

Trusting that you will grant space enough in your 
columns to place my protest on record, as I express 
not only my own feelings but what I consider to be 
the feelings of most of the students, 

I remain, 

Yours truly, 

GRADUATE. 



To the Editor of the Fortnighti^y. 

Dear Sir, 

The correspondence in your columns regarding the 
subject of a Union Club ” at McGill, and 3^our editor- 
ial remarks thereon, have made many of your readers 
wish that a project so fraught with possibilities for so- 
cial enjo>nnent and for the development of a real uni- 
versity spirit among the undergraduates should at least 
be given a fair trial. 

Any movement in this direction must, as your corres- 
pondent has pointed out, emanate from the undergra- 
duates themselves, for unless they inaugurate such a 
club and have a large share in its management it will 
be doomed to ultimate failure, as was a former under- 
taking of the same nature. With the view of giving an 
initial impetus to such a project, the University Glee 
and Banjo Club has at a recent meeting decided to de- 
vote the proceeds of their Christmas tour as a nucleus 
towards the foundation of a McGill Union Club.” 

With such a beginning would it not be possible to 
take further action by calling a mass meeting of under- 
graduates at an early date, when a permanent commit- 
tee, composed of energetic men from the different facul- 
ties, might be chosen to take the subject into considera- 
tion. 

As your correspondent has said, if the students mani- 
fest an interest in such a club, the many graduates and 
friends of the University will doubtless, as formerly, 
not be slow to render assistance. 

Exeaitive Co^mnittee, 

Glee ana Banjo Club. 



THE UNIVERSITY LECTURE. 

The Annual University lecture was delivered by 
Sir William Dawson, the Emeritus Principal, on 
Thursday, Nov. 30th. As is generally the case when 
anything of more than usual moment is going on at 
McGill, the William Molson Hall was packed to the 
doors by the students and friends of the University. 
An additional interest was lent to the occasion by the 



fact that the address was of a valedictory nature, 
and that His Excellency Lord Aberdeen was to be there 
in his official capacity as Visitor of the University. Al 
2.30 p.m. the convocation met in the old library, and at 
3 o’clock proceeded to the lecture hall. The students, 
as usual, occupied themselves during the interval in 
their own peculiar manner. As the Governor- General 
entered, the audience rose and sang God Save the 
Queen.” The chair was occupied by Lord Aberdeen, 
with Sir Donald Smith, the Chancellor, on his right, and 
Sir William Dawson on his left. The rest of the plat- 
form was occupied by Professors and graduates in their 
gorgeous hoods, like Joseph’s coat of many colors. 

Sir Donald Smith, whom all were glad to welcome 
back to McGill, in a few well chosen words, in which 
he regretted that Sir William found it necessary to 
resign the Principalship, called upon Sir William 
to deliver his lecture upon Thirty-eight years in 
McGill.” 

Sir William Dawson then rose, and was greeted with 
loud applause and cheers : 

Having been invited by the acting Principal and 
the Corporation to deliver once more the annual Uni- 
versity lecture, this has appeared to be an occasion on 
which you would bear with me in retracing some of the 
footsteps of the past, as a suitable close to the official 
work of nearly a lifetime, and as a farewell address to 
the friends and colleagues with whom I have labored 
so long and with so much happiness to myself. We 
may have perfect faith in the practical wisdom of the 
apostolic maxim, “ forgetting the things that are 
behind, press forward to those that are before.” Yet 
we may have equal faith in recalling the memories of 
the past in “ remembering the mercies that are ot old,” 
as well as the errors and shortcomings of former years, 
that we may draw lessons from all as to the present 
and the future. It may, for instance, be interesting, 
perhaps even useful, to young men to know how I 

FIRST BECAME CO.NNECTED WTTH MCGIEE. 

My plans for life lay in an entirely different direc- 
tion, I had prepared myself, as far as was possible at 
the time, for field work in geology, and my ambition 
was to secure employment of this kind ; or next to this, 
to have the privilege of teaching my favorite science, 
with sufficient spare time to prosecute original work. 
In connection with this ambition, after having attained 
to some little reputation by papers published under the 
auspices of the Geological Society of London, I accepted 
an invitation to deliver a course of lectures on geolog>^ 
and allied subjects in Dalhousie College, Halifax, in 
the winter of 1849-50. When in Halifax, I had some 
conversation with Messrs. Young and Howe, after- 
wards Sir Wm. Young and Sir Joseph Howe, at that 
time governors of Dalhousie College and the leaders of 
the Provincial Government, as to a new school law 
they were preparing for Nova Scotia, and in which 
important improvements were introduced. I had at the 
time no thought of being connected with the adminis- 
tration of the act. In the following spring, however, 

I was surprised with the offer of the position of super- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




intendeiit of education, established under the new law. 
I had many reasons for declining the task, but my 
friends would take no refusal, and I consoled myself 
with the consideration that the visitation of the school 
districts throughout the province, which was one part 
of the work, would give great facilities for making myself 
acquainted with the geology of the country. For 
three years I was engaged in this work, and besides 
writing educational reports, and administering the 
new school law, conducting an educational journal, 
visiting schools, and holding teachers’ institutes, had 
collected the materials for several papers published in 
England, as well as for my Acadian Geology, which, 
howerer, did not appear till 1855. In 1852, when on a 
geological excursion with my friend. Sir Charles Lyelh 
I was introduced by him to Sir Edmund Head, the 
governor of New Brunswick, who was much occupied 
at the time with the state of education in that province, 
and in particular as to its provincial university ; and in 
1854 he invited me along with the late Dr. Ryerson, to be 
a member of a commission which had been appointed, 
to suggest means for the improvement of the provincial 
University. This work was scarcely finished when Sir 
Edmund was promoted to be the governor-general of 
Canada, and removed to Quebec, where, under the new 
charter granted to McGill College in 1852, he became 
visitor of the University ; and as he was known 
to be a man of pronounced literary and scientific 
tastes and an active worker in the reforms then recently 
carried out in the English universities, the governors 
of McGill naturally counted on his aid in the arduous 
struggle on which they had entered. Accordingly, 
soon after Sir Edmund’s arrival, a deputation of the 
board waited on him, and one of the subjects on which 
they asked his advice was the filling of the office of 
principal, which was yet vacant. Sir Edmund men- 
tioned my name as that of a suitable person. At first, as 
one of them afterwards admitted to me, they were some- 
what disconcerted. They were very desirous for the 
best reasons to follow Sir Edmund’s counsel, but with 
his knowledge of the available men in England, of some 
of whom they had already heard, they were somewhat 
surprised that he should name a comparatively un. 
known colonist. In the meantime, ignorant of all this, 
I was prosecuting a candidature for the chair of Natural 
History in my Alma Mater, the University of Edin- 
burgh, vacant by the death of Prof. Edward Forbes, and 
in which I was strongly supported by the leading geolo- 
gists of the time. By a strange coincidence, just as I 
was about to leave Halifax for England in connection 
with this candidature, intelligence arrived that the 
Edinburgh chair had been filled at an earlier date than 
my friends had anticipated, and at the same time a 
letter reached me from Judge Day offering me 

THE PRINCIPALSHIP OF MCGILL. 

I had determined in any case to visit England, to 
attend the meeting of the British Association in Glasgow 
and to thank the many friends who had promoted my 
Edinburgh candidature, but postponed my departure 
for a week, that I might consult my family, and decided 
to accept the Montreal offer, provided that a professor- 



II9 



ship of geology or natural history were coupled with 
the office. Thus it happened that I became connected 
with McGill in its infancy under its new management, 
and the story forms a striking illustration of the way 
in which Providence shapes our ends, rough hew them 
as we may. Its lesson is that young men should 
qualif}" themselves well for some specialty, but should 
also be sufficiently general in their training to adapt 
themselves to new and unforeseen pursuits. 

As I have referred to Sir Edmund Head, I may say 
that he continued to be an active friend of the Univer- 
sity during his term of office and after he returned to 
England, This is true also of his successors, all of 
whom have shown a kindly interest in our work, so 
that our visitor has all along been a power for good. 
The present Governor-General has already, by his pre- 
sence and words of cheer on a recent public occasion, 
given an earnest that in this respect he will, like his 
predecessors, prove a warm friend and kindly patron of 
the higher education in Canada. 

When I accepted the principalship of McGill, I had 
not been in Montreal, and knew the college and men 
connected with it only by reputation. I first saw it in 
October, 1855. Materially, it was represented by two 
blocks of unfinished and partly ruinous buildings, 
standing amid a wilderness of excavators’ and masons, 
rubbish, overgrown with weeds and bushes. The 
grounds were unfenced and pastured at will by herds 
of cattle, which not only cropped the grass, but browsed 
on the shrubs, leaving unhurt only one great elm, 
which still stands as the “ founder’s tree,” and a few 
old oaks and butternuts, most of which have had to 
give place to our new buildings. The only access from 
the town was by a circuitous and ungraded cart track, 
almost impassable at night. The buildings have been 
abandoned by the new board, and the classes of the Fa- 
culty of Arts were held in the upper storey of a brick 
building in the town, the lower part of which was occu- 
pied by the High School. I 

HAD BEEN PROMISED A RESIDENCE, 

and this I found was to be a portion of one of the de- 
tached buildings aforesaid, the present east wing. It had 
been very imperfectly finished, was destitute of most 
of the requisites of civilized life, and in front of it was a 
bank of rubbish and loose stones with a swamp below, 
while the interior was in an indescribable state of dust 
and disrepair. At first I was disposed to remain in our 
hotel for the winter, and repair the house at leisure I 
but my wife, who I fear was moved to tears by the 
sight of what we had come to, insisted that it would be 
months before the house could be put in order, and that 
it could be done only under her personal supervision. So 
we had as soon as possible to take up our quarters in the 
barn-like residence, and while I went out daily to my 
college work, my wife had to remain at home superin- 
tending workmen, and we had to receive many of the 
citizens who were so kind as to call on us, in the midst 
of all the confusion of plastering, papering, painting 
and cleaning. The residence was only a type of the 
difficulties and discouragements which met us in every 



120 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



quarter, and a not very favorable introduction to the 
Protestant education of the Province of Quebec. 

On the other hand, I found in 

THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS. 

a body of able and earnest men, aware of the difficulties 
they had to encounter, fully impressed with the impor- 
tance of the ends to be attained, and having sufficient 
culture and knowledge of the world to appreciate the 
best means for attaining these ends. They were greatly 
hampered by lack of means, but had that courage which 
enables risks to be run to secure important objects. I 
may mention here a few of these men. Judge Day was 
a man of acute legal mind, w'ell educated and well read, 
a clear and persuasive speaker, and wholly devoted to 
the interest of education, and especially to th^ introduc- 
tion into the college course of studies in science and 
modern literature. Christopher Dunkin was a graduate 
of the University of London, educated first in Glasgow 
and afterwards in University College, and who had held 
a tutorial position in Harvard before he came to Canada. 
He had made college work and management a special 
study, and was thoroughly equipped to have been him- 
self a colle'ge president or principal, had he not had 
before him the greater attractions of legal and political 
success. Hew Ramsay was an admirable example of 
an educated Scotchman of literary taste and business 
capacity. David Davidson w'as also a product of Scot- 
tish college training and a warm and zealous friend of 
education, with great sagacity and sound judgment- 
James Perrier should have been mentioned first. He 
was a member of the old Board of the Royal Institution 
and senior member of the new, but voluntarily resigned 
the presidency in favor of Judge Day, in the interest, as 
he believed, of the University. He was longer with us 
than any of the others, and no man could be a more 
devoted worker in the cause of education. Such men 
as these and their colleagues ensured public confidence 
and a wi.se and enlightened management. 

THE TEACHING STAFF, 

of the University then consisted of three faculties,- those 
of Law, Medicine and Arts. The Faculty of Law had two 
professors and two lecturers. The Faculty of Medicine, 
the oldest and most pro.sperous of the three, had ten 
professors and a demonstrator. The Faculty of Arts, four 
professors and a lecturer, and all of these except 
one gave only a part of their time to college work. 
I’hey were, however, able and efficient men. Dr. Leach, 
who represented philosophy and allied subjects, was a 
man of rare gifts and of warm attachment to the College ; 
Dr. Davies, a man of great learning, was shortly after- 
wards appointed to Regent’s Park College, London ; Dr. 
DeSola was an expert in Oriental languages and liter- 
rature, and Mr. Markgraf represented modern lan- 
guages ; while Dr. Howe gave what time he could spare 
from the High School to his favorite mathematical and 
physical subjects. My own lectures in Natural Science 
came in ai^, of this slender staff, raising the professorate 
in Arts to five. It was well for me that the dean of the 
Medical faculty, Dr. Holmes, was a man of scientific 



I tastes and an accomplished mineralogist and botanist. 
I as this led at once to my lectures being taken advantage 
i of by the Medical students as well as those in Arts. 
Thus while the whole students in Arts were only at that 
time 15, 1 began a course of lectures in 1855, with a large 
class, attended by some of the Medical professors and by 
gentlemen from the city, as well as by the students. At 
the same time, a good deal was done to perfect and ren- 
der more definite the course in Arts, which even in the 
session of 1855-6 was becoming so moulded as to bear 
some resemblance to its present arrangements. The 
University at this time had no library and no museum, 
and its philosophical apparatus was limited to a few 
instruments presented to it some time before by the late 
Mr. Skakel. I had to use my own private collections 
and specimens borrowed from the Natural History 
Society to illustrate my lectures. 

( To he continuea). 



SOCIETIES. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The meeting of this Society on Tuesday afternoon at 
4 o'clock opened with a discussion upon the advisa- 
bility of accepting an invitation from the Alumnae, 
requesting that the two societies combine in holding a 
joint meeting in January, to which the ladies of the 
Montreal Club should be invited as guests. After an 
animated and interesting discussion it was decided 
that the Montreal Club should not be invited, it being 
an element exterior to college life. 

Moved by Miss Warner, seconded by Miss Macken- 
zie, and unanimously carried : That a request be sent 
to the Faculty for permission to hold this meeting. 

The debate for the day was : Resolved, — That coun- 
try life is more desirable for women than city life. 

Supported on the affirmative by Miss Pitcher and 
Miss Dover, on the negative by Miss Hammond and 
Miss Holden. 

Before it could be decided whether country or city 
life was the more desirable, Miss Pitcher stated that 
we must know what were the principal characteristics 
of our ideal woman. These, she affirmed, were spiri- 
tuality, love and sympathy. That these could best be 
promoted and strengthened in the country, where one 
is face to face with nature and her sights and sounds, 
not with block after block of houses built upon the 
same plan, amid the roar of street cars and street 
venders. In the country there was more likelihood of 
having time for reading, where social duties pressed 
less heavily, and being removed to a greater or less 
extent from intercourse with others, the mind was com* 
peUed to fall back upon itself for enjo)’ment. Another 
point to be gained was that in the country hired 
help was more difficult to be had than in the city, and 
on this account daughters were required to go into the 
kitchen, and there learned what is so necessary for a 
woman to know. 

Miss Hammond replied that woman’s work in the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I2I 



country was as toilsome as in the city, and when a 
spare hour came the worker was too tired to take up a 
book, and would prefer a voyage to Dreamland. That 
in the city there was a stimulus to self-improvement 
which did not exist elsewhere. Public libraries, nniseums 
and art galleries were easily accessible. Lectures and 
places of profit as well as amusement could be attended 
when such a thing would be impossible in the country. 
Take a country girl, bring her to a city, and she is 
amazed, knows not what to do with herself nor what to 
make of others. In society her manners are uncouth 
— she is, in fact, “ green.’' 

Miss Dover affirmed that woman had been created 
that she might be the companion of man, — his friend in 
solitude, the comfort of his home. The word home ^ 
she said, did not suggest a flat approached by an 
elevator, but rather a cottage situated in green fields, 
mountains behind, flowers in front, a babbling brook in 
the vicinity pouring forth its song in gentle cadence ; 
that these were the surroundings best suited for the 
development of woman’s highest nature and that there 
she should wish to reign. 

This elicited the reply from Miss Holden, that an 
ideal spot had been presented, in reality ; if you went 
to the country you would in all probability see a yellow 
house of two flats, not a tree about the place, and if 
there was a brook all bushes would be cut down from 
its banks for the safe pas.sage of cattle. What comforts 
a woman had in the country were derived from the 
city ; to it she went for pleasure and enjoyment, and 
from it she invited friends. 

In the few minutes given for reply. Miss Pitcher said 
she thought the average country house was not 
such as had just been described, but rather a white- 
washed log house, clean and neat without and within. 
And that if facilities for improvement were more 
numerous and varied in the city, those in the country 
were more beneficial in that they were more used 
The city girl had so many books, she could only fly 
from one to another in a butterfly fashion ; the country 
girl, having but few, read each carefully, and therefore 
derived more profit from them. 

The votes of the audience showed a decided majority 
in favor of the affirmative. 

Miss Mackenzie, Arts ’94, ably supplied the office of 
critic, — at no time a very enviable one. Fault was 
found that each side had painted the other in colors 
of the deepest dye, instead of arguing on common 
ground upon persons of the same class ; but remarked 
that all the speakers had shown care in preparation, 
and had acquitted themselves well. And that seeing 
they were only freshmen and sophomores — loud ap‘ 
plause prevented the sentence being finished for some 
time ; brilliant debates were to be expected from them 
in their senior year. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The Members’ Reunion on Thanksgiving Day was a 
very pleasant social feature. We sincerely hope it will 
result in increased interest on the part of the member- 
ship. 



On Sunday, November 19th, there were presentations 
made of the claims of distinctively religious callings 
on College men. Messrs. Ross and Taylor made pleas 
for the Foreign Mission Field, presenting its pressing 
needs and the opportunities it affords of making the 
most of one’s life. 

Mr. W. H. Ball, Physical Director of the Montreal 
Y. M. C. A., spoke strongly on the claims of the General 
Secretaryship and Physical Directorship upon College 
men. 

This is a new calling, one which affords abundant 
opportunity, and demanding men of education and abil- 
ity. We believe the only McGill man who has entered 
this field of work is Mr. Jas. Naismith, B. A., who is 
now Professor in the Y. M. C. A. Training School at 
Springfield, Mass., an institution for preparing men to 
efficiently fill these positions. 

Two meetings during the last fortnight have been 
led by First year men ; we hope others will come to the 
front before the session ends. On Sunday afternoon, 
December 3rd, the Association meeting did not take 
place, to give opportunity for Mr. M. C. Fenwick, Mis- 
sionary from Corea, to address the Students. 

We cannot but make reference to the words of Sir 
Win. Dawson in the ‘‘ University Lecture it was most 
gratifying to hear his words of appreciation concerning 
the past influence of the Association and his hope for 
its future. 

As early as 1886, an Association building has been 
planned for, but to-day we are still without one ; the 
article in this issue on the “ Inter- Collegiate Move- 
ment ” will furnish our readers with our present situa- 
tion and anticipations. 

We draw special attention to the address by Mr. 
Chas. T. Williams on Sunday, December 17th ; this will 
be the first meeting this year to be addressed by any- 
one not connected with McGill. Mr. Williams is a 
business man, very practical, and a pleasing speaker. 
Do not fail to hear him, and do your best to work up a 
good attendance for the last meeting of 1893. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of the above Society was held Satur- 
day evening, Nov. i8th, and proved to be the most 
successful meeting yet held this session. Mr. McIntosh, 
the president, presided over a well attended meeting 
with his usual tact and ability. 

The meeting decided to secure copies of each issue of 
the McGill Fortnightly, and at the close of the 
session have them bound and placed in the Library o 
the Society. 

A handsome portrait of the late Richard Mac- 
Donnell, M.D., the w^ork of Notman & Sons, w^as 
exhibited for the approval of the members before being 
finally purchased. 

The portrait is remarkably life-like, and reflects great 
credit upon the photographer. 

The meeting decided to keep the^ portrait, and 
ordered similar ones of our late Dean, Dr. Howard, and 
the late Professor of Medicine, Dr. Ross The three 



122 



mcGill fortnightly. 



are to be handsomely framed and hung in the reading- 
room of the Society. 

After the transaction of some other business items, 
Mr. F. M. Fry, B.A., was called upon to present his 
case report on “ Mitral Stenosis.” The subject matter 
of the report, together with the admirable manner in 
which it was presented, made the paper an extremely 
interesting one, and evoked a fruitful discussion among 
the members at its close. 

J. H. Scammell gave a very interesting account of 
the “ Presence of a foreign body in the Trachea, the 
case having been observed by him during the summer. 
Having given a very vivid description of the acci- 
dent and the symptoms, he carefully explained the 
methods employed in the attempt to remove it, and 
humorously pointed out how the body was finally ex- 
pelled by the patient in making a superhuman effort 
to reach the home base, in a game of base-ball in which 
he was taking part, thus proving how much more 
potent an agent the diamond was in this case than 
the surgeon’s steel. 

After tendering a vote of thanks to each of the 
speakers, the meeting adjourned. 



Y. W. C. A. 

We spent a happy half hour on Friday, November 
24th, when Sir William Dawson spoke to us on the 
subject Bear ye one another’s burdens.” He con- 
nected it with the verse For every man shall bear his 
own burden,” and showed us the relation which these 
verses bear to each other. Sir William suggested to 
us lines of thought, which will be very helpful if we 
take them to ourselves and carry them into practice. 
Those verses have taken a deeper and richer meaning, 
and they hold so much more than we thought they 
did. We earnestly hope that at some future time we 
will again enjoy a like privilege. 



The attitude of Aristophanes to the limes in which 
he lived, his satires on p litics and on literature of his 
day, his conservative tendencies— the.se formed the 
leading topics of the Essay around which were grouped 
many humorous illustrations and incidents. 

The spirit of The Frogs ” was represented in a 
delightfully entertaining manner. In fact, judging by 
the enthusiasm of the well represented club and con- 
cluding commendation of the critic, each of the essay- 
ists had done credit to his subject, and had amply 
rewarded the members who had given their evening to 
the cultivation of a deeper classical interest. 

The next fortnightly meeting will be held in No. 3 
Class Room, East Wing, on December 9th. Subject: 
Greek Eschatology, by Mr. John L- Day, B.A. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

Regular meeting of the Association was held in the 
Lecture room of the Comparative Medicine Faculty, 
Friday evening, 24th inst. 

Prof. Baker occupied the chair for the evening, and 
the meeting was well attended. 

After the regular business of the Association had 
been transacted, Mr. R. Thomas reported a case : 
Operation of Lithotomy. 

Mr. G. P. Baker read an Essay : Farcy and Glanders 
in Horse. Mr. J. A. Buchan also read an Essay ; 
Teeth as an indicator of age. Both essays brought out 
quite a discussion from its members and others. 

The meeting was finally adjourned lor two weeks. 



CLASvSICAL CLUB. 

The Classical Club held its first regular meeting on 
Saturday, 25th ult., in Class Room No. 3, East Wing. 
President Davis opened the meeting at 8 p.m. Busi- 
ness over, the attractive part of the programme was 
introduced. 

Mr. W. P. Garrett, of the class of ’94, read a carefully 
prepared essay on ^The Origin and Development of 
Greek Comedy.” Comedy had its beginning, the 
writer said, in the Festivals of Dionysius. It under- 
went three stages of development : First, there was the 
personal and political caricature of the old Comedy ; 
second, the more general and literary caricature of the 
middle Comedy ; and finally, that growth which corres- 
ponds to our modern comic drama. The essayist sus- 
tained a marked interest in his audience throughout. 

Mr. D. T. Davis, of the Class of ’94, then read an ex- 
cellent paper on Aristophanes and The Frogs.” His 
introduction formed a brief sketch of the period from 
Athens’ fall from her Imperial Supremacy to a second- 
ary place. This led up to a brief biography ot Aristo- 
phanes gathered from internal material in the play. 



literary society. 

The regular weekly meeting of the Literary was 
held on the evening of Nov. 24th. President Lambly 
occupied the chair, and called the meeting to order at 
8 p.m. sharp as usual. Under his business-like direc- 
tion the routine work was quickly despatched, and 
then the members settled down to enjoy the evening’s 
entertainment. 

Mr. Harrington of the First year began the pro- 
gramme with a reading. Mr. Graham followed with 
a banjo solo, which was so highly appreciated that Mr. 
Graham consented to give an e 7 icore. 

The President appointed Mr. Sutherland critic, and 
Mr. R. Hanran reporter. The debate then demanded 
attention. Mr. D. T. Davis consented to take the place 
of Mr. Archibald, who was unavoidably absent. The 
subject of debate was : — ‘‘ Resolved, that Tennyson is a 
greater poet than Longfellow.” 

The speakers were : — On the Affirmative, Messrs. M. 
Dickson, Arts ’94, E. E. Howard, Arts ’95, F. Saunders, 
Arts ’96 ; on the Negative, Messrs. W. M. Mackercher, 
Arts ’94, F. Connor, Sci. ’94, and D. T. Davis, Arts ’94. 
The debate was very interesting and well sustained 
throughout, the merits and beauties of the two great 
poets being ably set forth by the debaters. The 
audience gave its decision in favor of the Negative. 

Mr. Sutherland gave an able criticism of the pro- 
ceedings, after which the meeting adjourned. 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 123 



The next regular meeting of the Literary was held 
on the ist inst., and proved to be one of the most 
interesting held this session. Mr. Lambly occupied 
the chair. 

After the appointment of Mr. Garrett as critic and 
Mr. Cole as reporter, the routine business was de- 
spatched and the extraordinary business taken up. 

The Secretary read a communication from Toronto 
University, inviting the Society to take part in an 
inter-collegiate debate to be held in Toronto early next 
session. The Society decided to accept the invitation, 
and a motion to that effect was passed. It was nece.s- 
sary then to appoint two men to go to Toronto and 
meet the champions of ’Varsity at this debate. Four 
men were nominated. The voting was by ballot, and 
much satisfaction was manifested when the result of 
the balloting showed that Mr. E. E- Howard, Arts ’95, 
and Mr. Mullin, Law ’96, had been elected. A motion 
to the effect that the secretaries of each of the years of 
the different Faculties be authorized to canvass the 
members of his year and the professors for subscrip- 
tions to defray the expenses of the inter-ccllegiate 
debate, was carried unanimously. 

It was moved by Mr. A. C. Hanson, seconded by Mr. 
Hopkins : — That the President, when he rises to put 
the question for the decision of a debate, shall make a 
brief and unprejudiced summary of all the important 
arguments brought forward on both sides of the 
question. 

This motion met with a great deal of opposition, 
although one which, if passed, would have solved a 
good many of the difficulties now attending an im- 
partial decision of any question. Consequent upon 
this opposition the motion was lost. 

As it was now rather late, and so much business had 
already been transacted, the programme was proceeded 
with. First came a reading by Mr. Saxe, Arts ’97, 
which was rendered with great feeling and expression, 
and was much applauded. Then came — instead of an 
essay — a recitation by Mr. W. M. McKeracher, which 
was given most admirably and most deservedly 
applauded. 

The debate on the subject: — “Resolved, that the 
present system of examination is not a test of scholar- 
ship,'’ followed. The speakers were On the Affirm- 
ative, Messrs. Lewis, N. Trenholme and A. R. Ross ; 
on the Negative, Messrs. Naylor, Harper and Scrimger. 
The debate was well and vigorously contested, so 
much so that it wa^^ difficult to come to a decision 
which side had advanced the stronger arguments ; the 
audience decided in favor of the Negative. 

Mr. Garrett gave his critique, after which the 
Society, on the motion of Mr. D. T. Davis, adjourned 
until after the holidays, and soon quiet and darkness 
reigned over the room where shortly before the votaries 
of Apollo had struggled so eagerly and keenly for 
victory. 

OUR THANKSGIVING DINNER. 

The members’ reunion, held under the auspices of 
the McGill Y. M. C A., on Thanksgiving Day, in the 



Y. M. C. A. building on Dominion Square, was a very 
enjoyable event. The management of the Association 
is to be congratulated upon the success attending their 
efforts to give a pleasant and profitable evening to a 
large number of the members. 

About one hundred and twenty-five students, repre- 
senting all the Faculties, sat down to dinner shortly 
after .six o’clock, in one of the beautiful parlors of the 
Y. M. C. A. building : President Day and Mr. Budge, 

Secretary of the City Y. M. C A., and the untiring 
friend of all that stands for right and truth in McGill, 
occupied .seats at the centre of the table that ran paral- 
lel to the platform, while the other officers pre.sided 
over the tables that extended at right angles to it. A 
sumptuous repast was provided, which the men seemed 
to enjoy in true student style. 

After the different courses had been duly discussed, 
the President said that the programme would begin with 
a chorus. Mr. Becket presided at the piano. The 
chorus was rendered with the usual vigor, and then 
the company settled down to listen to the President’s 
address. Mr. Day extended a hearty welcome to the 
men who had entered the University this year, and 
assured them that they would find in the Association 
means to help them in obtaining a true education, 
mental and spiritual. He read a letter from Dr. 
Hamilton, a former president of the Association, stat- 
ing the regret he felt in not being able to be^pre.sent, 
and his firm belief in the great benefit to be derived by 
engaging heartily in Christian work in college. Mr. 
Day thought that the members of the McGill Y. M. 
C. A. had special cause for thankfulness because of 
the progress that had been made during the past year 
The organization was better, the finances were in better 
shape, and much more interest was taken in the work 
of the Association by the students and members of the 
Faculties. The burst of applause which greeted his 
reference to the work of the General Secretary, Mr. 
Leslie, showed in a measure how the men appreciate 
the unflagging zeal for and unselfish devotion to the 
highest interests of the Students displayed by Mr. 
Leslie. The President concluded by urging the impor- 
tance of a good attendance at the coming annual meet- 
ing. 

The next item, a piano solo by Mr. A. G. Nicholls, 
editor-in-chief of the Fortnightly, was well received. 
Mr. Geo. Weir gave a recitation in a very entertaining 
manner, and then a boisterous sound of applause drew 
the attention of all to the fact that Mr. Leslie was on 
his feet. We were assured that he was all right, and 
when someone, who must have been dreaming of home 
or some other distant place, innocently enquired “ Who 
is all right ? ” he was at once informed by every man 
present that it was “ Percy Leslie.” The General 
Secretary’s address was delivered in his usual vigorou.s, 
epigrammatic style. He said that the Association h id 
been with many no more than existing. The present 
occasion caused them to feel that there was a higher 
purpose for the College C. A. to attain than a mere 
existence. The problem of how to make the Associa- 
tion a more potent factor in college life required a solu- 
tion. What was required was that the rank and file of 



124 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the membership should be hearty in their sympathy 
and earnest in their co-operation. This could be done 
by cultivating acquaintances made through the Asso- 
ciation, by becoming a regular attendant at the meet- 
ings, by letting one’s influence be exerted for all that 
is true and Christian. 

A chorus followed, and then the President called 
upon Mr. Budge. He was greeted with three cheers 
and a tiger in true McGill style, and was attentively 
listened to during his brief address. 

Mr. Weir again entertained the audience with a 
recitation. The meeting was appropriately closed with 
the Doxology. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 



FOOTBALL NEWS. 



The annual general meeting of the McGill University 
Football Club was held in the Arts Building on Satur- 
day 25th November, at 8 p.m. The meeting was called 
to order shortly after eight o’clock, the president, Mr. 
Donahue, in the chair. After the minutes of last meet- 
ing were read and confirmed, the secretary read his 
report reviewing the last year’s work. The practices 
had been well attended, and as a result of hard work 
our second and third fifteens had won the Intermediate 
and Junior championships of the Province of Quebec. 
The first fifteen had not done so well, but we can’t have 
everything in this world, so we have to be content with 
two championships this year, though next year we look 
forward to four. The treasurer then read his report 
showing the Club to be in a healthy condition, having a 
balance of about $18.00 in hand, with an expenditure 
of something over $200.00. This report being audited 
and found correct was adopted. 

The next business was the election of officers for the 
coming year, which resulted as follows : 

Hon. President — Prof. J. T. Nicolson (re-elected). 

Hon. Treas.— Dr. Ruttan (re-elected). 

President— W. F. Angus. 

Vice-President— Chas. Gaudet. 

Sec. — ^J. Claude Hickson. 

Treas.— W. G. Turner. 

Capt. ist XV. — Lome Drum. 

Committee. 



Arts. 

G. Schwartz. 
R. McDougall. 
App. Science. 
S. Davidson. 

F. A. Wilkin. 



Medicine. 

P. Leslie. 

J. Tees* 

Law, 

W. Donahue. 
A. Ogilvie. 



Vet. Science & Comp. Med, 

A. Cowan. 

New business was now in order, and a long discussic 
ensued as to the choosing of teams. 

Eventually it was moved by Johnson, and secoudt 
by Mathewson that the clause in the Constitution reac 
‘‘ That the captains have full power to pick their ow 



teams.*’ It was moved in amendment by Angus, .second- 
ed by Baker, that the old arrangement be adhered to, 
with the provision that members of the match commit- 
tee be playing members of the club The amendment 
was put before the meeting and lost, the motion was 
then carried by a ^3 majority, thus altering the 
constitution. Mr. Drum, followed by Mr. Hick- 
son, in eloquent language, moved a vote of thanks 
to the retiring officers of the club for the active 
j interest they had shown in the management of the club 
I during the past year. There being no further business, 
i the meeting adjourned. 

I W.F. A. 

1 

1 SMOKING CONCERT. 

j A large and enthusiastic body of students were 
j assembled in the Victoria Armory on the evening of 
■ the 22nd ult. The occasion was the Annual Smoking 
Concert of the McGill University Football Club. A 
! very enjoyable evening was spent. The literary and 
I musical part of the entertainment was excellent, while 
the most ardent lover of ‘‘ My Lady Nicotine’* mu.st 
have been satisfied with the attention paid to the object 
of his devotion. The programme was as follows : — 



Part I. 



I. 


President’s address, 


Mr. Donahue. 


2. 


Chorus, 


App. Sci. Glee Club. 


3 - 


Song. 


Mr. Edwards. 


4 - 


Recitation, 


Mr. Wright. 


5 - 


Instrumental Solo, 


Mr. Fisk. 


6. 


Song, 


Mr. Dyer. 


7 - 


Glee, 


University Glee Club. 


8. 


Song, 


Mr. Wolf. 


9 - 


Recitation, 


Mr. Thick. 


10. 


Song, 


Mr. White. 


II. 


Song, 


Mr. Scott. 




Part II. 


% 


I. 


Selection, 


University Banjo Club 


2. 


Song, 


Mr. White. 


3 - 


Recitation, 


Mr. Thick. 


4 - 


Instrumental Solo, 


Mr. Fisk. 


5 * 


Recitation, 


Mr. Donald Guthrie. 


6. 


Song, 


Mr. Scott. 


7 - 


Piano Solo, 


Mr. Fairie. 



Mr. Dyer as accompanist contributed greally to the 
success of the evening. 

Considerable interest was manifested at the first ap- 
pearance for the season of the Applied Science Glee Club 
and the University Glee and Banjo Clubs. The acoustic 
properties of the hall are not what they might be, and 
the performers were often heard at a serious disadvan- 
tage. Notwithstanding this, however, all three clubs ac- 
quitted themsel ves admirably, and satisfied the listener 
that they had been making excellent use of their time. 
The performance of the University Glee Club was a 
genuine surpiise. Its first appearance reflected great 
credit on its management, and gave promise of a more 
successful winter’s work. 

Among so much that was excellent, it is difficult to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



125 



particularize. The “hit” of the evening, however, 
was undoubtedly Mr. Scott's song, in which even The 
Fortnightly did not escape its share of attention. 
Mr. Thick’s selections from Artemus Ward were well 
rendered. Mr. Thick may, as he admits, be “ no sur- 
gist,” but how his impersonation of Lord Dundreary 
could be improved upon is certainly “ one of those 
things no fellah can understand.” Mr. Donald Guthrie 
was obliged to wait until the clouds of smoke had to 
some extent moved away, when he related the adven- 
tures of “ Swate Teni O Gallagher" in his own inimit- 
able way. 

A piano solo by Mr. Fairie ended a most successful 
Smoking Concert. 

The piano used on the occasion was kindly loaned 
by Lindsay of St. Catherine St. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



Tuesday, 1 1 a. m. 

First Freshie Say, wasn’t that awful ? ” 

Second Ditto : — “ Well, I should say ! Guess it 
that’s what our Greek exams, are like, I’m in for a 
* sup.’ How is it with you ? ” 

It is suprising with what uniformity the Juniors 
agree in the opinion that is is not easy to write an 
essay on a philosophical subject. Perhaps this is only 
7 iatural under the circumstances. 

A bell is now rung every morning at lo o’clock by 
the janitor, to summon the students to prayers. 
Already the good effects of this innovation are seen in 
the increased attendance. It is acknowledged gen- 
erally that there is some peculiar ‘'occulta vis” in a 
bell to bring people to church. 



ARTS NOTES, 

How tempus is fugiting ! ” as the Junior remarked 
when he suadenly awoke to the fact that examina- 
tions begin in a week. 



We are pleased to note that our honored Dean 
has almost wholly recovered from the indisposition 
that prevented his attendance at the University Lec- 
ture. 



On the evening of Saturday, Nov. i8th, Mrs. Dr. 
J. Clark Murray was “At Home” to the students in 
Honor Philosophy. A pleasant evening was spent. 

Mr. Wm. M. MacKeracher has been chosen Vale- 
dictorian for 1894. 

“ A grind ” was held in the Philosophy class-room 
on Thursday, Nov. 30th, to which all the students of 
the Fourth year were invited. They all speak very 
highly of the entertaining powers of their host, and 
look forward with great pleasure to December i8th, 
for which they have received invitations, 



We are afraid that Thanksgiving Day was not a 
day of continual rejoicing to all the Juniors. We 
learn that many found it advantageous to act upon 
the hint jokingly given by a Senior Professor, namely, 
to use that day in preparation for the exam, in Greek 
the following day. However, they have been thank- 
ful ever since that it is over. 



The Freshmen are wearing rather long faces just 
now, for they have been informed that they will be 
held responsible at the sessional examination for the 
work done in Classics during the whole year. 

Prof, (in Fourth year Latin class). — “ Well, gen- 
tlemen, I’ll give you back your exercises. Ahem ! 

McK . Yes, very good. WTere is McK 

Is McK not here } ” 

One of the students (who knows). — “ Please, sir, 
McK is a Donalda.” 



The h"aculty, with their characteristic forethought 
for the interests and convenience of the students, 
have decided to place the large room formerly occu- 
pied by the Library in the hands of the students, to 
be used by them as a study-room between lectures. 
A committee of students, appointed by themselves, 
will have charge of the room. 

“This should never be,” We do not complain par- 
ticularly about having to walk an extra half-mile and 
back in order to reach the University Gymnasium, 
because it is situated so far from the College, nor do 
we make moan because we must go at a limited num- 
ber of stated hours (a very limited number, indeed) 
or else be compelled to do without gymnastic train- 
ing altogether ; but, when we do have a chance to 
go, it makes us mad all over to be treated to an occa- 
sional shower-bath at unexpected moments, owing to 
the fact that the roof is leaky. Whenever it rains in 
the autumn or spring, or whenever it thaws in winter, 
it is positively dangerous to attend the “gym.” on 
account of the pools of water on the floor and the 
delicious dripping from the ceiling. McGill may need 
a dining-hall, a Union Club, and a lot of other nice 
things, but there is, as we venture to think, nothing of 
which she stands in more immediate need than a 
respectably appointed gymnasium on the college 
grounds. He would be a benefactor, indeed, who 
would undertake to see such a gymnasium constructed. 

Suggested at the last Foot ball match, with 
acknowledgments to the Radiator : 



126 McGILL 



Breathes there the ‘ half ^ with soul so dead 
Who never to himself hath said, 

As the “wings ” all dropped upon his head, 

! ! ! M ! Ml? ’ 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Query : — Why are the reports from our Freshies like 
a machine in equilibrium ? 

Ans: — Because the sum of the moments of the one 
and the sum of the contributions in the other, so 
far, are both equal to zero. 

Miss Warner (Honor Science) has been unani- 
mously chosen as Valedictorian by her class-mates 
The speech in which she returned thanks for the honor 
conferred upon her was rich in promises of a clear 
and distinct articulation, on that auspicious occasion 
when she should be in a position to dwell upon the 
many excellencies of the great “small” class of ’94, 
when even the subdued and final farewell should be 
heard by those occupying seats on the window sills 
at the rear. 

Can anyone inform a Junior whether “get a gait 
on ” or “ get a wiggle on ” is the better slang ? 

Miss J wishes it to be made known that 

legal proceedings have been taken against the person 
who wilfully abstracted her English note-book from 
her desk. 

Why should the presence of our pet reading-room 
mouse have caused such discomfiture to theAlumnje? 
If they had waved a r^Aalogue at him he would have 
cleared. And do tell us where his remains have been 
put, that we may give him decent burial. 



TO GEOLOGICAL STUDENTS. 

Please handle carefully the specimen of Breccia 
found in old caves, for fear ofhurting the tender feelings 
of that student, who remarked in sorrowful tones— 
“ All that remains of poor old grand-pa.” 



“ My good-Ness,” said Greer as he replaced the 
sweet(Mc)Nideron the shelf, “whataKee-n wind is 
blowing to-day ! Say, Richards, won’t you please 
shut the door.” 

“ What’s that Craik-ing noise > ” said MacKeracher. 
“lam unable to Judge,” said the Newcombe-r; 
“but say, I think a walk to the Park-er somewhere 
else would be Dell-ightful, and I’m going.” 

If you’ll let Mac Carry that pipe. I’ll go with you,” 
S lid the reporter, as he thought with re-Morris of 
neglected opportunities in that direction. 

And then followed a great calm. 



Mr. J. J. J udge has, owing to ill health, been obliged 
to return to his home at Troy, N.Y. 



Messrs. Newcomb and Kee have again appeared on 
the scene after a conflict with the “ grip.” 



The whole Faculty, and especially the Second 
year men, are glad to welcome back Mr. Zink, who 
has been ill at his home in Philadelphia for several 
weeks. 



An unusual number of the Final year students are 
confined to their rooms owing to illness, and as the 
Xmas exams, are approaching it makes it still worse. 

The new experimental committee deserve much 
praise for the business-like manner in which they are 
going about their work, and we have no doubt but 
that much benefit will be derived from the change. 

At the Dean’s request, the Students of the Final 
year visited C.P.R. and G.T.R. stables, and saw 
many interesting cases. 

Richard is himself again. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

As hinted in last issue, the class-reporter has been 
aw'ay fishing, and to day we are able to offer at 
reasonable rates the finest and ehoicest samples of 
fish in the market. All these samples are taken 
alive, and are intended for propagation. 

MACKEREL. 

This is a beauty. It was taken near Montreal, 
after a long run up from the sea. It is well marked,' 
being streaked with good luck and spotted for first 
place. It will need care for a while, as it is inclined 
to be caught by any dazzling bait that may be 
thrown to it. We would advise intending purchaser 

to keep bad boys away, as it would be very easily 
taken. 

EEL. 

There was some trouble in deciding to what family 
this specimen belonged, but finally, by referring to a 
well-known expert, one Swindlehurst and another, 
one Barron, together with a few other members of the 
p-aculty of Law, together with a little reference to 
their note-books, determined its family to be that of 

the “ Borrow-all-the-notes-you-canotidae ” It was 

suggested that it had been brought from Holland 
and had accidentally slipped overboard, but this 
theory was quickly given up on observing its vora- 
cious desire for food in the shape of “ notes ” done 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



127 



up in the swindlehurst style with a barren clasp and 
a sawyer proof and seal. It has also wonderful 
tenacity for life, and speaking in round numbers may 
be the “ dark horse” eeler after ‘‘ biding a wee.” 

DORY. 

This is a beautiful specimen, and was brought, 
direct from Europe, where it was caught in the 
Mediterranean. It is better known at home as J. D. 
or “jaune doree,” and true to its name is of a 
brilliant yellowish hue. We do not warrant this fish 
to live very long, however, for already it is giving 
signs of failing power, indicated by the tints of color 
emitted that are as varied as they are beautiful. It 
is a very active fish, too, darting now into one nook 
and again into another. This moment basking, as 
it were, in ecclesiastical sunlight, the next diving into 
a cave of Sauskitical and Hebraic intricacies, and 
anon pulling up in an antiquated rock-shelving, where, 
for the space, often, of sixty mortal seconds, it lies 
panting and dreaming between the lost-folds of the 
missing sheets of the palimpsest on which Gains 
stamped his undying name. 

SHARK. 

It is not often that the students of McGill are 
permitted to gaze on a real live shark ; but this week, 
thanks to the skill of the class-reporter, we are 
enabled not only to grant the privilege of an exhibi- 
tion but even to sell a live shark, — indeed we are not 
quite sure but he is sold already. However, it’s a 
question of time, you know— and a little coal oil, 
until this man-eater shall have demolished every 
“ limb ” of the law, and every “ member ” of the 
Faculty. In considering the advisability of letting 
him go, our friends advised that we give a freeexhibi. 
tion of our shark next April, when it is believed that 
someone will be willing to illustrate the peculiar 
manner of fighting adopted by this shark, and to fully 
demonstrate that when he is about to seize his prey 
he turns upon his side or back ^ that is the auspicious 
moment to gain an advantage over him. In the 
meantime, as we feed him daily, we shall endeavor to 
find out which way he most frequently inclines, and 
give the hint accordingly. 

WHALE. 

We have not space left sufficient to set forth the 
good qualities of this specimen, but we feel it our 
duty to state that it is the conviction of those who 
know most about his moods and methods, that he 
gives unmistakable signs of returning man-eating pro- 
clivities and it is feared that should any “ person ” 
accidentally trip on a ‘‘ Ro-man Law (g'’) and fall in, 
his bill” would be in danger, and he would receive 
such a ''cheque” that he would have such a “con- 



tract ” on hand to get out again that the '' Legal 
History” of his condition could scarcely be written. 
But seriously, it is believed that this whale is deter- 
mined to swallow Jonas at Xmas, and, on the other 
hand, it is held on equally good authority, that even 
admitting this and further admitting, for argument 
sake, that he does swallow Jonas at Xmas, it is be- 
lieved that Jonas will make it so uncomfortable for 
him that by April he will be glad to unload, and 
Jonas will come out all right. Still, the matter is 
at present unsatisfactory, as none of the higher 
courts have, as yet, pronounced upon it. Indeed, 
it has not come square before any of the courts, but 
there will be a kind of enquete somewhere about 
Xmas. 



We offer our congratulations to Prof. J. S. Archibald 
on his elevation to the bench as a Judge of the Sup- 
erior Court. His is a well-deserved honor. 



Has anybody read “Jones on Petitions”.^ 

A law student wants to know if a cross examina- 
tion is ever a good-natured one ? 

“ May it please your Honor, I desire to apply for 
a writ of ' supersedeas^ ” said a lank, cadaverous-look- 
ing member of the bar. 

•' A very appropriate request,” said a bystander. 

Sydney Bartlett, when 90 years of age, conducted 
in masterly style a difficult case before the Suffolk 
bar. 

A French authority states that 200,000 laws have 
been passed in France since the Revolution, and yet 
we understand that J— s is going to make a summary 
of them when he gets through with the Canadian 
subject. 

At the last meeting of the “ Moot Court,” Prof 
Lafleur presided. The question was one of Domi- 
cile, and the counsel were Sawyer and Donahue for 
the plaintiffs and Barron and Mullen for the defend- 
ants. The judgment has been reserved. 

Several new works on different branches of law 
are expected to be issued shortly after April 27, 
1894. The following is a partial list of titles and 
authors : 

Internoscia on “Ecclesiastical and Civil Polity.” 

Jones on “Petitions.” 

Cox on “ Getting There.” 

Sheridan on “ Infants and other dependants.” 



128 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



AIEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

A meeting was held recently to elect representa- 
tives to take part in the annual dinners of the Medi- 
cal faculties of Toronto and Trinity Universities. 
These positions are usually much sought after, and the 
students bent themselves to the task with their usual 
energy. Messrs. Gorrell and Henderson were nom- 
inated for Toronto, and Messrs. Colvin and McLaugh- 
lin for Trinity. The ballot resulted in the election of 
Messes Gorrell and McLaughlin. 



Mr. Max Lanterman represented the McGill Medi" 
cals at the dinner of Bishop’s Medical Faculty. He 
was elected by acclamation to fill this office, and took 
with him the confidence and good wishes of all. VVe 
hear that he made a neat speech, which was very well 
received, and acquitted himself as we well knew he 
would. 

The following gentlemen have been appointed from 
the Third year on the committee of the Annual Faculty 
Dinner : Messrs. E. H. Saunders and J. E. Robertson. 



"‘Tipperary and Waterford are both in Ireland, 
gentlemen.” 

There seems to be an epidemic of “ new growths ” 
at present, causing much hypertrophy of the hair 
follicles and sebaceous glands of the face. “ Coming 
events cast their shadows before.” Can you Afart 
the Link of connection ? 



“ Did you the earthquake ? ” 



No matter how happy and pleasant a man may 
seem, he always has a skeleton in his midst. 



The Meds took part in the opening of the Royal 
Victoria Hospital, to which they were kindly invited. 
They went, and a picked team took part in the pro- 
ceedings, by rendering the National Anthem and a 
variety of other college ballads. More will be heard 
about this in our next. — 

Student (to patient;— “ Do you think your eves 
are all right ? ” 

Patient.— “ Sure, sor, the Dochthor looked through 
me head wid a lamp, an’, sez he, there’s blotches on 
the back av it.’* 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The “At Home” committee is enjoying a well 
earned rest. 



There was a young Freshman called Bill, 
Who entered the halls of McGill. 

Were the size of his brain 
But a match for his cane, 

His marks had been higher than u//. 



'The Second year man who tries to work his descrip- 
tive geometry out of a Hymnal cannot keep agreein' 
that he was fortunate in not catching the Professor’s 
eye. 



The Second year essays continue to show powers 
of observation and expression not commonly as.so- 
ciated with tender years, as the following extract will 
show : — 

“Climate has also an important effect on com- 
j:)lexion, as anyone may see who takes a trip through 
the Maritime Provinces, where there are more pretty 
girls to the square inch than in any other part of the 
world.’ 



At a meeting of the four years on the 2ist ult., 
Mr. W. F. Angus, ’95, was chosen as the representative 
from Science on the Business Board of the Fort- 
nightly. 



The Reading Room committee have done good 
work, and the supply of magazines is now better than 
ever before. The annual sale was very successful, and 
greatly improved its finances. There is still room for 
improvement, however. It is to be regretted that so 
many men do not see their way clear to support sucli 
an excellent institution. 



It is said that a prominent Senior is disappointed 
because s has no place on the tables this year. 

At the auction “The Idler, gentlemen, edited by 
the authors of Three Men in a Boat ?iV\d Pilgrims Pro- 
gress T ^ 



It is rumored that the Science members of the 
2nd and 3rd XV’s are going to present the photo- 
graphs of their respective teams to our Readin<r 
Room. ® 



1 he Paculty regulations to be enforced in future 
with respect to Supplemental were read with the 
keenest interest. We are proud of our Faculty ; but 
nothing, we say it sorrowfully, causes us greater pain 
than the lack of tact they sometimes display in settino- 
papers and dealing with exams. "" 



^ ^tuucuLs visiiea tne 

St Hem 1 cotton mills on Friday, and spent the day 
m taking indicator cards from the looo H. P. engine 

ruhfthT'f mysteries. There is no 

doubt that, should opportunity ofifer. students in other 
courses would greatly enjoy “ personally conducted " 

ZZ 7 f" which may b! of 

interest from an engineering point of view. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



129 



Science stood firm amid the dangers of the earth- 
quake on Monday. While all others were panic- 
stricken, Science (with a big S.) calmly pulled out its 
stop watches. But then earthquakes are so soothing 
to one’s nerves after listening to the class yell of 
Science ’96. 

COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

The “ Rambler from Binscarth ” displays an acti- 
vity that should be encouraged. 



Mr. Henry Cleveland has resigned his position on 
the Business Board of the FORTNIGHTLY. The stu- 
dents selected J. C. Cutting, ’95, to fill the vacancy. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

FINE FURS 



The reported gale is getting in its work and caus- 
ing great devastation in Cleveland, and the natives of 
Vankleek Hill are taking precautionary measures. 



Gentlemen’s Pur Caps 




i£{calimg Notes. 



CHOICEST QUALITY 

. . . AND . . . 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the lurk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally arc now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



A Persian walnut upright piano may be seen in the windows 
of L. E. N* Pratte’s piano ware rooms, No. 1676 Notre Dame 
Street. With regard to its musical qualities, it is only neces- 
sary to mention that it is a duplicate of the instrument bought 
a few weeks ago by Prof. D. Ducharme, organist of the Gesu> 
for his own use as well as that of his advanced pupils. 

It has been manufactured at Mr. L- H. N. Pratte’s establish- 
ment, and it is a beautiful piece of art work. The case might 
be mistaken for marble, although it is perfectly natural wood 
without the least stain or graining. 



LATEST FASHIONS, 



From $5.00 



Cor. Notre !Dame and St. Lambert Streets. 



N.B. — Open Saturday evenings till 9.30. 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGiLL Fortnightly. . . 

The menihers cf this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats dr» Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



F or Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

880 to 386 St. Paul Street, 



Montreal 



130 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHUKCH, 

Corner St. Ca'.hcrine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 



SERVICES SUNDAYS: ii a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 




Indian ’feo Depot 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street ) 

p ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. G. LeMESURIER 



GET YOUR 



^ (DcGill FoPtnightl9 



. . . BOUND AT . . . 



LOVELL & SON, 




23 St. Nicholas Street, 



Telephone 230. 



Montreal. 



Call at the 



= HOLLY CIGAR STORE. 



and give us your custom for Imported and 

Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— Colleg-e Cigrars and Pepique Mixture 



m. BEimpifli (, co.7=t. 



—2397 

CATHERINE STREET. 







TO HTHLETES. 




Fool BOl 



Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 



Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 




REICHERT’S 

niCKOSCOFES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 

Plicro. HcGBSsories 
Clinical TI|erii)oii|Blers 
tfijpoderiiiiG Syringes 
LarynyosGopic lilirrors 
OpilialniGSGopGS 
SiBlIiosGopes 
Specula of all patlerns 
Sculls and SkalGions 
Cspiralors, BatleriBS 
PockBt CasBS, bIg., bIc. 



STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 



CD 



E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms. 



j^phillips square 



at very reasonable prices. 



PATERSON & FOSTER 

^ • . VVHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



131 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 



ll 






m 




lAlflHG POWDER.^ 



IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



5eQSon l898*4 




I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 

complete • 

Special Discount to Students. 



Tie COOK'S MEM is retaiW Ij all W Gracers. 



Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. . . . . . • 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. D. McLaren, 

MONTREAL. 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

INSPECTION INVITED. 135 St. PCtCP StPCCt. 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS SO FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OP ADMISSION — Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Stu^’ents, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For fiiriher particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR, KRUSE, Manager 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 

Q OT FLOWERS . . y 

JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (COR. PEEL), 

^ Tel. 4911. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(BngroDet, 

118 Mansfield Street, comer of St. Catherine. 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 

Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 

J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S., 

DENTIST, 

MCiNTREAL. 

49 UNION AVENUE. 

W. H. HOJPE, 

Manufacturer of 
Importer of 

Steel Engravings, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., ^ontreaL 

p^gilding donEi mirrors resilvered. 



Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 



, JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER DECORATOR, 

Fine Wall Papers . • . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

VI0E-KE6AL DECOEATOES ANO FLOEISTS. 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5* F)dvidson Sons, 

Branch 174 St. James St. Conservatories Cote .St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL. 9324 and 1754. 

SAMUEL S. GEANT. 

1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 

SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, 

Hours 9 a. 111 . to 8 p.iii. 

HtNRY GRANT i SON. Corner Dorchester Street. 

NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 

Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES. 

199 ST. ANTOINE ST. and 2647 ST. OATHEEINE ST. 




132 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 




The EDISON PHONOGRAPH 



For sale by the Edison Phonograph 6^ Densmore 
Typewriter Agency, 1744 Notre Dame Street, 
Montreal 



Telephone 2963 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 



All the Books required for the 





The GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving and Printing Co. 



rOLLECSE, (LLin AXJ) 

s OVIK T y puiynxcr 



169 St. Street 



programmes 

menus 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



The American Fur Store 

Ittamifaduring JiurriiTs 
Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 

BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St., McGill College Ave, 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluids d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 



An elTectual remedy for chapped hands, lij^s and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 



A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, I lay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist- 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2.352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Kstablis lied 1859. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders>ttended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McCILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE: UPTOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. | 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



MOKTOli, PEIUIFS & CO. 



ST A.TIOISTE5R.S, 

PtANK BOOK MAKERS 

AND PRINTERS. 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 








McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



133 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Liiiiibpr of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers hi Square a ul Flat Phio, Hemloek, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Olilu Square W Ite Oak aUvays in Stock 
and Cut to Ok' r. 



Poilxt St. Clna.i:»leSy 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., lumber Dealers, 

725 OF?>iLZC3- STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine I.umber, Mahogany, Black 
AValuut, Cherry <>u irtered a i,l t*l ihi Oa'v, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc, 

JOHN PAXTON & CO. 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 



lVEoriti?e£i<l. 

GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY IIOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men 3 vols., cloth 50 reduced from $5.00 

Lord Lytton’s Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3 00 ** 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ •* 7.50 “ 12.00 

P. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 



IVLOSCS 

IRON FOUNDER 



AND MICA AXLE GREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

Petal and (ijrarcl |loofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR 'BASEMENTS. 



19 to 29 fDalhousie St-, 

ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 



WI&III0«. PRISOII I CO. 



SAMUEL nOGEUS & CO., DUNCAN ROBERTSON, 

TORONTO. MONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 

LUBRICATING :OILS: ILLUMINATING 



(IJJ Gold Medals in G years.) 



Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St. Catherine St., Mo.ntreal. 



GREASES NAPHTHA. 

B ell Te leph one 91 90. 92 McGill St., Montreal. 



— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WlJfSOR & NEWTON, Artists Clolormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A, RAMSAY & SON. Agents' for Can.ida. MONTREAI . 

CS-.&C-J. ESIPILiIISr 

Box 

AND 

Offic®, 126 Duke Srteet. Montreal. 



S. 

mil in MD FBra PAIHTEB. 

All kinds of Paper-Hiinglng.s in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenier and Freiiht DESIRED MOTOR. 




ttmro!i.&loiiis 



106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL 




134 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 



Largest Fire Office in the World. 



Unlimited Liability. Absolute Security, 

Every description of property insured at moderate late.s of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATLEY, ^laiiasfor. 

OEO. SIMPSON, A««!9iMtaiit Mana^^er. 

E. Hurtubise, ^Special Agents James Allix, I Special Agents 

Alfred Si. Cyk, S French Dept. *\V. S. Robkktson, | English Dept. 

of G. R. Robert-.on & Lons. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sa ling Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DU«ING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Lake Ontario, Tons, t'apt. fiimpbell. Uke .Siiiierior, 5.11)0 Tons, Stowart. 

Lake Huron, .5000 Tons, Capt. I'arey. Lake W iviiipeg. 1.500 Tons, Capt. Ilerriuian. 

Lake .\ipigon, 1000 Tons. (apt. Taylnr. 

The Steamers of this I ine have been built specially for the tiantic P.assenger 
1 rade. T he slate rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Slip©ri<'r 

accommocirttion f^r all classes of p8ss®ng’ers at vei y low races, 
specially r© suced rates durin? winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, (General Manager, 4 Cu.stoiii House S(|iiarc, 
l\/IOTSr'X’I2, E 



McCASKILL, DOUGALL & CO. 



Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Fine 



VARHI 511 E 5 , jIAPANS 
and — 



. . . MONTREAL . . . 



V - _ 

SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 




WARDSIff KIIffG &. son 

(Late Pogeks & King.) 



Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot WatT Heaters, the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST.. MONTREAL 



«<ICANADA LIFE>- 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 

HEAD OFFICE, HAMILTON, OyT. 

Capital and Funds over 13i030.000 Dollars, 

Annual IncDm3 over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov, of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL, 

EDWARD L. BOND 

j#irc and Parinc (diuImnitiT 
No 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foieiga Marine Insurance Co. 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 



London Assurance Cumpany (Fire) 



TME MOESOlSrS BAN^K. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up , . $2,000,000 | Rest, .$1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

mREi'TORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Maepherson. 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwo .d, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES, -Aylmer, Ont.. Brockvilje, Calgary, N.W T., Clinton Exeter. 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, M irrisburg, Norwich, Ou iw i, ll.vcn Sound* 
Ridgetown, Smith's Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Tnomas, On^, Toronto, I'oron o’ 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Out , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Oat. 
u Banking Co.* and The Alliance 

Bank (Limited): Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; .Messrs. M.jrtoo, Rose & Co 
Uver^ooi.—Thti Bank ot Liverpool. CoW^-Manscer and Leinuer Baiik, Limited’ 
Lyonnais. Antjver^, Belgium.— L t, Banqaed* Anvers. Hambur 's 
—Hesse, Newm in & Co. * 

XI agents IN UNI I ED S I A TES . — Neio JVrF. —Mechanics’ N.itional Bank 
Mes^srs. Morion, Bliss & Co ; Messrs. W. W.itson, K. V. Habdea and S. A Sheo* 
herd. Agents Bank of .Montrcil; National City Llanlc, also in the principal cities 
of the United Slates, ^ 

Collections made in all parts of the D>minion, and returns promptly reinitte l at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the vVorld. 



HENDERSON BROS. 

dumber ami i'imber 

Steccm ScLW ctjxd I^lcuiing Jdills 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling^ Wood always In Stock 

H« R. IVES 6 l OOm 

^ Architectural Irou Works 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 

Queen Street MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



135 




GURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 



Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR FHRN ACES 
RADIATORS, REOISTERS 
STEEL RAN6ES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

‘‘ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES/* sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOOKS AND SCALES 



300 cfc 387 St. 1 St. 



ivTorcTniiJ 



IH09 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



€<traorbin:irjj JJircctora. 

The Rt. Hon, The Earl of Strathmore I 1 he Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen | The Hon. Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon Lord Forbes 



Invented ill C'niiacla. nearly 
Total Assets, - - - 



85,000,000 

52,053,710 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal — 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



FIRE INSURA1ICE ASSOCIATION 

(rjiH^jarEUD) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CANADIAN BOARll: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., | _ actors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada. 



ESTABI.ISIIEO 1872. 



The 



Guarantee Gotnp’y 



OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 

Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

Mall BalldlDffa. MEDLAND A JOXES, AK«nts 



The Liverpool & London S Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, 

One of the Largrest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally ailjusted ..... 

C3r. IP. C. SlsdllTII, 

(chief agent CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL. 



Insure your Property with the. 

Phosnix Insurance Co. 

TIME TRIED 



OF 

HARTFORD 



and FIRE TESTED 



GERALD HART, 

Genera! Manager for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



Nortlierii Assurance Fo, 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada— 1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



Income and funds is92. 



Capital and Acumulatcd Funds $35t730»ooo 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds ,• • • 5»495 ooo 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Policy Holders 200,000 

ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 

City Agent: BROWNING British Empire Building. 




136 


McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




Gr£«.ir^]r>. Co «9 




Hot Water, Steam k Sanitary Engineers 


' '' ^ ^ 9 ^ 9 P ^ ‘ 


— TO THE 




McGill Unicersity Building, 




Royal Victoria Hospital, 




Board off Trade Building. 




*lans and Estimates Given on Application. 



• pOBERT GARDNER & 

MANUFACTURERS OF 



Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, eto., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 

Nazareth^ Brennan and Dalhousie Sts., MONTREAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 



PRACTICAL 



l^oiisi; aiib ^IfHiiilioal Jtotfesaiill| anb ©pai-ral ^lacksaiillt 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPENTERS’ and BUILDERS' WORK TO ORDER 

- MONTRe./VU 



762 and 764 CRAIC STREET, West of Victoria Square, 

Bell Xeleplioiie ISo, 2591 






Manufacturers of. 




^CLSi CU±cL ^ 

^LpcULcl 

Enfjineer.s\ Plmnbers\ Gas and Steamfitters^ Goods. 
Office k Showroom, 8 Bleury St. ^ 71 /T j 

Factory, St. Cunegonde, iVIOntreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 
^duocates, barristers, ^‘c., 

ajTE'w "sroRK XjI^’e buil. ditto-, 

MONTREAL. 

B. D. McOIBBOK, Q.C. PEERS DAVIDSON. 

GEORGE BRUSH ,^ 33 HstabliaTied im. — ^ 

EAOUE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OF 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

OfiBce 34 King St. Tel. No. 435. 

ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 

SCOTCH DRAIN PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, FLUE COVERS, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, VENT LININGS, 
ENAMELLED SINKS, 

CALCINED PLASTER, WHEELBARROWS, 
HAND BARROWS, GARDEN VASES, COAL OIL, 
LADDERS, POLES, 

MORTAR AND BRICK, HODS, &c. 

Portland, Roman and Canada Cements 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 

BOYD 6L CO. Telephone 1996^ 

Custom Hbuse and Forwarding Agents and Warekousemen 

13 COHIMEONJ ST'R-KEX, MOI^XK-EAL. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal : — Messrs, H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
Gillespie, Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co.. D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. .Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 

TRIANGLE, 
SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

Special Discounts to Students. 

HEARN Sb HARRISON, notrVdame 
W. & F. P. CURRIE a CO. 

lOO GREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiling, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WEITEFOEB k TEEOKBT 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

bnolisi^Il^rs, publishers and b®®libind^rs 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly Law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Leg^ale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

To be Out Shortly:— Crankshaw’s Grimiiial Code of Canada, 1892- 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

^duocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 

J. B. Abbott C. S. Campbell 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. H. J. Hague F. E. Meredith 

ATWATER & MACKIE 

Kduofates, barristers, (Commissioners, etc. 

O LD STANDARD . BUILDIiyC .|^r^ 15^ J-p. JAMES STREET, 
IMTOnSTTR^Kl^rj 

J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 

Telephone 1880 Cable Address, “Arefost.” 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.F.P. Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 

Albert J. Brown W. Prescott Sharp 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN 5 SHARP,. 

Jidootatts, garrisltrs and Solicitors, 

: .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Farquhar S. Maclennan 

MACMASTER & MACLENNAN : 

Jdnotalts, garrisicre, (Etc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 





