Vol. VII 



No. 8 



McGILL 

UMVEBSITT GAZETTE 

Saturday, March 1st, 1884. 




The Funeral of a Village Girl 
Editorials - 
Contributions - 



C O NTENTS : 



PACE. 

1 

1-3 

3-6 



College World, McGill 
“ “ General 

Between the Lectures 



PACE. 

6 - 7 

7 - 9 
9-11 



MONTREAL : 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 

1834 



i 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 

****** 

J L*y W W'tar' m W' W ) ^ mm * *r W' m * irW' < m * W ) UW 4^ • 

13 HOSPITAL STREET, 

MON TREAIi. 

N. w Trenholme. M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor, b.A B C.L W. E. Dickson, B.C.L. 

WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner for the Provinces of (hence, Ontario & Manitoba, 

1 18 ST. JAMES STREET. 



Magmaster, Hutghinson & Weir, 

-Y7fDYQC7ITE f S$-<- 



'm* m * m'm <> m’ ^ m W j G V m L* + U & * W y C*m • 

1 G 2 QT. STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. M Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L 




Oreenshields, MgGorkill & Querin, 

A3> V ©CATES, 

cSawUhri, JhiorneijS, §alkitori f <yc. 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

-ZOi? >S£. Frcuxcois Jtcuvien' St., 

TUTO]\rTn33A.Ij. 

J N. Greenshields. J. C. MCCORKILL Edmund Guerin. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. • 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

|oiarie;«, ^ornmiaaiotterji, ^anuepncers, H. 

-WfcJiI?IRRI^GE^ItICE]5S!ES!-J-IJ5J5aED*^ 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 



J 



♦* A. PSBUa» : ^ 
§|s&w Boaltscllcf, 

IMPOETEP. AND BINDER, 

71 ST, JANIES ST. j St. Lambert Hill, “ d MONTREAL. 

SPECIAL TEEMS TO STUDENTS. 



JOSH HENDEESOH & GO. 




283 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlio “ MoGrllilj ” Rilotoori. for sale. 



-M&WM. hill«h- 







•+• ROOMS AT ♦ irv 9 

No. 1323 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

— AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

1 |chIW, 

NO. 133 ST. PETER STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MILITARY UNIFORMS A SPECIALTY. 




A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 



IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED, *^3 

LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. BA UL STREET, 




Vol. VII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 1st, 1884. [No. 8. 



SMLIUi ZIEIYERIEH SEZE1M. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



Consulting Editor — E. Lafleur, B.A. 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’SI, A]>. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
W; W. White, B.A. *86, Med. 
S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, '84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published .fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



THE FUNERAL OF A VILLAGE GIRL. 

(From the French of M. Brizeux.) 

When fair Louise, half child, half woman, died 
Like some frail blossom crushed by wind and rain, 

Her bier was followed by no mourning train. 

One priest alone accompanied who sighed 
Brief prayers, to which in accents soft and low, 

A boy-attendant answered, full of woe. 

Louise was poor : in death — our common lot — 

The rich have honours which the poor have not. 

A simple cross of wood — a faded pall — 

These were her funeral honours — this was all — 

And when the sexton from the cottage room 
Conveyed her light young body to the tomb, 

A bell toll’d faintly, as if loth to say 
So sweet a maiden had been call’d away. 

’Twas thus she died— and thus, by hill and dale, 

’Mid broom whose fragrance floated on the gale, 

And past green cornfields, at the dawn of day, 

The scant procession humbly took its way. 

April had lately burst upon the earth 
In all the glory that attends her birth, 

And tenderly upon the passing bier 

She snowed her blossoms, and she dropp’d her tear. 

Flowers, pink and white, arrayed the hawthorn now, 

While starry buds were trembling on each bough : 

Sweet scents and harmonies the air caress’d, 

And every bird was warbling in its nest. 

Geo. Murray. 



editorials. 



There are few things more interesting and absorbing for us 
than matters connected with literature and science. Not that 
we pretend to any surpassing intimacy with the one or the other 
of these two great departments of human knowledge, to know 
either of which, even in an imperfect way, requires a lifetime of 
constant application. But it is not necessary for the imbuing 
of a man with a love of literature or with a love of science 
that he should have read, marked and learned every morsel that 
has ever been written, even in his own language, or have weighed 
and considered every theory propounded since the time when 
the earliest philosophers of Greece speculated concerning the 
origin of the world. Much less does to inspire one with a love 
of literature or with a love of science. So it was not remark- 
able that we should have had our attention arrested the other 
day by an account given by a Her^d reporter of a mission 
which he undertook amongst the booksellers and librarians of 
this city for the purpose of finding out something about the 



pursuit of literature by our citizens. The state of tilings dis- 
closed cannot fail to lie dispiriting to the small remnant who 
have some other aim in life than to amass colossal fortunes, or 
to become members of the Hunt, or, as trained athletes, to 
break records. A literary decadence has set in in Montreal ; so 
the booksellers tell us. It must be a relief to feel that the 
decadence cannot last much longer, for the little love and 
knowledge of literature that was amongst us twenty years ago 
has been so steadily decreasing during this period — if we are to 
believe the booksellers and librarians — that there can be but 
little left at the present time to take away from. Perhaps the 
tide having reached its lowest point may soon begin to turn, — 
or peMiaps not. Such a low state have we now reached that our 
litterateurs may be counted by the half-dozen, we cannot find 
enough people anxious to hear such a man as Matthew Arnold 
to fill a small hall, and three-fourths of those who did go to hear 
him were not intelligent enough to appreciate what he said. 
Our youth, instead of developing a taste for literature, think 
rather of developing their muscles, and of how they are to get rich 
enough to join the Hunt, or make a fine display on our fashion- 
able streets, while all their spare evenings are taken up going to 
hear the plays which Mr. Sparrow provides for their edification 
and amusement in Cotte Street. The attention of our young 
ladies is divided between out-door sports, parties, and the 
romantic adventures related in the cheaper style of novels. Our 
boys affect dime novels, our more elderly citizens seek ease and 
spirituous liquors at the clubs, while our sisters pine after the 
band at the rink. Such is the picture drawn by the sarcastic 
bookseller, whom the Herald reporter first encountered on his 
tour of investigation. Selling books seems to be bitter work in 
Montreal, if one is to judge from the wailing and lamentation 
which the gentlemen engaged in the trade gave forth on this 
occasion. But their account is, no doubt, somewhat exaggerated. 
We do not desire to claim a Bostonian character for Montreal ; 
we do not even deny that we can make but a sorry show, so far as 
literary culture is concerned ; but surely we do not wallow in the 
mire so completely as these booksellers and librarians would 
have our friends believe. A writer, whom it is hard for us not 
to believe to have been at one time either a bookseller or a 
librarian, writes to the same paper complaining that when a 
Boston lady asked him to show her where our literary people 
lived, he felt so ashamed for his dear city that he was as an ass 
that is dumb. Our citizens of literary tastes do not occupy 
whole terraces nor cover the mountain with their castles. And 
yet that Boston lady could not have travelled much beyond her 
native city or else her observational powers were not of that 
character which the fact of her coming from Boston would have 
led one to expect. Nevertheless, we think there are men of 
literary tastes in Montreal, not in legions, perhaps, but in hun- 
dreds. So that we do not believe much in this great literary 
decadence. For when one talks of a decadence, it is naturally 
presumed that there has first been some extraordinary activity 
from which the falling off takes place. In Montreal we have 
had no such literary activity and no such falling off. For its 



9 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



size, we consider that Montreal will compare favourably with 
other cities on this continent. One is apt to think of Montreal 
as a city of about two hundred thousand inhabitants, and to 
judge of its performances accordingly. This is a great mistake, 
since there are only about sixty thousand English-speaking inhab- 
itants, and at present we are speaking of them only. We are not 
sufficiently acquainted with the literary class of our French popu- 
lation to be able to speak of its numbers or attainments. Then, 
again, this population of sixty thousand is largely given up to 
commercial employment, so that those who have leisure for lit- 
erary pursuits are not very many. A man who spends the 
whole of the day over a desk, prefers, in the evening, some 
lighter recreation than that to be got out of books. Our book- 
sellers and librarians say that our young men are too much given 
to out-door sports, and, perhaps, the accusation is well-founded. 
Certainly we cannot be devoted to literature and athletics at 
the same time, although the most industrious reader or writer 
can always find time to enjoy, to a large extent, the invigorat- 
ing sports of our country. This evil of too much athletics is 
much felt, at the present moment, in the American Universities, 
but it cannot be said to have as yet appeared in our own. The 
evil with us, we imagine, lies rather the other way. But out- 
side the University the case is different. There are not very 
many clubs or associations of a literary character in the city, and 
most young fellows devote their energy to becoming gladiators, or 
to enjoying society in the ordinary way. But when we come to 
consider the inducements to, and facilities for literary pursuits 
existing in Montreal, does it seem very wonderful that the citizens, 
as a whole, are indifferent to these things! Where, for in- 
stance, are our public libraries ! Where, the counter attractions 
to the gymnasiums and the billiard rooms ! That reporter only 
performed half his task. He should have enquired of the book- 
sellers and librarians what they thought to be the causes of the 
present state of things, and what remedies were to be applied. 

“ The less you say about literature in this city the better,” is 
the desponding remark of the publisher who sells books im- 
ported under a duty of thirty or forty per cent., while the libra- 
rians have no better consolation for us than to tell us that the 
books most in request are sensational novels. Surely these men 
of books know how this condition of things could be bettered 
if we can only persuade them to tell us. In the meantime we 
do not despair. We refuse to believe in this literary decadence, 
and we think that for an essentially commercial city of such a 
size, Montreal is not so very much behindhand after all. Of 
course, our University has been the most powerful influence, 
after the booksellers and librarians, in keeping alive what interest 
in literature has hitherto been manifested, and the centre of 
influence it must continue to be. 

We are glad to hear that the Committee appointed to compile 
a new song book for McGill is meeting with great encourage- 
ment in its labours. A large amount, several hundreds of 
dollars, we believe, has already been guaranteed for the pur- 
pose, and we have no doubt that with a little exertion a sum 
can be raised sufficient to enable us to have a really good col- 
lection of songs published. We again wish the Committee all 
success in their work. 



It is satisfactory to us to know that the course of public lec- 
tures specially intended for the benefit of the students of Applied 
Science has been so far well attended. The faculty of Applied 
Science owes much of its success to the energy and ability of 



[ 1884 . 

Prof. Bovey, and its usefulness has been extended by his late 
efforts in inducing engineers of high standing to deliver lectures 
before the students. In view of the great disadvantages under 
which the faculty is labouring, such as the want of means and 
a too limited number of professors, we think no better scheme 
could have been devised for the benefit of the students. The 
session is now too far advanced to admit of many more lectures 
being given, but we hope they will be continued next winter. 

We were glad to find so close a similarity between the theories 
relating to bridge construction, enunciatad by Mr. Peterson in 
his lecture, and those of onr Lecturer in civil engineering. It 
will help to encourage Science men in the study of a difficult 
subject, and may prevent them from foolishly questioning 
the utility of theoretical knowledge. 

The University Literary Society is an institution of which we 
do not feel very proud. For a number of years it has been 
dragging on a wearisome existence, ever threatening to die of 
inanition. During the present session the debates have been 
attended on an average by about a dozen members, and a great 
many of them have been but solemn or unsolemn mockeries. 
For instance, on the 15th February a subject was appointed for 
discussion which was of the greatest public interest, and should 
have given rise to an able and animated debate— it was the 
l niversity question which is at present attracting so much 
attention in Ontario. That meeting was an unmitigated dis- 
grace to the Society. None of the appointed speakers attended, 
and the whole proceedings were turned into a farce. In the earlier 
part of the season a semi-public debate was held, but it cannot 
be said to have been a very great success. The Annual Public 
Debate, which has usually been the one thoroughly successful 
meeting of the year, has been postponed indefinitely, practically 
because it was found an impossibility to get it up. This state 
of affairs is not due in any degree to the officers of the Society, 
who have been doing their utmost to make it a credit to the 
University. It is the result of the apathy of the members in 
general. We could name numbers of graduates who profess 
themselves supporters of the Society, who now and again, on 
'such occasions, for instance, as the annual meeting for the election 
of officers, treat the Society to the pleasure of their company, 
but who on ordinary occasions are very conspicuous by their 
absence. It is to be hoped that with these gentlemen the love 
of notoriety does not exceed tire love of literature. We are glad 
to know that the Undergraduates’ Literary Society forms a con- 
trast in most respects to the senior institution, and is altogether 
a credit to tire members. We look forward almost with despair 
to the future of the University Society unless some local habita- 
tion for our graduates is found, in which case it is our opinion 
that a considerable impetus will be given to the work of this 
and other societies. 



A number of people have lately complained to us of the rule 
which forbids any of the books given to the University library 
by the Hon. Judge Mackay from being taken out to be read. 
We be | love lt was one of conditions upon which Mr. Mackay 
gave his collection that the br oks in it should not be allowed 
to be taken out, and of course his wish in this matter must be 
carried out. The collection is principally composed of law 
books and reports, most or all of which are useful only to the 
law student. Now the complaint is, and we consider it a very 
well founded one, that these books under the present rule are 
almost useless, because lawyers and law students, who alone are 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



likely to make use of them, are unable to come up to college 
in the daytime and spend hours reading in the library. If they 
could take them out and read them at home, much instruction 
and benefit would be derived, which is certainly not the case at 
present. No one appreciates more than we do the intrinsic 
value of the gift which Mr. Mackay so generously bestowed 
upon the University, but the value of that gift would be so much 
enhanced if more facilities were given to readers that we venture 
to express the hope that the learned and generous donor may be 
prevailed upon to allow the present restrictions to be removed, 
since they prevent this valuable acquisition from becoming even 
more valuable in becoming more accessible. We do not wish 
to appear ungrateful or unappreciative, but we are sure that no 
one will recognize the justice of our proposal more fully than 
Mr. Mackay himself when his attention is properly drawn to 
the matter. 

We have received an anonymous communication upon a subject 
of considerable interest, from some one who signs himself “One 
who knows.” We feel bound, on account of the grave nature 
of the accusations contained in this letter, to enforce our rule 
with regard to anonymous communications, but if the writer will 
send us his name, we shall most willingly insert his letter in 
our next issue. 



(Sontributions. 



Books and their Influence. 

( Continued ) 

AVe are not prepared to pronounce a sweeping condemnation 
of novels, but we must freely confess that in our opinion a 
large proportion of our modern novels had better be burnt. 
Of moral influence, or of useful information, they have about 
as much as the foam of a glass of beer has of substantial nutri- 
ment. Such reading unfits the mind for successful work, ruins 
the memory, destroys aptitude for study, fills the mind with 
romantic and silly ideas of life, and so unsettles people that 
they are incapable of that steady application which brings com- 
fort and independence to those who are content to work and 
wait. They are nothing if not sensational. They deal in slang, 
and are coarse, even when they are not actually vicious. They 
create a false belief that wealth and fame are easily and quickly 
won, even by those who have neither education, natural fitness, 
nor persistent application. They destroy the natural and 
healthful appetite for useful reading and study, and even the 
best of them fritter away time, which, if spent in reading use- 
ful matter, would suffice to thoroughly educate the reader in 
his chosen occupation. 

Sir John Lubbock made a capital point against books that 
would be better burnt, in an address to the med cal students of 
King’s College Hospital. Such malarious volumes, which the 
banker-entomologist did not hesitate to term deadly poison, con- 
tained, said Sir John, “The bacteria of mental disease, as cer- 
tain in their operations as any of the infusions of the physiolo- 
gist ! ” The warning was most timely and lends force to any 
statements as to the insidious working of pernicious literature. 
It is to be hoped that thoughtless devourers of garbage in 
disguise may take alarm at the dangerous bacteria the learned 
member for the London University held up in terrorem. Nor 
need this be any deprivation. For there would still remain 
worthy “survivors of the fittest,’’ “books, dear books, that 
Sir John Lubbock would be the first to admit : — 

“Have been, and are, comforts, morn and night, 

Adversity, prosperity, at home, 

Abroad, health, sickness — good or ill report, 

The same firm friends ; the same refreshment rich, 

And source of consolation.” 

Let us here say a few words about libraries ; let it be clearly 
understood that a public library can never become anything 
much better than a literary scrap cupboard, if it is to depend 



upon chance donations. If no mind presides over its formation, 
if no money is placed regularly at the disposal of a committee 
for the direct purpose of buying books upon a well-considered 
system, the thing formed is not a library, but a bookstall, in 
which all the chance collected volumes are to be read, instead 
of bought, by droppers-in. ^ 

AVe may illustrate this by a reference to the I ree Library at 
Manchester, which may be regarded as a library with sense and 
light in it, not a dead lump of volumes ‘ but its efficiency is 
mainly the result of a judicious use of money in the purchase of 
those books that were of the most sterling character ; those that 
secured a fair supply of right material in each kind of study, or 
that were in other ways peculiarly suited to the exigencies of 
the city. We may be sure that in Manchester there is a taste 
for works on the steam engine, and upon chemistry, which 
must be met by books of a class that would be little sought in 
other towns. A public library, as everybody knows, consists of 
a reference department, containing books that are not to go out 
of doors, and a lending library. In the Manchester library, to 
which I am referring, in one year 60,000 volumes for reference 
were consulted, and 80,000 volumes were borrowed. The refer- 
ence library is used by all classes, the lending library also, but 
chiefly by working men and women, 2,000 active borrowers of 
books. 

There is a solidity of taste about this mass of readers to which 
a report bears curious testimony. Let us note a fact or two 
concerning it. What now is the kind of reading favoured by 
these people? These earnest'people, who mean work with their 
heads as well as their hands, use books that are taken from the 
library by them in the proportion following : In literature, 

including poetry and fiction, essays, &c, each book is read on an 
average 15 times a year. Works on theology, philosophy, &c., 
are next in request ; in that class each work was read, on an 
average, nine times. In history and biography every work had 
an average of eight readers. The scientific works have had 
seven readers each, and each work on law, politics or commerce 
may, in the same way, be said to have been borrowed twice. 

There is a fine earnestness about this. Even in Manchester, 
imagination refuses to be crushed. The most popular novel 
was°Scott’s “Kenilworth,” which had 34 readers in six months. 
The pleasure book most read was the “ Arabian Nights.” These 
weary mill hands spent their evenings with Haroun A1 
Raschid. The next best read books appear to have been 
Ivanhoe and Robinson Crusoe. 

The historical works most favoured were those most dealing 
in adventure and excitement. Histories of Napoluon and Lives 
of Wellington and Nelson, were respectively about half as 
much in request as Gulliver’s Travels. Narratives of the 
Battle of Waterloo were next in popularity. There is one man 
who has read Alison’s History straight through, and a volume 
entitled “ Shipwrecks and Disasters at Sea,” was read 25 times 
in six months. Almost equal in popularity was Gordon Cum- 
ming’s “ Adventures in South Africa.” Less in request, but 
much demanded, next, in fact, in the order of popularity, were 
Macaulay’s “History of England,” and Layard’s “ Nineveh.” 
Let us here interject the very noticeable fact, that out of more 
than 77,000 volumes issued during the year, only three were 
lost. A striking proof of the trustworthiness of the English 
workingman. 

Life in a library is not altogether without its funny side. 
One had need serve for a time to complete one’s education, and 
learn some weak points of human nature. Recently, an 
omnivorous reader, one who wants “ something to read,” asked 
for Darwin’s “ Origin of Species,” or “ Descent of Man,” and 
being unable to obtain either of those works, contented himself 
with “Gulliver’s Travels.” 

Another of the same genus, enquired for Gibbon’s “ Decline 
and Fall,” and after examination, finding it perhaps too heavy 
a job, thought he would take “ Walton’s Angler.” Still another, 
who thought Thackeray’s “ Newcomes” a very stupid book, 
expressed himself rapturously over Bret Harte’s “ Luck of 
Roaring Camp.” These are the people who want “ somethin 
light ” to read during the hot weather. At a popular library 
gentleman lately got a copy of the latest novel of an eminent 



p OQ 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1884. 



novelist. It was the novel which then all the world was either 
reading or saying it had read. The gentleman was greatly 
vexed when he got home to find the volume was wrongly 
bound, so that its pages were mixed up in inextricable confu- 
sion. After patiently trying to make the best he could of it 
that night, he hurried to the library next day and complained 
of the state in which he had received the volume. The 
librarian was at first indignant and incredulous, hut there was 
no getting over the evidence of the ill-assorted pages. Con- 
vinced at last, the librarian solemnly assured him that that very 
copy had been lent to dozens of readers — had been in constant 
reading since it came into the library — and that no one had 
ever before made any complaint of its imperfections ! 

Let us for a few minutes go back to the very beginning of 
book-making and reflect upon the wondrous revolution effected 
through the agency of John Gutenburg. Let us place ourselves 
in his position and endeavour to enter into his feelings as he 
beheld his first printed page, the fruit of his long and tedious 
labours. It is recorded that with a trembling hand he caught 
up the printed paper. It had succeeded beyond liis expectation. 
Tears ran down his cheeks as he gazed upon it with ecstacy. It 
was the “ Lord’s Prayer” with which he had made his first at- 
tempt at printing with types. 

It is well known that the first production of the printing 
press, the first printed hook was the “ Bible ; ” it is impossible 
to imagine the emotions of those first printers, those cool, yet 
enthusiastic men, as they beheld the first printed page of the 
Bible. The press worked well, the type was uniform and ele- 
gant, and the expression given on the vellum uneqalled in 
beauty. At sight of it, a glow of honest pride filled each heart, 
and how could the most imdevout repress emotions of praise to 
God.- This was in 1450, but with all the toil and diligence 
bestowed upon it, it was not completed until five years after, 
in 1455. 

It is difficult to look upon the great changes that have been 
effected during the last four centuries, and which are still in 
progress everywhere around us, and not connect them with 
printing and its inventor. 

It is not a little remarkable that the Bible stands at the head 
of all books as to the number of copies issued from the press ; 
and in the annals of the book trade, Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Pro- 
gress stands next ; then Robinson Crusoe ; Uncle Tom’s Cabin, 
and J ohn Ploughman’s Talk, by Rev. C. H. Spurgeon. 

There is one department in literature which appears to us to 
be neglected now-a-days, and for Avhich we desire to plead. We 
allude to the writings of the poets ; 

“ Blessings be with them, and eternal praise, 

The Poets ; who have made us heirs on earth 
Of Truth and pure delights, through heavenly lays.” 

Coleridge says : “ I expect neither profit nor general fame by 
my writings, and I consider myself as having been amply repaid 
without either — and, further, “Poetry has been to me its own 
exceeding great reward; it has soothed my afflictions; it has 
multiplied and refined my enjoyments ; it has endeared 
solitude, and it has given me the habit of wishing to discover 
the good and the beautiful in all that meets and surrounds me.” 
There are critics who feel called upon to vindicate the 
superiority of what is called useful knowledge. No man 
recognizes the worth of utility more than the poet; he only 
desires that the meaning of the term may not come short of its 
greatness, and exclude the noblest necessities of his fellow-crea- 
tures. He is quite as much pleased, for instance, with the facil- 
ities for rapid conveyance afforded him by the railroad, as the 
dullest confiner of its advantages to that single idea, but 
he sees, also, the beauty of the country through which he 
passes— of the towns, of the heavens, of the steam-engine 
itself, of the affections that are carrying perhaps half the pas- 
sengers on their journey ; and, beyond all this, he discerns the 
incalculable amount of good, and knowledge, and refinement 
which this wonderful invention is fitted to circulate over the 
globe, in the diffusion of enjoyment to millions. 

“ The poet sings 
Of what the world will be 
When the years have died away.” 



Happy be that time ! and when it 6hall come, and the world 
looks back to the steps of its advance to liberty, knowledge and 
enjoyment ; when humanity recounts for its own gratification 
the benefits derived fr< m those who have gone by, and erects 
monuments to their names ; then there will be due honour 
rendered to the patriots who have struck for the right and stood 
against tyranny, confronting its darkest terrors ; who have 
braved alike the will of the despot and of the multitude ; who 
have been the heroes and martyrs of the battlefield, the dun- 
geon, or the scaffold. The world will then remember and 
render homage to legislators, the creators of society, who 
loosened the yoke of ages from the neck of nations, who 
carried institutions up to the wants and spirit of their time, 
and raised barriers against the retrograding into barbarism. 

The world will remember then and honour the philosophers 
who broke the sceptre -of opinions in the schools, allowed not 
the training to be the subjugating of thought, called into action 
better motives and methods of inquiry, and discovered new 
worlds of knowledge for others to explore, and conquer and 
possess. And together with all these, and not less than any, will 
the world then remember and honour the poets, foremost in 
that long procession, the laurelled prophets of future good, 
which their songs tended to realize ; who breathed over the 
world a spirit of life and aspiration, and who, although perhaps 
unconscious, were yet in their noblest inspiration chanting the 
Marseillaise of the world’s march towards the victories of free- 
dom, civilization and humanity. 

It seems to us that all reading, to show any profit to the 
reader, should leave some such sentiments in the mind as are 
expressed in the following lines : — 

“Quaint poems of a far-off age, 

In binding dark and old, 

But strewn o’er each discoloured page, 

Sweet fancies, sweetly told. 

That seem, as though a child were I, 

To take me by the hand, 

And lead me through the years gone by, 

Back to a much loved land. 

Where sunshine falls in golden bars, 

Through woodland labyrinths, 

And frail white Wind-flowers lie like stars, 

’Mid purple hyacinths, 

Now, though I softly close the book, 

The vision with me stays ; 

On green young leaves and rippling brook, 

On flowers and sky, I gaze. 

O poet ! dead and gone thou art ; 

But this, thy magic lore, 

Doth enter in the reader’s heart, 

And live there evermore. 

O poet ! that did’st sing so sweet, 

To gladden weary men, 

Perchance some day we twain shall meet, 

And I may thank thee then.” 

The Morality of Shakespeare. 

[Portions of a paper read before the Shakespeare Club of Montreal 
February 4th, 1884.] 

The morality of Shakespeare is of a simple and comprehen- 
sive nature. It seems to admit of no other definition than 
this or something like it : An impulse, the sum of which tends 
towards mundane right-doing because of mundane peril. And 
it may be observed, further, that if the peril is incurred, it will 
lead to mundane failure either partial or complete. To the ob- 
jection that right-doing is just as vague a term as morality, it 
may be replied that right-doing is defined in the second of the 
two commandments on which hang all the law and the prophets. 

It mny be aigued, again, that this simple and comprehensive 
morality can be read into, or read out of, any dramatic author ; 
far from it. There are two species of dramatic work from 
which it is excluded by the terms of its definition, and the 
first is that species which endeavours to perform the functions 
of the pulpit, but in a more popular and life-like way. 

There is much matter for curious reflection, if we consider 
the relation of the church to the drama in past times The 
drama fell under the ban of Christianity as that religion rose 
and subsequently, when the church was compelled, by a thou- 
sand fears and fancies, to make an appeal, forcible and easily in- 



5 



1884 0 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



telligible, to a sphere which comfortable monasticism could not 
reach without much effort, theology wedded the drama. By 
slow development and by the absorption of new and strange 
elements, the alliance produced popular entertainments, known 
all over the west of Europe. The Mystery Plays, acted with 
much pomp and circumstance throughout England, were really 
serious ecclesiastical performances ; but, although they never 
lost their spirituality, yet they proved objectionable to a large 
body of churchmen when the management passed into the 
hands of the laics, so that in the end, church and stage were 
again hostile. Shakespeare, very likely, saw these Mystery Plays 
— he certainly knew something about them since he introduces 
such knowledge into his plays more than once. This species of 
drama — the term drama is used literally not critically — was 
the only species existing in England before the Renascence, and 
was quite different in aim and mechanism from the great mass 
of Elizabethan work done by Shakespeare and his contem- 
poraries. Yet in the drama of Shakespeare's fellow play-wrights 
there appear, now and again, distinct signs of more ambitious 
purpose than are to be found in Shakespeare. This is perhaps 
due to previous influences, or to the large amount of the mys- 
terious which prevailed in certain quarters, but which the prac- 
tical tendency of Shakespeare's time was destined to destroy. 

The morality of mankind in Shakespeare is not ruled by the 
visible yet supernatural powers of theology. Shakespeare 
draws the line between the mundane and the supernatural with 
a clearness and an exclusiveness which leave no room for 
doubt on the part of his audience or his readers. The ethical 
significance of such a play as Marlowe's Faustus is, in many 
aspects, un-Shakespearean. Suppose, for instance, that the 
main purpose of Marlowe — his morality — is identical with that 
of a good deal of Shakespeare’s work, namely, the inevitable 
doom*that unreasoning and unreasonable ambition brings. Yet 
the treatment of the same theme is strikingly unlike in the 
case of Shakespeare’s greatest fore-runner, and in the case of 
Shakespeare himself. The extension of Marlowe is infinitely 
greater than the extension of Shakespeare ; infinitely greater, 
because it passes beyond the finite and compasses the infinite. 
“ Death, ” exclaims Shakespeare, and adds almost parentheti- 
cally, “ God-forsaken death, if you persevere in your ambition.” 
“Death,” exclaims Marlowe, “death and damnation ; your body 
is ruined— that is of little account — your soul is the main 
thing, and your soul goes down into the pit.” 

“ There are the furies tossing damned souls 
On burning forks ; there bodies boil in lead ; 

There are live quarters broiling on the coals, 

That ne’er can die ; this ever-burning chair 
Is for o’er-tortured souls to rest them in ; 

These that are fed with sops of flaming fire, 

Were gluttons and loved only delicates, 

(Quite a Dantesque touch). 

And laughed to see the poor starve at their gates ; 

But yet all these are nothing ; thou shalt see 
Ten thousand tortures that more horrid be.” 

Such a consummation, such a catastrophe as this has no paral- 
lel in Shakespeare. The directness ot these lines, moreover, their 
crossness, their plain-spokenness, would have offended his finer and 
more aesthetic sense. Even in that altogether un-Shakespearian 
play, Titus Andronicus, the reek of blood and slaughter, 
lamentably gross as it is, is yet the reek of purely human blood 
and slaughter-sacrifices for human, < r rather inhuman ends. 
Shakespeare's morality was, as has been stated, an impulse to- 
wards mundane well-doing, set on foot and determined by mun- 
dane peril. He would not — I do not say he could not — he 
would not write a play with Lucifer and an Evil Angel as 
leading characters. Human calamity was, in his eyes, quite 
terrible enough to guide human action. “ Cromwell, I charge 
thee, fling away ambition,” he (not Fletcher) says in a tragedy, 
whose inner purpose is very much the same as that of b austus. 
“ Flin" away ambition ''—why ? Not because Cromwell's soul 
will be tossed on a burning fork, but because this profound 
truth is the only residuum of Wolsey's schemes and plots 

4“ Had I but served my God with half the zeal 
I served my king, He would not, in mine age, 

Have left me naked to mine enemies.” 

An emphatic human climax of an eloquent human argument ! 
And before I proceed to furthur develop the principle already 



laid down, let me add that the transcendent ease of Shake- 
speare, his rapid sublimation from fact, with everything of 
lesser note going down to oblivion before the main issues 
towards which he swiftly moves, heightened the aesthetic sense 
which he had by nature. 

How unlike Marlowe, this : — 

“ I pass’d, methought, the melancholy flood 
With that sour ferryman which poets write of, 

Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. 

The first that there did greet my stranger soul, 

Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick ; 

Who spake aloud, — 4 What scourge for perjuiy 
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence ? ’ 

And so he vanished. Then came wandering by 
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair 
Dabbled in blood ; and he shrieked out aloud, 

‘Clarence is come,— false, fleeting, perjured Clarence — 

That stabbed me in the field by Tewkesbury ; — 

Seize on him, Furies ! take him unto torment !’ ” 

A purely aesthetic flash, and not without a strong earthly link. 

Then, again, in connection with our present topic, consider 
the Elizabethan borderland between the ecclesiastically super- 
natural and the practically human, into which I do not think 
that Shakespeare entered except with human intent, and did 
not enter, by comparison, largely, at all events. On the border- 
land of alchemy and of astrology, of diablerie and the black art 
in general, dramatists like Greene might construct an amusingly- 
serious play, setting forth the relative powers of Friar Bacon 
and Friar Bungay. Ben Jonson might display his wearingly 
minute knowledge of magicians and their science, but Shake- 
speare avoided all technical, all specific displays of this nature. 
The witches in Macbeth have a composition and a meaning, the 
full force of which can be discerned only from their surround- 
ings, and into which it would be beside present purpose to 
inquire. 

The general statements that have been advanced hitherto can 
be questioned on a score of grounds, but not, 1 believe, essen- 
tially invalidated. Shakespeare, we have been frequently told, 
knew his Bible extremely well, and used a great deal of that 
knowledge. By treating him on the partial method, the method 
of detachment, he can be proved a most orthodox fellow, I 
doubt not, in the true heart of him. But the partial method will 
never place him before us in a true light. Let us examine this 
aspect of the question a little more closely. Hell is referred to 
at more or less length in some twenty of Shakespeare's plays. 
Visitants from the unseen world throng his pages ; even astrol- 
ogers were not strangers to him. Bolingbroke is a wizard who 
knows his times, — 

“ Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night, 

The time of night when Troy was set on fire ; 

The time when screech-owls cry, and ban-dogs howl, 

And spirits walk, and ghosts break up their graves, 

That time best fits the work we have in hand.” 

Margery Jourdain can cry, — 

“ Asmath ! 

By the eternal God, whose name and power 
Thou tremblest at, answer me that I shall ask ; ” 

ai.d the spirit which has been conjured up dutifully replies and 
forecasts the fates of Suffolk and of Somerset. A soothsayer 
may warn Caesar to beware the Ides of March, as the result of 
divination; another soothsayer, who can read a little “In 
Nature's infinite book of secrecy,” may be of importance in 
Anthony and Cleopatra ; another soothsayer may explain the 
riddle in Cymbeline ; but the vital regard of them all is towards 
human things. They do not invalidate the statement already 
expressed ; their main business is to fortell the future in this 
world and not to seek to step over the confines of the next, nor 
to enforce their authority by creating scenes that make the on- 
lookers cry, as in Marlowe, to the mountains that they may fall 
on their heads and crush them into insensibility, nor do they 
strive to make the onlookers repent by force of abject terror. 
In Shakespeare they are not so much the revealers of the spirit 
world as the determiners of human action amid human en- 
vironments. 

And so of ghosts and witches and visions. The terriblo 
dream of Clarence, the spirits of the murdered that pass before 
King Richard’s eyes as he lies sleeping in his tent there on 
Bosworth Field, the majestic figure whose “canonized bones” 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



had “ burst tlieir cerements ” that it might nerve Hamlet to the 
one deed yet remaining in life, the ghost of Caesar appearing to 
Brutus on the eve of fate-fraught day, the “ weird sisters ” in 
Macbeth, in whose power lie all the fearful issues to come, the 
thrilling spectre that appears to the king of Scotland in 
the very midst of a carousal ; these are supernatural, if you 
will — but they start into sight and vanish in all their ghostliness 
— dim and awful powers-touching humanity in extremes, but 
leaving humanity to work out those extremes for itself. How 
far they are the outcome of a disordered mind, how far Shake- 
speare would have us regard them, in certain cases, as spiritual 
realities, opens a wide field of conjecture. Yet there seems 
scarcely a shadow of doubt about the great issues in which they 
a part, being finally human. The tragic ending of the dramas 
into which they enter is the work of human hands. The 
heroes fall by their own misdoing, and the cilrtain diops with 
their fall ; into the future of Richard, or of Hamlet, or of Bru- 
tus, or of Macbeth, or of those who are slaughtered directly and 
indirectly by the infirmities of these, Shakespeare does not seek 
to pry. It is with them as with all others who die violent 
<leaths. Enough that the “ bloody dog” is dead and that Rich- 
mond has the crown; enough that murder meets its just and 
unjust reward, and that election lights on Fortinbras, however 
many noble hearts may crack at beholding the ring of corpses 
that lie round the central figure of Hamlet; enough that An- 
thony should stand by dead Brutus and exclaim “This was the 
noblest Roman of them all.” For these people lived in a world 
of thought and action, as men live, were swayed by impulses 
that would sway all men of their temperament, in their posi- 
tion ; on the world’s level they uniformly move, and 
from that level Shakespeare does not venture to take 
them. Hence, Shelley, when speaking of a dramatist who 
is sometimes called the Shakespeare of Spain— although 
the comparison seems to be due to the pre-eminent genius of 
of both than to any real similarity of dramatic treatment by 
Spaniard and Englishman — insists, as so many have done, on 
the permanent humanism of Shakespeare, the practical nature 
of the man in that age of magnificent common sense during 
which he lived. Similarity between Calderon and Marlowe 
has been pointed out by several writers on the drama, but these 
are the remarks of Shelley regarding Calderon and Shake- 
speare, which are pertinent to the matter before us. “ Calde- 
ron in his religious Autos has attempted to fulfil some of the 
high conditions of dramatic representation neglected by Shake- 
speare, such as establishing a relation between the drama and 
religion, and the accommodating them to music and dancing, but 
he omits the observation of conditions still more important, and 
more is lost than gained by the substitution of the rigidly de- 
fined and ever-repeated idealism of a distorted superstition for 
the living impersonations of the truth of human passsion.” 

The second species of drama which lies beyond the scope of 
Shakespeare’s morality is the drama of intrigue. A few salient 
-differences between Shakespeare and the later Stuarts will lead 
us on to an examination of the specific morality of one or two 
of Shakespeare’s pi lys. 

Chas. E. Moyse. 

{To be continued.) 



(Solletje IXSSorlt). 



McGILL. 

Class ’84, Medicine, has decided at last to have itself photo- 
graphed. We hear that they intend to revel in a 14 x 11 
mounted by special request on a chocolate back-ground. 

Notice. — A meeting of the Song Book committee will be 
held on Friday evening, March 7th, in the Reading Room, Arts 
Building, at 7.30 p.m. Important business. Every member is 
expected to be present. 

Following the plan spoken of by us in one of our late issues 
the lecture room of the German professor has been added to the 
library. The books used by the students in the Science Faculty 
will be placed in the new room. 



McGill Medical Society. 

At the regular meeting of this society, the president, Dr. J. 
A. Macdonald, read a paper upon “ Renal Calculus,” citing 
several interesting cases which he had studied, and exhibiting 
some exceedingly rare and interesting specimens. Mr. H. Darey 
reported a case and the meeting adjourned. 

For the last meeting Dr. R. J. B. Howard has promised a 
paper upon a subject with which all are very well acquainted, 
and it is hoped that all the members will attend. 

At a meeting of the students in the Faculty of Law held on 
Monday, 25th ult., it was moved by Mr. C. A. Duclos, B.A., 
and seconded by Mr. N. T. Rielle, B.A., “that the Annual 
Dinner of the Faculty be held this year as usual.” The motion 
being carried Messrs. A. Smith, Duffett, and J. R. Murray 
were appointed a committee to make all arrangements for the 
same. After other matters in connection with the Dean’s prize 
had been considered the meeting adjourned. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

At the meeting on the 15th February, in the absence of the 
president, the first vice-president, Mr. A. H. Colquhoun, occu- 
pied the chair. Mr. H. S. McLennan read a descriptive essay 
on the Fisheries Exhibition, dwelling chiefly on the incongru- 
ous parts of the several exhibits. The subject of discussion for 
the evening, “ Is England likely to decay as did the nations of 
antiquity ?” was then taken up. The speakers on the affirmative 
were Messrs. Mahon, McOuat and Calder; on the negative 
Messrs. Uns worth, Ritchie and Johnston. The debate was an 
excellent one ; the subject was viewed in many different lights, 
and the speakers gave evidence of careful preparation. Mr. 
Johnston, who spoke for the first time in the Society, spoke 
exceptionally well. On the question being put, it was decided 
in favor of the negative. The chairman, in announcing the 
decision, congratulated the Society on the new members it has 
received from the class of ’87. 

The regular meeting on the 22nd inst. was very poorly 
attended, and for want of a quorum the chair could not be 
taken till some time past the usual hour. Neither essayist nor 
reader made an appearance, and of the speakers announced on 
the notice-board, only three were present. The question for 
discussion was “ Was the banishment of Napoleon I. to St. 
Helena a warrantable act V The affirmative was upheld by 
Messrs. F. Pedley, Hibbard and Chalmers, the negative by 
Messrs. Topp, Bell, and Solandt. The debate was well sus- 
tained, several of the speakers occupying the full time allowed 
by the constitution. Decision was given in favor of the nega- 
tive. After the debate a motion was passed to the effect that 
those members who had been appointed to take part in the 
evening’s proceedings, and failed to appear, be asked to give a 
reason for their absence, and, in case none is given, that their 
names be entered in the minutes as defaulters. Every year at 
this season the Society has had to meet the difficulty of inducing 
members to take part in the programmes or even to attend° 
Perhaps it would be well if the meetings were held fortnightly 
instead of weekly, at least, after the 1st of January. The°cele- 
brated Union of Cambridge, which has fostered so many British 
orators, meets, if we mistake not, but once in a fortnight. 

University Literary Society. 

Mr. C. J. Doher y presided at the usual meeting of this 
Society on the 15th February. The number of members present 
was not very great. After the minutes had been confirmed, 
letters of lesignation were read from two of the gentlemen 
appointed to speak in the public debate, Messrs. F. Hague and 
E. W. Arthy. The former did not give any valid excuse, but 
mentioned that Mr. Crankshaw was willing to act as his substi- 
tute. Mr. Arthy found it necessary to attend an important 
educational meeting on the 22nd, and therefore could not take 
part in the debate. Mr. R. C. Smith moved, seconded by Mr 
Ritchie, “ that the public debate be postponed from the 22nd 
until the 29th February, to enable Mr. Arthy to take 
part.” Motion carried. Mr. Elliot explained that Mr. Ha^ue 
was present at the meetings of the speakers and led them° to 
expect that he would take part. Mr. Arthy was also represent- 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



ed at the meeting. A motion of reconsideration was moved by 
Mr. Fleet, seconded by Mr. Smith, and carried. The same 
gentlemen moved and seconded “ that the public debate be 
adjourned sine die” Mr. L. T. Leet opposed the motion, and 
the Chairman thought that there ought to be a debate sometime 
this year. The motion was carried. The following subject was 
then taken up : “ Should the Ontario Government grant further 
aid to Toronto University ?” None of the originally appointed 
speakers were present except Mr. Leet, who had given notice 
of his inability to take part. Messrs. Mignault, Downie and 
Duffett sent no excuse. The conduct of these gentlemen is 
deserving of the heaviest censure, especially Mr. Downie, who 
had the effrontery some time ago to complain of his never hav- 
ing a chance to develop his oratorical powers at the meetings of 
the Society. Mr. Barnard, who had agreed to speak second on 
the negative side of the question, explained that he could not 
well be called upon to open the debate. Mr. Ritchie moved 
seconded by Mr. Smith, “ that the subject be reversed so as to 
allow of Mr. Barnard’s taking the affirmative side.” Mr. Barnard 
then proceeded to convulse the meeting with laughter. He ex- 
plained that he knew nothing about the subject, but the Secre- 
tary had informed him that Toronto University was a sectarian 
institution and that it wanted more, which reminded him that 
a great many other institutions wanted more, such as the 
Canadian Pacific, the Grand Trunk, and so on. He presumed 
a priori that Toronto was in need of more, and as Sir John A., 
Mr. Blake, and all our great men had been educated in the Law 
Faculty of Toronto University he considered that Toronto Uni- 
versity should get mere. Mr. Smith followed with a 
few words for the sectarian Colleges. He called the 
statement that Sir John A. was educated at Toronto in ques- 
tion, and he would like Mr. Barnard to correct him if he was 
wrong. Mr. Barnard said he knew nothing at all about it. No 
one else being desirous of speaking, Mr. Barnard claimed his 
Tight to make a reply. He said Mr. Smith had stated that the 
speakers in the debate were not very strong in facts, but he 
wished to say that it was principles they wanted, not facts. 
Thus ended in a most complete fiasco what should have been 
one of the best debates of the season. 

On 22nd February a sufficient number of members to form a 
quorum did not attend. After waiting until long after the 
regular hour for commencing, namely, 8 p.m., the Chairman 
took the chair, and Mr. C. S. Campbell read his essay on “Land 
Reform.” Mr. Campbell criticized adversly Mr. George’s 
late production, and afterwards advanced two measures 
which he considered would have a very great effect in remedy- 
ing the evils of the present systems. These were the adoption 
of the Torrance system of registration, and the abolition of 
testamentary rights. Mr. C. J. Doherty, in opening the dis- 
cussion, said that while he thought that Mr. George’s arguments 
would impose upon no intelligent man, he thought the proposals 
of the essayist quite inadequate to effect a reform. He denied 
that there was any absolute ownership of land, and contended 
that the cultivator should have the first claim on the products 
of the land. He also referred at some length to the Irish land 
question, and upheld the principles of the Healy clauses of the 
Land Act. Mr. McGoim followed with some brief remarks 
taking an opposite view of the matter, and showed conclusively 
that ownership in land had to be recognized if private property 
was to be recognized at all. After an informal discussion of an 
animated character in which most of those present took part, 
the meeting adjourned. 

On the invitation of the editors of the Gazette a number of 
graduates and others met on Saturday, 23rd February, to dis- 
cuss the advisability of organizing a University Club in this 
city, such as we spoke of in our columns a short time ago. The 
result of the meeting was that it was decided that steps should 
be taken at once to carry out the proposed scheme. For this 
purpose two committees were appointed to see after suitable 
rooms and take other preliminary steps. These committees 
were to report to an adjourned meeting to be held on 1st March. 
It has not yet been decided whether undergraduates will be 
admitted to the advantages of the club or no. 



Faculty of Applied Science. 

A large number of Sciencemen gathered in the Seniors’ 
classroom on the evening of the 17th inst. to hear Mr. Peter- 
son’s lecture on Bridge Construction. Mr. Peterson, who is now 
chief engineer of the Atlantic and North Western Railroad, has 
had much experience in erecting bridges, and his remarks were 
replete with practical knowledge and suggestions in regard to 
this branch of engineering, which were of interest and value to 
the students. He confined himself mainly to the Pratt form of 
truss in which Phoenixville columns were used. The lecture 
was illustrated by a large number of plans and tracings. 

On the 23rd inst., A. T. Taylor, M.R.I., B.A., delivered an 
interesting lecture on “ Architecture as a Study,” being a 
glance at the origin and development of the modern styles. In 
well written language he traced the art from its earliest stages 
to the present, showing at the same time the influences which 
affect it and the knowledge to be gained of the character of 
ancient nations by a study of their forms of architecture. He 
then described the several styles and tried by means of draw- 
ings, photographs and black-board sketches, to give the audience 
clear ideas of the distinguishing features of each. Of the three 
sub divisions of classic architecture the Doric was described as 
massive and heavy, the Ionic, more graceful and beautiful, while 
the Corinthian was the culmination of Grecian decorative art. 
The Romans were the first to make an extended use of the 
arch. The development of the Gothic in Northern Europe was 
traced. The rugged Normans were great builders, particularly 
of churches, which were bold and massive, such being common 
to their style, together with the round arch, and the zigzag, 
billet and lozenge ornaments. The early English began near the 
end of the 12th century and lasted till the close of the 13th. 
This style may be recognized by its clustered columns, pointed 
arch, undercut mouldings, traceries, stiff leaf foliage, and dog 
tooth ornaments. The decorative style followed, in which were 
introduced larger windows, flatter mouldings, and more flowing 
lines of tracery, the wallflower and four-leafed being the most 
commonly adopted ornaments. Other styles were similarly 
described. 

At the close of the lecture considerable time was spent in 
examining the large collection of views and drawings, on each 
of which the particular style was written, thus enabling the 
students to make comparisons between the several forms. 

GENERAL. 

Yale spends $50,000 on athletic grounds. — The Undergrad- 
uate. 

Yale’s share of the gate money at the Princeton-Yale game 
was $600. 

Of the 1,474 students at Oberlin, 776 are ladies. — The Un- 
dergraduate. 

Union College has conferred the degree of LL. D. on Pres- 
ident Arthur. 

English literature is the most popular of the elective courses 
at Williams College. 

German has supplanted Latin in the last three years of the 
course at Williams. 

Students at Cornell University exhibit an increasiug likin^ 
for scientific studies. 

Princeton’s base-ball nine received $4,600 from their games 
last season. — The Undergraduate. 

President Porter, of Yale, is preparing a book on the 
Ethics of Kant. — The Undergraduate. 

A Prize of $3,000 is offered to the student who passes the 
test entrance examination at Brown. — Ex. 

There are now 452 students in Cornell University, forty- 
five more than at this time last year. — Herald-Crimson. ' 

The tuition fees at Princeton have been raised from $75 to 

$100. The standard for admission has also been raised. The 

Undergraduate. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 



A Subscription of $23,000 has been raised at Yale for a 
Young Men’s Christian Association building, to be erected on 
the campus. 

Botany must be a favorite study with the professors of Har- 
vard, for it is said that two of them are preparing works on the 
subject. 

Queen’s University will be represented at the Tercentenary 
of Edinburgh University by its chancellor. Mr. Sandford Flem- 
ing, C.E., C.M.S. 

James Russel Lowell will represent Harvard University at 
the Tercentenary celebration of the University of Edinburgh in 
Easter week. 

President Bartlett, of Dartmouth College, announces that 
$250,000 has been given the college within the last three 
years. — Ex. 

A Japanese student has been selected for the important 
position of assistant to the professor of anatomy at Berlin Uni- 
versity. 

The catalogue of the University of Vermont shows that there 
are in the institution 271 students, of whom 86 are in the 
department of arts and science. 

The class of 1829 of Harvard College has many surviving 
members. At the recent annual dinner Dr. Oliver Wendell 
Holmes, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Judge Townsend, and 
about twenty others were present. — Ex. 

The American colleges derive two-fifths of their income from 
tuition fees, which is four times the proportion which the Eng- 
lish Universities get. Students furnish them with only one- 
tenth of their yearly resources. — Ex. 

The De Pauw University, in Greencastle, Ind., is to have 
eight more buildings — a law college, a medical college, a theo- 
logical college, an observatory, two dormitories, and other 
structures — to be erected without delay. 

In Colonial times, absence from prayers at Harvard was pun- 
ished by a fine of 2d. ; absence from public worship, a fine of 
9d. ; tardiness 2d. ; for going to church before the ringing of 
the bell, 6d. ; for “ profane cursing,” a fine of 2s. 6d. ; for 
playing cards, 2s. 6d. ; lying, Is. 6d.; sending for beer, Is. 6d. ; 
fetching beer, Is. 6d. ; for going into the college yard without 
the proper garb, 9d. — Ex. 

A field of about three-fourths of an acre in extent has been 
added to the Botanical Garden at Harvard College for the 
special purpose of illustrating Professor Gray’s " Manual,” which 
comprises the plants which grow east of the Mississippi and 
north of North Carolina. The field will be transformed into a 
miniature country of mountain, marsh and plain, with the design 
of securing the varied conditions of shade, moisture and tem- 
perature demanded by the different plants. 

The faculty of Kenyon College have imitated somewhat the 
example of Amherst College, and have passed regulations with 
regard to the discipline of the College. For the future, any 
student who obtains a term grade of 75 per cent, in any study 
need not be examined in that study at the end of the term. 
The system of hearing excuses for absence has been abolished, 
and the whole object of the faculty (unlike that of the faculties 
of many institutions) seems to be to encourage the students to 
govern themselves as far as possible, without abusing their 
privileges. — Ex. 

The University of St. Andrews is not alone in honouring 
American scholarship. Dr. Charles Walderstein, a member of 
the junior year of the class of 1875 at Columbia College, who 
has been delivering, during his brief visit to New York, three 
lectures on Greek art and archaeology before the Columbia 
Alumni Association, is the newly-elected director of the Fitz- 
william Art Museum, Cambridge University, England, There 
were six competitors for the place left vacant by Professor 
Sydney Colvin’s transfer to the British Museum, and the cry 
against the choice of a foreigner was raised in this case as with 
Mr. Lowell. 

The Undergradute in its February number has an article on 
Canada and the Canadians. The writer evidently thinks that 



we are all waiting anxiously for the moment when we shall be 
able to overthrow our present form of government, and either 
become independent or ask to be annexed to our powerful 
neighbour. Mr. Blake’s motion last session seem to have given 
strangers the idea that we are panting to make commercial 
treaties with foreign nations, but are not allowed to do so by the 
wicked British Government. The article referred to is written 
in a nice spirit, and refers in eulogistic terms to the extent and 
resources of our country. 

We understand that Messrs. Justice Hensley. A. A. Macdon- 
ald and Malcolm McLeod, have consented to act as trustees of 
the funds of the Daniel Hodgson Scholarship. The trustees- 
met on last Saturday, and drew lots to decide the rotation in 
which the scholarship should go to the three Universities, with 
the following results: (1) King’s, Windsor ; (2) Laval, Quebec; 
(3) McGill, Montreal. They also requested the Rev. G. W_ 
Hodgson to act as Honorary Secretary. — Charlottetoicn Examiner * 
[The scholarship thus comes to this Province for the next 
three years, the holder being required to pursue his arts studies 
at the University of King’s College. The value of the scholar, 
ship is $125 a year, tenable for threeyears . — Halifax Chronicle-] 

Extracts from the report of the trustees of Columbia Col- 
lege, to the regents of the University of the State of New 
York, which was adopted on December 3, 1883, have been 
printed by order of the trustees and distributed among the 
alumni and friends of the college. They show that for the 
year ending September 30, 1883, the total number of students 
was 986. The grounds and the several buildings used by the 
institution are described at length, and the grounds are esti- 
mated to be worth $400,000 ; the buildings and furniture, $1,- 
015,000; making a total valuation of $1,415,000. The num- 
ber of volumes added to the library during the year was 1,21 2, 
making the present number of volumes 50,320, whose estimated 
value is $170,6/2.56. The value of apparatus and collections 
is placed at $209,284.46, and of the herbarium at $26,300,. 
The net property of the institution is valued at $6,195,027.03! 
The total revenue derived from various sources was $342,301.73,, 
and the total expenditures $555,691.61. 



New Haven, February 1. — At the meeting of the senior class 
of Yale College to-day a most unusual proceeding took place* 
AY. M. Spear introduced the following resolution : 

Whereas, the present senior society System creates a social 
aristocracy, exercises an undue influence in college politics, 
fosters a truckling and cowering disposition among the lower 
classes, creates dissensions and enmities in every class, alienates- 
the affections of the graduates from the college, stifles the full 
expression of college sentiment by its control of the college 
press ; 



Resolved , That we believe this system detrimental to the best 
interests of Yale College and injurious to ourselves ; that we 
request the college press to publish this resolution of the senior 
class ; that the chairman and two others, to be appointed by 
him, be a committee of three to lay this resolution before the 
president, faculty and the members of the corporation. 

This resolution was supposed to voice the sentiment of a. 
large number of the class, which has been growing ever since 
the class was in its freshman year. Its introduction created a 
great uproar About 140 were present, among them a large 
number of Skull and Bones and Scroll and Key men. It was 
thought that the discussion would drive them from the room 
but in this the non-society men were disappointed. While they 
did not take a particularly active part, they voted a strong- 
negative and had sufficient influence to squelch the non-societv 
men by a vote of 60 to 49. This vote does not by any 'means 
express the sentiment of the non-society men in the class The 
society men themselves openly demonstrated this morniim that 
when occasion requires, they can talk about their societies or 
listen to discussions concerning them as freely as any other 
persons. Nothing e se is talked about on the campus to-night, 
and the bad feeling already existing is likely to increase, for the 
non-society men say that they do not propose to let the matter 
drop . — Boston Globe. 



1884.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



The formal renunciation of anti-secret society principles by 
the Delta Upsilon fraternity at the convention with the chapter 
at Brown University, the more recent unconditional repeal of 
the anti-fraternity laws by the authorities of Vanderbilt Uni- 
versity, and the radical change in policy announced in the last 
number of the Occident , of the University of California, until 
now a rabid anti-fraternity organ, are significant indications of 
the general breaking up of t;:e hostile spirit that prevailed 
against college secret societies in many quarters some ten years 
ago. The reasons for this gratifying change of opinion arc, in 
part, the almost total disappearance of those organizations that 
in the early days of college fraternities mistook the true pur- 
poses of those societies to be such as to lower the intellectual 
and moral tone of their members, the careful maintenance of a 
high standard of membership by the influential fraternities, the 
better understanding of the fraternity system by its honest 
opponents, and finally the sheer exhaustion of those that here- 
tofore have maintained a vigorous tilt at the windmill for exer- 
cised sake, on finding that the windmill stands the attack much 
better than they. — High School Index . 

Princeton, N. J., Feb. 5. — The largest mass-meeting held 
by Princeton students for several years met in the drill room of 
the gymnasium this afternoon to reconsider the boating ques- 
tion. After the misfortunes of t! e crew last year, the opposi- 
tion to boating was prevalent. However, the question was much 
discussed, and, after some strong opposing articles in the Prince- 
tonian , a meeting was called to elect officers of the boating asso- 
ciation and to consider the advisability of supporting a crew in the 
college. The meeting resulted in a unanimous decision in favor 
of the sport. The following issue of the Princetonian con- 
tained a leading article condemnatory of the meeting, and its 
action was sustained by a number of letters from the Alumni 
condemning boating. This policy was pursued by the paper 
through two numbers, and, as a result, and to afford the college 
another opportunity to express its opinion, the meeting this after- 
noon was called. Arguments were made at some length by 
speakers on both sides. Mr. Harlon, ’84, managing editor of 
the Princetonian , announced that the ground taken by the 
paper was an expression of his own views, rendered without 
consultation with his colleagues. It was also stated that two- 
thirds of the members of the board were in favour of boating. 
A vote resulted in the sustaining of the boating association. 
The excitement caused by the Princetonian' s campaign has been 
very great. The votes in opposition numbered a scant dozen, 
and the position of boating in the college is rendered more 
stable than ever. About forty men are now in training for the 
crew under the direction of Mr. Bird, ’85. 

The will of the late Evangelinus Apostolides Sophocles, 
University Professor of Greek at Harvard College, has been filed 
in the Probate Court at East Cambridge. It bears the date of 
December, 1880, and has a codicil attached, dated April 4, 
1881. The bequests are as follows: To the president and 
fellows of Harvard College, all the books of the deceased, toge- 
ther with the stereotype plates of his Greek Lexicon ; to the 
daughters of T. W. Harris, fifty shares of railroad stock and the 
money now on deposit in the Cambridge Savings Bank ; to the 
daughters and grand-daughters of the same person the income 
from certain railroad shares now held in trust, said income to 
revert to the female issue of said daughters and grand-daughters, 
and in case there be no such issue, to revert to the college. The 
rest and residue of the estate is bequeathed to the president and 
fellows of Harvard College, in trust, as a permanent fund, to be 
known as the Constantine Fund, in memory of the uncle of the 
deceased. The income of this fund is to be expended annually 
in two equal parts, the one to be used in the purchase of Greek 
and Latin books for the college, and the other to be devoted to 
the publishing of the catalogue of the library. Provision is also 
made for the use of a part of the income from the fund by the 
president and fellows of the college, and, at their discretion, for 
the publishing of an edition of the Greek Lexicon, in prepara- 
tion by the deceased at the time of his death. Francis E. 
Parker, of Boston, is named as the executor. 



A system of instruction for working people has been organized 
with great success in Copenhagen. At a public meeting held 
in the autumn, the number of workingmen desirous of attending 
the classes was found to be upward of 3,000. There are at 
present 136 classes, with 132 teachers, dispersed over the town 
in 17 different houses. There are 15 classes of women, compris- 
ing about 200 students, for the most part under female teach- 
ers. The women are taught hygiene and the chemistry of 
housekeeping, besides the elementary sciences and languages. 
Some of the male pupils have asked for instruction in book- 
keeping and the elements of law ; others for help toward their 
own special employment. The painters wish to get information 
about the chemistry of colors, the smiths about metallurgy. 
Men who work by night have been formed into classes ; the 
bakers get their instruction early in the evening ; and the men 
at the gasworks, who work by day and night in turn, get their 
instruction during one month with the rest of the students in 
the evening, and during the next month have special classes in 
the day time. The whole undertaking has roused an interest 
among the working people which, based upon an increasing and 
more and more consciously recognized desire for knowledge, 
promises good results for the whole society, if directed rightly. 
It has been considered best to let the plan grow according to 
the wants and desires of the laboring classes, instead of obtrud- 
ing any completely arranged plan upon them ; and this way of 
proceeding has evidently met with their approval. 

We acknowledge with thanks the following exchanges : — 
The Tech , College Student , Normal Nexus, Hamilton College 
Monthly, Dickinson Liberal , St. Mary's Sentinel , The Tuftonian , 
The Student , Harvard Advocate , The Polxjtechnic, The Alamo 
and San Jacinto Monthly, University Cynic, The Cha idock, 
The Atlantis , Richmond Miscellany, The Illini , The Speculum, 
Queen's Coll ge Journal, Morrin College Review, Dalhousie Ga- 
zette , The Argosy, Wollestook Gazette , Acadia Athenaeum, The 
V. P. Journal, A strum Alberti, Acta Victoriana, Knox College 
Monthly, The' Varsity, The Undergraduate, and The Epsomian. 



'23efween the ,-Secfuree. 



Light afflictions — Gas bills. 

Do you belong ? No ! Bully for you ! Let’s have a drink ! 

“ The boy stood on the burning deck.” — “ l r es, because it was 
too hot to sit down.” 

May not death be called, “an indefinite, or unavoidable 
postponement of respiration *1” 

By special request, no reports of surgical (?) operations (on 
the cadaver) will appear in these columns. 

It is said that nature has written a letter of credit on some 
men’s faces which is honoured everywhere it is presented. 

An old maid, who hates the male sex most vehemently, cut a 
female acquaintance who complimented her on the buoyancy of 
her spirits. 

“ What building is that?” asked a stranger, pointing to the 
school-house. “ That,” said the boy addressed, “ why, that’s a 
tannery.” 

A young lady, on being asked what business her lover was 
in, and not liking to say he bottled soda, answered, “ He’s a 
practising fizzician.” 

This is how a parlour-maid the other day corrected the pro- 
nunciation of a fellow-servant, a page : “ Don’t say ax, you vul- 
gar boy ; say harsk.” 

Jones. — “What did you think of my argument, Fogg?” 
Fogg. — “ It was sound, very sound (Jones delighted) ; nothing 
but sound, in fact.” 

A man sat musing upon a cane-bottom chair. At length he 
said : “ I wonder what fellow took the trouble to find all them 
ere holes and put straw around ’em.” 

No, my son, do not learn to be an undertaker. If you settle 
in a healthy town, you will starve. If you start in an unhealthy 
town, you may die yourself. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1884 . 



Dr. — “W ell, Pat, have you taken the box of pills I sent 
you ?” Pat — “ Yes, sir, I have ; but I don’t feel any better yet ; 
maybe the lid hasn’t come off yet.”— Judy. 

A considerate hotelkeeper advertising his XXXX concludes 
the advertisement : — “ Parties drinking more than four glasses 
at one sittings carefully sent home gratis in a wheelbarrow. 

Doctor, saida young man, “there is something the matter 
witli my brain ; 1 know there is. What shall Ido about it ?” 
And the Doctor calmly suggested that it probably needed 
exercise. 



THE HUNTING OF THE ZAITS. 

(After the Hunting of the Snark.) 

The Chronic’s speech : — 

^ 6 have worked many months, we have worked many years, 

(Seven years to the course 1 allow), 

But a secret society has, it appears, 

Come among us— I cannot tell how. 

Now listen, my meds, while I drum in your heads, 

The five unmistakeable traits 

By which you may know, ere homeward you go, 

The “ warranted genuine ” Zaits. 

Let us take them in order ; the first is the brain, 

Conspicuous by its absence. 

By no blows on the head can you cause a Zaite pain, 

For their skull-cap's remarkably dense. 

Their habit of staying up late, you'll agree, 

They carry too far, when I say 

That I’ve seen them come home from a Saturday spree 
At 2.30 the following day. 

The third is a fondness for passing their jest 
Upon any one outside their clique, 

They imagine their humour is some of the best, 

Though it really is cursedly weak. 

The f urth is a hatred of lecturing rooms, 

That always proves not to their taste, 

But they get on first-rate in nicotian fumes, 

If they happen in such to be placed. 

The last is ambition, and fain would I write 
Something pleasant concerning each one, 

But I fear they would kill me from envy and spite, 

For which virtues they capture the bun. 

Jum-Boo. 

“ glad Billy had the sense to marry a settled old maid,’’ 
said Grandma Winkum at the wedding. “Gals is iiity-tity, 
and widders is kinder’ overrulin’ and upsettin’. Old maids is 
kinder’ thankful and willin’ to please.” — Ex. 

From the St. Mary’s (a U. S. Military School) Sentinel : 

(Scene at target practice.)— Did you hit the target? I don’t 
know. Captain, — wait til the smoke rolls by. My goodness 
’Bill’ retreat ; you’ve shot a cow ! (All faint.) 

Eccentric Epitaphs. 

A PUBLICAN. 

“ Poor John Scott lies buried here, 

Tho’ one i he was bold, hale and stout, 

Death stretched him on his bitter bier, 

In another world he hops about.” 

AN ORGAN BLOWER 

Under this stone lies Meredith Morgan, 

AY ho blew the bellows of our great organ ; 

Tobacco he hated, to smoke most unwilling, 

Yet never s ) pleased as when pipes he was filling ; 

No puffer was he, though a capital blower, 

He could fill double Gr, and now lies a note lower. 

A young musician, remarkable for his modesty and sincerity, 
on his first appearance before the public, finding he could not 
give the trills effectively, assured the audience, by way of 
apology, that he trembled so he couldn’t shake. 

If that mysterious secret society, the Zaits, follows the 
absurd custom common in other secret societies of making their 
novitiates perform absurd antics in public for their amusement, 
can that in any way account for the strange head-dress in which 
a student recently appeared at morning lectures. 

A New View of the Case.— Papa— “ That picture shows 
Prometheus and the vulture that fed on his liver. The vulture 
devoured it every day, and every night it grew again for him 
to eat over again.” Sympathetic Child — “ Poor dear old vul- 
ture ! How sick he must have been of liver every day.” 

Funny Folks. 



Certain of the authorities were deputed to immerse a middle- 
aged candidate for baptism. When they returned without him 
they explained to the minister, that they had made a hole in 
the ice and proceeded to duck him ; but he slipped through 
their hands and hid under the ice, and that all their efforts to 
entice him from his hiding place had been in vain. 

JOHN L. SULLIVAN. 

Oh, ,T. Sullivan ! Oh, J. L. Sullivan ! 

Oh, John Lycurgus Sullivan, all hail! 

Thou bottomless infinitude ! Thou god! Thou you ! 

Thou Zeus with all compelling hand ! 

Thou glory of the mighty Occident ! Thou heaven -born ! 

Thou Athens-bred ! Thou light of the Acropolis ! 

Thou son of a gambolier ! 

Fifty-nine inches art thou round thy ribs ; twice twain knuckles 
hast thou ; and again twice twain 

Thou scatterest men’s teeth like antelopes at play. 

Thou straightenest thine arm, and systems rock, and eyeballs 
change their hue. 

Oh, thou grim granulator ! Thou soul-remover ! 

Thou lithsome, coy excoriator ! 

Thou cooing dove ! Thou droll, droll, droll John ! 

Thou buster ! 

Oh, you ! Oh, me too 1 Oh. me some more ! 

Oh, thunder 1 ! ! 

Walt Witman in Life. 

A fashionable young man lias acquired considerable fame as 
a musical bore on the violin One night, at a social gathering, 
he announced that he was going to send for a violin and draw a 
few of Beethoven’s symphonies out of it, as it were. To his 
amazement, all the gentlemen present volunteered to go for the 
fiddle, and up to date none of them had got back with it. 

The story is told of an American farmer who, when once in 
search of a young bull, arrived at the railway track just in time 
to see a train coming along at full speed and his bull upon the 
track with head down and ready fora fight with the locomotive. 
The old man swung his hat and shouted at the top of his voice : 
“Go it, you little fool ! I admire your pluck, but despise your 
judgment.” 

Owing to symptoms of severe lassitude and bodily fatigue 
having been detected in the clinical medical class, the com- 
mittee of the hospital propose to provide each student with an 
arni-cliair and a pair of crutches. The clinical professor will 
demonstrate from a sofa, and the house physician is to be sus- 
pended in a hammock in the middle of the ward, and, when he 
can stand it, to be fanned by a convalescent. 



Erancais Comme elle se Far le a la Chambre Dehors du 

M. G. H. 

( Companion to English as she is spoke.) 

PHRASES. 

Aitvoo Cattee leek ? 

Toussyvoo bookoo ? 

Avvyvoo Maldy tait? 

Avvyvoo Dollar? 

Avvyvoo maldest omak ? 

Avvy voody batmawdy cur ? 

Avvyvoody mallodaw. 

Je vous donnerai unc autre boutaille et quatrevin^t dix neuf 
pilules ? 

Cawreglay ? Tooly joor ? Orevore. 

Oovray laboosli ! Wider Sacre ! Teery lallong Dammit ! 

Otay lay poapyea komsaw. 

Doogoot trawfewawparj oor. 

Prenny aan mouthful delo. Resty trawnkeel ! Daarne ! Avail v 1 
Damme ! ! J ' 

Avally awnkoar ! Daame ! ! ! ! 

Revenny awn dojoor. Kursit. 

Dialogue. 

Junior Home Surgeon.— Deppwee cawnibyaandy taw avoyvoody 
etty mallad ? J J 

Patient (regretfully). — Me no onderstand Inglecsh sare i 
J. H. S — (ferociously). — Allyawhell ! ! ! 



A J J^AUV II. 






posted : 









‘ H— do not shoot at the organist ; he does £ best-” 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



1884.] 



DING DONG. 

By Rosin a Christetti. 

Ding Dong, Ding Dong, 

There goes the Gong, 

Dick, come along, 

’Tis time for dinner. 

Wash your face, 

Take y ur place. 

Where’s your grace, 

You little sinner ? 

“ Like an apple ?” 

“ Yes, I should. 

Nice, nice, nicey ! 

Good, good, good l” 

“ Manners, miss, 

Please behave, 

Those who ask, 

Shan’t have.” 

“ Those who don’t, 

Don’t want. 

I’ll eat it, 

You shan’t.” 

Baby cry, 

Wipe his eye. 

Baby good. 

Give him food. 

Baby sleepy, 

Go to bed. 

Baby naughty, 

Smack his head ! 

Poor little thrush, 

Pound dead in a bush ! 

When did he die ? 

He is rather high. 

Bury him deep, 

He won’t keep. 

Bury him well, 

Or he’ll smell. 

What have horns ? C >ws and moons. 

What have crests ? Cocks and spoons. 

What are nice? Ducks and peas. 

What are nasty ? Bites of fleas. 

What are fast ? Tides and times. 

What are slow ? Nursery rhymes . — The Liyht Green . 

Examination Papers. 

AVe have received an indignant letter from an embryo lawyer 
asking why the medicals have had examination papers prepared 
for them while nothing has been done for the other faculties. 
We can only say that the omission was due to an oversight on 
our part, and we now hasten to give the following questions for 
the benefit of the men learned in the law. At some future time, 
perhaps, we may be able to give the other faculties a helping 
hand. 

LEGAL HISTORY. 

(1) By what hordinance of the King was the expression “ in 
de meantime ” introduced into Canada, when is it used as an 
adverb and when as an interjection ? 

(2) Explain the meaning of in ylobo. (This question is only 
for the blue ribbon boy.) 

ROMAN LAW. 

(1) Write a succinct epitome of the whole of Maine’s 
Ancient Law. (Only five minutes allowed for this question.) 

(2) Tell what you don’t know about the Institutes of Jus- 
tinian. (Three whole days allowed for this.) 

CRIMINAL LAW. 

(1) Explain the difference between a rout and an affray. If 
the candidate in an Aldermanic election receive suddenly and 
violently a rotten egg in the eye, is this a rout? (Note. — Candi- 
dates will please not attempt a pun by saying that it is, at all 
events, a rot.) 

(2) What is the meaning of the expression “ the other day ”? 
If so, when did the riot in the Phoenix Park take place ? 

(3) Give the decision in the case of Sprott vs. Brown. 

CIVIL LAW. 

(1) In a Parliamentary contest, if one candidate gets 1,000 
votes and another 250, which man will be declared elected ? 

INTERNATIONAL. LAW. 

(1) Where do the best cigarettes come from? IIow many may 
a man smoke in one day ? 



(2) Who cheeked the Judge? I, says a little bird. Mho 
wasn’t satisfied with His Honor’s reading of the law ? Echo 
answers, I. 

AGENCY AND PARTNERSHIP. 

(1) If a man has such a bad temper that no one will go into 
partnership with him, what recourse has he against himself. 

(2) What is the difference between a factor, a broker and a 
law student ? Can a person be a stockbroker and a law student 
at the same time ? Is a clerk a broker, a factor, or a law 
student ? 

(3) Write out, word for word, the lectures which have been 
delivered to you at the rate of sixty miles an hour during the 
session. (The candidate is warned not to expend too long on 
this question.) 

It is a solemn and awful fact that traces of a secret society 
have been discovered at McGill. This is supposed to be some- 
thing like the old Ku-Klux Klan of evil memory. The mem- 
bers are, we believe, desperate ruffians, and are bound by awful 
oaths to commit various atrocities too awful to be described 
here. They arc all said to have sold their souls to the devil in 
order to escape being plucked in their examinations. Their 
habits are said to be nocturnal, and about midnight each of these 
wretches sallies forth, masked, and armed with a dagger. They 
have been seen going home at half-past two in the morning — 
and on Sunday, too ! They are said to be extremely exclusive, 
and it is even stated that they will admit no one unless he has 
either committed a murder or written an article for the McGill 
Gazette , or perpetrated some other vile deed which makes him a 
social outcast. Their ideas of dress are, to say the least, very 
peculiar, and it requires a tremendous exertion on the part of 
their fellow-students (who are deeply grieved at their depravity 
in this matter) to prevent some of them who intend to try and 
graduate this year from appearing in full dress in the chocolate- 
bordered class picture. Every one of course knows who they 
are, except the wretches themselves, who, when they are accused 
of belonging always look confused and deny it stoutly. I 
nearly forgot to tell what they call themselves. It is either 
Zite or Zaite, or something of the sort ; they do not mind the 
spelling, as long as you are sure to put on the “ e ” at the end. 
The way in which their existence was discovered is very remark- 
able. Some profound students of human nature observed that 
certain men eat about four times as much as any others at the 
medical dinner, clearly proving their identity. A diligent watch 
will be kept at future college dinners in all the faculties, and 
information is daily pouring in from students’ boarding-houses. 
This society should affiliate with the Harvard Pi Etas. 

“ William,” said a teacher to one of his pupils, “ can you tell 
me why the sun rises in the east ?” “ Don’t know, sir,” replied 

William, “’cept it be that the ’east makes everything rise.” 
Teacher fainted. 

Light-minded young thing in a bathing suit : “ Surely, Aunt 
Margaret, you’re not going to wear your spectacles in the 
water ! Aunt Margaret : “ Indeed I am. Nothing shall in- 
duce me to take otf another thing.” 

On his Metal. — Someone has been calculating that there is 
iron enough in the blood of forty-two men to make a plough- 
share. And there is “ steal” enough in the blood of one man, 
as we know without calculation, to make a burglar. 

A lady of fashion, in telling where she was going to spend 
the summer, said : “ I am going to the Isle of Wight, and I am 
going to take my maid, my nurse, my two dogs, my children, 
and — and, oh yes, my husband.” 

“ No, sir,” said old Tostewater ; “ there is good in every 
man.” “ Yes,” said lawyer Greenbag, “there was Jim Slanger ; 
he drank, stole, swore, lied, and followed a bad life for years 
and yet when we arrested him the other day ” Here Toste- 

water interrupted: “You told him of his old mother; of his 
once happy home. l r ou found some redeeming thing about 
him !” “ We did,” said Greenbag, as expectant eyes were fixed 

upon him ; “ we found something redeeming about him ^it was 

a pawn ticket.” 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1884. 




Ladies will do well to examine their Dry Goods Bills for the last few 
months, as we are told that Extravagant Prices have been charged in Mon- 
treal for all kinds of lingering Wools and Yarns. 



©UK JPKICES 

Our Prices all the Winter have been as follows : Baldwin and Walker's 
and Paton’s best four-ply and five-ply Fingering Wools, $1.2 > per pound of 
16 ounces for Blacks, Whites, and all shades of Greys, Drabs and Oxford ; 
and $1.50 per pound of 1G ounces for Bright Colors, such as Reds and Blues. 

S CARSLEY. 

Our Price for Paton’s Best Wheeling Yarn has been, all the season, 85c 
per pound of 16 ounces, in Black, White, Oxford, and all shades of Browns 
and Greys, and $1.15 per pound for Reds and Blues. 

S. CARSLEY. 



S.. CARSLEY’S 

s'Jisj'w 'swum* 

BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS! 

BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS ! 

BLACK OSTRICH FEATHERS ! 



Our buyer has secured several lots of remarkably fine Black Ostrich 
Plumes, much below regular prices. 

Ladies will find this a good opportunity of buying a splendid Plume at 
a very moderate cost. 

A large range to select from ; from Two Dollars to Fourteen Dollars. 

S. CARSLEY’S 

MILLIH3HY SHOW ROOM. 



387, 309, 391, 393, 395, 397 and 399 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MaSL WJLK&W'T WH&DB) UIMITME) 2 



PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 

PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 




251 ST. JAMES STREET. 



NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 
OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 
PLEiVSE CATjTi AWD SEE SPECIMENS 

P.S.— The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 



■** C. A$HF0KD»3 ** 

4 ♦ ♦ ^ 

Jb? Book and Stationery Jljop 

♦ ▼ *r 

(one DOOR WEST OF HIS OLD STAND) 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels , 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEikP Fon CASH. 

Bools procured lo order from England and the Boiled Stales. 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 

MONTREAL, 



UNIVERSITY OF 

BISHOP’S+COLLEGE 

JTJRE 3"^-* 



FACULTY OF MEDICINE 

SESSION OF 1884-85. 



Fourteenth Winter Session of this Faculty will open 
on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. The Faculty of 
Medicine of Bishop’s College bases its claim for public 
fiQj/) support upon the thoroughly practical character of its in- 
struction, and the fact that the means at its disposal for this 
purpose are not excelled by any medical school in Canada. 
^ Its Diploma is recognized by the Royal College of Physicians, 
Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; and the Royal 
College of Physicians, London. Students have the option of attending 
the practice • f either the Montreal General Hospital (200 beds), or of the 
Hotel Dieu H spital (200 beds), both of which institutions have a staff 
who regularly and systematically visit them. At the Montreal General 
Hospital excellent facilities are afforded for the study of Practical Pathology, 
under the direction of the Pathologist of the Hospital. The practice of the 
Montreal Dispensary — where spendid opportunity is afforded to learn Dis- 
pensing — is open to the Students of Bishop’s College. 

The Woman’s Department of the Western Hospital, under the 
supervision of this Faculty, is divided into two departments — Obstetrical 
and Gynecological. The Obstetrical Department is under the control of 
the Professor of Midwifery, and affords to Students a field unequalled in 
the Dominion — in fact this Department has made Bishop’s College the 
Midwifery School of Canada. The Gynecological Department is attended 
by the Professors of Bishop’s College, and is the only Hospital of its kind in 
the Dominion. Opportunity is here afforded to see most of the operations 
in this important Department of Surgery. 

Two Gold Medals (“ The Wood” and the “ Robert Nelson” Gold 
Medals) and the ‘ ‘ Dr. David” Scholarship are competed for annually. 

Fees, about the same as at the other Medical Schools in Canada, but a 
Student who pays the cost of the entire course on the commencement of his 
studies is able to effect considerable reduction. 

FACULTY: 

F. W. CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., LR.C.P. Lond., Dean, Professor of Principles and 
Practice of Medicine, consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to 
Western Hospital. 

J. BAKER EDWARDS, Ph. D., D.C.L.. Emeritus Professor of Practical Chemistry. 

R. A. KENNEDY, M.A.. M.D., C.M.. Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Childien, 
Consulting Physician Montreal Dispensary, Physician to and Superintendent of the 
Obstetrical Department of the Western Hosj ital. 

J. PERRIGO, A.M., M.D.. C.M., M.R.C.S. Ene., Professor of Surgery, Physician to and 
Medical Secretary Western Hospital. 

J. B. McCONNELL, M.A., M.D., C.M m Professor of Materia Medica, Physician Western 
Hospital and Montreal Dispensary. 

CASEY A. WOOD, C.M., M. D.. Professor of Pathology, Physician Western Hospital. 
GEORGE E. ARMSTRONG, M.D., Professorof Physiology, Physioiau Western Hospital 
JAMi.SC. CAMERON, M.D..C.M., M.R.C.P J. t Registrar, Professor of Medical Juris- 
prudence, Physician to Montreal General Hospital and Western Hospital. 

THOMAS SIMPSON, M.D., Professor Hygiene, Physician to Montreal General Hospi- 
tal, Consulting Physician Western Hospital. 

E. H. TRENHOLME, M.D., C. M., B. C.L., Professorof Gynaecology, Consulting Phy- 
sician Montreal Dispensary, Physician Western Hospital. 

WM. YOUNG, C.M., M. U., Prof ssor of Chemistry. 

J. LESLIE FOLF.Y, C.M., M.D., L.R.O.P. Lond., Professor of Anatomy, Physician 
Montreal Dispensary. 

H. L. RF,DDY : B.A., M.D., L.R.C.S.E., L.R.CLP.L,, Professor of Therapeutics. 

A. LAPTHORN SMITH, B.A., M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., Professor or Botany, Phj*sieian 
Montreal Dispensary. 

LECTURERS IN SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. 

JOSEPH BEMROSE, F.C.S.. Lecturer on Practical Chemis'ry. 

ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT, M.D., C. M„ Lecturer on Disease of the Eye, Ear and 
Throat, Ocutist to Montreal Dispensary and Western Hospital. 

D. D. GAHERTY, C.M., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomv. 

ANTHONY KERRY, C.M., M. D., Curator of Museum. 

For Circulars giving every requisite information apply to the Dean 
or to 

JAMES C. CAMERON, M.D., C.M., M.R.C.P.I., 
Montreal, December, 1883. Registrar, Montreal. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGR APHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, Sfc., $c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to established rules of art- 

&T Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 
50 c&fitS' 

— TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION $>•<> — 




HENRY GRANT & SON, 

26 Beaver Dali Terrace. 

Students' Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THEEMOHETEBS, 
MICROSCOPES, 
BAROMETERS, &C. 

OB TIC I A HS 9 

WATCH-MAKlRS, 



Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 



HEADQUABTERS 



FOR 




232 S"b. James StmeeU- 

Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books- 

Full assortment in stock and suoolied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, fyc-, Sfc., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 



Stylo graphic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty- 

W. BRYSBALE «fe CO« 

232 ST. J~ a m es Stizreeti^ 

. — ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




E. SANDERS, 

OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

MOJJTTLEAIj. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OF 

MICBGSCGFES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



WM. HOTMAH & SOH, 










D 



L 



ES to lie III 




O. HILL, 

jireulatimg | 

lO PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 

English and American Periodicals 

And Illustrated Works- 
.All Hjjads or Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders fur England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 






J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, COURT HOUSE mi CITY HILL 

M ONT H EA. Xj . 



— IMPORTER OF — 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTKEA 1 L. 

•^WILLIAM SAMUELS 

867 Notre Dame Street, 

* — 
s— 



Pro m tb.© Best English IVEalters, 

— AND — 

Manufactu rer of F INE FURS. 

Highest Award for FINE FURS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Prizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 

SIIMMERHAYES & WATFORD 

-Hjc PJI 0 ] I f 061 ^PJIEl^ :j !^' 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

JA ONTREAL. 

Special Bates for Student) 



£he above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Linnets. 

-seGEO. BROWN & SONSsfr- 

Mersfiaiit + Tailors, 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

A. SPECIAL DISCOTJ3SIT TO STUDENTS. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

INTO. 233 ST. JAMES STBEET- 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL. 

ALL TEXT BOOKS L ALL KINDS 

OF 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

of COLLEGE 

CANADA. £(' P REQUISITES. 

SIGN OF '"HE GOLDEN OWL. 

aST O. 233 ST. J'-A.MES STBBET, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



IX USB 

IN THE COLLEGES 





