Sydney Ly;nan 



The McGill Gazette. 

0L - II- Montreal, February i, 1876. - No. 6. 



CONTENTS. 



M AU A| 

The Old Boys, (Poetry) 63 

Oxford in Vacation 63 

Science among the Romans 66 

Nodding to its Fall 67 

Advice to Freshmen 69 

Dinner to Literary Society 69 



riti* 

McGill University Glee Club Concert... . 69 

College Items 69 

Exchanges 70 

Gaudeamus. (published by Request). ... 70 

Advertisements 60. 6 r, 71, 72 



’I he McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University. 
Terms , $ i.oo per annum; Single Copies, io Cents. For sale at Drysdale' s, Dawson's and Hill's. Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary, McGill College. Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill 
College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays, and all suitable literary matter from University men. It 
will open its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College, provided the communications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner. 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a sealed envelope, which 
will be opened ij the contribution is inserted, but will be destroyed if rejected. This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

II. II. WOOD , Secretary. 



SAVAGE, LYMAN S’ CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIN, of Lode, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 

in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, RUBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 
ALSO IN STOCK : 

Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., & c. 

226 cC* 228 St. James Street. 



J. D. ANDERSON, 

Mthmt 

MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 

206 ST. JAMES STREET , 
MONTREAL. 




AIWA YS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS, 
SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 



REMEMBER 

THE NIL UNIVERSITY tlEE CLII1 

CONCERT, 



John C. Becket, 

STEAM 

Book and Job Printer, 

658 & 060 CRAIG STREET 



ON THE 11th INSTANT. 



MONTREAL. 



62 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



GO TO 

Walsh’s Clothing House, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing and Tailoring Establishment, 

MGS NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

A large atsortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys' Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Prices very moderate. A call solicited. 

% 

W. WALSH k CO. 

LORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




Wholesale and Retail 



No. 21 St. Lawrence Street, 

MONTREAL. 

437 and 439 Hotre Dams Street. 

GO TO 

C H EAPS I D E 

FOR YOUR 

DRY GOODS, 

And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 
answer to an advertisement in the McGill Gazette. 

A. A. MURPHY. 



S. R. PARSONS, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF THE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&c., &c., &c., 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the new Post Office) 

MONTREAL. 

NEW LIST~! 

Baldwin and Walker’s best Four-ply Fingering Yarn 

$1. 38 per lb. 

John Baton & Sons’ best Three-ply Scotch Alloa 



Wheeler Yarn 90c. 

Canadian Four-ply Fingering Yam 75 c> 

Best English Cocoa-nut Matting 30c. 

English Stair Oil-cloth' 1 1 j£c. 

English Floor Oil-cloth, yard wide .28c. 

Lace Curtains, good quality $1 05 per pair. 

Lace Curtains, 3j£ yards long $1 25 

Lace Curtains, four yards long $2 65 



Three Cases White Quilts, to be sold very cheap this 
week, from $1 25 to $4 each. 

Two Cases Colored Cloth Table-covers, from 50 cents 
to $7 each. 

One Case Piano Covers, from $6 50 to $12 each. 

NOTICE . — Wc are selling goods much below value 
for X’MAS PRESENTS. 

S- CARSLEYi 

No. 399 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



MCGILL UNIVERSITT GLEE CLUB. 



OPENING CONCERT 

IN THE MOLSON HALL 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY llth, a 1 8 O'CLOCK. 

IN AID OF THE 

MONTREAL GENERAL HOSPITAL. 

GLEES, SOLOS, & INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC. 

SINGLE TICKET — 50 CENTS. 

DOUBLE TICKET— 75 CENTS. 

To be obtained through Students from any Member of 
the Club. . • 



The McGill Gazette. 

Vol. II., Neio Series. McGill College , February 1st, 1876. No. 6 



THE OLD BOYS. 

Don’t you remember, Tom 
The 44 long long ago,” 

When we two were boys, Tom ; 

Hair was not like snow, 

Cheeks were plump and russet then, 

Hearts brimful of light, 

Step was more elastic 
Than it is to-night. 

How the years are racing, Tom ! 

How one’s friends depart ! 

How our darling idols 

Are pluck’d out from the heart ; 

The hopes we cherished once, Tom, 

The loves we’d freely vow, 

Scarcely any form part 
Of our history now. 

Little Maggie Morton, 

She was only yours, 

Dont you mind a-courting 
Her, across the moors? 

Gentle, bashful Maggie, 

Quiet as a nun, 

I could never understand 
How her heart you won. 

Peggy May was mine, Tom, 

Could the Gods endow 
Maiden with more glorious eyes. 

With more noble brow ? 

Heaven was on earth then, 

Heart-ease at her feet ; 

I shall know her darling face 
When in Heaven we meet. 

The master is dead, Tom, 

The school-house tumbled down, 

Peggy’s once-white cottage, 

Is now a musty brown ; 

She and Mag lie yonder, 

’Neath the willows sigh, 

And the breezes echo 
Our mournful lullaby. 

Here are you and I, Tom, 

All of all the boys, 

Talking of past sorrows 
Chatting of old joys, 

Both of us knew trouble Tom, 

Both of us lost love, 

We’ll keep friends and one day meet 

Peg and Mag above. w. G. B. 



OXFORD IN THE VACATION. 

44 Like a rich gem, in circling gold enshrined, 

Where Isis’ waters wind 

Along the sweetest shore 

That ever felt fair Culture’s hands, 

Or Spring’s embroidered mantle wore, 

Lo ! where majestic Oxford stands.” 

I drove into the classic city on the Isis, last 
September, just as the great bell “Tom £>f 
Oxford” in the entrance tower of Christ Church 
College was tolling its curfew. Its gownsmen 
were absent enjoying their vacation ; its Col- 
leges were deserted and in a sense dismal. 
Nothing remained to recall the personality of 
the students, but thousands of names pencilled 
and carved on walls, on desks and doors, — no 
where more lavishly than in the octagonal 
chamber of the Sheldonian Theatre, where a 
wag has added the motto “ Nomine stultorum 
ubique locorum ” But Oxford is unique, and 
may be said to be never more imposing than 
when empty. 

It scarcely needed the recollection that here 
King Alfred and Canute had lived, that here 
Ridley, Latimer and Cranmer had suffered 
martyrdom ; that Oxford had been the garden 
of many of England’s noblest, as well as nar- 
rowest minds, to inspire one’s thought and 
feeling. Its natural situation and surroundings, 
its rich meadows and poetic stream, its magni- 
ficent approach, and its ancient history, never 
weary the stroller. Yet for the ndnce these 
charms seem eclipsed in admiration of its 
splendid academic architecture : domes, towers 
and turrets rising to the sky in rich profusion • 
and venerable structures of every style of 
architecture, captivating the eye, and crumbling, 
mellow and time-honored into outward signs 
of decay. 

I had rather a dusty drive to Oxford, 
and espying a Turkish Bath I ventured to in- 
dulge in a siesta and a scrub, with bright rem- 
iniscences of the cleanliness and comfort of our 
Montreal Hammam. Travelling in England 



64 



THE McGILL gazette. 



may be literally said to be dirty pleasure. In 
London, the lavatories are well patronized by 
swarms of soiled sons of Adam who toil not 
neither do they spin, yet whose hands and 
faces get begrimed as if they had been at 
filthier labor than promenading Regent St. 
The Shampooer of the Bath had passed his 
plebeian paws over the bodies of scores of noble 
bora ; had rubbed the blue blood of Europe, 
including the Prince of Wales and Prince Leo- 
pold into active circulation. To be shampooed 
by such hands, was, he considered, a privilege 
for which you should not only be grateful in 
expression, but in “tips.'’ The gentleman, 
however, had a most unclassical odour of strong 
drink, and as one had this vapour exhaled in- 
to his face, in an atmosphere of 140 Fahr. 
the luxury was more mythical than real, and 
the smell not at all suggestive of the bank 
whereon the wild thyme grows. The luxury 
began when I left it. 

Wherever you go gaping in Europe the pro- 
fession of Guide meets you at every turn. 
Seedy or beery-faced individuals proffer you 
their services for a shilling or less an hour, and if 
they do not out-Herod the exaggerations of 
interested enthusiasts, they will at all events 
talk very fair history and tradition equal to 
any penny a liner. I had imbibed a prejudice 
against the race, but as I was strolling through 
the quadrangle of the Schools, an elderly party 
cajoled me out of my stern resolution by the 
respectability of his countenance, and a pathe- 
tic word or two he dropped about unlimited 
motherless children dependant upon him at 
home, ranging from twelve years to twelve 
months. It was the baby that upset me, and 
I consented to follow his lead. To do him just- 
ice, however, I enjoyed his assistance very 
much, and when I think of those unlimited 
olive leaves, and especially of that best of 
arguments, the baby, I wish I knew my 
guide’s address, so that I could send him a 
Christmas-box for the bairn. Like everybody 
else in Oxford, the pervading University 
atmosphere had impregnated his soul and body. 
He was a walking history of Oxford ; an epitome 
of College secrets and sanctums, and could 
talk glibly (though this to be taken cumgrano 



I salts) of the five orders of Roman architecture 
from Tuscan to Composite, which are represen- 
ted in the School Tower, and seemed quite at 
home discussing the College curriculums and 
the speciality of the themes. To hire history 
for a shilling an hour, ready to illuminate 
actual facts before your eyes with the light of 
other days, to buy so cheap prompt information 
about University professors, students, and stu- 
dies, even if given in a sing-song sort of a way, 
to have pointed out to you the sights worth 
seeing as well as those worth missing, commends 
the profession of Guide to my hungry heart 
and ravenous eyes. Yet the deepest and 
sw’eetest impressions come to you when after- 
wards you stroll through the same scenes alone, 
and walk and talk in fancy with the great and 
glorious minds who look down upon you from 
bust and picture, or whose spirit seems to haunt 
the walks and walls of Oxford. 

The University comprises twenty-four inde- 
pendently founded Colleges and five Halls, 
besides a University of Professors. But all 
Oxford from its bakers to its tailors, live and 
move .and have their being by the grace of the 
University. It seemed to me, as if Oxford was 
the one place in England which would certainly 
pass into oblivion if its University and College 
buildings had been founded elsewhere. The 
very barber who shaves you talks of nothing 
but the next boat-race, or the new batch of 
freshmen. The vacation puts Oxford in meta- 
phorical crape : but the approach of another 
Term turns shop windows into wedding gayety, 
and lights up the soul and silence of the reticent 
moping shop-keeper. Magdalen College has a 
revenue of £"40,000, but the average of each 
College is about .£15,000. Imagine Magda- 
len covering eleven acres with buildings alone, 
and one hundred acres more with gardens. 
The lawns and flower gardens of the Colleges 
are the richest, perhaps, in England. A 
McGillite would, as the sailor’s say “ heave a 
sigh” when he recalls the cut up surroundings 
of his Montreal College gardens. Especially 
beautiful were the gardens of New College. 
The only perfect remnant of the old city 
walls bounds one side, and Virginia creepers 
crimsoned by autumn’s approach hang in 



THE McGILL GAZETTE, 



65 



graceful drooping. There are generally four- 
teen hundred students ; each of whom pro- 
bably expends on an average £300 a year. 
The restrictions upon an Oxonian would 
make a McGillite wince. Living under the im- 
mediate jurisdiction of their College, they must 
be within the portals by nine p. m. must attend 
chapel, and in the event of repeated infrac- 
tion of the laws, are not only subject to 
fines varying from five shilling to a guinea, but 
to the old school-boy horror of being “kept in.” 
From boyhood to manhood is a step from 
submission to independence : but from Rugby 
to Oxford, is from freedom to restraint. In 
Heidelberg and other German Universities 
the students may miss lectures and pour the vials 
of their wrath and playful pranks upon the 
beadles with impunity. Yet on the other 
hand, we hear comparatively nothing of the 
license accorded the Oxonians at the Annual 
Encoenia or Commemoration, where the stu- 
dents drown the speeches of tedious speak- 
ers by cat cries and humorous shafts of shout. 

Every College has its separate Chapel, Library 
and Dining Hall, and Gardens. A College 
comprises quadrangles of chapel and rooms for 
the students, halls, gardens, walks and fine 
frontages. The buildings range from the 13th 
to the 19th century. In one quadrangle you 
may see architecture coeval with Alfred, linked 
with modern innovations and restorations, yet 
each distinct and well defined. The Dining 
Halls are grand architectural works of art ; that 
of New College is seventy-eight by thirty feet : 
of Christ Church, one hundred and fifty feet 
long and fifty wide, and upon its walls hang about 
two hundred pictures. Are not the associations 
and noble impressiveness of these Halls rich 
appetizers to mind and body ? Most of the 
wealthy students leave their College some pic- 
ture or plate or endowment, and thus within 
the walls of the Colleges, a rich acquisition 
accumulates. A hint to the wise graduates 
of our Canadian Universities. 

I cannot here pretend to describe the antique 
wealth of the academic architecture of Oxford. 
When Gothic was in its prime, its best votaries 
here displayed their genius. Here too have 
the classic revivals of modem times had their 



finest creations. But the glorious tracery of 
Magdalen Tower and St Mary’s cling to one’s 
memory : the beautiful Tower and transepts of 
Merton College ; the unique cupola of Queen’s : 
the glorious Chapel of New College, — indeed, 
the risk is more to miss than to describe. But 
Christ’s Church, the alma mater of Peel, 
Canning, John Locke, “rare Ben Johnson,” 
Sir Philip Sydney, the Wesley’s, Gladstone etc., 
has many rich historical associations. It is 
never called a College, but “ The House” 
(,Edes Christ 1.) Its Hall is the most splendid 
mediaeval Hall in England, except Westminster. 
The Church of St. Mary the Virgin, with its 
picturesque Italian porch of curled columns 
and rich tracery recently restored, is well worth 
a visit. I managed to get an entree, and as 
I stood on the spots where Wycliffe denounced 
the errors of the day, where Cranmer, Ridley 
and Latimer were cited, and tried, where 
Amy Robsart, the heroine of Scott’s “ Kenil- 
w or th” is buried, I would have been less than 
human had I been insensible to the atmosphere 
of bygone history. 

I enjoyed very much a visit to the Ashmolean 
Museum, containing a rich collection of anti- 
quities, and the Arundel marbles. Its care- 
taker informed me that it was the oldest 
collection in England. Here I saw the sword 
sent by Pope Leo X to King Henry VIII, 
(1514) with the title of “ Defender of the Faith.” 
Its handle is of crystal, and its mountings of 
wrought silver. Also Queen Elizabeth’s watch : 
a little stumpy, ugly thing, studded over with 
blue stones ; having attached to it a row of 
lockets, containing plaited hair and also a skull 
and cross bones. Also Cromwell’s watch and 
privy seal and many articles from Anglo-Saxon 
graves ; a lock of the hair of King Edward IV, 
taken from his head when his body was found 
in the College chapel of Windsor (1789) fine 
Romano-British, and Egyptian collections ; 
Roman pottery ; pre-historic collections of flint 
implements, spear heads &c., the hat w r orn by 
President Bradshaw when he passed sentence 
on King Charles I : the riding boots of “good 
Queen Bess,” showing her to have had a very 
dainty foot and leg. 

Each College has a rich Library of its own, 



66 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



but the Bodleian Library would give a book- 
worm chronic salivation. It contains over 
250,000 volumes, besides 20,000 manuscripts 
and other literary tit-bits. It is entitled to a 
copy of every work published in the country. 
Among the manuscripts they have that of Plato, 
dated A. D. 896, brought from Egypt ; and a 
manuscript Virgil of the same date. The 
Library of the British Museum, vast and mag- 
nificent as it is, with its miles of books did not 
affect me like the Bodleian -at Oxford. Here 
one seemed to be in the atmosphere which had 
nourished the intellectual life of many of 
England’s greatest authors : here learning had 
flourished for hundreds of years, and great 
thinkers and actors had passed their lives. The 
very spirits of theirauthors seemed tohoverabout 
the shelves, and to look down upon you with 
benign countenances from the portraits above. 
One “ seemed to inhale learning, walking amid 
their foliage.”. The Picture Gallery of the 
Bodleian contains many curiosities : among 
them several fine models of ancient temples, 
such as the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at 
Jerusalem ; many fine pictures of Kings, 
Founders and Scholars : the very lantern of 
Guy Fawkes taken from him when he was 
arrested in the cellar of the House of Commons : 
a chair made out of Drake’s ship, with an 
inscription by Cowley. 

The Martyr’s Memorial is a chaste structure 
something after the model of the crosses erected 
by King Edward I, to the memory of Queen 
Eleanor. The statues of Cranmer, Ridley and 
Latimer are very fine and characteristic. 

I strolled through the groves of Magdalene 
under the glorious trees of “ Addison’s Walk.” 
I rowed on the Isis ; and strolled again and 
again through College and quadrangle, through 
library and museum, through garden and 
street. Let the genial Charles Lamb in vaca- 
tion tell some of my own emotions. “ Here I 
can take my walks unmolested and fancy 
myself of what degree or standing I please. I 
fetch up past opportunities. I can rise at the 
chapel bell and dream that it rings for me. 
In moods of humility I can be a Sizar or a 
Servitor. When the peacock vein rises, I 



strut a Gentleman Commoner. In graver mo- 
ments I proceed Master of Arts. 

Of Oxford sports*I can say nothing, for I saw 
nothing. Of the comparison between Oxford 
and Cambridge I can say less for I know 
nothing. But I can sincerely say, that I left 
few places with more envy than Oxford. It 
was like leaving forbidden fruit. In a lesser 
degree this applies to McGill. Happy,— though 
they may not think so ; — lucky — though they 
may not feel so, — are the Freshmen who have 
the opportunity of cultivating head and heart 
under its ccgis. From its ranks and the ranks 
of its sister Universities must come the flower 
of Canada’s national life ; our scholars and 

L 

our gentlemen. Esto perpetua ! 

h W. G. B. 



Sketches of the history of science. 

III. SCIENCE AMONG THE ROMANS. 

( Concluded. ) 

In it he has handed down the names of a large 
number of sculptors, painters, engravers, and 
the description of edifices, statues, and carved 
stones, the knowledge of whose existence would 
have otherwise passed into oblivion. He des- 
cribes the metallurgy of Rome in his day, as 
for example, the extraction of gold and silver 
by amalgamation with mercury, and the manu- 
facture of brass, bronze, steel, white lead, 
minium and litharge ; he also speaks of the 
properties of the diamond, touchstone, sulphur, 
cinnabar &c. Pliny believed that shells grew 
in the hills whence they were quarried. He 
enumerated a number of islands which had 
sprung up in the Mediterranean Sea, showing 
that the people were not altogether inattentive 
to the changes going on about them, yet we 
could hardly expect close observation in a 
sensual people, who would see no social value 
to be derived from scientific investigations, 

Dioscorides (A. D. 75,) a physician of the 
Roman Army under Nero, was a celebrated 
botanist, and left the description of 600 plants, 
the accuracy of which was undisputed till the 
fifteenth century. As was the custom of the 
time, he attributed imaginary properties to 
plants. The Arabs had no other work on 
plants than that of Dioscorides. 



THE McGILL gazette. 



67 



Plutarch in his “ Industry and Reason of 
Animals” treats the subject in its philosophical 
rather than in its scientific connections. 

To the second century belonged Athenveus, 
Aelianus and Oppianus. The last of these 
naturalists, has left descriptions of horses, 
hounds and animals of the chase. Oppianus de- 
scribes the modes of living and reproduction 
of about sixty species of fishes besides various 
mollusks ; his descriptions being free from 
fables. This naturalist was one of the last 
belonging to antiquity and after him we 
find only Galen, the celebrated physician to 
Marcus Aurelius. Galen travelled extensively 
to gain knowledge, but when he was studying 
in Alexandria, scientific pursuits had fallen 
into a state of decadence. However this 
naturalist made many wonderful discoveries 
in Comparative Anatomy ; and when the battle 
field did not afford him a sufficiently large 
number of subjects, he would examine the 
higher orders of quadrupeds, especially mon- 
keys. Contrary to the prevailing theories of 
the day, he concluded that the head was the 
seat of the faculties, but he does not appear 
to have known of the circulation of the blood. 
If Aesculapius was the fabled father of Med- 
icine, Galen may be considered as the 
natural father, for his knowledge was based on 
that of others and greatly advanced by his 
own investigations on true scientific bases. 

During the reigns of Trajan and Hadrian, 
the thinking world was thrown into a state of 
anarchy, by the philosophy of Indus on the one 
hand, and by neo- platonism on the other. From 
these useless and vague conflicts of ideas arose 
the Cabalistic philosophy, that deplorable alie- 
nation of the human reason which reigned so 
long. These studies so fatal to intelligence, 
very soon threw the sciences into oblivion, and 
thus in the second century only four celebra- 
ted naturalists flourished. Andnow, from 
Rome, as before from Greece, philosophical 
studies were transferred to Alexandria. 

In the third century there were very few 
remarkable writers, owing perhaps to the strug- 
gles between the Pagans and Christians. 
However in Alexandria the savants were occu- 
pying themselves with the Hermetic Art, 



(afterwards converted to that of Alchemy,) 
which had for its object the transmutation 
of metals, and they contributed largely to 
the knowledge of Metallurgy. The ancient 
works attributed to Hermes, were probably 
written at this time by the Alexandrian Savants. 
Thus we see that out of an undue desire for 
gain emanated in the dim past the embryonic 
condition of that science, which in modern 
times has contributed so largely to the progress 
of the science of Chemistry. In the fourth 
century, Constantinople had collected the 
debris of the Roman civilization. We however, 
find but little progress. Still Eustathius, Arch- 
bishop of Antioch, and Saint Ambrosius 
left some works on Natural History, but they 
were written with an exclusively theological 
purpose. 

From the time that the Capital of the 
Roman Empire was carried to Constantinople 
all learning began to decay, and this deca- 
dence was completed by the invasion and 
desultory wars of the Northern barbarians. Yet 
during this time a few names are to be found, 
as that of Saint Augustine, who described 
several fishes and the remains of a mastodon, 
which he supposed to be the bones of giants. 
Still these few persons cannot be considered as 
having advanced the sciences, or even preserved 
them from decay, and so learning passed into 
the cold darkness in which it lay almost dor- 
mant for a thousand years. 

J. W. S. 



NODDING TO ITS FALL. 

As a rule we do not give way to the little 
vanity of ventilating our grievances nor we do 
approve of a College Paper devoting its col- 
umns solely to the interests of the mircrocosm 
of which it assumes to be the mouthpiece. 
There may be certain things connected with the 
management which need reform, to the neces- 
sity of which the Authoritiea are blind and 
which have been left undone merely for want 
of well directed and timely prompting, of such 
it is well to take notice. But with regard to the 
duties and privileges of Students in their rela- 
tions towards one another and their Alma Mater 



68 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



we leave to their good sense to . determine. 
This as a general rule. But there is a point 
beyond which endurance ceases to be a virtue 
and tolerance becomes a fault. Conservatism 
is the healthiest tone that can be given to a 
College but a time must come when this policy, 
like a hitherto sound body exhausted at last by 
the pains of a racking disease, requires stimula- 
ting. Innovations of a character, agreeable to 
the majority must be introduced and unless 
they are maintained by the whole community, 
these changes will be fraught with more ill than 
good. 

r I he publication of the University Gazette in 
1873 was a move in the right direction, but its 
suppressionin i874forwant of adequate support 
demonstrated clearly that there was very little 
energy among our men and still less of that 
public spirit which alone can prove to the world 
tnat McGill College is not the cave of Tropho- 
nius whence issue sombre and melancholy 
pedants with no other influence than such as 
gloomy Literature and science can give them. 
With which object in view we endeavour to 
make the development of the body equal to 
that of the brain, let us see with what result. 

The Athletic sports were established appar- 
ently on-a firm footing in 1873 but it was at the 
expense of the Founder’s Festival which together 
with the other would have expended more 
vitality than the College could afford to lose. 

And not only this but after a lengthened pros- 
perity of two years, the sum collected for our 
last sports was not enough to exclude the ques- 
tion of a deficit from the anxious mind of the 
gentlemen composing the Committee. While 
on this subject we would remind the Law 
Students that they are not a body politic and 
corporate doing business as such at their place 
of business in St. James Street, but a part and 
parcel of McGill, to the annual sports of which 
next year we give them a cordial welcome even 
if they are unwilling to subscribe. It will be a 
point gained if they find the College grounds 
to which their obedient servants the guardians 
of the peace will direct them, if they themselves 
should fail in doing so. And still they come. 
The Committee of three appointed to procure 



a University Ribbon after bestowing much la- 
bour on the attainment of a distinctive badge 
became the victims of ingratitude and failing to 
dispose of more than one eighth of the quantity 
purchased have determined to effect the inser- 
tion of their names among the benefactors on 
the donation sheet of the college. Efforts so 
stupendous as these proved too much for the 
resources of the undergraduates who feeling ex- 
hausted lapsed unto a state of lethargy from 
which they made a desperate attempt to recover. 
At the opening of this Session by re-organizing 
the College Paper under the sententious title 
of the McGill Gazette, New Series Vol. 11. 
But no sooner was it given to the public than 
the resurrectionists began to lose all interest in 
the work that had been reared from its ashes. 
It requires no consultation with a Cassandra to 
predict the result of the present undertaking.. 
We have only to take one glance at the spirit 
now prevailing and another at the list of sub- 
scribers to promise our readers a McGill Chroni- 
cle Renewed Series Vol. in in the year 1880 
Even if Vol. 1 1 should live through its allotted 
year of existence, we shall have to thank those 
who support us in the world outside and not 
those who ought to do so in the college itself, 
when there is a sufficient number of undergra- 
duates to pay current expenses it is somewhat 
mortifying to look to extraneous sources for fin- 
ances, and still more discouraging to the editors 
that, in addition to the trouble and annoyance 
of conducting the Gazette, they should be held 
responsible for its debts when the credit sheet 
shews “ want of funds.” Let the carpers, who 
censured us for not giving due notice of meet- 
ings at which every man might have a fair chance 
of election, take warning and not be too anxi- 
ous to secure appointment to Committees of re- 
forms especially when these necessitate a heavy 
pecuniary outlay. AVe are far from disinter- 
ested in our outcry, but at the same time we 
would recommend our Alumni to give serious 
consideration to the fact that they are not doing 
their duty to an organ whose object is to promote 
their interests, and that they are lacking in that 
zeal which, for want of a more forcible term, 
we must designate esprit de corps . Majora 
canemus. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



69 



Notwithstanding all the endeavours which 
have been made to put a stop to the tumbling 
and pushing in the halls, this unseemly practice 
is still much in vogue among Freshmen and 
Intermediates. A\ e would again remind these 
turbulent youths that a gymnasium has been pro- 
vided for the development of their animal nature 
and would request them to consider the College 
buildings as the proper place for the cultivation, 
if not of their own mental powers, at least 
of those of others. It will generally be found 
that this boisterous disposition in students var- 
ies inversely as the amount of brains which they 
possess, and we venture to say that if a visitor 
desire to see at a glance the pluckees of the 
College, he would find them, almost to a man, 
in the hall just before morning prayers, shoving 
and bunting their pates into one another. 
Last week a Freshman who has obtained a 
very unenviable distinction in this line was con- 
dignly rewarded with a broken nose, and became 
the cynosure of all eyes for the rest of the mor- 
ning. It is needless to add he was proud of 
his achievement, and was much admired by his 
compeers. The damage done to the walls be- 
fore Christmas, was so great that a new and 
higher wainscoting had to be put up during the 
holidays, and this will in all likelihood have to 
be renewed before long, unless these burly ath- 
letes desist. A few days ago, after prayers 
the Principal specially requested the forbear- 
ance of the students from this childish sport, 
but the chief rioters were not present, not be- 
ing, as rule, among the habitues of the morning 
service. 

It is high time for the faculty to adopt strin- 
gent measures for the suppression of this grow- 
ing and insufferable nuisance. 



Mr. F. J. Keller, B.C.L., entertained the 
members of the Literary Society to dinner, at 
the Carlton Club, on the 21th ult. About 
sixty sat down to table. The usual loyal toasts 
were proposed and heartily received. Mr. Keller 
proposed the toast of the Society which was 
responded toby Mr. MacMaster, who in turn 
proposed that of “Our Host” which was received 
with Highland honours. “ Alma Mater,” Under- 



graduates,” “ Ladies,” “ Bar,” and the “ Press” 
were all duly honoured, the latter being respond- 
ed to by Messrs. McGibbon and Robertson on 
behalf of the McGill Gazette. During the 
evening songs were given by Messrs., Cream, 
Powell, Corrigan and others, and the meeting 
broke up at an early hour. 



The members of the McGill University Glee 
Club intend giving a concert on Friday, Feb. 
nth; and the Governors of the College have 
lent the Molson Hall for the occasion. The 
programme will be a varied one, consisting of 
glees, songs, and instrumental music, and will 
be carried out entirely by members of the col- 
ege. Students are invited to show their good- 
will towards the club by coming en masse to the 
opening concert. It has been decided to 
give the proceeds to the Montreal General 
Hospital ! It is not a public concert, but the 
Club desires to have as many students and 
friends of the College as the room will 
hold. It is therefore hoped that all students 
will induce their friends to take tickets, and so 
help the club to make the concert the success 
which is confidently expected. 

All students can purchase tickets for them- 
selves and friends, of any member of the club. 

The doors will be opened at 7. 30, the con- 
cert commencing at 8 o’clock. Carriages may be 
ordered at 10 o’clock. 

Single tickets, 50 cents : Double tickets, 75 
cents. 



COLLEGE ITEM. 



Meetings of the various years in the Faculty of Arts, 
were convened for the purpose of electing class Presi- 
dents and Secretaries. The following gentlemen were 



appointed : — 

President. 

1st Year. H. H. Wood. 
2nd “ James Ross 
3rd “ E. Lafleur. 
4 th “ 



Secretary. 

W. Lighthall. 

D. C. McLaren. 
R. D. McGibbon. 



The other day the Professor of Hebrew unwittingly 
left the key of his Lecture-room in the lock on the out- 
side. The opportunity was too good to be resisted, 
and as soon as all the theologs had entered, a reckless 
student gently turned the key. A little after one 
o’clock the tramping and thumping began, and lasted 
until one of the Professors came to the rescue. 



7o 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



A student who has very sensitive parents tells us that 
he is obliged to put covers on all his cribs and label the 
backs with such euphemistic titles as ‘Greek Testament/ 
‘ Students’ vade mecum’ &c., 

A Theolog was with difficulty dissuaded from 
translating : Ni caves , geminabit> ‘ If you don’t take 
care, she’ll have twins’. The Theologs have the 
monopoly of these renderings. 

A student who left College for the Christmas holidays 
under the impression that he had escaped the necessity 
of passing his supplemental, was surprised to find at 
the station the laconic but significant telegram from one 
of his fellow-sufferers : “come and sup with mein 
February.” 

On Monday 17th ult. a Meeting of students was held 
in the Academy of Music, Mr. Lyman in the chair. 

A Committee to draft a petition to the Faculty upon 
the reading-room question was formed, arrangements 
made for the Annual present to the Janitor and Porter 
and a motion recommending to the students the ap- 
pointment of class officers unanimously carried. 

The public debate of the University Literary Society 
was held on the 17th ult. in Association Hall, there was 
a large and intelligent audience, Mr. Monk, (Law) 
read a selection from Mark Twain, Mr. MacMaster, 
B.C.L. delivered an address, jmd the following question 
was discussed “ Should voting at Parliamentary elect- 
ions be compulsory?” Messrs Hall, B.A., B.C.L., and 
R. W. Huntington, B.C.L. spoke in the affirmative and 
Messrs. Hutchison B.C.L. and Lonergan B.C.L. in the 
negative. The decision of the meeting resulted in a draw. 



EXCHANGES. 

Whatever may be the faults of the Dartmouth , (and 
could we have persuaded ourselves to review their last 
number, we have no doubt in view of past experience 
that we might have found some therein), every candid 
person must admit that it is free from partiality. We 
are abundantly confirmed in this belief by the liberal 
position taken by the Editors on the question of forming 
a New England Boating Association. They think it is 
pleasant to know that Dartmouth holds the only sound 
view on this question It is indeed pleasant to know this. 
Probably the deep pleasure experienced by the Editors 
of the Dartmouth in their consciousness of the fact was 
what prompted them with the desire of sharing their 
joy with those less favoured mortals to whom it is not 
so evident. 

Were we not convinced that such a praiseworthy 
motive actuated the Editors, in making public this 
opinion of theirs, we should be obliged to confess that 
it would carry more weight with it and that the modesty 
of the Hanoverian Editors would appear less questiona- 
ble, had the opinion emanated from some other source 
than from the Dartmouth itself. 



GAUDEAMUS. 

Gaudeamus igitur, 

Tuvenes dum sumus, 

Post jucundam juventutem, 

Post molestam senectutem, 

Nos habebit humus. 

Ubi sunt qui ante nos 
In mundo fuere ? 

Transeas ad superos, 

Abeas ad inferos, 

Hos si vis videre. 

\ 

Vita nostra brevis est, 

Brevi finietur, 

Venit mors velociter 
Rapit nos atrociter 
Nemini parcetur. 

Vivat academia, 

Vivant professores ! 

Vivat membrum quodlibet 
Vivant membra quaelibet 
Semper sint in flore ! 

Vivat et respublica 

Et quae illam regit, 

Vivat nostra civitas, 

Maecenatum caritas, 

Quae nos hie protegit. 

Vivant omnes virgines 
Faciles, formosae ! 

Vivant et mulieres 
Tenerae, amabiles 
Bonae, laboriosae. 

Quis confluxus hodie 
Academicorum ? 

E longinquo convenerunt 
Protinusque successerunt 
In commune forum. 

Alma mater floreat 

Quae nos educavit ; 

Caros et commilitiones 
Dissitas in regiones 

Sparsos congregavit. 

Pereat tristitia 

Pereant osores 
Pereat diabolus 
Quivis antiburschius 
Atque irrisores. 

( Published by request . ) 



THE McGILL gazette 



DEVLIN’S 

Hat and Fur 

DEPOT, 

416 Notre Dame Street, 



MONTREAL. 




SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 



The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of — 

•PRESERVED PROVISIONS, la Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 
And Sundry olher DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG Sc B. can confidently recommend these 
Hoods as equal an i, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN "WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES ST. 



ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



7 * 

(tents Furnishing Goods. 

Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 

Only the BF.ST goods kept, and one trice charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL 

337 NOTRE DAI, IE CTREE!. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

{mW fur {oat;, gap | (jiovea 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

367 NOTRE DAME ST. 



NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 

IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO THE HOOKS USED IN 

McEachran’s Veterinary College , 

AT 

HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 



7 2 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 




FINE ASSORTMENT 



Standard Library Looks, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDER PROMPTLY, 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 




Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books in use at the College, 
'lso 

STATIONERY JN ALL VARIED, 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Vamped with the University Die for the use of Students , 
FOR SALE AT 

159 ST. JAMES ST. 

SUBSCRIBE TO 

i THE McGILL GAZETTE 



GO TO 

I95i ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 

EIBST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PHOTOGRAPHER. 

COHEN & LOPEZ, 

IMPORTERS OF 

FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

gauamt flfiprs, 

MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 
C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, Qc. 

PRESENTATION PIPES 

Silver Mounted & Engraved to Order. 

CORNER PUCE DIMES & ST, JAMES ST„ 

ALSO 

231 ST. JAMES STREET, 



OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 




G. BISHOP &CO., 

v ' 



Engravers, 

Lithographers and Printers, 

109 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL- 

Printed by J. C. Beckf.t, 658 k 660 Craig Street. 




