x >- > \ \\ 



m cm mMRm 

JAM 22 1928 

LIBRARY 



The McGill 



Lofu r 



Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I. No. 5 



PRICE 10 CENTS Saturday, January 23, 1926 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

The Quest Juvenis 

What is Art ? A. Edel 

The Disastrous College Daily A.P.R. Coulborn 

The Why of the College Daily T. H. Harris 

Correspondence W. L. M. 



Punchinello in a Purple Hat Michael Gard 

Here Lies an Honest Man Vincent Starr 

BOOKS 

Le Grand Ecart E. G. 

Sonnet T.T. 



EDITORIAL 



S TUDENT affairs at McGill are becoming vastly 
organized. We wish to plead for a little less effi- 
ciency, a little less of this spirit-killing desire to 
organize everything to the highest point possible. 

Tabulation, these days, has become a great god 
before whom we must make continuous offerings of 
records, statistics, rosters, directories, and all the 
various organization-forms evolved by ingenious ex- 
ecutives for the efficient management of large money- 
making concerns. The meticulous registration nec- 
essary in the world of commerce has teen made the 
ideal for every form of human activity, and the body 
politic. Consider but one very obvious example. 
Charity — has it not become so magnificently organized 
nowadays as to entitle it to be called a business prop- 
osition rather than a Christian virtue? Do we not 
like to enter upon blue, pink or green cards, according 
to the age, sex, geographical situation or what not of 
the donor, the amount he or she has given to charity 
this year, so that at the next collection we may bring 
all the force of public opinion to bear to prevent a 
decline of virtue and a falling off of receipts? Formerly 
it was thought that in matters of this sort the right 
hand ought not to know what the left was doing: now, 
in our enlightenment, we set ourselves an “objective”, 
read with petty malice the published lists in the news- 
papers, and let the resulting financial success beguile 
us into a justification of the method. And people are 
incensed if one attempts to point out that the loss to 
society through the inevitable decline in true generosity 
is greater than the gain resulting from the extra relief 
that we are able by this means to give to our paupers. 

The growth of all this tabulation and “efficiency” 
is at bottom due, one feels, to the triumph of the quan- 
titative over the qualitative analysis. The pernicious 
dictatorship of numbers, scarcely to be avoided under 
a democracy, has received the seal of final approval 
rom the philosophy — if one may call it that — of 



commerce, and is now dominating qur thought. Bigness 
counts. That which is numerically largest is, prima 
facie, of greatest moral worth; the preacher who draws 
the largest congregation is the most worth hearing, 
the moving picture that costs most is the most worth 
seeing, and the game which attracts the biggest crowd 
is the most worth playing. Did we not once see, some- 
where^ a reference to McGill’s “$50,000 Memorial 
Gates”? Yes, we must count our congregations and 
our audiences, calculate in hard cash our expenditures, 
increases, losses and receipts, or we have no standard 
on which to base a judgment. And so we welcome above 
all the man of organizing ability who can instill this 
efficiency into our institutions; who can, by means of 
card-indexing or some other form of systematisation, 
bring completely under the purview of headquarters 
the doings of every member and employee of the in- 
stitution, the reason for every fraction of expense; who 
can, in a word, run us as machinery is run, and make 
easily accessible to us all the data necessary to form a 
quantitative analysis. 

Such being the spirit of the age, it was more in sorrow 
than surprise that we read in the Daily of January 7th 
the latest questionnaire which has been evolved for 
the more efficient management of the students of 
McGill. It has been framed by the Athletic Board and 
the Students’ Council, and is intended to serve “as a 
complete account of the activities of undergraduates 
in both official capacities and sport activities”. The 
badgered student, let it be remembered, has already 
had to fill in as a Freshman a positively immigrational 
questionnaire asking for information as to his athletic, 
artistic and social activities (as viewed by himself; ; 
“all these questions are included on a small card and 
coloured tabs are attached to the cards to show the 
hobbies and tendencies of each student” (I am quoting 
the naive report published in the Daily when this in- 
credible system was inaugurated last year; “so that 
when men are needed for a college orchestra, for 
instance, by merely picking out the cards which have 
the tabs showing that a certain student has played 



t 




38 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



in an orchestra, musicians can be collected quickly”. 
What an orchestra it would be! The same student 
will also at some time be asked to write his biography 
for publication in the Annual. And now, to cap it 
all, he is expected to inform the centre of our student 
bureaucracy whether he has held any executive 
positions, captained any team, won any letters or 
numerals, set any athletic records, won any scholar- 
ships or prizes (this, of course, comes after questions 
on sport), or “been prominent in any activities not 
included in the above”. 

If the love of office and the desire for prominence are 
not fostered by methods such as these it will not be 
the fault of our organizers. The saner element in the 
University will ignore the questionnaire as it deserves 
to be ignored, but some, unfortunately, will be only 
too glad of the opportunity of displaying their suc- 
cesses:— successes, be it noted, which if worthy of 
remembrance at all, can with the greatest ease be 
extracted from the columns of the Daily or the pages 
of the Annual. And when all is gathered in, cut bonol 
We shall still further have organized our sport; we 
shall know the number of records broken and prizes 
won (all of which we know already) ; we shall accustom 
the students to meditate upon their “prominence”; 
we shall be able to make quantitative analyses of 
student activities to our hearts’ content. But that is 
all, except that we shall perhaps attain some distinc- 
tion as a training ground for men desirous of entering 
a Civil Service career. 

If records of this kind are to kept there should be 
installed in the Union one of those mechanical marvels 
now employed by large insurance offices for the sorting 
of their policies. A dial is set, a lever adjusted, a button 
pressed, and lo! there before you are thrust up the 
names of all holders of the particular policy under 
investigation. This system, if applied to the control 
of student activities, would be prodigious of results. 
How easy it would be, in an emergency, to obtain a 
list of all the past presidents of second year Commerce! 
How simple a matter to discover how many numerals 
were worn in 1925! With what excellent rapidity could 
our thirty-five representative hosts be collected and 
despatched to their entertaining duties! Backed by 
such an efficient organization our teams could scarcely 
fail to be victorious, our classes orderly, or our hos- 
pitality worthy of the proud name we bear. 

One last word, the framers of this questionnaire, 
surpassing even the English language in their excessive 
zeal, have warned the undergraduates to forego the 
temptation of making “wise-cracks” which (as they 
justly remark) the occasion offers. So be it. We will 
content ourselves with advising one and all to read 
and ponder upon the awful fate of Fulgence Tapir as 
it is eternally recorded in the introduction to Penguin 
Island. 

• * 



T HE executive of the McGill Music Club is to be 
commended for bringing so eminent an artist 
as Louis Graveure to Montreal. The college 
organization is doing at the same time a service not 
only to McGill students but to the general public. 



The Quest 

Juvenis 

B eauty, that beauty which is perfection, that is 
the quest of my continual seeking,” said the 
youth, “but you, old man, shall I some day 
become as you are, old and twisted; will my seeking 
end in this?” The old, old man coughed harshly 
and answered in the soft voice of some long-forgotten 
youth; in the voice of some high-hearted boy, now 
dead, he answered: “Yes, my son, you, too, will 

become as I, old and gnarled and not beautiful to 
gaze upon. You, too, will come to this. But some- 
thing will remain ever with you, if you do not weary 
of seeking your high quest. Oh, my son, guard your 
dreams from the dragon of Disillusion which dwells 
in the halls of Disenchantment. 

“Long years ago, I, too, was a high-hearted youth, 
pacing light heartedly the broad highways of the land in 
the quest of beauty. And, as my youthfulness passed 
from me, I came to despair of quest, for nowhere 
had I found that beauty which I sought. A day came 
when I sat by the roadside troubled at my vain search- 
ing; but still my dreams were with me and I mused 
on them and was comforted. When evening came 
I found myself at the edge of a deep wood already 
dark in the early twilight. A river issued out from 
it, laughing and leaping in the yet remaining sunlight; 
leaping and laughing as if with gladness at escape 
from the darkness of the wood. 

“Standing at the river's brim, I wondered how to 
cross over to the other side, for there was no bridge. 
And, as I turned, the music ceased and a low voice, 
melodious as running waters, called me by name, 
saying: ‘Look, O my lover, I am that beauty which 
you seek.’ 

“So I stayed with that vision of loveliness, and 
dwelt with her many days in her white cottage by 
the river’s edge; ah, had I not stayed, my dreams 
were still with me. But still my inmost longings were 
not satisfied, and I tired of her and desired perfection 
in her. My yearnings gave my lovely companion 
much sadness, and she sighed, saying to me; ‘Sweet 
youth, you are sad as others have been sad with me 
in other days. Youths have deserted me in sorrow; 
will you also leave me?’ Then I said; ‘I shall not 
desert you, if you will but help me in finding that 
true beauty which is perfection.’ She answered 
that she would do as I desired, warning me of the 
sorrow it would cause me; but my yearning bid me 
repeat my request. 

“Now the beautiful one was accustomed to bathe 
in the river each morning at sunrise that she might 
retain my youth. On that day on which the moon 
was at its fullness she promised to bathe once more, 
at sundown, to gratify my wish. One evening soon 
afterwards she announced that the hour of fulfill- 
ment was now at hand; and she went forth to bathe 
alone. 

“I waited long and long, but she did not return, 
and I went forth to seek her. The river was silent 
and the moonbeams glittered on its motionless ripples; 
it was frozen fast. In its midst she stood in most 
graceful pose, still and seeming lifeless. I called, 
and was not answered; then I approached nearer 
and I saw that she would never any more answer 
my cries to her. She had become perfection, beauty 

( Continued on page 44) 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



39 



What is Art? 

A Dialogue 
A. Edel 

Thrasymachus Socrates 

es, Socrates, that play of Aristophanes is the best 
work of art I have ever seen. 

Well Thrasymachus, all I can say is that I 
have enjoyed seeing myself swinging in a basket and 
gazing at the stars. But as for Art 

What do you mean, Socrates? Do you not consider 
it a work of Art? 

I cannot say, my friend — for what is Art? Can you 
tell me? I understand not such phrases concerning 
things which all men speak of, yet none explain. 

Most certainly I can, Socrates. But surely you do 
not mean that you are so ignorant as not to understand 
the meaning of Art? Art, my friend, is one of the most 
important factors in our life. Art is Beauty. 

What Thrasymachus, are Art and Beauty one and 
the same thing? 

That is what I said. 

But a sunset is beautiful, is it not? 

Of course. 

Would you say that it is a work of Art? 

No, certainly not. 

Then Art and Beauty are not the same. Nor is 
any natural scene a work of Art. Art is the work of 
men. Do you not agree? 

But Socrates, do not men generally concede that 
the face of Niobe in the rock is artistic? 

Yes, Thrasymachus, but why? Is it not because it 
resembles so closely the work of man that one might 
almost say a man had carved it out in the rock. And 
then the water flowing from above makes it seem 
as if she were weeping. Very artistic indeed. 

At any rate, Socrates, your argument is wrong. I 
did not say that Art and Beauty were coincident. If 
I were to say “All men are animals,” it would not 
mean that all animals are men. So “All Art is Beauty.” 
does not mean that whatever is beatiful is Art. 

Then, Thrasymachus, your definition means nothing 
more or less than that Art is beautiful. Of course we 
admit that. But that is not a definition. It conveys 
absolutely nothing. It is meaningless. 

Then I shall amend it to suit your intelligence, 
Socrates, and I hope you will understand it this time. 
Art is a portrayal of Beauty. There is nothing wrong 
with that, I hope. 

It sounds quite reasonable, my most sagacious 
friend, but I have one or two questions to ask you. 

A battle scene has certainly nothing of Beauty in 
it. Yet undoubtedly a painting of it is a work of Art. 

So Art is not always a portrayal of Beauty. 

Call it a portrayal of Life then, if you wish. It makes 
no difference. What is Life without Beauty? 

You certainly make many of those things which 
appear to us poor mortals fundamental in Life, seem 
identical. Perhaps, before we are through, you will 
say Art is Life itself. However, let Art be the portrayal 
of Life. Then will the Art be higher or lower, according x 
as the portrayal is more or less true to life? In short, 
is the Art better il the portrayal of Life is more accu- 
rate, and worse if the portrayal is less accurate? 

Most certainly. 

And so the nearer the portrayal approaches to per- 
fection, the greater is the Art, and the farther it is 
from perfection, the inferior the Art. 

Yes. 



Now suppose that by some means or other, let us 
say with the use of light, a natural scene be transferred 
to a piece of papyrus, so that we should have an exact 
reproduction of that scene. For want of a better word 
let us call it a “photograph.” Would you call this a 
work of Art? 

Not at all, Socrates. It would be altogether lifeless. 
You are quite right, Thrasymachus. No one would 
call this photograph a work of Art like a painting of 
that same scene. 

I agree. 

Then, evidently, the reverse of what we said before 
is true, and instead of the Art becoming better the 
nearer it gets to perfection of portrayal, we actually 
realize that it becomes worse, and if it would be 
a perfect portrayal it would not be a work of Art. Do 
you not think this is right? 

So it appears. 

And if the portrayal is practically perfect, is it not 
that much more artistic than when it is perfect? 

I suppose, so since the perfect is not at all artistic. 
And if it is a little more unlike the perfect, then 
is it not that much more a work of Art than what is 
practically perfect ? 

Yes. 

So it would seem that the more imperfect the por- 
trayal, the more artistic the work. 

It seems so at any rate. 

And is not a perfect blotch the most imperfect 
portrayal of the original? 

Of course. 

Then a perfect blotch is the greatest artistic achieve- 
ment, is it not? 

But surely, Socrates, this is a paradox. 

No doubt it is contrary to opinion, but orthodox 
opinion is not always the right one, you must remem- 
ber. 

Still, Socrates, I am far from convinced. Art must 
appeal to an individual, but a perfect blotch certainly 
does not. 

What, Thrasymachus, must Art appeal to the indi- 
vidual? 

Yes, it must, and so now we can word our definition 
thus, “Art is that portrayal of Life which appeals to 
the individual.” 

But then do not different things appeal to different 
individuals? 

I will not fall into your trap this time, Socrates. 
Yes, individual tastes are different. In that way, Art 
is a subjective matter. But there are certain standards 
which are commonly accepted for Art. Even then 
in doubtful cases there is often a dispute which cannot 
be settled except by reference to the opinion of the 
majority of those who are recognized critics. 

Let us examine your definition again. Do you still 
mean by a “portrayal of Life,” an imitation of scenes 
in Life? 

Not, so Socrates, I mean that Art draws its materials 
from Life. 

But where else might Art or any other work of man 
draw its materials? 

From reason and thought. 

But must not reason and thought be about some- 
thing? In short, does not Life furnish us materials 
for whatever we may do? 

True, Socrates. 

Then, my friend, we can very well drop the phrase 
“portrayal of Life” from our definition. For we seem 
agreed that everything portrays Life, since it draws 

( Continued on page 43) 




40 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



The Disastrous College Daily 

A. P. R. Coulborn 

A n University — we trust it will be allowed— is 
primarily a house of learning, and all things 
within it should conduce to this end. At least 
they should not militate against it. If games are to 
be countenanced at all, it must be strictly on the 
principle of Mens sana in corpore sano. Further, 
an University should be dignified, which does not 
mean that students should strut stiffly about the 
Campus with long faces and noses supine, but that in 
all they do, they should be at ease— artistic ease, 
and should avoid crudity, whether it be the crudity of 
vulgarity, the crudity of imperfection, or the crudity 
of the purely ridiculous. 

If this be allowed, which surely it must by all sen- 
sible persons, then it follows that a “College Daily” 
is a plain evil. In the first place not only does a Daily 
fail to aid learning, but positively hinders it. It must 
occupy a large part of the time of its staff, which 
would not matter if they were thus employed to good 
purpose: but they are employed to extremely bad 
purpose. The kind of writing which they produce 
is journalese, the very negation of literature. Since 
newspapers depend always largely upon sensational- 
ism, they are compelled to develope the sensational 
style. Garish phraseology is their stock-in-trade: a 
newspaper article need have nothing whatever to say 
provided only that it say it in a startling manner; 
the result is — verbiage. That an University should 
nurse in its bosom a newspaper is little short of idiotic, 
for it forces upon those who should be learning to 
write with meaning, the obligation of emitting literary 
wind. 

The best sort of student knows this instinctively 
and avoids Dailies like the plague. Thus they fall into 
the hands of the lesser men. From this fact proceeds 
more evil. The average Daily is crude to a degree. 
The very fact that it must appear every day, forces 
its staff to write quickly and carelessly, if they are 
do the work at all, and there appear, under the name 
of the University, literary atrocities, of which the average 
business-man or his stenographer would be ashamed. 
The expression “A good time was had by all,” ade- 
quately sums this up. Vulgarity seems to be absolutely 
essential to the average Daily. Such pseudonyms 
as “Gridiron Gus” illustrate this well. It is the easiest 
of all the thoroughly bad ways of attracting attention, 
and the type of student, who invariably finds his 
way on to the staff of a Daily, is compelled to resort 
to it continually. 

The vital question is: what part does the Daily 
really fill in the life of the University? Supposedly 
it gives the news of the University, but when one reads 
the legitimate newspapers and observes the great 
straits to which they are often reduced in order to 
glean sufficient news to fill their columns, taking as 
they do the whole world as their field, one is led to 
marvel that there is ever found enough news within 
the little world of an University to fill the columns 
of a Daily. Indeed there is not. The real news which 
happens in an University each day could very easily 
be given in one single column of one page and as a 
rule in less than that. Dailies fill themselves by various 
expedients. In the first place they report all meetings 
of all Clubs, most of which are of no earthly interest 
to any person except the members of those Clubs, 



and the members have mostly, one presumes, been 
themselves present at the club meetings reported. To 
• lu" . a $' count °f them to the rest of the community 
is the height of absurdity. The same is true of the next 
category of Daily copy, advance “write-ups” odious 
term — of meetings about to take place. 

Both advance notices of events which are going 
to happen, and any such general news as there 
is m an University, could perfectly well be communi- 
cated to the students and staff, by the much simpler 
device of notices on notice boards. So also could any 
facts, which occur in Club meetings and ought to be 
noised abroad. The notice board, in fact, could under- 
take all the useful functions of a Daily equally well. 

Beyond the classes of material already dealt with, 
there remain certain anomalous columns usually trans- 
cribed from other journals, the Editorials, and the 
advertisements. Of the first class, as a rule it is of 
no use or interest whatever, and if it ever is, it can 
^ S1 !ykeread the journal which first published 
it. The Editorials of the College Daily are a standing 
joke in any case. They consist as a rule of exhorta- 
tions to students to be better men, unnecessary and 
unenlightened comments upon the doings of public 
persons, and similar nonsense. When, by some curious 
chance, something intelligent does find its way into 
these columns it would have had a far better public- 
ity in a periodical of a literary nature, which the public 
is in the habit of reading. The advertisements of the 
College Daily are usually neither better nor worse 
than those appearing elsewhere. They are there merely 
for financial reasons, in order that it may be possible 
to publish the paper at all. We could dispense with 
them, as readily as with the rest of a Daily. 

It is difficult, here, to understand the real reason 
for the existence of a Daily at all. But, as is only too 
frequently the case in such things, we must search 
among that great body of “low motives” which actuate 
mankind. An institution which needs to publish a 
periodical in order to give itself full expression must 
indeed be a high and mighty society, and to publish a 
Daily newspaper suggests further that so much happens 
within the walls of the university that it can only 
thus be fully told. A Daily is of the nature of plumage: 
the University which wears such plumage advertises 
itself, screaming in the market place like the Baby- 
lonian harlot. And of course as soon as one University 
does this, all the rest must follow. It is significant 
that Dailies occur only in America. In Europe, Uni- 
versities behave with dignity and commonsense; the 
European student would laugh at the idea of a “Col- 
lege Daily.” 

The tragedy of all this is that a Daily costs a consid- 
erable sum of money to publish, and each year the 
unfortunate students must pay their exiguous cash 
to support this absurdity. At McGill and indeed in 
most universities of the continent this is especially 
iniquitous as the Daily — and many other “activities” 
too are kept up by the artificial means, of a “levy” 
the McGill Daily was supported legitimately by sale 
in an open market in the first year of its existence. In 
its second year it did not “sell” however. Surely the 
verdict of the students of the University was plainly 
expressed in this. But the tub-thumpers, or friends 
who would “sell McGill” decided that it must be sup- 
ported by force, virtually by stealing the students’ 
money. When this is said, it is enough. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



41 



The Why of the College Daily 

T. H. Harris 

{News Editor, McGill Daily) 

L ET it be granted at the outset that the University 
Daily Newspaper is of non-European origin; 
that the deep-thinking, earnest students of such 
renowned Universities as Oxford, Cambridge, Breslau, 
Dusseldorf, Puffendorf and Eselschwanz have never 
gone as far as to conceive of this institution. Let it be 
admitted, too, that it is puerile in its ideals, ridiculous 
in the simplicity of its buffoonery and childlike (and 
more than often ungrammatical) in its bald, bold, 
sweeping statements. 

These facts notwithstanding, I hold that the ex- 
istence of the University Daily need not be apologized 
for. I am convinced that the appearance of a newspaper 
on the campus, six days a week is a thing not only 
justified, but commendable. My reasons for so thinking 
I shall now lay before you for your consideration. 

All of us, I think, will admit (much as we may dislike 
to) that the professional newspaper is daily playing 
a more and more important part in our lives, and that 
despite its tendency toward inaccuracy and party 
discoloration, it is the best and most complete recorder 
of current history. Likewise, the University Daily 
is recording the activities, customs, manners, humbug 
and bunkum of the early twentieth century Univer- 
sity Student. It is providing future generations with a 
true conception of our remarkable existence. This 
is something that say, the occasional alleged literary 
organ, produced by persons who slobber beer-froth 
over their already soup-stained bow ties does not 
truthfully do. 

To revert for just a moment to the professional 
rag— it is steadily improving in quality. At this state- 
ment I hear voices raised in loud protest — more and 
more, they say in contradiction, are newspapers deter- 
iorating. These adverse critics are visualizing no doubt, 
such loathsome examples as the Boston Advertiser and 
other products of the brain of William Randolph 
Hearst. Nor have these papers degenerated; they 
were bom in depths too low to allow of their sinking 
further. But what I had reference to was the class 
of newspaper that does credit to its name, and this, 

I insist is steadily improving. 

But, what, you are now asking, has all this got to 
do with the College Daily? Let me tell you how the 
two are intimately bound together. Professional dailies 
are every day employing a growing number of Univer- 
sity graduates; the greater proportion of these 
graduates has been trained on his University sheet. 
Thus, we may fairly conclude that the rise in calibre 
of the daily press may be attributed in great measure 
to the existence on our University Campuses of a daily 
Newspaper. 

And since we have mentioned the training afforded 
by the undergrad, rag let me digress sufficiently long 
enough to point out that as great a number of students 
as wish to, are afforded an opportunity of becoming 
fairly well acquainted, from a good many angles, with 
the details of the publishing and printing industries. 

Let us turn now to another question. Every college 
daily with which I have acquaintance, in all, about 
fifty, maintains under some name or other, a “Corres- 
pondence Column”. In this column there are debated 



for the most part, questions that are of vital and im- 
mediate interest to the student body. The opportunity 
for genuine and honest debate (not offered by the 
ever-present wind-bag Societies) among the students 
is here presented. I have it from a couple of Associate 
Professors (one of English, the other of Economics) 
that the Correspondence Column alone almost justi- 
fies the existence of our own Daily. And this I hold 
to be true of college dailies in general. It is true that 
this valuable column often peters out and dies 
down; but only to rise again, usually with renewed 
vigour. The long drawn out interims, during which 
no one has anything to write about are easily coun- 
terbalanced, however, by the periodic volcanic out- 
bursts. 

Occasionally, from underneath the mess of piffle, 
platitude and urgings to attend rooters’ practices that 
appears in the editorial columns of our dailies, one 
may drag something really elever. Witness for in- 
stance the good work of the Campus, published by the 
students of the College of the City of New York, and 
of the Crimson of Harvard University. If but one in 
ten of the editorials produced by the University daily, 
be worth while; that one good article compensates 
for the nine bad, and contributes to the justification 
of the existence of the college sheet. 

One of the numerous purposes of the University 
is presumably to educate; to inculcate in the minds 
of those who attend a love for things that are just a 
little bit above the ordinary. Among such things as 
may be listed in this class, that, that we commonly 
call “literature” may justifiably be said to take first 
place. Now “literature” does not necessarily imply 
lop-sided, futuristic concoctions which the perpetrat- 
ors are wont to style poetry, nor does it necessarily 
include the “new, realistic” prose, loaded to the hilt 
with thinly disguised slime and filth. Further, the 
pink-tea bow-tied individuals, to whom I have before 
made reference) are not adjuncts of good literature. 

But to return to University students, and their 
daily newspapers, and to connect these with literature 
—literature, we have said, should occupy the most 
important position among students’ ' intellectual 
pursuits. It is only natural that the University (both 
students and professors) should look to the Campus 
Daily to assist as far as possible in the promotion of 
the knowledge of literature. That the dissemination 
of literary knowledge should be one of the duties of 
the undergraduate Newspaper is an almost self-evident 
truth. For the most part our dailies are satisfactorily 
performing this function, through the media of highly 
developed editorial pages, literary columns, sections, 
or supplements. Of the better known Universities 
that boast of daily newspapers, only one (as far as I 
know) makes no attempt at some sort of literary 
section. It did, once, but those who were to be 
editors of and contributors to this literary section, 
thought that its narrow bounds shackled them. They 
left their newspaper flat; perhaps, some day, this paper 
will recover sufficiently from the blow to go abroad 
and seek others who might undertake the editing oi 
literary columns. Again, the college daily, has justified 
itself. 

There is one other function performed by the college 
daily — a small one, which does not, in and of itself, 
justify the existence of the daily but which contributes 
to its justification. The College Daily, just like the 
Metropolitan Daily, disseminates news, “needing only”, 
says Dr. Leacock, “a little murder to put it inline with 

( Continued on page 44) 



42 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Correspondence 

The Editor, The McGill Fortnightly Review, 

Dear Sin- 

Fiction takes such curious forms nowadays that it 
is sometimes difficult to detect. If “December” by 
F.R.S., for instance, in your issue of the 19th ultimo, 
was intended for fiction, I withdraw at once, but if 
not let me point out one or two of the fictitious 
creations in the argument of that essay. 

There are two contentions I should like to examine. 
First, that cold northern countries are unsuitable for 
the cultivation of the higher arts. Second, that our 
Canadian winter is a colorless, toneless dirge in five 
monthly movements. 

As to the first, I am not prepared to take up the 
whole issue of F.R.S.’s argument. It will be sufficient 
in the interests of truth, perhaps, if I glance for a 
moment at his examples of artistic sterility. There is 
Russia, with her “quantity of garrulous pessimism in 
literature” and “limited number of musicians.” I 
appeal Sir, to F.R.S. and I am almost moved to Oliver 
Cromwell’s adjuration as well, to think it possible that 
he may be wrong. Let him read “War and Peace” and 
“Anna Karenina”, “Dead Souls”, and “The Idiot”,— 
the first Gogol’s, the second Dostoevsky’s, and if he 
has the time then, to think over the connotation of 
the word garrulous. Again he must have seen some 
Russian painting; surely he remembers what Degas 
thought about Russian art. 

Take the next: Scandinavia. In the jargon of local 
journalese McGill has acquired the epithet cosmo- 
politan; characteristically of journalese the word is 
mis-used, of course, but in any case, if the University 
contains any Norwegians or Swedes, they will ex- 
perience a revelation in insularity when they see that 
Scandinavia has “done little towards beautifying the 
world.” Perhaps F.R.S. does not think Strindberg or 
Ibsen, or Swedenborg, or Knut Hamsun, beautiful, but 
some few remain to hold that these and their fellows 
in Scandinavia are artists. And after all the Sagas 
came from Scandinavia, too. 

In other words F.R.S.’s summary dismissal of these 
countries cannot be accepted as aids to his arguments: 
he may not like the northern climate, but that dislike 
dees not really extinguish the art that cold countries 
have produced. (Besides it occurs to me here, that 
Germany is more northern in its exposure than 
Switzerland.) It would be easy — following this method 
to show that hot countries are entirely barren of art. 
The Caribbean Sea is silent: the Zulus produce a large 
quantity of sombre monotony but no really great 
music: what have the southern Americans done to 
beautify our drawing rooms? Greece has done prac- 
tically nothing, roughly, since Praxiteles. 

Then what about the cold colorless winter of 
Canada! As I write I look at a Christmas card by a 
Canadian artist — a snow scene, but with blue shadows; 
opal sunset: scarlet rugs on the horses, golden hollows 
under the eaves of the building — a chromatic scale 
several octaves longer than that of an English winter 
for example. Sunlit snowy days in Canada are far from 
rare, and chiaroscuro is not the correct medium for 
portraying a Canadian winter scene. It would be hard 
to find a more flagrant lack of vision. “There are few 
variations, few shades and tints and combinations,” 
says F.R.S. I suppose if these are invisible to him, 
one cannot persuade him that they are there. They 



Punchinello in a Purple Hat 

P UNCHINELLO in a purple hat 
scattered a handful of grey dust, 
singing the while a song of this and that. 
They asked him why. He said because I must. 

Punchinello in a purple hat 

stood upon his mother’s breast, and sang. 

He sang of stars and flowers, this and that, 
and for a little while the welkin rang 
and clappered like a long dingdong 
that churned the Milky Way to cheese 
(whereof I carve a moon) His song 
treated of ecstasy, of things like these: 

Cupid and my Campaspé, kisses, cards; 
pledged cocktails of a woman’s eyes; 
tears, idle tears; tall trees and dusty shards; 
love, laughter, beauty, apples, angels, flies; 
mermaiden winding their golden tails 
about the heart, combing the sea to waves; 
nightingales and girls, and nightingales 
and brooding boys; coral and cool caves. 

Whilom he sang, the dust awoke: 
there was a stirring in the inner bone; 
and somewhere flame — because he saw the smoke; 
and somewhere fellowship — he stood alone. 

Michael Gard 



Here Lies an Honest Man 

C HISEL this monumental calumny 
Clammily cold and eagerly erect! 

This was no saint. But plain gentility 
Owed some respect, 

And honest tombstone-makers might have spared 
To spoil clean granite with a public lie, 

Content to undisturb the silence shared 
By those who die. 

But red-eyed relatives gave glozing gold 
For chewing chisellers to eulogize, 

And he who surely would have bid them hold — 
Meekly assenting lies. 

Vincent Starr 



would be classed as imagination — but I know I have 
no visual imagination whatever and yet I see scores 
of tints, hues and combinations of color in a winter 
day. 

“December” suggested a number of lines of dis- 
cussion on the cultivation of art, its origins, etc., but 
I cannot open them here. I would say this however, 
that F.R.S. might have more hope for the arts in Canda 
—be more socratic in this respect shall we say— if he 
considered the place of homogeneity, of population 
and civilization in their growth. Also, once again I 
should point to the painting of Canadian artists for 
a partial refutation of this deplorably dun view of our 
winter landscape: they— the artists— are not all 
entirely insincere in what they .represent. 

Yours faithfully, 

W.L.M. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



43 



BOOKS 

Le Grand Ecart 

Par Jean Cocteau 

( Librairie Stock) 

J EAN Cocteau est essentiellement moderne. Mais 
son souci n’est pas seul d’être à la page. Il sait 
dire plus que des actualités. Son art d’abord, 
s’opposant au vague impressionisme, connait l’arith- 
métique des Dadas et des Cubistes. Ses figures sont 
contournées au crayon fin, les situations sont indiquées 
en schemas, le style concis, abstrait, est balancé par 
des contrastes et des rappels maniés avec plus de tact 
que n’en eut jamais Hugo, le jongleur d’antithèses. 
Plus mesuré que Paul Morand, pour qui l’art d’écrire 
devient une succession de trucs à épate, ou “stunts”, 
comme on dit par ici, il n’est pas artificiel. 

Et voici pour le fond. Cocteau ne s’occupe pas de 
doctrine. Il apparait souvent comme un amateur au 
goût parfait et en tous cas il n’est suspect d’aucune 
conviction sociale; par là j’inclus toute attitude reli- 
gieuse, morale ou politique officiellement reconnue. 
Il fait oeuvre philosophique pourtant, utile et sincère, 
il me semble. Le Grand Ecart, son seul roman, est la 
description d’une maladie sentimentale. Jacques 
Forestier, le patient, est un jeune homme trop sensible, 
accablé d’intellectualisme, et qui prend des idées 
généreuses pour des idées générales. Il souffre d’un 
Bovarysme mâle héréditaire, (sous-produit du roman- 
tisme et gaspille sa vie et ses émotions dans ses 
désordres d’imaginatif. Venise, la vieille rouée, lui 
débauche son coeur vierge, Paris le happe et le déchire 
et de détresse en détresse il tente de s’empoisonner. 
Il se manque et revient à l’existence morne, meurtri 
mais guéri, décidé coûte que coûte à se bâtir le carac- 
tère, prendre un uniformetère, prendre un uniforme, 
un masque et du poids dans les souliers. Je cite la 
dernière phrase du livre: 

“Sous quel uniforme cacherai-je mon coeur trop 
gros? se demandait Jacques. Il paraîtra toujours. 
Jacques se sentait redevenir sombre. Il savait bien 
que pour vivre sur terre il faut en suivre les modes 
et le coeur ne s’y porte plus.” 

J’ajouterai que ce livre, d’une franchise absolue, 
traite des sujets les plus scabreux avec pudeur, puisque 
avec goût. Je le considère instructif. 

E. G. 



Sonnet 

(On reading the results of the examinations) 

N OW know I how stout Cortez would have felt 
Had fog hid the Pacific from his sight. 

I sense the blow that Perseus had been dealt 
If fair Andromeda had proved a fright. 

I understand Napoleon’s despair 

When the Old Guard were foiled at Waterloo, 

And why, at Runnymede, John tore his hair 
After the barons forced the Charter through. 

Each of these crises, fanciful or real. 

Were moments when great men sustained defeat, 

And, like myself, felt disappointment steal 
All that was bright from life, all that was sweet. 

I am a man who, by ambition stirred, 

Aimed at a first, and only got a third. 

T. T. 



What is Art? 

( Continued from page 39) 

its materials from Life. And so what is left of our 
definition is “Art is that which appeals to the indivi- 
dual.” Is this correct? 

Evidently it is. 

And does not all Life appeal to the individual in 
some respect or other? 

It certainly does. 

Then Art is Life and Life is Art, and we have come 
to the conclusion which if you will remember, I pre- 
dicted long ago. 

No Socrates, I do not mean anything of the kind. 
I mean that Art is something which has a certain sort 
of appeal to the individual, which affects his aesthetic 
sense. What we call Art is purely a matter of one’s 
subjective reaction, and you will find it very hard to 
prove otherwise, my clever fellow. 

At any rate I will try, Thrasymachus. But tell me 
this. May not a work of Art appeal to any single indi- 
vidual at one time and not at another? 

Perhaps. 

Then is it Art at one time and not at the other? 

That is not the point. We are considering an indi- 
vidual of certain tastes and inclinations, not one of 
passing moods. 

Will a work of Art, then, appeal to this man in the 
same way at different times, «since his tastes remain 
the same? 

Yes it will. 

And if the work in some way deterioiates will not 
its appeal be less, and if it becomes better will not its 
appeal be greater? 

Assuredly so. 

Then is not there Something in the work itself to 
which each subjective reaction on the part of the one 
viewing it corresponds? 

It appears that this is the case. 

And so must there not be an absolute standard of 
Art, since each reaction is but a result of difference in 
the masterpiece itself? 

What, Socrates, is not the work of Art a mere physi- 
cal thing? And would you say that certain measure- 
ments in lines, certain strokes, or certain notes or 
words, constitute Art? 

Not so, my friend, they are but symbols. 

Symbols of what? 

Symbols of what is in the artist’s mind. In short, 
we have come to our long sought definition. Art is true 
self-expression. 

And what do you mean by that, Socrates? 

Simply this, Thrasymachus — The objective world, 
the world about us, plays on our senses, does it not? 

Certainly. 

Our mind receives the impressions — all the beauty 
of the universe enters, as well as its sorrows, of course. 
Then something happens within the mind, a digesting 
as it were. What we call originality and personality 
play their part here. From this Mass are formed ideas, 
pulses, longings, and so forth. This happens in dif- 
ferent degrees to all of us. Now an artist is one who by 
means of physical materials can transfer these ideas 
and impulses from his own mind to another’s without 
distorting them. That is why I call Art true self- 
expression, and after all, very few of us are really 
capable of it. 

There is much truth in what you say, Socrates, but 
suppose you have a man who truly expresses himself, 
yet others fail to perceive his meaning, for the world 



44 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



about us may have caused a different reaction in him 
which we cannot at all understand. Is not his work then 
Art? 

Certainly it is, and men recognize it as such. But 
they call it impressionism to show that it is the artist’s 
own reaction— his impression of the world. And 
similarly we have futurism. Do you not agree? 

On the whole, Socrates, I must congratulate you. You 
have conducted the argument very well. Some day 
we shall go over it again and set if your conclusion 
is right, shall we not? 

Whenever you wish, Thrasymachus. I am always 
ready to search for Truth. 

We'1 I do not grudge you it, Socrates. There is 
enough for us all. And perhaps some day you may 
find it. At any rate you can argue almost as well as 
we Sophists. 



The Quest 

( Continued from page 38) 

caught in graceful pose; but no longer having that 
living, ever-changing beauty I had known. That 
wondrous life and loveliness had gone .... and I had 
come to the end of my’ seeking. 

“Then sorrow filled me and I wandered with des- 
pair into the dark, silent wood. In its gloomy depths 
were the halls of disenchantment; my youth remained 
there and I wandered the highways of the land once 
more, and was no longer young. And my dreams 
have remained with my lost youth.” 

The old, old man coughed harshly and turned to 
the high-hearted youth. But the boy was sweetly 
sleeping in the long grasses at the old man’s feet; 
and he smiled in his dream. 

• 

Epilogue by Juvenis 

The above effort of my somewhat frail pen and 
certain comments on it before its submission to your 
paper give an interesting illustration of a tendency 
in literary criticism much too manifest in our time. 
On showing it to several persons separately, I was 
informed that it was strongly “influenced” by Cabell, 
Dunsany, Stevenson, Wilde, and Yeats. Each of five 
persons detected a strong and uverwhelming“influence” 
of the especial writer he mentioned, one cautious 
fellow even referring to two of them. 

This hardly speaks well for the critical faculty of 
our reputed intelligentzia; it savours a little too much 
of the private detective agency. With a few more 
on the scent, the list of suspects might have been 
augmented. Nevertheless, worse things have been 
done in the name of criticism, and by persons who 
should reasonably be expected to know better. There 
is a certain variety of critic who persists in coupling 
such names as Cabell and Dreiser, Dickens and 
Thackeray and so on. Even the great Mencken, that 
manly superman of American, criticism can scarcely 
close a paragraph without giving evidence of his 
erudition by a cluster of incongruous names. One 
almost despairs of some contemporary criticism; even 
Matthew Arnold was better than this. 



The Why of the College Daily 

( Continued from page 41) 

the big metropolitan dailies”. News, however trivial, 
always makes interesting reading and supplies one of 
our baser wants. 

And finally, if for no other reason, college dailies 
are justified because by far the greater number of 
them would prefer to say political science, rather than 
staatswissenschaft; taboo, rather than tabu; statement 
rather than pronunciamenlo; conversation rather than 
conversazione ; kind rather than genre; etc. etc. etc. It 
is a great pity that those who are so fond of italics 
have not a font of Greek at their disposal. What a 
good time they would have! 

God save the King and the Daily press. 

Editor’s Note 

We are glad that the spirit of controversy is being 
maintained within our pages. The discussion here 
begun might well be continued within the correspon- 
dence columns of the McGill Daily. It only remains 
to add that these two articles were written in- 
dependently. Neither writer saw the other’s article 
before completing his own. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editors A. P. R. COULBORN, A. B. LATHAM, 

F. R. SCOTT, A. J. M. SMITH. 

Managing Editor: L. EDEL. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one of the editors, 
or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly Review. Apt. 16 , 
989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. Unsuitable contributions will be 
returned. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton’s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



