* ;; 











COontreal, *7ebruarv 16, 1894 



¥ 



.% 









M< ' 




UON' 









owa:'KN'‘X^. 



■■a>' 









Editorial Comments 233 

The Late Mr. Peter Redpath....233 

The Result of the Prize Competition. 233 

Contributions 234 

Rooks; what to read and how to 

read them 234 

A Camp Story of the New Bruns- 
wick Lumber Woods 237 

College Expenses at Harvard 241 

Obituary — The Late Mr. Peter 
Redpath 245 

Biography — Sir John William Dawson 246 




Saxon Words, poetry 249 

To “ A Sweet Girl Graduate,'* poetry.250 

Correspondence 250 

Law Dinner ’ 250 

Societies 251 

What? Where? When? .252b 

Medical Class Reports 252b 

Comp. Med. Class Reports 252c 

Arts Notes 252c 

Feathers from the East Wing 2 5 2d 

Science Jottings 2S2d 

McGiLL UNlVERSiTY 

archives 







I 




Ffne * ® 

JIMILilliS 

- AIEBOli CfllTABS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

‘^STEWART” 

“ BAY STATE/’ and 
“DOBSON” . . . 



^isa^QQnjos 

BEST RUSSIAN CUT 
Strings and everything in the 



Musical Line. 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



IfnnAlfQ and all kinds" of ^Cameras for Sale, 
livUinliw Exchange or tp Rent. 

:PSTCJES : $6 to $75 - 1 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

/Montreal PftotograpJiic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Tanaff a .-—Rodinal, Carbutt’s and ‘Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 
MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
INC INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. : 

268 St. James Street, 

Near McCill St. 

WIVi. FOSTER BROWN, 

<»^ThG McGill BooK Store 




2323 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

MONTREAL. 

Telephone 36 ^ 1 . 



Opposite the Bank of 

Montreal Branch. 



I>. ORYSDALE, 

BUILDERS' SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHAMCS’ TOOLS, Etc. 



645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 



Agent for Storrstt’s Tools. Telephone 169. 

KA. GEBTH, STUD ENTS* HEADQUAR TERS. 

AT Queen’s Hall Block, 

MONTREAL. : : ’ 



Dibeot Importer 
OF High-Class 



\ Havana Cigars 



Wholesale 

AiTD Retail. 



Try Urth’. Su perior Smoking Tobaccos. K^i„i Prcrca- Egyptian Cigarette,. 



High Quality. " Low Prices. 

THE ROVAL VICTORIA HOSPITAL 

Has purchased its entire and magnificent outfit of 

Surgical Instruments, Microscopes, 
^ Sterilizers, Anatomical Models, 
Electric Batteries, Etc., Etc., 

FROM 

J. H. 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McCill Colle?e Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396- MONTREAL. 



20 : 100 : : $5.00 : X 

Vigentum per centum deductum 
erit ab omnibus “ Sales ” per mag- 
num 

“ Stock Taking Sale ” 

■ . NOW GOING ON AT 

Sros. . 

» T T T ~ 

2246 St. Catherine Street. 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 

W. NOTMAN & SON, 



We give - 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



17 Bleurv Street 




TELEPHONES. 



W arehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call* and ExamIno our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 



T. W. NESS & CO., 



749 Craig St., 
MONTREAL 




jWcGlbb FORTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VoL. II. MONTREAL, FEBRUARY i6, 1894. No. 10 




^EDITORIAL BOARD-^ 



Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H, M. Mackay, B.A., (Science ’94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y p u i (Comp. Med. and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) ’ ‘ t Science *94.) 

J. A. McPhail, F.A., M.D., Graduates* Society. 



^BUSINESS BOARD-^ 



Frank J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hoglb, (Law *94), Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrbll, (Donalda *95) J.C. Cutting, (Com. Med.& Vet. Sc. 95) 
VV. F. Angus, (Sc. *95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is i^i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co/s and W . 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



J 

THE LATE MR. PETER REDPATH. 

Within a comparatively short space of time McGill 
has been called upon to mourn the loss of two distin- 
guished men closely identified with its interests. In 
October last Sir John Abbott, a former Dean of the 
Law Faculty and a member of the Board ofOovernors^ 
was removed by death ] and now that noble benefactor, 
Mr. Peter Redpath, has passed away. Those who were 
present at the opening of the New University Library 
last October, in which Mr. Redpath took part, appar- 
ently in good health and strength, will be surprised to 
hear of his unexpected death at his seat in Chislehurst, 
Kent, only two weeks ago. The deceased gentleman 
has ahvays taken a foremost part in the charitable and 
educational works of the City. For some years he was 
President of the General Hospital and a Director of the 
Bank of Montreal. His work in the Fraser Institute 
is also well known. More particularly his name has 
been closely connected with McGill through his 
princely donations. In 1880 the Redpath Museum was 
presented by him to the University, and he expended 
upon it more than $10,000 additional to place it on an 
efficient b^si3- Last October he made a formal gift of 



the magnificent Library, at the opening of which Lord 
Aberdeen took a prominent part. This building in 
point of convenience and artistic taste is probably 
i unrivalled on the continent. The noble reading-room 
; with its carved timber roof and stained glass windows 
j may well be termed a thing of beauty and a joy for- 
ever,*’ a fit casket for the treasures it contains. Besides 
I these more notable gifts, Mr. Redpath endowed a Chair 
I of Natural Philosophy in 1871 with the sum of $20,000, 
j and gave liberally to other departments of the Univer- 
j sity. About 3000 handsome volumes on historical sub- 
j jects also came from his liberal hand. The raemor}" of 
‘ such a man as this will be cherished so long as McGill 
I itself shall stand. Not only will his fame be carved in 
stone till the end of time, but, more important still, 
the inspiration derived from the contemplation of the 
great literati of the world will have an effect coeval with 
Eternity itself. Such men as Mr. Redpath are scarce, 
and their loss is deeply felt. His memory will always 
be green in Montreal. All will feel the greatest sym- 
pathy with Mrs. Redpath and the relatives. 



THE RESULT OF THE PRIZE COMPETITION. 

Those who took part in the recent literary competi- 
j tion started by the Fortnightly will doubtless by this 
j time be full of anxiety to hear, the result. On another 
page will be found the official report of the judges. 

I Five stories were handed in. None of these were con- 
I sidered worthy of the first prize, inasmuch as they did 
1^ not come up to the standard which might have been 
expected from such a body of students as those at 
McGill. The second prize, ten dollars, was awarded 
to Mr. Wilbert B. Mowatt, B.A., of the Faculty of 
Medicine, for his story entitled A Camp Story of the 
New Brunswick Lumber Woods,” which will be found 
in the present issue. It is regrettable that many more 
were not interested enough to compete. The money 
value to be obtained was not great, but nevertheless 
not to be despised as things go nowadays. Apart, how- 
ever, from this aspect of the case, the writer himself is 
a distinct gainer by the effort, even should he not be so“ 
fortunate as to secure the first place. It may not be 
given to everyone to he. facile prmceps in everything he 
undertakes, but it is certainly better for the individual 
to have tried and failed rather than never to have tried 
at all. Success is only to be gained at the cost of repeated, 
failure. 



234 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Many of us when reading our evening paper beside 
the fire have been greatly interested with some thrilling 
tale well-told which has enchained our attention, till 
we arrive at the end only to find with disgust that we 
have been taken in by an account of the virtues of 

Blood-bitters” or some other magic panacea. We are 
coming now to the thorn in our own recital ; but read 
on to the end. What we are going to say now, we say 
with some diffidence, yet hope that it will be receiv’ed 
as it is offered, with the kindest good nature. But, 
horribile dictu, as dear old Virgil would say, the spelling! 
You would hardly expect a man to erect a very hand- 
some house, who was ignorant of the uses of bricks 
and mortar. Neither would you expect a very good 
story to be couched in mis-spelled words and indiffer- 
ently punctuated sentences. Only when the ground- 
work is perfect .should the writer aim at embellishment. 
Surely a competitor in a literary contest should be 
above reproach in such matters. These may seem to 
some unimportant matters, but they make all the 
difference between failure and success. This is a gen- 
tle hint which we trust will be taken in good part. The 
Fortnightly is not by any means immaculate in this 
respect, but then we can always blame the compositor 
or the proof-reader. 

Should our successors see fit to hold another compe 
tition next year, we trust that not five but fifty stories 
will be handed in, and that all may be worthy of a 
prize. It only remains for us to congratulate the 
winner on his success and thank the judges for their 
kindness. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



BOOKS ; WHAT TO READ, AND HOW TO 
READ THEM. 

Concluded. 

I have no time to read, is a common complaint of 
those whose occupations are such as to prevent con- 
tinuous reading. ^ 

They seem to think, because they cannot devote as 
much attention to books as they are compelled to 
devote to their avocations, that they cannot read any- 
thing. But this is a great mistake. It isn’t the books 
we finish at a sitting which always do us the most 
good. Those we devour in the odd moments, half a 
dozen pages at the time, often give us more satisfaction, 
and are more thoroughly digested than those we make 
a particular effort to read. The men who have made 
their mark in the world have generally been the men 
who have in boyhood formed the habit of reading at 
every available moment, whether for five minutes or 
five hours. 

It is the habit of reading rather than the time at our 
command that helps us on the road to learning. Many 
of the most cultivated persons, whose names have been 
famous as students, have given only two or three hours, 
a day to their books. If we make use of spare minutes 



in the midst of our work, and read a little, if but a 
page or a paragraph, we shall find our brains quick- 
ened and our toil lightened by just so much increased 
satisfaction as the book gives us. Nothing helps along 
the monotonous daily round so much as fresh and 
.striking thoughts, to be considered while our hands are 
bus3^ A new idea from a new volume is like oil which 
reduces the friction of the machinery of life. What we 
remember from brief glimpses into books often serves 
as a stimulus to action, and becomes one of the most 
precious deposits in the treasury of our recollection. 
All knowledge is made up of small parts, which would 
seem insignificant in themselves, but which, taken 
together, are valuable weapons for the mind and 
substantial armour for the soul. “ Read anything con- 
tinuously,” says Dr. Johnson, “ and you will be learn- 
ed.” The odd minutes which we are inclined to 
waste, if carefully taken advantage of for instruction, 
will, in the long run, make golden hours and golden 
days that we shall be ever thankful for. 

If you have an hotir to .spare from your labour, give 
it to reading and the enjoyment of your home. Work 
up that spare hour to your intellectual advantage. An 
hour a day amounts at the end of the year to 365 hours. 
In that space how many valuable books may be read ; 
how much pleasure enjoyed ! 

It is to be regretted that well selected collections of 
books are so rarely to be seen ; for the most part they 
are made up of gaily bound gift-books, biographies of 
the celebrities of the hour, ephemeral novels, and a 
sprinkling of poetry, scattered on parlour tables. 

But if it is intended to commence in a systematic 
way to provide the home with a library, I would begin 
with a few well chosen books of reference, a good 
dictionary, a good book on modern geography, and an 
encyclopaedia, as a substantial basis upon which to 
erect a superstructure as elaborate and ornate as taste 
and money will allow. 

If in a household the children be encouraged to find 
entertainment in curious facts in science and history, 
thej' will be less tempted toward sensational literature 
with its train of evil lessons. 

Books are my friends; they stand silent and un- 
obtrusive, until my pleasure calls them forth and bids 
them speak ; and then each, according to the com- 
plexion of his mind, either arouses within me dormant 
energies, excites my mirth, or strengthens me with 
sound philosophy. Pleasant friends are they ; speak- 
ing only when I will — always in season. Men of mark, 
too, are they all ; men who have made a noise in the 
world, but their renown has been gained in the quiet 
paths of literature. I turn to the pages of the philoso- 
pher-poet Longfellow, and read ” what the heart of 
the young man said to the Psalmist,” words which 

^ trumpet, filling' 
the heart with new and worthy resolutions. He it is 
who discourses eloquently of the charities of life, 
ren ering them abundantly desirable and their ex- 
ercise pleasing. He is at once the sweet poet and the 
pure preacher, ever frowning on vice and encouraging 
virtue. And when desirous of looking into the tomb, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



235 



meditating upon the final destination of all flesh, I 
look about me for a teacher and a companion, I find 
one in the author of “ Thanatopsis,” and listening to 
his words falling on the ear almost like the words of 
inspiration, I derive therefrom unwonted strength. 

Among those who fill my shelves, there are many to 
whom I owe much ; many who have taught me by 
their experience, and encouraged me with their ex- 
hortations. I love the old ivr iters ; those witnesses of 
the manners and thoughts of bygone days ; — who take 
us back centuries, into the quaint old times when men 
in their simplicity of character were indeed but ‘‘ child- 
ren of a larger growth.” When there was more charity 
in the world and less heartlessness. When men spoke 
as they thought and acted as they spoke. I love them 
for their noble lessons, their .unceasing exhortations 
to piety and the consequent love of our brethren. To 
these am I greatly indebted, and hope to be more so, 
for the fountain of their wisdom is inexhaustible. With 
some of these I am intimate; with others, I hold 
frequent converse, and derive from all something 
valuable in the every day occupations of life. Some 
abound with the mirth that sports with the ills of life, 
laughing philosophers, and some bewail the de 
generacy of man, pointing out wisely the remedy, the 
better way, and each brings something into the store- 
house of wisdom. Such are my friends, fast and un- 
wavering, whom misfortune cannot affect ; who in 
prosperity teach me humility, and in adversity inspire 
me with courage. 

Ye pleasant books, that silently among 
Our household treasures take familiar places, 

And are to us as if a living tongue 

Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces. 

Books, we know, 

Are a substantial world, w’hen pure and good ; 

Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood, 

Our pastimes and our happiness will grow. 

I was reading the other day an old English ballad, 
written 300 years ago, and it told the longing of the 
author in these lines : — 

“ O for a booke, and a shadie nooke eyther indoore or out. 
With the green leaves whisp'riug overhede, or the street cries 
all about. 

Where I maie reade, all at my ease, both of the Newe and Olde, 
r'or a right good Booke, whereon to looke, is better to me than 
Golde.” 

Some one has said : I would never call the man 

friendless who has God and good books.'’ 

When I am reading a book,” says Dean Swift, 
whether wise or silly, it seems to be alive and talk- 
‘‘ ing to me.” 

Goldsmith said : The first time I read a good book, 

it is just as if I had gainedA new friend ; and when I 
“ read it again, it is as if I had met an old one.” 

And so we all say, who have found out this lovely 
secret for ourselves. 

Charles Lamb says of ” Books and Reading ” 

“ At the hazard of losing some credit on this head, I 
must confess that I dedicate no inconsiderable portion 
'' of my time to other people’s thoughts. I dream away 



”my life in others' speculations- I love to lose myself 
in other men’s minds. When I am not walking, I 
‘‘ am reading ; I cannot sit and think. Books think for 
me. I can read anything which I call 'a book.’ 
“There are things in that shape which I cannot 
“ allow for such. 

“ In the catalogue of books which are no books I 
“reckon Court Calendars, Directories, Pocket Books, 

“ Scientific Treatises, Almanacs, Statutes at Large, 

“ and generally all those volumes which no gentle- 
“ man’s library should be without. With these excep- 
tions, I can read anything. I bless my stars for a 
“ taste so catholic, so unexcluding.” 

Again, Lamb says of “Thomson’s Seasons” and 
“ The Vicar of Wakefield ’’ : “ They look best a little 
“ torn and dog-eared. How beautiful to a lover of 
“reading are the* sullied leaves and worn-out appear- 
“ ance of an old Circulating Library edition of 
“them; who would have them a whit less soiled? 

“ What better condition could we desire to see them 
“ in ? How they speak of the thousand thumbs that 
“ have turned over their pages with delight ! ” 

I would recommend you to read an Essay on 
“ Books” by Emerson, which contains a rare fund of 
information. 

You will probably remember that the Pall Mall 
Gazette issued a circular inviting a number of emi- 
nent men to furnish a list of the best 100 books, and 
Sir John Lubbock’s list has been generally accepted 
as the best furnished ; but there were some notes fiom 
various authorities which are worth referring to. 

Mr. Bond, the principal librarian of the British 
Museum, wrote : 

“ The beginner should be advised to read histories 
“ of the literature of his own and other countries — as 
“ Hallam’s Introduction to the Literature of Europe, 
“Joseph Warton’s History of English Poetry, Craik’s 
“ History of English Literature, and others of the 
“same class. These would give him a survey of the 
“ field, and would quicken his taste for what was 
“ naturally most congenial to him.” 

We may note one or two of the most important criti 
cisms : 

The Prince of Wales very justly suggested th a t 
Dryden should not have been omitted from such a list. 

Mr. Chamberlain asked whether the Bible was ex- 
cluded by accident or design. 

Mr. Irving, the actor, suggested that the Bible 
and Shakespeare form together a ver}^ comprehensive 
library. 

John Ruskin’s reply was characteristic and interest- 
ing ; he added but little, contenting himself with the 
work of destruction. He wrote : — 

“ Putting my pen through the needless,! leave enough 
“ for a life’s liberal reading. Of travels, I read all the 
old ones I can get hold of ; of modern, Humboldt is 
“the central model.” 

To Plato he added the word all ; to Carlyle, every- 
thing ; and to Scott, every word. 

He struck out all the Theology and Devotion, with 
the exception of Jeremy Taylor and John Bunyan ; all 
the philosophers but Bacon. 



236 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Southey, Longfellow, Swift, Hume, Macaulay, 
Emerson and Goethe are all so unfortunate as to have 
Mr. Ruskin’s pen driven through their names. 

Among the novelists, Dickens and Scott only are 
left. The names of Thackeray, George Eliot, Kings- 
ley and Bulwer-Lytton are all erased. 

Archdeacon Farrar gave, perhaps, the best test for a 
favorite author, that is, the selections of his works in 
the event of all others being destroyed. He wrote : 

“ If all the books in the world were in a blaze, the first 
12 which I would snatch out of the flames would be : 
The Bible, Imitatio Christi, Homer, ^schylus, Thu- 
cydides, Tacitus, Virgil, Marcus Aurelius, Dante, 
Shakespeare, Milton, Wordswwth. Of living authors, 
I would save first the works of Tennyson, Browning 
and Ruskin.” 

Another excellent test is that set up by travellers 
and soldiers. A book must be good when one of either 
of these classes decides to place it among his restricted 
baggage. Mr. H. M. Stanley writes : 

“ You ask me what books I carried with me to take 
across Africa ? I carried a great many — 3 loads, or 
about 180 lbs. w^eight; but as my men lessened in 
numbers, stricken by famine, fighting and sickness, they 
were one by one reluctantly thrown away, until 
finally, when less than 300 miles from the Atlantic, I 
possessed only the Bible, Shakespeare, Carlyle’s Sartor 
Resartus, Norie’s Navigation, and the Nautical 
Almanac for 1877. Poor Shakespeare was afterwards 
burned by demand of the foolish people of Zinga, at 
Bonea; Carlyle and Norie and the Nautical Almanac 
were pitched away, and I had only the old Bible left. 
He then gives a list of the books which he allowed him- 
self when setting out ‘‘with a tidy battalion of men.'' 

Lord Wolseley writes : 

“ During the Mutiny and the China War, I carried 
a Testament, two volumes of Shakespeare, that con- 
tained his best plays, and since then, when in the field, 
I have always carried The Book of Common Prayer, 
Thomas a Kempis, and the Soldier's Pocket-Book. 
The book that I like reading at odd moments is 
‘ The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius.' He then adds 
for any distant expedition a few books of History : 
Creasy's Decisive Battles, Plutarch’s Lives, Voltaire's 
Charles XII., Caesar by Froude, and Hume's England. 
His fiction (!) is confined to Macaulay’s History of Eng- 
land and the Essays. 

Mr. Quaritch, the well known London bookseller, 
remarks : “ In my younger days I had no books what- 
ever beyond my school books. Arrived in London in 
1842, I joined a Literary Institution, and read all their 
historical works. To read fiction I had no time. A 
friend of mine read novels all night long, and was one 
morning found dead in his bed.” 

If Mr. Quaritch intended this as a warning, he should 
present the fact for the consideration of those readers 
who swell the numbers of novels in the statistics in the 
public libraries. 

Up to the period when free libraries were first formed 
in England, collections of books were usually intended 
for students ; but when the Public Libraries Acts were 



passed, a great change took place, and libraries being 
formed for general readers, and largely with the idea 
of fostering the habit of reading, an entirely new idea 
of libraries came into existence. The old idea of a 
library was that of a place where books that were want- 
ing could be found ; but the new idea is that of an edu- 
cational establishment, where persons who know little 
or nothing of books can go to learn what to read. The 
new idea has naturally caused a number of points to be 
discussed which were never thought of before. 

Mr. F. B. Perkins of the Boston Public Library says : 
“ It is vain to go on the principle of collecting books 
that people ought to read, and afterwards trying to 
coax them to read them. The only practical method 
is to begin by supplying books that people want to 
read, and afterwards to do whatever shall be found 
possible to elevate their reading tastes and habits.” 

Mr. Justin Winsor, of the Harvard Library, expresses 
a somewhat different view ; he writes : 

“ Every year many young readers begin their ex- 
periences with the library. They find all the instruc- 
tive reading they ought to have in their school books, 
and frequent the library for story books. These swell 
the issues of works of fiction, but they prevent the sta- 
tistics of that better reading into which you have 
allured the older ones from telling as they should in 
the average.” 

At the opening of a public librar}' at Spencer, Mass., 
one of the speakers said : 

“ I shall tell you a very simple story of my life. It 
was my lot to be born in a poor and small house, with 
the thirst in my nature, as far back as I can. remember, 
for something to read. There were a few books in our 
small cottage, but these were among the best in the 
English tongue. 

“The Bible and Bunyan and Goldsmith, with a 
few more I do not now remember ; but there I read as 
you drink at clear, cool springs. Then a man came 
along and brought Burns with him, and another 
brought Shakespeare. My father borrowed these for 
me to read, and the world grew great and wide and 
wonderful to me as I read them, while to this day I 
notice that I care more for the History of England in 
Shakespeare’s grand dramas than I do for Hume and 
Froude and Macaulay, so great was the spell cast over 
my life. Then a farmer came along with a couple of 
volumes, and said : ‘ Here, lad, I notice thou'rt fond 
of good reading, and I think thou wilt like to read 
these books.' It was Washington Irving’s Sketch 
Book, and it was Christmas Day, and I was away from 
home, and lonesome, wanting to sit by the old fireside, 
but the magic wand of Irving touched me and stole 
away all my tears” 

Gibbon said : “ A taste for books is the pleasure 
and glory of my life ; I would not exchange it for the 
wealth of the Indies,'' and so I say to anyone who may 
be where I was 50 years ago, when Burns won my 
heart, and Shakespeare, Bunyan, Goldsmith and Irving ; 
an on a day which I still recall when Cooper came to 
me with the “ Last of the Mohicans and alm:>st per- 
suaded me to be an Indian. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY^ 



237 



The reading of books with religious teaching and 
religious influences cannot fail to produce a good re- 
sult. I cannot do more than mention the names of 
some of the best of this class : — The Paradise Lost of 
John Milton, the Pilgrim’s Progress of John Biinyan, 
The pure and charming writings of William Cowper, 
Young’s Night Thoughts, Bickersteth’s Yesterday, 
To-day and For Ever, and many other books of a simi- 
lar character, will come to your recollection. I do not 
ask you to be reading at all times books which are 
regarded as religious, but I do ask to let all your 
reading be religious in the best and broadest meaning 
of the term, religious in respect for all that is divine 
and sacred, in advocacy of all that is right and good, 
and in the promotion of whatever tends to ennoble, 
regenerate and bless mankind. John Milton affirms : 
“ As good destroy the life of a man as destroy a good 
book ; a good book is the precious life-blood of a master 
spirit, treasured up for a life beyond life.” 

As an Englishman, I am proud of the literature of 
my country, the brightest, the purest, the most dur- 
able of all the glories of England ;—t/iat literature^ 
so rich in precious truth, and precious fiction ; that 
literature^ which can boast of the prince of all 
poets, and the prince of all philosophers ; that liter ahire, 
which has exercised a wider influence than that of 
her commerce, and mightier than that of her arms ; 
that literature^ which forms a tie closer than the tie of 
consanguinity between us and the commonwealths of 
the Valley of the Mississippi ; that literature^ before the 
light of which impious and cruel superstitions are fast 
taking flight on the banks of the Ganges; that 
literature, which will in future ages instruct and 
delight the unborn millions who will have turned our 
Canadian forests and the deserts of Australia and 
Caffraria into cities, and cornfields, and gardens. 

Let us wish it God-speed, and pray that wherever 
British literature spreads, it may be attended by British 
virtue and British freedom. 

There is another class of books which I avoid, as 
nothing but harm can result from reading them ; it is 
nothing to me that a gaping multitude devours them 
wholesale ; I refer to such books as Robert Elsmere, 
John et hoc geniis omne ; Stevenson’s 

Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and Bellamy’s ‘‘ Looking 
Backward,” too, I plead guilty to having read, and 
mentally flogged myself afterwards for having wasted 
my time over them. 

Mallock wrote a book, a few years since, entitled 
‘‘ Is Life Worth Living ? ” I have not read the book, but 
I would answer his question in the aflirmative, and in 
doing so, conclude with a verse, as Sam Weller in 
Pickwick finished his Valentine 

Is life worth living ? Yes, so long 
As there is wrong to right, 

Wail of the weak against the strong, 

Or tyranny to fight ; 

Long as there lingers gloom to chase, 

Or streaming tear to dry, 

One kindred foe, one sorrowing face 
That smiles as we draw nigh ; 



Long as a tale of anguish swells 
The heart, and lids grow wet, 

And at the sound of Christmas bells 
We pardon and forget ; 

So long as Faith with Freedom reigns, 

And loyal Hope survives, 

And gracious Charity remains 
To leaven lowly lives ; 

While there is one untrodden tract 
For Intellect or Will, 

And men are free to think and act. 

Life is worth living still. 

Not care to live while English homes 
Nestle in English trees, 

And England’s Trident-Sceptre roams 
Her territorial seas ! 

Not live while English songs are sung 
Wherever blows the wind. 

And England’s laws and England’s tongue 
Enfranchi.se half mankind ! 

So long as in Pacific main, 

Or on Atlantic strand. 

Our kin transmit the parent strain. 

And love the Mother-land ; 

So long as in her ocean Realm, 

Victoria and her Line 
Retain the heritage of the helm, 

By loyalty divine ; 

So long as flashes English steel. 

And English trumpets thrill, 

He is dead already who doth not feel 
Life is worth living still. 

H. M. 



A CAMP STORY 

OF THE 

NEW BRUNSWICK LUMBER WOODS.* 

Cast aside those well-thumbed books whose soiled 
pages denote the burning of midnight oil, my Student 
reader, and “fancy free” let us enter the solitudes 
where Nature rules supreme, where our only com- 
panions are her subjects, and her book alone is open 
for perusal. 

’Tis in these wilds that the cunning beaver con- 
structs his dam across some quiet stream, and, pro- 
tected by the deepened water, builds his dwelling and 
lays up a plentiful supply of food for the coming 
winter. Here the shaggy bear roams unmolested 
through the tangled thicket, or climbs amid the 
branches of some lofty tree, bent on the robbery of a 
colony of bees, whose store of honey is hidden in the 
hollow trunk. Here the feathered songsters delight 
the ear with melody unequalled in purity by the finest 
productions of musical art. 

The clear bracing air, the fragrance of many flowers, 
the freedom of a life in the open, will instil new buoy- 
ancy into spirits depressed by constant application, 
and give fresh tone to muscles grown stiff* from inac- 
tivity. 

Let us imagine ourselves transported far from the 
busy city, and from the noise and bustle of its streets, 
into the heart of the New Brunswick lumber woods. 

• This story won the prize in the recent Competition. 



2^8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



We are standing on the top of a small hill. Its sides 
are thickly wooded, but a flat tablet of rock caps its 
summit. From this we can obtain an almost unob- 
structed view of the surrounding country. 

As far as the eye can reach extends on every side a 
vast expanse of undulating woodland, with here and 
there the silvery sheen of water relieving the dark 
green of the foliage. 

No settler with devastating axe has ever wakened 
the echoes in these forest arches. No bush-fire, that 
scourge of our lumber-woods, has ever swept through 
this region, transforming stately groves into a wilder- 
ness of bare and blackened trunks. 

At our feet, cradled amid the hills, and thrown into 
alternate light and shade by their reflection, lies a 
little mountain lake fed by numerous springs bubbling 
out of the “ living rock.” Its glassy surface is scarcely 
disturbed by a cat’s paw, and with tasselled heads the 
pines and hemlocks dance in its crystal depths. 

Such is its beauty that no pen can adequately 
describe, nor brush portray the scene. 

The slanting rays of the sun break through the 
fleecy clouds in the West, and warn us that it is high 
time to seek shelter from the dews of night. Reluct- 
antly taking a parting look at the vision spread before 
us, we enter the thicket and begin the descent towards 
the lake. 

No path is visible. The underbrush is thick and 
tangled. Windfalls and boulders, hidden by a luxur- 
iant growth of ferns, are strewn everywhere in the 
utmost confusion. The way is very rough, and many 
a time the unwary come to grief Gradually the 
course becomes smoother and the incline less marked, 
till at length, after half an hour’s labor, we are tread- 
ing ankle-deep in soft green moss, while far above us 
the wind sighs and moans among the swaying tops of 
the lofty monarchs of the forest. Straight ahead the 
glint of water attracts our notice, and threading our 
way through the maze of trunks, we come to a halt at 
the water’s edge. 

To the right and left a point juts far into the lake, 
forming a small narrow bay, at the apex of which we 
stand. Not far away, a noisy brook tumbles madly 
down the hillside, splashing into the lake with much 
fuss and foaming. Beside the brook, half hidden by 
the overhanging branches, a small log shanty is dis- 
cerned. 

One fine evening in June, 1890, three individuals 
might have been observed to emerge from the bush 
near the camp, and slowly bend their steps towards it. 
All three were travel-stained and worn. All carried 
knapsacks and rifles. 

The first of the party was a middle-aged man, short, 
active and wiry in appearance, clad in the rough garb 
of a back-woodsman. On his broad shoulders was 
strapped a huge bundle of blankets, which he bore 
with the ease begotten of long practice on the portage. 
His face burned to a deep brown by the rays of the 
sun, the restless deep-set eyes, the ever ready rifle, 
denote him at first sight as ‘‘ an old timer in the bush.” 
His companions were both' youths, and though 

a ite much the same, and tanned by exposure to 



the ravages of sun and wind, were plainly not old 
hands by any means. They lacked the characteristics 
of a woodsman born and bred. It was evidently with 
difficulty that they kept up with their untiring leader- 
Every movement betrayed fatigue. “ City boys on a 
trip into the woods,” you say, and you are right. < 

Thus, my reader, I introduce to you Will West, 
hunter and trapper by occupation ; Louis Mac, and 
myself, students “ roughing it ” for a’ few weeks. 

For two days, under the guidance of West, we had 
tramped over a typical New Brunswick swamp road, 
with its endless succession of cedar swamps, inter- 
spersed here and there with a few windfalls or snags 
to vary the monotony. Now and then a stream had 
to be crossed by a bridge formed from a fallen tree, or 
forded by wading through mud and water. 

The eloquence of our guide, as he sang the praises 
of the sport to be found in this district, had prevailed 
on us ; and so, weary and footsore, we at last found 
ourselves at Trout Lake, on the headwaters of the 
Keswick River. 

The camp reached, knapsacks and rifles thrown 
down, we wiped the perspiration from our faces, and 
drawing a deep breath of satisfaction, took in our 
surroundings. 

The blood-thirsty army of mosquitoes and black-flies 
which had stuck to us through all our adversities were 
soon driven off to a respectable distance by a suffocat- 
ing cloud of smoke. 

While West was preparing a supper of suitable 
proportions, and cutting firewood. Mack and I, with 
ardor for sport undiminished by hunger or fatigue, 
braved the hordes of the enemy hovering outside the 
bulwark of smoke, and sallied out to try a few casts at 
the brook’s mouth. 

Any number of small trout were playing on the 
surface, and now and then a larger one would leap 
clear out oi the water in pursuit of a tempting fl}\ 

At the first cast two or three greedy fellows rose to 
the flies at the same time. It was no trouble to catch 
all that one wished, but they were very small. 

By the time we had a dozen speckled beauties lying 
on the beach, an ideal camp-fire was merrily crackling 
in front of the shanty, and the tea set aside to draw. 
The pangs of hunger at last overcame the desire for 
sport, and soon six fine fish w’ere sizzling in the long- 
handled frying-pan. Have you ever tasted trout fresh 
from the water, cooked to a turn in butter, and— but I 
dare not trust myself further. 

After the inner man had been fully satisfied (difficult 
though the task was) and the night’s fire-wood cut, we 
set about boughing the bunks. Then we disposed 
ourselves comfortably in front of the blazing fire to 
enjoy a quiet smoke before retiring to sleep, or at least 
to fight “ bite-mi-no-see-em’s ” (as the Indian calls 
them), and try to sleep. 

The sun had run his course, and was now quickly 
disappearing behind the ‘‘Bald-headed Mularky,” a 
distant hill named after its fancied resemblance to the 
head of a well-known lumber boss. The clouds were 
tinted with the roseate hues of evening. 

The breeze had almost completely died away, and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



239 



hardly a leaf stirred overhead. The feathered denizens 
of the forest were silently winging their way to roost, 
and only the mournful “tu-whoo*’ of a lonely owl, 
the shrill cry and resounding “ ping ” of a night-hawk, 
or the weird quavering call of a loon, as he signalled 
his mate in some far-off cove, broke the stillness of the 
evening. 

Twinkling shadows arose, and. sky and water and forest 
Seemed all on fire at the touch, and melted and mingled 
together.*’ 

The shadows deepened, and twilight soon changed 
into the darkness of night. The frogs in the reeds 
around the lake began their nightly chorus, all else 
seemed to be dropping off to sleep. 

In front of the camp the fire flickered and sputtered, 
lighting up the faces of those around it, and sending 
its rays dancing among the trees, far out over the 
placid lake, still and indistinct in the darkness. 

As we reclined before the fire, enjoying the warmth, 
and meditatively puffing clouds of fragrant smoke 
skywards, the fatigue of our long tramp and its hard- 
ships were almost forgotten. The impressive. silence, 
broken only by the musical plash of the brook, the 
charm of our surroundings, cast a sort of spell over 
us. The minds of all wandered we knew and cared 
not w^hither. 

Suddenly the moon, which had risen unnoticed 
behind a bank of clouds, sailed into the clear sky, 
flooding the landscape with her silvery light. The 
effect was indescribable. 

As I gazed on the calm lake lying so peacefully in 
front, and the sombre background of forest, the beau- 
tiful words of the poet Longfellow came to mind : — 

“ This is the forest primeval, the murmuring pines and the 
hemlocks, 

Bearded with moss and in garments green, indistinct in the 
twilight, 

Stand like Druids of old, with voices sad and prophetic, 

Stand like Harpers hoar, with beards that rest on their 
bosoms.” 

The spell was at last broken by the gruff but good- 
humored voice of our guide : 

‘‘ Mighty fine night this ! Mighty fine !” he observed, 
rising to his feet, and knocking the ashes out of his 
pipe. 

“ How’s the weather going to turn out for to- 
morrow’s fishing ? ’’ enquired Mac from his couch near 
the fire, which was improvised for the occasion from a 
huge sheet of hemlock bark. 

‘‘Wall, I don’t know fur sartin,” replied the old 
hunter, closing one eye and examining the sky with 
the critical air of a weather expert ; “ but if signs count 
fur anythin’, the big un’s ’ll be risin’, an’—” 

“ We’ll tend to the rest, eh boys ? ” interrupted Mac, 
and relapsed into that semi-conscious condition between 
sleeping and waking. 

“ I was jest thinkin’,” continued West, consarnin’ 
a bit of a racket thet took place right here at this 
camp, an’ on jest sich a night as this. ’Twar a racket 
an’ no mistake. Ugh ! It makes ther cold chills run 
down my back w^hen I think on’t.” 



“What’s the matter with telling us about it?*’ 
said I, delighted at the prospects of a real good yarn, 
for West had a record of having gone through more 
adventures than any other man on the Keswick- 

“ I kinder hate to wake poor Mac up,” he answered. 
“ He*s feelin’ so alfired sleepy.” 

The expression on Mac’s face, as he tried to appear 
wide awake all at once, was a study. It fairly con- 
vulsed West and myself with laughter. When we 
recovered our mental equilibrium Mac was wide 
awake. 

“ What the dickens are you fellows laughing at, any 
way ? ” said he. “ I was no more asleep than you were. 
Go on with your yarn. If it’s worth hearing I’ll stay 
awake.” 

“All 'right,” said our worthy guide, as he cut a 
handful of tobacco from an enormous plug- “ I ain’t 
much on a hand at tellin’ a yarn, but I’ll do ther best I 
kin.” 

“ Fire ahead, old boy,” said Mac. 

“ ’Twar in the spring ’o ’82 I think,” began West, 
thet I first struck this locality. Me an Jack Hanson 
hed heern tell so often ’bout ther lashin’s ’o game ter 
be had here, thet we took out a huntin’ limit ’twixt 
here an’ ther Naashwaak nigh on to fourteen mile 
long, an’ one fine day landed at ther lake here bag an’ 
baggage. Talk about your rough tramps ! Thar war 
no path, an’ nary a Ian’ mark. ’Sides that, each on us 
hed a back-load o’ traps an’ grub. I tell ye, we were 
mighty glad w’en we struck ther lake. 

Fur nigh a week, we did nothin’ but lay out traps, 
an’ build dead-falls fur bear. Then we split camp, so’s 
we could overhaul an’ bait ther traps every day er 
so. Jack ’lowed he’d as leave camp at ther Naash- 
waak, so I sot up here. 

‘‘One fine evenin’ ’bout a month arter we’d parted 
company, I war sittin’ in front o’ ther fire, havin’ a 
quiet bit ’o a smoke, an’ waitin’ fur ther kettle ter bile, 
w’en I thought I heerd a faint haloo, soundin’ like as 
if someone war hollerin’ from ’way down yonder at 
ther far end o’ ther lake. 

“ ‘ Blamed if thet ain’t Jack cornin’ over to see me,’ 
sez I, an’ answered him ther best I knowed how. 
My yell’s no slouch of a sound w’en I’ve a mind to let 
loose in arnest. 

“ I war hustlin’ ’round lively gettin’ out ther grub, 
fur I reckoned Jack ’ud be empty like inside, w’en I 
heerd another haloo ! It sounded sich a mighty sight 
nearer, thet I got a tolerable start. ‘ Thet beats me,’ 
sez I to myself. ‘Ther pard must be everlastin’ly 
cornin’ or his voice hez growed considerable sence I 
last heerd it’ Thar war also so’ thin’ shrill an’ harsh 
’bout it thet I’d never noticed afore. 

“ Fishin’ alive coal out’n ther fire, ter light my pipe, 

I sot down an’ listened. Rearin’ nothin’, I shouted fur 
all I war worth. Afore the echoes hed time ter die 
away, a yell like nothin’ ’arthly rose from yon clump 
o’ spruces ye see black agin’ ther sky. It struck me 
all o’ a heap. I war dumbfounded. Fur a minute I 
stood like a mummy, an’ then broke fur ther camp, as 
if Old Nick war at my heels. Ther harsh voice war 



• 240 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



clear to me then. I hed been answerin’ an ‘ Injun 
Devil,’ an’ he w’ar a cornin’ fur me red-hot an’ lookin’ 
fur trouble. 

“ Many a time old hunters had telled me fearful yarns 
consamin’ ther critters, how they’d holler like a man, 
an’ foller a person fur miles waitin’ a chance to drop 
on him off’n some tree. 

V “ My teeth war chatterin’, an I war shiverin’ like a 



" Afore I’d quite settled w’har to plink him, down he 
come plumb at me like a shot out’n a catapult. I let fly, 
but missed him clean an’ clear in th’ unsartin’ light. 

“The windy war too small fur him ter git through, 
but afore I could git back, he got his claws on one o’ 
my arms, an’ left his trade mark. I’ve got it yet, an’ 
wouldn’t part with it fur the world. The arm ’d have 
ter come off too. 



man with ther ague, as I slammed to the door, an’ fas- 
tened it solid. 



Ther little windy was ther only op’nin’ inter ther 
camp, an’ by it I crouched rifle full cock. Big beads 
o cold sweat war standin’ on my face an’ hands. I 
felt mighty streake’d I kin tell yes. 

“ Daylight war goin’ fast, an’ the woods gettin’ dar- 
ker an’ darker every minute. A stray night bird ud now 
an then give a mournful cry, an’ ther frogs war callin’ 
ter each other in ther swamps, an’ dismal enough it 
sounded. As long’s I live, I’ll remember how them 
Whip-poor- Wills ’ kep’ a callin’ as if warnin’ me. 
They knowed so’ thin was up. 

“ Everythin’ war as still as death. ’Twar a calm 
afore a storm. Strainin’ my eyes, I knelt an’ lay fur the 
fust sign o ther beast. A minute war as long as an 
hour to me. 

‘ ‘ My bones war beginnin’ to get stiff with crouchin’, 
an I hed most made up my mind to get up an’ sit 
down on ther bunk, when another screech fairly lifted 
me. ’Twar like a thousan’ cats yellin’ at onst, an I 
swar it sounded as if ther camp war surrounded by 
pack o’ full growed imps. Ther hull woods echoed an’ 
rung with ther noise. 

Cautious like, I peered out, an’ hearin’ a swish, 
swish, up above in thet old pine thar I looked up. On 
that limb ye see stickin’ out straight lay a long-bodied 
black animal, ’bout ther size o’ a big dog. 

Crouchin’ flat on his belly, his short ears lyin’ flat 
back, an his tail sweepin’ back an’ forrards, back an’ 
forrards^ ’mong ther leaves, he looked like a cat 
watchin’ a mouse hole. I was the mouse. The wicked- 
est lookin’ pair o’ eyes I ever seed shone green an’ 
yaller in ther fire-light. 



“ As I took him in, ther words o’ old Gabe (chief of 
the Milicete Tribe of Indians) come inter my head : 

Ugh ! You want see Injun Devil, eh ? Heap big 
fool. Me see him many moons ago. Me be good for 
not’in* since.* 

How*s that, Gabe ? * I asked him. 

One day me go t’ rough great woods up North. 
Me come near clearin’ ; hear someone shout, me tink 
Me answer, an’ big black cat come jump, jump’ 
t’rough trees. I make fur clearin’, he foller in tree, wait 
him chance an’ drop on me. I have n’otin’, but 
knife make him sick p’uty soon. He take to tree ’gain. 
Me run, an’ he foller, jump ’gain. Make him sick 
gam. Soon me come to clearin’, hardly kin walk 
bleed all over. No good since.’ ’ 

“ ’Twar an Injun Devil, boys, an’ no mistake 
“ ’Kinder thinkin’ a lead pill’d suit his constitu- 
tion, I raised ther gun slow, and waited fur a chance 
to draw a bead on ther ugly lookin’ cuss. 



“Jumpin’ back, I covered him an’ pulled the trigger. 
Snap ! went ther hammer, but no report. Heavens ! 
thar warn’ t a blessed cartridge in ther magazine, an’ 
my cartridge pouch war outside- 

“This diskiv’ry made me desp’rate, an’ grabbin’ up 
the axe, I went fur him. Wall! I might as well a 
tried to strike a shadder. He war like as if made of 
Injun rubber, an' worked by steel springs. Every time 
I’d make a slash at him, back he’d leap like a streak of 
greased lightnin’, then zip! he’d come agin. ’Twar 
lively fur a few minutes. 

“ By ther time I’d marked up that ugly pictur ’ o’ his’n 
with ther axe onct or twict, he begun ter fight shy, an’ 
at last bounded inter a tree, an’ with a vicious yowl 
disappeared. 

“ My breath war coinin’ in gasps, an’ I war ’bout 
played out. The scart feelin’, however, hed left me 
in th’ excitement. 

“I war jest tyin’ up my arm, which war Weedin’ a 
good deal, an’ wonderin’ if he war gone fur good, when 
so thin heavy struck ther roof with a thud thet made 
ther hull shanty rattle. Gee whig ! how them cedar 
splints did fly 1 

‘“How in time am I a goin’ to stop him.? He’ll be 
through thet thar roof in ’bout a leetle minute,’ thought 
I- Just then a canoe pole lyin’ on ther floor caught 
my eye, and an’ idee struck me. 



— ivimc lu incr 

end o ther pole. ‘ Now, old boy,’ sez I, ‘ you’re goin’ 
to ketch Hail Columbia.’ 



— ^ ciii up nm 1 a nar- 

poon It. My I wasn’t he mad. At fust he’d grab ther 
knife in his teeth an’ try ter worry it. He soon giv’ 
thet up. ’Twar kinder hard on his mouth, I reckon. 

T jumpin’ to tother side o’ ther roof. 

o lered him, an’ kep him dancin’. Ther pace soon 
got a leetle too hot fur his nibs, an’ he left. I felt sorry 
then, fur I knowed I hed him beat, an’ kinder enjoyed 
ther game of hide an’ seek. 

“ Every now an’ then I could hear a yowl o’ pain an’ 

through ther tree tops. 
1 11 bet his paws were sore, an’ thet he had ther worst 
kind^o a toothache from bitin’ thet knife blade. 

ot darin’ ter go ter sleep fur fear ther treacherous 
cuss war only ‘ playin’ fox,’ I anxiously waited for 
mornin , Twar a mighty dreary job, but at last it 

thiniJn^ out. Fust 

hing I did war ter fill my magazine with cartridges an’ 
It’s never been emp’y since. t^ages, an 

«’~ver«lwhh 

Diood. Someo ther trees war all stained also. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



241 



Next day Jack come over, an’ Iher two o’ us searcher 
high an’ low fur signs o* ther critter, but nary a sign 
could we find. He’d vanished ’way back inter ther 
bush, I reckon. 

“ Thet’s ther only time I ever seed an ‘ Injun Devil,’ 
boys, an’ I ain’t hankerin’ arter any further acquain- 
tance ceptin’ in daylight, an’ with any amount o’ 
ammunition.” 

Well, I should say not !” exclaimed Mac, taking a 
deep breath, and I echoed the sentiment. 

The fire was replenished for the night, the camp 
thoroughly smoked to drive out the mosquitoes, and we 
all turned in for a good night’s rest. 

I must confess that many a horrible dream interrupted 
my repose, and Mac as well, though he never would 
own up to it, fought all night with wild cats of all 
shapes and sizes. 

The grey light of early morning was just beginning 
to steal through the woods and into the camp, and the 
birds were waking up in the branches over-head, when 
I opened my e}^es and stared sleepily around. Mac 
was still snoring peacefully beside me. Our guide, 
however, was up, had^a fire kindled, and was busily 
preparing breakfast in readiness for an early start to the 
fishing-ground. 

Having with some difficulty impressed into Mac’s 
sleepy head that it was time we were up, we tumbled 
out of our bunks, and still half asleep betook ourselves 
to the brook for a wash. The cold water soon livened 
us up, and the clear fresh air off the lake aroused a 
very healthy and vigorous appetite. 

“ Here ! you fellows ! Quit thet foolin’ an’ get outside 
o’ some grub if ye want ter cast a fly afore sunrise,” 
shouted Will, as Mac and I were proceeding to sparr a 
few rounds for exercise. 

We needed no second invitation, I assure you, and the 
breakfast rapidly disappeared. 

“ Grab your rods an’ come on,” said Will, as the last 
drop of tea vanished. “ We’ve got ter hustle.” 

A ‘Mug-out” which lay safely hidden beneath the 
overhanging branches at the brook’s mouth was soon 
hauled out, and cautiously stepping in we shoved off*. 

Our guide took his position in the stern, and the light 
craft fairly leaped forward under the vigorous and 
skillful strokes of his pole. 

We proceeded for about half a mile up the lake, keep- 
ing close to the shore. Suddenly the canoe shot around 
a sharp point, and we glided into a small cove. The 
whole surface of the cove, except a narrow channel in 
the centre, where the cold water of a spring brook 
flowed out into the lake, the whole surface of the water 
was covered with lily pads. 

Poling quietly to the edge of the channel we dropped 
anchor amid the tangled plants and set to work. 

A slight mist was rising from the smooth surface of 
the lake, and numerous concentric ripples marked the 
presence of fish. As the sun began to peep above the 
horizon, the trout began leaping in earnest ; the water 
seemed alive with them. 

Soon the music sweetest of all to a sportsman’s ear 
was heard. 



Swish ! goes the rod, and the leader lights gently on 
the water. Splash ! click ! click ! Whirr-r-r-r ! Out 
spins the line. Then begins the battle. The rod bends 
and strains, as the fish dashes hither and thither in vain 
efforts to escape. At last he begins to tire, and you reel 
him slowly towards the side of the canoe, and landing- 
net in hand, watch your opportunity. Quickly you land 
him, and there he lies gasping. You feel like a victor- 
ious general returning from a glorious victory. 

The sport was fast and furious, and our blood ran 
high with excitement as we endeavored to beat our 
neighbor’s catch. West, old veteran that he was, 
easily outstripped Mac and I. The way he would 
strike and land the largest trout was a revelation to us. 
Many a laugh did he enjoy at our expense as at a cri- 
tical moment the fish quietly dropped off, and swam 
feebly out of sight. 

It is really astonishing to note how many “ regular 
whoppers ” a green hand will hook and lose in a day’s 
fishing. These invariably come to the surface, flop their 
tails once, and disappear for ever, taking with them 
usually a ” ten dollars a dozen ” fly-hook, as a memento 
of the occasion. Language more forcible than polite 
is, I’m afraid, often indulged in about that time. 

As the sun mounted higher in the heavens, and the 
air became warm, the trout refused to be enticed either 
by the most tempting bait or most gaudy fly, so we 
tripped anchor, and poled leisurely back to the camp. 
In the bottom of the canoe we had as fine a lot of trout 
as it has ever been my lot to see, ranging from one half 
to two pounds in weight. 

For a week we “ whipped ” the different parts of the 
lake, and never failed to make a catch. It was one 
round of sport, for at least two of the party. 

All things must have an end, however ; so one fine 
morning we packed up and said good-bye to the old 
camp. 

It is needless for me to dwell on the tramp to the 
nearest railway, twelve miles away. Sufiice it for me 
to say that two more played-out mortals than Mac and 
myself never boarded a train. 

Pleasure would be too cheap if it were not for the 
pain undergone to secure it, and would lose all its value. 

I would not hesitate to go through the same hard- 
ships again for a try at the trout in the same lake. 

W. B. M. 



COLLEGE EXPENSES AT HARVARD. 

The great American Universities are year by year 
coming into closer relations with our Canadian ones. 
They are all more or less fully equipped for graduate 
work, and vie with each other in offering inducements 
to students entering their classes. The Graduate 
School is constantly growing in importance, each year 
bringing fresh recognition of the value of its w’ork. 
Few Canadian Colleges possess a Graduate Depart- 
ment of any kind, and those who desire to pursue post- 
graduate studies must seek opportunity elsewhere. 
Among Universities which offer such training to Cana- 
dian students, none other in America is so thoroughly 
equipped as Harvard. Our students have recognized 



242 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



this fact. There are fifty-three names upon the roll of 
the Canadian club at Harvard University, and these 
men are drawn from every province in the Dominion. 
Four of us are from McGill, and the probability is that 
these numbers will steadily increase until the time 
comes — may it not be long ! — when McGill and other 
Canadian Colleges have Graduate Schools of their own 
capable of fitting men for any educational or scientific 
position they may seek. 

In view of these facts, it may not be out of place to 
say a few words about the cost of living at Harvard. 
Rightly or wrongly, Harvard University has the repu- 
tation of being an expensive place. There are two 
stigmata frequently coupled together by those who 
speak of the Cambridge University from report — that it 
is broad in its theological tendencies and fast in its 
social life. The reputation is not newly gained ; it is a 
name of old standing. The University is said to be a 
place for wealthy men's sons, to whom economy is but a 
name, where ^ the student of limited means is put to 
shame before his more opulent class-mates. 

Is the charge rightly or wrongly made ? I answer 
both. There are some things necessarily entering into 
the outlay of every man which render living here more 
expensive than at many other universities. The term 
is long, much longer, than is usual at Canadian univer- 
sities, and all sessional bills must be correspondingly 
increased. This must not be lost sight of in comparing 
Harvard with universities whose sessions are a month 
or two shorter. The fees are also higher than at many 
colleges, both in Canada and the United States, — $150 
a year. The possibilities of expensive living are 
greater here than at the majority of American univer- 
sities, and this fact must be reckoned with in making 
an estimate of the average cost of living among 
students. 

That the key-note of social life should be rather 
higniy pitched here is natural. Harvard is an aristocra- 
tic place — aristocratic in its traditions if democratic in 
its present spirit. It is the oldest institution of learning 
on the continent ; its history is woven in with the most 
significant life of the country, colonial and national ; 
the greatest names of the land own it as their Alma 
Mater. It is full of tradition and manifold associations 
and upon it rests the obligation, proudly owned, to play 
its part as splendidly as of old. Noblesse oblige. These 
men and these heritages have made it classic, and things 
classic are not usually had for the asking,— they must 
be hardly won. To this is to be added that Harvard 
stands in the midst of a wealthy, long settled com- 
munity, and within sight of a city of great intellec- 
tual culture and decidedly aristocratic tendencies. In 
such surroundings and with such a history it is natural 
to expect a high standard of living, not especially in 
the matter of food and clothing, but in all the acces- 
sories which high culture and refinement demand. 

In an address delivered a few years ago at the 
Commencement Dinner, Professor Palmer said : “ The 
ideal of a University should be plain living and high 
thinking, and certainly there is something vulgar as 
well as vicious in the man of books who turns away 
from earning intellectual wealth and indulges in 



tawdry extravagance. Yet every friend of Harvard is 
obliged to acknowledge with shame that the loose 
spender has a place in our yard. I do not think this 
strange. In fact, I regard it as inevitable. It is 
necessarily connected with our growth. The old 
College we might compare, for moral and intellectual 
range, with a country village ; our present University 
is a great city, and we must accept the many-sided life, 
the temptations as well as the opportunities, of the 
great city. Probably nowhere on this planet can a 
thousand young men be found who will not .show 
examples of the heedless, the temptable and the 
depraved." 

In one sense, then, the charge of costly living is 
rightly preferred against Harvard ; there is such. But 
the accusation implies more : it means that such 
expense is unavoidable, or to be avoided only at such 
cost as makes it preferable to avoid the College alto- 
gether. Is this charge also true ? Is the man of 
modest means put to shame at Harvard ? Does the 
fast set of men who chiefly contribute to the reputa- 
tion of expensiveness at Harvard so dominate the 
College as to give its tone to student life in general ; 
so that one who cannot emulate their extravagance is 
humiliated in the presence of his fellows ? The charge 
implies this, and here lies its falsit5^ 

The poor Student is free to live as he sees fit. He 
may spend the four years of his University life here 
and scarcely know of the Harvard fast set but by 
rumor. The University in this regard is a miniature 
of the greater world beyond it, wherein are all sorts 
and conditions of men. It is cosmopolitan in its 
nature, a great hive of the most varied life and 
interests. Harvard is an impersonal place ; here the 
particular is swamped in the general. The individual 
is of no consequence to the University; the great tide 
of life sweeps by regardless of him. Who you are, it 
cares not ; what you are depends upon yourself, and of 
that it is jealously watchful. It is good for a man 
thus to learn his place, the littleness of it, yet the 
security of it. One man cannot dominate the spirit 
which pervades the place ; there are no Csesars of a 
great University like Harvard. Nor can a set of men 
—be it of bloods, or grinds, or sports— impose its 
criterion of life and living upon the whole body. Fven 
the sets and clubs are but individuals among many. 
And here lies the guaranty of the poor Student as of 
the rich. The individual is the only genus at Harvard. 
The University is not a closed circle in which the 
structure and changes of each element affect all others ; 
it is a free, unlimited medium in which each body may 
describe its orbit uninfluenced by those around. The 
new-comer to Harvard can form his life as he pleases. 
His mode of living, the nature of his surroundings, 
the character of his companions, are, like his studies, 
elective. He is not compelled to rub shoulders to his 
own discomfiture with those whose incomes are much 
arger and style of living more expensive than his own. 

In small colleges this unavoidable contact of all 
members of the institution with one another makes it 
much more difficult for the needy Student to live after 
a different mode from those around him without being 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



243 



frequently and, to a sensitive nature, most unpleasantly 
reminded of it. In Harvard this is absent. There is 
no class line ; and if there be a College tone, it is but 
the composite of many partial tones. The individual 
is not compelled to recognize a standard ; he may 
describe his circle of life as seems best to himself. 

These circles are certainly of vastly varying radii ; 
and the diameter of none perhaps is as short as it 
might with comparative ease be drawn in some small 
and unpretentious colleges. There are two or three 
large items of expenditure which must be reckoned 
into by everyone who comes to Harvard. The first is 
the annual ‘tuition fee, $150.00, for each regular student. 
This admits him to all classes in the University, and 
includes all charges for instruction except in Labora- 
tory courses, for each of which an additional $5.00 is 
charged. The endowment of the University is rela- 
tively very slender, and for the cost of leaching it looks 
for payment chiefly to tuition fees and room rent. 
The latter is a second of the items referred to. There 
are a dozen college residences, containing in all about 
1000 apartments. These are rented to students year by 
year, the prices varying according to size and position 
of rooms. Each set consists of study and bed-room, 
and as a rule they are roomy and convenient. The 
prices range from $30 to $500 a year; but not one-third 
rent for less than $150. This is for the unfurnished 
room ; the taste and means of students vary within 
such large limits that no other method could very well 
be adopted. The student is then at liberty to fit up 
his room as fancy or the stringency of the money mar- 
ket may dictate. It is possible to furnish a room for 
$25 ; it is possible to spend as many hundreds. 

To live in residence, however, is not the most econ- 
omical way, except for those who occupy the few low- 
priced rooms. The economical student prefers to seek 
rooms in some private house in the vicinity of the Col- 
lege grounds. Since the college residences accommo- 
date little over one-third of the students, it will be seen 
that in these private lodgings the greater number of 
Harvard men are to be found. These rooms are of all 
sizes, prices and degrees of comfort and convenience. 
They may be had singly or in suites, on the ground 
floor or up three flights back, as luxurious parlors or 
meagerly furnished attics. The rates at which they 
are let cannot be called high ; a modestly furnished 
room at a distance from the College yard can be had 
for $35 or $40 per year. Good rooms adjacent to the 
grounds, with light and heat, cost $90 to $125 ; but ex- 
cellent double rooms may be rented near by the Col- 
lege for $150, making the cost only $75 if one has a 
chum. 

Many students, especially those who spend only a 
year or two at Harvard, have the expense of furnishing 
their rooms greatly lessened by taking advantage of the 
Loan Furniture Association, which lets the necessary 
furnishing for a student's room, including crockery, for 
$7.50 a year. 

The cost of living is materially reduced by the var- 
ious co-operative clubs which have been formed among 
the officers and students. Foremost among these is the 
Memorial Hall Dining Assodalion, which provides 



about 1100 students with excellent food at a cost of 
$4 per week. The management is in the hands of a 
steward, who has full charge of the purchase, prepara- 
tion and service of the food. Boarders do not pay a 
fixed sum per week, but are charged in a sliding scale, 
which varies with the fluctuations in the price of food- 
stuffs, the charge for each week being made out on a 
basis of the cost of the food served during that week. 
To prevent any tendency to a continued increase in the 
cost of living, the salary of the steward is also arranged 
on a sliding scale : that is to say, a certain standard of 
excellence and variety being required, the steward is 
entitled to receive from each man who takes his meals 
there, a levy of ten cents per week for every week dur- 
ing which the charge per man has been kept below $4 
As may be imagined, the weekly bills never run above 
$4. Such a rise would entail a weekly loss of $iio 
upon the unfortunate steward, who derives the main 
portion of the income of his important position from 
the weekly levy thus received. As a matter of fact, the 
weekly cost does rise slightly above $4 when the weekly 
tax on certain articles entered as extras are included. 

The Foxcroft Club is another such association, which 
accommodates about 250 persons at its tables. An 
admission fee of $5 is required from each member. 
Meals are served by the card, — European style. The 
food is wholesome, plentiful, and well prepared. Few 
of the students boarding at the Foxcroft exceed $3.50 
per week; the majority run between $2.50 and $3.25, 
and some board as cheaply as $2.00 per week. It is 
possible to live for $1.00 per week at the tables of the 
Foxcroft without losing weight and with a sufficiency 
of food at each meal, but the bill of fare, under such 
circumstances, must be too rigorously limited to suit 
the desires of an epicure. The following are some of the 
articles on the order-list of the Foxcroft, with their 



prices : — 

Roast meats 10 cents 

Soup 4 

Vegetables 3 “ 

Pudding and pies 5 “ 

Oatmeal, or wheat, and milk 5 “ 

Eggs, 2, boiled or dropped 8 

Eggs on toast 10 ‘‘ 

Dry toast, per slice i 

White or Graham bread (2 slices)... i “ 

Graham gems, rolls, or gingerbread . i ‘ ‘ 

Fruit — apples, bananas, grapes, etc. 3 “ 

Cake — all kinds, per slice i “ 

Glass milk 2 “ 

Tea, coffee, or cocoa 3 ‘‘ 



At the close of the year the profits accruing after all 
expenses are paid are returned in dividends to the 
members of the Club. 

In addition to the Foxcroft and Memorial, there are 
several other clubs, such as the Twenty-one Club and 
the Breakfast Club, aiming at the same end, — the reduc- 
tion of the cost of board, which at private tables runs 
from $6 to $8 per week. The cost of food in Cam- 
bridge is thus reduced to an even lower rate than it 
can usually be procured for in smaller universities. 

Secretary Bolles, in one of the University pamphlets, 



244 McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



sr.ys : “ The annual outlay of an economical student 
who comes to Cambridge with a good supply of cloth- 
ing and bed linen is necessarily nearly $400. For 
tuition he must pay $150 ; a room, furnished, lighted 
and warmed, cannot well cost less than $35, even if it 
be small and inconveniently located ; books, stationery 
and laboratory fees amount to about $20 a j'ear ; and 
washing to at least ^^15. Wholesome food can be pro- 
cured for $2.75 a week, although a few students live 
for a little less. Sundries may reach $40 a year, 
especially if by living at a distance the student spends 
a good deal in car fares. Allowing nothing for cloth- 
ing, these estimates would make the expenses of the 
first J’ear in College $367. After that thej' tend to 
grow larger. Students who are not forced to practise 
strict economy of course spend more than the sums 
named. Perhaps a quarter of each class live on less 
than $600 a j'ear, clothes included ; another quarter 
spend between $600 and $800. Bverj’ dollar ov’er 
$1200 which even the richest student spends is, as a 
wise writer has said, ‘ a dollar of danger.’ The largest 
amounts spent by any one student in a year run be- 
tween $4000 and $5000.” 

There is another side of the question of meeting 
expenses at Harvard which the student of limited 
means may overlook, and which is altogether in Har- 
vard’s favor. One means of meeting the expenses of a 
college course is to reduce its cost by .seeking an insti- 
tution where the rXte of living is the lowest ; another 
is to enter a college where such expenses may be 
defrayed by money earned during the session. No 
other college in America offers such advantages in this 
regard as does Harvard. I have spoken of the reduc- 
tion of liabilities in the matter of food and lodging ; a 
few words as to the raising of assets. In all great uni- 
versities, tutoring is much in demand, and here it is 
almost exclusively done by students. In Canada, pro. 
fessional coachers are unknown ; here there are but 
few- The student who desires tutoring seeks it, not 
from one who depends for his income upon such 
work, but from advanced students in his own depart- 
ment. A great deal of money is thus earned every 
year in Harvard. Rates vary from'$i.5o to $2.50 per 
hour, the average being in the neighborhood of $2.00. 
In some courses seminars are held, which net a large 
sum in a short space of time. These are held by gra- 
duates or special students in certain subjects, consist 
of preparatory grinds based upon a study of previous 
examination papers in that course, are given to a 
whole class in common, and occupy two or three hours. 
A class of fifty to one hundred can be accommodated, 
and the usual charge is $2 per man. 

In addition to tutoring, a large number of men are 
required each year as monitors. Their work consists in 
calling the roll and keeping class records. The remun- 
eration runs from $ico to $250 per year. 

Proctors are required in all the College residences, 
and at honor aud final examinations. These are reserved 
for senior graduates: the work is usually light, and nets 
about $100 a year. Students are also employed in the 
college offices to do clerical work ; the Appleton and 
other choirs qeed them if they are singers. A consi- 



derable number meet a portion of their expenses by 
waiting at table at the Foxcroft and private boarding- 
houses. A good stenographer or typewriter rarely fails 
to find employment ; and those who have appropriate 
talent derive what income is to be had from journalistic 
writing. 

The work of finding employment for students desir- 
ing it is sj’stematicallj’ undertaken bj' the University 
in its “ Information Bureau,” established half a dozen 
years ago, and found of continually increasing service. 
The Bureau also finds permanent positions for many of 
those graduating from the College each year. The 
amount of w’ork obtainable in Cambridge by students 
is much greater than in smaller university towns, and 
it is also better paid. 

There is still another source to which the student 
may look for assistance in defraying his college expen. 
ses. I refer to the beneficiarj’ funds of the University. 
These now amount to $90,000 annually, distributed in 
the College, Graduate and Scientific schools in the form 
of fellowships, scholarships, bursaries, prizes, and Price 
Greenleaf Aid. The latter is a loan fund from which 
assistance is given to needy students practically with- 
out interest or security, to be repaid at the student’s 
convenience. 

Thus even if we confine our attention to the matter 
of positive expense, and much more, if that is oflF-set 
by the opportunities afforded to earn money during the 
session. Harvard cannot rightly be cr.lied an expen- 
sive college to attend. It certainly needs some stamina 
to gain a foot-hold, and resolution to live plainly and 
work hard, if the indigent student is to succeed. But 
the same conditions are present everj’where ; and if he 
is a man of brain and of heart, there is no reason why 
he should shun the halls of Harvard because his 
pocket-furnishings are slender. The advice with which 
Professor Palmer closed his address is still applicable : 
When you meet a poor boj’, do not rashly urge him to 
come to Harvard. Estimate carefully his powers. If 
he is a good boy,— docile, worthy, common-place,— 
advise him to go somewhere else. Here he will find 
himself borne down by large expense and the crowd 
who stand above him- But whenever you meet a poor 
boy of eager, aggressive mind, a youth of energy, one 
capable of feeling the enjoyment of struggling with a 
multitude, and of making his merit known, say to him 
that Harvard is expressly constituted for such as he. 
Here he will find the largest provi.sion for his needs 
and the clearest field for his talents. If the poor man 
is a man of muscle, the athletic organizations will wel- 
come him ; if a man skilled in words, he will be made an 
editor of the college papers ; and if he has the powers 
which fit him for such a place, the whole body of his 
class-mates will elect him orator, odist, or poet, without 
the slightest regard as to whether his purse is full or 
empty. In short, if he has anything in him, — has 
he scholarship, brains, wit, companionability, stout 
moral purpose or quiet Christian character,— his quali- 
ties will find as prompt a recognition at Harvard as 
anywhere on earth." 

Cambridge. 



R. MACDOUGALL. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



245 



the late MR. PETER REDPATH. 

Three months have barely passed since the Fort- 
NIGHTI.Y contained a portrait of Mr. Peter Redpatli. 

This was on the occasion (since fresh in every mind) 
of his latest and greatest benefaction to the University. 
None of our readers but remembers the day when, with 
manly and unaffected modesty, he handed over to the 
University the beautiful Library building upon which 
during many months he had so freely best^ed not mere- 
ly his means, but, what is still more worthy of gratitude, 
his constant thought and unflagging interest, — ponder- 
ing every detail, seeking and weighing information on 



every point, in order that his gift might be as useful 
and beautiful as it lay in him to make it. Those who 
saw him active and vigorous upon that day, receiving 
with Mrs. Redpath the thanks and congratulations of 
the friends who surrounded them, thought the hope 
well-grounded, that Mr. Redpath might long live to see 
and to enjoy the fruition of his generous purposes. 

But, towards the close of January, came a letter, 
expressing the keenest interest in the Library, its work- 
ing and its readers, yet mentioning that, for some days 
previous, he had been confined to his room. And on 
Friday, February 2nd, the cable anounced that Mr. Peter 
Redpath had passed away the night before. 



s 



St 





By his death, the University has met with a severe 
and, in some respects, irreparable loss. And though his 
memory will be kept green for generations by his noble 
benefactions, those who had the privilege of knowing 
him, even slightly, will long miss the sound advice and 
kindly encouragement for which none ever turned to 
him in vain. To his many friends, to his family, and 
above all to Mrs. Redpath in her great sorrow, we 
tender our most sincere and respectful sympathy. 

The memorial service in the reading-hall of the new 
Library, on February 6th, was held at 9 o’clock in the 
morning, so that it might be simultaneous with the 
service at the home in Chislehurst. 

The Rev. Dr. Mackay repeated the Lord’s Prayer, 



I after which all present united in singing the hymn, 
“ From every Stormy Wind that Blows.” 

The Rev. Dr. Mackay then read, with deep feeling 
and solemnity, appropriate selections from the Scrip- 
tures. The 23rd Psalm was sung, and then the Rev. 
Principal MacVicar spoke as follows : 

‘‘We unite this morning at the same hour in which 
his funeral service is being conducted at Chislehurst, 
England, in a public tribute of respect and honor to the 
memory of Mr. Peter Redpath. He was bom of godly 
parents in this city, in 1821, where he received his early 
education, his business training being completed in 
England. 

“ He was a man of good ability, sound judgment, 



246 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



refined and elevated taste, and excellent culture — a 
lover of literature and art, and, what is infinitely better, 
a lover of truth and the God of Truth. He was pro 
bably as widely read as most of his mercantile contem- 
poraries. 

“ After a long and successful career, having retired 
from business, he removed to England, and devoted sev- 
eral years to the study of law, and was admitted to 
the Bar as a barrister of the Middle Temple. Both in 
this city and in the old land he was deservedly called 
to occupy many positions of trust and responsibility. 
In business he was uniformly characterized by indefa- 
tigable diligence and unswerving integrity. His yea 
was yea, and his nay, nay. Gentle, amiable, and con- 
siderate of the opinions and feelings of others, ever 
ready to take a broad and generous view of their actions, 
and yet when purity and principle were concerned he 
was as firm as a rock. It was vain for those who had 
sinister ends to serve to attempt to turn him aside from 
truth and righteousness. In these respects he furnished 
a notable pattern which young men and all others may 
do well to imitate. 

As a philanthropist he took rank with the foremost 
in our land. His benefactions in various forms to 
McGill University and other public institutions bear 
witness to his unstinted liberality. The Museum 
and this Library which bear his name will perpetuate 
his memory amid the respect and gratitude of genera- 
tions of students and citizens through coming cen- 
turies. He had grace and wisdom given him to 
adminster his large resources in his lifetime for the 
good of his fellowmen : and this fact deserves to be 
emphasized. His last public appearance amongst us 
was in this very hall three months ago, in the perform- 
ance of a crowning act of educational usefulness. 

But let it not be supposed that all his benevolence 
took visible forms like those just mentioned. He was 
naturally unobtrusive, strongly averse to all ostenta- 
tious display and vulgar advertising of the good he 
purposed or accomplished. His unreported charities 
were numerous and wisely distributed. He sought to 
do his alms before God, and not before men to be seen 
of them. The Father who seeth in secret alone know- 
eth in what abundant measure he gave help and com- 
fort to others. 

‘•As a Christian, he was devout, conscientious, consis- 
tent. His Christianity was a life and character rather 
than a demonstrative profession. He detested quackery 
and sham in religion, and he was right. I had oppor- 
tunities of knowing his views on these matters inti- 
mately. For many years he was an exemplary member 
and ofiice-bearer of “ The Free Church, Cott6 street,” 
now Crescent Street Church. He served with me there 
most faithfully as a deacon during my entire pastorate, 
and was twice elected as an elder, the duties of which 
office, .through his modest estimate of his own ability, 
he judged himself unable to undertake 

‘‘ His simple trust in the word and in the Christ of God 
was the secret of his meek and quiet spirit, unfailing 
generosity and sterling worth. And I must add that 
in all his Christian service and public munificence he 



was lovingly aided by his partner in life, with whom in 
her great bereavement we to-day deeply .sympathize. 
Finally, in this hour of sorrow over the removal of one 
of Montreal’s noble benefactors, let us seek through the 
mediation of Jesus Christ the help of His Holy Spirit, 
that we may emulate the example of the one whose 
memory we honor. Amen.” 

The Rev. Dr. Cornish offered a prayer, giving thanks 
for the life that had been brought to a close, and im- 
ploring strength and comfort for the members of the 
family in their affliction. The singing of the familiar 
hymn, “The Sands of Time are Sinking,” was follow- 
ed by the benediction, which was pronounced by the 
Rev. Dr. Murray. 

C. H. G. 



BIOGRAPHY. 

SIR JOHN WILLIAM DAWSON, 

Sir John William Dawson was born at Pictou, N.S., 
in 1820. He received his early academic training in 
the College of Pictou, then one of the best Institutions 
of higher education in Nova Scotia, and under the 
principalship of the Rev. Dr. McCulloch. Here, while 
prosecuting the regular course of study, he made exten- 
sive collections in the natural history of his native pro- 
vince, thus early manifesting a taste for original scien- 
tific inquiry. While a mere schoolboy he made col- 
lections of Carboniferous plants from the beds of shale 
in his native place, and having procured a microscope, 
made drawings of hydroids, embryo mollusks and 
medusae from the waters of Pictou Harbor, which at a 
later period he used as illustrations for lectures. 

Having finished his course at Pictou, he entered the 
University of Edinburgh. After a winter’s study he 
returned to Nova Scotia, and devoted himself with 
ardor to geological research. He was the companion 
of Sir Charles Lyell during his tour in Nova Scotia, in 
1842, and followed up his researches by studies of the 
Carboniferous rocks of Nova Scotia, on which he con- 
tributed his two first published papers to the Geologi- 
cal Society of London. 

In the autumn of 1846 he returned to the University 
of Edinburgh, his special objects of study being now 
practical chemistry, microscopic examination of fossils, 
and other subjects, of which he had found the neces- 
sity in the original work in which he was engaged. On 
returning to Nova Scotia he pursued his geological 
inve.stigations with renewed energy. 

In 1847 he was united in marriage to Margaret A. Z. 
Mercer, youngest daughter of George Mercer, Esq., of 
Edinburgh— a lady who has been in all respects a 
helpmeet, and who, by her accomplishments, social 
qualities and high Christian character, has graced and 
dignified the public and private life of her husband in 
all the positions in which he has been placed. 

In 1850 he was appointed Superintendent of Educa- 
tion for Nova Scotia. This office he held for three 
years, and rendered valuable service to that province at 
a time of special interest in the history of its schools 
and educational institutions. He also took an active 
part in the establishment of a Normal school in Nova 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



247 



Scotia, and in the regulation of the affairs of the Uni- 
versity of New Brunswick, as a member of the com- 
mission appointed by Sir Edmund Head, then Governor 
of the Province, for that purpose. In connection with 
these educational labors he published several elaborate 
reports on the schools of Nova Scotia, and a work on 
Agricultural Education entitled “ Scientific Contribu- 
tions toward the Improvement of Agriculture,” which 
went through two editions, and was of much practical 
utility. 

In 1855 he was invited at the instance of Sir Edmund 
Head, who had become Governor General of Canada, 
to the position which he has recently resigned, that of 
Principal and Professor of Natural History in McGill 
College and University, which, situated in Montreal, 
the commercial capital of Canada, draws its students 
from all parts of the Dominion. The University has 
prospered under his management beyond the most san- 
guine expectations of its friends and promoters. 

The raising of McGill College to its present position 
would have been work enough in itself for these years, 
but in addition to this Dr. Dawson has had under his 
care the Protestant Normal School. From his position 
there, he has had much to do with the moulding and 
controlling of the school system of the country. After 
many years faithful work, he withdrew (in 1870) from 
the active duties of the Normal School, retaining, how- 
ever, a connection with it as Chairman of its Committee 
of Management. 

His special work in connection with the University 
and the Normal School took up much of that time 
which would have otherwise been devoted to original 
investigations in his favorite science, but he has not- 
withstanding these engagements contributed a large 
number of original papers to the Geological Society of 
London, the Natural History Society of Montreal, the 
Royal Society of London, and the Royal Society of 
Canada. 

A review of his more important scientific labors will 
show us how much may be done even in the midst of 
engrossing educational occupations. As early as 1830 
Dr. Dawson began to make collections of the fossil 
plants of the Nova Scotia coal formation. In 1841 he 
contributed to the Wernerian Society of Edinburgh his 
first scientific paper, on the species of field-mice found 
in Nova Scotia. In 1843 he communicated a paper on 
the rocks of Eastern Nova Scotia to the Geological 
Society of London ; this was followed in 1844 by a 
paper on the newer coal formation. In i 845 > besides 
exploring and reporting on the iron mines of London- 
derry, N.S., he published a paper on the coal formation 
plants of that province. 

During the winter of i846-’47, while studying in 
Edinburgh, he contributed to the Royal Society of that 
city, papers on the Formation of Gypsum " and on 
the Boulder Formation,’^ and an article to Jameson’s 
Edinburgh Philosophical JournaL on the “ Renewal of 
Forests destroyed by Fire.” The facts einbodied in the 
. last were subsequently employed by him in combating 
the exaggerated periods of time assigned to such 
.. changes by European geologists. 

From 1847 to 1849 we find him, with the same never- 



flagging zeal, pursuing his geological researches, and 
giving the results to the world in frequent papers. The 
most important of these are : i. “ On the Triassic Red 
Sandstones of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island ; ” 

2. ** On the Coloring Matters of Red Sandstones ; ” 3. 

“ On Erect Calamites found near Pictou ; ” 4 * ‘‘Qn the 
Metamorphic Rocks of Nova Scotia.” He also pub- 
lished his ‘‘ Handbook of the Geography and ..Natural 
History of Nova Scotia,” and delivered courses of lec- 
tures on Natural History and Geology in the Pictou 
Academy and in Dalhousie College, Halifax, and 
reported to the Nova Scotia Government on the coal- 
fields of Southern Cape Breton. 

In 1852, in company with Sir Charles Lycll, he made 
a re-examination of the Joggins section, and visited the 
remarkable deposit of Albertite at Hillsborough, New 
Brunswick. A memoir soon appeared on the former 
district, giving a more full exposition than any previous 
one of the structure and mode of formation of a coal- 
field. The Albert Mine was also made the subject of 
a paper. In the further study of the Joggins section, 
microscopic examinations were made of coal from all its 
beds, as well as of coal from other sources, the results 
being published in papers on the Structures in Coal ” 
and on the Mode of Accumulation of Coal.’’ 

It was during the visit to the Joggins, just referred 
to, that the remains of Dendrerpeton Acadianum and 
Pupa vet list a were found. With the exception of 
Baphetes planicepSj which Dr. Dawson had discovered 
in the year previous at Pictou, but had not described, 
Dandrerpeton Acadianum was the first reptile found in 
the coal formation of America ; Pupa vetusta was the 
first known Palaeozoic land snail. These discoveries 
were followed by the finding and describing of several 
other reptiles, and of the first carboniferous millipede 
{Xylobius sigillarm) , About this time, also, a second 
report on the Acadia Iron Mine Was prepared, and an 
elaborate series of assays of coal made for the General 
Mining Association. 

In 185s he published the first edition of his ‘‘ Aca- 
dian Geology,” a complete account, up to that date, of 
the geology of the Maritime Provinces of British 
North America. In 1856, though now trammelled by 
the arduous duties incumbent upon the principal of a 
University, he still continued his geological work in 
his native province, and prepared a description of the 
Silurian and Devonian rocks. During the same sum- 
mer he visited Lake Superior, and wrote a paper and 
report on the copper regions of Maimanse and Georgian 
Bay, in which he discussed the geological relations of 
the then little known copper-bearing rocks of the North 
Shore of Lake Superior and the origin of the deposits 
of native copper. 

In the two following years he made a number of con- 
tributions to the Canadian Naturalist and the Jomnal 
I of the Geological Society, and commenced the study of 
the Post-pliocene deposits of Canada. In 1859 his 

Archaia,” or studies of creation in Genesis, appeared, 
a work showing not only a thorough knowledge of 
Natural History, but also considerable familiarity with 
the Hebrew language and with biblical literature. 

In i860 Dr. Dawson issued a supplementary chapter 



248 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



to his “ Acadian Geology.” He also continued his 
work in fossil botany and in the Post-pliocene, 
publishing several papers on these subjects, as well as 
desultory researches on such subjects as the “ Flora of 
Mount Washington,” “ Indian Antiquities at Mon- 
treal,” “ Marine Animalsof the St- Lawrence,” ‘‘ Earth- 
quakes in Canada,” ‘‘ Classification of Animals,” etc. 

In 1863 he issued his “ Air-Breathers of the Coal 
Period,” a complete account of the fossil reptiles and 
other land animals of the coal of Nova Scotia. This 
publication was followed, in 1864, by a ‘‘ Hand-book 
of Scientific Agriculture.” It was in 1864, moreover, 
that Dr. Dawson made what may be considered as one 
of the most important of his scientific discoveries — 
that of Eozoon Canadense. This fossil had already 
bwn noticed by Sir William Logan, but Dr. Dawson, 
to whom Sir William submitted his .specimens, was the 
first to recognize its Foraminiferal affinities, and to 
describe its structure. Previous to this the rocks of 
the Laurentian age were looked upon as devoid of 
animal remains, and called “Azoic.”? Dr. Dawson now 
substituted the term “ Eozoic.” 

In 1865 Dr. Dawson, at the meeting of the British 
Association at Birmingham, gave illustrations of his 
researches on the “Succession of Paleozoic Floras,” 
the “ Post-pliocene of Canada,” and the ” Structure of 
Eozoon.” 

In 1868 appeared the second edition of “ Acadian 
Geology,” enlarged to nearly 700 octavo pages, with 
a great number of illustrations from the author’s draw- 
ings, and which still remains the standard work on 
the geology of the Maritime Province.s, while it also 
treats of many of the more difficult problems of general 
geology. 

While in England, in 1870, Dr. Dawson lectured at 
the Royal Institution. He also read a paper on the 
“ Affinities of Coal Plants ” before the Geological 
Society, and one on the “ Devonian Flora ” before the 
Royal Society. The same year his “ Handbook of 
Canadian Zoology ” appeared, being followed in 1871 
by a “ Report on the Silurian and Devonian Flora of 
Canada, and a “ Report on the Geological Structure 
of Prince Edward Island,” in which he was ably 
agisted by Dr. Harrington. His studies of the Devo- 
nian plants were begun as early as 1858, and Gaspe, 
St. John’s, and Perry in Maine, were twice visited in 
order to collect material to aid in their prosecution. 

His “ Notes on the Post-pliocene of Canada ” were 
published in 1873. From them we learn that the 
number of known species of Post-pliocene fossils had 
been raised, principally by his labors, from about 
thirty to over two hundred. We also find that Dr. 
Dawson is still what he has always been, a staunch 
opponent to the theory of general land glaciation 
“The Story of the Earth and Man,” issued in 1873,' 
was a republication of papers published in the Le/surg 
Hour in 1871 and 1872. It gives a popular view of 
the whole of the Geological ages, presented in a series 
of word-pictures, and with discussions of the theories 
as to the origin of mountains, the introduction and 
succession of life, the glacial period and other contro- 
verted topics, A report on the ” Fossil Flora of the 



Lower Carboniferous Coal Measures of Canada,” and 
communications to the Geological Society of London, 
on the probable Permian age of beds overlying the 
coal-measures of Nova Scotia, and also occurring in 
Prince Edward Island ; on recent facts as to the mode 
of occurrence of Eozoon in the Laurentian rocks, and 
on the Phosphates in the Laurentian rocks, are, still 
more recent labors. A course of six lectures delivered 
in New York in the winter of 1874-75 has been largely 
circulated both in America and England, under the 
title “ Science and the Bible ; ” and in 1875 there also 
appeared in London and New York a popular illus- 
trated resume of the facts relating to Eozoon and other 
ancient fossils, entitled “ The Dawn of Life.” In 
1882, an elaborate paper on the ‘‘ Results of Recent Ex- 
plorations of Erect Trees containing Animal Remains'* 
appeared in the Transactions of the Royal Society of 
London, with 9 plates. It was the completion of the 
work of years in exhuming and studying the remains 
contained in the erect Sigillariae of the Nova Scotia 
coal fonnations. At the Detroit meeting of the Amer- 
ican Association, Prof Dawson, as Vice-President of 
Section B, delivered an address, in which he vigorously 
combated the doctrine of evolution as held by its more 
extreme supporters. 

Dr. Dawson was elected a Fellow of the Geological 
Society of London in 1854, and of the Royal Society in 
1862. He is a Master of Arts of Edinburgh, and 
Doctor of Laws of McGill ; and is an Honorary Fellow 
of the Edinburgh Geological Society, an Honorar}^ 
Member of the Philosophical Societ}" of Glasgow, of 
the Academy of Sciences of New York, of the Liver- 
pool Literary and Philosophical Society, of the Philo- 
sophical Society of Le^ds, of the Philosophical Society 
of Princeton, of the Boston Society of Natural His- 
tory, and of the Maryland Academy ; and is a Fellow- 
or Corresponding Member of several other Scientific 
societies in various parts of the world. 

In 1883, he read before the Royal Society of Canada 
a memoir on the Cretaceous Floras of the N. W. Territo- 
ries, which was published with seven quarto plates in 
its Transactions, and a continuation with four plates 
appears in the volume of the Transactions, now in the 
press, followed by several papers in continuation in 
the same Transactions. 

In 1882, he received the Lyell medal of the Geo- 
logical Society of London, an honor doubly grateful 
to him as bearing the name of his early patron and 
friend. 

In the same year he was selected by the Marquis of 
Lome, Governor General of Canada, to organize the 
Royal Society of Canada and to be its first President, 
and in this capacity he had to gather around the 
Society in friendly and united action the leading 
scientific and literary men of the different provinces of 
the Dominion and of the English and French nation- 
lities. In this his extensive personal acquaintance 
with the prominent men of all parts of the Dominion 
gave him great advantages ; and the undertaking was 
successfully accomplished and the Society has so far been 
vigorous and harmonious, and its work and publications 
have been creditable to Canada. It was after the or^ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



249 



ganization of the Royal Society that, at the recom- 
mendation of the Governor General, he was created C. 

M. G. 

In 1882, he was the President of the American Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science, which includes 
the scientific men of Canada as well as of the United 
States among its members and officers ; and in his 
address as retiring President at the Minneapolis meet- 
ing took up and discussed with much vigor and 
originality the subject of Unsolved Problems in 
Geology. 

In the early part of 1883 he made a hasty tour along 
the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway as far as the 
Rocky Mountains, and published his geological ob- 
servations in the Journal of the Geological Society, in 
advance of the expected meeting of the British Asso- 
ciation in Montreal. In the autumn of the same year, 
he attended the meeting of the British Association at 
Southport, and with Sir Charles Tupper represented 
Canada in the invitation then formally accepted by 
the Association. At the meeting and subsequently in 
the council meetings in Toronto, he took an active 
part in promoting the arrangements for the meeting, 
and in meeting the various difficulties which neces- 
sarily arose in connection with the new departure. In 
the winter of 1883-84, he travelled in Egypt and the 
East, and returned with stories of facts respecting the 
geology of these countries, some portions of which he 
has already published in the Geological Magazine, 
the Transactions of the Victoria Institute and his little 
book on the relations of the Physical Geography of 
Egypt and Syria to Bible History, more fully pub 
isbed in 1888, in a volume entitled “ Modern Science 
in Bible Lands.” In the spring of 1884, he was pre 
sent at the Tercentenary of the University of Edinburgh, 
and receiffed the degree of LL.D. from his Alma 
Mater. In the autumn of the same year, on occasion 
of the meeting of the British Association in Montreal, 
he received the honor of knighthood. 

In 1886, Sir William was President of the British 
Association at its meeting in Birmingham, England, 
taking for the subject of his Presidential Address, 
“The Geological History of the North Atlantic.” 

From 1886 to 1892 Sir William, feeling the approach 
of age and infirmity, and that not many years of 
activity remained, was much occupied with efforts to 
bring to successful completion various enterprises 
connected with the University, so as to be able to have 
it in as complete a condition as possible, and in pre 
paring for the press his works, “ Salient Points in the 
Science of the Earth ” and the “ Canadian Ice-Age,” 
—both intended to sum up his labors in different 
directions. 

In the midst of these efforts— too great, perhaps, for 
his remaining strength, and impeded by several 
unforeseen delays and accidents— he was stricken 
down by an attack of pneumonia, on recovery from 
which it became necessary practically to relinquish all 
his educational engagements. Should he be granted a 
few more years of life, he hopes to devote these mainly 
to scientiftc and Christian work;. 



The following are the more important popular works 
of which Sir William Dawson is the author, and many 
of which have gone into several editions : — 

Acadian Geology, pp. 694, and Appendix, 100, 8vo. 
The Origin of the World, pp. 452. 

The Story of the Earth, pp. 408. 

Fossil Men, pp. 354. 

The Chain of Life in Geological Time, pp. 274. 

Life’s Dawn on Earth, pp. 239. 

Nature and the Bible, pp. 256. 

Facts and Fancies in Science, pp. 238. 

Modern Science in Bible Lands, pp. 606. 

The Geological History of Plants, pp. 220. 

Some Salient Points in the Science of the Earth, 
London, 1893, pp. 499 - 

The Canadian Ice Age, 1844, Montreal, pp. 300 - 
In colonial communities, men are often called on to 
play many parts, and this has given a varied character 
to the pursuits of the object of this sketch. His early 
researches prosecuted in the Carboniferous districts of 
Nova Scotia naturally led him to the study of fossil 
plants and of- the land animals associated with him, 
and to these pursuits he has always returned whenever 
possible throughout his life. He used his position as 
Superintendent of Education, in which capacity he had 
to visit nearly every part of his native province, to for- 
ward his geological pursuits; and when he transferred 
his residence to Montreal, the necessities of a geologi- 
cal teacher in the midst of Silurian and Laurentian 
districts obliged him to attend to those formations. 
At the same time, the interesting Pleistocene formations 
of the St. Lawrence Valley attracted his attention in 
connection with early studies of the marine animals of 
the St. Lawrence, many of which he had collected and 
studied miscrospically almost in his boyhood, and 
when little attention was given to such pursuits in 
educational institutions. Still later his studies of 
fossil plants have been extended into the valuable 
material collected in the Cretaceous rocks of the West- 
tern Territories, more especially by his son, Dr. George 
M. Dawson. With all this he has been an educational 
administrator, a teacher, a popular lecturer and writer, 
and a worker in religious and benevolent enterprises. 

It may truly be said of Sir William Dawson, “ nihil 
leligit qtiod non ornavit^' and of those who have been 
associated with him, and of the hundreds of students 
during his 38 years connection with McGill College, it 
may be recorded : 

None kneu) him but to love him^ 

None name him but to praise I' 



SAXON WORDS.’ 

Old Saxon words, old Saxon words, your spells are round us 
thrown ; 

Ye haunt our daily paths and dreams with a music all your 
own ; 

Each one in its own power a host to fond remembrance brings 
The earliest, brightest aspect back of life’s familiar things. 



♦ Most of our domestic words — words expressive of objects which daily attract 

our attention are from the Saxon. Of the sixty-nine words which comprise 

the Lord's Prayer, only five arc not Sa^on, 



250 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Yours are the hills^ the fields^ the woods, the orchards and the 
streams, 

The meadows and the bowers that bask in the jsun’s rejoicing 
beams ; 

Mid them our childhood’s years were kept, our childhood’s 
thoughts were rear’d, 

And by your household tones its joys were evermore endear’d. 

We have roamed since then where the myrtle bloom’d in its 
own unclouded realms, 

But our hearts return with changeless love to the brave old 
Saxon elms ; 

Where the laurel o’er its native streams of a deathless glory 
spoke, 

But we passed with pride to the later fame of the sturdy Saxon 
oak. 

We have marvelled at those mighty piles on the old Egyptian 
plains, 

And our souls have thrilled to the loveliness of the lovely 
Grecian fanes ; 

We have lingered o’er the wreck of Rome, with its classic 
memories crown’d. 

But these touched us not as the mouldering walls with the 
Saxon ivy bound. 

Old Saxon words, old Saxon words ! they bear us back with 
pride 

To the days when Alfred ruled the laud by the laws of Him that 
died ; 

When in our spirit, truly good and truly great, was showm 

What earth has owed, and still must owe, to such as him alone. 

There are tongues of other lands that flow with a softer, smooth- 
er grace. 

But the old rough Saxon words will keep in our hearts their 
own true place ; 

Our household hearths, our household graves, our household 
smiles and tears 

Are guarded, hallowed, shrined by them— the kind, fast friends 
of years. 

Old Saxon words, old Saxon words, your spells are round u 
thrown ; 

Ye haunt our daily^paths and dreams with a music all your own ; 

Each one, in its owm powder a host, to fond remembrance brings 

The earliest, brightest aspect back of life’s familiar things. 



TO “A SWEET GIRE GRADUATE.” 

Maiden Academic, 

With a gown severe. 

Could I ever venture 
To adore you, dear. 

Ah ! I am astonished. 

What do I see there ? 

Surely ’tis a rosebud 
In your raven hair. 

So, my learned lady, 

You can love a rose 

Just as w'ell and truly 
As your Latin prose* 

Heart of Aphrodite, 

With[Athene’s brow’, 

You can love the rose, 

I can \o\^ you now’. 

L. McMillan, 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



To the Editors of the McGiLL FORTNIGHTLY. 

The Committee acting as judges of the five stories 
written in competition for the prizes offered by the 
McGill Fortnightly report that, in their opinion, 
the tale entitled A Camp Story of the Neiu Brunswick 
Lumber Woods is superior to the others, 'and recommend 
that its writer receive a prize of ten dollars. 

CHAS. E. MOYSE. 
JOHN COX. 

J. G. ADAMI. 

Montreal, January 27, 1894. 



law dinner. 

Anyone who happened to be loafing in the Rotunda 
of the Windsor at 7.30 p.m. on Monday last might well 
have wondered what caused the assemblage of so many 
good-looking young men arrayed in evening attire, who 
were on view at that time ; however, his amazement at 
such a galaxy of male beauty would have ceased when 
he was informed that these were the Students in the 
Faculty of Law, a most exceedingly studious and mo- 
dest body of men, who had temporarily wrenched their 
minds away from Roman Law and Civil Procedure, and 
having also banished all thought of Court Records and 
Plumitiffs had met to celebrate their annual banquet. 
Yes, strange as the metamorphosis may seem, these were 
the same men who may be seen any time soon after the 
late dawn of a winter’s morning hastening to lectures 
with a hungry look in their eyes, as of those seeking 
for information, and with the thirst for knowledge and 
other things which characterizes the law student. 

It must have been of these men whoni^haucer was 
thinking when he says of his clerk of Oxford : 

For him was levere have at his beddes heed 
“ Twenty bokes clad in blak or reed 
“ Of Aristotle and his philosophye 
“ Than robes riche, or fithele or gay santrye.” 

However, as the worthy old poet himself loved good 
and pleasant society and to sit at the festive board, for, 
as he himself tells us, “his abstinence was little,” he 
would probably have smiled graciously, could he have 
beheld the descendants of his prototype seated around 
the tastily decorated tables in the Windsor, enjoying 
the delicacies which the menu set forth, while a glance 
at the head table occupied by' two judges, the Dean and 
Prof. McGoun, to say tiothing of the awe-inspiring 
dignity of the chairman, would have assured Mr, Chau- 
cer that the younger men were being brought up in 
the way they should go. 

It is generally supposed that the law student is too 
busy to eat, and this may account for the silence which 
prevailed over the first part of the evening, broken 
only by some mysterious sound like “ tclop,” which 
examination proved to be the result produced l)y the 
combination of a waiter, peculiar shaped glass affairs 
and funny-looking instruments of Iwi.sted steel which 
none of us had ever seen before. 



McGill fortnightly, 



251 



Here and there scattered among the students were 
seen others older in years if not in looks, who seemed 
less startled by the mysterious sounds just referred to ; 
these vvere they who were not lost but gone before 
McGill graduates, already admitted to the bar. 

A further inspection would have revealed three people 
at that dinner who looked just a trifle worried and 
anxious, although they boated an extra decoration of 
McGill ribbon : the haggard faces belonged to the com- 
mittee, for in spite of their efforts, fate seemed against 
them. 

In the first place, and speaking seriously, they in 
common with all the McGill Students felt the universal 
sorrow at the death of one of our Alma Mater’s greatest 
friends, and, had circumstances permitted it, would 
have postponed the dinner to a future occasion ; again, 
the sad news that the brother of one of our most es’ 
teemed professors. Judge Doherty, had that day been 
taken from him, cast an additional shade over the 
evening. Various other causes, business and illness, 
prevented some of our other professors from being with 
us, and deep regret was felt when the Secretary an- 
nounced that Mr. W. C. Macdonald would be unable to 
be present on that evening. However, his absence did 
not cause forgetfulness, and no more ringing cheers 
were given during the evening than those which 
accompanied the toast of our benefactor, and the ap- 
plause which followed Dean Trenholm’s suggestion of 
naming the Faculty the W. C. MacDonald School of 
Law showed that our students^are not wanting in 
gratitude. 

After the toast to the Queen had been honored, Mr. 
Patterson, ’95, proposed the Alma Mater, which was 
received in a way that students alone can receive such 
a toast. Mr. Topp very kindly consented to reply in the 
absence of the acting principal, and although called on 
without warning, did full justice to his subject. 

It did not take Mr. Walsh, ’94, long to set the assem- 
blage laughing heartily over his well worded and 
witty speech in proposing the health of the Dean and 
Professors,*’ and at his excellent advice for the guidance 
of themselves • and their future successors among the 
Undergrads. The reception which the Dean received 
on arising to reply must have showed him that, 
although we may be troublesome sometimes, and occa- 
sionally disturb a lecture by coming in late and want- 
ing to leave early, he nevertheless holds a big place in 
our hearts and receives the respect which his many 
good qualities call for. Opening with a simple yet touch- 
ing reference to the late Mr. Redpath, he regretted that 
the students and professors had not thought of uniting 
in offering him some visible sign of their deep apprecia- 
tion of his generosity, and thisjed him to speak of our 
own benefactor, and he [then previewed briefly the his- 
tory of the Faculty. 

Prof. McGoun followed him as counsel for the de- 
fence,” and fully justified the expectations formed of a 
good speech. 

Mr. Mullin, *96, proposed the Bench and Bar, and 
when the toast had been duly honored, Mr. Justice 
Davidson made a splendid speech in reply, and Messrs. 
Martin, Greenshields and Hibbard then spoke for the 



bar. When Judge Jett^ arose to reply to Mr. Sheridan’s 
well worded proposal of Laval University, the “ boys ” 
did their level best to express in a quiet way their de- 
light at having the Dean of the Faculty of Law in 
Laval in their midst, and the three rousing cheers 
which followed his reply showed clearly how strong 
the feeling of good-fellowship between the two Facul- 
ties is. 

The two Laval representatives, Messrs. Mondou and 
Beaubien, spoke on behalf of the students. 

The toast of ‘‘Sister Faculties” called for answers 
from Messrs. Bond of Arts, Wolf of Medicine, and Duff 
of Applied Science. 

In Mr. White’s absence, the chairman called on Mr. 
Doucet to propose the Graduating Class, and brief 
speech and touching allusion to the illustrious Pothier 
was supplemented by a few remarks from Mr. V. E. 
Mitchell. 

Mr. A. G. Jones thoroughly deserved the many con- 
gratulations since proffered him on the manner in 
which he upheld the year of “ninety-four,” and he 
may lay claim to having made the undergraduate 
speech of the evening. Peal after peal of laughter fol- 
lowed the many modest claims of virtue and general 
excellence which he made on behalf of his year, and 
when he wittily exonerated his year from any blemish 
in himself or his appearance, the Ladies Ordinary fairly 
rang with applause. 

However, as he said, the “hour was getting late,” 
and the guests withdrew, and after a waltz, cotillion 
and a fancy dance from Mr. Beaubien, the somewhat 
sleepy porters were kept busy handing out overcoats 
and caps, and the Committee, looking now relieved and 
happy, were congratulating themselves that it was 
“ not so bad after all.” 

The Committee was composed of : 

Mr. G. W. MacDougall, B. A., ’94, 

J. H. Dunlop, ’94. 

“ S. Carmichael, B.A., ’95. 

“ V. Evelyn Mitchell, ’96. 



SOCIETIES. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday afternoon, February ist. After the discus- 
sion of business matters, one or two items of interest to 
the Society were announced. 

Owing to the unforeseen and unavoidable absence of 
members from the meeting. Miss Jackson and Miss 
Craig, on very short notice, consented to read essays. 
Miss Jackson chose as subject : Analogies between 

Tennyson’s In Memoriam and the Bible ; while Miss 
Craig read an essay on Sympathy, wEich, if strictly 
philosophical, was no less interesting. 

There was a new departure in the method of hand- 
ling the impromptu debate that followed, half the mem- 
bers ranging themselves on one side, and the remain- 
der on the other. The subject : Pursuit is more pro- 



252B 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



side was upheld in a very able manner by Messrs. J- 
C. Stuart, R. H. Rogers and Graham '96, while the 
negative side was maintained just as ably by Messrs. 
McNaughton ’95, Mallinson ’97, and McBean, Science 
*96. The debate was interesting throughout, and so 
closely contested that the decision was given in favor 
of the affirmative side by a majority of only one. 

Mr. Ireland gave a witty and helpful criticism of the 
proceedings and speeches. The men would do well 
to remember some of the suggestions he made. The 
Society adjourned for two weeks. 



WHAT? WHERE? WHEN? 



Note.— I tems for 
Saturday. 



this column must be in the hands of the Editor by 7 . JO p.m. on 

Friday, Feb- i6th. 



Arts Couversazione- Wm. Molson Hall. 8 p.ui. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5 05 p.m. 
Wesleyan Literary Prayer Meeting. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m. 

Saturday, Feb. 17TH. 



Y. M. C. A. Bible Class, ist and 2nd years Arts, 11.30 a.m. 
Sunday, Feb. i8th. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 2 p.m. 



Wednesday, Feb. 21ST. 



Y. W. C. A. 

On Friday, Feb. 9th, after the usual devotional 
exercises, the question as to the advisability of sending 
a delegate to the Convention to be held at Detroit on 
Feb. 28th was discussed. The wish to send a repre- 
sentative was almost unanimous, but the lack of funds 
was felt to be a serious consideration. 

It was decided to try what could be done in the way 
of raising the necessary money by a special effort, 
report to be made to a secretary-treasurer {pro tern.') 
on Monday. 

$15.00 have been collected, and there is every reason 
to believe that the remainder will be handed in in the 
course of a day or two. 

A special meeting will be held immediately for 
the purpose of choosing someone to represent the 
Y.W.C.A. of McGill at Detroit. 

It is the hope of the Society that the one elected will 
see her way clear to give up the time that the accept- 
ance of such a trust would entail. 



THE MISSION BAND. 

The annual meeting of the Mission Band was held 
on Tuesday evening, 6th inst., in Arts class room No. i- 
The President, R. O. Ross, B.A., read the report of the 
Executive Committee, which showed that fairly satis- 
factory progress had been made during the past year. 
Some members of the Band had finished their collegiate 
course during the year, and were already engaged in 
foreign mission work in various parts of the heathen 
world ; but their places in the Band were taken by 
others who had decided to serve the Master in these 
neglected parts of His vine}'ard. A number of meet- 
ings had been held for Bible study, and for the reading 
of papers on appropriate subjects. Some of these meet- 
ings deserved a larger attendance, but, considering the 
many demands made on a student’s time, the complaint 
could not be pressed too strongly. 

After some discussion as to the future working of the 
Band, the following officers were elected for the ensuing 
year : — 

Pres., P. Leslie, Med. *95; Vice- Pres., Mr. Mallinson 
Arts ’97; Rec. Sec., Mr. Boyce, Theol. Wesleyan Col- 
lege; Cor. Sec., A. Mahaffy, Theol. Presby. Coll. 



Hockey Match. Maple vs. McGill, Victoria Riuk. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class. Science, 5 p m. 

Veterinary Med. Society. 6 Union Ave., 8 p m. 

Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

Thursday, Feb. 22nd. 

Delta Sigma Society. East Wing, 4 p.m. 

Friday, Feb. 23RD. 

Y. W. C. A. Prayer Meeting. East Wing, 5.05 p.m. 
Wesleyan Literary Society. Ferrier Hall, 7 p.m- 
Y. M. C. A. Prayer Meeting. Arts Building, 7.15 p.m. 
Undergraduates Literary Society. Arts Building, 8 p.m. 
Students’ Meeting Can. Soc. C E-, 8 p.m. 

Saturday, Feb. 24TH. 

Y..M. C. A. Bible Class, ist and 2nd )*ears Arts, u.30 a.m. 
Editorial Board. Fraser Institute, 7.30 p.m. 

Medical Society. Medical Building, 8 p.m. 

Sunday, Feb. 25TH. 

Y. M. C. A. Meeting. City Association Building, 2 p.m. 
Wednesday, Feb. 28th. 

App. Sci. Glee Club. Engineering Building, 5 p.m. 

Y. M. C. A. Bible Class . 2 Science, 5 p.m. 

Classical Club. East Wing, 8 p m. 

Thursday, March ist. 

McGill Mining Society. Old Science Building, 7.30 p.m. 
Delta Sigma Society, 4 p m. 



CLASS REPORTS. 

MEDICAI. CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. C. G. L. Wolf, B.A., represented this Faculty at 
the Law Dinner held on the 5th inst. 

Jokes are rather infrequent this time of year. The 
cerebral cells seem to be suffering from atrophy due to 
over-use. Is this the reason, or can it be that some of 
our class reporters have been lust in the recent snow- 
storm ? 



Mr. F. B. Carron, of the Third Year, who has been 
seriously ill, is now out of danger and rapidly improv- 
ing. 



The walking record from the R.V.H. to the M.G.H. 
is 16' 46^". 



Facial paralysis is epidemic in the Fourth Year. 
Cause— posing at Walford’s. Shall we know each 
other there? 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



A new remedy in Phtheiriasis is rubbing lysol over 
the affected part ! 



Dr. Mortimer Haight, Class of ’93, has taken unto 
himself a helpmeet. He has a lucrative pract ice at 
New Durham, Out. 



Mr. William Oliver, B.A., has been elected Faculty 
Editor of the Fortnightly for next session. Mr. A. 
F. Edwards represents us on the Business Board. 



Sam. Stingy {meeting physician of his acquaintance) 
“ Say, Doctor, what would you do for a bad cold ? ” 
Doctor. — “ Sir, I would consult some reputable phy- 
sician.” 

S. S. — “ I suppose. Doctor, you couldn’t tell me 
where to find one, could you ? ” 



Dr. Aylen of the M. G. H., we regret to say, is ailin’ 
with an attack of Scarlet Fever. It is to be hoped that 
he will soon be restored to health and strength. 

The Meds. have elected Arthur Gun, ’95, to represent 
them at the great Missionary Convention, Detroit, Feb. 
28 to March 4. 

It took about i minute to reach this conclusion, and 
another three to raise more than enough for expenses. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

At a meeting of the subscribers of the Fort- 
nightly in this Faculty, held on the 8th inst, Mr. 
C. H. Zink, jun., was elected as representative on the 
Editorial Board, and by a large majority it was decided 
to retain Mr. J. C. Cutting on the Business Board. 

Dr. Plaskett’s paper read before the Veterinary 
Medical Association brought forth considerable dis- 
cussion among the members. The concensus of 
opinion among the final men is that he was mistaken 
in his diagnosis. It is to be regretted that he was 
unable to hold a post mortem. 

Dr. A. W. Tracy, class of ’93, was a recent visitor at 
the College. 

Now that the ice races are over, Harry intends to 
work, — at least so he says. 

Wanted : — Two young men from the First Year. 
Apply to Mr. Kee, Chinese Laundry, Dorchester street. 

One of the boys advises the reporter not to wear his 
College colors in such an inconspicuous place as he did 
the other evening. 

Mr. E. J. Cary represented this Faculty at the Law 
Dinner. 

The Veterinary Medical Association have postponed 
their meetings to allow the members to attend the 
Somerville course. 

No one appeared to enjoy the meeting on Thursday 
night more than the two “chappies” in the back 
seat. 



252c 



ARTS NOTES. 

The Students in the Academical department feel in 
an especial manner the loss McGill has experienced in 
the death of the late Mr. Peter Redpath, since his 
magnificent bequests have been and are of special 
service to the Students in Arts. As a tribute of re- 
spect to his memory, the Arts’ Conversazione has been 
postponed until the i6th inst. 

We are pleased to see that Mr. Lambly, president of 
the Literary Society, who has been ill for some time, 
is again able to attend lectures. 

The members of the Fourth Year are having the 
class photograph taken by Notman this year. 

It is well that our Latin should be kept up to date ; 
with that end in view, we may give the following 

Tti premis umboneni, cetera nos facimus. 

The Artsmen have elected Mr. Reginald H. Rogers 
to represent them upon the Editorial Board of the 
Fortnightly next session, while Mr. S. J. Archibald 
will be their representative on the Business Board. 

The debate between representatives of Knox College, 
Toronto, and of the Presbyterian College of this city, 
which took place in the David Morrice Hall on the 
2nd inst., proved to be a very interesting event. Mon- 
treal was again victorious. 

Mr. P. T. Lafleur, M.A., has consented to deliver a 
lecture to the members of the Literary Society at the 
last meeting of the Society for this session. 

A Convocation without a Valedictory will be quite 
a change. We must have something ; probably Sir 
Donald will ask some Senior ‘ ‘ to pronounce the bene- 
diction.” 

It is too bad that the Normal School is so far from the 
University. The distance, doubtless, prevents many 
from attending the very interesting and instructive 
courses of lectures in Pedagogy which are being deliv- 
ered by Dr. Robins. 

Scores of men, young and old, were disappointed to 
learn the other day, through the daily press, that the 
University extension course of lectures to be delivered 
by Professor Cox, under the auspices of the city Y. M. 
C. A ., had been indefinitely postponed. 

The meetings which are being held in the city by 
Mr. Mills and his helpers are attracting a large num- 
ber of students. It is encouraging to see so many 
Partials taking such a deep interest in the meetings, 
but we are afraid that many of them attend from 
motives not wholly disinterested ; many seem to consider 
that the meetings constitute an excellent course in 
Homiletics, and act accordingly. From the number of 
pencils and note-books to be seen in the front seats, we 
are led to hope that though we may not be able to 
attend the meetings regularly ourselves, we will a 
some future time get all Mr. Mills’ ideas improved. 



2S2D 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The row that is raised by a few thoughtless students 
ill the hall of the Arts building, when the bell is rung 
for morning prayers, is a disgrace to the Students in 
Arts and Applied Science. It is to be hoped that the 
better-thinking students will show theii disapproval 
so emphatically that the caddish and cowardly uproar 
may never occur again. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

We are glad that Professor Cox is able to be with us. 
once more, and hope he will be quite well before long 
Speaking of college work, we are inclined to think 
that the ‘‘centre of pressure’* is found in his course; 
just about Yz down. 



The reading-room in the Library, which has been 
given up to the exclusive use of the ladies, is at times 
so over crowded that some of them have been obliged 
to take seats in the general reading-room, to the satis- 
faction of those crowded out. 

The upper room, although so pleasant (and for the 
most part comfortable), has its draw-backs in being so 
far removed not only from the reference shelves, but 
from the library proper. While they were within easy 
reach of the books it was hardly realized how the read- 
ing of one book so often called for a reference to three 
or perhaps four others. The inspiration which the 
proximity of well-known books imparts is also lost to 
them. 



I It’s only a case of d.t., as one of our Profs, remarked 
the other day. 

(This is a .scientific joke.) 



Even the Faculty are beginning to notice that the 
St. Urbain st. Soph lays in a bountiful supply.” 



Surely the Second Year man who plays for bamannos 
was on a wild-goose chase. 



A snowball throwing competition is spoken of for 

’q 5. Odds are heavy on T m, who has lately spent 

much of his valuable time practising. 



Third Year student : — “ What is the use of all these 
complicated formulae ? ” 

Prof : — Oh ! no use in particular.” 



The Third Year have taken in hand the annual 
dinner to the Graduating Class. They hope to be 
well backed up by the other two years. 



Miss F. A. Botterell has been chosen to represent the 
Donaldas on the Editorial Board of the Fortnighti.y 
for the coming year, and Miss Hammond will represent 
the Business Board. We feel that the interests of this 
department will not be neglected with two suchenthu" 
siastic members to represent it. 



Ladies, I would like you to hand in your 
essays just as you write them— quite flat.*' 

Remark. — No essays have been given in yet. 



E always>arry her breakfast in her muff? 



Lecturer— There is a note-book found in the build- 
ing which I think belongs to one of the ladies. You 
can get it after the lecture.” 

Junior, examining the book— ‘‘ What miserable rub- 
bish is in this book. It must belong to some of the 

men.” Then suddenly : “ Why, its mi and goes 

off with the book, looking ver>^ uncomfortable. 



We trust that the ’95 miner will improve his “ last 
chance,” and ask with more caution the next time a 
Prof, excites his curiosity. 



Fair Visitor Is that the Editor ? Oh, do let us 
get away ; he might put something in the Fort- 
nightly about us.” 



Hydraulic s Problem : — 

If H be the handle. 

And S be the spout, 

Find out how fast 
The water comes out. 

N.B.— Extra marks for supplying data which are not 
given. 



Overheard on the Avenue : Donalda— “ I think I 
shall get married next summer, but in the meantime I 
must make some money.” The question of Women's 
eights is evidently assuming a new phase. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The Freshmen were photographed the other day. 
The two or three members of ’95 who were noticed in 
the background evidently wished to be seen in good 
company for once. ® 



An interesting paper on the “ Metamorphic Areas of 
Keewatin was read at the third Students Meeting of 
the Can. Soc. C_E., on Friday the 9th, by Mr. J. C. 
Gwilhm, 96. The meeting was well attended. Mr, 
Cunningham occupied the chair. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



253 




[ Now ready. February, 1894. 
Just received, first consignment of 



SPRINC SIJflNGS 



Including choicest qualilies and 
liilest r.owllies. Before our miliiary 
orders mor.op dize our lime we will 
be ghid to give our best attention to 
any of our })atrons requiring spring 
c'otliing, assuring them of perfect style, 
fit and finish 



Pric* s range from $15.00 to $25.00 



Have you seen our Blue Worsted 
Waterpoof Cloaks ? 

Made to order, only $15.00 each. 



At a meeting of the four years on Monday the 4th 
inst., Mr. W. A. DnflF, President of '94, was elected as 
representative to the Law Dinner. The good work 
which Mr. W. F. Angus has done on the Business 
Board of the Fortnightly was acknowledged by his 
re-election, while Mr. H. M. Jaquays, B.A., was chosen 
as the representative of Science on the Editofial Board 
for next year. 



Uealimg Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending theTurkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue, 



T. FITZPATRICK, 



.DENTIST. 



Gold CrouJn and Bridge u)ork a specially. 

54 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

Telephone 3755 , 



HELEN DRAKE, 



2407 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

JUST WEST OF PEEL ST. 

. . . IMPORTER OF 



I^Montreal. 



Novelties in Materials for Dresses 

Millinery, Mantles, Trimniings, XC- 

N.B.— Special selection of Novelties for Ball and Evening Dresses. 

DRESS MAKING A SPECIALTY. 

Latest Styles from LONDON, PAEIS and NEW YOEK. 

ESTIMATES GIVEN. 



A very fine upright piano is now on view in L. K* N. Pratte’s 
piano warerooms, No. 1676 Notre Dame street. The case is in 
Brazilian rosewood, natural color, and has been manufactured 
at L. E. N. Pratte’s factory. As to its musical qualities, it is 
only necessary to mention that it is an exact duplicate of the 
instrument sold and delivered last week to Prof. R. O. Pelle- 
tier, organist to St. Peter’s Cathedral, for his personal use as 
well as that of his advanced pupils. 



Sole Agent in Canada for . . 

F. I. L, CORSETS 

Highly recommended for Style, Comfort and Durability. Perfect Fit 
and Shape. 

JOHN MURPHY, 
PAINTER *"■> DECORATOR. 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 



F or Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

880 to 886 St. Paul Street, 



/Montreal 



254 



McGiLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS : ii a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.ni. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 

Indian >PeQ Depot 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

jj> ure Darieeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 Ib., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LeMESURIER 



5eo5on 1893-4 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 
complete 

> Special Discount to Students. 

Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. • . . . 





WM. FARQUHARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

INSPECTJON invited. 135 gt. Peter Street. 



W/A/OSO/? MARKET, 



established 1839 . 



Importers and 
Manufacturers of 



BROWN BROS. 

Fine Table Delicacies. 

The Ernporiiirri for Fine Meals, 

Cor. St. Catherine Street and WcCill College Avenue 
Telephone 4038. 



Call at the 



= HOLLY CIGAE STORE. 



and give us your custom for Imported and 

Domestic Cigars 

Speclames-College Cigars and Perique Mixture 



10 . OEUGPLOT S, CO., 



2397 

ST. CATHERINE STREET 



TO /limETES. 




Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 



REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 

Plicro. jlccessories 
Clinical TficrnioniBlcrs 
ttypodcrniiG Syrinps 
Laryngoscopic IHirrors 
OptiialmosGopas 
SleiliosGopGS 
Specula of all paltarns 
Skulls and Skelelons 
Jspiralors, fialleries 
Pocket Gases, etc., etc. 




STUDENTS’ OUTFIT^ A SPECIALTY 

QJE have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition i n our showrooms, 

15 PHILLIPS SQUARE ' 

at very reasonable prices. . ' ' 



PATERSON & FOSTER 

. WU r Off A « w* A 



^ • WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



255 




cor.Craio A Beaudry'Streets ■ 



THE SWIMMING BATH IS SO FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 76 degrees 

PRICES OP ADMISSION— Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 

Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR. KRUSE* Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



COLIN CAMPBELL. 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAYER HALE HILL, 

Fopmeply 76 Victopia Squape. 

Greenhouses at ROCKFIELD, Lachine. 



Tie COOK'S FRIE MD is relailei i ; all M Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. D. McLaren, 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



Largest Stock of PALMS and other DECORA TIFE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508 * 48 BEAVER HALL HI LL . 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 

2562 St. Catherine Street. 




SAMUEL S. GEANT, 

1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M. D 



SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, 



Kours 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 

Ht NRY GRANT k SON, "" street 



VIOE-EEGAL DEOOKATOKS AND ELOEISTS. 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5. Davidson &• Sons, 

Branch 174 St. James Rt. Conservatories Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL, 9324 and 1754. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

(Bn^ratjer, 

118 Mansfield Street, Catherine 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 



Q UT FLOWERS . . ^ 

JOS, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (CoR. PEED 

■ - — Tel. 4911. 



J. A. BAZIN. L.D.S.. 

DENTIST. 

MrnuroeAi 

49 UNION AVENUE. 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 



Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALIi SORTS AND SIZES. 

199 ST. AMTOINE ST. and 2647 ST. OATBEBINE ST. 





256 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



W. H. HOJE>E, 

Manufacturer of 
Importer of 

Steel Engraving’s, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

2253 & 2255 St. Catherine St., 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



Fa 



OUNTAIN MARKET 



. . Fis h, Gdm^ and O j^ sters. 



The GEORGE 5 ISHOP 

Engra ving and Printing Co. 

COLLEG E, CL UB A ND ^ 

S OCIETY PRISTIXO ^ 

169 St- Street 

The American Fur Store 

WHOLESALE Iftlamifaduring jfainier.s 

Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 

BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St , ^lircGni^Concg^^ A^c."^ 



programmes 

menus 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 



HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Cor. Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St. 



NOTICE— To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . . 

The members f*f this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6 ^ Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 



ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



Special Discounts to Students 

Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 

Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Kstalilislie il 18 5 9 * 

I?/. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McGILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE : UP TOWN STORE : 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P<?ns 




Diaries, Calendars, 

51unl< Books, Stationary. 



^ BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PEIOES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



257 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer Of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square aud Flat Pine, Hemlock, 'Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square White Oak always In Stock 
and Cut to Order. 






E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 STI?.EET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Maho^^any, Black 
Walnut, Cherry tjuartered and rialn Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hard\v«>ods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton's Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch’s Lives of Illustrious Men 3 vols., cloth 50 reduced from I5.00 

Lord Lytton’s Works 13 5.00 “1 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3.00 ** 4.00 

^akespeares Works 7 “ •' 7.50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 



JOHN PAXTON & CO. 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

* AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

Ihctiil and #rarcl |loofinig 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 

Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

LEATHER BELTING 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

WIGHTON. miSOII k CO. 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal. 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMvSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAL. 

(Or. <Sc J“. 

Box IVf Ctrl. Ufa. ct Uriel's 

AND 

Offico, 12B DUko Streot. Mor^treal. 



MOSES PARKER, 

IRON ROUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalbousie St-, 
DVCOIT'X'K/E.A.Xj. 

ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 

All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 

SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., DUNCAN ROBERTSON 

TORONTO. 3IONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 

LUBRICATING :OILS U^LUMINATING 

(1/i Gold Medals In 6 years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

Bell Telephone 9190 . 92 McGill St., PVIoiltreal. 

GEO. S. KIMBER, 

K, IH Ai nm PAINTEB. 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings In Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESIRED iflOTOR. 





258 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Royal Insurance Co. 

Largest Fire Office in the World. 



«<ICANADA LIfE>- 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 



Unlimited Liability. Absolute Security. 



Every description of property insured at moderate rates of 
premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATLKY, manager. 

OKO. SimPSOX, Assi<^taiit manager. 

E. Hurtubise, j Special Agents James Allin, » Special Agents 

Alfred St. Cyr, J French Dept. W. S. Robertson, | English Dept. 

Ci of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVIIR LINB 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DUKING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Lake Ontario, 5300 Tons, tiqit. (auipljell. lake Snpericr, 5300 Tons, (apt. Stewart. 

Lake Huron, 5000 Tons, Capt. tarey. Lake Uiniiipeg. 3500 Tons, (’apt. Ilerriinaii. 

Lake .\ipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this 1 ine have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
Trade. The state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 

accommodation for all classes of Passengers at very lew rates 
Specially reduced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Cii.stom House Square, 

ivr ON 



HEAD OFFICE^ HAMILTON, ONT. 

Capital and Funds over 13.0C 0,000 Dollars. 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSAY 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

EDWARD L. BOND 

,J[ire ami Iflariiie almlcnuritfr 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 

CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co. 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Companv (Fire) 



McCASKILL, DOUGALL k CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Fine 



VARNISriES, -JRPAfiS 
and — 



. . . MONTREAL . . . 



V 

SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 




TME MOESOlSrS EAN'K. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . §2,000,000 | Rest, ^ §1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRC€TOR!i$ : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. \V. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S*. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Maepherson 
F. WoLFERSTAN Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnforu, Inspector. H Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES,— Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound 
Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q.y St. Thomas, Ont., Toronto, Toronto 
Junctiom Trenton, Waterloo, Ont., Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE.— Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited!; Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co. 
Liverpool . — The Bank of Liverpool. Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited! 

/’rtr/j.— Credit Lyonnais. La Banqued’Anvers. Hamburg 

— Hesse, Newman & Co. 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES.-A^ert; F<;r/(r.-Mechanics’ National Bank 
Messrs, Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep- 
herd, Agents Bank of Montreal; National City Bank, also in the principaVcities 
of the United States. 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 



WARDinV KING A SON 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spences Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 



HENDERSON BROS- 

Smuber ami timber 

Stecun ScLW cu\d Hlcuxt' g J\liUs 

344 WILLIAM STREET 



x>^X!S'ir 

ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL 



Dry Kindling Wood always in Stock 



H. R. IVES CO. 

^ Architectural Iron Works 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 

Queen Street MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



259 




GURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd, 



Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR TURN \()ES 
RADIATORS, REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HUW BEST 'rO HP^A'r OUR HOMES/’ sent free on application, mentioning 
ihis paper. 

Address : 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOOKS AND SCALES 



S8S cfc as'z sst. r»a.v!i st. 



T»<rc»iNri*i=tE5 



ESTABMS11E1> 1809 

North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



6xtrB0rbinnrQ pireftor». 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon, Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen | The Hon, Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon Lord Forbes 



Iuve$ited in Canada, nearly 
Total Assets, - - 



$5,000,000 

52,053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal —5“ 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



FIRE INSURAICF ASSOClUiON 

(rjii!.d:TTBiD) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CABIADIA^ BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., | _ Directors. 



Robert Benny, Esq. 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector, 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



The Liverpool & London & Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABJ^E ASSETS, 

One of the Lapg'est Insurance Companies in ^he World 

All business accepted at most favorab' csand 
losses liberally adjusted ... 

0-. IF. O. Sl^dlTTH, 

(chief agent CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL- 



Insure your Property with the. 

Phoenix Insurance Co. ,, 

TIME TRIED 



OF 
ARTFOltn 



and FIRE TESTED 

SMITH & TATLBY, 

Managers for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTAB1.1SI1E1> 1872. 

_ - ^ 

"'^CuarantcG Gompy 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 

BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

B. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

Mail BuildlU(i«.* MEDCAND & JONES, Ai^euts 




M\M ^ssuraiice Co. 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. - 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds $35,730,000 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 5 , 495 , 000 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 200,000 



ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 



City Agent: BROWNING’ British Empire Building. 




26 o 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 







j Gr£t>X*'i;]3L Co*9 

Hot Water, Steam & Sanitary Engineers 

I — TO THE — 

! 

McGill Unioersity Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board of Trade Building. 

j Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



•p OBERT GARDNER & SON _ 

• MANUFACTURERS OP 

Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc.. 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc 

Nazareth^ Brennan and Da/housie Sts., MONTREAL. 



J. MACDONAIiD 



PRACTICAL 



l|ous0 ail!) ^bmnbaal Jfll-'fangDr, |tatksinill^ anb §011003} Jlatlcsmilli 
ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc, 

CARPENTERS' and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 
762 and 764 CRAIG STREET, West of Victoria Square, /Vir^\i~rRP‘ iX>l 

Bell Xelepltoiie No. 2591 " /’IV/ll I 



Manufacturers of. 





En(jineer,s\ Phimbers\ Gas and Steamfitters’ Goods, 



Office k Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factorv, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 
^(luocates, barristers, itrc., 



IfTEW "STOieK: IjI^’E BTJI3_, DI.TiTC3-, 

MONTREAL. 

B. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. PEERS DAVIDSON. 

GEORGE BRUSH Kgtablighed m. 

EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 

MAKER OP 

Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 

Office 34 King St. Tel. No. 435, 

ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTEROF 

DRAIM PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, ENAMELLED 
SINKS, CALCINED PLASTER, 
^YHEEL BARROWS, &c* 

COAL OIL, 

Poptland, Roman and 

Canada Cements. 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 




BOYD & CO. 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 



13 COH19IO?« SXR.KHX, »IOriiXR.KAI.. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 



References in Montreal : — Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co.. D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 



TRIANGLE, 
SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

Special Discounts to Students. 

HEftRN & HARRiSO^, notrVdame 
W. % F. P. CURRIE ^ CO. 

100 GREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Wliiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 




MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair k Bed Springs 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WEITEFOBI & TIEORET 

(SOCOESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

^auj publishers amt 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“ The Monthly Law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Leg^ale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St> James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Just out, Grankshau's Griminal Codeaf Ganada. $10 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 
^(luocatcs, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 

J. B. Abbott C. S. Campbell 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. H. J. Hague F. E. Meredith 

ATWATER & MACKIE 

Jidnocates, b^n'i'isters, (Komtnissioncrs, etc. I 

O LD STANDARD BUILDIHC J 51 ST. JAMES STREET, 

J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. ; 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING | 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL j 

Telephone 1880 Cable Address, “Arcfost.** 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P, Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 

Albert J. Brown W. Prescott Sharp 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN S SHARP, 

Jiduocates, barristers ami Solicitors, 

: .TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C, Farquhar S. Maclennan 

MACMASTER k [i/iACLENNAN 

Advocates, b^irnshi's, ^tc. 

THE TEMPLE 

St. James Street, = MONTREAL 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

i |57 St. James Street, MONTREAL 



