jVo. 2. 



Vof. IX. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Wednesday , October 28, 1885. 





CONTENTS : 






PAGE. 




PAGE. 


Editorials 


3-4 


Societies 


10-11 


Contributions 


5-6 


Sporting 


11-12 


Poetry 


6 


Correspondence - 


12 


Every Fortnight 


6-8 


Personals 


13 


McGill News 


8-10 


Between the Lectures - 


13-15 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields. McCorkill, Guerin & Greenshielfls, 

ADVOCATES, 

barristers, ^tlternnjs, JteKttters, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAIi. 

J. N. Greenshie Ids. J. C McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



Rotortson, Ritchie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St- James Street, 

iioimuuit. 

ATWATER & CROSS, 

^.Rvocatep, |}arrislter$, (jonimi^ioner^ ^c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

barristers, JMiritors, Sct. t 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. TAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

ayE 02 sra?E,£;^-ii. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 



Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CITY for McGILL COLLEGE BINNEES- 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. JAMIES ST. 



AIEUICAL WORKS, BOOKS USE IP IJY* ART COURSE , 
SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS . 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., See., 
-H-BE8T VALUE ILT TOWUi-^ 

Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Ta.rn.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BUY ITOTTIR, 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 Jfcire Dame St. 



EUR COATS, OAFS anti GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. ix.] McGill college, Montreal, October 28th, 1885. [No. 2. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Geo. C. Stephen, 

W. A. Carlyle, Science *87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Colin H. Livingstone, Arts ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0 . 
Box 1290 . 



Editorials. 



THE UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

W e are glad to hear that a great effort is shortly to 
be made to rescue this Society from the moribund 
state in which it has been allowed to remain during 
the past few years. Some of the older members have 
not deserted it in its languishing condition, and they, 
assisted by the young additions made each year, have 
contrived to keep it alive, but with its former bril- 
liancy dimmed and its former influence and usefulness 
sadly impaired. Many are the flimsy excuses given 
by those who should have supported the Society to ac- 
count for the shameful neglect which has brought an 
honorable institution of the graduates to the brink of 
dissolution. One was that the members of the Faculty 
of Law monopolised all the offices, controlled all the 
proceedings, and had driven out those who wished to 
see it in fact what it was in name only, a University 
Society. But we may be pardoned for saying plainly 



that such a charge was and is entirely unjustifiable. 
The predominance of the legal fraternity in the active 
membership has been the effect and not the cause of 
desertion of men from the other Faculties. In truth, 
the members may be divided into but two classes, 
those who had the will and spirit to maintain the 
Society, and those who had not. The former class is 
largely made up of the recent graduates, and the law 
students, and it is to them that the survival of the 
Society is mainly due, and from them that its re- 
establishment upon a firmer foundation is expected. 
That the senior members shall be permitted to fill the 
important offices, — coming to the annual meeting for 
this purpose of voting themselves in, and then prac- 
tically ignoring the Society for the rest of the season 
— is too much for human nature to stand. The honor- 
able exceptions among them who have labored as- 
siduously on its behalf, and who by age and position 
are entitled to rank as leaders may reasonably claim^ 
and be granted, a proper share in the control. But 
they are not many, and the sympathy of every well- 
wisher of the Society will naturally be on the side of 
those younger members who aim at increasing its suc- 
cess and restoring it once again to its pristine vigor. 

A critical stage in the Society’s history has been 
reached. The time for indulging in sorrowful regret 
has passed. The time for prompt action has arrived, 
and with it the opportunity of placing the manage- 
ment in the hands of those who will do their duty, 
who will be supported in their efforts by the rank and 
file of the actual members, and with it the chance of 
rewarding that dilatory conduct which has trifled with 
an important work, and nearly brought a useful 
association into contempt and derision. For, when 
the meetings of a University Literary Society can only 
muster an average attendance of a dozen persons, people 
will naturally form a poor opinion of the status of its 
Alma Mater, and estimate the intelligence and energy 
of the graduates and undergraduates at a very low 
figure. 

The report, therefore, that certain members of whose 
capabilities much hope is entertained, have been 
selected as candidates for the offices to be filled on 
Friday, will be regarded as a promising sign of future 
improvement. These members whose names have 
been mentioned are said to fairly represent the element 
likely to infuse new life into the Society. The desire 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



is to elect them, or others equally good, and we wisli 
a fortunate issue to a movement so defensible, neces- 
sary, and timely. 

As regards the Presidency, the re-election of the 
present incumbent, Mr. McGoun, or the election of 
Mr. Brooke, whose long services entitle him to recog- 
nition, should prove equally acceptable. The follow- 
ing are favored for election to the other positions : — 
For First Vice-President, Mr. R. C. Smith, 

For Second Vice-President, Mr J. R. Murray, 

For Treasurer, Mr. J. F. Mackie, 

For Corresponding Secretary, Mr. \V. H. Turner, 
For Recording Secretary, Mr. H. Fry, 

For Members of Council, Messrs. A. McGoun, jr., 
or C. J. Brooke, A. R. Oughtred, W. F. Ritchie, S. P. 
Leet, G. C. Wright, A. H. U. Colquhoun. 

We hope that all who have the welfare of the 
Society at heart, will attend the annual meeting on 
Friday evening next, resolved to support candidates 
whose past conduct encourages the belief that they 
will inaugurate a new order of things. 



THE MEDICAL FACULTY. 

The Medical Faculty has long been in point of 
thoroughness and efficiency a credit to McGill Uni- 
versity, and its greatly improved equipment signalized 
by the formal opening of the new buildings last 
Thursday is an occasion for sincere congratulation. 
The school has won a continental reputation, and its 
constant progress must be viewed with feelings of the 
liveliest satisfaction. The members of the Faculty have 
ever been unremitting in their exertions, and can now 
afford to indulge in some slight exultation when they 
review all that has been accomplished. But we mis- 
take the sentiments which animate them all, from the 
capable Dean, Dr. Howard, to the most recent addition 
to the teaching staff, if they regard the present pros- 
perity as the acme of success, and have not determined 
to continue the work of making McGill one of the 
best medical schools in America as it is now the best 
•n Canada. 

THE GRADUATES SOCIETY. 

We have lately often been asked “ of what use is the 
Graduates Society? ” And we have found it not very 
easy to give a satisfactory reply. Its functions in or- 
dinary times seem to consist of three things : first, the 
holding of an annual meeting and the election of 
officers, second, the management of an annual univer- 
sity dinner, and third, the nomination of representative 
fellows. The first of these duties is never omitted ; 
come what may there is always an election of officers. 



The Society last year did not trouble itself about the 
second and third of its functions. There was no an- 
nual dinner, and there was no nomination of represen- 
tative fellows. Whether the Society is going to have 
an equally active existence this year we do not know. 
One would think that there was nothing for such a 
Society to do. If their reason for doing nothing is 
that they do not know what to do, we shall be happy 
to direct their attention to several matters worthy of 
their attention. In the meantime we may hint that 
any energy directed towards the organization of a 
Univeisity Club will not be entirely mis-spent. 



“ WHERE BE YOUR GIBES NOW V 9 

It is the aim of every man to make a noise in the 
world, but all do not go about it in the same way. 
Some do a remarkable thing, and let others make the 
noise. Those who lack requisite ability for great 
achievements attend to the noise part of it themselves. 
Take an example, likewise a seat in the Molson Hall 
when the prizes are being presented after the annual 
sports. There the exponents of noise belonging to 
the latter class have' it all their own way. Lung 
power asserts itself, and the victory, if short-lived, is 
complete. The speakers on the platform, as Brutus 
once did of the Romans, ask the audience to lend them 
their ears, but the hearing organs being just then willy 
nilly otherwise engaged, the essential feature of the 
meeting bears a strange resemblance to a dumb 
show. 

But, seriously, this interesting occasion is losing its 
attraction, and the attendance of ladies and outsiders 
is becoming beautifully less, the winners feel that they 
are receiving their hard-won rewards under unsatis- 
factory auspices, and the graver heads are beginning to 
lose patience. Let us call a halt. A few seasons ago 
the random remarks during intervals of silence, the 
off-hand jokes good-naturedly given and as good- 
naturedly taken, the uproarious applause when none 
was needed, were amusing in their very absurdity, and 
thoroughly enjoyed. But now nous avons change tout 
cela , and the happy proceedings are being spoiled. 
The desirability of a reform is so great, that we have 
no doubt it will be carried out next year. 



First dude — “ I cawn't go with you to the opera to- 
night, Chawley. I’m deuced tired.” Second dude — 
“ Been working, Algernon ? ” “ Naw. Taking exer- 

cise. We need it, don't yer know. I weally can't 
stir out to-night, ole boy ! ” “ What yer been doin' ?” 

“ Blowing soap bubbles. I’m dreadful tired, 'pon 
honor, I am. Couldn’t possibly overtax myself again 
to-night, Chawley .” — Philadelphia Call . 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



Contributions. , 



[For the Gazette. 

HENRI MURGER. 

I have somewhere read of a painting which repre- 
sents a fantastic figure in the act of raising a smiling 
mask, only to discover to the spectator a face that is 
furrowed by tears. This pictuie aptly symbolizes the 
strange life of Henri Murger. He wrote the “ Scenes 
de la Vie de Bohbne,” a book which is one of the 
liveliest, wittiest, and most humourous volumes in the 
French language ; and he died, under painful circum- 
stances, in a Paris hospital, at the early age of thirty- 
eight. The Bohemian, who had starved on literature 
for many years of his sickly existence, was followed to 
the grave by an immense crowd of all ranks of society. 
Ministers of State, and Members of the Academy, 
Poets and Critics, Professors and Students, all the 
literary notabilities and artists of Paris, accompanied 
the hearse, bare-headed and on foot ; and a woman of 
the people, as she watched the apparently endless 
procession, exclaimed in the simplicity of her ignor- 
ance, “ it is the funeral of some millionaire.” 

At the time when poor Murger died, in 1 861 , his 
name was almost unknown in England, and the only 
notice there taken of his work may be found in one 
or two of the Quarterly Reviews. Nevertheless, he was 
a man of undoubted genius, and it is much to be re- 
gretted that his chief volume cannot be translated into 
English. As one of his few British critics has said, 
“ the ‘ Scbies de la Vie de Bolieme,' in its own way, 
and within its narrow limits, is as remarkable a life- 
picture as ‘Vanity Fair.*” Murger may be said to 
have been the poet-laureate, the court historiographer 
of Bohemia, and his various works present a panorama 
of that most fantastic of all countries. 

But it is not with his prose works that I am at pre- 
sent concerned, though these would furnish ample 
materials for an amusing and instructive article. He 
was also a poet of no mean order, and Alexandre 
Dumas fils, whose literary labours have been a series 
of successes, is reported to have declared, qu'il don - 
nerait volontiers tous ses livres pour avoir fait la seule 
‘ Chanson de Musette .’ ” 

Murger never desired or attempted to be a grand 
or national poet. He could never have become the 
rival of Bdranger or Victor Hugo. “ Son instrument 
poetique,” writes one of his admirers, “ eta it faible , 
mais d'unepurete ravissante. Cette faiblesse meme a 
son cliarme ; on sent mieux le souffle du cceur a travers 
les felures du roseau brise” He had written some 
charming verses at different periods of his life, and, by 
a fatal coincidence, a volume of poems that he had 
prepared for the press, was to have been published on 
the day of his death. In this book entitled “ Les 
Nuits d'Hiver” which contains the most cherished 
recollections of his youth, one characteristic above all 
must strike the most careless reader. It is the tone of 
melancholy, of disenchantment, and occasionally even 
of despair, that breathes through each melody of the 
poet’s composition. On each page, almost in every 
stanza, amid the brightest fancies and the gayest 
images, there may be discerned glimpses of profound 



sadness, the ever-present shadows of gloomy presenti- 
ments. It is from this volume that I have translated, 
as faithfully as was possible, Murger’s last poem which 
is styled 

THE BALLAD OF THE HOPELESS MAN. 

4 * Who knocks for entrance at this hour?” 

“Open.” “ Who art thou first?” “T’is I.” 

“ Thy name. I cannot ope my door 

“ At midnight to a stranger’s cry : 

“ Thy name.” “ Oh ! let me in thy room— 

“ The snow falls fast— it blinds my sight !” 

“ Thy name.” “ A corpse within the tomb 
“ Is not more cold than I to-night. 

“ For I have wandered all the day 

44 From north to south, from east to west ; 

“ Oh 1 let the wanderer in, I pray, 

“ One moment by thy fire to rest !” 

44 Not yet ! Who art thou ?” 44 I am Fame— 

“ To immortality I lead.” 

44 Hence! mocking shade, delusive name ! 

“ Thy faithless voice I dare not heed.” 



“ Oh ! hear me, I am Love and Youth 

41 Akin to Heaven.”— 44 Pass on thy way : 

44 My mistress failed me in her truth — 

44 Love, Youth for me both died that day 1” 

44 Hush.! I am Poesy and'Art, 

44 Proscribed by man. Quick, open.” 44 No— 

44 Begone ! All music from my heart 

44 Died out with Love, long years ago.” 

44 But I am Wealth : thou shalt not lack 
44 Vast treasures of victorious gold, 

44 And I can lure thy mistress back 

44 Alas ! but not our love of old.” 

44 Unbar thy dwelling ! I am Power, 

44 And I can throne thee as a king.” 

44 In vain— the friends that are no more 

44 Back to these arms thou can’st not bring.” 

44 Then hearken ! If for him alone 

44 Who tells his name, thy doors unclose— 

44 Learn that my name is Death : I own 

44 A balm that cures all earthly woes. 

44 Hark ! at my girdle clank the keys 

44 Of gloomy vaults, where sleep the dead : 

44 Thou, too, shalt slumber at thine ease, 

” For I will guard thy dreamless bed.” 

44 Come, then, thou stranger pale and thin, 

44 Scorn not my garret’s naked floor— 

44 My hearth is cold— but enter in — 

44 I welcome thee— I can no more. 

44 Hope’s self my bosom cannot thrill, 

44 And I am weary of life’s cheat: 

44 Had but my courage matched my will, 

44 This heart long since had ceased to beat. 

44 Come, sup with me, and sleep ; and when 

‘ 4 Thy reeckoning thou shalt seek to pay 
44 At morn, 0 gentle Angel, then 

44 Far bear me in thine arms away. 

44 Long for thy coming I have pined, 

And I with joy will be thy mate : 

44 But leave, oh ! leave my dog behind, 

44 For— so— one friend shall mourn my fate !” 

Geo. Murray. 



Wanted — A Little Sociability. 

A great writer has said that solitude is sometimes 
the best society, leaving it to be inferred that he fully 
appreciated, when inclined that way, the privilege of 
close and agreeable intercourse with his fellows. The 
misanthrope would perhaps go further, and uphold 
the rapturous delight of always indulging in self- 
communion, nursing the spirit of discontent, and 
grumbling eternally at men and things. But happily 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



with the decline of internecine wars, and the growth 
of a hearty international goodwill, men are beginning 
to flourish the whip of scorn less and less, to look 
more indulgently upon the shortcomings of their 
neighbors, and to learn that happiness is best secured 
by courting the kindness rather than the criticism of 
others. The meeting together of every class of persons, 
whether for the promotion of scientific and literary 
labor, or merely the social enjoyments and con- 
veniences of modern club life, has for its fundamental 
characteristic, a certain community of feeling. This 
bond of union is a tender thing, and the importance 
of the results accomplished, in rounding off the angu- 
larities of cherished individualism, justify the labor of 
bearing with others' idiosyncrasies. The student, 
perchance, enters upon a new existence in a strange 
city, and seeks out congenial companions as much for 
intellectual profit as for social pleasure. At debating 
circle or other college organisation is given the oppor- 
tunity of proving that at least one proper study of 
mankind is man. When more intimate relations are 
established, the hours of relaxation are passed together 
in harmless fun, and in converse ranging all the way 
from grave to gay, from lively to severe. But this is 
not enough, if the intercourse between professor and 
student is limited to the conventional atmosphere of 
the classroom, and their communication confined to 
the chance informal discussion of subjects of study. 
To appreciate fully the instruction, students should 
know and admire the instructor, or the duties of 
learner and teacher are performed in a half-hearted 
and perfunctory manner. This is not education in 
the true sense, but a dull round of tasks performed, 
the results set down in cold numerals, giving really no 
satisfactory assurance that the work of higher education 
is being done. 

How may a closer companionship be brought 
about ? By the student, partly ; he must be ready to 
meet advances half-way, to be prepared to endure 
for the nonce the sometimes chilling formality of the 
drawing-room, and gain insight into the home life of 
his professor. Some will not improve on acquaintance 
— better that he should know it ; others will, and 
with the gown off are the heartiest, happiest of souls, 
and then it is a rich treat. But supposing the advances 
meet with no response from the dignitary? Why 
then, if you have done your share, and the fault of 
continued unsociability rests not upon you, why then, 
— to misquote — “ if thou faiPst, thou iail'st a blessed 
martyr." Z. 



Poetry. 

[For the Gazette. 

A POEM. THOU. 

(Translated from the German by Goican Lee.) 

A rare and quite mysterious book, 

Is thy dear face to me ; 

On whichsoever side I glance, 

A poem I can see. 

But when I fain would read therein. 

And all my thoughts engage, 

The roguish look within thine eye, 

Will slyly turn the page. 



[For the Gazette. 

FROM THE GERMAN OF HEINE. 

A budding flower to me thou art, 

So sweet and pure and fair, 

I look upon thee and my heart 
Is filled with anxious care. 

And on thy head I fain would lay 
My hands and breathe the prayer, 

That God would keep thee ceaselessly 
As sweet and pure and fair. 

Attie. 



Euery Fortnight. 



(Correspondents will please address “Critic, P. 0. Box 1290. ”) 



I should be but very imperfectly carrying out my 
role if I did not refer in wrath and indignation to the 
printer's errors which crept into, as the phrase goes, 
this column in last issue. I was supposed to have re- 
marked that a new work on Pschology had been pub- 
lished. No such work, to my knowledge, has been 
published. What I did remark was that a certain 
work on Psychology had not been sent to us for 
review, and so far it has not been sent to us. Why 
a letter was left out I cannot say. Again the French 
word exercice should have been spelt with a c and not 
with an s. I am not a very profound French scholar 
but I may as well get credit for what little I do know. 
Once more, literary is not spelled with two f s. 

* * 

* 

The sports of course are almost forgotten by this time, 
but I must say a word in praise of the excellent way 
in which everything was carried out by the Committee. 
The unanimous opinion was that the arrangements 
were better than on any former occasion. Even the 
band seemed more in wind than ever before. The 
existence of the Athletic Association has had more 
to do with this improvement than anything else, and 
the knowledge of this fact must be a very great gratifi- 
cation to those who interested themselves in its or- 
ganization. I must lift up my voice, however, against 
the conduct of a number who were present at the dis- 
tribution of prizes in the Molson Hall. A continuous 
roar was kept up in the corner from the beginning of 
the proceedings to the end. There is no fun whatever 
in this. A number of ragamuffins off the street, 
especially if they were a little the worse for liquor, 
could make just as much noise. A certain amount of 
row I freely admit is necessary to give life to the 
affair, especially when a freshman persists in keeping 
on his hat, but some people never know when or 
where to draw the line. There was, besides, no 
opportunity for witty remarks such as we used some- 
times to hear from the back benches. It was nothing 
all the time but “ Great Scott." 

* ,* 

* 

A correspondent writes complaining of the noise 
which was kept up in the hall. He says that “ this 
year and last rude Baeotian clamor replaced the Attic 
sallies of old times.” He suggests that a programme 
of songs should he arranged beforehand, and that a 
number of students should be told off to keep order. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



The procession in the evening was the most miser- 
ably conducted affair for years. In the theatre there 
was no one to lead the singing amongst the McGill 
fellows, the Victoria men putting us to shame in this 
respect. Then, after the play we paraded Dorchester 
and St. C atherine Streets, when the flag suddenly dis- 
appeared on someone whispering the word “ police- 
man, M and the procession broke up into parties. 
Nothing was done, the whole thing turning out a 
fizzle. The only place I heard of being serenaded was 
the Oxford. 

* ,* 

5k 

In a few days the annual election in the University 
Literary Society will be taking place, and more than 
usual interest, I believe, is being evinced in the result 
this year. I hope to go and vote next Friday evening, 
but I am not quite sure yet how I shall vote. There 
is one man I shall certainly not vote for, and that is 
the man who religiously attends the meetings up to 
the Annual Meeting, and if he happen not to be the 
choice of the free and independent electors, does not 
turn up again until that time twelve months. There 
is such a man, you know. But some of us are in 
rather a quandary what to do. There are a number of 
members who have taken a practical interest in the 
Society and who really deserve election, but some of 
them though jolly good fellows are not quite the bril- 
liant stars that one should like to see at the head of 
such an important Society as the University Literary 
Society. On the other hand it would not be right to 
elect some very able man who never took the trouble 
to attend when he was not in office. I suppose the 
best course for a man like myself to pursue under the 
circumstances is to vote according to what my con- 
science and the McGill Gazette tell me. 

* * 

* 

While this matter is on the anvil, to use an expres- 
sion of a writer of last century, I may refer to a pro- 
ject which was attempted to be carried out last year, 
and which was originally mooted, I believe, in the 
University Gazette. The idea was to have an inter- 
university meeting, either in this city or in Toronto, in 
which the Literary and Scientific Society of Toronto 
University and our own University Literary Society 
should take part. Last year, 1 understand, the Presi- 
dent of the Literary Society wrote to Toronto making 
a suggestion to this effect. The idea was well received 
but owing to the lateness of the season or some other 
cause it was not carried out. Perhaps this year the 
project could be undertaken with more success. An 
entrance fee should be charged and the expenses 
thus paid. Besides having the public debate a dinner 
might be given to the Toronto men. 

* 5k 

5k 

Apropos of debating societies I was rather struck by 
a statement of Disraeli’s in The Young Duke to the 
effect that Pericles, Demosthenes, Lysias, Hortensius, 
Cicero and Caesar prepared their speeches and delivered 
them by note. 

* >k 

* 

I am in receipt of the following encouraging letter : 



My Dear Critic,— W hat an atrocious slip that was in your first 
paragraph. Well may you disclaim a knowledge of cookery when 
you doivt know the difference between *' receipt ” and ‘ recipe- 

Notwithstanding, I am delighted with your column. Its tone and 
its huraourare alike charming. 

(N.B. — On reading this I blushed. — C.) 

But, in future, will you not abstain from quoting Latin? Let me 
tell you a secret. Though you may not have discovered it, there is a 
strong likeness between me and some of the professors. I can t read 
the classics without the aid of cribs. Unfortunately, my key to the 
old truth you quote is just now in pawn- After this hiot won t you 
please make yourself understood in subsequent “ fortnights . 

There is one thing I want to caution you about. I perceive that 
you are just a little rash- Be careful not to launch too many sar- 
casms at the powers that be. Allow me to relate a legend, which I 
discovered in the archives of a secluded monastery. 

In ages dark and in a far country there was once a university, 
yclept St. Giles, and the governors thereof were of three classes. 
First in influence came the professors, then certain old men whose 
riches were proportionate directly to their age, and inversely to the 
extent of their education ; lastly, a small body of the alumni, elected 
to office by their peers. 44 Trivium ” and “ Quadrivium had from 
time immemorial formed the only courses of study at St. Gi es, and 
with these professors and students got along very comfortably- But 
there came a time when a peculiar heresy arose in the church. By 
woeful mischance some of the alumni governors of St. (Tiles became 
tainted with this heresy, whose chief characteristic was that its ad- 
herents denied the educational efficiency of “Trivium ei Quadri- 
vium.” Well, these alumni governors lifted sacrilegious hands to 
alter the courses of St. Giles and some alterations they made. But 
they were stayed before half the work was done by a combination of 
the other two classes of governors. Just about this time, too, 
there grew up a complication, which furnished a new source of con- 
tention between the two factions- It became necessary tor the pur- 
poses of the church that certain ladies should be initiated into <t the 
sacred mysteries of ‘‘ T and Q.” The alumni governors said, St. 
Giles is not rich enough to teach these ladies separately. Let them 
be instructed along with the boys. If there is any money to spare 
we want it to be used in training up the male students to understand 
all about Protoplasm and the missing link.” Beit remembered that 
the ladies were intended for the cloister, and the cnale students 
(whether these were gentlemen cannot be ascertained from the MS. 
as the term is nowhere used in it) for the monastery. The professors 
at once discovered in this proposition a new and unmistakable proof 
of the heresy of the alumni, and promptly and severely sat upon 
them. So that it became apparent to the alumni that their point 
could not be carried unless the rich old men should be persuaded to 
unite themselves to their faction. Now it was well known that these 
rich old men could be influenced by the opinion of other rich men 
who were not governors. So three of the alumni, named respectively 
All, Ball andKyll, put their heads together to contrive a means 
whereby this end might be accomplished. And they proposed that 
the governors should no longer meet as heretofore in a dungeon, 
whose entrance was known only to themselves, but in the market 
place, where the people of the town might be benefited by the wis- 
dom of their deliverances. The suggestion was wily- But the chief 
of the professors was a man deeply versed in theology, and he dis- 
covered the hidden intent of All. Ball, and Kyll. He told the Croesi, 
as the rich old men were sometimes called, that the proposition of A. 
B. and K. was heretical, inasmuch as it aimed at creating an inno- 
vation in the customs of ot. Giles, which customs had been sanctioned 
by the fathers of the church. So the plot failed and the separate 
classes were established. But the chief of the professors resolved to 
take vengeance upon All, Ball, and Kyll for the trouble they had put 
him to in bring ng about the defeat of their policy, and he charged 
them before the whole body of governors with being heretics and 
troublers of academic calm. As he at that time controlled a majority 
of the votes, these three were condemned and were stripped of their 
togse and gaudy colored hoods, which were the insignia testifying to 
the fact that they had studied T. and Q. This judgment was a 
crusher, because A. B. and K. had forgotten all they ever knew about 
the seven sciences, and thus were left without any means of impress- 
ing the public with a sense of their superior learning. 

Now, my dear Critic, I leave you to draw your own moral trom 
this highly moral and veracious tale of mediaeval practices. Don t 
be overmuch cast down though, for if you wish to continue in the 
enjoyment of my gracious approval you must keep your spirits up, 
your wit fresh and your spelling orthodox. 

Believe me, my dear Critic, for the time being, your well pleased 

Mentor. 



* * 
* 



Mentor says I did well to disclaim any knowledge 
of cookery when I did not know the difference between 
receipt and recipe. Now I may say that although I 
did disclaim a deep knowledge of cookery I neverthe- 
less know the smell of stuffed onions as well as an- 
other man, and further, I did happen to know the dif- 
ference between receipt and recipe . But I consider 
that anyone who corrects another for using the former 
word for the latter displays an amount of pedantic 
particularity worthy some rustic pedagogue put on his 
mettle by the confiding worship of the village circle. 



8 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



It is just like those people who are always correcting 
you for saying “ me ” instead of “ I ” or for saying 
“ to-morrow is Saturday ” instead of “ to-morrow 
will be Saturday.” These people when they travel 
never go to Paris, but to Paree. Now, supposing 
receipt to be strictly incorrect, everyone knows that it 
is the general custom of even the best writers to use it 
instead of recipe , and what is used customarily by the 
best writers is really correct. Mentor will remember 
that little saying of Montaigne’s, I translate it lest his 
crib should be misplaced, “ He who fights custom with 
grammar is a fool.” The only two authorities that I 
know of who affect at the present day to disregard this 
truth are the French Academy and Mentor. 

* * 

* 

But to satisfy my own mind I take my Johnson and 
Walker’s dictionary and find the following definitions: 
— “ receipt, a prescription of ingredients for any com- 
position,” (N.B. Resurrection pudding may, I think, 
be called a composition.) ; “ recipe, (the term used 
by physicians when they direct ingredients) a medical 
prescription.” I was not speaking about medical pre- 
scriptions' when I used the word. But perhaps John- 
son and Walker are too old fashioned for our modern 
Ishmael. Let us take the very best modern English 
dictionary, the Imperial. Looking up the word 
receipt I find that one of its meanings is recipe . The 
following example from Brougham is given ; “ A more 
certain receipt for producing misgovernment of every 
kind, and national calamities of all descriptions, it 
would be difficult to devise.” In company with 
Brougham I am content to lie under Mentor’s sweep- 
ing accusation of heretical spelling. The slip, however, 
was not so atrocious after all. 

* * 

* 

As to the legend which Mentor found in the nun- 
nery, I do not know what it means. I should have 
lighted my pipe with it if I had found it. Happy 
for the world at large that I am not given to hunting 
about old nunneries, or else perhaps this valuable 
document had been lost to mankind. 

My correspondent need stand in no fear of any more 
Latin quotations for a while, not because I want 
particularly to bask in the sunshine of his favor, but 
because I happen to have exhausted my available 
stock. 



Notwithstanding all I have said I am very thankful 
to Mentor for having written to me, and I hope I shall 
often hear from him in the future. I assure him I 
was not at all offended at his sarcastic reference to my 
humor, and I may add that nothing depresses me but 
bad weather and ill health. 



What a crushing defeat that was that McGill received 
at the hands, or rather the feet, of the Montreal Foot- 
ball Club. From all I can hear, it was the result of 
bad backs and bad generalship. Perhaps some foot- 
ball player will tell me in the words of the poem, 



“ Teach not a mother’s parent to extract 
“ The embryo juices of an egg by suction, 

“ That good old lady can this fact enact # 

“ Quite irrespective of your kind instruction. 

More succinctly rendered “ Go and teach your grand- 
mother to suck eggs.” 

By the bye I wonder who was the author of those 
Pristine Proverbs for Precocious Pupils. I suppose 
you have all seen them, if not, I shall give you some 
of them next Fortnight. 

* * 

* 

It was with great pleasure that I heard the other 
day that Dawson Bros, are very soon to publish a book 
of poems by one of the most distinguished literary men 
in Canada, who has been a constant contributor to the 
columns of the University Gazette for the last few 
years. There was a rumor some time ago that he was 
collecting his poems and that he intended to publish 
them, but it is only within a short time that the 
publication has been definitely arranged for. There 
can bo no doubt of the success of the work. 

* * 

* 

I was arguing the other day with a friend on the 
question of the higher education of women, and with 
my usual gallantry took the side of the young ladies 
(this is of course figurative). The next morning I re- 
ceived the following : “ In re our discussion last even- 
ing let me tell you a good thing which I have just 
heard. An elderly lady has attached herself to the 
first year Greek class. She attends lectures regularly, 
but does not join in the class exercises. The other day 
one of those flippant young things who are taking the 
Arts course for pure fun said to her venerable classmate, 

‘ My dear madam, if you don’t think the question im- 
pertinent, will you tell me why you take the Greek 
lectures ] ’ The dear old lady answered promptly, 

4 Because it is such an exquisite pleasure to hear Mr. 
M read Greek.’ ” 

The letter concludes with the exclamation, “ My 
dear fellow how ignorant you are of the depth of 
sentiment in the female heart ! ” I plead guilty to 
the impeachment. It is much easier work to gauge 
the intellect than sound the fathomless depths of the 
heart of a venerable old lady who wants to learn 
Greek. 

Critic. 



TFlc6il( News, 

The project to present Mr. Taylor, the popular li- 
brarian, with a token of the esteem in which he is held 
by many graduates, and undergraduates, has, we 
understand, taken definite form, and will shortly be 
carried out. 

Hitherto the regular Thursday evening meeting for 
prayer and bible study has been held in the Congrega- 
tional College. We believe that the Christian Associa- 
tion intend to make application for one of the now 
rooms in the main building for this meeting. 

The lady students have not yet elected officers for 
the session, and rumor says they will not do so at all. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



Miss Gairdner acts as lady superintendent. The ladies 
are reported to be highly edified at the brandishing of 
pass keys by the professors, who let themselves in from 
the main building in the most cautious manner. 

During the week of prayer for young men, Nov. 
8tli-14th, it is expected that two religious meetings 
will be held in the main building, one Monday night 
and one on Saturday. Further notice will be given 
on the bulletin-board. Those who remember the helpful 
meeting of last year, will look forward to these meet- 
ings and keep those evenings disengaged. 

Prof. Moyse, has greatly stimulated the interest of 
the seniors in the study of European History, by cir- 
culating among his class nicely lithographed maps, 
showing clearly all the varied and intricate changes in 
the political geography of the medieval and modern 
European states. This is a new and highly apprecia- 
ble method of teaching an otherwise very complicated 
subject. 

r J he officers of the Science Faculty have been elected 
as follows : — 4th. year, President C. P. Brown ; Sec- 
retary, J. G. Kerry ; Reading Room Committeemen, 
A. Weir and J. McCarthy. 3rd. year, President R. E. 
Palmer ; Reading Room Committeeman, W. F. Ferrier. 
2nd. year, President J. Hopkins ; Reading Room Com- 
mitteeman, W. J. Hamilton. 1st. year, Reading Room 
Committeeman A. Waters. 

There are about twenty students from the Maritime 
provinces enrolled in the freshmen classes of McGill 
this year. These provinces will soon be among the 
chief feeders of the University, and if the authorities 
of McGill were wise they would see that the advantages 
of the college were well advertised in these parts, by 
which means the constant flow of professional students 
to the United States colleges would be sensibly 
checked. 

The number of students registered in the different 
faculties of McGill for the present session is as fol- 
lows ; — Medicine 245 ; Arts (male) 156 ; Arts (female) 
45 ; Applied ^Science 48 ; Law 25 ; Total 519. The 
above summary indicates but a slight billing off in 
attendance, as compared with last year. This and even 
a much larger decrease was expected on account of the 
prevalence of small-pox in Montreal, which has pre- 
vented some scores of would-be McGill men from enroll- 
ing themselves among us. 

An addition has been made to the Natural Science 
course of the Arts faculty this year by the inauguration 
of classes in practical, physiological and histological 
botany, under the able superintendence of Prof. Pen- 
hallow. This opportunity of progressing to the more 
scientific study of the subject is being already appre- 
ciated by several of the students. The want of such a 
class has been long felt, and as its permanency will 
^reatly depend on its success, it is to be hoped that its 
popularity will be maintained or increased. 

Those who are wont to promenade about the cor- 
ridors of the Arts building are doomed to have their 
noses assailed at all hours by the conglomerate and 
anti-appetizing perfumes of a subterranean dining hall, 
from which the select and pampered few are to abstract 



the more relishable garnishments. The oysters, 
bacon and buns of this miniature Delmonico’s are 
reserved for the famishing Science-men, while the Arts 
students come in gratis for all the smells. Brace up 
Artsmen, tame down your aesthetic olfactories. 

The officers of the various years in the Faculty of 
Arts for the ensuing session are as follows : — 

Fourth Year : — President, Francis Topp ; Secretary, 
F. W. Hibbard. 

Third Year : — President, R. B. Henderson ; Secre- 
tary; James Naismith. 

Second Year: — President, H. N. Goff; Vice-Presi- 
dent, F. McCallum ; Secretary, W. T. D. Moss. 

First Year : — President, W. E. Deeks ; Vice-Presi- 
dent, F. A. Charters ; Secretary, Donald Holden. 

On the 10th inst. Sir William Dawson accompanied 
his Geological Class to St. Helen’s Island, for the pur- 
pose of investigating the various deposits of Igneous 
rocks which are found in that vicinity, and which re- 
present the continuation of the strata of which Mount 
Royal — a volcano of the Mesozoic age — is composed. 
After a rapid but scientific scrutiny of all the forma- 
tions of interest, among which was a patch of Lower 
Helderburg Limestone from which by dint of much 
hammering some valuable fossils were abstracted, the 
party, well ballasted with the ponderous fruits of their 
afternoon’s toil, was glad to betake itself to the home- 
wards-bound bateaux, picottic and all as they doubtless 
were. On the Saturday of the week following Dr. 
Harrington conducted his class in Mineralogy on an 
expedition to Belceil Mountain, near St. Hilaire 
Station. A deposit of Lower Helderburg had been 
reported as existing near one of the flanks of the 
mountain, which on investigation proved to be noth- 
ing more than Hudson River Limestone. Some little 
disappointment was experienced at this discovery, but 
as the mountain is one of a series of extinct volcanos, 
many formations worthy of study were found, which 
more than sufficiently compensated for the absence of 
the expected crop of fossils. Many readings of the 
barometer were taken with a view of ascertaining the 
heights of different stations ; the cave, so renowned 
among the habitants of the district, was visited and 
investigated. After a day of faithful tramping the 
party returned to Montreal, heartily gratified at their 
work and thankful to Dr. Harrington for his able 
guidance. 



Formal Opening of the New Medical Building. 

Thursday, Oct. 22nd, marked a new era in the his- 
tory of McGill Medical College — the formal opening 
of the new building. The inaugural addresses were 
delivered in the large lecture theatre. Dr. R. P. 
Howard, Dean of the Medical Faculty, occupied the 
chair. 

Among those present were Sir William Dawson, 
Principal, and Hon. J. Ferrier, Chancellor of the 
University ; Dr. Pepper, Provost of the University of 
Pennsylvania, and Dr. Osier of the same University, 
but late of McGill ; Hon. D. A. Smith, and Hon. R. 
Mackay ; Dr. Campbell, Dean of Bishop’s ; Members 
of the Corporation, and of the Board of Governors ; 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



Representatives from the sister Faculties and from the 
Theological Colleges ; the Professors of the Faculty of 
Medicine ; Drs. Bergin and Grant of Ottawa, besides 
many other distinguished visitors. Dr. Osier, whose 
reception by the students was most enthusiastic, spoke 
of the unbounded pleasure it afforded him to see 
realized to-day that which he had so much desired 
since he was first connected with McGill— better 
facilities provided the student for the practical prosecu- 
tion of his studies. He paid a high compliment to 
the Medical Faculty for their disinterested and untir- 
ing energy, and expressed the delight it afforded him 
to address once more — even thus shortly —the students 
of McGill. 

Dr. Pepper delivered a most able address on Medical 
Education. He referred to the brilliant advances 
achieved during the past half century, by pure scien- 
tific medical research, and predicted for Medical 
Science a yet more brilliant future. His address was 
replete with wit, apt illustration and sound sense. 

Chancellor Ferrier, in the absence of Sir A. T. 
Galt, who was unavoidably absent, delivered a pithy 
and humorous address. He predicted that soon the 
Medical Faculty would be compelled to still further 
enlarge the building for the accommodation of Lady 
Students who would ere long be seeking admission in 
this, as in the other departments of the University. 

Sir William Dawson followed with a few remarks, 
delivered in his usual happy style, in which he gave the 
students some excellent advice. 

The Dean, Dr. Howard, then spoke on behalf of the 
Faculty. He thanked Drs. Pepper and Osier for the 
honor they had conferred on the Faculty by their 
presence on this occasion. He referred gratefully to 
the generous citizens who had seconded the efforts of 
the Faculty by their liberal donations, and explained 
how it was only by the aid of a large share of the 
Endowment Fund of the college they were able to 
make the extensive alterations requisite for the proper 
prosecution of their work. 

Dr. Bergin, being called on, drew an interesting 
comparison between McGill past and present ; between 
the college as it was when he graduated nearly forty 
years ago, and what it is now. 

Dr. Craig then spoke for a few moments, and as the 
time was passing apace he was the last speaker called 
on. The Dean then invited the visitors to accompany 
him to an inspection of the new building. 

The Dinner. 

In the evening a dinner was held at the Windsor 
Hotel, attended by many of those present at the morn- 
ing’s celebration. Dr. Howard presided, while Drs. 
Fenwick and Gird wood occupied the vice-chairs. After 
the good things of the table had been patronized, the 
usual toasts succeeded. Dr. Anderson, U. S. Consul- 
General replied for the health of the President, Dr. 
Osier to “ Medical Education in the United States and 
Canada,” while the other speakers were Dr. Rottot, 
Rev. Dr. Stevenson, Dr. Hingston, Sir William Daw- 
son, Hon. D. A. Smith. Dr. Craik, Surgeon-General 
Bergin, M.P., and others. The proceedings altogether 
were of a happy and successful character, and the 
day’s celebration will not soon be forgotten. 



Societies. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The third ordinary meeting of the society was held 
on the evening of Friday, the 16th inst., the First 
Vice-President, Mr. A. G. Cross, in the chair. There 
was a small attendance of members, caused no doubt 
by the College sports having been held during the day 
and prolonged into the night 

Mr. Budden was duly elected a member of the so- 
ciety, and the following gentlemen were proposed for 
membership: Messrs. H. Fry, J. heddy, and J. K. 

Uns worth. 

The debate upon — “ Should part of the public re- 
venues of Canada be raised by an income tax ?” was 
probably the best worth hearing of any which have 
taken place in the society this season. Mr. McGoun 
opened upon the affirmative in an argumentative 
speech, which displayed an intimate knowledge of the 
subject. Basing his contention upon the two propo- 
sitions — 1st, that every person should, according to 
his ability, contribute towards the expenses of govern- 
ment, and, 2nd, that taxes should be of such a nature 
as would take as little as possible from the people 
beyond that which goes into the coffers of the state, 
he compared the amounts raised in different countries, 
by an income tax, with the total revenues of these 
countries, and contended that it would be advan- 
tageous to Canada to raise a larger amount by this 
method of taxation than she now does, because she 
would thereby assist in the furtherance of her com- 
mercial interests, prepare the way for an Imperial 
Zollverein, and provide a means of revenue when a 
prohibitory liquor law shall have deprived the Gov- 
ernment of an important source of revenue. 

Mr. C. S. Campbell followed, in the negative, in a 
well-arranged and closely reasoned reply. He sug- 
gested that his opponent was beginning rather early in 
the day to provide for a falling off in revenue from a 
prohibitory liquor law, and intimated that so long as 
either Imperial Federation or an Imperial Zollverein 
was a question of very doubtful advantage to Canada, 
as regards its results, the leader of the affirmative 
could scarcely cite it as an argument in favour of the 
imposition of an income tax. He showed how diffi- 
cult it is to make an equitable distinction between 
revenue and capital, for purposes of taxation, and de- 
scribed how vexatious and annoying to the people 
must be the duties of the collectors of such a tax. An 
income tax would place the state at the mercy of the 
veracity of the taxed : it is a tax not levied at the most 
convenient time for those who have to pay it, whereas 
custom duties from their very nature are : he main- 
tained that its cost of collection is little, if any, less 
than that of customs, the only tax really economical in 
this respect being the land tax : and, in conclusion, he 
pointed out the great injustice which Canada, a 
country borrowing largely abroad, would be doing 
foreign capitalits who have invested money here, were 
she to impose an income tax. 

Messrs. Ritchie and Leet continued the debate on 
the affirmative and negative sides respectively. We 
have not space to summarize their arguments ; they 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



were in both instances the result of thought and were 
well delivered. 

The question having been put to the meeting was 
decided in favour of the negative. 



Social Reception. 

The Social gathering which was held on the evening 
of Thursday the 8th inst., under the auspices of the 
College Christian Association, will be remembered with 
pleasure by all who attended it. The Association took 
this way of meeting the new students, and of having 
them pleasantly introduced to the members of the 
senior years. Although there was not a very full re- 
presentation of the Freshmen class — which may be 
explained from the fact that this was the first of the 
kind, and consequently without prestige — yet no 
doubt next year, on account of the success of this year, 
a much larger attendance may be looked for : because 
it is expected that a like social reception will be given 
at the beginning of every session. 

We were fortunate in having the presence of Sir 
Wm. Dawson and Prof. Mills, both of whom addressed 
the students. Songs by the students, instrumental 
performances by city friends, the beautiful refreshment 
table, and the general good-natured feeling made the 
evening pass most pleasantly. Students are once again 
indebted to the City Y. M. C. A. for the use of their 
rooms. We would also remember the ladies of the 
city who kindly provided refreshments, and especially 
those ladies who superintended that beautiful table 
in the library. 



Postponed. 

The Inter-collegiate Missionary Convention of the 
Canadian colleges, which was announced in our last 
issue, has been unavoidably postponed. Almost all 
arrangements had been made and the time was draw- 
ing near, when word came from one and another of the 
colleges in Ontario to the effect that, on account of the 
epidemic, they would send no delegates to Montreal. 
As the Convention could not go on without the West- 
ern men, the Committee was compelled to immediately 
cancel all engagements, and make the best of their 
great disappointment. The students of Victoria Col- 
lege, Cobourg, have invited the Alliance to hold the 
( onvention with them after Christmas ; but it is not 
yet known whether it will not be better to carry over 
the Convention till a year hence. In that case we 
may expect this gathering with us next autumn. We 
notice that the American students meet Oct. 22-25 in 
their Sixth Annual Convention at Rochester. This 
Missionary Alliance among the colleges in the States, 
with its annual gathering, has done a great deal of 
good, and we may expect the same thing from our 
smaller Canadian Alliance. 



Undergraduates Literary Society. 

At a regular meeting of the above Society held on 
Friday, Oct. 9th, the Secretary reported that the 
Faculty of Arts had granted the use of classroom No. 
1 for the meetings of the Society, and also that the 



Faculty had requested that the subjects for the debates 
of the Society be submitted to the Principal of the 
University. 

Mr. Wm. Patterson read a very amusing essay, 
entitled “ Incidents of a Trip,” and Mr. W. J. Watt 
read “ A Fugitive Slave.” 

The question for the evening’s discussion," Resolved 
that class instruction is preferable to individual instruc- 
tion ” was then taken up. The affirmative was sup- 
ported by Messrs. F. Topp, H. Pedley, and C. Martin, 
the negative by Messrs. N. P. Yates, H. E. C. Mason, 
and W. A. Duke. It was very ably discussed, some 
of the arguments advanced showing that at least a few 
of the speakers have had some experience as teachers. 
The meeting decided in favor of the negative. Mr. 
McOuat, critic for the evening, then read his critique, 
which provoked considerable discussion as to what 
were the duties of the critic. 

Owing to the Annual Games taking place on Friday, 
Oct. 16th, no meeting of the Society was held on that 
evening. 

Sporting. 



The Montreal Lacrosse Team. 

The Harvard Advocate, commenting on the late 
international Lacrosse Matches, says : — “ The magnifi- 
cent team-play of the Montreal Lacrosse team impressed 
strongly on the minds of our men the necessity of 
bringing their own play into a thorough system. The 
perfection of the Canadians in this respect is due 
greatly to the presence on the field of a field-captain, 
who does not play himself, but who, thoroughly 
understanding the game, keeps each man in the team 
up to his best work. Harvard ought to follow the 
example of the Canadians, and should have always 
present on the field, when it is allowable, a competent 
field-captain.” 



FIELD MEETING. 

The Annual Games of the McGill University Ath- 
letic Association took place on the College Grounds 
on Friday, October, 16th, and those in charge are to 
be congratulated on the successful manner in which 
everything went off. The weather was perfect, the 
arrangements good, the entries numerous, and the at- 
tendance large. A great improvement is manifested 
in conducting the sports according to the rules of the 
Canadian A. A. A., which, calling for the recognized 
number of time-keepers, judges, etc., give the Games 
a “ status ” they have never before had. 

The following is a record of events and prize- 
winners : 

Morning. 

1. Kicking Football : 1st. F. D Robertson, 135 ft. 10 in. ; 2nd. C. 
Swabey, 130 ft. 9 in. 

2. Throwing Hammer, (16-lbs.), 1st. C. W. Haentschel, 60 ft. 1 in. ; 
2nd. L. E. M. Pomeroy, 55 ft. 11 in. 

3. Running Broad Jump, 1st. J. Boyd, 16 ft. 10J in. ; 2nd. D. Scully 
16 ft. 6£ in. 

4. Putting shot (16-lb.), 1st. L. McGannon, 28 ft. 7i in. ; 2nd- T. J. 
Wraughton,28 ft. 4 in. 

5. Throwing Cricket Ball, 1st. R. B. O’Sullivan, 285 ft. 4 in. ; 2nd. 
G. Brown, 269 ft. 5 in. 

6. Standing Broad Jump, 1st. L. E. M- Pomeroy, 9 ft. 6£ in. ; 2nd* 
J. S. Mcllraith, 9ft. 2£ in. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



7. Throwing Heavy Weight, (56-lb.), 1st- II. McEwan, 18 ft. 3 in, ; 
2nd. C. \V. Haentschel, 18 ft. 

8. Running High Jump, 1st. J. Boyd, 4 ft. 11 in. ; 2nd. R. B. 
O’Sullivan, 4 ft- 8 in. 

9. Tugof War, Won by Medicine. 

Afternoon. 

1- One-Mile Run, 1st. C. W. Haentschel, 5 min- 6 sec. ; 2nd. D. 
Taylor, 5 min. 14 sec. 

2. 100- Yards Run, J. Kennedy, 11$ sec. ; 2nd. F. D. Robertson. 

3. Pole Leap, 1st F. D. Robertson, 8 ft. 9 in. : 2nd. J. S- Mcllraith, 
8 ft. 6 in. 

4. 880-Yards Run, 1st. C. W. Haentschel. 2 min. 14? sec. ; 2nd. 
F. D. Robertson. 

5. One-Mile Walk, 1st. C. Swabey, 8 min. 15 sec- ; 2nd. H. True- 
man. 

6. 440-Yards Run, 1st. C. W. Bayne, 59 sec. ; 2nd. R. B. O’Sullivan. 

7. One-Mile Run, Open 1st. J. W. Moffatt, 4 min. 40 sec. ; 2nd. 
R. Larkin. 

8. Three-Legged Race, 1st. Messrs. May and Aylen. 

9. 220-Yard Run, 1st. A. Weir, 25 3 5th sec. ; 2nd. J. A. Kennedy. 

10. One-Mile Bicycle Race, 1st. E. C. P. Guy, 3 min. 33 sec. ; 2nd. 
D. H. Holden. 

The track was in very fair condition, and all the 
events were well contested, especially the 220 and 100 
yards runs, and notably the mile walk. 

In his mile, Moffat would very likely have been 
successful had he not injured his chances by running 
his first lap in altogether too quick time. As it is he 
made the fastest mile ever run on the track. After 
the sports were over the prizes were given out by Lady 
Dawson in the Molson Hall, the Committee, officers 
of the day, and invited guests on the platform. Alto- 
gether the verdict seems to be that it was about the 
most successful University Day within the memory of 
the “ oldest inhabitant.” 

Kicking the Football. 1st. Rosewood Cane, presented by L. Robin- 
son ; 2nd. Cigarette Case. 

Throwing the Hammer, (16-lbs) 1st. Book Stand'; 2nd. Carved Wood 
Inkstand. 

Running Broad Jump, 1st. Cigar Cabinet ; 2nd. Dressing Case. 

Putting the Shot, 1st- Ink stand, presented by Dawson Bros. ; 2nd. 
Umbrella, presented by Carsley. 

Throwing Cricket-ball, 1st. Umbrella, presented by^-Tooke; 2nd. 
Pipe and Case, presented by Ansell. 

Standing broad jump, 1st. Oval mirror ; 2nd. Glove and Tie Box. 

Putting Heavy Weight, 1st. Alligator Dressing Case ; 2nd. Blotter. 

Running High Jump, 1st. Triple Shaving Mirror; 2nd- Military 
Hair Brushes- 

Tug of War, Rosewood Canes. 

One-Mile Run, 1st. Brass Writing Set (5 pieces) ; 2nd. Cup. 

100- Yards Run, 1st, Morocco Dressing Case ; 2nd. Card-box. 

Pole Leap, 1st. Pipe, presented by Gerth : 2nd. Cigar Case. 

880-Yards Run, 1st. Cup, presented by Ashford ; 2nd. Cup. 

One-Mile Walk, 1st. Opera Glasses ; 2nd. China Ink-stand- 

440-Yards Run, 1st. Cup, presented by II. llogan ; 2nd. Cup. 

One-Mile, (Open), 1st. Cup ; 2nd Flask. 

Three-Legged Race, 1st. Two Cases of Razors (2 in each). 

220-Yards Run, 1st. Clock and Case ; 2nd. Tankard. 

One Mile Bicycle Bace, 1st. Cup, presented by Drysdalc ; 2nd. Cup. 

TENNIS. 

The final contest of the Lawn Tennis Tournament 
for the College championship took place on Monday, 
the 12th inst. The players were Colby (Arts ’87) and 
Martin (Arts ’88) and they gave probably the most 
exciting and best exhibition of the game ever seen on 
the grounds, the former winning the best 3 sets out 
of 5 by the following score : 6-4, 2-6, 10-8, 6-8, 1-10. 
The third set was notably interesting, Colby won the 
first 5 games straight, and Martin the next 6, then 
each alternately won a game till the score stood 8 all, 
when Colby winning the next tw r o decided the set in 
his favor. 



FOOTBALL. 

The final match for the Quebec Championship Cup 
between the Montreal and McGill teams took place on 
the grounds of the former on the afternoon of Satur- 
day the 17th inst. The McGill was the same as 
played at Lennoxville, with the exception of two men, 
who were replaced by Taylor and Wilde. The Mon- 
treal won by a score of 43 to 0. 

The result is mainly due to the fine running of the 
fast Montreal v r ing men as in the scrimmage the Mc- 
Gill played a very fine game indeed, being fully equal 
to the heavy forwards of the Champion Team in that 
respect. The backs of the Montreal team had scarcely 
anything to do, their forwards doing all the work and 
certainly doing it well. The McGill backs were 
hardly up to the mark, though some very good, play 
was done by them all. A little more practice would 
do them no harm. It would be unfair to particularize 
among the forwards when all played so well, and with 
more practice, the team will be dangerous rivals to any 
one. They all followed up well when the scrimmage 
was loosened and fell on the ball in the proper man- 
ner, the only mistake being in allowing the fast men 
of the Montreal team to get a start. However, they 
played an exceedingly plucky uphill game, all through 
and have no reason at all to be ashamed of the result. 



Horresponbence. 



McGILL COLLEGE AND THE MARITIME PRO- 
VINCES. 

Editors University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, — A student from the Maritime Provinces 
informs me that McGill University is never advertised 
down there, that except for the efforts of the various 
theological seminaries here the codfish and bluenoses 
would never hear of McGill at all. This appears to 
be a strange oversight on the part of the authorities. 
McGill is not so famous that it can afford to neglect 
this powerful means of enlarging its influence. No 
wonder we hear of crowds of young men from the 
provinces going to Edinburgh and Harvard. The re- 
putation of these institutions is world- wide and a long 
way ahead of McGill’s. The last needs to make its 
advantages known, and will need to do so for half a 
century to come. Full information regarding courses 
of study, fees, etc., and the expense of living in Mon- 
treal, should be advertised persistently all over the 
Dominion. The cost would be trifling, a bagatelle 
compared with that of maintaining separate classes and 
the return would be prompt and gratifying. 

Trusting that you gentlemen will urge this matter 
upon the consideration of the authorities, I am, 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. T. 



Marion Elmore has retired from Niblo’s Garden. It 
is reported that they will raise ’Elmore than ever, now 
that Marion is gone. But Sheol return just the same. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



Personals. 



Rev. Jas. W. Pedley, ’84, has settled in Georgetown, 
Ont. 

T. W. Watson, Ap. Sc. ’86, is married and settled 
in Greeces Point. 

Rev. A. W. Gerrie, ’84, has married a wife, and 
settled in Pine Grove, Ont. 

Jas. A. McFarlane, B.A., *85 is on the teaching staff 
of the High School of Montreal. 

John L. Hislop, B. Ap. Sc. is engaged on the Bur- 
lington and Quincy R. R., Chicago. 

H. Campbell, B.A., *85, (Morrin) has been engaged 
as Principal of Clarenceville Academy. 

Prof. Coussirat while in France, this summer, was 
made on officer of the French Academy. 

A. A. MacKay, B.A., ’84 will study law in Halifax 
at the Dalhousie Law School this winter. 

David Ogilvy, A. Ap. Sc., is employed in the firm 
of Hutchison & Steele, Architects, of this city. 

William Graham, B. Ap. Sc. is exercising his skill 
in connection with the U. S. Bridge Works at St. 
Paul. 

Geo. F. Calder, B.A., *85 is at present teaching in 
Aylmer Academy, where he holds the position of Prin- 
cipal. 

A. C. Rutherford, B.A., B.C.L., has passed the Bar 
examination in Ontario, and is now practising law in 
Ottawa. 

John McDonald, B. Ap. Sc. has recently b^en re- 
ceived into the firm of Sidney Smith & Co., Civil- 
Engineers of Omaha. 

James Mabon, B.A., ’84 is now teaching in Inver- 
ness, Que., where he occupies the office of Principal of 
Inverness Academy. 

J. A. Ferguson, Med. *87 is unable, through poor 
health, to attend the present session. He goes to 
Colorado for the winter. 

H. M. Ami, B.A., has recently returned from 
Europe. While away he received a decoration from 
the Swiss Geological Society. 

Murray Watson, B.A.. ’85, who for some time dur- 
ing the past summer was quite ill in St. John, N.B., 
has completely recovered and is at present at his home 
home in Montreal. 

John A. Boyd, formerly of the Arts class of *84, 
and since well-known in journalistic circles in Mon- 
treal is a student this year in the Faculty of Law. He 
is Secretary of the Parliamentary Debating Society. 

J. P. Mclnerney, M.D. C.M.’ 84, who established 
himself in the city of Portland, N. B. about a year and 
a half ago, has already succeeded in attracting a large 
and lucrative practice. Public confidence means to 
make him one of the leading physicians of that city. 

F. Wolferstan Thomas, B.A., ’82 has, with several 
others, been admitted as barrister-at-law by the 



Ontario law society without examination owing to 
absence on active service in the North-West during 
the late Rebellion. Mr. Thomas resides in London. 

Rev. W. T. Curie, ’85, has been appointed a mis- 
sionary of the Canada Congregational churches to 
West Central Africa. He leaves next spring for his 
distant field ; in the meantime he is visiting the 
churches with a view of getting them more interested 
in his life work among the blacks. 

John G. Owens, ’85, Med., who, but for a mishap, 
would have graduated last spring, was seriously 
wounded, early last month, by the accidental discharge 
of a gun, while on an excursion near Fredericton, 
N.B. The shot took effect in h!s left hand and arm, 
and also in his face. He is recovering from the 
effects. 



Between the Lectures. 



A Vassar maiden met a man 
Who never learned a paradigm, 

But he was rich and drove a span, 

And she shook Greek and married him. 

Washington Star. 

— A dentist advertises “ Teeth inserted without 
pain.” This shows one marked difference between a 
dentist and a dog. 

— The Louisville Courier- Journal asks ; “ Are we 
going to the devil V ’ Here is another argument against 
the use of the editorial “we." One doesn’t know how 
to answer. 

“An exchange speaks of mineral wool. Let’s see. 
That’s the kind they shear from hydraulic rams, isn’t 
it?” [Puck.] Yes ; what they make iron wear out of, 
you know. 

— Professor, looking at his watch — “As we have a 
few more minutes, I shall be glad to answer any 
question that any one may wish to ask.” Student — 
“ What time is it, please ?” 

— “Arthur,” said a good natured father to his “young 
hopeful.” “ I did not know until to-day that you had 
been whipped last week.” “ Didn’t you, pa?” replied 
hopeful. “ I knew it at the time.” 

Professor (to a lazy student): “ You may pass on to 
the ‘Future Life.’ ” 

Student : “Not prepared Sir.” 

Professor (grimly): “True ; quite true.” 

“I understand you are a graduate of Yassar, Miss 
Lucy. Did you every study English literature to any 
extent ?” “ Oh, mercy, yes ; we had Hogg for breakfast, 
Bacon for dinner, Lamb for tea, and Lover in the 
evening.” 

Mrs. Murphy — “ And now is Mickey nowadays ?” 
Mrs. McGinty — “ Shure, it’s bad he is. He’s wastin’ 
away wid the consumption. If he kapes on gettin’ 
thinner and thinner he’ll make a devil of a poor carpse 
so he will. 

— A Galveston school-teacher had a great deal of 
trouble making a boy understand his lesson. Finally, 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1885. 



he succeeded and drawing a long breath remarked : — 
“ If it wasn’t for me you would be the biggest donkey 
on Galveston Island !” 

At Adrian, Mich, a lady saw a fire engine house with 
a steeple and innocently asked a gentleman attendant : 
“ What church is that?” The gentleman, after reading 
the sign, “ Deluge No. 3,” replied : “I guess it must 
be the Third Baptist.” — 

A Yassar damsel has been doing Switzerland. Ge- 
nius soars triumphant in her last letter to papa : I 

tried to climb the Materhorn to-day ; didn’t reach the 
top ; it is absurdly high ; everything is high in this 
country. Please send me some money. 

Professor (describing an ancient Greek theatre): 
“ And it had no roof.” Junior (sure that he has 
caught professor in a mistake) : “What did they do, 

sir, when it rained ?” Professor (taking off his glasses 
and pausing angrily): “They got w r et, Sir.” 

— A woman recently entered a store and sat down 
in front of an iron safe to warm her feet. After sitt- 
ing some twenty or thirty minutes, she remarked thus : 
“ 1 never did like them kind of stoves. They don’t 
throw' out scarcely any heat, those gas burners don’t. 

News is cabled over that Prince Henry of Batten- 
burg has returned to Sofia. And Henry has been 
married to Beatrice only a few weeks. Well, the 
princess can sue for a divorce and console herself with 
the reflection that “ men were deceivers ever.” But 
who is this Sofia, anyway ? 

Judge (to small witness) — Little boy, do you know 
the nature of an oath ? 

Small Witness (doubtfully) — N-no, Sir. 

Judge — Do you know what you are to tell ? 

Small Witness (doubts cleared away) — Oh yes, Sir. 
That baldheaded old lawyer over there told me what 
to tell. 

Sam Jones says: “One dollar that a boy sweats 

for is worth one hundred thousand dollars that any 
boy will win in a lottery without perspiring.” If Mr. 
Jones thinks a boy can win one hundred thousand 
dollars in a lottery without perspiring, he only ex- 
hibits his ignorance of how such institutions are 
managed. — Puck. 

Mr. A. (who has come out for a day’s pleasure on 
his friend’s yacht) — Jack, what’s all that racket over- 
head ? ” 

Jack — “ There’s a vessel to windward making signs 
of distress.” 

Mr. A. (very faintly). — “Signs of distress? Send 
’em some basins. — The Rambler. 

“ Sarah, don’t you think we'd better hurry up our 
marriage ?” 

“ Why, Adolphus ?” 

“I have just read in a trade journal that a heavier 
grade of boot will be manufactured for the coming 
season than has been worn before for many years.” 

“ Oh, that’s all right, Adolphus. Pa has finally be- 
come reconciled to our marriage.” 



OUR OWN JOKER AT WORK. 



The other day while our genial prof, in Mineralogy 
was lecturing in the large room of the Museum, a habit - 
ant entered by the students’ entrance and, seeing the 
professor, but not the class, called out in hearty tones, 
“Voulez-vous acheter du beurre, monsieur?” The 
roar that followed this interruption of the proceedings 
may perhaps be imagined but can certainly not be 
described. 



Student in mining, to prof. “ Sir, I understand the 
meaning of ‘ incline,’ but 1 don’t know what a ‘ slope’ 
is.” Prof., grimly, “ Perhaps some of your fellow 
students will be kind enough to explain the term to 
you.” 



Poi is a dish peculiar to certain islands of the Pacific. 
An Irish Astronomer who had recently been in that 
region was asked on his return, “ Pray, Mr. J., what 
is this ‘ poi ’ like ? ” “ Oh, ruadame,” he responded 

with a twinkle in his eyes, “ the poi’s a little tart.” 

The grip sack is growing larger. 

“Och Doctor, but it’s a bad throat I’ve got,” said an 
Irish patient to one of our medicos the other day. 
“ Well,” said the doctor, “ can you gargle it with whis- 
key?” “Troth, I can sir.” The medico poured out 
the liquor and there was silence for a moment after the 
man had put it in his mouth. Then came a heart- 
broken exclamation, “ Bejabbers, Dochtor dear, it 
schlipped.” 



CAPTIOUS CYNIC. 

My Late Speeches or the Ebullitions of Genius. — 
By Double- You Bohn. 

A rather voluminous work, but one full of charm- 
ingly interesting accounts of hosts of Lytell inci- 
dents. The publisher, relying on the popularity of 
the author, expects a large circulation especially in the 
Medical Faculty. 

The Long and the Short of it, or Giants versus 
Liliputs. — By Wat Tisit. 

A small and beautifully illustrated volume, in which 
the world is depicted as seen from different elevations. 
A notable illustration is that showing the Echography 
of England. Another diagram graphically sketches 
“ Soler observations from English stand points.” The 
author rather compromises himself by concluding with 
an exhaustive disquisition on tooth pick boots which 
he recommends should be made on the last of England. 
Our author indulges in many foot notes. 

Where is the Song Book.— B y Dead Beat, (Author 
of ‘ Pay No Subscriptions.’) 

This contraband pamphlet is in the hands of about 
half the collegians. 

Doing it on the Sly, or Mashing on St. Catherine 
St. — B y the Author of ‘ Where to Buy a One 
Cent Stamp.’ 

This little book is invaluable to senior students but 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



• 15 



should be shunned by all the rigidly-moral army of 
freshmen. The author may be met near the Queen’s 
llall at eight o’clock almost any evening, when he will 
be ready to give introductions at the moderate charge 
of 3 sous per head. Applicants must carry canes. 
The watch-word is “ Oxford .” 



A LECTURE ON BURGLARS WITH BEDSIDE 
DEMONSTRATION. 

“ I was a stranger and ye took me in.” Such must 
have been the mournful exclamation of a freshie who 
was introduced to a burglar a few nights ago. He had 
fallen among a set of hardened, wily sophs and seniors 
who had related tales of robbery and murder, each 
more horrible than the preceding, until even the 
limits of his credulity were passed and he smiled a 
smile of doubt. This put them on their mettle and 
they “ laid for the freshie.” It was a gloomy midnight, 
and freshie lay blissfully dreaming, when the door 
opened and a form stole through the darkness towards 
the sleeper. It was masked and carried a revolver in 
each hand, and bending over the slumbering youth 
hissed in his ears : “ Put up your hands !” There was 
a convulsive movement under the bed clothes, and then 
out came a pair of hands that extended themselves 
piteously towards the midnight intruder. At the same 
time, freshie kicked his bed fellow surreptitiously under 
the sheets, but his comrade was sleeping the guileless, 
deep sleep of the senior, and would not awaken. “ Up 
with your hands ” hissed the ruffian ; “ yes sir, yes sir,” 
replied freshie in agony, and up went his hands. 

“ Higher and higher they went until he lay with his 
arms extended at full length over his head. “ Now get 
up and open your trunk,” continued the burglar, and 
freshie rose, trembling in his robe de nuit , to obey the 
order. Those who were spectators of the scene may 
have found comedy in the sight of the agitated freshie 
tumbling the contents of his trunk over the floor and 
the heartless burglar standing by with his weapons 
held threateningly, but to one actor the play was a 
tragedy, and a tragedy of most vital interest. Yet the 
play was destined to end soon. The sleeping senior 
began to have disturbing dreams. He wriggled about 
in bed and uttered a series of inarticulate groans ; some- 
times he gnawed the quilt in the anguish of his night- 
mare. Even the burglar began to have qualms. His 
face twisted under the mask, and his body became bent 
as he darted glances at the bed of the Sleeper. Surely, 
armed as he was, he had no fear, yet as he stood by the 
shivering white-robed, kneeling figure at the trunk, 
the pistols began to waver and he, also, moaned to 
himself. The climax came at last when, with a shriek 
of demoniacal laughter, the sleeper sat up and pointed 
at the freshie, for at this the burglar dropped his weap- 
ing and clasping his hands over his stomach rushed 
shrieking from the room. Freshie rose to his feet and 
glanced around him. Black doubt whispered in his 
heai t and doubt became certainty as he heard the cry, 
“ Sold again ” echo through the room. We refrain 
from depicting his feelings, but should you ever meet 
him do not say “ yes sir, yes sir,” unless you are bigger 
than he. 



■ ■ 






Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot Balls, Boxing 
Gloves, Fencing Foils, Masks, &c. 

— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS, 

Fancy Good?, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

68 ST. sri.l'K l: STREET. 



E. _A_. GEBTH, 



IMPORTER OF 



GIG 



W & M ^ 

W (abates 

liriar and Meerschaum Pipes. 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr 3 r Stvi.cleaa.tc; 3*£i2i:fu.re- 
Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN'S BLOCK. 



J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant mr 

ft TAILORS, 






11671 [E 



Iflfil WAMM ST. 

MONTREAL, 



^/Vm. Hotman 




ON, 




l 



New Scale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 



-Me FOR STUDENTS #-<- 

17 ELETTHY ST. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 




21 BLEUE/Y ST. 



Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuiis, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c. &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurgiral ^nsIrmiiEnls. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 




384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



C. ASHFORD'S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 



aostx) 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SOILT], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

6784 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



THE 

|jurlai|3 ^itIioorapI|ic (jo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KIND 8 

OF 

•^Engraving and Fine Printings 

NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 

BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

PROCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELEOTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In. all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 



