cri r-ftesrr 

DEC 2 7r,? 6 

LIBRARY 



j 



The McGill 



31 M - < ^ W- *- - 



Redpath Bilbsai*/ 



Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. II No. 3 



PRICE 10 Cents 



Wednesday, December 1, 1926 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

The Players’ Club and Moyse Hall 

• T T 

Fancies 1 • 1 ■ 

On Having a Shoe Shine. . . . Hugh C. G. Herkelols 

IK 

Romance 

Chesterton Leo Kennedy 

Below Quebec ^ 



The Cambridge-McGill Debate L. E. 

Cargo Liner Leo Cox 



Three Poems A. J. M. Smith 

Something Apart 
For Ever and Ever, Amen 
Epitaph 
BOOKS 



EDITORIAL 



W E regret to announce the resignation from 
our Editorial Board of Messrs. A. B. Latham 
and Leo Edel. Associated with us since the 
founding of this journal they have been of invaluable 
aid in establishing the Fortnightly at McGill. Al- 
though they have severed their editorial connections 
with us we hope to publish occasionally articles from 
their pens. 



• • * * 



T HE delicate irony latent in the phrase “student 
activity” was long ago noted and commented 
upon. Activities were those phases of the life 
of undergraduates that had nothing to do with the 
studies which in theory were the purpose of their 
resort to the university. To these latter it would 
have occured to nobody to apply the word activity. 
Activities meant athletics, dramatics, journalism, 
and so on. Activities were the field where the student 
could express his personality, and lind relief from 
restraints imposed by his elders. 

It now appears that we have passed into a new 
stage where student activities not only have nothing 
to do with studies, but very little to do with students. 
Students are merely the pawns moved around by 
elders sitting in snug offices and drawing comfortable 
salaries. This has been well brought out in the recent 
Harvard-Princeton controversy. The papers have 
been filled with the statements of dignitaries such 
as presidents, managers, and coaches. We hear noth- 
ing about students with but one exception. lne 
editors of a Harvard undergraduate publication, 
in violation of the rules of the game, expressed their 
opinion on the situation. This brought matters to a 
head. 



A RECENT correspondent to the McGill 
Daily put forward the interesting suggestion that 
the' control of this journal should be 
in the hands of the Students’ Council operating 
through the medium of the Literary and Debating 
Society. The idea is one that we should expect to 
receive fairly widespread support. 

It might be submitted, however, by any one who 
stopped to think, that the Students’ Council would 
hardly care to beccme too closely associated with 
a concern whose financial future is not of the bright- 
est. It would be a shame to reduce the well-earned 
profits of the Red and White Revue or the Daily 
by a deficit encountered in an heroic but unbusiness- 
like attempt to support literature. Indeed, the Fort- 
nightly owes its origin to the unwillingness of a 
Students’ Council to devote a part of the undergrad- 
uates’ money to an immaterial cause. All sound 
students will realize that it is better to let any finan- 
cial anxiety due to a too ardent wooing of the muses 
be confined to a small group of individuals. 



♦ * * * 



I T is amusing to note that our contemporary has 
inaugurated a popularity contest for professors. 
The halls of the Faculty Club are filled with an 
apprehensive buzz as the victims await the letters 
in which their students no doubt award the palm to 
this or that popular pundit, for, from the terms in 
which the article announcing the competition was 
written, it is clear that the sponsors of the contest 
intend it to be of an ironical nature. This is a good 
thing in that it will add to the gaiety of the campus, 
and that it will serve as an excellent flail for folly. 
We would be the last to declare that folly and learn- 



18 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



ing, pomposity and the professoriat are not often 
found in conjunction, even at McGill. Nevertheless, 
we feel that, though the move is in the right direc- 
tion, there is a danger of its usefulness being blown 
away by a gust of irreverent and irrelevant laughter. 
Criticism of professors by students has always ex- 
isted sub rosa, and a more serious attempt to bring 
this criticism into the open might be helpful. It 
certainly would be no more humiliating to those 
who were censured than the present competition 
which holds its victims up to ridicule rather than 
rebuke. 

* * * * 



W E see by the McGill Daily that thirty-six 
Arts seniors have decided that their aca- 
demic dignity is dependent on the wearing 
of the gown. Human vanity is clearly at the base 
of this sudden desire for gown-wearing. It is regret- 
table that a small group of students should seek to 
re-introduce a custom which quite naturally died 
out and which was officially abandoned. In the 
Middle Ages scholars and theologians were identical. 
Today we have a separation of functions. The theo- 
logian is still universally distinguished by his gown. 
The university student has, in most places, quite 
naturally cast aside the very clumsy trapping. And 
to revive a tradition is worse than instituting one. 
As it is, you hear a great deal of claptrap about ins- 
tituting this and that one. The idea that full-blown 
“traditions” can be given birth to is of course absurd. 
It is even more absurd to receive them. Now, if the 
apostolic succession were once broken, no Christian 
would think that it could be taken up again after a 
lapse of years. The life of a tradition depends, similarly 
on its unbroken succession. This succession having 
once been broken, picking it up again years later 
is pure fatuity. 

The Arts seniors who are anxious to distinguish 
themselves by means of their gowns (which must 
not fall below the knee) should, we think, be able 
to stand out from other students on account of less 
immediately perceptible but actually more real 
differences. In the same manner, students, as such, 
should stand out from those who have not the ad 
vantages of a liberal education. 

* * * * 

W E have always received a great deal of crit- 
icism to the effect that the Fortnightly is 
not “highbrow” enough. We have been much 
perturbed over this and have tried to obtain articles 
on abstruse subjects ranging from metaphysics and 
theology to political economy and college athletics. 
But it is generally felt that the readers of The McGill 
Fortnightly Review are too temperamental to appre- 
ciate writing other than poetry and flippant prose. 

Hence the editors are very much pleased with the 
recent suggestion for a McGill Quarterly. Such a 
periodical would fulfill a highly important need. 
As we said on a previous occasion, there is room in 
the university for all types of journalism. The pur- 
pose of the Fortnightly has been described, while 
that of the Daily is, as it were, indescribable. There 
is still a place at McGill for a review which would 
limit itself to solid monographs of national and 
academic interest. 



The Players’ Club and Moyse Hall 

I T appears that the Players Club, which for the 
past two years has been carrying on excellent work 
under more than usual difficulties, has not yet seen 
the last of its troubles. 

At the beginning of this term three one act plays 
were selected and casted, and preparations were 
begun for their production. When, however, the 
officers of the club made application for the use of 
the little theatre in Moyse Hall, they were somewhat 
surprised to receive a definitely unfavourable reply 
from Doctor MacMillan, and a virtual refusal from 
Dean Ira Mackay, embodied in the letter which, 
by permission of the president of the Club, we quote 
below. What makes Dr. MacMillan’s refusal seem 
somewhat inconsistent is the fact that when ap- 
proved in regard to the matter last spring he at 
that time received the suggestion with favour. 

We are at a loss to account for the difficulties which 
are being put in the way of the undergraduate dram- 
atic society. Judged by their record of the past two 
years the players cannot be condemned as incompe- 
tents. They have presented plays by Galsworthy, 
Shaw, Pinero, Sutro and others of lesser note, in a 
manner which, though not always above every crit- 
icism, has won the approbation of the press and of 
that small proportion of the university which is 
interested in modern drama. The college and public 
press have mentioned on more than one occasion that 
the limitations of a makeshift stage were the only real 
cause preventing our McGill players from ranking 
with the finest amateur groups in the city. It was 
thought that the gift of Moyse Hall to the University 
would remove the greatest obstacle in the way of 
undergraduate dramatics at McGill. The necessity 
of appreciating the point of view of the authorities 
m withholding permission from the Players’ Club to 
use Moyse Hall makes inevitable the quotation in 
full of Dean Mackay’s reply to the formal application 
made by Mr. A. M. Archdale, the president of the 
society. It reads as follows: 

Mr. A. M. Archdale, 

President, McGill Players Club, 

McGill University, Montreal. 

My dear Archdale: 

I have received your application made on 
behalf of the McGill Players Club and dated the 3rd instant, 
and now wish to reply as follows. 

In my recent conversation with you on 
this subject I stated that I was unwilling at present to recom- 
mend that the Players Club should be permitted to rehearse 
and produce three plays mentioned by you and which you pro- 
pose to produce early in December, and for the following 
reasons 

1. Because I have no assurance that you 
would be able to manage the expensive stage machinery in a 
careful way. 

2. Because I doubted that with your regular 
studies you would be able to produce these plays well in so 
short a period of preparation. 

3. Because I was personally anxious that 
the opening performance on the Moyse stage should perhaps 
be more classical and possibly more pretentious and less modern 
and problematical than the three plays you suggest. 



The McGill F ortnightly Review 



19 



I also suggested to you that it was my hope 
that the Players Club might again begin its work anew by as- 
sociating itself closely with the departments of English, French 
and Classics in the University with a view to getting together 
the very best possible talent, direction and criticism for the 
purpose of making the theatre a real University success. 

I also asked you at the time to send me as 
soon as convenient to you, a list of the officers and members 
of the Club and a clear statement of its ends and aims in order 
that I might be able to appreciate what its ambitions really are. 

I think, too, that you can appreciate the force of this request 
as it would be obviously impossible for me to allow free use of 
the theatre to an organization which I really know nothing 
about. 

I should also like to point out to you finally 
that similar ventures in other Universities, for example in Hart 
House, Toronto, have met with a good deal of criticism on the 
ground that expensive university theatres of this kind are apt 
to be used merely as places of student amusement and not for 
any serious educational purposes, and I can scarcely be blamed, 
therefore, if just at present I am anxious to avoid similar crit- 
icism at McGill. 

Yours very truly, 

(signed) Ira A. Mackay 
Dean 

We are sure that Dean Mackay would be the last 
to deny us the right of joining issue with him upon a 
matter which so nearly concerns the undergraduate 
body, and we are glad to feel that at McGill a student 
publication may, without being considered either 
impertinent or rebellious, express opinions which 
are in some measure a criticism of the authorities. 

It will be convenient to deal with the objections 
raised in the Dean's letter, point by point. 

1. That the members of the Players Club would be 
unable to manage the expensive stage machinery in a 
careful way. 

This objettion is only valid on the assumption 
that the members of the Club are men of no ex- 
perience. Such is not the case. Among the members 
is a student who was associated in an important 
capacity with both the Literap^ and Dramatic 
Society of Birmingham University and with the 
Birmingham Repertory Theatre, and another who 
was for five years with the University of British 
Columbia Players, one of the best known undergradu- 
ate dramatic societies in Canada, while the president 
is connected also with the St. James Players. The 
past productions of the Players Club have amply 
demonstrated that its members are not children 
incapable of being entrusted with the staging of a 
modern play. 

2. That with their regular studies they would not 
be able to produce their plays well in so short a period 
of preparation . 

To this several answers might be made. In the 
first place, the Club was planning to spend as much 
time in the careful production of these plays as they 
have for any in the past. Again, had the use of the 
theatre been granted at once, the Club would have 
been able to devote more than a month to their prep- 
aration and rehearsal— surely time enough when 
it is considered that the plays are all of one act only. 
Finally, if the Dean is suggesting that regular study 
might be interfered with by such activities, we feel 
that the same criticism could more justly be levelled 
at activities such as senior football, or the Red and 



White Revue, for which latter some four or five 
months of extensive preparation are felt to be nec- 
essary. 

3. That the opening performance on the Moyse 
stage should perhaps be more classical and possibly 
more pretentious and less modern and problematical 
than the three suggested plays. 

This objection has already been overcome. The 
performance by Pierre Magnier and his Porte St. 
Martin players was the first performance on the 
Moyse stage, and it perhaps is more classical and 
more pretentious, etc. than the plays suggested. The 
objection, however, has a further implication. There 
is in it a note of disapproval of the plays selected 
by the Club for production this term. These plays 
are The Glittering Gate , by common consent Lord Dun- 
sany’s masterpiece, and a favourite production of 
Little Theartres everywhere; Shall We Join The 
Ladies , Barrie’s unfinished tour deforce , a work which 
has never yet been seen in Canada; and a play in light- 
er vein by an internationally famous McGill professor. 
We cannot imagine how the performance of such 
plays could be anything but a benefit both to the 
actors and the spectators. The production of “more 
classical and possibly more pretentious and less 
modem and problematical" plays might very well 
be left to those who are engaged in a special study 
of the drama. Finally it would seem to be unfortunate 
to deprecate the choice of modern plays. The age 
ot Shaw, Synge, Barrie, and Galsworthy has surely 
nothing to fear from comparison with any great 
epoch. 

4. That the Players Club might begin its work anew 
by associating itself closely with the Departments of 
English , French and Classics. 

As the Players Club is concerned with the pro- 
duction of plays in English, its associations would 
obviously not be with the French and Classics De- 
partments. With the English Department the club 
was once very closely connected. At that time, 
however, the club did not produce the type of play 
in any way in keeping with the desirable qualities 
mentioned in Dean Mackay’ s letter. The most 
“pretentious" production was that of The Little 
Princess , a saccharose brew by the estimable au- 
thoress of Little Lord Fauntleroy , and this can, by 
no stretch of the imagination, be called “classical. 

But the association of the club with the English 
Department not only resulted in the production 
of unsatisfactory effeminate plays, it led finally to 
the violent dissolution of the club. 

There was a desire in some quarters that the mem- 
bership of the club should be restricted to students 
talcing honours in English. This desire was not 
shared by the majority of the members of the or- 
ganization, for the simple reason that they were 
not taking honours in English; nor was there any 
reason to believe that histrionic ability was miracul- 
ously endowed by, and religiously limited to, students 
enrolled in honours English. The implacable temper 
displayed by those in favour of a policy of exclusion 
resulted in the temporary disbandment of the Club. 

Shortly after, an extremely pointed letter from 
the pen of E. Wallace Willard, Arts ‘23, was pub- 
lished in the Daily. As it is very relevant to the 
present argument it may be permitted us to quote a 
paragraph from Mr. Willard’s letter: 



It: is difficult to see why such an organization i.e. A players 
Club need be under the direction of the English Department, 
particularly at McGill where said Department has not so far 
exhibited any ability in organization or in choice of play ma- 
terial. 

.... If the Department of English wishes to put on plays 
of its own for purely critical purposes it is entirely at liberty 
to do so without conflicting in any way with any other dramat- 
ic society. 

trJL W0Uld u eem u hat tbese statements are as true 
f? day aS When th ?y were first Published. For all 
w S <f rea ?9 ns ’ think that the Players Club should 
,J° Wlth tbe English Department but 
^ ls ii fa , ct sho . uld certainly not be allowed to prevent 

ine ofitF raduate dramatic organization from putt- 
ing on its own productions m Moyse Hall. 



and frankly over the table, and a settlement of some 
sort be arrived at. We understand that on the initiat- 
ive of Mr. Amaron, the president of the Students’ 
Council, this has already been done and that one 
or two members of the Graduate School who are 
taking an active part in the Plavers’ Club the 
° f u he Club f nd the President of the Stu- 
fuIï tS Counci1 are seeking an opportunity of laying 
their case personally before the Principal Dean 
Mackay and possibly the Heads of the English, Clas- 
sics, and Modern Languages Departments. With 
what success this move will be attended we are unable 

L°n!° re ? St; , bu . t u Urely ’ if the dictates of reason are 
ollowed and the boasted tenets of student democracv 

<f Moyse Hill**™’ Qub WÜ1 be granted the ™ 



the'ZnïL ü tn would be impossible to allow free use of 
known 1 an organnatlon about which little is 

Players P ub > as it is at present constituted 
ba Lbeen m existence for two years, during which 
time it has produced three series of plays in the Bio 
g Pudd {ng, all of which have beef open to the 

in ïhe’ fress T^rf^ 3 due share of pubîicïy 
StîiHpnf? Tb f C1 V b IS und er the control of the 

terhead ofSp 1 ^ 1 an ? * s . name figures on the let- 
terhead of the Council Stationery. Its obiects aims 

a Tbate rMo?se HÏ re “ ntly P 6 ™ 11 "* 1 10 hold 

TdfcSml any smS 

S&èVA °Li a - d Ss 

we think mosf^^^anrto strei !°" tha ,' 

ficient justification of its existence ' S 

that one which would appear to have a natura 6 right 

Now ft must not be thought from nil thîo 

we are blind to faults commuted bv the stideiït? 
organization. We are n nt . studen ts 

that the executive of the Players’ Club mnwf 3 * 
been guilty of certain errors in tact boffin ?if V - e 



tinri io *w St u? COU1 L aging aspect of the whole situa- 
Î>p 1H thp h n al P? u ^ h Permission has so far been with- 
held the Dean s letter is not a final refusal; and, when 
he authorities have been fully satisfied as to the 
nat fiü e an d capabilities of the Players Club, we are 
confident that the use of the hall will be granted 
Even so, however, the long unexpected delay, has 

hf dn y b ha ^ Pered t o hlS years work of the dub, and 
during the K*SS;. "° W to glVe any P r °duction 



Fancies 

I 

STAND by the window, Tyltyl, 

Stand close by the old chintz curtains. 

Tell the littlest diamond 
It has wonder in its eyes. 

But leave me to blow smoke rings 
In a dusty comer. 



II 

SHARPLY place a cube edgewise 
By a still, dark water. 

Watch a drowning shadfly’s last convulsion 
Set the inverted universe dancing. 

Then if the intricate edges are intelligible 
You may be an Einstein 
Or a laundry-man. 



Ill 

I AM all agog with winsomeness, 

Hey nonny , no. 

For today I drank from a harebell 
As I was passing by. 

And swallowed fifty fairies 
Before they had time to fly. 

Tra la, la, tra la, la. 

Hey nonny, nonino. 

Yea, verily, I am agog with a wanton winsomeness. 



T. T. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



21 



On Having a Shoe Shine 

Hugh C. G. Herkelots 

0 Cambridge Debating Team) 



M ANY impressions I will carry back from the 
American Continent when I return to England 
in December. The sight of New York from the 
sea, the colour of maple trees in Autumn, my first 
entry into a cafeteria and a hundred other things 
Already my mind is burdened with the memory of 
innumerable novelties, and my pockets with well- 
filled notebooks. Yet no memory, I think, will be 
so vivid as that of having my shoes cleaned. In Eng- 
land we are prosaic folks: we never see our shoes 
cleaned : it is a miracle that happens while we slumber — 
one of the many accepted miracles of life. We dimly 
suspect that brushes and boot polishes are used; indeed 
it must be so, for boot polish is advertised on all our 
boardings, but that is all we know. It is not so in the 
^ates: is not so in Canada. Here you have instituted 

the shoe-shine: you have raised a material necessitv 
to the high level of an adventure. 

It was not without a tremor of fear that I first took 
my seat in the shoe-shine parlour. I was to resign my 
feet entirely and absolutely to the care of a perfect 
stranger, of whose existence I had been completely 
unaware not three minutes before. He might punch 
them, he might pummel them, he might subject them 
to the grim torture of the bastinado. I felt helpless— 
yet not entirely helpless. I reserved to myself the right 
to kick. 

But I had little cause to fear. The bootblack did 
not seem to speak my language, but that did not mat- 
ter very much. We were not there for the purpose of 
conversation. He lovingly handled my feet. He looked 
at them sympathetically, albeit a little reproachfully 
These were quite obviously the feet of Englishmen 
I hey had never been properly treated. Still they were 
not beyond redemption, He laboured on. He used 
cloths and brushes and about four different polishes 
It seemed rather like having one’s hair cut. I expected 
ali the while to be told: “It’s getting a little thin on 
top, Sir, or Rather bad dandruff on the left lace — 
try some of our special lace restorer, fifty cents a bottle 
It s all our own make, Sir, and guaranteed.” When it 
was all done I still waited timorously, fully expecting 
to be asked, “And what will you have on it Sir ?” 
But he remained silent. The deed was done.’ Î paid 
my bill and departed. The bootblack had worked 
well. He had done his best with my shoes, and doubt- 
less expected to make good friends of them, to learn 
their little whims, to explore their nooks and crannies 
I stepped out with shining feet, avoiding the puddles 
left by the October rains. Yet I never returned. 

“In silence we parted to sever for years.” 

Like Jurgen I was determined to try every drink once. 
Tomorrow to fresh woods and pastures new. 

So on the morrow I went elsewhere for my shoe- 
shine. I had my shoes cleaned by a Negro. He did not 
shew the loving care that had thrilled my toes the day 
before. Rather he seemed to go through a series of 
motions well conned by rote. He seldom looked at 
the shoes. His eyes were elsewhere. He had no in- 
terest in the individual shoe. He was but the part 
of a machine. He began by rubbing some white liquid 



over my brown shoes. It looked like the froth of beer. 
I did not like to interrupt him, for I supposed that he 
knew what he was about, but it seemed an odd way 
to clean shoes that were obviously intended by their 
maker to be brown. Still it was his job and not mine: 
it was best to wait and see. My eyes wandered else- 
where. On the wall near by I read the legend: These 
shoe-shine boys have pledged themselves to give courte- 
ous and efficient service. I visualized a great ceremony 
of initiation, at which shoe-shine boy after shoe-shine 
boy came forward to take the oath: “I, shoe-shine boy 
number 2537, hereby pledge myself to render courte- 
ous and efficient service, so far as in me lies, to all 
customers irrespective of race, creed, or nationality.” 
But evidently the pledge of a shoe-shine boy is held 
in little esteem— for at the foot of the notice I read 
In cases of ineffeciency, report number of boy.” I 
discovered further that the place was protected by a 
detective agency, who held themselves personally 
responsible for courteous and efficient service. 

In Canada they are he-men. They are not afraid 
. getting their hands dirty. So they clean your shoes 
with their fingers, rubbing the polish in with an evident 
delight, and with remarkable results. In Montreal 
my shoes were made so shiny that I felt they were 
almost ostentatious. I was inclined to ask the man 
to take off some of the polish. But I was in a hurrv 
and I felt certain that he would scrape it off with his 
finger nails, so I spared him the task. In Quebec my 
shoes were cleaned by a little Frenchman who danced 
as he worked and played upon my feet as upon a piano. 
Had fate been kinder he might have been a ballet 
dancer or a pianist. Perhaps he is, at night, when 
the labours of the day are over. But fate has not really 
been unkind to him. He might have been but an ordi- 
nary pianist it may be — but he was a very extraordi- 
nary bootblack. I have never known a man clean 
shoes with such aplomb. But whether I meet his like 
again or no, and however long I stay on this side of 
the Atlantic, a shoe-shine will always be an adventure. 



Romance 



HIGH Arthur lived at Camelot 
When all the world was young: 

In courtesie and chivalrie, 

Rare deeds and all simplicity — 

Our sad philosophies were not 
When Camelot was young. 

As Roland came to Charlemagne 
Beyond the woods of Fors, 

Wearing all honour in his eyes 
And faith; he bade the Emperor rise — 
We did not ride with Charlemagne 
And Roland to the wars. 

So does a man drop heavy head 
On yellowed book and drowse: 

Dreaming of good, forgotten things, 
Beauty and truth, and Dragon’s wings— 
There is not room for Wisdom’s head 
In Knowledge’s new house. 



LK. 



22 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Chesterton 

Leo Kennedy 



W HEN pessimists have thoroughly enjoyed their 
gloom and psychologists bored them to death 
with the sex-appeal of grasshoppers, a man can 
walk out into that splendid element the rain, and rock 
on his heels or head with a great laughter. A dry 
laugh is a dangerous thing, but if he laugh till he is 
in tears it is well. And if he laugh in the rain, there 
is a certain symbolic ceremony and gesture enacted 
that you will readily see if you do not try to work 
it out. Laughter at psychologists and pigs and all 
words with to lead them, for they are funny; laugh- 
ter at himself for he is funnier to allow them freedom; 
then laughter at the earth that accepts all with the 
quietness of indifference. It is droll. A stodgy and 
somewhat corpulent portion of mud whirls in a wide 
space, populated by figures that prowl and do things 
.... usually the right and wrong things for opposite 
reasons. Since Earth is circular, and in that the circle 
goes always on, symbolizing eternity, it is even a 
rarer joke to know that it will end. There is so little 
sanity in solemnity, only God can be solemn. And 
likely enough God laughs sometimes. 

A man who laughs always is not necessarily a fool. 
And should he be, fools are quite interesting people. 
But there is so much in this round-about that laugh- 
ter will transform — or make more obvious. And to 
see a thing after looking at it for a time may be a 
greater shock than seeing it change suddenly to 
something else — as Mr. Chesterton proclaims. 

There, I have arrived at Mr. Chesterton, I have 
come home at last. That is the sensible reasoning 
of a Victorian novelist named Dickens, and earlier, 
Rabelais, and Mr. Chesterton, and all those startling 
gentlemen who in earlier times have found it good 
to kill an evil by laughing at it. Mr. Chesterton then, 
is of these humble yet mighty towers of joviality 
who see the world with the eyes of original innocence 
— the original innocence of babies or puppy-dogs 
to whom a tree is a giant on one leg with mighty 
arms combing the stars. Combined with this is a keen 
and terrible insight into the motives and ultimate 
meaning of living. To be thus innocent and all wise 
might drive a man to his madness, but the strange 
laughter comes in its freshness, and in Mr. Chester- 
ton’s own phrase, he sees the world ‘small and very 
clear’. It is necessary to come quite close, to see that 
grass is very green indeed, and skies intensely blue, 
and trees intensely tall, and he does this, usually 
by turning his back and coming around on the other 
side. In the heart and the backyard are the good 
things sought for elsewhere, says this fat poet. It 
is Maeterlinck and his blue bird all over again. Gil- 
bert Keith Chesterton is a laughing man who stands 
lonely in the grey morning and points out ecstatic- 
ally that mists are pearly, and birds’ songs simple; 
who shows with all the delights of a first discovery 
that umbrellas have a hidden grace; that pearls may 
be an insult to swine ; and that it is good to be young, 
and love, and have babies. He is a strangely sane 
man because of this; he is sane in the angle at which 
he views life, an angle that bewilders since there 
has not been any sanity anywhere in the last five 
decades. We are fed on the perverted sadness of 



twisted philosophies; on big business and crushing 
monopoly and the rattling bluster of machinery. 
Pooh, says Chesterton, Mouse, why tolerate the 
cat? Here is a way to Cut its claws. And since for 
salvation, thoughts and ideals bigger than the think- 
er and idealist are needed, he proffers some that 
have Served very large men with the maximum of 
satisfaction: the romance of truth, and the philoso- 
phy of laughter. Mr. Chesterton is the opposite 
of all Moronism. He would admire cubists and the 
futurists, were they a little more futuristic. He would 
admire and probably write free verse if it were only 
free. Another failing, he believes in a God, and this 
undoubted anachronism has lost him a large fol- 
lowing among the ineffectuals. He is of the old 
romantics, a confessed Mediaevalist, a gargoyle in 
silver and purple. There is somewhere in his Ballad 
of the White Horse; 

The giant laughter of Christian Men 
That roars through a thousand tales, 

Where greed is an ape and pride is an ass. 

And Jack’s away with his master’s lass, 

And the miser is banged with all his brass, 

The Farmer with all his flails; 

Tales that tumble and tales that trick, 

Yet end not all in scorning — 

Of kings and clowns in a merry plight 
And the clock gone wrong and the world gone right. 
That the mummers sing upon Christmas night 
And Christmas Day in the morning. 

Fortunately, it is all quite true. 



Below Quebec 

ON the wet sands edge 
Little murmuring waves 
Trouble the dulse and sedge 
That the tide leaves. 

Along the north shore 
There are dark hills. 

And what their dreams are 
A cool wind tells. 

But no other whispering 
Than waves and wind 
Makes for the heart a song 
At this day’s end. 

You do not know what pain 
The night would work 
If I were alone 
Under this old cloak. 



F.R.S. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

The Cambridge- McGill Debate Three Poems 



A Note 

T HOSE who heard the Cambridge-McGill debate 
could not but be impressed by the wit and attack 
of the English debaters, the ease and facility 
of their manner of speech, their seemingly endless 
capacity to meet at every turn the ponderous ar- 
guments of the McGill team, and their ability to 
sweep these aside with a single thrust, a brilliant 
epigram. 

The McGill debaters were dull and although 
the judges declared the most cultured speech came 
from one of our men, the wittiest most certainly 
came from the Cambridge side. It was the polished 
wit, the irony employed by the visitors which stood 
like a sharp crystal against the clumsy fumblings 
of the Red team. The purpose of argumentation, as 
commonly defined, is to take a stand on any question 
and establish it to the satisfaction of the man holding 
the opposite belief. How is any argument to be 
digested if the evidence is presented in heavy, un- 
palatable lumps. Yet such was the McGill method 
of attack and such has been the method during the 
three previous imperial debates, all of which McGill 
lost. The Cambridge students did not take themselves 
seriously: nor did they take the argument seriously. 
“Here is an interesting question,” they said. “Why 
must we look solemnly upon it. Rather let us see the 
humour of it.” And so they went at the debate 
tooth and nail, quite prepared for plenty of fun, 
very much like the schoolboy on the playing field. 
Their attitude not only convinced; it showed us that 
we must emerge from the dullness which pervades 
our Mock Parliaments, our intercollegiate debates, 
and our college newspaper and which has settled 
itself upon every thought and being of the student 
body. 



Something Apart 

I WENT into the cool 

Woods where the yellow sun falls 

Into a steel-grey pool, 

And heard at irregular intervals 
The bitter, complaining note 
That staggers and falls 
From the cat-bird’s ragged throat. 

All day by the pool side 
Stretched on the lush grass 
I heard what that solitary cried. 

Watching his shadow pass and repass. 

Dip and wheel and return. 

Over the pool and the grass, 

Over the grass and the fern. 

The wind and the water stood still. 

And stiller than these — 

As though the whole world were crystal— 
Stood the attentive trees: 

Only the raucous bird was something apart, 
As alien from all these 
As the sorrow in my heart. 



For Ever and Ever , Amen 

LONELY aloft in a turret 
Hewn of the bodiless night 
Sits one who out of chaos 
Has carved a cube of light. 

Bent double over his book 
What does he ponder there 
As quiet and lonely as a planet 
Hung in the silent air ? 

Looking out he sees only dark, 

There is no one to look in; 

When a gust twists the flame of his candle 
Shadows swim with no fin. 



L.E. 



Cargo Liner 

SPEAK but a name, and I shall surely see. 

With its shaped freedom lately from the mines, 
Black, hungry steel run swiftly in long lines 
To its new prison of the sky and sea; 

Shall, with the ship’s every trembling, be 
Faithful to every prompting in the heart, 

Shall answer to her toil in every part. 

And earnestly her strength shall comfort me. 

As galleys slaved against the Afric wind. 

Until, spice-heavy, came they home to Crete; 

So fight these iron monsters low with wheat. 
And darkly slip into their ports assigned. 

For what has urged him on since time began, 
For all his iron ships, still urges man 



From the gulf below his window 
Comes no betraying noise, 

1 here is no frog in the marsh, 
Nor the sound of a human voice; 

There is no step on the stairway, 
There is no hand on the door, 
The Is is the same as the Will Be 
And both the same as before. 



Epitaph 

STRANGER, this stone standing here 
Signifies no more than this: 

That one who erstwhile loved his Dear 
Now takes a colder kiss. 

Yet sleeps as well, though in an alien bed 
On no sweet bosom doth he rest his head. 

A. J. M. Smith 



Leo Cox 



Xr 



to a 



24 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



BOOKS 



COUNT BRUGA 

(By Ben Hecht : Boni « Liveright, New York, $2.50) 

B EN Hecht’s creatures rampaging joyously : or 
seduction sans sorrow. This is easily the driest 
book of the season, and the funniest. Count Bruga 
might be an amorous billy goat the plot holds 
together and Hecht is a literary artist. 

NIGGER HEAVEN 

(By Carl Van Vechten: Alfred Knopf, N.Y..J 2.50) 
TV THEN it became known that Carl Van Vechten 
\X/ was writing a serious novel it was the, cause 
** of much misgiving and more speculation. 
Could this deliberate ultra-cynic (whom indeed 
Joseph Wood Krutch has called a fashionable so- 
phisticate like Paul Morand m France ) with his 
conscious disregard for quotation m^ks bnng his 
irrepressible fondness for words of strange coinage, 
his breezy style and love for the curious and bizarre 
to a dignified study of negro life. 

The book is not another Pc(er Wfcz#e nor even 
The Blind Bow Boy. But : it is still Van Vechtem Like 
Campaspe Lorillard in Firecrackers, Nigger 
contains a character, Lasca Sartons, a depraved 
woman of no virtue but with a huge fortune who 
a 1 wavs gets what she goes after . The story is o 
Harlem but not of the Harlem the white man knows. 
The sophisticate, the intellectuals, the eccentric, 
are the persons in the scene. The hero, Byron Kasson 
is a voung University of Pennsylvania graduate 
with a desire to write. Besetting his path to hterary 
fame he finds innumerable prejudices of race and 
and colour. Ofay (white) editors will not conside 
his manuscripts. Mary Love, a young cultured ne- 
gress falls in love with him and together they discuss 
their' nroblems. But Byron finds himself too weak 
to withstand the opposition he meets, finally ending 

by vïïvffi hasten an interesting book whrch 
is a keen analytic study of the problems of the negro. 
He notes sympathetically the movement of the new^ 
neero which is arising, the work of such men as 
Countee Cullen, Langston Hughes, Paul Robeson 

^TWsisfhis first serious novel, his’hfth in all. One 
wishes, however, he would revert to the satire and 
playfulness of his j 3 ther — works. 

MOLL FLANDERS 

(By Daniel Defoe : The Modern Library; MacMillan 
Co., Toronto. $1.00) 

D EFOE’S story of an adventuress who leads a 
criminal career for many years only to repent 
and become respectable has been , r ?f” n ^; 
a fact which attests to its continued popularity. This 
is undoubtedly due to the realistic conception o 
Moll who with all her vices and her wickedness is 
hricrh'ter and has more genuine emotional feeling 
than virtuous, sentimental Pamela. Moll never gets 
out of the author’s hand. She is created w^h a 
restraint and care which reveals Defoe at best. As 
the work of a man with a gift for story-telling ^ the 

book is extremely entertaining. ^tîfmSllfzé 

dissenter, journalist, hack writer, begins to moral i 
and leads Moll to repentance and conversion does the 
book become dull. 



THE ORPHAN ANGEL 
(Bu Elinore Wylie; Alfred A. Knopf. 

New York. $1.50) 

I F Mrs Wylie’s Venetian Glass Nephew was so much 
old wine on the palates of the aesthetes, her Orphan 
Ansel will make these gentlemen indecently tipsy. 
Mrs Wylie has the delicacy of touch and color that 
suggest moth-soft, her own phrase; her work has the 
ease and balance such fantasy demands; beautiful 
phrasing without insipidity, that is like a fount of 
clear water in a desert of Dreisers. # A 

The Orphan Angel is Shelley— miraculously saved 
by a young Maine sailor, who replaces the poet m the 
sea with a fresh corpse. To America— land of Pioneers 
and whisky, Freedom and com mash. Shelley, or 
Shiloh as he becomes, is furiously sought and pursued 
by ladies suddenly amorous, but behaves quite res- 
pectably. Mrs. Wylie keeps Shelley from being Byron, 
and merits much gratitude because of this. 



SELECTED POEMS OF CARL SANDBURG, 
Edited by Rebecca West, (Harcourt Brace W Co., 
New York. 1926. $2.00) 

H ERE is the continuation of Walt Whitman 
in a volume of poetry which breathes of the 
Middle West. Chicago looms dark and 
forbidding: ugly skyscrapers with in ten 

shoot upward like gigantic needles; a Windy City. . 
Hog Butcher for the World, 

Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat 

Player with Railroads and the Nation’s Freight Handler, 
Stormy, husky, brawling, 

City of the Big Shoulders. 

The book contains selections from Chicago Poems, 
Cornhuskers, Smoke and Steel, and Slabs of the Sun- 
burnt and in it we find a ruggedness and startling 
vigor’ which at times grates harshly to the unac- 
customed ear. The poetry of Sandburg is essentially 
American, as American as jazz, skyscrapers and 
dollars. But there is about this book a certain ar- 
tistic grandeur which lifts it above the life it describes 
and makes it an important contribution to American 
noetry. The introduction by Rebecca West, who 
edits the volume, sums up pithily the paradox of 
Chicago and the Middle West, and the art of the 
poet, whose shortcomings as well as his qualities 
are acutely noted. 



THE FIDDLER IN BARLY 
(By Robert Nathan: Robert McBride. $2.00) 

M R. Robert Nathan is a young man with a heal- 
thy philosophy of living. He is further, that 
elusive creature, a sound craftsman. Woven 
in an easy prose and atmosphere of James Stephens 
fantasy the tale of a spiritual sleep that lay on Bar- 
y’s decorous inhabitants flows to thesha-p awaken- 
ing of some. There is humor, tragedy, and wistful 
pathos; the inevitable seduction though this time 
of an engaged girl by her lover; a robin that goes 
a- wooing and is rejected of his lady; and the fiddler s 
small dog Musket, a veritable Diogenes. The fid- 
dler embodies all vagabondage, simplicity and the 
sturdiness of the common ancestor as we have con- 
ceived him; the image of his desire is Everywoman 
in her fifties. The book is elemental, with a slightest 
touch of realism to render it convincing. 






