Vol. XII 



No. 4 








UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c., 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. T-AHVEIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, 4c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

NIACNIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k WIcLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

Ptarianliial & Diipiiit Clnisla, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’8 Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.CL. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

Softool anil College Text Books ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 



232 ST. CT-A-IMIZES ST 



Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



JflEUICAIj WORKS, BOOKS USER IJY ART COURSE, 
SCIENCE TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL, ROOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, Ac., &c., 

I-S- BE3ST VALUE IIS' T O W IV , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

^OLSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 1st, 1888. [No. 4. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 



J. F. Mackik, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 



Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Editor-in-Chief. 
J. A. MacPhail, B.A. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 39-43 

Exchanges 43 

Poetry 44, 46 

Contributions 44-45 

McGill News 46 

Societies - 46-47 

Sporting 47-49 

Personals 49 

Between the Lectures 49 

College World 50 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 



The fifth number of the “ University Gazette ” will 
contain some poems from the well-known pen of Mr. 
George Murray, B.A., F.R.C.S., Classical Master in 
the High School of this city. 



Editorials. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

For years past, the dingy, gloomy lecture-rooms in 
the Molson Bank Chambers, have been most unsatis- 
factory to student and professor alike. Indeed, their 
only redeeming feature was their central and con- 
venient position. Immediately in the vicinity of the 



law offices, students and professors lost no time in 
consequence of distance, but the labyrinth of stairs to 
he climbed was always a serious impediment. The 
removal of the rooms to the more cheerful and better 
lighted apartments in the Fraser Institute, and the in- 
troduction of new desks, has obviated many of these 
inconveniences. The only serious impediment is the 
distance from the office and the time lost in travelling 
from them to the lectures. This is felt most keenly 
at the afternoon lectures. It is almost impossible to 
finish office work and he present at the opening lec- 
ture at four o’clock, and more especially so during 
court terms. The change, however, is marked. A 
general improvement has taken place in every direc- 
tion. The work of the school is more attentively fol- 
lowed by the students, and the professors are doing 
their share towards making the duties of the student 
lighter and more inviting. All are zealously co-oper- 
ating for the good of themselves and for the honour 
of the University. The selection of Mr. McGoun to 
fill the chair of Civil Procedure, shows the wisdom of 
the authorities, and the acquisition of a man of his 
culture, energy and diligence to the teaching body of 
the Faculty, will do much towards supporting its 
prestige. 

The course of lectures on Commercial Law, just 
opened to young men engaged in business, is another 
source of strength, and will operate as a means of 
making the law school more popular, and the bene- 
fits conferred by the lectures more extensively known 
and better appreciated throughout the community. 
Quite a number have joined the classes, and in future 
years a largely increased attendance of this class of 
students may confidently be expected. A knowledge 
of the commercial jurisprudence of the country must 
be invaluable to men engaged in such pursuits, and 
nowhere else can that knowledge be acquired. Every 
day, in a commercial community like our own, 
questions involving principles of law must be solved 
instantaneously, and he who has been thoroughly 
trained in Commercial Law must have an incalculable 
advantage over the one who has not, in solving these 
problems. The course of lectures on Sales, to be de- 
livered by the Dean, than whom none is better quali- 
fied to elucidate and explain, is, perhaps, the most im- 
portant of all, and, at the same time, an excellent 
commencement to so worthy a cause. His indisposi- 



40 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



tion and consequent inability to continue it, has 
greatly marred the carrying out of the object in view 
for this year. It is understood that as soon as he feels 
himself equal to the task he will take up the subject 
again, and his reappearance in the chair will be hailed 
with delight by, and give renewed confidence both to, 
the regular students and to those for whom his lec- 
tures are specially prepared, and who have availed 
themselves of the opportunity. 

A suggestion has been made that each of the pro- 
fessors should prepare and deliver one free public 
lecture during the present session. This, if put into 
execution, would have the effect of bringing the school 
into more public prominence and favor, and, at the 
same time, would disseminate amongst our citizens the 
principles of jurisprudence under which we live. Un- 
doubtedly this would imply a great amount of self- 
sacrifice for, and devotion to, the faculty, on the part 
of the professors, but would be more than compen- 
sated by the knowledge of having accomplished some 
good for the University, and conferred an everlasting 
benefit upon their fellow-citizens. 

In order to comply with the new regulations of the 
Bar, four lectures, one in the morning and three in 
the afternoon, are now delivered daily. To attend 
these and likewise perform the duties incumbentfupon 
students in their respective offices, is more than can 
be well and effectually accomplished. No time what- 
ever can be given to private reading. Some remedy 
must be applied to this existing evil. Since the Bar 
demands that the student should be indentured for 
four years, and attend in the neighborhood of eleven 
hundred lectures, the introduction of some system 
whereby the greater part of the two first years should 
be devoted to the work of the University and to 
private reading is imperative. It is impossible to be 
perfectly qualified to enter the profession without con- 
siderable knowledge of the nature of the office, but, 
nevertheless, it is still more imperative that the great 
underlying principles of law should be thoroughly 
mastered. When the student has once grasped these 
principles, the application of them will be easy, and 
the experience of the office will completely prepare 
him to enter upon the responsible duties of an advo- 
cate. Article YI. of the report of the joint committee 
appointed last year by the Law Society of Ontario 
and the Senate of the University of Toronto, on the 
establishment and maintenance of a law faculty, says : 
“ Students of the first and second years must not be 
under articles nor engaged otherwise than as students 
of the University.” This report recommended the 
four years’ course, but it also, as this article indicates, 
approved of devoting the first part to theoretical train- 



ing, and, as far as possible, removing the idea of making 
law a mere trade to be learned by an apprenticeship, 
which the Bar of this Province seems to desire. Again, 
our own Medical Faculty has based its system upon 
the same principle of first acquiring the theoretical 
knowledge of the profession and afterwards the prac- 
tical. As the four years’ indentureship has evidently 
become fixed law, it is the duty of the Bar and Uni- 
versities to arrange the lectures and the office work 
to the best advantage of the students, and some such 
plan as suggested in the report above referred to must 
eventually be adopted. 



CANADA FIRST. 

For some time past it has been almost impossible to 
glance over the city press without finding some stir- 
ring editorial, literary review, news item, or corres- 
pondence expressive of Canadian national sentiment. 
Two letters on the subject have recently appeared in 
the Witness ; the first from Miss Blanche L. Macdon- 
ell, alludes to the “Old South Boston courses” of 
lectures in the States, on American history, and sug- 
gests that something of the kind be started in our own 
country. “We Canadians,” she says, “ absolutely re- 
quire a knowledge of our own local history and in- 
stitutions. * * * Our lack of unity of aim, na- 

tional feeling, may prove one of the most pressing 
dangers that may threaten the Dominion ; one of the 
greatest stumbling blocks in its path of progress ; one 
of the most powerful obstacles to the construction of 
an important nationality. * * * Nothing stands 

in the way of community of interests so completely 
as the ignorance that prevails concerning each other’s 
ideas, customs and prejudices, the common origin, the 
causes that have created our political and religious in- 
stitutions.” The second letter is in answer to this, 
and is signed “ Wilfred Chateauclair.” The writer 
repudiates the idea that there is a lack of national 
sentiment among us. On the contrary, he claims 
that there is “ A vast unorganized force throughout 
the country, scarcely conscious of its strength,” and 
instances as a proof, the conduct of our volunteers in 
the North-West Rebellion.” He says that “A ques- 
tion far more vital is the organization of this great 
force, capable of infinite national possibilities and 
ideas,” and that the responsibility rests, in a great 
measure, on the schools and Colleges. 

Our public schools, though long derelict in the 
matter, are now doing their utmost to direct the arrow 
of young Canada’s enthusiasm nation-ward. The 
series of school readers shews an eminently national 
character, and in Montreal, at least, the first secular 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



41 



history the children are taught is Canadian. But 
what of our universities, where the child’s prejudices 
are moulded into the reasoning tenets of the man or 
woman ? We have not one that even recognizes the 
annals of her land. 

Take, for example, McGill. It is true that her as- 
sociate in Arts examination, for which the city schools 
and country academies prepare candidates, requires a 
paper on Canadian history ; but for matriculation the 
subject is not mentioned. At the end of the first 
year, the McGill student is confronted with an ex- 
amination in Greek and Roman history ; British his- 
tory is compulsory in the Intermediate. 

During the fourth year, lectures are delivered in 
Universal history, and the B. A. classics comprises 
ancient history. Greek, Latin, English, French, and 
German languages and literature, all have their places 
in the calendar, while in the whole course no men- 
tion is made of our country, or its raison d'etre. Stay ! 
there is an honorable exception ; the fourth year lec- 
tures in geology and mineralogy bear witness to the 
fact that of the ten professors in the faculty of Arts, 
two, at least, are Canadians. 

Should not Canadian history and literature be 
taught in our colleges 1 “ Our country is young,” 

says the quibbler ; “ Her history is comprised in a 
few volumes which anyone can read for himself ; as 
for literature, comparatively little is heard of Cana- 
dian writers.” 

Quite true ; very little is heard of them. And 
why 1 Simply because our universities devote all 
their attention to foreign authors, while their own in- 
tellectual offspring are struggling unheeded up the 
heights. And if our story extends over four centuries 
only, so much the easier will it be to stamp indelibly 
on the student’s mind each self-sacrifice, deed of dar- 
ing, or blood-bought victory to which we owe our ex- 
istence. No old-world nation is enveloped in such a 
glamour of romance as ours. Its very recentness in- 
vests Canada’s history with an interest which does not 
attach to the legends of buried ages. 

Why should not McGill take the lead in establish- 
ing a “chair of Canadian history and literature” 1 
Now, when the very atmosphere seems fraught with 
patriotic sentiment it would not be impossible, though 
perhaps difficult, to raise twenty thousand dollars for 
the purpose. Five-dollar subscriptions from McGill’s 
eighteen hundred graduates, with two dollars each 
from the students, would furnish half the sum re- 
quired ; while there are not wanting public-spirited 
Montrealers who would lend their aid in the enter- 
prise. An enthusiastic committee of graduates and 
students could push the matter through before the be- 



ginning of next session. Then, with a native-born 
professor to fill the chair, our Alma Mater might well 
claim the precedence among her sister universities in 
helping to raise the stronghold of patriotism that will 
make of our country a great and noble nation. 



OUR UNIVERSITY. 

We publish below some notable statements, which 
go to show the position McGill University holds 
among Canadian Colleges, especially the department 
devoted to the higher education of women ; they 
come in most appropriately at the present time in 
view of the malignant persistency with which, from 
one motive or another, our University is being as- 
sailed. We make no comment, but merely point to 
the figures in vindication of McGill. 

The number of students in the Faculty of Arts 
attending lectures up to the present date this session 
is now 300, of whom 98 are women. This total does 
not include students of the other faculties, very many 
of whom also attend the Arts’ Professors lectures. 
About half are Undergraduates, but the number of 
martriculated students, which include the Partials, 
is nearly 200. 

In the Donalda Department for Women, the num- 
ber at present of martriculated students is 49, viz., 
33 Undergraduates and 16 Partials. The number 
of “ occasional ” students in the same department 
is 49, giving the total of 98 mentioned above. 

The following list, obtained from the latest calen- 
dars, shows the number of women students at the 
end of last session in the Arts’ Faculties of the 



Universities named : — 

University College, Toronto 27 

Victoria College, Cobourg 16 

Queen’s College, Kingston 15 

Dalliousie College, Halifax 34 

McGill College, Montreal 109 



A comparison of the total number of Arts’ students 
in McGill College at decennial intervals shows at 
once the firm, forward strides our University is 



taking : — 

In April, 1859, the total was 60 

In January, 1869, the total was 78 

In January, 1879, the total was 149 



In January, 1888-89 (up to Nov. 1st), over.. 300 

The second set of facts is published to show the 
difficulty experienced at McGill in obtaining the 
Bachelor of Arts degree, and they meet the conten- 
tion of the French Bar of this Province, that all who 
go up for the degree succeed, because not many are 
rejected in the final examination. Even if none 
failed, it would prove nothing, for the Under- 



42 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



graduates, looking to tlie B.A. degree as the final 
reward of their four years’ labours, have nine exami- 
nations to pass, viz. — the entrance, and two in each 
successive year. At these barriers many candidates 
fail, especially in the first two years, until the weaker 
have been removed by a gradual process of selection. 
At the entrance examinations in September, nearly 
one-third of the candidates fail to pass ; the average 
failure yearly, taking the last six years as a basis 
of calculation, having been 28 - 6 per cent. ; of those 
who then, or subsequently, pass, about one-fourth fail 
at the end of the first year, the average of failures 
being 23£ per cent. The ranks of the successful 
candidates are again thinned at the end of the second 
year (the intermediate examinations), the average 
failures being 13*7 per cent. Hence, in spite of the 
opportunities to recover standing offered by supple- 
mental examinations, the reduction of numbers is so 
great (other causes, of course, operating also), that 
barely one-half of those who present themselves as 
candidates at the start reach the degree ; the average 
over six years having been 50 per cent. 

These figures are official, and show that our system 
of examinations is as rigid as any in existence ; they 
show something further in the very fact of their pre- 
paration — that McGill is not idle, and that she is able 
to vindicate her position as well as to deserve the high 
place which those who have her interests in keeping 
have attained for Our University. 

THE SCIENCE FACULTY. 

The steady growth of McGill University promises 
well for its future. From a small college, it has 
gathered under its wings various other faculties until, 
at the present date, it is able to offer instruction in all 
the lore of the past, the science and literature of the 
present, and to point out the soul’s future path. 

The Medical school of this University has justly 
obtained a recognized high standing throughout the 
civilized world, and has the names of nearly 300 
students on its rolls, while it has graduated nearly 
1,200 doctors. 

The Arts school has been rapidly advancing of late, 
and now virtually equals that of Medicine in the 
number of students in attendance. 

But the most recent advances have been made by 
the Faculty of Science, that hitherto had been in a 
manner sandwiched in between Arts and Medicine. 
For a time, part of the instruction in Chemistry was 
carried on in the Art’s laboratory and part in that of 
Medicine. Then the new Chemical laboratories were 
erected, and this portion of the Science Faculty had 
an independent existence. 



This year has seen another improvement. The 
death of the late Registrar, Mr. Baynes, left vacant a 
large portion of the East wing, which he had occu- 
pied, and the Science faculty, alert to find permanent 
rest for the sole of its foot, settled down upon the 
vacant building. 

The course of instruction given in science, at Mc- 
Gill, is defective, compared with the best courses in 
the world, only in not yet including instruction in 
an engineering laboratory. But the site of this 
building has been selected, and in time this last step 
towards perfection will be taken. 

The high qualities of the instruction given in this 
faculty are best shown by the practical result that 
most of the graduates are in good, and many in re- 
sponsible positions. 

On the Geological Survey staff are such McGill men 
as Dr. Bell, Frank Adams, and A. P. Low. The as- 
sistant engineer of the Denver, Col., water-works, is 
a recent graduate ; another occupies a high position 
in a gold mining company at Pueblo, Col. ; two more 
are rising young architects in Omaha ; two are pro- 
fessors ; one occupies one of the most responsible 
positions on the Canadian Pacific Railway, and many 
more are working their way up in the same company ; 
One is responsible for the Brockville water-works, 
and one is the assistant engineer on the harbor 
improvements, Quebec. Even very recent graduates 
are occupying good positions, and, from all reports, 
doing good work. 

The fact that the Canadian Society of Engineers 
meets in this city is of great advantage to engineering 
students, who, in Montreal, find themselves at once 
in an atmosphere of science, and are exhilarated 
thereby. There are 67 students in attendance this 
year, the largest number yet, and it is expected that 
70 will be on the roll before the close of the year. 



We received a contribution from a well-wisher a 
short time ago, which treats of a subject of great 
interest. It is headed — “ The Physical Needs of the 
Donalda Department,” and runs as follows : — 

“ When wiser people than we discuss the advisability of the 
higher education of women, one often hears an opinion some- 
thing like this expressed — ‘It is a grand theory, hut alas! 
woman’s constitution is not equal to it.’ This supposition we 
know to be false, yet we fear, under the existing circumstances, 
some cases in McGill will prove it not uufounded. 

“ The reason lies in the fact that for our women students no 
proper exercise is provided. The men of McGill have their 
Annual Field Day as an incentive to exercise. Football and 
hockey in their respective seasons, and lastly, a gymnasium, 
which every student is compelled to join, whether he decides to 
avail himself of its privileges or not. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



43 



“ The football, hockey, and annual sports, we may safely re- 
gard as outside of ‘woman’s sphere,* but proper gymnastics are 
quite as necessary for our women as our men, and for this very 
reason, that conventionality restrains the former from so many 
healthful pursuits. It may safely be said that every college in 
the States which is open for ladies has already felt this need, 
and provided for it. Boston University which, like McGill, is 
open to both sexes, has set apart certain hours during the week 
when the gymnasium is open to ‘ladies only,* and when classes 
are held under the superintendence of a competent lady in- 
structor. 

“ That a movement of this kind would be acceptable to the 
students of the East Wing has been proved beyond doubt by the 
fact that, last year, some of the energetic ladies persuaded Mr. 
Barnjum to promise that a class should be started in the fall of 
*88, at an hour arranged to suit the lady students of McGill. 
This, owing to Montreal’s sad loss, through Mr. Bar nj urn’s death, 
has been impossible ; but surely these students have sufficiently 
shown their desire for improvement in physical, as well as 
mental, culture ; and it remains now with the authorities of 
McGill University to supply to their women students this much 
felt need ; that the doubting ones may be convinced that McGill 
can and will send into the world women (as she has men) well 
fitted to take their stand in the battle of life, and win renown 
for Canada, Montreal, and their Alma Mater .” 

Our contributor seems to have touched upon a live 
topic, since before the contribution could be pub- 
lished, we learned that the suggestions made in it 
have been carried into practice. 

We are delighted to hear that the lady under- 
graduates are forming gymnastic classes, and, formid- 
able opponents as they have proved themselves already, 
we cannot doubt but that their physical work will 
make them still more dangerous competitors of the 
men in the mental struggle. 



Exchanges. 

We have a certain hesitancy in opening the Presby- 
terian College Journal, because it is painful to find 
the broad, liberal thinking and universal charity of 
many of its articles marred by the narrowness and 
assumption of certain pages that the editors should 
not admit, and which go to spoil a whole number. 
The November number is so spoiled by the treatment 
of an article on “The Theatre and the Church.” With 
the question itself we have nothing to do, but it is a 
mistake for so respectable a journal to give space to a 
contributor who affirms that one who goes to the 
theatre becomes “intimate with the swearer, the Sab- 
bath breaker, the infidel, and the liar.” Of course, if 
one wishes to make a crusade against everything 
artistic, he can be easily met ; but one who asserts that 
it is the aim of the theatre to ridicule the religion of 
Christ, and to profane the name of God, and assigns 
it a place in Hades, has sadly missed the mark of 
Modern Christian teaching. Such a tone savors 
strongly of the spirit of Alexander the coppersmith, 
and goes to discredit the truth when it is spoken. 
Young men should beware of cant, it blinds to higher 
things. There is much in the theatre to be con- 



demned, and a high ground for censure, but the 
Journal can be assured that the age of gross violence 
in the treatment of moral questions has vanished with 
inquisitions of all kinds — Catholic and Protestant. 
The book criticisms are by far the best in our ex- 
changes, and we commend one to the remarks on 
“ Robert Elsmere,” if he would see an instance of 
high Christian discussion. 

The second number of the Argosy is at hand. The 
editors are making an honest effort to supply the 
students with a suitable paper, and we can forgive 
them if at times their efforts appear laboured. 

The clever ladies who conduct the Sunbeam realize 
to the fullest the difficulties lying in the way of a 
college journal, but they attack the work bravely and 
modestly, and succeed in reflecting the life of the 
students as well as any of our exchanges. 

There is a growing tendency on the part of students 
to enlist the services of the graduates on their editorial 
boards. This is especially noticeable in the Queen's 
College Journal, and the paper seems to lose nothing 
by the innovation. The editorial department is strong 
and dignified, and graced with many indications of 
care and culture on the part of the editors. 

The Owl is quite properly intensely Catholic, but 
this should not lead it into the excesses that often 
mark it ; it has abundance of material to draw from 
without going out of its way for texts, which, after 
all, are inappropriate in a college paper, and liable 
to the same comment as that made in connection with 
another theological journal. 

The Londonderry School Times is infused with a 
classic spirit, a thing common in Old Country papers. 
Its list of scholarships awarded makes a tempting array 
of prizes. 

The Tuftonian, in the November number, deals 
ably and accurately with American political questions, 
and shows that the recent contest was felt within the 
college walls. It is one of our best exchanges. 

The University Monthly, from Fredericton, is chiefly 
local in its interest, though there is in it an evident 
desire to forward research in Canadian history. 

In the Portfolio, published by the ladies of the 
Wesleyan College, Hamilton, there are a good many 
bright things, but there is a lack of unity in the 
paper, and there are some hints at the inside wurking 
of ladies’ schools that might as well not be given. 

The King's College Record is creditable to the 
students who support it, and would do no dishonour 
to a much more pretentious institution. The Octo- 
ber number contains a contribution from Professor 
Roberts, and it is proposed to publish a series of bio- 
graphical and critical articles on the Canadian Poets 
and Prose Writers. 

The ’ Varsity is a serious paper — a little out of the 
way of college journals — and one feels inclined to 
read it critically. It deals with deep University ques- 
tions carefully and accurately; there are no indications 
of haste about it, and it appeals to a wide constitu- 
ency — those who have the good of the University in 
their minds. 



44 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



THE COW PASTURE. 



I see the harsh, wind-ridden, eastward hill, 

By the red cattle pastured, blanched with dew ; 

The small, mossed hillocks where the clay gets through ; 
The grey webs woven on milkweed tops at will. 

The sparse, pale grasses flicker, and are still. 

The empty flats yearn seaward. All the view 
Is naked to the horizon’s utmost blue; 

And the bleak spaces stir me with strange thrill. 



Not in perfection dwells the subtler power 

To pierce our mean content, but rather works 
Thro’ incompletion, and the need that irks,— 

Not in the flower, but effort toward the flower. 

When the want stirs, when the soul’s cravings urge. 

The strong earth strengthens, and the clean heavens purge. 

CHARLES G. D. ROBERTS. 



Contributions. 

AN ENQUIRY INTO THE ALLEGED ANTI- 
POETIC TENDENCIES OF THE AGE. 

I. 

Whether the coming age will have any need of 
poetry, or afford it any place 1 is a question recently 
discussed in the Fortnightly Review ; and it is held 
that science is making poetry impossible, that it is 
robbing the world of all mystery, and accustoming 
people to prefer accurately stated facts to any amount 
of mere imagination. It is argued that poetry must 
disappear, because, in the natural progress of demo- 
cracy, there will soon be no longer any great senti- 
ments to portray. 

It may look like a truism to assert that poetry has 
been the preacher of virtue, the inciter of heroism, 
and the refiner of society ; yet the fact needs repeat- 
ing, in consequence of the misconception that seems 
to have arisen on the true nature of poetry and the 
duty of the poet. Modern civilization is said to be 
weary of poetry ; or, if not wearied with the poets of 
past ages, to be quite contented with them, and to 
wish for no more. The poet has been thought a 
trifler ; the obstinate devotee of a defunct art, which, 
in its most vigorous time, was only fitted for the 
amusement of the idle and the frivolous. This mis- 
conception has arisen from various causes ; partly 
from the ignorance or indifference of critics and 
philosophers, not unworthy of the name of poets, 
who have depreciated their own calling ; and, in a 



still greater degree, from the incompetence of the 
vast multitude of persons who have been styled poet 
without the slightest right to the title — mere verse- 
makers, who have thrown discredit upon the name, 
not knowing that the hold of poetry upon the fancy 
and the imagination is secondary to its sway over the 
heart and the intellect, and that the true poet can 
preach and prophecy as well as sing. 

Lord Bacon did some harm in this respect. Being 
more conversant with the pretensions of the rhymers 
of his day than with the performance of the poets, 
he mis-stated the whole object of poetry. In his 
famous Essay on Truth, he asserted that the proper 
element of poetry was fiction, as distinguished from, 
and the opposite of, truth. Lord Bacon did not reflect 
on the abuse of the word Lie. He, of all men, ought 
not to have forgotten what he so well knew — that a 
fiction is not necessarily a Lie. He should have 
remembered that fables are truth to the wise Plato, 
though he would have banished poets from his ideal 
republic, meaning thereby the writers of licentious 
and mischievous plays, and not the real poets, had 
more correct notions of the sublimity and divinity of 
poetry. lie said that “poetry comes nearer to vital 
truth than history." And this, indeed, is the secret 
source of the grandeur and power of poetry. The 
highest poetry approaches nearest to vital truth ; and 
poetry is only good and beautiful, and worthy to be 
loved and admired, in proportion as it identifies itself 
with the truth, bio truth can be alien or inappro- 
priate to it. It embraces all things, and has no other 
bounds than the aspirations of the soul of man, its 
knowledge and enjoyment of the actual, and its hopes 
oi the possible. While the world has been led away 



UN IVEKSITY GAZETTE, 



45 



1888.] 



by inconsiderate criticism, and while rhymers have 
written and published piles of wearisome books, 
founded upon this misconception, it is no wonder 
that poetry has fallen into some disfavour with men 
who have something else to think of and to do than 
to read mere fictions, without any soul of truth ; inane 
repetitions, teaching nothing, containing nothing, 
and as worthless as Lord Bacon imagined all poetry 
to be. While such ideas have been considered criti- 
cism, the province of poetry has been restricted as a 
necessary consequence. The poet, too commonly by 
his own consent, has been tethered with a critical 
string. Criticism has said to him — “ You shall not 
touch upon religion ; that is not within your pro- 
vince. You shall not meddle with politics; they are 
alien to you. You shall not travel into the regions of 
science ; for science and poetry are antagonistic. All 
you have to do is to amuse us, and leave serious sub- 
jects alone.” In fact, it is considered unpardonable 
to wed them together ; or even to let the smallest 
love passage take place betwixt them ; “ as if,” say 
the objectors, “ we have not politics enough in the 
newspapers, in public places, at the very corners of 
the streets.” And they say right, if their idea of 
poetry be right; but not right for those who have 
notions more exalted, and sympathies more extended. 
These objectors confound politics with party, which 
is a mistake ; and they think poetry destined for 
mere amusement, which is another. They do not 
think that there are politics far better than any parties 
that ever were formed ; and the amusement found in 
poetry is a mere accident — an extrinsic adornment 
only — and that its object is to teach, exalt, and refine ; 
to inspire, like religion, the humble with dignity, the 
sad with comfort, the oppressed with hope ; to show 
the abundant and overflowing blessings of familiar 
things — the riches, the beauty, and the beneficence 
of nature ; to fill all men with the love of God and 
of one another, and to encourage society in its on- 
ward career from bad into good, and from good into 
better, through all Time into Eternity. 

Yet, after all, it is not surprising that critics should 
go wrong, when those who should be superior to the 
critics — the poets themselves — have set the bad ex- 
ample. When Charles II. objected to Edmund 
Waller, that his verses upon Cromwell were better 
than those he had written about his lawful sovereign, 
Waller replied — “ Your Majesty knows that we poets 
succeed better in jiction than in truth." In this pretty 
speech he behaved like a courtier and a man of the 
world, but not like a poet, and committed treason to 
the majesty of his art. We find a modern poet, too, 
seriously accommodating himself to the same error. 
Lord Houghton, in his volume entitled “ Palm 
Leaves,” devotes a poem to the praise of Mahomet, 
as a prophet and a legislator. He speaks of him as — 

“ No poet lie, weaving capricious dreams 
To please inconstant y> uth ; 

But one who uttered without shows or seems 
The serious facts of Truth.” 

This, it must be admitted, is strange language to come 
from one claiming to have “ the vision and the faculty 
divine.” As if a poet could not utter “ serious facts ” 



without “shows” and “seems,” and as if a poet were, 
of necessity, a vain dreamer, and an idler, of no use 
or advantage to society. 

Wordsworth, whose writings testify loudly to the 
utter untenableness of this theory, has also uttered a 
sentence, which some have interpreted to the depre- 
ciation of his divine art. He says, in an essay sup- 
plementary to one of his early prefaces, “ that the 
appropriate business of poetry, her appropriate em- 
ployment, her privilege, her duty, is to treat of things 
not as they are, but as they appear ; not as they exist 
in themselves, but as they seem to exist to the senses 
and the passions.” 

It is, however, no depreciation of poetry to assert 
that its province is not to treat of things as they are. 
His meaning is, not merely as they are ; but to add 
to them a grace and a beauty over and above their 
positive existence. He will not diminish the exist- 
ence of a thing, but he will increase its existence by 
the aid of the beauty perceived by the sense and 
given by the passions. He never considers that the 
province of poetry is the unreal against the real, the 
fictitious uninclusive of the true ; and against such a 
theory his poems are immortal evidence, as Milton’s 
are, and Shakespeare’s, and those of all great poets. 

Henry Mott. 



WHAT’S IN A NAME 1 

“ I, walking the familiar street, 

While a crammed horse-car tinkled through it, 
Was lifted from my prosy feet, 

And in Arcadia ere I knew it.” 

— James Russell Lowell. 



The streets of every city are a study to an observant 
visitor, and as sermons may be extracted from stones, 
so may a passing scintillation of fun be got out of 
the tradesmen’s signs and eccentric names which meet 
the eye at every turn. 

During a recent visit to New York and Brooklyn, 
the following illustrations were jotted down, which 
may serve to “ point a moral and adorn a tale ” : — 

In Brooklyn. 

Bannerman A dealer in flags. 

Bitter A confectioner. 

Dauber A portrait painter. 

Wardrobe Dyer and cleaner. 

In New York. 

Johnson, Gallup & Hurry.. Lawyers. 

Bearup & Carraher Hardware merchants. 

Needle (two) Tailors. 

Daub Barber. 

And for a jaw-breaker, commend me to 

Philippine Truchsess Dieftenbach as a dentist. 

. -Q. 



46 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888 



MIND AND BODY. 

Mind and body I warp and woof, 

Inextricably are twined,— 

Body living, not aloof, 

Living not aloof the mind. 

Force and matter, what they are 
To each other, so are these, 

As its light is to a star, 

Organ to its melodies. 

Quench the steady-burning light, 

Vanishes the star we see 

Into interstellar night, 

From existence, it may be. 

Still the organ, what remains. 

Save the metal and the wood ? 

Silent are the heavenly strains, 

Lost in endless solitude. 

Brother, rule the restless mind. 

That like starlight it may shine ; 

Rule the body, lest you find 
Hushed the melody divine. 

Montreal Arthur Weir, 



PflciBiU Hems. 



Ou Saturday, 17th Nov., Sir William and Lady 
Dawson gave the second entertainment to the students 
belonging to the McGill Young Men’s Christian 
Association. 

The students in Applied Science have started a 
small gymnasium on the top flat of the new science 
building, and are devoting themselves faithfully to 
their physical culture, especially that part supposed 
to have some connection with the manly art. 

Two additions have been made to the Library from 
the Ramsay Fund — “ Text and Plates to the Cactaceae 
of the Mexican Boundary,” and two volumes of D. 
C. Eaton’s “ Ferns of North America,” profusely and 
beautifully illustrated in colors. 

An aggrieved individual suggests that it would be 
well to post the notice — “ Beware of thieves,” in the 
cloak-room of the Medical Faculty. The “ rubber 
fiend” seems to be quite as persistent and difficult to 
track as the Whitechapel murderer. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



SOPHOMORIAL JOLLIFICATION. 

On Monday, the 19th Nov., the ladies’ reading- 
room abandoned its air of classic severity for one 
evidently more inviting to the youthful sophs. The 
table was relieved of its heavy intellectual indigest- 
ibles, and laden with more acceptable matter, in the 
shape of fruit, sweets, etc., etc. At noon the doors were 
thrown open, and the guests were ushered in to the 
sweet “ strains” of a tea-epergne. 

Miss Hall, president of the year, was mistress of 
ceremonies, and the good time lasted till the two 
o’clock bell rang for lectures. Some of the toasts 
were as follows : — 

Class ’91. — “ Renowned for wit.” — Byron. 

Graduating Class. — “Avaunt, and quit my sight.” 

— Macbeth. 



Sir Donald A. Smith. — 

“ Lord bless ye lang wi’ hae an’ hi el, 

An’ keep ye aye the honest chiel 
That ye hae been ; 

Syne tak’ ye to a better biel 

When this is dune.” — Burns. 

Faculty. — “ Full of wise saws and modern instances.” 

Homulli. — “Procul! 0! procul, este, profani.” — Virgil, 

Freshmen. — “ How green you are and fresh in this old 
world.” — King John. 

The University Gazette was also remembered. 



The members of the Theo Dora Society were hospi- 
tably entertained by Sir Wm. and Lady Dawson on 
Saturday, Nov. 24th. An enjoyable afternoon was 
spent by all present. 



Societies. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The fourth regular meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held on Thursday, Nov. 22nd. The at- 
tendance was good, and the programme interesting. 
The debate for the afternoon was : — *• Resolved, that 
a lawyer is justified in defending a bad cause.” Misses 
Scott and Mewhort spoke on the affirmative, and 
Misses Wilson and Moffat on the negative. The 
speeches were carefully prepared and well rendered. 
The vote being taken, it was found that the victory 
was for the affirmative side. A lengthy and able 
criticism followed from Miss Abbott, after which the 
discussion became general. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Theo Dora Society met as usual, on Tuesday, 
Nov. 13th. The programme consisted of essays upon 
South America, written by Miss Henderson and Miss 
MacFarlane ; and of readings, given by Miss Baillie 
and Miss Campbell ; also a most interesting report of 
the addresses lately delivered by Mr. R. C. Wilder 
before the Y.M.C. A., was read by the Secretary. The 
report was furnished by one of the members of the 
McGill Y.M.C.A., Mr. R. McDougall, to whom the 
sincere thanks of the Society are due. 

A meeting of lady students of all years was held 
on Friday, Nov. 11th, to discuss the advisability of 
co-operating with the students who are intending to 
start a new college paper. Miss Squire, secretary, 
of the 4th year, read the communications she had 
received from the respresentative committee, after 
which the President made a few remarks, asking for 
a show of hands from those who favoured the move- 
ment. As this was not responded to, it was found 
impossible to elect a committee of two, as had been 
requested, to confer with the other committees. The 
Secretary was therefore instructed to communicate 
the result of the meeting to the representative com- 
mittee of the new paper. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



47 



THE LAW FACULTY MOOT COURT. 

I his Court held its first sitting, for this session, on 
Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 13th, in the lecture-rooms 
(Fraser Institute), Professor Lareau on the bench. 
Argument was heard on an action brought against a 
donee to recover five years’ arrears, on a mortgage, in 
the form of a constituted rent, sixteen years after the 
purchase of the property by the father of the donee, 
with knowledge of the incumbrance. Subsequently, 
the purchaser died, and the widow, eight years after 
the purchase, donated it to her son. The defendant 
pleaded ten years’ prescription and his right, first, 
'that the purchase by his father was subsequent and 
in good faith ; second, that the devolving of the suc- 
cession constituted a new contract ; and, third, that 
the donation did the same; and claimed the right of 
adding the possession of the donee’s anthus to his 
own to make up the ten years necessary for the pre- 
scription. 

The Court, in summing up the arguments of the 
counsel, held that the possession of the father was in 
bad faith ; that the opening of the succession was a 
continuation of the defective title ; that the deed of 
donation was a perfect title, but that the possession of 
the preceding holders in bad faith could not be reck- 
oned in the time necessary for the prescription plead, 
and that the action must be maintained. 

The counsel for the plaintiff were Messrs. Barnard, 
England, Hibbard ; and for the defendant Messrs. 
Topp, Harvey, and Geoffrion. 

UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

At the meeting on Nov. 16th, Mr. S. Moore, the 
essayist appointed for the evening, opened the pro- 
gramme by a discussion of “ Shakespeare and his 
Works,” and was followed by Mr. W. S. Paton, the 
reader. The subject of debate was ; — “ Resolved, 
that more progress has been made since the Sixteenth 
Century than during all the time previous of man’s 
history.” The leader on the affirmative side of the 
question was J. H. Stevenson, supported by Messrs. 
W. L. Jamieson and G. W. McDougall ; on the nega- 
tive, J. A. Elliott, supported by Messrs. J. Taylor 
and S. W. Mack. The debating was good. Decision 
was given in favour of the negative. Mr. Deeks 
filled the position of critic for the evening. During 
the programme three pieces were sung by the Glee 
Club, and Mr. Jamieson delighted the audience with 
a violin solo. There were 58 members present. 

On Nov. 23rd, in the absence of the President, the 
meeting was opened by Vice-President P. Davidson. 
The essayist failing to put in an appearance, the 
reader, M. G. E. Read, was called upon, after which 
the debate was begun on the subject : — “ Resolved, 
that the National Policy is disadvantageous to the 
labouring classes.” The question was introduced by 
W. D. Gibson on the affirmative, who was opposed 
by H. V. Truell. Mr. Gibson was supported by 
Messrs. J. A. Cameron and Harvey ; Mr. Truell by 
Messrs. Shuttleworth and Fry. The debating on 
both sides was excellent. The affirmative was ad- 
judged the victory when a vote Avas taken. Critic 
for the evening, Mr. Tolmie. The meeting closed 
with a song from the Glee Club. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The annual general meeting of this Society was 
held in the University Club-rooms on Friday evening, 
Nov. 9th, the President (Mr. S. Cross) in the chair. 
The following gentlemen were elected officers for the 
present session : — Mr. A. R. Oughtred, president ; 
Mr. A. S. Cross, 1st vice-president ; Mr. A. R. Dun- 
ton, 2nd vice-president ; Mr. F. W. Hibbard, trea- 
surer ; Mr. J. W. Ferguson, corresponding-secretary ; 
Mr. Chas. A. Barnard, recording-secretary ; and Messrs. 
S. Cross, McGoun, Mackie, Fry, Yates, and Parmelee, 
councillors. The neAv President having taken the 
chair, a vote of thanks Avas unanimously passed to the 
retiring officers, to which Mr. S. Cross made a fitting 
reply. The meeting was brought to a close by a 
speech from Mr. Oughtred. 

A regular meeting of the University Literary 
Society was held on Friday evening, 16th Nov., in 
the University Club-rooms, the President (Mr. A. It. 
Oughtred) in the chair. The subject of debate — 
“ Should donations of property acquired by improper 
means be accepted by charitable and religious insti- 
tutions 1 ” — was ably supported in the affirmative by 
Messrs. Barnard and S. Cross, and in the negative by 
Messrs. A. G. Cross and Topp. The debate was de- 
clared open, and an interesting discussion took place, 
in Avhich Messrs. Ferguson, Dunton, and Hibbard 
participated. The meeting decided in favour of the 
affirmative. 

The regular Aveeklv meeting of this Society Avas 
held in the Club-rooms on Friday, Nov. 23rd. The 
question — “Should divorce be sanctioned bylaw?” — 
supported on the affirmative by Messrs. S. Cross, 
Ferguson, and England ; and on the negative by 
Messrs. Parmelee, Brooks, and Le Rossignol — avas 
discussed with considerable spirit and earnestness. 
All of the speeches Avere well prepared, and kept the 
audience interested throughout their somewhat pro- 
tracted addresses. The meeting decided by a majority 
of one in favour of the affirmative. 



Sporting. 

At the annual meeting of the McGill Football 
Club, the folloAving Avere elected officers for the sea- 
son : — President, E. Hamilton ; vice-president, Web- 
ster (Med.) ; secretary, A. W. Walsh (Arts) ; treasurer, 
Bowie (Med.) ; captain, Mulligan ; Committee — in 
arts, Kinghorn and G. McDougall ; science, Mattice 
and Smart ; medicine, Hughes and Robertson. 



THE MEDICOS AT OTTAWA. 

BY “THE PROFESSOR.” 

Upon our shoulders, as the special and managing 
committee of the Medical team, has devolved the on- 
erous duty of writing up the trip to Ottawa. From 
that inherent modesty with which Nature has endoAved 
us, we are unAvilliug to disclose our identity, and 
shall, therefore, instead of, as is usual, hiding under 
a mantle of silence, make no secret of our own glori- 
ous deeds, and thus most effectually disguise our own 
personality. The composition of the teams was as fol- 
lows : — 



48 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1888 . 



McGill. 


lbs. 


Position. 


E. H. Hamilton 


145 


Back 


H. D. Hamilton 


135 j 




J. M. Hughes 


135 j 


Half-backs 


E. A. Mulligan(Capt.) 152 j 


| Quarter backs 


R. E. Webster 


155 1 




S. Richards 


130 j 


Wings, left 


H. Yates 


165" 




W. Morrow 


135 




J. H. McMillan 


136 




A. W. Walsh 


151 


Forwards 


W. H. Jamieson 


149 




R. Patterson 


136 




R. A. Bowie 


150 J 


C. P. Jents 


165 j 


! . . 


H. M. Patton (Sec.) 


152 | 


Wings, right 



Ottawa College 
J. Smith 

l Paradis 
\ Campbell 
j Sullivan 
( Trihey 
j Meagher 
\ Keddy 

[ McNally 
| Mason 
McDougall 
W. Campbell 
R. McCarthy 
Chahill 

j Leonard 
( Broderick 



A dull afternoon in the Operating Theatre started 
the idea ol this trip, and by dint of energy and per- 
severance, the various difficulties were overcome and 
our team at last got together. The gentlemen in 
Medicine held a meeting, authorized us as their re- 
presentatives, and allowed us 10 cts. levy. Owing to 
the liberality of those who did not pay, we did °not 
purchase quite all of Ottawa \ the collection realizing 
the munificent sum of seventy cents p.c. 

With the one exception of Mr. E. H. Hamilton, 
who at the last moment replaced Graham, we played 
a strictly Medicine team, the “Ottawa Journal” to the 
contrary. This paper calls us a lot of “conscienceless 
sawbones, and intimates that the secretary is no bet- 
ter than he should be. In this latter statement we 
agree with it, entirely. 

Wednesday evening, the three football teams with 
theii fiiends, made matters rather lively at the station, 
but when the train was actually on its way, the scene 
beggars description. The team was fortunate in the 
enjoyment of the company of that sweet singer of the 
Third year, Mr. Jos. Hayes, whose charming solos and 
genial flow of spirits contributed greatly to enliven 
the journey. As we neared Lachute, one of our num- 
ber seemed to have been seized with an unwonted 
craving for fresh air, and three of us had to tear his 
coat tails in our endeavors to show him that existence 
without his society, would be misery itself. Ottawa 
was reached about midnight, and nearly all put up at 
the Windsor. 

Such startling reports had reached us of the dash- 
P la / the College Second, that it was with heavy 
misgivings and soaking feet, we wended our way to 
Cartier Square. Mud ! it is trifling with the subject 
to call it mud. Suffice it to say, that in this com- 
pound, we wallowed for an hour, until we could only 
recognize each other by our ears and more prominent 
features. 

Omitting an unexpected rush, at first, which secured 
a rouge for the Ottawa boys, we kept the ball pretty 
much all the time at their twenty -five line, and finished 
the game with a score of 16 to 1 in our favor. Only 
once did the ball get as far back as Harry Hamilton, yet 
we all agreed that a harder and more uncertain match 
we never played. In the crowning final scrimmage in 
the mud puddle, McMillan was only preserved from 
drowning by the expanse of his auriculars. The 
'ving men seem to have a chronic difference of 



opinion as to which was “ on” and which was “ off” 
side ; indeed, at the call of time, the gentlemanly 
“right wing” was observed making a loving attempt 
to roll his opponent in the mud. 

Where all played so finely it is hard to particularize. 
The scrimmage with McMillan and Yates as “centre,” 
worked superbly, while the younger men Morrow and 
Patterson, proved themselves worthy companions of 
the (mud) Bath. The most unselfish play fell to the 
lot of the “wings,” who had to watch and check the 
swift men of the college, and give our “halves” a 
chance to run or kick. Of the others, Hughes played 
a most scientific and gentlemanly game, in fact, prov- 
ing the tower of strength of the team. Jamieson 
never showed to better advantage, while “ Teddy” 
Mulligan’s passing was about the prettiest example of 
football we have yet seen. Harry Hamilton did not 
even get his clothes soiled, and as dirt was the criterion 
of play, deserves no mention. 

The boys celebrated the victory in various ways, 
principally by a roaring, teaming, dirty procession to 
their hotel via Sparks St. The inhabitants could not 
have been long in doubt as to who were the victors. 
Of the treatment which we received from the College, 
we cannot speak too highly. After dinner, they drove 
us out to the big matches, and when they were ended, 
took us back to the hotel, by way of the principal 
streets. The red flag of Old McGill, with its skull and 
crossbones, waved over a jolly and hilarious crowd of 
students, and the streets of the Capital rang with their 
songs and choruses. 

The Ottawa boys were down in full force to bid us 
“good-bye,” and exactly at eight the special train, full 
spiritually as well as physically, steamed out of the 
station, bearing home over one hundred and fifty 
lovers of the game. The trip was enlivened and ren- 
dered most amusing through the efforts of two embryo 
doctors, who, for the time being, completely cast aside 
all superfluous dignity and scattered broadcast to the 
astonished laymen, the most astounding and valuable 
secrets of our profession. The spirit seemed to move 
them powerfully, and many there be who may date a 
new lease of life from the valuable diagnoses which 
these gentlemen gave as to “ Systolic Murmur, Sub- 
Maxillary Retention and Cerebral Edemus.” In- 
deed, the last thing this Committee remembers before 
dozing oft, was one of these individuals precussing the 
sole of its boot, and gravely remarking that there were 
signs of a pleuritic lesion of the stocking, and that to 
prevent fatal results we had better give the matter our 
immediate attention. We did \ and for some time 
after, sounds of “I’ll go no more a-roving,” were heard 
emating from somewhere near the car floor. 

M e were pained to hear that some of the members 
of the team have asserted that we were “ scrapping” 
with our man all through the game. Now, without 
knowing the meaning of this term, we give the state- 
ment a most indignant and unqualified denial. We 
never do, never did, and never shall “scrap.” Again, 
while we are on this subject, we may as well nail an- 
other vituperative and pernicious falsehood. We are 
said to have been « parrallyzed.” We were not, and 
moreover, we will further impale this base, unmitigated 
slander on the altar of truth by saying, that on two 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



49 



several occasions, we, at the imminent peril of our ex- 
istence, preserved two members of the team from a 
watery grave, by falling off the end of the cars. We 
do not, of course, mean that we, the Special Committee, 
fell oft the cars, but that we preserved those other 
fools from so doing. In saying these things, we are 
not attempting to be funny, only to be lucid. If any- 
one is offended at our remarks, they know our address 
to be “ The Chairman of the Special Committeo on 
Ways and Means.” 



Personals. 



A. Mass^e, B.A., ’88, is engaged in mission work 
in the Grandligne station. 

Charles A. Barnard, M.A., has been appointed vale- 
dictorian for the Class of ’89 Law. 

W. H. Turner’s familiar face is to be again seen 
round town. May his stay be prolonged. 

Dr. C. P. Dewar replaces Dr. Wesley as house 
surgeon of the Montreal General Hospital. 

Dr. J. A. F. Gillis, ’77, M.P.P., Prince Edward 
Island, is staying in Montreal for some weeks. 

W. A. Fyles, B.A., ’86, has retired from teaching, 
and is now prosecuting his studies as a theological 
student. 

E. Ellis, M.D., ’87, is locating in North Eastern 
Wisconsin, after spending the past year at Guy’s 
Hospital, London, Eng. 

Dr. G. W. McKinnon, ’88, was in Montreal for a 
few days last week, on his way to California, where 
he intends to practice his profession. 

Dr. It. A. Wesley, late house physician of the 
General Hospital, has purchased a practice in his 
native town, Williamstown, Glengarry. 

Our old friends, W. Patterson, B.A.,’86, and H. H 
Curtis, have been distinguishing themselves as ex- 
ponents of the teaching profession at St. Johns, 
Que. 

Rev. N. P. Yates, B.A., ’86, is again associated with 
McGill. He is performing the onerous and respon- 
sible duties of Vice-Principal of the Diocesan Theo- 
logical College, with credit to himself and honour to 
the iustitution with which he is connected. 

The Greenshields’ Prize, for the last summer essay 
in the Faculty of Applied Science, has been awarded 
to R. G. Lea, ’89. The subject chosen was “The 
Water Supply of Charlottetown, Prince Edward 
Island,” and it gives a succinct account of the 
work which is at present in hand. The essay is to 
be published in the Transactions of the Canadian 
Society of Civil Engineers ; this is the first time since 
its founding that such an honour was accorded to an 
undergraduate. In addition, the Society is printing 
some copies for private circulation. 

The other prize in the fourth year was taken by 
M. L. Hersey, by an essay on “ Dextrine.” 



Between the Lectures. 



CATS-ABIANCA. 

A cat sat on the old back fence, 

His comrades all had fled, 

And as a natural consequence 
Things flew about his head ; 
Bootjack and bottle, stool and brick, 
The neighbors wild did fire, 

But Tom his chops did calmly lick, 
And loudly yelled “Ma-ri-a !” 



Motto for a baseball club — “A pitch in time saves 
the nine.” 

Woman (to tramp) — How’s the soup 1 Tramp — 
“Tain’t quite strong enough ma’am. I wish you would 
wash a few more dishes in it.” 

“There’s a saturated compound,” remarked a senior, 
as a rollicking Soph, linked his arm around a lamp 
post and attempted to see it home. 

If the day of convocation is the climax of a 
student’s course, may not the ceremony of placing the 
cap on his head be called “capping the climax 1" 

The students are anxious to know who the stoical 
looking magnate is, who daily stalks into the opera- 
ting theatre of the Hospital. It is suggested, judging 
from his decidedly foreign appearance, that he may 
be Bergmann or Virchow, but this is indefinite. 

Professor in Experimental Physics : “S 1, what 

is induction ?” 

S 1 : “Don’t know, sir.” 

Prof. : K — gh — n, can you tell me V’ 

K — gh — n : “An induction is an inference estab- 
lishing a general proposition on tho evidence of 
particular instances.” 

The Professor in Zoology was giving a demonstra- 
tion with the microscope, and one of the students 
was intently regarding the fish as they swam about 
in the glass jar, instead of examining the specimen 
under the microscope. “You will hardly see the cir- 
culation of the blood in those fish,” the Professor 
remarked to him. “Perhaps not,” he replied, “but I 
can plainly see the circulation of the fish.” 

Squillsby (a photographer) popped the question 
successfully the other night, after which he remarked 
— “ And now, I suppose, you will allow me to take a 
kiss 1 ” “ Why, of course,” she replied ; “ it would 

be in perfectly good taste now.” “Very well,” said 
Squillsby, “ turn your head a little more to the right, 
fix your eyes on that picture knob— so — that’s it — 
smile just a little — wink just as often as you please 
— there, there, there ! — that will do. Thank you.” 

First Cultured Young Lady — “ After Browning, 
which of the English poets do you most admire ? ” 

Second C. Y. L. (thoughtfully) — “ Perhaps Tenny- 
son and Scott ; but for nourishing, mental food, 
which sustains but does not excite, I prefer Crabbe’s 
Tales.” 

Uncultured Youth, from Chicago (who has over- 
heard only the latter part of the remark) — “ Gosh 1 
what a diet ! No wonder she’s thin.” 



50 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



College *&lor(6. 



Toronto University Literary and Scientific Society 
has decided by debate that the Senate is not justifiable 
in making attendance on lectures compulsory. 

The fourth year men of Toronto University are to 
meet at an early date to discuss class organization, 
•which will tend to bind the members of each class 
together more closely, and will, undoubtedly, foster 
the college spirit which many say is rapidly dying 
out. 

The Trustees of Columbia College have at last 
decided to affiliate, with the educational institutions 
under their charge, a woman’s college or annex, where 
women properly qualified may have all the advan- 
tages of higher education granted to men. This last 
important step by Columbia College has been the 
result of continuous agitation for the last twelve or 
fifteen years by persons favorable to co-education, 
who have succeeded in entirely transforming the 
ideas of the Trustees. 

The Toronto Mail says : — “The Minister of Educa- 
tion some time ago opened communication with Sir 
William Dawson, president of McGill University, 
with the view of assimiliating the matriculation exam- 
inations of McGill and those of the provincial univer- 
sity.” 

“It was felt particularly in the High schools of 
Eastern Ontario, to be a serious detriment to the 
organization of the school to require headmasters to 
establish two matriculation classes, and there was no 
remedy for this except the one proposed by the 
Minister of Education.” 

“Sir William Dawson received the proposals in the 
most friendly way, and it is now believed that, after 
the present academic year, the two courses will prac- 
tically be assimilated, and the course of study, as well 
as the text-books prescribed for matriculation into the 
University of Toronto, will be available for the sister 
university in the Province of Quebec.” 



CRAHAM BROS., 

SB Makers aei Mil's Firiislers, 

SNOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

wate: e^. 

perfect -sxroieir. 

IDELIVEKT. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS,, St. Catherine street, opp. Queen’s Hall 

TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

=)BU Y If Q\TR (EEEtttt 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

—AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 

Associatkd with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A.ddrec3 : 

30 ST. TOZHZHST STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



3 S 5 387 St. r^-crx. Steeet, Montreal. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—•{•Wholesale Manufacturers*— 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
(jcngnaving ^ (Minting 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 

Invitations, Cards, Grests, programmes 

plonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

SPZSra 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extr* Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E, A. GERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Me PHOTOGRAPHY aM- 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For CROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
ME CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



tftill $todk dogdtkgtly oi\ Skgd, Imported 
f)fredt from the I<ekdiq£ ^Ikgtifkdttfretfd 
of tl\e W ortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNTVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 




hotographers 

****************** 



J\feuo Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 



the genuine 
COOKI’S Pbieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 

TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIHITEP.) 



21, 21\ & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re- finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS <fc SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASE. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




1850 and 1852 NOTRE DAME ST., CORNER McGILL. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of onr own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS - FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS, "©a 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will repay you. 




