(VlcGibb Fortnight^ 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 



Vol. IV. 



MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 13, 1895. 



No. 3 




* EDITORIAL BOARD X 



Editor-in-chief— Robert T. Mullin (Law *96). 

Secretary — J. C. Robertson (Arts ’96). 

Harri Dell (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. ’96). Wm. McDougall (Sc. *96). 

W. B. Mo watt, BA. (Med. ’96). Miss W. J. Pitcher (Donalda ’96 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie (Graduates Society). 



& BUSINESS BOARD X 

S. G. Archibald (Arts *97), Chairman. 

Edgar N. Armstrong, B.A. (Law '97). Miss M. Hutchinson (Donalda ’96). 

Wm. Proderick (Med. ’96). J. W. Bell (Sc. ’97). 

J. J. McCarrey (Comp. Med. and Vet. Sc. *96). 

The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Wednesday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 113 McKay Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s, E. M. RenouPs, Cyrus 
Ashford’s, Chapman’s and W. Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 105 St. Hubert Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



BACK TO WORK. 

With Theatre Night now a pleasant memory, and 
the football season rapidly drawing to a close, our 
student constituency settles down to work again, and 
the session may be said to have really begun in earn- 
est. The athletically inclined who witnessed the foot- 
ball match on the 2nd instant will return to their books, 
satisfied at having attended at, at least, one battle royal 
on the campus this year, ending in a brilliant victory for 
McGill. As the men, therefore, return to their work, 
and begin to trim their lamps for many a long night- 
sitting, it is not unnatural that they should begin to 
count up the cost of their active participation in the 
various enterprises and organizations through which 
the energy, vim, and life of undergraduate McGill 
find ready overflow and vent. Some time has been 
lost to them no doubt. It is this drain on the stu- 
dents’ time that, may tell on the standing of the less 
brilliant, and which gives the fellow who remains at 
home a great advantage. This brings to mind what 
few of our students will fail to remember, viz., that 
there are two classes of undergraduates in McGill, as 
in every other University: there are the men who 
throw themselves actively into all the affairs of Col- 



lege life, and there is that other class of undergrad- 
uates, — patient, studious, gentle, who are punctual to 
lectures, and who lie close to their books in season 
and out of season, oblivious to the hum and whirl of 
University life about them. These are the “plug- 
gers” and “ crammers.” It is a pleasure to be able 
to say that in number they fall far short of splitting 
the undergraduate body into equal parts in McGill. 
We will not inquire into this difference which exists 
among us (no doubt it is a matter of temperament) ; 
but taking a representative man from each class, the 
question might be fairly put, — Which of these men 
will be better equipped to meet the world when 
he passes out of the portals of McGill, his course fin • 
ished, and his diploma under his arm ? We appre- 
hend that the odds are vastly against the man who 
goes forth with his head full of undergraduate learn- 
ing but utterly ignorant of the ways of the world. 
The old reproach, however, so often cast upon young 
college bred men, that they are ill-equipped to 
shoulder their way in the world and to meet its 
rebuffs is dying out before the modern graduate, who 
has learned a few things during his college course 
outside the exact line of his studies. The authori- 
ties of many colleges have recognized the practical 
importance of the student’s outside work, and have 
encouraged it by allowing the work done in the 
carrying on of certain student enterprises to count in 
the total of their University studies. They reckon it 
a part of the student’s education. For, after all, what 
is meant by a University education ? Certainly no 
conscientious student will feel, when he has won his 
degree and been graduated, that he knows very much. 
He will no doubt feel grateful and gratified when he 
looks far back along the road of his intellectual dev- 
elopment, and notes the distance-stone which marks 
the day of his entry into McGill ; but looking for- 
ward, he will be perfectly dazed at the prospect of 
what there is to know, and remembers what he ought 
to know and what he does know. But whether we 
take Arts, or any of the Professional courses, a solid 
foundation, a firm grasp of general principles, and a 
knowledge of how to think and study for ourselves 
is all that we can hope to acquire. And it is all the 
ordinary courses are designed to give, and all that in 
the nature of things they can give. The range of 
subjects is too wide to admit of more in a four years’ 



40 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



course. But he who does faithful and conscientious 
work will go out from McGill as well fortified to do 
battle in the intellectual world as the graduate of any 
other University ; and he may in after years, by the 
application of those general principles first taught him 
in McGill, and the use of that intellect which was first 
trained here, by long and patient work devoted to a 
few branches, hope to get down to the very roots of 
things. Hence it is clear, that however voracious 
our appetites may be, we cannot gobble up all know- 
ledge during our undergraduate life. We ought to 
remember that there are other sides than the intel- 
lectual to our nature. It is indeed multilateral. And 
by recognizing the physical, moral, and social sides 
of our nature, let us do ourselves justice by equipping 
ourselves for the battle of life. “ The education of the 
generality of the world is not in reading a parcel of 
books, but in restraint of discipline, emulation, and in 
noble examples,” says Edmund Burke. That dictum 
applies to the great world without, and also to our 
University microcosm. Let the pale hermit-student, 
therefore, break away occasionally from his books, 
and rub up against his fellows in the different socie- 
ties, social and otherwise, and if he be too light to 
meet the shock of his heavier brother in the foot- 
ball field, at least let him take a walk out and see the 
few games which remain to be played, and shout him- 
self hoarse for McGill. Soon he will find his intel- 
lect clear and scintillating bright, while all morbid- 
ness and unhealthy humors of body will be chased 
away. And students, coming back to your books, 
organizers, committee men, footballers, do not lament 
your lost time. You are on the right track, and will 
not regret it a few years hence. 



LOUDER THAN WORDS. 

When we pass in glorious procession past crowds 
of admiring spectators, or fill a gallery above hun- 
dreds of upturned and expectant faces, we swell with 
pride as again and again we sound forth the praises 
of our Alma Mater, our Faculties and our Years 
How loyally true we are to them all ! How insignifi- 
cant all others are compared to them ! Perish the 
man who will not endanger his vocal organs for their 
sike along with us! And then we shout again M-c- 
G-i-1-1, until our hearers believe those letters are 
branded on our very souls and trust that their ear- 
drums may remain intact until the close. But now 
we draw a yet deeper breath ; for here come the 
Professors, that “ noble army of martyrs ” in the cause 
of our education. We shall prove to them our gra- 
titude and devotion by many a ringing cheer. And 
thus we keep it up until — 

With bodies weary and worn, 

With thioats made raw and led, 



we disperse to our homes, congratulating ourselves 
upon the fine spirit of loyalty and unity that has been 
displayed. 

Now we are at work again, and the “ light of com- 
mon day” shines upon us instead of that from the 
foot-lights ; gone are the upturned faces, and with them 
some of our enthusiasm. We certainly appeared loyal 
men and true that night, and surely it was more than 
an appearance, put on with our fantastic costumes and 
laid by with them when we donned cap and gown. 
Did those loud-voiced declarations mean no more 
than did the white trousers, the ancient beavers and 
the huge chrysanthemums ? Our answer cannot be 
spoken ; for our college will take as a proof of loyalty 
our furthering of her highest interests ; our professors 
will believe in our gratitude, if we follow the path to 
knowledge which they point out ; and our class- 
mates will not doubt those professions of class-unity* 
if self-seeking competition gives way to hearty co- 
operation. They had a right to believe words so 
emphatically iterated. Let us prove them true, and 
then, with her halls filled with sons who mean what 
they say, our Alma Mater will indeed be “ all right.” 



CONTRIBUTIONS, 



HORACE. 

It is now about nineteen hundred years since 
Horace died, and during all the centuries that his 
works have been before a public which has included 
all the learning and refinement of every cultivated 
nation, no writer in any language has been so much 
read, quoted, translated and commented upon. He 
is the first of those classic authors who become the 
friend of the reader, and the friendship lasts with life. 
Malherbe said that he used the Epistles as his bre- 
viary. Condoveet took a volume of the Odes into the 
dungeon where he died. DeWitt, when a murder- 
ous mob burst upon him, repeated to his brother the 
noble lines in which the poet describes the righteous 
and resolute man, whom not even the fury of the 
citizens can shake from his purpose or can drive into 
error. W hat is the secret of a popularity which time 
leaves unimpaired ? How is it that this writer, deal- 
ing w ith the transactions of a life, the very traditions 
of which are now obsolete, never fails to interest, to 
delight, to fascinate ? We know that Demosthenes 

as the gieatest orator, d hucydides the greatest his- 
torian, Euripides the most tear-provoking tragedian 
of antiquity. We ad mit their claims, but we do not 
lead them. Schoolboys learn them at college, and 
students master them in after life ; but Horace is not 
for us an author, but a friend. We read him in our 
youth, and we return to him when our judgment is 
more mature, and we think with kindness of the man 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



who, across nineteen centuries, chats to us easily, con- 
soles, advises, amuses, whose philosophy is never 
cumbrous, whose learning is never pedantic, whose 
courtly jokes are always in season. We yield to a 
fascination which we can scarcely account for, but 
which remains constant amidst many changes. 

One charm about him is that he is eminently a 
man of the world — a man of the world and a gentle- 
man ; and what makes this so strange is that his birth 
was quite ignoble. His father had been a s'ave. 
Horace tells us so himself. Fie had been a slave 
who was given his freedom, and who devoted his life 
to the education of this only child. Horace was still 
a youth when he took leave of the good father whom 
he was never again to see, and started for Athens to 
complete his education at its academy. It is hard to 
realize these times and to regard the Greek city as a 
kind of Oxford or Cambridge. Cicero had a son 
there, who was perhaps a companion of young F'lac- 
cus, and we can fancy the excitement that must have 
been produced amongst the Roman students when 
the messenger came in with the tidings of the assassin- 
ation of Julius Caesar. 

There were plenty of young Republicans at Athens, 
and the students joined the crowd who crowned the 
statues of Brutus and Cassius with garlands. How 
Horace in his early manhood espoused the Republi- 
can cause, and fought at the battle of Phillippi, and 
ran away, leaving his shield ingloriously behind, he 
has himself told us. The party with whom he sided 
was utterly beaten, and he was reduced to poverty, 
which (he says) drove him to write. But he had 
made good friends; even Virgil, who was five years 
older than he, came to his aid, and another poet, 
named Varius, whose works have perished forever. 
The period of want did not last long. One day he 
was introduced to Maecenas. With a delightful 
brevity and simplicity he has described the interview. 
“ The day I came to see you,” he says in one of the 
Satires addressed to his patron, “ I spoke but little, 
“ and that nervously ; silent shame stopped me from 
“ saying more. I told no tale of an illustrious father, 
“ but the plain truth about myself. You answered 
“ but little ; then nine months afterwards you sent for 
“ me again, and bid me in the number of your 
“ friends.” From that time poverty was unknown. 
He lived an easy, happy, careless life, rich in the pos- 
session of many friendships, untouched by political 
change, hospitable, kindly and not avaricious. With 
that patron, whose kindness had so opportunely res- 
cued him from want, his relations remained always 
the same, — “ Remember Flaccus,” said Maecaenas 
on his death bed to the Emperor ; “ remember Flaccus 
as you would myself.” The solemn bequest was not 
forgotten, but the poet did not long survive his 
patron. His last illness came so suddenly upon him 



4 ^ 

that he had not time to make his will. Witnesses 
■were called in, and the poet had just force left to 
name the Emperor as his heir. He died in his fifty- 
seventh year, and was buried at the end of the Es- 
quiline Hill, close to the tomb of Maecaenas. 

His life was thus not eventful, and most of what 
we know about it, we know from himself. No small 
part of the charm of his writings is due to their ex- 
tremely personal nature. Like Montaigne, he is con- 
fidential, even egotistical, without ever being a bore. 
The Satires and Epistles are literally independent of 
time. Omitting a very few local allusions, they 
remain models of what they are intended to be. 
Take the Fourth Satire of the Second Book, it might 
have been written yesterday. The poet walking 
through the street meets a friend who is hurrying on 
so quickly that he cannot stop a minute. But 
Horace detains him, and asks him where he has 
been; Catius replies that he has just heard a lecture 
on cookery, and that he is trying now to learn them 
off by heart ; he fears lest he may forget them. 
Horace proposes that he should fix them in his 
memory by rehearsing them then and there, and 
Catius accordingly commences : — “ Let no ordinary 
“ man lightly take to himself the science of dinner- 
“ parties unless he has first duly considered the deli- 
“ cate question of taste.” We have only to change 
the scene from Rome to Montreal, and fancy the 
w’ords spoken outside our Cooking School. “ Some 
“ men’s genius,” says Catius, “ is poor, only equal to 
“ the invention of new pastry ; whereas it is worth 
“ while thoroughly to master the qualities of com- 
“ pound sauces.” So the Satire runs on, till Horace 
begs that he may be taken to see this lecturer, that 
he may note the bearing of the great man, and 
“quaff thoughts of the wisdom of such a blessed life.’ > 

Another notable characteristic of the poet is his 
appreciation of the country. He has the art of a 
landscape painter in describing a landscape. There 
always comes some happy, forcible adjective that 
puts the scene locally and individually before you. 
He turns away from the overgrown city, and takes 
his holiday amongst the vines and olive trees of the 
Sabine farm. FYw letters have ever been penned 
more delightful than that in w’hich the poet, writing 
to his country steward, complains of town life, and 
longs to be back amongst the fields and the woods. 
These Epistles have a wonderful ease and simplicity. 
They read as if they were mere letters and not 
literary productions. Pope imitated Horace, but the 
labor of the file is to be traced on every polished line, 
and his Satires smell of midnight oil. Horace is 
always simple and natural. His friend Bullatius is 
travelling in Iona. Was there ever such a gossiping, 
pleasant letter written by a stay-at-home to some 
acquaintance wandering about in his travels ? He 



42 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



asks him how he likes the different places and how 
they compare with the field of Mars and the stream 
of Tiber. He is glad to know all the news his cor- 
respondent can tell him, but he has somethi ng to say 
himself, and he keeps it for the end of the letter. 
Busy idleness, he says, is the vice of the day. It is 
with ships and chariots that people seek to live plea- 
sant lives, and yet it is reason and discretion which 
take away our cares, and not a spot that commands 
a wide expanse of sea. Tis the sky, and not the 
wind they change, who speed across the sea. 
{Cezlum non amniuin mutant , cjui Jiaus mare currunf). 
If the Satire on cookery seems applicable to the very 
yeai we live in, is not this hint to the restless Bulla- 
tius as appropriate to an age of tourist agencies and 
a feverish restlessness for travel ? The touch of nature 
is upon everything that Horace has left behind, and 
so in every century his works find kinship with every 
cultivated people. 

Quevcdo Redivivus. 



THE DRAMA AT ATHENS. 

The following is a resume of the lecture on the 
above subject, delivered by Principal Peterson before 
the Classical Club : — 

The period during w'hich the dramatic ait attained 
to its highest development in ancient Athens was coin- 
cident with the era ofher greatest national prosperity. 
The Persian invasion had left the city a heap of ruins, 
but it also secured for her the supremacy of Greece. 
The brief epoch of her political supremacy is marked 
by the most surprising activity in all branches of art 
and literature. Sculpture and architecture made great 
strides in the desire to beautify the “ Queen and Sav- 
iour of Hellas,” and render her worthy of the head- 
ship she had w^on. History w^as placed on a scientific 
basis by Thucydides. Philosophy passed in the teach- 
ing of Socrates from the contemplation of the material 
universe to consider the equally mysterious pheno- 
mena of mind ; and, finally, Poetry gathered itself 
together, and the supreme effort of elaborating an 
altogether new form of composition that would ade. 
quately represent the energies excited by the Persian 
invasion ; and the Drama at Athens — associated with 
the enduring names of Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euri- 
pides, and Aristophanes — became the highest ex- 
pression of Athenian life, and indeed of the artistic 
genius of the w r hole Greek people. 

It did not originate in the natural instincts of imi- 
tative representation, and still less in the mere love of 
amusement. The Greek drama had its origin in the 
Greek religion, — especially in the worship of the god 
Dionysus, and the rustic celebrations that were held 
in his honor at the time of the ingatherin O* of the 
vines. The original chorus consisted of a band of 



rustics, who danced and sang round the turf-heaped 
altar they had raised to the deity whose genial pow- 
ers had given birth and increase to the rich clusters 
that were being carried home. This celebration gra- 
dually assumed a dramatic significance, wffien the 
leader of the chorus took upon him to represent the 
god himself, while the chorus gave vent in their song 
to the feelings inspired by the narrative of his adven- 
tures. Out of these elements both Tragedy and 
Comedy w r ere subsequently developed. Thespis in- 
troduced the first real actor, by arranging that the 
leader of the chorus should no longer address the 
whole chorus, but that one individual member 
should carry on a dialogue with him, responding to 
his narrative about Dionysus in a w r ay that secured 
for him the nam z hypocrites (“answerer”), which after- 
wards became the ordinary Greek name for an actor. 
A regular dialogue came in this way to interrupt the 
choral song, and subsequent development w r as made 
easy. Aeschylus added a second actor : he also 
elaborated the chorus, invented the buskin and the 
mask, and devised stage machinery and scenic appar- 
atus generally. With the later inclusion of a third 
actor, the choral parts of the representation became 
quite subordinate to the dialogue. It is important 
also to note that the scope of the dramatic narrative 
soon extended itself from the traditional adventures 
of Dionysus to those of the fancy hero or demi- 
god whose exploits were calculated to excite vivid 
sympathy in the breasts of the spectators. 

1 he audience before which the plays of the great 
Athenian dramatists w r ere produced was perhaps the 
most remarkable the world has ever seen. Every citi- 
zen of Athens was more or less a public man, exercis- 
ing the functions of a legislator in the Assembly and 
of a judge in the Courts of law. 1 he audience was a 
trained and cultivated audience ; and the various 
representations were made the occasion for the great- 
est possible display of public spirit. It was consi- 
deied a high honor for a rich men to be allowed to 
assist, by furnishing the dramatist, whose play had been 
adjudged the best, with the funds nece sary for an ade- 
quate presentation. And the State actually allowed 
a small sum out of its funds to enable the poorest 
citizens, to sit down beside their brethren at what 
was really a great national festival. The front seats 
in the vast semi-circular edifice, hollowed out of the 
rock of the Acropolis (which are still in situ), were re- 
served for the high dignitaries of State and for the 
official representatives of other powers in Greece or 
abroad. In the centre of all was the chair of the high 
piiest of Dionysus, on the base of which may still be 
seen inscribed the title of his great office. 

Of the 275 plays which Aeschylus, Sophocles and 
Euripides are said to have composed among them 
j we have only 3 1 now left. But the remains of any of 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



these three would have sufficed to vindicate his claim 
to be considered a poet of paramount genius, and 
what we have is enough to enable us to trace the main 
idea that animated and inspired Greek tragedy, and 
to establish the position that — at any rate in ancient 
Athens — a great dramatist could also be a great 
moral teacher. 

Aeschylus found tragedy existing in a rude form, 
which has been said to resemble nothing so much as 
a modern oratorio, — a form in which the choral song 
and dance were varied occasionally by the recitation 
of a single actor, or by a dialogue carried on between 
him and the leader of the chorus. Within fifty years 
from the date at which he took it in hand, it had at- 
tained its complete development. 

As regards his moral teaching, Aeschylus sought to 
resolve the antagonism which existed in the popular 
belief between powers of light and powers of darkness 
into a higher order of things, in which both are repre- 
sented as working in obedience to one supreme law — 
the law of Destiny or Necessity. This inexorable 
law Zeus himself has to obey, and the necessity of 
resignation to it is taught in almost every one of the 
plays of Aeschylus. Another conspicuous point in 
his teaching is his living belief in the consequences of 
ancestral guilt. The pride of heart which leads on to 
impiety and issues in crime begets a curse which is 
transmitted from generation to generation, till the 
righteousness of some late descendant wins the pardon 
of heaven. It is this that gives its continuity to the 
story of Orestes, which, as told in his great Trilogy, 
really contains the whole of the poet’s theology. 

While Aeschylus dealt with the vast and shadowy 
forms of demi-gods and heroes — each the victim of 
mysterious forces which he could not attempt to con- 
trol — Sophocles descended into the human heart, and 
by a subtle analysis sought to explain and to justify 
the situations in which his personages appear. The 
ordinary life of men was not enough to furnish 
Aeschylus with the episodes in which he embodied 
his moral and religious ideas. But Sophocles, while 
still inculcating the central idea of Greek tragedy — 
that the guilty must suffer, and that “as a man sows 
so shall he reap ” — no longer justifies the punishment 
inflicted by reference to a mystical order of things 
existing apart from the life of man, but finds its solu- 
tion and explanation in the natural workings of the 
human heart. His moral ideal consists in a beautiful 
harmony between inclination and duty, freedom and 
order. Thus there is more human interest about his 
plays, and yet this does not mar the ideal beauty of his 
creations. Titanic forces such as Prometheus and 
the uncontrolled passion of Clytean Vesta give place 
in Sophocles to the sorely tried and very human 
(Edipus and the true womanhood of Antigone. 
Sophocles, in fact, brought the drama within the sphere 



of idealized human life. He has been well said, more- 
over, to be of all ancient poets the “ one whose feel- 
ings have most in common with the spirit of our re- 
ligion.” He has overcome the dread of heaven’s envy, 
which was perhaps in Aeschylus one of the last survi- 
vals of the earlier native worship, and justice is with 
him thoughout tempered with mercy. His moral 
teaching is summed up in his exhortation to control 
the desires, to love justice, and to fear God. 

Of Euripides, it may be said — in the words of Mr. 
Jeff — that “no one is capable of feeling that Sopho- 
cles is supreme who does not feel that Euripides is ad- 
mirable.” In him, however, we trace the influences of 
the new school of thought that was springing up in his 
day under the Sophists and teachers of rhetoric. The 
axe had now been laid at the root of the old religion. 
The stories of the old mythology Euripides uses merely 
as the basis of the delineation of human passion and 
suffering. He is thus the most modern of all the 
dramatists, approaching more nearly than either 
Aeschylus or Sophocles to the tone of every-day life. 

A word in conclusion about Greek comedy. The 
chief name connected with it is that of Aristophanes, 
perhaps the greatest wit the world has ever known. 
Throughout the flourishing era of the Athenian Em- 
pire, Aristophanes burlesqued all form of the national 
life — political, intellectual, moral, and social — with a 
licence of which the like was never seen either before or 
since his day. Conscious of the origin of his art in a 
chorus of Bachanalian rustics, full of the wine-god’s 
gift, he turned the whole world topsy-turvy in his plays. 
Relying too on the liberty that was the heritage 
of all the citizens of democratic Athens, he claimed in 
particular to exercise a direct censorship over the 
manners and customs ofhis age. His Comedies com- 
bine all the elements of burlesque and pantomime with 
the functions of a free press. They are all in direct 
relation to the politics and literature of the day, and 
their tone is eminently personal. Nobody escaped 
his lash, but his chiefest objects of detestation were 
the demagogues who sought to mislead a generous- 
hearted people, the philosopher and rhetorician who 
were trying to introduce a new culture, and the enthu- 
siasts who, even in that remote age, had begun to 
advocate Women’s Rights. 

Comedy affords fewer points of contrast between the 
ancient and modern types of the dramatic art than 
Tragedy. Laughter was excited by pretty much the 
same causes in ancient times as now, and the nature 
of the ludicrous can undergo but little change. It is 
in Tragedy especially that we find the differences that 
have fixed so wide a gulf between the ancient and 
modern drama. To say nothing of the external con- 
trasts afforded by the employment on the Greek 
stage of fixed masks and high, raised buskins — appli- 
ances rendered necessary by the actual circumstances 



44 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



of the representation, and helping also to maintain 
the impression of ideal majesty sought to be pro- 
duced in the spectators’ minds — the most striking 
point of contrast may be said to consist in this, that 
whereas on our stage are portrayed the varying 
phases of human actions, struggle and passion, in 
every minute detail, the Greek dramatists sought 
rather to exhibit intense passion as the effect of 
action — much of which went on oft’ the stage — in a 
succession of dramatic situations, the general effect of 
which may be realized by looking at Flaxman’s 
designs in illustration of Aeschylus. Not that there 
is much conscious analysis of character. The old 
Greek play-wrights wrote in huge uncial letters, fill- 
ing in the outline with a few bold rapid strokes, 
where a modern artist would revel in the varied con- 
trasts of a much higher degree of detail. The limited 
number of actors effectually prevented the possibility of 
such manifold creations as those which live and 
breathe for us in the plays of Shakespeare. Three 
or, at most, four did all the work among them, in tra- 
gic situations, in which they were made to appear 
being interpreted by the chorus— no longer now in the 
fantastic garb of the rustic votaries of Bacchus, but in 
stately dress appropriate to their own character and 

to the action of the piece. Their solemn chants 

sung in strains which show how far Greek tragedy 
contained within itself what we have now differ- 
entiated into the sacred oratorio — interrupted the 
dialogues at critical moments of the action, thus 
marking the progress of the piece, and also at the 
same time giving expression to the sentiments it 
excites in a pious, well-ordered mind. After a series 
of simple but majestic situations, the catastrophe is 
effected ; and so the play closes, often in an anti- 
phonal ode, in which the chorus sums up the moral of 
the whole. 

The freedom of choice, too, which enables a mod- 
ern dramatist to take his subject from any source he 
pleases, is in strong contrast with the limitations 
placed upon the old Greek tragedian. His art was 
one feature in a great national festival, and his 
subject must therefore be a national subject. Con- 
scious of this requirement, he drew his materials 
mainly from the mythology first formulated in the 
Homeric poems: Aeschylus, in fact, speaks of his 

plays as fragments picked up from the mighty feasts 
of Homer. It was no new plot, therefore, thar was 
unravelled before the eyes of the spectators. 
Hence the “irony ” of Greek Tragedy,— by which an 
Agamemnon, an (Ldipus, ora Kreon holds on his way 
in pomp and pride, unknowing or his doom, though 
all in the vast theatre except himself can see the 
precipice he is approaching. In this respect, the 
mystery plays of the Catholic church, when the 
material was drawn from the sacred stories familiar 



from childhood, offer the closest parallel to the Greek 
drama. In fact, the whole effect of Greek tragedy 
can perhaps best be realized— apart from modern 
revivals — by those who have witnessed the Passion 
play still actedat Ober-Ammergan, with its half-open 
stage, its stately choral songs, its solemn acting, and, 
above all, its intense religious feeling. 

THE RECEPTION TO DR. AND MRS. 
PETERSON. 

The reception given in the Peter Redpath Library 
by the Governors of the University, on Saturday even- 
ing, October 26th, was a social event of a most bril- 
liant nature. 

The attendance was very large, showing the esteem 
which Dr. and Mrs. Peterson have already won in the 
heaits of everyone interested in University life. 

The Library, usually a quiet retreat for those on 
“study bent,” had undergone a partial metamorpho- 
sis at the hands of those in charge of the decorations. 

The entrance from McTavish street, and the cor- 
ridors leading to the dressing-rooms, were tastefully 
draped with crimson and white bunting and the 
Union Jack. 

Palms, ferns and other topical plants lined the 
halls and stairway, and were massed on the landing, 
the effect being most pleasing. 

The hall also presented a charming color effect. 
The standards of England and Ireland were com- 
bined at one side of the room, and at the downstairs 
entrance the standard of Scotland was effectively 
arranged, out of compliment to the new Principal. 
At the other side and under a canopy, and sur- 
rounded by flowers, was the bust of the late Mr. Peter 
Redpath 

Dr. and Mrs. Peterson were met on their arrival by 
the Reception Committee, and Mrs. Peterson was 
presented with two lovely bouquets,— one from the 
Committee, the other from the Donaldas. 

The guests were welcomed by Mrs. J. H. R. Mol- 
son, Dr. and Mrs. Peterson, Lady Dawson and Lady 
Hickson, in the most gracious manner. 

Among the most distinguished guests was noticed 
Sir William Dawson, whose four decades of connec- 
tion with McGill have been largely instrumental in 
placing her in her present enviable position among 
the Universities of this continent. 

1 he gallery was a favorite coign of vantage, from 
which could be obtained a view of the brilliant scene 
in the body of the hall. 

The rich costumes of the ladies, the members of 
Convocation attired in their robes of office, fair Don- 
aldas flitting to and fro in cap and gown, and the 
lavish floral display, all combined to render the scene 
one long to be remembered. 

The proceedings wen? enlivened by songs and in. 



McGill fortnightly. 



45 






strumental selections from tlie Glee and Banjo Clubs 

the visiting clubs, however, did not participate, 
owing to the fact that they were obliged to depart 
early in the evening. 

Refreshments were served during the evening in the 
large room adjoining the gallery, and at a late hour 
the guests departed, voting the reception one of the 
most successful ever held in connection with the 
University. 



ADDRESS PRESENTED TO DR. 
TRENHOLME. 

The Undergraduates in the Faculty of Law, McGill 
University, recently held a meeting, at which it was 
unanimously resolved to present Dean Trenholme 
with an address, expressing their regret at his resign- 
ation, and the hope that he might be induced to re- 
consider the matter and remain in the position which 
he had so ably filled in the past. 

Mr. Wm. Donahue, the Piesident of the Under- 
graduates, in a few well chosen words, presented 
him with the following address, which had been 
signed by every student in the Faculty : 



duates of this Faculty, your former students, and all 
who have any knowledge of your unremitting labors 
to bring the Faculty up to its present high state of 
efficiency, will agree with us in thinking that the 
University, and especially the Faculty of Law, will 
sustain a great loss when deprived of your valuable 
services. 

In conclusion, we beg to thank you for your uniform 
kindness to us, your students, and the interest which 
you have always evinced in our progress and welfare, 
and we venture to express the hope that even now 
you may be induced to reconsider your decision, and 
to remain with us, as our esteemed and worthy Dean ; 
but if, unfortunately, that is not to be, we ask you to 
remember that you have our sincerest wishes for your 
future prosperity and happiness. 

We beg respectively to subscribe ourselves your 
grateful and affectionate students. 

I (Signed), 

Wm. Donahue, — President. 

Leslie H. Boyd, — Vice-President . 

Claude Hickson, — Secretary. 

(And all the students of the Faculty of Law.) 



N. W. TRENHOLME, Esq.,Q.C., D C.L., 

Dean of the Faculty of Law, 

McGill University, 

Montreal. 

Sir, 

We, the undersigned undergraduates, have heard 
with feelings of deep regret the announcement of your 
resignation as Dean and Professor in the Faculty of 
Law, to take effect at the termination of the present 
half session, and we desire to express our sincere 
appreciation of your unwearied labors in our bi half. 

We regret exceedingly that after twenty-seven 
years’ service in the Faculty of Law, you should feel 
compelled to resign the distinguished position which 
you have filled with such conspicuous ability. As 
students, we can testify to the great assistance we 
have received in our studies from the lectures deliv- 
ered by you on Obligations, Insurance, Constitu- 
tional, International, Criminal and Roman Law — sub- 
jects which you have taken out of the dry dust of 
the law, and rendered not only profitable, but in- 
tensely interesting, by your historical and philosophi- 
cal treatment. 

You have indeed striven, and we think with some 
success, to imbue us with the loftiest ideals of the legal 
profession, which it is our hope some day to have the 
privilege of entering ; and whatever success may ul- 
timately attend our efforts, we shall always feel that 
you and the other members of the Faculty have done 
all in your power to equip us with the knowledge 
necessary to become good lawyers and serviceable 
Members of the State. We are sure that all gra- 



Dean Trenholme, in thanking the students for their 
address, said that he was much touched by this ex- 
pression of the students’ kindly feelings towards him, 
and for their appreciation of his services as Dean and 
Professor. He could assure them that ever since he 
had been connected with the University, extending 
over a period of twenty-seven years, he had done 
what he could to forward the interests of the Faculty ; 
and since be had given up his practice to assume the 
position of Dean, he had devoted the whole of his 
time and what talents he might possess towards mak- 
ing the Faculty of Law something more than a mere 
school of law, where students might come and pick 
up the forms and principles of law. It had been his 
endeavor to provide a wider curriculum, which would 
enable the students to study law in its broadest as- 
pect, and which would fit them, not only for the 
practice of their chosen profession, but also for the 
part they would some day have to take in the govern- 
ment of the State, either in the capacity of private 
citizens, representatives of the people in the Legisla- 
ture, or in some cases, perhaps, as judges and minis- 
ters of State. He hoped he had succeeded ; but he 
was quite sure few Universities possessed in their Law 
Faculties a more able body of men than those asso- 
ciated with him as Professors in the McGill Faculty 
of Law. He would certainly sever his connection 
with the University with great regret — indeed, he 
might say that it would be a painful thing for him to 
say “good-bye” to the students, and to lay down a 
work which, though arduous, he had loved so well. 

He could not promise them that he would remain 



46 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



in his present position after Christmas ; but whether 
he did remain or not, he would always regard the 
Address just presented to him, as one of the most 
cherished mementos of his connection with the 
Univer.-ity, and as an evidence that the students, for 
whom he had worked, had not been unmindful of 
his labors. 

The Dean was frequently applauded, and the stu- 
dents have great hopes that they will not be deprived 
of his able services. 



NEW LIGHT ON AN OLD SUBJECT. 

Printing is one of the oldest known inventions, 
dating as it does from 55 B. C. The first press intro- 
duced about this time was used by Julius Caesar, 
and indeed was taken on the ship in which he sailed 
to England. It was with this press that Julius 
printed the summons to surrender, which he sent to 
Caractacus on landing. The identical summons is 
still carefully preserved in the British Museum. It 
was found in a bog near Bristol, where some excava- 
tions were being made. Strange to say, it had not 
suffered from exposure to the dirt, and is now as 
good as when first printed. As Caesar did not land 
the press, the honor of introducing printing into 
England was reserved for Caxton, who afterwards 
printed “Three Men in a Boat” in Westminster 
Abbey. 

Next to Caesar, Gutenberg was the greatest printer 
of the day. Gutenberg — -who is known in History as 
Cassivelaunus — was much favored by Henry VIII, 
and had a printing press in a corner of Windsor 
Castle. 

This brings to mind the death of the beautiful 
Anne Boleyn, who has been accused of all sorts of 
misconduct, by persons who knew nothing at all 
about the matter. Very few historians are aware 
that it was nothing but King Henry’s jealousy of 
Gutenberg that brought the unfortunate Anne to her 
end. T he .following is the plain, unvarnished state- 
ment of facts : — Shortly before St. Valentine’s day 
in the year 1533, Anne Boleyn, who was desirous of 
doing something to please her lord and master, com- 
manded Gutenberg to print her a valentine in the 
form of a letter (that she might present it to her 
king,— printing being then a great novelty), at the same 
time handing him a written copy of the words she 
desired to be put therein. Now it so happened that 
the written copy occupied two separate sheets of 
paper, and the second sheet, which naturally con- 
a ;.ed the climax oi the wh. >le epistle, was full of the 
.nosL Vehement pioicstalio s of affection, and at the 
close were the words : 

“ Fn myour affectionate 

Anne Boleyn.” 



Now, while Gutenberg was in another chamber, 
making the block for the first sheet, His Majesty 
stepped into the printing room, where, as ill luck 
would have it, the second sheet was lying. Henry 
read it, and thinking that the letter was intended for 
Gutenberg, sent his unfortunate Queen to the guillo- 
tine, at the same time ejecting Gutenberg, and smash- 
ing his press. It is to be lamented that the true story 
is known by so few ; but the matter was hushed up 
at the time, out of consideration for King Henry, 
— Geoffrey of Monmouth and myself having been the 
only ones who have had the courage and gallantry 
to expose this huge piece of injustice. But to return 
to our narrative. It is said that once, while Caesar 
was touring through Gaul on his bicycle, he had a 
wager with Gutenberg, that he could print more opera 
tickets in an hour than Gutenberg could ; and to 
settle the dispute, they made the experiment. When 
the time was about half up, and Caesar was ahead 
by three tickets, the fly-wheel of Caesar’s press broke, 
and he, in a rage at having lost the wager, swore that 
he would have nothing more to do with printing. 
These tickets were subsequently used as billets of 
admission to the Arena Fabula, where Cicero was 
producing his latest tragedy “ De Asinis.” 

It has been wondered why the Chinese persist in 
their awkward method of block printing, instead of 
employing presses. The following is from page 
822 of the third volume of Wah Long, one of 
the oldest chronicles of the Chinese Empire, which 
states that about 2000 B. C., three Chinamen had 
gone to London, looking for work. They happened, 
while there, to see a cylinder press at work on the 
limes, and being anxious to know more of it, they 
returned the same night, and having crawled through 
the window of the printing house, started the press. 
All went well for a short time, until one of them, named 
Sing, more of a genius than the other two, thought 
that if he himself were to take the place of the type, 
he could have his own likeness imprinted on the 
paper, and thus have a picture of himself to hang up 
in his laundry. 

Accordingly, having taken off his clogs, he inked 
himself thoroughly, laid down on the type bed, and 
requested his compatriots to start the machine. This 
they did, whereupon, when he found himself being 
drawn into the press, Sing Sang with all his might; 
but the machine was well under way, and no doubt 
mistaking him for a sheet of paper, printed him on 
both sides, cut him and folded him, depositing him 
at last on the table. 

The strength of the machine made a deep impres- 
sion on Sing’s companions — as also on Sing. Slowly 
they gathered up the remains and carried them back 
to China. There they told the story to the Em- 
peror, who embalmed the pieces, keeping the skin as 



McGILL FORTN/GHTLY. 



47 



a reminder of the barbarity of the English Press. He 
then issued a solemn edict, that no press should ever 
be brought to China, which edict may still be seen 
in the temple of the god Vg-lee in Pekin. But this 
is not to the point. 

Ancient printing was altogether done by single 
blocks, which only served for one impression. The 
discovery of separate types is claimed by the Polan- 
ders for Americus Vespucis. This is disputed by 
the Turks, who claim that the honoris due to Char- 
lemagne. 

The first Bible was printed in 1563 by Gutenberg. 
All around the corners of the leaves of this Bible were 
studies in Natural History, done in glaring colors ; 
and such was the idea of art of that time, that on the 
fly leaf was depicted, in red and yellow, a huge grizzly 
bear. This Bible is still extant, and many people 
now go to Florence, where it is kept, to see the marvel- 
lous art displayed in the coloring of the bear. 

In modern times presses are much different from 
what they used to be. Now flat presses, operated 
by jack-screws, are used for newspapers ; while for 
delicate and elaborate work, such as visiting cards 
and posters, vast cylinder presses are used. It is said 
that Mrs. Jay Gould formerly kept two cylinder 
presses running night and day to print visiting cards 
for her use alone. Such is the press upon fashionable 
people. 

Printing has made a great change in literature. 
Formerly a book was a great treasure. Now, the 
best editions of the Encyclopedia Brittanica may be 
purchased for five cents. 



THE UNDERGRADUATES LITERARY 

SOCIETY. 

The first public debate of the season was held in 
the Molson’s Hall, on Friday evening, November 1st. 
The Hall was crowded with members of the Society 
and their friends, a large number of ladies being 
present. 

Mr. V. E. Mitchell, the President, ascended the 
platform shortly after 8 o’clock, accompanied by Prin- 
cipal Peterson, Professor Cox and the several speakers. 
Mr. Mitchell, in opening the proceedings, said that 
he esteemed it an honor to have the privilege of 
extending, on behalf of the Society, a warm and 
friendly greeting to Dr. Peterson, the Principal of the 
University. He assured Dr. Peterson that he was 
heartily welcome, and that the members of the 
Society regarded his presence amongst them as 
only another instance of his desire to identify himself 



with all that concerned the interests and welfare of 
the students. After giving a short account of the 
Society, its aims and objects, the President called 
upon the Principal to address the meeting. 

Dr. Peterson, in a very able and interesting address 
on Literary Societies, gave the members some good 
advice in regard to public speaking. He said that a 
little diffidence in young speakers was preferable, and 
certainly a good deal more pleasing than a too con- 
fident demeanor. 

Debating societies afforded splendid opportunities 
to their members for acquiring dexterity in public 
speaking and the ability to express in a lucid and 
appropriate manner their views upon the subject of 
discussion. But he specially warned them against 
sacrificing matter to style, as, after all, it was what a 
man had to say, and not the manner of saying it, that 
really weighed with an audience. A literary society 
properly conducted formed a valuable adjunct to 
University work, and he saw no reason why the 
members should not study and discuss questions of 
political science, a knowledge of which was essential 
in the education of every man. Of course, burning 
political questions, in which, perhaps, religious and 
racial feelings were involved, should be avoided in a 
University society, but discussions of political ques- 
tions on broad and general grounds would undoubt- 
edly tend to a more thorough knowledge of political 
economy, and to a better understanding of the rela- 
tion of State to the individual, and the responsibility of 
the latter in all questions affecting the welfare of the 
State. He hoped that the members of this Society 
would not forget the importance of reading, not the 
hurried, undigested reading, which was too prevalent 
in these days of many books, but the careful, intelli- 
gent reading, which would add something to one’s 
knowledge. Bacon had truly said that “ reading 
maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and 
writing an exact man.” It is impossible, with the 
space at our disposal, to state more of the Principal’s 
interesting address ; but we hope at some future time, 
with the Principal’s permission, to have an opportu- 
nity of publishing it in full. 

At the close of Dr. Peterson’s address, the debate 
was proceeded with. The subject was an interesting 
one : — “ Resolved, that the study and pursuit of Law 
have done more for the advancement of civilization 
than the study and pursuit of the Liberal Arts.” 

Mr. Mullin, Law 96, opened in the affirmative, 
and Mr. Saxe, Arts ’98, in the negative. The other 
speakers were : Mr. Hanson, Law ’96 ; Mr. Macmaster, 
Arts ’98 ; and Mr. Heney, Arts ’98. 

Professor Cox, at the conclusion of the Debate, 
in a graceful and judicial manner, summed up the 
arguments submitted, and rendered a judgment in 
favor of the Liberal Arts. 



48 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



SOCIETIES. 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

A meeting of the Association was held in the 
Library on Oct. 24th, with the President, Dr. M. C. 
Baker, in the chair. 

There was a large attendance of members and 
visitors, among the latter being Dr. Miller of Burling- 
ton, Vt. 

1 he Control of Anthrax by Attenuated Germ 
Products ” was the subject of a most interesting paper 
presented by Dr. Miller. 

The essayist detailed in a lucid manner the methods 
by which he had successfully combatted Anthrax in 
the vicinity of Burlington, and at the close received a 
hearty vote of thanks. 

Mr. Jas. E. Craik read a carefully prepared paper 
on “ Parturient Apoplexy in Cattle,” which was ably 
defended in the discussion which followed. 

Mr. S. Macnider reported a case of “ Peritonitis in 
the Horse, ” describing symptoms, treatment, course, 
and termination of the disease. Essayists for next 
meeting were appointed, after which the meeting ad- 
journed. 

H. D. 

SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARA- 
TIVE PSYCHOLOGY. 

The above named Society met in the Library, 6 
Union Avenue, on Oct. 29th, the President, Dr. 
Wesley Mills, in the chair. 

Business of general nature being transacted, the 
members were entertained with a paper on “ Life 
under Differing Environment,” by Mr. S. Charles 
Richards. 

Following, Mr. J. Anderson Ness read a paper on 
“ The Senses of Animals,” in which he described, in 
addition to the senses ordinarily referred to, a mus- 
cular sense and one of locality. 

Both papers called forth an animated discussion 
from the members and visitors. 

Messrs. J. J. McCarrey and E. H. Morris will read 
papers at the next meeting. 

H. D. 

Y. M. C. A. 

On Oct. 27th, the Association was highly privileged 
in having its Honorary President, Sir William Dawson, 
present to deliver a lecture on the subject of Miracles. 
It was the first opportunity that many of the new 
students had of listening to Sir William. He gave his 
remarks a practical turn by speaking of the standing 
miracle of to-day — the character of Christ reproduced 
in the lives of His followers. His words were much 
enjoyed. 



His address was characterized by his usual vigor 
and pleasant manner. At the close of his remarks 
he invited and answered questions on the subject in 
general. 

The subject for study for Nov. 3rd was Christ’s 
attitude towards the Mosaic Law, based on Matt. v. 
17-48. The discussion was guided by Mr. Tory, and 
the hour thus spent proved to be one most profitable. 
It was brought out that the Mosaic Law could be 
viewed in three aspects, — judicial, typical, moral ; and 
that while in its judicial and typical sense it was in 
many respects abrogated by Christ, in its moral sense 
it was still binding on every man. Christ interpreted 
the law in a broader sense and enriched it with a 
deeper significance. 

The attendance at the meetings is very satisfac- 
tory, although there is yet room for improvement. 

N. D. K. 



Y. W. C. A. 

Our missionary meeting of last month was an 
especially interesting one. The subject was three- 
fold, namely: Missionary Reading, Missionary 

Giving and Missionary Praying. Miss Ross, who 
conducted the meeting, called upon Miss Smith, 
Miss McBurney and Miss Galt to address us on 
these points respectively. 

All three treated their subjects in an intelligent 
and pointed way, and our meeting was made still 
more pleasant by the singing of that hymn “ Tell it 
out among the heathen,” by a few of our number, 
accompanied by the piano and violin. 

On Monday afternoon, Oct. 28th, Mrs. Botterell 
received at her home the members of our Y.W.C-A., 
to meet Miss C. Tristram, and to listen to an address 
on her work in Japan. 

Mrs. Carus-W ilson introduced Miss Tristram as one 
of her University friends who graduated from Lon- 
don University, and although then engaged in work 
among women, gave up her happy home, her mission 
in that city to go to Japan to teach and aid the women 
there on Oct. 28th, 1888. 

Miss Tristram is a very rapid and delightful 
speaker, and for over an hour we listened to her 
account of the people out there, and when she had 
finished, each felt rather sorry that it was over. 

Japan is a highly civilized country, with schools 
ranging from the infant schools and the high schools 
to the universities, and it is in a high school that Miss 
Tristram is working. 

At first there were about fifty girls, and now there 
are sixty, who are being led step by step to accept 
Christianity and to tell it to others; and, as Miss Tris- 
tram says, Japan is in a very indifferent state as to its 
religion. As an illustration of this, the case of one 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



49 



man was cited, who had brought his daughter to that 
school. He was told that they tried to teach Chris- 
tianity, but he answered : “ I don’t care. Teach her 
anything.” So as she obtained good treatment and 
help in her studies, and learnt English, which by 
the way is a very attractive feature of the school, 
since a foreigner teaches it, he was not particular 
what religion did for her. 

Now. if ever, must Christianity be preached and 
taught in Japan. The people do not believe in any one 
religion, and we are responsible for their spiritual hap- 
piness and safety. Miss Tristram urged here that no 
education was too good for mission work, and that 
although the missionaries were not persecuted in Japan 
as in China and India, yet there are difficulties in 
learning their language and in visiting and talking to 
the parents of those children under the missionaries’ 
care. 

Just before going away to Japan Miss Tristram 
had taken a short course in nursing, thinking that it 
might be useful too. During the tremendous and 
prolonged earthquake shocks which occurred Oct. 
28th, 1892, much loss both of property and life 

resulted, and although Miss Tristram had heard that 
the natives wanted no foreign help, she persisted in 
prayer, and at last went to aid those in suffering some 
miles north of Osaka where she is placed. The 
school furnished some money for relief, and Miss 
Tristram bought coverlets and used them to place 
the wounded on. This act caused those who were 
able to supply mattings, etc., for those who needed 
beds. No hospital existed, but a shed was repaired 
so as to answer for one. 

Thus in a persevering and quiet though firm way 
Miss Tristram is carrying on the work to which she 
is now returning. Our hopes and prayers are hers. 
Mrs. Carus-Wilson said truly that no formal vote of 
thanks was necessary, that each would remember 
Miss Tristram as doing the Master’s work in a dis- 
tant land, and that thanks for a description of the 
work in which her greatest joy and happiness lay 
would be rather out of place. 

B. McK. REID. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

At the meeting of the Delta Sigma Society on 
Thursday, Nov. 7th, a most interesting essay on 
Heine was read by Miss Mona Watson. Very clearly 
and sympathetically she told of the poet’s life and 
work and sufferings, made more realistic to us by 
well chosen illustrations from his works. 

Prof. Cox has very kindly consented to give the 
annual lecture to the Society on Wednesday, Nov. 

20th, 



CLASSICAL CLUB. 

The Classical Club of McGill held its regular meet- 
ing on Wednesday, Oct. 30th, the President, Mr. 
Ferguson, presiding. Dr. Peterson delivered a most 
enjoyable lecture, which appears in this issue on ‘‘ 1 he 
State of the Drama at Athens during the Golden 
Age of Greek Literature.” Many of the Governors 
and Professors of the University were present by 
invitation. The number of members is greatly in 
excess of former terms, and the present year promises 
to be one of the most glorious in the history of the 
Club. 

A. W. F. 



GLASS REPORTS. 



MEDICAL REPORTS. 

A Few Bones to Pick from the Medical 

Faculty. 

Everything now runs on ball bearings in the king- 
dom of Cook. He has at last got the “ uncouth, un- 
scientific Freshmen ” under control, and the coffers 
of State overflow with wealth from the sale of books, 
bandages and glycerin. Cook rejoiceth and is glad. 
With eye undimmed by advancing years, or the cares 
of State, he gazes majestically down upon us, his 
subjects sipping the sweets of learning at his feet. 
With sweet and sympathetic voice he calls “ Lecture 
room No. Ill, gentlemen,” and we are happy. 

We are glad to learn that one of our well known 
professors has become a devotee of the “ Cycle.” We 
hope that he will be able to thoroughly demonstrate 
the efficiency of his semi-circular canals, and that he 
will never assume the attitude so often the lot of 
beginners, namely, one often shown by the victim 
of his lecture-room experiments — the festive bull- 
frog. 

Some person or persons have been removing illus- 
trations from the magazines in the reading-room, 
and clipping the papers. Now, that should be 
stopped somehow, and the thieves made an example 
of. Persons that do not know how to use the read- 
ing-room should be kept out of it. 

Fourth Year Notes. 

We are glad to note the business-like manner in 
which our meetings are carried out, but surely minutes 
of important motions should be taken for future refer- 
ence. 



We dunno ivho made the following remark on 
Theatre Night, “ A man is what he is by nature of his 
environment,” but evidently he was a philosopher in 



McGill fortnightly 



50 



disguise. If the above statement be true, the envi- 
ronment of some of our class would lead us to sup- 
pose they were pilots, especially adept at steering 
schooners over a bar. 

At a recent meeting of the four Years, Mr. Tillie 
Tupper, 96, was elected as Medical representative at 
the University Dinner. We are sure that Mr. Tupper 
will do his Faculty and his Class credit, and that a 
better man could not be found to fill the position. 

Time , Theatre night. Place , Oxford. 

(Voice from above) B-e-e-r! B-e-e-r-r! B-e-e-e-r-r-r! 
And he got it. 

The man who had the hardihood to brush against 
Jack T — ’s face on Saturday was in danger of getting 
his eyes scratched out. The Montreal team say that 
if he has not that fine growth of spinach driven in 
or pulled out before Saturday, they will protest him. 
Jack thinks, however, that the wind would be too 
much disappointed. 

Third Year Medicine. 

In glancing over the annals of the past we are 
struck with the array of meetings the present Third 
Year are credited with. And, from present indica- 
tions, it looks as if they were going to keep up the 
good record. 

The following officers were lately elected : — 
President. — T. Albert Gourley. 

Vice-President . — H. Colin Campbell. 
Sec.-Treasurer. — H. Shinny Kirby. 

“ Our Al” was vice-president last year. He is 
never happier than in ruling somebody out of 
order ; — and so he has impressed the boys as a great 
authority on Parliamentary rules. 

Colin was nominated no more than seven times ; 
and as many times jumped up to pull his nominator 
to pieces. It is to be hoped that his nominators 
didn t bear him any ill will. Perhaps they meant to 
honor him; if so, they came wide of the mark. A 
man like Campbell, who has done so much for Medi- 
cine “ on the turf,” should be entitled to the thanks 
of the whole Faculty. 

As for Shinny, we know him of old. He was best 
president we had in the First Year. He comes from 
somewhere near Ottawa, and is good at putting the 
dun as well as the puck. 



Mr. E. M. Von Eberts represented the Class at the 
reception held in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Peterson. 



The Third \ eai boasts of some new members. 
Mr. F. W. Deimage is a Varsity man, taking his first 



two years at the Toronto Medical College ; Mr. A. 
J. Palmer entered with the present Fourth Year, but 
dropped out a year Mr. F. W. Wilson from London 
(Ont.) School of Medicine. 



R. H. Burrell and C. C. Gurd compose the read- 
ing-room committee. It is to be hoped their duties 
will not prove too arduous, for we would like to re- 
elect them next year. 

The following are questions we would like 
answered. 

1. Why some of the boys do not subscribe for the 
P'ORTNIGHTLY, and yet are always so eager to read 
it? 

2. Why some of our lecturers do not use a speak- 
ing trumpet such as Thompson handled so well 
Sports Day ? 

At a Clinic at the M. G. H. 

Prof. — “ Why is it that ulcers of the duodenum 
often occur after burns ? ” 

Mr. G. — (wisely) “Toxic products might set up 
ulceration.” 

Prof. — “No, I don’t think that is the reason. I 
had hoped you would be able to explain it, for I 
have been looking for an explanation for years.” 

Second Year Reports. 

Sports Day brought out a number of good men 
from the Second Year, who helped to heap up the 
big score for Medicine. McLennan, our stalwart 
representative in the weight contests, did especially 
well, winning three events and breaking one record. 

The customary cordial reception given to the First 
Year seems to have been discarded this year. As 
yet no attempt has been made to “ rush the Fresh- 
men.” No doubt they feel slighted at this lack of 
attention and hospitality on the part of the Second 
Year. 

Now that Sports Day is over, the trials of the 
Second Year begin anew. A renewal of the acquaint- 
ance of Ethyl will be sought by most members of the 
class. This young lady causes a vast amount of 
trouble in the class. 

The “ F reshies sat for their pictures a few days 

ago, and made a very pretty group seated on the 
front steps. A few envious Sophs tried to throw 
cold water on the scheme, but failed. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Mr. Donahue, president of the Law Faculty, acting 
as the spokesman of his fellow-students, presented 
Dean Trenholme with an address signed by all the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



5i 



members of the three Years. Mr. Donahue prefaced 
the reading of the address by a few well chosen re- 
marks. 

The students referred in the most complimentary 
and appreciative terms to the arduous and self-deny- 
ing labors of the Dean in the interest of the Faculty, 
and expressed the high personal esteem in which he 
was held by them. 

The tone of the address left no room for doubt as to 
the strong hold which Dean Trenholme had secured 
upon the respect and affection of the students, and 
the keen sense ofloss they experience in anticipation 
of his retirement from office at the end of the present 
term. 

In his reply the Dean feelingly thanked the stu- 
dents for the address and the sentiments contained in 

it. 

At the same time the circumstances attendant 
upon his retirement were so frankly an 1 fully stated 
that the regret of the class at the necessity of the 
step was much increased. It is plain that the Dean 
as the heartiest good wishes of the students. 

What about our Library ? We have a grievance 
here. The ghosts of Angell and Ames, Brice, Pothier, 
Justinian and the rest of them will not be laid until 
we interview them, and how can we ? 



A meeting was held on the 30th of last month, to 
discuss the question of an open air rink on the College 
grounds. The President thought our powerful sup- 
port should be given to the scheme, and Mr. Bicker- 
dike — who, by the way, is strong on committee work 
— was requested to act as our representative in the 
matter. 

Prof. Fortin’s story of the aged man, his daring 
deed and awful end, was most interesting, both 
from a medical and legal point of view. 

A letter from the Law Students of Laval was read 
by Mr. Hickson. The writer proposed that a joint 
committee of the Law students of Quebec, Laval and 
McGill should meet, to discuss the question of the ad- 
mission of students to the practice of the Profession. 
Some t me ago a committee, consisting of Messrs. 
Donahue, Hanson, Laverty, Armstrong and Jasmin, 
were appointed to represent our Facu ty in the pro- 
posed conference. The matter was accordingly left 
in their hands. 

The mistake regarding the seats intended for the 
students of Law upon Theatie Night was most re- 
grettable. The result was, that instead of being 
together, as we expected, we were scattered all over 
the gods in groups of two or three. Who was respon- 



sible for this is not known, but we certainly think 
that such a mistake should not occur again. 

Athough we are the smallest Faculty in the Uni- 
versity, yet it must be remembered that we are also 
the oldest and not by any means the least impor- 
tant. 

Mr. Percy Ryan is, we understand, going to lecture 
this year upon Civil Procedure and the History of 
Roman Law. The latter course is for the First Year 
men only. 

Mr. V. E. Mitchell was appointed as our representa- 
upon the committee of arrangements for the pro- 
posed University. Dinner. Mr. Mitchell, having twice 
before been on dinner committees in connection with 
the Faculty, is without doubt the best man that could 
have been chosen for the post. 



ARTS NOTES. 

Fourth Year Arts. 

Knowledge is power. Still they come, those choice 
tid-bits of information, “ I need hardly say, gentle- 
men, that salt has a saline taste.” 

The thirteen who accompanied the Professor of 
Geology to Lachute had a most memorable time. 
Arts and Science were boon companions that day. 
Those who did not go are now mourning over “what 
might have been.” The only doubtful questions about 
the excursion are : “ Who made the most noise during 
the return journey?” and “Who expended the most 
force in putting up the brakeman ?” 

Naturally, there are thirteen different opinions upon 
both these subjects, but all are agreed, however, that 
the trip and the impromptu concert on the cars 
(speeches, recitations and songs) were worth all the 
unexpectedly large fare and the wet pedal extremi- 
ties we had to nurse on our return home. 

The Class of ’96 has unanimously expressed its 
approval of the skating-rink scheme, provided the 
rink be on the campus and the Donaldas have equal 
rights with the boys at all hours. 

Messrs. Robertson, Ross, Srr iley and Ferguson 
represented the Graduating Class at the Reception ten- 
dered to Dr. and Mrs. Peterson in the Library, and 
report a pleasant time. 

The members of the Fourth Year (Partial Theo- 
logs included) assure the Professor of Moral Philos- 
ophy of their hearty agreement with his teachings, 
especially when he announces his participation in the 
laudable wish of Lord Byron that all womankind had 
but one pair of lips so that he might kiss them all at 
once. Most of us are ready at a moment’s notice to 



McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



$2 



prove our full concurrence with the sentiment ipso 
(/) ado, if the requisite material is supplied us. 

One of the Seniors had his hat, which was hang- 
ing on a peg, destroyed during the crush between the 
Arts and Science factions of the Chemistry class last 
week. We would remind these gentlemen that fun 
remains fun only so long as its results arc funny, but 
when it descends to the wanton destruction of pro- 
perty it bears the less euphonious name of vandalism. 

The following is an exact copy in all except style 
of writing of a card which has been handed over to 
the Arts men for their consideration. 

J. W. Breakenridge, Esq., 

Montreal. 

Dear Sir, 

Kindly give me the names of any parties you may 
know who have any of the second hand copies of 
the books prescribed for Second Year entrance. I 
should like too to secure translations of the classic 
texts also. 

I am Dear Sir, 

Yours truly, 



Third Year. 

Prof, of Rhetoric. — “There was no love-story in 
King Solomon’s Mines.” 

Aspiring rhetorician.— “ But sir, wasn’t a girl gone 
on ” 

(And the class smiled audibly). 

Prof, of Mineralogy. — “ This crystal is a Triakis 
Tetrahedron.” 

And the Science man murmured the word “ Don- 
aldas.” 



Is Leipsic University very, very large ? 

Ever since Theatre Night R.P.C. has taken the pre- 
caution to wear a compass. 

The port Chaucer, history tells us, imagined Virgil 
preceding him with a light. 

Was this lumen a nwzrw-candle ? 

The Sophomores have very sweet voices, but still the 
Juniors would rather that they would not shriek that 
fantastic cry of theirs during lecture hours. It does 
not harmonize with our philosophic thoughts, don’t 

you know ? 

Second Year. 

Professor (to students who have just been throwing 
water on the Freshmen).— “ I don’t object to wit, gen- 
tlemen, but I prefer it dry.” 

Science ’98 defeated Arts ’98 at football, by a score 
of 17 to o. The game, however, was not as one-sided 
as the score. We were beaten fairly, and make no ex- 



cuses, but it is only just to state that half the men had 
never played Rugby before. We make no pledge for 
them in the future, however, as they left the field 
declaring that “ Rugby’s a good thing, boys ; push it 
along.” The team was composed as follows : — 



Bishop, Full back. 
Grace, J 

Trenholme, >-PIalf backs. 
Coolican, J 

Todd, Quarter back. 

Turner, \ 

Stephens, ^Scrimmage. 
Thompson, j 



Guthrie, 

Evans, [ , , 
Dalgleish, ( ,n § 5 * 

Thomas. J 
Paterson, R. C. 
Heine, 



“ A man that lives for himself is engaged in a very 
small business.” Turn out ’98 and support the Uni- 
versity. We are McGill men first, ’98 men second, 
and Arts men last. Long live McGill ’98 ! ! 



“ Well,” said one bacillus to another, “how are 
you getting on with your human being?” “It’s a 
pretty close struggle,” was the reply, “ as to which of us 
can hold out the longer under the doctor’s inedecince ” 
(i.e. Physics). 

iC I do not want to vote/’ she said, 

“ I hate this suffrage rant, — 
ci But I don’t want some horrid man 
“To tell me that I can’t.” 

The spirit of this may be applied, we think, to our 
botanical sisters. 

For they may object to singing 

And the hushshsh which silence hath, 

But do they like those horrid men 
To turn their backs and laugh? 

Notes First Year. 

Through the kindness of the Professor of English, 
Class 99 students are being treated to a course of 
lectuies illustrated by lantern slides. These are ap- 
preciated none the less on account of the “dim” 
oppoi tunity that is afforded us of meeting our fair “ sis- 
ters” from the East Wing. 

Prof. — “Ah, can you read, Mr. ?” 

Freshman — “Yes, sir.” 

Prof. — “Well, go on.” 

Freshman, — nervously commences to gasp. “ Eh- 

ah-ah-eh-hog-ge-dho-” but is interrupted by 

Prof.— “ Help him— all of you — help him.” 

Smiles noticeable on the faces of several members 
as they pioceed to comply with the familiar request. 

The very gall-ant appearance of some of our class 
members at the recent football matches seems worthy 
of notice here. 



1 reshmen are now beginning to realize that it is 
possible to be present at and at the same time absent 
from a certain class. They rejoice that this paradox 
has so far been confined to such small limits. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



53 






SCIENCE NOTES. 

In the death ofW. H. (Harry) Walker, B.A.Sc , 
the Faculty of Applied Science, McGill, has lost one 
of her most successful graduates. Mr. Walker gradu- 
ated in ’9 1, and in ’93 he went to Montana, where he 
had succeeded very well, holding at the time of his 
death a responsible position in the company with which 
he was connected. 

In examining part of the mine, he was overcome by 
gas, and when found some time afterwards he was 
dead. 

As a student he was a great favorite with every- 
one, and his success thus far pointed to a useful and 
honorable future. The heartfelt sympathy of the 
mining students of McGill is tendered to his bereaved 
parents. 

We are sorry to hear of the resignation of A. E. 
Carlyle, professor of Mining in the Science Faculty, 
McGill. He has accepted office as “ Director of the 
Bureau of Mines” for British Columbia. In accept- 
ing this position Prof. Carlyle is greatly bettering his 
position. We regret that the College could not have 
retained the services of such an able man as Prof. 
Carlyle. 

The resignation does not take effect for some time; 
but when it does, Prof. Carlyle will carry with him the 
good wishes of the students in Science, especially of 
those who have had the good fortune to work under 
him. 

What are we to think of the Fourth Year student 
who connected a Bunsen burner to the water tap and 
then wondered why the match went out ? 

St 1. — This is awfully light stuff ; it takes 

about a ton to weigh a gramme.” 

Who tried to carry water away from the Labora- 
tory in his pocket ? 

M did, but he Mus(se)n’t do it again. 

Prof. S “ I can always tell the Freshmen with 

Civil Engineering intentions by their Farmer like 
appearance. 

To the Janitor of the Science Building : — 

Dear Sir, 

I have used your egg-nog for two years, and can 
testify that for flavor and quality it is unsurpassed. 

Yours, etc. 

Electric Currents. 



The Fourth Year Mechanicals visited the S.S. 
“ Labrador ” one day last week, and were kindly shown 
through the engine and boiler rooms of the vessel, by 
the chief engineer, 



In the Hydraulic Laboratory we are slowly master- 
ing the true meaning of the symbols H, h, p 0 , P, C, 
Cv, Cc, Cr, v, g, Z., and many others. None of us are 
yet able to prove that : — 

b *, (yL, + + •• + y/'Zu) + I X* ( h Vz, + C Vz., + -- + lni JZn 





u- 4 v , 2 u”- no cos 

V 



) 



I) + 2 1 

Ft 



\ r -f- l- — Z- // ( IP 4 w r ) — 



% U 



7 






Nor can we reduce it to itssimplest form. 

(wQ - c l 4 V ]' ) + U (iq cos y - u ) 



-J 



h + It 

~uT 



i !i— l - [i ( IF 4 to.) 
2<7 



r' 

— tv. 



r i 



Third and Fourth Years Civils went down the river 
the other day on a steam yacht. Something happened 
to the boiler, as they had no mechanicals along they 
had to tie up the yacht and come home by train. 
As the Third Year Reporter was there, his notes have 
not come to hand. We may expect a full account of 
the accident from him for next issue. 



What has happened to the class notes of First and 
Second Years, we have not been able to learn. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

MCGILL RE-VISITED. 

O tempora ! O mores ! What changes I beheld on 
visiting, after an absence of three years, the time- 
honored halls of my Alma Mater. Encouraging, ’tis 
true, Avere the outward improvements which met my 
eyes. Banished were the nurses and perambulators 
and the groups of merry childen romping in the 
heaps of autumn leaves along the avenue — a scene 
which gave the uninitiated the impression that we 
had a’ kindergarten and nursery in connection with 
the University. Along the well-swept paths and 
unobstructed sidewalks, I wended my way to the 
great centre of attraction, — the Library. Entering 
the stately edifice, I was overwhelmed with surprise 
nothing there to remind us of our old, cramped 
quarters in the Molson Hall, nothing familiar save 
the kindly greeting of the presiding genius of the 
library. Mentally contrasting the present surround- 
ings with the disadvantages under which we labored, 
I indulged, reasonably, in sanguine hopes that I 
should see, reflected in the students, something of the 
greatness and true nobility of those famous men, who 
looked down upon them from the stained glass win- 
dows. But alas ! for the vanity of human wishes ; my 
bright hopes were soon to be dashed to the ground. 
Advancing to the most crowded part of the hall, — 
for, strange to say, the first four tables seemed to pos- 
sess a magnetic power,— I thought to see the familiar 
faces of the cla,ss of ’91, or perchanct; a daring 



54 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Sophomore. For in my time rarely did a “Freshie’ 
dare to enter the sacred precincts of the library. But 
a peculiar sound greeted my ear ; a monotonous un- 
dertone, carrying my thoughts f.ir back to the days of 
my childhood, when we used to repeat our lessons in 
unison and con our tasks aloud, our childish minds 
unable to comprehend the meaning of the printed 
symbols without the aid of the voice. I should 
almost have thought I had inadvertently entered a 
preparatory school, but for the expression of patient 
resignation on the face of a long-suffering Senior. 
Sadly she remarked, in response to my greeting : 
“ Well do I remember the learned and dignified mem- 
bers of former classes, who gave us such a thorough 
training in the deportment proper to the lower years. 
Sadly do we regret the leniency which we displayed, 
in our mistaken kindness of heart, to our successors. 
The respect, and even obedience, formerly accorded 
the senior year in rapidly passing away.” After a 
few words of sympathy and advice I retraced my 
steps, past groups of students, enjoying pleasant 
converse together, not always upon serious topics 
befitting academic life, to judge from occasional 
sounds of smothered laughter. I involuntarily 
glanced at the walls for the well-known injunction: 
“ No talking allowed here,” but I looked in vain. I 
doubt, however, if even that precaution, formerly the 
dread of every presumptuous Freshman, would have 
any effect in these degenerate days. As I pondered 
upon what I had seen, two long forgotten lines from 
Homer returned to my memory : — 

“ 7 ravpoi <yap roi 7 ratSe? opoloi 
irarpl 7re\ovTcu f 

oi irXeoves /ca/ciovs, Travpoi Se 
T€ Trarpos dpeiovs. 



We feel that the following is too inspiring a piece 
of news to be omitted from our columns : — Two girls 
this year took the degree of Master of Arts at 
Madrid University. This event was unprecedented 
in the land of Isabella. 

The more than 1000 male students of the Uni- 
versity were astounded at the presence of the two 
girls taking their examinations. Once, when they 
had occasion to visit the University library to refer 
to some books, the students formed two lines on each 
side of the staircase, threw down their caps for the 
girls to walk upon, and, as they passed along, sung 
the Royal March. 

After a week’s examinations came the climax. 
Four grades are given : aprobado , bueno , notable, and 
sobresaliente. The last me ins “ overleaping every- 
thing,” and testifies to a most unusual degree of 
attainment. In every examination these Spanish 
girls received sobresaliente,. — Exchange . 



The literary effusions of the junior French class 
certainly deserve mention in the FORTNIGHTLY. 
They are in their way marvellous. We each endea- 
vor to do our best, showing our independence of 
thought by disregarding those rules which we cannot 
quite remember. We have this week had the thrill- 
ing tale of the two men “ qui etaient voisins” depict- 
ed with eleven different degrees of pathos, elevation 
and French. Next week the lesson will doubt- 

less be one of unusual interest, as each young lady 
is to write, in French, a letter to her most intimate 
friend. 

Occasionally those individuals are met with, who, 
if you finally do summon up enough courage to work 
your way into one of their social entertainments, 
overwhelm you with lamentations that you never 
came before. You smirk and smile, and almost suc- 
ceed in forgetting you were never asked before. 

Perhaps a few of us experienced somewhat similar 
sensations at the recent Law versus Arts debate, 
when we heard ourselves so kindly welcomed in the 
opening speech. 

Every Monday morning they of the First Year 
have a very pleasant accompaniment to their Ger- 
man Lecture in the form of the Sophomores, on the 
other side, practising their “ yell, ” and, what is still 
more fascinating to their audience — “ Good morning, 
have you used Pears’ Soap ?” We suppose they wish 
to remind their young friends of their duty. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS RE- 
PORTS. 

“The ’96 Journal Club” has been organized 
among the members of the Final Year, with Mr. 
Harrie Dell as president. 

Their object is the reading and discussion of 
meritorious articles appearing in the current litera- 
ture of the profession. 

The much discussed Faculty Pin has at last made 
its appearance. It consists of a gold collar and silver 
os brachii, the combination being very effective. 

The West Indies are represented in this Faculty in 
the person of Mr. Watson, who delights the boys by 
his tales of life in the tropics. 



1 he other day a couple of students, in response to 
a message, hurried to a distant part of the city to see 
a horse which had been struck by a locomotive. 

On their arrival they found the animal had suc- 
cumbed to his injuries, and, in consequence, they 
diagnosed as the cause of death, “ locomotive 
attacksia.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



55 



The effect of the first meeting of the Glee Club 
was rather disastrous to the leader. 



The Class Reporters have failed to report for this 
issue. This is manifestly unfair to their classes and 
the FORTNIGHTLY, and very discouraging to the 
editor. 

Trinidad seems to be the objective point of every 
prospective graduate of ’96. Perhaps this is a case 
where “ far away fields are greenest.” 

Dr. Martin’s lecture on “ Autopsies ” was highly 
appreciated by the Final Year men. 



ATHLETICS. 



ASSOCIATION FOOT-BALL. 

For some time it was felt that many students of McGill 
did not indulge in sports, simply because the games which 
best suited them were not played ; and although our famous 
University is not behind the standard generally, yet it 
lacked an association foot-ball club, and hence could not 
compete with other communities in this respect. The fact 
was no doubt obvious, that there were many talents in the 
1 ne of sports’which were not exhibited, .and although the 
Rugby club shares in the fame of individual players, the 
Association fares none the less. With the knowledge that 
there were many men who were Association players, and 
did not take part in Rugby, who supported the Athletic 
Association and received none of its benefits, the Associa 
tion Foot-Ball Club was organized. The first steps in this 
direction were taken in the autumn of 1894, when E. 
Howard was elected President. Immediately after its 
organization a challenge was received from the Shamrocks, 
who were defeated in a score of two goals to one. From 
this game, which was played on Thanksgiving Day, it was 
seen that McGill had high hopes of a successful club. The 
spark by this time was a glowing flame, and became a con. 
flagration on February 21st, when a large assembly elected 
the officers of the present year. This newly organized 
club has a large number of energetic supporters, and has a 
senior and intermediate team entered in the Canadian 
Foot Ball Association scries. There have been many dis- 
advantages and discouragements, but a just cause produces 
courage to its promoter. We trust that in due time the 
adversaries of this Club will become reconciled, and that 
the peaceful order which now exists between the Rugby 
and Association clubs will still be prominent before all 
who are concerned as peace-makers; and hope that this 
Club will not be misjudged in its motive of organization, 
not to interfere with the already established games and ex- 
isting order of things, but to advance equal rights and to 
test and prove the entire abilities of Old McGill. 

W. J. 

INTER-FACULTY FOOT-BALL MATCH. 

On Friday, 1st November, a mysterious air of woik per- 
vaded the College Campus; a gang of men were busily 
engaged in erecting benches and roping off a considerable 



portion of our historic battle ground. To the uninitiated 
Freshman or casual Junior the thought might have sug- 
gested itself (we say ‘‘might” advisedly) that a circus 
was coming. The initiated, however, enjoyed the com- 
ments of the uninitiated, and “ sawed wood.” Nevertheless 
“ murder will out,” and on Saturday morning the mystery 
explained itself. There was a steady influx to the grounds 
from 8.30 o’clock, and by 9.30 a motley throng had assem- 
bled, thirty stalwart sons of Old McGill, clothed in the in- 
evitable red and white stocking, prepared to do battle for 
their honor and the ball. Need your Scribe go so tar as to 
say that once more “’98 ” had come to the front, prepared 
to give a demonstration of Football “ as she is played.” 

Two twenty-five minute halves were played, and the 
play was fairly evenly divided, though the Science men, 
through their superior condition and longer experience, suc- 
ceeded in piling up a score of 17 to o. Just here we would 
like to remark, not by way of excuse, but simply as a mat- 
ter of interest, that the majority of the Arts XV., consid- 
erably over half, had never played Rugby Football before j 
still, we have a pleasant recollection of the game, and we 
owe our thanks to Messrs. Stephens, Grace, Heine, Todd 
and Evans for their brilliant play. Among the Science 
men, McLennan, Davidson and McPhail deserve special 
commendation. Bishop, of Arts, unfortunately was hurt 
in the early part of the game, otherwise he would have 
proved a “tower of strength.” Our thanks are also due 
to Messrs. Jamieson and Packard, who ably filled the offices 
of referee and umpire. 

In conclusion, we would like to say that if our fair sisters 
of “ ’98 ” could attend at the repetition of this festive scene, 
we feel sure that the Arts men would pile up an over- 
whelming score. 

A. H. D. ’98 



. McGILL I. vs. OTTAWA CITY. 

On Saturday, Oct. 26th, McGill met with her first defeat 
this season. Luck was dead against the boys, but, not- 
withstanding, they made a gallant fight. 

In the first half Chittick kicked a goal from the field. It 
was a fluke of the highest order, and no doubt did much 
towards winning Ottawa the game. Ernie McLea, who 
was playing a brilliant wing game, was injured seriously and 
had to go off, weakening the forward line very much. 

The wind being in Ottawa’s favor, they succeeded in 
putting together 13 to McGill’s 6 in the first half, though 
McGill had the best of the play. 

In the second half the wind was much lighter, and 
Ottawa started wasting time tactics, keeping the ball in 
the scrimmage as much as possible. At one stage of the 
game the whole team except the full back was massed on 
the ball. The College halves couldn’t get the ball out. 

The play was very close and exciting till within two 
minutes of time, Ottawa then secured a touch down, and 
the game was won 18 — 12. The latter part of the game was 
played in the dark, the players haidly being able to dis- 
tinguish one another. 

McGill’s halves were far superior to those of Ottawa, but 
the game was so closely a scrimmage game that there was 
no chance for much running or passing. 

Ottawa won by a combination of bull-headed luck and 



56 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



bull-headed scrimmage. McGill can take a few pointers 
from their scrimmage plaj . 

The teams were as follows : — 

McGill. —Biuuelle, Molson, Trenholme, Drinkwater, 
Le\esque, King, Howard, Alley, Ir\ing, Schwartz, Tees, 
Hill, McLea, Turner, Sparrow. 

Ottawa City.— Young, Smith, Russel, S. McDougall, 
Fosberry, Crerar, Buckham, Cameron, Kenney, Pulford, 
J. A. McDougall, Hill, Bristowe, Scarth, Chittick. 

Referee — E. Gleason, ) ~ „ ,, 

Umpire— W. Clancy, j 0lta ' va Colle § e - 



Seniors and verdant Freshies mingled in one wild outburst 
of joy and congratulations. It was a great day for Mc- 
Gill. 

The teams were as follows : — 

McGill : — Bru'nelle, Trenholm, Molson, Drinkwater, 
Levesque, King, Howard, Grace, Tees, Schwartz, Moore, 
Alley, Turner, Hill, Wilkinson. 

Montreal: — H. McDougall, Fry, R. McDougall, 
Savage, Massey, Whyte, Brown, Redpath, E. James, Geo. 
James, Branch, Armstrong, PI agar, Paradis, Rankin. 
Referee — Mr. Craiihem. ) ... , T _i f Dr. McKenzie. 

Umpire-V. Barry. j 1 ouch { Mr. Whirham. 



McGILL vs. MONTREAL. 

The odds were only 2 to 1 on Montreal. 

It was said the red and black would double the score of 
the red an 1 white. 

The scoie was nearly doubled. McGill got a great big 
8, while Montreal got 5, and, to use a slang phrase, “ came 
off their perch” very suddenly. 

T he King, Grace, and Howard combination is hard to 
beat, and with Levesque behind them simply walked 
through and over the Montreal forwards. 

I he whole McGill forward hue played like Trojans. 
Montreal could not hold them. Schwartz was the particular 
star. He seemed to be everywhere at one and the same 
time, and his wing playing was undoubtedly the finest ever 
seen in Montreal. The back division out-did themselves, 
Brunelle especially playing a steady, sure game, and often 
brilliantly. The whole team, in fact, were out to win, and 
every man did his share ot the work, and helped to win 
the victory. 

Before the play commenced the whole field was sur- 
rounded by a dense mass of spectators. Everywhere the 
red and white of McGill and the red and black of Mont- 
real fluttered amid the crowd. It is estimated that fully 
3000 people witnessed the game. 

The ladies were out in force, and were by no means the 
least enthusiastic of the audience. 

When the teams lined up, and Referee Craithem blew his 
whistle, a perfect uproar of applause greeted the players. 
“ What’s the matter with old McGill ? and the answering 
shout “ Montreal, Montreal 1” resounded on all sides. 

In the first half Montreal had slightly the advantage, 
but were unable to do much with the splendid defence 
work of the College, only scoring 2 to McGill’s 1. The 
score should only have been 1 to 1, as the safety touch 
granted to Montreal should only have been a rouge. 

In the second half McGill carried the play into 
Montreal’s territory, and from a beautiful throw in of Tees, 
Molson secured a try, neatly converted to a goal. By 
this time the crowd was nearly crazy with excitement, and 
McGill “ rooters” altogether in an insane condition. 

The remainder of the game was a scries of attacks and 
counter-attacks, but Montreal could only score 5 to Mc- 
Gill’s 8. 

The instant the referee’s whistle announced that the 
game was finished, and McGill the winner, the boys 
swarmed on the field, caught up the members of the team 
and bore them in triumph to the dressing room. Grave 



McGILL vs. MONTREAL. 

Saturday’s Match. 

The great game is over, and McGill is out of the race for 
the Foot-Ball Championship of the season of 1896. 

Though defeated, we are not the least discouraged, but 
will be only the more determined to lower Montreal’s colors 
next year. We feel confident that our team can play that 
of the M.A.A. to a standstill at any time. 

Saturday’s game was no test of the capabilities of either 
team. The heavy rain pouring down steadily lor 24 hours 
preceding had thoroughly soaked the ground, and water 
lay in puddles all over the field. It was impossible to 
play good foot-ball. Still, the game was most exciting, and 
not lacking in brilliant plays. 

There is no gainsaying the fact that our scrimmage 
could not hold the Montreal scrimmage as in the game of 
Saturday week’s, and at times the halves fumbled the 
greasy wet ball ; but McGill got the worst of the referee’s 
decisions, played in desperately hard luck, and for almost 
the whole time were one man short. 

In the first half, Tees, right wing, was ruled off till half 
time, for indulging in a slight scrap, while his opponent, as 
much to blame as he was, suffered no penalty. To us this 
seemed a most unfair act, especially as Tees was not 
warned previously. Then in the second half, Trenholm, the 
Coll-ge captain, suffered a iracture of h*s clavicle, and 
had to retire, leaving McGill with but two halves. Molson, 
Drinkwater and Bruoelie, full back, played brilliant y and 
pluck ily, but with the heavy wind against them could not 
keep Montreal from scoring. 

Of the 13 points, Montreal made 4 in the first half by a 
sudden rush from the kick-off. It was partly a fluke and 
partly owing to muffing of the McGill halves. The remain- 
ing points all but 2 were made after it had grown so dark 
that no one could see the ball except when right on it. 

1 he scoie is no criterion of the game, for several times 
McGill had the ball almost on their opponent’s goal line, 
but could Hot score. 

tor McGill, Molson and Drinkwater at half played well. 
Molson’s tackling was especially fine. Brunelle played his 
usual sure game at full, and on the wing, Schwartz, Hill and 
I inner did the best work. Levesque at quarter is unsur- 
passed, and quite upheld his reputation on Saturday. 

1< r Montreal, Hamilton at full was sure and steady, while 
the halves, especially Savage, did good woik. Jack the 
quarter saved many a point by careful play. 

1 he teams were as follows ; 



McGill fortnightly. 



57 



McGill. 






Montreal. 


Brunelle. 




Back 


Hamilton. 


Molson. 






f Savage. 


Trenholm. 


[ 


Halves 


I B. McDougall. 


Drinkwater. 


) 




j H. McDougall. 
1 H. Molson. 


Levesque. 




Quarter 


C. Jack. 


Grace. 


) 




f Baptist. 


King. 


1 

\ 


Scrimmage 


\ Browne. 


Howard. 


( Whyte. 


Alley. 


1 




f G James. 


Schwartz. 




| E James. 


Turner. 


1 




j Massey. 


Hill. 


y 


Wings. 


Piissic. 


Moore. 


i 


| Godwin. 


Wilkinson. 


1 




| Armstrong. 


Tees. 


j 




( Branch. 



EXCHANGES. 

It has been a source of pleasure to the editor in 
charge of exchanges to receive a large number of 
College Journals during the fortnight since last 
issue. 

Some, however, which we were expecting have not 
yet arrived, but we hope to have a renewal during the 
session of all those which were on our list in previous 
years. 

Following a suggestion kindly given us by our 
Principal, we also intend, if possible, to extend our 
list so that we may receive several more from the Old 
Country, and thus come into closer touch with Uni- 
versity thought among undergraduates at those 
greater centres of learning. 

We would be very pleased to communicate with 
any who may desire to have the Fortnightly on 
their Exchange list. 

Victoria University is represented in our special 
field of Journalism by “ Acta Victoriana.” 

The following note from one of its editorials would 
lead us to conclude that the bond of union between 
this institution of higher education and Toronto 
University, with which it L in affiliation, has grown to 
such a degree as to promise much for the future : 

“ An experiment in College work is being tried 
“ this year in the Department of Classics. Honor stu- 
dents from University College may now be seen in 
“ the halls of Victoria making their way to Prof. 
“ Robertson’s class-room for certain lectures, while 
“our students, in turn, attend some lectures given by 
“ Mr. Milner in University College. We venture no 
“opinion as to what this may lead to ; but certainly 
“ all the students concerned will be pleased to get 
« the benefit of the scholarly attainments of both 
“ these men, instead of only one ; while the lecturers 
“themselves will be enabled to do even more efficient 
work than formerly, by having fewer lectures to pre- 
“pare and deliver.” 

A distinct feature of this Journal is the method- 



ical division of labor on the part of its editors, each of 
the departments — Literary, Scientific, Religious, 
Personal, Athletics, etc. — having an editor of its own. 

The Literary section we find completely filled with 
interesting selections from a lecture by Prof. Reynar 
on “ Chaucer’s Mind and Art.” 

Under the heading “ Scientific” is given an account 
of the life and work of Louis Pasteur. 

The writer has fully succeeded in the somewhat 
difficult task of placing before his readers a biographi- 
cal sketch in a concise yet very readable form. 
His appreciation of the man with whom he had to 
deal is best shown in the summing up of his life, 
which he does by saying “ that we have the record 
“of the achievements and attainments of a man of 
“ humble origin, but of masterly force of character, of 
“exactness perseverance, and brilliant imaginative 
“power of the rarest kind. But, above all, we have 
“ in him another of those rare souls, whose power of 
“grasping the truth, the unity of all things, in its 
“ infinite variety, has left the world at large a wider 
“and grander conception of the inexhaustible variety 
“of the manifestation of the One mind, harmony and 
“ sympathy with which is the hope and desire of every 
“human mind.” 

With a very brief but explicit introductory, the 
first number of the Dalhousie Gazette is placed before 
its readers. 

Its editors set before themselves the task of main- 
taining if not surpassing the standard of their pre- 
decessors ; and when we are told that they are begin- 
ning volume XXVIII, we feel convinced from what 
we have seen or heard of previous volumes that they 
have behind them a record not easily broken; it 
would seem, however, from the general appearance 
of their first number that a worthy attempt will be 
made in this direction. 

A prominent feature is the attention given to the 
graduates of last year. As an illustration we select 

one from the many character sketches, “ came to 

“ us wild and uncultured from the land of potatoes. 
“ Our attempts to civilize him were partially success- 
“ ful ; but now that he has passed beyond our domain, 
“ we fear his relapse into native ways and customs. At 
“one time he taught a class in Sunday School and 
“contemplated church. We think he has given up 
“ the notion.” 

The Class of ’95 will certainly have no reason to 
feel that they have been overlooked, although doubt- 
less some would much prefer being wholly forgotten 
to being thus written up by their successors. 

In a thoughtful and well arranged article entitled 
“ Advance Dalhousie,” the past, or perhaps rather the 
present, glories of the University are clearly set forth. 
Since 1884, twenty-six graduates of Dalhousie have 



McGill fortnightly 



s» 




TWO VERY BAD IMPRESSIONS. 



won scholarships or fellowships in the better Univei- 

sities of the United States. 

Of this number, eight have received appointments 
as professors, six as lecturers in leading Colleges, 
while four are masters in High Schools. 

This is certainly a good showing, and one that 
should be an inspiration to all undergraduates. 

McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 

STATEMENT FOR YEAR 1 894-95. 



Receipts . 

To Balance * $ 2 7 53 

Cl 495 subscribers 495 00 

cc Extra sales 9 9 ° 

“ Interest 1 l 9 

tfc Advertisements 429 00 



$962 62 

Expenditures. 

By printing account with J. Lovell. & Son $520 24 

“ Paper account 2 3 ° ^5 

16 Engraving 22 5 ° 

ci Expenses of Business Board *5 10 

“ Expenses of Editorial Board 3 55 

“ Editorial and Business Boards 245 5 ^ 

“ Balance in Bank of Montreal 25 oo 



$962 62 

Audited and found correct, ' 



S G. Archibald, 

A uditor . 

READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

THE JUDGE’S REVENGE. 

Sir Matthew Begbie, Chief Justice of British Colum- 
bia, recently deceased, once had before him a man 
charged with having killed another man with a sand- 
bag. The evidence was conclusive, and the judge 
charged the jury accordingly, but a verdict of “ Not 
guilty” was promptly brought in. The judge was 
astonished. “ Gentlemen of the jury,” fie said, “ this 
is your verdict, not mine. On your conscience the 
disgrace will rest. Many repetitions of such conduct 
as yours will make trial by jury a terrible farce, 
and the city of Victoria a nest of ciime. Go ! I have 
nothing more to say to you.” And then, turning to 
the prisoner, “You are discharged. Go and sand- 
bag some of those jurymen ; they deserve it.” 



A sporting man, bulky and burly, entered a rail- 
way car, and not only usurped another person’s seat, 
but unceremoniously sat down on an old gentleman’s 
silk hat. The old gentleman smiled, but the culprit 
only stormed at the victim’s carelessness in placing 
his hat on the seat, and tendered no apology. 

He left at the next station. The old gentleman 
rose and called a porter. 

“ Please run after that gentleman and tell him he 
has left something behind,” said he. 

Soon back came running the man of sport, and, 
pushing his head in at the door, enquired : “What 
have I left ? ” 

“ Two very bad impressions, sir,” coolly answered 
the old gentleman. He had his revenge. 



As a famous comedian was travelling on a steam- 
boat, he seated himself at the table and called for some 
beefsteak. The waiter furnished him with a small 
strip of the article, such as travellers are usually put 
ofif with. Taking it up on his fork and turning it 
over, and examining it with one of his peculiar, serious 
looks, the comedian coolly remarked : — 

“ Yes, that’s it ; bring me some.” 



A newly appointed crier in a county court in New 
Zealand was ordered by the judge, in a case in which 
a Chinaman was a witness, to call for Ah Song. The 
crier looked puzzled for a moment, and cast a sly 
glance at the judge, but, finding him grave as an un- 
dertaker, he turned to the audience and blandly sim- 
pered : “ Gintlemen, would any of you favor His 
honor with a song ? ” 



The Chief Baron Pollock is very fond of telling the 
following story about himself : — 

When he left St. Paul’s School somewhat unex- 
pectedly, and in a way which gave some offence to the 
High Master, the latter personage gave it as his 
opinion that he would live to be hanged. 

After a brilliant career at Cambridge, Pollock came 
out Senior Wrangler, and was elected Fellow of Trin- 
ity. On hearing this, his old master said : — 

“ I always foretold that he would fill a very exalted 
station.” 




PATERSON & FOSTER 



SOLE 

AGENTS 

FOR 



Reichert’s Microscopes 



Acknowledged to be the be^t line in the Dominion 

Used in the Bacteriological Laboratories of the tS STAINS and ACCESSORIES 

Royal Victoria and Montreal General Hospitals *"* IN STOCK 



DISSECTING CASES, SKELETONS, SKULLS, STETHOSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, 

And all Students’ Requirements 



GET OUR QUOTATIONS' 



Ol DU llllMO CmIIAVA 



