The McGill Gazette. 



VOL. V. SATURDAY, JANUARY 18th, 1879. No. 4 



CONTENTS. 



•COLLEGIATE ORATORY . 


^7 


PERSONALS 


EDITORIAL 


IS 


CLIPPINGS 


LOYAL A MOI 


40 


BOOK NOTICES 


PHYSICAL CULTURE 


40 


ITEMS 


A WINTER SPORT 


44 


EXCHANGES 



47 




Terms. — Single Subscription , $1.00 per annum , in advance . Single numbers , 20 cents. 

For sale at Dawson Bros., Hill's, Drysdale's , Ashford's and Me Adam's. 

Address, “ THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1259, Montreal. 



Professional and Visiting Cards, Anns, Crests and Monograms, 



AND 



“ THE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,” 

AT 

J. D. SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 

College Society Cards and Badges a specialty. Patronage solicited. 



MAC MASTER, HALL k GREEN SHIELDS 

Advocates, Barristers, &c., 

No. 181 St. James Street, Montreal. 

D. Macmastbr. John S. Hall, Jun. J. N. Greenahields 




GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRAVERS, 

169 ST. JAMES SX. 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN HENDERSON k CO., 

HATTERS AATNTTD IFTTITTTIEIR.S, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 

GET YOUR HAIR CUT AT HILL’S, 

■Queen's Hall Block, - - 1321 St. Catherine Si. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 
FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 

Those contemplating a tour to tropical climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. James 
St , Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 Sr. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St. 

GOULDEN’ S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure for Neuralgic pains in 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, &c. 

Neuralgine is of great service in improving weak digestion 
loss of appetite, &c 



GENTLEMEN S Coats, Pants, Sfc., 
Beautifully Cleaned or Dyed and Pressed 
without shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

700 OR A / G 1ST., near Victoria Square. 

~~Pn o r i o g JLjLP li 17 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. ARLESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 



• • 



The McGill Gazette , 



11 



THOMAS ALLAN & 00- 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET. 



WATCHMAKERS 

AND 

J’E'WEEEERS, 

361 NOTRE DAME STREET , 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students.. 

Also, all the Hooks used in McEachran’s Veterinary College. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



GROSS’ 

Newly Improved 

SHoulcLer qB rCLCes 

OR 

CHEST EXPANDERS, 

Before for 

Wearing. Ladies , Gentlemen or Children Wearwg. 

MANUFACTURED AT THE 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Street. (Established 1856.) 

F . GROSS , 

Surgical Instrument Maker, Inventor and Manufacturer of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross’ 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, &c. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 





A large assortment of Rubber Good- Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymuasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clubs, Rheumatic Chains and Belts, 
&c., always on hand. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles done with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 



FURS, HATS AND CAPS. 



JOB C. THOMPSON & 00., 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, and Importers of English Hats, 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which 
we sell at the very lowest price. We mark all Goods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

Our system works well, as the Public have shown by 
their extensive support since we re-commenced business. 

416 & 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 

Established 1835. 



McGill College Text Books. 




Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 



TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE,. 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 



Students’ Note Books, 

Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes: 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 

FOR SALE AT 

159 St. James Street. 



190 ST. JOSEPH STREET, 

I. A, BEAUVAIS, 

MERCHANT TAILOR 

AND 

HABERDASHER 

Two first-class cutters attached to the premises. A liberal! 
discount to those who apply as “ McGill ” students. 

N. B. — Ready-made Ulsters and Overcoats a specialty. 



H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 
BANKERS AND EXCHANGE BROKERS, 
149 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL, 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, January 18th, 1879. 



COLLEGIATE ORATORY. 



W E have often wondered, as we perused 
our exchanges and read of the magnificent 
orations delivered on grandiloquent subjects 
by American students, what was really the 
truth of the case. We had noticed that there 
seemed tc be, in the better universities, nothing 
of this “ oratory ” The merits and demerits 
•of William Tell, the beauties of “ Starry 
Nights,” and the metaphysical rights and 
wrongs of “ Faith ” were descanted upon in 
many a college ; but Harvard and Yale, and 
one or two other colleges, were free from the 
"“oration” fever. We say we wondered at this. 
We were not so rash as to imagine that the 
majority of our contemporaries, in ascribing to 
their college orators the gifts of Demosthenes 
and Cicero, were guilty of wilful falsehood ; 
nor could we understand how sensible profes- 
sors would tolerate a score of flashy speeches on 
one Commencement Day. Surely, we thought, 
there must be something in this oratory. We 
imagined many a Pitt; we conjured up many 
a Sheil, many a Macaulay, and we were iu- 
cli ied to attach some importance to the pre- 
valent teaching of “ oratory.” An article which 
appeared in the New York Nation some time 
since, however, dispelled our dreams. The Na- 
tion had attended a “competition in oratory” 
held in New York last year, at which the repre- 
sentatives of half a dozen colleges strove to 
gain the laurel. Now, there is no journal in 
America whose opinion upon a subject of this 
nature is more valuable than the Nation’s. ’ 
What, then, was the conclusion arrived at by 
the Nation as to the oratory displayed at tins 
competition ? The Nation says : “ This enter- 
tainment more than confirmed the doubts we 
have often expressed in these columns, as to 
the expediency of encouraging displays of this j 



character, and as to the wholesomeness of their 
influence on mental training.” The actual 
facts differ considerably from the lavish en- 
comiums so freely made on American college 
oratory. The Nation says that the immaturity 
of the contestants was very apparent, and 
that ‘ the choice of subjects was in itself an 
indication of a strong love for generalities, of 
a taste for hazy thinking, for sounding rather 
than exact expression.” 

The subjects were vague and general — sub- 
jects about which “ one can talk by the hour 
and say nothing,” and the Nation thinks that 
“ if the cultivation of oratory drives a young 
man in on such topics, it affords an argument 
of a very strong kind for avoiding it during a 
period of mental growth and discipline.’ As 
an example of the subjects chosen by the com- 
mittees, wc may mention those named by 
the Nat ion : — “The Ideal Man,” “ Principle,’’ 

“ Everlasting Man.” 

High praise is bestowed by the Nation on 
the elocution of the competitors. This we can 
well understand. Manner, not matter, is sought 
after ; declamation is mistaken for oratory ; a 
flourish of the hand is esteemed more than a 
brilliant sentence or a pointed argument. The 
fault, we think, lies in the system. American 
colleges avoid debates. Orations, and speeches 
on separate subjects, are common, but debating, 
where fact is met by fact, where the vigour and 
effect of a speech is gauged by the material, not 
by the style of its delivery, seems to be uncom- 
mon and uncared for. Few can deny that true 
oi'atory is best taught by debates. A man 
may talk for years on “ Xantippe before a 
looking-glass, and still be no public speaker. 
These two things are essentially different in 
their results. The one breeds logic, the other 
rhetoric. A happy medium, we think, exists 
in our own college, and without egotism or 
a too wanton display of self-esteem, we think 
we can congratulate ourselves on having in 
our University Literary Society as good a 



38 



The McCAll Gazette , 



means of cultivating true oratory as can be 
found. Be this as it may, we must say we 
feel considerably relieved at learning, on the 
undoubted authority of the Nation, that what 
we had been led to believe by the eulogies of 
our contempories as oratory of a high class, 
is nothing else than silly twaddle and inane 
gesticulation, and we have come to the con- 
clusion that the modest efforts of our own 
debaters are perhaps infinitely more perfect 
specimens of the art persuasive than the spread- 
eagleism of the class of American colleges to 
which we have referred. 



The Clinical class in the Montreal General 
Hospital is under many obligations to Dr. 
Molson, who has for some time past been out- 
door physician. Dr. Molson has many oppor- 
tunities of seeing valuable cases while visiting 
the out-door patients, and these he invariably 
preserves for examination by the clinical 
class. It is not his especial duty to do any- 
thing for the students, who usually go through 
the wards themselves ; but nevertheless, such 
is his generosity and his desire for the good of 
others, that he keeps a wary eye for all curio- 
sities which fall in his way. During the last 
month this gentleman has put himself to no 
little inconvenience for the students, and we 
are sure that his efforts in their behalf have 
not been unnoticed by them. 



There is a certain practice in which the 
students of McGill indulge when in class 
which we think only worthy of boys in 
a High School. We allude to the extrava- 
gant manner in which they testify their ap- 
preciation, or otherwise, of anything that is 
not in the regular routine. If a Professor 
makes, or even attempts the mildest of jokes, 
or if he makes any remark out of the ordinary, 
he is greeted with a storm of applause, most 
of the students making as much disturbance 
as they possibly can with their feet and books 



It is excusable to some extent in the Fresh- 
men, as they arc not expected to be able to- 
behave themselves as they should, and an al- 
lowance may be made for their verdancy, but 
it is a sad sight to see a “ grave and reverent 
Senior ” hammering away with the heel of his. 
boots, simply because the Professor has said 
something which bears a distant resemblance 
to a joke. It would be some consolation tu 
observe some small improvement in the stu- 
dents in this respect as the class grows older,, 
but we fail to detect any, and declare that the 
Seniors aie as bad as the Freshmen, and make- 
somewhat more row on account of their three- 
years’ practice in the art. Cannot some more 
gentlemanly way be devised by the students 
in which to make known their feelings than 
this? We certainly think there can, but if 
not, it would be better to have no demonstra- 
tion at all, rather than act in the way they 
usually do. 



As yet nothing seems to have been done by 
the committee appointed to arrange for the- 
Founder’s Festival, and so far as appearances 
go, their delinquency is being kindly looked 
over by the students generally. Save the en- 
quiries of a few wondering Freshmen, whose 
minds, before they came among us; were filled 
with stories of the exquisite music and boun- 
teous repast to be found at this annual event, 
nothing is heard which would seem to show a 
universal wish for its speedy celebration. We 
do not think, however, that it is the intention 
of the committee to let this institution fall, 
like the Glee Club, into abeyance. The reason 
given for its postponement from the beginning 
of November until after Christmas was, that 
if this were done, our new Governor-General, 
the Visitor of the University, and his royal 
bride, would be able to honour it with their 
presence. The death of the Princess Alice pre- 
vents Their Excellencies from accepting such 
an invitation until next month at the earliest. 



The McGill Gazette . 



39 



and even then it is doubtful if they can do so, 
in view of so many others of a more official 
character awaiting them. Such being the 
state of affairs, there can be no possible reason 
for further postponement. Some of the grad- 
uates and students have expressed themselves 
in favour of a University Supper, which would 
take the place of this Festival, and in which all 
could participate. A change oi this kind, if 
feasible, would, we think, be heartily support- 
ed by the students ; but if not, do not, at least, let 
our only annual reunion become a thing of the 
past. 



We understand that the question lately 
under discussion in the Senior class in Arts 
has been fully decided upon, and that it is 
their intention to add to the usual Convocation 
exercises by the institution of a Class-day. 
The different officers, consisting of a historian, 
a poet, and a prophet, have been chosen, but 
the exact date of the celebration, and the 
order of the proceedings, have not as yet been 
decided on. Much was said then, and has 
been since, questioning the advisability of this 
step, but the general feeling seems to be in 
favour of the innovation. The fact ol its be- 
ing an American custom, and old, has called 
forth dissenters, — why, we are unable to say, 
for the Class-day orations at Yale and Harvard 
compose one of the most pleasing features of 
their Commencement. We do not intend criti- 
cising in any way this action of the graduat- 
ing class, but would simply remind them, that 
whether or not it is to become an institution 
of annual occurrence at McGill depends wholly 
upon the success attending its inauguration, 
and that therefore it behooves them to feel 
certain of success before attempting the task. 
If we may judge from the judicious and happy 
manner in which the appointment of officers 
has b3en made, they need have no fear on 
that score, for the selection seems to have been 
made with an especial regard to the fitness of 



i each for the office he had been called upon to 
fill. Yet in the further arrangement of the 
proceedings for the proposed Class-day, care 
must be taken of even the most trifling parti- 
culars, so that there may be nothing introduced 
which might prove inconsistent with the dig- 
nity and formality of all proceedings of such a 
nature. 



Some time since we advocated, through the 
columns of the Gazette — and we trust with 
some effect — that the professors have their lec- 
tures printed and given to the students. This 
privilege is enjoyed by the students of many 
of the European schools, and why may we not 
reasonably ask to be entitled to the same con- 
sideration ? It may be that our esteemed pro- 
fessors will become convinced of the great 
benefits that would result from such a step, 
and some fine day present us with the 
veritable thing we ask ; but whether the 
question of printed lectures does or does not 
meet with their approval, there is one appeal, 
that we feel sure they will most heartily en- 
dorse, and that is— different writing desks for 
the medical lecture rooms. It is difficult at 
any time, even under the most favourable cir- 
cumstances, to take satisfactory notes from 
lectures delivered, and this difficulty is in no 
wise obviated by the uncomfortable and at 
times painful positions one has to assume in 
order to utilize the three-inch slabs, which 
have been called desks. We are perfectly satis- 
fied with our frescoed ceilings and adorned 
walls — intended no doubt to train the eye to 
admire beautiful things — but the seats we 
have to occupy while gazing upon these works 
of art, drive all good thoughts away. We feel 
certain that if an appeal were made by the 
students to the governors for a change, they 
would not turn a deaf ear. They know we 
love them, and their appreciation of our affec- 
tion would do much towards the granting of 
. our prayer. 



40 



The McGill Gazette. 



LOYAL A MOI. 



“ Loyal a moi murmured low as we parted ; 

“ Loyal a toi though the tear-drops had started, 
Loyal for aye I have been, and true-hearted — 

Loyal & toi. 

Oft have I kissed the gold circlet that binds me ; 
Gazed on the legend that ever reminds me 
Of his last words, “ Do I leave one behind me 

Loyal a moi ? ” 

Under the maples my answer was spoken, 

None save the robins beheld the sweet token 
Laid on the lips whence the words had just broken, 

Loyal a toi. 

Winter is gone now, and with it my sorrow ; 

With the J une roses the gladsome to-morrow 
Brings him once more, and its gladness I borrow, 

Loyal d toi. 

Soon shall I see him ! The glad hours are fleeting, 
Loyal d moi 1 whispered low at our meeting ; 
Closely he bends as I answer his greeting, — 

Loyal d toi. 



THE RELATION OF MEDICAL SCIENCE 
TO PHYSICAL CULTURE. 



(A -paper read before the McGill Medical 

Society.) 



Boasting, as we do, that we have one among 
us, who in putting the heavy weight has made 
a better record than any amateur in America, 
and of another whose calves so excited the 
admiration of the ladies that a request should 
have been made to have them photographed, 
and priding ourselves upon six such fine 
specimens of muscular Christianity as pulled 
on the tug of war, we are half inclined to 
think it folly for such men as we are to con- 
cern ourselves about physical culture. If all 
the world were like those of whom we have 
just spoken, perhaps it would be, but they are 
not. The progress of the world in the cultiva- 
te n of the muscular is not at all in keeping 
with its progress in other reforms. Should a 
Grecian hero who had been hurled to Hades 
in the .palmy days of the warlike renown of 
his fatherland, stand among us to-day, he 
would gaze with submissive wonder on the 
many improvements of modern science. Let 



him be told that beyond the pillars of Hercu- 
les there exists a vast ocean upon whose 
trackless bed lay a thread by which thought 
could be communicated to millions in a world 
he knew not of, with a speed to him incredi- 
ble ; let him be told that he might see the sun 
shedhis morning light on the Acropolis, and tlmn 
carried by horses almost as swift as the wind, lie 
could see his last rays lost in the splendour of 
a barbarian capital ; let him see a London 
harbour, whitened with the sails and blackened 
with the smoke of its thousands of steamers; let 
him see the barbarous appliances of modem 
warfare, — in short, let a grand panorama of all 
the discoveries in modern science pass before 
him ; let him inspect our schools and colleges 
and see our intellectual culture ; let him be 
told of a moral law which in poetry and sub- 
limity excels that which he so much admired 
show him everything which the world has 
done good or great since burning Sappho loved 
and sung, and he must be dumbfounded with 
wonder, and with all his patriotism he would 
almost be ashamed of his fatherland. But we- 
can fancy with what pardonable pride, as he- 
bares his brawny arm and broad chest, he 
points to his own well cultured physique in 
contrast to that of the daintily gloved, beer 
drinking, cigar-smoking, lady’s man of the 
nineteenth century. 

He wonders that, in our zeal for improve- 
ment in every other way, we have forgotten the 
culture of our own bodies. And is it not 
strange that in our chase after phantoms we 
neglect that independent of which, as reason- 
able mortals, we know we can enjoy nothing 
else. 

Much as we cultivate the faculties of the 
mind, we have not common sense to know 
that the mind cannot act in its fullest capacity 
unless in a sound body ; and in our zeal to- 
tell right from wrong we forget we commit a 
grievous sin when we neglect our own physi- 
cal culture. If the majority of men of this- 
age are not developed so as successfully to play 
their part in life — if society do not appreciate 
the value of physical culture and hygiene, who 
are to be their schoolmasters ? They will surely 
look to those whom they suppose have 
made the study of these things the work of 
their life ; and here opens the noblest field for 
the practice of our profession — teaching people 
how to be healthy. We boast that we have 



The McGill Gazette. 



4i 



«hosen a noble profession. In what, then, does 
its nobility consist ? Not, surely, in pouring 
nauseous medicine down the throats of patients 
•unable to resist, or in gratifying the whims 
of old women who fancy they are sick by pre- 
scribing harmless pills. No, the physician, 
situated as he is — looked up to as authority 
in all matters of health, has intrusted to him 
interests pregnant with the greatest responsi- 
bility, and has in his keeping the very destiny 
of the race to come. 

Its nobility consists not so much in alleviating 
the pain and prolonging the life of the broken- 
down invalid as it does in teaching those in 
health how to avoid the conditions which 
develop disease. In truth we enter a crusade 
more holy than that which defended the Chris- 
tians of Jerusalem when we enter the list 
against unwholesome food, foul air, and per- 
verted physical strength. 

The grand end of medical science of this age 
as prophylaxis, and this cannot be brought 
about better than by hygienic living and 
physical culture. The former is of too vast a 
scope to allow of discussion here to-night ; but 
its importance cannot be over-rated, as it goes 
hand in hand with the latter, — the very founda- 
tion stone upon which we would build our 
perfect physical manhood. If it is the physi- 
cian's place to persuade men to develop their 
bodies, how can he do it ? What reason can 
he adduce to support his claims ? Let us first 
•consider the relation of the physical to the moral. 
We pride ourselves in living in the most pious 
age in the world’s history, but we still preserve 
the spirit of the ascetic of middle ages, who, 
having named his body Balaam’s ass, rose 
several times a night to beat it. We blame our 
poor bodies for all sins committed by our 
sensuous dispositions. Rousseau has said : — 

“ The stronger the body the more it obeys ; 

The weaker the body the more it commands.” 

The will and strength of mind are in 
direct ratio to the strength of body. 

When the body is enervated by disease, the 
mind too has lost its tone and yields at once to 
the lawlessness of unrestrained passion. We 
too often blame the sins committed by men 
poor in health, to their harmless natural being 
i astead of blaming the man for contracting 
the habits which have ruined his health. Alive 
to the intimacy of the relation of which we 
have just spoken, Voltaire has said that “the 
fate of nations depended upon the digestion of 



its prime ministers,” while Motley has gone so 
far as to say that “ the gout of Charles V. has 
changed the destiny of the world.” Here, 
then, is a truth for medical men to teach. 
Educate people to believe that to be sick is a 
crime committed by themselves their ancestors, 
or those by whom they are surrounded. To 
abuse the physical is likewise to abuse the 
mental and moral, for all must suffer together. 
He who does not “ present his body a living 
sacrifice toGod,holyand acceptable, which is his 
reasonable service,” commits as great a cidme as 
if he had violated any one of the command- 
ments in the category. The attempt to reform 
the world while it is ignorant of the laws of 
health, is a silly tilt against a windmill. Would 
you look for a mild, forbearing Christian in a 
man who has a faulty digestion or a torpid 
liver ? 

That cadaverous individual who shakes his 
head ominously when you speak of a game of 
cricket or any athletic exercise as though you 
were irretrievably gone on the broad road to 
ruin, is not the one to lead you in the ways of 
pleasantness and paths of peace. But that 
jolly specimen of muscular Christianity, who, 
doing everything to the honour of God, enjoys 
his dinner as well as his devotions, leads you 
into the way of thinking before you are aware 
of it. So much for this aspect of the question 
— now for the relation of the intellectual to 
the physical. 

That much hackneyed phrase “ ileus sana 
in corpore sano,” expresses an ideal to which we 
should all strive to attain. But here again arises 
an old popular prejudice, an idea that mind and 
body are at enmity with each other. That a 
strong, muscular, well nourished body is incom- 
patible with a well-stored and developed mind. 
But the intellectual and physical have a mutual 
relation to each other. The mind though im- 
material, acts through a material organ — the 
brain — and you can no more expect strength 
of thought or vivacity of wit from a poorly 
nourished brain, than you could power of en- 
durance and agility from a poorly nourished 
body. This material organ requires the same 
as any other — nourishment and exercise. The 
exercise of thought subjects the brain to the 
same wear and tear that physical exertion does 
the body. They both must be nourished by 
the blood, and if that be deficient in quantity 
or impaired in quality, the brain becomes as 
ill adapted for the exercise of vigorous, manly 



42 



The McGill Gazette. 



thought, as the emaicated and flabby muscles 
are ill-fitted for the race or gymnasium. As 
any other organ in the body when not exer- 
cised grows unequal to the tasks imposed upon 
it, and forms a blot upon what might other- 
wise be a well developed physique, so the brain, 
when not exercised by thought, becomes ill- 
nourished, and although the whole of the body 
beside may be in a most efficient state ot har- 
monious development, this one defect pre- 
cludes the claim to a perfect physical man- 
hood 

As a beautifully polished engine with its 
nicely balanced works without steam to drive 
it is a useless toy, so a man who has all grown 
to intellect is a miserable failure, for although 
he has latent within him a great power for 
good, he has not the strength to develop it 
into ready action, or to continue it when 
once started. It has been said that mind and 
body should be viewed as the two well-fitting 
halves of a perfect whole, designed in true 
accord mutually to sustain and support each 
other. 

Although duty to ourselves and our fellows 
commands us in unmistakable language to de- 
velop the physical, mental and normal in one 
grand harmonious whole, we would be foolish 
not to cultivate the physical as a matter of 
mere utility — as a means to attain what we 
are too apt to regal'd as the stimmum bonurn 
of human existence, wealth and honour. 

We live in an age of activity, of the most 
intense activity. We run in a race neck and 
neck with our fellows for gold and fame. It 
is the same now as it always has been — there 
is no royal road to success. None of us are 
born geniuses to be carried, in ease and com- 
fort, in golden chariots to the goal of our am- 
bition. We work, and must work to live. We 
live under the highest pressure ; our nerves 
are stretched to their utmost tension, and our 
bodily strength taxed all it can bear. Amid 
all this bustle and confusion, the cry of the age 
is for strength — strength of constitution — 
strength to endure— for the race is still to the 
swift and the battle to the strong. The active 
professional man of to-day requires, for the 
successful performance of his duties, a physi- 
que as well developed as did the soldier who 
had to sustain the fatigue and hardships of the 
long and successive campaigns of ancient 
Greece and Rome. Not only is the battle 
hot, but it is long ; not only must the minister 



in his study, the lawyer in his court, the doc- 
tor in the sick room sustain a study within,, 
and a contention without, day by day — enough 
in itself to break down a weak constitution — 
but he must keep it up for a long lifetime. 
There are but few of us can go to bed un- 
known, and wake up to find ourselves famous. 
No, it requires years upon years of denial and 
of persevering industry to achieve a position 
above mediocre, or to attain a competency for 
old age. Now if strength be such a very de- 
sirable object, there arises the practical ques- 
tion, How can it be obtained ? 

The first great step in bringing up a people 
physically strong, is to teach them the import- 
ance and principles of hygienic living. Here 
medical science can further a grand work al- 
ready begun, in teaching people that disease is 
due to the violation of the rules of health that, 
once sick, there lies no magic spell in drugs 
to restore them to their wonted vigour ; but 
they must undo the mischief they have done, 
by slowly and carefully retracing their steps, 
correcting themselves all the mistakes they 
have made. We are happy to see that the 
tendency of the age is to place more depen- 
dence on hygiene and less on medicine. Peo- 
ple are ceasing to regard sickness as a dispen- 
sation from God, and ceasing to think that 
every disease has a specific medicine which 
cures it. Teach people the power of hygienic 
living and physical culture to prevent disease, 
and the inability of doctox-s to cui’e disease 
only by attending to those laws which every- 
one should know for himself, and we have ac- 
complished the highest aim of our noble pro- 
fession. Suppose the world fully alive to the 
benefits to be dei'ived from sanitary reform 
and hygienic living, in what way is the physi- 
cal culture of the young neglected, and what 
innovations ai’e to be made, that the rising 
genei'ation may grow to manhood with a 
power of endurance which shall be equal to 
the exigencies of the active life which it shall 
be called to lead. 

As the child, at least in the matter of physi- 
cal culture, is father to the man, let us 
commence with him. In the vei-y outset he is 
done a great injustice by being sent to school 
too eai'ly. Here, confined in a vitiated atmos- 
phere, for long hours bent over poorly con- 
structed forms, he grows disgusted with study 
and everything connected with school life. He 
is driven to commit the same mistakes which 



The McGill Gazette. 



43 



we as students so often commit — spending too 
much time over our books, forgetting that we 
can do more work by taking more exercise, 
and following it by concentrated study. We 
would lay down the rule that the child should 
not be sent to school till at least eight years 
of age. 

Now suppose our boy at school, under proper 
hygienic conditions and with a fair supply of 
mental work ; there should open up to him two 
avenues to physical culture, both of which he 
should be encouraged to follow — recreative 
sport, and systematic gymnastic exercise. The 
first of these has its advantage in its freedom 
from care, in its complete diversion of the 
mind, and thus while it exercises the physical 
it rests the mental. Here, too, he is taught 
that he must play the man in other ways than 
in the mere exhibition of brute force ; here he 
learns the ultimate laws of right and wrong. 
Here he comes to admire the honest and 
straightforward ; to despise trickery and 
double-dealing. In short, tne influence here 
brought to bear is probably more powerful in 
moulding the character than any other in the 
whole course of hi* life. 

So well was the Duke of Wellington assured 
of this fact, and such faith did he have 
in the great national game of England to de- 
velop the man in every point, that he has 
been bold enough to say that the battle of 
Waterloo was won on the cricket fields of his 
native country. And under the patronage of 
our worthy President, who knows how many 
battle fields may be won, by the illustrious 
members of the McGill U. C. C. In sports the 
end aimed at is skill, and ph3 T sical culture is 
only an accident. Those parts of the body 
exercised, the legs and generally the right arm, 
are developed at the expense of the rest, and 
it is a fact well known, that j r ou will seldom 
ever see a man whose legs are not all they 
should be, while a man not mal-formed in his 
chest or arms is a great rarity. While it is 
our duty to encourage sports in every way, let 
us not stop here. Sport may be sufficient to 
keep the body in health after it has attained 
to its full growth, but it fails of itself to pro- 
duce that harmonious development which we 
have set up as our ideal. Now, when the body 
is young, pliable, impressible, capable of being 
moulded to almost any shape, is the time to 
supply the greatest engine of physical culture, 
systematic gymnastic exercises. This when 





















correctly applied modifies the growth and dis- 
tributes the increased resources ot the body so 
that each organ shall receive its legitimate 
share, gives additional strength to the weak 
and corrects the many mal-formations so com- 
mon among the young. But before we can 
persuade people of the importance of this, we 
must correct an erronous idea they have, that 
it only develops the muscular. 

And in this intellectual age people may 
reasonably ask what is the use ot mere brute 
force to the professional man. Although its 
effect on the muscular system is the most 
obvious, it must be borne in mind that it is the 
least useful. Its great value arises from the 
fact that it strengthens all the delicate organs 
within the body which have to do with those 
vital processes by which we live and have our 
being, and therefore it becomes more useful to 
him whose brain gains him his livelihood than 
to him who lives by the work of his hands. 
During school life, when the body is still 
pliable, we would expect the most favourable 
results from educational exercises, but it should 
not stop here, it should be continued through 
college, in fact, during one’s whole life. And 
here we shall make a practical digression. How 
very few of the students of McGill Medical 
College avail themselves of the advantages of 
a gymnasium, and under existing circumstances- 
we do not see how they well can. We need a 
gymnasium in connection with our college, 
supported by compulsory contributions, quite 
as much as we do a reading-room. 

Suppose, now, that our hero has attained 
maturity, that to all appearance he is well 
developed, w<dl nourished, sound in body and 
mind, there does not now exist the same neces- 
sity for the continuance of the exercises that 
have made him what he is, but they must not 
be discontinued altogether. 

As every chain has its weakest link, which 
is the measure of its strength, so any man, 
either from inheritance, or from accident, has 
his weak point, where disease will attack him 
first. Let him, therefore, by continuing those 
exercises which more immediately affect this 
part, and by attention to the laws of his being, 
so fortify his weakness that it may become 
strong, or at least resist disease as long as 
possible. 

Not only have we a complaint to make 
about the inattention paid to physical culture 
in the education of the youth, but about the 



44 



The McGill Gazette. 



subject matter taught them. Children, as a 
matter of course, must be taught classics and 
the higher mathematics, and too often have 
not the slightest idea of the wondrous work- 
ings within their own body by which they 
live, and know nothing of the dependence of 
their health on plenty of fresh air and exer- 
•cise, and hygienic living. Let children be 
taught the laws of health and the importance 
•of conformity to them, and we have taken a 
most decisive step to prevent disease 

Any attempt to reform the world, indepen- 
dent of the development of woman, must be a 
most complete failure. The mother is the 
prime motive 'power in the world, and the first 
step in reform would be to make her what she 
should be physically. And until she appreciates 
the value of such an education, and enforces it 
upon her offspring, all will be futile. This is 
the fountain-head, and this must be purified, 
•or the streams flowing from it will be impure. 

.But all important as is the physical culture 
of woman, it has been more neglected than 
that of man, and at the very outset we are met 
with difficulties which, we did not have to over- 
come in the other sex. A man is mortified if 
-ever called anything but strong and healthy, 
while a woman is proud to be called delicate. 
She makes her boast that she conquers by her 
weakness. Tell one of those lovely creatures 
who go wiggling along the street in high 
heeled boots and a waist so constricted that 
you could span it with your hands, that she is 
getting stout and healthy, if she had muscle 
■enough, she would in all probability knock you 
down ; but tell her that she looks delicate and 
interesting, and you have in her opinion paid 
her the highest compliment. The other obsta- 
cle is woman’s complete slavery to fashion. We 
hate to hear people always ranting about fash- 
ion and woman’s fo dish conformity to it, for if 
she were entirely regardless of its dictates she 
would attract an attention not pleasant to her- 
self or her friends. But we think she should 
Temember the natural alone can be beautiful, 
and that when by attending to the caprices of 
fashion she mutilates the natural and beautiful, 
it is her place as a sensible woman to disregard 
them. Fancy a master sculptor or a painter 
choosing as a model for a Venus a pale-faced 
lady who prides herself on the smallness of her 
waist. Driven to extremities he would prefer 
rather one whom he would have to embrace in 
.sections. 



American women priding themselves on their 
delicacy, following too closely the arbitrary 
rules of fashion and, too often neglecting 
their own physical culture, have come to be 
the poorest specimens of woman living. There- 
fore before any advance can be made, she 
must be taught that the necessity of the age 
is the healthy, sensible, cultured woman, fully 
alive to the mighty interests dependent upon 
her own health. 

In conclusion we shall say, there is no such 
wide a field for improvement in the whole range 
of medical science, as there is in practical 
hygienic and physical culture. And if reform 
is needed, it is surely the place of the phy- 
sician to play his part. Can he dare to 
attribute sickness to the dispensation ot God, 
and, sitting with his own arms folded, fatten- 
ing on the work of death, make no at- 
tempt to find out the cause, and, finding it, to 
put in force the remedy. No, the nobility of 
Kis profession forbids this, and forbids his en- 
couraging disease for his own personal benefit, 
while those mighty prophylactics, practical 
hygienic and physical culture, ai - e left untried. 

000 

A WINTER SPORT. 



Now that we are enjoying a Canadian 
winter, and that there is every prospect of 
good skating on rink and river a few words 
about hockey will not be out of place. And 

first, What is hockey ? We hear many answers : 
“ Oh, it is shinny on ice ' It is a poor im- 
itation of lacrosse ; ” “A worse of football.” 
Surely, though such a reply is true in part, 
hockey, as we have played it now for more than 
three years, is more than any such answer 
would convey. It resembles shinny, but only 
in being played with a block and a crooked 
stick; it is like lacrosse in that it is the 
endeavour of each side to force a ball or block 
through a narrow goal ; it copies many of the 
rules of football, but does no more. " Let us 
give our idea of hockey. 

A sheet of ice, at least fifty yards long and 
twenty wide, with at each end a pair of slender 
goal posts six feet high, and the same distance 
apart. In the centre of the ice two lines of 
players— the forwards— each and all waiting 

O 



The McGill Gazette. 



45 



for the moment when it is their duty to start 
after the ball, and never let it rest till they 
have driven it through the opposite goal ; good 
wind is their most needed quality. Behind 
the lines, a little nearer to them than to the 
goals, stand the half-backs of each side, two in 
number. Theirs it is to lollow the forwards 
and see that the ball is kept within their 
reach ; and, when an opportunity occurs, to 
dash in through the opposing line and make 
sudden and fierce assaults on the defences of 
the enemy. They must be, like the forwards, 
longwinded, but they need in addition quick 
eyes and strong wrists. If the players are out- 
siders, there are none but the half-backs to 
fend off attacks on the goal ; but, in the Mc- 
Gill Hockey Club, it is customary to station 
one man between the half-backs and goal, who 
acts like a goal-keeper in football. His duty is 
to interfere with any enemy, who having pass- 
ed the half-backs, comes up for a quiet shot at 
goal ; to attack him and spoil his shot, if 
necessary, by upsetting him, (for charging is 
allowed in hockey, provided the charge be not 
made from behind). He must be ready to 
sacrifice his own equilibrium, and, what is 
dearer to every player, his own stick, to pre- 
vent the shot home on which the fate of the 
game usually depends, and “ dash the beauteous 
terror,” i. e. the hockey ball, any where out of 
danger. To him the patient and long-suffering 
goal-keeper looks for aid, when, like the Roman 
soldier at Pompeii, he watches the terrors 
gather round the post he may not leave, even 
to assail the impetuous, or more often insidious, 
foe. But the goal-keeper has his reward when 
the bolt that threatens his citadel is gently 
turned aside, or boldly met and hurled back at 
the impious invader, and the growls of the foe 
are lost in the friendly shouts that hail his 
address, — “ Well played in goal !” 

To describe a game of “ hockey,” or indeed 
any game that is so constantly in motion, is a 
vain task. To the spectators, the fate of the 
game often seems to hover over the spot in 
front of the goal, where the forwards of one 
side and the whole of the other are “meles en- 
semble .” But the patient goalkeeper dreads 
the half-back, who, escaping the crowd, comes 
swiftly yet quietly right before his gates, and, 
unless upset by the “ point,” delivers the 
deadly “ sling,” or deadlier “ scoop,” that is so 
difficult to stop. And while they applaud the 
player who carries the ball unchallenged up 



the ice, to lose it in the crowd at the adver- 
saries’ goal’ the hard-worked forwards hail 
with thankfulness the backs, who regularly, 
as the ball reaches them, send it back to be 
dashed at the goal, which is usually so stub- 
bornly defended. Tn talking to the players 
after our well earned victory last year, we noted 
that while the spectators spoke of A’s splendid 
dashes and II’s ubiquity, the players praised 
chiefly the steady play of the three T’s — one 
in goal, one half back, and one forward — all 
three now gone. The success of last year was 
due to two causes. First, every man knew 
what he had to do, for our best of captains, 
tearing himself from the fascinations of law, 
attended the practices of the club regularly 
and directed the play ; secondly, every man 
did it in a way that dismayed the under-dis- 
ciplined enemy. 

This season we have but four left who have 
played on the team, our captain, alas, being 
among the departed. Now there are many 
who say the club should be opened to gradu- 
ates. That the immediate results would be 
a very strong team is undeniable ; but we, for 
one, think that theve are many reasons for 
keeping it a students’ club. In the first place, 
we believe that in a few years, if not sooner, the 
best players in town will be graduates, and as 
such they will continue to constitute the team 
year by year, till it suits them to leave off 
playing. In the meantime, mere love of 
hockey will fail to entice the students to prac- 
tice when they have little, or no chance of a. 
place on the team. And our team, the only 
one that pi-actices, has hard enough work to 
get up a match now. What if the hockey 
players in town, with but few exceptions, be- 
long to our club ? We shall have no good 
matches here, and we cannot leave the city to 
play other clubs. The examples of the Argo- 
naut and Montreal football clubs show us that, 
when a club is supreme it begins to decay. 
Zeus defend our club from that fate ! But 
suppose the graduates are excluded as now. 
Some will revive the Montreal Hockey Club, 
others will join the Britannias and help to 
organize a strong club among them, and our 
own club, attracting the students to a noble- 
game by a chance of places on the team, will 
practice steadily as in past seasons, forming a. 
new and vigorous body, with "old hands” to. 
act as the successive “ new heads.” 



D.iEU A. 



4 6 



The McGill Gazette 



PERSONALS. 

77. W. S. Stewart is studying law in Char- 
lottetown, P. E. I. 

76. J. N. Greenshields, B. C. L, was mar- 
ried on the 18th ult. to Miss Glass, of Soring 
Hill, N. S. 

75. C. H. Chandler, B. A., Lecturer in mathe- 
matics at McGill, was married to Miss Butler, of 
Waterloo, Que., Dec. 18th. 

70. F. P. Foran, B.C.L., is acting as Crown 
Prosecutor in the District of Ottawa, during 
the present assizes held there. 

’66. J. Emery Robidoux, B.C.L., is conduct- 
ing — on behalf of the Quebec Government — 
■an investigation into the working of the Mont- 
real Court House. 

77. Horace Bergeron, B.C.L., has been elect- 
ed M. P. for Beauharnois, and will, we believe, 
be the youngest member of the Dominion 
House of Commons. 

77. Robert Robertson, B.A., formerly Cap- 
tain of the University Football Club, and Sec- 
retary of the Literary Society, is now practis- 
ing law in Yarmouth, N. S. 

76. J. Graham, B.A., who has been head 
master of the "High School in Williamstown, 
was dined by the residents of that town on 
leaving to study law in Brock ville. 

78. H. H. Gardiner, M. D., has returned from 
London, England, where he has for some time 
past been pursuing his studies at St. Thomas 
Hospital, and intends entering upon the prac- 
tice of his profession in Cleveland, Ohio. 

We are sure that the many friends of Mr- 
Hen wood, 71), will be glad to hear of his initia- 
tioninto the pleasures of matrimony, having been 
married during the vacation at Brantford, Out. 
We tender the happy couple our felicitations. 

Owing to ill health, W. R. Dulmage, ’Ml 
(Med), has been obliged to give up his studios 
for the present. We sincerely hope that his 
vacation will thoroughly restore him to health, 
and that he will be able to resume his studies 
next summer. 

Mr. Quinonies, ’80, has been obliged to return 
home, and is not certain whether he will be 
able to return before the close of this session. 
W e miss him much, and his many friends 
regret that his departure was so sudden as to 
prevent their giving him a parting spread. We 
hope to have him with us next year. 



CLIPPINGS. 



How to get ahead — start a cabbage-patch. 

A Freshman says that as soon as he gets out 
of college he is going to write a book entitled, 
"Four Fears in the Saddle.” 

“ We don’t know everything,” remarked the 
Professor, “and we don’t find many that claim 
to, except now and then one or two in the 
Sophomore Class.” That’s so. 

A man sprained his wrist, last Sunday, at 
church, while endeavouring to put a dollar on 
the contribution-plate. Moral — but the moral 
is so obvious, it needs no explanation. 

The Chinese Encyclopaedia meets a long felt 
want, no family should be without it. It is 
published in Pekin, and has only 5,020 vol- 
umes. At $7,500, it is dirt cheap. Send and 
get the best. 

Senior — ‘ Do you know why our college is 
such a learned place ? ” Freshman — “ Of 

course ; the Freshmen all bring a little learn- 
ing here, and as the Seniors never take any 
away, it naturally accumulates.’’ 

Another great sensation at Oberlin : A Senior 
was seen bv one of the preps walking down 
street with a clean collar on. A meeting of the 
faculty has been called, and he will be sum- 
marily dealt with. They are bound to make 
an example of him, and nip this new and per- 
nicious evil in the bud. 

The following from one of our exchanges is 
downright mean, and we only give it space to 
show the “ cussedness ” of some college editors. 
No decent student ought to read it : 

sii [4 puo.i puB uavop opisdn 'p u.m^ jpAv 
.mded siifl spBO.i oipw o3e([03 ut Avopaj 
Xioao iBifl .ni[[op ope.r* b jaq 1[9 ay ^ 

Teacher — John Gregory, rise and recite, on 
the spur of the moment, a pleasant paragraph 
on an execution. John— “The drop fell, and the 
horrified spectators shuddered as the poor crirl 
bounded in the air ; but investigation disclosed 
that she was a seminary girl, while the drop 
was a gum-drop that had gone down the wrom- 
way.” 

A sophomore went to his class-officer to be 
excused for his absence at church. He stated 
that he was out walking, and when the church 
bell rang was so far from college that he could 
not reach church in time, so he went to the 



The McGill Gazette. 



47 



village church. “ And who preached ? ” asked 
the professor, curiously. “ I don’t know,” he 
answered, “ some stranger.” “ Indeed,” said 
the professor, “ I am surprised that you did 
not recognize me.”. 

She danced with most enchanting grace, 

She wore the richest dress ; 

She had the cutest little hand 
I ever dared to press. 

I led her from the crowded room, 

I told of busy years 

At college, of my future life, 

Of all my hopes and fears. 

I pleaded for some keepsake true, — 

The rosebud from her hair, — 

Memento of the parting hour 
That we were passing there. 

“ And must you go so soon ?” sh* sighed. 

“ Dear me ! I wonder who’ll 

Who'll talk so nice to-morrow night, 

When you’re at boardin’ school.” 

OOO 

BOOK NOTICES. 



A Pocket Song Book for the use of the 
Students and Graduates of McGill 
College. Compiled and published by a 
Student in Arts. Price, 35 cents. For 
sale at all the book stores. 

It is very seldom that we have the pleasure 
of noticing the publication of any work con- 
nected with McGill College, and consequently 
we very cheerfully offer our congratulations to 
the compiler of this volume, on the admirable 
way in which, in the face of many difficulties, he 
has performed his task. The selection of the 
songs is judicious — the intermingling of original 
McGill songs with the college songs of the 
United States, and the secular airs of French 
Canadian minstrelsy, giving the work an 
increased value for McGill students. The 
compiler in his preface says : '* The compiler 

“ thinks he may reasonably expect liberal 
“ patronage from those in whose interest this 
“ little collection has been published.” We do 
not doubt the correctness of the compiler’s 
anticipations, and we feel sure that every 
student in college will feel bound to provide 
himself with this collection of the songs of 
his Alma Mater. We may say that we trust 
this work is only a beginning, and that the 



support extended to it will warrant the com- 
piler, at no distant date, in enlarging and ex- 
tending the collection. The book is neatly 
gotten up, and the music of many of the songs 
is given. 

OOO 

ITEMS. 

“ What though the balmy,” etc. 

The Science supper is to take place some 
time this month. 

Collectors for Hamilton’s annual present 
have been appointed. 

The Hockey Club held their first practice on 
the river rink last Saturday. 

Judy has put in an appearance in the Read- 
ing-room, and is getting universally snubbed. 

Cook, the Meds’ worthy janitor, “ ’Oped as 
’ow they’d henjoy themselves during their 
vacancy !” 

Pay up your subscription ! Editors cannot 
live on hope any more than less elevated 
humanity. 

Those who have not yet obtained a copy of 
the Song Book, can do so by addressing the 
“ Gazette” Box, 1,259. 

The weekly tramps of the Snow Shoe Club 
were kept up during the vacation, and were 
well attended by those remaining in town. 

The usual Science valedictory will not be 
delivered this session, there being no gradua- 
ting year, owing to the change in the course. 

The rumour that the McGill medical authori- 
ties had obtained the body of Costofrolaz is 
unfounded. We understand it was another 
Montreal medical college. 

The Faculty of Medicine have granted the 
petition of the students for a clinical teacher 
at the Lying-in Hospital, and have appointed 
Dr. Brown, 72. 

On the occasion of his marriage, Prof. Chan- 
ler was presented by the Science students with 
a very handsome present consisting of several 
pieces of plate highly and richly engraved. 

Geometry class-room. — Prof. “You do not 
seem to have studied this very carefully.” 
Freshie, (a little deaf,) excitedly, “Yes sir, 
that is just what I am trying to prove.’* 
Consternation. 



4 8 



The McGill Gazette , 



Psychology class room. Soph, (closely ex- 
amined by Prof.), “ I have these things so 
locally associated in my mind, sir, that I can’t 
dislocate them.” Prof, begs him not to try, 
and class applaud. 

Electric machines are the rage just now 
among the Science men, and there seems to be 
a lurking belief in the mind of each that his 
machine is the best one ever manufactured by a 
student, and is a marvel of untaught ingenuity 
and skill. 

Medical Class-room — Prof., “Can any one 
name me some acids usually found in the 
human stomach ?” Student, (rashly), “ Yes, 
Sir.” Prof., “ Well ?” Student, “ Alcohol is 
one.” — Prof smiles knowingly, and class takes 
note of a new acid for future reference. 

Of the forty-seven who presented them- 
selves for the examination necessary to be 
passed before permission to study for the Bar 
of Lower Canada is given, only ten were suc- 
cessful, two of whom were students in the 
Faculty of Law. 

At the meeting of the Senior year in Arts, 
held some time before the Christmas, the fol- 
lowing class-day officers were appointed : — 
Poet, W. D. Lighthall ; Historian, H. H. 
Wood ; Prophet, R. J. B. Howard, and Vale- 
dictorian, Campbell Lane. 

Prof. Moyse delivered the first of a series 
of lectures on “ English Constitutional His- 
tory ” on Tuesday afternoon, in the English 
•class-room. These lectures may be attended 
by any of the Arts or Science students, while 
tickets for the course are obtainable by out- 
siders from Mr. Baynes. 

The annual meeting of the Hockey Club 
was held on Wednesday evening, January the 
8th, and the following elected to bear office 
•during the present session : — Captain, R. J. B. 
Howard; Secretary, C. Scriver; Treasurer, 
F. Weir. Committee, W. Redpath, W. F. 
Robertson, T. Morkill, and L. Campbell. 

Prof. Moyse delivered his inaugural lecture 
in the Molson Hall yesterday afternoon, tak- 
ing as his subject “ The Dramatic Art of 
Shakespeare,” giving special attention to the 
■“ Midsummer Night’s Dream.” In addition to 
the students, the hall was filled with ladies and 
gentlemen, who, it is needless to say, duly 
appreciated the able delivery and interesting 
remarks of the lecturer who, since his appear- 



ance amongst us, has become a great favourite 
with all his classes. 

During the vacation the followinggentlemen 
of the Medical Glee Club assisted at an enter- 
tainment of a musical and literary character, 
held in the lecture room of Erskine church, 
Dec. 23rd: — Messrs. Henderson, Brown, Denyer, 
Thompson, McLaren and "harpe (law). They 
sang with good effect the well known glees, 
| “ Who will O’er the Downs with Me,” and 
' “ Hence Away,” and were loudly encored. The 
most mirth of the evening was occasioned by 
Mr. Henderson’s admirable rendering of “ Sam 
Weller’s Valentine,” which drew forth a hearty 
encore. In response he read another selection 
from Dickens. The only solo sung by the 
club was “ The Raft,” by M r. Denyer, a com- 
position especially adapted to that gentleman’s 
powerful yet pleasing baritone voice. The 
entertainment closed by the students singing 
the audience out to the tune of “ Good Night, 
Ladies.” 

000 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



Jany. 10 th . — The meeting was very small. 
Mr. Atwater occupied the chair, and after a 
reading by Mr. Currie, and a vote of censure 
on absent debaters, tlie meeting adjourned. 

The Public Debate comes off on the 22nd 
instant, in the Association Hall. The subject 
is “Legislative Union,” and the speaker's are 
A. S. Cross and R. S. White, affirmative ; and 
C. J. Doherty and E. A. Busteed, negative. 
R. C. Smith will read, and the President gives 
an address. 

ooo 

EXCHANGES. 



We acknowledge the receipt of the following 
exchanges: — Harvard Crimson, Harvard 
Advocate, Yale Record, Dartmouth, Columbia 
Spectator, Tuftonian, Packer Quarterly, 
Kenyon Advance, Central Collegian, Boivdoin 
Orient, La Salle Advance, Vidette, Brunonian, 
Cornell Rev eiv, Tripod, Acadia, Athenaeum, 
Queens College Journal, Dalhousie Gazette, 
Kingston Collegiate Herald, Canadian Spec- 
tator, Neiv York Monday World, Argenteuil 
Advertiser, Canadian Illustrated News, Eve- 
ning Post, etc., etc. 



The McGill Gazette . 



• • • 



in 



SUBSCRIBE FOR 

“THE McGILL GAZETTE,” 

$1.00 per Annum , in A dvance. 



THE McGILL STUDENTS’ 

POCKET SONG BOOK, 

.Price, 35 Cents. 



For Sale at the Bookstores, and on applica- 
tion to the Publisher, 

P. O. Box 378. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 

Photographers to the Queen, 

17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 



MONTREAL. 



THE STUDENTS OF McGILL COLLEGE 

are invited to Inspect the stock of GENTS’ 
FURNISHINGS at 

THE RECOLLET HOUSE. 

Prices right, and value without a doubt. 

BROWN & CLAGGET, 

Corner Notre Dame & St. Helen Sts. 

N.B. — A First-class Tailoring Department a specialty 
with us. 



BOOTS I BOOTS i 

ESTABLISHED 18i7, 

for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A . DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St 



STUDENTS 

desirous of taking 

LESSONS IN SHORTHAND, 

Will please communicate as to terms, &c., with 

MR. CRANKSHAW, 

P. 0. Box 933. Secretary Phonetic Society. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BF. HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NEIV ROOMS , 15 PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

ON 

P R I D "RT EVENINGS, 

to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET, 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1876 
1,385 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

[Corner Mansfield Street,] 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the Dominion 
to choose from at either of the above establishments. 

Fresh Goods by every Steamer. 



TURKISH BATH, 

140 JVC O TXT I GJTTE STREET 

{OFF DORCHESTER STREET ), a 

Near the Windsor Hotel. 

Large and Complete. — One of the Finest in the World . 

II OURS t— Gentlemen 6 to 9 a.m., and 2 to 10 p.m. Ladies 10 a. ml 
to 1 p.m. 

Open Sunday Mornings for Gentlemen. 

T. COOK* Prop) ietot\ 



I 



IV 



The McGill Gazette. 



CHARLES Me ADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Chromos, Steel Plate 
Pictures, Fancy Goods , Sfc , SfC. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Square, 

» 

r^ear Zion Church, MONTREAL. 

Honourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arts, Edinburgh. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Street. 


W. SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents’ Fur G ats, Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 


Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St,, Montreal. 
OYSTERS, GAME, FISH, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 12 to 3. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE ROOMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 

HENRY DUNNE. 


B, SHARPLEY & SONS’ 

Emporium for Out-door and other Games , 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle, Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, &c. 

Jewellery and Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and* Silver Timing Watches, 

Jewellery of all descriptions, 

Silver and Electro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
an endless assortment of other goods suitable for 

PRESENTATIONS. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET. 


The Medical Hall ’ 

St. James Street. 

Branch : , Branch : 

Phillips’ Square, Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies. j 


CHAS. M. ALEXANDER, 

CONFECTIONER, 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts , Dinner and Supper Parties 

Supplied. 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 


McGill College Text Books, 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Tnvite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 
tST CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

233 ST. JAMES STREET, 232 


LORGE & CO., 

First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 


McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
AT ASHFORD’S, 

DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School, 

MONTREAL. 


Choice Cat Flowers Deceived Bail//. 

Floral Decorations of every deacription at the Bo.ion Floral Mart. 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 

Prompt attention given to all orders by Mail or Telegraph. 

WOT. RILEY, Agent. 



