Vol. XI 



No. II. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 





UNIVERSITY* GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. OXIMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St,, Montreal, 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR l McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. 8. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. s. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



Antisertic laterals, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
rtammticil & Dispeisini Clniils, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St., 



MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



117 St. James 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



St., Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

Scltool and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. J"AlIM::ES ST. 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 

McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

iLdvoc a,tes, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer k Legal Stationer, 

23 SX. TAMES ST., 

(near the]court-house,) 

MONTREAL. 



jhemcal i roans, books used ijv art course, 

SCIEJVCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Fall Assortment in Stool and Supplied at Rod Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 

B EST VALUE I IN' T O W IV 4 t 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. J ames Street, 

-A.X1SO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XI.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, APRIL 18tb, 1888. [No. 11. 



Unitnrsitj 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas 
A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chief. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88., Asst. Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

A. P. Solandt, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

M. W. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, ’88, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 127-128 

Poetry 128, 136, 137 

Contributions 128-135 

McGill News 135-136 

Societies 136 

Between the Lectures 137-138 



Editorials. 



VICTORIA AND HER STUDENTS. 

That a University of good standing in an enlighten- 
ed, free country, should excommunicate students who 
have the moral back-hone to criticise her work and 
methods, seems too absurd a proposition to entertain. 
The world of common sense, however, gets a surprise 
once in a while. When the authorities of Victoria 
arrived at the fearful truth, that the editors of Acta 
Victoriana had minds of their own, they solemnly 
decreed to cast them out. 

We pass no opinion whatever upon the merits of 
the criticism which our contemporary published, and 



which raised the ire of the professors : we are not in a 
position to judge the case ; that makes no difference. 
Take the very worst view of the case, for Acta 
Victoriana : suppose the editors were wrong entirely, 
and should have praised what they condemned. In 
that case they made, what their professors, doubtless, 
have made a score of times before them, a mistake in 
judgment. The article was written in a moderate and 
dignified tone, and did no discredit to either its author 
or the University. But some college professors wish 
to 6et themselves up on a pedestal, and do the high 
and mighty to such an alarming extent that even a 
much more vigorous criticism -t^an that indulged in 
by our contemporary, is sometimes necessary. The 
ordinary, healthy student, rightly resents this super- 
iority made oppressive ; and when patiently submitted 
to, it is a sure evidence that “ the breed of students 
has deteriorated.” We are not living in Russia; 
students have a perfect right to discuss their college, 
and her courses and professors, if they do so in a 
gentlemanly, candid and fair manner. 

We would suggest that Victoria send down some of 
her professors to McGill, in order that they may get a 
few lessons in — How to Profit by Criticism. For years 
the Gazette has said just about what McGill students 
thought and wanted in college matters. McGill is 
strong enough to bear criticism, weak enough to need 
some, and not stupid enough to try to choke it off. 



THE LAW LECTURES. 

Civil Procedure is the only one of the courses of 
these lectures which we have not discussed. It is a 
branch of legal study to which the student of law is 
compelled, under the regulations of the Quebec Bar, to 
give a large part of his time and attention in the office 
of his patron. 

One could wish that the law student’s apprentice- 
ship meant more than it really does. In the majority 
of cases, it never enters the mind of the patron that 
he has any responsibility as regards the proficiency of 
his articled clerk. What would our lawyers think of 
the following, taken from an excellent little work, 
entitled Duties of Attorneys and Solicitors, by 
Warren : — “ If you should obtain an articled clerk at 
“ an early period of your career, pray bear in mind 
“ that you thereby incur a grave responsibility. You 



128 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



“ are charged with the duty of teaching him his pro- 
“ fession ; and you must not shrink from the task. If 
“ you have not sufficient business in your office to 
“ occupy his attention fully, you should seek to com- 
“ pensate for the deficiency by oral instruction : by 
“ personally directing his studies, and, from time to 
“ time, ascertaining his progress. Remember the ex- 
“ amination which he must undergo on quitting you, 
“ and for which you are bound to prepare him, that 
“ he may pass it with credit to both himself and you.” 

This advice was given to Attorneys and Solicitors 
in England : here in Canada the profession is called 
learned by courtesy ; in reality it is one of the trades, 
and our lawyers are trades-people : they advertise and 
cater for public and popular notice : they rush busi- 
ness just like the dry-goods men and the grocer and 
the shoe-maker. In England they may have time to 
study law, but that is much too slow a life for your 
average Canadian lawyer : his articled clerk gets little 
advice and much copying. What the average student 
learns in a law office, is owing entirely to his own in- 
telligence, and not in the slightest degree to the 
attention of his patron. 

This being the state of affairs, what we want to point 
out is the necessity that the lectures in Civil Procedure 
should do what the offices fail to do. We are very 
glad to be able to say that the course in McGill very 
fairly meets the requirements of the case An im- 
provement could be made by having the students draw 
up documents involving points of precedure, and have 
these discussed as part of the class work. There is, 
perhaps, also a want of systematic arrangement of the 
work; but the lecturer is the most approachable to 
students of any in the school, conducts his work in 
such a way as will make it of practical value, takes 
infinite trouble in explaining difficulties, and is, as one 
would expect, probably the most popular man iu the 
faculty among the students. 



Poetry. 



INTIMACY. 

I. 

Love, each knows other to the very hearth core, 

Reads thoughts in eyes before the tongue can voice them, 
Knows, as a singer knows his studied part's score, 

The feelings’ range, what grieves and doth rejoice them. 

II. 

Between us naught is new. Thou dost but find me 
An empty shell that hath but one song ever ; 

Thou of a favorite poem dost remind me, 

Whose pages well I know, and need turn never. 

III. 

This is the woe of life, to reach the limit 

Of the soul’s kingdom in the heart that rules us— 

The breath that shows the mirror glass doth dim it ; 

*Tis what we wish, not what we have, that schools us. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Contributions. 



A COUNTRY BOY. 
[Written for the University Gazette.] 
By Nihil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER IX. 



“No maiden’s hand is round thee thrown ! 

That desperate grasp thy frame might feel 
Through bars of brass and triple steel ! — 

They tug ! they strain ! down, down they go ! ” 

— Scott’s “Lady of the Lake.’’ 



In the days when the incidents of this story were 
taking place, the country was a much rougher place 
than it now is, for civilization had not then spread its 
web of iron over the face of nature, and thrown off, 
with the sparks of the engine, the scintillations of 
culture and refinement that are now toning down the 
aboriginal instincts of the once secluded agriculturist. 
The fist was a ready and accepted argument in those 
days, and the great man of the country side was he 
who had just thrashed the champion. 

A gala-day at Prankville, like fair-day in Ireland, 
brought out the lasses, and in their train the lads : 
not singing swains, as portrayed in the modern opera, 
but hard-handed, dull-witted, cruel-hearted men, of 
inflammable passions, and worshippers of the god 
Alcohol in all his guises. 

The main street of the little village had all day 
long been lively with the thronging country folk, and 
until night closed down the occasional fights that 
took place were not marked with that utter brutality 
that stamps the drinker of fusel oil. At night the 
scene changed. More particularly was it changed at 
the “ Eagle’s Nest,” where Bolton, Jim, and a number 
of their cronies were congregated, and already in a 
fury. The champion had been thrashed that day by 
a back-country man, and plans were being laid to 
secure his defeat in turn before he could carry his 
glory from the place. The best men of the place (if 
the adjective can be properly applied to pugilists) 
were there, and runners had been sent out to try to 
coax the victor to the tavern, where, if one man was 
not enough, a dozen were eager to fall upon him and 
beat him into submission. 

The news soon spread, and an eager crowd gathered 
about the tavern door in expectation of the fight. 
The new champion — a burly blacksmith, named Mc- 
Coy — had been advised by his friends of the trouble 
being prepared for him ; but his native courage was 
doubly excited by liquor, and he swore he would not 
leave the village until he felt like it, though every 
man in it was after him. 

Peter, who knew the vengeful feelings of his old 
companions, tried, in vain, to persuade McCoy to go 
home quietl/. The man was obdurate, and when, at 
last, with diplomatic boldness, a man told him that 
his betters were waiting for him at the “ Eagle’s 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



129 



Nest,” he swore roundly, and went somewhat un- 
steadily in that direction. 

“ Come, boys,” said Peter, “ we must try to get 
him fair play.” 

The three set off after the smith, and accompanied 
him to the “ Eagle’s Nest.” Had Peter stopped to 
think, he would have realized that by thus accom- 
panying the new champion he became an object of 
suspicion and dislike to the villagers, who, one and 
all, desired the defeat of the outsider. There was a 
murmur as the four approached the tavern, and the 
crowd made way for them, muttering. 

The stuffy bar-room was filled with men drinking, 
smoking, and talking, but perfect silence fell upon all 
when the burly smith entered. It was not the silence 
of fear by any means : it was more like the silence of 
the crouched tiger. 

Without taking notice of anyone in the room, Mc- 
Coy advanced to the bar and ordered some liquor. 
Then he tightened his belt, threw off his coat, and 
opened his woollen shirt at the neck, to give himself 
ease, he said, lightly, and strolling to the benches, sat 
down. 

When Peter came in, Bolton had made a motion as 
though to spring at him, but Jim restrained him. The 
two now sat together whispering. 

Peter, who still carried in his pocket the letter he 
had found at Bow Lake, looked at Bolton thought- 
fully. He was prepared for a fight with his once-to- 
be brother-in-law, and yet he felt nervous, and hoped 
it would not take place in that crowded room, full of 
Bolton’s friends. 

There was a whispered consultation among several 
of the burliest, and black looks were cast at McCoy, 
whose dark eyes were also alert. In a few moments 
he rose and, again approaching the bar, ordered more 
liquor. As he did so, four or five men ranged them- 
selves alongside him, and each demanded his favorite 
drink of the bar-keeper. 

McCoy looked them over, and said slowly — “ I’m 
not paying for these men.” 

“ Oh ! yes, you are ! ” said one of them, insolently. 

“ No ! ” said McCoy, sternly, “ I wouldn’t pay a 
cent to fill one of you fellows if you were dying.” 

Everybody sprang to their feet and closed round 
him. Quick as a flash of light he threw himself 
against the wall, and, fists squared, awaited the 
attack. 

It was delayed by Peter. He had been trying to 
persuade his companions to leave the room, for he 
knew by experience what a terrible scene was about 
to take place, and he feared for their less sturdy 
forms. 

Charley only laughed. “I am a boxer,” he said, 
“ and am not afraid to defend myself.” 

“ My dear boy,” insisted Peter, “ it’s not boxing ; 
it’s strength that will be needed here. Once you fall 
it’s all over with you. For heaven’s sake go. You 
and Harry will do more good if you go and bring Mr. 
Forbes here than if you stay to be slaughtered.” 

It needs courage sometimes to run away from 
danger. Harry had this courage, and it was with no 
coward’s heart that he undertook to get the school- 
master, and left his friends behind. 



He had just left when the demonstration against 
McCoy began, and Peter staved it off by advancing to 
the centre of the room and saying — 

“ Are you cowards ! you men of Prankville ! that a 
dozen of you attack a single man 1 ” 

“ Cowards ! ” roared Bolton, springing from Jim’s 
restraining arms. “ Is it you who talk of cowards 1 
a man who lied about his sweetheart, and then de- 
serted her ! ” 

Peter turned pale, and Charley looked anxiously at 
him. 

“You to dare talk of cowardice!” continued Bol- 
ton, the veins of his neck and forehead standing out 
like purple cords under the flesh. “ You come here 
and back McCoy against your own people, and then 
cry cowards at us ! By heaven ! I swore I’d kill 
you once, and when I’ve done with your betters I’ll 
attend to you. Look at him ! that’s the man who 
denies his own sweetheart, and treads on everybody 
to get away from the life he was brought up to ! ” 

The color came back to Peter’s cheeks, and he re- 
plied — 

“You lie, you scoundrel and forger ! ” 

Bolton staggered back at the words. 

“You think you can cow me!” continued Peter. 
“Before you try it again, be sure your private distil- 
lery does not contain proofs of your crimes ! I have 
Hal Tilton’s letter to you here” — tapping his breast 
— “ and I think it will be sufficient to secure you a 
place in the county jail for the rest of your natural 
life.” 

With a scream of rage Bolton threw himself upon 
Peter, and a terrible struggle began. 

Peter tore himself from Bolton’s grasp and sprang 
to the wall, where, side-by-side with Charley and Mc- 
Coy, he met the combined attack of the infuriated 
men. 

One after another these powerful fellows went down 
under the blows of the trio, but they fell only to rise 
again and renew the attack. There was no fair play. 
Kicks were as freely given as blows with the fist. 
The house trembled with the thud of feet, and the 
cries of the attackers thrilled the spectators through 
and through. The three were separated, and Charley 
found himself practically ignored, and compelled to 
stand by, dealing blows whenever practicable into the 
crowd that was clustering around Peter and McCoy. 
Down and up, up and down, panting, cursing, and 
bleeding, the men fought on, while the two heroes 
threw them off their gigantic shoulders as easily as a 
dog rids itself of water after a swim. 

Peter was finally dragged down, but down though 
he was, he fought on. He could not strike a blow, 
indeed, but the unfortunate man who had fallen upon 
him was, with the whole load of his companions, 
raised by Peter’s right arm free of his body, and then 
with that same arm drawn suddenly downward against 
Peter’s clenched left hand. It is a waste of words to 
say he was limp and senseless ere many blows were 
given. 

Still the fight went on. McCoy was dragged down 
also, but such was the greatness of his strength, that 
when he willed he rose erect, in spite of the cluster- 
ing bodies. If reinforcements had not come in from 



130 UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. [1888. 



the outer circle every once in a while, there is little 
doubt that the trio would have overcome their 
antagonists. 

But there Avas no thought of letting them win. A 
shout arose, and Charley thought he recognized the 
voice again — 

“ Out with the lights ! Out with the lights ! By 
heaven, they’ll never leave the room alive ! ” 

The onlookers shuddered, but none of them dared 
enter the room to assist the seemingly doomed men. 
The door was slammed in their faces, and a smashing 
of glass told them that the lamps had been over- 
turned, and the hunters and their quarry were at it 
in the dark. 

Though unable longer to see the struggle, the crowd 
outside could form a pretty fair idea of how it was 
going on. Someone was forced against the door, 
which shook and sprang with the force of the blow. 
The fight was evidently very near, if not immediately 
at, this door. 

At this moment the outer circle of the crowd was 
parted, and Mr. Forbes and Lizzie rushed towards the 
tavern door. 

“ What is this? ” cried Mr. Forbes. “ Is it possible 
you can stand here while murder is being done? 
Cowards that you are ! Come, I will shame you ! 
Open the door and let me go in ! ” 

The throng was cowed, and drew aside sullenly to 
let him pass. 

“ Stay you here,” he said to Lizzie, who had fol- 
lowed him. “ This is a man’s work.” 

He shook the door violently, but to no purpose. 
It was bolted within. Drawing back a few paces he 
hurled himself against it, when it yielded, and swung 
back into the dark room in which the combat was 
raging. 

“Lights here !” he shouted to the throng behind, 
and dashing into the room, he wormed himself among 
the fighters, appealing and. roundly censuring. No 
other man, perhaps, could have done this without 
being attacked ; certainly none other could have done 
so and been successful. 

The combatants parted slowly, and when lights 
were brought in a horrible scene presented itself — one 
which can, perhaps, be imagined, but of which a de- 
tailed description is unnecessary, and would be re- 
pulsive. Several men lay on the floor perfectly sense- 
less, among them McCoy, who had borne the animus 
of the attack ; Peter leaned, gasping, against the wall, 
blood streaming irom many a cut, and among his 
assailants not one had escaped severe injury. 

Mr. Forbes stood looking around him in silence, 
and a look of intense sadness overspread his face. 
They waited for him to speak, which at last he did. 

“ Oh ! men, men ! ” he said, “ is this all you can 
show me after the many years I have spent among 
you — a cowardly attack of a dozen upon two defence- 
less men in the dark ? Why should I remain here 
longer when this is all I have taught you ? There is 
your handiwork,” he continued, pointing at the in- 
sensible men, one or two of whom were coming to, 
“ the least you can do now is to help them home.” 

At this juncture Lizzie, who had stood as though 
dazed, screamed and threw herself by the prostrate 



figure of Bolton, who was one of the unfortunates 
who had received the greatest injury. At her scream 
Mr. Forbes turned and knelt down also by the 
wounded man, who was slowly coming to. 

“Are you badly hurt, Bolton? ” he asked. 

Bolton pressed his hand to his head. 

“Your head, is it?” enquired Mr. Forbes. 

“ Yes,” said Bolton, “ my head a cut 

help me up.” 

Lizzie bent over him to raise him, when he 
screamed and fainted. 

Mr. Forbes turned pale. “There is something 
serious here,” he said. “Get a stretcher some of 
you,” addressing the spectators, “ and some water.” 

He looked up at Peter and, from the expression on 
his face, was evidently struggling with counter- 
wishes. Then he addressed Peter — 

“You are doctor enough for this case. Will you 
look at him ? ” 

Peter staggered forward and knelt by the side of 
the injured man. After a few moments’ investigation 
li6 rose. 

“Well?” said Mr. Forbes. 

Peter shook his head. 

“ What ! ” exclaimed the schoolmaster, springing 
to his feet. 

“ His back,” said Peter, in a low voice. 

“ Good heavens ! ” said Mr. Forbes, “ and you stand 
there uninjured !” 

The stretcher was brought in just then, and Bolton 
was placed gently upon it before consciousness re- 
turned. The other injured men had been revived 
and taken home in the meantime. Just as the bearers 
were about to lift Bolton, Peter approached Lizzie, 
who drew back from him. He walked with difficulty 
and was severely bruised, his very appearance appeal- 
ing on his behalf. 

“ Lizzie,” he said, gently, “ don’t shrink from me. 

I have done you much wrong, and do not ask your 
love again ; but don’t think worse of me than you 
can help. I am sorry that Bolton is badly hurt, but 
surely, surely, you will acknowledge that, whoever 
dealt him the blow, it was not I who began the fight.” 

Lizzie made no reply, but Mr. Forbes did. 

“Peter Simson,” he said, sternly, “you have been 
the curse of this family until it has come to this. 
You know why Bolton attacked you, and you know 
that you are as guilty of his wound as if you would 
have been had you struck him from behind.” 

Peter stood still, his face pale and his lips com- 
pressed. The bearers lifted up their burden and 
passed out before him. He made a step as though to 
follow, and then turning round, hid his face in his 
hands and burst into tears. 

A tew moments after Bolton had been carried out 
Harry burst into the room, breathless and excited. 
He looked around him at the wreck, in amazement, 
and then turning to Peter, said — 

“ lhank goodness, old boy, you’re not killed. I 
hurried all I could, but did not find Forbes, as you 
call him.” 

Peter did not reply. 

“ Harry,” called Charley from a bench where he 
was reclining*- “ don’t bother Peter just now. Come 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



131 



here, I’ve a bit of an operation for you to perform. 
The brutes broke my arm in one of their rushes.” 

Harry at once went to Charley’s assistance, and 
improvising a pair of splints from a shingle, set 
the arm, which was, indeed, broken. Charley bore 
the operation manfully, and even assi ted a little in 
tying on the handkerchiefs that were made to do duty 
as bandages; but it must be confessed he was more 
“spunky” than useful. 

“ Are you coming home, Peter 1 ” asked Harry. 

Peter turned and joined them, but did not speak. 
He did not appear even to notice Charley’s arm, for 
if he had he surely would have spoken of it. As 
they went out the burly, much-battered, but still 
unconquered, smith met them, and insisted upon 
shaking hands with his two late comrades. 

“We was nearly done for, lads, but they didn’t 
quite do it, they didn’t quite do it ! ” he said ; “ and 
they’d never ’a’ nearly done it if it wasn’t for putting 
the lights out. Will ye have a drink afore ye go — 
if there’s any liquor left unspilt 1” 

The offer was declined, and McCoy bade them 
good-bye, saying he was going home to lie abed a day 
or two, for he was “ main sore.” 

The boys continued on their way, and tumbled, or 
rather crawled, into bed at about two o’clock in the 
morning. 

Charley did a good deal of thinking that night as 
be lay, feverish and wakeful, with his broken arm. 
He was thinking of Peter. His admiration for his 
friend had increased since the ordeal they had gone, 
through; but the last scene of the fight, when Lizzie 
bent over the prostrate body of her dying brother, and 
Mr. Forbes delivered his denunciatory words against 
Peter, remained at the dregs of that memorable even- 
ing. Even Peter’s evident anguish could not sweep 
away the influence of his moral cowardice regarding 
Lizzie, whom Charley had recognized as the girl Peter 
had professed not to know at the Hartley’s. 

Next morning he made known his resolve to go 
home. Peter was still sorrow-stricken, and Charley 
could not find it in his heart to declare his changed 
feelings, and left Prankville outwardly the same, but 
inwardly resolved to cut short his intimacy with so 
selfish a fellow as Peter had shown himself to be. On 
his return he sought his sister Alice, and had a long 
conversation with her, the subject being Edith, for 
Charley was no fool, and had observed the growing 
intimacy between “ Dusk ” and Peter. He left his 
sister’s room with a cloud upon his brow, and sought 
solace with his sweetheart Bertha, who met her 
wounded warrior with the “ I told you so ” iormula, 
for in going off with Peter, he had transgressed, in 
her opinion. It was not long before she got the 
whole story out him, and for the first time she com- 
prehended Lizzie’s heroism in the interview which 
took place on the memorable evening of the dinner 
party. Bertha was not the girl to do anything by 
halves, and that same day sent a letter of apology to 
Lizzie, that was like a ray of sunlight on the very dark 
path she was now treading. 

The path was indeed dark ! The shock of Bolton s 
injury had almost prostrated his father, and had 
struck the knell of his life. He tottered feebly about 



he house, peering now and again into the sick room, 
but never entering. 

Bolton lingered for some time, nursed assiduously 
by Lizzie and her mother, and attended by Mr. Forbes, 
who in a quiet, unoffending way. tried to prepare him 
for the impending change. It is hard to straighten a 
gnarled oak, and the change in Bolton was very slight. 
But there was a change, and as long as religion was 
not forced down his throat with his medicine, he did 
not sneer at it. 

He lingered for many days, growing weaker and 
weaker and more shrunken, until his comrades would 
have failed to recognise him. He seldom asked about 
any one, until one evening, when his talk turned 
constantly to his father. Even then there was no 
expressed desire to see him. But memories of toys 
made by old Mr. Tilton for Bolton’s pleasure, of 
walks in the bush and of labors in the grain and hay 
fields, flowed from his tongue. The watchers thought 
then that the end was near. Death catches his prey by 
the feet, and, mounting into the brain, dulls the lower 
animal faculties, while the intellectual and spiritual 
still burn brightly and clearly at the top ; and this 
was the case with the once brutal Bolton. 

It was near the morning, when, with a groan of 
unrest, Bolton called to Lizzie, who was dozing on a 
lounge near by. She approached him, and asked 
what was wanted. 

“ I want to see father,” he replied. “ Send him 
to me, alone.” 

Trembling, and yet joyfully, Lizzie went to do her 
brother’s bidding. It was with difficulty that she 
could make her father understand what was wanted 
of him, but once he comprehended he rose, and, cling- 
ing to his pipe, went towards his son’s room. He 
entered, and Lizzie gently drew the door to, leaving 
father and son together. 

Mr. Tilton approached the bedside almost reluc- 
tantly, and seated himself in a chair that stood con- 
veniently near. 

Bolton was evidently distressed, and stretched out 
his hand towards his father, who took it and pressed 
it. The touch seemed to soothe Bolton, and he began 
to speak. 

“ Father,” he said, “ I’ve been a bad son to you.” . 

“ A little wild, lad ; a little wild, but I forgive ye. 
’Twas the blood and not the heart.” 

“ Can you forgive me, without knowing all the wrong 
I’ve done you ? ” asked Bolton eagerly. 

“Ay, lad, why not? You’re my own flesh and 
blood.” 

“ Perhaps it’s because you don’t know what I’ve 
done, that you forgive me,” said Bolton sadly. 

“ Then don’t tell me, lad ; don’t tell me.” 

“ But I must tell you,” Bolton broke forth. “ I 
cannot^die with that on my shoulders. Let me take 
your hand, father ; I’ve something to tell you that may 
make you deny me that afterwards.” 

The old man stretched out his hand, and laid it in 
Bolton’s. In broken language the son began his tale, 
of which all can guess the burden. Mr Tilton leaned 
forward, eagerly listening. When Bolton said “ it 
was not Uncle Hal who forged your name, father,” he 
started up. 



132 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



“ Thank God, for that,” he said, “ I could not think 
it was in the Tilton blood to do that ! ” 

Bolton uttered a moan, and made no attempt to re- 
gain the hand that had been withdrawn from him. 
His father began pacing the room, almost with his old 
elasticity of step. Then his walk got slower and 
hesitating. Once more he approached the death bed 
of his son, and stood looking down upon the drawn 
face that was half turned from him. 

“ Who was it ? ” he said, at last ; “ Tell me, that I 
may curse him.” 

Bolton made no reply. His father bent lower over 
him, with, for the first time, a face set and drawn. His 
dulled intelligence was awakening, and a deadly fear 
had him by the heart. 

“ Was it you?” he said. 

Slowly Bolton turned his head to meet his father’s 
eyes. There was a look of utter hopelessness in his 
glance, that made words needless. His father started 
back, and turned as though to leave the room. Then 
all the pent up feeling of the son broke bounds. 

“ Father ! ” he cried “ don’t let me die with your 
curse upon me ! I meant it for your good. I thought we 
would be rich, and I have saved money ever since to 
make it up. You will find it all at Bow Lake, buried 
there. Father ! father ! don’t let me die like this ! ” 

Mr. Tilton turned and met the pleading gaze of his 
8 °n, and as the April sunlight melts the snows of 
winter, the burning look of the dying man melted 
away the hardness of the father’s heart. 

He returned to the bedside, and sitting beside his 
son, gave him the forgiveness he craved. But the 
scene had been too much for the enfeebled vitalitv of 
both, and when, alarmed at the length of the interview, 
the watchers opened the door they found father and 
son folded in each other’s arms — dead. 

(To be continued.) 

INDIAN ELOQUENCE. 

II. 

Where are our Chiefs of old ; where are our heroes of mighty 
name ? ° 3 

The fields of their battles are silent, scarce their mossy tombs 
remain ! -Ossian. 

Fearlessness and success in battle were the highest 
titles to honour, and an accusation of cowardice was 
a deadly insult. A reproach of this kind to a cele- 
brated chief received a chivalric reply. White Eyes, 
as he was generally called, at the time his nation was 
solicited to join in the war against the Americans, in 
their struggle for liberty, exerted his influence against 
hostile measures. His answer to the Senecas, who 
were in the British interest, and who, irritated by his 
obstinate adherence to peace, attempted to humble him, 
by reference to an old story of the Delawares bein^ a 
conquered people, is a manly and dignified assertion of 
independence. It reminds one of the noble motto of 
the Frenchman, “ Je riestime un autre plus grand que 
moi lorsque j'ai mon epee.” “ I know well,” said he 
“that you consider us a conquered nation, — as women' 
as your inferiors. You have, say you, shortened 
our legs and put petticoats on us. You say you have 
given us a hoe and a corn-pounder, and told us to 



plant and pound for you , — you men— you warriors. 
But look at me, am I not full grown ? And have I 
not a warrrior’s dress ? Ay l I am a man — and these 
are the arms of a man — and all that country is mine ! ” 
What a dauntless vindication of manhood, and what a 
nice perception of Indian character, is this appeal to 
their love of courage, and their admiration for a fine 
form, vigorous limbs, complete arms, and a proud 
demeanour ! How effective and emphatic the con- 
clusion, ‘ all that country is mine ! ’ exclaimed in a tone 
of mingled defiance and pride, and accompanied with 
a wave of the hand over the rich country bordering 
on the Alleghany. 

This bold speech quelled for a time all opposition, 
but the desire to engage against the Americans, in- 
creased by false reports, finally became so vehement, 
that, as a last resort, he proposed to the tribe to wait 
ten days before commencing hostilities. Even this 
was about to be denied, and the term traitor beginning 
to be whispered around, when he rose in council, and 
began an animated expostulation against their conduct. 
He depicted its inevitable consequences — the sure 
advance of the white man, and the ruin of his nation ; 
and then, in a generous manner, disclaimed any 
interest or feelings separate from those of his friends, 
and added : “ But if you will go to war, you shall not 
go without me. I have taken peace measures, it is 
true, with the view of saving my tribe from destruc- 
tion. But if you think me in the wrong, — if you give 
more credit to runaway vagabonds than to your own 
friends — to a man, — to a warrior , — to a Delaivare — 
if you insist upon fighting the Americans, — Go ! And 
I will go with you. And I will not go like the bear 
hunter, who sets his dogs upon the animal, to be 
beaten about by his paws, while he keeps himself at 
a safe distance. No ! I will lead you on. I will place 
myself in the front. I will fall with the first of you. 
You can do as you please. But as for me, I will not 
survive my nation. I will not live to bewail the 
miserable destruction of a brave people, who deserved 
a better fate ! ” 

The allusion to their greater confidence in foreigners 
than in their own kindred, is a fine specimen of cen- 
sure, wonderfully strengthened by a beautiful climac- 
teiic arrangement. Commencing with a friend — and 
who so grateful as an Indian ? — it passes to a man — 
and who so vain of his birthright as an Indian ? — 
then to a warrior — and who more glorious to the 
savage than the man of battles ?— and lastly to a 
Delaware — a word which rings through the hearts of 
his hearers : starts into life a host of proud associa- 
tions, and while it deepens their contempt for the 
stranger and his falsehoods, imparts a grandeur to the 
orator, in whom the friend, the man, the warrior, the 
Delaware are personified. 

Ihe spirit ol the conclusion added to its force. It 
was the outbursting of that firm determination never 
to forsake their customs and laws — that brotherhood 
of feeling which has ever inspired the action of the 
aborigines a spirit which time has strengthened, 
insult has hardened to obstinacy, and oppression 
rendered almost hereditary. It bespeaks a bold soul, 
resolved to die with the loss of its country’s liberties. 

Of much the same character, is a reply to General 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



133 



Clinch, by Osceola, the chief who for so long a period 
set the U.S. troops at defiance in Florida : “You have 
arms, and so have we ; you have powder and lead, and 
so have we; — your men will fight, and so will ours, 
till the last drop of the Seminole’s blood has moistened 
the dust of his hunting ground. This needs no com- 
ment. Intrepidity was their character. 

Turn to Red J acket’s graphic description of the fraud 
which purloined their territory, and shame mingles 
with our pity. “ Brothers, at the treaties held for the 
purchase of our lands, the white men with sweet voices 
and smiling faces, told us they loved us, and they 
would not cheat us, but that the King’s children on 
the other side of the lake would cheat us. When we 
go on the other side of the lake, the King’s children 
tell us your people will cheat us. These things 
puzzle our heads, and we believe that the Indians 
must take care of themselves, and not trust either in 
your people or in the King’s children. Brothers, our 
seats were once large, and yours very small; you have 
now become a great people, and we have scarcely a 
place left to spread our blankets. True, and soon 
their graves will be all they will retain of their once 
ample hunting-grounds. Their strength is wasted, 
their countless warriors dead, their forests laid low, 
and their burial-places upturned by the plough-share. 

Some of the speeches of Shenandoah, a celebrated 
Oneida chief, contain the truest touches of natural 
eloquence. He lived to a great age, and in his last 
oration in council, he opened with the following 
beautiful sentence : — “ Brothers, — I am an aged hem- 
lock. The winds of an hundred winters have whistled 
through my branches, and I am dead at the top.” 
Every one who has seen a tall hemlock, with a dry 
and leafless top, surrounding its green foliage, will feel 
the force of the simile — I am dead at the top. His 
memory, and all the vigorous powers of youth, had 
departed for ever. 

Not less felicitous was the close of a speech made by 
Pushmataha, a venerable chief of a western tribe, at 
a council held at Washington, many years since. In 
alluding to his extreme age, and to the probability 
that he might not even survive the journey back to 
his tribe, he said : — “ My children will walk through 
the forests, and the great spirit will whistle in the tree- 
tops, and the flowers will spring up in the trails — but 
Pushmataha will hear not — he will see the flowers no 
more. He will be gone. His people will know that 
he is dead. The news will come to their ears, as the 
sound of the fall of a mighty oak in the stillness of 
the woods. 

The most powerful tribes have been destroyed ; and 
as Sadekawatie expressed it — “Strike at the root, and 
when the trunk shall be cut down, the branches shall 
fall of course.” The trunk has fallen, the branches 
are slowly withering, and shortly, the question “ Who 
is there to mourn for Logan now ? ” may be made of 
the whole race, and find not a sympathizing reply. 

Their actions may outlive, but their oratory we 
think must survive their fate. It contains many at- 
tributes of true eloquence. With a language too 
barren, and minds too free for the rules of rhetoric, 
they still attained a power of touching the feelings, and 
a sublimity of style which rival the highest productions 



of their more cultivated enemies. Expression apt and 
pointed — language strong and figurative — comparisons 
rich and bold — descriptions correct and picturesque 
— and gesture energetic and graceful, were the most 
striking peculiarities of their oratory. These features, 
the accurate mirrors of their character, their bravery, 
immovab'e stoicism, and a native grandeur, heightened 
as they are in expressiveness by the melancholy 
accompaniment of approaching extermination, will be 
as enduring as the swan-like music of Attic and 
Roman eloquence, which was the funeral song of the 
liberties of those republics. Q. 



CHARACTER. 



“ Tu recte vivis, si curas esse quod audis.” 



Every man is responsible for what his personality 
is; for its formation is due to the course of action 
which his own will dictates. A man’s life, then, so 
far as moral action is concerned, can be, and is, that 
which his will orders it to be. Character is the 
quality which stamps the individual as trustworthy, 
as honourable, as possessed of integrity, and as con- 
spicuously dispossessed of any predominating tendency 
to petty, degrading actions. A man of this descrip- 
tion is generally designated as “ a man of character.” 
On the contrary, where the place of these good quali- 
ties is filled to overflowing with faults and short- 
comings — not unfrequently due to the actual desire 
of the agent for their indulgence — such an one is 
universally branded as “a man of no character.” 
And justly. He has no bank to cash the checks, 
which he has forged, of assumed external uprightness, 
or, it may be, of flagrant misconduct, which he seeks 
to palliate. 

It has been said that the world is grossly immoral. 
This may be ; but its ideas of what constitutes morality 
are not so blunted as that it fails to judge a man 
by a comparatively high standard. A “ bad ” man is 
despised with the utmost contempt, and a “ good ” 
man may often be carped at, but the world, neverthe- 
less, unmistakably prefers the morality of the latter 
to that of the former. It is a question of character ; 
for morality is character. 

Strength of character depends on the possession of 
powerful emotions, and on the capability of keeping 
these under control. If either of these is wanting, 
the point under consideration is lost. We see this in 
daily life — cases where one of these qualifications has 
been unfulfilled, and which, had it been developed, 
would have produced a magnificent specimen of 
humanity, in place of the despicable miscreant who 
has been dwarfed by disregard for principle. 

The Delphian inscription, “ Know thyself,” em- 
braces in its signification much more than is gener- 
ally supposed. A man will often know more about 
his fellow-citizens and their faults than he does about 
himself. Now, a person who has formed no definite 
ideas about his self-hood, about his character, need 
only, to discover it, examine the tendency which he 
has to pleasure — the kind of pleasure in which he 
finds the greatest enjoyment. If it is found in the 



134 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



dead-alive morality which theatre-going is so often 
wont to produce ; if it is found in the deplorable 
avidity for satisfying some pet weakness ; if it is found 
in the complete absorption of self in pursuits of 
vanity, vapidity, and affectation ; then the individual 
who seeks these may at once conclude that his char- 
acter is sadly in need of reform. If, on the other 
hand, it is found in the innocent pursuit of literature, 
of art, of nature, of the pleasant and genial friendship 
which a cultured society affords, of a self-sacrificing, 
philanthropic generosity ; then he, whose tastes and 
desires lie in this direction, may continue to pursue 
these to the advancement and continual elevation of 
his character. It may be said that no man’s character 
is such as it might be under the same circumstances. 
This is true enough ; but then it does not exclude us 
from making a fair statement with regard to the con- 
dition of things as we find them. The question of 
degree in the actions of men, as judged by themselves, 
admits this. 

True character is best seen in the case of small 
duties. These, if faithfully and honourably performed, 
will manifest as much dignity and nobility as ever 
evoked by the most heroic exploits. The world is an 
enthusiastic admirer of such characters. Conscience 
imposes its commands in these matters of trifling im- 
portance, and it has been well said that “ it is from 
the inborn dictates of conscience, and the inspired 
principle of duty that the finest growths of character 
have arisen. 

Reliableness is one of the concomitant essentials of 
character. The trustworthiness of a person’s action, 
and the confidence we put in him, is meant by this. 

In the building up of character, special regard must 
be had to the materials employed, and to the founda- 
tion on which it is laid. As to the foundation, this 
would lead, strictly speaking, to the discussion of a 
bit of theology ; but with respect to the materials, we 
need not go so far. The thoughts of the mind ; the 
secret wishes of the heart ; the habits contracted ; the 
inner life, as also the outward conduct ; these are the 
materials out of which rises the dome of a noble life, 
or the hovel of an ill-fashioned and degraded conduct. 

March 14th, 1888. J. L. D. 



BOOK-MAKING. 

The late Anthony Trollope reduced the art of book- 
making to a system as complete as that of book- 
keeping. 

While discharging with unflagging zeal and excep- 
tional ability the duties of a responsible position in 
the civil service, he yet was able to turn out upon the 
reading public the finished creations of his brain with 
clock-work regularity. 

To those of us who hold that genius is an inspira- 
tion ; that we cannot bottle up and serve out, dose by 
dose, the divine afflatus ; that Pegasus is not a dray 
horse, nor Parnassus a Nile, the difficult ascent of 
which may be overcome by means of a modern ele- 
vator — this man’s experience will appear astonishing, 
anomalous. 

His contemporaries could not follow it. Scott, 
Thackeray, Dickens, notably Charlotte Bronte, Carlyle, 



all found it impossible, and Tennyson, whenever, in 
his character of Poet Laureate, he has attempted it, 
has signally failed. 

Every writer, or, at all events, every professional 
writer has, we may assume, his particular plan of 
work ; but, how many, we may ask, could or would 
tie themselves down to a cast-iron rule like the fol- 
lowing : 

“ When I have commenced a new book, I have al- 
ways prepared a diary, divided into weeks, and car- 
ried on for the period which I have allowed myself 
for the completion of the work. In this I have en- 
tered, day by day, the number of pages which I have 
written, so that if at any time I have slipped into 
idleness for a day or two, the record of that idleness 
has been there staring me in the face, and demanding 
of me increased labor, so that the deficiency might be 
supplied. 

“ According to the circumstances of the time, 
whether my other business might be then heavy or 
light, or whether the book which I was writing was 
or was not wanted with speed, I have allotted myself 
so many pages a week. The average number has been 
about 40. It has been placed as low as 20, and has 
risen to 112. And as a page is an ambiguous term, 
my page has been made to contain 215 words ; and as 
words, if not watched, will have a tendency to straggle, 

I have had every word counted as I went. 

“ In the bargains I have made with publishers, I 
have — not, of course, with their knowledge, but in my 
own mind — undertaken always to supply them with so 
many words, and 1 have never put a book out of hand 
short of the number by a single word. 

“I may also say that the excess has been very 
small. I have prided myself on completing my work 
exactly within the proposed dimensions. But I have 
prided myself especially on completing it within the 
proposed time, and I have always done so.” 

Authors, young and old, make a note of this. For 
ourselves, we do not believe it possible to carry it out 
strictly in every case. 

There are diversities of operation, and in spite of 
the scorn which our stalwart Mentor tells us he has 
“ hardly been able to repress,” in spite of his assertion 
that to him “ It would be more absurd if the shoe- 
maker were to wait for inspiration, or the tallow 
chandler for the divine moment of melting,” to begin 
and complete his work, we cannot quite hold with him. 
Nevertheless, we commend what he says here, and in 
our concluding extract, as worthy of consideration, 
and, possibly, of imitation : “ I therefore venture to 
advise young men, who look forward to authorship as 
the business of their lives, even when they propose 
that that authorship shall be of the highest class 
known, to avoid enthusiastic rushes with their pens ; 
and to seat themselves at their desks, day by day, as 
though they were lawyer’s clerks ; and so let them sit 
until the allotted task shall be accomplished.” 

Erol Gervase. 



At Wellesley two lessons a week in the Bible are 
required throughout the course. And Yale and Am- 
herst have this year put the Bible on the list of 
electives. — Ex. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



135 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

Book. — T he raft on which an undying genius floats 
down the stream of Time. 

Coat. — A letter of credit, written with a needle upon 
broad-cloth. 

Competition. — T he rod by which boyish Humanity 
has been scourged into improvement. 

Cynic. — A man who cannot enjoy the puppet show 
because he will look for the wires. 

Death. — T he birth of the soul. 

Experience. — C lothes for every change of weather. 

Faith. — A strong arm to work for us in health and 
youth ; a firm shoulder to lean upon in 
sickness and age. 

Gun. — A n invention for arguing by chemistry. 

History. — T he tombstone of the Past. 

Imagination. — T he mental prism. 

Ink. — A liquid manure, which, spread upon paper, 
makes it fertile in consequences. 

J oke. — A dew-drop on the leaves of Imagination. 

Language. — T he Brain’s livery-servant. 

Mirror. — T he material on which all the most admired 
portraits are painted. 

Money. — T he largest slave-holder in the world. 

Music. — The winds caught and tamed. 

Poetry. — T hought in blossom. 

Shelley. — A missionary who was tortured by the 
savages. 

Superstition. — T he High-priest of the Temple of 
Ignorance. 

Truth. — T he Pillar of Fire which leads on Man to 
the Promised Land. 

War. — C ongregational worship of the Devil. 

Woman. — T he melody of the human duet. 

JflctBilt 3sfeu>$. 



THE JANITOR’S COLLECTION. 

The affair of the presentation to Cook, with the an- 
nual donation, was this year decidedly above the 
average in esprit and pleasantry, if not in bullion. 
To see the G. 0. M poised on the highest pedestal the 
room afforded, grasping in his trembling hand the re- 
ply address which, later on, caused the Inferior Max- 
illa of the most sage freshman to droop forgetfully, 
wrapt in the eloquence. Assuredly his complacent de- 
meanour and lofty bearing nailed the lie “ that he 
were a descendant of a scullion, hence the name.” 
But it only intensified the certainty as to his lineage 
being from Cook, of Arctic fame, or “ Cook’s Friend,” 
or some other Cook. After C. P. Bisset ably delivered 
the students’ address, and the fatted purse which the 



primary years cheerfully fattened, (though coin was 
wrung from some), then, as the avalanche which has 
become detached from the parent heap away up the 
mountain, plunges on its downward trip, so plunged 
the G. 0. M. into his reply. 

A silence stiller than an examination hall crept upon 
the boys, while he articulated the word “Gentlemen.”’ 
From that out all was chaos, plagiarisms, contempt for 
“ h’s,” “ avoidance of punctuation,” “ murdering of 
the king’s English,” etc., were lost in a noise that 
rivalled the “ rolling piano,” or “ Salvation Army.” 
The acute listener in the front seat could hear him 
but reiterate the word “gentlemen,” on ushering in 
each paragraph, then all was blank, and the G. 0. M. 
struggled on to a finish, closing amid such applause 
as men have lived lives to receive. Owing to the re- 
cipient’s arm being still impaired, he was reluctantly 
exempted from the refreshing operation of being 
bounced. 

A story is going the rounds among the students, 

“ that not many years back, Cook received for his an- 
nual gift, twenty-seven dollars worth of coppers in a 
pillow case.” May the old man’s wishes for the boys 
be fulfilled, and he himself, for years to come, be 
found at his post of College Janitor, superintending 
the freshmen and the elevator. 

ADDRESS. 

Most sapient and potent regulator of the tribes of PEsculapius l 
Nucleus of the Faculty of Medicine / Orb about which 
Deans, Professors and other satellites perform their diurnal 
revolutions ! 

It is with feelings of awe and respect, that we, the Primary 
years in Medicine, once more assemble to pay tribute to you, 0 
typical specimen of protoplasmic activity, and to beseech your 
powerful aid at this time when “ Sorrow is multiplied unto 
us.” 

Dark were the prospects for this faculty when the micro- 
organisms of disease attacked your mortal constitution ; when 
your mightly frame was laid low, and medical science on this 
Continent almost threatened with extinction by what might 
have been a terrible and irreparable calamity. In those days 
were seen the dire effects of incoordination. The feet of sinners 
trod in sanctuaries from which you were wont to exclude even 
the saints. Anatomy flourished but feebly, and even the temple 
of physiology was shaken to its very foundations. 

We refer with feelings of pleasure and gratitude to the collec- 
tion that now graces the “bone” room, and are quite willing to 
attribute it to your incomparable ingenuity and desire to smooth 
the rugged paths to anatomical fame, rather than a direct result 
of Prof. Shephard’s European trip. However, as a little learning 
is said to be a dangerous thing, we would remind you of the ne- 
cessity of informing Freshmen that they (the preparatories) are 
not real but made of plaster. 

Your majesty is no doubt aware of the evil designs at one time 
entertained by that all-important contingent, styled from the 
chair of physiology, “Gentlemen of the First Year.” This, with 
many other acts of insubordination, indicates the effect of an un- 
bridled freedom acquired when the strong hand that had so often 
steered the ship of state through the troubled seas of adversity, 
was succeeded by a weaker regency. However, we desire to ex- 
press our complete confidence in your ability to subdue these 
turbulent spirits, and once more to range them on the side of a 
heretofore unquestioned authority. 

In conclusion, allow us to congratulate you on your re-assump- 
tion of dictatorial power — present our best respects to the lady 
who shares your throne, and accept the best wishes, and this, a 
more tangible evidence of the esteem in which you are held by 
the Primary years of ’88 and ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, 

McGill, March 30th, 1888. For Class ’90. 



136 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



COOK’S REPLY. 

Gentlemen, — Again it falls to ray lot to thank yon from the 
bottom of ray heart for the generous expression of goodwill made 
by you, the members of the Primary years, to me, Jas. Cook, 
janitor of McGill Medical School. 

Gentlemen : Need I tell you that I am proud to be your jani- 
tor— eveiyone in this great institution goes to make up one grand 
and glorious whole. What would McGill be without her stu- 
dents ? What would McGill be without her professors ? And, 
pardon me if once again I question what would McGill be with- 
out her janitor ? 

The immortal somebody has said — 

” All the world’s a stage,” 

And each one plays his part from the janitor downward. 

This school, gentlemen, has given birth to an Osier — to a Rod- 
dick — to a Howard — to a Shephard — to a Stewart — and to a 
Mills — and are there not many standing before me to-day who 
will walk in their footsteps and be burning and shining lights 
in the profession— a credit to this, your Alma Mater, and an 
honour to me, your janitor. 

Gentlemen, I can sympathize with you — I know you have hard 
lines — 1 know how your landlady grumbles about the midnight 
oil. You may depend on me making the road as smooth as pos- 
sible for you. The old chestnut still holds true — “there’s no 
royal road to learning.” 

This winter, owing to circumstances over which I had no con- 
trol, 1 have been unable to give you that attention which the 
important office of janitor of this institution demands— but as 
long as I have strength and health — you can rely on old Cook 
eveiy time. 

Gentlemen, I must congratulate you on the profession which 
you have chosen — which, next to being janitor of this school, is 
one of the grandest and noblest there is. When you become 
proud possessors of a McGill M.D., fame and fortune waits 
within the boundless limits of our fair Canada. 

“ Breathes there the man with soul so dead 
Who never to himself hath said 
This is my own, my native land.” 

In conclusion, gentlemen, it remains for me, your humble 
janitor, to wish you all success at the approaching ordeal. 

“ When the leaves begin to turn 
And the summer days are gone,” 

I shall hope to see you all back once more to drink from the 
fount of knowledge and to cause these halls to resound with the 
jolly songs of old McGill. 

“ And when into the world you’re gone 
Prescribing base and pill. 

May you never forget the happy days 
You spent at old McGill.” 



AN ALLEGORY. 

Once upon a time there was a student at McGill, 
who had many talents. 

He found favor in the eyes of women, could play 
the piano, violin, banjo, guitar and flute, and sing a 
comic song like the end man in the angelic choir. 

He knew of every bar, music-hall, theater and dive 
in the city, and was noted by all who knew him to 
be the prince of rounders and the best of fellows. 

After his examinations, he stood on the threshold 
of the Molson Hall, and remarked that examinations 
were no test of a man’s ability. 

When the lists were posted, he read them from the 
bottom upwards, but saw not his name. 

Then he buttoned his coat up to his neck, and 
strode down the campus, while the wind wailed 
through his whiskers. 



[1888. 



THE BELLS. 

In the North Flat hear the bells — 

Brazen bells I 

What a tale of mischief now their turbulency tells I 
In the startled ear of night 
How they ring out their delight : 

Rousing student with their din 
Rousing student pale and thin 
out of bed. 

In a clamorous defiance of their fast increasing ire, 

In a mad expostulation with their hot and wrathful ire. 
Sounding higher, higher, higher, 

With a desperate desire, 

And a resolute endeavour, 

Now — now to play or never, 

A trick on the North Flat men, 

Oh ! the bells, bells, bells, 

What a tale their ringing tells 
of baffled rage ! 

How they clang, and clash, and roar : 

What defiance they outpour 

On the yells and the threats of student sage. 

Hear the louder tower bells. — 

What a racket with the Faculty their monody foretells ! 
Night before Examination ! 

How they start with irritation ! 

At the bold and daring menace of their tone : 
While every sound that floats 
From the rust within their throats 
Mocks the groan 

And the students,— ah I the students— 

They who acted with such prudence 
They are flown : 

But who elsewhere, tolling, tolling, 

In that muffled monotone 
Feel a glory in so rolling 
On the theologs a stone. 

Presbyterian College, 

67 MacTavish St., MacK. 

Montreal, Que. 



Societies. 



THE DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The closing meeting for the session took place on 
Thursday, March 22nd, and the attendance was re- 
markably good. The proceedings opened with 
interesting essays on “ Miss Herschel ” and “ George 
Eliot,” by Misses Mattice and Robinson, respectively. 
The next item was an extempore debate upon the 
topic: “Are separate classes perferable to mixed? ” 

Miss McLea led on the affirmative, supported by 
Misses Smith and Richardson, while the speakers on 
the negative were Misses Reid, Wilson, and I. Botterell. 
The secretary then announced the result of the prize 
essay competition, and the hearts of the graduating 
class rejoiced, when they heard that Miss McFee, 
President of the 4th year, was the successful com- 
petitor. At the close of the meeting Miss Ritchie, the 
retiring President, made a few appropriate remarks, 
wishing the Society every success in the future. A 
vote of thanks to the retiring officers brought to its 
close a pleasant gathering, which, however, to some 
was tinged with sadness, for as undergraduates, they 
had answered their last “present” to the Delta Si"ma 
roll-call. 



Latest from Wall Street, New York. — It is 
said that if the Legislature at Washington takes any 
step towards curtailing the monopolies which are crop- 
ping up all over the States, the great sugar “ combine ” 
may become a crushed sugar trust, and the trust- ees 
may loaf for a while. 



The Mentor. 



1888.] 



UNIVEliSITY GAZETTE. 



137 



TO HER LOVER. 

I. 

Sweet is your worship, dearest, to ray heart. 

a j J ove know you mine, both soul and body, 

And hate the world that gladly would us part, 

Luring your love with flaunting joys and gaudy. 

II. 

But do I lift you nearer unto God, 

Mv love, who say so tenderly you love me? 

Am I your highest aim — a pretty clod — 

Or does your spirit rise, through mine, above me ? 

III. 

For love is never love if its wings tire 

Short of the glorious throne of the Eternal- 

Are you content, love, or do you aspire 

From arm-zoned joys of earth to bliss supernal ? 

IV. 

Is pity quickened ; is your soul at strife 

With wrong, and grown enamored of perfection ? 

What new thoughts, hopes, sensations fill your life?— 
Thus would I try the gold of your affection. 

V. 

My life ! my love ! in life be mine alone ; 

To none but me on earth your love be given — 

But if your soul doth love me, sweet my own, 

Let my soul be a help of yours to heaven. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Between the Lectures. 



Hearts may be honest, but they are always on the 
beat. 

Every wedding ring that is worn is said to repre- 
sent a man’s impertinence and a woman’s folly. 

The young man with a slender salary should choose 
for his bride a young woman of small waste. 

Not every one is happy who dances, says the proverb. 
The man who has just stepped on a tack knows this 
full well. 

Chorus of Massachusetts maidens — “ The saddest 
words of tongue or pen — there’s too many women and 
not enough men.” 

There is a difference between the lips of a young 
man and the lips of a young woman, but sometimes it 
is a very small one. 

Dogs are not allowed to pick their company. That 
is why you often see a seventy-five dollar dog out 
walking with a fifteen cent man. 

“ When a girl gets mad and rises from a fellow’s 
knee,” says an exchange, “ but thinks better of it and 
goes back again, that’s what we call a relapse.” 

First Lady — “ Has your husband quit smoking yet 1’’ 
Second Lady (just returned from the far West) — 
“Well, he ought to by this time; he’s been dead six 
months.” 

Don’t try, if you are an ordinary man, to occupy two 
seats in a crowded horse car. Only women can do 
that and look as innocent as a lily-of-the-valley all the 
while. 

The arrest of several men on a charge of embracery 
has demoralized the girls all over the country. They 
think it will make the young men too timid to do any 
hugging. 



The reason that newly married men are called 
Benedicts is because they are supposed on their mar- 
riage to give up all bad bachelor habits to which they 
had “ benedicted.” 

Percy Lovelace (a suitor) — “ Do you think I can 
ever win Miss Fickle’s love ? ” Cynical Friend (a 
former suitor) — “ Never despair, my boy. What man 
has done man can do.” 

A Connecticut philanthropist has invented an illum- 
inated keyhole that will enable men to go home at any 
hour of the night and be able to get in without rous- 
ing the neighborhood. 

“You see,” said meek old Deacon Edling, “ when 
my wife wants a new shawl it’s no use for me to object, 
’specially when she looks at me, stamps her foot an’ 
says, “ Deacon, I shawl have it ! ” 

Things one would rather have left unsaid : Lady 

of the house (archly) — “ My husband’s not at home, 
Mr. Goodenough. He’s gone to call on some pretty 
women of his acquaintance.” Caller — “ Ah, I’ve given 
that up long ago ! ” 

Bobby — “ Ma, tell me what you do up there behind 
the minister in church every Sunday 1 !” Ma — “j 
chant.” Bobby (pouting) — “ I don’t think you’re very 
polite. You never let me say ‘ I shan’t’ when I don’t 
want to give anything away.” 

A cobbler in a country town, who, in addition to 
mending shoes, also professes to teach music, has the 
following sign over his door : 

“ Delightful task to mend the tender boot 
And teach the young idea how to flute.” 

“ What’s that 1 ” he asked his landlady as she placed 
his cup by his plate. “ Coffee,” was the prompt and 
decisive reply. “ Ah,” he innocently remarked, with 
an air of interest, “and what is it made of?” and 
there was silence around the table for the space of five 
minutes. 

They were watching an enraptured love scene on 
the stage, when suddenly he bent forward and 
whispered in her shell-like ear. “ When we are mar- 
ried, my own, we shall do like that, shan’t we ?” She 
blushed and hung her curly head, and in a soft, sweet 
voice replied, “ Yes, Fred, but we must take care not 
to be interrupted like they are.” 



A WORD PICTURE. 

I leaned far out ray casement wide, 

I looked abroad into the night, 

I saw the river winding flow, 

I heard the South wind sobbing low, 

I saw the Lenten lilies blow, 

The Lenten lilies tall and white. 

A bare tree rose against the sky, 

A wild bird winged its shadowy flight ; 
Its notes were hushed ; but far away, 
Beyond where meadows dreaming lay 
And rose the mountains misty gray, 

I heard the voices of the night 



Singing a love song to the morn, 

A welcome to the marriage feast. 

Arise ! the echoes rang, and lo— 

I saw the day break in the East. 

A. M. D.G. 



138 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



A few days ago two men were in the Morse Build- 
ing barber shop. One had red hair and the other was 
bald headed. Red Hair (to Bald Head) — “ You 
were not about when they were giving out hair ? ” 
Bald Head — “ Yes I was there, but they only had a 
little red hair left, and I wouldn’t take it.” 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o : 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 




SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A.g-e22.ta for 2 s/lo 22 .trea.l a.22.<S. 'Viclna.lty. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and Billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths. &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1 742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 



THE 

“Court” Shirt Store 

OPPOSITE QUEEN’S HALL. 

10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

The Up-town Furnishers. 



BUT YQ’iyJEt 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe: stores. 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 




Jfevu Scale of 'Prices this year 
for Students . 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF 1 USTEW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets, ------ $115,000,000 

Surplus, ------ 16,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Gen. Manager. 

1763 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAT. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

335 eSc 3Q7 St. ^-A-txxj Steeet, 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



CURNEY’S 



C elebmited Hot Water Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Fdrnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on A pplication. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1839. 

IS. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
Engraving ^ jointing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, Crests, programmes.. 
Jtfonograms, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

wzmm cnojkits, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.J Du Khedive Extr*. Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

SSL A. ©ERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 BUwry Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS ’ 
~M1 CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

& 5*1111 $todk dor^tkntly op Skgd, Imported 
f)ifedt ffon\ tl\e Eekding Jtfkgufkdtufe.fd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PA UL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparks Street, OTTAWA. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LXUITE3D.) 



21, 2H & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to j 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

*{*? Washing and finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 



THE GENUINE 

Cook’S Prieitd 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



0. 

CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP,' 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 







Corner n^EcQ-Ill strrd. CTotre IDa,rrre Streets, 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA OF 

READY-MADE CLOTHING, 

— CONSISTING OF— 

Overcoats, Suits, Boy's & Children's Clothing, Hals, Caps & Gentlemen's Furnishings, 

CUSTOM DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY. STUDENTS USUAL DISCOUNT. 

2v£a,il Orders receive special a,tte:nti©xi. 




