SU U^iSiTY 
DEC 1 r ' 

T ibra^ 



The McGill 






fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I. No. 3 



Price 10 Cents 



Saturday, Dec. 19. 1925 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

December F.R.S. 

Some Remarks about Canadian Book 

Week Dr. Etienne Bieler 

Felicity Vincent Starr 

Prayer F. K. 

BOOKS 

Wild Geese L.E. 

To Beauty .Brian Take 



In Defence of Slavery Vespasiana 

To my Lady of Laughter H. A. S. 

DRAMA 

The McGill Players Club s. 

MUSIC 

The Possibilities of the Piano.. Orfeo 

Poem A. J. M. Smith 

Europeana “Enar " 



EDITORIAL 

T O the superficial observer the University is never 
so much like a University as at this period of 
the year. The Redpath and other libraries are 
crowded. Scarce a student leaves for home without 
carrying a book or two. Freshmen have lost that 
cheerful, unsophisticated look; Sophomores have 
acquired an unusual solemnity; there is a touch of 
gravity lurking beneath even the studied indifference 
of the Senior. Everywhere there is an atmosphere 
of intense and active study. 

A closer scrutiny, however, reveals other and less 
pleasing characteristics. The study is seen to be 
rather frantic than active. Undergraduates are heard 
boasting how little they have done till this moment, 
how much they intend to cram. An unholy traffic is 
done in lecture notes; people who would not dream of 
spending money on an authoritative text-book will 
purchase sets of typewritten notes, taken possibly 
years back (though this is no proof of obsolescence). 

By thu s subjecting the mind to a few weeks forcing 
in an intellectual hot-house a type of learning is pro- 
duced that has the fibre of an asparagus shoot — 
young, tender and green. It is to be served hot upon 
the examination table, and to tickle the sensitive 
palate of the examiner. But how frail a thing it is, 
and if not culled and eaten at the moment of its un- 
natural maturity, how soon it withers and dies! As- 
suming students have to be driven to work, frequent 
examinations are a necessary goad. But we doubt 
whether the present startling percentage of failures 
at McGill will be decreased until the students learn 
to work regularly and not spasmodically, nor until, 
by some extraordinary means, they are moved to 
study by genuine intellectual curiosity and not 
through fear of failure in an examination. 



“’"TORONTO, Dec. 4 — (Star Special). — Investigation 

I of the University of Toronto on the ground that 
it was retaining professors who taught Free 
Trade and sympathized with Communism, was 
demanded by T. L, Church, M.P. -elect, in an address 
at a meeting of Ward 5 Conservatives last night. 
Besides the views of some of its professors, Mr. Church 
brought against the University the alleged movement 
to have the crests of German universities placed in 
Hart House. 

‘It is time for a show down. It is time to decide 
if the University is to be British or a university of 
European fads,’ declared Mr, Church.” 

The learned members of the faculty of the 
University of Toronto must be shivering in their shoes 
ever since Mr. Church issued this bold pronuncia- 
mento. With all the acumen of a private detective the 
newly-elected Tribune has ferreted out the fact that 
there are Communists and Free Traders among the 
professoriate of Toronto University; with all the fire 
and vigour of a minor prophet he has denounced such 
conniption, and has indignantly demanded an in- 
vestigation, presumably with the object of discover- 
ing the malefactors and hounding them out of decent 
society. We are inclined to believe that Mr. Church 
is right in his surmise that there are Communists at 
Toronto, for it has been whispered that there are men 
of Communist leanings even at our own university. 
Communists, however, are such harmless creatures 
beside those of that other and far more evil faction, 
the Free Traders, that we feel safe for the nonce in 
disregarding Mr. Church’s apparently serious warning. 
Nevertheless the incident is an interesting reflection 
upon the mentality of our representatives-elect, 
though one which can cast no discredit upon our sister 
university. We hope, however, that the crests of 



78 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



every university in the world will soon be adorning 
the walls of Hart House. 



O N December 10th the Daily in its Editorial 
column made the following statement: “When 
Mr. Shaughnessy says that Canadian Rugby is 
played with more fight and spirit of competition than 
is the English game, we believe that he has struck the 
fundamental difference between the two games. In 
other words, the English play more for the sake of 
the ‘game’; we play more for the sake of winning”. 

Is this, we wonder, an accusation that can fairly 
be laid upon our Rugby players? Despite the fact 
that none of them has answered the charge, we do 
not for a moment admit its validity as a generaliza- 
tion. Sportsmanship is not yet an English monopoly. 
We hope to see the question openly discussed. 



• • » • 

|T was a great honour to the people of Montreal and 
I the students of McGill University to hear Dr. 

Harry Ward of New York a little over two weeks 
ago. We are particularly glad that he found time to 
speak before a gathering of McGill students at Strath- 
cona Hall, into which place we were drawn by the 
attraction of his presence. Prof. Ward is not a mis- 
sionary in the ordinary sense of the word, and his 
Chinese impressions came to us as a distinct relief 
from the almost unalloyed piffle which we have here- 
tofore heard from many American and Canadian 
visitors to China. Harry Ward is one of a small number 
of Europeans who really sympathise with the new 
movement for intellectual freedom in China. As 
Colonel Bovey mentioned in his speech on the motion 
for a vote of thanks at the Strathcona Hall meeting, 
it is practically impossible to understand this Chinese 
movement by any means than personal contact. 

To this need Dr. Ward has well ministered; and, 
after having heard him on the subject of the participa- 
tion of Chinese students in the great demonstration 
of last May and June we are happy to go on record as 
being completely in sympathy with the courageous 
efforts of our fellow students in China on behalf of 
national integrity, freedom of the mind, and eman- 
cipation from European capitalism. 

• * • • 



W E were suprised the other day to discover in 
Byron a reference to our new Scarlet Key 
Society. The passage occurs in Don Juan, 
canto the seventh, stanza LXXXIV, and reads as 
follows: 

"Medals, rank, ribands, lace, embroidery, scarlet. 
Are things immortal to immortal man, 

As purple to the Babylonian harlot: 

An uniform to boys is like a fan 
To women; there is scarce a crimson varlet 
But deems himself the first in Glory’s van.” 

Those critics who have hitherto objected to this 
Society on the grounds that it introduces an occult 
symbolism into the simple duty of hospitality must 
now realise that such practices “are things immortal 
to immortal man”. 



December 

F. R. s. 

I t is related of Socrates that during the Retreat of 
the Ten Thousand he would walk for hours at a 
time over bare ice with no shoes or sandals on his 
feet, and that he was as near as can be indifferent to 
the hardships consequent upon severe cold. The story 
has always seemed to me to be peculiarly significant. 
It serves annually as my winter text. I recall it when 
the first icy blasts sweep down from the Laurentians; 

I bear it in mind on all below-zero days; I dwell upon 
it during the stormy boisterousness of December and 
the dreary cold monotony of January. More particu- 
larly I think of it when a sudden stab of pain compels 
me to rub my ears. . . . 

Lately, however, I have been growing un-Socratic. 
It shames me to confess it, but there it is. I dislike 
cold. It is too — arrogant. It says in effect “Take 
me, or leave me”. Generally 1 take cold. And the 
vision of Socrates marching barefoot over ice fails 
now completely to inspire a vicarious warmth in my 
members as I hurry past the Ritz comer on a windy 
afternoon. If anything it adds to my discomfort. He 
probably swore softly to himself, even as I. 

Moreover with a loss of faith in the Socratic example 
has come a change of philosophic outlook. No longer 
am I able to convince myself that a climate such as 
ours forms a suitable environment for the cultivation 
of the higher arts. What snow-bound countries have 
ever proved themselves artistic in a truly creative 
sense? Russia has given birth to a quantity of gar- 
rulous pessimism in literature, and to a limited number 
of musicians, but to little else; the Scandinavian 
countries have done but little towards the beautifying 
of the world; the Swiss, though surrounded by and 
composed of three races each highly developed along 
its own artistic lines, have remained sturdy and un- 
aesthetic beneath their ice-capped Alpine summits. 
Canada then is left as the only other inhabited tract 
enjoying a long and severe winter. Is it not rather 
too much to expect that she will experience a fate 
different in an artistic way to that of other peoples 
similarly situated as to climatic conditions? 

Cold, in fact, is at best a moral stimulant. It arouses 
a sturdy combativeness, a vigorous animalism 
amongst those who stand up to and defeat its attacks. 
It has a by-product, too, in an increased apprecia- 
tion of domestic comforts. But the emphasis is all 
on the comfort, not on the spiritual side of home life. 
The aim is always to supply in the house the amenities 
that are lacking outside. In the struggle to achieve 
comfort much of the energy is wasted that should 
be devoted to an interpretation and appreciation of 
natural phenomena. So we do little else in these 
northern latitudes except to produce periodically 
championship ice-hockey teams, while our artists, if 
they are not looking across the frontier, are losing 
themselves in a vain search for the inspiration that 
exists only in diminutive quantities. 

“Life,” sang Julian Grenfell, “is colour and warmth 
and light, And a striving evermore for these”. Unless 
mere longing can be a source of great art, which 1 
doubt, Canadians are doomed annually to five months 
of shivering artistic stagnation. The dominant colour 
of winter is white. Nothing artistic can be done with 
mere white. Scientifically white is composed of all 
the colours, aesthetically of none. It is the expression 
of chromatic death. So with the light of winter. It 
is a dazzling glare or a uniformly monotonous grey. 

(Continued on page 24) 



The McGill Fort nightly Review 



19 



Some Remarks About Canadian Book 

Week 

Dr, Etienne L, Die 1er 

IN writing this, my first— and many readers will 
I wash it my last — article for the McGill Fortnightly 
•“■Review I hope I may be allowed to express my 
very sincere congratulations to those who have braved 
many difficulties and brought this Review to life. 
In these days of very complete organization and 
centralization of all outside student activities, whether 
physical or intellectual, it is a very hopeful sign that a 
paper should be started which can express truly in- 
dependent opinion on matters of concern to the 
student body, to the university and to the intellectual 
life of the country as a whole. 

A paragraph in the editorial of the second number 
of the__ Review which touches on Canadian Book Week 
and Canadian Literature led me to take the pen. I 
claim no originality whatsoever for the ideas I am 
about to express; they are but echoes of two addresses 
I was privileged to hear at the Canadian Club of 
Montreal during Book Week, one last year from a 
well-known professor at McGill, who is by no means 
the least among Canadian authors, Stephen Leacock, 
the other this year, from a man who, though no longer 
at McGill, was for a time a very popular member of 
the staff, B. K. Sand well. Both agreed with your 
editorial that it would be a crime against good litera- 
ture to urge people to buy Canadian Books to the 
exclusion of others, but each tried to discover what 
may be done to encourage Canadian Literature so 
that it may some day have its place among the litera- 
tures of the world. 

In order to have a Canadian literature we must 
first of all have a Canadian intellectual life, and no 
real intellectual life is possible as long as there is no 
public recognition of intellectual attainment. To 
quote the words of Dr. Leacock as nearly as I can 
remember them after a year, “We can have no Cana- 
dian literature worthy of the name as long as public 
opinion is not willing to recognize the man whose 
main concern is with things intellectual, the school- 
master, the University professor, the minister, as 
the equal of the man whose sole title to fame is that 
he has amassed a great deal of money.” 

But must we wait until we have good literature 
before we encourage literature at all? In all great 
literatures, beside the men whose works will live for 
all time, there Î3 an innumerable host of men who 
write, whose writings may draw the attention of some 
of their contemporaries, but whose names will never 
go down to fame. To quote as well as I may, the words 
of Mr. Sandwell.'Tf we want good literature we must 
resign ourselves also to have bad. The great Greek 
tragedian Euripides entered the competition for 
tragedy held yearly at Athens many times during 
his life" but only twice did he win the prize. The works 
of his successful rivals have been lost; perhaps we 
may be glad of it. They fulfilled their purpose; they 
provided the background for the work of Euripides.” 
Let us not therefore neglect what literature we have 
with the excuse that it is not likely to gain a place 
among the great literary works of the world. 

But, above all, if we want to have a literature we 
must not be too thin-skinned. As long as we expect 



the writers to have nothing but words of praise for 
our Canadian ways and Canadian institutions we 
can have no literature worthy of the name. To quote 
Mr. Sandwell again “American literature had to pass 
through the very same phases. As long as it was 
nothing but a panegyric of the bravery of the 
great men of the War of Independence, of the heroism 
of the first settlers, of the Romance of the West it 
gained no recognition outside the United States. Now 
that the American writer has set himself to tackle 
the peculiar social and intellectual problems of Ameri- 
can life, to paint the drabness of Main Street, the 
sordid utilitarianism of the inhabitants of Zenith, 
and to seek a solution, he has begun to win for 
American literature a place among the literatures of 
the world.” It is interesting to set beside this the 
opinion of an eminent French critic, Firmin Roz, who, 
in an article in the October 15 number of the "Revue 
des Deux Mondes”, “L’esprit nouveau du roman 
américain,” analyses with great perspicacity the 
modem tendencies in American novel-writing. The 
fact that the modern American novel has drawn the 
attention of a critic in the great French conservative 
review shows that it cannot be set aside as insigni- 
ficant. The way is open to the Canadian novel as 
soon as we allow our novelists to paint things as they 
see them. 

If either of the men whom I have tried to quote 
happen to see these lines I hope they will excuse any 
freedom I may have taken in quoting them. Their 
words made an impression on me. They may have 
lost some of their colour in the setting down; their 
expression may bear the tinge of my own views, but 
I have tried to be faithful to the spirit of them. 

If we want Canadian literature let us first of all 
have regard for the things of the intellect, let us learn 
to know and appreciate what literature we have 
and let us above all not blame the writer if he 
occasionally touches painfully upon our weaknesses. 



Felicity 

N O more exquisite felicity 
There is than this — 

To find an eccentricity 
In a familiar kiss. 

Vincent Starr. 



Prayer 

\ from the German of Lenau). 

Let thy dark eye linger on me, 
Wielding o’er me all thy might, 

Night so sombre, mild and dreamy, — 
Sweet, unfathomable night t 

With the magic of thy darkness 
Lure this world away from me, 

And o’er all my being hover, 

Thou alone, eternally. 



f. K. 



20 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



BOOKS 

Wild Geese 

By Martha Ostenso 

Toronto:- McClelland and Stewart 

W OMEN are continuing to turn out a mass of 
literature, and the Canadian Authors' As- 
sociation has lately had the gocd fortune of 
adding the name of another to their list — one who has 
written of Canadian life and has done it with clarity 
and precision, and with such artistic perception as 
is not often found in the efforts of a person who has 
undergone the daily grind of giving to country children 
the first elements of an education. “Wild Geese” has 
won 113,500 for Martha Ostenso. But beyond the 
financial reward, she has achieved something that is 
far more important— her work places her among our 
most promising writers, When we realize that this 
is her first substantial achievement we can certainly 
lock forward with interest to her future efforts. 

There is something fascinating in tracing the growth 
of the soil. Every year on the wide and sweeping 
prairies of Canada hundreds of men stand, each by 
their own acres and watch this mysterious force at 
wcrk. They see the green rising slowly — they watch 
their master, the earth, producing and returning that 
which has been entrusted to him. And very often they 
stand by, ard with chagrin and rage see the 
heavers letting loose torrents of rain and hail and in 
one blow bringing to an end months of hard and 
constant toil. They are bound to the soil. They are 
its slaves and yet they worship it; they love its fresh 
cdcur in the spring and they delight in its power _ to 
create and recreate. And yet it holds them in chains 
and they are forced to obey its insistent demands. . . 

Such a slave is Caleb Gare, the strongest figure in 
the bock — slave to the soil and in turn the man who 
enslaves his family for the purposes of his master. 
Put to the very end the earth rules, and it is fitting 
that the slimy "mire of the muskeg should close over 
Gare’s head and end his harsh life. The very soil 
which gave him life, which was his very life, is trium- 
phant. 

Miss Ostenso knows the life of the farmer thorough- 
ly. She has watched his grinding existence. She has 
taught his children in a country school house standing 
alone in the wild wastes, with the pupils coming great 
distances to obtain their meagre education. She has 
mingled with the womenfolk and realizes how 
starved they are, how they long for the life of the 
outside world. Above all die has come into contact 
with the younger generation and perceives how they 
are anxious to break away from the life which 
is often one of deadly monotony to them. Even the 
magic of nature and the mystery of growth and devel- 
opment is not adequate to hold them. Judith, in 
“Wild Geese” is a child of impulse, animal in her 
appetites, wild in 1 er desires. She is spell-bound by 
the beauty arcur.d her, but she wants more. Youth 
will ret tolerate drudgery; youth cannot bear solitude. 
Judith's seul cries cut for social intercourse and the 
life beyond the prairie hcrizon. In the children of 
Caleb Gare, thus, particularly in Judith, we have 
this rebellion and protest which is long crushed but 
which eventually flares forth in the melodramatic 
climax of the book. 



Ova - the wife of Caleb Gare Miss Ostenso has hung 
what Gare considers to be the great slip of her life. 
And Amelia, anxious to keep her illegitimate son 
within the pale of society is as pliant as a willow and 
bends to every demand of her husband. Jordan, the 
son, is himself a splendid type, and in his mouth the 
young authoress has placed one or two speeches con- 
cerning the farmers whicli reveal a very keen insight 
into their life. He says in one instance: “They seem 
to have no confidence in the soil — no confidence in 
anything save their own labour. Think of the differ- 
ence there would be in the outward characters of 
these people if the land didn’t sap up all their passion 
and sentiment.” This is really the dominant note of 
the book. 

In Lind Archer, the school teacher, Miss Ostenso 
probably sees herself, watching these farm-folk live 
their ugly life. She glories in the beauties around her 
and deplores the fact that to the farmer nature is as 
much an enemy as a friend. It builds up, but it is also 
capable of destruction. 

It is Judith who is perhaps the most interesting 
character in the book. She is a very fine study of a 
farm girl who has been cut off from life, who knows of 
nothing but the herding of the cattle, the cleaning 
of the bams, the milking of the cows, the ploughing 
and the haying. When she does go into the depths of 
the wood she is dominated by her instinct only. The 
primitive blood of this child of nature cries out and 
she is overwhelmed by the beauties about her. . . . 

The book is exceedingly well written. Miss Ostenso 
expresses herself simply. Her pictures are carefully 
drawn. Her style is full of color. The only jarring 
note is the rather melodramatic climax, but then 
this is a first novel and the authoress should not be 
taken severely to task for such a blemish. 

Withal a book of more than passing interest, a 
Canadian “Growth of the Soil”, — and one of the few 
books which deals with the “great open spaces” in a 
logical and truly artistic manner. 

L. E. 



To Beauty 

C OULD I, in alien dream or lofty trance, 

Pierce through the clouds that veil thee 
from my sight, 

I would not feel the lust of utterance 
In my sealed lips, dumb with supreme delight. 
Nor in cold images of word and rhyme 
Bom of unsated love, desirous eyes, 

Strive blindly to create the form sublime 
That still evades my deepest ecstasies. 

All longing dies in gazing on thy face, 

All yearning, all wild cries of banishment. 

And could 1 reach to thee I should embrace [ £ 
Eternal silence and divine content; 

Abandoning these playmates of distress, 

The proof and feeble prize of unsuccess. 

Brian Tukt 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



21 



In Defence of Slavery 

“Vespasiano” 

N OW that the age of Evolution, as distinct from 
Progress, has dawned, and it is admitted that 
the past is capable of offering lessons to the 
present, I do not fear opposition a priori when I take 
up the cudgels in defence of that excellent institution, 
now almost extinct — slavery. There are many grades 
of slavery, but, as the term is used here it is intended 
to signify the absolute subjection of one section of 
society to the will of another section. The most recent 
form of slavery in our civilisation is the plantation 
slavery of negroes in the southern United States— -a 
racial slavery. Even for this there is much to be said, 
but at best it can be only a very imperfect form. 
Modem conditions call for something rather different. 

The socialist doctrine that all men are equal is one 
of the most childish ideas ever promulgated. Many 
of us may justly take it as a personal insult. The 
most casual observer of Nature can scarcely fail to 
see its falsity. All men are different, and the mass of 
humanity is on a very low intellectual plane. Under 
the system of democracy this mass is in theory given 
political sovranty — a most disastrous state of affairs. 
The truth is that these are the very people who should 
be given no voice whatever in public matters. 

At the begining of the nineteenth century they had 
no voice, but the Industrial Revolution and the new 
social conditions to which it gave rise, enabled them 
to clamour until they had secured the power they 
demanded. Since that time we have been progressing 
rapidly toward chaos. It was found that the proleta- 
riat was far more chauvinistic than the old monarchs 
and oligarchies, and the Napoleonic wars and the 
war of 1914 have resulted. This is but one example 
of the dangers to which civilisation is exposed. One 
is compelled to trace such troubles as these back to 
their source — the rise of democracy — and to speculate 
as to their remedy. To repress the proletariat into 
their old position will be infinitely more difficult than 
it was for our grandfathers and great-grandfathers to 
keep them in that position, but we may imagine that, 
had our forebears known what would follow, they 
might have striven a little harder in the repression 
than they did. In any case it is by no means impract- 
icable to suggest to-day a determined attempt on the 
part of the intelligent element of society to bring 
about seme such wholesome reaction. Mussolini and 
the Fascists do not impress one as being particularly, 
intelligent, though the main plank of their platform, 
autocracy, is excellent. Intelligent or no, they have 
met with considerable success; how much more, then, 
should the really intelligent be able to succeed in such 
an undertaking? 

But that is not enough. Mussolini is not by any 
means secure in his position, and while this may partly 
be due to his own shortcomings, it is also partly due, 
and may be largely due, to the fact that the Italian 
proletariat is now in the position of pre-deinocratic 
days and, under modern conditions, still has at its 
disposal the means to clamour for a political hearing. 
This means should be taken away from it, and the 
only possible way to accomplish this is to repress it 
still further, in fact to the logical conclusion— slavery. 
Indeed was there ever anything more rational and 
logical than slavery? 



■ But the matter does not end here. We have sug- 
gested that a racial slavery is imperfect. So also 
would be one based on the suppression of the whole 
class, which is known as the proletariat. The reason 
is that racial divisions give no absolute criterion of 
individual worth, any more than do class divisions. 
The kind of slavery which is needed to-day is a scien- 
tific slavery, whereby each child’s ability may be 
measured in early years, and his place in society deter- 
mined. To-day the psychological knowledge neces- 
sary is available as it was not in the past. Such meas- 
ures as these, moreover, avoid the inhumanity of 
depressing into slavery those who have learned to 
live under other conditions and would miss their 
freedom. 

To estimate what percentage of the population 
should thus be trained to slavery is a very difficult 
task, and one which can only be performed by experts. 
I am therefore quite ready to be contradicted on the 
point, but my own feeling is that at least 99% should 
be so treated. This, I feel, is a moderate estimate, 
for it suggests that as many as one person in every 
hundred is fit to govern his own behaviour and to 
have a voice in political matters. I imagine that my 
readers and others interested in this burning question 
will be more pessimistic than I am. 

The great beauty of such a system in practice is 
tuat it will 'solve all our industrial and political ques- 
tions. To-day there are a number of intelligent people 
working in factories, adding up rows of figures behind 
desks, and performing the mass of unpleasant occupa- 
tions which the industrial age has brought forth. All 
these would be relieved from their degradation by 
slaves. And the many men, who are by nature artists, 
and yet must prostitute their art to gain a living or 
undertake some loathsome trade in their spare time, 
could be supplied with the wealth hitherto squandered 
on paid artisans, and could, moreover, be given slaves 
to minister to their material wants. Further than 
this — and here is perhaps the greatest blessing — these 
gormandising hogs, those ignorant self-satisfied addle- 
pates, those fat lazy football-watching useless mouths, 
whom democracy raises to positions of authority, 
could be thrust down to the position of servitude, in 
which they properly belong. 



To my Lady of Laughter 

Though you came to our world in a snowstorm 
Yet the wonder of cloudless skies 
And the laughter of sun-kissed waters 
Shines from the pools of your eyes. 

On your cheeks is the glow of the roses 
That smile in a garden fair, 

And the flame of a forest in autumn 
Gleams from your tumbled hair. 

1 know there are laughing ladies 

Who would deem these lines too bold, 

But Til pray for your smile and your pardon 
Since you're only four years old. 

H. A . S . 



22 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



DRAMA 

The McGill Players * Club 

December 3rd, 4th, 5lk. 

r 'T"'HE tumult and the shouting having died, it 
remains but to take a final glance at the season’s 
first production by the McGill Players' Club — a 
triple bill consisting of Bernard Shaw’s The Dark 
Lady of the Sonnets, Alfred Sutro's The Man in the 
Stalls and a vaudeville skit called All Gummed Up, 
the author of which may deservedly remain in the 
obscurity to which my memory has consigned his 
name. The plays were produced in the lecture hall 
of the Biological Building on the evenings of December 
3rd, 4th and 5th. 

Before proceeding to any detailed criticism of the 
acting, staging and general suitability of the three 
plays it must be stated at once that the Players’ Club 
has placed everyone connected with the university 
under a distinct obligation. Undaunted by the severe 
handicap of having only a temporary theatre and a 
makeshift stage, its members made a bold attempt 
to place before McGill students something at least 
as worthy of their attention as an interfaculty foot- 
ball match. That it was not so well patronised as such 
a match is no reflection upon the club. Indeed, it is 
possible that had the standard of the offering been 
of less excellence the performance would have been 
more largely attended. Certainly the least meritorious 
play seemed to win the heartiest approbation of the 
groundlings. 

I think, however, that I have the greater part of 
these who witnessed the plays in agreement with me 
when I say that from the point of view of acting and 
production The Man in the Stalls was the most suc- 
cessful of the three plays. From the moment of the 
rise of the curtain Miss Dorothy Freiman, Mr. Frank 
Go dine and Mr. Graeme Taylor, who composed the 
eternally triangular cast, had the audience with them. 
There was an ease and polish and verve about their 
performance rarely seen upon the amateur stage. 
Miss Freiman, in the role of a passionate, wilful 
woman using her husband as the unwitting tool to 
prevent her lover seeking peace and quiet in the arms 
of a lawfully-wedded wife, displayed herself as an 
even more accomplished actress than in the some- 
what sombre part assigned to her last year in Gals- 
worthy’s The First and ike Last. Mr. Frank Godine, 
as the husband, rang the changes on varying emotions 
in an accomplished manner, and threw an illusion of 
reality over a part which many might have been 
tempted to caricature too broadly. Mr. Taylor 
brought to the rôle of the lover all the excellent qual- 
ities which were a discovery of last year’s production, 
and was an adequate foil to the more spectacular 
parts assigned to the mistress and husband. 

The Dark Lady of Ihe Sonnets is always pleasing for 
its witty lines and the gentle fun which Mr. Shaw 
pokes at the too devout worshippers of the god Shakes- 
peare. The Players’ Club production, however, 
was rendered rather ineffective by reason of the lack 
of proper staging facilities. The staging was not ade- 
quate for the merit of the play itself, and, as a matter 
of fact the very fine settings which were a notable 
feature of last year’s production were conspicuously 
absent from all three of this year’s plays. Miss Frances 



Levikoff, as Queen Elizabeth, was statuesque and 
imposing; her voice was good, and most of the time, 
under excellent control. L. S. Giulianelli had a 
difficult part as Shakespeare, and he played it in an 
interesting manner. 

It is to be regretted that the producers felt that our 
extremely moral college atmosphere necessitated their 
removal of one or two typically Elizabethan jests 
which Mr. Shaw had put into the mouth of Shakes- 
peare. The practice of bowdlerizing is more in accord 
with the customs of a Sunday School Dramatic Club 
than with those of a university organization. 

Of All Gummed Up there is little to be said. It was 
well acted and well produced, but to do an evil thing 
well is no very creditable performance, and an evil 
thing the play certainly was. Whoever was responsible 
for the choice of such a vulgar piece of inanity has 
committed a grave error. 

The Players’ Club, however, has shown us, that 
McGill Students can act and can produce plays, and 
that there is a lively body of undergraduates sincerely 
interested in the drama. Whether the aid of some 
experienced outsider would not be of use to the Club 
is an open question, but whatever minor points of 
criticism can be brought against the first production 
of the season, the fact remains that the Players’ Club 
has been responsible for the most praiseworthy and 
interestive work done by McGill students so far this 
year. Its next production will be awaited with keen 
interest. I would submit that a three-act serious play 
would be the most welcome offering the Players could 
bring before us. 

S. 



MUSIC 



The Possibilities of the Piano 

A t first glance it would seem that in the world 
of music today all the great work has been done. 
The fugue and the prelude, the sonata and the 
symphony — all these varied forms of musical expres- 
sion have been perfected, and nothing remains for 
the contemporary composers but to place pictures 
in the frames which are already available and so create 
new works. This seems to be particularly true when 
we realize that the fugue was made perfect many 
years ago by Bach, and is still with us— that the 
sonata was worked out many years ago by Beethoven 
and is as popular today as it was when its creators 
played it to their amazed audiences. And when it 
seems that we are gorging ourselves on the works of 
the past, and they seem to be adequate for our ap- 
petites, certain distinct individuals come who refuse 
to walk the beaten paths. They seek something new; 
they try to cut new roadways for themselves. These 
extreme individualists are to be found in the world of 
music as among our peets and painters, breaking all 
the sacred rules which have been set up and which the 
conservative artists slavishly follow. The latter group 
forget that Bach and Beethoven were also breakers of 
the written law They forget that true art is a thing 
ot the soul and that the soul varying with the in- 
dividual is extremely capricious and will often refuse 
to tolerate the hard and fast bounds whi 'h limit it 
in its expression. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



23 



Such an artist, who has cast aside the traditions of 
the pianoforte and who has worked out something 
that is truly individualistic, recently visited Montreal 
in the person of Mr. Henry Cowell. Mr. Cowell is a 
young man, but despite his youth he has already swept 
aside many of the difficulties which faced him in his 
task of uncovering new possibilities for the piano. 
How can there be such possibilities, is the natural 
question that comes from those who see the ivory 
keyboard and point to the fact that man has only 
ten fingers. Mr. Cowell immediately turns to the fore- 
arm, the palm of the hand, the fist, and also points 
to the fact that in the scientific study of acoustics 
there is yet a virgin field in which much can be ex- 
plored. 

Mr. Coivell realized several years ago that there 
were certain ideas that he wished to express on the 
piano which he could not render through the use of 
merely his ten fingers. And so came his experiment— 
that of using other means to express himself. With 
infinite labour he worked out these new steps, and so 
came the tone clusters. What he has achieved can 
not be regarded as a new method of playing the piano. 
It is merely an addition to the old, broadening its 
ccpe and making possible the expression of ideas 
which could not be adequately rendered in any other 
way. 

We can take "The Tides of Manaunaun” as an 
example — Mr. Cowell draws frequently from old 
Irish legends for his themes which have been trans- 
lated in an impressionistic manner. How can the 
boom of the tide, its rushing swell, its solemn 
majesty, be more exquisitely given to us than by the 
careful pressure of the fore-arm on the lower notes 
of the piano so that several octaves are struck at once? 
Mr. Cowell manipulates his fore-arm and fist and 
the palm of his hand with as much dexterity as a 
pianist ordinarily commands when he merely employs 
his fingers. 

The final question one asks is why the sounds are 
not blurred and confused, — how is it that one gets 
anything but extreme and ugly noises? Here again 
Mr. Cowell has prepared the way carefully. He has 
devoted much time to the study of acoustics — he has 
experimented with over-tones, and so achieves results 
which are in most cases exceedingly pleasant to the 
ear. There are moments however when the ultra- 
modernity of his pieces is most pronounced, as in 
‘‘Advertising." This is a horrid bit of realism— and 
yet there is that imagination there which lifts it out 
andjnakes it art. One sees advertising in all its ugli- 
ness'. The brazen lights flash and glare, forcing the 
eyes to take one glance and turn away in disgust from 
the crude signs. In “An Amiable Conversation,” too, 
there is marked dissonance, but the idea is dictinctly 
carried out. 

The actual use of his forearm, Mr. Cowell told 
me is but a passing phase. He is now at work on a 
pedal which he hopes will eliminate many of his dif- 
ficulties. He has shrewdly evolved a system of writing 
down his ideas and publishers have accepted many 
of his compositions. 

^ But w r hat Mr. Cowell has done above all else is to 
reveal to us the vast possibilities of the pianoforte — 
such possibilities as one can hardly entertain unless 
Mr. Cowell is actually seen putting his ideas into 
practice. We must note that he has gone further and 
even uses the piano strings as one distinct instrument. 
This phase of his work is itself full of untold promise. 
Orfeo 



Poem 

L ET us invert the world, and laugh, 

And stare with downcast eyes 
Below the world to where the stars 
Are littered on the skies, 

And drop a pebble at our feet 
And watch it falling up 
Gathering size as it recedes 
Till all the vasty cup 

Of idiot infinity 
Is single solid stone 
To chisel into kinder things 
Than blood and brain and bone. 

A. J. M. Smith 

in “Poets of the Future, 1924-25” 



Earopeana 

“Enar” 

T HERE was an old saying in Tzarist Russia: "A 
law-abiding citizen consists of three elements — a 
body, a soul and a passport.” Well, this was 
before the war for democracy was fought. After the 
war for liberty was over, one passport did not do. 
There were so many independent countries and ever 
so many governments claiming their legitimacy that 
one had to have at least a collection of half a dozen 
of these blessed documents to satisfy the different 
governments. 

A friend of mine, who happened to take a course 
at the University of Prague, on one occasion had to 
perform some skilful juggling with the different pass- 
ports in his possession. He was a citizen of Poland. 
The Czechs, the rulers of Prague, do not like the Poles 
very much — and this was a year of strained relations 
between these two countries. The Prague authorities 
refused therefore to issue permits of stay to students 
of Polish citizenship. My friend was thus in trouble. 
But there lived next door to him a Ukrainian consul 
who represented some government, that existed some- 
where, at some time before the Bolshevist revolution. 
His government had long ago fallen to pieces— its 
premier was probably washing dishes in some Amer- 
ican cafeteria — but the consul, happy in his office, 
carried on the profitable business of issuing passports 
to anyone who established his Ukrainian origin by 
a 50 krone note. Now since the Ukrainians hate the 
Poles, and the Czechs are also far from friendly 
towards them, the Prague police authorities extended 
a hearty welcome to all bearers of documents of a 
friendly power. My friend, thus, came among the 
happy ones. But, when he planned to visit his relatives 
in Germany, the German consul refused to attach 
his visa to a document of a state which no longer 
existed. 

My friend thus had to produce his Polish passport 
to get the visa. But one cannot leave any country in 
Europe before interviewing the police authorities. 
Here he had to protect himself with the Ukrainian 
document. Coming back to Czecho Slovakia a new 
change of decoration was necessary, until my friend 
became so muddled up with this passport juggling 
that in order to evade heavy consequences, should 
he produce the wrong document, he assigned separate 
pockets for each one and, to be doubly certain, he 
initialled one pocket with a “P” and the other with 
a "U”. 

• * • • 



24 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



But this is quite serious ... European universities 
can certainly teach us a good lesson, in the first place 
in reference to the absurd rule of compulsory atten- 
dance. With insignificant exception this measure is 
not known in the European institutions of learning. 
There is no compulsory attendance and still the uni- 
versities flourish and students pass examinations with 
greater success than is attained here. Voluntary 
attendance produces a higher type of student, and 
then it makes for a higher standard of lectures. With 
compulsion non-existent, it is only the good, the in- 
teresting, the worth-while lecture that attracts the 
student. The professor, again, is fully aware that he 
faces an audience eager to listen-—and not a crowd 
of yawning, chewing and "Daily” -reading victimized 
people. Voluntary attendance brings into play the 
principle of the survival of the fittest, applied to the 
staff as well as to the student body. The good lectures 
are over-crowded while the bad ones— well they go 
on but they are rendered harmless. Only the four 
walls must submit to being bored l 

* 

* * 

There are no organized athletics there, nor is there 
any debating schedule. The intellectual and physical 
vigour of the students is displayed at various political 
gatherings, demonstrations and parades where the 
racial, religious and social differences of the student 
body find proper expression. Chairs pass from hand 
to hand, or better from head to head with a greater 
rapidity than the ball at a senior rugby game, and 
arguments are refuted in a far more effective way 
than in our inter- faculty debates. The score is counted 
by the number of broken heads and noses. The sad 
story about it is that the referee is very often the 
Police Force. It is invigorating and exciting, but I 
prefer a rugby game rather than a monarchist-nation- 
alist - republican - socialist - communist - anarchist - 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editorial Board: A.P.R. Coulbom, A.B. Latham, 
F.R. Scott, A.J.M. Smith. Managing Editor: L. 
Edel. 

The Editorial Board is responsible only for 
opinions expressed in the editorial columns, and 
hope to publish articles on controversial questions 
by contributors of widely divergent views. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one 
of the editors, or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly 
Review, Apt. 16, 989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. 
Unsuitable contributions will be returned. 

Subscription rates are one dollar for this year’s 
complete issue. Cheques should be made payable 
to the McGill Fortnightly Review and sent to the 
Managing Editor at the above address. 

— 



Ukrainian - Polish - White - Russian - German - Jewish 
- Lithuanian muddle. . . . 

* 

• * 

.Whatever may be said against these new states, 
°f Europe their administrative efficiency is above all 
criticism. An application from a certain town in 
Latvia to the central government for a money grant 
to remove snow early in the winter was promptly 
answered in June, in which it was stated that effective 
steps would be taken , . . . 



December 

( Conti mied from page IS) 

There are few variations, few shades and tints and 
combinations. These the artist may invent, but cannot 
discover. And winter is barren of sound, save for the 
mournful dirges sung by the wind in leafless trees. 
Birds have vanished, streams have ceased to murmur. 
Life is blanketed, suffocated, beneath a pall of snow 
that itself descends in utter silence from the sky. 

But I do not despair. I pin my faith to autumn, 
with its limitless varieties of colour, its sad farewells 
of sound, its spirit of tragic and impending doom that 
gathers with each shortening day. There is inspira- 
tion, there are the possibilities of great art. Let us 
concentrate on that, and on such other beauties as 
may be extracted from the preparatory seasons of 
spring and summer, and cease to tire our fingers with 
unworkable clay. If we cannot go away for winter, 
let us pass through it with such Socratic indifference 
as we may be able to muster. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton’s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



