Vol. VII 



No. 2 







McGILL 




Thursday, November 15th, 1883. 




C O NTENTS : 



Song 


PAGE. 

1 


College World 










PAGE 

- 8-15 


Editorials 


- 1 3 


Between the Lectures 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 15 


Contributions - 


- 3 6 


Personals 










16 


Sporting News - 


- 6 8 


List op New Books - 










- 16 



MONTREAL : 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 

1883. 













McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 



JOHH HEHDEESOH & CO. 



Jidvooaies, Ji Homey s, dbo. 

13 hospital STREET, 

mod treaij. 




283 NOTRE DAME ST. 



N. W, TFJEKHOLME, M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor, B.A. B.C.L. W. E. DICKSON, B.C.L. 

WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 
Commissioner for lire Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

118 ST. JAMES STREET. 

MAGM ASTER, HUTGHINSON h WEIR, 

ic^DYBC^TEg^ 
'Barristers, Solicitors, dec. 

1G2 ST- JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. m. Hutchinson, B.C.L. R. S. Weir, B.C.L. 





Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ HMCoGrlT «T « 77 nitotoon. for sale. 



-Mk-WM. HILLvJN- 




(L-s 4 » ■■ ROOMS -A_T 4- ^ 

No. 132 3 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 

—AND — 

Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 



Oreenshields, MgGorkill & Querin, 

A3W ©CATES? 

cSmrUkri, JiUormt^, SoUdfoiti,<dc. 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 St. Frcuxcois JOcuviei^ St., 

J. N. Creenshields. J. C. McCorkill Edmund Guerin. 



CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 




>M:IJ^^RI?IGEM£lCE]t?KS :ISSnED:(c<- 
No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 



J* ® 15 2 A S t> *-*• 
,d 2 srs.\v 33 aoksrllcr, 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST. JAMES ST., St Lambert Hilj, nd MONTREAL 



WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

W,aAr to/o, 

KTO. 135 ST. PETEIl STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA _ 



MILITARY XJIYIFOIRMS A. SPECIALTY. 




A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

(s'* AN INSPECTION INVITED. ^ 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 



SPECIAL TEEMS TO STUDENTS. 



384 ST. JPA. TJL STREET . 




Vol. VII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 15th, 1883. [No. 2. 



SEgSILL, HGIYERSISH SHZE1SE. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



J. R. Murray, B.A., *86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, '84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, '84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
J. Porter, B.A., ’86, Med. 

S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 



Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



SONG. 

After Heine. 

In the lovely month of May 
When the forest wakes again, 

When the green leaves hide the grey ; — 

Love within my heart doth reign. 

In the lovely month of May 

When the birds are singing clear, 

Tell I to my lady gay, 

All my hope and all my fear. 

—Philip Hay. 



(Sdiforials. 



The British Association originated in a letter addressed by 
Sir David Brewster to Prof. Phillips, Secretary of the York- 
shire Philosophical Society, proposing its formation on the 
model of a similar association in Germany. The Society took 
up the project warmly, and the first meeting was held on Sep- 
tember 31st, 1831, at York, which has been thence called 
“ the cradle of the Association.” In revisiting the city on its 
fiftieth anniversary, the tickets bore the inscription, “ Antiquam 
exquirite matrem” The officers of the Yorkshire Society were 
the first officers of the Association. Lord Milton (afterward 
Earl Fitzwilliam) being President, and the Rev. W. Vernon 
Harcourt, Vice-President. Sir D. Brewster had hoped that 
100 members might be present; there were actually 353. 
There is a striking contrast between this number and the aver- 
age attendance for the past fifteen years, which has been about 
2, 200 ; but not more so than between the estimates of distances 
then and now. Prof. Phillips, in reading the answers from 
different societies, to the circular issued, reported that the 
“ o-reat distance of the Plymouth Institution had prevented any 
of its members being present,” yet next year, the whole Associa- 
tion will not only cross the Atlantic, but have a “ run ” to the 
Rocky Mountains. Perhaps some of its members will even see 
the Pacific before returning from their “ excursion.” To appre- 
ciate Prof. Phillips' remark, we must remember that not the 
first actual railway, viz., Stockton to Darlington, built in 1825, 
but the first truly passenger railway, that from Liverpool to 
Manchester, was opened only in 1830. How great the change 
in less than a single life time ! Some of the members, who took 
part in the first meeting are, happily, still living. 

Prof. Airy (now Sir George Airy), who resigned the office of 
Astronomer Royal about two years ago, presented the first 



report made to the Association, that on the Progress of Astronomy, 
in which occurs a remark suggesting another remarkable con- 
trast. Giving a list of all the public observatories in the 
world, he says, “ I am not aware that there is any public obser- 
vatory in America.” The remark may be applied to Canada 
even yet, but if we make as much progress in the next fifty 
years, as our neighbours have done in the past fifty, there will 
be good reason to be satisfied. The objects of the Association 
were stated in the address of the Vice-President, the Rev. W. 
V. Harcourt, in almost the same words which are still used in 
the Annual Report, viz. : — 

1. To give a stronger impulse and more systematic direction 
to scientific inquiry. 2. To obtain a greater degree of national 
attention to the objects of science. 3. To remove obstacles to 
its progress. 4. To promote the intercourse of the cultivators 
of science with one another and with foreign philosophers. 

As examples of the third of these objects were mentioned the 
improvement of the Patent Laws ; and the removal of the duty 
on glass, as adding largely to the cost of establishing museums. 
It was proposed that the annual meetings should be held at 
different places in rotation ; “ in order, by these migratory visits, 
to extend the sphere of the Association, to meet the convenience 
of distant districts in turn, and to animate the spirit of philoso- 
phy in all the places through which the meetings may move, 
without rendering them burthensome to any.” 

The founders took pleasure in keeping before them, as a 
model, the splendid vision of a philosophical academy, depicted 
by Bacon in his “ New Atlantis,” when “ divers meetings and 
consults ” of the united body of Depredators , Compilers , 
Pioneers , &c., suggested new experiments of a higher light and 
more penetrating nature to the Lamps , and these at length 
yielded materials to the u Interpreters of Nature .” In this 
scheme the “ circuits, or visits, of divers principal cities of the 
kingdom,” took a prominent place. 

But how does the Association strive to attain its objects ? 
For three of these no explanation is needed. That it draws the 
public attention to the pursuits of Science by its annual meet- 
ings, and promotes the intercourse of scientific men in a most 
effective way is obvious ; and that it has great influence in re- 
moving obstacles to progress cannot be doubted. 

Its principal object, however, and that which is put first in 
order, it seeks to attain chiefly by procuring regularly from 
competent persons, or from sub-committees, reports on the re- 
cent progress, the actual state, and the deficiencies of every de- 
partment of Science ;” and, further, by making, at every meet- 
ing, grants in aid of scientific investigation along definite lines 
of search. There are, of course, besides, papers read by the in- 
dividual members. 

Many of the reports thus furnished have obtained a perman- 
ent reputation, and have led to important results. One for ex- 
ample, led to the establishment of Magnetic Observatories all 
over the world, of which that at Toronto is one ; although this is 
best known to the people of Canada as the headquarters of the 
Meteorological service, supplying our daily weather reports. 



9 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1883 . 



The adjective “ British ” in the title did not mark any limit 
to the sources whence these reports were obtained. Thus the 
Cambridge meeting in 1833 requested Prof. Rogers, of Phila- 
delphia, to give a report on the Geology of North America ; 
which report was presented at the meeting of 1834. 

The annual grants for scientific investigation are not of less 
importance than the reports. Indeed they form no mean 
element in gauging the success of any meeting. As they are 
made out of the fees paid by members and associates, the 
importance of a large attendance is obvious. Doubts on this 
point had, we believe, a great deal to do with the hesitation at 
first displayed concerning the acceptance of the invitation from 
Canada. But we who know not only what Montreal can do, 
but has done, have no doubt but that she will nobly sustain her 
reputation, and do honour to the position in which she is placed 
as the representative of Canada. 

The average amount of grants for scientific investigation for 
some years past has been over $6,000, taking good and bad 
years together. In one year it came to $9,700. Of course the 
total amount of receipts from which the whole expenditure of 
the association had to be paid, was far greater than this. The 
numbers and receipts at the seven largest meetings before 1881 
(its fiftieth anniversary) are given in the following table : — 



Year. 

1859 


Place. Total Attendance, 

Aberdeen 2,564 


Amounts Received. 

$13,910 


1861 


Manchester 


3,138 


19,720 


18G3 


Newcastle-on Tyne 


3,335 


18,200 


1864 


Bath 


2,802 


14,825 


1870 


Liverpool 


2,878 


15,480 


1876 


Glasgow 


2,774 


15,015 


1878 


Dublin 


2,578 


13,075 



Giving an average attendance at the largest meetings of 2867 
persons, with average receipts of $15,746. The average for 
grants for these seven years was $7,000. The attendance in 
1881 at York was 2,556, and in the present year at South- 
port was 2,714. The largest attendance at any time has been 
3,335 ; the largest receipts at any time have been $19,720. 

At the largest meeting, that at Newcastle-on-Tyne in 1863, 

the attendance was made up thus : — 

Life members and old annual members - - - 303 

New annual members - 209 



Associates 1,704 

Ladies - -------- 1,004 

Foreigners 25 



3,335 

Life members make one payment of $50 ; new annual mem- 
bers pay $10 for the first, and $5 for subsequent years; as- 
sociates for the year and ladies, $5. It will be noticed that the 
great mass of the attendants at any meeting, on whom in fact 
the pecuniary success of the meeting depends, consists of associ- 
ates and ladies. It is to these generally, though not always, 
that the President’s address is directed, in order to obtain that 
general attention to science, which, as we have seen, is one of 
the objects of the. Association. 

It will be. seen that Montreal has undertaken no slight office 
in seeking the honour of a visit. In England, it has been said 
that the meeting will either be a great success or a great failure. 
Be it ours to predict success. Five hundred members have 
already signified their intention of coming from the Mother 
country. To bring the meeting to the average of the seven 
largest years, (and less than this would not be success), we must 
have about 2,500 members, associates, and ladies, from this side 
of the Atlantic. If the number 3,000 can be reached, (and 
tliis should be our aim), it will be the largest meeting in the 
history of the Association. The expenditure involved in this 



is altogether apart from that for public and private hospitality, 
etc. Excursions, the railway and steam-boat companies will 
provide for or aid in. It will be the business of the Dominion 
government to offer facilities for crossing the Atlantic. 

It may not be amiss in concluding to observe that at the 
sixth meeting (Bristol 1836) the President was the then 
Marquis of Lansdowne. 

It is time the students were thinking of organizing the Glee- 
Club, if they hope to make it a success this year. Owing to the 
late date at which it was formed last session, but little was ac- 
complished in the way of musical training, though the Saturday 
afternoon meetings were a source of considerable enjoyment to 
those who attended them. A general impression seems to pre- 
vail that the club was deeply in debt at the close of the season * 
but this is not so, for we have the authority of the Treasurer for 
the statement that it was only some five dollars in arrears. This 
cannot be considered a very disadvantageous situation, when it 
is remembered how few of the students took any interest in the 
club. Much disappointment was occasioned because it was 
found impossible to give a concert. But it seems to us that this 
was unreasonable. The giving of a concert is not, as we under- 
stand it, the chief end to be attained by the establishment of a 
musical association among students. The objects of such a 
society are rather to give to the students some degree of musical 
culture and to afford them that aesthetic gratification, which does 
so much to lighten the tedium of a student’s life. If, however, 
a concert is deemed essential, there is no reason why one should 
not be given this year. It would be well if some definite plan 
of action were decided upon early in the season ; and should it 
be determined to give a concert, the music appropriate for it 
would give as much pleasure, and afford as good an opportunity 
for training as any other. The prospects for the club, if it is 
only formed soon, are bright enough. A general spirit of enter- 
prise seems to pervade the students of all the faculties, and, if 
those who have the welfare of the Glee-Club at heart, avail 
themselves of this, there can be little doubt but that they will 
reach the climax of their hopes. A general meeting of the 
students should be summoned as soon as possible and a commit- 
tee appointed to make arrangements for the carrying on of the 
club. These arrangements should be of such a nature as to 
attract all the students. The general practices will do well 
enough for the majority, who have no pretension to musical 
knowledge ; but there is a large class "who have already had a 
greater or less degree of training, and who, consequently, cannot 
be expected to weary themselves by attending these practices. 
Something must be done to induce these to become members. 
Special meetings might be held at which music of a more diffi- 
cult nature could be attempted. We are sure that by some such 
means a far greater number could be prevailed to join the club 
than last year. But, besides doing their best to attract all 
students into the ranks, and endeavoring to give a con- 
cert, the committee should turn their attention to other ways 
in which the club can be rendered useful. Some attempt should 
be made to reform the college singing at convocations and other 
public meetings. It has long been a matter of regret to many 
that the singing on such occasions resembles more what might 
be expected from the Bedlamites than anything else ; and this 
arises simply from want of a preconcerted plan. Convocations 
could be rendered infinitely more agreeable if the students would 
content themselves with singing only one song at a time. Here, 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



then, is a field of labour for the members of the Glee-Club. 
They should take the governance of the students* share of the 
proceedings at these assemblies to a certain extent into their 
own hands. If this were done the convocations would be 
pleasanter to all concerned. Another thing it should do, 
is to furnish the students with a new repertory of 
songs. To the ears of “Freshmen,” the “ Bull-dog, : ” “ Litoria ” 
and “ Alouette ” are delightful ; but to those who have emerged 
from that hobbledehoy stage of existence, and, as a consequence, 
have heard these songs not less than hundreds of times, they 
become more wearisome than the music of “ Patience ” or any 
other hackneyed operas to the general public. Let the Glee-Club 
then furnish us with some new songs and choruses. But if 
it is to give a concert, reform our singing, and furnish us 
with new songs, it must be organized at once. This is the point 
which we wish to emphasize. Let the promoters of last year’s 
society exert themselves before the students fully settle down to 
the session’s routine, for afterwards they will find their work 
much more difficult. 



We sincerely regret that through some mistake in the de- 
livery of a telegram the proposed Inter-University Sports had 
unvoidably to be put off. In the ’Varsity of October 27th the 
McGill students are accused of dilatoriness in answering the 
proposals of Toronto University regarding these sports. This 
accusation, as our readers will see and as the ’Varsity itself in 
its next issue of Nov. 3rd seems to acknowledge, was entirely 
unfounded. We desire merely to lay the facts before our readers 
so that they may know the reasons why this event, which was 
looked forward to with so much interest by us, was put off at 
the last moment, and that they may judge for themselves where 
the fault lay, if any fault there was. The Undergraduates of 
this University first became aware that Toronto desired to have 
Inter-University sports on the 19th Oct., the day upon which 
the McGill Annual Sports were held. Now it seems rather 
hasty on the part of the ’Varsity to accuse McGill of dilatoriness 
in its number issued just one week after their proposal was 
made known here. It would, in our opinion, have been more 
becoming to have waited a little longer until the true reason of 
the delay was apparent. Even if McGill did take four or five 
days to call meetings of the Undergraduates and consider the 
proposals, it must be remembered that a matter of such im- 
portance with all its details cannot be arranged satisfactorily all 
in a minute. It is better that the event should be postponed 
even for a year than that any misunderstanding should after- 
wards arise. Toronto University could hardly expect that 
McGill would at once accede to all the terms which they pro- 
posed. McGill’s answer was sent by telegram on Oct. 27th 
addressed to the Secretary of Management, Mr. H. W. Sykes, 
University College, Toronto. It seems this telegram never 
reached its destination. When, however, the committee here 
received no answer, they sent a second telegram on Oct. 29th 
directed in the same way as the former, but to this also they 
received no answer. At the last moment a telegram was received 
in Montreal declaring the sports off. Thus the fact of there 
being no Inter-University sports this year is to be attributed ap- 
parently to the miscarriage of the two telegrams mentioned 
above, for had either that of the 27th or the 29th reached 
Mr. Sykes the sports could have taken place, as our friends had 
been preparing for them since the convocation which took place 
in the first week of October. That such a mistake should be 



made by the Telegraph Company is rather serious, and we are 
glad to hear that the committee have asked them to investigate 
the matter. 

We hope that proper measures will early be taken for holding 
the first Inter-University Sports in Montreal next autumn, and 
that all will enter into the matter with that good spirit which 
ought to distinguish University contests above all others. 



©ontrilnifions. 



Matthew Arnold.* 

BY R. W. BOODLE. 

It was but a natural result of the extremes to which both 
Radicalism and Conservatism have been carried at the present 
day that a middle party should arise, unwilling to give its 
adhesion either to the rigorous and vigorous iconoclasm of the 
former, or to the equally uncompromising fetish-worship of the 
latter. Of this party, which includes in its ranks names 
differing in other respects so widely as Carlyle and Freeman, 
Goldwin Smith and JL)ean Stanley, the subject of the present 
paper is perhaps the best known living representative in 
England. “ To try and approach Truth on one side after 
another — not to strive or cry, not to persist to pressing forward 
on any one side, with violence and self-will, — it is only thus, it 
seems to me, that mortals may hope to gain any vision of the 
mysterious goddess, whom we shall never see except in out- 
line, but only thus even in outline.”! Such are the words 
that, as well as any other, convey the leading motive of their 
author, whether we view Matthew Arnold as educationist or 
literary critic, as social or religious reformer. 

It would be impossible, in the time at my disposal to-night, to 
attempt anything like a complete survey of Mr. Arnold’s work, 
so various are the phases of his personality ; and I propose to 
draw your attention more particularly to Matthew Arnold as 
the social reformer — the aspect under which he is best known 
to the outside world. To confine my remarks, however, to this 
side exclusively would be an injustice to my subject. It is 
only through his earlier work, his poetry, that we are enabled 
to understand the gradual steps by which he was led to assume 
the mantle of social and religious reformer. 

Though Matthew Arnold’s reputation among men of letters 
was first due to his poetry, it is only lately that the world in 
general has been willing to recognize his greatness as a poet. 
This fact may be explained by several considerations. First of 
all, with the possible exception of some of his narrative poems, 
Matthew Arnold’s muse is never likely to become popular in 
the sense in which Scott and Longfellow are popular poets. He 
is a poet of thought, rather than of sentiment ; of thought and 
sentiment, rather than of action. Now, poets who write for 
immediate popularity — as Edwin Arnold did in his “ Light of 
Asia ” — must be careful to introduce plenty of “ business ” into 
their poems. Again, it will be remarked by any careful 
reader that while Arnold’s poetical gems are above price, they 
lie embedded in a great deal of inferior stuff which is hardly 
poetry at all, Mr. Arnold here bearing strong similarity to his 
master, Wordsworth. If we were to be tempted to test Arnold 
by his best lines we should rank him even too high ; such, 
for instance, as the verse : — 

“ Thin, thin the pleasant human noises grow, 

And faint the city gleams ; 

Rare the lone pastoral huts — marvel not thou ! 

The solemn peaks but to the stars are known — 

But to the stars, and the cold lunar beams ; 

Alone the sun arises, and alone 

Spring the great streams.” 

Last of all, the religious substratum of many of his poems 
must have been of a nature rather to forbid than attract 
readers at the time of their publication. It should be remem- 
bered that Matthew Arnold first definitely rose* into* popularity 
as a poet in what we may call “ the pessimist years ” that ushered 

*Read before the University Literary Society. 

tPreface to “ Essays in Criticism.” 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



in the last quarter of the century. In other words, it was 
not until society as a whole entered into the valley of the 
shadow of death that they were able to appreciate the beauty 
of Arnold’s mournful monologues upon the themes of Seneca 
and Marcus Aurelius. Arnold was, in fact, some twenty years 
ahead of his time, and had to wait till his audience had grown 
into the frame of mind in which they were able to appreciate him. 

Of Matthew Arnold at his best, we may say that it is his 
great merit to have attained very nearly to what he has himself 
called “ the grand style,” and only to have missed it because he 
lacks that indescribable quality of robustness and majesty which 
we find in Shakespeare, Milton and Wordsworth. As my 
purpose is rather to exhibit to you the social reformer than the 
poet, I will merely add three specimens of his poetry — interest- 
ing not only for the beauty of the style, but for the light they 
throw upon his intellectual developement. My first extract 
comes from his verses upon “ Dover Beach,” and illustrates an 
early phase of despondency through which, like other great 
minds, his seems to have passed. He is listenening to the 
wave as it breaks upon the beach. 

“ The sea of faith 

Was once, too, at its full, and round earth’s shore 
Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl’d. 

[But now I only hear 
Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar, 

Retreating, to the breath 

Of the night-wind, down the vast edges drear 

And naked shingles of the world. 

Ah, love, let us be true 

To one another ! for the world, which seems 

To lie before us like a land of dreams, 

To various, so beautiful, so new, 

Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, 

Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain ; 

And we are here as on a darkling plain, 

Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight, 

Where ignorant armies clash by night.” 

My second specimen comes from “ Resignation ” a picture of 
the poet’s soul, from which we may conjecture the thoughts 
that were passing in its author’s. It is interesting among other 
reasons because it anticipates a note he has struck since in his 
social utterances : — 

“ Lean’d on his gate, he gazes — tears 
Are in his eyes, and in his ears 
The murmur of a thousand years. 

Before him he sees life unroll, 

A placid and continuous whole — 

That general life, which does not cease, 

Whose secret is not joy, but peace ; 

That life, whose dumb wish is not miss’d. 

If birth proceeds, if things subsist ; 

The life of plants, and stones, and rain, 

The life he craves— if notin vain 
Fate gave, what chance shall not control 
His sad lucidity of soul.” 

From the mood of resignation he passes into one of hope in 
his lines on “ The Future.” 

“ Haply, the river of Time— 

As it grows, as the towns on its marge 
Fling their wavering lights 
On a wider, statelier stream — 

May acquire, if not the calm 
Of its early mountainous shore, 

Yet a solemn peace of its own. 

And the width of the waters, the hush 
Of the grey expanse where he floats, 

Freshening its current and spotted with foam, 

As it draws to the Ocean, may strike 
Peace to the soul of the man on its breast 
As the pale waste widens around him, 

As the banks fade dimmer away, 

As the stars come out, and the night-wind 

Brings up the stream 

Murmurs and scents of the infinite sea.” 

Though Matthew Arnold lias done much good work as a poet, 
it is as a prose artist that he will be best remembered. His 
style I shall have occasion to exhibit in extracts, but I may say 
here, that in delicacy of touch he is inferior to none of his 
contemporaries with the exception of Cardinal Newman. He 
has a style of banter peculiarly his own, asserting much less than 
it msmutes; covering with ridicule, yet without any approach to 
personality or vulgarity. His treatment of a subject, at his 
best, is a masterpiece of skill that leaves no flaw in his 
opponent’s armour untouched. It should also be remembered 



that few writers make cleverer use of catch words, an art in 
which he was a worthy rival of the late Earl of Beaconsfield. 
To Matthew Arnold we owe among other phrases, the expressions 
“ rigorous and vigorous,” “sweet reasonablenss,” “sweetness and 
light,” “the grand style,” and the popularisation of the term 
“ Philistine.” 

As a critic of literature Matthew Arnold is an avowed follower 
of the French school, and especially of Sainte-Beuve. And in 
the field of criticism, he is acknowledged to be facile princeps 
among his English-speaking contemporaries. Mr. Minto can 
give us characteristics, but Arnold alone distinguishes. Mr. 
Swinburn loves to eulogise, but Arnold knows exactly where 
to stop. Mr. Dowden is, to my mind, too full of present 
phases of thought to realise those of the past. This is never so 
with Arnold except when he is interpreting the gospel loqia. 
The effect of a literary sketch from the pen of Matthew Arnold, in 
short, is precisely similar to that of an historical picture by Carlyle. 
We feel that we understand their subject as we never did 
before. I will say no more upon this part of my subject, but 
refer you to his admirable studies upon Milton, Wordsworth 
and Gray. 

Though Arnold’s work as literary artist and critic has been 
continued up to the present moment, from the year 1864 an 
increasing amount of his time was given to writings upon 
social subjects. Entering the field as an educationist his aim 
throughout has been in his own words, “ to pull out a few more 
stops in that powerful, but at present somewhat narrow-toned 
organ, the modern Englishman.”* His “Celtic Literature” as 
well as his educational essays show that to this purpose he was 
early attracted, and “ Culture and Anarchy” appeared in 1869; 
but the Evolution controversy, and the conflict between Chris- 
tianity and science, diverted his energies, and from 1870 to 
1875 his chief works were of a religious nature. In these 
years appeared “ St. Paul and Protestantism,” “ Literature and 
Dogma,” and “God and the Bible.” In his “Last Essays on 
Church and Religion,” appearing in 1877, the social side of the 
question is again in view. The aim of “ Literature and Dogma,” 
his chief work, was “ to show the truth and necessity of Chris- 
tianity, and its power and charm for the heart, mind and 
imagination of man, even though the preternatural, which is now 
its popular sanction, should have to be given up.”f This work, 
which was felt to be one of great weight and whose influence is 
strongly marked in Prof. Seeley’s “Natural Religion,” was 
sharply criticised, and elicited a series of replies, perhaps among 
the most successful answers that have ever been made in 
literature, which, appearing in the Contemporary Review , were 
gathered together into one volume with the title of “ God and 
the Bible.” It was in these volumes that Mr. Arnold popularised 
the now celebrated definition of God as a “tendency not 
our. elves that makes for good.” The peculiar stand that 
Arnold took will be best explained by remembering his own 
words upon Spinoza written several years before : “By thus 
crowning the intellectual life with a sacred transport, by thus 
retaining in philosophy, amid the discontentented murmurs of 
all the army of atheism, the name of God, Spinoza maintains 
a profound affinity with that which is truest in religion, and 
inspires an indestructible interest. Side by side with this 
let us place his later utterance that “ the man who believes 
that his truth on religions matters is so absolutely the truth, 
that say it when, and where, and to whom he will, he 
cannot but do good with it, is in our day almost always a man 
whose truth is half blunder, and wholly useless.” § Matthew 
Arnold’s contribution to the religious question comes very 
nearly to a practical atheism thinly disguised under the name 
of God, defined as a 1 endcncy ; prayers are permissible, but their 
efficacy is not asserted ; the Gospel miracles and the resurrection 
of Christ are denied, while a personal immortality is denied by 
implication ; lastly the whole subject of Religion and the Bible 
is the occasion of two most sarcastic and eloquent volumes 
which will be ever valuable for their literary suggestiveness. 

* Preface “ Essays in Criticism.” 

t Preface to “ God and the Bible.” 

+ “ Essays in Criticism.” 

§ Preface to “ Literature and Dogma.” 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



In giving you an account of Mr. Arnold’s theories on social 
reform, I shall follow his own example, as I have done before, 
of quoting, wherever possible, from the author himself. Many 
of my extracts are noticeable for the dry humor of their style, 
and his words would hardly gain in point, to put it mildly, by 
condensation. The passages in which his views are given are 
scattered up and down his works, and I merely claim the credit 
of presenting them to you in a somewhat more accessible shape. 

After tracing the origin of the English to the fusion of three 
races, Germans, Celts and Normans, he proceeds to point out the 
elements of character distinctive of each : “The Germanic 
genius has steadiness as its main basis, with commonness and 
humdrum for its defect, fidelity to nature for its excellence. 
The Celtic genius, sentiment as its main basis, with love of 
beauty, charm and spirituality for its excellence, ineffectualness 
and self-will for its defect. The Norman genius, talent for 
affairs as its main basis, with strenuousness and clear rapidity 
for its excellence, hardness and insolence for its defect.”* To 
the fusion of these three elements he traces the defects in the 
English nature : “ If we had been all German, we might have 
had all the science of Germany ; if we had been all Celtic, we 
might have been popular and agreeable ; if we had been all 
Latinized, we might have governed Ireland as the French govern 
Alsace, without getting ourselves detested. But now we have 
Germanism enough to make us Philistines, and Norman ism 
enough to make us imperious, and Celtism enough to make us 
self-conscious and awkward ; but German fidelity to Nature, and 
Latin precision and clear reason, and Celtic quick-wittedness 
and spirituality, we fall short of.”* 

Having heard Matthew Arnold’s description of Eng- 
isliry in the mass we are in a possition to understand 
the three classes into which he divides the English peo- 
ple, viz., the Barbarians, the Philistines and the Populace, 
which I need hardly say correspond to the upper, middle and 
lower classes. “ All of us,” he notes, “ so far as we are 
Barbarians, Philistines or Populace, imagine happiness to con- 
sist in doing what one’s ordinary self likes 

The graver self of the Barbarian likes honors and consideration ; 
his more relaxed self, field-sports and pleasure. The graver self 
of one kind of Philistine likes business and money-making ; his 
more relaxed self, comfort and tea-meetings. Of another kind 
of Philistine, the graver self likes trades’ unions ; the relaxed 
self, deputations or hearing Mr. Odger speak. The sterner self 
of the Populace likes brawling, hustling and smashing; the 
lighter self, beer.”f 

Besides the mixture of natures that go to make up the 
Englishman, there are, Mr. Arnold points out, two causes that 
have led to the stunting and pauperizing of his nature. The 
first is his love of inequality : “ to him who will use his mind 
as the wise man recommends, surely it is easy to see that our 
short-comings in civilization are due to our inequality ; or, in 
other words, that the inequality of classes and property, which 
comes to us from the middle ages, and which we maintain 
because we have the religion of inequality, that this constitution 
of things, I say, has the natural and necessary effect, under 
present°circumstances, of materializing our upper class, vulgariz- 
ing our middle class, and brutalizing our lower class. And this 
is to fail in civilization.”]: To understand the second cause to 

which Mr. Arnold attributes our shortcomings, I must explain 
to you in a few words his theory of civilization. This, he asserts, 
consists in the due admixture of four elements or, in his 
own words, “ powers” which conduce to well-being. There is 
the power of conduct , of which the English are the highest 
expression ; the power of beauty , for which Italians are still pre- 
eminent ; the power of knowledge , the special heirloom of the 
Germans; and the power of social life and manners , in which 
the French excel even more than the Athenians. While these 
powers demand equable development, it is contended by 
Arnold that the emphasis given to the power of conduct has 
destroyed the prominence of the other equally important factors 
of civilization among the English. A few years after Shake- 



* “ The Study of Celtic Literature.” 
f “ Culture and Anarchy.” 

+ “ Equality.” Fort . Rev., March, 1878. 



speare’s days, Mr. Arnold is never tired of reiterating, “ the 
great English middle class, the kernel of the nation, entered the 
prison of Puritanism, and had the key turned on its spirit there 
for two hundred years.”* Hence the great need of our time 
is the transformation of the British Puritan. “ Our Puritan 
middle class presents a defective type of religion, .a narrow range 
of intellect and knowledge, a stunted sense of beauty, a low 
standard of manners, f” 

I should exhaust your patience if I attempted to repeat half 
of the clever and caustic criticism that Matthew Arnold passed 
upon the poor Puritan. “ Suppose we take the figure we know 
so well,” he writes, “ the earnest and noncomforming Liberal 
of our middle classes, as his schools and his civilization have 
made him. He is for disestablishment ; he is for temperance ; 
he has an eye to his wife’s sister ; he is a member of his local 
caucus ; he is learning to go up to Birmingham every year to 
the feast of Mr. Chamberlain. His inadequacy is but too visi- 
ble.”! The following is a picture of the transformed Puritan, 
in the clutches of the Ritualist. “ Who that watches the ener- 
gumens during the celebration of the communion at some 
Ritualistic church, their gestures and behaviour, the floor of the 
church strewn with what seem to be the dying and the dead, 
progress to the altar almost barred by forms suddenly dropping 
as if they were shot in battle, — who that observes this delight- 
ed adoption of vehement rites, till yesterday unknown, adopted 
and practised now with all that absence of tact, measure, and 
correct perception, all that slowness to see when they are 
making themselves rediculous, which belongs to the people of 
our English race, — who, I say, that sees this, can doubt, that 
for a not small portion of the religious community, a difficulty 
to the intelligence will for a long time yet be no difficulty at 
all V § Lastly we catch him again at the stamping-ground of 
Philistinism — the Social Science Congress. “ One can call up 
the whole scene. A great room in one of our dismal provincial 
towns ; dusty air and jaded afternoon daylight ; benches full of 
men with bald heads and women in spectacles ; an orator lifting 
up his face from a manuscript written within and without ; and 
in the soul of any poor child of nature, who may have wandered 
in thither, an unutterable sense of lamentation and mourning 
and woe.” || 

But I must now bid adieu to my subject, much as I should 
like to introduce you to the Puritan’s Palatine Library, or to the 
clever comparison of the relative merits of Milton and Eliza 
Cook. I will merely add one word in vindication of the stand 
that our author has taken, of his criticisms that have called forth 
volumes of abuse in good and bad English. With England, as 
with the rest of the world, there can be no such thing as 
finality. She must reform herself constantly, to keep in sympa- 
thy with the age. But unlike other nations, or with less ex- 
cuse than they could urge, England is full of anachronisms 
of a most glaring nature, a useless House of Peers, a State 
Church, a social system wherein the disparity between rich and 
poor is greater than in any civilised country in Europe, and 
greatest abuse of all, — England has possession of Ireland and 
seeks to retain it, in contempt of the will of the majority of its 
people, and in the face of the public opinion of Europe, by means 
of repression and martial law. Such a state of things cannot be 
permanent. England cannot, any more than Corcyra, hold her- 
self aloof from the modern spirit. And the modern spirit is 
awake almost everywhere else. “ The sense of want of corres- 
pondence,” writes our author, “ between the forms of modern 
Europe and its spirit, between the new wine of the eighteenth 
and nineteenth centuries, and the old bottles of the eleventh 
and twelfth centuries, or even of the sixteenth and seventeenth, 
almost everyone now perceives ; it is no longer dangerous to 
affirm that this want of correspondence exists ; people are even 
beginning to be shy of denying it. To remove this want 
of correspondence is beginning to be the settled endeavour of 
most persons of good sense.”* It is because the chief opposi- 

* “ Essays in Criticism.” 

t Irish Catholicism and British Liberalism. Fort . Rev., July, 1878. 

X “ An Eton Boy.” Fort. Rev., June, 1882. 

§ “ Literature and Dogma.” 

|| Preface to “ Poems of Wordsworth.” 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



tion in England to reform, in all its branches, comes from the 
great middle classes that Mathew Arnold has attempted to move 
them, has attempted to show that their standards of beauty, 
their religious ideas and their social prejudices are out of date 
and ridiculous. He has tried as one of them to emphasize the 
lesson that Paine embodied, some years ago, in his charming and 
suggestive work on England. As for Matthew Arnold himself, 
I cannot help regarding him as one of our great teachers, as a 
worthy successor to Ur. Johnson, to Burke, to Wordsworth, to 
Carlyle ; as one to whose utterances we should ever listen with 
attention. We may not accept them without criticism. If we 
did so, we should be no true pupils of the master. But we can 
all profit by them ; we can all of us recognize in him, what he 
has himself hailed with joy in others, a veritable voice and not 
a mere echo. 



A Letter. 

Montreal, Sunday, Nov., 1883. 
My Dear Hel : You have written me a very long letter, 
the sense of which is : are you a good boy, or are you the same 
as of old I am going to answer your question, although I 
would like first to ask why you want to know. However, I 
fancy that piece of information will cost me merely a tete-a-tete in 
the dark, the next time I see you. I am going to answer your 
questions by telling you about some of the people 1 know here. 

Ladies first, and facile princeps comes Katie, a young woman 
with beautiful teeth, a clear complexion, and the finest forearm 
you ever saw. She comes into my room every morning, and 
wakens me with a kiss that is like cold chicken — that is, there 
is a bit of tongue with it. By the way, Katie is a dog. 

Then there is Lucy, whom, you remember, I used to know 
last year, but found too young for me ; and now in a twelve- 
month she has grown enough to hold my five or six years’ 
superiority in great contempt. Lucy is a beauty and very 
charming ; for every once in a while she comes out with a bit 
of ignorance which keeps me amused for a week ; as, for 
instance, the other day, when she informed me that Christmas 
was held in honour of the Resurrection. Then, too, she keeps 
impressing on me (unconsciously, of course) how very little a 
girl need care for a man in order to run great risks for his sake. 
She is a very pious young woman, but her piety is like a 
palimpsest, a saint s life on top and a bit of Catullus underneath. 

I was talking to my brother about her the other night, and 
holding forth on the good I was doing her. He laughed, and 
said, “lour way of doing good to a girl is to implant virtue in 
her for three days of the week, then spend the other four in 
plucking it up to see if it has taken root.” 

Perhaps he is right. I remember when we were little boys 
we had a pup who used to anticipate the servants in mangling 
the governor’s shirts, for which I used to punish him ; but I 
always gave him a fresh chance at the linen to see if the 
whipping had done any good. 

I know another girl who is very different from the last, in 
every particular, except that she is pretty. She is— but here is 
a letter I got from her to-day : — 

Cher Ami,— Tu n’es plus le meme Arthur que je connaissais il y a deux 
ans, gar^on c harm an t et vraiment rigolo. Je suis porte'e k croire que tu es 
amoureux d une autre personne qui satisfait tous tes caprices, et alors tu ne 
penses plus h, ta Louise qui t aime encore. 

Pourquoi es-tu si indifferent b mon <%ard ? Je me suis demands si i’ai 
pu causer ta negligence ; ; niais bien au contraire j’ai tout fait pour te plaire. 
Je tfu cent, je suis alh'e te voir chez toi, et tu n’as pas eu la politesse de 
ren ™ e ma vlsl * ;e > tu ne m t ens plus, en un mot tu es un bien vilain garcon 
iliere are two or three pages more of such stuff, but I will 
spare your patience, and besides 1 want to go to town now. 

, W 1 rite to me soon, and, if this letter has not tired you out 
1 11 tell you about the men I know. 

Your ancient adorer, 
Arthur Fresh. 

ON NOSES. 

u Knows he that never took a pinch, 

Nosey, the pleasure thence which flows ; 

Knows he the titillating joy 
Which my nose knows ?” 

0 nose, I am as proud of thee 
As any mountain of its snows ! 

1 gaze on thee and feel that pride 

A Roman knows . Q. g t 



[1883. 



-Sporting 



On the 24th of October the Rugby Football Union of England 
held their annual meeting at the Westminster Palace Hotel. 
After the election of officers, the meeting was made special for 
the consideration of various proposed alterations in the laws 
with the following results : — 

Proposed, J. Maclaren (President), seconded, A. P>udd (Black- 
heath) — That Rule 19-20 be 19, and as follows : — “A maul in 
goal is when the ball is held inside the goal-line and one or more of 
the opposing side endeavour to touch it down. Those players oidy 
who are touching the ball with their hands when the maul 
begins, and then for so long only as they retain their hold, may 
continue in the maul. The ball shall be touched down where 
the maul is concluded ; and shall belong to the players of the side 
who first had possession of it before the maul began, unless the 
opposite side have gained entire possession of it, or unless it has 
escaped from the hold of all parties engaged, in which latter 
event it shall belong to the defending side. — Carried. Proposed, 
J. Maclaren (President) ; seconded, II. Vassall (Marlborough 
Nomads) : — That Rule 28 be 27, and the words omitted, “"or 
from a punt out or a punt on.” (See Rules 29 and 30.) That 
Rules 29, 30 be omitted. That rule 44 be 41, and the words 
omitted “ except in cases under rule 50.” That Rules 46, 47, 
48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, be two new rules, Nos. 43 and 44, to 
read (43) A side, having touched the ball down in their’ op- 
ponents goal, shall try at goal by a place-kick in the following 
manner— one of the players shall bring it up to the goal-line in 
a straight line (parallel to the touch-lines) from the spot where it 
was touched down (unless between the goal-posts, in which case 
he shall bring it up to either post), and there make a mark on 
the goal-line, and thence walk out with it in a line parallel to the 
touch-lines such distance as he thinks proper, and there place it 
for another of his side to kick.— Carried.— (44). The defending 
side may charge as soon as the ball touches the ground, the 
kicker’s side must remain behind the ball until the try has been 
decided. If a gaol be kicked, the game shall proceed as provided 
in Rule 40, present code; but if a goal be not kicked , or if the 
bringer out fail to make a mark on the goal-line, or allow any of 
his side to touch the ball before it has been kicked, the ball shall 
be dead forthwith and the game shall proceed by a kick-out, as 
provided in Rule 42, present code. — Carried. That Rule 54 be 

45, and the words omitted, “ The opposite side in case of a punt 
out or a punt on, and the kicker’s side in all cases may not charge 
until the ball has been kicked.” — Carried. That Rule 55-56 be 

46, as follows : — (46). In case of a fair catch the opposite side 
may come up to and charge from anywhere on or behind a line 
drawn through the mark made and parallel to the goal line. In 
all cases the kicker’s side must be behind the ball when it is 
kicked, and may not charge until it has been kicked. If after 
a fair catch more than one player of the attacking side touch the 
ball before it is kicked, the opposite side may charge forwith. — 
Carried. — London Daily News. 

Our Annual Football Match with Toronto University. 

The third annual contest between the two great Canadian 
l niversities was fixed for Saturday, November 3rd, and was 
eagerly looked forward to by the McGill men as the great match 
of the season. The following team represented McGill : — 
Lack, Hamilton, (captain) ; half-backs, Haythorne, Ogilvie, P. 
Robertson; quarter-backs, Johnson, A. W. Smith, Elder; 
forwards, Rogers, Hislop, Powne, Campbell, C. B. Smith, F. 

\Y . Robertson, 'Worthington and Kerry. They left for the 
Queen City on Thursday night, determined to repeat the 
victory of the two previous years, but the fates willed other- 
wise, as the sequel will show. 

Shortly after 3 o’clock on Saturday, on the beautiful lawn 
sloping down from the university, they faced the following 
team from the ’Varsity :— Backs, Smith, Macdonald; half” 
backs, Hughes and May; quarter-backs, A. Maclaren and 
Henderson; forwards, Wigle, (captain), Maclaren, Vickers, 
Boyd, Bruce, Duggan, McLean, Cronyn, Davidson. The 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1883.] 



umpires were -.—Toronto University, Mr. A. H. Campbell ; 
McGill, Mr. J. Hague ; referee, Mr. O. Morphy. 

The teams looked evenly matched, and the spectators ex- 
pected a well-contested match. McGill won the toss, and 
played with the wind which was blowing freshly. At first the 
game looked rather blue for McGill, whose forwards had not 
wakened up to the quick scrimmage game played by their 
opponents. A rouge by McGill was quickly followed by a 
touch for Toronto, obtained by Hughes, but Bruce failed to kick 
a goal. After this, McGill warmed up to the work, and never 
this season has the team played so well. Powne and Robert- 
son, of the forwards, made repeated rushes up the field, while 
the quarter-backs did some brilliant passing and tackling. 
Ogilvie, of McGill, got hurt at this point, and had to leave the 
field ; and in accordance with the agreement between the 
captains before the match began, a Toronto man retired. 
Fourteen to fourteen, at it they went again, and the plucky 
little McGill quarter-back, Johnson, showed how he could 
squirm through between the players, carrying the ball well up 
field several times. From a scrimmage well down on the 
Toronto goal line, Elder made a neat catch, which was at 
once converted into a goal by Hamilton. In a few minutes 
half time was called, leaving the ’Varsity one point ahead. 
Just before the intermission, one of the Toronto men got hurt, 
and Hamilton asked Wigle if he would have any objection to 
replace the man just hurt by the player who had been put off 
for Ogilvie, and so keep the number on either side up to four- 
teen. Wigle consented, and the second half was begun, both 
teams going at it with vigor. After playing for a short time, 
McGill discovered that a fresh game had been played upon 
them by the wily ’Varsity men who, instead of putting on the 
man they had agreed to, had run in a man who had not been 
playing bafore } about whom there was some doubt of his even 
being a student. When taxed with this “ breach of promise,” 
the ’Varsity captain simply smiled blandly, refused flatly to 
put on the man he agreed to, and insisted on the original 
agreement of putting off a man for every one injured on the 
other side. This uncourteous action was felt all the more by 
the McGill men, because it was quite unlooked for from a club 
who had always hitherto played such a gentlemanly game with 
them. 

The second half was commenced over again, and Robertson, 
by a good run, brought the scrimmage close to the Toronto goal 
line, and while the McGill backs were more intent on getting 
a drop kick than on watching their men, by a pretty piece of 
passing, Henderson secured the ball, and by one of the finest 
runs ever made on a football field, touched it down behind 
McGill’s goals. From this Bruce kicked a goal. After this, 
some fine passing was done by the McGill men, and their half- 
backs punted well. Hamilton took one of his drop kicks at 
Toronto goals, and the ball went just under the bar, forcing 
his opponents to rouge it. McGill was now getting the best of 
the play, but in rapid succession, two more of the ’Varsity men 
were put hors do combat , leaving the teams eleven to eleven. 
The ’Varsity captain was himself at a loss to explain how so 
many of his men were being hurt in a match which could not be 
called a rough one, and judging from the manner in which the 
“ battered and disabled veterans” could rush around and cheer 
for their side, we doubt if even they could in every instance 
tell where the sore spot was. 

Back and forward again went the ball, the superiority of the 
’Varsity’s scrimmage being more than counter-balanced by the 
quick passing and splendid kicking of the McGill forwards and 
backs respectively. At last, just in front of Toronto goals, A. W. 
Smith made his mark for a free kick. As this would almost 
certainly have resulted in another goal for McGill, it was bitterly 
disputed by the Toronto umpire. To give the referee his due, 
he evidently wanted to give a fair decision in the matter, but 
unfortunately he allowed himself to be dictated to by the 
umpire, and decided that no free kick could be taken, because 
Smith had started to run before he made his mark. Play being 
resumed, Smith again obtained a free kick, which Hamilton 
failed to' convert into a goal. McGill rushed in after the ball 



which was muffed by the ’Varsity men in their attempts to 
rouge it, and Worthington secured a touch for McGill. Again 
our men had to sutler for the ’Varsity umpire’s decision, sanc- 
tioned by the referee, which was that time had been called 
while Hamilton was taking his kick. And this in spite of the 
fact that they stated there was one minute more when 
Hamilton went to take the kick, and the rule which says that 
time cannot be called until the ball is dead. This ended the 
match, the score standing 16 to 9 in favor of Toronto. The one 
distinguishing feature of this game was the quickness of play all 
around — none of the old style of forming up a regular scrimmage, 
and shoving for two or three minutes. The ball was always put 
down at once , and thus the game was rendered much more lively. 
Again, though the two umpires never ceased disputing, the 
utmost good feeling prevailed among the players. Contrasting 
the two teams, it struck an onlooker that the ’Varsity men had 
by far the best scrimmage, while McGill had the advantage in 
kicking and punting. This was especially noticeable in the 
excellent manner in which they would punt the ball into touch. 
The tackling was very sharp and even on both sides. Where 
all played so well, it would be invidious to particularize. 

Every attention was shown the McGill team during their stay 
by their opponents, and after the match the latter entertained 
them at a sumptuous dinner in the Rossin House, and kindly 
came down to the train to see them off. We trust we shall be 
pardoned if we ask the ’Varsity men to explain a few facts 
regarding the match. 1st. How did they allow two of their 
best men (Duggan and Boyd) to play against them on the 
Toronto club the Saturday before ? Messrs. Duggan and Boyd 
must have hard feelings towards their Alma Mater to help 
to inflict such a crushing defeat as that of Oct. 27th on her 
Football team. 2nd. How do the ’Varsity men reconcile their 
attempt to put on a fresh player in the middle of a match with 
the courtesy due to a visiting club from a sister University ? 
and how do they justify their refusal to put on the man they 
had only a few minutes before agreed to, after their “ pious 
fraud ” was discovered ? 

No one wishes more than we do, that the friendly spirit, 
which has always existed between Toronto and McGill, should 
be kept up, and therefore we hope that a satisfactory explana- 
tion of the above points will be forthcoming in the next number 
of the ’ Varsity. In future we hope that no such arrangements 
as were agreed to in this match will be made by the Captains, 
for they seem to us not to be in accordance with recognised 
rules. 

McGill vs. Montreal Garrison Artillery. — On the afternoon 
of Thursday, Nov. 8th, McGill played a match game with the 
Garrison Artillery. Of the McGill team, only seven of the 
first fifteen played, the remainder being chosen from other mem- 
bers of the club. The Artillery had a stronger and heavier 
team, but all through the game showed great want of practice. 

First half. — McGill seemed to have the best of the game 
from the first. In about five minutes time, the Artillery were 
forced to rouge twice. After the ball was brought out by the 
Artillery, Hamilton made a long kick, which was closely followed 
up by Holden, who got the ball and ran behind the goal, secur- 
ing a try for McGill. A goal was kicked by Hamilton. This 
was followed by another rouge for McGill, when time was 
called. 

Second half. — This was merely a repetition of the first half. 
McGill having the best of the game during the whole time. 

Two touch-downs and three rouges were scored for McGill 
to nothing for the Artillery. 

This concluded the game, which stood : McGill, one goal, 

two touch-downs and six “rouges.” Artillery, nothing. 

Holden, Brown, Huntingdon, Darey, and Costigan, of the 
McGill team, played a very good game throughout. 

Montreal vs. McGill. — The second match for the champion- 
ship cup between the above teams was played on Saturday, 
Nov. 10th, on the Cricket grounds. 

It was undoubtedly the best match of the season, being very 
closely contested qnd resulting in a draw. The grounds, 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



although in by no means good condition, were much better than 
when the last match was played. 

At the end of the first three-quarters, both sides had been 
forced to “rouge” three times, and at the end of the second, 
the Montrealers had three rouges in their favour. 

No goal or touch down was secured by either side, so the 
match was decided a draw in favour of Montreal, by three 
rouges. 

Both teams were in better condition than when they last 
met. McGill especially showed marked improvement in its 
play. It would be hard to say which side had the best of it 
in the scrimmage, so evenly were they matched. Of the 
McGill forwards, who all deserve great credit, the play of 
Powne was especially noticeable. Elder, P. Robertson, C. B. 
Smith and Hislop, also did very good work for McGill. 

Lacrosse is becoming quite a favorite game at Yale. 

The President of the Yale Foot-ball Club asks the students 
to subscribe $1,000 towards its funds, and feels confident they 
will. 

Wright <fc Ditson, of Boston, are making a new style of 
uniform for the Harvard football team. One of the features 
will be an elastic back for the jacket, which will give with 
every motion of the body. — Yale News. 

On Saturday last, 6th November, the Medical Students were 
victorious in a game of baseball against the Theologians. A 
game with the “ Clippers,” of Point St. Charles, was not 
finished, as the latter Club retreated ignominiously from the 
field. 



(Solletje USorliL 



McGILL. 

The students' night at the Academy on October 31st was a 
decided success. At about a quarter past seven a dense crowd of 
men, who had determined to be there before their friends, 
had assembled inside the Academy doors. This crowd was 
soon augmented by about a hundred and fifty more students, 
and what a grand rush there was to get in ! Between the acts 
the students helped matters on by singing the college songs, and, 
to the delight of the audience, they were not able to spare any of 
their programmes for artillery purposes. The play was very 
well put on, and the celebrated actress having received, with 
smiles and bows, the customary students' bouquets, (which were 
about two feet in diameter), every one went home, more or less 
quietly, after indulging in the usual serenade. 

A View of the Laurentian Formation. 

The trip to the township of Grenville, which the members of 
the class in Mineralogy and Geology, had been for some time 
anxiously awaiting, and which had to be once postponed on ac- 
count of the weather, came off on the 27th ult., and was, pro- 
bably in every respect, a greater success than any of those of 
previous years. 

Seventeen embryo geologists from the Arts and' Science Facul- 
ties with Dr. Harrington mustered, at an early hour on Saturday 
morning, at the depot of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and soon 
all were comfortably seated in one of the Company's new cars, 
and were being rapidly carried to the region of pure air and 
beautiful scenery. Calumet Station, distant 61 miles from 
Montreal, was reached about 10 a.m. There the prospecting com- 
pany left the train, and proceeded, with intense eagerneS and 
jubilant spiiits to climb the steep hills of gneiss and 
limestone in the direction of the mica mine. 

New hammers, still untarnished, were freely wielded, and 
scarcely a boulder or ledge was passed that did not receive’more 
than one badly aimed blow. Old Dame Nature, who has got 
the task of disintegrating the rocks on the hills and of deposit^ 
them in the valleys, should have felt grateful for so much aid! 

About noon, many of the party discovered appetite in an or- 
ganic formation. A halt was called and luncheon was par- 
taken of in true engineering style. As in all such parties, the 
indolent stretched themselves on the turf, the industrious, 



gathered sticks and built a fire, while the bold and reckless made 
a raid on the farmer's dairy. 

It was immediately after luncheon that the “Vise ” man of 
Science discovered an old, well-used calumet, supposed to have 
belonged to the Iroquois chief, Thiandulega, and having filled 
it with a brown material, proceeded to illustrate an old custom 
of the natives, while seated aiound their council fires. 

Very little time elapsed before the company were again on the 
march. Each outcrop along the route was observed until the 
mine was reached. It is impossible to describe the hammering, 
picking and scratching that then occurred. Crystals of pyroxene 
were in great demand. Fortunes were made, but none lost. 
The Doctor, wishing to leave some of the rock behind, called 
each busy toiler off, and started in double quick time towards 
the graphite mine. It resembled the game of “ Hare and 
Hounds.” How the stones in the large satchels did rattle as 
the company trotted after him ! Pyroxene and ginger cake were 
conglomerating. It is needless to say that the “ hare ” was not 
caught. 

Upon arriving at the mine the process of collecting was renewed 
and kept up till a late hour, when all started on the final heat 
to Calumet Station. The shades of evening were falling over 
the landscape, and a sense of fatigue and excessive hunger was 
beginning to be felt by each member ere the little station house 
came in sight, but the excellent supper to which the Doctor 
kindly invited the whole party, and which was found awaiting 
their return at the Calumet House, completely restored their 
drooping spirits. 

The ride home was enjoyed to the full, and was made more 
pleasant by the entrance into the car, at Lachute, of a large num- 
ber of ladies, who were returning from the Teachers' Convention. 
How willingly the tired students vacated their seats ! It was a 
deed of self-denial, unprecedented in the history of railroad 
travelling, and deserves to be recorded. The Eozoon Canadense 
was forgotten, and attention was immediately turned to the 
higher and more beautiful animal typ^ s of the modern age. 

All who went returned thoroughly satisfied with the trip, and 
unanimous in the opinion that the best method of obtaining a 
knowledge of mineralogy and geology is by observations in the 
field under the direction of such an obliging and enthusiastic 
professor as McGill possesses in Dr. Harrington. The ringin* 
cheers which greeted the latter while leaving the car expressed 
forcibly, yet only partially, the thanks of the members of the 
class to their professor. 

Students of the fourth year Arts, who have taken profes- 
sional exemptions, may now, according to a new regulation of 
the Faculty, take a first-class degree, provided they pass all their 
examinations in the first class. By the old regulations, no mat- 
ter how well a student taking these exemptions passed his ex- 
aminations, he could not take a first-class degree. 

Together with the books which Mr. Peter Redpath lately 
presented to the library was an exact facsimile of the chest in 
which the Domesday book was kept. This chest, which can be 
seen in the library, is of wood, lined, within and without, with 
heavy sheets of iron, and further strengthened on the outside 
by being banded with iron bands and studded with great nails. 

1 he chest is three feet three inches long, two feet three inches 
w ide, and two feet one inch high. The cover, which is joined 
to the chest by iron hinges, projects four inches beyond the 
front and sides. The interior is divided into two compartments 
of unequal size, the smaller having a cover. Three padlocks 
secure the chest from being rifled of its contents. 

The following notes are taken from the article in the Domes- 
day Book, in the Encyclopaedia Britanniea. Domesday Book, 
or simply Domesday, is, in its commonest use, the name 
applied to the Liber de Wfintona , or exchequer Domesday. A 
very ancient record containing a survey of all the lands of Eng- 
land, made in the reign of William the Conqueror. It consists 
of two volumes a greater and a less. The first is a large folio, 
written on 382 double pages of vellum in a small but plain 
character, each page having a double column. Some of the 
capital letters and principal passages are touched with red ink, 
and some have strokes of red ink across them, as if scratched 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY CAZETTE. 



9 



out. The second volume is in quarto, written upon 450 double 
pages of vellum, but in a single column, and in a large but very 
fair character. * * * * It was formerly kept at West- 

minster, with the king’s seal, by the side of the Tally Court in 
the Exchequer, under three locks, in the charge of the auditor, 
the chamberlains, and deputy chamberlains of the Exchequer. 

In 1696 it was deposited among other valuable records in the 
Chapter House. It is now kept beneath a strong glass case in 
the Public Record Office, where it can be consulted without 
payment of any fee. * * * * In 1783 Domesday Book 

was published in two volumes; and in 1816 a volume of indices 
was printed by the Record Commission, to which a valuable 
general intoduction was prefixed. Within the last few years, the 
whole of Domesday has been issued in parts, each part compris- 
ing a county ; and printed by the process of photozincography 
under the superintendence of Mr. W. B. Sanders, one of the 
assistant keepers of public records. 

We understand that an exact facsimile of the Domesday 
Book is being prepared ; and it is to be presumed that Mr. Red- 
path intends supplementing his donation of the chest by the 
gift of this facsimile. 

University Literary Society. 

Mr. Doherty, President, presided at the usual meeting on 2d 
Nov., when there were about 18 members and one or two 
visitors present. Mr. Boodle thanked the Society for electing 
him a member of the General Council. The following question 
was discussed, “ Ought Chinese Immigration to British Colum- 
bia be restricted.” The appointed speakers were : Affirmative, 
Messrs. W. F. Ritchie and A. G. Cross ; Negative, Messrs. A. 
R. Ouglitred and E. A. D. Morgan. In the absence of Mr. 
Ritchie, Mr. Kavanagh opened the debate. The following gen- 
tlemen also spoke ; for the Affirmative, Messrs. Boodle, Mc- 
Kenzie and Smith ; for the Negative, Messrs. Barnard and Mur- 
ray. The decision was in favor of the Negative. The discus- 
sion throughout was lively, but many of the speakers spoke too 
discursively, one gentleman, notably, going out of his way to 
discuss the opium question. Mr. Boodle, after the discussion, 
called attention to the fact that most of the members of the 
Society were lawyers, and that many graduates made this 
excuse for not attending. The President very truly pointed out 
that this state of affairs was not due to any action of the 
lawyers, but that in fact those gentlemen of whom Mr. Boodle 
spoke, in excusing accused themselves. Mr. Cross gave notice 
that at the next meeting he would move that the Society pro- 
ceed with the election of speakers for the next public debate. 

At the meeting on the 9th Nov. there were about 15 mem- 
bers present. The election of speakers for the next public 
debate was postponed on motion of Mr. Cross, seconded by Mr. 
Boodle until the 16th, because the Corresponding Secretary had 
omitted to mention on the notices of the meeting that such 
election would take place. Mr. Boodle, seconded by Mr. Mc- 
Kenzie, proposed Mr. W. C. Davie, of Cambridge University, 
as a member of the Society. Mr. Boodle read a paper on 
« Matthew Arnold,” which we publish in extenso in this num- 
ber 4 As will be seen it is more descriptive of his style and 
writings than critical. Mr. E. W. Artliy then spoke in an able 
way upon the poetical aspect of the subject, criticising. Mr. 
Arnold’s rather paradoxical definition of poetry as “ a criticism 
of life.” Mr. McGoun in a depreciative and satirical tone laid 
bare the want of practical qualities in Mr. Arnold’s character. Mr. 
Barnard followed. He prefaced his remarks by the statement that 
he had never read Mr. Arnold’s writings, and the statement was 
fully borne out by his highly amusing speech. Mr. Boodle, in re- 
plying devoted his remarks principally to showing the error into 
which Mr. McGoun fell in judging Mr. Arnold by the standard 
of politicians. He is not a politician, but a philosopher. An 
informal discussion about the choosing of the subject of debate 
for next ni (T ht ensued. Mr. McGoun moved that the following 
question be selected : “ Should the existence of National So- 
cieties he encouraged,” and that the speakers be : Affirmative, 
Messrs. Greenshields and McKenzie ; Negative, Messrs. Hague 
and Murray It was moved in amendment by Mr. Murray, 
that the matter be left to the Council. The amendment was 



lost by the casting vote of the Chairman. The main motion 
was was then carried. 

Programme. 

Friday, 14th Dec.— Public Debate. The subject and speakers will be ar- 
ranged later on. . _ T 0 . , . 

Friday, 10th Nov.— “ Should the existence of distinctive National Societies 
in Canada be encouraged?” — Affirmative: Messrs. P. Mackenzie, 

R. Greenshields; Negative: Messrs. F. Hague, J. R. Murray. 

Friday, 23rd— Essay, Mr.H.H. Lyman, “On the Treaties affecting Canada. 
Discussion to be introduced by Messrs. C. J. Doherty and VV. J?. 
Ritchie. A , , 

Friday, 30th— “ Ought the Dominion Government to take into its hands- 
the management of the telegraph.” — Affirmative : Messrs. A. W. 

Atwater and L. T Leet ; Negative : Messrs. J. S. Archibald and J. 
Cameron. „ T . 

Friday, 7th Dec. —Essay, Mr. A. E. Barnard, “ Divorce Question. Dis 
cussion to be introduced by Messrs. C. J. Brooke and C. Smith. 

Undergraduates Literary Society. 

At the meeting of this Society, on November 2nd, a humour- 
ous reading was given by Mr. Lochhead, after which the ques- 
tion whether the present tendency of the stage is to immorality or 
not was discussed. The affirmative side was supported by Messrs. 
Rogers, Clements, and Blackwood ; while the negative was de- 
fended by Messrs. H. McLennan, Davies and Turner. As in 
most of the debates of this Society, the speeches were marked 
by fluency ; and we are glad to be able to say there was some 
evidence of preparation. The new members, who spoke, and to 
whose speeches most attention was paid, as is natural, are likely 
to prove acquisitions to the Society, if we may judge by their 
efforts at this meeting. The most noticeable feature of the 
debate was undoubtedly the exhibition of prejudice due to a 
narrow religious training, which the discussion evoked. To us, 
who supposed the education given by a university the best 
means of overcoming such prejudice, this was a great surprise. 

At the meeting of last Friday, there was a full programme 
for the first time this session. Mr. Turner read an essay, and 
Mr. Hargraves gave a reading. The question for debate was, 

“ Resolved, that the destruction of the Ottoman empire in 
Turkey would be of benefit to Europe.” The affirmative speakers 
were Messrs. Unsworth, Lochhead and Livingstone ; and their 
opponents, Messrs. Mackay, Calder and J. P. Gerrie. This 
debate was certainly one of the best in the history of the society ; 
all the speakers had prepared themselves well, and each showed 
he had made an earnest attempt to grasp the whole subject, 
difficult and complicated though it was. It was remarkable 
that the time allotted to the speakers was insufficient. As this 
must always be the case, when the speakers are well prepared, 
we would suggest that the number of speakers be in future 
reduced to four, and the limit of time be either done away with 
or considerably extended. This would also lighten the difficul- 
ties of the special committee, since naturally it is easier to get 
four speakers than six. Another suggestion we would offer is 
that the special committee, in choosing subjects for debate, should 
not restrict themselves, as heretofore, to topics relating to Canada 
and the United States. With these all the students have a 
superficial acquaintance from their newspaper reading, and they 
have usually relied upon the knowledge thus acquired, when 
called upon to discuss the subjects selected by the special com- 
mittee. Now, if the committee choose questions relating to 
European politics or historical events, the speakers appointed 
to debate them will be forced to prepare themselves by reading 
beforehand, 
tion of the members. 

Faculty of Law. 

Professor Lareau presided at the Moot Court which sat on 
Friday the 2nd. November, at five o’clock, when the following 
case was discussed : — The plaintiff, an hypothecary creditor, 
having obtained judgment against the defendant, caused an ex- 
ecution to issue against the immovables hypothecated in his 
favor. The opposant, who was lessee of the said premises un- 
der a notarial lease for a year, duly registered, filed an opposition 
ajin de charge founded on his lease prior to the seizure. The 
plaintiff now contests the opposition by a defense en droit. 
Question: — Can the contestation be maintained? 

Judgment for the plaintiff. 

For the plaintiff', Mr. Buchan ; for the opposant, Mr. N. T. 
Rielle, B. A. 



We commend these suggestions to the considera- 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1883 . 



Students’ Religious Meetings are held every Sunday afternoon 
during the winter from 4.30 to 5.30, in the Y.M.G.A. rooms on 
Victoria Square. They are for students only. The card reads 
“for Students of Law Arts, App. Sc. and Medical College. They 
are conducted by students. At the two which have already been 
held about 25 were present. November 18— “An Example in 
Christian Courage,” Dan. ix, 10-17 ; John xvi, 33; 2 Cor. iv, 
17, S. W. Boone. November 25—“ The Secret of a Happy 
Life,” Psalm xci, W. M. Donald. 

McGill Medical Society. 

At the third meeting on November 3, Mr. W. G. Johnston 
read a paper upon “The causes of death in Typhoid fever,” and 
Mr. McMeekin reported a most interesting obstetric case in 
which the death rate was 200 per cent. A lively discussion 
followed, about the causes of this great mortality. The attend- 
ance at the meetings has greatly improved this session, and 
it is to be hoped that there will not be any relapse. Measures 
were adopted by the meeting to improve the reading room 
facilities. 

Mr. J. P. Mclnerny has gone to represent McGill at the 
Undergraduates’ Annual Dinner of the Toronto School of 
Medicine. Mr. W. A. Ferguson will go to Queen’s 
College, Kingston, on a similar festive errand on the 22nd inst. 
We are much pleased to notice a most decided “boom” in 
intercollegiate hospitalities among our Canadian Medical 
Schools. The more the merrier. Our fellow Meds of Kingston 
and the Toronto School have shown us attentions which we 
hope soon to return in kind when our ship comes in and casts 
anchor at the Windsor. We may congratulate ourselves that 
our delegates are representatives of McGill in every sense of the 
word ; in short : 

“ Ambo caerulco nasi viri arcades ambo , 

Et cantare pares et respondere parati.” 

P. g. — At the last moment Mr. Ferguson has backed out and 
all our Latin is wasted. 

Note. — In the list of subscribers to the track, published in 
our last, the names Lerrice, Coultlee and Bishop ought to have 
been Gerrie, Cantlie and Hislop. 

GENERAL. 

Laval has a University Company in the reorganized 9th 
Quebec Volunteers. This makes the fifth company of under- 
graduates in the two Provinces of Quebec and Ontario. In 
Toronto, “ K ” company of the Queen’s Own Rifles is composed 
wholly of students of University College. In Belleville, Albert 
has a company in the 15'tli Argyle Light Infantry. In Kings- 
ton, Queen’s has a somewhat nonedescript company of its own 
unattached to any battalion. In Montreal, Laval has lately got 
a company in the 65th Rifles. 

The number of papers published by Harvard students has 
this year been reduced to three — the Lampoon , the Advocate , 
and the Ilcrald- Crimson. 

A Subscription to the football team of five dollars entitles 
any member of the University to a ticket admitting him to all 
games played in Cambridge. — Harvard Herald. 

A Bill recently passed the New Hampshire Legislature 
granting $5,000 a year to Dartmouth for the aid of indigent 
students. — Yale News. 

The Yale News publishes a list of nine associations, seven 
institutions and eight publications to which the students are 
expected to subscribe. 

The whole number of students in colleges of the United 
States is over 32,000. There are 7,060 American students 
attending the German universities. — Ex. 

Two hundred thousand dollars has been subscribed to found 
a Catholic college at Chicago. — Ex. 

Los Angelos, Cal., is to have a female college after the plan 
of Vassar. — Ex. 

The freshman class at Harvard numbers 387, the largest 
which has ever matriculated. Last year they had about 1,600 
students in all. Ann Arbor came next in rank, having 1,534. 



Dr. McCosh is organizing a new School of Philosophy at 
Princeton, and has issued a request for $200,000 for this 
purpose. 

President Seely, of Amherst, declares that he considers 
a student should not prosecute a scientific course of studies 
without first having a good knowledge of the classics. 

The necessary expense of a year’s education at Vassar is 
about $500, while at Harvard it is $800. 

Among the fifty candidates for degrees in the School of 
Physicians at Dublin two were girls, one of whom surpassed all 
other competitors. 

In six years, John Hopkins University has turned out over 
one hundred college professors. 

The student who passes the best entrance examination at 
Brown receives $3,000. 

It is said that two of Longfellow’s daughters are going to 
England to enter Newnham College. 

The movement for the establishment of the college for North 
Wales, towards the maintenance of which an annual grant has 
been promised by Government, has for some time been very 
quiescent, and, although Bangor was several weeks ago selected 
as its locale , no steps have been taken towards the acquirement 
of a site. 

The income of the University of Oxford, England, is 
$290,000 a year. 

The entries of freshmen at the various colleges of Cambridge 
University, England, this year exceed those of 1882 by 51, the 
numbers being 716 and 767 respectively. The name of Prince 
Edward of Wales heads the list at Trinity. 

The Endowment Fund of Queen’s College, Kingston, amounts 
to $87,821.78, and the Building Fund to $38,858.53. 

Professor Jowett, Master of Balliol, Oxford, and translator 
of “ Plato’s Dialogues,” has written to President Eliot, of 
Harvard, urging that some arrangements be made in regard to 
American students going to Oxford. 

Ex-Senator Dorsey, of Star route notoriety, has given 
$5,000 to the University of New Mexico. 

At the Queen’s College sports this year one competitor carried 
off eight first prizes. The same gentleman had a similar success 
last year. Queen’s men are jubilant over their winning the 
football match with the cadets. 

General Sir Fenwick Williams, whose death occurred dur- 
ing the summer, was for some time a student of King’s College, 
Windsor, N.S. 

Mrs. Robert Stuart, of New York, has donated $150,000 
toward the establishment of a school of philosophy in Princeton 
College. 

There are thirty-nine students in the Arts Faculty of the 
University of Manitoba, and ten in the Faculty of Theology. 

Amherst is building a new gymnasium. It will contain a 
track and private dressing and bath rooms. 

“ The Dartmouth ” warns the freshmen of the College against 
“ the infinite folly, and worse than folly, of working merely for 
marks.” 

The class of ’83 took out several of the best men of the 
Dartmouth Football Club. 

Professor Jowett has been re-elected Vice-Chancellor of 
Oxford University. 

Lord Re ay, in the first week of October last, opened a new 
college at Morningside, near Edinburgh, with an address on 
“ Secondary Education,” which the institution has been estab- 
lished to promote. 

The new University College for South Wales was opened on 
the 24th of October by Lord Aberdare, who, in the course of 
his inaugural address, gave a history of Welsh civilization and 
culture, and of the movement which culminated in the estab- 
lishment of the college. 

For a long time the patronage of the drama was viewed 
almost as a sin at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge in 



1883] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



England. Even amateur performances by the students were 
looked upon with disfavor. But a new era now appears to have 
dawned. Under the liberal rule of Prof essor J owe tt, the Oxford 
students are now attacking such plays as “ The Merchant of 
Venice,” and the “Vic” Theatre, well known to old Oxonians 
as the scene of many a riot and unlimited uproar, is again 
re-opened in term-time, and the “ Shakespearean and English 
Comedy Company ” is now giving English plays in it. 'The 
company has been organized by Mr. F. Benson, who made a 
reputation a few years ago as Clytemnestra in the “ Agamem- 
non.” — N. Y. Tribune. 

In the Yale Neivs of October 26 were printed the names of 
students in the last class graduated at Yale, giving their 
present pursuits. It was an excellent exhibition of journalistic 
enterprise. The article includes 125 names. Fifty-eight are 
still studying, one theology, eleven medicine and thirty-six law. 
Fifteen are “in business,” and one “expects” to be. Journal- 
ism and surveying each claim four. Ten men are “studying” 
and eighteen are teaching. Two men are “ said to be going on 
a ranch,” and two are looking out for their health. Fourteen 
men are loafing in this country and in Europe ; one is in 
Vienna, one is “studying French” in Paris, another is in Chili, 
while another is enjoying the free and easy airs of Texas, and 
his chum is modestly put down as “at home.” One man 
is preaching up in Greenfield, and another is helping to run 
the Chinese consulate in New York, while his chum is peddling 
books. And the noble band of drummers claims two graduates. 
— Chicago News. 

The number of matriculants at Victoria University is the 
largest that has ever been enrolled. In the Arts course, 
besides specialists, thirty-two students have obtained admission 
to the freshman class, while two others have been admitted to 
sophomore standing on ad eundrm certificates. In the LL.B. 
course, there are also two new matriculants. 

A Correspondent of the Springfield Republican says that in 
the matter of education many improvements have been made in 
Mexico within the last few years. Attendance upon the public 
schools is compulsory, and the “ no royal ” road to learning is 
entirely free. Facilities are also given to young men who show 
an aptitude for higher education in the Collegio-Civil or State 
College of Monterey, where they are graduated in the various 
professions. The College is domiciled in a fine edifice fronting 
the Cinco de Mayo Plaza. Degrees are there conferred in law, 
medicine, pharmacy, civil engineering and commercial studies. 

In 1611, Sir Thomas Knyvet, of Ashwell Thorp, in Norfolk, 
sent his grandson Thomas to Emmanuel College, Cambridge ; 
and we may suppose that the young man’s dignity would 
require to be kept up at a little more expense than that of a 
plain country squire’s son. Yet from the correspondence that 
passed between Lady Knyvet and the tutor, Mr. Elias Travers, 
which has been preserved to us in the hitherto unpublished 
Gawdy manuscript, it appears that £40 was his yearly 
allowance, and that this sum was expected to cover everything. 
It is true that the “ house of pure Emmanuel ” (which is not 
now considered a particularly fast college) was noted in those 
days for its Puritan doctrines and precise discipline. The tutor 
rejoices that young Knyvet will find no example of gaming set 
him there, and the statutes expressly forbade hunting and the 
wearing of great ruffs, both symptoms of what Mr. Travers calls 
“ the humorous lust of boastful expense.” From these letters 
we gather the following miscellaneous facts : — Winter quarters 
were more expensive than others, and the “ excessive rate of 
things” made it difficult for the youth, though studiously 
inclined, to keep within his “stint” of allowance. The rent 
of his chamber, to be divided between himself and his chamber 
fellow, was only 12s. a year, and 7s. 4d. supplied him with coal 
and candles from the end of long vacation till the beginning of 
March (1614-15). But perhaps the most interesting document 
is a more or less complete half-yearly account of young Kny vet’s 
outgoings, ordinary and extraordinary. Of this I will now give 
an analysis, and wish I could print side by side with it as 
perfect a statement of some other undergraduate’s bills, let us 
say for the years 1715 and 1815. “ Commons” for six months 



amount to £2 10s.; “Sising” for the same period, £3 9s. 6d.; 
light and firing (as already mentioned), 7s. 4d.; and, among 
minor items, we have cash advanced to him by his tutor on 
two separate occasions, £1 Is.; his hatter’s bill, 2s. 6d.; two 
pairs of cuffs, Is. 2d.; incidental expenses, £1, and a contribu- 
tion toward the entertainment of King James I., on his visit to 
the University of that year, of 7s. The one act of extravagance 
appears in the following six items, which are marked in the 
margin as Mr. Cradock’s little bill for things got at Sturbridge 
Fair : — Four dozen of long buttons, 8s. 8d.; black galoun lace, 
Is. 3d.; three dozen of black buttons, Is.; colored silk (half 
ounce), 2s. 4d.; a satin collar, 9s.; a yard of green cotton, 
2s. 6d. With his chamber rent the total only amounts to the 
modest sum of £9 3s. 7£d . — The Gentleman’s Magazine. 

The annual reports of the Provost and Treasurer of the 
University of Pennsylvania, just issued, show that this 
important institution has been singularly successful during the 
past year. The various courses of studies have been modified 
and improved, so that at the present time nine elective courses 
are offered to students, each of which contains a suitable 
combination of studies useful in preparing the student for 
some practical calling. The Faculties of the several schools 
have been consolidated into one College Faculty. The vacancies 
in the Faculty have been filled by the election of able men. 
Two friends of the University have contributed $20,000 to 
found a Veterinary School, for which a handsome building is 
being erected. A number of endowments have been made, 
notably that of * the Chair of Philosophy by the late Henry 
Seybert, Esq., amounting during the past year to $142,782.26. 
Despite these large benefactions, and the gratifying increase in 
fees received for tuition, the liberal provisions and large 
advances made by the University in its Academic and Scientific 
courses result in a serious annual deficit, as shown by the 
Treasurer’s report. An earnest appeal is made to the liberality 
of the friends of education for such further endowments as 
will secure the high position already taken, and make possible 
further advances by the venerable, yet awakened and vigorous, 
institution represented in this report. — Ex. 

Acadia College, Wolfville, N.B„ is the first college in the 
Dominion of Canada to appoint a Professor of “The Principles 
and Practice of Education.” This is eminently a progressive 
action. It is one of the most important steps in the interest of 
general education that has been taken in Canada for many 
years. The advanced universities of Germany, for many years, 
have ranked “Pedagogics” along with other departments of 
higher knowledge. More recently, Chairs of Education have 
been founded in the Universities of London, Edinburgh and 
Glasgow. A provision for similar work has also been made in 
the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford, through what is 
known as the “Teachers’ Training Syndicate.” The University 
of Michigan, some four years ago, established a Chair of “ The 
Science and Art of Teaching,” and other universities of the 
United States are moving in the same direction. — Ex. 

The Queen’s College Journal begins its eleventh volume this 
session. Principal Grant’s address at the opening convocation 
is given in full. In it the proposal made by Mr. Murdoch, M.P., 
the Vice-Chancellor of Toronto University, asking the Ontario 
Legislature for a grant of money to tide that university over 
some pressing needs is boldly attacked. Principal Grant urges 
that if this money-grabbing is pressed it will endanger the 
peaceful feeling now existing amongst the universities of Ontario. 

Another munificent bequest has been granted to the town of 
Dundee for the purpose of education At a special meeting of 
the directors of the Dundee High School last month, Provost 
Moncur said that the late Mr. Harris, who during his lifetime 
was such a munificent benefactor of the High School, had by 
his settlement left a further sum of $50,000 to the High School 
subject, however, to the life rent of his sister. Miss Harris has 
now intimated her desire to anticipate the realization of her 
brother’s wishes, by at once making over to the trustees under 
his settlement the sum of $50,000, if for that sum a property 
could be acquired, suitable for the junior and girls’ department 
of the High School. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



The late Sir W. Taylor Thomson has bequeathed $150,000 
to the St. Andrew’s University, to found bursaries for students 
of both sexes, in equal numbers, and in the case of females, to 
assist them, as far as practicable, in qualifying themselves to 
enter the medical profession. 

Mr. Buxton made his annual statement of the work of the 
London School Board at the first meeting of that body after 
recess, on the 4tli October. He said that during the year they 
had opened seventeen new schools, but it would take the board 
four or five years to overtake the deficiency of school accom- 
modation, which he last year mentioned was one hundred 
thousand. The same week a new Board School, built at a cost 
of $90,000, for the accommodation of about 1,200 children, 
was opened at Hague street, Bethnal Green. 

It was in the Natural Philosophy class of the Glasgow 
University that James Watt carried on his experiments, and 
under the sanction and with the aid of the professors of that 
ancient seat of learning it was that he followed out his scientific 
pursuits, matured his plans, and developed his conceptions. The 
embryonic engine, or model, which he was working at for the 
purpose of repairing when he made the discovery of a separate 
condenser, was for nearly a century in the experimental room of 
the Natural Philosophy department in the old college in High 
street, and is now in safekeeping in the museum of the New 
College, Gilmourhill. In this museum, founded by Dr. William 
Hunter, is a most valuable and interesting collection of anatomi- 
cal preparations, coins, statues, busts, portraits, rare and valuable 
paintings, engravings, books, manuscripts, splendidly illumin- 
ated missals of the middle ages, works of the earliest 
printers, and a great variety of objects in natural history. 
There is a statue in marble of James Watt, by Chan trey, 
of date 1825, and bearing the following inscription : — 
“ Presented by his son to the University, in gratitude for the 
encouragement afforded by its professors to the scientific pur- 
suits of his father’s early life.” There is another of Adam 
Smith, LL.D., author of “ Wealth of Nations,” Professor of 
Moral Philosophy in Glasgow University from 1752 to 1764. 
The Doctor seems lecturing to his students, one hand being 
slightly raised, while the other, holding a book, is leaning on the 
table. Several books are lying at his feet, and are partly shaded 
by the drapery. There is also a most beautiful marble statue of 
the poet Campbell. In a glass case are Burns’ “Jolly Beggars,” 
by John Greenshields, the Clydesdale sculptor. The group is 
composed of eight figures. One old fellow with a wallet on his 
back has a wooden leg, and has lost his left arm. Another fel- 
low, armed with a dagger, has quarrelled with a comrade, and, 
holding him by the beard, is ready to stab him. Anger is 
powerfully depicted in the one and fear in the other. Among 
the portraits are Sir Joshua Reynolds ; Vesalius, by Titian ; and 
Dr. Arbuthnot and Sir Isaac Newton, by Sir Godfrey Kneller. 
There are many magnificent paintings, among the most promi- 
nent of which are — “The Martyrdom of St. Catherine “Taking 

down from the Cross,” by Raphael ; “The Good Shepherd,” by 
Murillo ; “ Virgin and Angels,” by Guido ; “ Entombment of 
Christ,” by Rembrandt ; and “ Anatomist,” by Holbein. The 
anatomist is dressed in a suit of black, with ruffles round his 
neck and wrists. A fine landscape is observable from the win- 
dow of the apartment, surgical instruments are on the wall, and 
on the table is a dead body, partly covered by a scarlet robe. 
The anatomist is pointing with a long white wand to the region 
of the heart, which organ he seems to be describing. To the 
geological department of the museum there was added a few 
years ago the collection of minerals belonging to the late Mr. 
Brown of Lanfine, Ayrshire, valued at three thousand pounds. 

The library of the College consists of upwards of one hundred 
and twenty thousand books, besides pamphlets, duplicates. 
It is contained in two magnificent halls, one over the other, 
each 140 feet in length, 70 in breath, and 50 high, with a 
gallery going round. There is also a sunk flat of the same 
dimensions, fitted up with cases filled with Parliamentary 
papers, Acts of Assembly, Session papers, and newspapers. 
It was enriched sometime ago by a private collection of 
eighteen thousand volumes, left to it by the late Mr. 



William Ewing, the founder of the Chair of Music in the 
Andersonian University, Glasgow. It was also enriched a few 
years ago by the purchase of the exceedingly valuable library of 
the late Sir William Hamilton. It is also possessed of an inter- 
esting collection of two thousand copies of the Bible in all 
languages, which includes some rare editions. One of the 
professors is curator ; and a committee of eight professors, in- 
cluding the curator, decide as to the volumes to be bought from 
time to time. In lieu of the books which the College was wont 
to receive from Stationers’ Hall, it has now an annual grant of 
seven hundred and seven pounds. This is considered a satis- 
factory arrangement, since it enables the committee to make a 
selection, which hitherto they have been precluded from doing. 
— Montreal Herald. 

The trustees of Asbury University, in Indiana, have 
completed an agreement with W. C. Depauw, that when the 
name of the institution is changed to Depauw University he 
will pay $2 to $1 of all subscriptions that may be paid by other 
parties, according to a schedule aggregating about $120,000. 
There is also a condition that the city of Greencastle shall 
satisfactorily secure $60,000, to be paid on Jan. 1, 1885, with 
which to buy additional ground, and that Robert McKim, of 
Manson, shall build his proposed observatory at a cost of 
$10,000. By this agreement, if it is carried out, the University 
will receive about $400,000, besides a provision in Mr. 
Depauw’s will for a certain part of his estate at his death, a gift 
now estimated to be worth $1,000,000. — Ex. 

The Sentinel Reoieio of last week thus refers to Woodstock 
College : — “ A good deal has been said in the daily papers 
lately upon the question of the co-education of the sexes. So 
far, we have not observed that any writer has alluded to 
Woodstock College. Under its old name, the Canadian 
Literary Institute, it was the first college in this country to 
adopt the principle of co-education and carry it out successfully. 
At Woodstock College young men and young women reside in 
different buildings, but meet together on even terms in the 
class-room. Those who are best able to speak with authority 
declare that they do so with great advantage to both sexes. 
The great success and popularity of the College proves that 
co-education under proper conditions is not only possible but 
desirable. It does not, however, prove that Toronto University 
should at once open its classes to women. Those who say so 
go too far.” 

The Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas will not allow Dr 
Samuel M. Miller, a former student in the University of 
Pennsylvania, to print a resume of certain medical lectures’ 
delivered there, upon the ground that the doctors have the 
right to the production of their own brains. 

The Williams College catalogue for 1883-84 shows an 
attendance of 84 seniors, 74 juniors, 61 sophomores, 85 freshmen 
and one graduate student in astronomy. The number of the 
Faculty has been increased to twenty. 

The total number of public school pupils on the New York 
city register on September 30 was 140,322, and the average 
attendance for the month was 129,562, an increase of 3,235 in 
enrolment and 7,188 in the average daily attendance as 
compared with those of the corresponding period of last year. 

A Movement is on foot in England for a memorial to the 
late Professor Stanley Jevons, the logician and political 
economist. It is suggested that it might take the form of a 
scholarship of the annual value of not less than £100, the 
holder of which shall devote himself to economic or statistical 
research ; and that to commemorate the connection of Mr. 
Jevons with Liverpool, in which he was born, and with 
Manchester and London, in which so many of the best years of 
his life were spent, the election to the studentship be vested in 
representatives of University College, London, Owens College, 
Manchester, and University College, Liverpool, to be appointed 
for the purpose. Among the members of the committee formed 
for the purpose of forwarding the proposed memorial are the 
Duke of Devonshire, the Duke of Westminster, the Marquis of 
Ilartington, M.P., the Earl of Derby, and others, — Ex. 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



Stevens Institute will hereafter restrict its freshman class to 
the 40 passing the best entrance examination. 

Eight of the forty members of the freshman class at Rates 
College are girls, more than in any previous class. One of 
these has been selected to compete in the prize-speaking 
contests, which are quite a feature there. 

A New medical school, somewhat different in its objects 
from those which already exist, is about to be opened in 
London. Of the hundreds of young men who annually enter 
their names on the books of the metropolitan hospitals, nearly 
one-third sooner or later discover that they are unsuited for the 
profession, and when they turn to other occupations they are 
obliged to forfeit the heavy fees that they have paid on their 
admission as students. It has, therefore, been decided to 
establish at the recently enlarged West London Hospital a 
preparatory school, in which, without much expense, youths 
may gain such experience as will enable them to judge whether 
they want to become sawbones for life. — Ex. 

At a late meeting of the Senate of Toronto University the 
following notices of motion were given : 1. by Mr. Falconbridge, 
that the meetings of the Senate should be open to the public ; 
2. by Dr. Oldright, that a committee be appointed to define, 
conjointly with a committee of the Council of University College, 
the duties of fellows in the College ; 3. by Mr. Houston, that 
the College Council be requested to give information to the 
Senate respecting the applications of female candidates for 
admission to the College and the answers thereto ; 4. by Mr. 
Houston, that the College Council be requested to give informa- 
tion to the Senate as to the cost of the college residents, 
the number of residents, the total number of stu- 
dents in College, and the amount of accommodation 
afforded by the College to students and teachers. Mr. 
Galbraith’s statute creating a civil engineering degree 
passed its first reading. Prof. Loudon’s resolution, looking to 
the creation of a Chair of Romance Languages led to a sharp 
discussion, the motion being supported by Dr. Oldright, Dr. 
Richardson, Mr. Houston, Prof. Galbraith, Mr. Falconbridge, 
Mr. Buchan, and opposed by Prof. Ramsay Wright, Prof. Pike 
and Dr. Wilson. The vote was taken on an amendment by 
Prof. Ramsay Wright that French and Italian should be 
combined in one lectureship. Prof. Loudon’s motion was 
carried by a majority of 15. 

We have selected the above from a report of the meeting 
given in a Toronto paper. 

The report of the President of Queen’s College, Cork, for the 
Academic Session, 1882-83, has been presented to the Queen. 
It states that at the entrance examinations in October, and the 
supplementary examinations, 54 candidates presented themselves 
(of whom two had already passed the marticulation examination 
of the Royal University) ; of these 36 passed and 18 were re- 
jected ; 13 students were admitted on the matriculation examin- 
ation of the Royal University, and six from other universities and 
colleges, making in all 55 new matriculated students ; 1 6 also 
entered as non-matriculated students, so that the total number 
of new students was 71. The total number of students on the 
books of the college for the Session was 348, of whom 325 were 
matriculated and 23 non-matriculated. The number of students 
of the second, third and fourth years was greater this session 
than in any previous year, and the total number was greater 
than in the session of 1880-81, so that the steady growth which 
began in 1877-78 has continued even under the unfavorable con- 
ditions of the last two or three years. It is also worthy of note 
that the absolute and relative number of Roman Catholics con- 
tinues to increase. In 1870-71 there were only 86 Roman Cath- 
olic students in Queen’s College, Cork, or 34.4 per cent.. In 
the session just ended there were 213, or 61.2 per cent. Atten- 
tion is again called to the want of a new library and a new la- 
boratory. These wants become more pressing from year to year, 
and it is hoped some steps will be taken next year to provide 
for them. 

The $200 entrance prize to the Smith College pupil passing the 
best examination has been awarded to Miss Nichols, seventeen 
years old, a graduate of the Holliston High School. — Ex. 



“ V. P.” is the title of a science journal that is to be publish- 
ed monthly during the college year by the Science Association, 
Victoria University, Cobourg. The prospectus announces that it 
will be devoted to the interests of education in general, especial 
attention being given to the expression in a popular form of the 
later phases of the development of science. Among its promised 
features are fresh, original articles by good writers, carefully se- 
lected clippings, foreign correspondence, brief reviews of scienti- 
fic works as they appear, and crisp editorial comments on pass- 
ing educational and scientific events. It, of course, is to supply 
a “ want long f : It.” — Ex. 

Six ladies have just distinguished themselves as students in 
the South London College of Chemistry, England, and they in- 
tend to become druggists on leaving the institution. No doubt 
women will largely adopt this occupation in Canada within a 
few years ; it is neat, clean, and in every way suited to females. 
— Ex. 

TnE boys of the State College at Orono, Me., have contributed 
and collected from other sources funds to build a gymnasium at 
the college grounds, which is now being erected. — Ex. 

The ’ Varsity , of Toronto, advocated in one of its late numbers 
the establishment of a University Club in that city. It says : — 
“ Socially there is ample room in Toronto for a Club which 
would be more particularly a young men’s club. The present 
clubs are so full that admission is difficult. Further, the natur- 
ally liberal views of young educated men would lead them to 
join a club which must be essentially democratic in its charac- 
ter. The spirit of conservatism, strait-laced formality and 
flunkeyism, which are fortunately the abhorence of young Can- 
ada, would have no place within its walls, and the opportunity 
of exchanging opinions with trained minds, and apart and aside 
from all political reference would be eagerly seized.” The idea 
of University Clubs is an excellent one, and has been carried 
out successfully in the Old Country. In Montreal it may not 
be so long distant till a club of this kind will be started. We 
have already heard something of the matter. 

Oxford, Oct. 11. — To-day was the annual Gaudyday observed 
at Oriel College, and a large number of members of the College 
met together this evening at a dinner given in honor of the 
newly-elected Provost, Mr. I). B. Monro. The last occasion of 
the kind was in 1826, when the College, then under Dr. 
Copleston, celebrated its 500th anniversary. To celebrate the 
present festival there were present, among others, the Bishop of 
Manchester, the Dean of St. Paul’s, and the Right Hon. G. J. 
Goschen (Honorary Fellows), Lord Blanchford, the Rev. T. 
Mozley, Professor Sellar, Dr. J. H. Bridges, the Rev. Professor 
Earle, the Rev. G. Buckle, and the Rev. T. B. Cornish (ex-Fel- 
lows), Viscount Cranbrook, Lord Cottesloe, Lord Emly, the Rec- 
tor of Lincoln College, the Provost of Queen’s College, Mr. 
Thomas Hughes, Q.C., Mr. J. A. Froude, Mr. S. Rendel, M.P., 
and the Rev. Sir J. Caesar Hawkins, besides the present fellows, 
who include among their number Dr. C,hase, Professor Stubbs, 
the Rev. A. G. Butler, and Professor Byrce, M.P. The com- 
pany numbered about 70 in all, and would doubtless have been 
far larger had not the size of the College-hall necessarily limited 
the number of invitations issued. Letters of regret at absence 
were received from Cardinal Newman, the Duke of Cleveland, 
K.G., Viscount Halifax, the Bishop of Truro, Lord Hylton' 
Lord Balfour of Burleigh, the Dean of Chichester, Mr. Matthew 
Arnold, Mr. Gold win Smith, the Rev. Albany Christie, Sir 
Alexander Grant, and Mr. R. S. Wright. The toast of the even- 
ing — “ The health of the Provost ” — was proposed by the Dean 
of St. Paul’s. Among the other toasts, Lord Cranbrook and Mr 
Goschen responded for the Houses of Parliament, proposed by 
the Treasurer (Mr. C. L. Shadwell), and Mr. Thomas Hugh/s 
for old members of the College. Professor Stubbs proposed the 
ex-Fellows, to which Lord Blanchford replied. The Bishop of 
Manchester, himself formerly a Fellow, gave “ The Fellows ” 
responded to by the Principal of St. Mary’s Hall ; and Mr J 
Anthony Froude proposed “The Scholars— past and present” 
coupling with the toast the name of the Provost of Queen’s 
The toast of “ Floreat Oriel ” closed the proceedings. Ex. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



Cambridge, Oct. 11. — At a congregation this afternoon Mr. 
C. Graham, of Gonville and Caius, and Mr. A. J. C. Allan, of 
Peterhouse, were appointed Moderators for the year beginning 
May 1, 1884. 

After the Examiners had been appointed, the conferring of 
degrees was proceeded with. Amongst others receiving degrees 
were Mr. Henry Sidgwick and Mr. Endicott Peabody, LL.D., 
both of Trinity. The former received the degree of Doctor in 
Letters, and the latter who is now a resident of Salem, Mass., 
U.S., was allowed to proceed to the degree of LL.M. by proxy. 

The Vice-Chancellor has given notice that the office of Direc- 
tor of the Fitz william Museum has become vacant by the resig- 
nation of Professor Colvin. The election to the vacant office 
was to take place on Saturday, November 10. The duties of the 
Director are : — “ To take charge of the pictures, sculptures, 
casts, books, engravings, coins, gems, and every other object in- 
cluded in the collections, and to see that they are properly cared 
for, protected, and kept in order. To make arrangements, un- 
der the sanction of the Syndicate, for the placing and exhibition 
of the various objects which at present compose or may hereaf- 
ter be added to the collections. To exercise a general superin- 
tendence over the subordinate officers, and to see that all rules 
laid down by the Syndicate are carried out. To undertake and 
superintend, under the sanction of the Syndicate, and with such 
assistance as they may think necessary, the formation of inven- 
tories and catalogues of the collections. To give, so far as is 
consistent with the performance of the above duties, assistance 
and guidance to persons visiting the museum for purposes of 
study. To make inquiries and give advice upon the propriety 
of making acquisitions for the museum, as opportunity may arise, 
by purchase, donation, or bequest.” Candidates are requested 
to send their names, and twelve copies of testimonials, if any, to 
the Vice-Chancellor, on or before Saturday, November 3. The 
electors are the members of the Fitzwilliam Museum Syndicate, 
the Disney Professor of Archaeology, and the Slade Professor of 
Fine Art. The stipend is £300 per annum. — English Paper. 

The following is the address delivered by Lord Coleridge to 
the students of Yale University, on the 26th of October, as 
reported by the New York Tribune : — 

If I had had the least idea of the gathering that was to meet 
me here to-day I certainly should have endeavored to put my 
thoughts into some order, because having been a university 
man myself — having been a young man once — I know that 
young men — that university men — are sharp and severe critics, 
and I know well enough that any man who attempts to lay 
down the law or to teach young men will not perhaps be dis- 
courteously interrupted, but will be unmercifully criticised. 
But after what your principal has been so good as to say, I 
cannot let you pass from my sight without saying how pro- 
foundly touched and deeply interested I am in the spectacle 
which is before me. I have seen three universities in this 
country. I have seen Harvard, Pennsylvania and St. Louis. 
All of them are remarkable ; all of them have their peculiar 
gifts, their own peculiar advantages and distinctions. But I 
was not prepared when I came here, though I knew Yale by 
name — every Englishman knows Yale well enough by name — 
for the singular and admirable beauty and interest of the build- 
ing and the whole aspect of the place which I have seen to-day. 

I was myself brought up at Eton, and after Eton at Oxford. 
You will excuse me for thinking that Oxford is the most beau- 
tiful city in the world. When I came on into life I became a 
member of the Temple in London, the buildings of which have 
come down from the Knights Templars, and are occupied by 
persons who fight indeed, but with different weapons from 
those used by the Knights Templars. Your buildings are more 
like the buildings at Eton College and the Temple than any 
buildings I have seen in America, and I am exceedingly inter- 
ested and delighted with the outside aspect, which is all that a 
chance visitor can say of the university of which you are mem- 
bers. 

Now, perhaps it would be wiser if I were simply to content 
myself with wishing you “ God-speed,” and hoping that the 
prosperity which this university deserves might never desert it, 



and stop my observations. But there is a word which I should 
like to say, elicited by the remarks which your principal has 
made here. I did not require to learn from him, because we 
know it in England, that in Yale more than in any other place 
in America the old curriculum is maintained, the old standards 
are referred to, the old classical cultivation is insisted upon and 
defended. I learned to-day for the first time that a very dis- 
tinguished man in another part of the United States has com- 
mitted himself to an attack upon that curriculum and has rather 
suggested that it has interfered with possible success in pro- 
fessional life. 

Now without any desire or purpose of entering into a con- 
troversy, but merely to repeat h‘ j re what, without the smallest 
idea of controversy, I have said in public over and over again in 
my own country, I venture to say to you as a lawyer with some 
practice, as a judge of some position, and as a public man of 
some experience, that which I have said there. I have done 
many foolish things in my life and wasted many hours of pre- 
cious time ; but one thing I have done which I would do over 
again, and the hours I spent at it are the hours which I have 
spent most profitably, and the knowledge thus gained I have 
found the most useful, and practically useful. From the time I 
left Oxford I have made it a religion, so far as I could, never 
to let a day pass without reading some Latin and Greek, and I 
can tell you that so far as my course may be deemed a successful 
one, I deliberately assert, maintain and believe that what little 
success has been granted to me in life, has been materially aided 
by the constant study of the classics, which it has been my 
delight and privilege all my life to persevere in. This is not 
said for the sake of controversy ; still less is it said to an 
audience of American University young men for the purpose of 
appearing eccentric ; but it is said because I believe it to be true, 
and I will tell you why. Statement, thought, arrangement, 
however men may struggle against them, have an influence 
upon them, and public men, however they may dislike it, are 
forced to admit that, conditions being equal, the man who can 
state anything best, who can pursue an argument more closely, 
who can give the richest and most felicitous illustrations, and 
who can command some kind of beauty of diction, will have 
the advantage over his comtemporaries. And if at the bar or 
in the senate anything has been done which has been conspicu- 
ously better than the work of other men, it has, in almost every 
case, been the result of high education. I say high education, 
not necessarily classical, because every man cannot have that. 
The greatest orator of my country at this moment, as he him- 
self has often said, has “only a smack of it.” But he takes no 
credit to himself for that. On the contrary, he declares it like 
a qian and honestly, and he has striven to make up for what he 
has lost, and what he cannot learn because he is so advanced in 
a gc, by doing the next best thing —studying the English 
classics studying the best, the highest and the finest writers in 
the English language. And so it is in my judgment in almost 
every case that I can think of. The man who has influenced 
his contemporaries the most is, generally speaking, the man of 
highest education, and I do not hesitate to say that the highest 
education, if you can get it, is the education to be found in 
those magnificent writers, who as writers, as masters of style, 
as conveyors of thought, have never been equalled in the world. 

I have put my defence of the studies, which I understand 
you to prosecute, upon a low practical ground, but I do not 
wish it to be supposed that I defend it on a low practical 
ground alone. I take your opponents upon the ground which 
they themselves assume, because in argument it is necessary to 
find some certain point upon which you and your 
adversary are agreed, and reason with him, if you can reason 
with him, upon that point. I desire to put it upon higher 
ground still and away from controversy. I say that God°has 
given us hearts, minds and intellects as well as bodies, and that 
it is just so much our duty to cultivate and do the best we can 
with the mind that He has given us as it is our duty to do the 
best we can with the bodies He has given us. It is our duty 
then, if we can, to commune with the greatest thoughts of the 
greatest men in all times, and he will be the best man at the 
end of his life who has made himself most familiar with the 



[1883. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



thoughts of the greatest men of Greece and Rome, who both in 
thought and in language have been unparalleled in the world. 
Let me conclude with an authority far greater than mine. I 
do not pretend to an intimacy with Mr. Tennyson, but I know 
Mr. Tennyson, and it has been my privilege to pass evenings in 
his company. I remember one evening passed almost alone in 
his company. We were talking of a contemporary writer, of 
whom he was speaking in the highest terms. He said (I do 
not remember his exact words) : “ I do not think he will 
produce as much effect as he ought to because he is so rough, 
uncultivated and imperfect ? writer. Great as he is I cannot 
fancy that two hundred years hence anybody will bend over 
his books and endeavor to find out the meaning of each tense 
and the particular force of each participle, as we are only too 
happy to do over the works of Virgil.” If you look over the 
history of men who have succeeded in this life, you will find 
them scarcely without an exception men trained by the 
curriculum which you enjoy and familiar with those remarkable 
works which it is your privilege now to become familiar with. 
May God bless you, and good-bye ! 

We have received the following exchanges : — The Dartmouth , 
Harvard Advocate , Hamilton Female College Monthly, The 
III ini , Normal News , St. Mary’s Sentinel , The Undergraduate , 
Acta Vietoriana , A strum Alberti , King’s College Record , 
University Monthly , The ’Varsity, V. I\ Journal , Queen’s Col- 
lege Journal , Presbyterian College Journal , School Migma , 
Argosy, A strum Alberti , Atlantis , Miscellany , Quarterly Re- 
view and Sunbeam. 



'^Between the ^Sectureo* 



Conjugal Conjugation. 

I know a tender word of Latin tongue, 

Whose praise bards throughout all time have sung, — 

’Tis Amo. 

Yet sweeter word I know, which gives to two 
The joy that in the first one only knew,— 

Amamus. 

A Philosopher, who was wealthy as well as philosophical, 
left the following testament : “ It is my will that any 

one of my relatives, who shall presume to shed tears at my 
funeral, shall be disinherited ; he who laughs most heartily shall 
be my sole heir.” All the bereaved kindred are now under treat- 
ment for exploded sides. The successful competitor was the 
philosopher’s grandfather, who produced an artificial hilarity by 
basely inhaling nitrous oxide gas. 

I heard one, who rooms up above the eaves-trough, imper- 
tinently remark that, although the naturalists make no mention 
of India-rubber birds, he has seen sparrows and pigeons that 
were gutter perchers. 

Apropos to small-pox and vaccination, I remember the 
objections of a Unitarian minister in England to the latter. He 
thinks : (1). That vaccination implies that God has made our 
bodies imperfect, and that in order to enable them to be healthy 
through life, they need perfecting by diseasing with small-pox. 
(2). Va cination is an attempt on the part of the State to 
establish a medical creed, and ought as much to be resisted as a 
State theological creed. (3). Vaccination is attended with so 
much danger that no father who desires the well-being of his 
child ought to risk it. (4). Even if it could be proved that the 
vaccinated enjoy greater immunity from small-pox, still Govern- 
ment would no more have a right to enforce compulsory vaccin- 
ation, than it has to enforce total abstinence, because total 
abstinence secures to one immunity from the curses of drink. 

Why are jokes like nuts 1 Because the drier they are the 
better they crack. 

Why is the first chicken of a brood like the foremast of a 
ship ? Because it’s a little for’ard of the main hatch. 

Why should negroes be interred in autumn? Because it is 
black-berrying time. 



Lodger : — “ I detect rather a disagreeable smell in the house. 
Mrs. Jones. — Are you sure the drains V 9 Welsh Land- 

lady ; — “ Oh, it can’t be the drains, sir, whatever. There are 
none, sir.” 

“ My dear,” said a repentant husband to his wife, “if I have 
ever used any unkind words to you I take them all back. 
“No, you won’t. 1 know you. You want to use them all 
over again.” 

AN IDYLL OF THE RAILWAY CAR. 

“ Without a Berth .” 

Rumbling, rumbling, rumbling, 

Clatt’ring of the wheels ; 

Grumbling, grumbling, grumbling, 

For a baby squeals. 

Bunched up in a corner, 

How we seek to sleep ! 

“ Airy light,” our slumbers,’ 

As shallow waters deep. 

Chatt’ring, ever chatt’ring, 

Are the passengers inane, 

Rattling, ever rattling 
Is the window pane. 

“ Station next is Bloomingtown; ” 

Slamming of the door. 

“ Is it only one o’clock ? 

Ah, me ! I thought ’tvvas four.” 

Dozing, grumbling, yawning, 

Creeps the night away, 

Halting long and often, 

Comes the welcomed day. 

Hear me in conclusion, 

All people on the earth, 

When you travel in the night, 

Take a sleeping berth. 

—Jake. 

iEsTHETICAL RENAISSANCE — TlIE KNICKERBOCKER MOVEMENT 

Bloomer Costume all the Rage. 

Many shallow-minded people thought that Oscar Wylde’s 
preaching in this city had been altogether without influence, but 
such is by no means the case. Within the last month our 
readers must have noticed the great number of students who 
have donned that costume, which is generally associated in our 
minds with very young boys and very old bishops. Not the 
least remarkable feature in the movement is the fact that two 
distinct schools have arisen ; the one set prefer red and the 
brighter colours, the others manifest a tendency for the neutral 
tints. The contempt which the latter school evinces for the 
former is somewhat intense, and affords no little amusement to 
the Philistines. 

Professor in Physics. — “ What is Boyle’s law ?” Student 
(with a carbuncle)— “To break out in the most inconvenient 
place.” — Ex. 

It was a Vassar girl who gave a fluttering sigh of relief and 
exclaimed as she sprang from the boat to the shore, “ Thank 
heaven I am on visa versa. — Dartmouth. 

A Texas steer was loose in a street at West End of Boston, 
the other day, and it is unnecessary to say more of the way 
things were going on. A sick man heard the disturbance, and 
looking up wearily to his nurse said, “I do wish that Harvard 
student would go home.” 

Young lady at the door of a cab packed full of undergrads. — 
“ Is there any room inside ?” Undergrads unanimously : “ Oh 
yes, lots of room for one more, come in.” Young lady, having 
prudently paid the cab driver : “ Now, Grandpapa get in, the 
gentlemen say there is plenty of room.” 

No Tendency Toward Science. — Unto a McGill professor, 
married late in life, a child was born. That child has now ad- 
vanced to the mature age of three years. “ A charming little 
fellow !” say all the professor’s friends. “Yes, Yes,” replies the 
learned man dejectedly, “ but I fail to see in him the least 
leaning toward the exact sciences.” 



16 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



personals. 



Principal Dawson is at present the guest of Mr. Peter Red- 
path, at Chiselhurst, England. 

Mr. Wilfred T. Skaife, B. Ap. Sc., ’80, who has been resid- 
ing for three years in Germany, has returned to Montreal. 
Before leaving for home, Mr. Skaife travelled extensively in 
Europe, penetrating much beyond the beaten track of tourists. 



,-SLiot of r $X<nv> 'EBooks. 



Transactions of the Engineers Society, London, for 1882. 
Minutes of the Civil Engineers Institution, London, for 1882-83. 
Report — Commissioner of Agriculture, Ontario, 1882. 

R e p 0r t — Commissioner of Agriculture, U. S. A., 1881-2. 
Thompson and Tait — Natural Philosophy. Vol. 1., Part 2, 1883. 
Day — Electric Light Arithmetic. 

Minchin — Uniplanar Kinematics. 

Thompson — Dynamo Electic Machinery. 

Galton — Inquiries into Human Faculties. 

Greenwich Observations for 1881. 3 Vols. 

Clifford — Mathematical Papers. 

Stokes — Mathematical and Physical Papers. Vol. I. 

Royal Colonial Institute, London. Vol. XIV. 1882-83. 

Smith — Cutting Tools. 

Darey — Principes de Grammaire Fran^aise. 

Abney — Instructions in Photography. 

Watson — Theoretical Astronomy. 

Thurston — Materials of Engineering. 2 Vols. 

Transactions, Royal Society, London, 1882. 

Proceedings, Royal Society, London, 1882. 

Frechette — Les Fleurs Boreales. 

Barry — Railway Appliances. 

Whitworth — Papers on Mechanical Subjects. 

Drinker — A Treatise on Explosive Compounds. 

Royal Institute of British Architects — Transactions of for 
1882-83. 

Archaeologia — Vol. XLA IT. for 1873. 

Literary Association of the United Kingdom — Transactions of 
for 1877 to 1880. 

Journals of the Senate and House of Commons, 1882-3. 
Library, 22nd October, 1883. 

M. Williams Taylor, Asst.-Librarian. 



An auction sale of periodicals will be held in the Reading 
Room on Saturday, 17th Nov., at 10 a.m. 

The numbers of the following periodicals for the year 1883-84 
will be sold. During the summer months they will be forwarded 
direct to the purchaser : 

Sub. Price. 



Illustrated London News 

The Graphic 

Sporting and Dramatic News . 

Harper's Weekly 

Frank Leslie’s Illustrated 

American Engineer 

Scientific American and Supplement 

Christian Union 

Harper’s Monthly 

Century Magazine 

Eclectic Review 

Blackwood’s Magazine 

Littel*s Living Age 

New English Illustrated Magazine 

Popular Science Monthly 

Chemical News 

Punch 

F un 

Grip • 

Forest and Stream 

Art Journal ... 

Canadian Illustrated News 



§ 10.00 

10.00 

10 .&) 

4.00 
, 4.00 

. 4.00 
, 7.00 
, 3.00 
, 4.00 

4.00 
, 5.00 

3.50 
, 8.00 

1.75 

5.‘ 0 

6 . 0 ) 
, 5.00 

2.50 

2.00 

5.00 
10.00 

4.00 



To Our Subscribers. — Our Subscribers will greatly oblige us 
by remitting their subscriptions as soon as possible . 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the Gazette 
is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be sent to the Treasurer , Mr. H. S. 
McLennan, McGill College . 



Gentlemen's Haberdashery ! 



S. CARSLEY’S, 

393, 395, 397, 399 Notre Dame Street. 



COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF 



^Scotch J^amb’s ool JJnderclothing 



FOR MEN AND BOYS. 



SILK POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS ! 

LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS ! 

LINEN COLLARS ! 

LINEN CUFFS! 

S. Carsloy ? s. 



MEN’S KID GLOVES ! 

MEN’S BUCK GLOVES ! EY’S. 

MEN’S CALF GLOVES ! 

WHITE SHIRTS ! 
CAB&SLEY’ . REGATTA SHIRTS ! 

OXFORD SHIRTS ! 



A large assortment of 

SCOTCH, ENGLISH AND CANADIAN TWEED 

Constantly on hand, at prices low as the lowest. 

S. CARSLEY’S, 

393, 395, 39T, 399 Notre Dame Street. 



jem wEjE<&M’jr mEm<D ! JD Tumirmm 2 

PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 



PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 

0- 0- fpw if fai/etif, 

251 ST. JAMES STREET. 

NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN & CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 



OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 

PLEASE CALL A.N1 3 SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S. — The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 






few Book and Stationery SH°P 

(one DOOR WEST OF HIS OLD STAND) 



Medical Books, 

Students' Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels , 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 



CHEA.F FOR. CASH. 



Books procured to order from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted , including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS , $c., $c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to es all i shed rules of art- 

i W Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on Ids recent visit to this city , for sale . Pince 
50 cents • 

— TELEPHONE CO VM UNICAT ION -*>•<> — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 

Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 




g m 

SfECTAc^ 



HENRY GRANT & SON, 

26 Belter Hill Time. 

Z Students’ Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THE2M0METEBS, 
MICROSCOPES, 

BAROMETERS, & C. 

^ OJPTICIA WS 9 

WATCH-MAKARS, 

(sj 0 1 CAT 0 JE W E Xj ux:b.s. 



HEADQUARTERS 



■ FOR ■ 





T 




^DRYSDALE’S^ 



232 Sij. James Stmee"b_ 



Medical Works , Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books , 

The various Theological lext Books • 

Full assortment in stock and suoolled at Rock Bottom Prices, 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $-c , $-c., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students ’ 
Supplies a Specialty- 

W® JOKYS1D-A1LE & CO® 

232 Si;. James Street, 

— ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




K. SANDEMS, 

OPTICIAH, 



O. EH ILL, 





lO PHIIjIiIFS SQUARE, 



185 st. James street, Bookseller and Stationer. 



moutheaij. 



Importer- and Manufacturer 

OF 

MICHGSCGPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



WM. HOTMAM & SON, 



D 



m 










mm 



IS lo lie HI 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 



MOITBKAL. 



^WILLIAM SAMUELS 

367 Notre Dame Street, 

— IMPORTER OF — 



-s 5 — * 






Prom tlAo Seat Englisli IVEaKers, 

— AND — 

Manufactu rer of F INE FURS. 

Highest Award for FINE FUSS, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Frizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal 



SCMMERHAYES &WALF 

-Me P}10 ! r06K/I P|IE 'R 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

JA ONTREAL. 



English and American Periodicals 

And Illustrated' Works* 

All Kinds of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 



J. B. DUROCHER, -Proprietor. 

. — w . , 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp, COURT HOUSE mi CITY HALL 

MONTREAIj. 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 

-*»GEG. BEOWX & SONS!* 

4 • , 

Mercliaut * Tailors^ 

: ■ • • • 

t 

SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEUKY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

A. SPECIAL IDX3COTJLsra? TO STTTZDEJSTTS. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED To 

3STO. 233 ST. JAMES STREE T. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL. 

ALL TEXT BOOKS &I2a ALL KINDS 



IN U8K 

IN THE COLLEGES 

OF 

CANADA. 




OF 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

COLLEGE 
R EQ U I S ITES. 



SIGN OF ^HE GOLDEN OWL. 

3ST O. 233 ST. JAMES STEEE T, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 



Special Hat©® for Students.^ 



BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



