kC L d n 6 y Lyman 



l The McGill Gazette. 



Yol. II. 



Montreal, March 15 , 1876 . 



No. 8. 



Eclecticism 

Sweets of Authorship 

Sketches of the History of Science. 
Editorials : 

Amongst the first symptoms, &c 

As most of the students, &c 

Foot-ball. 

College Foot-ball Club 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB. 

91 

92 

93 

95 

95 

96 
96 



Obituary 

Annual Dinner to class in Arts 

Correspondence 

Personals 

Items 

Exchanges 

Advertisements 



PA«*. 

96, 97 

97 

97 

98 

98 

98 

89, 90, 99, ioo 



1 HE McGill Gazette is published semi-monthly during the College Year by the undergraduates of the University . 
Terms , $ i .00 per annum; Single Copies, 10 Cents . For sale at Dry sdalds, Dawson's and Hill's . Subscriptions and 
Advertisements to be sent to the Secretary, McGill College . Contributions should be directed to the Editors , McGill 
College . 

The Gazette requests contributions of tales, essays , and all suitable literary ynatter from University men . It 
will open its columns to any controz’ersial matter connected with the College , provided the co?nmunications are written 
in a gentlemanly manner . 

All matter intended for publication must be accompanied by the name of the writer in a scaled envelope , which 
will be opened if the contribution is inserted , but will be destroyed if rejected . This rule will be strictly adhered to . 

//. //. WOOD , Secretary . 



SA VAGE, L YMAN S' CO. 

Have received from ULYSSE NARDIM, of Locle, 

a Case of 

FINE WATCHES 



in Gold and Silver Cases in every variety of manufacture. 
Also an assortment of 

t 

FINE DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, RUBIES, &c., 

which can be mounted, at short notice, on the premises 



ALSO IN STOCK : 

Their usual Assortment of RICH JEWELLERY, 
SILVER AND ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 
CLOCKS, BRONZES, &c., &c. 

226 & 228 St. James Street. 



J. D. ANDERSON, 




MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING, 

# 

206 ST. JAMES STREET , 
MONTREAL. 



ALWAYS IN STOCK, SEASONABLE GOODS , 
SELECTED FOR A 
FIRST-CLASS CUSTOM BUSINESS. 



MACMASTER & HALL, 

gLdiocnte§, 

181 ST. JAMES STREET. 



John C. Becket, 

STEAM 

Book and Job Printer, 

658 & 660 CRAIG STREET 



». MACMASTER, B.C.I.. J. S HALL, JR., B.A., P.C.L. , 



MONTREAL. 



9° 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



0-0 TO 

Walsh’s Clothing House, 

THE GREAT 

Custom Clothing and Tailoring Establishment. 

AGS NOTRE DAME STREET, 

Near McGill Street, MONTREAL. 

A large aasortment of Gentlemen’s, Youths’ and 
Boys’ Fine Ready-Mades always in stock. 

Price# very moderate. A call solicited. 

W. WALSH k CO. 

LORGE & CO., 



FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 




Wholesale and Retail 



Ho. 21 St. Lawrence Street, 

MONTREAL. 

437 and 439 Notrs Came Street* 

0-0 TO 

CheapsidE 

FOR YOUR 

DRY GOODS, 

And tell the Salesman that your are buying goods in 
answer to an advertisement in the McGill Gazette . 

A. A. MURPHY. 



S. R. PARSONS, 

DEALER IN 

FURNITURE 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES, 

AND OF THE 

LATEST STYLES. 

Brackets, Slipper Racks, Fancy Chairs, 

&c. , &c., &C. j 

Nos. 603 and 605 Craig Street 

( In rear of the new Post Office) 

MOHTE/EAL. 

NEW LIST ! 

Baldwin and Walker’s best Four-ply Fingering Yarn 

$1.38 per lb. 

John Baton & Sons’ best Three-ply Scotch Alloa 



Wheeler Yarn 9 °°* 

Canadian Four-ply Fingering Yarn 75 c * 

Best English Cocoa-nut Malting 30c. 

English Stair Oil-cloth 1 1 

English Floor Oil-cloth, yard wide 28c. 

Lace Curtains, good quality. . 1 $1 05 per pair. 

Lace Curtains, 3j£ yards long $1 25 

Lace Curtains, four yards long $2 65 



Three Cases White Quilts, to be sold very cheap this 
week, from $1 25 to $4 each. 

Two Cases Colored Cloth Table-covers, from 50 cents 
to $7 each. 

One Case Piano Covers, from $6 50 to $12 each. 

notice . — We are selling goods much below value 
for X’MAS PRESENTS. 

s. GARSLEY, 

No. 399 NOTRE DAHE STREET. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY 

MEETS IN 

Natural History Society’s Rooms 

9 

(Corner University and Cathcart Streets) 

ON 

FRIDAY EVE’G, 17th Inst. 
At 8 o’clock precisely. 

F. D. MONK, Rec.-Sec. 



V ol. IT . , New Series. 



McGill College , March /jth, i8y6. 



No. 8 



ECLECTICISM. 

44 Pugnantia secum, 

Frontibus adversis componere” Huh. 

It bodes no good for the progress of specula- 
tive science when its votaries, weary and foot- 
sore with laborious and slow ascent, endea- 
vour, through sheer indolence, to discover a 
royal road which will lead to the same goal. 
Eclecticism is the result of a mental sluggish- 
ness which shirks stubborn toil, and fancies 
that the problems ol philosophy are to be 
treated as Alexander dealt with the Gordian 
knot. It is an imposing edifice built on a 
sandy bottom. It may, indeed, contain many 
a goodly stone, and stout beams in plenty, but 
these will totter and fall as soon as the treacher- 
ous basis is attacked, and will serve asmaterials 
for future and wiser architects. Severe habits 
of thinking are pre-eminently requisite in those 
who would achieve success in the ‘ Science of 
Sciences,’ and superficial theorizing perishes in 
as short a time as it was brought forth. 

What then are we presented with by these 
butterfly philosophers, who flit lightly from one 
system to another and cull from each the fairest 
flowers ? Eclecticism, they tell us, is an equili- 
brium between all other systems : it is benevo- 
lent to all and discerns the good of each, how- 
ever veiled and hidden it may be. It is free 
from the infatuation and partiality by which 
many systems are disfigured, and compels 
them all to contribute to its own enrichment. 
We endeavour, they say, to do injustice to no 
system, and to bring in harmony all the various 
rivals, and so put an end to their unceasing 
and unseemly bickerings. We shall follow 
Plato, in his lofty flights, but at the same time 
allow his great disciple to remind us when we 
are in a world of mere ideas. We shall adopt 
the fundamental principles of Descartes, cor- 
rect his occasional vagaries by the critical phi- 
losophy, and temper the whole with the sound 
common sense of the Scottish School. We 
shall accept a positive Religion, but with just 



a dash of free-thinking to bring it up to the 
wants and ideas of the present century. 

These are fine words indeed, but unfortun- 
ately they are mere words. We are left with- 
out a word of explanation on the cardinal point ; 
for these philosophers have omitted to tell us 
what is to guide us in making our choice. 
What reasons can they give for approving this 
and rejecting that system ? Why should we ac- 
cept the opinions of this or that empirical sub- 
ject, and with what right do they constitute 
themselves judges on this all-important ques- 
tion ? They forget that it is precisely for this 
that they need a philosophy, a First Philosophy, 
to connect all the sparse fragments which jostle 
one another in their mongrel assemblage. Ec- 
lecticism, as has been observed, is a collocation 
and not a conciliation ; it reminds one of the 
monstrous picture' described by Horace. Alex- 
andre Yinet justly remarks : “ Eclecticism is 
true only as an instinct ; as a system it is vain, 
since it does not present to our view the central 
thought around which all the scattered elements 
of human philosophy must group themselves 
and live in common.” 

Every sound and universal system of philo- 
sophy is eclectic ; it must of necessity, if it 
would be complete, give the raison d'etre of all 
those that have preceded it, and at the same time 
enrich itself from the stores of wealth which 
these several systems have accumulated ; but 
it must not rely for guidance on a mere sub- 
jective instinct which cannot give the rationale 
of its choice. Of course the individual subject 
is often right, but then again he is quite as 
often wrong, and cannot arrogate to himself 
the right of legislating for the others. Probably 
the world has never seen a more remarkable 
example of Eclecticism than Hegel’s History 
of Philosophy, where every thinker of any 
worth, however antagonistic his views may be, 
is made to pay his tribute and help to rear the 
mighty structure, often, as it were, against his 



92 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



will. But here there is a central thought, a 
Bindgewebe, which makes the choice dependent, 
not on the whim and caprice of this or that 
subject, but on the very nature and constitution 
of all intelligence. And the result of this is 
that Hegel’s philosophy is not a medley but a 
system , not a capricious juxtaposition of dis- 
similar ingredients, but the fusion and concilia- 
tion of all previous philosophies. 



SWEETS OF AUTHORSHIP. 

There are few experiences of College life to 
which one looks back, with such an odd mixture 
of painful, pleasant, and ludicrous emotions, as 
that which a Freshman feels when first request- 
ed to contribute an article to a College paper. 
The beginning is pleasant enough, “ Facilis 
descensus Averno” though even the beginning 
itself assumes a very dubious character, in a 
few minutes. He meets an editor, and after 
exchanging a few words with him, is suddenly 
accosted with — ‘ By the way M — you write a 
little, don’t you ?” This question, is the one in- 
variably used when the editor is not sure of his 
ground. It has already proved, and I suppose 
will continue to prove, a rock of offence to 
many an innocent Freshman. The only way to 
escape its baleful effects, is to take French 
leave as soon as one hears it : to answer 

it is to rush upon one’s fate. If you reply 
to it in the affirmative, the editorial retort will 
be “ Don’t you think you can give us something 
for next number ?” If you answer it in the 
negative, you will be informed that it is “ high 
time you began.” In either case, and in the 
midst of the confusion engendered by the 
unexpected turn affairs have taken, you will 
half unconsciously promise to give “ something 
for next number.” And as the spider when 
its victim is fairly immeshed, allows it to wear 
itself out in ineffectual struggles that it may 
fall the easier prey at last, so does the im- 
perturable editor. He politely wishes his 
victim good morning, and leaves him — to strug- 
gle. The unfortunate is still somewhat surprised, 
but by no means despondent. He reflects upon 
his case, while wending his way to his room, and 
probably decides to go to work at once, and 



finish his “ something for next number” at a 
sitting. Oh infatuation ! The first difficulty pre- 
sents itself almost immediately in the choice of 
a subject. What can be the matter? Have his 
w r its gone wool-gathering of a sudden, or has 
he always been the stupid wretch, he feels 
himself to be now? He racks his brain for 
ideas, but apparently the few that were there, 
finding it hard to be sociable in so spacious a 
tenement, have sought other quarters, and he 
finds it empty swept and garnished. In despair 
he seizes abook and begins to read. It so hap- 
pens that the book is a copy of Charles Lamb’s 
Essays. After a little reading he feels refresh- 
ed, and decides to let Lamb choose a subject 
for him. He accordingly begins to write on 
“ Roast Pig.” But it would be hard to find a 
person who could regard with favour any 
production of his own, after reading Lamb. 
As might be expected then, this effort comes 
to nought. 

It would be tedious to relate all the 
struggles of our young author in prospect-— 
to tell how he envies in general all w r ho ever 
wrote a book, or contributed to a magazine ; 
but in particular every individual whose pro- 
ductions have taken the form of short essays, 
and the like ; how he finally retires for the 
night, and dreams that he has been charged 
with murdering his friend the editor, and that 
unless he can write his own defence before 
morning, and deliver it to the judge, he will be 
hanged \ and yet can think of nothing to write 
in his own behalf, but “ It is high time you 
began" which he feels is quite true, and “ Don't 
you think you can give us something for next 
number , until he awakes in an agony of appre- 
hension and dread. 

The next day he takes occasion to speak to 
the editor, and intimates that he finds himself 
so busy, &c., &c., that he really cannot have 
his article ready as soon as he expected. “Oh 
but you know you promised ! and we are 
relying on you for a page.” “ But what am I 
to write about ?” “ Oh anything, just a page of 
anything.” Feeling rather hurt at this happy 
way of ignoring the subject of the article, and 
Hying all the stress upon its length, our friend, 
goes his way, with a sort of a blind determina- 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



93 



tion to fill a page with the alphabet, and get 
through with the task he now almost despairs of 
finishing. However, to-day genius burns, he 
finds a subject a little more interesting than the 
alphabet, writes his article, and after giving it 
to the editor, composes himself to wait as 
patiently as he may for the appearance of “our 
next number.'’ Now, for the first time he 
tastes the joys of authorship. He quite plumes 
himself on what he has done. But pride goes 
before a fall. When the paper appears he 
eagerly scans its columns to descry the well 
remembered title. It is not to be found: there 
must be some mistake. He turns to the 
Editor's room, and is just about to knock, when 
his eye falls upon a waste-paper basket, waiting 
to berelieved of itsburden of trash, andon look- 
ing at it more narrowly, the first object that 
attracts his attention, is his own article, torn 
and dog-eared, a melancholy wreck of its 
pristine self. His feelings on turning away 
may be very well given in the words — 

Farewell a long farewell to all my greatness ! 

This is the state of man : to-day he puts forth 
The tender leaves of hopes ; to-morrow blossoms, 
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him : 

The third day comes a frost, a killing frost, 

And — when he thinks, good easy man, full surely, 
His greatness is a ripening — nips his root, 

And then he falls, as I do. 



Sketches of the history of science. 



IV. SCIENCE IN THE DARK AGES. 



As we have seen that among the ancient 
nations there w r ere very few students of nature, 
and that these feww'ere widely scattered geo- 
graphically and lived only at long intervals of 
time, it would be impossible to expect rapid 
progress. Scientific truths are only demons- 
trated by careful and close observations of facts 
and before they could be correlated many men, 
must have lived and died feeling that life was 
too short to acquire knowledge. There is but 
little of a poetical or idealistic nature in Science, 
and it is not strange that the more learned 



were given to poetry and the Fine Arts rather 
than to the investigation of dry facts, the laws 
of which were then unknown. In the gross 
and superstitious darkness that veiled the Middle 
Ages, when learning had sunk so low, it 
would be quite unreasonable to expect any 
scientific progress, and but little has been hand- 
ed down to us. This period may then be con- 
sidered as one of transition between ancient 
and modern knowledge. 

In themidst of theirwarstheancient Orientals 
had lost a taste for scientific studies which then 
passed over to the Southern Europeans ; but 
from the dying embers of Greek and Roman 
knowledge, the Arabs, Persians and Jews, rekind- 
led their zeal for studious observation. Unlike 
the Occidentals, they had not the positive 
spirit of observation, and they frequently 
substituted their imaginations for this ; and 
thus, errors in Astrology and Chemistry, which 
commenced before the fall of the Empire, were 
enthusiastically developed among them, and 
stopped the progress of sound investigation. 

In the seventh century, among the Savants 
of these Eastern nations there were Almed- 
ben-Ibrahim, Iln-Sirim, Iln-el-Mocaffa, Dcha- 
fer, Ahron (author of the Pandects of Medi- 
cine) John (the grammarian and translator of 
Galen), El-Kinani (a medical professor in 
Alexandria), and Dchilbir ( or Geber). These 
men were students of Medicine, Botany and 
Alchemy, and in the last of these sciences or 
quasi-sciences it is to Geber, that we owe the 
first reform. He is credited with the discovery 
of Sulphuric Acid, which led to a long series of 
chemical truths being made known. He also 
discovered, that in the calculation of metals 
there is an increase in weight in the oxide 
formed, this being due to the absorption of 
oxygen from the air. Geber, conducted his 
investigations with remarkable exactness, but 
unfortunately he gave himself up to the chime- 
ra of transmutations of metals; and his writings 
on the subject are so clear and precise that the 
reader might almost believe in the effect. 
Geber, was also an able astronomer. But the 
most important event of this century was the 
foundation of Islamism by Mahomet, by force of 
arms rather than by the power of speech. 



94 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



This nearly extinguished scientific research, 
and during the eighth and ninth centuries there 
were very few Savants who were not Christian. 
From among the learned of the ninth century 
(many of whose names are unpronounceable) 
arose the family of Bachticlione, who were the 
glory of Persia. Many of these translated the 
principal Greek and Roman scientific works, 
being protected by Calif A1 Mamaen (A. D. 
8r5) and succeeding Califs, who welcomed to 
their courts the learned men from abroad. 
But this state of progress could not continue 
and there resulted a struggle between science and 
religion. As the priests of the Roman church 
at a later day made their heavy hands to be felt 
in Europe, attempting to enforce the dogma 
that all knowledge came through than , so the 
teachers of the Koran, fearing, endeavoured to 
prevent the diffusion of the taste for scientific 
observations. No true religion need fear sci- 
ence, but its truths sometimes come by means of 
false teachers, uncomfortably near home; and no 
religious dogma can stand unless resting on a 
foundation of facts. In most religions the de- 
votees have incorporated much that is poetic 
and idealistic, which in course of time becomes 
venerated, and sometimes teaches what the 
plain matter-of-fact science shows to be untrue. 
Of course the narrow minded teachers of these 
religions, which are always conservative, do 
not like their pet-theories upset, or even to 
have rivals, in fields of knowledge which may 
share the homage paid to their despotism. 
Thus in every age the seekers of natural truth 
have been persecuted, alike by Pagan and 
Christian churches, even to our own day; but 
erroneous scientific theories can only hope to 
be broken down by the revelations of scientific 
observations, unrestricted by the dictates of 
mistaken orthodoxv. 

J 

'Phe Koran does not make many references 
to scientific facts, it says nothing however to 
interfere with investigations. 

Referring to the former condition of the 
globe it says that “the earth was created in 
two days, and the mountains placed on it ; in 
two more days the inhabitants were placed 
there, and again in two more, the seven heavens 
were created. 1 The Deluge is mentioned 



* 

as the waters proceeding from an oven. 
After all were drowned except Noah and his 
family, God said “O earth, swallow up thy 
waters, and thou, O heavens, withhold thy 
rain” and the waters abated. 'Phe Mahometan 
persecutions were, at times during the succeed- 
ing centuries, sanguinary, men being often deca- 
pitated and flogged to death. 

Among the learned of the eighth and ninth 
centuries was a considerable numberof Indians 
and Jews. The Arabs did not stop with 
acquiring the knowledge of their predecessors 
but advanced in new discoveries. In the ninth 
century, Sabeens of Harran, whose field of 
research was in the anatomy of birds, flourished, 
as also did El Batin, the Astronomer. The 
observation was at Bagdad, and this savant 
determined the Aphelion, and calculated the 
inclination of the ecliptic, composed astrono- 
mical tables, and made many observations on 
the skies and planets. 

The commencement of scientific study among 
the Mahometans dates back to early in the 
tenth century, and they pursued every branch 
of human knowledge. Pew of their works 
have been preserved, yet fragments have been 
handed down. Omar (The Learned) wrote a 
treatise on “the Retreat of the Sea.” In this 
work he considered that the waters had covered 
a much greater portion of Asia than they did 
in his time, confirming his theory by the 
prevalence of salt marshes in central Asia, and 
by the Indian charts of 2000 years before 
Representing the time occupied by the retreat 
of the sea greater than consistent with the 
Koran, he was called upon to recant his opin- 
ions. Another of the most learned of this 
period was El Ragi (Rhazes,) the Galen of the 
P.poch, who left more than 200 works. How- 
ever the greater number of Mahometan 
savants belonged to Spain, where great attention 
was paid to agriculture and the products of 
different climates and soils. 

Abessia, the younger, of Bokhara was the 
most celebrated physician of the age, and his 
reputation spread widely over Asia. 

(to be continued.) 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



95 



The McGill Gazette. 



Wednesday , March ijth, i 8 ~ 6 . 

Amongst the first symptoms of the appear- 
ance of an aristocracy in any community, is 
that desire which would-be members of this 
aristocracy possess, to have their children and 
wards educated and brought up entirely apart 
from the rougher and less refined offspring of 
the commune vulgus. This wish for separation, 
we do not mean to question. Arguments might 
be adduced to show that such feelings are not 
conducive to the best interests of any country, 
and equally strong reasons might be urged to 
prove that the feeling is perfectly justifiable. 

However we imagine no amount of argu- 
ment would bring with it conviction, and so we 
shall not discuss this point. But a natural, nay 
we might almost say a necessary, conse- 
quence of this wish for isolation is the ex- 
istence among us of so called ‘private educa- 
tional establishments,’ ‘ select academies for 
young ladies or gentlemen,’ as the case may be. 

These flourish in abundance, and the more 
private, the more select, and the more ex- 
pensive, the greater the number of parents and 
guardians who desire to place their charges in 
the blissful abodes where their young minds 
will be uncontaminated by association with less 
favoured (pecuniarily speaking) juveniles. 

These academies and private schools are 
generally undertaken by parties who, whatever 
qualities they may possess to properly educate 
and train children, nearly always have the 
object in view of making the most money in 
the shortest possible time. So “ Mrs. Jones, 
(widow of the late Mr. Jones) having engaged 
the services of the most eminent masters, will 
open a first class school for the board and ed- 
ucation of young ladies. Terms $500 per 
annum, payable in advance. A limited num- 
ber of day scholars taken at moderate rates” 
So reads the advertisement. Often too, refer- 
ences, always ‘ by permission’ are given to B. 
Fitzfaddle Snooks Esq, and O. R. Brown Esq, 
(of the firm of Brown & Robinson) and others, 
all of whom have probably been patrons or 
acquaintances of the late Mr. Jones, and are 



on this account deemed perfectly capable to 
guarantee to confiding mammas and credulous 
papas, that Mrs. Jones and her eminent masters 
are in every way competent to give a full and 
complete education to any young ladies who 
maybe given to Mrs. Jones, ‘and her emin- 
ent masters’ charge.’ Under these auspices the 
school is started, Mrs. J. announces that ‘ she 
has a few vacancies,’ and these are immediately 
filled up. 

But now comes the more serious consider- 
ation. Should schools like the one above men- 
tioned, free from all restrictions and liable 
to no inspection by competent officials be 
allowed to exist. Should a scheming woman 
be permitted, or should a speculative man be 
permitted, to engage what teachers he or she 
pleases; to engage teachers whose qualifications 
for the immensely important work they are to 
perform, have never been tested ? We answer, 
No. But it may be argued that if the teachers 
are incapable it is the parent’s affair entirely. To 
a certain extent it is, but still all parents can- 
not distinguish a good school from a bad one, 
and many would, even could they draw the 
line, prefer to send their charges to a fashion- 
able academy, no matter what the character of 
the instruction there imparted. 

What we think necessary is, to have all de- 
sirous of teaching, compelled to undergo an 
examination, or else render the inspection of 
private schools by public officials compulsory. 

By this means many of those pernicious 
systems of instruction now in vogue would be 
done away with, and the result would be that 
the young of every class would all receive a 
thorough education on approved principles 
instead of the present anomalous and baneful 
system. 

As most of the Students probably know, the 
“ memorial ” requesting the Faculty of Arts 
to cede to the students the room in the right 
wing immediately adjoining the Arts’ Buildings, 
for the purpose of a reading-room, is now 
complete. A meeting of Students in Arts and 
Science was called last Thursday, to receive 
the report of the Committee who had been 
appointed to draw up this memorial, and also 



9 6 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



to receive the signatures of all Students 
favourably disposed towards this movement. 

We fear that many who would otherwise 
readily have signed the document, were de- 
terred from doing so by the inconvenience of 
attending the meeting at the time for which it 
was appointed. For it is impossible to fix any 
hour at ■which all the students can without 
trouble, hold a meeting. It is much to be 
desired that every student who is not directly 
opposed to the reading-room, (and we are per- 
suaded that there is a minimum of this class) 
should exert his influence actively in its favour, 
by appending his signature to the memorial 
petitioning for it, in order that there may be a 
fair expression of the want which is so generally 
experienced. 

FOOTBALL. 

In a few weeks all vestiges of winter will 
have disappeared, and the ground will be in 
a fit state for football. 

The ensuing season promises at present, to 
be a very interesting one, and though our session 
closes too early to permit of any very extensive 
operations, still it is not improbable that one 
or two matches may be arranged. 

A challenge was received by the college club 
from Harvard but it was found impossible to 
get a team in readiness for the Spring, for such 
a match. 

A challenge from the same source has, we 
understand, been sent to the Canadian Football 
Association, and we hear from the Secretary that 
it will be accepted. If this is the case a good 
match may be expected, as the team will be 
selected from all Canada, and, as every one 
knows, the Ontario Clubs can produce some 
splendid players. 

If the Association do not accept the chal- 
lenge, it is likely that the Montreal Club will go 
to Harvard and endeavour to retrieve their lost 
laurels. 

It is a matter for great regret that owing to 
differences in the rules played, there is little 
probability of our ever being able to have 
an Inter-University Match with Toronto, or 
Queen’s (Kingston). 

However we trust that these difficulties may 
be soon smoothed over. 



At a meeting of the College boot-ball Club, 
held lately, it was decided to petition the 
Governors to allow none of the City Athletic 
clubs, which have formerly been in the habit of 
using the College Grounds during the summer 
months, to do so during the ensuing season. 

We hope that the Governors may see fit to 
grant this request, for no one who used the 
ground during the past autumn could have 
failed to observe that the turf was in a very 
bad state, and that altogether a season for 
recuperation was necessary. 

Were the grounds unused for one summer, 
and a little care and attention bestowed on 
them by the porter, whose duties during vaca- 
tion are very light, the result would be most 
beneficial. Again we think that, as our worthy 
Principal remarked in his address at last con- 
vocation, the city has alv ays shown too great a 
disposition to rely on the University for the 
provision of play grounds for the city youth. 

The time has now come when, instead of 
allowing City clubs to spoil the ground during 
the summer, thus rendering them unfit for the 
exercises of the students in the autumn, 
the authorities should permit no outsiders 
to use that property which was intended for the 
use of students alone. 



OBITUARY. 

Mr. S. G. HUTCHISON. 

We sincerely regret to have to announce the 
death on the ist inst. of Mr. Samuel G. Hut- 
chison, 3rd year in Law. Mr. Hutchison, was 
much respected and deeply beloved by all who 
knew him, as well for his uncommon abilities as 
for his urbane and gentlemanly disposition. Mr. 
Hutchison had been prominently connected 
with the press of the Dominion, and from 
every section of the country we hear expressions 
of regret at his untimely demise. His fellow 
students in Law adopted an appropriate set of 
obituary resolutions, and attended (in a body) 
his funeral which was largely attended by the 
citizens of Montreal. We tender to his family 
our heartfelt sympathy, believing that in so 
doing we echo the sentiments of all students 
who knew the late gentleman. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



97 



We copy the following from the Standard , 
in reference to the death of one of McGill’s 
most celebrated graduates : 

DEATH OF SIR DUNCAN GIBB, BART., M. D. 

The death is announced of Sir Duncan Gibb, 
Bart., aged 55. The deceased was educated 
for the medical profession, first at St. Bartho- 
lomew’s Hospital, London, and afterwards at 
Montreal, in Canada. He graduated M. D. at 
McGill College, Montreal, in 1846. He was 
also a member of the Royal College of Physi- 
cians, London, and was for some time physician 
to the Westminster Hospital and to the West 
London Hospital. He was a member of many 
societies in Europe and America, and the author 
of several works on diseases of the throat and 
windpipe. 



Nothing has, so far as we know, been done 
as to making arrangements for the Annual Din- 
ner to the graduating class in Arts. 

We hope the Arts men will not allow this 
pleasant kind of reunion to die out, and trust 
we shall soon be able to announce that all ar- 
rangements have been perfected. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



The Editors McGill Gazette. , 

Dear Sirs, 

Allow me if you please, through the medium 
of your columns, to notify your readers that the 
McGill University Glee Club has adjourned 
till September next, in order that the work of 
the students in view of the approaching exami- 
nations may not be interfered with. 

Perhaps I had better take this opportunity 
to thank such of your readers and friends 
as patronised our concert, for the kind feeling 
they showed, and the generous way in which 
they helped us. But I wish the students as a 
body had shown more interest in our effort, and 
that there had been more students in the au- 
dience. In this desire for greater support from 
the students I fancy you, sirs, can sympathise. 
However, considering that we had only one 
week for selling tickets, and also the miserable 



weather we had that night, I think we were 
very fortunate in being able to give between 
eighty and ninety dollars to the Hospital. I 
hope, and believe, that the audience was not 
disappointed, for I heard many kind congratu- 
lations given to our President, Conductor, and 
various members, on the way in which the club 
acquitted itself. 

A wish was expressed that the club would 
repeat the concert ; but that could not be done 
this session. 

I should like now to add a few words on our 
past deeds and our future hopes. For the past, 
we are grateful to our President for his untiring 
zeal and kindness, and to our Conductor for 
his energy and ability. The club numbers 
twenty members, three or four of whom have 
not been able tq attend practice, and we have 
had sixteen meetings with an average atten- 
dance of fourteen. 

Next Session we hope largely to increase our 
numbers, and by starting at once, with a club 
already formed, we hope to give two concerts 
in the year. 

Allow me to urge all students, vocalists or in- 
strumentalists, to join this Society. While part- 
singing is our principal object, still we do not 
confine ourselves to that. Weprobably shall have 
for the future, some nights specially set apart 
for instrumental music, so that those who join 
merely as instrumentalists, need only attend on 
such nights. Moreover our scheme might com- 
prise vocal solos, duetts, & c., occasionally, thus 
giving an interesting variety. 

We might thus form a Society which, taking 
Excelsior as its motto, might maintain a series 
of very enjoyable concerts, worthy of our Alma 
Mater. In conclusion, I would urge the 
students to give this their attention, and I am 
sure, Messrs. Editors, that you will open your 
columns to the discussion of this subject. 

r l hanking you for the space you have given 

me, 

I beg to remain 

Sincerely yours, 

J. A. Newnham, 

Sec. -Treat. McG. U. G, . 



I 



9 8 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



PERSONALS. 

’65 Alfred Codd, M. D. is Surgeon to the Forces 

stationed at Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

'63 Geo. Wood, M. D. is practising with much 

success at Faribault Minnesota. 

’74 W. A. Molson, M. D. is at present in Lon- 
don, England. 

‘70 W. deC. Harnett, B.C.L. has been appointed 
Assistant Attorney for the City of Montreal. 

’68 Rev. Robt. Laing, B. A. is Assistant Clergy- 
man in St. Paul’s Church, Montreal. 

Stewart, Bac. App. Sc. * 73 > Boswell ’74, and 
Batcheller ’75 are engaged on the City Survey. 

’66 R. S. Cassells B.A. is Registrar and Master in 
Chancery of the Supreme Court of Canada. 

D. Girouard, B.C.L. ’60 and C. P. Davidson, M. A. 
B.C.L. ’63 have been appointed Queen’s Counsel. 

’71, W. J- Dey, B. A., was lately inducted Presby- 
terian Clergyman at Spruceville. 

ITEMS. 

A Freshman asked us the other day, whether it was 
Cicero or Tully that wrote the Oratio Obhqua . 

This is the way Professor Tyndall is reported to have 
proposed to the daughter of Lord Hamilton : “ Sac- 

charine conglomeration of protoplasm ! Adorable 
combination of matter and force ! Rarest product of 
infinite ages of Evolution ! The luminiferous ether is 
not more responsive to the rays of light than are my 
nerve centres to the mystic influence which emanates 
from the photosphere of thy countenance. As the 
heliocentric System was evolved from primordial chaos 
by the workings of inexorable law, so is that rarification 
of matter which men call my soul, lifted from profound 
despair by the luminance issuing from thy visual 
organs. Deign, O admirable creature, to respect that 
attraction which draws me towards thee with a force 
inversely proportional to the squares of the distance. 
Grant that we shall be made double suns describing 
concentric orbits, which shall touch each other at all 
points of their peripheries.” 

Your own, 

Intelligencer . T Y N DA LL. 

Law and Medical Examinations commenced on the 
15th inst. 

There is a good deal of excitement in Toronto Uni- 
versity over some proposed changes in the curriculum. 

We hear that the Literary and Scientific Society of 
Toronto University, intend issuing a Monthly Journal 
shortly. 

Subscriptions are being solicited among the various 
Scottish Societies in the Dominion, to aid in establish- 
ing a Celtic Chair in the University of Edinburgh. 

No meeting of the University Literary Society on 
the 3rd inst. out of respect to Mr. S. G. Hutchison. 

Messrs. Pedley and Hethrington, are the Valedicto- 
rians in Arts and Science respectively. 



A conceited parson once said, 4 ‘this morning I 
preached to a congregation of asses. ” “I thought of 
that,” replied a lady, “when you called them your be- 

loved brethren” Ex . 

Slightly Ambiguous.— In a country churchyard there 
is the following epitaph : “ Here lie the bodies of 
James Robinson and Ruth his wife, and underneath 
this text : “ Their warfare is accomplished” Ex. 
Oxford— “ I say, where’s Harvard?” 

Cambridge — “ O— ah — somewhere in the States, I 
believe.” 

Oxford — “ Where’s Yale?” 

Cambridge— “There you have me old boy— don’t 
know why ?” 

Oxford — “They want us to row at a place called 
Centennial next summer.” 

Cambridge — “ O indeed ! Ha ha!” — 

Ha rva rd L a m peon . 



EXCHANGES. 

The II an' ard Advocate for March 3rd, is quite up 
to the mark. The “Confessions of S. ihetics”and 
“Ready made Opinions: Metaphysics vs. Science” 
will richly repay perusal. 

Tuft’s Collegian is, on the whole, one of our respec- 
table exchanges, though of late the editorials discuss 
uncommonly trite subjects. A peculiarly offensive 
feature is the sprinkling of Americanisms which it con- 
tains. We should recommend our confrere to be chary 
of these, especially in noticing transatlantic exchanges. 
The Oxonians and Cantabs will probably stare when 
they learn that their Journal is some larger than the 
Saturday Rcz ieiu . 

Cornell Era . The last number of the Era belongs 
to that unsatisfactory class of literary productions of 
which it is difficult to say any thing positively. It is 
not bad, while there are few passages which can be 
called good. 

The range of the Dartmouth for the 2nd of March, 
is unusually extensive. Imagine a paper that in rather 
less than four pages discusses, John Stuart Mill and 
his school, the Pyramids, and Rats ; and then try to 
form some conception of the character of the articles. 
It is evident that the editors have returned to their 
duties refreshed by their vacation. Those, however, 
w ho have not just received such a sudden accession of 
mental activity, will feel fatigued in endeavouring to 
follow the Dartmouth in its daring flight. This is our 
experience. After toiling through the article on Mill, 
(which, w r e may observe, closes with one of the safest and 
most non-committal platitudes imaginable) w r e have still 
to climb to the top of the great Pyramid, and are sud- 
denly recalled from our exalted position, by the single 
word “Rats” which bursts upon us like an exclamation. 
The tenor of this latter article is in keeping with its title, 
and the ear is continually saluted with such choice 
expressions as “may we be dashed.” “We just 
clawed out of the window” &c., &c. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



99 



DEVLIN'S Gents Furnishing Goods. 



Hat 




F 



ur 



DEPOT, 



416 Notre Game Street, 

-iyr o irsr '~r t?, ~fti a t, 

the 



Jinidiia j|sat aid jraiues 5 

SHERBROOKE, QUEBEC. 






The Subscribers are now prepared to take 
orders for the preparations of this Company, 
consisting of — 

PRESERVED PROVISIONS, In Tins 
ASSORTED SOUPS, in Tins 
POTTED MEATS, in Tins 
SALTED and SMOKED MEATS 
SAUSAGES in Tins and Skin 
And Sundry other DELICACIES, suitable for 
the Breakfast and Supper Table. 

McG & B. can confidently recommend these 
Goods as equal and, in some cases, superior to 
the imported, and prices are much lower. 

Full particulars in Price Lists, which may be 
had on application. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

SOLE AGENTS, 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES ST. 

ADVERTISE IN 

THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St. James Street (adjoining Wesleyan Church) 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, 

JlnrWplnWi!nrr ^rorfo fllm/ao Utjnrllyarofiirjfp 

UtiUuiUiUllllilgl UuUl 10 ) UllMuOl 1 1 ail U KLi t Oil 1 0 1 Of 

UMBRELLAS. CANES, &c 

Only the BEST GOODS kept, and ONE PRICE charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 

WILLIAM SAMUEL 

337 HC 7 R 3 DAMS G 7 R 2 ET. 




AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

{entjs' jw Jiatj, {ap § (lavs) 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon, 
and a varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS, 

in their Season. 

3G7 NOTRE DAME ST. 



& 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

Stationery of all kinds, 

IN GREAT VARIETY, SUITABLE FOR 

MEDICAL AND OTHER COLLEGE STUDENTS 

ALSO THE BOOKS USED IN 

McEachran’s Veterinary College, 

AT 

HILL’S LIEBABY, 

666 DORCHESTER ST. 



TOO 



THE McGILL gazette. 



FINE ASSORTMENT 

Standard Library Books, 

LATEST EDITIONS 

ALWAYS IN STOCK. 

BOOKS FURNISHED TO ORDeTpROIWPTLY, 

Catalogues Mailed Free. 

DRYSDALE & CO., 

BOOKSELLERS & STATIONERS, 

MONTREAL. 


GO TO 

1954 ST. JAMES STREET, 

IF YOU WISH 

FIRST-CLASS 

PHOTOGRAPHS, 

AT A 

REASONABLE PRICE. 

J. G. PARKS, 

PHOTOGRAPHER. 


McGill College Text Books 


COHEN & 1,0 PEZ, 


Dawson Bros. 


IMPORTERS OF 

FINEST BRANDS OF GENUINE 

Hatana dtiprs, 


Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 
Text Books in use at the College, 


MEERSCHAUM PIPES, 
C. B. D. and other varieties of Briar Pipes, 

Russian and Spanish Cigarettes, §c 


LSO 


PRESENTATION PIPES 


i 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY, \ 

• 


Silver Mounted <$c Engraved to Order. 

CORNER PLACE D’ARMES & ST, JAMES SI, 


STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 


ALSO 

231 SI. JAMES STREET 


i 

STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 


OPPOSITE MESSRS. SAVAGE & LYMAN. 


NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 




Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students , 


G BISHOP & CO., 


FOR SALE AT 


Engravers, 


159 ST. vT .A. TUBS ST 


Jjithographers and Printers, 


SUBSCRIBE TO 


169 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL- 


THE McGILL GAZETTE 


Printed by J. C. Becket, 658 & 660 Craig Street. 



