JWcGlbfe FOHTNIGHTby 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature? University Thought and Event- 



VOL. III. 



MONTREAL, OCTOBER 12, 1894. 



No. I 



^c€ill lortnigltlg. 



^ EDITORIAL BOARD ^ 



Editar-in-chief-^^ou^R M. Jaquays, B.A. (App. Sc. ’96). 
Secretary — Reginald H. Rogers (Arts ’95), 

Miss L. E. Armstrong (Donalda ’95). Wm. Donahue, B.A. (Law ’96). 

C. H. Zink (Com. Med. and Vet. Sc. '95). Wm. Oliver, B.A. (Med. '95). 
H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., M.D. (Grads. Soc.), 



^ BUSI NESS B OARD ^ 

E. B. Devlin (Law ’95;, Chairman^ 

A. F. Edwards (Med. '96). Miss E. A. Hammond (Donalda ’96). 

W. F. Angus (App. Sc. ’95), J.C. Cutting (Com. Med.and Vet. Sc.*95). 

A. E. Gordon (Arts *96). 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the CoUcg® Session, 

The annual subscription is i.oo, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 85 Union Avenue, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at Wm. Drysdale & Co/s and W. Foster Brown's, 
Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chef, 963 Dorchester Street, Montreal, 



EDITORIAL COMMEXTS. 



It is but two years since the McGill FORT- 
NIGHTLY was a venture made by a few of the bolder 
spirits among the Students, who, instigated by seeing 
the necessity of a College paper, were not disheart- 
ened by the failures of their predecessors. 

The venture, during this time, has outstripped the 
hopes of the most sanguine, exceeding even the anti- 
cipations of its promoters, and reflecting great credit 
upon their energy. It is fair to presume that the 
Fortnightly has come amongst us to stay. 

This success of the Fortnightly is due, for the 
most part, to the zeal with which the Students, as a 
body, have come forward in its support, and 
it is earnestly hoped that this support will be 
continued in order to overcome the many difficulties 
still blocking the path of our College paper. 

One of the chief difficulties is the inability of the 
Students to understand that the Fortnightly is the 
University Fortnightly, that its pages are a 
place for recording college events, and that it de- 



It is nonsense to presume that, in a University the 
size of McGill, literary talent is entirely wanting 
among its students. The lack of contributions from 
students in the past simply shows disinclination, not 
inability. It is equally nonsensical to presume that 
a board of management can produce a journal that 
will suit the varied tastes of so many without their 
help — for all to be pleased all must help please. 

To those students who, for the first time, are 
coming to McGill, the FORTNIGHTLY begs to extend 
a hearty welcome and a no less hearty invitation to 
join the ranks of its supporters. 

Successful as it has been in its past career, let us 
hope that the fmor scribendi breaking out in the 
ranks of the Students will be noticeable in the pages of 
the Fortnightly, and, in becoming still more a 
College paper, it will have its success increased in like 
proportion. 

All friends of McGill are to be congratulated upon 
two appointments that have recently been made in the 
University. We refer to the appointment to the 
Board of Governors of the Honorable Mr. Justice 
Archibald and of Mr. C. J. Fleet. It is simple jus- 
tice to say that these gentlemen richly deserve the 
honour that has been conferred upon them. Both are 
graduates of McGill, who distinguished themselves at 
the time of taking their degrees, and have since con- 
tinued to win honours not merely for themselves, but 
for their Alma Mater. Mr. Justice Archibald’s eleva- 
tion to the Bench, which occurred very shortly be- 
fore he was made a Governor of this University, 
shows the esteem that he has gained by his upright 
life and well-directed ability. 

Mr. Fleet has made for himself a prominent posi- 
tion among the lawyers of Montreal ; and his appoint- 
ment is eminently appropriate in view of his keen in- 
terest in all University matters and the activity he 
has long displayed in regard to them. In his new 
position Mr. Fleet will have larger opportunities than 
ever of serving his college and those who are con- 
nected with it, and none who know him, or know of 
him, will doubt that he will improve his opportunities. 



pends quite as much upon them for literary contri- 
butions as for financial support. 



It is a pleasure to state that the plan for the re-or- 
ganization of the Athletic Association of McGill, sub- 



McGILL fortnightly. 



2 



mitted last spring to the authorities, has been ap- 
proved of by them, and from this present time our 
athletic world will be governed by the new system. 

It is manifestly an improvement on the old one, 
and should be the means of putting all sports and 
games at McGill on a firm basis, by giving, as it does, 
a well considered set of rules, a good revenue and a 
proper management to the Athletic Association. 

The revenue, derived from the fee of two dollars 
imposed on every student, ought to be sufficient for 
all needs, and this, together with the fact that the 
managing body is composed, not only of students, 
but of Professors and Governors of the University, 
should ensure the success of the new system. Under 
this guidance. Athletics at McGill ought soon to reach 
the level of those of other large Universities, where a 
student’s physical education is considered of some im- 
portance, and where opportunities are given him for 
perfecting himself in it. 

The revenue will be expended partly on the im- 
provement of the grounds, partly on the different 
clubs supported by the students ; and while the several 
clubs will receive a grant of money to aid in their 
support, it will probably be necessary for them to levy 
a small entrance fee of their own for the purpose of in- 
creasing their income, and also for determining their 
membership. 

The good effect of the new plan is already apparent, 
as the cinder track has been considerably lengthened 
and improved, while the campus has been levelled 
off and new turf laid where required. 

As regards the arrangements of the Association, 
everything seems to be fair and business-like, the stu- 
dents being well represented, and the professors and 
governors evidently doing all in their power to advance 
the interests of Athletics in the University. 

^ There can scarcely be expected a “ revival ” of 
athletics this year, but it is safe to say that, in a 
very short time, McGill will be no further behind her 
sister Universities in this respect than she now is 
in regard to educational matters. 



We are pleased to notice the important remarks 
which the Dean of the Medical Faculty made in his 
address to the Medical Students on October 2nd. 
These were with regard to the lengthening of the 
session, and will be of interest to all. 

With such a quantity of work to be done, it was 
often a subject of inquiry why only six months should 
be assigned to its accomplishment. When, however, one 
remembers that in the past the majority of the Medical 
students came from rural districts, and had to earn 
enough in the long summer vacation to pay for the 
winter session, one can well understand why the session 
was made as short as possible. There are still a 



number of students who make enough during the 
summer to pay for the winter session ; but this class of 
students is becoming small, and the majority of the 
students who now enter college see their way clear to 
finish the course. 

As the class of students with independent means 
and in better circumstances has increased, so Medical 
science has been steadily progressing, and every 
year the amount of work to go over has been getting 
greater. 

With these facts before them, the Medical Faculty 
has for some years been carefully considering 
what would be the best thing to do. They feel that 
the McGill Medical College has reached such a state 
of development that it need not wait for some other 
college to take the initiative, but that it should do 

o 

anything that will add to its own welfare. Conse- 
quently the course has been lengthened from four 
sessions of six months and two summer sessions, to 
four sessions of nine months. 

The results that will follow such a change are impor- 
tant. The quantity of work will not be greatly in- 
creased, but a better quality of work is expected. For 
a number of years there have been two summer ses- 
sions, namely, one at the end of the First year, which was 
optional, and one at the end of the Third year, which 
was compulsory. The present change is practically 
to add two more summer sessions, so that instead of 
the session ending at the end of March, it will end on 
the 20th of June. Instead of six months, the student 
will have nine months in each year of Academic 
teaching, and will thus feel the influence of the pro- 
fessors to a greater degree. 

The present change applies to the First Year, and is 
not retroactive, so that the Second, Third and Fourth 
Years will still have their sessions close at the end of 
March, while the First Year will finish its session at 
the end of June. 

Now that athletics in McGill have been placed on 
a proper basis by the authorities, it seems as if the 
Students in the several Faculties might rid themselves 
of a cloud that, for the past few years, has darkened 
Sports day. This day has always been the day of 
days for the McGill student. Popular as it has been 
in the past, there is little doubt but that, under the 
new management, it will become immensely more so 
in the future ; and in becoming still more a University 

day it will become more universally a gala day for the 
Student. 

Just^as Sports day is the day of days, so ought 
Sports night to be the night of nights for the Student • 
and as the foinier is the University day, so ought 
the latter to be the University night. 

Faculty feeling has prevented this* in the past, but 
niversity feeling should not be sacrificed to Faculty 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



3 



feeling. Why now, at so favorable a time, could not 
all old grievances be laid aside? It would require 
very little sacrifice of old customs to perform tliis, a 
sacrifice of old customs for new and better ones. A 
mass meeting of Students would probably clear 
up all past misunderstanding, do much to pro- 
mote a University feeling, and might result in the 
Students uniting, as Students of Old McGill, and 
not as belonging to any particular Faculty,in making 
Sports’ night, what — shame to them — it has never 
been — a grand Students’ night. 

The daily press is reviving the rumor that McGill 
has at length found a Principal in Dr. Petersen of 
Dundee. Although we have been informed on good 
authority that no such appointment has been made^ 
there may be sufficient interested concerning the mat- 
ter to justify the insertion of the following extracts 
taken from the Witness of October 5th. 

Wm. Petersen, M.A., LL.D,, commenced his edu- 
cational career at the Royal High School of Edin- 
burgh, passed thence to the University of Edinburgh^ 
and graduated first in the H onour list. There he gained 
a Greek Travelling Fellowship, and studied for some 
time on the Continent. Afterwards he was elected 
to the MacKenzie Scholarship, and gained an open 
scholarship at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. In 
1876 he took the Ferguson Scholarship. 

After graduating with honors at Oxford, he was 
appointed assistant professor of Humanity in Edin- 
burgh University. In 1885 the University of St. 
Andrews conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of 
Laws. In 1882 Dr. Petersen was elected Principal 
of University College, Dundee, and since that time 
he, by his ability, tact and energy, has been success- 
fully engaged in overcoming the many dangers and 
difficulties which surrounded the early days of that 
College. 

It was the intention and desire of the Board of 
Management of the Fortnightly to furnish with 
this number a portrait of J. H. R. Molson, Esq., donor 
of the new Medical Building. 

At the special request of Mr. Molson, however, and 
to our very deep regret, the portrait has been with- 
held. 

THE LIBRARY. 

The University Library is now open, except on 
Saturdays, from 8 till 10 p.m., and should anyone 
wish to consult between these hours books that do 
not happen to be on the Reference Shelves, it is only 
necessary to apply for them before 5 o’clock in the 
afternoon. If this be done, the books will be brought 
from the stack, and kept at the delivery counter 
until required. 



The following advice to readers, taken from a 
number of the Library Record of Jersey City, is 
worth reprinting : 

How AND When to Rea.d. 

Systematically, — do not run from one subject to 
another. 

Slowly, — never give more time to reading a book 
than to reflecting upon its contents. 

Never try to read what is laborious ; the memory 
will not retain it. One hour when fresh is worth 
three when tired. 

Whenever you can get a chance — except at night 
when you ought to be asleep. 

Have books about you ; employ the spare 
moments. You will be surprised how much can be 
accomplished in odd moments usually thrown away. 

Persevere. Tenacity and application are almost 
omnipotent. 

CONTRIBUTIONS. 



THE NEW ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS 
TO THE BUILDINGS OF THE FACULTY 
OF MEDICINE, McGILL COLLEGE. 

In the Calendar of the Faculty of Medicine for 
this session, recently issued, will be found a very con- 
cise yet comprehensive description of the additions 
and alterations which have been made to the build- 
ings of the Medical Faculty. The reader might be 
referred to this for such information as he desires, 
and find it all sufficient, so that my task seems unne- 
cessary. As I have been asked, however, to write 
something for this month’s issue, I gladly accede to 
the request. 

When the generosity of Mr, J. H. R. Molson en- 
abled the Medical Faculty to carry out their cherished 
desire to add to the accommodation which had long 
been insufficient for the large and increasing number 
of students, the problem presented itself, how best 
to do this so as to be most efficient and with a modest 
expenditure. 

The original building had been enlarged and add- 
ed to, piecemeal, from time to time, and without any 
reference to a comprehensive scheme. 

The acquisition of the adjoining detached house 
belonging to Sir William Dawson, so long the resi- 
dence of Professor Harrington, and now devoted to 
Pathology under the charge of Dr, Adami, made it 
essential that the new building should be so placed 
as to unite the whole series of buildings. 

At the same time it was desired that this new 
building should be so designed with reference to a 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



4 

possible further enlargement at some distant date, so 
as to form the central block of a future fafade facing 
Carleton Road. 

It was therefore wisely decided to build it in stone, 
and it is hoped that before very long the brick sep- 
tagonal Lecture room, coming between the original 
stone building and the new building, may be so re- 
arranged with a stone facade as to make an entire 
harmony of front. 

The idea of the central corridor has been retained 
and extended, and the corridor now runs from end 
to end of the building, a distance of about 275 feet, 
having the Lecture rooms. Laboratories, etc., opening 
from same, right and left. 

Owing to the very considerable rise in the ground, 
the levels of the floors vary ; and so much is this the 
case with the new building that its ground floor is 
only a few feet below the upper floor of the old 
building. This has necessitated some ingenuity in 
arranging the stairs and floors, as the Pathological 
building had also to be considered. 

The buildings as now arranged are less compact 
than they might have been had they been all designed 
at one time, but it is hoped that any bewildered stu- 
dent, after enjoying a personally conducted tour by 
Cook, may be able to dispense with a guide book. 
Should this not be the case, the lithographic plans in 
the Calendar may perchance supply his need. 

If the reader will be good enough to accompany 
me on an imaginary visit to the buildings, I will • 
briefly try to explain what has been done since the 
close of last session. Entering by the familiar front 
door of the original building, on the left we will find 
a small office arranged for the janitor, which will no 
doubt be duly appreciated. The Library is now a 
general one for Students, and the old Faculty room 
is reserved for a special Library. The room beyond 
is now the Faculty room, and has been transmogrified. 
On the right the Museum remains as before, and 
beyond the stair the Students’ old Reading room has 
been changed into the Registrar’s office. The Chemi- 
cal Laboratory has been nearly doubled in area, as it 
now includes the Laboratory formerly used by the 
department of Physiology. 

On the other side of the corridor the old Lecture 
room has not been changed, except that divisions 
have been placed below each seat, and each numbered. 

On the upper floor of the old building the Dissect- 
ing room has been very considerably enlarged, and a 
new hoist put in with new lockers, etc. 

The old Historical Laboratory is now a Bone room 
and Anatomical Laboratory. The upper Lecture room 
remains as before. 

Entering now the new building by a flight of steps 
from the old building, immediately on the left is the 
Students’ common room, which will be found brighter, | 



more cheerful and commodious than the old room. 
Adjoining this is a cloak room for those coming 
in fr(?m the new entrance ; beyond is an apparatus 
room, both being obtained under the seats in the 
Lecture room. We come now to the new Lecture 
room which is seated for 400 students, with comfort- 
able seats in oak with sloping backs and arm rests for 
writing upon ; the room is lit by five large windows 
on the left of the students, which throw abundant light 
on the Lecture table, etc. Adjoining and connected 
with the Lecture room are three well lit rooms, to be 
used as preparation and Professor s room and private 
laboratory. A draught cupboard is placed between 
the Lecture room and the preparation room, with 
glass fronts on each side. 

The long corridor is lit by ample windows along 
the one side, and at the end is a new entrance for the 
convenience of students and professors going up to 
the Victoria Hospital. * 

On the right is another staircase with rooms on 
each side for the professors, etc. Ascending the 
stairs we land on the mezzanim floor, where the 
laboratories and rooms for Hygiene are placed, and 
from the corridor of which a students’ entrance is 
obtained to the upper part of the Lecture Hall. 

On the top floor, well lit and airy laboratories are 
arranged for Physiology, Pharmacology and Histol- 
ogy, each having an area of over two thousand 
super, feet. These are being fitted with most com- 
plete fittings in hardwood and every convenience 
necessary for the prosecution of the work. 

In the pathological department, which, as has been 
said, is now joined to the main buildings, the general 
Laboratory has been improved by removing the 
cupboards, which formerly blocked up the middle of 
the room, and new entrances have been made both 
externally and internally. 

The heating is by hot water and by direct radiation. 
The ventilation is partly by electric fans and partly 
natural, with high tubes for fresh air inlets and larger 
flues for foul air. For artificial lighting, electricity 
has been adopted throughout. 

Having rapidly and, it must be confessed, somewhat 
superficially run through the interior of the buildings 
let us glance at the exterior of the buildings. 

The appearance of the new addition is of the sim- 
plest character, the funds available would not admit of 
any adornment or embellishments. All that could be 
done was to endeavor to give an air of solidity and 
dignity to the building, and by the fenestration to 
impart character as far as might be. 

It IS a matter for congratulation that stone was 
decided upon after a good deal of consideration ; and 
although it is hardly possible to put much unity into 
the several buildinp of the Medical Faculty ,as they are 
so diverse and designed without much relation to each 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



5 



other, yet we think when the brick building facing 
Carleton Road is supplanted by a stone front, linking 
the old and the new stone buildings together, the 
whole will have a certain unique dignity and simple 
character. 

It is intended to put steps up to the Carleton Road, 
so as to give easy access for students going to the 
Victoria Hospital. 

I gladly take this opportunity of expressing my 
indebtedness to the Dean and members of the Faculty, 
and especially to Dr. Ruttan, for much kindly help in 
working out the problems presented, not only in the 
general arrangements but in many matters of detail. 

Before the end of the session the Medical readers 
at least will doubtless have become very familiar with 
the new building. May I venture to hope that they 
may be “ to its faults a little blind, and to its virtues 
wondrous kind ” ? 

Andrew T. Taylor. 

THE STUDENT CONFERENCE AT NORTH- 

FIELD, MASS. 

During the first ten days of last July, delegates 
from the Young Men’s Christian Associations of the 
chief colleges of America assembled at Northfield, 
for the ninth time, to engage in Bible study and con- 
ference on religious work in our colleges and semina- 
ries. Four hundred and thirty student-delegates 
were present, representing one hundred and nine 
institutions, which are contained within a triangular 
area with Cape Breton as its eastern, Michigan its 
western, and Virginia its southern point. Of the 
colleges of Canada, Toronto, Victoria, Acadia and 
McGill Universities were represented, as also were 
Ontario Agricultural College of Guelph, and Albert of 
Belleville. McGill had the largest Canadian delega- 
tion, and Yale headed the list of American delega- 
tions. 

The first thing to do on arriving at Northfield is 
to get located in your temporary quarters. The 
home of the conference is the girls’ seminary, an in- 
stitution where about four hundred girls annually 
reside for the purpose of engaging in various branches 
of study. Some of the boys said they experienced a 
“ funny ” feeling when they learned who had been the 
previous occupants of those hallowed halls and rooms. 
The closets, store rooms, etc., were always examined 
to see that not even the ghosts of the fair sisters 
were hiding there. But no ghosts were found 
Here and there parts of wearing apparel were discov- 
ered ; but we should explain that the ov^ners of 
these “things” had to make a hasty exit to make 
room for us. 

Then the visitor turns to admire the natural scen- 
ery of Northfield. This is a work that is continued 
as time permits until the conference is over. For 



Northfield is one of the prettiest spots in New Eng- 
land. Wooded moulitains, rich valleys, and gently 
flowing river seem to vi% with each other in present- 
ing to the eye the most fascinating view. From a 
knoll near Mr. Moody’s house, familiarly known as 
“ Round Top,” there is a most entrancing view, espe- 
cially at sunset. The valley of the Connecticut 
River stretches out before the eye, displaying cultiv- 
ated fields of various colors, sequestered farm cot- 
tages, groves and bridges ; while winding through 
the hills is the river, broad and majestic, and to the 
left and in the background, as far as the eye can reach, 
are the Green Mountains of Vermont. When this 
terrestrial splendor is enhanced by the golden rays of 
the setting sun, which there gilds the western skies 
with an indescribable beauty, the picture is as nearly 
perfect as can be imagined. Feasting our eyes on 
this lovely scene, and listening to the soul-stirring 
words of the speakers, it was no wonder that on 
“ Round Top ” we experienced somewhat of the feel- 
ings of the disciples in the Transfiguration scene, 
and would fain have p rolonged those blissful hours. 

The pastimes of Northfield also deserve a passing 
notice. Each afternoon is devoted entirely to physi- 
cal recreation. Swimming, walking, baseball, tennis, 
social intercourse, sleeping and mischief are always 
in order. We had our “ sports ” day, during which 
some excellent records were made. The events which 
attracted most attention were an obstacle and a single 
scull race across a small pond in wash tubs. The lat- 
ter was accompanied by the usual misfortunes, only 
more frequent, owing to the smallness of the tubs. 
However, as a number of the fair sex were looking 
on, the boys didn’t seem to mind the inevitable foun- 
dering, and with good grace allowed the water to 
trickle down the back of their necks. But the ob- 
stacle race had some new features, especially in the 
character of the obstacles. About twenty men entered, 
and the course was as follows : — They took position 
on a side hill on all fours, with heads downward. At 
the signal they turned three 'somersaults, then ran 
a short distance, jumped a wire fence (no barbs), and 
plunged into the above-mentioned pond, through 
which their course lay. 

This pond, less than one hundred yards in diameter 
is the watering place of a beautiful swan and others of 
the feathered kind. They seemed a little surprised 
at the intrusion on their privacy ; but, supposing the 
new-comers to be friends, they gallantly retired until 
the strangers had finished their ablutions. After the 
pond, came another wire fence, then, after a few more 
yards run, two more somersaults were turned and 
next a wall eight feet high had to be climbed. Hav- 
ing scaled the wall, each one had to stand on a shingle, 
and remain there till he munched a slice of bread 
which had been first toasted and then sun-dried. Re- 



6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



freshments being over, they next wriggled through 
empty barrels, and then came the last hurdle. This 
was a tennis net placed flat on the ground, with men 
sitting on it at intervals of about six feet, and at the 
centre of this space, the competitors, wet and weary, 
and still striving with the crust, raised the net and 
crawled under to the desired goal. 

As to the real work of the Conference, only the 
briefest outline can be given and one or two leading 
features noticed. 

The time, from eight o’clock to eleven each day, 
was devoted to the study of mission work, conferences 
on religious work in our colleges, and Bible study, the 
latter being chiefly done with a view to preparing 
men for personal religious work or for teaching a 
Bible class. 

It is impossible to give here an adequate idea of the 
details of this work. The hours were not idly spent. 
We were all ready to confess that the lecture room was 
no more fatiguing. Much information was imparted, 
much encouragement given ; the most successful 
Associations related their experiences, the travel- 
ling secretaries gave us the best methods of work that 
had come under their extended observation ; the 
practical superseded the theoretical, the addresses were 
brief and pointed ; an intense earnestness was mani- 
fested, and a desire to know how the Master’s work 
may be best advanced in our colleges j sometimes we 
were proud of what our Association had done, some- 
times we sank into insignificance when brought into 
comparison with others. 

At eleven a.m., and again at eight p.m., we had 
daily platform meetings. The public was admitted 
to these, and also to the meeting on “ Round Top,” at 
seven in the evening. These meetings were ad- 
dressed by eminent speakers, of whom Mr. Moody, 
Dr. Pierson and Mr. Torrey of Chicago are best 
known to us in Canada. Their themes were varied 
in character, literary, scientific, philosophical and 
theological, all very orthodox, practical and evangel- 
ical. The word of God was specially honoured, and 
held up as the chief agency by which our ends are to 
be attained. The need for and power of prayer was 
emphatically emphasized. But the subject that 
chiefly engrossed us, and the discussion of which led 
to the most important results, was “the Holy Spirit,” 
— his function, how manifested in us, etc. 

This subject was very vividly and impressively 
presented by Mr. Torrey towards the close of the 
conference. It was the climax. The previous ad- 
dresses and the deep earnestness that characterized 
all the meetings seemed to produce within us the 
disposition required for the proper hearing of such a 
subject. We had begun to realize the stupendous 
importance of our work, and simultaneously with 
this feeling came that of our incapacity for such work. 



We were like one of old, ready to cry “ who is suffi- 
cient for these things ? ” The answer came in Mr. 
Torrey’s addresses. The work was to be accom- 
plished not by any wisdom of ours, not by carefully 
prepared and diligently executed plan, not by perfect 
organization, “ not by might nor by power, butd^ my 
spirit^' saith the Lord of hosts. 

The last Sunday afternoon we spent there will long 
be remembered. Someone suggested that we go up 
the mountain that afternoon to pray and wait for the 
baptism of the Holy Spirit to fit us for service. We ' 
were imitating a well-known precedent. It was even 
thus the disciples of our Lord were finally prepared 
for their life’s work. We assembled at a point just 
in front of the cottage where Mr. Moody’s widowed 
mother, an old lady of ninety, still lives. At Mr. 
Moody’s request, prayer was there ofifered for his 
mother, after which we began the ascent of the moun- 
tain. Fully five hundred followed in the procession 
that wound its way up that wooded mountain slope. 
Away up on the side of the mountain, far removed 
from town and seminary, we sat down in an amphi- 
theatre which Nature had provided. Mr. Moody 
led the meeting. The singing was subdued. The 
prayers were most earnest. The words spoken were 
choice and appropriate. There was no noisy demon- 
stration. Parts of the hour were spent in silent 
prayer. It was a time ofkeen introspection, of heart 
searching, of reaching outward and upward; a 
time when cherished plan or self-erected ideal was 
modified or abandoned. And there in that solemn 
hour we may say, we hope vvithout presumption, that 
many lives inhaled anew the “ breath of God,” and 
descended the mountain, no longer to live for self and 
the emoluments which this world offers, but for the 
good of theii; fellow-students and of mankind in gen- 
eral, and for the glory of God. 

We would like to have written more in detail, but 
want of space forbids. We said adieu to Northfield, 
feeling more than ever impressed with the vastness and 
importance of the work carried on by our college 
associations, regretting that the colleges of Canada 
ad not been better represented, grateful for the 
help and the inspiration we had received, trusting 

^hese benefits 

shall be shared by all our students, and hoping that, 

providence of our gracious Father, we 
shall be allowed to return again in coming years to 
this annual feast of good things. 

A. Mahaffy. 

the philosophy of fun, and the 

USES OF LAUGHTER. 

of mir^th^ fif the speech of humor,” the effervescence 

with a ri of fun. 1 1 makes wit palpitate 

with a cheerful vitality. It is the condiment of happy 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



7 



conversation, and it gives a palatable tang to song 
and story. A good laugh — not a boisterous one — 
is a welcome guest at every gathering. Fools only 
stretch their mouths without discrimination, and 
laugh at ev^ery thing they hear, whether it be sharp 
or flat, witty or silly, wise or otherwise. A pleasant 
wag will laugh zvith everybody, when anytliing has 
been dropped into the well of his heart to make it 
ripple with delight. A cynical wit will laugh at any- 
body, when the flint and steel of his nature are 
brought together with force enough to strike sparks 
of fun from his intellectual “make up,” The former 
is influenced by humour, which is genial as the sun, 
illuminating whatever it shines upon ; the latter is 
cold and brilliant as the Northern Lights. One is 
friendly, sociable, cheerful, hopeful, helping us to bear 
the burdens of life ; the other is cold, cranky, cynical, 
and with a pointed lance transforms the load in our 
earden of sweets into a demon as hateful as Milton’s 
devil, which sprung up in Paradise at the touch of 
Ithuriel’s spear. Charles Lamb was distinguished 
as gentle Elia because of the sweetness of his temper, 
the amiability of his nature, the soft splendour of his 
humour, and the glory of his genius, which shone out 
like sun-bursts in his conversation and his essays. 
At a dinner party, a “ full table ” was waiting for 
“ grace before meat,” when Lamb enquired, “ Is there 
a clergyman present t ” “ No,” was the answer. “ Then 
let us thank God,” said the wag. He meant no dis- 
honour to the clergy, but he wished to say something 
at which all could afford to smile. 

^ Thomas Hood, the prince of punsters and humour- 
i sts, wrote the “ Bridge of Sighs,” the words of which 
sound like the “droppings of tears from the eaves of 
the eyelids.” His humour was closely allied to 
pathos, and “seemed to secrete tears.” James Rus- 
sell Lowell and Oliver Wendell Holmes represent the 
same moral and intellectual sphere, and their writings 
abound with brilliant specimens of humour and wit, 
humour sharpened with wit, wit tempered with 
humour. Wit sometimes has a polish and edge like 
the Persian scimitar that cut off the offending courtier’s 
head at a blow, so artistically struck, he did not know 
he was a head shorter until he attempted to spit, 
when his head rolled into the basket. The caustic 
surveyor of events, who measures and weighs the 
words and deeds of men — with his pen or his 
pencil, w’ith his tongue or his mimicry, — may be a 
blessing to the community. 

Pompous men “ w'hose eyes stick out with fatness,” 
and who discover perquisites and fees in every con- 

nien Avho have no scruples (save the three that 

make a dram), no conscience, no mercy, no patriotism, 
no regard for humanity, cannot be moved by entreaty, 
by argument, by pity. The humourist mu>t puncture 
the balloons in which they sail so loftily, before their 



huge bubbles will collapse, when they will find the 
level to which they belong. When they aim their 
arrow^s at such hawks in the air, they arc doing the 
work of public benefactors. There are everywhere 
proper subjects of criticism and ridicule. Absurd 
habits, customs, fashions, and pretentious -airs are 
proper targets to shoot at. Men and women who 
try to pass for more than they are worth, those who 
oppress and defraud others, and grow' fat on fraud, 
deserve to wear the cap and bells, and the label of 
folly. They could not be moved by logic, but they 
shrink away from the finger of scorn, and shrivel into 
contempt when laughed at. The satirists have put 
down distasteful usages and ridiculous fashions ; they 
have made fools and tyrants in power contemptible ; 
they have changed political organizations and revo- 
lutionized empires. They are the police of the pen, 
and, in the language of Pope, “men not afraid of 
God are afraid of them.” 

Sham and shoddy are fit subjects for the wit and 
the humourist to assail. Hypocrisy and fraud should 
not go unscathed of that fire which flashes out from 
the attraction of wit and satire. The man who has 
the genuine genius for fun speaks spontaneously the 
sentiment and thought that rises to the surface. 
When you meet such a person in the arena of dis- 
cussion, it is sheer folly to argue wfith him. A pun 
cannot be put out like a lighted candle, with a puff 
from philosophical lips. What can the most elabor- 
ate argument do in combat with a joke? If you 
open your mouth to reason the case, ten to one if you 
will not have to eat your own words. You may 
find yourself in the position of Munchausen’s wolf, that 
sw'allow'ed the donkey, and found itself in the harness 
drawing the cart. You must meet the joker with 
jokes, the punster with puns, the story-teller with 
stories, the humourist w'ith humour, the wit with wit, 
or “ go under,” with the lances sticking in you thick 
as arrow's in the body of St. Sebastian. 

He who cannot take a joke, and join in a laugh at 
his ow'n cost, is too thin-skinned to win the laurel 
crown in a contest of wit. If an offended wit, who 
has been defeated in the w'ord-war of repartee and jest^ 
seeks to do injury to his successful opponent by 
malicious m'srepresentations or unfair assaults of any 
kind, he w'ill be like the eagle that stole the meat 
from the altar of the gods, and burned its nest with 
the brand w'hich accompanied the sacrifice, A few 
illustrations may not be out of place. The following 
is a specimen of pure wit, without a tinge of humour ; 
Dr. Busby, whose figure w'as beneath the common 
size, was one day accosted in a public coffee-room by 
a baronet of colossal stature. “May I pass to my 
scat, O Giant ? ” The doctor, politely making way, 
replied, “ Pass, O Pigmy ! ” “ Oh, sir,” said the bar- 

onet, “ my expression alluded to the size of your 



8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



intellect.” “And my expression, sir, ” said the doctor, 
“to the size of yours.” 

Here is a flash from an unexpected quarter, 
where only grave jokes are looked for: A physician 
reprimanded a sexton, and exposed him in the church 
for drunkenness. “Sir, ’’said the sexton, “I thought 
you would have been the last man alive to appear 
against me, as I have covered so many blunders of 
j’ours.” 

A gentleman, having a servant with a very thick 
skull, used often to call him “the king of fools.” “ I 
wish, said the fellow, one day, “ you could make 
youi \\ords good, I should then be the greatest mon- 
arch in the world.” 



Ready wit will penetrate where philosophy and 
reason cannot go. It is true that some heads are so 
thick that you cannot get an idea into them without 
a surgical operation ; still, by persistent hammering, 
you may flatten a witticism so that it may fit them. 
A distinguished author has written a book in which 
he attempts to solve the problem, “ Why we laugh.” 
Not having read the book, I know nothing of his so- 
lution of the question ; but I will venture to name 
some of the classes of character at which we may 
laugh. The hypocrite who cheats with professions 
he does not put into practice, and who brings dis- 
credit upon virtue, and honour, and piety, is a fit sub- 
ject for ridicule, and when the wit turns the calcium 
light of criticism upon him, making the multitude 
laugh at him, he renders a good service to society. 
Lyly, who was distinguished during the time of Queen 
Elizabeth, said of a notorious hypocrite of his time 

that he never opened his mouth in earnest save when 
he sat down to eat. Conceit which crops out in 
speech, in gait, in manner, in sentiment, is a very ob- 
jectionable trait. The man who is governed by it is 
sure to overestimate himself and underestimate his 
neighbour. He is an embodied personal pronoun in 
hat and boots, and although he has a large I (eye) he 
cannot see anyone so tall and great as himself. Some 
one said that Lord Thurlow was “ the greatest liar in 
England, because he looked wiser than any man 
could possibly be.” 

The self-complacent smile of the egotist, the lordly 
manner in which he strides the streets, the stony 
.stare he bestows on those in the humbler spheres of 
life, show him to be heartless and offensive in the 
highest degree. Such a man will not listen to reason 
he has no taste for moral nor for intellectual philoso- 
P V- ^ reached only by the arrows of wit 

and ridicu e, and the arrows must be sharp, and from 
a bow pu.led by strong arms, to pierce his cuticle, for 

The Book of books declares that “laughter doeth 
good like a medicine,” and it also declares that “ the 
laughter of fools is like the crackling of thorns under 

cl pot. 



THE THREE GRACES OF AMERICAN TRAVEL, 

I. THE LANDING WAITER. 

Civil St. Peter, not I mean to talk to, — 

Good heaven guard my tongue from such a He, — 

But civil by appointment, free to walk through 
Whatever luggage falls beneath thy eye : 

Civil St. Peter, loath’d of every creature 
Who knows thee, fierce custodian of the quays. 

Why is it we must pay thee by the feature 
Through which maukind at large is wont to sneeze ? 

Why is it that the love we bear our country- 
Should be subjected to the sudden shock 
Thou giv’st it, when with triple brass effrontery 
Thou mak’st us open every separate lock ? 

Why is it that unless we pay thee dollars, 

Not drop by drop, but shower’d through a spout. 
Thou layest in the dust our cuffs, and collars, 

And snow white shirts, before thou lett’st us out ? 

In formula ambiguous thou sayest : 

“ How much is there for me in what you’ve got ? ” 
Sweet euphemism ; anglice, “ Thou payest 
To me a tip, or I shall know why not.” 

If honesty is at a heavy discount, 

If Washingtonian truth is on the wane, 

If hosts of matrons uniformly miscount 
Their gloves allowed, and husbands grow profane. 

Who shall deny that thou hast caus’d this scandal ? 

Who shall deny thy daily frauds are such 
That to them Boss Tweed’s cannot hold a candle. 

And all comparisons fail, save Midas’ touch ? 

Thou, thou, but there, my little tirade’s ended, 

Por I remember once, when by some hap 
Thou wert merciful, I thought thy ways ameuded. 

In fact I thought thee quite a decent chap. 



CARILLON. 

8th July, 175S. 

Winter’s famine and night were o’er, 

We woke into life with the summer’s sun ; 
Woke face to face with our foe once more. 
Our foe, outmatching us five to one. 



We had felled the trees like a twisted chain 
And our line within was a living rock,— 
Berry, La-Sarre, Guye 7 ine, La-Rehie, 
Routssillon, Bearn and Languedoc, 

And we,— we were chosen to hold the right. 
Ready to sally at each advance. 

Eager to signal our mettle iu fight 
Under the gallantest eyes of France. 



Slash or crawl through the twisted trees 
Their wounded cheering with latest breath • 

Gods ! they are men to fight with, these! 

Now, threading their way ’mid the dying and dead 
To scream of fife and to rattle of drum 
Highland kilt with jacket of red. 

Shoulder to shoulder, once more they come. 



We stood like -lealhastheysweptalouE- 
Cav^tem, m avant ! cau.e the welcome word 
And we leaped our Hue lo our fathers' SOUR 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



9 



Entre vous genz de village 
Quiaimez !e roy/rangoys 
Prenez chacun hon courage 
Pour combat Ire les Engloys. 

Our song was lost in the muskets’ roar, 

Straight we pushed for the rolling smoke, 

Charged as we never had charged before, 

Met — and the English column broke. 

Gathered our dead through the early night. 

Lay on our arms to renew the fray 
Till we saw by the morning’s growing light 
That our foe was a many miles away. 

We had shed our blood like to summer rain. 

We had held our lives like to autumn chaff, 

To find that a nation’s honour is vain 

When weighed in the scale with a wanton’s laugh. 

[It was longed believed in Canada that the country was sold 
by the Marquise de Pompadour.] 

WILLIAM Mclennan. 



A FOLDED LEAF. 

A folded page, old, stained, and blurred, 

I found within a book last night, 

I did not read the dim, dark word 
I saw in the slow- waning light ; 

So put it back and left it there. 

As if in truth I did not care. 

Ah ! we have all a folded leaf 

That in Time’s book of long ago 
We leave; a half relief 

Falls on us when we hide it so. 

We fold it down, then turn away. 

And who may read that page to-day ? 

My folded leaf! how blue eyes gleam 
And blot the dark brown eyes I see ; 
And golden curls at evening beam 

Above the black locks at my knee 1 
Ah me ! that leaf is folded down 
And aye for me the locks are brown. 

And yet I love them who sit by, — 

My best and dearest — dearest now. 

They may not know for what I sigh. 

What brings the shadow on my brow. 
Ghosts at the best ; so let them be. 

Nor come between my life and me ! 

They only rise at twilight hour ; 

So light the lamp and close the blind. 
Small perfume lingers in the flower 

That sleeps that folded page behind , 

So let it ever folded lie ; 

’Twill be unfolded when I die. 

* * 



UNCHANGED. 

An old man paused beside a wayside well. 

And looked into its depths, and from him fell 
The weight of years ; for in that pictured face. 
Which now was clad with years, he still could trace 
The semblance of the long lost years. 

Ah ! strange to tell, the fleeting years may fold 
Our outward forms into a queer, quaint mould. 

But when we look within ourselves we see 
The same old self just as it used to be, 

Changed only by the silvered hair. 



SOCIETIES. 

LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society was held on Friday, the 28th Sept., — 'Mr. Han- 
son occupying the chair. The business of the evening 
was the election of officers for the ensuing year. 
After some hesitation on the part of the meeting, Mr, 
Howard was nominated for President ; he, however, 
insisted on his name being withdrawn. Mr. Carmi- 
chael was then nominated, but he, too, wished to have 
his name withdrawn. Mr. Hanson was then elected 
by acclamation. Messrs. Marler, Mullen and Robert- 
son were nominated for the office of 1st vice-president, 
Mr. Robertson being elected. Messrs. Heney and 
Marler were then nominated for 2nd vice-president, 
Mr. Marler being elected. Messrs. Saxe, Cole, 
Mansur, Campbell, Suter and Leslie were nominated 
for the office of secretary, Mr. Suter being elected. 
Mr. Patterson was elected assistant secretary.by accla- 
mation. Mr. Hickson was also elected by acclama- 
tion to fill the office of trea.surer. The following were 
elected as members of the Executive Committee : R. 
T. Mullin, Law ’96 ; P. C. Leslie, Med ’95 ; M. C. Hop- 
kins, Arts ’95 ; S. Graham, Arts ’96 ; and J. C. Colby, 
Arts ’98. Mr. Howard moved, Mr. Hickson second- 
ed : “ That two reporters be elected to report the meet- 
ings held throughout the year.” This motion was 
carried, Messrs. Saxe and Campbell being elected. 

The officers of the Literary Society are now as 
follows : 

President. — A. C. Hanson, Arts ’95 and Law ’96. 

\st Vice-President. — J. C. Robertson, Arts ’96. 

2 nd Vice-President. — H. M. Marler, Arts ’97. 

Secretary. — R. W. Suter, Sc. ’97* 

Asst. Sect. — R. Patterson, Arts ’98. 

Treasurer. — J.C. Hickson, Arts ’95. 

Reporters. | ^ M.^Campbell } 

Committee. — R. T, Mullin, Law ’96. 

P. C. Leslie, Med. ’95. 

M. C. Hopkins, Arts ’95. 

S. Graham, Arts ’96. 

J. C. Colby, Arts ’98. 



UNDERGRADUATES, LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The weekly meeting of the Undergraduates’ Literary 
Society was held Oct. 5th, 1894. President Harison 
in the chair. Mr. Mullin, of Law, was selected to be 
the critic for the evening. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and ap- 
proved. A letter was read from Mr. P. Leslie (Medi- 
cine), resigning his position on the programme com- 
mittee of the Society. His resignation accepted, Mr. 
Plerbert Marler, Arts ’97, was elected unanimously to 
fill the vacant position. 



lO 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



The report of the Treasurer of 1893 94 was read, au- 
dited and approved. The business finished, the pro- 
gramme was resorted to. 

First, Mr. S. Graham of Arts’ 96 read an essay, 
which was written in an excellent manner, worthy of 
a Senior. A reading by Mr, Colby, Arts’ 97, followed, 
which was much appreciated. Mr. Hopkins, Arts ’95, 
then led a chorus in one of our own classical ballads. 

Next came the event of the evening, the Debate, 
The subject V as, — “Resolved, that Canada offers more 
advantages to a young man than the United States.” 
This resolution was ably defended by Messrs. Gil- 
mour. Arts ’95 ; Scrimger, Arts ’96 ; and Colby, Arts 
,98 ; while Messrs, Saxe, Arts ’97 ; C. Howard, Arts 

97 ; and Heney, Arts ’98, endeavored to show its 
fallacy. " 

The meeting, with true patriotic spirit, decided in 
favor of the affirmative. Mr. Mullin followed with a 
witty and useful critique, which was much enjoyed by 

all. 

Mr. Ship, Arts ’98, made some remarks, and the 
evening closed, being acknowledged a decided success 
by everyone. 



Y. M. C. A. 

During this session the Association has inaugur- 
ated a plan for the systematic study of the Bible. 
The work entitled “Clews to Holy Writ” will be 
taken as a guide and efficient helper in this study. 
This admirable work is from the pen of Mrs. Ashley 
Carus-Wilson— written “by a student for students.” 
It indicates a plan of study, gives much valuable in- 
formation, is neatly printed and bound, and, though 
selling in the United States for a dollar and a half, 
it is given to Montreal students by any of the book- 
sellers for eighty-five cents. According to the plan 
of this book, we urge all our men to begin reading the 
Bible at Genesis this week, a chapter each day and 
every twelfth-day two chapters. In this way the 
whole Bible will be read through in three years. 
Here is a chance for men in the First and Second Years 
to complete, during their College course, the reading 
of a book which for both present and future will be 
“ a light to their feet and a lamp to their path.” 

Supplementary to this private reading, a course of 
Lectures will be given, and Faculty Bible classes will 
be conducted. These lectures and the work of the 
classes will be based on some subject or topic suggest- 
ed by the part of Scripture read each week. In^this 
way we hope to have our Bible study this year con- 
• centrated, systematic and thorough. It is hoped a 
good and universal interest will be manifested in this 
department of College work. During this week and 
next the Bible classes will meet as announced on 
Sunday. On Sunday, 14th, Mr. Rexford, B.A., Rec- 



tor of the High School, will speak on “ Practical Sug- 
gestions to Bible Students;” and on the 21st, Professor 
Ross of the Presbyterian College, on “ The Revelation 
to Abraham of God as ‘El Shaddai.’” Meetings on 
Sunday are at 3 o’clock in Association Hall, city 
Y. M. C. A., Dominion square. All students in- 
vited. 



APPLIED SCIENCE GLEE CLUB. 

The annual meeting of the Applied Science Glee 
Club was held on the I2th of March last. 

The Treasurer’s and Executive Committee’s reports 
on being read showed the Club to be in a flourishing 
condition both financially and otherwise. 

These reports being accepted, the election of officers 
for 1894-95 was then proceeded with, and resulted as 
follows : 

Hon. Pres. — Dr. B, J. Harrington. 

Hon. Treas. — Prof. G, H. Chandler. 

President. — R. L. Blackburn, ’95. 

Vice-President. — J. W. Bell, ’97. 

Treasurer. — F. W. Angus, ’95. 

Secretary. — F. L. Packard, ’97. 

The meeting then adjourned after a vote of thanks 
to the retiring officers. 



Y. W. C. A. 

On the afternoon of Thursday, September 17th, 
the Second Year class-room presented an appearance 
of unusual gaiety and animation. Skillful hands had 
transformed it into a very bright and pleasant tea- 
room, by means of pretty draperies, rugs, a piano, 
dainty tea-tables and flowers, not to mention several 
houis energetic work. The occasion was that of the 
annual reception to the new students, by means of 
which the members of the Y.W.C.A. endeavor to 
prevent that feeling of stiffness and formality which 
IS so apt to mar the enjoyment of our first days at 
College. In this respect the “ tea ” was even more 
successful than usual. Everyone seemed to do her 
best to make the “ new girls ” feel perfectly at home, 
while the “ new girls ” themselves appeared quite to 
enter into the “ social spirit.” Consequently, a very 
pleasant afternoon was the result. 

A short musical programme was given, consistin<r 
of piano solos by Miss Denoon and Miss Finder and 
songs by Mrs. Barr and Miss Mona Watson, while 
the present representatives of what we hope will one 
day develop into a Donalda Glee Club sang College 
songs. After tea had been served a short address 
was given by the President of the Society Miss 
Rosahnd Watson. In her usual bright and happy 
way Mis_s Watson spoke briefly of the aims and wmk 
O the Society, and extended a cordial welcome to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



II 



the new students, at the same time inviting them to 
attend the meetings and become members of the 

Y. W. C. A. 

A meeting of the active members of the Y.W.C.A. 
was held on Monday, Sept. 24th, to discuss the resig- 
nation of our president, Miss Radford. It was with 
sincere regret that Miss Radford’s resignation \^as 
accepted, for we felt that she was, in every way, cap- 
able of filling her position. Miss Rosalind Watson 
of the Fourth Year was then appointed to fill the 
vacant post. 

ETHEL M. DOULL, 



* * 
* 



Recording Secy. 



A. 2 . 

The annual meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
was held on Thursday, Oct. 4th, at four o’clock in the 
Second Year Class room. Miss Armstrong, in the 
absence of the vice-president, took the chair, and 
spoke briefly on the origin and aim of the Society. 
After this the officers for the year were elected. The 
proposal of Miss Cameron’s name for the position of 
President was received with acclamation, and no other 
name was proposed. The other elections were as 
follows : 

Vice-President — Miss Pitcher. 

Secy.-Treas . — Miss Galt. 

Assistant Secy.-Treas . — Miss Carr. 

Committee . — Misses Raynes, Hammond and 
Savage. 

The Constitution of the Society was then read, one 
clause of which fell on our ears with special distinct- 
ness, namely, that each member of the Society may 
be called upon to take active part in the meetings at 
least once during the year. 

In presenting her report of the past year’s work, the 
Secretary mentioned the pleasure we had experienced 
in our meeting with the Alumnee Society, and ex- 
pressed the wish that another such meeting might be 
arranged this year. 

The meeting was closed by an impromptu debate, 
at the very mention of which part of the audience 
decamped. Those who remained heard speakers 
partly eloquent, partly spasmodic, on the subject, 
“ Resolved, that social intercourse is not conducive to 
intellectual development.” 

The speakers on the affirmative had good authority 
to back their views ; nevertheless, the weighty argu- 
ments on the negative were successful, and gained the 
day. 

It was to be regretted that few of the Freshmen 
were present, but we suppose that the intensity 
of their studies draws them to the library and to 
their rooms. Perhaps when they reach the higher 
years they will have time for such frivolities. 



AFFILIATED COLLEGES. 



MONTREAL DIOCESAN THEOLOGICAL 

COLLEGE. 

The Montreal Diocesan Theological College open- 
ed as usual on Sept. 15th, but many students did not 
return until the following week. Rev. Canon Hen- 
derson, D.D., Principal of the College, began his lec- 
ture on the 20th. Rev. Canon Empson, M.A., and 
the Rev. C. C. Waller, B.A., began their lectures 
during the week, but the Very Rev. Dean Carmichael, 
LL.D., Rev. Canon Mills, B.A., and Rev. G. O. 
Troop, M.A., did not resume their lectures until last 
week. 

The opening was consummated Oct. 4th, ii a.m., 
when his Lordship the Right Reverend W. B. Bond, 
D.D., Lord Bishop of Montreal and President of the 
College, welcomed the Students once again, and asked 
God’s blessing upon the work of the session. He ex- 
horted the students to set an example for good, and thus 
show their Christianity in daily life. The spiritual well- 
being of the College depends upon the students, and 
each man must remember that he is his brother’s helper. 
“ Be praying men. Pray without ceasing. The chief 
“ lesson for a pastor to learn is to know Christ, and 
“ this can only be done through the Bible under the 
“power of the Holy Spirit.” 

The attendance is good this session, and every- 
thing points to a successful year. Six students are 
taking the Undergraduate course in Arts. 

The Alumni will meet Oct. 1 5-17, instead of at 
the opening as formerly, and there will be a public 
meeting in the Synod Hall on Tuesday, i6th, at 8 
p.m., when there will be present to address the meeting 
the Right Rev. J. H. Newnham, D.D., Bishop of 
Moosonee, and the Rev. J. de Soyres, M.A., of St 
John, N.-B. Cordial invitation is extended to the 
students ofthe different colleges to attend this meeting. 

prp:sbyterian college opening. 

The opening lecture of the Presbyterian College was 
delivered, on the evening of October 3rd, by the 
Rev. Professor John Campbell, M.A., LL.D. Rev. 
Principal Macvicar, D.D., LL.D., occupied the chair, 
and on the platform to his right and left were the 
professors and alumni. 

When the Rev. Professor Campbell stepped forward 
to deliver the inaugural address, he was greeted with 
loud applause. He had chosen as his theme, “The 
Excellence of Christianity.” 

At the close of the lecture, the Rev. Principal 
MacVicar spoke briefly of the progress of the College. 
The number of students in attendance last ession 
was ninety-two. Of these, fifteen graduated, and are 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



t2 



now, with the exception of one or two, settled in pas- to rejoice witli our esteemed Professor of Pathology 
toral charges in various parts of the Dominion. Six- on the excellent step he took last June when he mar- 
teen new students have arrived, and more may come | ried one of Montreal’s most beloved daughters. The 
so that possibly there may be a greater number of Students in Medicine wish the Professor of Pathology 
students this session than in any previous year. | and his wife much happiness in their married life; 



WESLEYAN COLLEGE. 

The annual session of the Wesleyan Theological 
College began on the 27th ult. The Rev. Principal 
Shaw made a short address to the students, and a 
commun'cation from the McGill authorities was read, 
giving notice that the University Street gates would 
be closed on Sundays and after 6 o’clock p.m, on 
week days. This announcement brought forth a storm 
of disapproval. “The Gates Ajar” has been 
dropped from the Sabbath afternoon programme. 

The inaugural address was delivered on the evening 
of Oct. 5th, by Dr. Antliff, who returns to the College 
after an absence of some years. 



Jhe Faculty has .shown its wisdom in appointing 
Drs. Alloway, Ruttan, Finley and Lafleur as pro- 
fessors. All well deserve their promotion, as their 
work on behalf of the students has been untiringf and 
unselfish. 



CONGREGATIONAL COLLEGE. 

On Wednesday evening, Oct. 4th, the Congrega- 
tional College made a formal commencement of 

another session’s work under most auspicious circum- 
stances. 

The lady friends of the College provided refresh- 
ments, and at 6.30 entertained the students and direc- 
tors to a tea very tastily got up. 

At eight o’clock the public meeting took place in 
the Assembly hall. Rev. Dr. Cornish presided. There 
were present : Rev. T. B. Hyde of Toronto, Principal 
Barbour, Rev. Prof. Warriner, Rev. Dr. Jackson of 
Kingston, Rev. E. M. Hill, Rev. J. B. Silcox, Rev. 
Thos. Hall of the city. Rev. D. McCallum, Maxville ; 
Rev. J. G. Sanderson, Danville ; Rev. A. F. McGregor^ 
Woodstock, and others from a distance. The devo- 
tional exercises were conducted by Dr. Barbour and 
Prof. Warriner. The students rendered a sacred quar- 
tette. Mr. J. Ritchie Bell sang with splendid effect. 

Take time to be Holy.” The speaker of the evening, 
Rev. T. B. Hyde of Toronto, was then called upon. 
His subject was “ Christian Ambition.” Though Mr. 
Hyde is a comparatively young man, he delivered a 
most admirable address. His lecture from start to 
finish sparkled with bright gems of truth. It was pro- 
nounced one of the best addresses ever delivered 
at the College opening. 



We are pleased to see again among us several men 
who absented themselves from College for a year. 
All were good Faculty men, and were much missed. 
Mr. John Flynn, to whom we are chiefly indebted for 
the excellent constitution which governs the money 
matters of the Faculty ; Mr. Bailey, who took so 
active a part in furthering the interests of the FORT- 
NIGHTLY ; and Mr. James Barclay, who represented 
his year ^o ably as centre scrimmage man on the 
University Fifteen. 

Every Med. should now avail himself of Gymna- 
sium privileges. Note the new regulations. 



CLASS REPORTS. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

During the past four years we have had to mourn 
for three beloved professors that were claimed by 
Death. At the present time it is our pleasing duty 



There is just sufficient time for our athletes to at- 
tain the perfect co-ordination necessary to success on 
Sports’ day. The winning of the “Trophy” should 
not be left to a few, so every capable Med. should get 
into shape and do his best for the Faculty. 

Ninety Freshmen have already registered. Not- 
withstanding the lengthened term, the knowing ones 
still flock to Old McGill. 

Died at Kemptville, Ont., Thursday, Oct. 4th, John 
B. Ferguson, aet. 23. Class ’96 is thus called upon to 
mourn the death of one who has been most energetic 
in all class organizations. That he was President of 
his class is evidence of the esteem in which he was 
held. It was thought that no more fitting expression 
of sympathy could be given than to send a delegation 
to attend the funeral. Messrs. Duckett, Lynch, 
H. B. Fraser, Thomson, Lee and A. J. Grant repre- 
senting ’96 were accompanied by several members of 
the Final and Second Years. 

The following officers were elected by Class ’97 on 
Monday, Oct. 8th : ‘^^597011 

President.~\{. Peppers. 

Vtce-Prei)ident. — J. A. Gourlay. 

Sec.-Treas.~]. D. McCrae. 

Class Reporter, , Proderick. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



13 



ARTS NOTES. 

The first meeting of the Fourth Year Arts was 
characterized by an unusual degree of harmony and 
unanimity. 

Mr. E. Edwin Howard was chosen president by 
acclamation. 

The officers for the year are : — 

President . — E. E. Howard. 

Vice-President.— W . W. Craig. 

Secretary . — Fred. T. Tooke. 

Reading Room Committee. — M. C, Hopkins and 
A. C. Hanson. 

Class Reporter. — M. H. McIntosh. 



At a meeting of the Third Year the following offi- 
cers were elected for this session : — 

President. — W. S. Ferguson. 

Vice-President . — W, G. Turner. 

Sec.-Treas . — Geo. A. Campbell. 

Mr. S. G. Archibald has left with his brother to 
spend the winter in the south of France, at the famous 
old University of Montpellier. 

He is one of the most popular and most able men 
of our year, and one whose absence we shall all feel 
very keenly. 

A large detachment of the men went down to the 
steamer to bid him good-by, and the McGill yell, 
given at parting, rang out with startling distinctness 
over the lonely wharf. 

We all unite in wishing him a very pleasant and 
profitable trip, and hope that the echo of the Old 
McGill “ cry ” will long lii^er in his ears to show 
him he is not forgotten by his classmates. 



The Second Year Arts met on Monday, the 24th 
Sept., in the Reading Room, and proceeded to the 
election of officers for the present session. The re- 
sults of the election are as follows : 

President. — A. R. McMaster. 

Vice- President. — H ector M ackay. 

Secretary. — R. H. Kerr. 

Reading Room Com.—]. G. Saxe and Campbell 
Howard. 

Reporter.—]. A. Cleland. 

Mr. Saxe was also nominated for president ; but in 
proposing Mi\ MclMaster, he asked to be allowed to 
withdraw his own name, and the class unanimously 
decided for Mr. McMaster. The newly elected Presi- 
dent expressed his appreciation of the honor confer- 
red upon him, and in this he was aided by his canine 
friends, two of them, who were very loud in their mani- 
festation of delight at the election They evidently 
wished to share with him the honors of the occasion, 
for as soon as he intimated that they weie next to 
elect the two best looking individuals in the room for 



the Reading Room committee, they placed themselves 
upon the table as candidates. Admonished by their 
master to be more modest, they descended from their 
exalted position, and their chagrin was great when 
Messrs. Howard and Saxe were elected. A vote of 
thanks was accorded to the officers of the preceding 
session, and the meeting was adjourned. 

The class has not lost much numerically since last 
^’car, and of course in other directions it has gained 
greatly. 

The Professor of Botany warned the men that some 
of the microscopes and other instruments which were 
to be used by them in the class room would be also 
used by the Donaldas, and he hoped that there would 
not be any evil results from such a circumstance. 

“I shall introduce you to them next day, gentle- 
men,” added the Professor. 

B 11 (delightedly). — ‘‘To the Donaldas, sir?’* 

Prof. — “ No, to the instruments.” 



Classical Professor : “ I wish the class to become 
thoroughly acquainted with Livy’s style before be- 
ginning the exercises in prose composition.” 

McM — r: “Would it not be well to use the blue 
book pretty freely, sir, till we get well into his pecu- 
liar style ? ” 

A meeting of the Undergraduates in Arts was held 
on Thursday, the 4th inst., to appoint a representative 
of the Faculty to the Business Board of the FORT- 
NIGHTLY. The position was made vacant by the 
resignation of Mr. Archibald, and Mr. Alfred E. 
Gordon of the Third Year was chosen to succeed him. 



On Wednesday, Oct. 3rd, the First Year Arts met, 
and elected their officers. The following gentlemen 
were appointed : — 

President . — W. B. Heney. 

Vice-President. — W. G. Bishop. 

Secretary. — M. C. Heine. 

Class Repotter . — J. C. Colby. 

Messrs. H. A. Coussirat and P. E. McConnell were 
chosen to represent the class on the Reading Room 
Committee. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Ye Classe Reporter maketh his bowe, and — a few 
preliminary remarks : 

He deemeth it seasonabie'to appraise all and sundry, 
and especially the students of the law, of the scope of 
his arduous labours for the coming ycarc. 

Item: — He promiseth sincerely at the outset that 
he will try to be as funnie as he can. 

Item : — Like a diligent and trustic searcher after 
the newes, he will faithfully record the notewoithie 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



H 



events in his little world, and will follow the several 
years to the end of the session through all their joys 
and woes. 

Item : — While his vitals yearn with sympathie for 
the Professional Staffe in’their trying worke, he taketh 
' it not amiss to avowe that all due respect and defer- 
ence shall be paid them in his column, as is due from 
scholar to his masters. 

Item: — He will have his vigilant eye upon the 
freshmen, lest they get into a legal tangle and do 
themselves harme. The modest he will extol and 
the freshest he will impale in his columns, beware ! 
He giveth them here a piece of good advice anent the 
general worke : Do not give the Third Year “points ” 
in knotty questions in the law — keep them for ex- 
aminations. Do not brow-beat the Professors. Do 
not interrupt the morning lectures by late arrival — 
nor the evening ones by irrelevant questions. This 
is painful to the lecturer and maketh the other yeares 
weary. Do not ask any lecturer about dog fights and 
“ sich ” — “ ’orses and dorgs is some men’s fancy ’’ — 
which was very good discourse for a Pickwickian 
coachman, but freshmen, — rise ! 

Item : — After the manner of the worthie classe re- 
porters of the past, he throweth his column open freely 
to all the yeares, and interesting newes is welcome 
and jokes and quibs, the which latter shall every one 
be printed — if they be not too funnie. * 

And all reports shall come forth in the vernacular 
to which he will now emerge to record the following 
events, to wit : — 

The election of officers for the year was held in the 
Faculty room on September yth, and resulted most 
satisfactory to all concerned in it. 

President — Charles Gaudet. 

Vice-President— liveAyn Mitchell. 

Secretary— Montgomery, B.A. 

Class Reporter — J. A. Devlin. 

Since the election of officers for the students of the 
Faculty of Law, the members have received, to their 
great regret, Mr. Devlin’s resignation as class reporter, 
which he was forced to send in, owing to the illness 
which is at present preventing him from following 
out his Law course. 

At a meeting held to consider his resignation, the 
Students passed a vote of sympathy with their very 
popular fellow-student, Mr. Devlin, and unanimously 
elected Mr. Mullin of the Second Year to fill the 
vacancy. 



The first meeting of the Moot Court was held on 
P'riday the 28th September, when a difficult and 
technical case was argued which involved points on 
Insolvency Law and Law of Donations. 

Dean Trenholme presided in court, and took [he 



case en delibere, and has since rendered an elaborate 
and exhaustive judgment on the matters in dispute. 

The case tvas not only interesting in itself but was 
very ably argued by the different Counsel. 

The Plaintiffs were represented by Messrs. Mullin 
and Boyer. 

The Defendants by Messrs. Carmichael and Mitchell, 

It is to be hoped that the interest shown in the 
first debate will continue throughout the season. 



The Law students were the first in the field this 
year in the way of Student celebrations, for, on the 
26th September last, at the invitation of the Law Stu- 
dents of Laval, they in a body attended at the pre- 
sentation of the Faculty flag given by His Honor 
Judge Jette to the Laval students. Space docs not 
permit us to give a full account of what was an ex- 
ceedingly enjoyable evening, but the Law Students in 
McGill take this opportunity of acknowledging the 
great hospitality and attention of their Laval con- 
freres. The courtesy they received on the occasion 
was, coming from Laval, not confined only to the 
Faculty of Law, but was a compliment to the wffiole 
Student body of McGill. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The following class officers have been elected by 
the Fourth Year : — 

President. — R. O. Kinsr. 

Vice-President. — W. R. Askwith. 

Secretary -Treastirer, — \V. F. Carter. 

Class Reporter . — A. R. Holden. 

Reading Room Representatives . — R. B. McDunnough 
and A. R. Holden. 



The financial outlook of the “ Applied Science Asso- 
ciation” this year is very bright. A general sentiment 
is quite evident that our present scheme is a good 
one, which let us prove by paying up punctually and 
to a man. 

The Reading Room Committee is once more at 
w'ork, with the following officers : 

Chairjnan, — R. B. McDunnough, ’95. 

Vice-Chairman. — A. R, Holden, ’95. 

Sccretary-Treasurcr.— W. R. Trenholme, ’96. 

The Committee intends to provdde a stiff cover for 
every paper on the tables, and expects the members 
to take the usual pride in keeping everything in good 
condition. 

A drawing desk is a useful and (at times) necessary 
aiticle ; but could we not be supplied with this con- 
venience to an accompaniment of less red tape with 
fuss and feathers ^ 



I 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



15 



Granted that birds of a feather flock together ; but 
why are some of ’95 so fond of prairie chicken ? 

Certain “ grave and reverend scn(i)ors ” find it hard 
to bear the unseemly disturbance which has usurped 
the place of applause at our business meetings; and 
they trust that soon the escape valve of the feelings 
of their youvg'" friends will be opened in some other 
direction. 

Practical Problem for a Senior. — What course to 
pursue when Professor No. i requests you to shew 
visitors through a certain room to the right of the 
stairs as you go down to the basement — and Professor 
No. 2 very strongly resents your having door of said 
room unlocked for said purpose. 

It is a moot point among those most interested 
whether the new mound at the extremity of the Cam- 
pus is for the purpose of illustrating wave motion, 
whether it is to serve as a landmark for those mariners 
who plough the troubled waters of the St. Lawrence, 
or whether it is there for some reason unknown to 
the world. All trust that the latter is not the case, 
and that some day the mystery may be solved. 

The officers for the Third Year Science have been 
elected, and are as follows : 

President. — Wm, McDougall. 

Vice-President. — W. M, Archibald. 

Secretary. — H. M, Killaly. 

Representative to Glee Chib. — Alex. Dufresne. 

Representatives to Reading Room Committee . — H. 
R. Trenholme and George A. Walkem. 

Class Reporter. — T. F. Kenny. 

Misfortune seems to have fastened on one of the 
most genial and prominent members of Science ’96. 
After passing successfully through a railway accident 
in the summer with only the loss of his baggage, he is 
now laid up with the mumps. 

We wish you luck withh them, M — , 

“ Pat ” seems to be spending his evenings now in 
microscopic investigations of the structure of a fly’s 
eye, etc. Do notl et it interfere with your work, “ Pat,” 
old boy. 

Do you want any protractors or French curves t 

Not this year. 

The summer’s work seems to have taken a good 
deal of Hare off the heads of some of the ’96 men. 

The “ Kid ” has suddenly developed a sporting 
tendency of the most pronounced kind. He is spoken 
of as a representative on the P'aculty team race. 



Another of our ’96 men has deserted us for Medi- 
cine. We hope he will be as popular there as he was 
in Science. 

We hear that “ Socrates ” has left us and gone to 
California for his health. We hope he will return to 
us soon with renewed strength from the genial climate 
of the South. 



None of the Third Year men are taking German 
this year. It is not from lack of love for the grand 
old German language, but from want of time. 

If one of the popular Arts lecturers would call on 
the Third Year he might obtain a couple of keys of 
the lecture room door that mysteriously disappeared 
last year. 

At a meeting of the Third Year on the 5th, Mr. H. 
M. Killaly, their popular secretary, sent in his resig- 
nation on account of having been elected General 
Treasurer of the Undergraduates Society of Applied 
Science. On Mr. Killaly explaining that he could 
not conscientiously hold the two offices, his resigna- 
tion was accepted with regret. Mr. R. H. Stewart 
was elected in his place. 

At a meeting of the Second Year, the following 
officers were elected : 

President. — Clark Staples. 

Vice-President. — W. V. Connal. 

Secretary. — A. B. Newcombe. 

Reading Room Committee . — J. W. Bell. 

Class Reporter. — B. C. Travis. 

Prof. C’s latest pun — Pre-Sise-ly. 



He had been sent to the wrong store. 

Clerk (at book-store). — “ Are you sure that the 
key you want is not among these books ?” 
Freshman. — “ No, sir; I wanted a latch-key.” 



All of the Second Year, with but few exceptions, 
have subscribed to the FORTNIGHTLY. 



The five men who attended French lecture while 
the strike was on were greeted on their return with a 
liberal quantity of water, soap and burnt corks. 

Sc. Soph. — Do you see that man ? 

P'air Donalda. — Where? 

Sc. Soph. — Across there, leaning against a tree. 

Fair Donalda. — Oh ! is that a man ? I thought it 
was a professor. 



i6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



During the evening of the Conversazione, recently 
held in the Engineering buildings, the experiment 
of breaking a beam was performed in the Testing 
Laboratory, 

The professor in charge informed the company 
that the beam would break under a pressure of 
20,000 lbs. “ What 1 ” exclaimed an eminent divine 
standing near, “ will it break at that pressure ? ” The 
professor assured him that such would undoubtedly 
prove to be the case. “ I am surprised,” responded 
His Reverence ; “ I am surprised. The knots / tie are 
only strengthened by the pressure of ;£‘20,ooo.” 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Geological tramp on Saturday, Sept. 29th, to St. 
Helen’s Island. 

First lesson on the use of the hammer. 

The Seniors regret that one of their members is 
unable to finish her course this year on account of 
ill-health. They also regret that another class-mate 
has decided to swell the number of the already large 
and illustrious class of ’96. 

Now we are 7, — according to tradition, a perfect 
number, and who will dare break the mystic charm } 
If someone would be so kind as to lend a Senior a 
moral impression fora week, it would be returned with 
care. 

The “ East Wing ” of our mother hen has spread 
protectingly to receive, besides its annual downy 
fledgelings, three larger chicks already taught in other 
coops to scratch for the “first worm.” Donalda ’96 
welcomes among its old members Miss Vaudry from 
St. Francis, Miss McWilliam from Morrin, and Miss 
Bryant from Stanstead. Miss Fraser, formerly of ’95, 
has also kindly joined us, wishing to take the Honour 
English course before graduating. We trust we will 
give her no cause to regret her change of class-mates. 

Several of our members are taking honors : Miss 

Hammond and Miss Henderson — Classics ; Miss 
Mitchell, Miss Hurst, Miss Nicholls, Miss Fraser and 
Miss Y\\.z\i^x—English ; Wis&Mc?h 2 a\— Philosophy ; 
Miss Locke and Miss '^rysint— Modern Languages. 

The Sophomore class is not as large as we had 
hoped, owing to the absence of several of our members 
which we sincerely regret. But it is with pleasure 
that we welcome Miss Rickey among us. 

Although we are few in number, we shall endeavor 
in no way to do discredit to old McGill, our Alma 
Mater. 

The officers of the various years for the session 
94-95 are as follows : 

Fourth year : — 

President. — Miss Armstrong. 

Secretary. — Miss Radford. 

Class Reporter. — Miss Whiteaves. 



Third year: — 

President, — Miss Henderson. 
Vice-President. — Miss Hurst. 

Secretary. — Mi.ss Mitchell. 
Class-Reporter . — Miss Pitcher. 

Second year: — 

President. — Miss Louise Smith. 
Vice-President . — Miss Marjory Holden. 
Secretary . — Miss Mary Cameron. 

Class Reporter. — Miss Annie Galt. 

First year : — 

President . — Miss Dover. 

Vice-President . — Miss J ordan. 

Secretary. — Miss Cowan. 

Class Reporter. — Miss F. M. T. Cameron. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS 
REPORTS. 

This is the time of good resolutions and promises. 
Comparative Medicine wishes to register a promise 
to the readers of the Fortnightly. Contributions 
from this Faculty in the past have been very meagre, 
some issues containing none of any kind. In the 
future, accurate reports of meetings and current 
news, together with editorials and regular con- 
tributions, are promised. This implies a more general 
interest and support from the undergraduates. Let 
each one not only subscribe to the Fortnightly, 
but also aid the editors, and thus assure a better re- 
cord. 

The opening lecture, delivered by Professor Adami, 
was both instructive and entertaining. The lecturer 
more especially dwelt upon the intimate relation of 
student and professor, defining the latter to be only 
a more advanced student. Thp recollections of his 
own student days showed evident familiarity with 
the trials of the student, and served to place all un- 
dergraduates in a most receptive mood. A plea was 
made for more unity among the different Faculties 
of the University,— perhaps the most crying need of 
the University at present. 



At a meeting of representatives of the various Vet- 
erinary Colleges, held in Philadelphia, September 
17th, an Association of the Veterinary Faculties of 
North America was formed for the purpose of elevat- 
ing the standard of Veterinary education. The pos- 
sibility of establishing a uniform examination and 
degree was discussed. Dean McEachran represen- 
ted McGill, and accepted the vice-presidency of the 
Association. 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



17 



The failure of a large number of the new men to 
pass the matriculation examination is significant. It 
is no more than fair to say that their average attain- 
ments are equal to those of students in former years, 
but the standard has been raised. 

When better acquainted with the difficult studies 
of the course, the necessity of a good foundation will 
be more clearly seen, and a higher matriculation 
commended most by these same individuals, some of 
whom are now inclined to complain. 

During the summer. Dr. Macauley, ’88, Dr. Shaw 
’94, and Dr. Darling ’90, visited Montreal. 

Mr. Regan ’95 will not return until next session. 

The long lost genial Sherman Cleaves is found. All 
extend a hearty welcome. 

Anatomy at 7.50 a.m. ! ! “ Kit ’’ is negotiating the 
purchase of a fire alarm bell. He also has in 
view a patent apparatus for hanging clothes upon, 
similar to the harness holders now in use by the 
Fire Department. With these improvements we are 
assured no student need miss breakfast. 

The eagerness of the Freshmen to purchase McGill 
ribbon on opening day, was explained later, when 
many were seen promenading with the fair sex. 
Truly, there is virtue in sailing under the right colors. 

Nova Scotia sends another representative to divide 
honors with the only “Chinese Walter,” 

At a meeting of the class of ’97 Mr. Cullen was 
elected chairman pro tern. Permanent elections for 
the year were as follows : President, Burns ; Secre 
tary-Treasurer, Connolly ; Reporter, Bruneau. 

A member of the Third Year is busily engaged in 
writing a novel entitled “ The Mystery of an Ex- 
press Wagon or Gaps in Memory.” As it is largely 
biographical, we cannot, in view of the latter title, 
vouch for accuracy of detail. 

We note with pleasure the neat appearance of the 
Students’ room. To Frank’s artistic abilities we owe 
the beautiful shade of green on the floor, so appro- 
priate for the gambols (gambles) of the lambs. 

Dr. Norman Taylor, ’92, still keeps up his interest 
in McGill. Though located in the far West, he has 
already written, asking to have the PORTNIGIITLY .sent 

to him. 



ATHLETICS. 

FOOT-BALL. 

With the opening of another College year another 
Foot-ball season commences, and that, an important 
one in the history of Rugby Foot-Ball in the pro- 
vince of Quebec. Hitherto only the three city clubs 
have competed for the Senior Championship of this 
province, but this year the famous Ottawa College 
Club and also the Ottawa City Club are to compete 
for this honor. Already the season has commenced, 
and three Intermediate matches have been played, 
with the result that Montreal, Lennoxville and 
Ottawa College have beaten the Britannia, Quebec 
and Ottawa City clubs respectively. 

This year McGill must make a great effort to win 
all, and especially the Senior Championship. This 
can only be done by everyone who really takes an 
interestin Foot-ball “ turning ” outand practising hard. 
This year McGill enters the Foot-ball field without 
the services of many of her old supporters, and as 
their places will have to be filled by new and junior 
men, the officers of the Foot-ball Club hope that every- 
one who plays the game will practise diligently. 
One feature which has been noticeable in other years 
is the half-hearted way in which some of the Senior 
team men practise, and another is the difficulty of get- 
ting good men out to play. All first class Foot-ball 
men owe it as a duty to their Alma Mater to turn out 
to the practices of their own accord, instead of having 
to be coaxed so to do. Senior men ought also to 
remember that, although they are superior to the 
other men with a small amount of practice, they are 
not able to compete with other Senior teams without 
doing good hard work. Again, some men think that 
they ought to be asked individually to play, and take 
it as an insult if they are not asked. Now, it should 
be perfectly obvious to these men that in a large 
institution like McGill it is often impossible to hunt 
them out ; besides they must be aware that the Foot- 
ball officers have a great amount of other work to 
perform. Without doubt there are men in McGill 
to-day, who, if they turned out to practices, and 
worked hard, would enable the Club to place a team 
in the field which would not only win the championship 
of Quebec but also of Canada. 

One word to new men : 

Places can only be obtained on any team by prov- 
ing by good work and hard practice that you are com- 
petent to fill them. In addition, junior men ought to 
remember, that although they may not obtain a place 
on one of the teams this year, they must not despair, 
but work hard in preparation for next year. 

The officers for the present year are : 

Honorary President .Prof. Nicholson, B.Sc. 



i8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



President 




Vice-President 




Secretary 




Honorary Treasurer, 




Treasurer 






COMMITTEE. 


Arts 


I H. Hill 


3 K. Molson 


Medicine 


( P. Tees 


\ J.Leslie 


Science 


\ F. A. Wilkin 


3 S. Davidson 


Law 


\ W. Donahue 


Vet. Science 


* 3 A. Ogilvie 



The following is the schedule of the matches of the 
Quebec Rugby Foot-Ball Union for season 1894. 



SENIOR SERIES. 

date. teams grounds won by score. 

Oct. 6 Montreal vs. Ottawa City Ottawa. 

‘‘ 6 Britannias vs. Ottawa College. .Britannia. 

“ 13 Britannias vs. McGill McGill. 

“ 13 Ottawa City vs. Ottawa College . Ottawa College 

20 McGill vs. Ottawa College Ottawa College.. 

“ 20 Montreal vs. Britannias Montreal. 

“ 27 Montreal vs. McGill Montreal. 

“ 27 Britannias vs. Ottawa City,. .. .Ottawa. 

Nov, 3 McGill vs Ottawa City Ottawa. 

3 Ottawa College vs. Montreal. Montreal. 

INTERMEDIATE. 

FIRST ROUND. 



A. Sept. 29 Lennoxville vs. Quebec. Quebec. 

B. “ 29 Ottawa City vs. Ottawa College . Ottawa City. 

C. 29 Montreal vs. Brittannias... ..... .Britannia. 

D. McGill a Bye. 

A. Oct. 6 Quebec vs. Lennoxville Lennoxville. 

B. “ 6 Ottawa City vs. Ottawa College . Ottawa College 

C. “ 6 Montreal vs. Britannias. Montreal. 

SECOND ROUND. 



E. Winners of “ A ” play Winners C ” Home and Home 

Matches on October 13th and 20th. 

F. Winners of “ B » play Winners “ D Home and Home 

Matches on October 13th and 20th, 

THIRD ROUND. 

Winners of‘‘E” play Winners ‘‘F’* October 27th and. 
November 3rd. 

If a Montreal Club be in final, matches will be home and. 
home ; if no Montreal Club be in finals, one decid- . 
ing match to be played in Montreal. 



JUNIOR. 

Oct. 13 Montreal vs. Quebec Quebec. 

“ 13 McGill vs. Britannias Britannia. 

“ 20 Montreal vs. Britannias Britannia. 

27 McGill vs Quebec Quebec. 

Nov. 3 Montreal vs. McGill McGill. 

3 Britannias vs. Quebec Britannia. 



J. C. H. 

CRICKET AT McGILL, 

Sporadic attempts at Cricket have been made at 
McGill since as long ago as 1865. The St. George’s 
Club of Montreal for some years enjoyed the use of 
the campus, and repaid the kindness of the Univer- 
sity by turning the centre of the field from the fur- 
rowed condition of a country meadow to the level 
lawn of a cricket crease. These were days an- 



terior to summer sessions,' when the University 
element, with the exception of occasional professors 
and graduates, were far away from the College pre- 
cincts. It was not until 1889 that Cricket began to 
be played at McGill under distinctively University 
auspices. I n that year the present club was organized, 
with Sir Donald Smith as honorary president ; Dr. 
Ruttan, president; Mr. A. R. Oughtred, a law gra- 
duate, as vice-president ; and the present holder of 
that office as secretary- treasurer. Several other gradu- 
ates and about an equal number of Medical students 
made up the University element. Kindly desirous to 
encourage the game, the authorities permitted an asso- 
ciate membership of a few cricket enthusiasts, not con- 
nected with McGill, who had become devoted to the 
game in the colleges and schools of the Old Country. 
The total membership was about twenty-four, and 
great difficulty was found in securing elevens for the 
matches in the later season. No groundsman was 
then employed, and creases for the various 
matches were mostly the work of E. H. Hamilton, 
whose indefatigable efforts on behalf of sport of all 
kinds at McGill will be long and gratefully remem- 
bered. Harry was captain and wicket keeper, and 
during the first year of the club’s existence led his 
elevens through a brilliant series of victories. Thirteen 
matches in all were played during the season, of 
which two only were lost and one drawn. The re- 
mainder were in general pronounced wins. 

The season of 1890 was not so prosperous in the 
way of winning matches ; nevertheless, a substantial 
majority of the games played resulted in victories. 
That year was notable in the history of Cricket in 
Montreal for the visit of the Winnipeg eleven. 
Several members of the University club played in 
the combination selected to meet this truly formidable 
eleven on the Montreal grounds. Among them was 
Mr. E. H. Hamilton, who succeeded in securing 
the top score of the home team. This was the last 
year of that excellent young club, the St. James, and 
next year several of its members identified themselves 
with the McGill club. 

The season of 1891 saw a marked advance in the 
game in Montreal. The old Montreal club was re- 
vived under the auspices of the M.A.A.A., and 
proved a formidable and lasting antagonist to the 
University club. It was in this year the present pavil- 
ion was built and the water supply laid on the 
grounds. 

The two proved a great strain on the slender re- 
sources of the Club, and a considerable debt yet re- 
mains as their consequence. It had become abso- 
lutely necessary, however, to provide some means of 
watering the turt, or cricket would soon have become 
an impossibility. Since this provision was made 
few lawns of any size in the city have presented a 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



19 



better appearance during the summer, and the cam- 
pus, instead of being a neglected spot during the 
vacation months, only occasionally mown, has 
had no little beauty and a much increased usefulness 
to boast of. The comparatively humble pavilion 
was another necessity that modesty cried out for 
This was the first year the club employed the services 
of a groundsman, and much general improvement and 
some really excellent wickets were the results. All 
of this entailed a formidable expenditure, in great 
measure met by a large increase in membership and 
the raising of the subscription to all but students to 
five dollars. The generosity, however, of Prof Moyse 
the President, and Messrs. Mack, Oughtred and 
others, principally enabled such an extent of enter- 
prise. In this year Lord Hawcke brought his first 
eleven to America, and in October a match was played 
at Ottawa between his eleven and a combination 
from Ottawa and Montreal. In this match, Mr. C. J. 
Harrod, the Club’s most consistent bowler, obtained 
several of the wickets of Lord Hawcke’s strong bat- 
ting combination at a cost of little over eight runs 
each, the best record made against that eleven in all 
their tour. In this year was played the first of those- 
enjoyable games against Bishop’s College School at 
Lennoxville on the Queen’s Birthday. These have 
since become an annual feature. In 1892 the Club 
first secured the services of a regular professional, who 
has since played with it every season. There were 
also begun annual home and home matches with 
Ottawa, and a series of second eleven matches which 
an increased interest and membership made possible. 
The results of matches in this year were most suc- 
cessful. Seventeen games in all were played, and 
but three lost. Of the three, one was decided by 
time, w’hen the University eleven had every prospect 
of winning. In 1893 the Club was far from being 
so fortunate. Of the twenty-two matches played, 
only nine were won, three drawn and ten lost. Never- 
theless, the standard of play had distinctly risen, and 
the result only proved the progress Cricket was making 
in Montreal and elsewhere. The season just closed 
has shown a marked improvement over the results of 
last year. The first eleven lost but four matches out 
of twelve, and the second but one out of eleven. Space 
will not permit details and notice of individual records. 

In conclusion, the Cricket Club, composed of two 
thirds at least of graduates or undergraduates, can 
assuredly claim its share of the honours that have 
fallen to McGill in the field of sport. It has bene- 
fited and beautified the University grounds, en 
couraged a noble game, and done its share to main- 
tain a high reputation for McGill wherever it has 
sent its elevens. All this without let or hindrance to 
anyone, and long may it pursue its prosperous 
course. 

F. W. H. 



THE McG. U.A.A. 

This Association has been placed on an entirely 
new basis ; the grounds and track have been greatly 
improved, and it rests with the Students only whether 
we have a more successful Field Day than usual. The 
track has been widened ; and the curves are now 
banked for a speed of 22 feet per second. 

The Executive Committee of the Athletic Asso- 
ciation have decided to put on a relay race this year ; 
it is copied from Toronto ’Varsity, where it is al- 
ways looked upon as the event of the day. The 
Faculty teams are to be made up of a man from each 
year, and each year should see that their best man 
is put on. It is only a question of getting out a half 
dozen of the most promising men and giving them 
a trial. 

The Graduates Society are presenting a Faculty 
trophy to the Association, which is to be competed 
for year by year. 

The M.A.A.A. have very kindly offered a gold 
medal, to be competed for by a special race to be 
known as the M.A.A.A. race, or perhaps it may be 
awarded to the individual making the greatest num- 
ber of points. Like last year, the winner of an event 
scores three points, the second man two, and the third 
one point. First and second prizes will be given for 
each event. No points will be given for either the 
sack race or the relay race. A sub-committee is in 
charge of the weights, hurdles, etc. ; these have been 
out on the grounds for some time now. I would spe- 
cially urge the Freshmen to compete ; last year the 
individual trophy was won by a Freshman. 

The following is the Field Day programme as 
drawn up by the Executive Committee of the Asso- 
ciation, but not yet passed by the Board in charge 
of College grounds and athletics : — 

Kicking football. 880 yards. 

Throwing hammer (16 lbs.) One mile bicycle. 

Running broad jump. Three “ “ 

Throwing heavy weights 440 yards run. 

(56 lbs.). 

Throwing cricket ball. Sack race. 

Hurdle race. Pole leap. 

Putting shot. Mile race. 

High jump. 220 yards. 

100 yards. Relay race. 

F.A.W. 

McGILL UNIVERSITY RECORDS. 

The following are the records made by the men of 
McGill during the past nine years, counted up to 
date : 

Kicking the football — G. H. Mathewson, 168 feet, 
5 ^ inches. 

Throwing the cricket ball — C. Ault, 108 yards, ii 
inches. 



20 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Putting the shot, i 61 bs. — McDougall, 35 9 

Throwing the heavy weight 56 lbs. — J. L. Brown, 
22 feet, 7^ inches. 

Throwing the hammer, 16 lbs. — N. Watson, 76 
feet, 9 inches. 

Standing broad jump — Springle, 9 feet, 1 1 yi inches. 
Running broad jump — H. M. Jaquays, 19 feet, 9 in. 
Running high jump — H. M. Killaly, 5 6^ in. 

Pole leap. — Milburn, 9 teet, 9 jl 4 inches. 

One mile bicycle — Coussirat, 3 min., i2j^sec. 

One mile run — McTaggart, 4 min., 54 ^ sec. 
One-half mile run — Barber, 2 min., 2 3-5 sec. 

440 yards run — Tees, 54 2-5 sec. 

220 yards run — Clark, 24 1-8 sec. 

100 yards run — Kennedy, 10 2-5 sec. 

120 yards hurdle — No authentic record, but as far 
as kept, Connolly, 19^ sec. 

One mile walk — Robins, 8 min., 82-5 sec. 



PERSONALS. 

Miss Mackenzie, one of the class of ’94, is now 
teaching at Stanstead. 

Miss Shaw, also of the class of ’94, is still with us, 
and is now taking up Greek. 

A sister from acro.ss the sea has entered the first 
year. Miss Bourke Wright. 

We regret to hear that Miss Flossie Botterell will 
not rejoin her class. 

Miss Florence Cushing has been compelled to drop 
out of the class ’95 on account of ill health. 

It was a pleasure to see E. H. Hamilton, medallist 
Science ’84, in town once more. His short visit re- 
minds us how he piloted our first fifteen so success- 
fully in ’91, and may be a prophecy for our chances 
this year. 

Mr. W. H. S. Kollmyer, B.A. ’92, is studying law 
at Harvard. 

A. J. Palmer, ’96, has suspended his Medical course 
to pursue one in Natural Science at Toronto Univer- 
sity. 

A. L. Draper, ’96, is unable to attend this session, 
but will continue his course next year. 

Dr. Arthur Gorrell, ’90, spent a few days in Mon- 
treal last week. He was much pleased with the re- 
novations now being carried on at M. G. H. and at 
College. 

Dr. L. Y. McIntosh, last years’s president of the 
Medical Society, paid a flying visit to Montreal to be 
present at the opening lecture. 



READABLE PARAGRAPHS. 

Of the many bright verses that have appeared in 
college papers, the following, from the 

of May, 1870, are pre-eminent. They were 
written by Mr. Charles A. Prince, of Boston,- when a 
Harvard student, and are addressed “ To Pupils in 
Elocution ” : 

“ The human lungs reverberate sometimes with great velocity 
When windy individuals indulge in much verbosity, 

They have to twirl the glottis sixty thousand times a minute, 
And push and punch the diaphragm as though the deuce were 

in it.” 



Less than a hundred years ago, according to the 
Irish Law Times, a proclamation was made at the 
Market Cross of Inverary, Scotland, which warned 
off poachers in this mixed style ; 

“ Ta hoy ! Te tither a hoy ! Ta hoy three 
times ! ! ! an’ ta hoy — whist ! By command of his 
Majesty King George, and her Grace te Duke of 
Argyll : 

“If anybody is found fishing about te loch, or below 
te loch, afore te loch, or ahint te loch, in te loch, or 
on te loch, aroun te loch, or about te loch, she’s to be 
persecuted wi’ three persecutions : first, she’s to be 
burnt : syne, she’s to be drown’t ; an’ then to be 
hang’t. An’ if ever she comes back, she’s to be perse 
cutit wi’ a far waur death. God save te King an- 
her Grace te Duke o’ Argyll, ” 



“ McGILL FORTNIGHTLY ” 
TREASURER’S STATEMENT FOR YEAR 



1893-94. 

KECEIPTS. 

To balance from last year $ 50 06 

“ 616 subscribers 616 00 

“ extra sales 53 90 

“ interest 3 69 

“ advertising as per statement 638 58 



$1,362 23 

EXPENDITURE. 



By printing acount with John Lovell & Son. .$623 52 



“ paper account 238 08 

“ engraving 79 

stationery, postage etc 12 55 

prize for story 10 00 

Editorial and Business Boards 403 76 

balance in Bank of Montreal 27 <53 



FRANK J. DAY, 



$1,362 23 



Chairman Business Board* 
Audited and found correct, 

E. B. DEVLIN, 

Auditor, 



