
CO 

EDITORIAL 

OBITUARIES 

MEDICAL FOOTING DINNER 

AD THALIARCHUM 

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE 

SPORTING 



N T E N TS. 

I 3 CORRESPONDENCE 

15 THE FRESHMAN’S NOBLE RESOLVE 

15 NOTES AND EXCHANGES 

17 PERSONALS 

17 ITEMS 



19 



20 

22 

22 

23 

23 



Terms.— Single Subscrij '.ion, $1.00 per annum, in advance. Single numbers, 20 cents. 

For sale at Dawson Bros., Hill's , Drysdale's , Ashford's and Me Adam's. 

Address, “THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1759, Montreal. 



Professional and Visiting Cards, Arms , Crests and Monograms, 

AND 

“ THE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,” 



AT 



J. 1). SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 

College Society Cards and Badges a specialty. Patronage solicited. 



MACMASTER, HALL & GREENSHIELDS 

Advocates, Barristers, &c., 

No. 181 St. Janies Street, Montreal. 

D. Macmaster. John S. Hall, Jun. J. N. Greenshields. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HATTERS AATSTJD FURRIERS, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

.FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 

GET YOUli HAIR GUT AT HILL’S, 

Queen’s Hall Block, - - 1321 St. Catherine St. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 
FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 

Those contemplating a tour to tropicai climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. James 
St., Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRAVERS, 

169 ST. «T AMES ST., 

MONTREAL. 

JAMES GOULDEN, 

CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 St. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St. 

GOULDEN’ S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure for Neuralgic pains in 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, &c. 

Neuralgine is of great service in improving weak digestion, 
loss of appetite, Ac 



GENTLEMEN'S Coats, Pants , dfC . , 
Beaulifulli / Cleaned or Dyed and Pressed 
loithnul shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

706 CRAIG ST.) near Victoria Square. 
l J H O r J O G li jl I? a Y. 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. ARLESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 







11 



The McGill Gazette . 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

Also, all the Books used in McEachran’s Veterinary College. 

In conseqnence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



Photographers to the Queen y 

17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 




Before 

Wearing. 



GROSS’ 

Newly Improved 

SJiozilcLer gfi^cices 

OR 

CHEST EXPANDERS, 

for 




After 



Ladies, Gentlemen or Children, Wear!ng. 



manufactured at the 



McGill College Text Books. 



DAWSON BROS. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 



CANADA TRUSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Street. (Established 1856.) 



F. GROSS, 

Surgical Iustrument Maker, Inventor and Manufacturer of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross’ 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, &c. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 



A large assortment of Rubber Good 8 , Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymnasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clnbs, Rheumatic Chains and Belts 
&c., always on hand. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles done with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 



TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 



Students’ Note Books, 

Students’ Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

159 St. J ames Street. 



FURS, HATS AND CAPS. 



JOB C. THOMPSON & CO., 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, and Importers of English lints, 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which 
we sell at the very lowest price. We mark all Goods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

Our system works well, as the Public have shown by 
their extensive support since we re-commenced business. 
418 Si 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 

Established 1835. 



196 ST. JOSEPH STREET. 

J. A. BEAUVAIS, 

MERCHANT TAILOR 

AND 

HABERDASHER 

Two first-class cutters attached to the premises. A liberal 
discount to those who apply as “ McGill” students. 

N . B. — Ready-made Ulsters and Overcoats a specialty. 



H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 
BANKERS AND EXCHANGE BROKERS, 
149 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, Saturday, Nov. 16, 1878. 



EDITORIAL. 



I F we may assume, from the exceptional inter- 
est manifested in the recent contest for the 
Presidency of the University Literary Society, 
that graduates and under-graduates gener- 
ally have awakened to a sense of their duties 
toward this association, we can only regard the 
effects of the struggle as beneficial and wholesome. 
Of course, much of the excitement exhibited is 
ephemeral — much of the interest displayed 
evanescent. Men attended the annual meet- 
ing, to record their votes, who in all probabil- 
ity will never be seen again within the Socie- 
ty’s rooms; and so far as the election of officers 
is taken out of the control of the really active 
members of the Society, we cannot but regret 
the importation of an irresponsible, unthinking 
element into the electorate of an organization 
whose success depends so much upon its office- 
bearers. We do not desire to reflect upon one 
side more than upon another as regards the late 
election. Both candidates had their friends who 
canvassed energetically and good-naturedly, and 
the result was evidenced by the large audience 
present on polling night. We only wish to 
declare our conviction that an occasion may 
arise when — by the introduction of a large 
number of new members, who know nothing 
of the merits of the candidates for office, and 
who care little for the prosperity of the Socie- 
ty — an inefficient staff of officers maybe chosen. 
It might, then, be proper to consider whether 
it would not be wise to limit the suffrage to 
members of at least one year’s standing. We 
have not, however, the space to refer to this 
subject at the present time. 

The Society may be congratulated upon the 
excellent staff of office-bearers for the present 
session. In the President — upon whom main- 
ly rests the progress of the Society — the mem- 



bers have a gentleman of considerable ability, 
and one whose record as a member proves that 
he takes a real interest in its affairs. The re- 
mainder of the Committee consists of repre- 
sentative men from the different faculties, and 
altogether it may be affirmed that the govern- 
ing body of the Society is at once able and 
sagacious. And now a word as to the work 
of the Society during the coming winter. A 
proposal to institute a course of lectures has, 
we believe, already been laid before the Socie- 
ty, and will no doubt be sanctioned. But it 
must not be forgotten that the real object of 
the Society is to encourage literary and scien- 
tific pursuits among its members. A political 
debate is well enough now and again, but it is 
to be hoped that purely literary and scientific 
subjects will be proposed by the committee 
for discussion. Nor should essays be as rare a 
component part of the evening’s programme 
as formerly : members who can contribute a 
paper should not wait to be coaxed into ac- 
ceptance of an appointment, but should rather 
volunteer. There is but one other matter to 
which we would advert, and that is that we 
sincerely trust that those who receive cards 
from the Secretary notifying them of an ap- 
pointment should, in the event of inability to 
accept, at once notify the proper officer. No- 
thing is more disagreeable than to observe 
three or four debaters announced as absent, as 
was the case at a recent meeting. In conclu- 
sion, we look for an unusually interesting ses- 
sion for the Society, and if the members will 
only attend the meetings regularly, they will 
soon discover that a more useful and instruc- 
tive institution does not exist in McGill than 
the University Literary Society. 

We regret to state that, owing to the pres- 
sure of important matter, we have been obliged 
to leave over for our next number the report 
of the McGill Medical Society’s meetings, as 
well as the list of Freshmen. 



H 



The McGill Gazette , 



The majority of the second year men in 
Medicine are going up for their Primary ex- 
amination in the spring, thus making the 
second year their primary, instead of the third 
year, which was formerly the case. We be- 
lieve in the wisdom of this undertaking, which, 
if successfully carried out, will enable them to 
devote two consecutive sessions to the im- 
portant final branches. Fellow-sufferers, we 
wish you success ! 



We take pleasure in congratulating Messrs. 
Drummond, Cuzner,and K. McKenzie, members 
of the Soph. class in medicine, on the creditable 
manner in which they acquitted themselves at 
the University sports. Mr. Drummond claims 
the championship of the Dominion in the 
mile walk, and Mr. Cuzner not only claims 
the championship of the Dominion, but that 
of America, having made the best throw on 
record in this country in putting the weight, 
while it is hardly necessary to state that the 
victory for the Meds. in the tug of war, was 
decided by Drummond and K. McKenzie, 
assisted, of course, by the “ end man.” 



The final students in medicine have much to 
complain of in regard to the manner in which 
they are treated in the hospital. It is supposed 
that the graduating class of each year should 
have precedence in the clinical instructions at 
the bedside. Two professors are devoted 
entirely to them, and when the examination 
comes, they alone will have to render an 
account of themselves. Now, we think the 
junior students should give them every op- 
portunity of study possible. They will expect 
to be treated with consideration during their 
final year; and, if they do, why not grant the 
same boon to those who are about to graduate ? 
There is an attending physician who gives a 
very good clinic, and is intended for junior 
students, and to him they should go ; while, 
in addition, the out-door patients are available. 



We hope that the hints here offered may find 
a response favourable to the final students. 



The Governors of the University have ap- 
pointed to the Professorship of History, and 
Associate Professorship of English Lan- 
guage and Literature, Mr. Charles E. Moyse, 
B. A., of London, late head master of St. 
Mary’s College, Peckham, and an Associate 
Examiner of the University of London. Mr. 
Moyse was a distinguished student of Univer- 
sity College, having obtained the University 
Scholarship in English, with high honours in 
Anglo-Saxon and other subjects, and has the 
strongest recommendations from Prof. Morley 
and other eminent men as to his attainments 
and capacity as a teacher. This appointment, 
we hope, will not only afford a relief much 
needed by the Professor of English Literature^ 
but will stimulate and extend the study of 
this important subject, and will introduce for 
the first time, in a definite and permanent 
manner, the study of history into our Univer- 
sity course. Prof. Moyse entered upon his 
duties last week, and we have no doubt but- 
that he will be appreciated by all the students 
as much as he is at present by the Freshmen. 



Owing to the careful disbursement of the 
finances at the control of the last year’s man- 
agement, and the increased subscriptions of 
the students in Arts and Sciences of this ses- 
sion, the Committee have been enabled to 
make several decided improvements in the 
general appearance of the Reading room, as 
well as to add materially to the already nu- 
merous list of periodicals to be found upon its 
table. At present there are some thirty-five 
journals, daily, weekly and monthly, at the 
service of the students, whose wishes and 
tastes have been consulted in their selection, 
and they include all magazines and illustrated 
papers of recognised high standing. From the 
time that this institution was first given into 



The McGill Gazette. 



15 



the hands of the students by the faculty, there 
has been a steady increase in the interest taken 
by them in its affairs, and the fortunate choice 
in the personnel of the several Committees of 
Management which have had charge of it since 
its commencement has done much to aid this 
increase. The duties of a committee-man are 
varied and at times unpleasant, yet all those 
who have been appointed to that position by 
the franchise of the students, have . performed 
the labours required of them with great fore- 
thought and forbearance. 

It has always been a wonder to us, in view 
of the evident benefits to be derived from the 
perusal of such periodicals as may be found in 
the room, and the very small sum asked from 
each student for such a privilege, that all do 
not subscribe —and gladly subscribe — towards i 
its maintenance. At present, however, such 
is not the case, and we would suggest that 
everyone whose name is not vet down upon 
the subscription list will place it there imme- 
diately, or show by his continued absence from 
the room, that he at least has the honour to 
tell the truth, when he makes the oft repeated 
excuse for not subscribing, — “ I never 

take advantage of the reading-room, and 
therefore ought not to be asked to subscribe 
to it.” 



To say that the students of McGill learnt 
with sorrow of the decease of Mr.E. A. A. Evans, 
but faintly conveys an idea of the feelings of 
his confreres on hearing the startling intelli- 
gence of the death of one so amiable, so 
popular, and so talented. Although unable — 
on account of ill health — to attend the courses 
for some time past, few of those who were at 
College two years ago can forget the manly 
figure and kindly countenance of Eddie Evans, 
and we can assure his sorrowing relatives that, 
in their sad bereavement, they have the sincere 
sympathy of every student of McGill. 



It is with much regiet we learn the death 
of Mrs. Hannah, who, for the last eight years, 
has been the matron of the University Lying- 
in Hospital. Her illness, which was somewhat 
protracted, she bore with Christian patience 
and fortitude. As a mark of respect, the stu- 
dents in Medicine attended her funeral in a 
body, and also purchased a number of beauti- 
ful bouquets of choice flowers to decorate her 
remains. It will be difficult for the Faculty 
to find another who will fill her position with 
the same efficiency as did Mrs. Hannah, and 
the students will long have to regret her un- 
timely removal from amongst us. 



MEDICAL FOOTING DINNER. 



The preparations for the footing dinner, this 
year, were characterized by unusual quietness. 
In former years, and even up to last sessiou, 
the uproar and clamour which accompanied 
these annual festivities were very marked in- 
deed. Some of the students were wont to 
agitate the question of cold water dinners, 
while the majority were very strongly opposed 
to what they considered a sentimental innova- 
tion, contrary to the instincts of men who were 
capable of drawing a line of demarcation be- 
tween a moderate use of the “ flowing bowl ” 
and riotous intemperance. We have known 
the discussion of the question kept up till 
every one was disgusted, and the consequence 
was that the greater part of the students took 
very little part in what should be looked upon 
by all as something to be encouraged, especially 
as its primary object is to initiate those who 
have come to the University as strangers, and 
are anxious to be introduced officially, as it 
were, to their co-labourers in study. It is there- 
fore with much satisfaction that we have to 
say this year that all the preliminaries were 
! so arranged that not a single hitch took place 
in the whole order of proceedings. 

The dinner took place in the Carlton on 
Friday evening, Oct. 18th. The Committee of 
Management had not been idle for some days 
previous, and as a result of their exertions the 
guests of the evening sat down around the 
long tables as if they were accustomed to meet 



The McGill Gazette. 



1 6 



in the place every day in the week. Mr. 
Inksetter superintended everything relating 
to the comfort of those present, and it is need- 
less to say that under his direction all went 
well. 

Over sixty students were present, which is 
considerably beyond the number usually pre- 
sent on those occasions. Besides the students 
of medicine attending the University, several 
invited guests were present. Among the lat- 
ter were Dr. Burland and Dr. Bell, surgeon and 
assistant surgeon of the Montreal General 
Hospital ; Mr. Nelson from Bishop’s College, 
and Mr. Wood from the Faculty of Arts. Mr. 
Sutherland was chairman, and Mr. Ross occu- 
pied the vice-chair. The bill-of-fare v?as very 
lengthy, its contents beginning with the 
oyster soup and concluding with grapes and 
almonds, or, as Horace would have it, ah ovo 
ad malum. An idea of what a variety of good 
things was placed on the festive board may be 
gathered from the fact that it took almost two 
hours to do justice to everything. 

When everything had been partaken of, and 
the cravings of the inner- man satisfied, the 
chairman in a few very appropriate remarks 
explained the object of the gathering. It was 
to introduce the Freshmen to the older stu- 
dents, and to place them on a footing of equal- 
ity with their predecessors in the college. 
This was the first time we had the pleasure of 
meeting them and shaking them by the hand 
in a spirit of fraternal salutation. He hoped 
that the good feelings of this evening, which 
he saw in the faces of all about him, would not 
end on the threshold of the Carlton, but would 
accompany them to the college halls, and light 
up a glow of warm friendship. He need 
scarcely, however, urge this, for indeed students 
as a class were well known to entertain to- 
wards each other an affection which might al- 
most be called brotherly in its manifestations 
and results. He concluded his remarks by 
proposing the first toast of the evening, “ The 
Queen.” This was followed by a song, “Eng- 
land’s Queen” by Mr. Denier who accompanied 
himself on the piano. Mr. Denier played and 
sang in very good taste and received a hearty 
encore. The next toast, “ The Governor-Gen- 
eral ” was responded to by Mr. McE venue, who, 
as an Irishman, represented Lord Duffer in, and 
Mr. McEachren.beinga Macallum More, replied 
for the Marquis of Lome. Both these gentle- 
men made very good speeches, and were ap- 



plauded to the echo. Alma Mater elicited a 
brilliant reply from Mr. R. T. E. McDonald. 
He sketched the history of the late Mr. James 
McGill, the founder of the University, giving 
all the salient points in his character ; and paid 
a high tribute to his many virtues both of head 
and heart. “The President of the United 
States,” was responded to by Dr. Jackson, and 
was listened to with profound attention 
throughout. Dr. Jackson spoke feelingly of 
I the President, and held him up as an example 
to be followed by young men entering life. 
We are sorry we cannot allow space for some 
of the speeches, as many were of intrinsic value, 
and full of much useful information and prac- 
tical hints for everybody, and particularly for 
students. The toast of “ The Freshmen ” was 
followed by a few remarks from Mr. Howard, 
son of Dr. Howard, Professor of Medicine in 
McGill. His maiden speech, as a Medical stu- 
dent, was well received, and was honoured by 
the usual outburst of applause. Mr. J. L. 
Brown made quite a humorous reply to the 
“ Dean and Professors ; ” and, if we are not mis- 
taken, expressed a wish that at future dinners 
our worthy tutors would find it convenient to 
be present, as he had no doubt, in the language 
of newspaper advertisements, they would hear 
something to their advantage. 

Dr. Burland, the good-natured house surgeon 
of the Montreal General Hospital, responded to 
the toast for that institution. He gave the 
audience a short historical sketch of the Foot- 
ing Dinner, how it originated, together with 
its gradual growth and development till the 
present time, when it may be said to have come 
almost to maturity. As is usual with every- 
thing, it was conducted at first on a small scale ; 
but in process of time it had attained its pre- 
sent magnificence. He wished success to all 
future footing dinners, and hoped the shadows 
of the students of McGill would never grow less. 
Then followed speeches from Mr. McCulley 
and Dr. Bell, in reply to “ Sister Universities” 
and “ Our Graduates.” 

The toast for “ The Ladies ’ was drunk with 
much enthusiasm. Mr. Henderson advocated 
their claims in a speech of some length. He 
said that Medical students, par excellence , were 
the champions of the ladies. He said that the 
days ot chivalry were not yet extinct, although 
declared to be so some time ago by a oreat 
orator and statesman. He referred to the in- 
terest always shown by the ladies in everv— 



The McGill Gazette. 



1 7 



thing pertaining to the students of McGill 
University. Their smiling faces were always 
seen at our annual sports, and on graduation 
day the successful students were repaid for 
their many hours of patient toil by the pre- 
sence in the academic halls of the cheering 
countenance of the gentler sex. Mr. Henderson’s 
remarks found response in the bosoms of his 
audience, for the thunders of applause which 
greeted him at every comma, semicolon, and 
full stop, were so loud and powerful that it was 
with much difficulty that he could keep the 
thread of his discourse during the time he was 
speaking 

•‘The Press” was represented by Mr. Mc- 
Guigan. He made a few remarks on the in- 
fluence which the art of printing had exercised 
on civilization, and the immense moral power 
which the press wielded in the nineteenth 
century. He then went on to show what the 
tone and character of the press should be, and 
concluded by wishing success to all well-con- 
ducted journals in general, and the Med ill 
Gazette in particular. 

Tbe remainder of the evening was occupied 
by speeches from Messrs. Nelson and Wood, 
and Messrs. Sutherland, Lloyd, Gray and Mig- 
nault. 

During the evening music and song were 
interspersed through the different toasts, and 
contributed not a little to the amusement of 
the night. 1 ndeed the occasion may well be 
denominated a “ feast of reason and a flow of 
soul.” It was one of those pleasant reunions 
which will be long looked back upon by those 
present as one of happiness and hilarity. It 
was just such an occasion of which only one 
thing can be said of them, and that is that they 
occur only too seldom. When old age steals 
fire from the mind and vigour from the limb, 
we can look back with fond recollections of 
the days of our youth when in company with 
our fellows we drank the cup of happiness to 
the brim. 

The meeting broke up about the “ wee sma’ 
hours” after the singing ol the National An them, 
and each one found his way to his own abode. 



Vassar College girls have a secret society, 
called “The Vassarians,” and any member 
who forgets her dignity and slides down the 
stair-railing is fined thirty-one peanuts and a 
stick of gum. 



AD T H A LI ARC HUM. 



Horace, Bk. 1 , Ode xx, 1 — 17 . 

Behold how, whitened high with snow, 
Soracte stands, and now no more 

The labouring woods their burden’s show, 
Stiffened by frost the rivers’ hoar. 

Stand firm ! O Thaliarchus now 
Dispel the cold, and on the hearth 

Lay the wood plenteous, high and low, 

And the more generous wine bring forth. 

Wine four years old from Sabine jar, 

And to the gods the rest confide ; 

Who, when they once have stilled the war 
Of wind with fervid ocean tide, 

Cypress nor ancient ash is stirred. 

Nor what the morrow’s fate may be 

Seek thou to know, but zealous guard 
As gain each day now granted thee 

By fortune, nor whilst hoary age 
Still spares thy blooming youth, disdain 

In pleasant dances to engage, 

And Love’s dominion still maintain. 



FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. 



To The Editors of the McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — A few days ago I had the very 
great pleasure of receiving and reading the 
first number of the McGill Gazette for the 
session 78-79, and knowing the friendly inter- 
est taken by McGill students in University 
College, an interest heartily reciprocated by 
us, I have ventured to write you a few lines 
on our own affairs. On the Commencement 
of term great curiosity naturally prevailed as 
to the Freshman year, for knowing it to be 
the largest ever welcomed to our halls, we 
Seniors were a little afraid it might not ex- 
hibit the proper spirit of submission and self- 
abnegation which should characterize the 
Freshman, nor readily submit to those time- 
honoured institutions, which, in every well 
regulated college, tradition has handed down 
for the guidance of their simple minds. Be- 
fore lectures actually began, accordingly, a 
meeting of the senior year was held, these 



1 8 



The McGill Gazette. 



traditional rules and regulations codified, and 
a committee appointed to have them printed 
and distributed to the Freshmen. The whole 
scheme was an entire success ; and a “ cheeky ” 
Freshman draws in his horns at once, when 
he receives a. gentle hint about his larval con- 
dition, and the expediency of keeping his un- 
desired opinions within his own skull. 

The Freshman proving docile we next 
turnedourattention'to football, and thetwoclubs 
were at once organized. Of the old College 
Club playing Rugby rules, Mr. C. C. McCaul 
was elected Captain ; Mr. W. Gwynne, Secre- j 
tary ; while of the “ Association ” club, Mr. 
Cummings was elected President; Mr, W. 
Freeman, Secretary. Fortunately, the great- 
est harmony exists between the two clubs, 
and, recognizing the fact that there are plenty 
of men in College to support both, the members 
of the one no longer consider those of the 
other their mortal foes. The Rugby men for 
some time indulged in the fond hope of a match 
with McGill; but the long, expensive journe\ r 
to or from Montreal, the lateness of the season, 
&c., are obstacles almost insurmountable. 
The fact of the matter is the students have to 
subscribe to so many different objects that it 
is almost impossible to get fifteen good men 
willing to go to the necessary expense, and I 
suppose, things are pretty much the same at 
McGill. A Rugby match takes place to-mor- 
row against Trinity, and the club expects to 
play before the season ends A. C. College, 
Trin. College School (Port Hope), Toronto 
club, and possibly Hamilton. McCaul has cer- 
tainly excellent materiel in his team, and we 
expect him to do wonders with it. 

The “Association ” men are at present deep 
in the “ tie ” matches for the Dominion chal- 
lenge cup, and seem to have a very good 
chance of winning it. 

As most of your readers have doubtless 
already seen the account of our annual sports, 
as reported in the “ Mail ” and “ Globe,” though 
by-the-bye the latter pitched into the arrange- 
ment* of the committee very unfairly, I will 
onl^ call attention to a few especially good 
events. 

High jump (Haultain, J. A.) 5 ft. 2 in. ; 
place kick (McCaul) 151 ft. 7 in.; steeplechase, 
very rough, 1 mile (Congdon) 6 m. 10 secs.; 
220 yds. in Heavy marching order (Gwynne) 
29 secs.; Half-mile (McMoreley) 2 m. 17£ 



secs.; Mile (Congdon) 5 nr. 10 secs. ; 100 yds. 
(Pratt) 10£ secs.; Half-mile (open to all 
Universities) (Strickland. Univ. College) 2 m. 
19J secs. 

The most flour ishing and best-supported insti- 
tution in the College, the Literary and Scientific 
Society, is about to commence a new era in its 
existence : for the College authorities, requir- 
ing for other purposes the rooms at present 
occupied by the Society, have determined to 
hand over a large brick building in the Queen’s 
Park, the old medical school, for the sole use 
of the Society. Not only will they put its 
deserted halls and lecture-rooms into thorough 
repair as Meeting Hall, reading-rooms, &c., 
and pay the expense of heating, lighting, and 
a caretaker, but they have also generously 
offered to fit out the largest and loftiest room 
in the building as a first-class g} , mnasium, 
the students guaranteeing to keep the aparatus, 
&c., whence once supplied with it, in thorough 
repair. Of course the undergraduates 
thoroughly appreciate this sort of thing, and I 
have no doubt that in the course of time 
billiard, bowling, and smoking rooms will be 
established; in fact a regular College club. 
The Literary Society itself is in a most flourish- 
ing condition, plenty of funds, large member- 
ship, reading-room supplied with all the 
papers and periodicals of the day, meetings 
crowded, and the debates, readings, and essays 
often excellent. The highest honour that can 
be conferred upon any graduate by the under- 
graduates is to elect him to the position of 
President of the Literary and Scientific Society’ 
and “Election-night” is generally a scene of 
the wildest excitement, men coming up from 
all parts of the country, possibly not as much 
out of partizanship, as to join in the “ spree,” 
which invariably takes piace in “ Residence ” 
on that occasion. 

There are several other points I would like 
to touch upon but I am afraid I have already 
trespassed too much upon your valuable space. 
I must, however, express my admiration of the 
spirit shown by McGill in publishing and con- 
ducting such an able periodical as the 
“ Gazette.” 

I remain, 

Yours truly, 

Senior. 



Univ. Coll., Toronto, 
Nov., 1878. 



The McGill Gasettc. ' 9 



SPORTING. 



M. U. A S. 



The sports came off on Thursday, Oct, 24th, 
instead of Wednesday, 23rd, as tirst intended, 
the day being unusually fine. Those students 
who took a last anxious look at the sky before 
they retired Wednesday night had their minds 
relieved as they looked out on Thursday morn- 
ing. The air was refreshing — the sky was 
clear, and the sun shone brightly. At ten 
o’clock a large crowd of students, professors 
and friends of the college were on the ground, 
where the following programme was carried 
out with great success : — 

MORNING. 

No. 1. Kicking the Foot-ball. — Campbell 1st, 164 ft. 1 in. 
One of the best kicks on record at McGill. 

Xo. 2. Running Broad Jump.— Carman 1st, 17 ft. 11J in.; 
Austin 2nd, 17 ft. 2 in 

Xo. 3. Putting Heavy Weight (171bs.)— 1st, Cuzner, 37 ft. 10 
in. ; 2nd, Drummond, 30 ft. 8 in. The latter is a good throw, but 
the former is one of the best amateur throws we have on re- 
cord. At the Toronto University Sports, 32 feet was the best 
throw, and then a 15 pound weight was used. 

Xo. 4. Running Hop. Step and Jump. — Carman 1st, having 
made 40 ft. 3 in.; 2nd, Cuzner, 36 ft. 11 in. 

Xo. 5. Throwing Cricket Ball. — 1st, Cuzner, 100 yds. 3 in. 

Xo. 6. Running High Jump. — Austin 1st, 5 ft. 3 in. 

This ended the morning’s programme, and 
being noon, the students dispersed for lunch. 

AFTERNOON. 

The spectators began to assemble at half-past 
one, and at a quarter past two the grounds 
presented an exceedingly gay appearance, the 
beautiful playing of the City Band having at- 
tracted a large crowd, among whom were inanv 
ladies, who seemed to enjoy these competitions. 
Promptly at 2.30 the bell rang for the 

Xo. 1. Half-mile race, Klock coming in first in 2:21J > 
Waddell second. 

Xo. 2. Hurdle Race, 120 yds. — Won by Austin in 19 4-5 
sec.; Church second. 

Xo. 3. One Mile Walk. —Drummond first, 8 minutes 28f 
seconds ; Hurdman second, 9 min. 10 sec. 

No. 4. 440 yds. (championship of University).- -Scriver 1st, 
57 4-5 sec. ; A ustin second, beating Cuzner and Rutherford. 
This race caused great excitement, and Mr. Scriver is to be 
congratulated on his success, this being the second year he 
has obtained the cup. 

No. 5. Relief Race (50 yds. and return). — Messrs. Weir and 
Waddell first, 18 4-7 seconds. 

No. 6. One hundred yards (1st heat).— Won by Austin, 
11 1-5 sec. 

Xo. 7. One mile.— Klock first in 5 min. 36} sec.; Cook sec- 
ond ; T. Drummond third, beating two others. 

No. 8. 100 yds. (2nd heat). — 1st, Austin, 11 sec. 

No. 9. Tug of War. - Theology, Law and Medicine were re- 
presented. 1 he latter came off victorious. 

No. 10. Steeple Chase.— Won by L. Campbell -Church 
coining in second. 



This ended the afternoon’s programme, and, 
while the band was playing the National An- 
them, the guests and students repaired to the 
Molson Hall, where the prizes were presented 
to the successful competitors by Mrs. Day. 
Chancellor Day being called upon, made a few 
remarks, which were greeted with applause by 
the students and all present. After cheers for 
the Chancellor and Mrs. Day, the Principal and 
the ladies, the M. U. A. S. Meeting of 78 was 
brought to a conclusion. 

We need hardly express — in fact we cannot 
— our gratification that the sports were so suc- 
cessfully carried out. The arrangements of 
the Committee were excellent, and there was 
no delay between events. It would be well if 
those who have the sports in hand next year, 

* and in years to come, would follow the example 
of this year’s Committee, to whom the success 
of the sports is due. 

The Judges were Prof. Osier, M.D., Prof. 
Bovey, C.E., and D. E. Bowie, Esq., B.C.L ; 
Starter, P. D. Ross, Esq., B.A., Sc. ; Time-keep- 
er, C. H. McLeod, BA., Sc. 



FOOTBALL. 

The annual match with the Montrealers was 
played on Saturday afternoon, Nov. 2nd, in 
the midst of a drizzling rain, the grounds being 
in parts muddy and disagreeably slippery. 
Owing to the uninviting aspect of the weather, 
several of the players did not turn up, and the 
Montrealers played lacking four of their num- 
ber, while of the College one was absent. 
Throughout the game was a very good exhi- 
bition of skill , and, barring a few hot words, 
was free from anything of an unpleasant na- 
ture. The first half hour ended to the advan- 
tage of the College men, they having obtained 
a try at goal and four touches, as against one 
touch obtained by the Montrealers. The 
lightness of the College team was shown, 
however, in the next, which ended with two goals 
to the credit of the Montrealers, thus giving 
them the game. We cannot but express 
our admiration of the pluck shown by the 
Club in contending against the Montrealers 
with the team they were able to get up, and 
although theyw-ere unable to keep up the pres- 
tige of the club in this match, the only match 
of the season, we do not doubt but that in the 
spring or autumn at farthest, a team will be 
found capable of bringing back their lost 
laurels, as well as of winning new ones. 






The McGill Gazette, 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



[This column is open to those students who have questions 
to ask, or grievances to air. The Editors, however, disclaim 
all responsibility.] 



To The Editors of the McGill Gazette : — 

Gentlemen, — It is very pleasing and en- 
couraging to notice that there is this year in 
the Faculties of Arts and Science, a class of 
Freshmen who seem to take more than 
ordinary interest in everything connected with 
the University. Heretofore, it has always been 
a very difficult thing to get the Freshmen to 
support any association connected with the 
College, but this year we find them taking a 
very active interest in our Football Club, our 
Reading Hoorn, our Literary Society and 
Athletic sports. 

There is one club they have not yet had an 
opportunity of supporting, and that is the 
McGill Snow Shoe Club. This club was re- 
organized last year, and considering that the 
season was well advanced when the club was 
organized, succeeded admirably in every re- 
spect but one. 

The only point in which it did not succeed 
was in drawing a greater number of Freshmen. 
Instead of having more Freshmen than students 
of any other year, I am sorry to say, it had 
less. Among the names of those who attended 
the “ tramps,” I noticed the names of only one 
Freshman from Arts and two from Science. 
Now, gentlemen, I think if one considers the 
benefits that are to be derived from a club 
such as this, he cannot but wonder how it was 
that the Freshmen took so little interest in it. 
As every one knows, snowshoeing is one of the 
most healthy exercises a person can take, and 
it this were the only benefit to be derived frem 
it, it is, according to my opinion, sufficient to 
command the attention and patronage of every 
student. 

As we cannot play football, baseball, or 
croquet in winter, the best way we can ex- 
eicise our physical body is by attending the 
Snow Shoe C lub or the Hockey Club. The 
latter club, although veiy good in its way, and 
perhaps a6 beneficial to the physical body as 
snowshoeing, must be confined more strictly to 
the Arts students. It is customary to play 
Hockey on Saturday mornings. Now, how can 
the great body of Law students attend these 
practices ? It is impossible for them to do so, as 



most of them are at work in their respective 
offices. The Medical students also find great 
difficulty in attending them. Now, the Snow 
Shoe Club is not restricted to any Faculty, but 
one student has just the same facilities of at- 
tending the “tramps” as another, and in this 
the club accomplishes what, perhaps, no other 
association connected with the College can do. 
I refer to the bringing together of the students 
of the different faculties, and in this way form- 
ing a bond of friendship between the students, 
which, in so large and so divided a University, 
ought to exist. 

As the University is at present, the students 
of one faculty are entirety separated from 
those of the other faculties, which is the cause 
of the petty jealousies which so often arise be- 
tween the students of the different faculties. 
It was to remedy this that the club was re- 
organized, and, as it is the only way in which 
it can be done, eveiy student should give it his 
hearty support. 

The Literary Society does a very great deal to 
bring about this desired effect, but is a means 
of bringing into contact the students in Arts 
with those of Law. Whatever is left undone by 
the Literary Society is fully accomplished by 
the Snow Shoe Club. 

From the above few remarks I think I have 
clearly shown the advisibility of keeping this 
club in existence, and, whether it is to live or 
to die, is for the Freshmen to say, as it is to 
them it looks for support, and I have no doubt 
but that they will reply in the affirmative, and 
that we shall have many a good song and 
many a lively dance during the coming winter 
at mine host’s Prendergast’s. 

Hoping, then, some further steps will soon 
be taken in the matter, 

I remain, sirs, 

Yours sincerely, 

Snow Shoe. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs, — In the recent contest between 
the McGill and Montreal Foot Ball Clubs there 
are two things to be deeply regretted. The 
first is that we should prove to have fallen 
from that standard which we have so long 
held, and, secondly, one of the causes jf that 
degeneration. Were our defeat owing solely 
to insufficient training or want of raw material 
in our club, such a failure would be regarded 
rather in the light of a misfortune than a fault. 



The McGill Grazette. 21 



By this I do not mean to impeach the officers 
or the team of carelessness or bad play ; for, on 
the contrary the playing on both sides was very 
good. But it is deeply to be deplored that 
among the students should be found men who 
neglected to come forward in the hour of need, 
and, above all, that two of them should prove 
themselves willing to sacrifice the glory of 
their alma mater to their private feelings of 
pique or jealousy. These two gentlemen (?) 
withdrew from the College Club, and one of 
them resigned his official position therein on the 
plea of “ want of time ” (considering their in- 
tentions this shows great good sense), but they 
found time to belong to the Montreal Club, and 
to play on their side in the recent match against 
McGill; and one of them on that occasion show- 
ed such a want of taste as to wear a hetero- 
geneous mixture of old and new college coloars. 
The result of this match is a forewarning of 
the inevitable result of this childish, churlish, 
party spirit which is unhappily arising in the 
club, an^, unless speedily stopped, will eventu- 
ally cause its ruin and the loss of its present 
(and even now I might say past) position. 
We may congratulate ourselves, however, 
that the Harvard team did not come to Mont- 
real this autumn, as it wouldhardly have raised 
their estimation of our good sense to see us 
divide l by such petty quarrels. Doubtless, 
our two deserters, actuated by the same senti- 
ments of generosity which they have displayed 
on this occasion, would have offered their most 
valuable assistance to the Harvards in case of 
a match. However, we may have this satis- 
faction, that as both desired the same office in 
the club they will probably quarrel with each 
other. As they have deservedly lost the con- 
fidence of the students, they will follow my ad- 
vice if they resign any official position which 
they at present hold in any of the college socie- 
ties, and will perhaps save both themselves and 
others much annoyance. In conclusion, allow 
me to congratulate them in the success of their 
well conceived plan, as doubtless they imagine 
that the success of the Montrealers was entirely 
owing to their noble and strenuous efforts, and 
I would humour their fancies, “ Dear little 
■ Children !” 

In these remarks I am but expressing, — and 
that in but a very feeble manner — the just in- 
dignation and contempt with which all the 
students regard such traitors to their college 
interests. Undergraduate. 



To the Editors of the McGill Gazette. 

Dear Sirs, — I noticed in the October num- 
ber of your valuable paper a letter signed by 
u Graduate,” having reference to the Founder’s 
Festival. This gentleman, with a candour of 
opinion which should be attributed solely to 
that class of men quoted by himself, viz : 

“ conceited graduates,” makes sundry disparag- 
ing remarks as to the college festival, and cer- 
tainly some of a very uncomplimentary nature 
about the ladies who honour us on that occasion. 
Observe his language : “ When it is gotten up, 
nobody enjoys it save a few fossilized old 
maids and sundry conceited graduates, proud 
to display their robes.” What a quaint, ele- 
gant sentence ! How plainly it indicates a 
superior familiarity with the infancy of the 
tongue of our forefathers to that of the ordin- 
ary writer ! How admirably it brings before 
the mind that period in the history of the 
world anterior to the days of the geo- 
logists, when women, after a few short 
years of empty existence, unrealized conquests 
and disappointments, &c., gently, and with 
meek submission, stood while with chalky de- 
posits they were encrusted or inhumed by 
ever-increasing layers of shale, slate, coal or 
sandstone ! How delicately it touches upon a 
change of things in regard to dress ! ’Tis 
cause for wonder that the last mentioned were 
not accused of pride as to display of “ hood,” 
and the former as to robe ; but “ Graduate” no 
doubt has deeply studied humanity, both from 
a physiological and a psychological point of 
view. He states further that “ the students 
as a rule do not patronize the show,” and 
refeis with characteristic good nature to third 
class music. “ What show ? display of fossil- 
ized old maids, ice cream, coffee and third 
class music ? Surely, sir, there is a peculiar, 
choice of language here for one who has the 
privilege and honour to be a graduate of our 
University. Surely this kind of phraseology 
will not tend to elevate the standard of the 
Festival for the future, or introduce within 
our festive halls a more “ modern formation” of 
the fair sex, but, on the contrary, will keep 
many away who otherwise might favour us, 
and will prevent those who do so favour us, from 
just motives of suspicion, from making a plea- 
sant and enjoyable evening, out of the ingredi- 
ents at hand, for any or all who may lawfully 
subscribe themselves graduates. 

Another Graduate, 



22 



The McGill Gazette. 



THE FRESHMAN’S NOBLE RESOLVE. 



Lonely and sad the Freshman sat, 

And he thought of his dull future lot ; 

And wondered what “ the old folks ” would be at, 
Whilst he was full hard at the “ swot.” 

He thought of his Pater, he thought of his Mater, 

And he thought of his sisters three, 

And he queried, “ Tho’ now I'm away o'er the water, 
Will the Gov. and the kids think of me ?” 

But oh ! soon his thoughts took a tenderer strain, 

And his face shone like bright yellow plaster, 

As the thought of his “ She ” mounted high in his brain, 
And her “ phiz” of most pure alabaster. 

By a mental process his mind he sent forth, 

And its eye on a scene he did feast it, 

To a time when he’d lay every “ red ” of his worth 
At her feet and implore her t’accept it. 

But ah ! deeplj’ he sighed contemplating his state, 

And new strength the resolve did impart : 

That he first would endeavour to fill up his pate, 

Then regard the concerns of his heart. 

F. J. 



000 

NOTES AND EXCHANGES. 

The Crimson has an amusing article on “The 
Well Informed Man,” who, “ whether he knows 
anything about the subject or not, will do his 
best to impress his hearers with the breadth 
and depth of his information.” Also a pretty 

poem, “ The Brook.” 

* * * * * * * * * 

“ I look down in your clear bright stream, 

And of my radiant love I dream ; 

I listen to her whispered sigh, 

Or hear her laughter rippling by. 

When all at once, you saucy knave, 

Myself you mirror in your wave ! 

You needn’t wink your liquid eye, 

Whose blue you’ve "stolen from the sky.” 



The constitution of the H. A. A, is also given 
and is very complete. 

“Indian Summer,” in the Advocate, is very 
graceful, and ends, 

“ We see the fleecy crystals with a sigh 
Of strange, sweet sorrow, knowing that no more 
For weary months, and, may be, nevermore 
For us, shall light of Indian Summer cast 
( T pon the mellow earth, its magic spell. 



A rondel from Villon is skillfully handled 
i and the last thing in this number is a 

“ Scene : — Recitation Room. — Freshman, 
Division in French. — Tutor — “ Mr. O., what is 
six times six in French ?” Mr. O. (promptly 
and innocently), — “ Thirty-six, sir.” 

The poetry in No. 3 of the Yale Record is 
particularly good. The sonnet “ Old Friend- 
ship ” is pretty, and also “ The Church in the 
Wild Wood and “The College Editor ” will 
touch a chord in the hearts of all who have 
ever worked on, or contributed to a college 
paper. No. 4 (page 39) says, “ It is strange 
that the arrangements for football can never be 
settled without endless discussions and “ tire- 
some negotiations,” and then (page 46), “ Har- 
vard plays All Canada at football to-day in 
Montreal.” Probably the first quotation sup- 
plies the answer to the query “ Why did not 
Harvard, &c., &c. ? ” In looking over the pro- 
i gramme for the Athletics we notice a Trial 
Tug of War and then a Final. Might not this 
| be a good idea for 1879 ? 

The Hamilton Literary Monthly commences 
with a “ Prize Oration/’ followed by an article 
on “ Our Civil Service/ and winds up with a 
list of marriages, the first of which took place 
on January 30th. In an article headed “ From 
Paris to Genoa/’ there are several strangely 
used words, such as, “ in the long ago,” “ ’way 
back in 1(500, etc. ; and this sentence is 
certainly worthy of a place in Miss Edge- 
worth’s famous “ Essay,”— “ The huts of the 
peasants attracted our attention. They were 
made entirely of stone roof and all ; even the 
windows were made by the removal of a single 
I stone.” 

The students of Middlebury College, Vt , 
have been talking over the adoption of the 
Oxford cap (and we suppose gown too). A 
majority of votes was obtained in favour of it. 

rhe Sowdoin Orient proposes playing 
lacrosse; and worse than that, gets off the 



The McGill Gazette. 



23 



archaic “ In God we trust ” joke on the 92c 
dollar. 

The Rochester Campus also speaks in favour 
of lacrosse — “a favourite game among college 
students, “ especially among Canadian col- 
leges,” and does a little book-reviewing. 

“ Midnight,” by James Russell Lowell, is 
the first poem in The Richmond College 
Messenger. “ Oh, Shades of Poe !” There is a 
very interesting article on “ Richmond’s Early 
History,” and “ Society Notes ” fill most ot the 
remainder of this number. 

Two “ Prize Orations,” the Bryant article, a 
story about a girl and a mill called “ Mari- 
anne,” with a generous touch of “ Folle Farine ” 
in it, and a “ Body Snatching ” song, in which 
the two following lines occur : 

“ First, I spend my all upon the spirits, sirs, 

And the rest upon the craytur,” 

are the most readable in the Nassau Literary 
Magazine. 

The Beacon gives its valuable testimony to 
the quality of Kinney’s cigarettes, and rejoices 
over the marriage of their janitor, an important 
occasion on which we feel somewhat doubtful 
on the propriety of sending our congratula- 
tions. 

The Central Collegian (Fayette, Mo.,) gives 
us the following insight into “the manners and 
customs of the inhabitants thereof”: “The 

first thing a young man does on seeing a friend 
with a new hat on is to take it off and serenely 
try it on his own head. When a young lady 
sees an acquaintance with her new hat on she 
just lifts her nose and serenely wonders “ where 
the thing got that fright.” 

We also acknowledge the receipt of The 
College Mercury, Dartmouth, Vidette, Tablet 
Undergraduate, Rochester Campus, Trinity 
Tablet, Syracusian, Queen’s College Journal 
Tripod Ci itic, College Herald, and Kottabos. 



PERSONALS. 

Robert Robertson, B.A., Valedictorian of the 
class of ’77, has been admitted to the Bar of 
Nova Scotia. 

Dr. Oakley, house apothecary in the Mont- 
real General Hospital has obtained leave of 
absence for six months. He now occupies the 
position of surgeon on the i\llan steamer 
“ Sardinian.” 

We are pleased to notice that Dr. John 
McCrimmon, who graduated here last spring, 
has passed a very creditableexamination before 
the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Edin- 
burgh, obtaining the degree of L. R. C. P. and 
L. R. C. S. 

H. H. Gardner, M. D. C. M. McGill, ’78, 
after an extended tour of the continent, has 
returned to St. Thomas Hospital, London, to 
pursue his studies in that institution. We 
wish him all the honours and success possible, 
and in which we are joined by his many 
friends at present in our alma mater. 

000 

ITEMS. 



The formation of a legal glee club is on the 
tapis. 

Prof. Moyse entered npon his duties on the 
7th inst. 

The Arts Class of ’81 commence their mathe- 
matics on Tuesday. 

Smoking has been prohibited in the Lecture 
Rooms of the Faculty of Law. 

A miniature case of ballot-stuffing occurred 
in a recent election in the Law School. 

On dit one of our younger Professors is soon 
to be joined in the holy bonds of matrimony. 

The students have been provided with more 
comfortable seats in the Library Reading- 
room. 

Several Lecture-room doors had their key- 
holes stopped up with plaster of Paris on Hal- 
loween. 



24 



The McGill Gazette . 



The Law students passed resolutions of 
condolence with the family of the late Mr. 
E. A. A. Evans. 

A repetition of the now famous “ Horse v i 
Man ” controversy may be expected on the 
arrival of the Marquis of Lome. 

Sinrinfr is becoming a’l the rage among the 
Arts and Science students, and they entertain 
the hope of soon outstripping the Meds. 

Dr. Dawson delivered the annual University 
Lecture on the 7th inst., the subject being “ A 
Visit to Harvard,” which greatly interested the 
students. 

The Soph. Class in Arts have petitioned 
Prof. Moyse to deliver a course in English 
Literature and Anglo-Saxon, and their petition 
is to be discussed at the next meeting of the 
Faculty. 

Students in Arts complain bitterly of the 
action of the Reading Room Committee in lock- 
ing the door going out to the spring, which is 
the only place where one can quench his thirst 
about the building. 

At an enthusiastic meeting of the Singing 
Club, held on Saturday evening, the following 
were elected officers : President, H. H. Wood, 
’79; Secretary-Treasurer, H. J. Bull, ’80 ; Musi- 
cal Director, J. T. Morkill, ’80, Sc. 

Scene. — The Literary Society’s rooms. 
Time. — Friday evening, Nov. 1st. Verbose 
young man, (loquaciously), — “ Mr. Chairman, 

1 have nothing to say on this sutject,but ” 

Chairman (interrupting him). — “Just so, no 
thing to say ; then please don’t attempt to 
say it.” (Applause.) 

“ Snow ” fell on the College grounds on the 
evening of the 25th inst., to the depth of 8 
inches. The area of ground covered was 5 ft. 

7 inches in length by 1 ft. Si inches in breadth. 
We would like to note the emanations of 
some philosophic and scientific mind on this 
remarkable phenomenon. 

The proposed “Moot Court ” has not yet been 
established, but will, in all probability, be in 
working order soon. A committee consisting 
of Messrs. Trudel, McGibbon and Atwater was 
elected, and letters explanatory of the modus 
operandi of similar institutions in the United 
States have been received. 



A question is being discussed as to the 
eligibility of students of the McGill N. S. for 
membership of the Literary Society, and in 
the course of his remarks the chairman said 
that “ he wishes to embrace within the Socie- 
ty a j . many as possible.” 

Law Student (gravely). — “ May I ask if the 
chairman’s remarks apply to the lady pupils?” 
(Sensation.) 

An old lady entered the out-door depart- 
ment of the hospital recently, presenting on 
the “Labium superior,'’ a very exhubex’ant 
and unilatural keratinous growth. She was 
handed over by the attending physician to a 
“ Shaver,” who has the reputation of being 
especially skilful in manipulating this particu- 
lar region. His favourite operation being per- 
formed, she retired, looking much younger, 
promising to return for a repetition of the 
process. Bob thinks she’ll live. 

At the annual meeting of the University 
Literary Society, the following gentlemen were 
appointed office-bearers for the present session: 
President, J N. Greenshields, B. C. L.; 1st 
Vice-Pres., M. Hutchison, B. C. L.; 2nd Vice- 
Pres., Campbell Lane, ’79 (Arts) ; Treasurer, 
H. H. Lyman, B. A.; Corresponding Secretary, 
A. W. Atwater, B. A.; Recording Secretary, 
A. Falconer, ’81 (Arts) ; Council, J. S. Hall, B' 
C. L., R. D. McGibbon, B. A., C. J. Doherty, B. 
C. L, E. B. Busteed, ’79 (Law), H. H. Wood, 
’79 (Arts), and F. 1). Monk, B. C. L 

Very seldom has there been such a large and 
enthusiastic gathering of the students in Arts 
and Science as that which met in the Reading- 
room on the evening after the University 
Lecture. The chief object of the meeting was 
to march around and serenade the professors, 
(not to mention the young ladies’ boai’ding- 
schools), and this was accomplished to the 
satisfaction of all, though it was afterwards 
discovered that the professors were all at Dr. 
Dawson’s, and consequently could not appre- 
ciate the intended compliment. The Principal , 
Dr. Johnson, Prof. Moyse ar.d Prof. Bovey 
spoke a few words from the steps of Dr. 
Dawson’s house, and the students then ad- 
journed to the Reading-room, where it was 
determined to start a society for the impx’ove- 
ment of the College singing. The Committee 
of Arrangements were Messrs. Wood ’79 
Bull, ’80, and McGibbon, ’81. 



The McGill Gazette . 



in 



SUBSCRIBE FOR 

“THE McGILL GAZETTE,” 



$1.00 per Annum, in A dvance. 



THE NEW YORK WORLD 

is published every day in the year at 35 PARK 
ROW, NEW YORK, and is mailed, post paid, 
for $10, or 85.50 for six months. The Monday 
issue, whose second page is devoted to the 
Literary Review and College Chronicle, 
is mailed separately for 81.50, or 50 cents for 
four months. 



SINGING. 

NOTICE TO STUDENTS. 



A S Singing has taken so well among the students, it is the 
intention of a member of our staff to publish a collection of 
songs of McGill, as well as the popular college songs of the day. 
Students and graduates will greatly oblige the publisher by 
sending a copy of any McGill or other college songs that they 
may deem worthy of publication. All songs must be sent in 
before Dec. 1st, as the collection will be published on or about 
Dec. 20th. The price will be about 30 or 35c per volume, and 
all who are willing to subscribe towards this laudable object 
are requested to send in their names immediately, as a suffi- 
cient number of subscribers must be obtained before the pub- 
lication can be commenced. Address, 

SECRETARY , McGILL GAZETTE, 

P. O. Box 1,759, Montreal 



THE STUDENTS OF McGILL COLLEGE 

are invited to Inspect the stock of GENTS’ 
FURNISHINGS at 

TBIE BECOEXjET HOUSE. 

Prices right, and value without a doubt. 

BROWN & CLAGGET, 

Corner Notre Dame & St. Helen Sts. 

N.B. — A First-class Tailoring Department a specialty 
with us. B. & C. 



BOOTS I BOOTS 1 

ESTABLISHED 1837, 
for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A. DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St. 



STUDENTS 

desirous of taking 

LESSONS IN SHORTHAND, 

Will please communicate as to terms, &c., with 

MR. CRANKSHAW, 

P. 0. Box 933. Secretary Phonetic Society. 

UNI VERSITY LITER AR Y SOCIETY. 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHLLLLPS SQUARE, 

ON 

FRIDAY EVENINGS, 

to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1,335 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

[Corner Mansfield Street,] 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the Dominion 
to choose from at either of the above establishments. 

Fresh Goods by every Steamer . 



TURKISH BATH, 

140 ivronsriGiXTE street, 

(OFF DORCHESTER STREET ), 

Near tlie Windsor Hotel. 

Large and Complete. — One of the Finest in the World . 

HOURS:- Gentiemen 6 to 9 a.m., and 2 to 10 p.m. Ladies 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. 

Open Sunday Mornings for Gentlemen. 

T, COOK, Propi 'ietor. 



IV 



The McGill Gazette. 



CHARLES Me ADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Ohromos , Steel PI ale 
Pictures , Fancy Goods, SfC , SfC. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Square, 

Near Ziou Church, MONTREAL. 

Honourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arts, Ed'nburgli. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Streec. 



Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St., Montreal. 
OYSTERS, GAME, FISH, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 12 to 3. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE ROOMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 

HENRY DUNNE. 



The Medical Hall \ 

St. James Street. 

Branch : , Branch : 

Phillips* Square, an Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies. 

McGill College Text Books, 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 

CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

232 ST. JAMES STREET, 232 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
A. T ASHFORD’S, 

<576J DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School, 
MONTREAL. 



W. SAMUEL, 

307 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents’ Fur Ci ats, Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS’ 

Emporium for Out-door and other Games, 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle, Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, &c. 

Jewellery and Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and* Silver Timing Watches, 

Jewellery of all descriptions, 

Silver and Electro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
an endless assortment of other goods suitable for 
PRESENTATIONS. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET 



CHAS. M. ALEXANDER, 

CONFECTIONER, 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts, Dinner and Supper Parties 

Supplied. 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 

LORGE & CO., 

First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



Choice Cut f lowers Received Daily. 

Floral Decorations of every description at the Boston Floral Mart, 
1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 

Prompt attention given to all orders by Mail or Telegraph. 

WM, RILEY, A«eut. 



