Js*f- « 







MONTREAL, DECEMBER 8, 1892. 



3 /'V j jA 























\\l!i/// / 










/ 





/ 






PAGE 



Editorials 49 

Obituary 5 2 

The Lay of the Last Miss 54 

Alfred Tennyson 55 

A Summer Survey 56 

The Medical Faculty Dinner 57 

Applied Science Song 58 

History of Music in McGill 59 

Student's Song 61 

Modernized Rugby 61 

The Football Smoking Concert 62 

Young Men’s Christian Association. 62 

Whiffs from my “ Church Warden ” 63 

Correspondence 63 

Societies 63 

Class Reports 65 

Comp. Med 65 

Woman's Writes 66 

Medicine 66 

Science 68 

Law 68_ 



McGILL UNIVERSITY i 



ARCHIVES 



ACC. NO 






i 






REF. 

Um 



2/t 7 



MUNCO CIGARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE COODS OUR SPECIALTY 



S. DAVIS & SONS, LARCEST CICAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 




FIHE AMI1ICAK OTITAIKS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 
“STEWART” “BAY STATE” and“DOBSON” 

— • == BANJOS. 

Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B.— Special discount to Students. 

Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 



Carbutt’s dry Plate? and Films. 
Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 
Prosch Triplex Shutters. 

Prosch Flash Lamps. 

New York Aritso Paper. 
Peerless Blue Paper. 



1 6x7 Folding Kodak $57 50 

14x5 “ “ 62 50 

1 4x5 Hawk^ye Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

l C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 

1 A •« 8 60 



IRIEIMIIIsr O-TOlsT 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 

== 1892 
MODBL 
CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard- 

SPACKMAN & CO., 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 




BOOTS 



I keep a good boot, suitable for fall 
wear, and one that will , last well 
and sell it to students for $3.00. 

CALL I 35 T ALfL SEE IT* 

A. M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherin e 

- CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - - 

Suits for GYMNASIUM of field 

- Running Shoes, etc. 

ALBERT DEMERS, 

e 338 St. James Street, 

NEARLY OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



Hierh Quality. 



Low Prices. 



Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAN. 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McCill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. 'OWtVGfM* 



II 




<111 



mm 



To buy their Winter supply of 

NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 

OF EVtKY DESCRIPTION. 

New Good* arriving daily at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2146 St- Catherine Street, 

Foot of Victoria. 

WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO. 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 

ftlfhow our Rates to 
Students are 
§ Low, 

♦ We give thern the best in 
^ Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman Sc Son, CTBleurySt. 



“ LA CADENA ” and “ LA FLORA ” The Cream of the Havana Crop 



MADRE E’ HIJO (7 SIZES.) EL PADRE AND CABLE 




^CGlbb FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event, 

Vol. I. MONTREAL, DECEMBER 8, 1892. No. 4 - 




-^EDITORIAL BOARD*<- 

Gordon W. MacDougall, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chief, 

W. M. MacKeracher, (Arts *94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science *94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 



-EBUSINESS BOARDS 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman . 

E. J. MacIver (Arts *93), Secretary . 

J. Featherston (Science *93). Peers Davidson, B. A. (Law *93;. 

F. A. Bottbrell (Donalda *95). Glen CAMPBELL"(Comp. Med. *93), 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



Subscribers to the “ Fortnightly ” who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the Editors, as 
this is the only method of having the unavoidable mis- 
takes and imperfections of the mailing system rectified. 

"Editorials. 

UNIVERSITY DINNER. 

Now that the idea of a University Dinner for this 
year has been abandoned, a revival of the subject will 
perhaps appear as a fanning of the ashes after the fire 
has gone out, but at the same time it may be treated 
generally. 

A University Dinner is no doubt a serious under- 
taking involving a great deal of labor and thought. 
The question arises, is it worth the time and labor 
expended, and are the results obtained sufficient to 
warrant such an expenditure ? 

We must tread carefully, but while single Faculty 
Dinners are certainly more provocative of real social 
enjoyment, does not a joint Dinner of all the Faculties 
afford a still greater pleasure of a peculiarly genuine 
nature ? Speaking as a participant in the last Univer 
sity Dinner of 1890, there was a sense of grandeur and 
unity obtainable from such a gathering that is never 
acquired from a smaller assembly. 

Again, it gives us an opportunity of seeing and 



hearing from the heads of all the departments both 
educational and political in the land, and it also 
spreads the fame of Old McGill the country round in 
a manner that nothing else in the College world can do. 

These are the advantages, what are its defects ? The 
plea is put in that the individualities of the different 
faculties are lost ; that the men themselves are lost in 
the great gathering. 

True it is. The units are lost in the splendid whole, 
but the University Corporate receives an impulse from 
the sacrifice, and the reputation of Alma Mater has 
been enhanced. Of course, even all things considered, 
we do not attempt to advocate a yearly University 
Banquet. Such would be a practical impossibility. The 
labor which devolves on the General Committee is 
too severe, and as a matter of fact the University does 
not want it. Give us an alternation of Faculty dinners, 
and, say every three years, a joint dinner of all the 
Faculties. 

This we can advocate strongly, and in so doing pro- 
bably echo the voice of the majority. 

For this year therefore kind wishes to all the Facul- 
ties, and next year let us have another reunion similar 
to that of 1890. 

COLLEGE RESIDENCE. 

If we remember rightly, De Quincey estimated the 
advantages of a college life as two, viz., intercourse 
with the professors and access to the libraries. And 
although De Quincey’s situation and prejudice in some 
degree disqualify his judgment, he is pointing in the 
right direction. He tells the truth, but not the whole 
truth. The greater number of those best qualified to 
decide agree in this, that the profit consists not so 
much in the acquirement of knowledge, not so much 
even in the regulating discipline of the course, as in the 
development of the faculty of suggestion, the power of 
exertion, self-knowledge, self reliance, and manly char- 
acter,— everything, in fact, which goes to form the man, 
so that the student does not, as Macaulay expresses it, 
go forth into the world a schoolboy. And this is 
attained chiefly, if not merely by intercourse with pro- 
fessors and access to libraries, yet by the operation of 
these influences in conjunction with the much more 
effective influence arising from contact with the infinite 
variety of character and intellect in the student-world 
about us. For it is a world, a sort of microcosm, “ a 
privileged world within a world/ * a representative 
community ; more so, indeed, than the House of Com- 
mons, for those are picked men, but in the university 



50 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



we have every sort. Thackeray somewhere compares 
this community to a slave gang, who, while under 
overseers, have leaders and a polity of their own. So 
it is. A man finds his place here ; and, if he has been 
unable to impose upon his fellow-students, he will be 
scarce likely to impose upon the world. Of course, 
there are exceptions. Some minds are late in develop- 
ment, and the powers which some men evince are not 
popularly attractive. But in the main, we are right, 
Wordsworth spoke of his college thus : — 

“ here in dwarf proportions were expressed 

The limbs of the great world ; 

no mimic show, 

Itself a living part of a live whole, 

A creek in the vast sea.” 

If, then, these are the advantages of a college life, 
how much more are they the advantages of a college 
life in residence. The facilities toward this development 
are much more abundant. The contact is more contin- 
uous and direct. 

The objections to residence are numerous, but not 
formidable. We have heard it remarked that the 
accommodation is costly and the institution develops 
into an aristocratic monopoly. But that is no true 
scheme which does not adapt itself to varied require- 
ments and varied means in a community where these 
exist. In Harvard there is one suite rooms which costs 
the occupants $1,500 a year, but there are apartments 
available by a student who has a very moderate allow- 
ance. If a residence were established at McGill, we 
would have nothing to fear on this head. Our bene- 
factors are as judicious as they are benevolent. 

There are those, too, who condemn any system of 
isolation. They contend that such a life tends to 
develop selfishness and coarseness, ignorance of the. 
ways of society and the ordinary refinements of life 
But, if the student is a gentleman who will follow the 
example of his professors and form a proper conception 
of his duties as a member of society, the most extended 
intercourse with it will profit him little. And, in any 
case, this intercourse is not denied. It is even very 
probable that he would then go into society more fre- 
quently and with greater relish. 

But the separation of the student from the ordinary 
life of the city, as well as securing for him a purer 
atmosphere and surroundings more congenial to his 
present pursuits, adds a sense of importance and a 
dignity to the collegiate life which more than compen- 
sates for the evils of isolation. Emerson said of Oxford : 
“ The number of students and of residents, the dignity 
of the authorities, the value of the foundations, the 
history and architecture, the known sympathy of entire 
Britain in what is done there, justify a dedication to 
study in the undergraduate, such as cannot easily be 
in America, where his college is half suspected by the 
Freshman to be insignificant in the scale beside trade 
and politics. ’ ’ And Trevelyan says of Macaulay : “ He 
keenly appreciated a society which cherishes all that is 
genuine, and is only too out-spoken in its abhorrence 
of pretension and display— a society in which a man 
lives with those whom he likes, and with those only ; 
choosing his comrades for their own sake, and so in- 



different to the external distinctions of wealth and posi- 
tion that no one who has entered fully into the spirit 
of college life can ever unlearn its priceless lesson of 
manliness and simplicity/’ 

Whatever be the objections to it, — and none of them 
are irrefutable, — few men whose fancies are diverted by 
the attractive in romance, whose feelings are stirred by 
the pathetic and beautiful in life, who revere the 
memory of the great and respect the greatness of the 
living — there are few such who will be inclined to look 
with disfavor upon a life which is haunted by the 
spirits of so many imaginary heroes, around which 
cluster so curiously the toils and eccentricities of learn- 
ing and genius, a life which is hallowed by so many 
noble lives and consecrated by so many remarkable 
friendships. In such a life, our childhood has been 
delighted to picture Charles O’Malley and Arthur Pen- 
dennis and Tom Brown. In such a life did Democritus 
Junior search through all the classics, and the author of 
the Elegy muse in pensive solitude. In such a life did 
Porson ‘'hiccup Greek like a Helot in his cups” and 
Johnson growl in disputation over his mutton and his 
tea. Amid such surroundings did Tennyson and 
Hallam and Thackeray hold debate, 

“ a band 

Of youthful friends on mind and art, 

And labor, and the changing mart, 

And all the framework of the land.” 

Amid such surroundings did the devout and troublous 
lives of Keble and John Henry Newman and Matthew 
Arnold begin in harmony and friendship. Let us be 
permitted to add one more group to the foreground of 
this picture, a group not less brilliant in many respects 
than any portrayed, a group which cannot but suggest 
reflection, and which some of us cannot regard without 
emotion. It contains Sir Edwin Arnold, Frederic 
Harrison and George Murray. 

It is difficult to forbear quoting Matthew Arnold’s 
eloquent apostrophe to Oxford, but as we have a failing 
for the Prelude , we conclude with the following : — 

Yet I, though used 
Iu magisterial liberty to rove, 

Culling such flowers of learning as might tempt 
A random choice, could shadow forth a place 
(If now I yield not to a flattering dream) 

Whose studious aspect should have bent me down 
To instantaneous service ; should at once 
Have made me pay to science and to arts 
And written love, acknowledged my liege lord, 

A homage frankly offered up, like that 
Which I had paid to Nature. Toil and pains 
Iu this recess, by thoughtful fancy built, 

Should spread from heart to heart ; and stately groves, 
Majestic edifices, should not want, 

A corresponding dignity within. 

The congregating temper that pervades 

Our unripe years, not wasted, should be taught 

To minister to works of high attempt— 

Works which the enthusiast would perform with love, 
\outh should be awed, religiously possessed 
With a conviction of the power that waits 
On knowledge, when sincerely sought and prized 
For its own sake, on glory and on praise 
If but by labour won, and fit to endure 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



5i 



I he passing day ; should learn to put aside 
Her trappings here, should strip them off abashed 
Before antiquity and steadfast truth 
And strong book-miudeduess ; and over all 
A healthy, sound simplicity should reign, 

A seemly plainness, name it what you will, 
Republican or pious. 



McGILL AND MEDICAL LEGISLATION. 

McGill University has always pursued the prudent 
policy of living at peace with all men in so far as this 
was possible. It has even been willing to forego 
something of its just due in following out this com- 
mendable course, and in no case has it ever been found 
insisting upon untenable claims. This attitude of justice 
and forbearance lends greater weight to its cry of 
remonstrance when the rights of English education 
are threatened. From private information it would 
appear that the time is at hand when the University 
will again have to raise its voice not only in defence 
of one of its own faculties but also in the cause of sound 
Medical Education. 

At the last session of the Legislature of Quebec a 
Bill was introduced to amend the law respecting the 
College of Physicians and Surgeons of this Province ; 
the Bill passed the Lower House, but was defeated in 
the Legislative Council by a vote so narrow that one 
shudders at the nearness of the danger. The Legisla- 
ture it is announced by C. B. De Boucher ville, the 
Premier, will meet early in January, and in all proba- 
bility the attempt will be renewed. In view of the 
nearness of the session it is worth stating what were 
really the provisions of this Bill which so nearly be- 
came law, what would be the immediate effects upon 
our own University, and finally what would be the 
extent of the disaster to Medical teaching and practice 
in this Province. 

The Bill attempted to prescribe for the Students the 
following course of study : — 

General anatomy or histology : one course of one hundred and 
twenty lectures or two courses of sixty lectures ; 

Descriptive and topographic anatomy : two courses of one 
hundred and twenty lectures ; 

Prac cal anatomy : three annual courses or fifteen months ; 
General and special physiology : two courses of one hundred 
and tweLty lectures ; 

General pathology : two courses of sixty lectures ; 

Chemistry : two courses of one hundred and twenty lectures ; 
Materia Medica and therapeutics : two courses of one hun- 
dred and twenty lectures ; 

Medico chirurgical clinics : three courses of eight mouths ; 
Midwifery : two courses of one hundred and twenty lectures ; 
That he was present at at least twenty accoucliemeuts in a 
lying in hospital ; 

Internal pathology : two courses of one hundred and twenty 
lectures ; 

Surgical pathology : two courses of twenty lectures ; 

Diseases of the mind : one course of forty lectures ; 

Diseases of the aged and of children : one course of sixty lec- 
tures ; 

Ophthalmology and osteology : one course of thirty lectures ; 
Gynaecology : two courses of sixty lectures ; 

Operative surgery : one course of sixty lectures ; 

Pathologic histology : one course of sixty lectures ; 

Practical chemistry : two courses of thirty lectures, or one 
course of sixty lectures ; 



Medical jurisprudence and toxicology: two courses of sixty 
lectures ; 

Practice at the dead house : one course of ten lectures ; 

History of medical science and professional deontology : one 
j course. 

According to the current calendar, the requirements 
at McGill Medical School are Anatomy, Practical 
Anatomy, Physiology, Chemistry, Materia Medica, 
and Therapeutics, Principles and Practice of Surgery, 
Midwifery and diseases of Women and children, Theory 
and Practice of Medicine, Clinical Medicine, Clinical 
Surgery two courses each of six months duration, 
Medical J urisprudence one course of six months, Prac- 
tical Chemistry, Botany or Zoology, Hygiene one 
course of nine months duration, Histology ten lectures 
and twenty-five demonstrations, Surgical pathology 
twenty-five lectures, six autopsies, six accouche- 
ments. 

Now let us compare with these the requirements 
demanded by the Examining Board of the Royal Col- 
lege of Physicians of London and the Royal College of 
Surgeons of England: Anatomy, six mouths ; dissec- 
tion, twelve months ; Physiology, six months ; 
General Anatomy and Physiology, three months ; 
Medicine, Surgery, Midwifery including Diseases of 
women, each six months ; Pathological Anatomy and 
Forensic Medicine, three months; “Instruction” in 
Chemistry, Practical Chemistry, Materia Medica and 
Pharmacy, “Systematic Practical Instruction in Medi- 
cine, Surgery and Midwifery” demonstrations in the 
post mortem form- 

So far as appears in the Bill, the Quebec College 
requires 110 hospital attendance, while McGill requires 
eighteen months and the English Board twenty-one 
months. 

It will of course be open to the advocates of the Bill 
to urge that the course they propose is better than that 
actually in vogue in England and at McGill. To this 
it would be hard to give a suitable reply unless one 
followed the proverbial advice and answered a fool 
according to his folly. To take a few examples. 
According to the Calendar, and taking one year with 
another, a six months course contains about seventy 
lectures. Thus in England, they require seventy lec- 
tures in Medicine, Surgery and Midwifery, at McGill 
one hundred and forty, while the advocates of this Bill 
require two hundred and twenty. But at McGill and 
in England the difference is adequately provided for by 
Practical instructions ” and “ Clinical work.” 

The whole Bill is a reversion to the days when Stu- 
dents ol Medicine wore flowing cloaks of scarlet silk 
instead of foul smelling dissecting coats when physi- 
cians talked of humors, phlegm and spirits, and sur- 
geons provided their operating rooms with ample tanks 
for blood, searing irons and boiling fluids. 

If this Bill became law, and anyone were absurd 
enough to attempt to enforce its provisions, the whole 
course of study at McGill will have to be revised, the 
hospital wards will have 110 attraction for Students, and 
physicians will know nothing of disease as it really is 
till they come to practise, it may be hoped, upon these 
same advocates of this Quebec Bill. 




©bituar^. 

GEORGE ROSS, A.M., M.D., 

VICE-DEAN OF THE MEDICAL FACULTY OF MCGILL 
UNIVERSITY. 

( From Montreal Medical Journal.) 

The profession, not only in this city and country, but 
also on this continent, has recently sustained a severe 
loss in the lamented death of our colleague and co- 
editor — Dr. George Ross. Dr. Ross was born in this 
city on the nth of March, 1845. He was the second 
son of the late Arthur Ross, Esq., Seigneur of Beau 



Rivage, in the Province of Quebec. His father was 
also a native of this city, his grandfather, David Ross, 
being one of the early King’s counsel in Canada. 

Our friend was educated in Montreal, being the first 
Davidson gold medallist in the High School. He sub- 
sequently graduated in Arts, taking the Chapman gold 
medal with first class honors in classics. In 1862 he 
began the study of medicine in McGill University, the 
Medical Faculty building being at that time in Cott6 
street. Here also he sustained his reputation as a prize- 
winner by taking, at the time of his graduation in 1866, 
the Holmes gold medal given for general proficiency in 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



S3 



all the branches of the medical curriculum. He was 
always known as a steady worker both at the college 
and at the hospital, and was a universal favorite with 
his fellow-students. During the summer following his 
graduation he acted as surgeon on one of the Allan line 
of steamers, and thus re-established his health which 
had suffered in some measure from years of close appli- 
cation to study. In the autumn of the same year, on 
the resignation of Dr. Herbert S. Tew, he was appointed 
apothecary to the Montreal General Hospital jointly 
with the late Dr. John Bell. The late Dr. Joseph 
Morley Drake was house surgeon at this time, and 
when he resigned a short time afterwards, Dr, Ross 
was appointed to succeed him. During his stay in the 
hospital he was distinguished not only for his profes- 
sional skill and his capacity as an administrator, but 
also for his kindly and genial disposition, which 
endeared him specially to his fellow-residents. 

In 1872 Dr. Ross went into general practice in this 
city, and very soon afterwards was elected attending 
physician to the Montreal General Hospital and received 
from the Governors of McGill University the appoint- 
ment of Professor of Clinical Medicine. By his skill, 
conscientiousness and kindness he soon obtained the 
confidence of all who came under his care, thus secur 
ing in a very short time a large clientele. The late Dr 
George \V. Campbell always had the highest opinion 
of Ross’ abilities, and when he retired from practice 
turned much in his way. Shortly after his appoint- 
ment to the hospital he devoted himself entirely to the 
charge of medical cases, giving up all share in surgery, 
and soon became known as a successful teacher in his 
department. He had a rare capacity for imparting 
knowledge, and was a keen and careful investigator and 
a sharp diagnostician. I11 1889, on the death of the 
late Dr. R. P. Howard, Dr. Ross succeeded to the chair 
of Medicine, and was also made Vice-Dean under Dr. 
Robert Craik. He still, however, retained an interest 
in his favorite clinical work by lecturing at the bed- 
side during the summer session. Among the many 
professional appointments held by Dr. Ross, the follow- 
ing may be mentioned : President of the Medico- 
Chirurgical Society of Montreal, President of the Cana- 
dian Medical Association, Member and Vice-President 
of the American Association of Physicians, Secretary 
to the Montreal General Hospital, and Representative 
Governor of the College of Physicians and Sur*geons of 
the Province of Quebec. In this latter capacity he was 1 
recognized as a power, his voice being constantly raised 
in support of every measure calculated to increase the 
dignity of the profession and to raise the standard of 
medical education in this Province. 

Besides contributing occasional articles on profes- I 
sional subjects, notably the articles on peritonitis and I 
aortic aneurism, in Buck’s Encyclopaedia, he was for I 
many years editor-in chief of the Montreal Medical I 
Journal. 

Dr. Ross has been in failing health for three or four I 
years, but could not be induced to relinquish any of his I 
professional or professorial duties, preferring to die in I 
harness. 

The above record of Dr. Ross’s career shows how I 



much work, valuable to the profession and to mankind, 
can be crowded into forty-seven years. Such a life is 
long in deeds if not in years, and is worth an age of 
mere existence. To those who knew Dr. Ross well 
this brief record tells a full story, but to others it must 
necessarily mean less. 

Those who associated with the deceased can never 
forget the quick, clear intellect, the high tone, and the 
gentlemanly professional bearing which always charac- 
terized the man. He was an unwavering friend ; a man 
who rigidly eschewed all ad captanctum vulgus methods ; 
and one whose manner of life was a model for the young 
physician. His literary polish combined with his great 
skill and experience made him an especially acceptable 
teacher of students at the bedside ; while his bearing 
towards all was the best possible illustration of the 
happy union of the skilled physician and teacher with 
the accomplished gentleman and the true man. 

While he instructed the class at the bedside, he 
never forgot the individuality of his students, and 
many of them will remember with perennial gratitude 
his tactful and tender handling of their natures. 

His long career as a physician in Montreal was 
passed without the slightest tarnishing of his brilliant 
and honorable professional record. Dr. Ross was to 
the manner born, and it will be hard to fill his place. 
He resided near the late lamented Dean Howard, who, 
next to Osier perhaps, was for years his most inti- 
mate friend. 

How forcibly are we reminded — those who have 
known and worked with our esteemed and too early 
departed friend and colleague — that “ the night cometh 
when no man can work ! ” 



With this issue, the Fortnightly appears under 
a new cover, and on a better paper, so that to that 
extent it has another bow to make to its subscribers. 

The designing of the cover is the work of H. N. 
MacVicar, son of the principal of the Presbyterian 
College, and a rising young architect of this city. We 
await the expressed opinion of the students in general, 
but while waiting, state our own. The whole design 
certainly shows a great deal of merit combined with 
artistic taste. The idea seems to have been well 
conceived, and the caricatures of the different faculties 
with motto complete are very clearly done. Perhaps 
it is out of order to congratulate ourselves in this 
fashion, but there is certainly cause for it, and the Edit- 
ors feel that we are gradually obtaining a Journal that 
will be a fitting representative of a great University. 



The Editors wish to rectify a mistake which occurred 
in our last number. It was there inadvertently stated 
in a foot note at the end of a short piece of poetry 
entitled La paroisse du Grand Brule” that the same 
had been accepted by the Faculty of Law as furnish- 
ing the words for the Faculty Song. 

We hear that the matter has not yet come before the 
Faculty, and the Committee have not made any special 
recommendation. 



54 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE LAY OF THE LAST MISS- 

‘‘ And shall I dance my last quadrille ? ” 

A maiden faintly said ; 

“ My last ? I really think I will ”— 

Then tossed her dainty head ; 

And as she mused— alone and still, 

Her fancy backward fled. 

“ There was a season— is it past ? 

When I was Fashion’s pride ; 

Ah me ! why flew those hours so fast ? 

Yes, I had rather died 
Thau dreamed of murmuring 4 my last 5 ; 
Mischances I defied. 

<i It cannot be : — just mark that girl — 

She knows she’s slaying hearts, 

As in the mazy polka’s whirl 
She scatters Cupid’s darts ; 

Hers is a sweet entrancing curl— 

How well she plays her parts ! 

“ Why not ? Life’s but a varied stage, 

My day is not yet done ; 

I feel not yet the clutch of age — 

I’ve laurels to be wou ; 

There’s time enough for precepts sage, 

When youth is all outrun. 

“ I’m told I’m beautiful— don’t talk— 

My face has still its charm ; 

Good gracious ! what a frumpy gawk 
Is clasped by his strong arm 
That oft encircled me : I’ll balk 
Her, j us t for fun — no harm. 

“ Yet stay ! when did I first come out ? 

It must be years ago ; 

Nineteen or twenty ? I’m in doubt— 

I’ve had swarms, swarms of beaux ; 

Where are they all ? They’re not about ; 

I’d really like to know. 

“ Some must have died. Have died ? of course 
There was young Major B., 

He caught some horrid thing— got hoarse, 

And went away to sea ; 

Then fell a victim to remorse, 

Because — refused by me ! 

“ Poor Major ! Hm ! It was too bad, 

He never used to flirt ; 

Most majors did. I feel half-sad ; 

Pm sure I never hurt 
His feelings so— the stupid lad ! 

O what a hideous skirt ! 

“ Some must have married — little Y : 

Who could have loved that man ? 

What ? did I really have a sigh ? 

Oh yes, you use your fan 
Miss, fairly well— not quite so high, 

Don’t spoil your pretty plan. 

“ I sighed? Well, I called back to mind 
This very room, how scrauge ! 

This very room ; and I reclined 
Just there ; now, what a range 
Of faces uew ! why, yes, the blind 
Is just the same — no change. 

“ We had been dancing ; then apart 
From all the crowd we drew, 



I was decked out in gayest art, 

I looked him through and through ; 

He tried to speak — I gave a start. 

As if I’d caught the clue. 

44 He led me to yon quiet nook, 

And breathed his vows of love ; 

My cheek grew scarlet, and I shook 
My tiny foot ; my glove 
Dropped on the floor ; and next he took 
My hand and called me — dove. 

“ He vowed I was his true ideal, 

His angel, goddess fair — 

I wonder if that man can feel 
In yonder old nook there 

Just what he felt ; it seems so real 
As I watch that young pair. 

II By all the gods he begged my hand — 

I never should repent ; 

He had no money — had no land, 

Knew naught of cent percent ; 

But what were these ? Mere shifting sand — 
No sooner got than spent ! 

“ He was an innocent young thing, 

I liked him — in a way ; 

I thought it cruel thus to wring 
His heart-strings, e’en in play ; 

But yet I told him not to bring 
His love to me — said 4 nay/ 

“ He led me back ; he disappeared, 

I never saw him more. 

The postman left me, as I feared, 

Three years ago, no, four, 

His wedding cards ; a note appeared — 

He might call on his tour. 

“ He did not call ; why, I can’t tell ; 

I long to see his wife ; 

Was Mrs. Y. a ball-room belle, 

Or taken from low life ? 

Y’s fate was still unsealed ; ah, well ! 

The world with lies is rife. 

“ And Y was married ! I’m still left, 

Though I’ve waltzed so long ; 

I feel so lonely, so bereft, 

Amid this upstart throng ; 

A heart was once my usual theft — 

There’s surely something wrong. 

44 Do people marry who don’t dance ? 

I’ll go and ask Mamma ; 

They manage matters well in France, 

At least, so says 1 
And adds, it’s rather old to prance 
At thirty-eight ! Sessa ! 

44 Hush, hush ! he comes, the only one 
Of all that early race 
The last lone man— still full of fun— 

He sees this vacant place ; 

I don’t think he intends a pun. 

There’s something in his face. 

44 He’s sitting by me— very near 

I’ll look quite unconcerned, 

I fancy Jones is true, sincere ; 

Why have not mankind learned 
To go straight to the point ? ’tis clear 
They don’t— Jones shan’t be spurned 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



55 



“ * Miss Gamma ’ (how my pulses beat !) 
c We’re two old fogies now ; 

This ball’s my last, Pm obsolete, 

The furrows line my brow ; 

And yet my life is incomplete, 

It is so— you’ll allow. 

“ 1 1 hope to try another world, 

That is, if it exist ; 

My flaunting colors shall be furled ; 

Perchance I can subsist 

A (sobersides)’ — and then he twirled 
His whiskers — (had I missed ?) 

“ ‘ And yet I’d like to dance once more, 

With you — my last quadrille ; 

You won’t refuse — a splendid floor— 

You’ll come — I kuow you will ; 

Then you can open a new score’ — 

(I felt a sudden chill). 

*•' I answered that I should retire 
For ever, from that night ; 

My thoughts were his ; I did admire 
His resolution’s height, 

In fact, it was my one desire 
Affection to requite. 

“ I took his arm, my eyes were dim, 

But nothing more he said ; 

We danced — my head was in a swim, 

The vision dear was dead ; 

I was not chosen wife by him ; 

So I went home — to bed.” 

Mew. 



Alfred %znn%z on. 

But the danger, I think, is not exactly in the direc- 
tion which the poet apprehended. There is an over- 
bearing of individual opinion, a law unwritten in the 
Statute Book, and unenforced by courts of justice, but 
still more powerful than though it were inscribed in the 
broadest characters, or carried into operation with the 
solemnity of formal administration— against indepen- 
dence of thought and freedom of speech. It obtains 
throughout society and makes man an outcast if he goes 
beyond certain lengths in opinion. It obtains in high 
circles, with those amongst whom opinion is a conven- 
tionalism ; with them, creeds and forms, political and 
religious, are taken in their external shape, with no soul 
or spirit in them, but are parroted from one to another 
because they are the adjuncts of pecuniary emolument 
and political influence. There is the danger. 

There are some political points in which the writings 
of Tennyson are more in harmony with the present 
time. There is, especially, a light poem which applies 
to the favorite system of commercial restrictions, the 
well-known and trite fable of the “ Goose that laid the 
golden eggs.” 

But to leave what refers to politics, Tennyson, like 
all other poets, sings much of woman. Not as those 
who merely lecture and admonish her upon the fulfill- 
ment of such duties as immediately relate to man’s com- 
fort who tell her to mind her spinning and puddings 

and leave matters of higher import to the exclusive 
consideration of the lords of creation. He practically 
rebuts the fallacy, so often repeated, that women have 



no character. In a succession of portraits, with a fine- 
ness of appreciation and a nicety of discrimination never 
surpassed, he has delineated the richest diversity of 
person, manner, disposition, mind and character ; 
bounding merriment, airy gracefulness, rustic vanity 
and gladness, the perfect matron, the dignified, the 
spiritual, the fantastic, the energetic, the happy beloved 
and the melancholy deserted ; up to the heroism of 
Godiva, of the old Coventry legend, pursuing in purity 
and goodness her solitary ride through the town to free 
its inhabitants from oppression and ruin. The author 
who has done this has served humanity He has best 
abated that coarseness which is the disgrace of so large 
a portion of the present generation. He has taught les- 
sons of woman’s worth and influence far more precious 
than those of compliment and sickly sentimentality. 
Nor is this all. He has touched some of the abuses of 
the time with a skill and power which deserve special 
notice. The triumph of love over pride has often been 
celebrated by poets. The conflicts of station with affec- 
tion, the influence of rank in turning aside the feelings 
from their straight-forward course, has been made the 
subject of tragedy in modern times, as in Westland 
Marston’s drama of “ The Patrician’s Daughter,” but 
there is as deep a tragedy in the lines addressed to a 
high-born lady seeking only a cold amusement in tacitly 
exciting the fervor of unreciprocated love — the ballad of 
“ Lady Clare Vere de Vere.” The poet sings : — 

“ A simple maiden in her flower 
Is worth a hundred coats of arms.” 

He proclaims : — 

11 Howe’er it be, it seems true 
’Tis only noble to be good ; 

Kind hearts are more than coronets, 

And simple faith than Norman blood.” 

In this poem, Tennyson has dealt with evils which 
go deeper into the heart of society, morally, than those 
with which mere politicians have to struggle. 
Another evil of the same sort has the poet touched, 
and in a similar spirit he describes the influence of 
an ill-assorted marriage. The poem of “ Locksley 
Hall” is mainly an embodiment of the feelings of 
one who is disappointed, the object of whose love has, 
for sordid motives, or in weakness of purpose, allied 
herself to a man of inferior mental rank, however much 
more ample his wealth. 

In these emphatic delineations we see a giant hand 
smiting the abuses of society, striking at evils which 
not only corrupt the soil, but in their branches and 
blossomings taint the atmosphere. Not only has he a 
perception of this, but of the true as well as of the false, 
the power of the poet as well as the tortuousness of 
society. One of his grandest descriptions is that of 
the poet in his might and majesty ; 

The poet in a golden chime was born, 

With golden stars above ; 

Dowered with the hate of hate, the scorn of scorn, 
The love of love, 

****** 

Truth was multiplied on truth, the world 
Like one great garden showed, 



56 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



And through the wreaths of floating dusk upcurled 
Rare sunrise flowed. 

He tells how 7 Freedom “ reared her beautiful 
Bold brow” and robed in Wisdom “her words did 
gather thunder as they ran ; ” 

“No sword 

Of wrath her right arm whirled, 

But one poor poet’s scroll and with his word, 

She shook the world.” 

Tennyson declares that the poet 

“ Sings of w'hat the w 7 orld will be 
When the years have died aw 7 ay.” 

What is there like the dominion of poetry ? Em- 
pires fade and pass away ; old Homer, the Greek of 
3>ooo years ago, is as fresh yet as ever, even under, 
all the difficulties of translation. His w 7 orks seem to 
be part and parcel of nature. Every true poet is a 
portion of nature, an elemental power in the world 
It is not that his opinions may always be the most 
accordant with the opinions of his times, but it is 
because there is in his soul a sense of truth, love, 
power and beauty, and he awakens this sense in others ; 
and in proportion as this is realized, then thought 
takes a bolder flight, and man looks abroad with a 
nobler regard on his fellow-man ; then freedom is at 
hand, and, together with political liberty, all that con 
stitutes mental freedom. 

Alfred Tennyson sought noble ends by noble means 
through noble motives. Fame might follow him, he 
had neither task nor time to follow her. 

H.M. 




H Summer Surueg 

'OST people have read in Longfellow’s poem of 
k the country of Hiawatha, in the land of the 
the Ojibways, by the “ Big- Sea- Water,” but 
probably very few have seen it as it really is. The 
Canadian Pacific Railway passes through it' now, but 
owing to the woods being burnt off all along the track’ 
to avoid the risk of the trains being blocked by bush- 
fires, the country appears to those passing through as 
a sort of desolate wilderness. Anyone who wishes to 
get an idea of the real appearance and character of the 
country must, leave the railway track and strike off for 
himself into the interior. 

This I had an oppportunity of doing last summer 
being a member of a surveying party exploring in this 
istriet to the north and west of Lake Superior Hilly 
and rocky and worthless for agricultural purposes it 
has been left in its original condition unaltered by the 
hand of civilization. Its hills and rocks, however 
while they prevent the country from being settled, add 
greatly to its natural beauty. For, scattered over the 
country in every direction, are countless lakes of all 
sizes and forms, occupying every hollow and valley in 
the lulls. Many of these lakes, dotted with islands and 
enclosed by the forest-covered hills, possess a beauty 
of scenery which may well rival that of the famous 



lakes of the Scottish Highlands. The great profusion of 
these lakes affords a ready access to any part of the 
country. In fact, owing to the dense bush which 
covers the whole Icountry, and the utter absence of 
roads or clearings, the only practicable method of 
travel is by water. Therefore, all exploring parties 
travel by canoes through the lakes, carrying their 
canoes and outfit from lake to lake by trails through 
the bush, camping every night wherever they may 
happen to be, and making up any deficiency in pro- 
visions by the fish and game of all sorts with which 
the country abounds. 

The only permanent inhabitants are Indians the 
remnant of the Ojibw’ays. They are quite friendly, but 
almost totally uncivilized. They dwell after the 
fashion of their ancestors in birch bark wigwams, and 
live principally by hunting and fishing, coming in 
every spring to the Hudson Bay Company’s posts to 
trade their furs for provisions and ammunition. They 
lead a wandering life, travelling in the summer by 
birch bark canoes, and in the winter by dog-sledges or 
on snow shoes. The white man has not as yet dis 
possessed them of their territory, probably for the very 
simple reason that he has no use for it himself. 

As the country is now, it has probably been for ages 
past and will continue to be. In its natural features it 
is a very typical portion of an immense area of Canada, 
that is, of what is sometimes called the Laurentian 
Region. Roughly speaking, this may be said to include 
the whole of the country north of the River St- 
Lawrence and the Great Lakes, with the exception of 
what is known as the Ontario peninsula, and of the 
lower part of the Ottawa Valley. With these two 
exceptions, the whole of this vast territory is similar to 
the district which I have attempted to describe. This 
similarity is due to the geological structure of the 
country. For all the Laurentian region is underlaid 
by hard Archcean rocks, which impart the hilly nature 
to the ground. Having been swept bare by the ice in 
the Glacial Epoch, the country has not since acquired 
sufficient soil for agricultural purposes. Therefore, 
while it is of great value to Canada from the lumber 
which it affords, and in certain places for its mineral 
deposits, it seems probable that it will never be colon- 
ized, except in a few of the valleys, and that only in 
the more southern portion. 

But although from an economic point of view much 
of the country is comparatively worthless, its beauty 
and value as a summer resort are becoming pretty gen- 
erally recognized. Places, such as the Lake of & the 
Thousand Islands, the Muskoka District and many 
others are yearly visited by members of camping par- 
ties, and those who have once tried it are unanimous 
in advising anyone who may have an opportunity to 
visit the country even if it is only for the purpose of 
seeing what it is like. The pleasures of camp life Q f 
being free for a season from the vexations knd 
restrictions of civilized life, and the excellence of the 
fishing and hunting may well reward anyone who may 
take a trip to the “ Highlands of Canada.” 



H.B.C 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



57 



THE UNRECORDED VOTE- 

At the gate where gentlemen make the laws, 

She stopped one wintry night ; 

And she wrapped her cloak close— how it tears, how it 
guaws, 

That hunger, with cruel spite ! 

And marvelled why the gay beam flashed from the tower’ s 
stately height. 

O er the distant streets, o’er the lanes and squares, 

The great eye circled round ; 

And she thought, as she gazed, if the eye of God stares, 
So far, far above the ground, 

So cold, so clear ; not half way up and the cry of want is 
drowned. 

And the people surged in the entry there, 

For party was at stake ; 

And the whips were worn out with the worry and care. 
And all for the party’s sake : 

Men said the Ministry was doomed, when the Opposition spake. 

Yet again the cheers ringing sharp and shrill, 

From gaping throats upsent ! 

And the loudest of all for the member whose Bill 
Was startling the Parliament : 

Her feeble cheer— she knew not why— with the multitude’s was 
blent. 

In the land the poor shall for ever be, 

The Christ said that of old ; 

But they ought to abide where the rich cannot see, 

Away from the marts of gold, 

Away from Senate’s lordly pomp, where the nation’s fame is 
scrolled . 

’Twas a grand debate, and the House was thronged, 
With Commoner and Peer ; 

And they swore that the flag of their country was 
wronged, 

Away in the southern sphere : 

The woman crawled and huddled down by the bridge's pathway 
near. 

And the night crept on, and the votes were cast — 

The old regime was dead ; 

And the beam flashing round lit her face as it passed — 
The soul from its pangs had fled ; 

And silent rose to God’s white throne where the deeds of state 
are said. 

Montreal . Chas. E. Moyse. 



%hz USedieal "Faculty "Dinner. 

<£ We may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving ? 
We may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving ? 

We may live without love — what is passion but pining ? 

But where is the man that can live without dining? 99 

ha s dined, and dined right-royally, 
to the choice of an Epicurean menu, in the 
company of some of the most renowned names 
in Canada’s field of Medical science, and of representa- 
tives from the various schools throughout the country. 
The hour was shortly after eight o’clock, last Thurs- 
day evening, Dec. ist, when a throng, numbering 
nearly 300, made up of dean and professor, student and 
guest, gathered in the name of our honored “Alma 
Mater,” filled the rotunda, corridors and halls of the 
Windsor Hotel. Soon to the sound of a welcoming 
orchestral harmony, a long procession wended its way 
to the brilliant Ladies Ordinary, when the music broke 



i forth in its fullest sweetness. Well did the Windsor 
maintain its reputation as the first hotel in the Dominion. 
The spacious banqueting chamber, resplendent with 
hundreds of lights, that found a million reflections in 
the scintillating glass and delicate china, perfumed 
with the fragrance of a harvest of exotics, welcomed its 
guests and thrilled them with the splendid gorgeous- 
ness of the whole scene. 

And now, the dinner begins, rare and delicate viands 
follow in rich profusion, wit and repartee, jest and the 
joyous laugh pass around, higher rises enthusiasm, 
and an evening that the gods might envy has begun. 

When ten o’clock had arrived, and justice had been 
done to the menu, the President, Mr. G- W. Fleming, 
arose to begin the second part of the arrangements, and 
here, for the first time during the evening, burst forth 
(( For He’s a Jolly good Fellow,” sung in good old 
time medical fashion. 

Mr. Fleming’s words were well chosen, and delivered 
in a manner becoming the dignity of his post. On his 
right sat Professor Johnson, Dean of the Faculty of 
Arts; S. Finley Esq., Doctors Buller, Gardner, Shep- 
herd, Ruttan, Armstrong and Finley, and to his left sat 
Doctor Girdwood, Professor of Chemistry, Mayor Mc- 
Shane, Doctor Campbell, Dean of Bishop’s College ; 
Professor Bovey, Doctors James Stewart, J. George 
Adami, T. Wesley Mills, J. Chalmers Cameron, James 
Bell, H. A. Lafleur, H. S. Birkett, John Elder, and D. 
McG. DeCow. The vice-chairs were filled by Mr. 
Kenneth McLennan (’93), and Mr G. H. Mathewson 
(94’). The delegates from sister faculties were : — Mr. T. 
D. South, Toronto University ; Mr. T. B. Smiley, Bishop 
College : Mr. R. Brodie, Trinity College ; Mr. D. W. 
Byers, Dalhousie College; and Mr. Monpetit, Laval Uni- 
versity. Representing other McGill Faculties were 
Mr. Mansur, Arts ; Mr. Holman, Applied Science ; Mr. 
Hall, Law ; and Mr. Braynard, Comp. Med. 

At gatherings like this, the President said the Stu- 
dents met their professors in a relationship other than 
that of teachers and students, here all were gathered 
around the same festive board, as one family, bringing 
back to memory the glorious past and bright future of 
that “ Alma Mater ” which all love so much. Here 
also to-night are with us representatives from sister 
colleges, whose words will be listened to and colleges 
honored. He regretted the absence of the venerable 
principal of the University, Sir Wm. Dawson, who had 
gone to the Southern States through illness, and 
trusted that his valued services and great personal 
influence might soon again be restored to Old McGill. 
The absence of Dr. Craik, Dean of the Faculty, was 
alluded to, and pleasure expressed at his restoration to 
health. The death of Dr. George Ross was touched 
upon, and feeling reference made to his great name and 
memory. 

The toast to the “Queen” was then put, and was 
royally honored by the singing of ‘ ‘ God save the 
Queen ” from every throat in the room. 

Mr. J. W. Scane of the final year then proposed the 
health of “ Old McGill.” Mr. Scane referred in a clear 
and concise way to the love that McGill Students and 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



53 



Graduates had for their University, and especially for 
the faculty with which they are connected. He then 
feelingly referred to the late beloved Dr. Ross, to whose 
brilliant abilities the Medical Faculty owed so much, 
and concluded by urging all to honor the customs of 
the old Faculty which has done so much to make the 
name of McGill famous in every quarter of the globe. 

In responding to this toast, Prof. Johnson, dean of 
the Arts Faculty, expressed regret at the absence of Sir 
Wm. Dawson, and ventured the assertion that the pre 
dominating feeling in the hearts of all must be one of 
joy that he had so far recovered that he was now able 
to take a journey to the Southern States, where he 
would remain until the winter was over. He expressed 
regret that there were so few links to bind together 
the Students of the various Faculties, and suggested 
that it would be well if there were a place where they 
could meet socially. McGill was continually advanc- 
ing, and never had she so many students as this year. 
This was not a result of lowering the standard of edu- 
cation, for the very reverse has been the case. The 
number of Students now in attendance reached nearly 
900 ; the increase of knowledge was so great, that it 
required a long time to master even the advances of the 
last twenty or thirty years. 

At this stage of the evening, the secretary, Mr. C. N. 
Stearns (’94), read the letters of regret at inability to 
attend from the Gov. General, the Premier, Sir John 
Thompson, Sir Wm. Dawson, Dr. Craik (dean of the 
Faculty), Dr. W. Osier of the John Hopkins Hospital, 
Baltimore ; Drs. Roddick and Blackader, and the deans 
of Toronto University Medical College, Dalhousie 
College, Halifax, and Queen’s University, Kingston. 

Mr. Robt. Wilson, jr. (’93), then submitted the toast 
of the dean and professors, and at some length referred 
to the great and noble qualities which the Students of 
Medicine recognized in their professors— to the wisdom 
and calm judgment of the Faculty as a body, and to 
their high sense of the responsibility which rested upon 
them. Fitting allusions were also made to the memory 
of the late Vice Dean and professor of Medicine. 

In the absence of the dean, Dr. Girdwood responded. 
The genial face of the professor of Chemistry was the 
signal for loud and prolonged cheering He spoke of 
the loss sustained by the Faculty by the lamented death 
of its most distinguished professor of Medicine, Dr. 
Ross. The new chair of Pathology was referred to, and 
the opinion expressed that Professor Adami would do 
honor to his high duties. In conclusion, he hoped that 
ere long, new laboratories and other accommodations 
would spring into existence, thus enabling the Faculty 
to still more meet the demands of the times- 

Professor Adami followed, and upon rising received a 
tremendous ovation with t; He’s a jolly good fellow.” 
The new professor spoke in a happy strain, expressing 
delight in all his new associations, and emphasized the 
fact that the present success and future career of the 
Students depended upon the cordial co-operation that 
existed between them and the professors. 

Sister Universities was proposed by Mr. H. Chapman 
(95) and responded to by the various representatives al- 



ready named. They all considered the McGill representa- 
tion as the highest honor that their colleges could confer 
upon them, and expressed much delight in the way 
they had been received and in what they had seen. 
As each speaker finished, loud bursts of applause fol- 
lowed spontaneously. 

Mayor McShane then proposed the health of the 
President, a toast in which all present heartily joined in 
— for indeed Mr. Fleming proved to be the right man 
in the right place 

The Class of ’93 was then proposed by Mr. J. W. FI inn 
(’94), who in an eloquent manner referred to the virtues 
and graces of the present final year men of McGill’s 
premier faculty. 

Mr. C. A. Yearwood (’93) responded at some length, 
dwelling upon the advantages of McGill, her thorough 
teaching and her great teachers. The Mayor and Cor- 
peration of the City of Montreal was then proposed 
by the President, and responded toby Mayor McShane. 
His Worship was in a happy mood, as indeed he always 
is, and at once referred to his love for McGill and for 
McGill Students, with whom he has ever been in per- 
fect accord. His present proud position, as mayor of 
Canada’s metropolis, was in a measure due to Mc- 
Gill and her students. 

The last toast, to the Freshmen, was proposed by 
Dr. F. G. Finley. He congratulated that year upon 
the quality of its men, for whom he could only predict 
bright futures. 

In response to this, Mr. Scott (’96) arose, and in a 
neat little speech, thanked the Faculty and the Students 
for the genial way in which they had been received, 
and that such treatment, more than words could ever 
do, implanted in the * £ Freshmen ” a love which must 
go on increasing. 

^ During the evening Messrs. Ferron, Kinghorn and 
Fry contributed songs. Mr. Ferron’s fine baritone 
voice was heard to good advantage, and regrets were 
expressed on every side that it is heard so seldom. The 
songs of Messrs. Kinghorn and Fry were deservedly 
applauded. 

And now comes the end, not long before the dawn of 
day, and yet all too soon. As the years roll on Medicine 
will dine again and again, but never in the future shall 
11 McGill’s Historic Faculty” be honored by more 
loving and grateful sons, every one of whom will ever 
cherish in memory those fleeting hours of joyous and 
heartfelt fellowship. 



APPLIED science song. 

Tune — “ Cheer up , Sam." 

I love to walk about the town, and watch the passers by ; 

I love to chaff a snob who thinks he owns the earth and sky ; 
I love to have the ready cash wheu duns persistent call, 

But Science, wondrous Science, I love above them all ! 

Chorus. — flieu cheer, boys, cheer 

For Workman, Macdonald & Co.; 

And still upon Science 
We’ll place our reliance, 

For Science is now all the go. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



59 



Old Zeus hurl’d forth his thunderbolts, and split the rocks and 
trees ; 

We put the bolts in harness now and work them as we please : 

His lightnings played above the clouds ; we catch them on the 
fly. 

And run them under oceans deep and over mountains high ! 

Some read about old Vulcan ; his skill and might they praise ; 

But if he saw our Workman shops, he’d stagger in amaze. 

Weary and sad he worked till night from morning’s earlie&t 
beam. 

We sing with joy as time goes by, for, why ? we work by steam ! ! 

Oh sweet is the analysis of Virgil’s classic lines : — 

Here lies the graceful dactyl ; the spondee there reclines ; 

But while some scan each flowing line, and ponder o’er each 
verse, 

We coolly analyze the stars and weigh the universe ! 

Though Alexander was a swell of glory and renown, 

He couldn’t run a level, nor lay a road-bed down ; 

And when he sighed for other worlds to conquer, don’t you see 

He couldn’t build a steamer that would bear him o’er the sea ! 

“Solomon’s Mines” were all a hoax; but what could be 
expected ; 

There was no “Science Faculty,” so training was neglected, 

But send a graduate from McGill, and quicker than you know, 

He’d find the mine and precious stones, and p’rhaps old 
Solomon too ! 

W. N. EVANS. 



History of IBusie in T0e@ill. 

Continued . 

In 1879, we find the first attempt at a College Song 
book for McGill. Mr. A. B. Chaffee, then a student in 
Arts, and an enthusiastic musician, compiled “A Pocket 
Song book for the use of the Students and Graduates of 
McGill College.” It was a modest little paper covered 
book of some 34 pages, containing the words of most of 
the popular songs, with the airs of the more important 
ones. It was published by John Lovell, at 35c. a 
copy, On 27th January, 1880, a number of graduates 
and others interested in music held an informal meeting, 
and discussed the advisability of organizing a musical 
association in connection with the University, whose 
object would be “to advance the interests of music 
by means of annual Symphony concerts,” “ training of 
Students,” etc., a provisional committee was formed, and 
a circular issued, calling a general meeting on 7th Feb- 
ruary, at 8 p.m., in No. 1 class room, Arts Building. 
The Meeting was held, an association formed, and a' 
special appeal made to all Students to. join and make 
it a success. 

The officers were : — 

President — Rev J. Clarke Murray. 

Vice-President— Dr. Harrington and Dr. Osier. 

Secretary-treasurer — C. H. Gould, B.A. 

Councillors — Dr. A. W. Imrie. 

N. P. Sharp. 

K. McPherson. 

W. McLennan. 

Conductor — Mr. Couture. 

Two Symphony concerts were given, on March 4th 
and May 6th, 1880 — the following were the pro- 
grammes : — 



4th March, 1880. 

Overture to Le Don Giovanni (Mozart). 

Andante Allegro Molto. 

Recitation et Aria, “ chi faro senza Euridice ” from “Orpheus ” 

(Gluck)— Mrs. Reiplinger. 

Violin Concerto— D Major (Beethoven.) • 

“ Allegro ma nontroppo ” — M. Deseve. 
Memietto in Trio from F Minor Symphony (Mozart). 

Symphony No. 1 in C. Major (Beethoven). 

Adagio Molto — Allegro con brio. 

Andante Cantabile con Moto. 

Scherzo — adagio — allegro Molto et vivace- 
Aria — “O rest in the Lord” from Elijah, — Mrs. Reiplinger. 
(Mendelssohn) 

Reverie in E Flat (Vieuxtemps). 

God Save the Queen. 

6th May, 1880. 

Overture to “ Prometheias” in C Major — Op. 43. (Beethoven). 
Song — The Garland — (Mendelssohn) — Miss Seymour. 

Symphony in D Major (Hayden) 

A dagio — A llegro — A ndante- 
Menuette— Allegro Spiritoso . 

Andante Con Moto in B Flat Major ; From Symph No. 5 in C 

Minor (Beethoven). 

Songs (a) “ The Nightingale and the Rose ” (Rubenstein). 

— ( b ) “ Who is Sylvia?” (Schubert) 

Miss Seymour. 

Finale of Symphony No. 1 in C Major (Beethoven). 

From an artistic standpoint, these concerts were a 
success, but, financially, they were unfortunately a 
failure. In 1884, a glee club was formed with F. W- 
Mills as conductor, and a public concert was given 
towards the clo.se of the season — the next year, how- 
ever, it languished. At various times quartettes and 
small glee clubs have been started, chiefly in the 
Medical faculty ; while banjo and mandolin clubs, and 
other semi-social clubs musical in character, have lived 
their short day, and disappeared. 

A great step in advance was made in the year 1884. 
There had long been felt the need of a University Song 
book which would be in harmony with the traditions 
of Alma Mater, and yet suited to the times. To meet 
this want, a committee of Professors, Graduates and 
Undergraduates was appointed to compile and publish 
a book. The following gentlemen composed the said 
committee : Prof. Moyse, Chairman ; Prof. Harrington, 
Chas.Gould.B. A., W. McLennan, B.C.L* ; and represent- 
ing the Undergraduates were : C. W. Wilson (Med.), 
W. G. Stewart (Med.), H. E. C. Mason (Arts), C. H. 
Livingstone (Arts), G. H. Dawson (Sc.), E. P. 
Matliewson (Sc). Much time and thought were 
expended upon the work, the main portion of wdiich 
devolved upon the first four gentlemen mentioned, and 
to them is due in a great measure the credit for the 
excellence of the book. It was arranged to appear in 
two parts, under the title of ” The McGill Song Book,” 
and published by J. L- Lamplough, of Montreal. In 
October, 1885, the first part appeared, and was first 
used at a University-dinner in the Windsor Hotel. 
The second part in manuscript form had been placed in 
Mr. Lamplough’s hands, for publication in the second 
edition of the book, but, unfortunately, he failed shortly 
afterwards, his stock was purchased by a Toronto firm, 
and all trace of the manuscript for the second part 



6o 



McGILI. FORTNIGHTLY. 



disappeared. However, the committee had taken the 
precaution to popyright everything, and the wisdom of 
their course has been justified by subsequent events. 
Meanwhile, Toronto University was engaged in the 
preparation of a Song book, and a representative was 
sent down to confer with the McGill Committee, the 
required information was fully and freely given, 
together with many valuable hints, the results of much 
labor and research ; but the representative was 
reminded of the McGill copyright. In due time the 
Toronto book appeared, and in it were found many of the 
McGill Songs, though the Toronto publisher had not 
acquired the McGill copyright by the purchasing of the 
Lamplough bankrupt stock. The McGill Song book 
was the first of its kind ever published by a Canadian 
University. Some of the Songs were purely original, 
and some appeared in print for the first time, while 
others, well known as College airs, were here harmon- 
ized for the. first time. The latest and most successful 
attempt to organize University music, and establish it 
upon a sound and permanent footing, was made in 
November, 1889, by Professor Cameron. The “ McGill 
University Musical Association” was formed for the 
purpose of voice culture and the practice of college 
and other songs. Prof. Wm. Bohrer, a musician of 
well known repute, was appointed Musical Director, 
the voices of the Students were tested and classified, 
a glee club formed for more advanced study, and some 
good work done. Professor Cameron provided a Stein 
way Grand Piano for the use of the Association, and 
guaranteed the salary of the instructor. Sir Donald 
Smith, the chancellor of the University, engaged the 
same instructor for the Donalda Department, in order 
that the lady undergraduates might have the same 
advantages as the men. The corporation recognized 
the Association as the official exponent of music at the 
public functions of the University. It started with a 
membership of over one hundred, and for some time 
worked with much success ; but that was the year of 
‘ ‘ La Grippe ’ ’ epidemic ; the conductor was laid up 
for several weeks, and the musical enthusiasm was 
taken out of a great portion of his class by the enerv- 
ating disease. Nevertheless, good work was done for the 
season. The association took charge of the music at 
the reception to the Governor General, when he appeared 
officially at the University as a visitor ; also at the first 
general University dinner at the “ Windsor Hotel at 
the Arts Convocation in Windsor Hall, when the degree 
of L.LD. was conferred upon Lord Stanley ; and again, 
at the conversazione given in the Peter Redpath Museum 
in the evening. At the dinner and Arts Convocation, 
the Donalda Department joined the Musical Associa- 
tion, and helped to make the music a success. In Octo- 
ber, 1890, a good programme was arranged for theatre 
night, a piano was placed in the gallery, and Prof. 
Bohrer directed the singing throughout the evening. 
Towards the spring of 1891 interest slackened, and at 
the opening of session 1891-92, the membership was 
so small that it -was thought inexpedient to continue the 
work any longer. This Session, Glee clubs have been 
started in the Arts and Science faculties, also Banjo and 
Mandolin Clubs in the Medical Faculty ; but so far, 



there has been no attempt at General University Music. 
From this brief sketch it will be seen that many 
attempts have been made in the past, upon many 
different lines, to build up music in this University, and 
with more or less success. High-class music, simple 
songs and choruses, part singing, private clubs, — 
faculty clubs and University ussociations have all been 
tried, have begun with enthusiasm and rich promise of 
success, but have all failed to take permanent root, 
and satisfy the needs of our University. Though 
failure has been the uniform history of the past, yet 
the efforts which have been made have not proved 
wholly fruitless— the effects of those attempts to culti- 
vate musical taste have undoubtedly improved college 
inging, and have aroused a larger and broader Univ- 
ersity feeling among the different faculties. The 
singing on Theatre Night nowadays is a vast improve- 
ment on what it used to be, and the mellowing effects 
of music are diseernable in all the Faculties. The chief 
obstacle to success has been the rapid change of 
“ personnel ” among the Students, and the difficulty in 
finding new enthusiasts to fill the places of those 
who leave us on graduation day. There can hardly be 
any difference of opinion as to the advantage of musical 
training to the student, not only during his college 
days, but also in after life ; consequently, there can be 
little difference of opinion as to the advisability of 
having a good, strong, vigorous Musical association in 
the University if possible. To secure permanent 
success for such an association, two things seem to be 
necessary : first, a chair of music, and second, time for 
the study and practice of it. If the director of Music is 
appointed by the students, and responsible to them, and 
if the association can be formed and dissolved at will, 
it cannot do regular and continuous work or achieve its 
greatest success; but if a professor or lecturer were 
appointed, and paid by the University, and like all 
other professors held responsible to the University for 
the work in his department, dignity and permanence 
would be secured at once, and musical instruction 
would go on whether the Students were few or many. 
The second requisite is that definite time be set apart 
for music, time which would be respected by the 
faculties, so that Students would not be detained from 
attendance on Musical practices by other college duties. 
Among the many graduates of this University who love 
music for itself, love it for what it can do for students, 
love the old familiar songs and choruses, is there not 
some one, or are there not some, who will found a chair 
of music, and secure for the younger children of their 
Alma Mater the refining, ennobling and purifying 
effects of music. 

Without referring to the new McGill Song book, now 
in course of preparation and a good account of which 
was given in the last Fortnightly, we shall here 
conclude our hasty but, it is hoped, accurate account 
of Music in McGill during the past thirty years. 
Many of the facts published will prove interesting to 
the Student of to-day, as well as to the old graduate, 
and will, as it were, have the way for suggestions 
which shall follow, regarding future Music in McGill. 

G. F. S. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



61 



STUDENTS’ SONG. 

TUNE “ KEEMO KIMO.” 

We’re blushing students, don’t you see : 

Chorus — Old McGill : oh we love you so ! 

Each working hard for his degree. 

Chorus — Old McGill : oh we love you so ! 

With Mathematics we’ve filled the head, 

Chorus — Old McGill : oh we love you so ! 

With Science living, and lingoes dead. 

Chorus — Old McGill : oh we love you so ! 

Grand Chorus. 

Alma Mater ! Dear McGill ! 

Joy of life : at times tho’, the bane of it ! 

Sing we a chorus of grateful praises, 

Health and honor to old McGill ! 

Long, indeed, is the student’s day, 

Chorus. — 

Hard, hard work, and little play. 

Chorus. — 

Short, indeed, is the student’s night, 

Chorus. — 

But oh ! how jolly and how bright ! 

Chorus.— 

Grand Chorus. 

Oh, pale and wan is the student’s cheek, 

Chorus. — 

And his bearing always calm and meek. 

Chorus. — 

But he smiles at life with all its ills. 

Chorus. — 

And only sighs at the size of his bills. 

Chorus. — 

Grand Chorus. 

Life is made of shifts and shams ; 

Chorus. — 

But painfully real are our exams. 

Chorus. — 

And while the Professors kindly bow, 

Chorus. 

One little dreams how deep they’ll plough. 

Chorus. — 

Grand Chorus. 

Exams all come to an end at last ; 

Chorus. — 

And soon we learn how well we’ve passed. 

Chorus. — 

Then give three cheers, and shout with a will, 
Chorus. — 

Farewell to the halls of old McGill ! 

Chorus. — 

Grand Chorus. 

Alma Mater ! Dear McGill ! 

Joy of life ; at times, tho’, the bane of it ! 

Sing we a Chorus of grateful praises 
Health and honor to Old McGill ! 

W. N. Evans. 



fSoderniztb l^ugb^. 

As disin terested spectators to a certain extent 
though also from a very “interested” point of view 
as representatives of a Club which may some day have 



the honor of competing against an Ontario team for 
the Canadian championship, the McGill team of ’92 
watched “the game of the year” between Osgoode 
Hall and Montreal, in Toronto, last Thanksgiving Day. 
That this opportunity was taken advantage of was 
most fortunate, as a more completely scientific game 
than that put forward by Osgoode has certainly never 
been seen in Quebec. Let the advocates of “the old 
time game of nine men in a scrimmage,” coupled with 
weight and dogged pluck and perseverance, decry the 
more modern methods as adopted by our Western 
brethren ; but those who witnessed the game in Toronto 
must admit that the present system has come to stay, 
and that the more ancient style of rush-line work is 
bound to be relegated to the background. The 
tendency in foot-ball circles is now, undoubtedly, to 
quicken the play, to make it more open and interesting 
from a spectator’s point of view. How is this to be done ? 
Most assuredly by lessening the number of men in the 
scrimmage and by replacing the long line of slow but 
heavy forwards by men who can show a greater 
activity combined with really heady work. 

As to whether a rigid adherence to the English 
Game with four halves, and the abolition of wing men 
would accomplish this end, is still a matter of opinion, 
and we can only speak by the light of a limited 
experience. 

As to the much debated question of “ offside ” inter- 
ference, it may be said that this is, to a certain extent, 
one of the objectionable features of the modern game. 

It is certainly one of the hardest things for a referee 
to rule on, and, indeed, almost impossible to do so in a 
satisfactory manner as long as the rules of the game 
remain in the condition they now are. 

To check this so-called “offside ” play, the Canadian 
rules provide for a special umpire, whose duty it shall 
be to watch for the same, and inform the referee of the 
fact after blowing his own whistle. If one, why not 
two ? The single umpire sees only one side of the 
scrimmage, while the wings on the opposite side enjoy 
absolute freedom in comparison ! 

A general analysis of Osgoode’ s Game will show 
“team play and unselfish work” as opposed to 
Montreal’s often brilliant but individual effort. 

Their forward line consisted of the usual ten men, 
three of whom formed the scrimmage. The remaining 
seven were “ lightning wings,” four on the right and 
three on the left, but subject to change. Their quarter 
played much closer into the scrimmage than we are 
accustomed to in Quebec, and in this respect so did the 
halves to the quarter, the centre half being distant 
from the last named by only some ten to twelve feet, 
and to one side and not immediately behind the quarter, 
as in Quebec. 

The advantage must be apparent. The ball is 
heeled neatly out, seldom if ever being put directly in 
front of the player, but to right or left. The quarter 
by a quick pass, usually to the left, sends the ball to 
centre half who receives it perhaps ten feet from the 
scrimmage, and on the run . 

Meanwhile the outer wing man, on the side the half 



62 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



is coming through, has drawn his man out, and blocks 
him out while the inner wings block their men in- 
wards. 

What is the consequence ? The half has a little 
procession through the lines, and closely followed by 
the wings, a series of passes ensues that make the 
uninitiated wonder. In the matter of “ throwing out 
from touch,” also great system was shown by Osgoode. 
Short throws did not seem to be the order of the day, 
but the covering was close, and there always seemed to 
be a man alone some fifteen feet from the line to 
receive the ball when it arrived there. A peculiar 
ruling of the referee in this respect must be noted. 
He permitted all through a deliberate “ knock on” 
or knock forward with one hand from the throw out. 
That this comes within the meaning of the rule, we 
can hardly admit. Osgoode’s twenty-five yard line 
manoeuvres were also most scientifically done. On 
getting into an opponent’s territory, the ball was rather 
kicked into “ touch ” than over the line for a simple 
“rouge.” A scrimmage ensues on the fifteen yard 
line, say, at the right side of the field. The fourth wing is 
brought over to the left. One of the halves , also, seems 
to go into the forward line, also on the left , and thus 
there is a blocking force of five to two on the side of 
the scrimmage chosen for the attack. 

Out comes the ball, and the goal line is usually 
reached. Their scrimmage must also be praised for 
their surprising general activity, several of the touches 
taken being secured by inside scrimmage men. The 
tackling also was quick and sharp, the man invariably 
being taken between elbow and knee. 

The kicking of the halves was also very fine, high 
as well as long fronts being preferred. But, as a matter 
of fact, the running and passing game, as opposed to 
the kicking, was evidently the favorite. 

These are only a few of the points which can be 
treated of in the course of such an article as this. Yet 
even a short explanation of western tactics may prove 
of value to the foot-ball men of McGill, in giving 
them an idea of the possibilities of the modern game of 
Rugby Foot-ball. 

G. W. M. 



THE FOOTBALL SMOKING CONCERT. 

That the University Football Club could give a 
concert nobody doubted, that they would do so was 
soon apparent, and when the Committee of Management 
was drafted, its success was secured. 

McGill has been gradually working up to such enter- 
tainments fora long time, and the “jugglers of the 
leathern sphere ” have the honor in this as in other 
more serious games of being first in the field, one of 
their ancient qualifications. 

The night fixed for the famous “ stag ” was Wednes 
day, Nov. 30th, St. Andrew’s Day, day of haggis and 
heather; and by 8.15 p. m. the Fraser Institute Hall 
was comfortably filled with a representative collection 
of the “ Sports.” The kickers were to smoke and sing. 
The attraction was not one to be missed, and quite a 
large contingent from our rival sister clubs, Montreal 



and Britannia, helped to swell the numbers of the 
spectators It was a smoking concert. Yea, verily, 
and in truth a smoking concert. Cigar, cigarette, 
and pipe lent their fumes to the general cloud of incense 
that rose from the altar of Foot-ball. 

Tobaccos good, bad, and indifferent — all went up in 
smoke. 

As for the concert itself, it certainly was a success. 
The songs were good, the instrumental music fine, the 
recitations capital. 

The Intermission was also largely appreciated — it was 
lengthy. 

Mr. J. Lee Walker was master of ceremonies, and 
acquitted himself most successfully of his far from easy 
task, keeping the audience in good humor between the 
different numbers. The Science men were the first on 
the programme, and rendered an old favorite, the 
‘‘ Three Crows,” in capital style. Mr. Evans, who fol- 
lowed with a pseudo-sentimental song, was an instan- 
taneous success, as were Mr. Hamilton Wright in two 
capital recitations, and Mr. Arthur Holden, who sang a 
romantic ditty with guitar accompaniment. Gordon Mc- 
Dougall, the captain of the football team, gave some 
rattling Irish ditties, and Messrs. Edgar and Brown 
appeared in a banjo duet, after which the master of 
ceremonies sang a touching and moving ballad about the 
woes of a certain Irish politician who did not get elect- 
ed. Mr. Feron followed with some very fetching songs 
and melodies, with guitar accompaniment ; and Messrs. 
Ramsay and Wulff followed, after which Captain Me 
Dougall did something wonderful in the heavy-weight 
lifting line. Then, amidst storms of applause and assur- 
ances to the effect that he was all right, Prof. Nicholson, 
of Applied Science, mounted the platform, accompanied 
by his dog, and sang a song with a rattling refrain, 
while the dog looked on and nobly resisted all tempta- 
tions and enticing whistles to leave his warm place 
behind the footlights. Mr. Routh then gave a violin 
solo, and the Science men sang again. God save the 
Queen, sung with all the heartiness of good loyal Cana- 
dian, brought the evening to a close, and the men left 
the hall congratulating each other on the excellence of 
the performance, and promising to make it an annual 
fixture coming round like the good resolutions in the 
autumn. 

I he Students who missed last Wednesday night’s 
concert have something to live for — there will be an- 
other next year- 

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

Potal Membership 261. — This is best on record. 

1 he Tuesday Prayer Meeting increases in interest ; 
Short and bright is the principle of conducting. 

We extend the invitation to be present to all Students. 

No. 1 Room Arts Building, 7.15 P.M. 

R. O. Ross, B.A. Med., ’96, represented the Asso- 
ciation at the “ Intercollegiate Missionary Alliance” 
Convention held at Woodstock. In McGill 30 men are 
volunteers for foreign missions ; there is no higher use 
to which a college training could be applied, “The 
Laborers are few.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



63 



Reasons \\ hy the Christian Student should sup- 
port the University Association 

1. Because he needs the Christian fellowship it 
affords. 

e 2 * ^ ie Association is the University Christian So- 
ciety, and has come to stay. 

3 - The Association needs his influence. 

4 - Combined effort brings best results and is strong- 
est when many are working in union. 

5. Because of the Practical Training in Christian 
work received, which cannot fail to prove useful after 
graduation. 

Our Members have the privilege of using the 
Reading Room of the City Young Men’s Christian 
Association ; this kindness should receive practical 
appreciation by Students. Current literature is always 
on fyle. 

Several friends have opened their houses to our 
members, and the Social evenings spent are a pleasant 
reminiscence. 



WHIFFS FROM MY “ CHURCH WARDEN.” 

t( Oh, pernicious weed whose scent the fair annoys . 99 

I have known members of literary societies attend 
for two years without opening their mouths. They 
always remind me of Edward Gibbon’s parliamentary 
career. 

He writes ‘ ‘ I am still a mute, it is more treviendous 
than I imagined ; the great speakers fill me with de- 
spair, the bad ones withterror.” Sensations are, I sup- 
pose, similar. 

The fact is, it is not vanity but contending vanities 
that give pain. 

It takes all sorts to make a world. 

Of all the many wrongs women suffer at the hands 
of men, that of not marrying them is the one they 
ought to find easiest to. forgive. 

James Russell Lowell’s College days must have been 

full of delightful experiences * 4 times” we call 

them. 

He describes his sensations on re-entering his old 
college-rooms : — 

te You feel o’er you stealing 

The old familiar, warm, champagny, brandy-punchy feeling. 

How Newman does hammer at “ the absurd, the 
hap hazard fashion in which men and women collect 
the odds and ends, the bits and scraps they are pleased 
to place in the museum of their minds and label in all 
good faith their convictions ’’ ! 

The Calendar of the University of Cambridge still 
refers to a certain Dr. Dodd, a divine and a senior 
wranger in the Mathematical tripos ; and as the 
author of “ Thoughts in Prison,” the circumstance 
that the “ thinker” was later on taken from prison 
and hung by the neck until he was dead, being no less 
wisely than kindly omitted from a publication, one of 
the objects of which is to inspire youth with confidence 
that the path of Mathematics is the way to Glory . 



“ Persons influence us ” says Dr. Newman, ‘‘ voices 
meet us, looks subdue us, deeds inflame us. Many a 
man will live and die upon a dogma ; no man will be 
a martyr for a conclusion.” 

I am just two and two ; I am warm, I am cold, 

And the parent of numbers that cannot be told, 

I am lawful, unlawful, a duty, a fault, 

I am often sold dear, good for nothing when bought 
An extraordinary boon, and a matter of course, 

And yielded with pleasure when taken by force. 

Too plain, dear old Cowper ! Why, it is a Dictionary 
of kisses in six lines ! 

Cato. 



©orrespondence. 

a To the Editor of McGill Fortnightly 
Dear Sir, 

Should not something be done towards agitating for a gym- 
nasium ? The one at present in use cannot be said in ati) T 
sense to be a credit to a University containing nearly a thous- 
and students. The maintenance of a healthy college life and 
spirit largely depends upon athletic activity among the men, 
which cannot be obtained as matters stand at present. 

A small proportion of Arts and Science with a few men from 
the other Faculties are alone attracted by the classes. With the 
very best material we are far behind other colleges by no means 
our equals in other respects — nor does the fault lie with the 
students. The time has come when a new gymnasium would 
not be simply a luxury. It is an absolute necessity and should 
be demanded as such- It is our right. 

With a new gymnasium would come a new era in Athletics. 
A11 efficient organization would have to be evolved in order to 
cope with more extended interests. What more fitting time is 
there than the present to organize a committee representing all 
University elements which would control gymnasium, ground 
and athletics in general ? 

Its immediate efficacy is obvious, for while a development in 
college athletics is imminent, it needs some strong hand to 
nurse and guide it in the right direction. The scheme is not a 
new one, but opposition at one time too active to be overcome 
might now be successfully met. The captains of clubs should 
have something to say in this matter, and that at once. 

One Interested. 



Z oeietiez. 

SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF COMPARATIVE 
PSYCHOLOGY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting was held in the 
lecture room of the Faculty of Comparative Medicine 
and Veterinary Science on Monday the 28th of Nov. 
The President Prof. Mills occupied the chair. 

Mr. McGuire read an essay on the reasoning power 
in the dog, in which he pointed out the relationship 
between the senses and mental ability, and proving his 
statement by the result of his own observations. 

Mr. Brainerd followed with a paper on comparison 
between human psychology and that of the lower 
animals, he treated the subject very broadly, and 
pointed out among other things the tendency of drift- 
ing into too narrow a channel and not generalizing 
sufficiently. He concluded by a quotation calculated 
to inspire devotional respect for all animated nature. 






6 4 



McGTLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



# 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
ASSOCIATION. 

At the last regular meeting of the above Society^ 
Prof. Baker, ist Vice-President, occupied the chair. 
The minutes of the previous meeting being read and 
adopted. Mr. McGuire was called upon to read his 
paper on Glanders and Farcy. This proved to be a 
very interesting and carefully prepared paper. Having 
dwelt fully on the origin, history, nature, symptoms^ 
etc., the essayist drew attention to its transmissibility 
to man, and spoke in very feeling terms of the negli- 
gence of the legislation of the Province to adopt 
sanitary and other precautions, to prevent the possibi- 
lity of human beings becoming inoculated with the 
bacillus of Glanders. An animated discussion followed. 

The question as to origin being raised, the concensus 
of opinion was that it never originated spontaneously, 
but that all cases could be traced to contact with a 
previously diseased animal, and that to consider that 
any living entity originated de novo was at variance 
with Biological laws. The use of the albuminose, 
mallein, as a diagnostic agent was explained by the 
Honorary President, Dr. D. McEachran, who looked 
for good results when the process of preparing and 
methods of using become perfected. 

Mr. Wylie next reported a case of tympanitis that, 
had come under his obervation during the summer. 
The treatment he employed was novel and scientific 
and proved to be successful in this and several subse- 
quent cases. It should revolutionize the present 
methods advocated for the treatment of this disease. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BETWEEN THE LECTURES. 

“ I’d be a medical, gav body-snatcher, 

Digging up graves, the world all abed 
And invent a little pill 
That would never fail to kill,” 

Thus to himself the gay Theolog. said. 

“ I’d be a Theolog, gay devil- dodger, 

With a prayer on my lips I’d be flirting with Sin ; 

With parson and rector,” thus said the Dissector 
“ ’Tis money they’re after, the motive’s too thin.” 

“ I*d oe a Science man,” the law student murmured, 

“ Building up bridges and laying down rails'; 

The scheme may be trumpery, 

Then form a Company, 

The Scientist prospers, the Company fails.” 

“ I’d be a lawyer,” thus shouted an Arts man, 

“ I am for the law, it suiteth me well ; 

Hence pills, Science and cloister 
I’ll take the oyster, 

And hand to the clients the beautiful Shell.” 

iC But who’d be an Arts man ?” 

Theology, Medicine, 

Science and Law in unison say. 

Dudes, mashers and daisies 
In different phases, 

They demolish the cake while 
Their Governors pay. 



We reprint from an old copy of our predecessor, the 
University Gazette , a careful article on “ How to win 



at Poker.” According to its author it is written with 
the purpose of imparting a little necessary instruction 
to my new friends in the University upon matters that 
intimately concern their welfare, remembering, as I do, 
how I should have appreciated a little of just such 
information when I was a freshman myself. 



HOW TO WIN AT POKER. 

I consider that any Student of two months standing 
must be conversant with all the technique of the festive 
game, and have thus entitled this article advisedly 
“ How to Win,” which is an accomplishment not so 
generally known. 

I. In the first place, bring your own pack of cards 
to the board, with the Court cards slightly bent longi- 
tudinally. It is unnecessary to enlarge on the advant- 
age of this rule. 

II. Never go in, when not dealing, unless with a fat 
hand or when you have “ aged, ” and then have them 
of a kind not smaller than jacks. 

III. Never discard until you have seen your draw. 
Then wait till no one is looking to reject your useless 
cards. 

IV. When dealing, drop an ace on the floor and 
leave one on the bottom of the pack. If your right 
hand player cuts the pack, replace the cards as they were 
before. 

The crowd of “ suckers” you are playing with will 
never know the difference. On the draw, help yourself 
to your reserve ammunition, telling a funny story mean- 
while to distract impertinent attention. If some one is 
watching you rather closely, pick up the dropped card 
openly and announce a mis deal. 

V. Whenever a friend takes a large jack-pot, say : 
“By Jingo, old man. you’re in great luck; let me 
count that pot do so, and when passing over the blue 
chips, flip one or two up your sleeve. A little practice 
will make you perfect at this useful device. Do not 
take more than three chips from one pot. It is not 
necessary to make a hog of yourself, and if you follow 
these rules carefully you can afford to be generous. 

VI. Talk freely about the liberal game you play, 
trust occasionally and lend your victims now and then 
money on “ gallateral segurity.” This sage authority 
ends up with the statement “ I have found the above 
code of rules extremely useful, and can cordially recom- 
mend them to any ambitious student.” An analytical 
comment on the system will be forwarded by the 
author on receipt of five dollars to pay postage. 

T. E. G. 

Prof. “ What’s the universal negative ?” 

Freshman (taken by surprise) “ Not prepared.” 
(Temporary suspension of hostilities). 



‘ My dear,’’ said a repentant husband to his wife, 
“ if ever I have used unkind words to you, I take them 
all back.” 

“ No, you won’t. I know you. You want to use 
them all over again.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



65 



Prof, in Physics — “ What’s Boyle’s law ?” 

Student (with carbuncle) “ To break out in the most 
inconvenient place.” 

ON NOSES. 

“ Knows he that never took a pinch 

Nosey, the pleasure thence which flows ; 

Knows he the titillating joy 
Which my nose knows ?” 

0 nose I am as proud of thee 
As any mountain of its suows ! 

1 gaze on thee and feel that pride 
A Roman k?iows. 

Irate parent : — What is the meaning of this item for 
hardware $50.00 in your expense account ? 

Hopeful Son : — Er — Er. Hardware, let me see — Oh, 
yes, that's “ poker.” 

It isn’t well to be too specific about some things you 
know. 



A Dutchman lately attended the law Court in New 
York, to get excused from the jury-box “I can’t 
understand goot English,” he said. 

“ What did he say ?” asked the judge ? 

“ I can’t understand goot Englese,” repeated the 
Dutchman. 

“Take your seat,” cried the judge ; “that’s no 
excuse ; you need not be alarmed, as you are not likely 
to hear any.” 



ORIGIN OF TA-RA-RA-BOOM DE-AY. 

A musician there was named, de A , 

Who resolved to compose, one fine day ; 

So he tried on the drum, 

Banged the big trombone, 

And produced : Ta-ra-ra-boom ! — de A . 



ARTS NEWS. 

Arts has decided to hold a Faculty dinner. The fol- 
lowing is the Committee elected * 

Fourth Year : J. W. A. Hickson. 

W. Patterson. 

Third Year : W. L. Bond. 

W. M. MacKeracher. 

Second Year: J. C. Hickson. 

R. H. Rogers. 

First Year : W. G. Turner. 

S. Archibald. 

The Committee appointed last session to procure a 
Faculty song for insertion in the new book desires to 
state that the words have been chosen and are being 
set to music by an eminent musician. The song will 
be on hand immediately after Christmas. 

The Reading Room Committee wishes to draw 
attention to the fact that only subscribers are entitled 
to the use of the room. 

A bulletin board, for class and “ Faculty ” notices 
and general announcements, will soon appear in the 
main hall. 

The Committee appointed for the formation of a Glee 



Club has handed the matter over to the Literary 
Society. 

Pres. — “Gentlemen, I was full (cheers) — I was full 
(more cheers)— I was full of gratitude, etc.” 

We knew you would make a good representative, 
Charlie, ‘ non corpus eras sine pectore ,’ as Horace says. 



A Fourth year man had to reach his room the other 
morning by a telegraph pole. After all, there is some- 
thing in the Darwinian theory. What must the Fresh- 
men be at this rate ? 

The following is from a misomathematical junior : — 

When I started the session, my father 
(A Scotch university man) 

Said, “ My son, I wish you to master 
The Humanities, if you can.” 

So I thought I would shake Mathematics, 

But the Dean couldn’t see on what ground ; 

So I didn’t get any exemption 
On account of my third all round. 

I don’t think my education 

Will do me much good, do you ? 

Since with the Humanities I must take 
The Inhumanities too. 



MY SWEETEST. 

Oh ! the sweetest sound that ever I heard, 

Far sweeter than warbles of peri or bird, 

Than the dreaming brooklet’s slumbering purl, 

Than the mirth-ringing laugh of a joyful girl, 

Ah ! sweeter than all the enchantments of song — 

Was the five-minute end of the lecture gong. 

And the sweetest sight that I ever did see, 

Far sweeter than bloom of the lulu tree, 

Than the fairest that pencil of aitist has drawn, 

Than millions of dewdrops that gleam in the dawn, 

Than the loveliest woman in Montreal — 

Was “ No lectures to-morrow ” stuck up in the hall. 

And the sweetest word that I ever read, 

Far sweeter than letter of loved one has said, 

Than Shakespeare, Keats, Shelley, and Arnold have sung, 
Than have have fluttered in music from Tennyson’s tongue, 
Ah ! sweeter by far than the sweetest word — 

Was my name printed clear at the end of the third . 

Cap’n Goun. 



COMP. MEDIDAD CLASS REPORTS. 

O. C. Lofgren, D.V.S. ’92, is located in Alexandria, 
Minn., and is reported as having a good thing of it. 

* * * * * * 

The ‘‘pocket edition” of Michael Faraday has 
passed his “sup” in Chemistry, and inconsequence 
has invited the members of his class to a dinner at the 
Windsor in ’99. 

* * * * * * 

The braved-a-thousand-years-the-bottle-and the booze 
countenance of Billy the wandering minstrel put in 



66 



McGill fortnightly. 



an appearance to-day after an absence of over eleven 
months. It is strange how little effect Carbo lignite 
and lard has on some faces. 



OBITUARY. 

It is with sincere sorrow that we have here to 
chronicle the death of Mr. A. J. A. Ewing, a Siudent 
in the Faculty of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary 
Science. He was a general favorite throughout the 
entire University, being an active me nb£r of the foot- 
ball team, and a prominent figure in University athle- 
tics. 

Although but eighteen he was in the graduating 
class, and gave ample promise of a useful future. 

After one short week of illness his sturdy frame that 
had so ably upheld the honor of his Faculty on the 
foot-ball field and tug-of-war contest succumbed to a 
fatal sickness. He was buried on the 26th of Nov. 
As a token of the deep respect with which he was 
held by his fellow-students, a beautiful floral shield 
gotten up in McGill colors, with the words “ our class- 
mate” worked across it, was presented by his fellow- 
students. The funeral took place from his father’s 
house, 22 Shuter street, and was preceded by his 
sorrowing fellow-students, students of the other Facul- 
ties and members of the foot-ball team. Six of his 
own year ’93 bore the remains of their departed com- 
panion and friend to his last resting place, where as a 
last and fitting tribute to his memory his fellow- 
students sang in feeling accents the grand old hymn 
“ Nearer My God to Thee.” 



WOMAN’S WRITES. 

By the way, can any one suggest why our supply of 
“ pin-money ” should be increased ? 

We fancy the Donaldas of Arts ’93 are pretty good 
authorities on this point. 



“ Sisters and brothers, little maid, how many may you 
be?” 

“ How many? seven in all,” she said, and wondrous 
looked at me. 

We also were seven when a short time ago we set out 
for the Quarries. The object of our trip was “ Photo- 
graphy and petrography. ” No one who saw us ascend- 
ing Mount Royal’s rugged slope at a rate which bade 
fair to outrival electricity (we mean street railway 
electricity) needed to cast any unkind aspersions on 
our zeal. Nothing but lack of space prevents us from 
favoring the general public with the details of our 
adventures. Those who feel any curiosity on this 
subject may receive full particulars by applying to any 
of “the Seven Wise ones of the East” (though, on 
second thoughts, two of us may be claimed by the 
West). Suffice it to say, that for pure unselfishness we 

stand unrivalled. “ Why ?” Did we “ pocket ” the 

garnets we found by the way-side ? No, we left them 
for Arts ’94, and returned home with our hammers 
unused and our bags empty. 



“ As it is tough, we should have to use a whole pig.” 

At least so our esteemed professor informed us one 
Saturday morning in the museum. Oh, Science, thy 
language is misleading. 

Arts ’96 must be very precocious since one professor 
declared them to be quite advanced in Mathematics at 
the early age of six. Opinions differ, however, for by 
another they were advised to take up a subscription 
for rattles pour passe?' Ic tcnips during lectures. 



Inquisitive Fresh y : “What is your last exam, this 
year ?” 

Melancholy Sophomore: “Post-mortem.” 

Freshy faints. 

Devout Donaldas wish to inquire what is the proper 
temperature for prayers. 



Lately some Students have been complaining of a cold 
in the head. Is this on the principle that nature abhors 
a vacuum ? 



TO R 

Ashes of roses, withered and dead. 

Colorless, odorless, there they lie. 

Their once sweet and glowing beauty has fled ; 

They are dead, for all things fair must die. 

These pale faded ghosts bring back to me 
Memories of days that long since have fled ; 

Days when dearest of friends were we, 

Days alas ! that like them are dead. 

And yet, those days of friendship past, 

I could not wish them back again ; 

For thought of what has been can ne’er be so sweet 
As thoughts of that which might have been. 

Nov. ti, 1892. Donalda, 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Messrs. Lawrence and Tompkins have returned from 
Toronto, where they have been representing McGill at 
the annual Medical banquets of Toronto and Trinity Uni- 
versities. They both express the highest satisfaction 
with the reception and hospitality extended to them. 
A marked feature of the visit was the courtesy shown 
them by the various professors, both in college and 
hospital. Special reference might also be made to the 
genial “ house staff ” of the Toronto General Hospital, 
who proved themselves to be “jolly good fellows.” The 
menu card of the Toronto University dinner, shown by 
Mr. Lawrence, is a gem of artistic delicacy and jovial 
suggestiveness. Go on, Toronto, and prosper. You 
hold a warm place in the heart of “ Old McGill.” 

Messrs. Hall, Jakes and O’Connor are to be congratu- 
lated upon the manner in which they entertained the 
representatives from sister universities. They were the 
right men in the right place. 

* * * * * * * 

“Jimmie” McShane, when speaking at the Medical 
dinner, stated that he owed much of his greatness to 



McGILI . FORTNIGHTLY. 



67 



medical students. Who wouldn’t be a medical ? After 
all, they haven’t lived in vain. 

* if: * ^ 

There was a report going round on Friday that a pic- 
ture valued at $3700 had been destroyed at the Windsor 
the night of the dinner. As a matter of fact, $1 would 
probably cover the damage. 

5jC * * * * * 

A meeting of the Third and Fourth year men was held 
in the lower lecture room on the 30th ult.to discuss a very 
important question. It seems that the money for pay- 
ing expenses of the delegates to Toronto and Kingston 
had not all been collected the day that Mr- Lawrence 
left. Mr. Bostwick opened the meeting, and waxed elo- 
quent in his condemnation of those who were tardy in 
handing over their 50 cents. Mr. Walker rose and de- 
manded that the defaulting students should “put up 
their stuff like men.’’ With these impressive words, he 
violently shook a bunch of keys in his pocket, and gazed 
fiercely around. Mr. Goff suggested that the necessary 
sum should be subscribed for by the Fourth year men, 
thereupon a deadly silence crept over the theatre, 
broken only by the whispered remark: “ He must be 
a millionaire.’’ Then it was suggested that one of the 
students should advance the money, and the name of 
Mr. Fleming was introduced as a suitable money 
lender. The President of the dinner, however, while 
fully appreciating the delicate compliment, most 
emphatically declined the honor. Finally the matter 
was arranged to the satisfaction of everyone, and Mr. 
Lawrence was guaranteed his expenses. 

******* 

I slept, and as I slept I dreamed a dream. And to 
my sleeping vision appeared, as it were, a woodland 
glade surrounded with many noble trees, whose spread, 
ing branches waving gently to and fro in the wind did 
cast a most grateful shade. 

Now, in this lovely spot methought I saw four good- 
ly flocks of sheep, all deep mottled with black, and in 
each flock there were more than one black sheep. And 
looking closer, I perceived that the yearling lambs were 
all gathered together and made up one flock ; the two- 
year old sheep formed another flock ; and in the other 
two flocks were no lambs but all sheep. Now, the 
ground of this most curious spot was covered with books 
of diverse colors, mostly Gray ; and nearly all, both 
sheep and lambs, were very busy devouring the pages 
thereof, and endeavoring to assimilate and digest the 
contents thereof— the which seemed a hard thing to do, 
for they were ever complaining with many groanings. 

And over them I saw standing a Shepherd— not one 
of those simpering, rustic, idyllic, Arcadian shepherds 
such as Monsieur Watteau used to paint sitting beside 
a similar kind of shepherdness, but one of a short and 
sturdy figure, with a decided voice. And whenever he 
spoke, the yearling and two year old lambs ceased their 
book-devouring to listen. And he seemed to be teach- 
ing them, so I drew nearer in order to catch his words, 
and this is what I heard : *• I had a curious case the 
other day. A man came into the hospital with his left 



external ear dislocated, owing to a habit he had got 
into of constantly twitching that organ. I set it and ap- 
plied splints, with quite successful results, and when I 
had heard so much, I went away. 

Now not far off, I perceived a Mill (s); and this Mill 
was built, like many others, with long arms (and legs) 
which moved around now slowly, now quickly, even vio- 
lently, driven by the wind called eloquence. 

And I learnt that this mill did grind only on Mon- 
days, and that every other day it gave forth good flour of 
the brand called “Physiolog.” Knowledge ; and I further 
learnt that tho’ it ground but slowly, yet it ground ex- 
ceeding small. And I observed that the lambs went to- 
wards it in the afternoon and placed themselves around 
it in order to receive the good flour that then came out 
of it. And as I drew near to watch them, I saw a cur- 
ious thing. One of the lambs was suddenly lifted up 
and bandied about by the others underneath, and I 
heard cries of “ Elevate him,” “ Elevate him ;’’ whereat 
there came a voice out of the mill : Have ye not yet put 

away childish things ?” it said. And at this a yell that 
pierced the air, and a stamping ot hoofs, and a whist- 
ling arose. 

And the voice thereof awoke me, and I knew that it 
was a dream. 

DWILLR. 

* * * * * * * 

The Third year may be a geographical class, but the 
sophmores carry the greatest class McGill has known 
in history. 

At all times there is a king with a big Beard striving 
by Blow and Gunn for his Wright over the republican 
Grant with Cleveland at his back. But 95 has earlier 
history than that. For were not Anthony and Alexan. 
der prior to either Oliver, the Gallant and the Williams, 
or premier Mowatt and the Bishop of one church? 
Shaw ! even Darwinians would consider 95 beyond 
price when looking over the rivers Frazer and Tees by 
Day around the Wood. They May see Basken in the 
sun in Converse, or taking a Knapp our Fox, Cowie, 
Hogg and missing Link, though the last may be a 
Slack. 

The Professor said — “My assistant will now snare the 
Polypus,” and soon the heroic specialist was seen 
acknowledging the plaudits of the assembled disciples 
of Aesculapius. 

Dr. B. F. Boyce (’92) has severed his connection 
with the Montreal Maternity, having accepted a good 
appointment in British Columbia. During his Hospital 
service in Montreal he made for himself many warm 
friends, who will regret hi? departure. 

The first clinic in the new theatre of the Montreal 
General Hospital was given by Dr. Stewart on Friday 
last. Messrs. G. F. Shaw, R. F. Rorke, J. W .A. Seguin 
and A. S. Esty, in the order given, were the first students 
called upon to diagnose cases. 

C. A. Staples, B Sc., has taken up the First year 
work in Medicine. 

The Second year was the only year that sloped no lec- 



68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



! r 

tures the day after the dinner. ‘‘Their organism doth co j 
ordinate well/ ’ so says one of their learned Professors. 
Another was heard to murmur that “ he was glad there 
were a few who were eager in the pursuit of knowledge.” 

The following was copied from the note book of a 
Freshman : “ Homology is two bones, the humerus and 
the femur.’ * 

Some of the Second year men are having quite aser 
ious attack of Fuzzi superioris labii. We are glad to 
say the dangerous stage of the disease is passed and 
the gentlemen are doing nicely. 

Dr. E. D. Phelan (Class, ’92) has settled in Camden, 
N.J. His many friends will be glad to know that his 
prospects are good. 



DEATH OF MR. GEORGE S. LOVEJOY. 

It is with profound regret that we announce in this 
issue of the Fortnightly the death of one of our, 
fellow-students. The sad event took place at the resi- 
dence of his father Dr- George W. Lovejoy, 40 Bishop 
St., on Tuesday, Nov. 29th inst. Although not yet 
nineteen years of age, Mr. Lovejoy had already com- 
pleted one year of his Medical studies, and was making 
good progress in his second year. His early education 
had been received at the Montreal High School, where he 
had always distinguished himself as an earnest student, 
having in the spring of 1889 taken the degree of Asso- 
ciate in Arts, with honors. The class in the Faculty of 
Medicine to which he belonged will especially miss him 
for there his many admirable qualities were best known. 
His illness dates back to the day of the funeral of the 
late Dr. Ross, and very soon the characteristic symptoms 
of typhoid were apparent. The funeral service was held 
at St. George’s Church, Dec. 1st, and as a mark of re- 
spect the Students of the Second year attended largely, 
lectures having been postpond to permit. Dr. Lovejoy 
and family have the sincere sympathy of the Students 
of McGill- 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

Problem for second year Analytic : — Given the slope 
from English, and the intercept bv the lecturer. 

“ Find X and P. * 

Ans. — X(ams) — p(ass)=p(luck) 

It is rumored that H-n-y & L-ng-th intend walking 
to the Athletic Club House every Sabbath, as the 
repasts they are in the habit of enjoying there amply 
repay them for the discomfort of the walk. 

In the Sanctuary — 

Third Year man — 

Horrified Matron — Why, you young rascal ! 

It is rumored that a formal opening of the App. Sc. 
Buildings will take place in February. 

A number of election meetings were held last weeks 
and following is a list of the honors conferred : — 
Representative to Medical dinner, Mr. R. C. Holman ; 
Valedictorian for the class of ’93, Mr. J. A. McPhail. 
Faculty dinner committee: — Messrs. McPhail (Presi- 



dent), Greenberg and Laurie, ’93 ; Pitcher and 
Henry, ’94 ; King and Trenholm, ’95 ; Purves and 
McBean, ’96. 

Prof. Cox is very busy arranging the new apparatus 
in the Physical Laboratory, the array becoming daily 
more imposing. 

The Glee Club practices are suspended until after the 
holidays, when active preparation will be made for the 
first Annual Concert and the Conversazione in 
February. 

Prof. — Where is your fair-copy note book ? 

3rd year Stude?it — I forgot it, sir. 

p ro f % — Well ! you are a deuce of a fellow (collapse 

of student). 

The Banjo Club is doing good work for its concert 
in January. 

Great sympathy is expressed for G. Alley, Science 
’96, who, while using the buzz planer in the Pattern 
Shop on the 29th inst., lost three fingers of his left 
hand. We trust that this sad accident will not deter 
him from completing the session, as his genial quali- 
ties and the active interest which he has shown in 
College matters would make his loss much felt. 

We are pleased to see W. G. Smart, Sc. ’92, once 
more in town. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

As promised in our last issue, we have obtained the 
original plea filed by Defendant in the case of D’Amour 
v. Brossard (veuve Morley). 

It is interesting both from the legal point of view 
and possibly in the psychological aspect of the case. 

“ And the said Defendant, without prejudice to the 
foregoing plea, but on the contrary reserving to herself 
all the benefit and advantage thereof for further plea 
to this action, says : — 

That in case judgment should be rendered against 
her, she demands a certain restriction in the execution 
of the said judgment in as far as “ her little animals” 
are concerned ; 

That the Defendant is a widow, and that she 
possesses a beautiful big dog who is her sole and only 
comfort and protector, and that considering her condi- 
tion of widowhood the said dog is as necessary to her 
life as all the other “ little animals” declared insai - 
sissables by and in virtue of the law ; 

That, in addition, the Defendant possesses a certain 
number of little cats, who are also most dear, most 
devoted and most faithful ; 

That in view of the unalterable attachment of the 
Defendant for her “dear little animals,” she boldly 
demands from the Court, and strongly insists that she 
be allowed to live in peace with “ her dear little cats.” 
The whole humbly submitted and without costs. 
Montreal, Oct. , 1892. 

V e sympathise with you, Mrs. M. Always remember, 
however, 

“ The best laid schemes of mice and men.” 

Gang aft a glee* 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



There are mountains ahead of us. Such clear 
and conclusive evidence as the following was lately 
met with in our Courts : 

“ Did you see the Defendant throw the stone ? ” 

“I saw a 'stone, and I’m pretty sure the Defendant 
throwed it.” 

“Was it a large stone ? ” 

“ I should say it was a largish stone.” 

“ What was its size ? ” 

“ I should say a sizeable stone.” 

“ Can’t you answer definitely how big it was? ” 

“ I should say it wefe a stone of some bigness .” 

<c Can’t you give the jury some idea of the stone? ” 
“ My answer as I recollect, it was something of a 
stone.” 

“ Can’t you compare it to some other object ?” 

“ Why, if I was to compare it, so as to give some 
notion of the stone, I should say it was as large as a 
lump of chalk.” 

Talking of cats and the “beautiful big dog” we 
have yet to relate what was said “ Per Curl ’ 

Query . — Is the property in the cats entailed f 



Under the “law of necessaries” it is held that 
“ ear^ii^gs* purchased for one young lady when the 
Defendant was engaged to marry another could not be 
necessary .” 

By the Court — You, you wid thedacent parients, and 
the -intellectual and intelligent edication you’ve 
had, and all yer other advantages— instead of which 
ye go round’ robbin’ hen-roosts. Six months ! ! 

• Eminent Counsel (awaiting 'his turn to address 
Court) to Law Student, “ Mr. C-r-ch-1, will you kindly 
tell me of whom it is said in the Bible “ and she 
mourned f$r her children and would not be comforted.” 

L. S.— (After considerable hesitation and mental 
effort, but joyfully nevertheless) “ Jacob, sir.” 

Results of the examinations on “Law of Obliga. 
tions ” have bees published as following : — 

Second Year. — Macdougall ; Hogle ; Cox, Walsh 
(equal) ; lirternoscia ; Jones, Sawyer (equal) ; Ringland, 
LebcKi^^hendhn, Dunlop (equal). 

FirsfeYe&K — Bhrron, Swindlehurst (equal) ; Whelan, 
Carmichael (equal)-; Patterson, Devlin, Gaudet 
(equal) p Landry ; Lamoureux ; Maynard ; Sauve. 

Y^Ug EXCHANGES. 

We- are^lea^ed t Q s ^ e Diocesan College coming 
tc^tte^Qntwath a monthly journal. The new paper is 
in every *espeqt accredit to the College. This is the 
third 'edi^f^quiU ffom the wing of Alma Mater. 

The Varsitys: which we can lay our hands upon are 
as^ugV* j££wsy and readable from a college stand- 
point. If the paper makes no pretence to aim high, it 
certainly reaches the mark at which it aims. 

" The Trinity Review is more ambitious. It contains 
an infer^fing summary of Mr. Gladstone’s lecture at 
O x fer-d- ■ Mediaeval Universities, as well as other con- 
tr^t^ns oLyalue, among which, one a rhythmical 
poem* entitled Retrospect,” catches the ear. 

^ The Ada. comes to us this year like a stranger, in its 
nevVcoat ft is to be hoped things aren’t looking blue 
sittca the move to Toronto. But the Acta will always 
hold her own. In 'Spite of her trivial Locals, she scans 
a wide prospect. 



69 



Queen s College Journal, although exceedingly strong 
in the editorial department, and containing one or two 
good contributions (though a subject like David Grieve 
is threadbare), has degenerated. It has shrunk in more 
ways than one. • A college like Queen’s ought to have 
one of the best journals afloat. 

The November number of the Dalhousie Gazette is 
capital. It does the old University justice by its wide 
and elevated tone. The leading articles are probably 
those entitled “ The Songs of Burns” and “ Aristocracy 
in Canada,” the latter, although coming from Hali- 
iax^ being written from the democratic standpoint. 

I he Presbyterian College Journal looks well in its 
new cover, which is adorned by the names of half the 
leading lights in the church. Besides the work of a 
religious character, there are several creditable contri- 
butions from undergraduates in Arts. Mr. Townsend 
writes an exceedingly able criticism of Tennyson, in 
which he proves himself a pupil of Prof. Moyse. The 
Talker chatters on in his usual style about philology, 
archaeology, official reports, scientific catalogues, etc. 
We are pleased to note that his temper is becoming 
mellowed by advanced years and advanced Theology. 

file Owl is too good a paper to dismiss with a short 
notice, and as we have not space to review it at length, 
we will have to let it remain over, along with many 
others. 



G1 s to Prof : — 

Am I to get credit for the lecture I missed, sir !” (Silence for 
the space of one hour, and nothing was heard but the mono . 
tonous scratching of the pens and the irregular thud as they 
entered the bottles.) 



READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recotninendi ng the 
Turkish Bath for the general health and more espe- 
cially for rhuematism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasrnt remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 

THE SMITH PREMIER Miff 



“ Improvement the Order of the Age.” 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 

A. BRYCE, 

1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

A-entfoc the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 

TO WHEELMEN^ 

- 

Before buying your Wheel for the coming season, call in and see the 

HUMBER ’ BEESTON 

AND THE 

NEW ‘ HOWE.’’ 

The most perfect Safety Bicycles in the market. Dunlop Adjustable 
Tyre and the Laforce Tyres. SULK AGENT, 

LOUIS FUBENSTEIN, 537 Craig Street. 




70 



McGill fortnightly. 




‘•THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

f~~x-T .OV hLiS •& 

AT THE 

Paris Kid Glov<? Store. 

262 St. James St. | 2341 St. Catherine Street. 

e, b. iiaeiKB a sta, 

MEDALS FOR SPORTS. 




Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises. 

LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

Jewellery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 



ZEt- HEMSLEY 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 



ipalX jHvuieir/s 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Combs. (Razors. Strops 
Rerfumery and Toilet 

Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



IylO£TC)^, pymujps & GO., 

STATIONERS, 

Blai^ BooH Wafers arid Printers, 

1755 & 1757 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



SEASON IS92-93. 



I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, friezes, &c. 

IS NOW COMPLETE. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

N.B, — DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00, 

inspection invited. ,\ 

WM, FflrRQUHAFJSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 



f 

AGENTS FOR 

TPIHIE CAHftBAPl 

WRITING MACHINE. 

What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZIKTA, 

12 McCill College Av., just below St. Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving;, 12 Tickets $1.00. 



/Wansen Mouiiin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students hy the 

Prof . Surgery in McGill and other Universities. 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 



MEXICAN f?UR QTORe. 



-27 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one in the city to buy 
furs and have repairing done. 3 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with us than with any other Furrier in Montreal. 





Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 



TO THE 



McGill University Building* 

Royal Victoria Hospital* 

Board of Trade Building. 

PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No, IX Hospital Street, 

MONTREAL. 



J. B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. Geo. G. Foster, 

ARCHIBALD & FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc- 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 

x8i St. Janies Street, 

* MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACK IE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. J-^IVCIES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C., M.P.P. Selkirk Cross. 

Albert J. Brown. W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BR0WH 8 SHARP, 

Advocates. Barristers and Solicitors. 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - - MONTREAL . 

MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

AD^OCATSS, BARRISTERS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maci.ennan. 



SurgiGal instruments 

and Chemical Apparatus. 

/■ 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . . 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

.*. 384 St. Paul Street. 



CROUP Photos, Combination or direct, 

— form one of our specialties— first 

• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & CO., 1 Bleury Street. 



£ ? 
b 

f* 

fe; < ^ 

P 3 ^ 
fe B © 

^ a; so 
N h 




AT- 



ROBERTSON, FLEET it FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

157 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



5 * MIEAMK <& HA1BISON, 

1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



w. & F. F CUlilUE & CO, 

IOO GREY NUN STREET, 

IMPORTERS OF 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Homan Cement, Canada Cement, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa* Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 




ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT SMOKIRC TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT, 



, xizxa-.xj, MILDER dJ CO., 

(6 and 18 DeBrescles Street, Montreal. 

Manufacturers of the Fiaest Quality ElgQtrQ*Pl&ted W*FQ. And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives. Forks, Spoons. Etc. 

A. J. H' HIM BEY, Manager. 



furniture: 



MILLS 



— FOB — 

Ppofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

RENAUD, KING & PATTERSON, 

652 CRAIG STREET. 



Furrier Sc Hratter, 

ST. CATHERINE ST., 

2nd door West of Peel. 



E. A. GERTH, 

DIBECT IMPORTER OF HIQK CLASS 
HAVAN 4. CIGARS. 

B. B. K PIPES. 

Sole agent for Rtnasi Freres 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETTES. 

Smoke Eerth’s Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



Good Fall and Winter 



BOOTS 



$2.75, 3.5(1, 4.01) PER PAIS. : • 

Just tl\e thing for Students. 

Win- F. SWARDON, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 

It goes without saying that J 

W ALFORD’S 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, Ac., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
lest assorted stock to he found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for vour Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Bleury. 



Kstafolisliecl 1859. 

HENRY Tt. G--&JL.1T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, ^ispiciU, l)i<p jnsirie-^ an l jlijuicil Lieturers » 1 > »U » l r t; 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




MANAS EB. 



Branches all over the City. 



136 TO 140 ST. PETER STREET, 

CORNER CRAIG. 



Telephones : Bell, 666 and 1746. 





MrGI i I IT IS TnE r.fw < ^^ T SMOKlL>fG tobacco that experience 

* V I W Vis I L_ can produce or that money can buy 

MIXTURE sn^ro yyiint g- tobacco. | 

P. E. MORRIS, Tobacconist, ‘408 St. James St. 




HYDE PARK, ATHLETE, PURITAN, DERBY, SWEET SIXTEEN CICATETTES 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



