UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c.. 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J« Ni Greenshieldsi Edmond Guerin. R. A. E* Greenshields. 



Ailisenlic Malnls, Bagjaps, Bit 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO. 
Piamiaceitical & Dispeisiai Cieiiiists, 



•i 



} 



IjOBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. STE^EBT, 

MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Aflvocates, Barristers, CoiDissloners, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

ISl St, James St,, Montreal, 

MlCNlllSTEfi, HUTCHINSON, WEIfi k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS. SOLICITORS. &c., 
175 St, James St,, Montreal, 

DONALD MAGMASTER, Q.G. R. S. WEIR. B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St, James St,, Montreal, 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



U & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. Si. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandagres, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Berated, 

Cotton Wool, SallOTlated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, (Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gavize, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalsmtol. 

Gauze, lodororm, 

Gauze, Naphthalln, 

Gauze, Sallcylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill ; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Amronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbenl:, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalln. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum T€ir- 
red. Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

School M ColMo Toil Boohs ! 

DRYSDALE’S 



ORTJIOKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc.. 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 SI. laies Street, aM 15 SI Lawrence main Street, MONTREAL 
am 73 Sparb street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. CTA.35,d:B3S ST. 



JaEDlC.JlIj U^ORKS, BOOKS VSEn IJV .SET COURSE, 
SCI E JVC E TEXT BOOKS, 

THE V'.aRIOVS THEOr.OGIC.aE BOOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in Stoch anil Snpnlied at Roch Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. &c., Ac., 

— .-i- JBEST VAETJE I IV T O W IV , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

St. JT amines Sti*eet, 

.A.XSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



VoL. XIL] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 16th, 1889. [No. 9. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 

A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in-GMef. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 
C.L.WHEELER,B.A.,Med.’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, H.A., Law ’89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Editorials 99-101 

Poetry 102, 108, 110 

Contributions 102-104 

McGill News 104-100 

Societies ... 106-107 

Personals 108 

Exchanges 108-109 

Sporting 110 

Between the Lectures 110 

College World 111-112 



Ebitorials. 



OUR UNIVERSITY. 

In the last issue of The Gazette we published some 
notable facts, to which we wish to call attention, to 
mark the progress our University is making. The 
total number of students in the Arts Faculty is now 
310, an increase of 30 over last year, and of 76 over 
the previous one ; there is a corresponding increase 
in the number of undergraduates as compared with 
partial students. The whole number in the faculty 
has doubled in about five years, and the number of 
men alone in fourteen years ; while taking all the 
faculties together, the number has increased from 201 
in 1863 to 576 in 1888, that is, more than two- 
fold. 

The Library also shows a similar progress, with a 
total of 28,000 volumes, exclusive of those in the 



Medical Faculty, which has the largest purely profes- 
sional library in America. The number of books has 
increased so rapidly that additional shelf room and 
reading accommodation is necessary. 

In the Museum, the chief fact in the improvement 
is found in the Botanical Laboratory. The work of 
classifying, labelling, and arranging the herbarium, 
has been going on for six years, and since that time, 
out of a chaotic mass of material, a collection of speci- 
mens has been made and arranged according to the 
most recent scientific rules. The work of assigning 
places to 7,362 species, representing 10,300 speci- 
mens, was enormous, and its completion marks an 
important step in the progress of the University. The 
issue of memoirs on the specimens will afibrd the 
scientific world a means of access to the treasures of 
the museum, and the whole collection in the geologi- 
cal, zoological, and botanical departments is now un- 
rivalled in this country. 

Our University has for a long time carried on the 
work of Protestant education, often single-handed ; 
it has fostered whatever scientific spirit there was 
amongst us, and was a centre from which a deep cul- 
ture spread. And it has done this vvith dignity ; it 
preferred to suffer rather than insist too strongly on 
its rights, which were denied, and it has gone with 
its needs unfulfilled rather than cringe for support. But 
when the character and value of its degree was assailed, 
it stood up in defence of its spiritual children, and 
demanded for them a recognition of the degree they 
had obtained. The contest is being fought out, inch 
by inch, and in the near future the Bar of the Pro- 
vince will be forced to recognize the fact that the 
Bachelor of Arts degree is sufficient qualification for 
admission to the study of Law. The Council of Pub- 
lic Instruction has placed another restriction upon its 
degree, in refusing to accept it as an educational guar- 
antee for entrance to the teaching profession, unless 
the graduate has complied with certain conditions in 
the early part of his course. This restriction the 
University is doing its best to remove, careful for its 
own dignity, the advancement of its graduates, and 
the welfare of the teaching profession. There is this 
distinction, however, that in one case it is entrance 
into the study that is sought, and in the other it is for 
admission to the practice of a profession. 

Whatever ground of censure there has been against 



100 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1889 . 



The Gazette, no one can affirm that we lacked 
straightforwardness or a desire for the best interests 
of the University, and it has never been alleged that 
we were unready to acknowledge an error or remedy 
an omissson. In our last issue the University was 
inferentially blamed for the state of affairs spoken of 
in connection with the entrance to the profession of 
teaching, when the blame should have fallen on the 
Council of Public Instruction. When the University 
is doing its best to remove this, as well as the other 
restriction, it was extremely regi’ettable that we should 
have appeared to throw any obstacle in the way. 
This action might lead the general reader to suppose 
that these regulations were framed either by the 
Normal School or by the University. On the con- 
trary, the former is interested only in carrying them 
out, whilst they were evidently purposely intended 
to operate against the graduates, more especially 
honour graduates of the latter, and in favour of cer- 
tain other institutions in the Province, whose great 
ambition is to make it appear that their graduates are 
superior to those of McGill. In these institutions 
there are no options in the final years, and no honour 
courses, and in consequence, as Latin and Greek are 
compulsory throughout the course, their graduates are 
not affected by these regulations, whereas, as pointed 
out in the editorial alluded to, graduates of McGill 
are seriously so. This is highly unfair, and impera- 
tively demands a remedy, so that all graduates may 
be on the same footing. 



A UNIVERSITY BANQUET. 

There have been four notable faculty dinners this 
year in connection with McGill, yet not one has been 
attended with the magnificence that should charac- 
terize such gatherings. The nature of the case for- 
bids it — the numbers are not large enough. Suffi- 
cient means are not forthcoming, and altogether there 
was an element of dissatisfaction in each of them. 
The energy was too diffused, which, if concentrated, 
would bring forth something to the credit of the 
University. AVhen each faculty sits down to its own 
dinner, the contrast with every day life is not marked 
enough to give zest to the meeting ; the men have 
seen each other on previous occasions, and to 
be present with the professors is no novel thing. 
The good results arising from a dinner are acknow- 
ledged, and if the four faculties combined their 
efforts, they would be magnified more than four- 
fold. Some years ago Dr. Johnson proposed that 
this should be done, and it would be as he said, 
“a magnificent sight.” This is the scheme we are now 



advocating, and we hope next year it will find favour 
enough to induce all the students of McGill to sit 
down and break bread together. It would then par- 
take of the nature of a University gathering, and we 
would enlarge it still more, to include the graduates 
and the other friends of McGill. The students would 
be brought into closer relation, the professors would 
take counsel with those who are carrying on the same 
work, the graduates could explain their ideas for the 
University’s advancement, and its friends would know 
of its needs. Much would be gained, nothing would 
be sacrificed, and there is really no obstacle in the way. 
It would be a movement tending toward a University 
day which would serve to consolidate all the elements 
of which the Institution is composed. The best time 
for such a reunion would be before the hurry of the 
session is at its height — that is in the fall — and the 
most convenient day would be that on Avhich the 
University lecture is delivered. The students are 
agreed in its favour, and the only thing needed for 
its accomplishment is that a few men of energy in 
each faculty should take the initiative. The virtue 
has not gone out of McGill, and whoever will be in- 
strumental in carrying out this scheme, will incur a 
deep debt of gratitude and the reward which doing 
good to their College will bring in its train. 

We hope to see the scheme carried out next 
session. 

PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

The students of the Donalda Department have year 
by year strengthened the ties that bind them to 
McGill and to each other by instituting certain socie- 
ties and customs, which constitute so much of Avhat 
is termed college life in a University. Cap and gown 
mark the undergraduates as striving to reach a com- 
mon goal; the fortnightly meetings of the Delta 
Sigma furnish an opportunity for pleasant re-union 
and mutual improvement ; the energetic members of 
the Theo Dora acquire no small amount of both funds 
and information ; the Lawn Tennis Club, too, the 
oldest organization of the lady students, must not be 
forgotten. 

But the present session is eventful, in that two 
more important steps have been taken, the one relat- 
ing to physical, and the other to mental culture. We 
refer in the first place to the class in gymnastics, held 
under the direction of Miss Barnjum, every Wednes- 
day morning. The number of students attending is 
small — fourteen — but we are informed that they make 
excellent progress, and we venture to predict that the 
hour a week spent in bodily exercise will not tend to 
lower their standing when the mental test of the 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



101 



spring 13 applied. Next year, no doubt, the class wil^ 
be much larger, especially if, as with the men, the fee 
of two dollars and fifty cents, were made compulsory. 
The Corporation, could they dispose of the old place 
on University Street, now in use, might build a new 
gymnasium on the college grounds, furnished with 
every appliance, and with special rooms for the lady 
students. 

We also have to notice the establishment of a Glee 
Club in the East Wing, a movement we cannot com- 
mend too highly. A piano has been rented, and well 
attended weekly practices are held. May we be par- 
doned if we take exception to the names. While the 
lady students’ Soprano and Alto blend very sweetly. 
Tenor and Bass are absent, and Glee, according to 
Webster’s Unabridged is — “ A composition for voices 
in three or more parts.” 



ILLITERATES. 

The “ Statistische Monatschrift ” states that about 
80 per cent of the population of Eoumania, Servia, 
and Russia are unable to read and write. Spain 
comes next on the list with 63 per cent, followed by 
Italy with 48 per cent ; Hungary, 43 per cent ; Aus- 
tria, 39; Ireland, 21 ; France and Belgium about 15. 
In England we find 13 per cent; Holland, 10 per 
cent ; United States (white population), 8 per cent ; 
and Scotland, 7 per cent, unable to read and write. 
When we come to the purely Teutonic states, we 
find a marked reduction in the percentage of illiter- 
ates. The highest is in Switzerland, 2'5 ; in the 
whole German Empire it is 1 per cent ; in Sweden, 
Denmark, Bavaria, Baden, and Wurtemberg, there is 
practically no one who cannot read and write. 

When we read the high per cent of Russia, Spain, 
.Italy, Austria, etc., it cannot but amaze and astonish 
us. Wherein lies the trouble, or rather wherein lies 
the remedy 1 By giving the substance of some re- 
marks on State education, by John Stuart Mill, we 
may solve the question. He maintains that each 
state and country should enforce education on all who 
are born its citizens. It is obviously a father’s duty 
to provide an education for his children. Any ra- 
tional being will grant that; but few will hear of 
obliging him to do it, and instead of his having to 
make the effort and sacrifice, it is left to his choice to 
accept it or not when the state provides it gratis. As 
Mr. Mill says — “ To bring a child into existence with- 
out being able to provide, not merely food for its 
body, but instruction and training for its mind, is a 
moral crime against both child and society.” If the 
parent does not fulfil the obligation, the state should. 
The objections urged against state education do not 



apply to the enforcement of education by the state 
but to the state’s taking on itself to direct and define 
that education, which is quite a different thing. 

If the Government would make up its mind to re- 
quire a good education for all children, helping to 
pay for those of the poorer classes, it might leave to 
parents to obtain that education where and how they 
pleased. But all children should be educated for the 
well-being of the whole country, which can only be 
obtained by seeing to the well-being of every indi- 
vidual in it. 



The new Shakespeare Society prize, the gift of 
the new Shakespeare Society, in London, England, 
through the influence of the professor in English, 
was granted to the University, and for the purpose 
of encouraging and fostering a minute and care- 
ful study of the great master. As the calendar 
announces, it is open for competition to graduates 
and undergraduates alike, but very little ambi- 
tion seems to be prevalent amongst the students 
to win this laurel, since two sessions have been al- 
lowed to pass without anyone coming forward to 
claim it, and never, since it has been bestowed, has 
any graduate esteemed it worthy of consideration. 
The natural conclusion would be, that Shakespeare 
was a work eschewed and ignored in the University. 
Such lack of ambition is not at all creditable to Mc- 
Gill, and the ardent students of Shakespeare and 
the lovers of McGill may well trust that, in this 
and future years, graduates and undergraduates will 
vie with each other for the coveted trophy, and 
show that the master minds are still revered and 
honoured with us. 



The method of appointing the valedictorian is 
under discussion at Trinity University. 

The Medical School has been accustomed to accord 
to the gold medallist the privilege of delivering the 
valedictory, the advisability of which is now being 
called into question. In her action in this case 
Trinity is making a move in the right direction. If 
there is any office in the hands of undergraduates 
which should not be filled by an appointment de- 
pending on adventitious circumstances, it is that of 
valedictorian. Aside from the accumulation of hon- 
ours, which is a minor consideration, the qualifica- 
tions necessary for the position are such as in all pro- 
bability may not be found in the closest student, or 
the man most popular among his fellows, and the 
choice of a valedictorian should be made by his class 
untrammelled by any influence of custom or prece- 
dent. 



102 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



[Fob ** The Gazette."] 

Poetry. 



" AND DID THE LITTLE FLOWERS BUT KNOW." 
{From the German of Heine.) 



I. 



And did the little flowers but know 
The anguish of my heart, 

Their tears would surely fall and flow 
To heal the wounded part. 



II. 



And if the nightingales but knew 
My bitter pain and grief, 

They gladly would console me through 
Their song— and bring relief. 



III. 

And could the golden stars on high 
Be conscious of my woe. 

They would come out from yonder sky 
To comfort me below. 



IV. 



But none of these can know, ah me I 
^ The cause of all my pain ; — 

It is but known to one, and she 
Hath rent my heart in twain. 

A. G. G. 



B. A, 

Free, 

To go for a scud on the sunny sea I 
The study at morning and midnight done. 
The scribbled old books on the sofa thrown. 
The ink-pot left open to choke with dust. 
With an old *‘J" nib in it stiff with rust, 

And a red and blue pencil, in need of cutting. 
Sticking out of a drawer too full for shutting. 



Done I 

And now I am free for a bask in the sun. 

Or reading a legend of ancient birth 

Of men, who have long since mingled with earth 

Un the shores of the Mediterrannean, 

Or to watch how Irene toys with her fan 
To eke out a slory. as old as Adam, 

When Monsieur Moustache is with beautiful madam 



All ! 

Are you sure that my scout will not give me a call, 
lo be up with the lark and retrieve the work 
That overnight pleasure had made me shirk. 

May I chat oyer lunch and have out my sleep. 
Without having one eye on the clock to keep ’ 

May I once again act as if I were human, 

And venture to look on the charms of woman ? 



Yes I _ 

That vision has passed in its hideousness : 
Henceforth, without favour or fear, I can 
Look the world in the face, and sUnd up a man • 
“?,^yranny crushes the heart and soul 
With its cruel exactions of time and toil, 

Like that which determines so much our station 
In life— our arch-bogy— examination. 



Douglas W. B. Sladen. 



Hontributions. 



TENNYSON’S LATER POEMS. 

^ Fiom whatever standpoint these poems may 
viewed, whether from that of adverse, or from tha; 
favorable opinion, they cannot fail to be at least s 
jects worthy of earnest thought. 

As the works of Tennyson, and as the work of 
old inan, who has seen life in nearly all its phaj 
who has Uved a full life, together with the rare ^ 



portunity which they offer for seeing the effect of age 
on a writer’s views, they are, whether we like them or 
not, worth a great deal of study. 

These poems are not so good as regards ai’tistic finish 
as his earlier works ; some are too political, and some 
too argumentative in tone to be so full of poetry ; the 
gain in power has been balanced by a corresponding 
loss in beauty, nevertheless, we find here and there 
touches of that subtle melody, and of those happy 
thoughts, which form the many memorable lines. 

But if lacking in beauty, they have what we at pre- 
sent need more ; we have among other of our poets so 
much finish that the matter is lost, the structure is com- 
pletely hidden by the decoration. 

But in these we have high thought, noble ideals, 
clothed in language, which if less flowery, is more 
powerful ; and above all we have diffused throughout 
that Christian feeling characteristic of all Tennyson’s 
later works, and which is conspicuously absent from 
the works of your poet of passion. 

Pessimistic they certainly are, but the pessimism is 
that of a noble nature, not that of the cynic or misan- 
thrope, nor yet, at least not altogether, what has been 
called the querulousness of the old man ; it is rather 
the sad cry of one, who with clearer vision than his 
fellows, sees the dangers, and shouts a warning. 

Gloomy though they may be, flashes of light here 
and there gloriously illumine the darkness, the light 
his happy vision of the future life. 

Sorrowing for the loss of his favorite son, seeing his 
old friends pass one by one into the unknown, “ re- 
membering all the golden hours now silent, and so 
many dead he feels his age and the glories of that 
“ clearer day than our poor twilight dawn on earth ” 
and casting behind the past, ceasing to lament the 
present, he looks ever to the future. 

“ All the world is ghost to me, and as the phantom disappears, 
Forward far and far from here, is all the hope of eighty years.” 

^ This introspection is a distinguishing point of all 
Tennyson’s later work, and is only one of the many 
evidences of that high religious feeling which showed 
itself first in “ In Memoriam.” 

It is interesting to observe the opinions advanced 
by him on matters of this kind. He has a strong be- 
lief in the supreme power of the Deity, “ that more 
than man, which rules the heavens, and lifts and lavs 
the deep.” 

His evidence is the more interesting, from the fact 
that he was a member of that famous Metaphysical 
Society, which embraced in its members the brightest 
intellects in England, and the most diverse opinions. 

These questions were the subjects of discussion, and 
the result has been, that far from being, as has been 
recently stated, an Atheist, he has a most settled be- 
lief in Christianity in its broadest sense. 

He recognizes the high mission of man, and believes 
within ourselves lie the germs of our gradual develop- 
ment and progress towards the distant heavenly best. 

‘ Lay thine up-hill shoulder to the wheel. 

And climb the mount of blessing, whence if thou 
Look higher, then, perchance, thou mayest 
Beyond a hundred ever-rising mountain lines. 

And past the range of Night and Shadow see 
1 he high heaven dawn of more than mortal dav. 

Strike on the Mount of Vision.” 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



103 



1889.] 



A very prominent point in Tennyson’s later works 
is his accurate knowledge of Nature; he is entirely free 
from technical error and his poetic interpretation, 
while certainly not of the school of Wordsworth, is 
most assuredly not of the catalogue style of Thomson. 

He has dropped the florid style of his earlier days. 

He has a short poem on Spring, full of beauty, de- 
licate and tender. Unlike most of the works of his 
ago it is not at all a reflection of the feelings of an old 
man, we see rather the feeling of youth, as the season, 
full of awakening life 

“ Before them fleets the shower. 

And burst the buds. 

And shine the level lands, 

And flash the floods 
And stars aie from their hands. 

Flung through the woods." 

J ohn Burroughs, whose prose of Nature is true poet- 

says that Tennyson is superior to Wordsworth both 
as regards true poetic feeling and technical know- 
ledge. 

Politically, these differ much from his earlier poems ; 
he has completely changed his views, and no longer 
cries 

"Not in vain the distance beacons, forward, fonvard let 
us range. 

Let the great world spin forever down the ringing 
grooves of change." 

Appalled as he well may be at the growth of An- 
archist doctrines, by the insane cries for mob rule, and 
the shouting of impossible changes from the hustings, 
he breaks out into stormy invective against the “rivals 
of realm-ruining party” and the demagogues who 
blindfold the people. 

“ Chaos, Cosmos j Cosmos, Chaos ! once again the 
sickening game ; 

Freedom free to slay herself, and dying while they 
shout her name. 

Step by step we gained a freedom, known to Europe, 
known to all ; 

Step by step we rose to greatness, — through the tongue- 
sters we may fall." 

You that woo the Voices, tell them— old experience is 
a fool. 

'J’each your flattered kings that only those who cannot 
read can rule.” 

And on and on, and then suddenly he feels that 
perhaps these are only the gray thoughts of gray old 
age, and checks himself. 

By some the political parts of these poems are said to 
be the work of one who, belonging to what, by silly dis- 
tinction, are called the classes, was prejudiced against 
the masses, and though he speaks not against the lat- 
ter, but rather warns them, he thinks that we should 
advance more slowly or that some check should be 
imposed ; still the leaning is distinctly seen. 

“ There is still one hostel left us, where they swing 
the Locksley shield. 

Till the peasant cow shall butt the lion passant from 
his field. 

Poor old heraldry, poor old history, poor old poetry, 
passing hence. 

In the common deluge drowning old political common 
sense.” 

There is another chord which Tennyson touches with 
a firm hand, but of late it has been little heeded ; it is 
that of patriotism. 



The main strain of the song springs from a patriotic 
motive, but it is drowned by the wailing of his fears 
and the storm of his tirades, that only here and there 
we hear it welling up, but loud enough to tell us that 
the reason of all this anxiety for the future, this dark 
look, to him, of the political and social horizon, is care 
for Britain and her stability. 

Listen to this from that unjustly maligned “ode for 
the opening of the Indian and Colonial Exhibition,” 

“ Shall we not through good and ill. 

Cleave to one another still ? 

Britain’s myriad voices call 
Sons be welded each and all 
Into one imperial whole, 

One with Britain, heart and soul, 

One life, one flag, one fleet, one throne, 

Britons hold your own.” 

Is not this an answer to the party composed of 

“Men loud against all forms of power. 

Unfurnished brows, tempestuous tongues ; 

Expecting all things in an hour. 

Brass mouths and iron lungs.” 

And now we come to that much, and somewhat un- 
justly, abused work, the “Jubilee Ode.” 

It had been looked forward to with expectations of 
something transcending all former efforts,coming from 
him in his official capacity, and its appearance in Mac- 
Millan's was greeted with an outburst of shouts of de- 
rision from newspaper paragraphers, whose sole idea 
of criticism is that it must be adverse. 

But it is a significant fact that the harshest criticisms 
came from quarters whence literary work was least ex- 
pected, where loyalty at once condemned the poem, 
and where the author and his subject were more the 
objects of abuse than his work. 

Truly, it is not by any means what might have been 
expected from Tennyson, but when one considers his 
years, and the fact that it is by comparison with his 
other works that it suffers, it cannot but be felt that 
it has received more than a just meed of censure. 

It opens well, and the reverent feeling for our noble 
queen, is, or rather ought to be, echoed by every heart, 
but as it goes on, and indeed all through, it sounds very 
much like Walt Whitman’s chopped up prose. But 
the last stanza almost makes amends for the faults of 
the middle part of the poem. 

“ Are there thunders moaning in the distance ? 

Are there spectres moving in the darkness ? 

Trust the Lord of Light to guide her people. 

Till the thunders pass, the spectres vanish. 

And the light is victor, and the darkness 
Dawns in the Jubilee of the ages.” 

There is a great difference between these poems and 
a majority of his earlier ones ; the first were more the 
outcome of circumstances, beautiful indeed and full of 
expression of the quiet home life and easy circum- 
stances with which he was surrounded. 

But occasionally he allowed his individual spirit to 
get the better of his surroundings, notably in Locksley 
Hall, and then his poetry became proportionately 
grander. 

In these there is more of the man, and less of his 
environment, so that despite their blemishes, they may 
after all have in them more poetry than a good many 
earlier ones. 



104 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



W. D. Howells says that if these were the work of 
a younger man, they would not be taken as the pro- 
mise but as the performance of fine things ; that in the 
general account which time will settle with Tennyson, 
these will be counted not as his best, but among his 
best ; and then goes on to say that to judge these fair- 
ly, let us see if there is any one, or is there at present 
the likelihood of any one else writing anything so good. 

And I think the answer must be no. 

Poe said, in his lecture on the poetic principle, that 
Tennyson’s was the most elevating, the most ethereal 
poetry he had ever read, he was the least of the earth 
earthy. 

But it seems to me that Tennyson surpasses Poe’s 
ideal of poetry — an elevating excitement of the mind ; 
his work gives more than a passing exhilaration, it has 
a lasting effect, it is not the work to be read for mere 
pastime, and then thrown aside. 

The distinguishing points, then, of Tennyson’s later 
works are his religious feeling, his feeling for nature, 
and his patriotism. 

He can, at least, be no longer called “ School-miss 
Alfred,” his work may be less beautiful in expression, 
it is higher in ideal j he may have lost some of is old 
skill in awakening sweet sounds, but he strikes chords 
that touch the heart. 

The whole of the lofty aim of his later work may be 
summed up in the following, true for all ages. 

" Follow you the star that lights a desert’s pathway, 
yours or mine, 

Follow till you find the highest human nature is diviue, 

Follow light, aud do the right, for mau can half control 
his doom, 

Till you find the deathless angel, seated in the vacant 
tomb.” 

J. E. Macpherson. 



JFlcSill Isfeuds. 



McGill was well to the front during the Carnival 
drive, and the sleighs arranged by the Medical, Arts 
and Science Faculties, formed an important feature. 



THE ARTS DINNER. 

Last year the annual gathering of the students in 
the Faculty of Arts took the form of a conversazione ; 
this year it was decided, not from dissatisfaction with 
the conversazione, to follow the traditions of the 
College, and hold a dinner on the evening of Jan. 
25th. The banquet was laid out in the ladies’ ordi- 
nary of the Balmoral Hotel, which was prettily deco- 
rated with draped bunting and mottoes of gold, sur- 
mounted by the McGill coat of arms. About 80 
guests assembled, Mr. J. Robertson acting as chair- 
man. On his leit hand sat Professor Moyse, on his 
right Sir Wm. Dawson and Professors Johnson and 
Coussirat. 

Representatives were present from Queen’s, Vic- 
toria (Cobourg), Laval, and the three sister faculties. 

Letters of regret were read by the secretary, Mr. 
R. T. McKenzie, from His Excellency the Governor- 
General, Sir John Macdonald, Lieutenant-Governor 
Augers, Hon. Mr. Mercier, and other distinguished 



men. Manitoba College sent regrets and fraternal 
greetings. 

After partaking of an excellent banquet, the chair- 
man introduced the toast to “ Our Queen and Coun- 
try,” which was loyally responded to amid the notes 
of “ God Save the Queen.” 

The health of the “ Sister Universities” was pro- 
posed by Mr. D. J. Fraser, and responded to in be- 
half of Queen’s, Victoria, and Laval, by their respec- 
tive representatives. 

The College Quartette rendered an excellent chorus, 
followed by the toast to “ Our Alma Mater,” proposed 
by Mr. H. V. Truell, and responded to in behalf of 
the faculty by Dr. Johnson, who reviewed the late 
progress of the University, referring especially to the 
rapid and gratifying progress made in every depart- 
ment. 

Sir Wm. Dawson, who rose in response to loud 
calls, was greeted with cheers. He referred, in his 
genial way, to the recollections which the occasion 
brought to his mind, and pointed the necessity and 
privileges of being students, and expressed his earn- 
est desire for the completion of many reforms which 
had been proposed. 

Professors Moyse and Coussirat also spoke shortly. 

The health of the “ Sister Faculties” was proposed 
by Mr. Deeks, and responded to by Mr. Martin in 
behalf of Medicine, Mr. Hersey for Science, and Mr. 
Harvey for Law. 

“ Our Societies” was introduced by Mr. G. W. Mc- 
Dougall, aud responded to by Messrs. J. A. Elliott 
(Literary Society), R. McDougall (Y.M.C.A.), and P. 
Davidson (Athletic Association). 

The Quartette here favoured the assembly with an- 
other chorus, after which the toast to “ The Press” 
was proposed by Mr. L. P. McDuffee, and responded 
to by Mr. J. A. MacPhail, B.A. 

The programme was varied by two pieces of instru- 
mental music by Messrs. A. H. Holden and W. L. 
Jamieson, and Mr. W. H. Kollmyer, in the absence 
of Mr. Ryan, proposed the health of the Lady 
Undergraduates,” with which the toasts ended. 

The National Anthem was sung, and three cheers 
given to the chairman, when the meeting broke up, 
and the guests departed well pleased with the success 
of their annual dinner. 



SCIENCE DINNER. 

The undergraduates in Applied Science held their 
Annual Dinner at the Balmoral Hotel, on Friday 
evening, 1st Feb. The Committee encountered much 
apathy on the part of the students, and at one time it 
appeared as if the time-honored custom would be dis- 
continued. However, at the last, their etforts were 
successful in bringing together upwards of fifty to the 
annual re-union. A noticeable feature was the pres- 
ence of the entire third year, a thing of which no 
year can boast since the first Science Dinner. 

P. L. Naismith, B.A , ably presided. There were 
present as representatives, G. P. England, B.A., from 
the Law Faculty, and W. Rogers, who I’epresented 
the Arts Faculty, including the Donalda Department. 
The Medical representative, however, failed to appear. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



105 



The absence of the professors was noticeable. It is a 
matter to be deprecated that this Faculty do not fol- 
low the example of the sister faculties in inviting 
their pi'ofessors, whose presence would add a tone to 
the gathering and need not impose more than a 
healthy restraint. 

The students had the benefit of decorations which 
had been designed for the Masonic Supper of the pre- 
vious evening. When those present had “ministered 
to their interior ” in a very substantial manner, toasts 
and speech-making were in order. 

The usual toast to “ The Queen and Governor- 
General ” was proposed by the President, who referred 
to the connection of the latter personage with the 
University, and also to his being an honorary mem- 
ber of the Can. Soc. C.E. The National Anthem was 
sung most heartily as a response. 

P. Redpath then proposed the “ Deans and Pro- 
fessors,” “ men who their duties know, and knowing 
dare maintain.” A. W. Strong, in the reply, referred 
to the ability and painstaking exertions of the teach- 
ing body, and of their interest in the welfare of stud- 
ents and graduates. 

“ Our Alma Mater ” was proposed by T. H. Wing- 
ham, and responded to by A. E. Shuttleworth, who 
noted the marked progress the Faculty was making, 
and exhorted the students to look to the interests of 
the Institution as well as to their own. 

In proposing the toast to the “ Sister Faculties,” 
the President alluded to the very friendly relations 
which existed between the Science Faculty and the 
other faculties of McGill. He brought to mind the time, 
not far remote, when the Faculty was more intimately 
connected with the faculties of Arts and Medicine 
regarding many of its subjects. 

Mr. Rogers, in replying for Arts, debated upon the 
arduous duty Avhich devolved upon him in having to 
reply, not only for those of his own department, but 
for the only true “ Sister Faculty ” in the University. 

Mr. England promised that any student should 
become better acquainted with the Legal Faculty than 
hitherto should he chance to find himself in trouble. 
He deplored the present state of patriotic feeling 
among students, and dwelt upon certain reforms 
which he held were needed to keep the University 
foremost among institutions of learning. 

M. L. Hersey proposed “ Our Graduates,” the men 
who were “not lost but gone before.” A chorus 
was substituted for the reply, in absence of anyone to 
respond. 

“ Class of ’89 ” was proposed by P. W. Evans, who, 
besides speaking in high terms of the class, cast his 
prophetic eye into the future, when he averred the 
class might have a re-union and bring together their 
children into the third and fourth generations. G. 
K. Addie responded for the members of the Class. 
He expressed the regret that each member felt at sev- 
ering his connection with the college. 

G. M. Edwards proposed the “ Freshmen,” coup- 
ling with their name the quotation : “ Behold the 

child, by Nature’s kindly law, pleased with a rattle, 
tickled with a straw.” It was replied to by P. J. 
Murphy, in a neat little speech, setting forth the 
important position occupied by the freshmen. “ The 



Ladies,” proposed by J. H. Antliff, was responded to 
by A. Klock. To the toast was appended the query, 
“Is marriage a failure?” 

At intervals during the programme the party was 
enlivened by several rousing choruses, and by songs 
from Messrs. Young, Edwards, Evans and Hersey. 
The piano used was kindly loaned by Messrs. Willis. 

The re-union broke up at an early hour with the 
singing of “ Auld Lang Syne,” each one feeling that 
he had enjoyed himself to the utmost. 



THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL’S VISIT TO THE 
UNIVERSITY. 

McGill’s red-letter event in connection with Carni- 
val week was the reception given to Lord and Lady 
Stanley by the governors of the University. In ac- 
cordance with the announcements made public. His 
Excellency the Governor-General and Lady Stanley 
visited the University on the morning of Friday, 
Feb. 8th. The vice-regal party was received at the 
Museum entrance by the Principal, Sir Wm. Dawson, 
and the governors of the University. The students, 
in cap and gown, gave the Governor and Lady a col- 
lege welcome, and passing in after the Convocation, 
as they entered to inspect the Museum, lined up in 
double ranks between it and the Molson Hall, to 
await the reappearance of the vice-regal party. Lord 
Stanley was greeted with “ He’s a jolly good fellow” 
as he passed through to the Hall, and the students, 
closing in behind, followed the procession into the 
Convocation building, which was packed to the doors 
with visitors. As the Convocation entered, the audi- 
ence rose to their feet, and assisted the students in 
giving Lord and Lady Stanley a right royal recep- 
tion. 

Mr. Brackenridge, with His Excellency at his side, 
led the way^ accompanied by Sir Wm. Dawson and 
Lady Stanley, and followed by the staff and members 
of Convocation. 

When the usual college demonstration had quieted 
down, a voice called for a song, a call which was 
promptly and vociferously responded to. 

Miss Wilson, on behalf of the lady students, pre- 
sented Lady Stanley with a beautiful bouquet of 
flowers. 

The members of Convocation present on the plat- 
form were then presented to Lord and Lady Stanley, 
when another request was made for a song. As the 
modesty of the lady students prevented them from re- 
sponding to the urgent request made by the students in 
the rear for “A song, ladies, a song ! ” they themselves 
took up the burden, and to the amusement and de- 
light of everybody rendered as an impromptu, “ Lord 
Stanley is a brick, says McGill ! ” and backed it up 
by paying the same compliment to Lady Stanley. 

Mr. J. H. R. Molson read the following address of 
welcome to His Excellency and Lady Stanley, on be- 
half of the governors and members of the University : 

THE ADDRESS. 

To His Excellency the Right Honourable Lord Stanley, of 
Preston, O.C.B., P.C., Oovernor-Oeneral of Canada : 

May it Please Your Excellency, — ^'fhe Governors, Prin- 
cipal, and Fellows of McGill University beg leave respectfully 



106 



UNIVEESITY GAZP:TTE. 



[1889 



and cordially to welcome Your Excellency and Lady Stanley on 
this your first visit to the University. Our pleasure in tender- 
ing this tribute of dutiful respect is enhanced by the considera- 
tion that we recognize in Your Excellency, our official visitor, the 
representative of Her Most Gracious Majesty. 

This University, though founded and principall)’' maintained 
by private endowments contributed by citizens of Montreal, and 
specially intended for the benefit of the Protestant population of 
this province, lias attained to occupy a wide and comprehensive 
field of educational influence, proportioned to this city and to 
the varied wants of our country. In pursuance of this policy 
the University has not only endeavoured to elevate and extend 
its course in the Faculty of Arts, and to bestow the benefits of 
this course on women as well as men, but has established pro- 
fessional schools of Law, Medicine, and Applied Science, and 
has extended its benefits to teachers in training in the Normal 
School, and to students of affiliated theological colleges. 

We shall hope, on this occasion, to show to Your Excellency 
some of our material means and appliances of instruction ; while 
the professors and other instructors of the University are now 
forty-seven in number, and the training which they give is en- 
joyed by more than 600 students from all parts of the Do- 
minion. 

We cherish the hope that Your Excellency will be pleased to 
continue to the University the same aid and countenance ex- 
tended to it by your predecessors, and we on our part will do all 
in our power to merit Your Excellency’s approval. 

We beg leave to express our cordial and sincere good wishes that 
all blessing may attend Your Excellency and Lady Stanley and 
the members of your family, and that Your Excellency’s admin- 
istiation of the affairs of this Dominion may be in the highest 
degree satisfactory to yourself and conducive to the best interests 
of all classes of the people. 

J. H. R. Molson, 

Acting President. 

In response to the address of welcome, His Excel- 
lency made a suitable reply. 

The gracious manners of Lady Stanley and His 
Excellency’s pleasant address took the students by 
storm, and many parts of his appropriate and graceful 
speech in reply were cheered to the echo. Some of 
His Excellency’s references were especially felicitous, 
and were received by the students with .enthusiastic 
applause. 

At the conclusion of the ceremonies, the Governor 
and Lady Stanley passed out of the Hall, followed by 
the lady students, who were graeted by their fellow- 
men with their favourite song. 

The vice-regal party, accompanied by the Princi- 
pal and members of Convocation, proceeded to visit 
the various departments of the College, including the 
Science Eooms, East Wing, and Medical Building, 
and at the close of their visit, as they left from the 
main entrance of the Medical College, the Governor- 
General and Lady Stanley received an enthusiastic 
send-off from the students, whose Alma Mater they 
had so graciously visited. 



Societies. 



GLEE CLUB. 

The Ladies’ Glee Club held its first meeting since 
Christmas on the 22nd January. It was unanimously 
resolved to have a piano for the rest of the session, 
if possible, and the subscription list was opened on 
the spot. The result was seen at the Delta Sigma So- 
ciety on the following Thursday, when one of Lindsay’s 
best Heintzman’s occupied a prominent position on 



the floor. This will probably induce more members 
to join the club, and will, in itself, be a great addition 
to the dulcet sounds which heretofore have been 
wafted, sayis accompaniment, out on the evening air. 



THE UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The usual weekly meeting of this society was held 
on Friday evening, 24th Jan., Mr. A. P. Dunton, 2nd 
vice-president, in the chair. Messrs, William Howitt, 
B.A., and Wm. A. Nichols, B.A., were elected mem- 
bers. The subject of debate, “ Was the course of the 
Liberal Unionists on the Irish question justifiable ?” 
led to a very animated and exhaustive discussion of 
the momentous question of Ireland and her governors. 
The affirmative was most eloquently and ardently sup- 
jiorted by the president, Mr. A. R. Oughtred, and Mr. 
Ferguson, whilst the negative was none less so by 
Messrs. Patterson and Le Rossignol. After a few re- 
marks by Messrs. Hibbard, Top|) and Barnard, the 
vote was taken, and resulted in favor of the affirma- 
tive. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The Theo Dora met on Tuesday, Jan. 29. Miss 
Finley read an essay, written by Miss Hall, on “The 
Manners and Customs of the Chinese.” Miss K. 
Campbell followed with a sketch of the leading “Re- 
ligions of China.” Both papers were most interest- 
ing. Miss Hunt and Miss MacDutfee gave readings. 
The collection, which took the form of a special 
thank-offering, amounted to over $16.00. 

On Friday, Jan. 25, a meeting of the lady students 
was held, at which the members of the fourth year 
were conspicuous only by their absence. It was de- 
cided to give an entertainment in honour of the Grad- 
uating Class of ’89, to take the form of a lunch, short- 
ly after the close of the April Examinations. 

The following ladies rvere chosen to form a Com- 
mittee of Management : 

jNIiss Abbott, Arts ’90, President ; Miss M. Evans, 
Secretary ; Mi.ss Finley, Treasurer ; Miss Inez Bot- 
terell. Arts ’90, Miss MucFarlane, Arts ’90, Miss 
Mooney, Arts ’91, Miss Hall, Arts ’91, Miss Leach, 
Arts, ’92, Miss Lyman, Arts, ’92. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of the Delta Sigma Society was 
held on January 25th. Miss Botterell, the vice-presi- 
dent, opened the meeting by reading some valuable 
hints on oratory from Huxley, O’Brien, and others, 
sent in to the society by Mrs. Murray. The advisa- 
bility of keeping the prize essay competition open till 
next September was then discussed, and it was decided 
to do so, thus giving more time to those who intended 
writing, and ensuring a larger number of competitors. 
Hie debate for the afternoon was, “Resolved that jier- 
fect liberty in the Expression of Thought should not 
be allowed. Misses Squire and Monk spoke on the 
affii mativ e, and jMisses Reid and Mooney on the nega- 
tive. Ihe debate, though a little heavy, was entered 
into with great spirit on both sides. The vote resulted 



1889.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



107 



in a majority for the affirmative. A few members 
spoke on the question, and the Glee Club volunteered 
some songs with piano accompaniment. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Jan. 25.— Owing to the Annual Dinner of the Faculty 
of Arts, no meeting was held. The Inter- collegiate 
Debate, arranged to take place in the Museum on 
Feb. 1, was unavoidably given up, in consequence of 
the failure on the part of the Philosophical Society of 
the Presbyterian College to secure speakers for the occa- 
sion. Notice of an ordinary meeting of the Society was 
therefore posted up, the programme to be impromptu. 
After the business had been disposed of, the President 
referred the question of programme to the members 
present, and it was resolved to make it consist of a 
series of speeches on subjects selected by lot. Every 
member, having written a subject on a slip of paper, 
put it into the hat, and each one spoke on the question 
drawn by him. The subjects were as varied as the 
styles of treatment, and the speakers found the bene- 
fit of a ready tongue and fervid imagination. 

The meeting was a good one, in spite of its im- 
promptu character, or perhaps, in consequence of it. 
No critic was appointed. 

Feb. 8. — The regular meeting of the Society was 
postponed on account of the Carnival being held that 
week. 



McGlLL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The seventh regular meeting of this society was held 
in the Upper Reading Room, at 8 p.m. the 19th Jan- 
uary ; the president, Mr. Campbell, in the chair. 

Quite a number of Final and Third Year students 
had gathered to hear Dr. Finley’s address. The sub- 
ject was “ Migraine, or Sick Headache.” The lecturer 
made this obscure disease most interesting, and added 
to the clearness of description by using models and 
diagrams. Many questions were ready to be asked 
when the lecturer had concluded, and the answers were 
given in accordance with the present knowledge on 
the subject. 

A special vote of thanks was tendered to Dr. Finley 
for his instructive paper. In responding, the doctor 
congratulated the Society on its present prosperous 
condition, compared with his own college experience 
of his “Medical Society.” Mr. Murray, ’90, having 
promised the next paper, the meeting adjourned. 

The Eighth Regular Meeting of the McGill Medi- 
cal Society was held in the Upper Reading-room, at 
8 p.m., 2nd Feb,, the President, Mr Campbell, in the 
chair. 

Mr. M. W. Murray, tlie reader, took for his subject 
“ Fever,” and set forth clearly the chief views now 
held on the subject. After a lively debate, the Case 
Report was given by Mr. W. S. England on a case 
presenting some very puzzling symptoms. All the 
symptoms could not be explained by the diagnosis, 
“ Subacute Bright’s Disease, with left-sided Asthma,” 
and accordingly there was much debatable material. 



Notice being given of Dr. Roddick’s offer to address 
the Society at the next meeting, an adjournment was 
moved. 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

On the evening of Saturday, January 26, about 
thirty-five of the Y.M.C.A. members of medicine par- 
took of the hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Ames, at their 
residence. No. 51, Belmont Park. 

On the evening of Saturday, Jan. 26, the members 
of the Society in the 3rd and 4th years, spent a pleas- 
ant hour with Sir Wm. Dawson, at his residence. In- 
struction was added to the pleasure of the evening by 
the inspection of specimens of Mollusca, which the 
Principal had brought from the Museum in illustra- 
tion of his lectures in Geology. 

At the request of the Chairman, Dr. Harrington, 
the members of the Building Committee, appointed a 
couple of years ago, gathered at his house to confer 
about the work. As a result the Committee was re- 
organized and instructed to proceed to the canvass of 
the students, with a view to obtaining further sub- 
scriptions towards the building. It was decided also 
to make a canvass in the City, among the friends of 
the Society, for assistance in the work. In connec- 
tion with the proposed Y.M.C.A. building, a motto 
which every member of the Society might take, is a 
thought used by a prominent minister in speaking of 
Christ’s kingdom, “ If you don’t want Christ’s king- 
dom,” he said, “ don’t pray for it, but if you do want 
it, you must do more than pray for it — you must work 
for it.” If every member does this, and does it faith- 
fully, the building will soon be erected. 

A sign of the prosperity of the Association work at 
present, is the large membership-roll in the first year. 
Encouraging reports to this effect are heard from 
many colleges, and it is a good omen for the success 
of the work when those who are to be its future 
strength, or workers, enter strongly in the early years 
of their college life. 

The question of holding a “Northfield” conference, 
for college students in England, is being discussed 
among the Associations there. 

We wish the movement every success, and hope it 
may be realized next summer. 

Dalhousie has added a new factor to her work in 
Bible study. Two of the professors have joined in 
the work as leaders of the class, and the plan promises 
success. Two additional Bible training classes have 
been formed in Dalhousie during this session. 



Of the last graduating class at Cornell University, 
ten per cent, were women, but those women won 
sixty per cent, (three out of five) of the fellowships. 
The subjects in which they were so successful were 
Botany, Architecture, and Mathematics. President 
Adams, in addressing the Association of Collegiate 
Alurance, which mot at Cornell, said that the women 
average a little higher than the men in the University 
classes. 



108 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



A CEUX QUI SUIVENT. 

INSCRIPTION FOUND ON THE FLY-*LEAP OF A TATTERED COPY OF 
MOLT^RK’S FEMMES SAVANTES/* 

Mes bons amis— successors all I 
Behold, ci-joint, a— vat you call?— 

Un insigno livre, a “noted*' book 1 
Here, open 1 Tenez— wait, just look I 
Its face once shone as sunlight shines, 

The letters clear, and all the lines 
Might meet the most fastidious eye 
Without d6gout,— poor book, you sigh— 

Mais ainsi passe la gloire du monde, 

As passes the flush from the cheek of a blonde ; 

And now you're tattered, old and worn. 

Your brightness gone, your leaves all torn ; 

And yet with all your rags you wear 
A kind of homme de m^rite air, 

A lack of worth which seems to say— 

•* I've done ray work and served my day 
And generation. Come what will 
I'm ready now to help you still ! 

Freely I give what you demand ; 

See * la richesse' at your command, 

Of gathered notes, traductions true, 

And explanations not a few I 
I'm not a crib. Diantre 1 No I 
No debt to “ ponies " vile I owe. 

1 never sought to flunk or shirk, 

And all I have is honest work I " 

This book has passed through many hands, 

And all have helped to pile the sands 
Of golden notes around the shoes 
Of Molidre's famous comic muse. 

White, slender, rugged, smooth or rough, 

Each hand has added — like enough — 

Tout ce quil faut k son devoir, 

And now, il rest to bid “ Bon soir" 

To you my followers; il n'importe 
Pas, what your color, rank or sort ; 

Enough that you have come to seek 
As we have sought, from week to week. 

The lessons that this book contains; 

For you— insigne— the book remains. 

Each note is ready to your hand 
To answer as you may command ; 

While each to us cost time and care 
In turning up “La Dictionaire." 

So let each note be sacred held, 

And entre nous more closely weld 
The bond of fellowship divine 
In delving in a common mine 
Du “ gai savoir." And now. Adieu I 
Roll on the stone we've rolled to you. 

As you have got so freely give, 

So may you prosper ! eat and live 1 
And now, dear little book, Good-bye I 
My task is done,—** My task," said I ? " 

Nay, rather say my. pleasure's o'er. 

Since I shall see thy face no more ! 

JOHLK JoHKIi. 



Personals. 



W. A. Cameron, B.A., ’87, has been spending some 
time in Montreal. 

D. J. J. Cameron, ’88, is practising his profession 
in Kearney, Nebraska. 

Mr. Weir’s journalistic duties have taken him to 
Ottawa, and The Gazette misses his personal super- 
vision. 

The name of Mr. G. F. McGauran was inadvertent- 
ly omitted from the list of those who passed the Prac- 
tical Chemistry Examination at Xmas. 

M. J. McLeod, B.A., ’87, who, owing to ill health, 
was obliged to abandon his studies at the Presbyterian 
College, early in the session, is spending the winter in 
Los Angelos, Cal. 

J. A. McFarlane, M.A., ’85, and A.S. Grant, B.A., 
’85, who have been spending the winter among the 
Universities of the Old Land, arrived from Halifax a 



couple of weeks ago, and expressed themselves well 
pleased with their trip. 

Rev. W. E. Wallace, B.A., ’86, arrived in town 
the other day from his charge in Western Ontario. 
He reports everything prosperous. Mr. W. has not 
come East to look for a home, since he couldn’t look 
for a better quarter to settle in than where he now is, 
so we are forced to the conclusion that he has come 
to look for a better half. 

W. Lochhead, B.A., ’85, has settled in Perth, N.S. 
He is Science Master in the Collegiate Institute there, 
and is endeavouring to work up the interests of his 
old Alma Mater in sending as many as possible of his 
pupils to McGill. 

Dr. Hanna, ’85, is the only other graduate of Mc- 
Gill in Perth. He is said to possess one of the best 
practices in the town. 



Exchanges. 



We have much pleasure in calling the attention of 
our readers to a new and beautiful little volume in 
short-hand, of which the above is the motto. It is a 
stenographic transcription of Lord Tennyson’s “ Idylls 
of the King,” which has just been issued by Mr. 
Arthur G. Doughty, of Montreal, whose name is well 
known in stenographic circles here. The work is de- 
dicated, by permission, to His Excellency the Gov- 
ernor-General, and both for literary excellence and as 
a work of art is, in truth, entitled to carry off the palm. 

The book contains several illustrations, contributed 
by Miss E. Warren, which reflect great credit on that 
lady’s talent, and demonstrate clearly that she is quite 
in touch with the more than ordinary artistic require- 
ments of the work. 

We have been favoured with some numbers of the 
Educational Review for the Atlantic Provinces of 
Canada, of which Alex. Anderson, LL.D. is one of the 
editors. It deals comprehensively with the education- 
al interests of that wide section, and is a means of in- 
tercommunication for the members of the teaching 
profession. In the January number is an editorial, 
evidently written by Dr. Anderson himself, on McGill 
University, from which the following in an extract : 

“The pre-eminence accorded to McGill among Canadian uni- 
versities, its popularity among students of the Maritime Pro- 
vinces, and its singular position as the chief educational institu- 
tion of the Protestants of Quebec, who form only a very small 
fraction of the population of the province, would lead us to infer 
that our people would know something of its constitution and 
history. And yet of this most interesting chapter in the narra- 
tive of the development of education in the dominion, most peo- 
ple are absolutely ignorant ; hence the nece.ssity for such a lec- 
ture as that by Sir William Dawson, on “ The Constitution of 
McGill University, Montreal,” being the annual lecture in the 
se.ssion, 1888-89, and the obligation laid upon all who are inter- 
ested in higher education to circulate it as widely as possible 
The publication of this university lecture at the present stage in 
the discussion of educational questions is exceedingly opportune, 
and in as far as it places before us a clear, concise and modest 
naiTative of the incidents which mark the progress of the univer- 
sity, very satisfactory. The public spirit and foresight of the 
founder are only equalled by the skill, wisdom and zeal with 
which the governors have discharged the duties of their trust ; 
and in nothing is this more noticeable than in the facility with 



1889.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



109 



w 1C the university has adapted itself to altered conditions and 
satisfy new demands. Perhaps one of the most 
gratifying features in the history of the university is its absolute 
inaepeudeii^ of government assistance. It is solely a monument 
ot the munificence and enthusiasm for higher education of the 
citizens of Montreal. Help from the state would have been wel- 
corned, and was promised when the university “was embarrassed 
by pecuniary difficulty” and was at the point of extinction ; but 
We question, if relief had come from that quarter, whether the 
citizens would have rallied around their university with the same 
spirit and have bo thoroughly come to regard it as their own 
TCCuliar possesssion ; at any rate, the retrospect would not now 
be so agreeable, and, annoyed by government interference, McGill 
would not hold the proud jwsition of absolute freedom and pub- 
lic confidence which she enjoys at the present day. One thing 
strikes us as being a tower of strength to the university, and that 
is the Catholic basis, in respect of religion, on which it rests, and 
its liberal treatment of the students from the affiliated theological 
colleges who attend its classes. The same generous spirit is also 
manifested in the arrangement which has recently been made 
to admit students from the senior clats of the normal school to 
the cou^ in arts. Such enlightened action may be regarded, 
in relation to the community, as part of the return which is be- 
ing rendered by the university for the benefactions of which it 
has been the recipient We have only been able to indicate 
some of the points treated of in this admirable lecture, but we 
would recommend every one who is interested in university edu- 
cation and the true welfare of his country, to procure the lecture 
and read and study it. 

Of course, modesty forbade any but the merest reference to 
himself and his work in McGill, but everybody knows that the 
narrative of the forward movement of McGill and its associate 
institutions is the history of the public labors of Sir William 
Dawson in Montreal in behalf of higher education. 

^ The Dalhousie Gazette presents in its first pages a 
high class of literary and editorial matter : from that 
point it declines and ends with an amount of personal 
matter intended for lightness that has really very little 
interest even for those more immediately concerned. 

Robert EUmere, the irrepressible, has come to the 
front again, this time in a contribution to the Queen’s 
College Journal, by Principal Grant. We have already 
praised the Journal without stint. The editorial writ- 
ing is clear and strong, and the questions discussed are 
those that affect its university. In the last number 
the relation of the Y.M.C.A. to the college is con- 
sidered, and a concluding sentence thus affirms : The 
“ Stand aside, for I am holier than thou !” has done 
no good in the past, and we have very grave doubts 
of its ever doing any good in the future. But the 
Journal wanders beyond the scope of a college paper, 
and at times goes the length of crude criticism of se- 
cond rate musical combinations. 

The numbers of the Tuftonian are often good, but 
even when one is commonplace it bears marks of enter- 
prise in collecting college news, and skill in making 
it readable. 

“Put the Alfred University on your exchange list.’’ 
Thanks awfully, Alf., but most of us have a little 
vanity in our composition, enough, at least, to rebel 
at seeing an exchange which makes such a polite re- 
quest crowd exchanges into a space oifour inches. 
Some of your professors write excellent articles, on 
“ Work in Teachers’ Classes” for instance, but would 
your paper lose anything, either of its rank or popu- 
larity, by contracting a little there to allow for a more 
extended view of your exchanges 1 

Tibi a me, Atlantis, your editors have done their 



work well, but one duty remains before laying down 
the sceptre. An old Scotch woman heard a great gun 
preach, and gave her opinion by saying “ It was a gey 
fine sermon if only the head and tail were nippit off.” 
“ And how muoh was head and tail 1” “ A weel, the 

first half was head and the other tail. ” With 
Atlantis ih.Q case is almost reversed ; strike those ugly 
lines off the head and tail of each page and complete 
the work. The Atlantis surely deserves a circulation 
wide enough to enable it to relegate its advertisements 
where they belong. 

Last reports from Londonderry are ante-X’mas. 
Anything wrong with the mailing lists of “ O.S.T. i” 
Our address is. Box 1290, Montreal, where we are al- 
ways glad to exchange the news of the week. 

The College Student is an Exchange to which we 
can generally look with confidence for good matter 
well written. One feature which deserves commenda- 
tion is its clear and exact scheme of contents. The 
January number is excellent. Prof. Gerhardt’s ad- 
dress, and one or two other articles give weight to a 
number which is well sustained in its lighter depart- 
ments also. Our hope of seeing a poetical department 
has received a death blow in the fall of the “ Patent 
Poet,” yet we shall still look for his rising. Phoenix- 
like, from his ashes, to add a new attraction to his 
much enduring magazine. 

With all due deference to our lady friends of Alma 
College, we would like to see a stronger college tone 
in their magazine. The last number of the Almafilian 
has much interesting reading, but too much of it is 
from pens outside college, and has too little connection 
with college life. Better less within the pale than 
more without it. The January number is good, espe- 
cially some of the unselected matter. 

Varsity is well forward in some articles this month. 
“ From my Boarding-house Window” is a clever sketch 
of harmless student romance. “ Henri” is a good 
writer, and his easy flowing style makes the article 
pleasant reading. The hazing question, which is en- 
grossing the attention of the college, seems little nearer 
a satisfactory solution. We look with fellow-interest 
for every development that may assist in a settlement 
of the difficulty. Our congratulations are due in re- 
ference to the appointment of Dr. Alexander, late of 
Dalhousie, to the vacant chair in English. 

Acadia Athenoium has a thoughtful and well-written 
exposition of the text “ Where there’s a will there’s a 
way.” Many of its sentences are gems of thought ; 
and the essay exhibits a phrase of writing little affected 
by contributors to college magazines. It shows the 
serious, moral turn a student’s thoughts may take as 
distinguished from the lighter and merely literary 
character of the majority of student articles. The 
Athenoeum has no Exchange column. Can this not 
be remedied? We, who receive the magazine, would 
like to see who Acadia’s friends are. 



Ye studeiite breakethe ye maydeue’s liarte ; 

He laughethe, unaware ; 

But she, she breakethe hys pocket-booke, 
Which maketh matters square. 



110 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



SEEN ACH RIB. 

The professor came down like the wolf on the fold, 

With his spectacles gleaming in bright rims of gold, 

With his waving black robe and his four-cornered cAp, 

And the poor undergrad. was quite caught in a trap. 

Like a leaf of the forest, but rather more green. 

That Soph, with his crib had been nabbed ^ the Dean ; 

Like a leaf of the forest when cometh the Fall, 

That Soph, with his crib was heaved out of the Hall. 

For the Lord of Exams, spread his wings on the blast, 
Looking under the desk of that man as he passed ! 

And the heart of the writer waxed deadly and chill, 

And his pen but once scratched, and for ever grew still I 

For there lay the book with its pages all wide, 

Not meant, I assure you, by dons to be eyed ; 

For it set forth old Plutarch in good English prose. 

And the author was Bohn, a man every one knows. 

And there sat the reader dishevelled and white. 

With the dew on his brow, in a terrible fright. 

And the room was all silent, the clock ticked alone. 

The pens lay unlifted, all stifled a groan. 

And the friends of the plucked one are loud in their wail. 
For in hiding a pony *tis awful to fail : 

And the man whom I write of, though none wished him ill. 
Has vanished for aye from the halls of McGill. 

, Aprilis. 



Sporting. 



HOCKEY. 

Crystals vs. McGill. 

There was a large attendance present at the Victoria 
Rink on Saturday night, 8th Feb., to see the battle 
between the above clubs in the championship series. 
The Crystals were very confident of winning, and 
their hopes were not without reason, as they were all 
in the pink of condition, which was lacking among 
the College men. There was a total absence of foul- 
ing, which made the game worth seeing, or even go- 
ing a long way to see, although for the first half it 
was very one-sided. 

Following are the teams : — 



Crystals. 


Fosition. 


McGill. 


W. Norris 






Ellard 






McDonald 




N. Walsh 


McQuisten 






Drysdale 


....) (.... 




Brown 






Lee 


(.... 


W. Walsh 



At the close of the match the score stood 7 to 3 in 
favour of the Crystals. 



Betuieen the Lectures. 



“ Gentlemen, if a man comes in late, let him stav 
out.” 

“ De mortus nil nisi bonum.” That’s why we say 
so little about the dead. 



It only takes two minutes cultivation to change a 
professor into a politician. 

Home’s the best place for the man who could not 
see the professor’s bull on the wooden leg. 

Professor— “ Mary ! Please take the cat out of the 
room. I cannot have it making such a noise while I 
am at work. Where is it? ” 

Mary — “ Why, professor, you are sitting on it ! ” 



“ Souvre,” said Louis XV. to his commander one 
day, “ you are getting old ; where do you wish to be 
iuterred?” “At the feet of your Majesty,” replied 
the adroit Frenchman, to the discomfiture of his royal 
questioner. 

Freshie (looking at the University motto) — “ VV'’hat 
is the English for those Latin words, ‘ Grandescunt 
aucta labore 1 ’ ” 

Soph, (who knows, of course) — “ Grand discount 
on actual labour ! ” 

Judge Jelfries, on the bench, once told an old man 
with a long beard that he supposed he had a consci- 
ence as long as his beard. “ Does your lordship,” 
replied the old man, “measure consciences by beards ? 
If so, your lordship has none at all.” 

A professor, recently, in preparing for an operation 
at the hospital, produced an immense grip sack, and 
proceeded to take such a number and variety of ob- 
jects out of it, that a freshman was heard to say — 
“ Billy, isn’t Santa Claus late this year 1 ” 

In its series of lectures to be delivered in the Con- 
vocation Hall, Trinity University Review mentions 
the following : — 

Feb. 8th. — “ Immanuel Kaunts," by Prof. J. Clarke 
Murray, LL.D., McGill University, Montreal. 

Grad, to be — “ I am not satisfied with the photo- 
grapher’s work ; he should have brought out my 
moustache.” 

Friend — “ Why didn’t you ask him 1 He could do 
it for you if you wished.” 

Grad, to be — “ Well, if he could, he can do more 
than I can.” 

Professor — “ Is it easy to change the direction of 
motion, as, for instance, in running round an icy 
corner?” 

Student — “Yes, sir.” 

Professor (sarcastically) — “ Indeed, can you give an 
example ? ” 

Student — “ When you walk over the edge of a dock, 
for instance ! ” 

“A scientist says that the way to sleep is to think 
of nothing,” read Mrs. Barker to her husband, after 
the evening meal. 

“ If that be true, I should say you would find no 
difficulty in sleeping your whole time away, my dear,” 
pleasartly suggested Mr. Barker. 

“ No doubt, my love,” retorted Mrs. Barker with 
an angelic smile, “ for I think a great deal of you.” 

Mr. Barker hid the expression of his face in a cloud 
of smoke. 



Women are studying medicine in England in thor- 
ough earnest. At the recent examinations at London 
University, ten of the nineteen passes for honors 
were taken by women. In anatomy they took three 
of the six honors. In Physiology they secured four 
out of six. In materia medica only . did they fall 
behind, and even there they got three of the seven 
honors.^ In the face of such a record, the opponents 
of medical education for women are feeling a trifle 
uncomfortable. 



1889 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Ill 



HOMEOPATHIC PRESCRIPTION. 

Take a little rum ; 

The less you take the better ; 

Mix it in the lakes 

Of Wenner and of Wetter. 

Dip a spoonful out — 

Mind you don’t get groggy — 

Pour it in the Lake 
Winnipisiogee. 

Stir the mixture well, 

Lest it prove inferior ; 

Then put half a drop 
Into Lake Superior. 

Then every other day 

Take one drop in water ; 

And you’ll be better soon — 

Or at least you ought ter.” 



C-oUege lilorlb. 



The game played at Columbia this year is 
checkers. 

Lectures in Volapuk are now delivered at Yale, 
which is the first American College to add this langu- 
age to its curriculum. 

There are 18 J courses of study at Harvard. Mich- 
igan University offers 242. The latter institution 
has over 1,800 students. 

The Class of ’92 at Cornell has invited the lady- 
students of their year to join them at their annual 
banquet, and the invitation has been accepted. 

The Evelina de Kothschild School for girls at Jer- 
usalem has been opened under tbe direction of Mile. 
Fortun^e Behar. It has more than four hundred 
pupils. 

The number of colleges and universities in the 
States is the same as it was ten years ago, but the 
number of students has increased from 11,161 to 
32,316 in that time. 

The oldest college periodical and the oldest monthly 
of any kind in America, is the Yale Literary Magazine. 
Wm. M. Evarts was one of the first students who 
started it fifty years ago. 

The Medical Faculty of Trinity College have 
founded a chair in Surgical Anatomy. Dr. Teskey, 
who previously occupied the position of Demonstrator 
in Anatomy, has been appointed Professor. 

Dr. W. J. Alexander, late Professor of English 
Literature in Dalhousie College, Halifax, has been 
appointed to the vacant chair in Literature in Uni- 
versity College, by an Order-in-Council from the 
Ontario Government. 

Signora Catini has been elected to the Professor- 
ship of Pathology at the University of Pisa, Italy. 
She studied medicine at Bologna University. There 
is only one other woman holding a University Chair 
in Europe, Madame Kovalefsky, who is Professor of 
Literature at Stockholm. 

Miss Sophia Hayden, one of the two young women 
who are studying Architecture at the Institute of 



Technology, in Boston, received “ First first-mention,” 
i. e., took the highest rank, for an original design of 
a belfry tower this week. The competition was with 
about twenty-five young men. 

Miss Jane Harrison, noted as a Hellenic scholar 
and as a lecturer on Greek Art, is a candidate for the 
Chair of Archaeology in London University College, 
made vacant by the retirement of Sir Charles Newton. 
This is the first time in the history of the college that 
a woman has sought one of its professional chairs. 

Hon. G. W. Boss, Minister of Education for Ontario, 
has just submitted to his colleagues the name of the 
present Munro Professor of English Language and 
Literature in Dalhousie College, Nova Scotia, for the 
chair of English Literature in Toronto University. 
The appointment was confirmed, and Prof. William 
John Alexander, will assume office next October. 

Le Petit Journal, Paris, s lys : “ In England all the 
lyceums of young men have their companies of fire- 
men. Several large lyceums of young girls, not wish- 
ing, in a country governed by a woman, to be behind 
the school- boys, have organized corps of perfectly dis- 
ciplined firewomen. The colleges of Newham (Cam- 
bridge), of Girton (Oxford), and of Hollony (London), 
have given the example. Capt. Shaw, commander of 
the London firemen, has announced his early intention 
of inspecting the firewomen, helmeted, booted, and 
metamorphosed into veritable anges du foyer — angels 
of the fireside.” 

At the Cologne Congress, the naturalists discussed 
the question whether women could be physicians, and 
voted in the negative. Although they gave them 
credit for sufficient intelligence, it was argued that 
their more delicate nature prompted them to hesitate 
in face of dangerous operations, and thus to lose time, 
when only quick help could save life. We have 
some very successful women surgeons in America ; but 
what are facts against a theory? The whole performance 
was sufficiently absurd. To discuss at this time of 
day whether woman can be doctors ! A congress of 
women might as well decide, on a priori grounds, 
that men were too heavy-handed, slow and clumsy to 
succeed in anything requiring so much dexterity and 
delicacy of touch as a surgical operation. 

A course uf twelve lectures on the constitution of 
Canada, open to members of the University, will be 
delivered during the Easter Term, 1889, at Trinity 
College, Toronto, by J. G. Bourinot, Esq., LL.D., 
F.R.S.C., Clerk of the House of Commons, Ottawa, 
author of “ Parliamentary Procedure and Practice in 
Canada,” “ Manual of the Constitutional History of 
Canada,” etc. 

The titles of the lectures are : — 

I. Introductory. 

II. Canada under the Government of France. 

III. Military Government, 1760-1763, Quebec Act. 

IV. Constitutional Act, 1791. 

V. Its operation, etc. 

VI. Union Act of 1840. 

VII. The Confederation of the Provinces. 

VIII. Executive Authority. 

IX. The Parliament and Legislatures. 



112 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



X. The Judiciar}’. 

XI. Distribution of Legislative Powers. 

XII. General remarks on the System of Government. 

A gold medal will be offered for the best essay on 
“ The Federal System of Government.” 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON, 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

DP. O- DBo2c - Is^oantresil- 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© O-errsird. Street Ea.st, Toronto- 



D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

83 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

M falters ami lea’s Fariisliers, 

•SNOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITT.-^ 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and FasWonably Cnt, Singed and Dressed, 

0-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

’WlM.d.eor KCotel Bloclc, E»eel Street. 



TROY STEAM LAUHDRY CO'Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-lown Agency at GRAHAM BROS., si. Catherine Street, opp. Qneen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

=nzr. ) Bxy Y Y qxtr ( e= 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 




UP TOWN ; QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 



2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN ; 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire. Life, Accideni. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. or N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS' ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

^d-d.reee : 

30 ST. JOHIT STREET. 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 cSc GST St. Stjreet, ^v£oi^Ti3E:.A.ij 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 




Hot Air Fbacbs 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTLED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



JEstahlished 1859, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
Engraving ^printing 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 




Inuitations, Gards, Gnests, JpogFammes 
J^onogFams, kz., kz. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

2236 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Ht PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES k WALFOED’S. 

For GROUPS, gro to 

SUMMEEHAYES & WALFOED’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMEEHAYES k WALFOED’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

: me . chemical apparatus. 

S J^ull ^todk dog^tkntly oi) Tmported 

©ifedt ffoig tl\e I<ekdir|^ M^Htifkdtufefd 
of tl^e Wofld. 

AIV INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PA UL STREET. 




UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

» * »»»*»»»»»**»* ***** 

¥ Ifhotographers 

^ It (|r^ ^ * * * * 

Xew Scale of 'Prices this year 
for Students. 



THE OE^VXJITNTE 

OOOIfl’S 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and sliould be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(IjI^ITEXS.) 



21, 2U (& 23 Sf. Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H, LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing of Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C, .ISIFOBB'S 
CHEAP BOOK, STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS A SON,) 

OASIS. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

3l,4:OiTTE!.E.&.Xj. 




1850 and 1852 XTOTB-S SAMS ST., COZllTZTL McCXIiX.. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, .FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

TfBijL.iDizr-isLJSJD:Ei orjOTnii^a-, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS, 

le- SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. -®a 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit .will repay you. 




