Vol. X! 



No. 2 




Printed by the Buri.and Lith. Co., Montreal. 











UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing Chemists, 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

NIACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR i IMENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &0„ 
175 St. Janies St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 



CHURCH, CHAPLEAU, HALL & NICOLLS, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



147 St. Janies 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 



St., Montreal. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 
ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



CEUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 



McCIBBON & MAJOR, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 

STANDARD BUILDING, 

157 St. James Street. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 4 Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES ST., 

(NEAR THE COURT-HOUSE,) 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

School and College Text Bools ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT JLZMHE3S ST. 



aiemical ivokks, hooks used ijv * hit course, 

SC I E JVC E TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock: and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbing Books, &c., &c., 

^ BE8T VALUE I IV TOWN - ^ t 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DKYSDALE & C0„ 

333 St. «T ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XL] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, OCTOBER 31st, 1887. [No. 2. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 

C. W. Hoare, Med. ’88, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas 
A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

C. F. Martin, Arts ’88. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

J. A. MacPhail, Arts ’88. 

A. P. SOLANDT, B.A. 

H. E. C. Mason, Arts ’88. 

W. J. Delaney, Med. ’89. 

R. H. Clerk, B.A., Law ’89. 

W. H. Hopkins, Science ’88. 

Blanche B. Evans, Corresponding Editor for Ladies’ Dept. 
The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 

We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions expressed 
by correspondents. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 15-17 

Contributions 17-19 

McGill News 20-21 

Societies 21-22 

Sporting 22-23 

Personals 23-24 

Exchanges 24 

Between the Lectures 24-25 

Correspondence 25-26 



E6itorials. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

It was our intention, as intimated in our last issue, 
to proceed to take up seriatim the different courses of 
lectures in this faculty, and to discuss each of them 
in a fair, open and candid spirit, with a view to their 
improvement. The letter of law student has, however, 
for the time being drawn us oft - from our purpose ; for 
this issue at least, we consider it our duty to treat the 



question once more, generally, before going into details. 
We desire to say here, that our references to the school, 
in last issue, have done what we hoped they would. 
They have set the students themselves thinking on the 
subject. We are heartily glad that law student has 
written us ; we hope that not only law students, but 
medical, arts and science men will find it to their 
interest to use the Gazette for the expression of their 
views and wants. 

In the main, this letter of law student shows him 
to be with us in our contentions that reform and 
improvement are very much needed. 

We hope the pages of the Gazette will never be 
lacking in proper respect to the teaching body : we 
entertain for these men the highest possible respect ; 
but it is an insult to their liberality of thought, to them 
as educated gentlemen, to pretend that we cannot differ 
from them, urge views opposed to theirs even with 
warmth and energy, nay, even accuse them of want of 
hearty interest, and yet not respect them. We shall 
never yield a servile obedience, nor do they expect it : 
such is not a British, much less a McGill characteristic. 

That so many pages of the Gazette have in past 
years been devoted to the affairs of the law faculty, 
will be to thinking men, no evidence that the editors 
or any of them are “ afflicted with a chronic distemper 
which finds relief in venting its virulence ” on the 
question : on the contrary it will be an evidence to the 
more thoughtful of our readers, that a difficult under- 
taking has found men not easily discouraged, and the 
whole tenor of law students’ letter goes to prove this 
to be true. 

Law student must not allow his powers of rhetoric 
to becloud his common sense, of which his letter shows 
him to be endowed with no small share. Surely there 
was no “ rabid denunciation ” in our last editorial on 
this subject 1 More than this, we defy law student to 
point out any “rabid denunciation” of the school in our 
editorial columns for the past four years. Interviews 
with past graduates have been published, which certain- 
ly were severe ; but the object was to get at the opinions 
of men who had passed through the school; their names 
were given in every case and they speak for themselves : 
we simply collected public opinion. 

One point more : law student insinuates that the 
professors will be influenced in their treatment of 
present students at examination time by the Gazette’s 



16 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



criticisms. This is a gratuitous insult to the professors 
which we feel hound to resent. He need fear no 
such meanness. If the courses are improved, the 
examinations will be correspondingly improved, and 
students will have nothing to complain of. If we are 
able to eftect no change in the class work, students 
may rest satisfied, the professors will make no changes 
in the examinations. 

Again, law student says that those whose heads are 
now safe are agitating for reforms. He does not know 
the facts of the case ; if he did he would know, that 
in past years the agitation was carried on, and that to 
the knowledge of the professors, almost solely by men 
who were then students and who in a few weeks from 
the date of the publication of the articles, went up for 
examination. And why? because they had faith in 
the great need of what they contended for, and equal 
faith in the fair dealing of their teachers. 

The concluding part of law student’s letter is a 
valuable plea in favour of our contentions. In next 
issue we hope to begin our criticism of the lectures, 
as promised. 



President of the Faculty dinners and that of Vale- 
dictorian. In the former election, the whole col- 
lege takes part, and the amount of buttonhole elec- 
tioneering now being gone through with, would 
astonish an outsider. The men of ’88 and ’89 are 
sufficiently well acquainted with the candidates for 
this proud position to make a judicious choice ; 
but we wish here to address a few remarks to the 
students of ’90 and ’91. If it is of the slightest con- 
cern to you who presides at your dinners, take the 
trouble to make the personal acquaintance of the 
various candidates. You want a man of good pre- 
sence, some oratorical powers, and a great deal of 
savoir fair e. The man who has the best combination 
of these qualities is the one to vote for. Remember, 
that if he be a member of the Maritime Association, 
or of the Y.M.C.A., or of any other society, that that 
fact will not influence his way of conducting your 
special feast, and is not fraught with bloody ruin to 
any college association. With regard to the office of 
Valedictorian, a man who can write a respectable 
essay and read it distinctly and fluently, is all that is 



COLLEGE POLITICS. 



It has often been said that a college is but a minia- 
ture world. In no way is this saying better exempli- 
fied than by the manner in which college politics are 
conducted. The students of a Faculty are divided 
into numerous parties. In Medicine, there are the 
Y.M.C.A., which, we believe, will not be denied to 
have a desire to see its members occupy prominent 
positions in the gift of the students ; the Association 
of the Maritime Province men ; a secret society, and 
a class of students belonging to none of these organi- 
zations and generally inimical to them all. These 
divisions have candidates in the field for every pro- 
minent college honor, not openly, luckily for their 
studies, which would otherwise suffer considerably, 
owing to the elaborate campaigns which would in- 
evitably result, but secretly. Each of these candi- 
dates is vigorously canvassed by his party, as the one 
man capable of saving the faculty from disgrace in the 
eyes of the college world, and is opposed by every 
body else, on the grounds that his interests are iden- 
tical with those of his backers. 

How, we wish to ask what the pitiful little influence 
of a man holding the most prominent college posi- 
tion amounts to ? How can he better the condition 
of any one student in the Faculty ? Or, what perni- 
cious influence can his election have on any college 
institution ? ° 



There are two much coveted positions yet 
be filled in the class of ’88 Medicine— that 



needed ; and how his connection with any society can 
affect anything or anybody is beyond our compre- 
hension. It has been noted lately that the society 
feeling is not so strong now as formerly. But, oppo- 
sition to a candidate, if any interest at all be taken in 
his election, is generally based on the most absurd 
partizan grounds. 



DO YOUR DUTY. 

We have again to appeal to the students of McGill 
for a more hearty co-operation with those who have 
the affairs of the various societies of the University in 
their hands. These institutions do not receive the 
support their usefulness merits, nor are they valued 
as highly as they deserve. As a consequence, they 
are carried on under conditions of considerable diffi- 
culty, and lose much of their intended serviceable- 
ness. 

Why is it that the Athletic Association, as an ex- 
ample, has not a larger support from the students ? 
Its right to a place among University institutions is 
manifest to all. It is a source of much pleasure and 
healthy advantage to a large number of men, and, 
such being the case, no one should be willing to see 
its usefulness crippled by a lack of funds or of cor- 
dial assistance. 

That the Undergraduates’ Literary Society has been 
of almost incalculable benefit to those who have been 
active and constant participants in its affairs, is a mat- 
ter of common consent. Yet we feel that the strict 
limits of the case are not overstepped when we affirm 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



17 



that many of the students, through a lack of regular 
attendance at its meetings, lose altogether the advan- 
tages which the society is calculated to occasion. They 
thus serve to narrow its influence and power for ser- 
vice, instead of sustaining it by hearty interest and 
support. 

The same general truth holds in regard to the 
Y.M.C.A., the Reading Room, and the various other 
societies of the University. If these are not so suc- 
cessful as it is desirable they should be, the onus of 
the fault lies with those who either neglect them al- 
together, or give them only a meagre assistance. That 
they are useful institutions, no one denies. Their’s 
would be a loss seriously felt in McGill, and would 
assuredly give rise to objectionable comparisons be- 
tween this and other universities. They fill a useful 
place, indeed a necessary one, in collegiate life. We 
therefore urge a greater attention on the part of all 
the students to their claims. If each man felt that 
upon him devolved the duty of aiding and sustaining 
the various societies which have been mentioned, we 
should hear less of deficient finances and restricted 
usefulness. 

STUDENTS AND POLICE. 

The different accounts of the encounter between 
students and police are so contradictory that it is diffi- 
cult to form an opinion as to what a correct version 
of the affair is. 

Two facts, however, are pretty well established — 
the students did some things in the Academy for 
which no excuse can be offered ; for example, lighting 
fire-crackers in a crowded house is so reprehensible an 
act that the wonder is the great body of students did 
not themselves punish the offender for such an insane 
deed. The other fact well established is that the police 
made a most unprovoked attack on the students out- 
side the Academy. We have it on the best authority 
that neither the police, the onlookers, nor the students, 
had the remotest idea why the batons were used so 
freely. 

Contributions. 

A COUNTRY BOY. 

[Written for the University Gazette.] 

By Nihil V. Erius. 

CHAPTER II. 

* * All the world love6 a lover.” — Emerson. 

Mr. Nettleton James was a man of about five-and- 
forty, portly, merry, and rather above than below 
medium height. He could do the work of three men, 
and made all his employees do the same. Keen to 



the last cent in business, he was nevertheless chari- 
table to a degree in private life. His motto was — 
“ When money’s to be made, use all legitimate means ; 
when it is made, make it useful to help your fellows.” 

Mr. James had a family, as all men worth anything 
do have. “ A family,” he told a young man once, 
“ is the best anchor to hold one to respectability. 
Beyond a certain point a man can get neither wealth 
nor position without a family.” His family consisted 
of a wife and three children. Mrs. James' age was so 
unimportant a matter to everyone but herself, that it 
is not worth while risking her anger by revealing it. 
The children were nineteen, seventeen, and fifteen, 
Mr. James called them children, but Charley, the 
eldest, who carried a cane, smoked cigarettes, and 
supported his neck with a three-inch collar, thought 
that his father and the law were singularly ignorant 
of the time when manhood arrives. The other mem- 
bers of the family, Alice and Edith, were familiarly 
known as “ Dawn” and “ Dusk,” names given them 
one day by their father, when in a merry mood, and 
which clung to them on account of their appropriate- 
ness. 

Dawn was the elder. The sunlight sparkled in 
her hair as through the golden clouds of morning. 
Her eyes were like the sea where it meets the sky, 
and her figure excelled that of Cleopatra, the world 
ruler, for it actually exceeded five feet in height, 
while Cleopatra’s only reached four feet six. 

And yet Dawn was by no means as changeable as 
the sea or as happy as the sunlight. She was a sedate, 
motherly body, who just doted on babies, and who 
was known to every one of these creatures in the 
neighborhood. And as for common sense, beyond 
her unpardonable love for infants, there wasn’t a per- 
son in the world had more. 

Dusk was already a dangerous creature for a man 
with feelings to meet. She had all the seductive 
langors of a summer night about her, with its fire-fly 
flashes, lulling the heart into fancied oblivion, and 
stealing its strength the while. She was nearly a 
head taller than her sister, of exquisite figure, and 
with a great square head set in a frame of dark brown 
curls, that fell heavily and thickly upon her shoulders, 
and swept in a wayward throng of tiny ringlets over 
her high, smooth forehead. Her eyes, like her hair, 
were dark brown, and of great size and brilliancy, 
with a world of feeling, and strength, and soul in 
them. Her’s was a lion’s head, one that, when she 
should reach womanhood, would awe, not by its beauty 
alone, but by its quiet power. She reminded one of 
that brave-hearted queen whose tender arm was brokon 
in the staple as it barred the way to her husband’s 
life, for there was that in her eyes sometimes that 
told she would do the same if need be. 

And as yet she was only fifteen. 

It was a few days after the farewell walk of Lizzie 
and Peter that Mr. James came home from work witb 
a frown upon his usually happy face. He ran up the 
steps of his house on Sherbrooke street and rang the 
bell violently. The door was almost immediately 
opened by “ Dusk,” who had been watching for him, 
and who now placed herself in his way demanding 



18 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



“ A kiss first, papa, or you cannot come in,” she 
said, holding up her lips to his. 

Her father lightly swept her mouth with his, and 
pushed past her, saying — 

“There, there, Dusk, don’t be silly. I’m in a 
hurry. Let me past.” 

The girl stood where her father had left her, the 
clouds gathering about her brows and the rain-drops 
glistening in her eyes. It was the first time her father 
had treated her so, and she resented it. She tapped 
the ground with her foot in anger, and then shutting 
the door, marched upstairs to her room. 

Meanwhile, Mr. Nettleton James had sought his 
library and locked himself in. He pulled down his 
desk, and drawing some documents from his pocket 
spread them out before him. 

The sun, just setting behind the mountain, poured 
a flood of light into the room, and a sparrow or two 
chirped in the garden. 

After a while he rose, and unlocking a drawer in 
the desk drew out some more documents, among them 
a photograph, at which he gazed long and earnestly. 

“Yes,” he muttered, “there is no doubt about it. 
They have the same face, but it is countrified in the 
boy. Forbes, Forbes, why did you send him here! 
Better if he had lived and died a farmer. But one 
cannot break the eaglet’s spirit or tame the zebra to a 
horse’s work.” 

Mr. James resumed his study of the documents, and 
the sun had long sunk to rest ere he heard the gentle 
tapping that had been going on at the door for some 
time. 

He rose, restored the documents and photograph to 
the drawer, locked it, and then opened the door. 

“ Well, child ? ” he asked as he saw Alice ; “ what 
is it you want ? ” 

“ Are you not coming to tea, papa ? ” said Alice. 

“ It has been ready over an hour. Mother says you 
can go to work after tea, if you must.” 

“ My work is over, Dawn,” he replied, kissing her. 

“ I’m sorry I kept you waiting.” 

Together they went into the dining-room and sat 
down. Edith was not there. 

here’s Edith, Alice ? ” asked Mrs. James. 

“ She s in her room, mamma. She doesn’t want anv 
tea.” J 

“ Why, what’s the matter? Is she ill ? ” 

Iso, broke in Charley, “but she’s in a terrible 
temper over something. I went in to tell her tea was 
read v, and she chased me out like a whirlwind. It 
wasn’t my funeral if she didn’t get tea, so I left her 
and came down.” 

“ What is wrong, Dawn 1 ” asked Mr. James 

“She says you were cross, papa.” 

“ Cross ! cross with her? Why, I only saw her at 
the door. Oh ! yes, I know now. I was in a hurry, 
and answered her sharply. I’ll soon make that right.” 

So saying, he left the table, and went upstairs to 
Edith s room. Edith was sitting at the window when 
her father entered, and did not hear him until he 
spoke to her : 

“ Crying, Dusk, crying? Did you feel it as much 
as that? What a cross, old bear I am. Will vou not 
forgive me, girl ? ” J 



Edith burst into sobs, and her father drew a chair 
beside her, and putting his arms around her, sat with 
her in the twilight. 

“ Come, Dusk, forgive and forget. Mr. Forbes had 
sent me a young man to look after, and that worried 
me and gave me too much to do, else I would never 
have been cross.” 

“ I hate him,” said Edith, vehemently. “ Why did 
he come bothering you, and making you cross ? ” 

But Edith’s were summer tempests, with sun ever 
ready to shine through them, and she was soon down- 
stairs at tea all smiles and sunshine. 

“ Mother,” said Mr. James, late in the evening, as 
the family party sat round the grate fire, still only a 
luxury, “ Forbes has asked me to keep an eye on a 
young chap named Simson, and I have asked him to 
spend Saturday evening with us. That will be all 
right, I suppose?” 

“ Oh ! dear,” said Edith. 

“How unlucky,” said Alice. 

“ Confound it,” muttered Charley. 

Mr. James raised his eyebrows enquiringly, and 
looked at the three younger members of the family 
circle. 

“Well, what’s up now?” he asked. “Have I 
broken in on any arrangement of yours, youn<* 
people?” 

“ Why, papa, didn’t you promise to take Edith and 
me to the concert on Saturday, and isn’t Charley 
going with Bertha ? ” 

Mr. James’ face expressed the dismay he felt. He 
made it a rule of his life to fulfil every promise he 
made to his children, and finding himself in a quan- 
Gary, gave free vent to his feelings by rubbing his 
head and exclaiming, “ Oh ! my, oh ! my.” 

“ I’m going, anyway,” said Charley. 

“You’re a boy,” said Edith. “ I wish I were a boy, 
I’d go, too. I’ve got to drag poor papa wherever I go. 

If I were a boy, I’d be a soldier, and I wouldn’t smoke 
horrid cigarettes” — Charley had just lit one — “or go 
around with my head over a fence.” 

Charley rushed at her, partly in fun, partly an- 
noyed, but Edith eluded him, and found shelter in 
her father’s arms. 

Keep still, children,” said Mr. James \ “ let us 
see what is to be done. The girls must go to the 
concert, even if I stay at home. I’ll tell you what 
we’ll do. We’ll take him with us.” 

“ Don’t ask me to be his companion, papa,” said 
Edith ; “ you know I hate him.” 

“ You’ll have to go with anyone your papa chooses, 
Dusk,” said her mother. 

I R be just as cross and rude as ever I can 
be,” said the girl, shaking her curls. 

“ Which will not be much, Dusk,” said her father, 
laughing. “You cannot be really unkind, even if 
you try.” 

And thus it was decided that Peter should go to 
the concert with the James’. He was not so ignorant 
ot music as his new friends supposed, though of con- 
cert etiquette he knew so little as to go dressed in 
gray home-spun, much to Edith’s secret amusement 
^Alice’s chagrin. He had heard the low of cattle, 
the bird songs in the morning, the murmur of brooks, 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



19 



and the hum of bees ; he had heard the wind in the 
branches, the rustle of water fowl in the reeds, the 
wail of the loon, the tap of the Avoodpecker, and trie 
far-off ring of the woodman’s axe ; and he had heard 
Mr. Forbes playing by the hour on his violin, and 
weaving these sounds into the sweetest or grandest of 
music. In other Avords, Peter had found his music 
where the composer finds it, and he recognized it, 
though Avithout the poAver to copy it, as a dog under- 
stands the voice Avliile unable to speak. Peter Avas — 
it may as Avell be said now as aftenvards — a true 
genius, Avith the poAver of seeing and hearing for him- 
self, and Avho looked upon the Avorld from his own 
standpoint, scarcely recognizing that others might see 
differently. 

There Avas much trouble about Peter’s gray suit — 
not open trouble, but still there Avas trouble. Charley 
ran his eyes over Peter’s great proportions, and gave 
up all hope of lending him a dress suit. Alice had 
donned evening dress, and could not Avell be escorted 
by him ; so Edith, still considered child enough to be 
spared such attire, Ava», as she said to herself, “afflicted 
Avith the monster.” Peter himself Avas nervous. 
Edith, as her father said, could not really make her- 
self disagreeable, for there Avas ahvays an inexhaustible 
fund of pity at the bottom of her heart that her bit- 
terest enemies could make sure of, so Peter did not 
knoAv how she loathed him. Yet he was nervous. 
He was quick to spy out things, and soon saAv that 
his style of dress was hardly Avhat Avas expected of 
him. He envied Charley’s expanse of shirt front, 
with its pearl studs, and he coveted the easy man- 
ner in Avhich Charley Avore his dress suit. But Char- 
ley Avas an exceptionally fine fellow in society. His 
failing for cigarettes and high collars Avere only spots 
on the sun, and he never let either go too far. His 
collars Avere ahvays just Avithin the limits of fashion, 
and a feAv lozenges removed the scent of tobacco. He 
was a muscular young felloAv, and a bright one ; in 
fact, taking him all in all, he Avas a creditable speci- 
men of a city youth, and one not to be abashed, even 
by the heavier physique of the country lad. BetAveen 
ourselves, Peter, though so much the larger, might 
not have come out best Avith Charley in a bout of 
fisticuffs or even in Avrestling. But Peter only coveted 
Charley’s clothes and perfect ease. 

(To he continued.) 



GLEANINGS 

Again the Old Refrain — “ The harvest is past, the 
summer is ended ” — And the hurrying men, with note 
books, the croAvded halls, of hospital, college, and 
Justice, the smooth-tramped Campus, the laboratories 
alive, the cheerful lights from the room for dissection, 
the midnight chorus shoAv clearly enough that for 
students at least the Avinter is here. 

* 

* * 

There is no better indication of the moral standing 
of a community than the closeness Avith Avhich the 
marriage relation is observed, says someone ; but, 
having a regard for the primary ties of kinship, and, 
perhaps, not drinking too much, do not constitute 



morality any more than does a series of transactions 
ritualistic and spiritual, Avith God on one side and us 
on the other, constitute religion. There is involved 
a species of moral sAvindling Avherever it is attempt- 
ed to procure something and offer nothing in return, 
even if that something be of the slightest and faintest 
kind an obligation can assume. Listen to Emerson : — 
“ The one base thing is to receive favors and confer 
none.” Even if the man is smiling imvardly, is there not 
something of this kind when he reads your Star or 
Witness, Avhen he patronizes your Gazette reading- 
room, and sports, and does not pay his fee? Is he 
not deceived? To such an extent as a man is under 
obligation to you, to that degree are you his master. 

* 

* * 

There is an expression of Goethe’s — “Nothing is 
more indicative of a man’s character than what he 
finds laughable.” ThisAAOuld be more applicable, 
and the truth of it more apparent, if it Avere culture 
instead of character. There is no man of a disposition 
so malevolent as to find suffering a subject for mirth ; 
but it is a peculiar moral fact that elementary minds 
experience a pleasing sensation at the expression of 
it, and this principle seems to lie at the root of the 
observation of the German. One Saturday morning, 
at the depot of the Canadian Pacific Railway — not 
Canada Pacific — a habitant Avas seen to experience the 
most hilarious enjoyment, because he saAv a railway 
porter assist to a second-class car, by means of a truck, 
a Avoman suffering apparently as to the lower extre- 
mities He Avas guilty of no intentional Avrong,hoAvever 
much his amusement might savor of derision to the 
helpless object ; indeed, his merriment shoAved on the 
surface nothing more than a set of excellently Avhite 
teeth ; but the man illustrated the same bent of mind 
as Gounod gives expression to by the surging beat of 
the distant drum all through his oratorio of the 
Redeemer — the restless, seemingly malicious interest 
of the jeering croAvd. 

* * 

There Avas a geological expedition to Lachute — Sir 
William Dawson Avith the students of the fourth year 
in Arts and Applied Science. Even if there Avere no 
geology in the question, to be in theAvarm atmosphere, 
one of Nature’s children, brought up by her oavu 
methods, creates ; to see the process by Avhich he has 
persuaded her to yield up the tremendous secrets of 
the formation of the Avorld ; to spend the Avhole of an 
October day, in the yelloAV sunlight, in field and 
Avood ; to mix Avith men whose profession entails a 
correctness of thought and life ; Avith men of strong 
physical side, who grapple with the problems that 
others contemplate in wonder — all this makes one 
knoAv hoAv good and necessary a thing it is to go to 
the Great Mother for encouragement and sympathy. 
Sir William forgets nothing ; he knoAvs that the body 
and its comfort count for something after all. 

* 

* * 

With some such mingled feeling of Avonder, fear, 
and contempt, as of the tardy devotee, Avith gift in 
hand, does one for the first time approach that strange 
conception which is more than a raihvay building cor- 



20 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



poration in the eyes of a nation ; and it did not despise 
the offering of one dollar and thirty-five cents, but 
then the spell was broken, it was in vulgar harness to 
convey one to Lachute and back. 

* 

* ?k 

Within the past few weeks the face of the country 
is sadly changed — naked limbs for warm, red, and 
golden ; fallen leaves for gleaming foliage ; no green 
thing, unless some clustering sprigs of Artemesia, 
but then, these are not the rich stored fruit. 

* 

* * 

There is something of the savage in everybody. 
What else is that strange, stern pleasure one feels in 
watching a display of physical energy? Can it be 
akin to that ot the Roman in the bloody spectacle 1 
The sports have been with us and passed away. We 
have had pleasure, and profit will follow if there wa 3 
through them a right temper. Let us not regard it 
as an irrelevancy if the Faculties suggest that lectures 
now come in for a first place. 



Even Socrates was amused to see how fearful people 
were lest he should recommend useless studies. The 
highest claim we urge i3 that they are “ practical ” 
philosophy, not because it makes for the high themes 
of human destiny, but that it is supposed to be effica- 
cious in dealing with the aberrations of those theolo- 
gical thorns, “Some” and Others ; ” astronomy, because 
it permits a forecast of the weather, French or Ger- 
man, that they make a man’s services to his employer 
worth an additional hundred a year. 



JHcSiU Keufs, 



We hear that the ladies are to wear gowns for the 
future. 

Why, of course they are : one of the deans chest- 
nuts. 

We understand that some of the graduates in 
Science have presented a petition to Corporation, ask- 
lng to be allowed to elect their own Representative 
reflow, independent of the other faculties. 

The Freshman class are at present, “On Strike ” 
butting against a halloioed custom of assuming a stand- 
mg posture, while disentangling knotty questions in 
the Botany grinds. They are not backed however 
with as much reason and right as those in the former 
case, and it only remains to be seen who will triumph 
the professor or the freshmen. ’ 

The present 2nd year in Medicine certainly con- 

t f m !. a .i Ha ? pden J 0r Wa{ *ington, judging from the 
stand they have adopted in certain class matters of late. 

One of the professors, ever peculiar for his foibles 
and pet theories, attempted to introduce the infantile 
system of monitors, a relic of candlelight days : the 
object of which was to spy out absentees. Happily 
the boys sat on his little fad, which if it had taken 
effect would doubtless eventually lead to the beech- 
rod and dunce’s cap. 



McGill may well be proud of her harmony quartet ; 
this year they are exceptionally good. Basso profundo 
is disposed of by Mr. C. F. Wheeler in his own 
peculiar style. Mr. Morphy, a new arrival, handles 
the baritone part in a happy manner, his rich and 
mellow voice blending with the other parts faultlessly. 
Mr. Hewitt — not the professor — as high tenor, and H. 
Kemp as 2nd tenor are unrivalled. Mr. Morphy has 
an unusually brilliant comic song, tuned to the air 
of the “ British Grenadiers,” in which he simply out- 
Patties Patti, and which he will be pleased to chant 
on any occasion, by special request, if assured of police 
protection. 

A gloom was thrown over the Medical students of 
McGill on Thursday, October 2 7 th, when they heard 
of the death of Albert H. Davis. The fact that but a 
week or ten days before, he was amongst them, brimful 
of life and good spirits, intensifies the gloom. His 
death was the result of a severe attack of diphtheria. 
A meeting of the Students was called immediately 
after announcement of his death, 1 p.m., resolutions 
of condolence with the family of deceased were passed, 
and lectures were discontinued for the remainder of 
the day. At 7 p.m. the students of the entire years 
in medicine, assembled at the Hospital, and accom- 
panied the body to the station ; several of the profes- 
sors likewise attended. On the coffin was placed a 
beautiful wreath of flowers, being the last tribute of 
respect that many of them will have a chance to pay 
to the memory of an old friend. 

The following resolutions were adopted at a meet- 
ing of the students of the Faculty of Arts, held 25th 
October last : — 

To the Students of Victoria : 

Resolved “ That the students of McGill Univer- 
sity, in the faculty ot Arts, have learned with pro- 
found regret of the death of your Principal, Dr. Nelles, 
and that they desire to express the earnest hope, that 
the vacancy thus created may shortly be filled by one 
worthy to succeed your late Principal.” 

To Mrs. Baynes : 

Resolved “ That the students of McGill Univer- 
sity, in the faculty of Arts, desire to express their 
sympathy with you, in your late bereavement. By 
his kindness, and readiness to meet the wants of the 
students, the late Secretary of the University had 
endeared himself to them, and they trust that the 
memory of a pleasant past, may do much to alleviate 
your present sorrow.” 



SCIENCE FACULTY. 

This year, the first year in Science numbers about 
sixteen. There are, however, six freshmen in the 
second year, and, in addition, one in the third, making 
a total of twenty-three freshmen in this Faculty. 

Work appears to have been fairly plentiful amon^ 
our Science students this last summer, the following 

having been engaged in the active pursuit of thei? 
profession : — 



M. 

E. 



o W ;x H ? pki ? 8 ’ Sanitar y Engineer’s Staff, City, 
b. M. Lovelace, Montreal and Maskinonge Railway. 



1887 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



21 



A. T. Childs, 


G. T. R. Shops. 


A. Roy, 


Copper Mine, Megantic County. 


C. L. Walters, 


Cote St. Paul, Special Survey. 


F. Ogilive, 


C. P. R. Shop. 


Evans 


South America 


C. H. Macnntt, 


Geological Survey of James’ Bay. 


W. J. Hamilton, 


Insurance Agency. 


Tuplin, 


C. P. R. Shops. 


McGillan, 


Land Survey. 


Addie, 


Land Survey. 


Smaill, 


Johnston Paint Factory, City. 


Mooney, 


Nail Factory, City. 


Jamieson, 


Paint Factory, City. 


Ellicott, 


Gatineau Valley Railway. 


C. P. Reed, 


Pontiac and Pacific Railway. 


Williams, 


Wm. Bateman & Co , Machine Shop City. 




Societies. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The first meeting of the Society for this session was 
held on 30th September. The following officers were 
elected : — President , J. A. MacPhail ; ls£ Vice Presi- 
dent , H. Pedley ; 2nd Vice President, R. McDougall ; 
Secretary , A. J. Elliott ; General Committee — Messrs. 
Childs, Martin, Harvey, Truell and Gibson. The 
attendance was large and considerable interest was 
evinced. 

The second meeting of this institution was held on 
the 7th inst : The attendance Avas large, and much 
interest was shown in the proceedings. There was a 
decided feeling in favor of having a piano, as the 
additional life thrown into the meetings last year on 
this account was not forgotten. Accordingly, a com- 
mittee was appointed to lease one. 

The programme consisted of an essay by Mr. Bryan, 
a reading by Mr. Nichols (by proxy) and a debate — 
“ Resolved, that the Aborigines of America were un- 
justly treated by the white man.” 

Messrs. Pedley, McGregor and Charters upheld this 
statement, while Messrs. Giles, Mack and Harvey 
denied it. The house decided in favor of the latter. 
LeRossignol acted as critic. 

17th October, 1887. 

After routine business, the first shot of what may be 
expected a long “ constitutional ” warfare, was fired. 
Two weeks previous Mr. Childs gave notice of motions 
of a most voluminous and exhaustive character, aim- 
ing at the amendment of the constitution. On the 
same evening Mr. Rodgers gave notice that he would 
move that a new constitution be drafted. It was to 
the consideration of these motions that the meeting set 
to work, but before anything was done the time had 
arrived to begin the programme, which consisted of 
— an essay by Mr.Garth, a reading by Mr.LeRossignol, 
Jr., and a debate — “Resolved, that Canada is destined 
to become a French speaking country.” 

The affirmative, Messrs. Gibson, McDougall and 
Robertson, held, that owing to the rapid increase in 
the French population in Quebec, Maritime Provinces 
and even in Ontario, their school systems, and their 
increasing influence in the Provincial and Federal 
Parliaments, the ultimate result was only a question 
of time. The negative, Messrs. Childs, Hall and 



Elliott, dissented from this view, holding that an in- 
creased French population did not mean a deteriora- 
tion of the English language ; that the great incentive 
which causes people to intermingle, is commerce ; that 
the English language is pre-eminently a commercial 
language, and the English speaking people a commer- 
cial people ; and that from this cause the English 
language is constantly becoming more and more wide 
spread ; and they could see no reason why it should 
not apply to Canada. The house decided in favor of 
the affirmative. It may not be out of place here to say 
that decisions are given, not on the merits of the 
question itself, but upon the arguments produced by 
the speakers. Mr. Martin acted as critic. 



EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY TO McGILL. 

Saturday evening, Oct. 22nd, a company of about 
40 students, many of them Medicals, withdrawing 
from other attractions, met in Molson Hall. Their 
object was to see and listen to Dr. Smith, of Edin- 
burgh University, who, with Professors Drummond 
and Greenfield, and Mr. Webster, a Canadian student, 
has been visiting the principal American colleges. 
Mr. McDougall, Pres. Y.M.C.A., occupied the chair, 
and the meeting was opened by singing, and prayer 
offered by Rev. Principal McVicar. 

Dr. Smith was then introduced, and began to 
speak. He thanked those who were present for com- 
ing, under existing circumstances, and expressed re- 
gret that Prof. Drummond was not with him, but he 
had been detained by an engagement in New York. 
Dr. Smith is a fine, manly fellow, and his earnest, 
straightforward manner appeals very strongly to 
every true student. He went on to say that he, with 
the gentlemen named above, had been sent by the 
students of Edinburgh, to tell the students in America 
about the work of grace that has been done in their 
University. Not much has been seen in the papers 
about it, as reporters were not allowed to attend their 
meetings. The idea was, to confine the work to 
students. It was begun by a few devoted men, with 
great fear and trembling, but its success has been a 
surprise even to the most hopeful. This beginning 
was made three years ago, and from that time it has 
gone on. Hundreds of students have become Chris- 
tians. The Medicals have been chiefly interested and 
benefited. They believe in a manly Christianity, 
and take a decided stand for Christ. Many of the 
leading athletes are now using their strength in the 
service of God. What wonder, when the work com- 
menced by a visit from such athletes as Stanley P. 
Smith and C. T Studd 1 

Many incidents were related, illustrative of the 
work, of which time would fail to tell. Dr. Smith 
was listened to intently throughout, and when he 
closed, an earnest longing that such a movement 
should be experienced in McGill was felt by all. 

This sentiment was voiced by Sir Wm. Dawson, 
Avho said he was glad to hear the message Dr. Smith 
had brought. When he Avas a student in Edinburgh 
40 years ago, such an event as that described to-night 
was undreamt of. He bore testimony to the almost 
uniform success of Christian students, and said he 



22 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



had watched with pain the course of many a blight 
young fellow who got into fast company, and soon 
had made an utter failure of life. He wished there 
might be a religious awakening in McGill this winter, 
and that the scenes enacted in Edinburgh might be 
witnessed here also. He expressed his desire to help 
bring about such a state of affairs in any way he 
could. Both speakers were warmly applauded. 

On Sunday morning, Dr. Smith met about 25 
Medicals, in the Congregational College, to advise in 
regard to plans of work. Results will be seen later. 
Again, Sunday afternoon, the usual Y.M.C.A. meet- 
ing was addressed by Dr. Smith. A large number of 
the boys turned out. An account was given of the 
way in which the Christian movement spread from 
Edinburgh to the other Scottish Universities ; depu- 
tations of students were sent to all of them, and with 
the best results. Not content with reaching the 
students alone, the Holiday Mission was formed ; 
many of the Christian men gave up their vacation to 
the work of visiting the towns and villages of Scot- 
land, and so the whole country has been stirred ; the 
good done is inestimable. Dr. Smith impressed upon 
his audience their personal duty in the matter. Why 
should not such a movement take place in McGill ? 

Sir William Dawson again spoke, and very touch- 
ingly referred to his early desire of being a minister 
of the Gospel ; and said a revival of religion amon" 
his students now would give him the greatest delight! 
He then led in prayer, and the meeting was brought 
to a close. 

Many will look back with pleasure to the deputa- 
tion sent us by our fellow students of Edinburgh 
University. 



Sporting. 



The Annual Sports of the McGill University Ath- 
letic Association, postponed from Friday, took place 
on Saturday, 22nd October, commencing at 9 a.m. 
The field officers were : — 



Referee : Wm. Sutherland, M.D. 

Time-keepers : C. H. McLeod, Ma. E.; James Bell 
M.D. 



Judges at finish : C. E. Moyse, B.A.; H. T. Bovev 
M.A.; T. W. Mills, M.A., M.D. 

Starter : R. F. Ruttan, B. A., M.D. 

Clerk and Assistant-Clerk : J. A. Kennedy, B A 
S. W. Meek. J ' 



Measurers : A. Drummond ; J. A. MacPhail. 

Scorers : J. A. Springle ; D. B. Holden. 

Judge of walking: R. J. B. Howard, B.A., M.D. 

At 9 a.m. the bell rang and the programme was pro- 
ceeded with. At 4 o’clock the Prizes were distributed 
from the steps of the Peter Redpath Museum by Mrs. 
J. H. R. Molson (owing to the necessary absence of 
Lady Dawson), in time for the commencement of the 
Foot-ball match between McGill 1st and Quebec city 
team. Instead of an analysis of the events and com- 
parison of the records, we publish the official list for 
the past five years. In four instances the record was 
broken, and equalled in one. This, taken with the 
fact that the day’s sports were not marred by any 



exhibition of temper, and passed off with the utmost 
smoothness and satisfaction to the spectators, competi- 
tors, officers and committee, made for 1887 a field- 
meeting enjoyable and encouraging. The committee 
had the support of all the faculties, and deserves the 
thanks of every man for its efforts as a body and as 
individuals. The association is now on a firm footing, 
and so long as it is conducted as at present, the success 
of the sports and field meetings will be assured to the 
college. 

A movement in the direction of intercollegiate 
sports was commenced this year, and its success is 
merely a question of time. All the colleges consulted 
favor it strongly, and if time had allowed would have 
sent representative athletes. This was the first meet- 
ing at which the Vets, took part, their fine physiques 
and good nature make them an element of strength 
and formidable competitors in the association. 

1. Kicking foot ball : 1st. J. H. Dunlop, Law, place kick, 
143 ft. drop, 130 ft. 54 in ; 2nd. H. A Budden, Law, p. k., 
114 ft. 3 in., d. 127 ft. 34 in. 1883 — Haythorne, 144 ft. 74 in.; 

1884 — Hobertson, 160 ft ; 1885 — Robertson, 135 ft. 10 in. ; 
18S6— Warden, 138 ft 8 in. 

2. Throwing hammer (16 lbs.) : 1st. H. McEwen, 65 ft. 1 in. 
Med ; 2nd. M. Martin, 5S ft 64 in. Med. 1883 — Walker, 75 
ft. 7| in. ; 1884 — Trenholm, 69 ft.. 1 in.; 1885 — Haentschell, 
60 ft. 1 in.; 1886— Bowen, 65 ft. 5 in. 

3. 100-yards run : R. W. Walsh, Vet. 11 J sec.; 2nd. M. W. 
Hopkins, Sci. 1883 — Clark, lij sec ; 1884 — Lesage, 10J sec ; 

1885 — Kennedy. 10 2-5th.; 1886 — Hopkins, 11 2-5ths. 

4. Throwing 56-lb. weight ; 1st. C. W. Haentschell, 20 ft. 
4f in. Med.; 2nd. H. McEwen, 19 ft. 3f in. 1883— Church, 
19 ft. 5 in.; 1S84 — Haentschell, 19 ft 24 in. ; 1886 — McEwen, 

19 ft. 2 in. 

5. Throwing cricket ball : 1st. F. L. Kenney, 279 ft. 104 in. 
Med.; 2nd. A. L. Shanks, 263 ft. 1883— Klock, 279 ft.; 1884 
— Lesage, 278 ft. 4 in.; 1885 — Sullivan, 285 ft. 4 in.; 1886 — 
Brown, 283 ft. 6 in. 

6. Role leap : 1st. J. D. Harrison, Med., Sft. 64 in.; 2nd. 

A. S. Lamb, Vet., 7 ft. 9$ in. 1883 — no entry ; 18S4 — no en- 
try ; 1885— Robertson, 8 ft. 9 in.; 18S6— no entry. 

7. Running high jump : 1 st. R. T. McKenzie, Arts, 4 ft. 11 
111 .; 2nd. A. J. Connolly, Med. 4 ft 10 in. 1883— Klock, 4 ft. 

8 in. ; 1884— Springle, 4 ft. 10 in. ; 1885— Boyd, 4 ft. 11 in. ; 

1886— Connolly, 4 f . 8 $ in. 

8 . Putting shot, (16 lbs.) : 1 st. M. W. Murray, Med. 30 ft. 
11 ^ in. ; 2 nd. C. W. Haentschell, 30 ft. 71 in. 1883— Tren- 
holm, 32 ft. 7 in. ; 1884— Trenholm, 32 ft. 04 in. ; lS85-Mc- 
Gaunon, 28 ft. 74 in.; 1886— Smith, 29 ft. 44 in. 

9. Standing broad jump : 1st. W. Rogers, Arts, 8 ft. 4| in. ; 
2nd. A. E. Vipond, Med. 1883— no entry ; 1884— no entrv ; 
1885— Pomeroy, 9 ft. 64 in.; 1886— Pringle, 9 ft. 114 in. ' 

10 . Tug of war: 1st. Arts— England, Brown, McDougall, 
Robertson, Dobson, AVhite ; 2 nd. Vets — MacAulay, Munro, 
larker, Austin, Simpson, Smith. 1883 -Medicine ; 1884— 
Medicine ; 1885— Medicine ; 1886— Arts. 

11 . One-mile run : 1st. C. W. Haentschell, Med , 5 min. 34 
sec. ; 2 nd. W. S. Morrow, Med., 5 min. 5 sec. 1883 — McTa»- 
gart, 4 min. 544 sec. ; 1884- (Open) Moffat, 4 min. 40 sec ; 
Haentschell, 5 min. 8 sec. ; 1885 — (Open) Moffat, 4 min. 40 sec.; 
Haentschell, 5 min. 6 sec.; 1886 — Johnson, 5 min. 9 sec. 

Hue-mile walk : 1 st. D. D. White, Med. 8 min. 58 sec. ; 
2 nd. H. A. Budden, Med., 9 min. 5 sec. 1883— (two miles) 
Smith, 17 min. 58g sec ; 1884 -R. Arthur, 8 min. 47| sec. ; 
1885— ftwabey, 8 min. 15 sec. ; 1886— Carmichael, 9 min. 15 
sec. 

13. 880-yards run : 1 st. C. W. Haentschell, Med. 2 min. 174 
sec. ; 2nd. G. A. Brown, Med., 2 min. 19 sec. 1883— McTag. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



23 



gart, 2 min. 7 sec. ; 1884— Haentscliell, 2 min. 47£ sec. ; 1885 
— 2 min. 14§ sec. ; 1886 — Brown, 2 min. 22 l-5th sec. 

14. Running broad jump : 1st. J. M. Moore, Med. 17 ft. 2f 
in. ; 2nd. N. Anderson, Med., 16 ft. 114 in. 1883 — McFarlane, 
16 ft. 8 in. ; 1884 — Lesage, 18 ft. 2 in. ; 1885 — Boyd, 16 ft. 
104 in.; 1886 — no entry. 

15. One-mile bicycle race : 1st. H. M. Ramsay, Sci., 3 min. 
22J sec. ; 2nd. D. B. Holden, Arts. 1883 — Holden, 4 min. 4 
sec. ; 1884 — Holden, 3 min. 584 sec. ; 1885 — Guy, 3 min. 334 
sac.; 1886 — Holden, 3 min. 28 sec. 

16. 440-yards run : 1st. G. A. Brown, Med., 57 l-5th sec. ; 
2nd. D. McCannon, Med. 1883— Hutchison, 59 sec. ; 1884— 
Kennedy, 59 sec.; 1886 — Hamilton, 60 l-5th sec. 

17. 120-yards hurdle race : 1st. A. J. Connoly, Med. 194 sec.; 
Ind. A. W. Walsh, Arts. 1883 — Lesage, (no time given) ; 
1884 — (withdrawn) ; 1835 — (no race) ; 1886 — Walsh, (no time 
given). 

18. Three-legged race : (no entry). 1883 — (no race) ; 1884 — 
Corsan and May ; 1885 — May and Aylen ; 1886 — May and Pal- 
mer. 

19. 220-yards run : 1st. M. W. Hopkins, 254 sec. ; 2nd. J. 
M. Moore. 1883 — (Open) Thompson, 23£ sec. ; Clerk, 24£ sec. ; 
1884 — Lesage, 25£ sec. ; 1885 — Weir, 25 3-5ths. ; 1886 — Hop- 
kins, 254 sec. 



FOOTBALL. ' 

Last Saturday, the 22nd inst., the St. George F.B.C., 
of Quebec, and McGill faced each other in the college 
grounds, in the first of the Quebec senior championship 
series. Owing to the Sports having been postponed 
until Saturday, the game was rather late in starting, 
and on this account two thirty-five minutes were 
played instead of the usual two three-quarters of an 
hour. 

The following were the respective teams : — 

Quebec — Price, Laurie, Smith. Bignell, Davidson, 
Howe, Jackson, R. J. Davidson Patton, Bickell, Scott, 
Henderson, Crawford, Todd and Dunn. 

McGill : wings — Macdonnell (Capt.) Wilde, Lucas, 
Richards ; forwards — Naismith, Rexford, Drummond, 
Macnutt, Mulligan, Henderson ; quarter-hack — Dun- 
lop ; half-hacks — McLean and H. Hamilton ; backs — 
Hamilton and Blanchard. 

Umpires — McGill, H. Young ; Quebec, Elliot. 
Referee — R. Stirling, M.F.C. 

The kick off was taken by Quebec, and the college 
backs failing to return the ball sharply enough, a suc- 
cession of scrimmages took place commencing at the 
home team’s 25 yard line. McGill, however, by steady 
scrimmaging forced the visitors back inch by inch, 
and the rubber went into touch near Quebec’s goal- 
line. 

“ Harry” Hamilton secured the ball from the throw 
out, and by a neat piece of play made a touch down 
for McGill. However, a crooked throw was claimed, 
and the ball was returned. A straight throw this time 
with a repetition of “Harry’s” manoeuvres planted the 
ball fairly behind Quebec’s goal posts. Blanchard 
converted this into a goal. Quebec shortly afterwards 
secured a try, from which, however, they failed to 
kick a goal. Half-time was called with the scores 8 
to 4 in favor of McGill. 

The next half opened with McGill defending the 
southern end of the field. I 'rummond kicked off and 
landed the ball into touch. After the throw out the 



game became a repetition of the scrimmaging of the 
first half, until by a neat bit of combination play on 
the part of Mulligan, McLean and Macdonnell, the 
latter secured a touch. The referee, however, decided 
that the ball had been passed forward. Nothing fur- 
ther worthy of notice occurred, and time was called 
with the ball well up into Quebec’s territory. 

The game was a very friendly one throughout, and 
was not marred by any bad dispute. Quite a crowd 
of spectators witnessed the game, and, as usual, inter- 
fered slightly with the players. 

The visitors played a hard and good game through- 
out, their scrimmage being especially noticeable. On 
the other hand, McGill’s scrimmage was slightly dis- 
organized, and evidently lacked practice. 

Moreover, McGill was very weak in good team play. 
As individuals they were good, but combination play 
was sadly needed. 



GRADUATES VS. UNDERGRADUATES. 

This match was played on the college grounds, on 
Thursday, commencing about 4 o’clock. 

On the graduates’ side might be noticed the familiar 
faces of many of McGill’s old first team men. In ad- 
dition, three of the present team played against the 
students. 

The undergraduates were weakened by the loss of 
the three men playing on the opposite side, and sev- 
eral absentees. 

The game was a good and fast one throughout, and 
was characterized by the best of good feeling. The 
team play of the undergraduates was the best done as 
yet this year, and gave hopes for the future. 

The graduates secured one rouge, and by the aid of 
“Harry” Hamilton (Capt.) a goal from the field, mak- 
ing a total score of seven points. 

McGill present had to its credit at the end of the 
game three touches and two rouges, in all fourteen 
points. 

H. Young refereed to the satisfaction of both sides. 



Personals. 

Dr. MacMillan, ’85, was in town last week. 

J. A. Nicholson, B.A., ’87, is teaching in the city. 

W. Forneret, B.Ap.Sc., is at similar work on the 
river. 

Dr. J. R. Clouston, '88, has returned a sadder yet 
a wiser man. 

A. W. Gerrie, B.A., ’84, is off to Brandon, on 
mission work. 

Dr. Hurdman, Ottawa, ’85, was in the city for a 
few days lately. 

A. P. Murray, B.A., 87, holds a position in the 
Bank of Montreal. 

W. F. Ferrier, B.Ap.Sc., has gone out to Germany 
to complete his course. 

Archibald McArthur, B.A., ’87, is Principal of the 
High School, Granby, Que. 

Dr. Geo. Ross is back at work again, quite recov- 
ered from his last summer’s illness. 



24 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



J. McCarthy, B.Ap.Sc., ha6 been engaged all sum- 
mer in an Architect’s office in Chicago. 

F. I’edley, B.A., ’86, is at Cobourg, studying law. 
He looks lovely in a young moustache. 

J. K. Unsworth, B.A., ’84, has a nice little church 
at Paris, Ontario, and is getting along well. 

J. P. Ball, B.Ap.Sc., ’86, is assistant on one of 
the Harbor Commissioners’ Surveying Boats. 

F. T. Metcalf, ’88, we are sorry to hear, will not be 
able to return this session on account of ill-health. 
He is going South for the winter. 

A. B. Clements, B.A., ’86, is now one of the pro- 
fessors in the French Protestant College, at Lowell, 
Mass. He was in town last week. 

W. F. Loucks, Graduate Medicine, ’87, has been 
linked in marriage, since our last edition, to an estim- 
able young lady of Queensbury, Ont. 

Dr. C. Barr, ’88, spent his summer in Burlington, 
Vt., and graduated M.D. there in July. He intends 
returning to McGill to finish his course. 

William Sanders, B. A., ’87, is rector of the Episcopal 
Church, Lachute. On his last visit to our city he was 
married. We wish him much happiness. 

D. Scully, Medicine, ’87, is seriously ill in the 
Western States; no hope is entertained for his reco- 
very, being afflicted with severe hemorrhages of the 
lungs. 

The present fourth year Science will miss one of its 
promising members this year. Green has, we are sorry 
to say, been obliged to go to Colorado on account of 
his health. 

F. T. Metcalfe, who has been lolling at Colorado 
Springs of late, will once more swell the list of McGill 
Medical Students, (he is expected to arrive im- 
mediately). 

W. B. Taylor, B.A., ’89, passed through the city 
some time ago on his way to Colorado. He will not 
be able to return this session, as he is going out West 
for his health. 

It is our melancholy duty to place on record the 
death of another Medical Student. First R. S. Hill, 
then H. Slater, now Albert H. Davis has to be recorded, 
for the year, ’87. 

J. E. May has again returned to Montreal, after 
a summer in Paterson, N.J. He is engaged in the 
C.P.R. shops, where another of his year, W. J. 
Carmichael, is also working. 

One of our Science graduates has been very suc- 
cessful “ out West,” Matheson, B.A.Sc., ’86. He now 
fills the responsible position of Assistant Superintend- 
ent of the Pueblo Smelting Works. 

W. A. Carlyle, B.Ap.Sc., who is engaged back of 
St. Jerome, on the staff of F. H. Adams, M.Ap.Sc., 
was in town last week : our ex-editor looks as well as 
ever. He came in to see the boys, and his best girl. 

During the past summer the following members of 
the teaching staff were in Europe engaged in hospital 
work : — Drs. Shepherd, Bell, Sutherland, and Major. 
They all speak very highly of the surgical work seen 
in Germany. 



We deeply regret having to announce the death of 
our friend and fellow-student, Herbert Slater, which 
took place on the 23rd of June last. He commenced 
the study of Medicine in McGill in Oct., 1885, and, 
apparently, was one of the most robust and healthy 
men in college. In his sessional examination, at the 
end of his first session, he passed in all his subjects 
with high honors, and when he resumed work in 
Oct., 1886, was looked upon as the Primary prize- 
man of his year. Early in the session, however, he 
began to suffer from bleeding of the lungs, and had 
to give up work altogether, and spent most of the 
winter in the hospital. He grew gradually worse, 
and in April, in company with his brother, Wm. 
Slater, M.R.C.S., of London, England, left for 
Philadelphia, in which city he died of phthisis, aged 
23 years. A man of exceptional ability, of a quiet 
and studious disposition, generous to a fault, and be- 
loved by all, we feel quite sure that all his fellow- 
students will remember him with their tenderest 
recollections. 



Exchanges. 



We have received the following exchanges, to date : 
Our School Times, Colby Echo, The Presbyterian 
College Journal, Manitoba College Journal, Knox 
College Monthly, The Portfolio, Tuftonian, The Argosy, 
College Student. 

The Knox College Monthly for September is, on the 
whole, very heavy reading. There is little in it that 
evidences a desire to bring theological students into 
more intimate and active contact with the world as it 
is. To our mind, this is the great need of the clergy 
of the present day. There is, however, one article in 
the issue — “ History as a force in modern culture,” 
that does not deserve this censure, but which is an 
excellent well-written essay : we shall look for the con- 
cluding numbers of the article with much interest. 

The Manitoba College Journal is a modest little 
year-old publication, devoted to the interests of mis- 
sions. We wish it much success. Its issue of Decem- 
ber last, just to hand, contains an interesting account 
of Manitoba College. 

The Presbyterian College Journal is out in a new 
dress, and presents a very fine appearance. However, 
out of ninety-six pages of rather heavy reading, only 
thirty are written by the students, and recent graduates 
of the college ; these thirty pages include personals, 
student life and editorials. What is a college 
journal 1 

The Tuftonian for October 5th, is a good number. 
The editorials are business like, and we presume there- 
fore, to the point. 



Between the Lectures. 



Outside the house the freshman stood, 

And his cry was loud and shrill — 

“ Oh )r ! ! ! for the touch of a vanished foot 
And the sound of a dog that was still. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



25 



W Oman’s Fear — the mouse. 

Woman’s Sphere — a ball of yarn. 

A Bone op Contention — a femur in a student’s 
hand. 

I he Lads in Red — citizens after they have met 
the Montreal police. 

The Irony of Fate — the clubbing of Chief-Con- 
stable Bissonnette. 

I he Apple of Discord — the “ Pomum Adami” 
of a freshman at the Academy. 

“ It’s getting to feel like Fall,” said Professor 
Smiftkins, as he stepped on a banana peel. 

A drawing class has been started in the Arts’ 
Faculty. It has been noticed that the freshman often 
draw four, but the seniors seldom any. 

If there is a mournful thing in this world, it is to 
see a freshman staring open-mouthed at everything 
on his arrival in the metropolis, and three weeks 
later stalking about with a cigarette in his mouth, 
swearing that this is the slowest hole he was ever in. 



itorresponbence. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Sir : — During the past few years, the pages of the 
Gazette have been so frequently devoted to the 
affairs of this Faculty, that one is tempted to conclude, 
either that the editors, or some of the editors, have a 
chronic distemper, which finds relief in venting its 
virulence on this question, or that serious reforms are 
urgently demanded in the internal organism of the 
Faculty itself. Whilst it is impossible to justify the 
more rabid denunciations which have again and again 
been thundered forth by the Gazette, whilst there 
can be little sympathy with students who, when they 
deem their own heads safe, vehemently agitate for 
reforms, and violently assail the actions of men whose 
experience and admitted ability, place them far beyond 
the reach of carping criticism, yet with all due defer- 
ence to these men whose judgment we are bound to 
reverence, we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that 
there are changes, radical changes, which could be 
made with advantage to all who are connected with 
this Faculty. Yet so great are the obstacles in the 
way of a successful law school, that in many parts the 
student is compelled to equip himself for his profes- 
sion by office work and private reading. This i3 the 
case in the Province of Ontario, but there great stress 
is laid, and wisely laid, upon the previous educational 
attainments of the student, and so great is this stress 
that a graduate of any chartered University, even of 
McGill, is granted two years reduction in his inden- 
tures. Perhaps, the greatest obstacle lies in the 
difficulty experienced by professors, otherwise engaged 
in an arduous profession, in always being punctual in 
attendance on their classes, a most important factor of 
the qualifications of a successful instructor. In past 
years, the students of our own school have deemed it 



their duty, in fact, part of their honor to “ slope ” as 
many lectures as was consistent with getting a pass 
attendance, and undoubtedly, the irregularity of the 
lectures is largely responsible for this, for apart from 
the unpleasant and irksome feeling, that the absence 
of a lecturer causes, students naturally inclined to pro- 
crastinate in the matter of duty, and eager to enjoy 
themselves, require no better apology for their mis- 
deeds than to point to like delinquencies on the part 
of their professors. Here, then, is an opportunity for 
the students to begin the reformation. Let there be 
no more “ slopes,” but let the students, by punctuality 
in attendance, and close attention to the lectures, 
clearly show the professors that they are in earnest, 
and respectfully, but firmly demand that the profes- 
sors, as far as possible, deliver their lectures regularly, 
and when it is impossible to be in attendance, to notify 
the students. In this way, a simple reform will be 
effected and harmony in its accomplishment retained. 
Moreover, by thus showing their zeal as students, 
whether they may make further suggestions in practical 
improvement, although not in accordance with the 
convictions of the professors, or honestly criticise or 
condemn either the course of study followed or the 
lectures themselves, whether in method or in matter, 
they will command the respect of all, and have a 
right to expect the hearty co-operation of the professors 
in making the Faculty what it ought to be But it is 
impossible that any beneficial or permanent work can 
be accomplished, so long as our teachers have their 
time so distracted by diversified interests as at present. 
The vast extent of the science of law demands an 
enormous amount of deep thought and study to fathom 
and explain the profound principles of any well defined 
system of jurisprudence upon which the fortunes, lives 
and honour of a nation depend, and, unless a teacher 
can devote a large amount of time to preparation, his 
lectures must be of necessity dull, uninteresting and 
ineffectual. It is impossible for a man to practise law, 
to engage in politics and to lecture, all at the same 
time. Where lies the remedy 'i It is useless and un- 
just to ask men to work for honour or for the good of 
a community. Years ago, Dr. Johnson said, “ a man 
was a fool who would write for anything but money,” 
and what is true in literature, is none less true in 
lecturing. The Dean of this Faculty, in his address 
at convocation last April, urged the need of some 
endowments to increase the utility of the Faculty, but 
no one seems to consider law of sufficient importance 
to place a large sum of money at the disposition of the 
University for this purpose, and so for the present 
the Faculty is helpless. 

The great question at present pending between the 
University and the Bar of the Province is the project 
of increasing the number of lectures. Lectures may 
be increased to any extent, but unless quality be first 
attained, what object would be gained 1 By all means 
increase the lectures, if in so doing the quality is 
increased in a greater ratio. To the average intelligence 
a greater number of lectures would recommend itself 
rather than a longer apprenticeship, but even if both 
is required to thoroughly equip a man for his profes- 
sion, then assuredly let us have them ; but if either or 
both is, or are, only intended for a barrier to entrance 



26 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



and a protection to the profession, as is greatly to be 
feared, then such an innovation cannot be too 
vehemently denounced. Moreover, the fees now de- 
manded by the Bar are exorbitant and outrageous, and 
whilst money may purchase the way into a profession, 
it can never create brains. 

Law Student. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2239 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

:o: 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

:o: 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A-g-eivts for Sv£orrtrea.l arrcL 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 

Special to the Doctors and S tudents ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts made to order. 

SPECIAL TERM SS TO THE STUDEJNTS. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 




=--- ) BXJTT TTO'tJR ( 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

Wm. Notman & Son, 

* * _* * * * _* * * * * ****** 

¥ 1 1 h otog ra p h e rs 

* * ***** *~ *~* ***** ***** 

Jfeuu Beale of 'Trices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF 1 NEW YO ZELIEC 
ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly ------ $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New York is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY io the world, with the best record. 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circumstances considerably by acting as Agents in tbeir own Localities during Vacation. 

FAYETTE BROWN, Manager. 

1762 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



MONTREAL 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 lie 387 St. Steeet, ^^03stti5E^.Xj. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



P. ELEBRATED Hot WATER HEATERS 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



—{•Wholesale Manufacturers:- — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



(ILL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St, Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

HZEnSTETZ" IB. O-ZE^N-^T, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

BICYCLES!! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot- 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

Fencing Foils, 

Masks, Ac. 

Also Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro- Plate, &c . 

Watson «5c Feeton, 

53 ST. STJLPICE STREET. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. ik. G-ERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 





-Me PHOTOGRAPHY »» 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORE’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
IME CHEM ICAL APPARATUS. 

S’ tfull $to£k doi^tkntly ot) Imported 

Difedt frtn\ tl\e I<ekdir\g ^Iknufkrturt.f^ 
of tt\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 




254 St. James Street, and 15 St. Lawrence Iain Street, MONTREAL, 
and 73 Spares Street, OTTAWA. 



the gejvuiive 

C o ok’s Pp,iEirr> 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 2H & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK. STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 SND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTEEAI.. 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 



Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



snsstuamfias xssr the aim's* 

for 

Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 



LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA TO SELECT FROM. 



SuitSatlOvercoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

ESPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS . *©# 




