The McGill 

O w .1* 'L* T n T_ 

K^apat;^ l»x o^airy 

Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 



Vol. I No. 6 


Price 10 Cents 


Saturday, February 6, 1926 




CONTENTS 




EDITORIAL 

Universities 

On Debates at College 


A. P. R. Coulborn 

Stephen Leacock 


The Defective Executive 

Silver Birch 

Science and Belief 

Summer Warning 


F. R. S. 

S. 

J. A. Taylor 

Vincent Starr 



EDITORIAL 

C ONSTANT dripping, though a monotonous 
process, is reputed to have its effect even upon 
the hardest material. Consequently we offer no 
apology for again reverting to a subject upon which 
we have frequently had occasion to express our views. 
Our entertainment society, which, dissatisfied with 
a name bearing some relation to its purpose, takes a 
scarlet key as its symbol and its title, has recently 
announced its intention of decking out its members 
in “some kind of insignia which any visitor should 
easily recognize” — apparently to take the form of a 
large key — and has further urged the importance of 
every member “on duty” (a term significant of the 
change that has come over our hospitality) wearing 
“a distinctive sweater, with an embroidered badge 
or special hat.” The Society has also decided to hold 
a thé dansant, ostensibly as part of its function of 
entertainment, but really in order to raise money, 
although it has already been granted the full amount 
of the funds formerly devoted to entertainment pur- 
poses. 

We have no quarrel with the society for the mere 
raising of extra funds, though we question whether 
it would not be better to ask for a grant outright 
from the Students’ Society. It is obvious that if McGill 
is to entertain more lavishly, she must pay for it. 
But we have not seen one argument in defence of 
the pernicious idea that a distinctive dress is a neces- 
sity — save the questionable one that it is done at 
Dartmouth. Shriners and Ku Klux Klansmen need a 
farcical uniform, for their dress is but a symbol of 
their irrationality; athletes need a special costume, 
for the ordinary clothing of man is not designed for 
hard physical exertion. But there is no conceivable 
justification for dressing in special sweaters and hats 
men whose sole duty is that of putting strangers at 
their ease. We hope that the members of the Society 
will refrain, at this early stage of their official existence, 



from making themselves and the University look 
ridiculous. If they must wear a scarlet key, let it be 
on a key-ring and not in a button-hole. 

• * • • 

T HE McGill Daily is to be warmly congratulated 
on the establishment of a weekly column of 
“Collegiana”. The various exchanges that come 
into the Daily office provide ample material for an 
entertaining and instructive series of pointed para- 
graphs. The excellent examples published to date 
seem to prove that after all there is a good deal of 
truth in the statement handed out last year by a 
prominent McGill undergraduate in an address before 
the local Babbits who were cajolingly informed that 
“the college man of to-day is the Kiwanian of to- 
morrow”. We are glad to observe that the Daily's 
junior Mencken will not hesitate to expose some of 
the many examples of red-and-white Rotarianism 
unconsciously exhibited in the news columns of his 
own paper or the lectures of his own professors. 



W e wish to extend a hearty welcome to the British 
debaters, and regret that we go to press too 
soon to allow an account of their debate with 
McGill appearing in this issue. An article will be 
devoted to it in our next number. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 

Editors A. P. R. COULBORN, A. B. LATHAM, 

F. R. SCOTT, A. J. M. SMITH. 

Managing Editor: L. EDEL. 

MSS. may be submitted personally to any one of the editors, 
or mailed to The McGill Fortnightly Review. Apt. 16, 
989 Atwater Ave., Montreal. Unsuitable contributions will be 
returned. 



46 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Universities 

A. P. R. Coulborn 

P ROFESSOR Basil Williams, in his inaugural 
lecture delivered before the University of 
Edinburgh on Oct. 14th 1925, said “Perhaps. . 
the greatest benefit the university teacher can confer 
on his students is to encourage in them a highly critical 
attitude to the words of even the most venerable 

professor, In this way the study of history can 

powerfully help what should be one of the chief 
functions of a University, to see that it sends forth 
not a man nor a woman into the world of the kind that 
goes about saying that a thing is so, because they read 
it in a book or a newspaper, or because so and so said 
it.” Professor Williams’ lecture was entitled “The 
Value of History”, and he was concerned in his words 
quoted above with the value of history in adducing 
the critical attitude, but they might well be applied 
to the whole curriculum of studies in a University. 
It has been well said by the few wise amongst us that 
the graduate of a University need know not one single 
fact more than he knew when he sat for his Matricula- 
tion. What his period in the University should do for 
him is to show him how to think. 

If, then, we agree that the University man is the 
thinker, what shall we conclude of his destination 
after leaving the University, and what of his work 
while he is there, and what — most important of all — 
of the manner of man he must be to enter the Univer- 
sity? To answer these questions we must remember 
the place of the University in the community: it is 
that corner in which should be found the highest 
learning and thought which the community is capable 
of producing: it must be a nursery for the quintessence 
of wisdom: otherwise it has no raison d'etre whatever. 
It is merely a school if it produces business men, 
practical engineers, and the rest of the rank and file: 
it is only by courtesy that we allow that it may house 
for a time the leaders in the practical walks of life. 
It produces primarily thinkers, and the rest must 
take second place. The ordinary citizen professions — 
perfectly admirable and essential in their way — require 
a different order of training to that which the pure 
thinker needs, and this training they receive in schools 
which teach facts and technique. A University is a- 
part from all this, and unless it is kept so, it ceases to 
be a University. 

One of the greatest tragedies of the age — a tragedy 
far more calamitous in America than in Europe — is 
to see Universities trying to be schools at the same 
time. The two ideas are utterly and fundamentally 
different and attempts to combine them lead to the 
impairment of both. In the first place the real students, 
who come to the Universities to become thinkers, are 
necessarily in the minority, and the result of losing 
sight of the fact that they alone should be considered, 
is that the energies of the teachers in the University, 
and the University’s money are wasted on providing 
“schooling” for the other element. The highest in- 
justice — it amounts indeed to fraud — occurs when the 
latter receive degrees from the University of equal 
value with those which the real students receive. Who 
will desire to become a Bachelor of Arts if he knows 
that half the clerks in the local insurance firm are 
Bachelors of Arts? The clerks may be excellent fellows: 
we could not do without them, but is it fair to the 



thinking student, to allow the outside world to think 
that the clerks are upon an intellectual level with 
him? 

This may sound like a plea for the conversion of 
Universities into close corporations consisting entirely 
of a caste of “intelligentsia”. It is not that in the 
least. By all means admit to the University all who 
can shew that they are intellectually fit to be there, 
irrespective of what they wish to devote themselves 
to after their undergraduate course, but let it be clearly 
understood that those who come with the ultimate 
intention of leaving the halls of thought will not 
learn in the University the technique of a trade; 
they may go to technical schools for that. They should 
by all means be welcomed to the University, for they 
will in later life be the links between the University 
and the outside world. Thought is nothing if it can 
have no connection with the world at large, even if 
its only connection be to provide intellectual pleasure. 
The ordinary citizens who have come to the University 
for a space before entering upon their ultimate voca- 
tions are the very people to interpret between the 
two worlds, but the whole purpose of their coming 
to the University and the whole purpose of the Univer- 
sity’s existence is lost if their presence distracts it from 
its proper pursuits. They come as guests to a foreign 
land, and when they are in Rome they must do as 
the Romans do: that the Romans should begin to do 
as they do is an abdication of the position of Rome. 

Medicine, Law, Applied Science are not University 
subjects. McGill recognises this by separating them 
off from Arts, where alone is to be found true academic 
life; but even in doing this McGill sacrifices her place 
as a pure University — in company with nearly all 
other Universities: there are really few true Univer- 
sities today. Within the Arts Faculty we have com- 
bined pure Arts and pure Science, which should form 
the Faculties of a true University. But worse than this, 
the way in which subjects are taught in general is a 
proof that they are not intended in the -first place for 
thinking students at all. To take only one instance; 
there is a serious danger for the moral criterion to 
creep into the judgment offered in the lecture-room 
upon the great figures of the past, be they littérateurs, 
scientists, philosophers, historians or what not. In 
his lecture on the “Science of History” James Anthony 

Froude said, “An inferior artist if he is a better 

kind of man, will force on nature a didactic 

purpose; he composes what are called moral tales, 
which may edify the conscience, but only mislead the 
intellect.” And again, referring to Lessing’s “Nathan 
the Wise” which had the moral purpose of teaching 
religious toleration, he says, “The doctrine is ad- 
mirable, the mode in which it is enforced is interesting, 
but it has the fatal fault that it is not true.” The 
professor who indulges in this moralising is misusing 
the medium of the lecture room in precisely the same 
way as Lessing misused the medium of the theatre. 
But this is not as a rule the professor’s fault: he knows 
that he has before him a set of young men and women, 
the majority of whom do not think, nor are they 
learning to think. They have not the critical point 
of view — for after all criticism is a very large element 
in thought. The professor knows that his audience 
will not criticise his words: if he does not infuse the 
moral tone, he will be misunderstood. He makes the 
best of a bad job: he sacrifices the minds of the students 
to their souls. 



( Continued on page SI) 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



47 



On Debates at College 

Stephen Leacock 

I T has been suggested to me by the editor,— or rather, 
I suggested to him,— that there might be room in 
these pages for an article from me on college de- 
bating. It is a subject in which my interest was first 
enlisted forty-one years ago, when I took part in a 
school debate to decide the question whether Louis 
Riel should be executed. My colleague and I argued 
that he ought to be. We won the debate and Riel 
was duly hanged. This initial success has impressed 
me with the immense influence that can be exercised 
by college debates if properly organized. 

But it is my opinion that the great majority of col- 
lege debates, as conducted on this continent, start 
from an entirely wrong point of view. A debate ought 
to mean a training in the art of speaking in public. 
There are plenty of other exercises in college which 
supply a training in collecting and memorizing facts, 
plenty of other things which involve profound study 
in the bowels of the library. The whole point of de- 
bating at college lies in teaching the students to speak 
in public. This is an art exactly on a par with swim- 
ming. It lies within the compass of everyone up to 
a certain degree. Everybody can swim if he learns, 
and nobody can swim without learning. Everybody 
can speak, more or less readily (probably less)” if he 
has had practise. And nobody can speak without 
it. 

It is sometimes thought that to some people speak- 
ing is a natural endowment. But this is only true in 
a limited way. I am reminded here of the case of a 
young Scotch boy whom I had in my employ at Oril- 
lia. He fell off my launch into the lake and after he 
had been fished out someone asked him if he could 
swim. He answered that he could not but that he had 
“learned the motions of swimming” in a Scotch country 
school and was “intending to put them into practise.” 
The application is obvious. 

On the other hand whenever a college debate is 
organized, especially an intercollegiate debate of im- 
portance, it is taken for granted that what is mainly 
needed is a vast apparatus of facts. Some huge sub- 
ject is selected, as broad as the continent and as 
comprehensive as the census. “Resolved”, it runs, 
“that the state ownership of railways has proved 
a success.”— “Resolved that the operation of direct 
legislation in the State of Oregon does not justify 
its extensipn into Saskatchewan”. — “Resolved that 
the operation of light, heat and power companies 
under franchises is inferior to direct municipal con- 
trol.” These subjects selected, the two college 'cham- 
pions descend into the bowels of the library. They 
must lose no time. The great debate is only three 
months off. They disappear from sight. Their absence 
from classes is excused in a hushed whisper. They are 
preparing for a debate. As beside their activities a 
brooding hen and a maternity hospital are not in it 
for expectancy. 

From time to time word comes up to the outer 
world of their progress in preparation. It is rumored 
that they have unearthed some fine material on the 
Prussian Railways. It is said Professor Stodge has 
found for them the entire corporation reports of the 
city for seventeen years. It is known that they have 



written away to the Secretary of State of each of the 
nine provinces and the forty-eight states, and that 
the college postman staggers under the “material" 
that comes in. 

The great day arrives. The “champions” are hauled 
up from the library. Their myopic eyes blink in the 
light. They look a little pale. But what of that,— 
they are “prepared,” they are stuffed full to the hatch- 
es with a cargo of information. Carry tnem gently 
to the debating room or we may spill some of it. The 
great moment comes. The debaters stand up in their 
black gowns and their little white ties with each in 
front of him enough water for a poker party and enough 
books for a budget speech in parliament. And then- 
twenty minutes! Twenty little minutes! And two 
minutes more for rebuttal! Twenty minutes to argue 
out the intricate economics of a continent, and two 
minute; to “rebut” all North America. Twenty minu- 
tes to exhaust a subject where twenty years is all too 
few. And the victory goes to whichever side has more 
completely swallowed the census and makes a longer 
array of citations of statistics. 

Note further that the preparation itself, imposing 
though it looks, is a mere nothing. What can these 
two champions know after all, on a huge subject 
with only three months of preparation? They have 
merely touched the surface of it. Their knowledge 
would not enable them to write an intelligent page 
about it. They have merely wasted their winter and 
hurt their health. They ought to be taken some- 
where and given a glass of beer and a sausage. 

The proper method should be the exact reverse. 
The subject should be, if possible, one in which the 
student takes a real interest, something that has come 
into his life and about which he really wants to talk. 
Who cares about the state railways, — except Sir Henry 
Thornton. Leave them to him. 

I admit that the most attractive subjects would 
represent forbidden ground,— such as: — “Resolved 
that the lectures in this university are on the whole 
not a help to the human mind.” But at least the point 
is clear that the subjects should be of real, ordinary, 
everyday interest to the student, — not to someone 
else altogether. 

Now there are admirable subjects lying all around 
us without worrying over the state railways, — subjects 
which are so wide and so important that they defy 
the exhaustive preparation of Professor Stodge and 
his two champions. For example: “ Resolved that the 
inflluence of motion pidures is bad.” But our American 
students have become so badly damaged by the “pre- 
paration” idea that the moment this subject is prop- 
ounded to them, they at once rush to a professor and 
say “Where can I get a book on that?” Or perhaps 
a little later they announce with joy, — “I’m all right. 
I’ve found, an article on it.” For this attitude of mind 
there is no fit comment but the exclamation “Help.” 

The real preparations for that debate or for any 
other properly planned debate is to think about it, 
to get keen about it, to turn it over in one’s mind. Any 
facts that are wanted will then appear and can be looked 
for. The debater will begin to think “I wonder how 
much money is spent upon moving pictures?” When 
he has thought that he is in a position to go and hunt 
it up. But not before. And any student who can’t 

( Continued on next page) 



48 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



The Defective Executive 
or Soaked in System 
F. R. S. 

T He defective executive sat at his desk in the 
Union. Great beads of perspiration were form- 
ing on his imperious brow, for he was evolving 
a scheme whereby all information received during 
lectures might be pooled and reissued in the form of 
cheap sets of notes. 

In a comer of the room sat his right-hand man, 
Cardin Dex, busily engaged in calculating, from a 
file of pink cards, the exact degree of partiality amongst 
the Partials. 

“Card, old man,” said the D.E., “I can do no more 
of this at the moment. I am depressed; I need stimulus. 
Read me the list.” 

Cardin Dex knew what was wanted of him. The 
defective executive needed inspiration. He should 
have it. Picking up a sheet of official letter paper 
he read in a voice practical yet proud: 

“Students’ Council of McGill University, control- 
ling: — McGill Union, McGill Annual, Students’ Di- 
rectory, Literary and Debating Society, Players’ 
Club, McGill Daily, McGill Handbook, Red and 
White Revue, McGill Canadian Club, Scarlet Key 
Society, Employment Bureau, Musical Association, 
Choral Society, Mandolin Club, McGill Music Club, 
Rooters’ Band.” 

Long before the list was finished the face of the 
D.E. was glistening with such a glow as to appear 
positively globular. 

“That is us”, he cried. “We are it. Card, you are 
a trump. I am ready for anything now. Show me a 
Daily.” 

Seizing the jocular journal from the jocular-journal 
stand at his side he proceeded to get all student activities 
under his thumb. Suddenly he leaped to his feet, care- 
less even of losing control of the activities. 

“A crime” he hoarsed, “a crime within our very 
gates! Listen!” He read from the open Daily: 
STOLEN OR LOST 
MAJOR A WARD. 

Dropped after Presentation. 

“A Major, stolen from McGill! This is terrible. 
A Colonel would not have been so bad, but a Major — 



On Debates at College 

( Continued from page 47) 

think ought not to be a champion: he should study 
to be a professor. 

I have - said enough. I must not over labour the 
point. A subject of interest, defying exhaustive stat- 
istical treatment, relatively short notice, thought 
rather than collection of material, the attempt to 
speak what is in one’s mind not the repetition of what 
came out of someone else’s, — these are the things 
that make a real debate. 

May I add a last word of something like apology. 
I have to admit that since that debate at Upper Canada 
College when the Hon. Hal McGiverin and I hanged 
Louis Riel, I have never debated again. I am resting 
on my laurels. For after all, that school debate was 
a model. The subject was announced in the morning, 
we “prepared” it over our midday school dinner, the 
debate was held in the afternoon and Riel was hanged 
almost immediately. 

Is there no one on whom we could debate at McGill 
in the_same_way? 



terrible! He must have fainted after some official 
presentation or celebration, and then been kidnapped.” 
He fell back into his swivel chair, which began to 
revolve violently with the whirling of his super-effi- 
cient brain. 

“Who is Major Ward?,” asked Card innocently. 
“Don’t ask irrelevant questions, Card; this is no 
time for thought. We must act. We must find out 
what presentations or celebrations there have been, 
and who is the likely kidnapper.” 

He pressed three buttons simultaneously with the 
little finger of his left hand. Three Scarlet Key officials 
appeared. The D. E. issued orders with such rapidity 
that Card was unable to enter them upon the yellow 
order-forms. The officials vanished as completely as 
the Lord Rectorship. 

For a moment all was silent. Then a voice was heard 
outside the door repeating the numbers 95-73-6-81, 
the door was flung open, and a man entered in a series 
of short, sharp rushes. He was heavily padded, and 
wore a nose-guard. He looked up. It was the manager 
of the Cup-it-all theatre. 

“Good,” said the D. E., “you have come rapidly. 
Tell me, has there been any further presentation of 
Cups by Harold Lloyd recently?” 

“I guess not”, said the Manager. 

“That will do”. He was instantly tackled and shot 
down the discarded-cup shoot. 

Scarcely had the door closed before a shout of 
“William, William” resounded down the passages. 
Then the door re-opened, and a heavy figure bounded 
in. He glanced round the room as though it were 
somehow familiar. It was the Head of the Economics 
Department. _ • 

“Commendable promptitude”, said the D. E. 
“Kindly inform me if any of your students, when not 
engaged with Adam Smith, have shown a particular 
interest in Stevenson’s ‘Kidnapped’?” 

“I rather suspect,” replied the heavy Head, ignoring 
the question, “that someone is attempting to parody 
my ‘Defective Detective’.” _ . 

Before he could get any further he was hurled into 
a comer and buried under a heap of questionnaires. 

A panting was heard outside. Then the door opened 
a third time and a huddled form rolled onto the carpet. 
It unrolled and lay prone. It was the Leader of the 
Conservative Party. 

“Mr. Meighen, we of McGill, nay we of this un- 
visited Province, will not lightly forget this kindness. 
Have you, by any chance, held any official celebrations 
at Ottawa recently at which McGill men were present?” 
“No, by the Three Votes, No!”, said the prostrate 
politician. 

“Roll him out”, ordered the D. E. It was done. 
“Card, outside help has failed. We must help our- 
selves, like good executives.” 

They set out to look for clues. 

They thought they saw beauty in the McGill 
Gates. They didn’t. There isn’t any. 

The D. E. went down on his hands and knees and 
began to examine the avenue. Cardin Dex followed 
suit. Then other students, out of the sheer habit of 
following defective executives, did the same. Soon 
a great crowd was crawling up the avenue. Professors 
joined in behind when the movement was sufficiently 
large. In the extreme rear were the editors of the Fort- 
nightly in a compact row, noses in the air. All McGill 
was crawling. 



( Continued on page SI) 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



49 



Science and Belief 

J. A. Taylor 

I N his preface to What I Believe (Kegan Paul & Co. 2/6) 
Bertrand Russell writes, “In this little book I have 
tried to say what I think of man’s place in the 
universe," F and of his possibilities in the way of 
achieving the good life. In Icarus I expressed my fears; 
in the following pages I have expressed my hopes— in 
human affairs we can see that there are forces making 
for happiness and forces making for misery. We do 
not know which will prevail, but to act wisely we must 
be aware of both.” This passage illustrates admirably 
the purpose and mental attitude with which these 
two books were written. 

In such works as What I Believe perhaps the 
greatest difficulty for the author lies in the fact that 
most of the subject-matter is essentially controversial 
in nature. It is, needless to say, this very fact which 
makes the conclusions arrived at articles of belief. 
The state of knowledge, at present concerning man, 
and the relations of man to nature and to his fellow 
men does not permit of the acceptance of anything 
more than the most probable solution to these problems 
as grounds for belief concerning them. On the other 
hand, however, it enables us definitely to rule out many 
beliefs, fears, and superstitions that in the past have 
only added to the confusion and degradation of man- 
kind. Yet it is reasonably certain that a large propor- 
tion of the readers of this little book will not agree 
with its author as to what beliefs fall into the latter 
category. Bertrand Russell is a rationalist, and an 
exceptionally brilliant and capable one. It is impossible 
for any one out of touch with modem developments 
in philosophy, mathematics and even psychology, 
to appreciate the value of his contributions to these 
different fields of research. Yet in spite of the unique 
place that he occupies in man’s quest of truth, 
many of his conclusions will be repudiated by those 
of the orthodoxy, who, we are told, claim to have a 
firmer ground for belief in faith, and the authority 
of revelation. However, it is not given to all of us to 
be certain and happy in our choice between two such 
grounds for belief. 

It is claimed by some that not only the incomplete 
knowledge that we do possess, but even the nature 
of the knowledge process itself, is incompetent to 
grasp or describe the reality in which we find ourselves. 
Many, on the other hand, cannot find any justification 
for this supposition. The enormous increase in human 
knowledge in the last few hundred years has not only 
completely revolutionised our inherited ideas of the 
universe, and our mode of living, but in so doing has 
repeatedly achieved the impossible, has again and 
again transcended imposed "limitations” of the mind. 

If therefore in our attempts to fathom this real- 
ity we do not get to the bottom of its nature, we can 
either fold our hands in passive resignation, and call 
it a mystery, or we can go on sounding, for after all 
we might touch bottom here and there. In the former 
case our peace of mind demands that, in our idleness, 
we trust in a Pilot, who does the most difficult part 
of the work for us and who, we believe, can fathom 
or even direct the nature of things. We then steer 
the ship on His bearings. In the latter case we are 
too busy with chart and sextant, to worry about sharks 
or salvation. Swinging the lead brings its own reward 
in the exhilaration of gaining a yard. Here our beliefs 
involve action rather than submission. Only two are 
necessary. (1). Our faculties can resolve the order 



of nature to a practically unlimited extent. (2). The 
fact of volition conditions the course of events. These 
are grounded in experimental verification, which is 
the strongest foundation upon which any belief can 
rest. So long as we persist in making mistakes at the 
wheel, the rocks that we encounter en passage can not 
call our faith in question; e. g., the allegation that the 
late war involved the failure of Christianity as a civil- 
ising influence is often answered by the assertion 
that Christianity has not been given a fair trial. We 
have but to choose, and diligently steer. It is only 
the insincere ones who try to follow now one course, 
now the other that have reason to fear the outcome. 
The prevalence of moral and intellectual dishonesty 
in human nature does greater harm than any that 
might be attributed to the more radical of the views 
expressed in What I Believe. A man who publicly 
repudiates the Agnosticism to which he has privately 
given assent, rather than, as he thinks, violate his 
reason, is on a par with the one who denies the existance 
of i.thej God, affirmed, as he believes, by his own 
religious consciousness, and by the works he holds 
sacred, in order to gain wealth and power. 

It would be futile for me try to criticise Bertrand 
Russell from either point of view, concerning his beliefs. 
I will confine myself therefore to the expression of some 
of those ideas and speculations which the less con- 
troversial parts, as expressing deductions from known 
facts, have suggested. 

Man's Place in Nature 

“Physical Science is thus approaching the stage 
when it will be complete, and therefore uninteresting. 
Given the laws governing the motions of electrons and 
protons, the rest is merely geography — a collection 
of particular facts telling their distribution through- 
out some portion of the world’s history.” (page 10.) 

Soon after the publication of Newton’s Principia 
when it was found to what astounding exactitude 
the motions of the extra-terrestrial bodies could be 
explained, and even predicted, by means of Newton’s 
Universal Law of Gravitation, an eminent physicist 
voiced his belief that the science of physics was almost 
a completed system. Again, a short while before Sir 
Humphrey Davy showed, by rubbing two pieces of 
ice together, that heat was not a subtle fluid called 
“caloric”, but a mode of motion, another renowned 
research worker complained that there was nothing 
new for him to discover. Before the Michelson -Morley 
experiment was thought to give a definitely null result, 
i.e.,no difference in the velocity of that light which, 
sent out from a moving source, travels in different 
directions, — a very similar belief was prevalent among 
scientists that the last word concerning mechanics 
had been written. In fact, before the atoms of matter 
were resolved into electrons and protons as localisations 
of electrical energy in “Space,” the hypothesis of 
“Materialism,” founded ultimately on the “Diakosmos” 
of Democritus pretended to a reduction of the material 
world, in the last analysis, to the “ultimate particles” 
of matter, or atoms, and their motion as described 
by the laws of mechanics. Since then the Relativity 
theory, a consequence of the above property of light, 
has overthrown the fundamental physical concepts 
of absolute space, time, and motion, altogether. Again, 
following up the fashion set by the Quantum theory, 
there is a movement on foot in modem physics to 
re-establish a corpuscular or dart-like theory of the 
nature of light, which is very similar to Newtons 
original theory. At the same time the wave theory 



50 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



of light, as well established as any physical theory, 
still holds the field. Now there is direct experimental 
evidence for both of these theories, and yet they have 
so far appeared as incompatible. This example alone 
should suffice to assure us that the physicist will not 
be denied “The passionate delights of incomplete dis- 
covery.’’ (page 11). 

However there is another angle from which this view 
can be attacked. At present the physicist has not quite 
got “The laws governing the motions of electrons 
and protons,” particularly those of the latter, but, 
even supposing he had, and in addition the complete 
geography of their distribution — “written down in a 
big book at Somerset House with a calculating machine 
attached, which, by turning a handle would enable 
the inquirer to find out the facts at other times than 
those recorded,” even then it is doubtful if he could 
describe or predict a single event. In spite of the 
great Laplace, who I believe originated this logical 
fairy tale, there is at least one great factor which 
appears to have been neglected in the vastness of this 
view, and strange to say it is that in which Laplace 
was also the greatest pioneer, namely Probability. 
Even considering the development to which the theory 
of probability may some day attain, it appears as 
incompetent to predict the configuration at any future 
time, resultant from a given configuration of, suc- 
cessively, the electrons and protons in the various 
atoms, of these atoms in the various molecules, of 
these molecules in the latter-system of a crystalline 
substance or as dissociated in solution, or as combined 
in exceedingly unstable and complicated colloids, 
proteins, protoplasm, cells, and so on, such as occur 
in highly organised living bodies. The numbers of 
these ultimate constituents of matter in a single living 
body are quite inconceivable to the human mind, but 
the interactions possible not only at the respective 
organization-levels, but between these various levels 
themselves, present an unresolvable infinity of pos- 
sibilities, and while the body, on analysis, may not ul- 
timately consist of anything but these physical constit- 
uents, nevertheless the respective levels of organization 
and degrees of complexity may be such as to defy any 
treatment from the Calculus of Probabilities. In addition 
there seems to be adequate grounds for supposing 
that certain successive levels of organization may be 
equivalent to successive new factors determined in each 
case, not merely from the configuration at particular 
instants, but dynamically by the mutual coordination 
of the respective units. It is the belief of scientists that 
an explanation of the properties of the resultant in terms 
of the constituents and of their organization will 
ultimately be found, but at these successive levels of 
organization there is no sort of parity between the 
properties of the components and the properties of the 
resultant, and if we ignore the suggested intrusion of 
subtle forces such as the “Atomic Volition” of Lucretius 
and the “Elan Vital” of H. Bergson, etc., of which no 
indications have yet been discovered, we are bound 
to admit that the properties of the resultant are factors 
which do not inhere in a mere collection of the constituents, 
but in their organization. It may be that in the brain 
the highest form of such organization goes on, and 
such coordination on a grander scale may be the physiolog- 
ical correlate of thought. A propos of Bertrand Russell’s 
remarks as to the impossibility of one man playing a 
football match, I might add that a mere collection 
of men would be equally useless; which fact is more 
significant. 



A consideration of the primary organization-levels 
of matter will illustrate these points. All atoms may 
be resolved into electrons and protons, and a secondary 
unit, the alpha particle, which consists of two electrons 
and four protons. The proton is the nucleus or core 
of the hydrogen atom (atomic number 1) and the 
electron is its satellite. The alpha particle is the 
nucleus of a helium atom, (atomic number 2) which 
has two electronic satellites. Now the properties 
of say the hydrogen atom bear no simple relation to 
the properties of the constituent proton and electron 
as free. Again in a comparison of the hydrogen and 
helium atoms the properties of the latter can not be 
explained or deduced by considering merely the 
addition or collection of four atoms of hydrogen either 
of their properties or as physical entities, although 
the number of constituents is correct. The helium 
atom is as differentiated from the hydrogen atom in 
its properties as their respective nuclei, are. However 
the properties of the atoms are to a marked degree a 
function of their constituents as can be shown by 
arranging all the elements in the order of their atomic 
numbers, when the periodic variation of certain prop- 
erties becomes evident. This goes to support the 
scientist’s belief in his ability to ultimately explain 
the properties of a substance. Consider a simple case 
of the interaction of the atoms, say of hydrogen and 
oxygen, whose structure we know thanks to Niels 
Bohr and others, in the formation of a molecule of 
water; and the attempt to describe the various states 
of aggregation responsible for the corresponding 
physical and chemical states met with. This descrip- 
tion, quite apart from any explanation, is quite im- 
possible at present, athough much progress has been 
made. Indeed it may be of small consequence that it 
remain so, for we do not obtain our knowledge of the 
respective organization-levels in this way by synthesis, 
but directly, and perhaps the only important function 
such a synthesis could perform is to disprove the action 
of any metaphysical force, such as those already 
referred to. 

We must conclude then that the factors represented 
by the terms “atomic force”, “molecular force” etc., 
which are descriptive of these organization levels, 
further complicate matters. The equilibrium for ex- 
ample governing the structure and the grouping i.e. 
the chemical and physical isomerism, of relatively 
simple organic molecules, is most delicate. It is the 
purpose of Stereo-and bio-chemistry to investigate 
the factors determining such and similar changes in 
the highly differentiated organic compounds in the 
living body. The identification of such factors may 
go far in explaining neurological phenomena, and as 
the consideration of the more reflex type of action 
gives way to the consideration of the less, we may 
invade the very citadel of the mind itself. 

There is one more point that can be made. If “Elec- 
trons and protons, like the soul, are logical fictions — 
and not a single persistant entity” (page 17), then 
it is very difficult to see, no matter how many books 
there may be at Somerset House, or how fast our com- 
plicated calculating machine works, how the events 
so described or predicted could be anything else than 
a greater logical fiction. I hope this will acquit me 
of any disrespect to Laplace in referring to his logical 
fairy tale. 

“There is one simple test by which all the (met- 
aphysical) arguments (for the immortality of the 
soul) can be demolished. They all prove equally that 

( Continued on page 52) 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



51 



Silver Birch 

D ELICATE bender over pools, 
your body is as white and 
as slender as a girl’s. 

Stooping a little, you stand 
by a wide water, or droop 
forward letting your long hair 
drip slowly into the water. 

It is you who share 

with some women the power of bending 
beautifully to strange beauty, of 
leaning lightly in hiding hair 
over a wide water or an infinite love. 

S. 



The Defective Executive 
or Soaked in System 

( Continued from page 48) 

The D. E., unconscious of the commotion behind, 
led the procession up the avenue, along past the 
Redpath, down McTavish and west on Sherbrooke. 
When he reached the open mouth of a line of unlaid 
drain-pipes he entered it, piping-hot on the scent. 

Squads of police were now marching beside the 
undulating throng, keeping the students in line and 
preventing the professors from jostling one another. 
The McGill yell was started, but every one forgot 
the answer to “What’s the matter with Old McGill?” 

After the seventeenth drain pipe the D. E. stood 
up, baffled. Suddenly he saw that crawling things 
were issuing in a steady stream from the pipes. McGill 
students, in fact, were being turned out like sausages. 
Rage overcame him. Then he reflected that this was 
true of all American Universities, and he controlled 
himself before he spoke. 

“It is necessary”, he said, “again to remind the 
student body that under no circumstances may a 
parade be held unless permission has first been 
obtained from the Students’ Council and proper 
supervision provided. Offenders will be summarily 
dealt with.” 

A tremor ran down the horizontal backbones, 
spreading from man to man. In three minutes it had 
reached the Editors of the Fortnightly, who instantly 
took out pens and paper and began to write editorials 
attacking compulsory lectures, the Scarlet Key 
Society, and organized activities. Then the entire 
procession broke from the pipes and fled like frightened 
rats down the side streets. Not a man was left, save 
an over-large professor, stuck in the third pipe, raked 
fore and aft by excited policemen, and the Editors 
of the Fortnightly, still writing furiously. 

“On, Card, on!” cried the D. E. 

An idea had just struck him, — one of those ideas that 
are far too simple to be discovered immediately by 
great executive minds. He would find out who sent 
the notice of the crime to the Daily. 

They hurled themselves into the Daily Office, over- 
turning a sleeping editor whose unconscious mouthings 
were being put into shape by an assistant for the edi- 
torial of the next issue. 

“Has it come?” asked the D. E. 

“Winter has come”, mumbled the editor. 



They found the clue. It read: 

STOLEN OR LOST 
MAJOR AWARD. 

Dropped after presentation. 

Cardin Dex was the first to understand. “Some 
other defective executive dropped his major award 
after the presentation the other day”, he said, “and 
inserted this facetious notice. MAJOR A WARD is 
a Daily misprint.” 

“Is it possible”, murmured the D. E. dumbfounded. 

He slunk back to his office, his face, now excoriated 
by the excursion, appearing more than ever ready for 
instant execution. He thought of the Manager of the 
Cup-it-all, headfirst down the discarded-cup shoot; 
of the Head of the Economics Department, smothered 
under the pile of questionnaires; of the Leader of the 
Conservative Party, still unrolling. 

All to no purpose. 

“Card”, he said, “I am depressed. Read me the 
list, starting from the bottom.” 

Card began, in a voice sombre but still superior: 

“Students Council of McGill University, con- 
trolling: Rooters’ Band ” 

He stopped, petrified. The defective executive had 
slipped into the waste paper basket, stone dead. 

The post-mortem showed that his entire System 
was varicose. 

F. R. S. 



Universities 

( Continued from page 46) 

This brings us to the crux of the matter. Those 
students who force any cautious professor to moralise 
should not be in his lecture room at all. Our present 
system admits those who are not even to be leaders 
in the citizen world, but its rank and file. At their 
schools they learn strings of facts — facts — facts — 
with no meaning, — and then pass their Matriculation! 
Then the unfortunate University, having begun 
wrongly, slips into the abyss: it has taken unto itself 
school-children: in its kindness of heart it bears the 
consequences of its own error and continues to treat 
them as school-children. But how woefully it wrongs 
those others who are not school-children, and did not 
come as to school! Compulsory lectures, no less than 
moralising lectures, proceed from this same bad start. 
Crammed examinations come from it, and all the 
school-childishness of student “activities” comes from 
it. McGill, however, is on the right track, in raising 
the standard of Matriculation. But something more 
drastic than this is necessary. We have at present a 
system of “student advisers”, to whom the student 
is handed over after he enters the University. It would 
be a great and glorious thing if this proceeding could 
be placed anterior to admission to the University, 
and advisers could advise the faculty as to whether 
the student should be admitted or not. Only in such a 
personal way can the true fitness of a prospective 
student be discovered. Then will each successful 
student feel safe in his position and professors may 
devote themselves single-heartedly to their subjects, 
and may preface their lectures somewhat as Dr. 
Stephen Leacock does his elementary economics 
course, when he says something like this, “Those who 
have come here in the hope that economics will teach 
them to make money will be badly disappointed. 
Economics is a science.” 



52 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Science and Belief 

(.Continued from page SO) 

Immortality 

the soul must pervade all space. But as we are not 
so anxious to be fat, as to live long, none of the me- 
taphysicians in question have ever noticed this applica- 
tion of their reasonings.” (p. 18.) Again, ‘‘God and im- 
mortality, the central dogmas of the Christian religion, 
find no support in Science.” (p. 13.) 

Concerning personal immortality, if a subtle entity, 
or factor does intrude into the mere material make- 
up of a man, apart from its organization, such as a 
character “force” or the free will of a metaphysical 
“soul”, and which survives the bodily dissolution, 
then this may experience personal immortality in 
the popular sense. At present however the existence 
of such is a gratuitous assumption that finds no sup- 
port from the experimental sciences. They have failed 
to discover any indication of it, and the attempted 
proofs of spiritists and psychic research workers have 
so far not been convincing. However there are three 
other senses in which mankind experiences survival 
which Bertrand Russell has not mentioned, but which 
appear to me as legitimate. 

(1) In the purely physical sense. 

(2) In the biological sense. 

(3) In the persistence of “Action-patterns”. 

(1) The principles of conservation of Matter and 
Energy demand that not only the constituent matter, 
but the energy associated with it, and to which it is 
ultimately resolvable, persists through the disintegra- 
tion and transformation that we call death. This is 
the only case that necessarily involves immortality. 
Dr. A. S. Eve, the Director of our own Macdonald 
Physics Building has calculated that “ you have 
probably within you about a million water molecules 
which belonged to Caesar at the moment of his death.” 
This is equally true of any of the celebrities of ancient 
times, even perhaps of the Teacher of Gallilee. We 
also have a certain affinity with Dame Nature. “The 
molecules of water in our blood have thus visited — 
many of them often — all the oceans and continents, 
ascended as vapour, drifted with the clouds, fallen 
as tropical rain or arctic snow; they have formed an 
ultimate part of countless living things animal and 
vegetable, for a period which may be as great as a 
thousand million years.” 

(2) In the event of a person having children this 
person persists, in some sense, in them. The minimum 
of persistence is that of his chronosomes. Thus survival 
in the biological sense is guaranteed to a person whose 
descendants continue to have children. The survival 
of our distant primitive ancestors inheres in our own 
organisms, and as long as mankind inhabits the 
earth they will possess this type of survival. In fact 
many would agree that the persistence of that complex 
which determines a chronosome for some millions 
of years is practically equivalent to its immortality. 

(3) The results of the creative acts of the individual, 
either in the world of thought, of Art, or of events, 
persist and the persistence of these “action patterns” 
as I shall call them seems to have a decreasing force 
in the three cases. Then inasmuch as these action 
patterns express, or are a function of, the individual 
personality, it persists in them, e.g. to many, Plato is a 
well defined personality, and although these people 
would not recognise his voice if they heard it, yet they 
have a greater insight into his character and his thought 
than had many of the people of Athens who actually 
conversed with him about 2270 years ago. 



Summer Warning 

W HEN one fat bee can fill an afternoon 
With the last letter of the alphabet 
There is some little danger to be met 
In gardens or in clover or in June. 

Pray not too long before a garden god 
Nor mark the shadow pausing on the dial, 

Trap no stray sunbeam in a crystal vial 
Nor rest enraptured of the easy sod 

For languidly June loiters in the lane: 

Some sultry summer she will wax so slow 
That viscous time will pause, will cease to flow, 
And the rebellious afternoon to wane, 

And you’ll be prisoned in an attitude — 

Poised to a flower bell or on an urn 
Draped tragically — awaiting the return 
Of cooler dynamism and a moving blood. 

Vincent Starr. 



The result of the labours of scientists, and some 
philosophers, is a particular and, it seems, a peculiar 
case of this. Inasmuch as their work is impersonal 
and universally valid they lose their individuality 
by immersion in an impersonal thought-pattern and 
the more so the more this thought pattern approaches 
to immortality. The present system of science is a 
coherent Synthesis of such thought-patterns all de- 
termining and at the same time supporting each other. 
Nevertheless the great men of science usually have 
great personalities which also survive in the former 
sense. 



Tel. Uptown 6834 



Burton’s Limited 

Booksellers & Stationers 

597 St. Catherine St. West 
Montreal, P. Q. 

Between Drummond and Mountain Sts. 



