The McGill Gazette. 



VOL. V 



WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11th, 1878. 



No. 3. 



CONTENTS. 



VICE-REGAL VISIT 32 

CORRESPONDENCE 33 

CLIPPINGS 34 

FRESHMEN 35 



EDITORIAL 25 

CREMATION 29 

PRINTED LECTURES 29 

UNIVERSITY CONSOLIDATION 30 

LORNE AND LOUISE: 31 j ITEMS 35 

it MS. — Single Subscription, $1.00 per annum , in adoanc 3 . Single numbers , 20 cents . 

For sale at Dawson Bros., Hill's, Drysdale's, Ashford's and Me Adam's. 

Address, 44 THE McGILL GAZETTE,” Box 1759, Montreal. 

Professional and Visiting Cards, Arms, Crests and Monograms, 

AND 

“ THE McGILL UNIVERSITY STATIONERY CABINET,’’ 

AT 

J. D. SCOTT’S, 572 Craig St. 




College Society Cards and Badges a specialty. 



Patronage solicited. 



MACMASTER, HALL & GREENSHIELDS 

Advocates, Barristers, &c., 

No. 181 St. Janies Street, Mqntreal. 

D. Macmaster. John 8. Hall, Jrx. J. N. Greenrhirlds. 




GEORGE BISHOP & CO., 
ENGRAVERS, 

169 ST. JAMES ST. 

MONTREAL. 



JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

HATTERS AA3STJD FURRIERS, 

283 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

FUR COATS, CAPS AND GAUNTLETS. 

Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ McGill ” Ribbon for Sale. 

GET YOUR HAIR CUT AT HILL’S, 
Queen's Hall Block , - - 1321 .9/. Catherine Si. 

Branch : 

OTTAWA HOTEL. 
FLORIDA, NASSAU and BERMUDA. 

Those contemplating a tour to tropical climes to escape the 
rigorous winter of the North, call for Tickets and full informa- 
tion at GENERAL UNION TICKET OFFICE, 202 St. James 
St , Montreal.. 

Pamphlets sent by mail on application. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST, 

175 St. Lawrence St. Branch, 597 St. Catherine St. 

GOULDEN’S NEURALGINE, 

A safe and certain cure for Neuralgic pains in 
the Jaw, Face, Neck, Head, «fcc. 

Nouralgine isof great service in improving weak digestion, 
loss of appetite, <fcc 



GENTLEMENS Coats, Pants , 8(-c., 
Beautifully C/ei ned or Dyed and Pressed, 
without shrinking at the ROYAL STEAM 
DYE WORKS, 

70G CRAIG ST., near Victoria Square. 
JPJIO 7 O G II JL { L J HY. 

Photographs of every description executed in the best style 
of the Art, at reasonable rates. Please call and examine 
specimens and learn prices. 

G. C. ARLESS, Photographer, 
Corner Craig and Victoria Square. 



11 



The McGill Gazette. 



NOTMAN & SANDHAM, 

Photographers to the Queen , 

17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

.GROSS’ O 

Newly Improved 

ShoulcLei^ graces fNm 

CHEST EXPANDERS, /Ww/ 

Before for After 

Wearing. Ladies, Gentlemen or Children^ earing. 

MANUFACTURED AT THE 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY, 

688 and 690 Craig Street. (Established 1856.) 

F . GROSS , 

Surgical Iustrument Maker, Inventor and Manufacturer of 
all kinds of Instruments for Physical Deformities. Gross’ 
Patent Composite Radical Cure Truss, Abdominal Sup- 
porters, Ac. Gross’ Patent Artificial Limbs, distinguished 
in their superiority for great strength with Lightness and 
Durability. 

A large assortment of Rubber Good'' Surgical Instruments, Parlor 
Gymnasiums, Boxing Gloves, Indian Clnns, Rheumatic Chains and Belts, , 
4ic., always on hand. Catalogues containing full descriptions sent Post 
free. All necessary repairs to any of the above articles done with neat- 
ness and at moderate charges. 

THOMAS ALLAN & CO., 
WATCHMAKERS 

AND 

JEWELLERS, 

361 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



FURS , HATS AND HAPS. 

JOB C. THOMPSON & CO., 

Manufacturers of 

Furs, and Importers of English Hats, 

Keep on hand in the season a large variety of Goods, which | 
we sell at the very lowest price. We mark all Goods, sell 
for Cash, and have but One Price. 

Our system works well, as the Public have «shown by 
their extensive support since we re- commenced business. 

416 & 418 Notre Dame Street, corner St. Peter. 

Established 1835. 



HILL’S LIBRARY, 

666 DORCHESTER STREET. 

McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS, 

NOTE BOOKS, 

AND 

STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

Also, all the Hooks used in McEachran’s Veterinary College. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing 
of the above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cash. 



McGill College Text Books. 



DAWSON BROS. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

TEXT BOOKS IN USE AT THE COLLEGE, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 



Students’ Note Books, 

Students' Pocket Ink Bottles, 

And Note Paper and Envelopes 

Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

159 St. James Street. 



190 ST. JOSEPH STREET, 

I. A. BEAUVAIS, 

MERCHANT TAILOR 

AND 

HABERDASHER 

Two first-class cutters attached to the premises. A liberal 
discount to those who apply as “ McGill ” students. 

N . B. — Ready-made Ulsters and Overcoats a specialty. 




H. ESSON IRVINE & CO., 
BANKERS AND EXCHANGE BROKERS, 
149 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



Montreal, Wednesday, December 11, 1878. 



EDITORIAL. 

Si Quid Rovisti Rectius Istis Candidus 
Imperti. 

rpHAT mankind has not yet arrived at per- 
X fection, is one of those axioms which 
are extremely commonplace as well as sugges- 
tive of serious considerations. One is apt, in 
pondering over the assertion that human af- 
fairs and mundane institutions admit of im- 
provement and beneficial change, to regard the 
common surroundings of every day life with 
the view of their amelioration. What is true 
of things and persons in general, may be postu- 
lated of even university dignitaries and affairs, 
which have not reached, and are not likely to 
attain to, that approximate perfection which it is 
thechief end of man to secure. Weare notcalled 
upon to seek out the vices of human institu- 
tions, nor is it our place to suggest remedies 
for public disorders ; but we may, fittingly 
enough, when we can, point out any defect 
which exists in the working or government of 
our University, or in the conduct of its opera- 
tions. As a college organ we would not be 
doing our duty, were we to affect that in- 
souciance in reference to these matters which 
most college men display. The mere fact of 
our being a journal, would seem to assimilate 
our functions to those of the press in general, 
and to give us the right to point out abuses 
— moi'e or Jess grave ; and if we can to indi- 
cate some method for their rectification. But 
without further moralizing of this nature, and 
without any further attempt to justify the 
propriety of that which we are about to say, 
let us come at once to the subject to which 
we desire to advert. Many of our readers may 
be unaware of the fact that an important 
difference exists between the method of con- 



ducting examinations in the several faculties 
of the college. In Law and Medicine what 
may be termed the anonymous system is 
in vogue. That is to say, the name of the 
candidate is not revealed to the examiner until 
after the papers have been looked over, the 
values attached to the different answers, and 
the standing of the student definitely settled. 
A number, or motto, is given to each competi- 
tor who inscribes it on the examination paper, 
and also on an envelope in which is enclosed 
Jiis name written on a caixl, which envelope is 
sealed and not opened till the standing is 
finally dechied on. In the Faculty of Arts, 
on the other hand, the professor knows at a 
glance the name of the man whose papers he 
is examining, for it is written openly on each 
sheet. Now, in suggesting to the members of 
the Faculty of Arts the desirability of the 
substitution of the anonymous system, as 
explained above, for the mode presently fol- 
lowed, we do not wish to be understood as 
insinuating that glaring instances of impar- 
tiality or unfairness occur with any frequency. 
Nor can we see that such an alteration, if 
adopted by the Faculty, would be an admis- 
sion on their part that there is even a likeli- 
hood of the display of so reprehensible a spirit 
of favouritism or the reverse. But placing the 
two systems side by side, one cannot help 
admitting that there is much greater fairness, 
in one method than in the other; and granting 
this superiority, no reasonable objection to the 
proposed change, can, we imagine, be urged. 
All men are human, and humanity is pretty 
much the same thing the world over. College 
professors, calm anil philosophic though they 
be, cannot help, in the very nature of things, 
entertaining likes and dislikes, and to reduce 
the consequences of these feelings, — which 
must be, and are, occasionally displayed — to a 
minimum should be the aim of every lover of 
perfect impartiality. It would be needless to 
enumerate cases where an undue partiality 



26 



The Me Grill Gazette . 



might work injustice, but such a conjuncture 
as the following might arise : A professor is 

examining a paper — and here we would inter- 
pose that in examinations the papers should be 
taken exactly as they are ; nothing should be 
either added or takenavvay by the examiner — a 
fatal omission occurs in an answer; it might 
be a lapsus psnncn, or it might be the result 
of ignorance. It is very evident that an ex- 
aminer, be he never so impartially inclined, 
would be apt to look and ascertain whose 
paper he was examining, and he might, and, in 
all probability, would form his knowledge of 
the abilities and status of the student, either 
supply the omission, or reject the answer 
altogether. This is natural, but it is not just. 
However, there is no need of adducing exam- 
ples. The existence of the evil is self-evident, 
and we feel convinced that the members of the 
Arts Faculty can come to no other conclusion 
than that one system is much fairer and more 
equitable than the other, and having deter- 
mined this, the adoption of the better and 
juster method should follow as a matter of 
course. 



Now that the Christmas examinations have 
commenced, there is one improvement that 
appears to us might be made, with reference to 
the mode of entrance to the Examination Hall. 
It has been for year’s a source of great incon- 
venience to Arts and Science students, after 
they have put on their trenchers and gowns, 
to have to go out in very often exceedingly 
disagreeable weather in going to the Molson 
Hall, while the most obvious and convenient 
way is barred. Of course this way is that 
from the door opposite the reading-rooom, 
taking the passage past the museum, and finally 
out into the entrance of the Molson Hall, 
whence they have but to climb the stairs and 
they are safely landed in the “ dreadful room.” 
As was before stated, if this boon were granted 
it would be a matter of great convenience for 
the students, and would supply a want uni- 



versally felt amongst the Arts and Science 
men. 



We notice that several examination papers 
have been cut from the calendars in the library. 
We cannot allow this exceedingly selfish and 
ungentlemanly piece of conduct to pass un- 
noticed, and if, by our reference to it, we shall 
have been able to stop it, the end in view, 
while penning this, will be attained. The 
persons who are guilty of this misdemeanor, 
we are convinced, would not have resorted to 
it, had they reflected for a moment before doing 
so. That the library, and these books among 
others, are for the benefit of the students, a 
fact which the greater frequenting of the 
former, and the increasing use of the l itter, 
clearly indicate, even the most careless about 
the University’s progress cannot deny. Every 
student should, and nearly every one does, take 
pride and interest in the library. When stran- 
gers visit the University it is one of the 
most prominent features of interest about it 
we can show them and feel convinced they will 
admire. It might naturally be thought that 
even that principle of nature which teaches a 
man to cherish what is his own would prevent 
the books from being defaced ; but since it has 
been otherwise in the past, it is hoped we will 
not be again called upon to notice anything of 
this sort in future. 



The graduating classes should bear in 
mind that one of the most important duties 
which they have to perform is the election of 
the Valedictorian, This appointment should 
be made as soon as possible after the Christ- 
mas holidays, in order that those who are 
selected may have their addresses composed 
before the work of final examinations comes 
on. That the Valedictorian should be a good 
speaker and a fluent writer is a self-evident 
proposition. It is no less apparent that the 
office should be filled by a student who is a 



The McGill Gazette. 



27 



student, in the sense that he has mixed with 
his class-mates as well socially as in the class- 
room. We too often have mei’e book-worms 
elected, and the consequences are that they 
are in no way representative of their fellows, 
-and unfitted to give proper expression to the 
feelings — the traditional “ mingled feelings ” — 
of the class on graduation day. The medical 
students have in the past been far ahead of 
either the law students or those in arts in the 
conception and delivery of their valedictory 
addresses. — why, we do not know. We trust, 
however, that the graduating classes will pon- 
der over our suggestions, and be careful in 
their choice. 



In another column appears an account of 
the part taken by the undergraduates of Mc- 
Gill in the demonstrations in honour of the 
distinguished visitors to Montreal. The pro- 
gramme was well arranged and well carried 
out, and we feel sure that we only express the 
general opinion when we thank the Committee 
for their capital management of the affair. To 
them we owe it, that the students have been 
brought more closely together than they have 
been for some time, and we are sure that we 
have now heard the last of any dissensions 
between the Faculties. Medicine, Law, Arts 
and Science, all worked in pei'fect harmony 
and with good effect. A feeling of esprit de 
corps — this expression may not be new to 
some of our readers — was strikingly mani- 
fested, and we heard many students emphati- 
cally remark that a grand re-union of all the 
undergraduates at dinner after Christmas was 
all that was wanted to heal old sores — exist- 
ing without cause — and to knit together 
elements in the University which should never 
have been kept asunder. We are thoroughly 
in accord with this opinion, and we would call 
upon the Committee, which did the work so 
admirably on this occasion, to see to it that 
the idea is carried into practical effect. 



Thr extreme readiness with which certain 
journals publish any scurrilous attack upon 
students, has been often noticed, in da} r s gone 
by, in these columns. A few years ago, one 
would have judged from the remarks which 
from time to time appeared in the press, that 
the students of McGill were more like Bashi 
Bashouks and wild Indians, than civilized 
young men. Latterly, however, there has 
been a scarcity of these attacks in the Montreal 
press, and we have had little or no cause for 
complaint on this score. However, just as we 
were congratulating ourselves upon the orderly 
manner in which our demonstrations in honour 
of the Queen’s representative had been con- 
ducted, we were rudely shocked by a very 
coarse and malignant half column of unmerited 
abuse which appeared in the Montreal Daily 
Witness. This was in the form of a communica- 
tion signed “ One who loves a joke,” and pur- 
ported to be written by “a public school-boy in 
England, subsequently a cadet on board the 
training ship ‘ Britannia,’ the old craft on 
board which the Prince of Wales’ two boys are 
now receiving their education, and afterwards 
an officer of a gun-room mess in a line of battle 
ship.” From the general tenor of the letter, we 
should rather say that this party’s nautical 
experience had been gained in the forecastle of 
a Spanish pirate. After detailing several 
pieces of skylarking practised on shipboard, 
all of which were gentlemanly, the writer 
terms our procession on the evening of the 
illumination “ a disgraceful crowd ” ; our con- 
duct was “ caddism in the highest degree.” 

“ Billingsgate roughs of the lowest description 
would not be guilty of such rowdyism.” This 
is tolerablv strong language, and if the insinu- 
ations were true, should undoubtedly cause 
every McGill student to blush with shame, 
and to cry peccavi. Fortunately, however, 
every one who took part in the procession 
knows that this letter is a tissue of untruths 
from beginning to end. Not only this, the 
testimony of many of Montreal’s most respec- 



The McGill Gazette , 



28 



table citizens could be adduced to prove that 
our conduct was in every respect becoming and 
decorous. We will not, however, bandy words 
with a scribbler who is afraid to put his name 
to his libellous effusion, we will, though, take 
exception to the publication of such a diatribe 
by our city contemporary. By every rule of 
common decency and in accordance with the 
best understood principles of journalistic pro- 
periety, the Montreal Daily Witness should 
have discovered whether the allegations of its 
correspondent were well founded before print- 
ing his communication, before giving currency 
to very base insinuations upon the respect- 
ability of a body of respectable men. The 
letter of “ One who loves a joke ” we have 
already characterized as thoroughly false and 
malicious ; the action of our contemporary 
was certainly unfair and improper. The mat- 
ter is now under discussion in the newspapers, 
so we will not further refer to it now, but we 
feel sure that the defenders of the students, 
conscious of their entire blamelessness on the 
premises, will have little difficulty in proving 
the untruthful correspondent of the Witness 
guilty of giving expression to a false and 
malicious libel. 



The Science students have lately formed 
themselves into a society, with the object 
of promoting among themselves a spirit of 
unity and harmony. In taking this step they 
have shown a commendable desire to see their 
own faculty in no way behind the other 
1 acuities of our University in fostering unity 
of feeling among its members, and in enabling 
them by meeting together at stated times and 
discussing subjects of interest to all, to cultivate 
a more intimate acquaintance with one another 
than that afforded by meeting at the lectures. 
The officers are : a president, a vice-president, 
and a secretary-treasurer, elected from the 
students without regard to the distinction of 



different years ; and the meetings are held 
fortnightly. 

In the beginning of the session of 1875-76, 
the Science students formed themselves into a 
society, under the title of the “ McGill Associ- 
ation of Engineers,” to include among its 
members graduates as well as students of the 
Science Department. It was well provided 
with officers, having an honourary president 
chosen from the graduates, a president, a first 
vice-president, a second vice-president, a sec- 
retary, and a treasurer. The dignity and for- 
mality of its meetings were upheld by a con- 
stitution and code of by-laws. For a while 
everything worked pleasantly ; the meetings 
were well attended, several good addresses were 
delivered by the different officers and others, a 
few interesting communications were received 
from distant graduates, and the condition of the 
finances was all that could be desired. But 
this agreeable state of affairs was not destined 
to last long, and towards the close of its first 
session of existence, a gloomy aspect had al- 
ready settled over the society. The meetings, 
though pretty well attended on the part of the 
students, were frequently without interest and 
lifeless ; the graduates living in the city at that 
time were few in number, and, with one or two 
exceptions, did not show any particular interest 
in the success of the society, beyond attending 
some of the first meetings, and its existence may 
be said to have terminated with the close of 
the year. In the next session an attempt 
at its resuscitation was made only to prove 
futile, and since then no one has disturbed 
its shades, but all have quietly allowed its 
remembrance to fade away. 

We venture to predict a happier career to 
this new society, which, coming into existence 
as it does, with the first session of our new 
Faculty of Applied Science, it may not be 
over-sanguine to hope, will meet increased 
success with the growth of this new faculty 
that is certain to take place under its present 
able management. 



The McGill Gazette. 




CREMATION. 



BY A BURNING ADMIRER OF SIR HENRY 
THOMPSON. 



To Urn or not to Urn ? that is the question : 

Whether 'tis nobler for our frames to suffer 
The shows and follies of outrageous custom, 

Or to take fire— against a sea of zealots— 

And by consuming, end them ? To urn— to keep — 

No more : and while we keep to say we end 
Contagion and the thousand graveyard ills 
That flesh is heir to - ’tis a consume— ation 
Devoutly to be wished ! To burn — to keep — 

To keep ! Perchance to lose —aye, there’s the rub : 
For in the course of things what duns may come, 

Or who may shuffle off our Dresden Urn, 

Must give us pause. There’s the respect 
That makes inter-i-ment of so long use. 

For who would have the pall and plumes of hire, 

The tradesman’s prize -a proud man’s obsequies, 

When he himself might his few ashes make 

With a mere furnace ? Who would tombstones bear, 

And lie beneath a lying epitaph, 

But that the dread of simmering after death — 

That uncongenial furnace from whose burn 
Nq incremate returns — weakens the will, 

And makes us rather bear the graves we have 
Than fly to ovens that we know not of ? 

This, Thompson, does make cowards of us all. 

And thus the wisdom of incineration 

Is thick laid o’er with the pale ghost of nought, 

And incremators of great pith and courage 
With this regard their faces turn away, 

And shudder at Cremation. 

Wm. Sawyer. 

000 

PRINTED LECTURES. 



The students of Medicine in McGill are at 
present agitating the question of University 
education, or that particular part of it which 
has special reference to themselves. It has 
long been the boast of our old landmarks of 
learning that they are semper eadem, as un- 
changeable as the northern star, and if they 
do not say so in express terms, they imply as 
much, ’believing, no doubt, that actions in 
many instances are more eloquent than words. 
In the olden time, before Guttenberg’s aft had 
been given to the world, a few great men were 
the sole repositories of all the learning of an 
age, and as the means of communicating their 
knowledge was, as a matter of course, very limit- 
ed, students flocked to their schools to receive 



from these men the burning words that fell 
from their lips. When our old English and 
Continental Universities were founded, such 
was the condition of things, and the system 
which was absolutely necessary in those days 
has, to a certain extent, been handed down to us. 

We can see no anomaly in the fact of a 
savant of the 10th century reading or reciting 
to his class words from a manuscript which 
had perhaps been the production of years of 
patient toil and deep research. The circum- 
stances of the age rendered this imperatively 
necessary, for, as we said before, printing had 
not yet been invented, and as a consequence 
books, such as we understand by that name 
now a-days, had no existence whatever'. The 
students of the middle ages were quite content 
to listen to the instructions of some great 
master, and to note what he said for future re- 
ference, as it could be found nowhere else. 
These were the halcyon days of note-taking. 
The quill alone was the instrument which was 
capable of giving knowledge to the world, and 
as such it was duly honoured "by the student 
and philosopher. Then came the art which has 
done so much for the human race; the art which 
completely revolutionized the pre-existing order 
of things, and gave a literal as well as a meta- 
phorical meaning to the expression “ winged 
words.” which now flow far and wide to the re- 
motest corners of the globe, bearing with them 
truth and knowledge in their train. 

Printing has done much for mankind in gen- 
eral, but for students during their university 
career scarcely anything at all. This statement 
may sound rather absurd, but nevertheless it 
is a startling truth, and all university students 
in Canada, and especially medical students, 
know it to be the case. We think a little 
explanation will make this clear. As this 
article is written more especially to show 
some of the weak points in the system of 
medical teaching, we will take that Faculty 
as an example. With the single exception of 
anatomy all the lectures are transcribed in' o the 
note books of the students. Anatomy is some- 
what like mathematics — anything that can be 
said on the subject is so exact that all the 
works treating on it are alike, and contain 
the same facts, so that a professor of that de- 
partment of medicine can say nothing new 
which is not contained in some ordinary work 
on the subject ; but with the other divisions 
of the healing art it is quite otherwise. 



The McGill Gazette. 



30 



In them the professors are wont to collect 
their information from an almost infinity of 
authorities, so that their lectures resemble no- 
thing more closely than Jacob’s coat of many 
colours. We do not say this disparagingly, for 
it is just as legitimate in a professor of the 
practice of medicine or surgery to consult his | 
sources of information as a teacher of English 
literature to refer to his. It is not that to which 
we refer, but to the custom of reading this 
collection of matter to their classes, and expect 
them to be able to follow them through all the 
figures of rhetoric for half a dozen hours daily, 
or, in default thereof, expose them to all the 
terrors of failure on examination day. It is 
not easy for an exhausted student, to follow a 
professor, going at a breakneck pace, in every- 
thing he says, and yet such a thing he is ex- 
pected to do. 

We hold that some better means is available ; 
for imparting instruction than this. Surely it 
should not be necessary for us in the latter 
part of what is called, with much, exultation, 
the 19th century, to break our health and 
spirits doing something which is not required. | 
If, instead of asking students to write their 
lectures, the Faculty would publish them in 
some convenient form, and give them to the 
students for perusal ; this might be an 
innovation. It might not tally very 
well with the boast of semper eadem, 
which we spoke of a little while ago, 
but it would be an infinitely better plan than 
the homicidal system of the present day. The 
students have sent the Faculty of Medicine a 
petition asking the different professors to con- 
sent to have their notes published, and could 
thus obviate all the drudgery and unsatisfactory 
results of the system now in vogue. It is to 
be hoped that the professors may entertain 
the proposition which has been placed before 
them, for we are convinced that by putting 
their valuable notes into the form of a book 
or a pamphlet, they would be relieving the al- 
ready overworked students of a piece of un- 
necessary labour, and would be doing much to 
facilitate the perfect acquisition of knowledge, 
which is so necessary in the medical man. 

The present way of doing things is little 
better than it would be to have an Act of 
Parliament passed compelling the people of 
Canada to pay their railway fares, and then | 
after that to trudge to their destination on foot 
through all the inclement seasons of the year, i 



while the idle locomotive whistled by those- 
unfortunate wretches, who were detained in con- 
sequence of sentiment from availing themselves 
of the empty coaches bringing up the rear of 
the steam-engine. Reforms are usually slow, 
but we hope the University of McGill will do 
something in the matter under discussion for 
the amelioration of a crying evil. 

000 

UNIVERSITY CONSOLIDATION. 



The subject which came up for debate, and 
which was, we think, treated with deserved 
ability at the meeting of the University Liter- 
ary Society, held on the evening of Friday ; 
the 22nd Nov., is one which certainly deserves 
the attentive consideration of all those who 
have the true educational interests of our 
country at heart. It is a question which has 
largely occupied the attention of university 
men for some time, and one which has just 
claims upon their consideration, inasmuch as 
their interests are directly involved in the 
matter, and we earnestly hope that the day is 
now not far distant when it may receive even a 
greater share of this attention, and be solved 
so as to result in an improved state of things. 
For our own part we must confess that our 
sympathies are with those who sustained the 
affirmative side of the question during the de- 
bate, and whose advocacy was rewarded by a 
large majority in their favour at its close, since 
we believe that any step towards the consoli- 
dation and centralization either of the Univer- 
sities themselves or their examining bodies, is 
one in a right direction, and one which should 
be welcomed as such by all the true friends 
of education. 

We take it for granted that thnse who op- 
pose us as to the means, are yet of one mind 
with us in c ur earnest desire that the benefits 
of university culture should be much more 
widely extended than at present; that not only 
those who are designed for the learned profes- 
sions, but also those who intend devoting 
themselves to the different branches of Cana” 
dian industry, should have this training, and 
should possess to as great a degree as possible 
that breadth of mind which we, as university 
men, are prone to consider, as a general rule, 
culture alone can give ; for it is evident that 
in the coming years the Industrial Society of 



The McGill Gazette. 



3 * 



this “ Canada of ours” will present grave and 
important questions for solution, and how 
necessary will it be in such a case that those 
who hold leading places in this Society should 
be men possessing the advantages of higher 
education ! So much being granted, we have 
next to consider whether it is advisable 
that the status quo of the different Canadian 
universities should continue, or whether it 
would not be preferable in the interests of 
higher education, as well as of additional profit 
to college men generally, that these different 
teaching and degree-conferring societies should 
consign the latter privilege to one or two 
central institutions, which should hold the 
same relation to them as time honoured Oxford 
and Cambridge hold towards their respective 
colleges. It is our opinion that such a change 
would be very beneficial to all concei'ned. and 
that numberless benefits would accrue, both 
to those educated under such a system, and to 
the institutions so federated and consequently 
strengthened. In addition to increased rev- 
enues, there would also be an increase of uni- 
versity prestige, the want of which is very 
much felt at times by the average graduate, 
and at the same time that all-important gift 
of a common education, namely, social and in- j 
tellectual unity, which would be by this plan 
secured to the students of the National Uni- 
veisity. It is easy, also, to see how much more 
trustworthy our whole system of higher educa- 
tion would be were it to be kept under the 
influence of a body whose wealth aDd general 
resources would enable them more fully to 
realize the ideal of what a university should 
be — not only a mere training-school for the 
arts and sciences, but as a seat of learning, 
and one which could more thoroughly instil a 
national education into the minds of its stu- 
dents than it is permitted to the foremost of 
our Canadian universities to do. To those 
who would object to the foregoing, on the 
grounds that a change of this nature would be 
attended by the danger of such a university 
becoming non-progressive in its tendency, we 
would answer, quoting the apt words of 
Goldwin Smith, that “ learning and science 
“ themselves are so constantly advancing by a 
“ movement as irresistible as it is spontaneous, 

“ that it would be difficult for institutions which 
“ are the organs of learning and science to 
“ stand still.” We regret that our space will not 
permit us to enter as fully as we could wish 



into this subject, but we regard the decision 
of the Literary Society as an evidence of the 
deep hold which this view of the question has 
upon the minds of those members of our Alma 
Mater who compose the Association, and are 
gratified therewith. 

000 

LORNE AND LOUISE. 



As soon as it was definitely announced that 
the Marquis of Lome and her Royal Highness 
the Princess Louise intended to visit the Uni- 
versity, steps were taken by the students of 
the various Faculties to arrange for a demon- 
stration by the undergraduates. The following 
committee was elected with full power to do 
those things which were requisite and neces- 
sary. 

Medicine : Henwood, Lefebvre, Inksetter 

and Macdonald, (Chairman). 

Law: McGibbon, Trudel, McLennan and 

Red path. 

Arts: Wood (Treasurer), Weir (Secretary), 
Macpherson and Chaffee. 

Science : Morkill, Robertson, Stephens and 

Drummond. 

The Committee met on Wednesday evening 
Nov. 27th, and arranged the programme, which 
was so successfully carried out. On Thursday, 
a very fair number of students met in Molson 
Hall for the purpose of practising the songs to 
be rendered on the occasion of the visit of His 
Excellency, and some sixteen of McGill’s sweet- 
est warblers selected to lead the musical 
exercises. The Vice-Regal party arrived in 
Montreal on Friday, and on that evening, by 
invitation of the Committee, the students of all 
the Faculties assembled at the college to the 
number of three hundred at least, and having 
formed in procession, with a trencher and 
gown on a pole for a banner, proceeded to 
view the illuminations in the city. The route, 
lay through the principal streets, and the 
college repertoire of songs was exhausted 0 1 
the march. “ The McGill boys,” as the crowd 
termed us, were cheered loudly by the populace 
lining the streets, and right of way was in most 
instances gracefully conceded to the procession. 
The Governor-General and his Royal consort 
were serenaded at the Windsor, and a number 
of the Professors cheered, the proceedings ter- 
minating by a visit to the residence of the 



The McGill Gazette. 



32 



Principal, who spoke a few words of acknow- 
ledgment. The College was brilliantly lighted 
up, and the electric and lime lights, under the 
supervision of Professors Johnston and Har- 
rington, lit up the surrounding neighbourhood 
quite brightly. The crowd, after expressing 
themselves highly delighted with the success 
of the demonstration, separated with cheers 
for the Faculties, and a united hurrah for the 
University. 



000 

VICEREGAL VISIT. 

On Saturday afternoon the Governor-Gen- 
eral and H. R. H. the Princess Louise visited 
the University, and were received by the un- 
dergraduates in a manner which reflected 
great credit upon them and the committee 
who arranged the programme. 

By three o’clock all the students had con- 
gregated on the college steps, and all save the 
singing committee proceeded to take up their 
position at the gate, where they awaited the 
arrival of Their Excellencies, whiling away the 
monotony of their guardianship by songs and 
glees. As the time passed and graduates and 
benefactors with their ladies drove up the 
avenue in countless numbers, the students could 
scarcely repress their murmurings,for remember- 
ing the terrible crush that had taken place in 
Molson Hall on the occasion of Lord Dufferin’s 
visit, they imagined that the occurrence would 
find a repetitionintheday’sproceedings. When, 
however, it was known that the Faculty had 
made satisfactory arrangements for their ac- 1 
eomodation, and that the Hall was yet far 
from being full, they quickly regained their 
good spirits, and sang with more vigour, 
and chaffed with greater energy the crowd 
and custodians of the peace, who stood with- 
out the gate. About half-past three one of 
the mounted escort drove up to the College, 
bearing a note from Colonel Lyttleton to the | 
Chancellor, saying that the party would arrive 
at four, and at four precisely the shining- 
helmets of the dragoons announced the coming 
of the illustrious visitors. Silence prevailed, 
and the instructions of the members of the com- 
mittee who were assembled without the gate 
were heard up the whole line of four hundred 
students ranged on either side of the avenue. 
As the party entered the gate those without led 



off in three ringing cheers; which were given with 
such heartiness as to startle the crowd that had 
gathered on Sherbrooke street, and all spon- 
taneously broke out into the National Anthem. 
The vice-regal party drove rapidly up the 
avenue to the entrance door of the Hall, where 
they were met by the Chancellor and Gover- _ 
nors, and conducted up to the Hall. The 
students slowly followed, four deep, headed by 
the Committee, and entering the main build- 
ing passed through the corridor by the 
museum and librarian’s room, where they met 
the singing Committee, and entered the Hall 
after the Convocation, singing Litoria in true 
McGill, style, the solo being sung by the six- 
teen warblers. 

Owing to the forethought of the authorities 
in having the seats removed from the centie 
of the Hall, the students were enabled to take 
up their positions without that crowding and 
crushing so noticeable onformer occasions of a 
similar nature. 

The proceedings opened by the reading of 
the following address by uhancellor Day on 
behalf of the Corporation of the Univer- 
sity: 

ADDRESS. 

To His Excellency the Most Noble the Marquis of Lome , 

Governor-General of the Dominion of Canada : 

May it please Your Excellency.— The Governors, Prin- 
cipal and Fellows of McGill University desire to offer to Your 
Excellency a cordial welcome, and in doing so to express their 
gratification that in approaching Your Excellency as the 
.Representative of our Gracious Queen, they have also the 
privilege of welcoming the official visitor of * this University 
under its Royal Charter. 

In this relation Your Excellency’s predecessors have ever 
shown a lively interest in McGill University, and in the canse 
of higher education represented by it ; and in now hoping for 
like sympathy and encouragement the University has the 
satisfaction of knowing that it appeals to one who has here- 
tofore been a patron of learning, and who has himself taken 
an acknowledged place in literature. 

The Governors, Principal and Fellows beg leave to tender 
to Your Excellency their cordial good wishes, that the highest 
prosperity and success may attend Your Excellency’s ad- 
ministration of the affairs of this Dominion, and their prayer 
that, with God’s blessing, yon may be enabled to discharge the 
duties oi your exalted office in such a manner as to secure the 
welfare of all classes of the people, and to afford a just source 
of satisfaction to yourself. 

They also beg leave respectfully to offer their cordial good 
wishes to Her Royal Highness the Princess Louise, in whom 
they are happy to recognize one who has been a patroness of 
education in the mother country, and who they hope may 
exert a similar beneficent influence here. 

Signed, on behalf of the Corporation, 



C 



30th Nov., 1K78. 



harles Dewey Day, D.C.L., L L.D., 
Chancellor. 



To which His Excellency made the follow- 
ing reply : 



The McGill Gazette . 



o 'J 



/ 



REPLY. 

To the Governors , Principal qnd Fellows of the McGill 
University : 

Gentlemen. — The Governors of this University, Mr. Prin- 
cipal and Fellows, I assure you that I feel proud, as the re- 
presentative of the Queen, to be welcomed to your University 
by the governing body. I rejoice to know that I shall be al- 
lowed the happy privilege of showing my interest in your 
proceedings, and in some measure to be admitted to the so- 
• ciety of the learned men over whom you preside To me per- 
sonally your kindness is most welcome, for nothing is so in- 
teresting to a man coming to reside in a country new to him, 
than to watch how the community provides for the increasing 
demands of education. The proper framing of a system for | 
the thorough teaching of youth is perhaps the most important 
of the many great duties which the citizens of a country must 
undertake, and it is your part in this common labour to cro *n 
the edifice. It is to you that many look for the stamp which 
tells that youth has not been spent in vain, and the man who 
wins the mark of your approbation goes forth to the life of 
the world with the consciousness that there is that in him 
which may make his career honourable and distinguished and 
of use to his fellow men. The estimation in which the McGill 
University is held tells its own story. Believe me, that any- 
thing I may be permitted to do, to encourage you will not be 
wanting, and that it affords the Princess and myself much 
pleasure to learn that we may look forward to again visiting 
you, and of marking our esteem and respect for your 
University. 

(Signed,) Lorne. 

In addition His Excellency expressed the 
hope that at some future time he would 
again have the pleasure of visiting the 
University and addressing the students. 

Chancellor Day then requested leave to intro- 
duce a deputation of students who were desir- 
ous of presenting a bouquet to Princess Louise, 
to which H. R. H. gave her gracious consent. 
The deputation, which consisted of the follow- 
ing gentlemen — representatives of the different 
faculties — Mr. Henwood, Medicine; Mr. Nichol, 
Law ; Mr. Wood, Arts, and Mr. Skaife, Science, j 
approached the dais, and Mr. Henwood, on be- 
half of the deputation, made the presentation. 
The Viceregal party then left the hall to visit 
the library, museum and other places of inter- 
est about the College — the students singing 
“ Alouette ” as they passed down toward the 
stairs. After having partaken of refreshments 
in the “ sacred precincts ” of the Faculty room, 
they left the college by the main entrance, 
where they were received by the students and 
lustily cheered, God Save the Queen being 
sung as they took their departure. 

The reception was iu every respect the most 
successful of any that has ever been given by the 
undergr aduates of the University. The ribbons 
worn by the students had the following in- 
scription : — “ Visit of H. E. the Governor-Gen- 
eral and H. R. H. Princess Louise, 30th Nov., 
1878,” with the University arms stamped 
above. 

It is a matter of congratulation to know 



that no jealousy existed between the different 
faculties as to which one should be accorded 
the honour of presenting the bouquet. The 
selection of M r. Henwood from medicine met 
with the hearty approval of all the students in 
the University, and that gentleman should 
feel proud of the popularity he enjoys among 
his fellow undergraduates. 

ooo 

CORRESPONDENCE. 



[This column is open to those students who have questions 
to ask, or grievances to air. The Editors, however, disclaim 
all responsibility . ] 

To the Editors of the McGill Gazette : 

Sirs, — A sentimental correspondent, signing 
himself “ Another Graduate/’ complains in 
rather involved English that I termed the 
ladies who annually patronize the Founders' 
Festival “ fossilized old muds.” To my mind 
they always aopeared so : but tastes differ 
and to the adoring vision of “ Another Gradu- 
ate,” these charmers may have seemed lovely, 
beautiful, witty, and gracious. I differ from 
him, however, on this point. But the main 
allegation of my letter has not been denied, 
and that was, that the Festival was in itself 
extremely unenjoyable, and was not patronized 
to any extent by the students generally. This 
cannot be denied. Let us, then, have some 
entertainment that we can enjoy. I suggest 
a dinner. It would be a great reunion of Mc- 
Gill men, graduates and undergraduates. Dr. 
Dawson, in his annual lecture, noticed the 
the Alumni Dinner at Harvard. Why not 
have one at McGill? Let the Literary Society 
move in the matter after the holidays, and I 
feel assured that the project can be carried to 
a successful issue. 

Yours truly, 

Graduate. 



! To the Editors of the McGill Gazette 

Gentlemen, — We beg to solicit leavetoreply 
to a letter in your last edition written over the 
name of “ Undergraduate,” and which was 
neither more nor less than a libellous attack 
upon some students whom he is pleased to 
designate by the name of deserters. 

At the beginning of his letter he says there 
are two things to be deeply regreted — one of 
which being that the University Club has 
fallen from the standard it has long held, and 
the other being one of the causes which led to 



34 



The McGill Gazette , 



this degeneration. The two gentlemen styled 
traitors, together with another who would have 
received that same encomium had he not been 
prevented from playing by circumstances over 
which he had no control, regret as deeply as 
does “Undergraduate ” the decline of the club 
once so glorious on the football held. 

Asa matter of fact, it may be stated these 
students desired and proposed, not more than 
four weeks ago, to unite with the University 
club in playing the hitherto annual match of 
“ Town vs. Gown,” provided only that one of 
last year’s team should act as captain. This 
proposal having been submitted to the com- 
mittee was rejected by them, thus indicating 
who was the cause of any little difficulty which 
stood in the way of the union of University men. 

“ Undergraduate ” informs us “ that these 
gentlemen withdrew from the College club.” 

J udging from the recklessness with which he 
speaks of matters of which he shows himself 
to be entirely ignorant, this does not in the 
least surprise us. That the statement is en- 
tirely without foundation it is needless to say. 
A charge of inconsistency is brought against 
one student who resigned his official connection 
with the University club owing to want of 
time. Now, if “ Undergraduate,” ingenious 
muddler of facts though he be, had thought a 
little bef >re he wrote he would have discovered 
that the gentleman he referred to had not 
found time to hold any official position in the ! 
“ Montreal Club ” either, but the “ Montreal 
Club ” had found time to ask him to play, 
which the College c.ub did not. While con- i 
gratulating himself that the Harvard men did 
not come to Montreal this autumn, as they 
would thereby have witnessed “ our petty 
quarrels,” he takes the first and best opportun- 
ity of placing before them, through the med- 
ium of the press, not only these but also an 
entire misrepresentation of the case. 

He caps the climax of his absurdity by re- 
ferring to a fact originated in his own fertile 
brain, and which alludes to a contention for 
the same office between the two deserters 
whom he is pleased to specialize, and concludes 
by using such epithets as “ Hear little Chil- 
dren !” — the only effect of which is to reflect 
anything but credit on himself and his state- 
ments, and which are characteristic of an ex- 
tremely weak-minded female, or a Freshman 
of the mildest type, 

The “ Quasi ” Traitors. 



CLIPPINGS. 



“ Full many a roll of pony leaves serene, 

The dark unfathomed sleeves and text-books bear ; 
Full many a crib is born to blush unseen, 

Yet shed assistance hidden by the chair.” — Echo . 

Instructor (examining geometrical figures 
on the board), “ I don’t understand these con- 
structions.” Student, “ Very well, I’ll see you 
after recitation and explain them to you.” — 
Ex. 

A paper innocently asks if there is any 
harm in sitting in the laps(e) of ages. We 
think it depends entirely upon the ages, and 
should say that the ages between 1 7 and 25 
are extremely hazardous. — Ex. 

An intoxicated man, passing a door over 
which was the sign, “ Cast Iron Sinks,” looked 
up, and after reading the sign several times, 
chuckled and said : “ Well, who the — (hie) — 
said it didn’t ?” — Ex. 

Our “ Exchanges ” are requested to “ lay ” the 
following to heart : 

Lives of great men all remind you 
You can make your lives sublime. 

And departing, leave behind you 

Tons of awful, wretched rhyme. — Ex. 

Not long ago a junior was out riding with 
one of the Amherst beauties by his side, when, 
looking up pensively into his face, she said, 
with teai's in her eyes, “ Oh, no one loves me, 
Mr. R.” “ Some one does,” he replied. “Yes,” 

said the lady, pressing his arm ever so lightly. 

“ Yes, Miss Lizzie,” continued the wretch, 

“ God loves you.” — Student. 

Fair charmer (who thinks she knows all 
about college affairs) — “ Is it possible, Mr. 
Tomkins, that you are not acquainted with 
my brother at Harvard l Why, he sings 
second bass on the University Base Ball 
Crew.” — Lampoon. Reminds us of the ath- 
letic young curate who remarked in church as 
he shut the Bible, “ Here endeth the first 
innings.” — Ex. 

An urgent request is made by one of the 
ladies for a reform in the young men’s dress. 
The particular aim seems to be to get rid of 
the “standing collar with two points sticking 
out,” on the ground that the aforesaid points 
stick into the neck. We are very sorry that 
the points of the collar should stick into the 



The McGill Gazette. 



35 



young lady’s neck, and have no doubt but 
what the young man in question should 
remove that unbltssfnl article of apparel if she 
should state the facts to him. — Ex. 

Scene upon the campus, 

Ten, last Sunday eve : 

Pretty little maiden 
Clinging to his s'eeve, 

Very much embarrassed. 

Don’t know what to say, 

Freshie’s very verdant — 

Silent all the way ! 

Coming up the hill he'd 
Scarcely said a word, 

Aud they’d walked so slowly 
It was quite absurd ! 

Damsel on his arm is 
Clinging pretty tight ; 

Asks him * hat the harm is 
Talking Sunday night ? 

Fresh, grown braver, says the 
Moon, so bright above 
Brings to mind the text, that 
Always “ God is love.” 

Then the sweet, sage maiden, 

Ere they’ve gone a rod. 

Laughs, through red’ning blushes, 

• “ Let us talk of God ! Ex . 



Jack, I hear you've gone and done it. 

Yes, I know ; most fellows will ; 

Went and tried it once myself, sir, 

Though you see, I’m single still. 

And you met her— did you tell me ? 
Down at Newport last July, 

And resolved to ask the question 
At a soiree ? So did I. 

I suppose you left the ball room 
With its music and its light ; 

For they say love’s flame is brightest 
In the darkness of the night. 

Well, you walked along together, 
Overhead the starlit sky, 

And I’ll bet — old man confess it — 

You were frightened. So was I. 

So you strolled along the terrace, 

Saw the summer moonlight pour 
All its radiance on the waters 
As they ripple on the shore ; 

Ti'l at length you gathered courage, 
When you saw that none were nigh, — 
Did you draw her close and tell her 
That you loved her ? So did I. 

Well I needn’t ask you further, 

And I’m sure I wish you joy, 

Think I’ll wander down and see you 
When you’re married eh, my boy ? 

When the honeymoon is over 
And you’re settled down, we’ll try — 
What ? The deuce you say ! Rejected, 
You rejected ? So ivas I ! — Ex . 



FRESHMEN. 



Arts. 

Barber, Henry M. 
Barron, Thos. J. 

Belcher, Fred. G. 
Clipshaw, John W. 
Cockfield, Henry. 

Fraser, James. 

Fry, James. 

Hague, Henry J. 
Lafleur, Henri *A. 
McCrae, Lawrence 0. 
McKillop, Peter C. 
Martin, Alfred W. 
Morrin, Joseph L. 

Reid, John T. 
Richardson, Jas. S. 
Richardson, Alex. W. 
Rielle, Norman T. 
Smith, Arthur W. 
Stewart, Robert. 

Stirling Robert. 

Thomas, Francis W. J. 
Trenholme, Chas. W. 
Westlake, Henry W. 
Whillans, George. 

Law . 

Bergevin, Joseph D. 
Cantin, Chas. A. 
Chagnon, Marie J. E. 
Cholette, Arthur Henri. 
Church. Fred W. H. 
Cross, Alexander. 
Dagenas, Joseph A. 
Fagnault, Henri P. 
Forster, Joseph L. 
Foster, George T. 
Gauthier, Antoine A. 
Glass, Charles G. 
Ingalls, Allen G. 

Klock, Robert A. 

Lane, Campbell. 

Laron, Joseph S. 

Lee, William H. 
Marsan, Louis G. 
McMahon, Edmond M. 
Oughtred, Allan R. 
Pease, Edson L. 

Poirier, Toussaint. 
Raynes, Charles. 
Redpath, William W. 
Rutherford, Alex, C. 



Shortis, James U. 
Smith, Robert C. 
Trudel, Louis P. 
Ussher, Rev. B. B. 
Weir, William A. 

Science. 

Hague, Frederick. 
Waddell, Montgomery^ 
Green, Thos. D. 
Gnaedinger, Fritz G. 
Foster, Philip L. 

Low, A. P. 

Burland, Jeffreys H. 
Skaife, Louis. 

Medicine. 

Bangs, E. C. 

Burland, B. W. 
Cameron, John W. 
Campbell, R. F. 
Campbell, Lome. 
Cattanach, A. McK. 
Christie, Edmund. 
Cuthbert, Albert. 
Dawson, Rankin. 
Deynier, W. W. 
Duncan, W. T. 

Edick, G. H. 

Gale, H. 

Graham, G. 

Grant, J. 

Hanvey, C. B. H. 
Holmes, F. A. 

Howard, R. J. B. 
Lindsay, J. A. 
McCaffrey F. F. 
McLean, T. N. 
McMillan, D. 

O’Brien, T. J. 

Ogden, H. Y. 

O Kieffe, H. 

Scott, S. M. 

Shaver, J. H. 

Show, A. 

Shaver, W. H. 

Shrady, Geo. 

Smith, A. W. 
Thompson, W. E. 
Trueman, J. E. 
Thornton, A. W. 
Vannier, P. 



— 000 

ITEMS. 



Harmony ! sweet harmony ! 

Faculty dissensions have vanished. 

The Snow-Shoe Club will be started soon. 



Prof. — “Why did Marcus Curtius jump into 
the Gulf at Rome ?” Student. — “ Because he 



The Science men are to have a supper 
shortly. 



thought it was a good opening for a young 
man.” — Ex. 



The Law students praise highly the regu- 
larity of their Professors. 



3 ^ 



The McGill Gazette , 



The Meds. are asking for a clinical teacher 
for the University Lying-in Hospital. 

Medical lectures close on the 19th, the 
Freshman examinations in Botany being 
held on the 14th. 

Lectures closed on the 6th. Exams, com- 
menced on the 10th inst. Woe to the Fresh- 
man that said, “ four days holidays before 
exams.” 

We are glad to notice, that as examinations 
approached, the number of Arts and Science 
students attending “ Chapel,” increased ma- 
terially. 

One small boy’s enthusiasm at the proces- 
sion of the students found vent in the excla- 
mation, “ Hooray for the Snatchers ! ” What 
does it mean ? 

The collection of songs will not be out until 
about the 1st of January, as the students have 
not sent in many original songs, and they are 
what is wanted. 

The Sophomore class in Arts are discussing 
the ELizabethian Age with Prof. Moyse, and 
although this lecture is not compulsary, they 
attend it in a body. 

The gymnasium is being well attended, from 
thirty to forty being present every instruction 
day. The examinations, however, will consid- 
erably lessen the number. 

It has been suggested that the students of 
McGill give a concert after the holidays in aid 
of the General Hospital. The talent is present 
and the thing only wants starting. 

Of late the weekly meetings of the Univer- 
sity Literary Society have been very interest- 
ing, several excellent essays having been given 
by some of its most active members. 

A change in the curriculum of the Medical 
Faculty compels Freshmen to undergo written 
examinations in Anatomy, Physiology, Materia 
Medica and Chemistry, in the spring. 

The bouquet presented to H. R. H. Princess 
Louise was a production of the Boston Floral 
Mart, and was arranged under the supervision 
of Mr. Moore, the general manager, whose 
taste for floral decorations cannot be surpassed 
in the Dominion. 

At a meeting of the University Snow-shoe 
Club, held Saturday evening, the following 



were elected office-bearers : T. Brown (Med.), 

President ; H. H. Wood (Arts), Vice-President ; 
E. Guerin (Law), Secretary ; W. T. Robertson 
(Science), Treasurer ; W. Drummond (Med,), 
j Leader. 

At the first regular meeting of the Society 
of Students in the Faculty of Science, held on 
the First of November, the following officers 
were elected : 

President — John S. O’Dwyer. 

Vice-President — W. F. obertson. 

Secretary Treasurer — W. T. Skaife. 

The following officers were elected by the 
Law Students at a meeting held on Tuesday 
Nov. 19th, to manage the affairs of the Moat 
Club : President, W. H. Kerr, Esq., Q. C., LL. 
D., Acting Dean ; Vice-Presidents, the Hon. 
H. F. Rainville, J. Wurtele, Esq., M. P. P., B. 
C. L., N. W. Trenholme, Esq., M. A., B. C. L., 
J. S. Archibald, Ksq., M. A., B. C. L., M. 
Hutchison, Esq., B. C. L., Edmund Lareau, 
Esq., B. C. L. ; Committee, R. D. McGibbon, £>. 
A., 79, Boutillier J. Trudel, 79, P. G. Mar- 
tineau, ’79, A. W. Atwater, B. A., ’SO, R. Weir, 
’80. 

It is rumored that Prof. Moyse contemplates 
delivering a course of lectures on English Com- 
position to the Third Year Science Students. 
Though these students consider themselves al- 
ready quite over-burdened with work, there is 
no question that they would all thoroughly ap- 
preciate these lectures, not only for the im- 
portance of the subject, which will no doubt 
be exhaustively treated by our popular profes- 
sor of English Literature, but also as a most 
agreeable change from the heights of the 
Calculus, and the unfathomable depths of 
Rankine. 

A debating society having been established 
by the students of Morrin College, Quebec, a 
meeting was held in one of the class rooms on 
Friday evening, the 6th inst. The following 
gentlemen were elected officers for the ensuing 
year : Honourary President, Dr. Cook ; Presi- 
dent, Rev. Prof. McQuarrie, B. A.; Vice-Presi- 
dent, Mr. J. T. Paterson; Secretary-Treasurer, 
Mr. Henry Hemming, jr. The programme for 
the evening consisted of a reading by Mr. Mc- 
Conachie, and a paper on the Life and Poems 
of Lord Byron, by Mr. A. Maxwell. The de- 
bate for Friday evening, 13th inst., will be 
“ Classics versus Mathematics.” 



The McGill Gazette , 



111 



SUBSCRIBE FOR 

“THE McGILL GAZETTE,” 

$1.00 per Annum, in Advance. 



THE NEW YORK WORLD 

is published every day in the year at 35 PARK 
ROW, NEW YORK, arid is mailed, post paid, 
for $10, or $5.50 for six months. The Monday 
issue, whose second page is devoted to the 
Literary Review and College Chronicle, 
is mailed separately for $1.50, or 50 cents for 
four months. 

SINGING. 

NOTICE TO STUDENTS. 

A S Singing has taken so well among the students, it is the 
intention of a member of our staff to publish a collection of 
songs of McGill, as well as the popular college songs of the day. 
Students and graduates will greatly oblige the publisher by 
sending a copy of any McGill or other college songs that they 
may deem worthy of publication. All songs must be sent in 
before Dec. 21st, as the collection will be published on or 
about Dec. 30th. The price will be about 30 or 35c per volume, 
and all who are willing to subscribe towards this laudable 
object are requested to send in their names immediately, as 
a sufficient npmber of subscribers must be obtained before 
the publication can be commenced. Address, 

SECRETARY , McGILL GAZETTE, 

P. O. Box 1,759, Montreal. 



STUDENTS 

desirous of taking 

LESSONS IN SHORTHAND, 

Will please communicate as to terms, &c., with 

MR. CRANKSHAW, 

P. 0. BOX 933. Secretary Phonetic Society. 

UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 



REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

WILL BE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NE IV ROOMS , 15 PHILLIPS SQUARE, 

ON 

FRIDAY EVENINGS, 

to which all Students and Graduates of the University are 
cordially invited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the 
meetings of the Society. 

BY ORDER. 



THE STUDENTS OF McGILL COLLEGE 
are invited to Inspect the stock of GENTS’ 
FURNISHINGS at 

THE RECOLLET HOUSE. 

Prices right, and value without a doubt. 

BROWN & CLAGGET, 
Corner Notre Dame & St. Helen Sts. 

N.B. — A First-class Tailoring Department a specialty 
with us. B. & C. 



BOOTS I BOOTS I 

ESTABLISHED 1857, 
for the best material and workmanship. 

Ladies’ Kid Boots, French heels, steel plates. Gents’ 
Dress Shoes, Gents’ Walking Phasts, all hand-made, and a 
large stock to choose from. Prices made to suit the times. 
Strangers visiting the city would do well to call before 
purchasing elsewhere. 

A . DOUGLAS, 417 Notre Dame St. 



ESTABLISHED 1856. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET ’ 

McGIBBON & BAIRD. 



BRANCH ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1,385 ST. CATHERINE ST., 

[Corner Mansfield Street,] 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 

The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the Dominion 
to choose from at either of the above establishments. 

Fresh Goods by every Steamer. 

TURKISH BATH, 

140 3VT03STIQ,XJE STREET, 

(OFF DORCHESTER STREET), 

Near the Windsor Hotel. 

Laryc and Complete. — One of (he Finest in the World. 

HOURS ■ Gentlemen 6 to 9 a. in., and 2 to 10 p.m. Ladies 10 a m. 
to 1 p.m. 

Open Sunday Mornings for Gentlemen. 

T. COOK, Proprietor. 



Iv 



The McGill Gazette . 



CHARLES Me ADAM, 

Bookseller and Dealer in Chromos , Steel Plate 
Pictures, Fancy Goods , SfC , 4*c. 

30 Radegonde Street, Victoria Square, 

Near Zion Church. MONTREAL. 

Houourary Secretary of the Royal Institution of Fine Arts, Edinburgh. 

Book Room as usual at No. 9 Scotland Streac. 



Terrapin Restaurant, 

287 & 289 Notre Dame Dame St., Montreal. 
OYSTERS, GAME, FISH, &c. 

Breakfast from 8 to 11. Luncheon from 12 to 8. Dinner from 6 to 8. 
Special orders attended to at any time. 

PRIVATE ROOMS FOR PARTIES AND CLUBS. 

HENRY DUNNE. 



The Medical Hall , 

St. James Street. 

Branch : , Branch : 

Phillips’ Square, am Windsor Hotel. 

Selected Stocks of Genuine Drugs, Fine Chemi- 
cals, and Standard Remedies 

McGill College Text Books, 

W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

STANDARD LIBRARY BOOKS. 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices. 

CATALOGUES MAILED FREE. 

232 ST. JAMES STEEET 3 232 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS 
And Students' Note Books 
-A. X ASHFORD’S, 

1576.1 DORCHESTER STREET, Opposite High School, 

MONTREAL. 



W. SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 

Gents' Fur u ats. Caps & Gloves 

NOW ON HAND. 

College Trenchers, and a varied and extensive Stock of 

Silk, Felt and other Hats, in their season. 

R. SHARPLEY & SONS' 

Emporium for Out-door and other Games, 

Cricket, Lawn Tennis, Archery, Badminton, Croquet, Base Ball, Foo t 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, Bagatelle, Chess, Backgammon, Go-bang, Ac. 

Jewellery und Fancy Goods, 

Fine Gold and Silver Timing Watches, 

Jewellery of all descriptions, 

Silver nml Electro-plated Ware, 

Clocks, Bronzes, Musical Boxes, 

Portable Dressing Cases and Satchels, and 
an endless assortment of other goods suitable for 
PRESENTATIONS. 

R. SHARPLEY &. SONS, 

282 & 284 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

CHAS. M. ALEXANDER, 

CONFECTIONER, 

1311 St. Catherine St., corner University. 

Marriage Breakfasts, Dinner and Supper Parties 

Supplied. 

Also, Confectionery of all kinds always on 
hand and Fresh daily. 

LORGE & CO., 

First Premium Practical 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 

21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 



Choice Cut flowers Received Daily . 

Floral Decorations of every description at the Bosioii Floral Mart, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria, Montreal. 

Prompt attention given to all orders by Mall or Telegraph. 

WM, RILEY, Agent. 



