r C,\U- Witty 

TheMcGILL GAZETTE 



Vol. III.— New Series. MONTREAL, JANUARY i, 1877. No. 3. 



CONTENTS. 



Poetry — Canna- 21 

The Canadian Liteiary Society 21 

College World - - - 23 

Editorials - -- -- -- -- -24 

Obituary - -- -- -- - - -.25 



PACE 

Christmas --------- - -25 

Effects of the Life of Trade on the Life of Man 26 

America before Columbus --------26 

Christmas Examinations - - - - - - - 27 

Exchanges — Items - -- -- -- --28 



The McGill Gazette is published Monthly during tlie College Year by the Undergraduates of the University. Terms, 
$1.00 per annum ; Single Copies , 20 Cents. For sale at Dry sd ales, Dawson's, Hill's and Clark's. Subscriptions and Adver- 
tisements to be sent to the Secretary , McGill College. Contributions should be directed to the Editor's, McGill College. 

The Gazette requests contributions of Tales , Essays , and all suitable Literary Matter from University men. It will open 
its columns to any controversial matter connected with the College , provided the com m unicat ions are written in a gentlemanly 
manner. 

All Matter intended for Publication must be accompanied by the Name of the Writer in a Sealed Envelope , which will be 
opened if the Contribution is inserted , but will be destroyed if rejected . This rule will be strictly adhered to. 

W. D. LIGHTHALL , 



MACMASTER & HALL, 

JpmnUs, 

1SI ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. MACMASTER, B.C.L. J. S. HALL, Jr., B.A., B.C.L. 



FRANK J. KELLER, 

^voratr, jMwitor, &t. f 

Chambers, 1, 2, 3 & 4, First Floor, Up-Stairs. 

— OYER— 

CITY AND DISTRICT SAYINGS BANK, 

No. 178 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL^ 




($y § jo £2 R si 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 



MECHANICS’ HALL BUILDING 

20G ST. JAMES STREET. 



President of the Centennial Photographic Co., Philadelphia, 





AND 




MONTREAL, CANADA. 

O 



CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER. 



YALE 

HARVARD 

PRINCETON - 
DARTMOUTH - 

McGILL 

WESLEYAN COLLEGE - - 

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE - - 

PRINCETON SEMINARY - 
ANDOVER SEMINARY - 
PHILLIPS’ EXETER ACADEMY 
ABBOTT ACADEMY - - 



72 73, 75. 76, and 77 

- 74, 75, and 76 

- 74, 75, and 76 

- 74, 75, 76, aud 77 

74, 75, and 76 
- 75 

- - - - 77 

- 74, 75, and 76 

74, and 75 

- - - 74, and 75 

- - . - 76 



THE MoGILL GAZETTE. 




CROWNS OUR EFFORT 

IN OFFERING THE 

BEST FITTING CLOTHING 

IN THE MARKET. 



db SON, 

19 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET. 



ULSTERS AND OTHER OVERCOATS A SPECIALTY, 

AND AT VERY LOW RATES. 

Students will find it to their advantage to trade here. 



TO M EDICAL MEN. 

SPECIALTY, 

OUTFITTING OF MEDICAL STOCKS 

COMPRISING A GOOD ASSORTMENT OF 

SHELF BOTTLES, SUKUilAL INSTkUWENTS, &o.. 

IN CASES AND OTDEBW/X * 

TUE PUREST OF DRUGS GIVEN AT REASONABLE PMCKfl. 

LAVIOLETTE & NELSON, 

css mis w, 

'215 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

(Second door west of St. Gabriel ) 

MONTREAL. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 



McGILL COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. 



Dawson Bros. 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the 

Text Books in use at the College, 

ALSO, 

STATIONERY IN ALL VARIhlY. 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 
STUDENTS’ POCKET INK BOTTLES 

AND 

NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES 
Stamped with the University Die for the use of Students. 
FOR SALE AT 

<T A IVIES STREET. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO. 

Invite the attention of Students and others to their large 
assortment of 

Standard Library Books 

Latest Editions always in Stock at Lowest Prices „ 

CATALOGUES WAILED FREE. 

232 ST. JAMES STREET. 232 
HEARN & HARRISON, 

IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS O? 






Levels and Surveying Instruments, 

Drawing Ins’ruments, Magic Lanterns, 

MICROSCOPES, THERMOMETERS, <Lc„ Ac., 

SIGN OF THE ADMIRAL, 

Nos, 242 & 244 NOTRE DAME ST., 

MONTREAL. 



heMcGILL gazette 

Vol. III.— New Series. MONTREAL, JANUARY i, 1877. No. 3. 



CANNAE. 



Round Cannae’s scattered hovels, 

Beside Aufidus’ stream, 

The blinding wind Vulturnus 
Is sweeping o’er the plain — 

Over two stately armies 
Advancing to the fight, 

Their standards and their armour 
All glancing in the light. 

The serried front of Carthage 
Is formed for the fray, 

With its varied line of soldiers 
In many a strange array ; 

There, cruel, strong-limbed negroes 
From Afric’s arid waste 
Are mingling with the giant Gauls, 
Light-hued of hair and face. 

And there uprears each elephant 
Its huge, un wieldly mass, 

And wheeling swift in dusky troops 
The fierce Numidians pass ; 

And the white-vested Spaniards 
Are standing side by side, 

With bands from Labian cities 
Tired of the Roman pride. 

How fearlessly and proudly 
Bears Rome upon the foe ! 

Far in the van, reared high aloft, 

The conquering eagles go — 

Go haughtily and bravely 
Across that fatal plain, 

Which few of those beneath them massed 
Shall ever leave again. 

Now rises loud the shout of war — 

Now steel rings sharp on steel — 

The armies shake like storm-swayed grain, 
As grain, Death’s scythe they feel ; 

But slowly breaks the Roman line 
Before the savage foe, 

And down go Romans, stricken hard, 

And down the eagles go. 

Spurs off in haste proud Varro, 

Who caused this fUal day; 

While good Emilius fights and dies, 

As only heroes may. 

And the sluggish stream Aufidus 
Now deeply-coloured runs, 

Tinged by the blood of thousands 
Of the seven-hilled city’s sons. 



The conflict stern has ended, 

And night has covered o’er 
The sodden shapes that once were men, 
The pools of clotted gore ; 

And far above the quivering field, 

Where lies the pride of Rome, 

The stars are shining silently 
To welcome true souls home. 

O Rome ! hadst thou not omens 
To trust not in thy might, 

Did not the gods in kindness 
Forewarn thee of this fight ? 

Did not the Sabine statues 
Perspire red drops of blood, 

And the fountain at fair Ccere 
Pour forth a heated flood ? 

And on the Campus Martius 
Did not the bolts of Jove 
Bring death to many a trembling wretch 
From the darkened heaven above ? 

O Rome ! when next thou sendest forth 
Thy citizens to slay, 

See that the gods be on thy side 
And envious pride away. 



THE CANADIAN LITERARY SOCIETY. 

An Essay Read before the University Literary Society by Mr. //. 
redl y , B,A. 



My object in qualifying the term Literary Society with the 
word Canadian, was to give myself scope for making a few 
general remarks upon intellectual life in Canada. These I 
now proceed to make. 

Canada is in her youth, and, as is very often the case in 
youth, the animal in her is predominant. Commerce, agri- 
culture, manufactures — physical things seem to confine the 
hopes and bound the enterprise of the people. And yet not 
altogether ; there is some little stir of the higher life of 
mind, some kindling of mental fervour, some slight energy of 
intellect. 

This is most clearly seen, perhaps, in political circles. 
Here we find the greatest heat of intensity, the most restless 
and enthusiastic activity. True, this is not always of the best 
kind. The mercenary idea, the grossly utilitarian, seems to 
thrust itself in everywhere. Personal interest rather than 
pure love of the thing, selfish hopes instead of public spirit 
seem to be the impelling force, the stream which turns the 
little mill-wheel of our life. If our newspapers— strongly 
partizan, as they usually are mirror with any truthfulness at 
all the real state of the country, then we must conclude that 
there is interwoven into the fabric of our national life a very 
strong element of the lower part of human nature. 

Still, taking them with all their failings and, faults, the 
political excitements of our country are a hopefuf sign. We 



22 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



are not dead ; we are not intellectual mummies ; we have 
thoughts and interests which transcend the bounds of absolute 
social selfishness. We do get a little above the mere 
anima'ism whose everlasting motto is “ what shall we eat 
and what shall we drink, and wherewithal shall we be clothed.” 
There is good along with the evil— there is something more 
than vanity and greed in public life. Our business, then, is 
not to cry down political agitations, even though they do at 
times rock the land like an earthquake, but to purity them. 
Our duty is, not to keep out of the struggles of national life, but 
to throw into them the elements of honor and purity which 
spring out of a high level of character and thought in ourselves. 

Leaving the sphere of political life, we might ask what is 
the condition of literature in this country? The term embry- 
onic might well describe it. Its manifestations are scanty 
in extent and narrow in range, transcient and of little worth 
in ultimate achievement. It is hardly to be expected that they 
should be anything else. And this is not altogether the fault 
— misfortune rather, of the writer. Those for whom he writes 
must share in the blame or the pity as the case may be Let any 
man undertake to write a book that will cost him time and 
study, and what is the prospect he has to look forward to ? Is 
it not neglect? We have a tide of foreign literature flooding 
into the land, and we are not sorry that there is a demand for 
it ; bnt we are sorry when it sweeps away all attention and 
interest from our own productions. There has been much 
talk about protecting our manufactures. We need to talk a 
little about protecting our literature. This protection must 
come, however, not from law but from what is better, the 
intellectual sympathy and self-respect of the people. But 
every good cause the world over has its martyrs, and these 
are generally the men who go in to break up the new land. They 
have to suffer that others maybe crowned. They have to toil 
in the shadows of obscurity that others may come out into the 
sunlight of success. Men like Heavysege must sing unheeded 
amid the stir and bustle of the audience in order that those 
who come after may obtain a hearing when people have time 
and inclination to sit quietly and listen. 

Need I apologise if for a moment I tread upon theological 
grounds. I think not. The theologian who knows naught but 
his theology, who is ignorant of the thought and life of those 
who are not theologians, is- a miserable being indeed, too 
narrow to be clearly seen or much noticed. But I venture to 
say that he is not more wretchedly cramped than the man of 
literature who persistently and contemptuously leaves out of 
sight those deep perplexing prob ems which theologians ought 
to deal with, though alas ! they sometimes do not even know 
of them. With reference to these questions there is much 
stagnation in Canada. Men array themselves submissively, 
and without independent thought, under some of the generally 
received forms of religious life, or else fall in just about as 
submissively under the banner of a radical materialism. There 
all move on self-contained in their own spheres, knowing liitle 
of each other, and too often feeding bitter and contemptuous 
feelings upon their ignorance. Now, what I would contend 
for is that there should be more of contact, that men may 
become broader and better by understanding each other. 
True, there might be storm and strife, but that is healthy. 
1 hey say it is like leaving the whirling of a tempest for a 
dead calm, to come from the intense religious life of the old 
country to the mental apathy which seems to brood over us 
here. 

Leaving these geneialities we come to the Literary Society, 
which. I think, should act as a sort of bridge from the life of 
the student to the life of the man, freed from the restraints 
and guidances of the college course. It should teach us self- 
reliance. W hat is the aim of a Literary Society ? To me it 



seems to be simply this, the developement of independent 
thought and of its expression. You see there are two things 
there ; both are of vital consequence. 

There is not much scope for independent mental activity 
in college life There is activity, no doubt, with some except- 
ions, of course, but it is to a very large extent driven and 
controlled by the professors ; and this is right enough in its 
place. But the time must come when the student will escape 
from this tutelage. He must begin to think and act for 
himself. Now there are at least two dangers which beset the 
path of a young man at this stage. If he is largely developed 
in the direction of self-esteem and combativeness, he will 
probably go out of college with the conviction that he was 
born for the special purpose of setting the world to rights. 
He will have an invincible confidence in his own ideas— ideas 
which are great because they are his, and for no other earthly 
reason. He will all the time be striking his head against stone 
walls, which don’t care much how long he continues the 
exercise. On the other hand if he is timid, modest and self- 
depreciative, his trouble will be in the opposite direction 
entirely. He never has boldness enough to form an opinion 
at all. He is constantly and painfully playing the part of a 
foot ball for men who have more self-reliance in their com- 
position. Against both these dangers the Literary Society 
j ought to guard. It should rebuke the arrogant, encourage the 
I timid ; it should soften the conceited down to a becoming 
( modesty, and beget in the fearful a manly confidence. It 
' should teach the student to have and hold his opinions with- 
j out being entrapped by blundering folly on the one hand, or 
I by an indolent cowardice on the other. 

But it is not enough to have opinions ; we must be able to 
send them out from us so that they will have power upon 
others. The reservoir may be full to the brim of water, cool 
; and clear, but it is of little use as a water-system without 
channels to convey it to the lips of the city’s thirsty thousands. 

] Men may have all the height and length and depth and 
( breadth of their nature stored with knowledge, but if there be 
! no flowing forth it is but buried treasure. 

“ Full many a flower is born to blush unseen 
And waste its sweetness on the desert air.” 

That word waste is most happily employed. What in the 
name of common sense is the use of the sweetest odour if 
1 there are no nostrils to inhale it ? In many minds the flowers 
: of thought spring up. give out their fragrance, wither and die, 

; without the wot Id being any the wiser or any the better. The 
first couplet of the stanza has its analogy too — 

“ Full many a gem of purest ray serene 
| The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear.” 

Yes, the gem is there, but it might as well be a common pebble 
for all the good it does. It must be polished and placed upon 
1 the brow of beauty in order that its worth may be realized. 

! Gems of thought are lost, because they lie hidden away in 
i caverns. Some men are walking sepulchres, where forms of 
beauty lie entombed. The thoughts as they go in feel that 
1 they must take a long last look of life, for they are plunging 
! into darkness and death from which there is no resurrection. 
It is a pity that good thoughts should be treated in such an 
unseemly manner. If the Literary Society would act the part 
of a resurrectionist here, it need fear neither fine nor imprison- 
1 ment. 

The Literary Society ought to come in here. College life, 
while it may put a good deal into a man, does not teach him 
, very much as to how he is going to get it out again in some 
useful form. The Society should, to some extent at least, fill 
, this breach. It should stimulate the student to the use of pen 
and voice. How few of us know how to wield the pen with 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



23 



anything like freedom and power. We have some great big 
original thoughts seething and churning in our brain. Mo 
one lias ever thought of this before ; nobody ever could! It is 
a bran new idea and no mistake ; we must embalm it. Down 
we sit with pen and paper; we dip the pen into the ink at 

once, and then yes and then — instead of writing with 

the pen we sit chewing the hither end of the instrument, 
until all the fervour of inspiration has evaporated, and naught 
but cold disgust is left behind. All this wonderful thought is 
lost — absolutely and utterly lost — for want of a little readiness 
in composition. But this is, perhaps, an extreme case ; take 
another. Here is a man who has an idea to work out. He 
gets at it and works it out — yes works it out. He is as tired 
afterwards as if he had written a book ; and what is the result 
of it all. Why the idea which at first seemed so clear and 
luminous to his mind, has got completely befogged in the 
clouds and mists of language. All strength and beauty in the 
thought have been missed and lost behind the villanous 
composition. For lack of training many a man, with the stuff 
in him to mike an author of name and influence, has been 
kept in the background. Thus the country loses them. We 
must train, and this is a good place for it. We must write 
much, and burn m ich before we can produce anything really 
fit to live. In Africa they kill the elephants for the sake of 
the ivory, and we must expect to destroy a vast bulk of matter 
for the sake of the residuum of ivory which we may give to the 
world. 

We mus’nt forget the use of the voice. It is a very easy 
thing for some men to talk ; there are thousands who '* chatter, j 
chatter as they flow,” and what makes it worse still, they “ go 
on forever.” But vhile there are many talkers the speakers 
are but few ; the men who can get up and say what ought to 
be said without making fools of themselves, Many a good 
scholar is shorn of influence which he might otherwise wield 
by the involuntary dumbness to which he seems doomed. 
We meet again and again with men whose thought is golden, 
but who, for want of the silver currency of speech, are 
forced to occupy the position of ciphers. There are plenty of 
people whp measure a man's ability by his power to speak 
well, and they are not a little surprised when they hear some 
full-fledged B.A. playing leapfrog with the Queen's English 
and with common sense. How often we have been condemned 
to listen to the interminable wanderings and convulsive throes 
of speakers whose education would lead us to expect better 
things. 

The lack of speaking ability is clearly seen in Parliament. 
Why is it that so many members are mere voting machines, 
mere appendages to the ballot-box ? Is it because they don’t 
think ? Is it because they are unable to get a clear grasp of 
political questions ? Is it because they have handed the reigns 
of their judgment over to other men ? In some instances it 
may be so, but in many cases it is simply because they can’t 
speak. Any man who has’nt acquired some readiness in this : 
art before entering the House, must possess a tremendous ! 
amount of will and moral courage if he dare to begin there. 
Men like Sheridan and D'lsraeli may persist, after one failure, j 
but it would squelch the majority. And so we often see men 
of sense and wisdom sitting in silence while ranting dema- 
gogues are wasting the time of the country and damaging its 
interests. 

Now, the men who come to a University, as a rule, expect 
some dav to fill positions of honor. They look forward to the 
wielding of influence, the moulding of thought, the leading of 
men. Let them learn, then, to utilize their scholarship. If 
they have no other chance they should make a thorough use 
of the Literary Society. Nor should vanity hinder the fear of 
making mistakes. Go right in, hit or miss, at first, if you 



want to be able to hit at last. A man who hasn’t pluck 
enough to make a failure is not likely to have in him the 
stamina which wins success. If you notice the biographies 
of great speakers, you will very often find that it was in some 
coffee-house, club-room, debating or Literary Society, that the 
first stimulus to their powers were received. There ought to 
be more value set on such societies ; we want more spirit 
thrown into this one. There ought to be more striving after 
excellence — more keenness of rivalry — more sharpness of 
criticism. Men ought to be brought out here whose power 
will be felt in the country, and will live after they themselves 
are dead. Other lands have their great men. The haze of 
distance makes them look larger than they really are. 
We look upon them as super-terrestrial beings, to be venerated 
rather than to be vied with. But, after all, they are not much 
different from us. Their complement of senses is no larger ; 
their faculties of mind are not more numerous ; their lives 
are not any longer. But they are alive and active. They are 
not willing to stay in the valley. They must climb the 
heights, their less aspiring comrades the meanwhile dwindling 
into insignificance, but the landscape grows more expansive 
and more beautiful as they rise. And why should not we 
ascend with them, and, if possible, keep abreast of them ? Why 
should not our society be the cradle of men who shall enter 
as new b’ood into the growing life of the country, and make 
its pulsabons quicker and stronger? Why should we not 
nurture here, the men whose clearness of mental vision, facile 
pen, and word of power shall tell in this land of ours for 
truth and progress and renown? If such an aim as this be 
achieved by us, then Canada will have good reason to bestow 
her benison of approval upon us, and to rejoice in the 
existence of such an institution as a Canadian Literary 
Society. 

COLLEGE WORLD. 



— The Oxford University Rowing Club has declined the 
challenges of the Yale and Cornell Clubs to a four-oared race 
on the Thames next August. 

— A Football Association was formed on November 23, by 
delegates from Harvard, Yale, Columbia and Princeton. 
The Rugby Union rules were adopted, with the exception of 
rule seven, which was modified so that four touch-downs 
count a goal. A Yale gentleman was elected President. 

— Harvard graduates are giving dramatical entertainments 
to pay off the debt incurred by their crews last summer. 

— Yale. has declined the football challenge of Harvard. 

— Mr. Thomas William Lewis, of Caius College, has been 
appointed President of the Cambridge University Rowing 
Club, vice Mr. P. W. Brancker, who, in leaving Cambridge, 
leaves a vacancy in the University eight. It is thought, 
however, that Mr. Prest, son of the Archdeacon of Durham, 
will take the vacant seat. He is said to be a fair oar, as his 
father was when he was an undergraduate at St. John’s 
College. — Crimson. 

— Tufts has a dramatic club. 



A philosophical student, writing an essay the other day, closed 
with the words : — “ Brevitas facetiarum anima est.” The professor’s 
critique was as follows : — “ Non autem tractatuum philosophicorum. 
Atque scriptori quidem potuit tractatus hie parvulus videri facet us, 
sed miniuic potest lectori.” 



24 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 

ist JANUARY, 1877 . 



Editors for I87U-77. 

Managing Editor,' 78, D. C McLAREN. 

’79, W. D. LIGHTHALL, '78, W. R. SUTHERLAND, 7 Vww. 

’77, A. JAMIESON, B.A. ’78, J. ROSS. 

’78, P. D. ROSS. '79. G. H. GROVES, 



The examinations are passed, and passed we hope, to the 
satisfaction of all. The inevitable pluck has victimized not 
a few ; these have themselves to thank, for failure subse- 
quent to honest endeavour is happily a rarily. Hardly had 
we recovered from the exertions of our last appearance in 
Molson Hall, and composed ourselves to a thorough enjoy- 
ment of the fortnight granted by the Faculty, when we 
were reminded by the inveterate printer that he was in 
want of “ copy.” Our dreams of a dolce far niente being 
thus rudely dispelled, we turned ourselves with unabated 
energy to the task of satisfying his (the printer’s) unnatural 
cravings. So while our friends have been indulging them- 
selves here and elsewhere, we, poor public servants, have 
been hard at work ; with what success we leave our readers 
to judge. But to return to the subject that has been engros- 
sing general attention during the last month ; we find, on 
looking over the results on our last page, that the addition 
of an assistant mathematical professor to the already efficient 
staff of preceptors has had the effect of considerably 
thinning out the freshman and other classes. Tho unfortu- 
nates constitute about 45 per cent of the whole. Can this be 
due to worse anti-collegiate preparation than usual ? Can 
we ascribe to a more widely-extended spirit of laziness ? 
Be that as it may, we think that in this case the old saw 
about two heads being better than one (even if they are pro- 
fessors’) may, in some degree, account for the phenomenon. 
The respected Professor of Philosophy has adopted a new 
mode of publishing his results — viz., with the standing 
opposite the name of each person. We notice a considerable 
number of names with no ratings; this, we suppose, is due 
to absent-mindedness on the part of the examiner; how- 
ever, those gentlemen will have an opportunity of amicably 
arranging matters in February. In the mathematical 
physics of the third year one hero stands alone in his glory 
in the first-class — in the same examination in science three 
managed to pass. To all, ploughed and otherwise, we extend 
our condolences and congratulations coupled with the com- 
pliments of the season, hoping, also, that all will return 
refreshed both in mind and body, and with purses well-filled, 
the strings of which will be readily unloosed at the call of 
our needy treasurer. 



Some days ago we were disagreeably startled by an article 
in the Montreal Gazette headed' “ Polytechnique schools.” 
It seems that an educational establishment in this city, 
entitled the “ Catholic Commercial Academy,” is applying 
; to the Legislature of Quebec for a charter by which they 
will be empowered to grant the degrees of Civil Engineer, 
Mining Engineer, &e., &c*. ; in fact, almost every degree 
known in Practical Science. When we learn that such 
a matter is seriously contemplated, it is natural to 
infer that this is not only a school of high standing 
at present, but that it also intends to make adequate 
preparations for the just use of the powers to be granted 
it. We expect to hear that large sums of money are 
to be expended ; that competent teachers, both in theory and 
| practice, are to be appointed, and a thorough and extended 
j course of study pursued. What is it that we do hear ? That 
| this school, of whom not a tithe of our students have ever 
| heard, expends an additional two or three thousand dollars 
{ per annum, adds two or three teachers to its ordinary staff, 
and will grant, after a few years theoretical training, degrees 
nominally higher than those which the highest scientific 
school in the world, 1 E cole Poly technique at Paris, only 
gives after long years of laborious study, the entrance 
examination of which, our McGill graduates would find it 
no easy matter to pass. To take an instance nearer home : 
McGill only grants the degree of M.E. (Master of Engineer- 
ing), after six (in a few cases five) years of work- -three 
spent at college and three in actual work in field or office. 
But the u Commercial Academy ” is going to send out first- 
class Engineers without such lengthy and severe preparation 
as the French Government, our own professors, and all 
sensible men, think necessary. If u VEcole Poly technique” 
were to take school-boys, train them for three years’ and 
then call them Engineers, and permit them to add the words 
“ Civil Engineer” to their name, it is possible, some people 
might say, they would not have a great deal of confidence in 
such Engineers, or else that the studies must be very severe 
and the teachers very good; yet this French school is 
famous, well supported, taught by well-known men ; in short 
it is the chief Government School of such a kingdom as 
France. Although the “ Catholic Commercial Academy” is 
not as yet famous, perhaps it is one of those gems (?) which* 
hidden by an untoward fate, only wants the aid of the 
friendly hand of a Mr. Chapleau to come out in its full glory. 
It is willing to become the chief government school of this 
Province of Quebec; to take the schoolboys, train them for 
the three years, and then give them the degree they want. 
Leaving aside all speculation, this much is certain, that } 
if the proposed scheme be successfully carried out, it will be 
fatal to the Department of Applied Science in McGill. It 
is not to be expected that a young man will work six years 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



25 



for a degree, when he can get a nominally more valuable one 1 
at half the expenditure of time and money. 

It is gratifying to find so influential a paper as the Montreal 
Gazette taking up the matter so earnestly, and we refer those 
who wish to see clearly the merits of the question, to the able 
editorial which appeared in the number of Thursday, Dec. 
21st. Were it not so long now since the article appeared, 
we would venture to suggest that some other of the pro- 
minent Montreal journals would reprint it. We hope that 
Mr. Chapleau (who is bringing forward this bill ) will find 
more opposition to it than he expects. 



OBITUARY. 



How curious that human (and particularly English) ideas 
of enjoyment should culminate in a good dinner ! Even 
Milton — lofty, grave, severe — could not describe a day in 
heaven without feasting his angels. 

“ All in circles as they stood, 

Tables are set, and on a sudden piled 
With angels’ food, and rubied nectar flows 
In pearl, in diamond, and massy gold, 

Fruit of delicious vines, the growth of heaven.” 

Christmas dinners have long been famous, but now-a-days 
we do not go into any such luxuries as they considered pro- 
per of old, such as peacocks, carps’ tongues, &c. At such 
times, however, the boar’s head always took the first place at 
the board, and was brought in with first-rank honours, so to 
speak. 

“ Caput apri defero. 

Reddens laudes Domino. 

The boar’s head in hand I bring, 

With garlands gay and rosemary, 

I pray you all sing merrily 
Qui estis in convivio. ” 

Though with us Christmas has now lost much of its noisy 



Since our last issue, a heavy blow has fallen upon us, 
bringing sorrow and desolation to the bereaved family, and 

awaking profound sympathy on all hail Is. We refer to the j revelry, still special attention is paid to the Christmas dinner, 
death of our late fellow 
Sunday, December 10th 

Mr. Froth ingham graduated in science in 1875, and up till 
last summer had been following that avocation; not finding 
it to his taste, however, he determined upon studying 
medicine, and was pursuing the prescribed course when so 
suddenly stricken down. Being of a somewhat retiring 
disposition, he was probably not so well known to the 



. j , T t t? a- u r. and it is generally to be remembered ever after with special 
r -student, Mr. J. J. Frothingham, on , c ® T r n > r 

’ b 7 I reference to Longfellow s lines — 

, 1876, in the 22nd year of his age. j Not enjoymentj andnot p ie asure , 

Is our destined end in life,” 

because of the long start it gives to that goblin indigestion in 
the race tor next morning’s light. 

We wonder when oui time-honoured phrases, “ A Merry 
Christmas,” “A Happy New Year,” first originated; we 
wonder how many people, as they exchange them, coupled 
with a hearty shake of the hand, mean what they say. But 
what matters it whether or not the words are used sincerely ; 



students in general as to some of ourselves. We had always ( at an y rate> t } ie y are hearty old English ones, whose very ring 
found hilrt a hearty and genial companion, and a true and 1 conveys pleasure. How can any man go round idiotically 

honest friend. The sadness of the event was increased- j muttering “ the compliments of the season ?’’ We should like 
Ilul t° have a view of the lunatic who first invented this utterance ; 

nay, even doubled — by the as sudden death of his mothei doubtless some scented exquisite with gold-topped cane and 
on the evenin< ) * subsequent to his funeral. We cannot over- curled hair. Would that some modern witch of Endor could 

look the resolutions of con lolence passed by the medical call up in contrast to him the man who first sent Santa Claus 

. . 1 down the Christmas chimney. We think mentally cf some 

students and the various societies with which he was p 0rt ]y } good-humoured old gentleman with round cheeks and 



connected, and with deep feeling wish to add our own 
thereto. 



CHRISTMAS. 



portly, good-humoured old gentleman 
twinkling eyes, possibly with a ponderous coat of mail over 
his generous heart. 

Alas that we, miserable students, are compelled to pass our 
Christmas in fear and trembling, awaiting with failing hearts 
those ominous “ Results !” How can we enjoy a family 
party ? How enjoy a Christmas dinner ? How have “ a 
happy new year” with perhaps supplemental to pass in the 



Christmas 1876 has passed by, faded into the dim past, : beginning of February? Pity us, ye that are free and care- 
laden with memories of happy gatherings of friends and re- 1 less, and have no Christmas holidays ! 
lations who shall, perhaps, never all meet together again. J 
What stony savages they must be who refuse to observe such ; 
holidays, and talk in their selfish wisdom of the folly of, 
wasting one’s time in fun and mirth on this, the greatest of 
our English holidays ! England and Englishmen the world ! 
over have kept this day for hundreds of years, often beneath 
tropical suns, or amid the snows of the Arctic regions; but 
in England is the true Christmas observed. 

“ So now is come our joyful’st feast, 

Let every man be jolly ; 

Each room with ivy leaves is drest, 

And every post with holly. 

Round your foreheads garlands twine, 

Drown sorrow in a cup of wine, 

And let us all be merry.” 

So sings a poet of the first half of the seventeenth century. 



“ Now all our neighbours’ chimneys smoke, 

And Christmas blocks are burning ; 

Their ovens they with baked meat choke, 

And all their spits are turning. 

Without the door let sorrow lie, 

And if for cold it hap to die, 

We’ll bury ’t in a Christmas pie, 

And evermore be merry.” 

And amid all our fun let us not forget what Christmas 
means, and where and for what our Christmas was first re- 
membered, and keep an open hand for those who pass their 
Christmas in cold and hunger in this blustry Canadian winter 
of ours. 

“ This is the month, and this the happy morn, 

Wherein the Son of heaven’s Eternal King, 

Of wedded maid and virgin mother born, 

Our great redemption from above did bring.” 



26 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



EFFECTS OF THE LIFE OF TRADE 
THE LIFE OF MAN. 



ON | “ what you want here ? ” “ I want to go to bed.” “ Can’t go to 
! bed here,” and pointing to one berth he said “ that’s my wife’s 
■ and the other is for me.”. I then tried another room with like 
| success. Seeing a heap of mattresses and pillows in one 
1 corner of the cabin, Tom and I each laid hold of one and 
twice as many pillows, dragged them to a quiet part of the 
boat, and sought to make ourselves as comfortable as possible. 

; Wishing each other goodnight and pleasant dreams, we ceased 
talking and courted sleep. As far as I was concerned this 
' was almost out of the question, for at our heads sat an 
1 American couple, far on the road to marriage, whose sweet 
1 cooing had not the effect of lulling to sleep an inexperienced 



As many of my readers will know, in the summer of 1874, 
by reason of competition, the fare to Quebec by steamer, was 
remarkably low. As a consequence of this, the boats were 
always crowded with passengers. 

One evening my friend, Tom , proposed to me that 

we should take a trip and visit the ancient capital. I agreed 
to this and we parted, promising to meet at the Richelieu 

wharf at ten minutes to seven. . ( . _ 

I was on hand at the proper time, but no friend could be youth longing for instruction in the noble art of courtship, 
seen. This was at a time when the rivalry between the! This was not all that diove away sleep ; just beneath us a 
companies on the route was at its height, and it was difficult group of “ young bloods ” spent the night gambling, yelling 
to find anyone in the dense crowd that surrounded the and drinking, which did not form a very soothing lullaby, 
steamers. As soon as one attempted to get near the boats j About 2 a.m., being thoroughly wearied, I dropped asleep, 
he was set upon by agents of both companies, v\ho talked of ( and whilst I was dosing, some poor weary mortal threw me 



In the morning I 



a spoke to Tom about the noise made by the gamblers, all of 
! whom were French Canadians. He smiled and looking like 



the merits of their boat, and the bad qualities of their ( off my mattress, and occupied it himself, 
opponent. Having freed myself from them by buying l_ “ ^ u - 

ticket for the “Trois Rivieres,” I made my way to where she 

was tied, and stood near the gangway, hoping to see my friend j a sage of old said, and not altogether without truth : “ Our 
make his appearance, but herein 1 was disappointed. The Frenchman is equal to a great deal of noise, two make it un- 
hour for starting at length arrived. The bell struck. “ Haul bearable, and three Pandemonium.” 

in the gangway,” shouted the captain. With a cheer the | In due time, however, our good steamer brought us to 
men in charge laid hold of it, and as they did so an old Quebec, where we spent three or four very pleasant days in 
habitant's wife stepped on the outer end and was drawn in ! company with a resident friend. 

One of these days we set out to visit the Falls of Mont- 



also. But horror of horrors, as soon as she was aboard she 
discovered her spouse standing on the wharf looking for his 
wife, all eyes and mouth. With a yell of despair, such as she 
alone could utter, she shouted : “ Ah, mon mari ! ” I did not 
wait to hear any more, but went up-stairs, and to my no 
small delight, stumbled against Tom, who was giving up all 
hopes of meeting me. When we had promenaded around for 
some little time; we were conscious of a feeling that the inner 
man required something more than walking. Going to the 
office we procured tickets, marked “ good for supper with 
these, and with bright expectations, we proceeded to the 



( morenci. For this purpose we hailed a caleche, a sort of cab 
( having a very great likeness to our Montreal butcher cart, 
only that it possesses a cover. 

We entered the caleche and were going merrily on our way r 
nearing the oft mentioned Beauport — significant fact — when 
suddenly our horse stumbled and fell. The next moment our 
resident friend was on mother earth, his mouth in the dust, 
spitting like a good fellow, and trying to call the ^carter and 
his horse not a very nice name. I was astride the old nag 
and Tom was laughing heartily at us. We then all laughed, 



table. The sight that here met our gaze almost baffles got into our conveyance again, reached the falls in safetv, and 



description. The table was forty or fifty feet long; around 
it were seated, in close proximity, a large number of hungry 
looking men. At the back of each chair stood another person 
holding it, and claiming it for the next table ; then there were 
a few fights by way of accompaniment ; two parties would lay 
claim to the same chair, and the dispute would be settled by 
the man who could strike the hardest blow obtaining the 
seat. As Tom and I had some respect for our beauty of 
face and figure, we waited until we found an opportunity of 
having supper in peace. About eleven o’clock we were ' 
nicely seated, and I was on the point of making the acquaint- 
ance of a piece of beef-steak, when I was startled by hearing 
some one opposite me cry out, “ waiter, take away this 
leather, and bring me something I can (ha 7 v ! ” 

In my previous ignorance, I thought leather grew on the 
outside of a bovine creature, but really the animal off which 
this so called beef-steak was taken, must have been leather 
through and through. 

There was one old man who evidently enjoyed the leather. 
He would get a piece on his fork, then place one end between 
his teeth, throw back his head, get hold of the fork with both 
hands, and pull till you heard a click ; and then the old 
fellow would smile as much as to say, “ I have overcome the 
leadier.” After supper was over I began to feel drowsy ; so, 
taking two keys I had received from the captain I went in 
search of a bed. Here new troubles awaited me. I found 



after having spent a pleasant day, returned to the city. 

The next night we took steamer for Montreal, got some 
more leather and a stateroom, by engaging it twenty-four 
hours in advance. 

We reached our destination in “good order and condition” 
next morning, allowing that opposition might be the life of 
trade, but being convinced that it was not, in this case, the 
life of man. 

Wygram. 



AMERICA BEFORE COLUMBUS. 



The historian Bancroft, in his great work, “ History of the 
United States,” begins with a few words on the traditions 
and legends relative to the times prior to the bold and 
successful expedition of Christopher Columbus. 

Without giving credence to these relations of the days of 
yore, still it might be useful and instructive to collect a few 
of them, shrouded as they are in all the fanciful dimness of 
the “-twilight of fable-land,” and embellished with all the 
imagery of northern Scalders and Sagas. 

I. 



I he prehistoric traditions of the Egyptians mention a large 
the room corresponding to the number on my key, and opened island westward of the column of Hercules, which bore the 
the door, I was met by a fierce looking fellow who cried out | name of Atlantides, and later on the omnivorous poetry of 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



27 



Greece and Rome seized upon the fabled isle, and there 
placed the Elysian Fields ; Plato, in his philosophical dia- 
logues, speaks of Atlantides, the inhabitants of which con- 
quered a great part of Kurope, a great war was about to 
ensue, when the formidable nation beheld their island sub 
merged by the ocean, and peace followed as a necessary 
consequence. This event is mentioned by the ancient books 
of Mexico, and some now think that the majestic ruins found 
in Central America are remnants of antique American 
civilization, its authors having perished in one grand catas- 
trophe ; still we have nowhere heard that any marine remains 
have been discovered among these structures, such as are 
observed clinging to the broken columns of Neptune’s temple 
on the shores of the Gulf of Baiae. 

We can only say, therefore, respecting this tradition, that 
at a remote period relations between the two continents 
certainly existed, the definite character of which still remains 
to be ascertained. 

We may here remark, before passing to a later epoch, that 
the ancient Mexican language has many roots in common 
with Latin and Sanscrit, and that a remarkable coincidence 
exists in the mythology of these nations. 

In speaking of the navigators of a later period, the French 
author, from whom we draw the materials of this essay, quotes 
those well known verses of Horace, as applicable to the 

“ Illi robur et aes triplex 
Circa pectus erat, qui fragilem truci 
Commisit pelago ratem 
Primus * * * * 

Truly never were verses more suited to a description than 
these. 

Our first historical accounts of the settlement of Iceland 
date from the year 86 1. At that time a Norwegian pirate, 
named Naddod, set sail for the Feroe Islands, and during a 
violent storm was driven to an island, which he found covered 
with ice and snow, hence the name Iceland. 

Skipping various events, we find Bjarn, a son of one of the 
companions of Eric the Red, pushing boldly forth in search 
of his father. Wandering about in unknown seas, he beheld at 
last a hilly and well wooded shore, then to the south he discov- 
ered a still more fertile country / here, however, he once more 
remembered the object of his journey, and after a few days 
arrived at the inhospitable shores of Greenland. 

A number of surmises have been made with reference to 
the identity of these localities. M. Gravier, in a work upon 
this subject, is of opinion that, taking into consideration the 
polar currents, winds and direction followed, that the coasts 
seen were no others than those of Nova Scotia and of Maine. 
There is certainly much presumptive evidence, if we add to 
the foregoing the precise number of days which were con- 
sum'd in the voyage. 

The news of these discoveries called forth another expe- 
dition, which was commanded by a son of Eric the Red. 
Following in the steps of his predecessor he explored still 
more of the newly-found land. He entered the to be puritan- 
ical waters of Massachusetts Bay, casting anchor at the 
mouth of i he Pocasset, he named the country Vinland, from 
the abundance of wild grapes, and wintering among the 
future head springs of Yankeedom, returned to Greenland 
with a cargo of wood. 

A younger brother pushed still further southward, and 
perished in a battle with the natives. The old records place 
the scene of the combat near a promontory, and strangely 
enough, a tomb has been discovered in the vicinity of Cape 
Alderton, containing a skeleton and a sword hilt, which 
antiquarians consider to be of a make anterior to the 15th 
century. ( To be continued.) 



McGILL COLLEGE-FACULTY OF ARTS. 
Christmas Examinations, 1876. 



GREEK. 

Third Year.— ^Class I. — Ross (Jas. ) ; Donald and Graham, equal; 
Stewart, Blakely. Class II. — McFadyen, Dawson, Lyman, Taylor, 
Ewing ; Thornton and Torrance, equal ; McKillop, McLaren. Class 
I II. - Guerin, McOuat, Sweeney. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Eadie, Stevens, Cross, McClure. Class II. — 
Howard and Mercer, equal ; Lane, Wood, Robertson (Iiy. McN. ) Class 
III. — Allen, McConnell, Lighthall, Houghton, McKibbin, McLean, 
Red path. 

First Year. — Class I. — Hunton and McKenzie, equal ; Darey and 
Ravnes, equal ; Lafleur, Currie. Class II. — Bull ; Gowanloch and 
Ogilvie, equal; Bayne and Scriver, equal; Anderson (Alex.) and Ben- 
nett, equal ; Cook and Pillsbury and Roberts, equal ; Molson and Ross 
(And. G.), equal. Class III. — Black, Klock, York, Muir, Guertin, Cun- 
ningham, Alguire, Lariviere, Cole, Macpherson, McIntyre. 

LATIN. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Graham and Ross (Jas.), equal ; Stewart ; 
Donald and Blakely, equal. Class II. — Guerin ; Ewing and McFadyen, 
equal ; Sweeny and Taylor, equal ; Thornton ; Lyman and McKillop, 
equal ; Class III. — Torrance and McOuat, equal ; McLaren. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Eadie, Cross, McClure, Mercer, Stevens, 
Howard. Class II. — Robertson (Henry McN.), Lane, McConnell, Light- 
hall, Wood, Redpath. Class III. — Meighen, McLean, McKibbin, 
Allen, Houghton. 

h irst Year. — Class I. — Hunton ; Darey and McKenzie, equal ; Bull, 
Ravnes, Lafleur, Currie. Class II. — Ogilvie, Molson, Macpherson, Ross 
(Andrew G. ); Cook and Scriver, equal; Bayne, Klock. Class III. — 
Anderson (Alex.), Gowanloch, Black, Pillsbury ; Alguire and Bennett, 
equal ; Lariviere, Muir ; Cunningham and Cole, equal ; Robertson 
(W. R.), Ami, Guertin. 

ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — Warriner, Atwater, McGibbon. Class II. — 
None. Class III. — Chubb. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Dawson and Stewart, equal ; Graham. Class 

II. — Torrance, McKillop ; Lyman and McOuat, equal ; Thornton. Class 

III. — Guerin, Taylor. 

First Year. — Class I. — McKenzie, Currie, Lafleur, Bull, Darey, Hun- 
ton. Class II. — Gowanloch, Raynes ; Ogilvie and Cunningham, equal ; 
McIntyre, Black, Cole, Bennet, Molson, Ami, Roberts, Klock, Lariviere, 
Alguire. Class TIL — Ross. Anderson, Pillsbury, York, Scriver, Cook, 
Macpherson, Muir, Campbell, Guerin. 

MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — Warriner, Lafleur ; Amaron and Scott, equal. 
Class II. — McGregor, Robertson (R. ), McGibbon, Meyers, Anderson, 
Atwater, Forneret. Clas? III. — Barltrop, Baugh, Edwards, Hobbs. 

MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Donald and Lyman, equal ; Blakely and Ross 
(J.), equal. Class II. — Dawson, Thornton, McLeod (J. R. ), Stewart; 
Godwin and McLaren (James), equal ; Graham • Ewing and Guerin, 
equal; Torrance. Class III. — McKillop; McFadyen and McOuat and 
Wright, equal; McLennan (F. ), McLaren (D. C.), Orme, Penman, 
Nelson. 

ELEMENTARY PSYCHOLOGY. 

Second Year. — Class I. — Eadie, McClure, Allen, McConnell, Howard. 
Class II. — Mitchell, Lighthall, Baugh, S evens, Lane, McLaren (J.), 
Cunningham, McKibbin (R. ), Edwards, Redpath. Class III. — Mercer; 
McLean and Penman, equal ; Shearer, Meighen, Hobbs, Houghton, 
Wood, Robertson (H. McN.), Caverhill. 

HEBREW. 

Senior Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — McLaren (J. F. ) Class 
III. — McKibbin, McLean, Penman. 

Junior Year. — Class I.— Cuirie, Munro, Gowanloch, Nelson (T. A.), 
Eadie. Class II. — Mercer; Grant (R.) and Mitchell, equal; Arthur, 
Houghton, McKenzie. Class III. — Hyde, Bayne (G. D. ) ; Anderson 
(A.) and Guertin, equal; York, Alguire; McIntyre and McNab, equal ; 
Bayne (G. T. ) 

MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — Gould. Class II. — Amaron. Class III. — 
Anderson, Atwater, Forneret, Robertson (Robt.), McGregor (A. F. ), 
Chubb. 

Third Year. — -Class I. — Ross (J.) Class II. — Dawson and Graham, 
equal ; Donald, Thornton. Class III. — McFadyen, Stewart, Blakely, 
McOuat, Lyman <C\), Torrance (F. ), McLaren (D. C.), Ewing, Guerin. 



28 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



MATHEMATICS. 

Second Year. — Class T. — McClure, Stevens, McConnell. Class II. — 
Eadie, Robertson (H. MeN.), Howard. Class I IT. — Cross, Wood, 
Shearer, Lighthall, Redpath, Meighen, Allen ; Lane and Mercer, equal. 

First Year. — Class I. — Hunton, Currie, Darey ; Cunningham and 
McKenzie, equal ; Gowanloch, Bull, Lafleur. Class II. — Ogilvie, Al- 
guire. Class III. — Lariviere, Mol son, Cook, Scriver (C. W. ), Pillsbury, 
Ami, McIntyre, York ; Anderson and Guertin, equal ; Ross (A. G. ), 
Raynes, Cole, Carriere, Roberts. 

EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS. 

Fourth Year. — Class I. — I^afleur (E. ), Scott, Chubb, McGibbon. Class 
II. — Robertson (R.), Forneret, Gould. Class III. — Atwater. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Ross (J.), Lyman (C. ) Class II. — Dawson, 
Thornton, McLaren (D. C. ), Blakely, Guerin, Stewart. Class III. — 
Torrance (F.) ; Donald and McOuat, equal ; Taylor, Graham. 

MINERALOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 

Fourth Y’ear. — Class I. — Scott, Adams, Chubb, Anderson. Class II. 
— McGregor, McGibbon, Baltrop, Forneret. Class III. — Atwater, 
Livingston. 

ZOOLOGY. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Dawson and Donald, equal; McLaren (D. C. ), 
Ross (J. ), Lyman, Thornton, Ewing ; Sweeny and Godwin, equal ; Guerin. 
Class II. — Torrance, Wright, McKillop, McOuat. Taylor, McFadyen, 
Graham. Class III. — Miles, McMartin, Lemay. 

BOTANY. 

Second Year. — Class I. — McConnell, Howard, Eadie, Cross, McLaren, 
(J. F. ), Stevens, McClure. Class II. — Wood, Godwin, Allen, Mercer, 
McKibbin, McLean; Lighthall and Redpath, equal. Class III. — Shearer, 
Robertson, Lane, Houghton, Orme, Meighen. 

CHEMISTRY. 

First Year. — Class I. — Currie, McKenzie, Gowanloch, Darey, Bull, 
Cunningham. Class II. — Ogilvie, Molson ; Lafleur and Raynes, equal; 
Ross; Anderson and Hunton, equal; Scriver. Class III. — Guertin, 
Roberts, Hughes ; Alguire and Pillsbury, equal ; Campbell and Klock, 
equal; Black, Bennett, Bayne (G. D.), Robertson (W. R.), Cook, Muir, 
McIntyre, Macpherson, Arthur, Ami. 

FRENCH. 

Third Year. — Class I. — Guerin. Class II. — Lyman. Class III. — None. 

Second Year. — Class I. — McClure, Lighthall, Cross. Class II. — Eadie 
and Howard, equal ; Stevens, Meyers, McConnell, Lane ; Redpath and 
Wood, equal. Class III. — Caverhill, Robertson, Meighen, Allen. 

First year.- — Class I. — Lariviere, Lafleur, Darey, Guertin, McKenzie ; 
Ami and Ogilvie, equal ; Raynes Carriere, Scriver, Bull. Class II. — 
Cook, Molson, Ross, Walker, Campbell, Cunningham, Roberts, O’Heir. 
Class III. — Macpherson and Muir, equal ; Hughes, Hunton and Robertson, 
equal ; Cole, Klock. 

GERMAN. 

Third Year.— Class I.— Ross (James). Class II.— Meyers. Class III. 
— None. 

Second Year — Senior Division. — Class I. — Cross. Class II. — Mercer. 
Class III.— None. 

Junior Division.— Class I.— None. Class II.— None. Class III 

Caverhill. 

First Year. — Class I. — Darey, Ross (A. G. ), Lafleur, Pillsbury. Class 
II- — Hunton, Bennett, Macpherson, Walker. Class III. — None. 



Department of Practical and Applied Science. 

ENGINEERING FIELDWORK. 

Middle Year.— Class I.— Hall and Nelson, equal. Class II.— Ross; 
Boulden and Swan, equal. Class III.— Bolton. 

MENSURATION. 

Middle Year. Class I. — None. Class II. — Swan ; Ross and Boulden, 
equal ; Hall. Class III.— Bolton. 

DRAWING. 

Middle Year.— Class I.— Swan, Boulden, Hall, Ross. Class II.— 
Nelson. Class III. — Bolton. 

Junior Year.— Class I.— Cochrane. Class II.— Smith. Class III. — 
Brown, Power, Robertson (W. F ) ; Evans; McConnell and Skaife, equal. 

CHAIN SURVEYING. 

Junior Year. — Class I. — Cochrane. Class II. — McConnell, Power, 

Robertson (W. F. ), Evans. Class III. — Brown and Smith, equal; 
Robertson (H.), Dudderidge, Foster, Skaife. 



MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS. 

Senior Year. — Class I. — Sproule. Class II. — None. Class III. — 

Wardrop ; Jones and Rogers and Thompson, equal. 

Middle Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Swan. Class III. — Hall, 
Ross ( P. D. ) . 

MATHEMATICS. 

Middle Year. — Class I. — Ross (P. D ), Boulden, Swan. Class II. — 
None. Class III. — Bolton. Hall, Adams. 

Junior Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Smith, Power, Dudderidge. 
Class III. — Cochrane, Evans, Brown. 

EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS. 

Senior Year. — Class I. — Sproule. Class II. — Jones, Thompson. Class 
III. — Wardrop, Walbank, Rogers. 

Middle Year. — Class I. — Swan, Ross (P. D.). Class II. — None. Class 
III. — Adams, Boulden, Nelson, Hall. 

MINERALOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 

Senior Year.— Class I. — Sproule, Thompson, Rogers. Class II. — 
Jones ; Wardrop and Walbank, equal. 

ZOOLOGY. 

Middle Year. — Class I. — Ross (P. D.), Nelson, Swan. Class II. — 
Adams, Hall. Class III. — Boulden, Bolton. 

CHEMISTRY. 

Junior Year and Middle Year in Part. — Class I. — Cochrane. Class — 

II. — Brown, Boulden. Class III. — Dudderidge and Power, equal ; Foster, 
Robertson (W. F. ) ; Skaife and Bolton, equal ; Evans. 

ENGLISH. 

Junior Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Brown, Foster. Class III. 
— Robertson, Power, Evans, Skaife, Smith. 

FRENCH. 

Senior Year. — Class I. — Sproule. Class II. — None. Class III. — 

Walbank, Jones, Thompson. 

Middle Year. — Class I. — Ross (P. D.). Class II. — None. Class III. 
— Swan, Nelson, Adams, Hall. 

Junior Year. — Class I. — Skaife, Foster. Class II. — Cochrane. Class 

III. — Power, Brown, Smith, Robertson, Evans. 

GERMAN. 



Senior Year. --Class I. — None. Class II. — None. Class III. — Rogers. 
Middle Year. — Class I. — Boulden. Class II. — None. Class III. — 
None. 

Junior Year. — Class I. — Foster. Class II. — None. Class III. — Skaife. 



Alexander Johnson, LL. D., 
George Cornish, LL D. , 



For the Faculty . 



EXCHANGES. 



In the Trinity Tablet of December, we find a well written article en- 
titled “ Hasty Judgment,” which we cannot let pass without compli- 
menting the Editors on the sound and careful manner with which the sub- 
ject has been treated. It is a lesson that cannot be taught too often, and 
we wish that our readers could have the benefit of perusing it. Hasty 
judgment and unjust accusation are hidden rocks upon which thousands 
as they struggle against the temptations of this world, get wrecked. In a 
world like our own, when we think of how much there is to lead a man into 
wrong-doing, how easy it is to slip, do not let us be womanish, and pass 
judgment from a feeling of our own security without putting ourselves in 
his place, tempering our verdict with charity, looking at the temptations 
to which he was subjected, fairly and consientiously, and I doubt not but 
that we will find ourselves taking a far different view of our brother’s sin. 
Did universal charity prevail, earth would be a heaven and hell a fable. 



ITEMS. 



— Freshmen had a snow-shoe tri.mp on the 29th ultimo. 

— The Glee Club concert is to come off in February. 

— ' The U L S. has adjourned for two weeks. Next meeting will 
be held on the 12th inst., at 15 Philip’s Square. 

—We have notic' d and read with much pleasure Dr. Dawson’s 
excellent review of Huxley in the International. We would advise 
any who have any doubts on the subject, or who may desire to see 
I the contra arguments clearly set forth, to read it. 



THE McGILL gazette. 




S. PARSLEY'S PRICES. 

Gents* Four-ply Linen Cuffs 25 cents per pair 

Gents’ Four-ply Linen Collars 15 rents each 

Gents* White Shirts only 95 cents each 

White Shirts, very good quality $1.25 

KightShirts $1 each 

Single-breast Wool Undershirts 48 cents 

Double-breast Wool Undershirts 75 cents 

Long Black Silk Tics 10 cents each 

Dogskin Driving Glovts 50 cents per pair 

Gents’ Tine Kid Clones 75 cents 

White Silk Handkerchiefs 20 cents 

White Cashmere Mufflers 33 cents 

Gents’ 1 land-knit Socks 22 cents per pair 

CHEAP CARP5 T3. 

Useful Yard Wide Carpet 15 cents 

Good Hair Carpet 14 cents 

Bed-room Towels 5 cents each 

CHEAP LOT. 

Large lots Gents’ Silk Scarfs, in black and colors, all at 25 cents each 

S. OARSLEY, 

393 NOTRE DAME ST. 

G. & W. CLARKE" 

booksellers, 

AND 

IMPORTERS OF FANCY GOODS, 

238 ST. CT^-MIES STREET, 

(Xext door to Ottawa Ilotel) 

Keep constantly In stock a large assortment of 

Stationery of all kinds. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

HILLS LIBRARY, 

e&e DORCHESTER STREET. 

KcfillX ifoLLEGE f EXT §00KS, 

KTOXE BOOHS, 

AND 

BTATIOHMY 9W AU EI1PS 

IN GREAT VARIETY, 

Suitable for Medical and other College Students. 

ALSO, ALL THE BOOKS USED IN McEACHRAN’S VETERINARY COLLECE. 

In consequence of declining health, the Proprietor intends disposing of the 
above Business, and offers the 

Old Stock, except New Books, cheap for Cas i. 



GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS. 



Students will find it greatly to their advantage to go to 

FRANK B. STREET, 

St, James. St., adjoining Wesleyan Church, 

FOR THEIR 

SHIRTS, COLLARS , CUFFS, 

Underclothing, Scarfs, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, 

UMBRELLAS, CANES, &c. 

lO PER CEJNTX. OFF XO SXTJIDEISrXS OTSTEY 

Only the best goods kept, and one price charged. 

FRANK B. STREET. 



WILLIAM SAMUEL, 

367 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF 



Hems' fuR Ioats, $Eaps& Cloves 

NOW OX HAND. 

0 

College Trenchers, Arts and Medical Hat Ribbon,, and. 
varied and extensive Stock of 

SILK, FELT AND OTHER HATS 

IN THEIR SEASON. 

367 3ST OTRE EE ST. 

ESTABLISHED 1850. 

ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

221 ST. JAMES STREET. 

McGWBON & BAIRD. 

BRANCH, ESTABLISHED 1876, 

1385 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

( Comer Mansfield Street .) 

McGIBBON, BAIRD & CO. 



The largest and best assorted Stock of Fine Groceries in the 
Dominion to choose from at either of the above Establishments. 

o 

FRESH GOODS BY EVERY STEAMER 



THE McGILL GAZETTE. 



KEMP & CO., 

(ESTABLISHED 1859.) 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

Jftirts, CoUays, Wits, Wtosim, 

VO "3 

G-LOYE3, &cc., &co., 

306 Notre Dame Street, 306 

(SECOND DOOR EAST OF THE FRENCH CHURCH J 

■ OSrVBBAlbt 

A good stock of CARTWRIGHT & WARNER’S Underclothing 
always on hand. Also, the latost novelties in Scarfs and Cravats are 
being constantly received from the best London Manufactures. 




Sonograms, rests and Arms, 

VISITING AND PROFESSIONAL CARDS, 

BY 

GEORGE BISHOP & Co., 

Engravers, 

169 ST. JAMES STREET. 

CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 
F. GROSS, 

fuRGiCAL Instrument JIaker, 

690 CRAIG STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DISSECTING INSTRUMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

Skates, Razors, and ell kinds of Surgical Instruments , Ground , Set and 

Repaired. 



GORGE & CO, 

FIRST PREMIUM PRACTICAL 

Hatters & Furriers, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

No. 21 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

MONTREAL. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Dissecting Cases, Pocket Cases, Cupping Cases, & c., & e. 

FORCEPS— TOOTH, MIDWIFERY, DRESSING, DISSECTING, h. 

Knives— Dressing, Amputating, Pocket, &c. 

SCALPELS IN EBONY AND IVORY. 
LANCETS — TOOTH A 1ST ID ABSCESS. 

Catkefers — Gum Elastic , Silver and Electro- Plated, dec., dec. 



Also, Physicians supplied with Bottles, Labels, Scales, Drugs, &c-, at 
the lowest Cash Prices. 



JAMES GOULDEN, 

175 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

MONTREAL. 




REGULAR WEEKLY MEETINGS 

ARE HELD AS USUAL IN THE 

NEW ROOMS, 15 PHILIP'S SQUARE, 

ON 

FRIDAY FYKNIITGS, 

To which all Students and Graduates of the University are cordially 
iuvited. 

Students will always find it to their interest to attend the Meetings 
of the Society. 

F. D. MONK, Rec. Sec. 
THE MONTREAL HERALD PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY. 



