I 





VOL. VI. No. 1. TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 1st, 1882. 




EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

Prof. Chas. E. Moyse. B.A.. Consulting Editor. 



J. R. Murray, ’83, Arts. 

J. E. Martin, ’S3, Law. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

C. A. Duclos, B.A., ’84, Law. 



R. F. Ruttan, B.A., ’84, Med. 
J. W. Moffatt, 'S3, Ap. Sc. 

A. F. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

II. J. IIarrissox, ’83. Med. 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications Avill not be returned, to which rule no exception 
* “can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 



CONTENTS. 



Editorials 1-3 

COMTETITIVE EXAMINATIONS 3 

Contributions 

Sporting Items 5 "^^ 

College World 6-7 

7 

Personals 7 

Correspondence 8-9 

Poetry 9 

Notes and Queries 9 

New Books Received by Librarian 9 



Such a conviction i.s, for obvious reasons, altogether desirable in regard to 
a College Journal. 

The McGill University Gazette desires the hearty interest of both 
Graduates and Undergraduates. It will look to them for suitable material 
and will endeavour to meet the varied wishes of its subscribers by variety 
of news. The ardour of the College poet need no longer be repressed, and 
the anxiety of the College jester to see his crowning efforts in print can now 
be satisfied. In the Gazette the athlete may point to the record of his 
prowess, the would-be barrister to an er.rly venture in the world of letters, the 
student in Arts to his pretty literary fancies, and the student in Medicine to 
»^hat divv-rivV’ of talent foe which lie is everywhere famou- . ft only remains 
for McGill College poets, jesters, athletes, barristers in futuro^ and the 
’ general body of students in Arts, Applied Science, Medicine, and Law, 
to buy the McGill University Gazette. 

College Journals are universally supposed to consist of little else than 
syllabub and whipped cream, but the Editors, while not forgetting that 
essential part of the monthly feast they hope to offer, desire more solid and 
satisfying food, especially from the senior men and from old graduates. 
The McGill University Gazette ought to reflect all sides of University 
life, and, in so far as it fails to recognise the existence of a little high think- 
ing and low living, misses a vital purpose. The growing energy of the 
College, which has been strikingly manifested of late, should take the 
Gazette into its keeping. The Editors are confident it will do so, and 
they ask those who are displaying that energy to bear in mind, as they read 
this journal, the words with which John Lyly prefaced Euphues and his 
England-- it, or amend it. 



tutorials. 

The aims of tiie McGill University Gazeite are such as should win the 
approval of the class to which it appeals for support both literary and 
hnancial. No University can be considered complete unless there exists 
within it some medium whereby the earnest thoughts of fellow-workers can 
be freely interchanged— subject tone restrictions save those excluding matter 
likely to produce unkindly sentiment. While, therefore, the McGill Uni- 
versity Gazette would discountenance any attack on a principle through 
a man, or any attack on an established order of things through people per- 
sonally obnoxious to the impugner, it has at heart all matters touching true 
reform, and it will lend itself to the expression of frank, yet friendly criti- 
cism showing honesty of motive. There is only one topic on which its 
pages must be silent— speculation regarding religious beliefs. The founder 
of McGill College determined that its work should be secular, not sectarian, 
since a liberal education is of itself, if it be true, a powertul stimulus towards 
right-doing ; and that the teaching of subjects peculiarly sacred and personal 
should justly be essayed by those whose thought is^ mature and whose 
definiteness of creed is in sympathy with all the youthful impulse they direct. 



On the 4th and 5th of October the Medical Faculty celebrated the open- 
ing of the 50th session. 

The Introductory Lecture was delivered in the Redpath Museum by the 
newly-appointed Dean, Dr. Howard, who dealt first with the early history 
of the Medical School, and then with the life and labours of the late Dr. 
G. VV. Campbell. After the lecture, a Conversazione was held in the 
Museum, at which about 800 people were present. 

On the next evening the Faculty entertained the Graduates to a banquet 
at the Windsor. Over 800 invitations were issued to the medical graduates, 
the governors, and representatives of other Universities. About 200 sat 
down, chiefly medical men — old graduates — many of whom had come from 
distant parts to honour their Alma Mater. Among representatives of other 
schools were Dr. Chadwick of Harvard, President Buckham of Vermont 
University, Dr. Covernton of Trinity Medical School (Toronto), Dr. Rottot 
of Laval (Montreal), Dr. D’Orsonnens of Victoria, and Dr. F. W. Campbell 
of Bishop’s. The chair was occupied by Dr. Howard, and on his right was 
Dr. Robitaille, the Lieutenant-Governor, an alumnus of the University. 

The Menu was most tastefully arranged with appropriate mottoes, chiefly 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[November ist, 



Shakesperian. At the dinner the Dean announced the pleasing fact that a 
friend had offered $50,000 for the general purposes of the Faculty, if by the 
first of August next a similar amount was raised as a “ Campbell Memorial 
Fund.” 

From a small and tastefully-arranged pamphlet which was distributed at 
the dinner, containing a brief notice of the Founders of the School and a 
list of the teachers and graduates, we extract the following facts of interest : 

The first session of which there is any record is that of 1824-25, at 
which twenty-five students attended. The Medical Institution continued for 
five sessions, and in 1829 became the Medical Faculty of McGill College, 
thereby preserving for educational purposes the bequest of the Hon. James 
McGill. 

In 1823 an attempt was made to organise McGill College, and five 
Professors were appointed — one. Dr. Fargues, to the chair of Medicine. 
They never entered upon their duties. 

** Up to 1853 there was only one Professorship in the Medical Faculty. 
Atiliis date the various Lecturers were made Professors. 

“ The lectures were suspended during the political troubles of the re- 
bellion ; there were no sessions in ’36-*37, 'sj-'sS and ’38-’39. It is owing 
to this gap that the present is only the 50th session, though the Faculty was 
organized in 1829. In reality, this is the 55th session of the School, which 
is the direct continuation of the Medical Institution, and the 58th year since 
its foundation in 1824. 

“ The lectures of the Medical Institution were given at No. 20, St. James 
Street ; the School afterwards moved to St. George Street ; from 1845 to 
1852 the lectures were delivered in the College building, Sherbrooke Street ; 
from 1852 to 1872 in the F'aculty building, Cote Street; and in 1872, the 
present building was erected by the Governors in the University Grounds. 

“ There are 917 Graduates in Medicine of the University, of whom 192 
are dead. Of those whose addresses are known, there are in Ontario, 237 ; 
Quebec, 207 ; United States, 139 ; Great Britain, 34 ; Manitoba, 25 ; New 
Brunswick, 9 : Prince Edward Island, 8 ; Nova Scotia, 6 ; Newfoundland, 
4 ; British Columbia, 4 ; India, 2 ; New Zealand, 3 ; West Indies, 6 ; 
Sandwich Islands, i.” 

Dr. Howard’s address and a report of the speeches at the dinner are in 
the press and will, we hear, be ready for distribution in a few day's. 



The Faculty of Applied Science has of late been labouring somewhat 
under a disadvantage in not having sufficient accommodation for the 
convenience of her Undergraduates. The difficulty has in part been 
overcome by the removal of all the specimens formerly occupying 
two apartments in the main building, to the Redpath Museum. One of 
these apartments is now occupied as a receptacle for the various 
instruments used in Surveying ; the other as a class-room, and one of the 
drawing apartments. Twenty-two new students have been enrolled this 
term, several of whom matriculated into the second year. 

All the students of the second and third years, under the direction of 
Professor McLeod, have been engaged in locating a carriage-road con- 
necting two points on the Mountain road, about half a mile apart. Their 
field work is now almost completed for the season. 

The Captain and Secretary of the College Foot-Ball team were chosen 
from this Faculty, and they, with all the members of the team, have played 
exceedingly well in the matches which thus far have taken place. 

In the Annual sports which recently took place. Science came nobly to 
the front, and carried off a large number of the prizes awarded for the vari- 
ous feats. The Championship of the University, high jump, 100 yards dash, 
putting heavy weight, mile race, in fact, in all the feats where science in the 
art was required, Science was victorious, and obtained about one half the 
total number of prizes. 

The best of feeling prevails now between the members of this Faculty 
and the Faculty of Arts, which has not always been the ca.se. It is 
sincerely hoped by all, that in the future, harmony may prevail in those 
matters in which both Faculties are concerned, associated as they are in the 
same building. The worst feature is an occasional grand push on the 
stairway between the two, which produces a rapid oscillation of the 
molecules of the surrounding atmosphere. Sounds varying in pitch are 
consequently produced, which are wafted to the ears of the Professors in 
that vicinity. 



We give a short reference in another column to the lecture delivered to 
the Undergraduates Literary Society by Prof. J. Clarke Murray on Friday, 
20th October, a fuller account of which appeared in the daily papers. We 
thoroughly endorse the remarks which the learned doctor made on that 
occasion, and only hope that they will be acted upon by the students. It 
is our lot to be acquainted with many students of the cramming and 
grinding class, who seem to think that there is no aim in life but to obtain 
a certain number of marks in some examination, and who accordingly 
grudge to give one evening in the week to the Literary Society. These 
gentlemen should recollect that examinations are merely a means towards 
an end and not an and in themselves. But the Graduates have not even 
this excuse, and yet their Debating Society is miserably attended when we 
consider the number who reside in the city and who could but won’t 
attend. 



It was with pain that we noticed on a certain late occasion on which the 
gods” of the Academy were occupied by the students that there was a 
great lack of musical talent, or rather we should say, a lack of cultivation 
of musical talent among those present. It was truly lamentable to see 
the unsuccessful attempts which were made to get some one to start the 
familiar old College songs. Same effort we think ought to be made this 
winter to establish a Glee Club, which should include the students in the 
four faculties. At present Law and Medicine are ahead in this respect, 
while the other two faculties are increasingly deficient. Speaking of the 
gods,” we very much regret the manner in which one of the city 
evening papers reported an occurrence which took place on the 
occasion referred to above. It unfortunately happened on that night 
that one of the students was arrested for thowing bombs at the 
orchestra, but was immediately released on bail. When the case came 
before the Recorder about a week afterwards, it appeared that there was no 
evidence to show that the accused had thrown the crackers at all. 
But with this we have nothing to do. If he did throw them, we 
advise him to refrain from such conduct in the future as dangerous 
and undesirable. But what we do strongly object to is that a paper 
which refuses even to insert advertisements for the theatres should go 
out of its way to give publicity in a sensational report to an occurrence of 
such slight importance. A separate paragraph, in the most conspicuous 
part of the j)aper, was taken up with a highly coloured account of how forty 
or fifty students went to the Recorder’s Court and cheered lustily when 
their fellow-student was acquitted, and how the Magistrate ordered the 
arrest of the ringleaders, which proved impossible, and how he threatened 
to make it hot for the next student of McGill who came within his clutches, 
rhis narrative, as we remarked before was highly coloured by the heated 
imagination of a reporter We cannot see any harm in a number of students 
taking an interest in one of their number who happens to be in a little 
difficulty. Such conduct is decidedly commendable. And as to the 
cheering it has been flatly denied that any took place. In future we would 
ask this paper to do away with its scruples and report properly what 
takes place in the theatres and police courts. 



Science sustained a great and irreparable loss by the death of Professor 
Plantamour, on September 7th, at Geneva. He was born in the same 
city in 1815, and received his early education in the old College, founded 
by Calvin, afterwards spending some years in the school of Hofroyl. In 
1833 he entered the Geneva Academy, where he became one of Alfred 
Gautier’s most promising pupils. By the latter’s advice he resolved to 
make the study of astronomy the work of his life. He studied also at 
Paris under Arago, at Konigsberg under Bressel, and at Berlin under 
Encke. His most famous work, published in 1880, contained the results 
of ten years’ observations of the fixed stars, and it won him great 
consideration among the few who were competent to judge of its merits. 
He was in the very first rank of living meteorologists, and he was eciually 
eminent in the domain of geodesy. Both a modern linguist and a savant, 
he was in regular communication with some of the most eminent scientific 
men of the day, with most of whom he could correspond in their own 
language. A man of fortune who might, had he so cho.sen, have spent his 
life in social enjoyment and lettered ease, he devoted himself from his 



1882.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



youth upwards to the pursuit of science and the good of his kind. The 
only recompenses he looked for were the esteem of his countrymen and the 
satisfaction that search for truth never fails to confer. 



There will be found in another place a notice of an auction which will 
take place in the Reading Room on the nth November. We hope that a 
large number of students and others will attend, as the Reading Room is an 
institution which deserves our cordial support. 



NOTICE. 

'I’he McGill College Gazette offers a prize of ten dollars to the 
writer of the best English poem contributed to the January issue. The 
competitors must be graduates or undergraduates of McGill College ; and 
each is requested to place a motto on his contribution, and the same motto 
on the outside of a sealed envelope containing his name. A second prize 
of ten dollars is offered to the writer of the best story, whether in prose or 
verse— the length not to exceed three pages of the journal— contributed to 
the March issue. The same regulation in regard to a motto will be enforced. 



COMPETITIVE EXAMINATIONS. 

In this age of true progress, when the dominion of reason is being ex- 
tended even to the last strongholds of ignorance, and the influence of mind 
is permeating the densest abodes of vicious superstition, it is but natural 
that a truer estimate of men and things should begin to prevail. We are 
fortunate, indeed, to be able to congratulate ourselves on the fact that the 
standard of intelligence is being more and more applied in our day as a 
guage of the rank which men should properly occupy among one another, 
and although we are in constant danger, especially on this side of the Atlan- 
tic, of falling into the worship of an oligarchy more worthless than many 
aristocracies, yet on the whole and in comparison with former ages we 
cannot complain. Any community where the worth of the gentleman and 
scholar is recognized must necessarily prosper thereby, and it is to the 
interest of all that such a recognition should take place. So especially it is 
to the interest of any country that the government and administration should 
be carried on by men of this high stamp, and it is emphatically the duty of 
those into |whose hands the power is entrusted by the people, to take meas- 
ures that the best men should obtain employment in the service of the com- 
monwealth. This is no less the case in the instance of a young country than 
in that of older states. But then the question arises in what way the best 
men are to be selected. Now as the qualification consists in the amount of 
intelligence possessed, provided always that the physical and moral consti- 
tution be good, it is evident that the only method of discrimination consists 
in some kind of examination carried out on such a basis as to afford as good 
a test as possible. This is in truth all that can be expected. No perfect 
test can ever be instituted, so that we must needs adopt the best possible 
though it be not perfection. Strange then and even paradoxical it seems 
for a chancellor of one of our numerous Canadian universities to attack 
n no dignified terms, at what purported to be an educational meeting, the 
^system of competitive examinations such as exists at the present day in the 
United Kingdom. The problem seems a simple one. What is to be the 
standard by which we are to judge of the fitness of young men to receive 
government employment, intelligence, morality, physical power, or political 
favour? The last of these is evidently preferred by the venerable chancel, 
lor, for he attacks the system which adopts the other three. If so I should 
merely point him to the Province of Quebec, an example which needs no 
great amplification to display the rottenness even to putrefaction of its 
methods of preferment. The least said about the examinations carried on 
outside of the Universities and Schools the better, when we remember that 
one of the most important examining bodies in the Province once rejected 
in mathematics a gentleman who is now actually a lecturer in that subject 
in McGill. On the other hand the “ Chinese principle ” as it was inaccur- 
ately called, takes account principally of the amount of scholarship but also 
and in no small degree of the moral and physical condition as well. Wherein, 
then, lies the objection to this method of admittauce to the public service ? Be- 
cause it encourages bookworms : Now such an objection clearly displays 

ignorance on the part of the college functionary who made it. In the first 
place the thing wanted is to select educated men, and although in most 



cases a good physical condition is also requisite, yet the most important 
point is first of all to get men of sufficient intelligence, the only test of 
which is some kind of examination. But it is evident that the only kind of 
examination suited for the proper classification of candidates is a competi- 
tive one. It is not true, however, that the moral and physical con- 
ditions are altogether forgotten in this method of selection. Certificates 
from doctors, clergymen, and others are always required before anyone can 
become a candidate and the regulations on this head could be increased in 
stringency to any desired degree. Indeed, if the gentleman who made the 
objection were at all conversant with the working out of the system he 
would know that in general those who obtain the best places in such exam- 
inations are among the best athletes and sportsmen. It does not follow that 
because a man is a scholar he must also be a bookworm. Injustice there 
certainly is very often, if not always, at competitive examinations, but then 
perfection cannot be leached and we must be content with that which 
offers the maximum of advantages. In examinations of the kind referred to, 
from nervousness or other causes it will happen that some will be rejected 
who are in reality superior to others who have beaten them. But the injus- 
tice in such a case is individual, nor does any sensible loss accnie to the 
employers. It is certain that at least 85 per cent of the best men pass, 
while the difference between the remaining fifteen and those who ought to 
have their place is quite insignificant. If then sufficient trouble be taken in 
the carrying out of the scheme, physical capability can to a sufficient extent 
be ensured as well as good moral character, while the main requisite will be 
obtained, provided only the examinations be carried on in an upright man- 
ner. This latter however would seem to be the most difficult point to attain 
in a country where political corruption reigns supreme. And yet if sound 
public opinion asserts itself the present rotten methods of preferment must 
give way. There are only two things to chose between, a system of com- 
petitive examinations and of political favour. The gentleman to whom I 
referred before speaks of a broader principle but with eminent tact he re- 
frains from mentioning what the principle is. It is to be feared that in its 
enunciation it would prove to have perhaps a great deal of breadth but very 
little principle. If we are mistaken we sincerely wish the projector would 
dispel our illusions by unfolding his ideal plans, but if he be unable to do so 
we ask him to desist in the future from abusing the only remedy which we 
at present possess for a scandalous system of jobbery which in its immor- 
ality does more to lower the character of a people than many a vice de- 
nounced by public censors. 



G^outrilnitious. 

( IVe are not responsible for any opinions expressed in this column, — Ed.^ 

John Inglesant ” and “ Democracy.” 

My purpose in the following note is to call attention to the curious 
parallelism of thought which, despite much dissimilarity, marks two novels 
that have lately attracted an unusual share of attention on both sides of the 
Atlantic. At first sight, there should seem to be little in common between 
them. “John Inglesant” is a .serious work, strikingly devoid of all humor- 
ous elements, and concerned almost exclusively with different aspfsets of 
religious questions in the seventeenth century “ Democracy ” sparkles 
with wit and humor ; it has literally not a single dull page from cover to 
cover, being a lively satire upon the working of Democracy at Washington. 
Both, however, are novels with a purpose ; both have a vital interest for all 
who think about the religious and political problems of the day. A similar 
curiosity takes John Inglesant to Rome and Mrs. Lee to Washington, “ the 
feeling of a passenger on an ocean steamer, whose mind will not give him 
rest until he has been in the engine-room and talked with the engineer. 
She wanted to see with her own eyes the action of primary forces ; to touch 
with her own hand the massive machinery of society ; to measure with her 
own mind the capacity of the motive power. She was bent upon getting to 
the heart of the great American mystery of democracy and government.” 
The result is similar in either case. John Inglesant takes an active part in 
a papal election, and is gratified with an inside view of all the littleness, the 
intrigue, the hypocrisy, that attended this solemn act (in the seventeenth 
century). Mrs. Lee believes that she has found an honest man in Senator 
Ratcliffe, but the veil is rudely torn from her eyes, and her last words are 
full of disgust with democracy and modem life : “ I want to go to Egypt ; 
democracy has shaken my nerves to pieces. Oh, what rest it would be to 
live in the Great Pyramid, and look out for ever at the polar star !” 

Inglesant thus expresses the outcome of his intimate acquaintance with 
the doctrines and the working of the Church of Rome. “ She has traded 
upon the highest instincts of humanity, upon its faith and love, its passion- 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[November ist, 



ate remorse, its self-abnegation and denial, its imagination and yearning 
after the unseen. It has based its system upon the profoundest truths, and 
upon this platform it has raised a power which has, whether foreseen by 
its authors or not, played the part of human tyranny, greed and cruelty. I 
* * * It has, for the sake of preserving intact its dogma, risked tbe 
growth and welfare of humanity, and has, in the eyes of all except those ‘ 
who value this dogma above all other things, constituted itself the enemy 
of the human race.” A similar charge is implied in the picture of American 
government revealed in “ Democracy.” Upon the dogma of freedom and , 
equality the constitution of the United States has been erected ; yet, owing | 
to the caucus, the spoils system, and other causes, the whole work of 
government has been vitiated, its public men corrupted. “ 1 do much i 
regret,” exclaims Baroh Jacobi, “ that I have not yet one hundred years to 
live. If I could then come back to this city, 1 should find myself very ' 
content- much more than now. I am always content where there is much 
corruption, and, ma parole cT honneur / the United States will then be I 
more corrupt than Rome under Caligula ; more corrupt than the Church | 
under Leo X. ; more corrupt than France under the Regent I” 

It is an ominous fact, looked at as a result of nineteenth century progress, 
that the noble aspirations for justice and freedom, which caused the founda- 
tion of the American republic, should have led the way to a state of cor- 
ruption only to be paralleled by the work of fourteen centuries of primitive 
barbarism ! And all this is after but one short century ! Were the sore 
which “ Democracy ” reveals merely local, the matter would be bad 
enough ; but in this case we cannot flatter ourselves that our withers are 
un\vrung. Our inevitable future in Canada lies along the road that the 
United States have chosen, rather than upon the lines of the monarchical 
institutions of the Old World. With our neighbors, we must acknowledge 
that the misdirection, the warj^ing of the true democratic idea, makes our 
future all the harder for us. W^e cannot help feeling, in the words of Gore, 
in the novel before us, that “ Democracy asserts the fact that the masses 
are now raised to a higher intelligence than formerly. All our civilization 
aims at this mark. We want to do what we can to help it. I myself want 
to see the result. I grant it is an experiment, but it is the only direction 
that society can take that is worth its taking ; the only conception of its 
duty large enough to satisfy its instincts ; the only result that is worth an 
effort or a wish. Every other possible step is backward, and I do not care 
to repeat the past.” It is from this point of view that the work before us is 
helpful. It may be somewhat severe but it is the candid criticism of a 
writer who recognizes facts ; for with government by the people the future 
of our shores is inevitably associated. Nevertheless, it is necessary to be 
constantly on our guard, to avoid the errors of policy that our neighbors 
have committed, to avoid the pitfalls into which they have fallen. I will 
conclude with Rousseau’s words of warning : “ Nous tombons enfin dans 
I’abime, en disant a Dieu : Pourquoi m’as-tu fait si faible ? Mais malgrc 

nous il repond a nos consciences : Je t’ai fait trop faible pour sortir du 

gouffre, parce que je t’ai fait assez fort pour n’y pas tomber.” 

R. AV. B. 



The Rural Newspaper. 

BY JAXE LUTTRELL. 

Perhaps nothing is more characteristic of the little country town and its 
inhabitants than its newspaper. The editor, like Cassius, “ is a great 
observer, and he looks quite through the deeds of men,” gauging tlieir 
mental calibre to the exactitude of a syllable, and holding his little mirror 
up to the world, he reflects it all with perfect accuracy. It is local rather 
than general in its tendencies, hence the scantiness of outside news \ the 
dwellers in these small worlds care little about the doings of mankind beyond 
the limit of their own immediate acquaintance. Revolutions, dissolutions, or 
evolutions whether in science, literature, art or politics are at best 
vanities, and the serenity of rural repose shrinks, like a too sensitive plant 
from anything more exciting than the election of a new mayor, the appoint- 
ment of the next J. P., or the annual horse-race. Yet though public events 
of a general nature are thus summarily disposed of, not so public characters. 
These, especially if the elements of the horrible or scandalous attend them, 
become household topics to beguile the tedium of the long evening or super- i 
induce the social element in the otherwise business-like occupations of break- | 
fast, dinner, and supper. Each issue of the paper, with a pertinacity worthy | 
a higher subject, traces the career of the hero through all its ghastly or ob- 
noxious details, and is received by its readers with an interest which also, in 
a better cause, would rouse “ the dumb ones of the earth ” to eloquence 
divine. But the local news is pre-eminentlv the attraction ; not that it is news 
to its readers — they know it all as perfectly before the paper appears, as do 
a newly married pair the contents of their forthcoming marriage notice. 

Still there is satisfaction in seeing it all before one’s eyes in the unfading 
tint of printer’s ink. Now it is a local wedding that it sets before the greedy 
eye. The representative member of each family has witnessed the ceremony, 
and the bride’s toilet has received its due share of closest scrutiny, while the 
bridegroom, in the city wedding an adjunct of utility, and totally paled out 
of notice by the greater glory ” of his more resplendant “ half,” here serves 
to refresh the dazzled vision of the argus-eyed gossips. Novelty sometimes 
becomes newer by handling. Never was Burleigh’s “ English Mercury ” 
snatched at with more impatient interest. Is it all here ? Be assured it is, 



it came to the editor like the miraculous manna, or the multitudinous quails, 
and he, like the exasperated lawgiver, determines they shall have enough, not 
for one day, or two days, or five days, or twenty days, but for a whole month. 
Every sentence is in the gala dress of superlative congratulation ; again the 
bride and bride groom stand foremost in descriptive array, the guests, in im- 
posing and careful rank, bring up the rear, while auxiliaries of family con- 
nections — indistinct spectres that haunt the family recollection give 
gorgeous touches here and there, and the whole presents a jiicture that 
would cause an enraptured Frenchman to exclaim ‘‘ brilliant !” Of course 
there is a rival newspaper to verify the adage “ two of a trade,” &c., and a 
subject of dispute must be found. What pen and ink skirmishes the readers 
revel in ! How the rival editors, like Odin’s warriors, cut and slash, hack 
and hew, metaphorically, niaking mince meat of each other, in each succes- 
sive issue. Now it is a caustic editorial, re.sponded to by one still more caus- 
tic ; then a scorching paragraph, breathing out wilting sarcasm and burning 
scorn ; again it is a vituperative personal, bearing a rich fruitage of original 
slang, redolent of vegetable-gardens, bam-yards, and cattle-pounds; his 
enemy “ butts away like a bull at a barn door,” or is so verdant, that “if he 
was in the field the cows would eat him,” or his paper items are “ small 
pumpkins,” or his age is reflected on, and the public is informed “ he is no 
chicken.” Opposition being the life of newspapers as well as of other things, 
they flourish most under this simoom of each others contumely. Then 
comes the ‘ Personal ’ column devoted to the registration of importance, in 
which every rural lass who makes a five-mile visit is, much to her gratifica- 
tion, duly brought before publicity, and each aspiring disdainer of the plough, 
returning from seeking fortune in the city’s busy throng, is as carefully 
chronicled as a railway-king, or a scion of the Royal Family. 

Other notices appear, the motives for which are inscrutable to the unini- 
tiated mind. One worthy farmer, fearing the denuding effects of weather on 
his time-worn fence, comes to the sticking-point of resolution and paints his 
front railing. Long before the paint is dry, every farmer within a circuit of 
ten miles, has turned his horse and buggy that particular way, and with head 
“ turned neither to the right nor to the left,” has viewed it over and over, at 
the extreme hazard of straining the oblique muscles of his eyes. Yet, this 
editor, whether from a laudable desire to encourage progress or from specu- 
lative fore-knowledge, gives it prominent notice. Fruits follow ; the imitative 
influence is strong in small communities among people of the same social 
standing, and the culminating paper-notice confirms the necessity — the 
paint-shop, and we hope the editor reaps the harvest. The intellectual capa- 
bilities of the female mind, if not e.xactly admitted ; the masculine rural mind, 
believing with Mr. Bagnet, that “ discipline must be maintained,” are not 
altogether discountenanced An exciting romance that had never run the 
gauntlet of the critic’s eye takes up four columns out of five on the page, 
and various other matter, “ For the ladies,” “ For the daughters of Eve,” 

“ The weaker vessels,” &c., occupy more space. These last give details of 
the latest fashions, which are religiously kept by the rural belle, the 
startling peculiarity of which novelties give rise to a suspicion of their 
being a derfiier ressort of the masculine brain of the editor. The 
grand museum of our literature presents its treasures great and small; 
our editor despises not the mean things of its store, and selects there- 
from the choicest specimens of contorted wit, arrayed in that defonned 
diction which is peculiarly the talent of certain writers among our 
American neighbors ; these are provocative of healthy laughter and do 
not tax the brain. Like Goethe, the editor of a country paper is often 
a many-minded man, not great in one particular. Distinct and some- 
times incongruous are the promptings of his genius. Sometimes he 
})aints with the bnish as well as the pen ; sometimes his literary apti- 
tude marks him as one who might be “ smart with the tongue,” and 
he is elevated to the auctioneer’s forum ; sometimes, indeed, he strikes 
the anvil and wields the pen. If, with his dual vocation, his spelling is a 
little unusual and his grammar sometimes puzzling, is not our orthography 
in a transition state, threatening revolution? And grammar — who can 
decide when grammarians disagree? Like the Apostles, too, our editor 
must be wise as a serpent, harmless as the dove, for however much he may 
gibe, and taunt, and vituperate a rival newspaper opponent, he must 
beware the j)lough-trained muscle of his agricultural antagonist. His care 
must be that no offence of omission or commission slips upon him ; he 
must weigh out his honors to the nicety of a Shylock-pound, giving neither 
more nor less to any man, or — lose a subscriber and all his relations (and 
these might embrace the whole of the inhabitants). Farmer A enters his 
office with the tints of his orchards and fields reflected on his self-satisfied 
countenance ; in his hand he holds a prodigious specimen of the tuber, and 
from his pocket he draws forth a handful of big, ripe wheat, such as might 
realize again King Pharoah’s dream of plenty. His object is to astonish 
the man of the pen and of course secure a newspaper notice. The editor 
is faithful, but he is also discreet ; up looms before his mind’s vision, the 
huge form of Farmer B., and others behind, whose wrath and envy he is 
likely to draw upon himself if he confines his notice to Farmer A’s crops. 
The hare has her flight, the fox his cunninu;, and our editor his invulner- 
able personality embraced in the precautionary “ We.” Forthwith appears 
his notice, well pruned down with qualifying clauses, that “ Farmer A. has 
shown us magnificent j)otatoes and grand wheat, but we have been told 
Farmer B’s are perhaps even as large while, his corn — the like was never 
seen before. But here to dispel the gathering wrath of any others he adds, 

“ indeed our informant tells us tlie crops generally, with few e.xceptions, are 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



1882.] 



unusually fine this harvest.” There ! Farmer A. is satisfied, Farmer B. trium- 
imant, and all the others rejoicing in the thought that their neighbour’s are 
the exceptional crops. If Fame’s offerings are scant this year, if subscrip- 
tions do not pour in, in the unalloyed currency of mother earth, then Ceres 
IS a niggard or a shrew ! 



Some Landscape Gardening. 

l o an institution which has such a career of extension before it as a 
University in America and which occupies a position surrounded with 
■enough vacant land, some general plan for the architectural disposition of 
its future buildings, and furthermore some publicity regarding that plan, 
would seem advisable. 

If the authorities of McGill have any such scheme in view, they have 
apparently, by reluctance to put lestraints upon the freedom of benefactors, 
been deterred from making it public. Perhaps this reason has prevented 
them from even entertaining a scheme. Being less prominent on the one 
hand, however, yet on the other having an interest in the University, T can 
air without danger a few ideas which have long been cherished on the 
subject. In the first place, the great aim should be to re-acquire some time 
or other, as nearly as possible, the whole square from the Medical and 
Presbyterian colleges down to Sherbrooke street. Mr. Joseph’s house 
should be kept in view as the final Principal’s residence, and in the mean- 
time one ought to be bought from among those on University street, rather 
than a new one erected on our limited grounds. 

My pet idea, however, and the nearest to present uses, concerns the 
dormitories. All the land from the Presbyterian college down to Mr. Joseph’s 
line, including the two houses with picturesque back galleries, should be 
acquired for these. The houses removed, a long building, either of red 
brick with black mortar or of cut stone, should be constructed in the 
Elizabethan style, or “ late Perpendicular,” with the squarish dripstones, by 
which the most interesting of the Oxford colleges are characterized. The 
Normal School' gives a hint of what is meant, though sadly unglorified. 
Such a building — inexpensive, appropriate and impressive — would have a 
fine appearance looking over the campus. The unsightly board fences 
would disappear to make way for a continuation of the cajupus lawn. 

W. D. L. 



Action in Oratory. 



JtpoKtiurj Jtems. 

Our Games. 

The public have long before this been furnished with acccounts of the 
College sports held on the lawn on Friday, Oct. 20th. .Any detailed 
account is therefore at this late date uncalled for. M ost of the exercises 
were well contested, especially the championship and the 220 yards (open). 
The long races of course went to McTaggart who was in capital condi- 
tion. 

Prof. Moyse in his si)eech at the close of the distribution of the prizes 
directed attention to a matter that calls for more than a passing notice at 
our hands, viz : the establishment of an Athletic Association in the College. 
In a subsequent issue we will deal more fully with this important question. 

We, as, undergraduates, pay annually a large sum for gymnastic instruc- 
tion and without a sufficient return for our expenditure of time and money. 
It would require but a small effort, if a general one, to establish a gymna- 
sium at the College. Besides it would make our games something more 
than a walk over for the few who take the trouble to train. 

The games committee, elected as they are but a few days before the 
sports come off, can hardly be blamed for a poor ground. A track should 
be flagged out at least a week before the games for practice. A sod track 
is always a slow one at best but a grass-grown lumpy one, like the one our 
athletic friends struggled and stumbled over on the 20th, is as little con- 
ducive to good time as it is to graceful motion. 



football fixtures. 

McGill V. Toronto University — 4th November. 

McGill V. Britannia — 9th November. 

The tour of the Toronto University Football Team will comprise matches 
with Trinity College, Port Hope, Nov. 2nd ; Royal Military College, Nov. 
3rd ; McGill, Nov. 4th ; and perhaps the Britannias, on Monday, the 6th. 
They deserve credit for their pluck, and may they win — all but one. 



Oratorical action is fourfold : mental, muscular, membral and vocal 
The brain is the orator’s most important part ; the voice comes next ; next 
comes the muscular system ; and last come the limbs. No looseness in 
the limbs when excitement nins high ; strain the muscular system to its 
utmost tension ; but above all be sure that the tones of your voice are 
tuned to the state of your mind. Every capability of the human voice is 
at the instantaneous command of the man who can give language its most 
of meaning, and thought its most of might. Read the Oration on the 
Crown. A"ou will then be able to understand why Demosthenes considered 
action the soul of oratory. It was the action of the voice that placed him 
on the pinnacle of oratorical success and renown. The long, lingering, 
scornful slide with which the exclamation, ‘‘ I reproach thee with the 
intimacy of Alexander I’’ drags its deep thunder from the orator’s lungs 
could only have been accomplished by a carefully cultivated voice. Your 
voice requires cultivation? Go to the stormy shore or the subterranean 
vaults and imitate Demosthenes. Dread not the ridicule of ignorance and 
gossip. Shiel’s landlady thought she had a madman in her house ; and 
there were many in Athens who would have attributed insanity to 
Demosthenes had they seen him in his sunless chamber, or heard him on 
the shore. Teach that inflexible voice to glide upward and downward 
with the ease of a bird ; and never rest till you can reproduce those vocal 
reverberations that “ shook the Arsenal and fulmined over Greece to 
Macedon and Artaxerxe’s throne.” But the matter must also be regarded 
from another point of view. As powerless as the blasts in the closed cave 
of ^olus may yet be the voice that, having been cultivated to the highest 
degree of refinement, flexibility and force, is equal to the instant and 
adequate representation of the most delicate shades of feeling that float 
upon the surface of the mind. In order that oratory may obtain its mightiest 
effect, mind and tongue must work harmoniously together. The least 
hitch in their harmony throws the whole orchestra out of tune. The voice 
must be the slave of the will ; the mind must be the slave of the voice. 
All the links of the argument must instantly follow each other. Facts, 
fancies, metajjhors, similies, illustrations and appeals come at the orator’s 
call, command or need. Systematized knowledge is needed to keep the 
tongue in constant action. Knowledge is the lake from which the river of 
eloquence flows, and it must flow in an uninterrupted stream. If you 
wish to be an orator, cultivate your voice, study your subject, educate 
your mind, rouse your enthusiasm, and make yourself master of learning’s 
domain. Cicero insisted upon universality in an orator’s information. If 
action is the soul of oratory, firmness is the soul of action. The brain 
should move first, the muscular system next, next the limbs, and last of all 
the voice. 



FOOTBALL. 

McGill College v. Royal Military College., Kingston. 

This, which was the opening match of the season in Montreal, came off 
on the College Grounds, on Friday, 13th October. It was a perfect day 
for football — dry and cold, yet not too cold for the comfort of the spectators, 
with little or no wind. The number of spectators was considerable, and we 
were delighted to see a good sprinkling of the fair sex, which served to 
enliven the scene and to make the interest in the proceedings greater. We 
must, however, observe that great inconvenience was caused not only to 
those engaged in the game, but also to many of the spectators, by the way 
in which numbers of those present persisted in standing beyond the touch 
line in the field of play. We should recommend that in future a number of 
stewards be appointed to keep the people off the ground. 

It is needless to say that great interest was manifested in the result of 
this the first match of the year, because it -has been the misfortune of the 
College- to lose some of her best men by the usual method of granting 
degrees, and it was only natural that there should exist a little nervousness 
as to the way in which the new members would acquit themselves. The 
result was eminently satisfactory, and will serve, no doubt, to show the 
McGill captain where the weak points of his team lie. In our opinion, 
the present team, with a little modification and a great deal of practice, will 
turn out one of the best which the College has ever possessed. 

The Cadets having won the toss, chose the Sherbrooke Street goal, and 
at 3.30 to the minute Haythorne kicked off for McGill. Looking at the 
two teams as they faced one another, one could not fail to be struck with 
the fact that the Cadets were by far the heavier of the two. After the kick 
off, the McGill forwards immediately followed up, and a scrimmage was 
formed about 25 yards from the Kingston goal. From this position the ball 
was gradually worked to the centre of the field, where some heavy scrim- 
maging took place, in which McCxill got rather the better of it. Joly, how- 
ever, did good work for the Cadets. At this point some short runs and a 
good display of passing were made by Hague and Alurray. The Cadets 
then obtained a free, which came to Grant, who, in trying to pass, threw the 
ball forward, and a scrimmage had to be fonned. Another free was well 
returned by Hamilton, but soon after Murray, obtaining the ball, ran back 
and was collared near the McGill goal. Some dropping by Hamilton, how- 
ever, and runs by Hague and Murray, saved the position, and the ball was 
returned to Kingston territory. Soon after, a kick by Hague brought the 
ball into touch near the Cadet goal. Just then Hamilton got a free about 



6 



[November ist. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



30 yards from the goal, which missed, and was returned to Haythome, who 
dropped, but the ball was caught by one of the Cadet backs, who took a 
free. Again the ball was brought to the Kingston goal by the good play of 
Unsworth mid Murray, and the Cadets were obliged to touch down in self- 
defence. The aspect now changed, and the ball was gradually worked by 
a series of scrimmages to the other end of the field, and went into touch a 
distance from the McGill goal line. A good run by W^eller brought 
u I! when a drop was attempted, and turning out a failure, 

the ball came to Hamilton, who kicked at it on the ground, and caused it to 
^rike one of the Kingston fonvards. Hopping off him, it was obtained by 
Neyland, who succeeded in grounding it, and the touch was converted into 
a neat goal. 

Hamilton then kicked off, and the ball remained for a considerable time 
in neutral ground. The first run was made by Murray, but the ball soon 
returned to Hamilton, who made a telling kick. The Cadets very soon 
obtained a free, which, followed by a ru.sh of the forwards and a long kick 
by Duffus, obliged Murray to touch in self-defence. Hamilton’s kick off 
from the 25 yards post was returned by the Kingston back, and a scrimmage 
was formed near the College goal. Murray relieved his side, but the ball 
was returned to Grant, who was collared near the goal line. Some nice 
passing then took place arnong the Cadets, but it ended in a scrimmage 
being formed on the goal line, from which Hamilton obtained the ball and 
touched in self-defence. Haythorne kicked off from 25 yards, and a scrim- 
mage was formed in the centre. The Cadets shortly obtained a free, which 
was returned by Hamilton. A run by Joly followed, but he was well 
collared by Grant. Smith, R., however, had soon to touch in self-defence. 
The ball was now brought to the centre of the field, and soon the scrimmage 
approached the Cadet goal through the good play of Murray and Hislop. 
When time was called, the ball was right in front of the Cadet goal. 

After the second kiok off, the serimmage was worked up to the Kingston 
territory, where one of the Cadets obtained a free. The ball coming to 
Grant, was missed by him, and passing on to Hamilton, the latter sent it to 
Weller, who missed it, and a scrimmage was formed about 25 yards from 
the Kingston goal. A run by Murray brought it to the full back, who 
returned it to Hamilton. The latter then dropped a goal amidst great 
enthusia.sm. At this point of the proceedings Hamilton was “ bounced.” 
After kick off, the ball came well into Kingston territory, the scrimmage 
being gradually worked to the goal line, but Duffus relieved his side. Soon 
after a kick by Hamilton resulted in a free for the Cadets, which came to 
Haythome. The latter missed his chance, and a scrimmage was fonned in 
the centre of the field. Murray, by a magnificent run, then brought the 
ball to the very goal line, where a scrimmage was formed, and the Cadets 
touched in defence. A scrimmage was immediately formed at 25 yards. 
From this position the play was brought to the centre of the field by a good 
run of Weller’s. But Van Ifflland soon after missed a kick, and Twyning 
sent the ball into touch, near his own goal line. From the scrimmages 
which were now formed, Hamilton nvice dropped for goal, but missed, and 
the ball was brought to the centre by a kick from Twyning. A free placed 
for Twyning resulted in Hamilton’s touching in defence. A good run by 
Hague brought the ball to the centre. Shortly after the Kingston full back 
missed a kick, and the fonvards following up, a scrimmage was fonned near 
the line, which was gradually worked up to touch at 25 yards. A kick by 
Twyning brought the ball once more to the centre, but Smith (A. W.) brought 
it back to within ten yards of the line by a fine display of dribbling. Hay- 
thorne just then made a drop at goal, but missed, and Hugel returned the 
ball to the centre. A free was returned by Hamilton into touch, from which 
the ball was carried by Hugel and Harry to within ten yards of the line. 
The position was saved by Hamilton, whose kick was returned to Haythorne, 
who brought it to the centre by a free. It was now gradually worked into 
Cadet territory, where Smith (A. W.) finally went into touch close to the 
goal line, and from a scrimmage the second touch was obtained by Hague. 
The goal having been missed by Haythome, the scrimmage was formed 
immediately about three yards from the line. From this position the ball 
was gradually worked to the centre of the field, where it was when “ no side” 
was called. 

WTiere all played so well, it would be wrong to particularize, but we must 
mention the good tackling of Messrs. Robertson and Wright for McGill, 
and the good all-round play of Carruthers, Straubenzie and Davidson for 
the Cadets. 



Queen’s College, Kingston, held its annual sports on Oct. 17th in the city 
park. 

The British IV/iigy a local paper says that “ the students were out in I 
crowds, and entered spiritedly into the sports, contesting with vigour, and 
straining every nerve in their efforts to outstrip each other.” 

It aften\'ards describes one of the races in the following ambiguous man- 
ner : — 

“ The first race was of a three-legged character. Two persons had their 
legs tied closely together, and in this manner were required to run about 
150 yards.” 

One of their students, Mr. Bertram, carried off eight first prizes. 1 



O^ollcgc ISlovUl. 



Yale has issued a new book of songs. 

I Four hundred applicants were examined for the different undergraduates’ 
I departments of Yale College. 

j There are eighty-six students in the freshman’s class at the Massachusetts 
! Institute of Technology. This college has an Architectural Department, a 
! thing much needed in McGill. 

j The Committee of Athletics of Harvard College has decided that here- 
after no professional trainer shall be allowed to give the athletes of that 
I college the benefit of his knowledge and experience. 

The University Monthly^ from Fredericton, N.B., appears for the first 
, time on our table. It is a sixteen page paper and is published by the 
’ Literary and Debating Society of the New Brunswick University. 

j The Boston and Albany Railroad have given the Senior Civil Engineers 
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology the privilege of riding free 
' over their road at any time to see the engineering works on the road, as 
; bridges, &c. Will any of the Canadian roads running into Montreal ever do 
as much for McGill ? 

Among the few exchanges received up to the present is the first number 
of the second volume of The Techy from the Institute of Technology, 
Boston. It is a very neatly got up paper, and largely devoted to college 
news. The Freshmen have a special portion of it for their own benefit, 
headed “ The Children's Department,” in beautiful large print that can 
easily be read, with all the long words hyphened out into syllables. The 
Tech has advanced a step beyond the average college paper and introduced 
cartoons. 

“School” was played at the Academy of Music on Tuesday night by 
I the “ Montefiore Club,” under the direction of Mr. Neil Warner, for the 
! benefit of the Women’s Wing of the Western Hospital. The Bishop’s 
College medical students attended in a body, behaved badly, of course — 
medical students always do — and aftei^vards serenaded their professors. 

Trhiity ColIegCy Dublm . — Mickey Roberts, a Senior t'eUow and re- 
no^^^led mathematician of this University died very recently at an advanced 
age. About him and his twin brother Billy who is a Fellow, many 
I amusing anecdotes are told. As a matter of fact they resembled one an- 
other so closely that only their most intimate friends could distinguish them 
without difficulty, and one of the most reliable traditions still handed down 
is that Mickey passed the Fellowship examination twice, first for himself, 
and some years aftenvards for his brother Billy. 

Princeton College . — The new telescope at Halsted Observatory ranks 
fourth in the list of great refractors in use, and is by far the largest belong- 
ing to any collegiate institution. The telescope and appliances cost 
$26,000, which sum was contributed by the friends of the College. The 
diameter of the object glass is 32 inches. The focal length is 30 feet i inch. 
The steel tube of the telescope has a length of 28 feet and a diameter of 33 
inches in the middle. The weight of the telescope and mounting is about 
seven tons. The makers were Alvan Clark &: Sons. 

McGill. 

The lecture-room of the Law Faculty has been furnish id with aesthetic 
desks a la Oscar Wilde pattern ; at least they are too too utterly uncom- 

fortable for the average law student. 

The ghosts of our future spiritual advisers are said to be seen by early 
risers disporting themselves on the damp grass of the campus every morn- 
ing in the bucolic game of base-ball. 

A contest is spoken of between our local pugilists B and H for 

the feather-weight championship of the Medical College. The former is in 
excellent fonn, at least so R says. No pools to be sold. 

At meetings held for the election of Medical class officers, the following 
were elected representatives for their respective years : Fourth year — Presi- 
dent, Chas. E. Cameron ; Secretary, R. B. Struthers. Second year — Presi- 
dent, W. C. Cattanach ; Secretary, . 

At the first meeting of the Reading-Room Committee, held on Thursday, 
the 5th Oct., the following officers were elected for the ensuing year : — 
Chairman, J. R, Murray, 4th year Arts ; Secretary. G. C. Wright, 3rd year 
Arts ; Treasurer, R, Smith, 4th year Applied Seience. 

Perhaps the Sports Committee would provide, say, an ordinary circus 
tent for such of the athletes as display such a morbid tendency to wander 
about while “ changing their uniforms,” in order that they may do so under 
cover. The public attending the sports, we dare say, would gladly donate 
the tent. 



1882.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



We have it on reliable authority that the Hon. Justice Mackay is about 
to present to the College his private library consisting of between three 
and four thousand volumns. A few more such donations as this will place 
the McGill College library on a level with those university libraries of which 
the citizens of the United States are so justly proud. 



“ Lemons may be kept fresh for a long time in ajar of water, changing the 
water every morning.” — Agents' Herald. ** We have often seen this used 
as a recipe for lemonade, and can recom nend its economy.” — Yale Record. 
The addition of an ounce of Cj. Hg. O. in every glass of the water greatly 
improves its qualities. 



The senior engineers have the old museum for their drawing-room since the 
erection of the Redpath building. It is a fine room ; but the Black Hole of 
Calcutta would have answered about as well for the purpose, — more light 
and ventilation are badly needed ; and besides inch boards laid on the top of 
two carpenters’s saw-horses do not make good drawing tables, even if the 
saw-horses were steady. 

The programme of the undergraduates Literary Society on the night of 
the 20th ultimo was an agreeable change from that usually followed. Dr. 
Murray very kindly delivered a lecture to the Society on University Literary 
Societies and their uses. As the lecture has been already reported in the 
daily papers, nothing more need be said than that it was listened to with 
marked attention. At its close, a vote of thanks was tendered to the lec- 
turer for the pleasure and instruction he had afforded to those present. 

Faculty of Law. 

The first meeting of the Moot Court of this Faculty was held on Friday, 
the 27th October last. Professor Lareau, B. C. L., presiding. 

The case before the Court was one in which the plaintiff sought to 
recover the amount of an hypothec from the defendant tier s-detenteurs 
of the property mortgaged. The defense pleaded a possession of ten years 
as proprietor under a translatory title, maintaining that in accordance with 
act 2,251 C. C, the defendant had prescribed the ownership and liberated 
himself ton all servitudes, charges, and hypothecs on said property. The 
plaintiff answered that the said title had never been registered. That regis- 
tration was a necessary formality for all acts inter vivos transferring property. 

That under an unregistered title the defendant could not be said to have 
possessed as proprietor. That the property in the immoveable had always 
remained with the original vendor, as was clear from the decisions in 
Lalonde vs. Lynch XX, L. C. T. 168, and in Lefebvre vs. Branchaud, 
XXII, L. C. J. 73 - 

The whole case then resolved itself to the question— can an unregistered 
conveyance serve as the basis for a ten years prescription against a duly 
registered hypothec? The learned professor decided that it could not. It 
was therefore his duty, he said, to dismiss the plea, and maintain the plain- 
tiffs action with costs. 

Messrs. H.\gue & Duclos, for plaintiff. 

Mesers. Dickson & McLennan, for defendant. 

The idea of holding such Moot Courts is not a recent one in McGill, but 
of late years it has not received the hearty support of the students, and the 
sittmgs have in conse<tuence been few and far between. We are glad to 
hear that it is the intention of the committee to arrange one every week, 
the result can only be of incalculable advantage to all taking part therein. 
We would earnestly advise every student of this Faculty to discard the old 
plea of “ no time ” and resolve to carry this matter through successfully. As 
the questions chosen by the professors are always strictly in connection 
with the subject on which they lecture, it can oniy prove of the greatest 
profit as well in the examinations, as in after practice. 



Ifacctiac. 



Cook.— A song. 

St. Jacob’s Oil will not be advertised in these columns. 

The “ vets ” were prepared to shout themselves horse had their “ team” 
won the Tug of War. 

The thief who entered the Medical College the other night, wasn’t an 
American. He stole “ George Washington’s ” coat. 

“As the hart panteth” &c. ; so thirsted a medical Freshie for the gore 
of the chap, who misplaced his borrowed os innoininatum last week. 

At a recent lecture the professor spoke of himself as “ myself and another 
eminent member of the bar, &c.” Who shall say the days of Cicero are no 
more ? 

A few pounds of Metallic Potassium, judiciously located in the front seat 
in anatomy, might cure the expectorating propensities of a couple of tobacco 
ruminants. 

The most extraordinary ocular phenomenon which presented itself at the 
games the other day, was a sweet young lady, who instead of a pupil, had 
an undergraduate in her eye. 

Appropos of the “ Marmion ” embroglio ; William Shakspeare is running 
for Secretary of State in .Michigan, and several old farmers are not going to 
vote for him, because they’ve read some things in a book he wrote that they 
consider immoral. 



The day of the sports, a member of the committee was awkwardly 
removing the sods in one portion of the grounds, in order to make a soft 
place for the jumpers to leap into. Among the onlookers were a num- 
ber of “ meds,” who regarded the bungling efforts of the committee-man 
with great disgust. Finally, the feelings of one of them became too strong 
for him, and seizing the spade, he commenced to cut the sods and lay them 
aside in a really workmanlike manner. The bystanders admired his skill, 
but began to have doubts as to his former occupation. These, however, 
were soon set at rest, for one of his companions, less discreet than the others, 
blurted out the information that the knight of the spade had served his ap- 
prenticeship at body snatching. 



^cvsoualsi. 



F. Weir, ’82, Law, is at present in Switzerland. 

W. E. Dixon, ’83, T.aw has become a Benedict. 

G. G. Foster. ’81, Law is practising in Knowlton, P. Q. 

Dr. B. F. Heardman, ’82, medicine is studying in London, Eng. 

Mr. A. W. Martin, ’82, has gone to Harvard to study theology. 

Mr. W. F. Thomas, ’82, is at present studying law in London, Ont. 

A. D. Struthers, ’81, medicine is practising in Frelighsburg, P. Q. 

A. P. Low, ’82, Ap. Sc., is on the Geological Survey Staff at Ottawa. 

J. H. Burland, ’82, Ap. Sc., has gone into business with his father in the 
city. 

T. D. Green, ’82, Ap. Sc., is on the Staff of the Pontiac Pacific Junction 
road. 



Dr. Pearson, a graduate of Ann Arbor, is attending the medical course 
here this session. 

Mr. F. F. Miller, ’82, Ap. Sc., is acting as assistant to Prof. Bovey. He 
has charge of the junior classes in Engineering. 

Phil. Foster, ’82, Ap. Sc., has a situation on the Engineering Staff of the 
Canada Pacific Railroad, about 500 miles west of Winnipeg. 

I J. Drummond, ’82, Ap. Sc.,is in charge of a party in the North-West sur- 

I veying base lines, with J. J. Collins, ’82, as one of his assistants. 

George AVashington, a last year’s freshman in medicine, was married 
to Miss Martha Custins, during the summer vacation. Both are doing well. 

! Jas. McMeekin, ’85, medicine <Jecided to take a better half during the 
summer vacation : — 

“ Mac ” is very popular in his class. 

Dr. Fenwick, who has been in England for some time past, arrived 
home on Monday, and has resumed his lectures in Surgery. During his 
absence the chair was ably filled by Dr. Roddick. 

Of the graduates of ’82 — Clarendon Rutherford, A. M. M. D., is 
practising in Chicago; E. W. Smith, A.B. M.D. in West Meriden, Conn. ; 
Chas. O. Brown, M. D., in Bamston, Que. ; T. J. Pierce O’Brien, in 
Kansas city ; Alex. Shaw, in Bancroft, Mich ; W. E. Thompson, Assistant 
Surgeon, Canada Pacific R. R., Matawan ; Edmund Christie, in Lachute. 



McGill Medical Society. 



At the first regular meeting of this Society this Session, held Oct. 7th, in 
the rooms of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, Phillip’s Square, the following 
gentlemen were elected officers for the session. 



President - - - 

I St. Vice-President - 
2nd. “ - - 

Secretary’ - 
Treasurer 
Librarian - 
Pathologist - 

Councillors - - - - 

Sixteen new members were added. • 



Dr. W.M. Stephen. 

J. Gray. 

• - J. B. Loring. 

W. S. Renner. 

W. McClure. 

R. F. Ruttan, B. a. 

W. G. Johnston. 
f Dr. Molson, a. W. Cle- 
( .ME.N’T & J. S. LaTHERN. 



At the second meeting, held Oct. 21st., Mr. Johnston gave an amusing 
reading entitled — “ Alopecia ” — and Mr. A. W. Clement, read a carefully 
prepared paper on Trichinosis. 

The meetings are held fortnightly and commence at half-past eight, all 
students are invited. 



8 



McGill university gazette. 



[November ist, 



a'ovvcspomkucc. |. 

Echoes from the Rocky Mountains. 

[The following letter has been received from a graduate in arts of ’8o, and 
though not intended for publication, it can not fail to be interesting to all 
young men, giving, as it does, personal experiences on that most important 
question of to-day, the Far West, and doubly interesting to students, 
having been written by one who was very recently of their number. Ed.] 

In Camp.” 

Township 51, 4th Principal Meridian, 

^ ^ North West Territory. 

Mv Dear C 

^ly first injunction to you is that before proceeding further, you will 
l^ocure a map and thoroughly satisfy yourself of my exact whereabouts, on 
this loth day of September, 1882. Having done so you may rest assured 
that you have not the slightest idea of my “ then location,” as M— 
used to translate Caesar, for with us it is a rule, somewhat of necessity, never 
to stay two days in the same camp, Sundays, of course, excepted. Many and 
great have been my experiences since last I strained my eyes trying to see 
you and my fond brother, through the filth and stench of Bonaventure 
Street ; nor is it with feelings unsatisfactory that I am able to report to you 
that 99 per cent, of them have been pleasant. 

In order to change the monotony of things, we took it into our heads 
about a month ago to eat up all the provisions, and just at the time when 
our new lot of stores shotihi have been brought, we found ourselves with 
three or four pounds of pork and one bag of mouldy flour. It so happened 
that I was sent ahead to run or rather correct a badly surveyed line of 
twenty-four miles. I had under me the cook and five of the worst gmmblers 
that ever saw light. We finished the work in three days, and then camped 
and waited for the “ boss” to follow with the remainder of the party. 

After two or three days instead of the “ boss ” came a messenger saying 
that we were all to return, as the provisions were almost exhausted and there 
were no signs of the men sent to Battleford. I shall never forget the day 
we arrived at the head camp. Such a picture of misery you never saw. No 
word of the men, whom we thought were starved or lost, the flour all out, a 
few bannocks (flour and water baked) hard and mouldy, all the shot gone, 
no wood to be found, and the children of Israel murmuring.” We had 
some leaden bullets left. These were melted, poured into their flat moulds 
and cut into square shot with scissors. This material was given to the two 

best shots of the party with a third man, C , to drive them, and they 

were sent off to an alkali creek. Alkali creeks (not lakes) always abound 
with ducks. One day the party brought home twenty^ having fired only five 
shots ! Meanwhile the “ boss ” started off for Battleford, leaving the camp 

under the charge of St. C and myself. But it was not for long, for 

on the road they met our two men with provisions, just in time to see one 
of our horses give out. He died that night before reaching camp. Cause: 
“ That the deceased came to his death from sundry and numerous kicks 
in the stomach, with a verdict of not guilty against the rider on account of 
extenuating circumstances.” It turned out that our two braves had fol- 
lowed a wrong trail, and had traveled some ninety miles out of their road. 
During this season of Lent, one of our men went through the process of 
m^dng five new holes in his belt, but since the provisions have arrived he 
is seriously contemplating sewing an additional piece of leather on his diges- 
tion meter — a growing instance of how vacillating and changeable some 
men are. I have no more dark pictures to draw. I do not however think 
that I could give such bold strokes to the others, as there has generally been 
too much sunlight upon the originals, and my eyes being dazzled, I have 
not sufficiently impressed the outlines upon my memory. We see so many 
new things every day and hour that our minds are constantly occupied try- 
ing to ferret out the causes of them. Indians are very scarce, and what there 
are are great cowards, the only danger to be apprehended from that quarter 
is that they will steal your horses at night. 

We experienced our first large jirairie fire last week. It did not stop 
work for long though. We burnt our way through it, and worked in the 
middle where it was all burnt out. 'I'hat night we enc^iped within ^ ofa 
mile of it, but the wind was blowing across. On thfe mght of the 8th Sept. 
^v« had heavy frost sufficient to hold water upside down. And yet we are 
in the most lovely country we have seen so far. Any amount of wooded 
land, good water, and first class soil. I would be completing my happiest 
dreams to squat down just where we are. It could not be done much under 
$1500 for one, or $2000 for two settling together. For stock raising it is 
simply unequal. The grain at Battleford, S. W. by W. of us, is all housed 
three weeks ago, so that these early frosts would do no real harm. The 
winter no doubt would be hard, but one must make up one’s mind to endure 
hardships, if one settles before the tide of emigration. Two of us could take 
up half a square mile, and reserve another half square mile to buy after three 
years. I am going out this afternoon to prospect so as to have a section in 
my eye. A settlement would very soon be formed, if the country were only 
written about. There is no doubt about it, it is first class. After spending 
a summer on the prairie, carting your tuood for eighty miles, one respects a 
woody country. And it is not such a country as would require much clear- 



ing, of cour.se there would be a certain amount of brush to clear. ^ 

the makings of a great country around here, and any one who choses to 

come early has a grand opportunity of keeping ahead of the community. 

We are going North twelve miles further to Township 53, and then will 
turn West on the 14 Base line, until about the last week of October, when 
we will turn and retrace our steps. Remember me kindly lo all my fellow 
graduates. 

Your faithful old chum, 

A Review of our Last Foot-Ball Season. 

On looking back over our record of last year, we may justly conclude 
that altogether it has been a most successful one. We were particularly 
I happy, I think, in our choice of captain, for none could fulfil the duties of 
I that position better than did Mr. Thomas. It is no light work to reorganize 
the team for a new season, as we always unavoidably lose some of the best 
players of the preceding year. In commencing the season of 1881 we lost 
eight of the old men ; some of them being among the best players we have 
ever had in the University. To fill their places required not a little judg- 
ment on the part of the captain and match committee. We soon, however, 
got the team picked, and our first match was the annual one with the Mont- 
real club. This match was the only one out of the four matches played in 
which we were defeated, and the result was mainly due to the impossibility 
of getting the team into good practice in so short a time. It is impossible 
to play well together without practice, and without combined play we are 
nothing. This defeat, instead of discouraging, seemed only to stimulate 
oiu- energy ; with more practice and training we were soon in better form, 
so that in our second match — that with Kingston — we came out victorious. 
This match, I remember, was played in the pouring rain, as, indeed, were 
many of the matches last year. 

It is our custom to leave the city at least once every year on the invita- 
tion of some distant club, to play them on their own ground. Last year 
we decided to go to Toronto to play the University. We will long remem- 
ber the enjoyable time we had on the journey and our hearty reception by 
the students. On the morning of the match, however it was seen that 
nearly all the men suffered, from a slight indisposition, and upon inquiry 
we found out that the city water was the probable cause of the malady. It 
seemed at first sight that we could not be in particularly good condition to 
suffer from so slight a cause, but when we were told that even the oldest 
inhabitant could not stand the city water without its having been first put 
through half a dozen filters, we began to think our constitutions not so 
very weak after all. In spite of this we never entered upon a match in 
better form. On both sides there was the anticipation of victory, and we 
must acknowledge that we never had a harder struggle for the mastery, nor 
played against more courteous opponents. Our return drive was like an 
ovation, everybody turning out to see us and hear the McGill songs. The 
trip to Toronto will be remembered by all as one of the most enjoyable 
ever taken by the club, and I hope that when the Toronto University 
team comes down this year they will experience as hospitable treat- 
ment at our hands. Our last match was the most important one 
of the year. It came off on November 19th, and was the last 
foot-ball match of the season. We looked forward to this match 
with more than ordinary interest, as we were to play the Britannias, the 
champion foot-ball club of Montreal. To quote from the excellent account 
of the match in the Gazette : “ Both clubs were confident, and justly so, 
as the season had been a successful one for both of them. The excitement 
was heightened by the fact that the clubs were playing for the Montreal 
Challenge Cup, which the Britannias had won in their last match with the 
Montrealers. In fact, it was confidently expected by all that the match 
would be a fine one, and these expectations were fully realized.” The 
match resulted in a draw, and was declared by all to be one of the closest 
and best contested of the season. To quote again from the Gazette's 
account ; “ The Captains of .both clubs are to be complimented on the 
form displayed by their respective teams. Out of the McGill fifteen, only 
six played on the team last year. Owing to the shortness of the College 
term, Mr. Thomas has only had about six weeks in which to bring his team 
to their present condition, and the result is one of which he and the 
University may well be proud.” This match fitly ended our foot-ball sea- 
son of 1881. As a member of last year’s team, I hope I may be pardoned 
for according so much praise to our efforts. I wish, however, to draw 
attention more to the means than to the end, more to the method and 
management than to the results attained. It is only by obedience to the 
Captain, constant practice and careful training that a team attains any high 
state of efficiency. More especially^ is this true of the McGill team, where 
we often, if not always, have to make up with skill and play for a dis- 
advantage in strength and weight. 

After this short sketch of the matches of last year, I have but to add that 
it is the duty of every McGill undergraduate to promote the interests of 
foot-ball by every means in his power. If this is done, I may venture to 
predict for the present team an even more successful season than last year’s, 
and that McGill will worthily retain her position among the foot-ball clubs 
of Canada. 

O.N'K OF THE Team. 



1882.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 






i^otes and Qxtcrics. 



THE SONG OF THE “ MED.” 



( Written for the McGill Collsge Gazbtte.) 



With fingers lanky and long, 

With whiskers curly and red, 

A student sat with his apron on, 
Dissecting a subject’s head. 

Cut, cut, cut, 

On a party lortg since dead, 

And he gave his whiskers a curl and a 
twist 

Whilst he sang the Song of the Med. 

“ Slice, slice, slice. 

What my book says must be proved, 
And slice, slice, slice, 

‘ The muscle may now be removed.’ 
’Tis oh ! to be an ‘ Arts,’ 

But they their lectures shirk. 

And their study is only in fits and 
starts, 

Compared with a Medical’s work. 



“ Scrape, scrape, scrape. 

O'er the subject my scalpel does skim ; 

Scrape, scrape, scrape. 

My work doesn’t mattei to him. 

Vein and muscle and gland, 

Gland and muscle and vein, 

(||tottaiL 

6^" ^ fCorimel. 



Draw the knife lightly over the fascia 
deep, 

And don’t close attention disdain. 

“ Oh ! but to breathe the breath 
Of dissecting rooms so sweet ! 

With bodies around us spread. 

Yclept by the witty ‘ cold meat.* 

Smoke slightly improves our lot. 

And so does stealing a bench. 

But it really is queer that dissecting 
room ‘ dier' 

Our thirst for knowledge can’t quench.’’ 

With fingers lanky and long. 

With whiskers curly and red, 

The student sat with his apron on. 
While singing he’d finished his keaei. 
Cut, slice, scrape, 

And it really must be said — 

That he is extremely fond of his work, 
And not at all likely its duties to 
shirk, 

Though he sang this “ Song of the 
Med.” 



Anne- Atomy. 



Tasso, in his tuneful story. 
Celebrates that garden’s glory. 
Where Armida’s magic trains 
Kept Rinaldo bound in chains. 
Such a necromantic ground 
I in Florimel have found ; 

Such a necromantic queen 
I in Ftorimel have seen : 

For the roguish look that lies 
In her rainbow-rounded eyes 
Gifted is with greater power 
Than the juice of Circe’s flower. 
If thou hast a hardy heart 
Exercise thy gazing art 
On the witchery of her ways 
And the magic of her gaze. 



But, though boldness may behold 
That inimitable mould 
And ineffable delight 
Drink from the celestial sight. 

Let me drop a warning word 
To the heart that, lightly stirred 
By the love-look in an eye. 

If it cannot win must die ; 

Look not nigh her! Look askance 
From the conflict of her glance; 

Or. if admiration be 
Irresistible in thee. 

Gaze upon her from afar. 

As thou gazest on a star ; 
Something beautiful to see — 
Beautiful, but not for thee. 



“ Who wrote the Patience of Hope, the White Crusade and other 
short poems ? 

^ist of |icut Books Received. 

During the Morith of October^ 1882, 

Civil Engineers, London. Minutes of Proceedings* Vol. 59. 1882. 

Society of Engineers, London. Transactions for 1879. 

Preyer. Die Seele des Kindes. 

Pollock. Spinoza ; his Life and Philosophy. 

Fechner. In Sachen der P.sychophysik. 

Geiger. Ziu- Entwickelugsgeschichte der Menschheit. 

Schurman. Kantian Ethics, and the Ethics of Evolution. 

Seth. The Development from Kant to HegeL 
Madhava Acharya. The Sarva-Darsana-Samgraha. 

Rosmini Serbati. The Philosophical System of. By Thomas Davidson. 
Harper. The Metaphysics of the School. 2 vols, 

Bain. John Stuart Mill. A Criticism. 

Bain. James Mill. A Biography. 

Stephen. The Science of Ethics. 

Leopardi. Essays and Dialogues. 

Stirling. Text Books to Kant, Pure Reason, &c. 

Aristotle. Psychology of. By E. Wallace. 

Royal Society, London. Transactions and Proceedings, 1881-82. 
Journals of the Senate, Sessional Papers, Statutes, &c. 

Rankine. Civil Engineering. 13th Ed. 

M. Williams Taylor, 

A ssi. -Librarian . 



’Xo our J'Ulisci'iXicrs. 

Our Subscribers will greatly oblige us by remitting 
their subscriptions as soon as possible. 

We also desire that immediate notice be given if the 
“Gazette” is not received regularly. 

Subscriptions should be remitted to the Treasurer 
P. O. Box 1845. 



THE McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE is printed and published for the 
Proprietors by the Gazette Printing Company, Montreal, at their Office, 
corner of St. Francois Xavier and Craig Streets. 



^dualisjcmenfs. 






Surgical Instruments. 



A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 



G. W. CLARKE, ' 

IMPORTER OF 

Books, Stationery, 



IMPORTED DIRECT 

' — FUOM THE 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS ' 



FINE FANCY GOODS, NOVELTIES, Ac. 

■MTsr stock: ot’ 

NEW Gq^DS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 

WILL BE FOUND THE FINEST IN THE DOMINION, AND THE 



OF THE WORLD. 

AN INSPECXION INVITED. 

Lyman Sons & Co. 

384 ST. PAUL ST. 



Christmas and New Year Cards 

Will also be superior to anything ever imported. 

CADE ANTJ EJCAN1J.NE, S X O C K. m 

G. W. CLARKE, 

238 & 240 St. James Street. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[November ist 



McGill College Text Books wm. drysdale s co„ 



DAWSON BROTHERS 

Keep always on hand a full supply of all the TEXT BOOKS 
in use at the College. 

Also, STATIONERY IN ALL VARIETY. 

StndeiitH^ Note RooUm. StiuleiitM* Pocket Ink Bottler. 

. — and — 

^OTE PAPER and EAYEliOPES Ntaiiipeil witli the 
University l>le, for the nse of Stiiilents. 



FOR SALE AT 



159 "bo 105 S"b. CTax3a.es S'bx'eeij. 



WH. NOTHAH « SON, 

Photogtapliers to tlie OueeOi 



17 and 19 Bleury Street, 






WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Booksellers and Stationers 



College Text Books 



A SPECIALTY 



SUPPLIED AT BOTTOM PRICES.. 



k SmiSH DTOIT IS E?EmSIir&I 



“Steppin an’ C us,” 



Students' Note Books— a fine assortment- 

Standard Works, 

School Books, 

Maps, Globes, &c. 

ST. JA MES street, 

AND — 

14^3 ST. CA.THERJJSTE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

6 . D. Jolmson k Son, 



AND WE WILL MAKE YOU THE CENTRE OF ADMIRATION. 



DEALERS IX 



THE BOSTON IB 00 TS& SHOES 



CLOTHING HOUSE, 

STYLISH AND LOW-PRICED 

CLOTHIERS AND CENTS’ FURNISHERS, 

41 & 43 ST. JOSEPH ST., 

MONTREAL. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 



13 iLUD 15 

Sti. J”ose-pTi_ Sl:3:?eei33 

MONTREAL. 



8®" BOOTS AOE TO MEASOTBE- 



1 882.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



C- HULL, 

anb ^iationcir, 

English and American Periodicals and Illustrated Works. 

BEST LONDON STATIONERY. 

ALL KINDS OF FANCY STATIONERY. 

Cards Engraved— Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 

CREENSHIELDS, BDSTEED « GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Bavvistcvs, Attorneys, J>otidtorS; 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET, 

IVIOISrXFlEAL. 

J. N. GREEN.SHIELDS, B.C.L. E. B. Busteed, B.C.L. Edmund Guerin, B.C.L. 



■ <31. SHA.RPI.^ET ' cf SO]VS, 
^exueUers, 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT IN THE CITY OF 

MARBLE and BRONZED CLOCKS, 

BRONZED and CHINA STATUARY, 

Sterling Silver and Electro-Plated Ware 

AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FAJTC Y G OODS- 

Headquarters for Out-door Games, viz : CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS* 
ARCHERY and FOOTBALL. 



A large assortment of Artists’ and Drawing Materials, consisting 
of WINSOR & NEWTON’S COLORS, WHATMANS DRAWING 
PAPERS, TRACING PAPER AND CLOTH. 

MATHEMATICAL I^VSTRTMEXTS, Ao. 

and. !S84: J\fol:rp JDarrie Street. 



ASHFORD’S 

New Book and Stationery Shop 

{One door West of his Old Stand). 



A GOOD SUPPLY 

Colleg'e Text Books, 

Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books 

ALWAYS IN STOCK 

AND AT LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES 



FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS. 

Dissecting Cases and Scalpels by Weiss & Son, Ophthalmascopes, Metirgan 
De Weeker, Fine Trocar and Canula, Nitrate of Silver Holders, 
Probes, Directors, Clinical Thermometers, 

Pocket Cases, Scissors, &c., 

CHE^T’ FOR CASH. 



C. ASHFOFtD, 

BOOKSELLER & STATIONER, 

6782 & 680 DORCHESTER STREET, 

MOIMTREAL. 






PHOTOGRAPHER 



141- ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including the INSTAN- 
TANEOUS PROCESS, &c.. &c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelligent regard to 
established rules of art. 

jSrCABINET PHOTOGRAPHS of HERBERT SPENCER, taken 
on his recent visit to this city, for sale. Price 50 cents. 

TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION. 



AUCTION SALE 



VALUABLE PERIODICALS. 



The following Periodicals will be sold by Auction, at 
the Reading Room, McGill College, on SATURDAY, 
NOVEMBER 11th, at lO a.m. : 



Contemporary lleview. 
Fortnightly “ 

Nineteenth Centur}-. 
Century Magazine. 
Eclectic Review. 

Littell’s Living Age. 
Atlantic Monthly. 

Harpers “ 

Popular Science Montlily. 
Art Journal. 

Christian Union. 

London Illustrated News. 



The Graphic. 

Harper's Weekly. 

Frank Leslie's Illustrated. 

Canadian Illustrated News. 

Scieutitic American and Supplement. 
American Engineer. 

Sporting and Dramatic News. 

London Punch. 

•ludy. 

‘‘ F un. 

Toronto Grip. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [November, 1882 . 



RICHELIEU HOTEL 

J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CAmiEII SQUARE, opp. Court House and City Rail 

MONTREAL. 

Tin* alM»vcr In tho best in the City for .neOlll College Olniiers. 

John Henderson h Go., 

galtm & ,^urrim 

283 ISrOTRTC DA.ME ST. 

I 

Fur Coats, Caps and Gauntlets.} 

EXTRA aUALITY GOODS AT LOWEST CASH PRICES. 
THE “McGILL” RIBBON FOR SALE.: 




GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

Merchant Tailors, 



STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS 

THE BEST VALUE IN THE CITY. 

CHEAP STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS. 
TV. J^. CL ^RLIE, Bookseller, 

BEAVER HALL SQUARE. 

Ft. N. McCALLXJM, 



\SH/RT AND COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

\ 

, AND 

✓ 

GENERAL OUTFITTERS, 

i 

ZtsTo- 2 X IBXe-cL 3 ?; 57 ^ 

MONI^EAI^. 



IMPORXER, 

STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, TOYS, Ac., &c. 

130S ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

QUEEN’S HALL. BLOCK. INCoxL'tareal. 

ESTABLISHED 1818. 

219 ST. JAMES STREET, 

HAVE IN STOCK A LARGE ASSORTMuiNT CF 

SILVER PLATED GOODS, 

ALSO. 

SOLID SILVER GOODS, IN CASES, 

CARRIAGE CLOCKS, &c. 



XI. S^XTDEX?,S, 

IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF 

Optical, Mathematical ^Surveying Instruments 

SPECTACLES FOR ALL SIGHTS. 

No. 188 ST. JAMES STREET 

MOXTKK.il.. 

Montreal: Gazette Printing Company. St. Francois Xavier Street. 



And a variety of FANCY GOODS suitable for 
WEDDING PRESENTS. 



