Vol. XII 



No. 12 







UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E Greenshields. 




MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO 
FlarmamtM & lisptiiiii Chemists, 



'J 



f 



fjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. vTAIMIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 



Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

NlACMASTERj HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 



ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 



147 St. James St., 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 

JOHN 8. HALL, Jr. 



Montreal. 

ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

-FOR— 

School aid College Text Bools ! 



DRYSDALE’S 



OKUIOKSHANK & ELLIOT, 
Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 Si. lames street, ail 15 St. Lawrence Iain street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Spirts street, OTTAWA, 



232 ST. JAMES ST. 



JtlEBICAL WORKS, BOOKS USED tJV ART COURSE, 
SCIEJYCE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., Ac., 

-s- BEST VALUE X IV TOWN , 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Yol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MAY 10th, 1889. [No. 12. 



Umbtratj) tte. 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 

C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 

R. McDougall, Arts ’90. A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 

Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will uot be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 139-141 

McGill News 141-147 

Societies - 147-148 

Personals 148 

Exchanges 148-149 

Between the Lectures .... 149-150 

Poetry 151 

College World 151 

Correspondence 151 



Editorials. 



OUR OWN VALEDICTORY. 

With this issue we complete the twelfth volume 
of The University Gazette, and transfer the man- 
agement to other hands. In opening the first number 
we were under certain disabilities — the Editor-in- 
Chief who conducted the journal for two years was 
with us no more, the action of The Gazette in an 
important crisis was not endorsed by some nor under- 
stood by others, and its deliverances on many ques- 
tions were not received with good nature. But the 
most serious difficulty under which it lay was the lack 
of support from one class of students and the open 



hostility which a smaller class displayed. If The 
University Gazette was not controlled by the under- 
graduates to such an extent as they would desire, they 
only were blameable, for they had every opportunity 
for obtaining even a complete control, and the gradu- 
ates took a hand merely because no one came forward 
to fill the place. But it is hard to understand why 
the interests of the two classes should not be identical, 
for it cannot be that as soon as a man graduates he is 
imbued with a spirit of antagonism toward the body 
of which he was once a member. It is in the interest 
of The Gazette itself and of the undergraduates that 
they should have the ruling voice in its management, 
and we have shown, on several occasions, that they 
have always possessed this control. But before an- 
other year it is probable that they will be called upon 
to undertake a work which most fully belongs to 
them, and which others have no interest in perform- 
ing, except a general interest in everything that per- 
tains to their Alma Mater. In comparing the condi- 
tion of affairs at that time with that which now 
prevails, there is some reason for satisfaction. The 
interest in The Gazette has deepened, all open ex- 
pressions of disapproval have ceased, it is receiving 
the sanction and support of the University, and no 
one is found to deny that it is being conducted en- 
tirely in what it conceives to be the best interests of 
the University. It has been controlled by no person 
or party, and an effort was made to give every interest 
the fullest representation. The course has been modi- 
fied somewhat, and shaped to the needs of the case 
without submitting to any outside pressure, and the 
tone has been moderated in some degree to bring it 
into harmony with the note which its constituents 
sounded. We have endeavoured to obtain for it a 
high literary standard, and our contemporaries within 
and without the college say that we have succeeded. 
We have been enabled to do this by the aid of men 
and women who were willing to contribute their best 
thoughts to our columns, and to them we extend our 
deep gratitude — to Mr. George Murray, Mr. John 
Reade, Professor Roberts, Mr. Henry Mott, Mr. 
Douglas Sladen, Miss Fairbairn, Erol Gervase, Mrs. 
Curzon, “A. G. G.,” Mr. T. MacPherson, and Mr. 
Curtis. All this has not been accomplished without 
much thought and labour, but we have freely used 
whatever of talent we possessed. The work was not 



140 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



without its pleasantness ; there was complete unani- 
mity on the part of the editors, every question was 
settled by common consent, and on rare occasions 
only was it necessary to resort to a strict vote. We 
have left The Gazette in at least as good condition 
as we found it, and we commend it to the thoughtful 
care of those who are to succeed us. 



HOSPITAL APPOINTMENTS. 

Among the inducements offered intending students 
to enter McGill University for a Medical education, 
not the least is the one stating that yearly a certain 
number of students from the graduating class shall 
be appointed to the position of resident house surgeon 
to the General Hospital. 

While it is not distinctly so stated in the Medical 
Calendar, yet the natural inference is that these 
appointments are made according to the stand taken 
by candidates at examination, and not because he 
shall have been supported in his candidature by some 
one party or sect, religious or otherwise, nor yet as 
Prof. Mills has put it — “ that sometime within the 
memory of living man, the candidates’ progenitors 
have sojourned within the city of Montreal.” 

Nevertheless, we regret to state, that in the past 
considerations such as these seem too often to have 
swayed the Governors’ votes, and caused a miscarriage 
of justice. In short, a system of canvassing has been 
resorted to, degrading to say the least of it, and prob- 
ably anything but pleasant to the gentlemen who vote 
on these appointments. 

This year, contrary to expectations, and probably 
due in a measure to the Valedictory delivered at the 
Medical Convocation on behalf of the Faculty, the 
appointments are said to have been made according 
to the standing taken by the applicants in the regular 
competitive examination held for appointments to 
those positions. This must surely be a matter of 
satisfaction, not only to the great majority of students, 
but to all in any way interested either in the College 
or Hospital. 

The number of resident Medical officers has this 
year been increased to five, a step absolutely necessary, 
in view of the immense amount of work required of 
these gentlemen. Since there were but seven appli- 
cants, it is difficult to say whether or not the appoint- 
ments were made solely on the question of merit. 
It is to be hoped, and we believe that such was the 
case. While it is a matter of satisfaction to all that 
this new departure should have been taken, yet the 
fact that the class of ’89 was denied its fullest rights 
by the appointment to one of the positions of a gentle- 



man who had already filled for one year probably the 
best position open to graduates in Medicine, namely, 
that of Accoucheur to the Montreal Maternity, may be 
a cause of dissatisfaction to some. 



CANADIAN HISTORY. 

Not many weeks ago a petition was prepared and 
presented to the Faculty of Arts on the subject of 
Canadian History, signed by nearly two hundred 
of the graduates and undergraduates. It called to 
mind the position the University occupied as an edu- 
cational centre and a source of culture, with a wide 
influence in directing thought and moulding senti- 
ment, and made the request that the study of Cana- 
dian History be placed on the same basis as the study 
of the History of England, Greece, and Rome. The 
petition was received in the spirit with which it was 
prepared, and with a desire to foster a healthy na- 
tional education. It was carefully considered at two 
meetings of the Faculty, and a report was prepared 
for submission to the Corporation, announcing that 
the Faculty would appoint a text-book of Canadian 
History, and hold an examination in such year of the 
course as the Faculty would afterwards determine. 
The question may now be considered definitely set- 
tled, and in a manner satisfactorily to those who have 
it at heart, and the University has given another proof 
of the fact that the only limitation to carrying out 
progressive educational ideas is that which is imposed 
by financial necessities. In the treatment of this 
question the undergraduates, graduates, and the auth- 
orities have had a part, and we think that in such 
co-operation will be found the true adjustment of the 
relations between these members of a common body. 
The petition had scarcely been presented when Pro- 
fessor Moyse, in closing his lectures on Universal 
History, devoted some time to the consideration of 
the rise and development of Canada, and the exami- 
nation paper which was submitted, contained a com- 
prehensive question on this subject. 

It must have been a pleasing scene at the graduat- 
ing dinner to witness the generous treatment which 
The University Gazette received. In the good-will 
that was expressed and the unanimity with which the 
course of the journal during the session was regarded, 
there was much cause for satisfaction, and with the 
cheers that were given for the editors we feel amply 
repaid for our winter’s work, for we are sure that our 
conduct during the past year has been justified. 



The University Club is dead — dead past recall. 
Blame is scarcely attachable to any one. It was an 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



141 



experiment, and the experiment failed. At the time 
of the organization of the club on the last basis, it 
was pointed out in The Gazette that if the attempt 
did not succeed, it would be useless to attempt it 
again. However much it will be missed by some, we 
have probably heard the last of the University Club. 



We publish a letter from one of the most enter- 
prising of the Old Boys, which is meant to convey 
some plain truths to the minds of McGill’s younger 
children, and to their consideration we commend them 
with the hope that before another year the suggestions 
may find a lodgement and bring forth fruit. 



PflciBill News. 



The election for Representative Fellows has re- 
sulted as follows : — For Arts, J. R. Dougall, M.A.; 
for Medicine, T. Wesley Mills, M.D.; for Science, 
W. T. Skaife, B.A.Sc.; for Law, M. Hutchinson, 
B.C.L. 

The customary address has been presented to Cook, 
with the usual accompaniment of more material 
dollars, and that efficient officer delivered himself of 
the following reply : — 

Gentlemen of the Primary Years : — 

According to the time-honoured yearly custom, you have 
again kindly remembered me in this substantial manner, and I 
give you my hearty thanks for the remembrance. 

I have tried, through the past session, to have everything 
work harmoniously, and for the best interests of the majority of 
the students, and this substantial expression of your good-will 
tells me that you all know Cook’s bark is worse than his bite, 
and that in his acts he works only for your interests. 

In a few days you will be busy with your Examinations, and 
I sincerely hope will be as successful as you deserve. After that 
will come your well-merited holidays, when I trust you will 
regain the energies lost in the concentrated work of the last few 
weeks ; and when next October rolls round I will look for your 
well-remembered faces — flushed with vigour — back in College 
again as the Junior and Primary Years of ’90. 

Thanking you again for your kindness, 

I remain, 

Your Old Janitor, 

“Cook.” 

March, 1889. 



LAW AND SCIENCE CONVOCATION. 

On Monday afternoon the Convocations, for confer- 
ring degrees in Law and Applied Science, were held. 
Among those present were — Mr. J. II. R. Molson, Sir 
William Dawson, Alex. Johnson, LL.D., Dean of the 
Faculty of Arts; H. T. Bovey, M.A., Dean of the 
Faculty of Applied Science ; N. W. Trenholme, M. A., 
D.C.L., Dean of the Faculty of Law; Dr. James 
Stewart; Rev. J. Clark Murray, LL.D.; Rev. George 
Cornish, LL.D.; P. J. Darey, LL.D.; Professors 
Movse, Harrington, McGoun, Davidson, Chandler, 
and McLeod; Dr. Kelley ; J. H. Burland, B.A.Sc.; 
N. N. Evans, B.A.Sc.; M. W. Hopkins, B.A.Sc. 

Professor Trenholme read the prize and pass list, 
which is as follow : — 



LAW EXAMINATIONS. 

PASS LIST, PRIZES AND STANDING OF STUDENTS. 

The following are the results of the Examinations 
in Law just concluded : — 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

Ronzo H. Clark, Francis Topp, Charles A. Barnard. 

SECOND YEAR. 

W. A. Kneeland, D. H. Girouard, G. P. England, A. E. 
Harvey, T. J. Yipond, J. D. L. Ambrose. 

FIRST YEAR. 

F. J. Halchette, V. Geoffrion, F. W. Hibbard. 

HONOURS AND PRIZES. 

Ronzo H. Clark, first-class honors and Elizabeth Torrance gold 
medal ; Francis Topp, first-class honours and prize for thesis ; 
w. A. Kneeland, first rank general standing and first prize for 
third year ; D. H. Girouard, second rank general standing and 
second prize for third year ; F. J. Halchette, second rank gen- 
eral standing and prize for first year. 

The prizes were then presented and the degrees 
conferred, after which Professor Davidson delivered 
the address to the graduating class. 



THE SCIENCE FACULTY. 

Professor Bovey read the report of the results of 
the Examination, which is as follow : — 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

Allan Wilmot Strong, British Association gold medal ; $50 
British Association Exhibition ; certificates of merit in design- 
ing, and heat and heat engines. 

George Morse Edwards, Stanley silver medal ; first rank hon- 
ours in natural science ; Logan prize for collection of insects ; 
certificates of merit in assaying, and chemistry. _ 

James Preston Tuplin, certificates of merit in designing, heat 
and heat engines, and machinery and mill work. 

Murdy John McLennan, certificate of merit in materials. 

Milton Lewis Hersey, $25 prize for summer report ; certificate 

of merit in chemistry and mineralogy. 

Peter Lawrence Naismith, certificate of merit in geodesy and 
practical astronomy. 

Passed for the degree of Bachelor of Applied 
Science : — 

Civil engineering, advanced course (in order of merit) Allan 

Wilmot Strong, John Holden Antliff. ... ... 

Civil engineering, ordinary course (in order of merit) Allan 
Wilmot Strong, Peter Lawrence Naismitli ; John Holden Ant- 
liff and Murdy John McLennan, equal ; George Kyle Addle, 
Malcolm C. McFarlane. 

Mechanical engineering, advanced and ordinary courses 

James Preston Tuplin. . x n , r ^ A 

Practical chemistry (in order of ment)— George Morse Ed- 
wards, Milton Lewis Hersey, Andrew Young. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Richard Smith Lea— Scott exhibition of $66 ; prize for sum- 
mer report ; prizes in descriptive geometry, theory of structures, 
materials, geology and surveying. , . , , 

Ernest Edward S. Mattice— Prizes in mathematics and theory 

of structures. . ,, 

Percy Norton Evans— Prizes in mathematical physics, theo- 
retical chemistry, practical chemistry, mineralogy, zoology, and 

experimental physics. . . . , . 

Peter Whiteford Redpath— Prize in dynamics of machinery. 
George W. Mooney— Prizes in experimental physics and field 
work (levelling). 



142 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Passed the Sessional Examinations : — 

Civil engineering, advanced course — Richard Smith Lea and 
Ernest Stuart Mattice, equal. 

Civil engineering, ordinary course (in order of merit) — Richard 
Smith Lea, Ernest EdwardS. Mattice, Charles Herbert Ellacott, 
Orrin Rexford, Albert Howard Hawkins, William Simeon Deni- 
son, Chester Bowditch Reed. 

Mechanical engineering, advanced course — Geo. W. Mooney. 

Mechanical engineering, ordinary course (in order of merit) — 
George W. Mooney, Peter Whiteford Redpath. 

Practical chemistry (in order of merit) — Percy Norton Evans, 
Sidney Calvert, William Smaill, Arthur E. Shuttleworth, Robt. 
Henry Jamieson. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Ernest Albert Stone, Scott Exhibition of $66 ; prizes in ma- 
terials, mathematics, mathematical physics, experimental 
physics, and surveying. 

Thomas Henry Wingham, prize in descriptive geometry. 

William Henry Walker, Burland prize in chemistry ; prizes 
in mechanism and practical chemistry. 

Passed the Sessional Examinations : — 

Civil Engineering (in order of merit) — Ernest Albert Stone, 
William Jardine Bulman, Robert Bickerdike, George Edward 
McCrea. 

Mechanical engineering (in order of merit) — Thomas Henry 
Wingham, Percy Howe Middleton, Miles Lawrence Williams. 

Mining engineering (in order of merit) — William Henry H. 
Walker, Hugh Yelverton Russel. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Peter Henry LeRossignol, prizes in theoretical and practical 
chemistry, mathematics, and French. 

William Norton Cunningham, prizes in English and Ger- 
man. 

William Henry Warren, prize in English. 

James G. R. Wainwright, prize in freehand and model draw- 
ing- 

Passed the Sessional Examinations, in order of 
merit : — 

Peter Henry LeRossignol, William Norton CunniDgham, 
William Pitt Laurie, Walter Chamblet Adams, Ellsworth Bol- 
ton, Forest Rutherford, Theophile Denis, Alonzo Klock, Wm. 
Henry Warren, George Mitchell, Louis Benjamin Copeland, 
William C. G. Smarr, John Hamilton Featherstone, James 
George R. Wainwright, Peter J. Murphy, Arnold James Ryan, 
William Foster Fraser, Lawrence Naismith Pink, Lincoln 
Simpson, John Alexander Turner. 

The prizes were awarded and the degrees conferred. 
Mr. J. P. Tuplin read the Valedictory for the class, 
and Professor Bovey replied on behalf of the Faculty. 
The proceedings, orderly and decorous, were closed 
with the Benediction by Rev. Dr. Murray. 



THE CONVOCATION IN ARTS. 

The Convocation for conferring degrees in the 
Faculty of Arts, was held on Tuesday afternoon, and 
though the ceremonies were not attended with the 
glories of last year, the whole proceedings were 
marked by dignity and decorum. 

There was the usual few students who aimed to 
exceed, if not to excel, each other in the quality of 
their alleged jokes, so that the real witticisms that 
did occasionally flash from the back seats lost some 
of their flavour from their unfortunate association. 
The same voices were heard which won for their 
possessors a bad prominence on a public occasion 



last fall, and to whom, at the time, attention was 
called 

Dr. Johnson read the report of Examinations, which 
is as follow : — 



FACULTY OF ARTS. 



GRADUATING CLASS. 



PASSED FOR THE DEGREE OF B.A., IN HONOURS. 
(Alphabetically arranged.) 

First Rank.— William Deeks, William D. Gibson, Helen R. 
Y. Reid, James Robertson, Maude M. Squire, Harry W. Truell, 
Alice Maude Wilson. 

ORDINARY. 

(In order of merit.) 

McGill College . 

Class I. — James H. Stevenson. 

Class II. — Robert T. Mackenzie, F. S. Meighen, Walter L. 
Jamieson, Thomas N. Walsh, Donald B. Holden. 

Class III. — F. W. Read, William H. Garth, S. F. McCusker. 
Aeger . — William Rogers. 



Morrin College . 

Class I. — James M. Whitelaw. 

Class II. — Adam Robertson, Geo. H. Smith, Edith J. Sloane, 
Euphemia Macleod. 

BACHELORS OF ARTS PROCEEDING TO THE DEGREE OF 
M.A., IN COURSE. 

Archibald McGoun, B.A. ; Alfred E. Barlow, B.A. ; William 
Patterson, B.A. 

ADMITTED TO THE DEGREE OF LL.D., “Honoris Causd.” 
George Stewart, D.C.L. 

PASSED THE INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION. 

McGill College . 

Class I. — William Thos. Gunn, W. J. LeRossignol, John M. 
McGregor, James F. Warne, Mary L. Pattison, William A. 
Henderson. 

Class II. — William R. Ellen wood, E. G. Hipp, William 
Oliver, E.B. McGregor, Bessie Hall, George Whyte, Richard S. 
Orton. 

Class III. — Archibald C. Reeves, Louise Smith, William A. 
Warne, John J. McAlpine, Dan. S. Hamilton, Helena McMillan, 
H. C. Young, Galer Craik, Arthur A. Cole, s, John R. Dobson, 
5, Donald Guthrie, 5, G. W. McDougall, 5, Eva L. Moffatt, 5, 
John Tees, 5. 

Morrin College . 

Class I. — George Campbell Pigeon. 

Class II. — Martha L. Brown. 

Class III. — F. G. McLeod, John Lindsay, 5, Neil Living- 
tone, 5, James D. Webb, s. 

s. With supplemental examination on one subject. 

St. Francis College . 

Class I. — Alice Bannister. 

Class II. — A. A. McLeay. 

GRADUATING CLASS. 

B. A . Honours in Classics. 

William D. Gibson, First Rank Honours and Chapman 
Gold Medal. 

B. A. Honours in Natural Science . 

William E. Deeks, First Rank Honours and Logan Gold 
Medal ; Maude M. Squire, First Rank Honours and Medal 
Prize. 

B. A . Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy. 

Harry V. Truell, First Rank Honours and Prince of Wales 
Gold Medal ; Alice Maud Wilson, First Rank Honours: Medal 
Prize ; James Robertson, First Rank Honours. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



143 



B.A. Honours in Modern Language . 

Helen R. Y. Reid, First Rank Honours and the Lord Stanley 
Gold Medal. 

Special Certificate . 

James H. Stevenson. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Albert G. Nicholls, First Rank Honours in Classics and Prize ; 
iirst Rank General Standing. (A medal prize is awarded to a 
candidate whose answering at the examinations has been nearly 
equal to that of the medallists.) Robert McDougall, First Rank 
Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy and Prize ; First 
Rank General Standing ; Andrew A. Robertson, First Rank 
Honours in Natural Science; First Rank General Standing; 
Edward C. Trenholme, First Rank Honours in Natural 
Science ; First Rank General Standing ; Prize in Zoology ; 
William F. Colclough, First Rank Honours in Classics and 
Prize ; Daniel J. Fraser, First Rank Honours in Mental and 
Moral Philosophy and Prize ; James A. Elliott, First Rank 
Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy ; Silas W. Mack, 
Second Rank Honours in English Language, Literature and 
History, and Prize. Prize for Collection of Plants ; Henry M. 
Tory, First Rank General Standing. Charles G. Coster Memo- 
rial Prize for students from the Maritime Provinces ; James T. 
Daley, First Rank General Standing. Prize in Hebrew ; Hugh 
C. Sutherland, First Rank General Standing. Prize in English 
and Rhetoric ; Frederick M. Fry, First Rank General Standing. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Williams, Derick, Tory, Daley; Nichols and Trenholme, 
equal ; McDougall, Robertson ; Abbott, and Sutherland, equal ; 
Colclough, Fry, Biumore, McVicar, Tolmie, Hall, H. 1. Botte- 
rell, Mack; Cameron and Moss and J. A. Elliott, equal; 
Mathewson ; McGregor and A. W. Walsh, equal ; Fraser and 
Parker and Richardson and Ross and Scott, equal ; J. T. Bot- 
terell, Swanson ; Hunter and Reid and E. A. Elliott, equal ; 
Kinghorn, Finch, Macfarlane, Henderson. 

SECOND YEAR. 

William T. Gunn, High School, Montreal, First Rank Gen- 
eral Standing, Prize in Logic, Prize in French; Walter J. 
LeRossignol, High School, Montreal, First Rank General Stand- 
ing, Second Prize in English, Prize in Logic, Prize in Botany ; 
John M. McGregor, High School, Montreal, First Rank General 
Standing, Prize in French, Prize in German ; James F. Warne, 
Stanstead Wesleyan College, P.Q., First Rank General Standing, 
First Prize in English; Wm. A. Henderson, Stanstead Wes- 
leyan College, P.Q., Prize in German. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Gunn, LeRossignol, J. M. McGregor, J. F. Warne, Pattison, 
Henderson, Ellenwood, Hipp, Oliver, E. B. McGregor, B. Hall, 
G. Whyte, Orton, Reeves, Smith, Wm. A. Warne, McAlpine, 
Hamilton, McMillan, Young, Craik, Cole, s , Dobson, s, Guth- 
rie, s, McDougall, s, Moffat, s 9 Tees, s . 

FIRfcT YEAR. 

Arthur B. Wood, High School, St. Johns, P.Q., First Rank 
Honors in Mathematics and Prize, First Rank General Stand- 
ing, Prize in Greek, Prize in Latin, Prize in French, Prize in 
Chemistry ; W. Hector Kollmyer, High School, Montreal, First 
Rank Honours in Mathematics and Prize, First Rank General 
Standing, Prize in Greek, Prize in English ; George D. Robins, 
High School, Montreal, First Rank Honours in Mathematics and 
Prize, First Rank General Standing ; James Taylor, Ottawa 
Collegiate Institute, Third Rank Honours in Mathematics and 
Prize; Harold B. Cushing, High School, Montreal, Third Rank 
Honours in Mathematics and Prize ; Edward Archibald, High 
School, Montreal, First Rank General Standing, Prize in Greek 
and Roman History, Prize in French ; Robert H. Barron, La- 
chute Academy, P.Q., First Rank General Standing. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Kollmyer and Wood, equal ; Archibald, Pitcher, Boriglit, 
Robins, Barron, Taylor, K. N. Campbell, R. 0. Ross, Cushing, 
Raynes, Ryan, Drum, Mitchell, Jaquays, Mclver, Angus, Mac- 
Donald, Craig, Day, Davey, Tatley, H. Blachford, G. E. Reid, 



Shaw ; Brown and Davis, equal ; Sadler, Lyman, Leach, 
McHarg, McCoy, Russel, Smyth, Ellicott, Grisbrook, Hunt, 
Anderson, J. K. Ross, Carmichael, A. Robertson, R. F. Camp- 
bell, s 9 Jekill, s, McLennan, s 9 Patterson, s 9 Pritchard, s. 

s. With supplemental examination on one subject. 



Professor's Prize for Collection of Fossils , R. T. MacKenzie. 
Professor's Prize for Collection of Plants , S. W. Mack. 

Neil Stewart Prize in Hebrevi 9 James H. Stevenson. 

Charles G. Coster Memorial Prize 9 (to that student from the 
Maritime Provinces who has passed most creditably in the ses- 
sional examinations), Hy. M. Tory. 

New ShaJcspere Society's Prize , J. A. Nicholson, B.A. 



At the examinations in September, 1889, the fol- 
lowing scholarships and exhibitions were awarded : — 

SCHOLARSHIPS — TENABLE FOR TWO YEARS. 

Third Year. — Mathematical , H. M. Tory; Natural Sciences , 
H. C. Sutherland ; Classics and Modern Lan - 
guages 9 Nicholls, R. McDougall. 

EXHIBITIONS — TENABLE FOR ONE YEAR. 

Third Year. — For the Study of Natural Science , Daley, 
Mack. 

Second Year. — W. J. LeRossignol, High School, Montreal. 
First Year. — W. H. Kollmyer, High School, Montreal ; A. B. 

Wood, High School, St. Johns, P.Q. ; D. G. 
Robins, High School, Montreal ; E. W. Archi- 
bald, High School, Montreal; Percy C. Ryan, 
Ottawa Collegiate Institute. 

Bursaries were awarded to W. T. Gunn, High School, Mont- 
real, $62.50 ; R. Mitchell, High School, Montreal, 50.00 ; H. 
B. Cushing, High School, Montreal, $50.00. 

wickstead medals, for physical culture. 

R. T. McKenzie, 4th year, Gold Medal ; W. Oliver, 2nd year, 
Silver Medal ; A. A. Cole, 2nd year, Bronze Medal. 



SPECIAL COURSE FOR WOMEN, DONALDA 
ENDOWMENT. 

PRIZES AND STANDING — GRADUATING CLASS. 

B.A. Honours in Natural Science. 

Maud M. Squire, First Rank Honours, Medal Prize. 

B.A. Honours in Mental and Moral Philosophy . 

Alice Maud Wilson, First Rank Honours, Medal Prize. 

B.A. Honours in Modern Languages . 

Helen R. Y. Reid, First Rank Honours and the Lord Stanley 
Gold Medal. 

THIRD YEAR. 

Annie Williams, First Rank Honours in Mental and Moral 
Philosophy and Prize, First Rank General Standing, Prize in 
Latin, Prize in Zoology ; Carrie M. Derrick, First Rank Honours 
in Natural Science, First Rank in General Standing, Prize in 
Classics, Prize in Zoology ; H. Inez R. Botterell, First Rank 
Honours in Natural Science, Prize in German ; Maude E. Abbott, 
First Rank General Standing. 

PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Williams, Derick, Abbott, Binmore, Botterell, H. I. R., 
Scott, Botterell, J. T., Macfarlane, Henderson. 

PASSED IN CERTAIN CLASSES AS PARTIAL OR OCCASIONAL 
STUDENTS. 

Robins, Johnson, N. 

SECOND YEAR. 

Mary L. Pattison, McGill Normal School, First Rank General 
Standing, Prize in Logic, Prize in French, Prize in Botany. 



144 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



PASSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Pattison, McGregor, E. B., Hall, Smith, McMillan, Moffatt 

PASSED IN CERTAIN CLASSES AS PARTIAL OR OCCASIONAL 

STUDENTS. 

Blachford, Finley, Mussen, Waud, E. M., Wilson. 

FIRST YEAR. 

Etlielwyn Pitcher, First Rank General Standing, Prize in 
Latin, Prize in Chemistry ; Mabel Boright, Sutton Academy, 
P.Q., First Rank General Standing, Prize in French, Prize in 
German ; Kate M. Campbell, First Rank General Standing, 
Prize in Greek, Prize in Latin ; Ethel Raynes, High School, 
Montreal, Prize in English, Prize in French; Nellie Craig, 
Prize in French ; Eleanor Tatley, Prize in Chemistry. 

PASSSED THE SESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS. 

Pitcher, Boright, Campbell, K. M., Raynes, Angus, Mac- 
Donald, Craig, Tatley, Lyman, Leach, McCoy, Hunt, Ross, J. 
K., Campbell, R. F., s. 

PASSED IN CERTAIN CLASSES AS PARTIAL OR OCCASIONAL 
STUDENTS. 

Galt, Johnson, H., Tatley, H. 

s. With supplemental examination on one subject. 

The prizes in this department are from the income of the 
Hannah Willard Lyman Memorial Fund. 

The prizes were awarded and the degrees conferred, 
with the usual ceremony, upon the men, and then 
upon the graduating class of ladies. 

Mr. James Robertson read the Valedictory for the 
men, in which he traced the history of the class from 
its entrance during the small-pox year. After speak- 
ing of the college societies and their claims to sup- 
port, he made a formal farewell to the principal, pro- 
fessors and lecturers, and expressed a deep apprecia- 
tion of their untiring zeal on behalf of the students, 
and he referred to their influence in fostering a spirit 
of independence of thought. A glowing tribute was 
paid to Sir William Dawson, in which he was referred 
to as the model scholar and skilled scientist. The 
farewell to the undergraduates -was followed by a 
tribute to the ladies of the graduating class, who, by 
their ability, had won the respect and admirationof 
the men of their year. 

Miss Helen R. Y. Reid then read the Valedictory 
for the graduating class of ladies, and it had a merit 
which not all Valedictories have of being original 
and well read. She traced, in clear lines and with 
touches of humour, their course from the time they 
were protoplasmic freshmen until they had gained all 
the dignity of bachelorhood. The college societies 
were discussed, their advantages dwelt upon, and they 
were commended to the care of the junior years. The 
benefits of the course she held to be many and °reat j 
their views had been broadened, and they had ac- 
quired a mental habit of work. She adjured her 
junior sisters to work regularly and well to shape 
their lives to meet the wide demands of life as well 
as of college, to have some other aim beyond gaining 
their degree, and not drifting along indifferently, to 
create some further object in the accomplishment of 
which they might further education to the noblest 
use. Referring to the question of medical education, 
she hoped that if there was a desire on the part of 
any to enter upon such a deep study as medicine, 
their Alma Mater would not oblige its own offspring 
to seek instruction at other and inferior schools. 



[1889. 



Dr. Johnson read the address on behalf of the 
Faculty, and Sir William Dawson delivered his 
annual statement, both of which have been published 
in full in the Montreal Gazette. 



MEETING OF CORPORATION. 

A meeting of the Corporation of McGill Univer 
sity was held on the 24th April. The appointments 
of Dean and Vice-Dean of Medicine were announced. 
After reports from the Deans of the Faculties of Arts 
and Science, the Librarian reported the total number 
of readers as being 2,930, visitors 51 j total number 
of books in the library, 28,065 vols. The Museum 
Committee reported a number of valuable donations. 

The following petition was presented from the 
Association for the Promotion of Professional Educa- 
tion of Women : — 

Unto the Honourable the Corporation of McGill University : 

The Petition of the Association for the Promotion of the Profes- 
sional Education of Women, 

Humbly Showeth : — 

That at a meeting held in the Fraser Institute Hall, on 6th 
April, the Association for the Promotion of the Professional 
Education of Women was formed. 

That a petition has already been presented to your honour- 
able Board by two young ladies, members of the Association, 
who are desirous of entering upon the study of Medicine in your 
University. 

That, as your petitioners learned through the daily press, 
that a majority of the professors in the Medical Faculty had 
expressed themselves favourable to the medical education of 
women, it was resolved, at a meeting of their Association: — 
“That the Medical Faculty of McGill University be requested 

(1) to give their official approval to the medical education of 
women in the abstract ; (‘2) to appoint a committee of their 
number to meet a deputation of this Association to confer upon 
the best means for obtaining such education within the Uni- 
versity.” 

That on the first point of the above resolution the Faculty 
have as yet given no official expression of opinion, but a letter 
was received granting a conference, which took place on the 
20th April, and at which the following resolutions of the Asso- 
ciation were submitted : — 

1 . That the Association pledges itself to use every available 
means to procure said education for the session 1889-90. 

2. That such education shall be, in all respects, equal to that 
given to men, and that the examinations and degrees shall be 
identical. 

3. That the object of the proposed conference being the dis- 
cussion of the means by which a medical education for women 
may be obtained at McGill University, the following alternative 
plans be submitted to the Faculty : — 

(1) . Co-education throughout, under which the sexes should 
meet in the same classes. 

(2) . Separate education, under which the teaching of the 
sexes should be given at different hours. 

(3) . Mixed education, under which alternatives (1) and (2) 
would be combined as far as practicable. 

That your petitioners consider plan (3) the most feasible under 
the circumstances. 

That at a meeting of committees held on Tuesday, 23rd April, 
it was resolved : — r 

“That a communication be sent to the Corporation of McGill 
University for their information embodying the history of the 
organization and proceedings of the Association.” 

May it therefore please your honourable Board to take into 
favourable consideration the desire of the petitioners for a medie 
cal education for women at your University ; your petitioner- 
pledging themselves to use every means to secure whatevsr 



1889.] 



UN IYEKSITY GAZETTE. 



145 



endowment may be necessary under such a plan as No. 3 ; or 
to do otherwise as in the premises as to your honourable Board 
may seem fit. 

And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray, etc. 

On behalf of the Executive and Advisory Committees of the 
Association for the Promotion of the Professional Education of 
Women. 

Grace Ritchie, B.A., Secretary. 

Montreal, April 24th, 1889. 

The matter was referred to the Faculty of Medicine 
for their report thereon. 

Some amendments to the bv-laws relating to the 
Normal School were passed. A report was read from 
the Faculty of Arts respecting the affiliation of the 
Wesleyan College, Stanstead, and recommending that 
the students of that college be admitted to Matricula- 
tion at the approaching examinations on similar terms 
as those of other colleges, and that the Principal of 
Stanstead College he requested to confer with the 
Principal of McGill University with the view of ar- 
ranging the course of studies, and to report to the 
Corporation. The Dean of the Faculty of Applied 
Science presented a report with reference to lectures 
on sanitation and architecture in that Faculty, and 
stating the course of study therein. This matter was 
remitted to the Board of Governors with the recom- 
mendation for their favourable consideration. A 
report was asked from the Faculty of Arts respecting 
the conditions of the exhibitions and scholarships in 
that Faculty. A report was read from the Faculty of 
Medicine recommending that the Montreal Veteri- 
nary College he constituted a Faculty of Comparative 
Medicine and Veterinary Science in the University. 
The report was adopted and remitted to the Board of 
Governors, and the Faculty of Medicine was author- 
ized to confer with Principal McEachran as to the 
details of the course of study and other arrangements. 
Several changes in the announcement of the calendar 
in the Faculties of Arts and Applied Science were 
introduced by the Deans of these Faculties, and were 
approved. A copy of the Encyclopaedia, being the 
Coster prize in the Faculty of Arts to be presented 
by Mr. Colin H. Livingstone, B.A., was laid on the 
table. 

The Corporation adjourned to receive the annual 
reports of the Faculties of Arts and Applied Science 
until Monday, at 2 p.m. 



THE DINNERS. 

The students were not to separate to go out into 
the world without once more sitting down round the 
hospitable tables of the Balmoral, well laden, as 
usual. 

Over the Arts’ men Mr. James Robertson presided 
with his usual good humour, and he had around him 
the graduating class, the members of the third year, 
and a few other choice spirits. The toast list was 
short, the speeches were concise, and the whole time 
was spent in communion and good fellowship. Com- 
plimentary addresses were delivered by Messrs. 
Robertson, Fraser, and Walsh, laudatory of the good 
qualities of the class they were sending off. Mr. 
Truelle proposed the health of the graduating class 
of ladies, happily as usual, and Mr. Rogers replied. 
Mr. Deeks remembered “ Our Alma Mater,” and Mr. 



Reid responded ; Mr. Gibson spoke for the other 
years, and Mr. Garth replied for them. The Uni- 
versity Gazette was proposed, and it was stated by 
several speakers that the students experienced much 
satisfaction that in the past year the college journal 
had been brought into close touch with the under- 
graduates, and that at present it had the full confi- 
dence of the students and the support of the Univer- 
sity. The management was congratulated on the 
fact that every cause for dissatisfaction had ceased 
and three hearty cheers were given for the editor-in 
chief, who was present, and the paper. 

In an adjoining room the Science men were enact- 
ing similar scenes, with Mr. P. N. Evans presiding 
with tact and dignity, Mr. N. N. Evans representing 
the teaching body, and Mr. Hopkins the old gradu- 
ates. The usual loyal toast was given, and the gradu- 
ating class was feelingly referred to by Mr. P. L. 
Naismith. Mr. Tuplin spoke for the Dean and Pro- 
fessors, and Mr. Strong for “ Alma Mater,” all of 
which was interspersed with songs and choruses. 
The University Gazette was not forgotten, and in a 
formal speech it was stated that the harmony existing 
between it and the students was complete, and while 
in the earlier part of the session it was felt that the 
students should support a new paper, the course of 
The Gazette, as modified by the present manage- 
ment, had taken away all necessity for such action. 
It was commended warmly to the junior years, and 
cheers were given for the editors and The Gazette . 



THE LADIES’ LUNCH. 

The time-honoured custom at McGill of tendering 
a feast to the departing seniors has this year made its 
way into the East Wing, Friday, April 26th, being 
the occasion of a “lunch given in honour of the 
graduating class of 1889, by the lady students of 
McGill University.” 

The scene of festivities, the large lecture room in 
the Peter Red path Museum, seemed truly to have 
experienced one of those strange earth movements of 
which its walls had so often heard. Grim black 
boards, chronological charts, diagrams and sections, 
all had disappeared. Rich curtains decked the door- 
ways, soft rugs caressed the polished floors, bright 
streamers twined round pillars, flags floated every- 
where. In place of learned dons serving up mental 
food to sedate, black-gowned ladies, urbane waiters 
offered nourishment of a more palatable, if less en- 
during, nature, to merry maidens and smiling matrons, 
all in their gayest and prettiest attire. 

The specimens, too, had undergone a change. 
Various representatives of the class Am' were swathed 
in jelly, or neatly tucked under a cover of pastry. 
The historical Crustacean, too, of third year zoology, 
was discovered calmly reposing in a salad. Then the 
botanical treasures were not such as are usually ex- 
hibited at lectures. Tall, fair Easter lilies, shy tea- 
roses, and blushing jacqueminots scented the air with 
their fragrance, while the transformation had extended 
even to the carboniferous ferns, and they bloomed on 
the table green and lovely. The company numbered 
about seventy ladies, chiefly students. Few in vita- 



146 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



tions were issued — the three members of the graduat- 
ing class, the wives of the professors, the lady super- 
intendent, and four graduates who were in town. 
These, with Lady Smith, who unfortunately could 
not attend, were all the invited guests. At each seat, 
in addition to the dainty card of toasts, was a hand- 
painted plate-card. For the class of ’89 a special 
menu was prepared, etched in Indian ink. It read 
as follows : — 

Menu. 

Long days, steeped in sunshine. 

Idleness, drugged with laughter. 

Rose, au naturel. 

Commencements, a la mode. 

Valedictories, stuffed with eloquence. 

Sheepskins. 

Orange blossoms, served with soft music. 

Honeymoons, European sauce. 

Orchard bloom, smothered in sweetness. 

Zephyrs, fresh. 

Perfume, dew. 

After a pleasant hour had been spent in chatting 
and disposing of some of the delicacies (Joyce’s best) 
with which the table was loaded, attention was turned 
to an excellent programme of music and toasts. 

Miss Maude Abbott, president of the committee, 
proposed the health of the Queen and Governor- 
General, and led by the Glee Club, all joined in the 
National Anthem. The toast of “ Alma Mater,” pro- 
posed by Miss Annie Williams, ’90, was responded 
to by Lady Dawson. She claimed that McGill, 

though not strictly speaking her Alma Mater, was as 
dear to her as to any of those present. She traced 
the progress of higher education for women during 
the Principal’s thirty years at McGill through the 
Normal School, High School, and the Ladies’ Educa- 
tional, up to the opening of the Donalda department, 
and paid a tribute to the memory of the late 
Miss Hannah Lyman, who had done much towards 
the education of her sex. 

Miss Radford spoke for “ Sir Donald Smith” in a 
graceful little speech that did credit to the “occa- 
sionals.” Miss Alice Wilson, ’89, in reply, suggested 
three cheers, and these were duly given in clear 
soprano tones and with much waving of handker- 
chiefs. 

Miss E. Binmore, ’90, proposed the health of the 
graduating class, only re-echoing the sentiments of all 
when she said how much they would be missed, and 
wished them every success in their future. 

Miss Nellie Reid, ’89, then made a few witty re- 
marks, saying that this was McGill’s moulting season, 
and they were only three little feathers dropping from 
her East Wing. She refused to see “ the reason of 
all these honours heaped upon us,” and was laugh- 
ingly directed by the President to the motto uncfer- 
neath their toast — “These are they who deserve their 
greatness.” 

Mrs. Clarke Murray gave some good advice on 
“ Societies.” She alluded chiefly to the Delta Sigma, 
as that of whose inner working she had seen the most! 
She held that the influence of college societies was 
unlimited, and that educationally they occupied a 
position as important as the lectures themselves. She 



urged the necessity of all the students enrolling their 
names in the Delta Sigma, and suggested the forma- 
tion of a society among the lady graduates. This 
toast was answered by the presidents of the various 
societies — Miss Maude Squire, ’89, speaking for the 
Delta Sigma; Miss C. Derrick, ’90, for the Theo 
Dora, the popular missionary society ; Miss Inez Bot- 
terell, ’90, for the Lawn Tennis Club ; and Miss M. 
N. Evans, for the Glee Club. 

The toast of “ Dean and Professors,” proposed by 
Miss G. Finlay, was responded to by Mrs. Johnson, 
wife of the Dean. She alluded to the improved condi- 
tion of woman in the present age, saying that the fact 
of giving girls a college education tended to lessen 
the selfishness with which their brothers were usually 
impregnated. She touched on the pleasure of having 
ladies for an audience, and said she had never known 
the Dean to return tired out from a lecture to the 
girls. 

Miss Mooney, ’91, spoke for the “Graduates.” 
Miss Hunter, B.A., replying on their behalf, claimed 
for them the right of voting for, and being elected as, 
Fellows of the University. 

The speakers for “ Sister Universities” were Miss 
M. Kennedy and Miss Squire, B.A.; Miss Ritchie, 
B.A., who was to have responded to this toast, being 
absent. Miss Squire alluded to the “ Sister Faculty” 
of Medicine which Montreal women were endeavour- 
ing to establish at McGill. 

Last, but not least, came “ Canada,” proposed by 
Miss K. Campbell, ’92, and responded to by Miss B. 
B. Evans, B.A. The latter claimed that college girls 
were offered a special opportunity for helping to pro- 
mote the sentiment of nationality, and urged them to 
strain every nerve to bring about closer relations be- 
tween McGill and Montreal, and through it with 
Canada. She suggested that the subject for the Delta 
Sigma prize essay might be chosen from Canadian 
History, and alluded to the petition from the students 
for that study to be placed upon the Curriculum, 
which met with such successful results. Students 
and graduates, one and all, as they clicked the tiny 
glasses of lemonade and drank to their native land, 
felt proud to be Canadians. 

No mention has been made of the music on the 
programme. It was excellent, and many thanks are 
due to the ladies who assisted in that way. The 
fluency of the speakers, too, proved the value of their 
training in debates. 

The song, “Alma Mater McGill,” sweetly rendered 
by the Club, brought to its close an entertainment 
which the first of its kind in Montreal — will long 
be remembered as one of the most pleasant reunions 
ever held beneath the walls of “ Old McGill,” and 
which reflects great credit on the capable and ener- 
getic committee who carried it to such a successful 
issue. It was composed as follows Misses M. E. 
Abbott, president; M. N. Evans, secretary; G. L. 
Finley, treasurer ; J. R. Botterell, M. A. Macfarlane, 
B. Hall, C. J. Mooney, M. E. Leach, and H. W. 
Lyman. 

Miss F. Romer executed a piano solo, Miss F. Monk 
and Miss M. N. Evans each gave a song, and Miss F. 
Stevenson a violin solo. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



147 



hen anything is needed for the Science Faculty 
there is always found someone to fill the breach. The 
latest suggestion has been in the direction of sanitary 
science, and when it was urged upon the authorities 
its desirability was affirmed, but it had to be deferred 
for lack of means. This difficulty has now been over- 
come through the liberality of one of McGill’s old 
graduates, who has always had a care for his own 
1 acuity, and a course of sanitary science teaching will 
now be added to the Curriculum. The only condi- 
tions applied to the donation are that practical tests 
shall be made, that the course shall be thorough, and 
that the student shall have access to the medical 
classes in hygiene. No appointment has yet been 
made, but it is to be hoped that one of the graduates 
of the School will be found competent to fill the 
place. 



Societies. 



McGill medical society. 

The annual meeting of this society was held in the 
Upper Reading Room, at 7.30 p.m., on Saturday, 
April 13th. 

Mr. R. E. McKechnie being called upon to occupy 
the chair, the minutes of the last meeting were read 
and adopted. The business for the evening was then 
begun, viz., the election of officers, and the results 
were as follows : — 

Honorary President Dr. James Stewart. 

President. Mr. M. W. Murray. 

Vice-President Mr. H. D. Hamilton. 

Secretary Mr. Fletcher. 

Treasurer Mr. Binmore. 

Pathologist Mr. B. E. McKechnie. 

Librarian Mr. D. Kee. 

) Dr. J. C. Cameron. 

Three Councilmen V Dr. F. G. Finlay. 

) Mr. W. E. Inksetter. 

Reports were then read by the Secretary and Trea- 
surer of last year, and adopted. The weekly meetings 
being arranged for Friday, at 7.30 p m. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

The annual meeting of the Graduates’ Society was 
held on Monday evening, in the Club rooms, the pre- 
sident, Mr. S. Cross, in the chair. The usual reports 
were received, and a discussion took place on the pro- 
posed formation of branch societies and University 
matters in general. The election of officers then took 
place, and resulted as follows : — 

President — C. J. Fleet, B.A., B.C.L. 

Vice-Presidents — Dr. T. Wesley Mills, W. J. 
Sproule, B.A.Sc., and A. Falconer, B.C L. 

Secretary — Mr. Wellington Dixon. 

Treasurer — Prof. C. H. McLeod. 

Resident Councillors — Messrs. Selkirk Cross, Dr. 
F. W. Kelley, Rev. E. M. Taylor, Rev. F. M. Dewey, 
Dr. James Stewart, and A. R. Oughtred. 

Non-Resident Councillors — Kev. E. I. Rexford, 
Quebec; Chas. Gibb, Abbotsford; Rev. W. I. Dey, 
London ; Mr. J. J. Maclaren, Toronto ; Sir James 
Grant, Ottawa ; and Mr. D. C. McLeod, Charlotte- 
town. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The last regular meeting of the Theo Dora Society 
was held on Monday, 29th of April. After some very 
interesting readings from different members, the retir- 
ing officers addressed a few parting words to the 
members, exhorting them not to forget the Theo Dora 
during the summer. Hymns were sung, after which 
the meeting was brought to a close. 



THE UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Public Debate. 

This important event was brought to a successful 
issue on Monday evening, April 29th. Mr. A. R. 
Oughtred, B.C.L., occupied the chair, and besides the 
speakers, who appeared in academical dress, were Drs. 
Murray and Davidson, Professors Moyse and McGoun, 
and many others. 

The Chairman opened the meeting in a few select 
words, and after introducing the subject for debate — 
“Was the Course of the Liberal-Unionists on the 
Irish Question Justifiable?” — called up6n Mr. F. W. 
Hibbard, B.A., to open the affirmative. 

Mr. Hibbard, in well-chosen and eloquent language, 
urged that the question at issue was of so vital import 
ance to the stability of the empire as to justify the 
Unionists in shaking off all party ties, and stand free 
and untrammelled, and in support of this, pointed 
out the £150,000,000 which was to be taken out of 
the pockets of the people of Scotland and England to 
pay the landlords of Ireland, the evils Home Rule 
would bring to Ulster, the payment of taxes by Ire- 
land without a voice in their expenditure ; that Mr. 
Gladstone’s measure was opening a path for the 
aggression of Rome, and that the Unionists proposed 
a far superior measure, and more equitable to Ireland 
and to the other integrals of the empire. 

Mr. J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., in opening the 
negative, claimed that Ireland herself was first to be 
considered, and aftewards the empire in forming leg- 
islation for that unhappy and grievously oppressed 
country, that instead of the thirty or fifty thousand 
militiamen and Irish constabulary now required to 
keep her in subjection, or as one writer had tritely 
stated, England had to contend with Arabi Pasha 
abroad and Ireland, “ be jabers,” at home. Ireland, 
under Home Rule, would supply as many for the pro- 
tection of Great Britain and her colonies ; and likened 
Home Rule to a caravan of pilgrims on a journey to 
Mecca, the Unionists to the curs that occasionly 
barked by the wayside as the caravan rolled on to its 
destination, which it ultimately reached, and so would 
Home Rule eventually be an accomplished fact, and 
bring an era of happiness and contentment to Ire- 
land. 

Mr. Wm. Patterson, B.A., in strong terms replied, 
arguing that Ireland should be to England as the dif- 
ferent Provinces of the Dominion are to each other, 
and not as a colony such as Mr. Gladstone’s bill 
intended. 

Mr. J. E. LeRossignol, in feeling terms, answered 
that it made his blood boil to hear men, in cold terse 
argument, speak of the many wrongs of Ireland, and 



148 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



recalled the numbers of acres of land confiscated in 
by-gone years, the effects of absenteeism and of emi- 
gration on the welfare of a country, and the unjustness 
of making the Romish Church an issue in the dis- 
cussion. 

Mr. Hibbard, in closing the debate, adroitly turned 
the proverb of the caravan to good advantage, by 
showing that the caravan of Home Rule would move 
slowly but surely, not to the shrine at Mecca, but to 
the Pope at Rome. 

The question was decided, by a large majority, in 
favour of the affirmative, after which the meeting 
was brought to a close by singing “ God Save the 
Queen.” 



Personals. 

Pete and Charlie have returned at last. The former 
plays base ball. 

C. L. Wheeler, M.D., assists the students in the 
construction of pills. 

We are pleased to note that Jenkins, ’90, is 
able to move about, after four weeks’ illness in the 
General Hospital. 

The following gentlemen have been appointed to 
the General Hospital : — Campbell, Booth, Brown, 
England, M.D.’s, ’89 ; and Potts, M.D., ’88 ; Low 
and Philip, M.D.’s, ’89, to the Maternity. 



Exchanges. 



The Varsity, of March 30th, is light, and as newsy 
as ever. The number contains nothing strikingly 
original, but everything is readable. 

Acadia Athenaeum appears in mourning for Miss 
Helen L. Buttrick, late teacher of instrumental music 
at Acadia Academy, who died recently at Berlin. 
There is also an interesting article on Virgil’s Poetry. 
Altogether an interesting number. 

The editorials of Queen's College Journal are racy 
and readable. The Journal, too, is very liberal in its 
notices of Exchanges, and we are glad to see it thinks 
there is some poetic ability in McGill. Everything 
in the Journal shows care, yet appears to be written 
currente calanio. 

The University Monthly contains much interesting 
matter. A short, but pithy, article, entitled — “ The 
Successful Student,” is pregnant with much good 
advice or “ pointers” to young students, and should 
be taken to heart. The remainder of the number is 
up to its usual literary standard. 

The April number of the Owl appears with some 
valuable articles. There is again a marked absence 
of everything that can be considered polemical, so far 
as religion is concerned. This goes strongly towards 
giving the journal a better tone, and enabling it to 
take the position its literary merit deserves. 

The Educational Review for March fully sustains 
the reputation which that journal has so deservedly 



won in educational circles. It teems with matteis o 
interest to teachers, and all interested directly or in- 
directly with education. Its editors are to be £on- 
"ratulated on the manner in which they present their 

O 

subjects to their readers. 

The last number of the Presbyterian College Jour- 
nal completes the volume, and it is essentially a clos- 
ing issue. It contains a full account of the Convo- 
cation exercises, with the pass and honour lists. The 
first page is adorned with an excellently produced 
group of the missionary graduates, and as they go 
forth The Gazette bids them a heartfelt “ God- 
speed.” 

The Dalhousie Gazette for April is almost wholly 
taken up with an article on the question of the author- 
ship of “ The Two Noble Kinsmen,” which is gener- 
ally ascribed to Shakespeare. After the expenditure 
of much research and logical reasoning from supposi- 
tion and semi-obvious facts, the writer leaves the 
question where he took it up, and all we know about 
it further is his personal opinion. There is a strong 
editorial on the subject of the Dalhousie Law School 
Curriculum. It is to be hoped that it will be instru- 
mental in bringing about the desired improvement. 

“ Haliburton, the Man and the Writer,” by 
F. Blake Crofton, brings home very forcibly to Nova 
Scotians their lack of appreciation of one of their 
best men and writers. The work of rescuing such a 
character as “ Haliburton” from comparative oblivion 
has fallen into good hands when it has been under- 
taken by Mr. Crofton. He certainly has our sincere 
congratulation on the success of this his first literary 
venture, and if his future works display equal erudi- 
tion, deep research, and entire absence of partiality, 
his success is assured. -'-The defects of “ Haliburton” 
are pointed out in a tone of moderation, yet truthful- 
ness ; and his good qualities, which were many, are 
graphically, but not blatantly, described. The author’s 
estimate of “Haliburton” in the capacity of Judge or 
Historian may not find general acquiescence, but as a 
humorist everyone will concede him his due. With 
such a beginning, the “ Haliburton” series gives good 
promise for the future, and we cordially wish it suc- 
cess. 

The March number of 7 he Collegian, the third of 
its existence, is to hand. It opens with a well- written 
article on the growth of small colleges and their rela- 
tion to the University. The writer says — “ Compared 
with the University the College will probably always 
remain small ; it will feed the University, and the 
University will always be greater than its tributaries.” 
It is pointed out, though, that the small colleges have 
given great men to the world in every department. 
There is also an interesting article, by C. F. Brusie, 
on “ Short Stories and Magazines,” in which the 
writer cleverly reviews that class of literature which 
has played so prominent a part in the writings of the 
present century. Samuel Abbott contributed an 
earnest editorial, urging the necessity of a unified 
form of education. The number contains some fiction 
and a voluminous correspondence on the subject of 
Compulsory or Voluntary Chapel Attendance. The 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



149 



1889.] 



Collegian is what its name would indicate — a college 
magazine, written by and for collegians, and the num- 
ber gives evidence of careful editing. 

Mr. Arthur G. Doughty has now nearly completed 
his new book in shorthand, and the volume is ex- 
pected to be on sale in the course of a few days. It 
promises to be a revelation to shorthand writers gen- 
erally, while to the poetic portion of the profession it 
will be a valuable souvenir. Mr. Doughty is to be 
congratulated on his taste in the choice of a 
subject. There could scarcely have been selected 
a more beautiful theme than Tennyson’s “ Idylls 
of the King ” for a book such as that about to 
be produced. For neatness, legibility, and beauty, 
the stenographic characters of the work have 
never before been equalled in any shorthand 
publication. In that alone, a shorthand writer 
can readily perceive that the task has been more 
a labour of love to the author than any other 
object. There have been neither pains nor expense 
spared in its production. The illustrations are by 
Hy. Sandham, and are masterpieces of that well- 
known artist’s pencil. Some of them are from life. 
The work is dedicated to His Excellency, the Gover- 
nor-General To professional writers and those who 
make a “ hobby” of the shorthand art, the work will 
be an acquisition ; and to amateurs and those inter- 
ested, it will be found qualified to occupy a promi- 
nent position in any collection of books. Mr. 
Doughty has our sincere congratulations on his suc- 
cess. 



Between the Lectures. 



1 f Eve, when Satan tempted by, 

Had said, “ Not this Eve, some other Eve.” 

“ Good Eve, ’ would then to her apply. 

Prof, in Greek (to student) — Have you a mark of 
interrogation there Mr. R — 1 

Stud. — No, sir, I have a semi-colon. 

At the country Academy. — Teacher : “ For what 
is Saratoga noted l New Scholar : “ Please, sir, I 
know — for its trunks.” 

A young lady sat in an alcove at an evening party 
with a bright young military man, her little niece on 
her knee, to play propriety. Suddenly the company 
is electrified by the exclamation of the child — “ Kis3 
me, too, Aunt Alice ! ” But the sudden shock is suc- 
ceeded by a feeling of relief as Aunt Alice calmly 
replies — “ You should not say, * Kiss me two,’ dear ; 
you should say, ‘ Kiss me twice.’ ” 



TWO OF A KIND ! 

The following correspondence speaks for itself : — 

TO THE LADY STUDENTS IN McGILL UNIVERSITY. 

MONTREAL. 

Ma chore Madams, — 

As I am about to print a neat 
book about the McGill University, and also about the 



part the Medical Students took in the Fancy Carnival 
Drive, etc., I will be very thankful if you will please 
write an essay of your rights to compete as well as 
the males as Medical Students, and other matters suit- 
able for yourselves. I expect to get 10,000 printed 
of 32 or 64 pages of small type, and sell them at five 
cents each. 

I will be pleased to print as many essays as you 
send, and you can leave name in or out, and only 
sign anything in latin or French you like. 

The essays may be written humorously and jolly, 
and I will write one also myself on your favour, and 
also stand up for your rights to enter the medical de- 
partment as well. 

I bear all the expenses of printing myself, and you 
will be allowed to have a few of the books, free of 
charge, for writing the essays, and a share of the 
profits. 

I will print all the writings as they are written 
down, and alter none. 

You can write the essays on any subject you like. 

Kind regards to all, and I wish you all Good 
Luck. 

Faithfully your Obt. Servant, 

F. G. Jefferson, 

Notre Dame De Grace Post Office, 
Montreal. 

March 9th, 1889. 



TO THE MEDICAL STUDENTS OF THE McGILL 
UNIVERSITY. 

Sirs. — Will you be so good as to write some essays 
what you think of the lady students joining you in 
your medical studies, and whether you are in favour 
or against it, and I will print them, free of charge, in 
a neat book of 32 or 64 pages in Nonpareil and Bour- 
geois type, and there may be a lot of poetry as well, 
and I expect to get 1 0,000 or 20,000 printed. 

The essays can be written as jolly as you like, and 
humourously. 

And you can also say something of the Fancy Drive 
during the Carnival as well. 

As I have got new type and several nice engravings, 
I can assure you the book will be a first-class one, and 
only sell them at five cents each, and the writers can 
have some free. 

The reason I ask you is because there is some 
debates, but the public will be in your favour. 

I met with good success with my last books, but 
this time they will be the best of all others. 

Kind regards to all, and wishing all good luck. 

Faithfully your Obt. Servant, 

F. G. Jefferson, 

Notre Dame De Grace Post Office, 
Montreal. 

March 9th, 188J. 



P.S. — I will bear all expense of printing myself. 
The essays, no matter how long, can be sent to this 
address, and will be printed in full as written down. 

I will stand up for your rights. 



150 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



“ Take away woman,” asks a writer, “ and what 
would follow?” We would. Give us something 
hard next time. 

Canto I. Canto II. 

Boy, Gun, 

Gun, Bust, 

Joy, Boy, 

Fun. Dust. 

A bad boy in Chicago threw a stone into the draw- 
ing-room of a dwelling. It hit his sister on the lips 
and broke two front teeth belonging to a young man 
who Avas visiting her. The incident seems to convey 
its own warning. 

Here lies little Johnny, 

Whose age was seven ; 

But now he’s dead 
And gone to heaven. 

You can’t always most generally tell, 

Perhaps little Johnny’s gone to— well. 

Professor Gressner Harrison, Professor of Ancient 
Languages in the University of Virginia, in a lecture 
to his class, said something like this . “ By the way, 

as some of you young gentlemen may take charge of 
academies, let me say first — no, before I say that, I 
Avill say that the first thing is to get rid of your Board 
of Trustees.” 

THE HEATHEN STUDKNTEE : — 

Engraved on his cuffs 
Were the Furies and Fates, 

And a delicate map 
Of the Dorian States ; 

And they found in his palms — which were hollow 
What is frequent in palms — that is, dates ! 

HISTORIC JOKES. 

Napier’s famous dispatch from India announced 
his victory in one word, “ Peccavi ” — which is by in- 
terpretation, “ I have Scinde.” Very much of the 
same kind was General de Bourmont’s message to 
the French war minister in 1830, tvhen the dey of 
Algiers escaped him after being taken. “ Perdidi 
diem ! ” — “ I have lost a dey.” It is said that Drake, 
tvhen the ships of the armada turned their sails, sent 
to Elizabeth the tvord, “ Cantharides ” — that is, “ The 
Spanish fly.” 

“ What are the light courses of the third year?” 
inquired an anxious student at the commencement of 
the session.” 

“ Only have one — Optics ! ” 

Physician (to applicant for situation). “ What 
recommendations have you.” 

Applicant — “ I Avas at the University Avith Mr. 
Blank, next door.” 

Physician — “ In the same year ? ” 

Applicant — “ No, not exactly.” 

Physician — “ What year, then ? ” 

Applicant — “ Well, I wasn’t exactly in any year. I 
was the Janitor of the College.” 

A student was entertaining his sister in his room, 
and at the same time a gentleman sent up his card, 
stating that some forty years before he had been a 
student and Avas lodged in those quarters, and should 
like to see again his old abode. The sister, not wish- 
ing to be deprived of her visit, agreed to step into an 
adjoining closet, and the one-time student was ushered 



in. He surveyed everything. “ The same old room,” 
he said, “ the same old book cases, and even the same 
vieAv from the windoAV. The closet, too, I used to 
know so Avell,” and asking permission he opened the 
door, but Avas repelled by a flutter of skirts. “ The 
same old trick,” he added. “ But, sir,” cried the stu- 
dent in dismay, “ That’s my sister ” — t“ and the same 
old lies,” soliliquised the man of experience. And 
someone adds, “ the same old castaneous flavour.” 

THE FINAL EFFORT. 

Between the lectures Avas calling for material, and 
all me editors were Avaiting for an inspiration. Sud- 
denly the arm-chair broke silence, addressing the 
College World : — 

“Did you Reid McCarthy’s speech on the Dis- 
allowance Bill ? ” 

“ Good ’Eavens, no ! Where was it ? ” 

“ In The Gazette ,” volunteered the Novelist ; “ It 
was a tip-Top (p) speech.” 

“ Pretty Strong, Avasn’t it ? ” said the LaAvyer. 

Then Hercules broke in : 

“ Rather too strong ; that’s his Bissetting sin.” 

“ Pardon me,” said iEsculapius, “ I always make 
failures Avhen I attempt a pun ; so you will excuse 
me.” 

Tick, Tick, Tick. — A country schoolmaster, who 
found it rather difficult to make his pupils observe the 
difference, in reading, between a comma and a full 
stop, adopted a plan of his own, which, he flattered 
himself, would make them proficient in the art of 
punctuation. Thus, in reading, when they came to a 
comma, they were to say “ tick,” and read on ; to a 
colon or semicolon, “ tick, tick ; ” and when a full 
stop, “ tick, tick, tick.” Noav, it so happened that 
our worthy dominie received notice that the parish 
minister was to pay a visit of examination to the 
school, and as he Avas desirous that his pupils should 
shoAV to the best advantage, he gave them an extra 
drill the day before the examination. “ Now,” said 
he, addressing his pupils, “ Avhen you read before 
the minister to-morrow, you leave out the ticks, though 
you must think them as you go along, for the sake of 
elocution.” Next day came, and Avith it the minister. 
Now, it so happened that the first boy called up by 
the minister had been absent the preceding day, and 
in the hurry the master had forgotten to give him in- 
structions how to act. The minister asked the boy to 
read a chapter in the Old Testament, which he pointed 
out. The boy complied, and in his best accents, 
began : — “And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying 
— tick — Speak unto the children of Israel — tick say- 
ing — tick — and thus thou shalt say unto them tick, 

tick, tick.” This unfortunate sally, in his own style, 
acted like a shower bath on the poor dominie, Avhilst 
the minister and his friend almost choked Avith laugh- 
ter. ° 

“Oh come where the cyanides softly blow, 

And the carburets droop o’er the oxides below , 

Where the rays of potassium lie white on the hill, 

And the song of the silicates never is still. 

While alcohol’s liquid at thirty degrees, 

And no chemical change can affect manganese, 

While alkalies flourish and acids are free 
My heart shall be constant, sweet science, to thee 

—Ex. 



1889 .] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



151 



Poetry, 

[For “ The Gazette.”] 

A BELT OF GOLD. 

{Roundel.) 

A belt of gold, the sun hath cast 
Across the rivers bosom cold. 

The rippling current, claspeth fast 
A belt of gold. 

When saddened thoughts my being hold, 

Strong as the river sweeping past. 

And driven, like it, by force untold, 

A belt of gold. 

Across their current, turbid, vast, 

A sudden, trembling glory rolled, 

Thy radiant presence thrown at last, 

A belt of gold. 

Montreal. Helen Fairbairn. 

TWO SPELLS OF WEATHER. 

, The rain comes down— 

The little puddles quiver with the shock, 

And ooze in streamlets to the noisy gutter. 

A blue mist hangs o’er all. The wind 
Js weary, and has ceased to blow ; 

The drooping dripping leaves hang silent, 

While down the tree trunks creeps the noiseless water, 
And all is damp and sticky. 

This is the shading of the picture. 

A little hidden bird 
Peeps forth a note— the dark 
Clouds gather up and roll away — 

A light steals o'er the gloom. A warm 
Breeze woos the drooping earth. The sun 
Breaks forth. The birds trill joyously. 

Nature dries up and tremulously smiles 
The brighter for her sorrow. 

This is the lighting of the picture. 

W. 



College T#orl&. 



Two lady students have taken the highest prizes at 
the examinations, in descriptive and practical anatomy, 
held by the Irish Royal College of Surgeons. 

A Nuremberg manufacturer has invented pencils 
in blue, black, and brown, for writing on the human 
skin. They are for use in anatomical and clinical 
demonstrations. 

Dr. Annie Sawyer is the only ladt r physician in 
Ottawa, Canada. She recently made her first appear- 
ance as a lecturer before a crowded audience. Her 
subject was — “ Practical Physiology in Relation to 
Dress.” 

Lady Lansdowne is carrying out the movement 
begun by her predecessor, Lady Dufferin, for provid- 
ing the women of India with women physicians. Her 
Excellency has already visited all the Calcutta insti- 
tutions connected with the National Association, and 
has inspected the classes of young women studying 
Medicine. 

At the meeting of the Bar, held on May 1st, for 
the purpose of electing the Batonnier for the ensuing 
year, a rather keen contest took place between the 
friends of N. W. Trenholme, M.A., D.C.L., Dean of 
the Faculty of Law, and Mr. Donald Macmaster, Q.C., 
which resulted in favour of Mr. Trenholme. This is 
the highest tribute that the members of the profession 
can confer upon their confreres, and shows the respect 
in which the Dean of our Law Faculty is held out- 
side of the University, and the wisdom of his appoint- 
ment last year, especially at this critical juncture of 
the Faculty. 



The list of Spring term preachers for Sage Chapel 
is probably one of the most brilliant ever selected at 
Cornell. They are Thomas Armitage, D.D.,LLD., of 
the fifth-Avenue Church, New York; President J. 
Clark Seeley, D.D.,LL.D., Smith College ; President 
S. F. Scovil, D. D., Wooster University, Ohio ; Theo- 
dore T. Munger, D.D., New Haven, Conn.; Prof. W. 
N. Rice, D.D., Middletown, Conn.; T. Edwin Brown, 

D. D., Providence, R. I.; Robert Collyer, New York 
City; Prof. Hopkins, D.D.,LL.D., Auburn Theologi- 
cal Seminary ; W. S. Rainsford, D.D., New York City ; 

E. E. Hale, D.D., Boston, and David H. Greer, D.D., 
LL.D., New York City, baccalaureate sermon. 

The American Architect has offered a travelling 
scholarship to students in architecture. The scholar- 
ship is open to all Americans, and has for its object 
the assisting of intelligent, though poor, students, in 
their desire to study the architectural triumphs of the 
old world. The scholarship will be awarded after 
examination in drawing, designing, construction, the 
history of art and one foreign language. This exami- 
nation is to be both oral and written, and to take place 
during the coming month of June. A contestant for 
this benefit must have had two years’ practice in 
offices of members of the American Institute of Ar- 
chitects or the Western Association of Architects, but 
a graduate’s diploma from a technical school will be 
accepted as a substitute for one of these years’ work. 
The scholarship will last one year, and amounts to 
$ 500 . 



itorresponbence. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — In my time at college we formed an Athletic 
Association, put it on a firm working basis, carried on 
annual sports in as good, if not better, style than they 
are conducted at present We built a running track 
and kept it in good order, which is not the case now. 
Besides this, money was saved, and a fund started, so 
that the undergraduates of the future might build a 
gymnasium on the college grounds, or have an annual 
income for athletic purposes. Now all this has 
changed — the fund has not only ceased to increase, 
but the pricipal has been reduced. The football and 
hockey clubs are not holding their own as they did 
of old. Where is now the once famous “ town and 
gown” matches which I witnessed as a boy 1 

The Arts and Science R. R. Committee, each year, 
tried to surpass their predecessors by purchasing new 
carpets, furniture, periodicals, etc., at the same time 
they always had a good surplus on hand for the in- 
coming committee. 

Graduating classes (before my time) presented an 
album with photographs of the professors and of them- 
selves to the University Library. 

The undergraduates carried on The University 
Gazette, and also maintained a good glee club. 

The number of students attending the University 
has greatly increased ; has the quality degenerated 1 

Yours, etc., 

Spectator. 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



U 



A New Book in Shorthand: 

The Idylls of the King.” 



By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 



An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now in the Press. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 
All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

O- Box l. r 7!3‘*±., - ILvdZo3D.trea.l- 

Or, N. STEWART DUNLOP, 

35© G-erra,xd. Street Bast, Tororvto. 

D. McENTYRE & SON, 

Fine Tailor Made Clothing, 

SPECIAL REDUCTION TO STUDENTS. 

53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

GRAHAM BROS., 

iri Makers aid la’s Furni 

* NOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO'Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

PEEPECT WOBK- 

:D:E:ijiTr:EE£"2r - 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 



Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catnerine street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 



TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 

:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



■-) BUY YOUR e 





10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 

IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cot, Singed and Dressed, 

G-O TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

"^^i3n.cLs©r ZEIotel ZBloclc, Feel Street. 



Boots and Shoes, 

Lubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 



UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK. 

2243 S. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, kccideni. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A.dd.resB : 

30 ST. CrOZEETT STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



3S5 «Ss 3Q7 St. F-A-ttij Street, I^Ionteeal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



H elebbated Hot Water Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— ^Wholesale Manufacturers •>— 




Hot Air Formes 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 

ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 

Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

EEEnsnEre- IE3- 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 




THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
Engraving ^ fpginting 
Company. 

189 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, GFests, Jpogrammes 
Jtfonogpams, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 

Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

3Fiara 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Blook. 



-H{c PHOTOGRAPHY ^ 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
a nd CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



tftill $todk dog^tkgtly og fikgd, Imported 
f)fredt ffoig tl\e Tekdigg Jdkgtifkdttfrei^ 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AX INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman & Son, 

* » ^ L tt * * * * *_* * _•* *_* * * * 

¥|}hotographers 

* * (|l **************** * * 

Jfeuo Beals of 'Prices this year 
for Students. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 



THE GENUINE 

Cook’s IE 1 :r, x :s n> 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITEr.) 



21, 2H & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, *e are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re- finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK , STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS A SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST„ 




1350 and. 1352 HOTEE DAME ST., CORXTER McCILL. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 

CLOTHING, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 

BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

m- SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. *®a 

Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




