Vol. X. ' No. 9. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



The Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

OF 2STFW YORK 

ISSUES EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY. 

Assets nearly ------ $109,000,000 

Surplus over ------- 13,000,000 

The MUTUAL of New M is the largest LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the world, with the best record, 

AGENTS WANTED IN UNREPRESENTED DISTRICTS. 

Students can improve their circmstances considerably by acting as Agents in their own Localities during Vacation. 
GAULT & BROWN, General Managers, 

1762 ISTOTEIE] XD A.ME STREET. - - 



WEDDING CARDS, 

VISITING CARDS, 

MENU CARDS, 
RECEPTION CARDS, 

INVITATION CARDS, 

MEMORIAM CARDS, 
AT HOMES, 

BALL PROGRAMMES. 

PROGRAMME COVERS. 

THE BURLAND LITH. CO., 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

tfull $todk doi)£tkr(tly oi) ftaqd, Imported 
fifredt from tl>e I<eadiiig JVIapufadttfredd 
of tl^e Wodd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 






IA 1 » ®@S 8 & (K 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



HEADQUARTERS 



—FOR— 



DRYSDALE'S 

232 ST. UJAIMIIES ST. 




,W ERICA E WORKS, BOOHS IS Hit Ijy ART COURSE, 
SCMEJVCE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS J HE0U06IICA E ROOKS. 

Full assortment in stock: & snpplM at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS' NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., &c., 
-^!'BEST VALUE LIST TOWTTi-*- 

Stylogravhic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO.. 
232 St. Ta,rrres Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. X.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, MARCH 9th, 1887. [No. 9. 



Hitiimsitjr dmttk 



BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor-in-Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., B.C.L. 

Arthur Weir, B. Ap. Sc 
Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87 
W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Henry Fry, Raw ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CON TENTS: 

PAGE. 

Editorials 115-117 

Poetry 118, 123, 125 

Contributions 118-120 

McGill News 120-121 

Societies 121-122 

Personals 123 

Between the Lectures .... 123-124 

College World - 125-127 

Correspondence 127-128 



Editorials. 



McGILL’S ANNUAL REPORT. 

We have repeatedly called attention through the 
Gazette, to the disabilities under which the men, 
trained in English schools, are placed in this Province 
in their endeavour to enter either the legal or medical 
profession. The last annual report of McGill Univer- 
sity devotes considerable space to this subject. It 
takes the ground which we have all along insisted 
upon, that our rights are being invaded in this matter. 
It is to be hoped that since the grievance has been 
taken up in so influential a quarter, the matter will 
not be allowed to drop, until a final solution has been 



arrived at. Under the head of Professional Examina- 
tions, the report says : — “ The subject of the entrance 
examinations into the study of the professions and 
the value of university examinations relatively to this, 
has again engaged the attention of the University and 
of the Protestant committtee of the Council of Public 
Instruction. No relief in regard to the law of the 
province of Quebec on these subjects has been obtain- 
ed, and on the contrary, the professional councils, or 
some of them, have introduced new and troublesome 
provisions. An arrangement has, however, been 
arrived at with the Protestant committee of the 
Council of Public Instruction whereby the examina- 
tions for associate in arts can be extended to all the 
academies and high schools, and it is hoped that this, 
when in operation, may establish a basis on which a 
system of preparatory instruction at once for matricula- 
tion and entrance on professional study can be estab- 
lished. 

We regret to say that further encroachments on 
the rights of the universities on the part of the councils 
of the Bar and of the medical profession are contem- 
plated, which maybe injurious to the true interests of 
professional education. These relate to the privileges 
heretofore enjoyed by graduates as Avell as to the ex- 
aminations for entrance to study. 

Several educational fallacies underlie these encroach- 
ments. One is, that examinations alone can raise the 
standard of education, whereas this can be done only 
by well-equipped teaching bodies, such as those fur- 
nished by the universities. Another is, that extra- 
academical examiners should be employed, whereas 
experience shows that only those who, by continuous 
teaching, are induced to keep up their reading and 
knowledge, can be suitable examiners to maintain and 
advance the standard of education. A third is, that 
the multiplication of lectures is the best method to 
raise the standard of education, whereas it has been 
proved by experience that this can best be done by 
the employment of skilled and eminent professors, by 
the cultivation of habits of independent study, and 
by the extension of practical work. It is lamentable 
that these and similar fallacies, exploded in the most 
advanced educational countries, should appear to in- 
fluence men whom we are bound to believe actuated 
by the wish to raise the standard of education and not 
by that spirit of local and race jealousy and profes- 



116 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



sional exclusiveness sometimes attributed to them. In 
any case, it is time that an active and earnest move- 
ment should be made to arrest the evils arising from 
this cause. A committee of this corporation has been 
appointed to consider the matter and to confer with 
other bodies on the subject. 

In so far as the province of Quebec is concerned, it 
is believed that the disablities thus inflicted on the 
graduates of the Protestant universities are contrary 
to the spirit of that provision of the law of Confedera- 
tion which guarantees to the English and Protestant 
minority of this province the educational privileges 
which it possessed before Confederation, and that such 
action is not within the power of the local Legislature. 
It has been proposed to test this question by submit- 
ting a case to counsel, should our present appeals to 
the local Government and Legislature be unavailing. 

In the case of the medical profession it seems that 
the rights which educated young men have to a 
Dominion and Imperial rather than a provincial career 
cannot be maintained unless a Dominion board of re- 
gistration can be established, similar to that of Great 
Britain, and with power to arrange for reciprocity 
with the mother country and the other colonies. The 
amendments recently introduced into the Imperial 
Medical act would greatly facilitate such arrangements, 
but their full benefit can scarcely be obtained by our 
medical graduates till the local boards be removed 
and their places occupied by a Dominion board of 
registration. 

In the meantime the proposal to withdraw from 
graduates in medicine the privilege of registration 
without further examination, directly abolishes one 
of the rights possessed by the university before Con- 
federation, and subjects our graduates to an additional 
examination on the part of a body which must neces- 
sarily be under the influence of the Roman Catholic 
majority and trained after its methods, as distinguished 
from ours. 

With reference to the Bar act, it is to be observed 
that the whole regulation of the examination, both 
for admission to study and admission to practice, is 
transferred from the universities to the council of the 
Bar. The privilege hitherto enjoyed by the former 
as to the shortening of the term of apprenticeship of 
graduates, without which few students would enter 
on the university law course, is also made to depend 
entirely on the arrangements of the council. In so 
far as the Protestant universities are concerned, it is 
further to be observed that the constitution of the 
council of the Bar in the province of Quebec is such 
that it must always have a large majority of Roman 
Catholics, and that it might consist wholly of Roman 



Catholics. It thus appears that one of the most im- 
portant educational privileges enjoyed by the univer- 
sities before Confederation has been removed from 
them, contrary to the rules of their Royal charters 
and to the provision in that regard of the Act of Con- 
federation, and transferred by act of the Quebec Le- 
gislature to a body under the control of a Roman 
Catholic majority. We would be less disposed to make 
objection to this, were we of opinion that it is calcu- 
lated to raise the educational standard of the profes- 
sion ; but, for the reasons above stated, we believe it 
will have the contrary effect, and can only tend to the 
exclusion of educated men, more especially those of 
the English-speaking minority, from entering into the 
legal profession. 

A statement of the rights and privileges claimed by 
the university has been prepared for submission to 
the Protestant committee of the Council of Public 
Instruction, which is expected to act in the matter 
on behalf of the universities as well as of the secondary 
schools, which are also injuriously affected by the 
changes in question.” 

With much of this report we are in accord, and 
think the University has pretty fully expressed the 
opinions of the Protestant population of this Pro- 
vince ; but as regards the “ arrangement” which “ has 
been arrived at with the Protestant committee of the 
Council of Public Instruction, whereby the examina- 
tions for associate in arts can be extended to all the 
academies and high schools,” we confess to some 
misgiving as to the wisdom of such a step. However, 
when the “ arrangement ” is put before the public, 
we shall be in a better position to judge of its effects. 

THE BAR REGULATIONS. 

At the session of the Quebec Legislature held in 
1886 , the power of the Bar of this Province was 
greatly increased, and authority was given it to make 
new rules as to admittance both to the study and the 
practice of the profession. The object presently in 
view is to call attention to one of those made by the 
Bar with respect to the course of study and admittance 
to the final examination. 

We are entirely in sympathy with the object of the 
Bar, if it be to increase the real worth of the lawyer ; 
but we submit that the greater part of the actual 
knowledge of a law student is acquired, not so much 
by the lectures he attends, as by observing what goes 
on in the office, and by his own private studies. And 
this, it seems to us, is especially applicable to the 
course pursued by English universities, in contrast 
with that followed by the French. The former de- 
pend more upon the student himself, and less upon 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



117 



the gvinding given by lecturers, and in this we be- 
lieve lies one of the great sources of strength of the 
English system of education. Now, of course, in the 
government of the Province of Quebec, and in that of 
the Bar, French influence prevails, and the conse- 
quence is that among the additions to the rules of the 
Bar is one that requires each student, on presenting 
himself for his examination for admission to practice, 
to hand in a certificate that he has attended a certain 
number of lectures, 1,100 we believe, during his 
course of study. Whether this is a direct hit at the 
English, and at McGill in particular, we are not pre- 
pared to say, but so long as the Bar accepts the de- 
gree of B.C.L. granted by tho Universities of the 
Province, as entitling the holders to any advantages 
at all, it ought to do so without taking upon itself to 
direct the universities as to matters which ought to be 
for the consideration of each alone. Surely it is for 
each university to decide how many lectures are re- 
quired to give a student a fit knowledge of the studies 
undertaken, and to entitle him to the degree granted ; 
and if the system of relying more on the personal 
elforts of the student than on those of the professors 
on his behalf is a cori’ect one, then compelling men 
to attend a definite number of lectures will not prove 
that they are any the fitter to be lawyers, than those 
who, to a certain extent, have obtained their know- 
ledge in a different way. It will be concluded from 
the above that the course in McGill does not include 
so many lectures as are called for by the new regu- 
lations, and as are at present given at Laval, but have 
those whom McGill has turned out in past years, taken 
lower places in the Bar examinations than students 
from other schools? We think not. Considering the 
fewness of her students, McGill men have been quite 
the equals of their competitors. In view of these 
facts, we are of opinion that serious injustice will be 
done to the English law schools if they are bound 
down to such a minimum number of lectures as that 
stated. . Our Law Faculty is still sadly in need of im- 
provement, but we do not think that increasing the 
sessions to nine months each, or the whole course to 
four years, one of which would have to be done, with 
only two lectures a day, would increase the usefulness 
of the legal profession. We sincerely hope that some 
steps will be taken towards modifying the regulation 
of the Bar to which we have referred. 



ablest lawyers at the Montreal bar to-day, and else- 
where throughout the Dominion ; while others who 
but a few years ago were found among its most active 
members, are now highly esteemed and respected 
occupants of the judge’s bench. One would imagine 
that a society which has served so useful a purpose in 
the past, and which numbers among its members 
such influential men as we have above referred to, 
would have since that time, with its increase of years, 
increased also in power and usefulness. The exact 
opposite, however, is the truth. For the past two or 
three years, the active membership has been small, 
and the interest taken in the meetings anything but 
satisfactory : during the present year things have 
gone on from bad to worse, until we find that debate 
after debate has had to be abandoned for want both 
of speakers and hearers. At the meeting held on the 
25th February last, not one of the debaters, chosen to 
speak upon a very important and interesting question, 
put in an appearance ; with some difficulty, four 
members present were induced to go through the form 
of debating, which they did with little satisfaction to 
their audience, and probably less to themselves. At- 
tendance at such meetings is an absolute waste of 
time. 

Were we to search for the cause of this lamentable 
state of affairs, it might be somewhat difficult to point 
it out. We do not consider the present officers are 
especially to blame ; they who hold office this year 
are probably as energetic and as devoted as were those 
who occupied their places when the meetings were 
much more popular and far more instructive. Has 
the usefulness of the society passed away 1 we are 
forced to the conclusion that it has. Literary and 
scientific societies have sprung up all over the town 
since 1869 ; there are many profitable ways in which 
University men can spend their evenings out, now, 
which were entirely wanting ten years ago. The 
University Society has not realized the fact that it has 
something to do to keep up with the times ; it has 
been content to live upon its name. For three years 
past we have hoped against hope ; for three years past 
we have gone on trying to make ourselves believe that 
the meetings were interesting and instructive. There 
is only one thing left for the members to do, and that 
is to dissolve the institution before its former glory is 
forgotten in its present insignificance. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

This society, formed nearly twenty years ago, has 
done much in the way of training the young graduates 
of McGill in the art of public speaking. It numbers 
among its members, past and present, some of the 



Magistrate — You are accused of stealing chickens. 
Uncle Rastus. Are you guilty or not guilty 1 
Uncle Rastus — I pleads not guilty, yo’ Honah, an’ 
inquests de privledge of frowing myse’f on de mercy 
ob de Cou’t in case de evidence goes agin me. 



118 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



Poetry. 



TO A YOUNG GIRL. 



[Translated from Victor Hugo.] 

Since childhood’s charm thou dost not know, 

Child! envy not our age of woe : 

Our hearts are slaves to hopes and tears. 

Our smiles are sadder than thy tears. 



Thy youth, insensible to care, 

Is transient as a breath of air. 

Or echo dying: it will flee 
Swift as a halcyon o'er the sea. 

Let riper years reflection bring, 

Enjoy the morning of thy spring. 

Time's hand is harvesting the hour3, 

Now intertwined like sunny flowers. 

Thy fate, like ours, may doom thee yet 
To faithless friendships and regret : 

To hopeless grief, concealed by pride, 

Or joy with sorrow at her side. 

Laugh on ! thy golden age is now : 

Laugh ! while no shadow clouds thy brow. 

Mirrors of innocence? thine eyes 
Reveal thy soul, reflect the skies. 

Gro. Murray. 



Contributions. 



A McGILL MAN. 

BY JAY WOLFE. 



Written for the University Gazetje. 



CHAP. VIII. 



“ 0 lord ! methought what pain it was to drown ; 
What dreadful noise of water in mine ears ! ” 

— Shakespeare. 

“ Woeful shepherds, weep no more 
For Lycidas, your sorrow, is not dead.” — Milton. 



There was a long account of the encounter between 
the police and the students in the papers next day, 
which did not add to Clooney’s peace of mind, since 
it gave the particulars of our own escapade, even to 
the assuming of the characters of coachman and foot- 
man. 

How the papers got their information we never 
learnt, but I know I had a terrible time with Clooney 
for a few days. I think he sent an explanation to 
Miss Mayflower, though I did not, as I resented her 
imperiousness. She may have had a right to carry it 
with a high hand over her lover, but not over me. If 
Clooney Avrote, she Avas still obstinate, for he did not 
go out visiting noAV at all. 

As for me, I was preparing for my finals, and had 
to sit up night after night studying back work. 
Clooney Avould stick to nothing, and came very low 
in his class at the examinations, which did not tend 
to better his humor. I rvell remember my last day 
at McGill, the oath that few of us understood, the 
capping, attended by clapping in the back benches, 
the long lecture to the graduates, who had to stand 
during its deli\ r ery, and the torture of wondering 



Avhether the hood Avas on right— these were some of 
the inconveniences and incidents of Convocation 

Clooney was mopey Avhen he went aAvay, although 
I did my best to cheer him up, and promised to re- 
ceive him next year in Montreal, m one of whose 
private schools I had obtained a good, position I 
0*0 1 several letters from him, each a little jollier than 
the last, until at last I knew he had moulted his 
sorroAVS, and Avas bursting into song again in the 

plumage of happiness.* T , , . 

Before going to work in my school, 1 had several 
months of leisure, some Aveeks of which I spent at 
home. I returned to the city, hoAvever, in June, and 
settled down in my old chambers. Charley Smith- 
son, Avhom I had not seen for some time, hunted me 
up, and began scolding me for not coming to see him 
oftener. Old Mrs. MayfloAver, he said, was also angry 
at Blake and myself for not bidding her good-bye 
after College closed. “ Edith,” he continued, “ does 
not say a Avord, but goes around the house like a little 
Avhirhvind. Of course she’s riled, and no wonder. 
I suppose you knoAv they Avere spoony 1 ” 

“ Well,” I replied, “ they have had a lover’s quar- 
rel, and Miss Edith undertook to scold him, and 
refused explanations from him or me about our share 
in a little incident that took place some time ago, so 
Ave did not dare go near the house.” 

“ What was it 1 ” Charley asked. 

I told him, and Avas not quite pleased to see the 
Avay in which he acted. He began by smiling, then 
laughed, and finally threw himself doAvn on the 
lounge and rolled around in convulsive spasms. 

“ Oh ! come along ! come along ! Don’t tell me 
any more or I shall die ! I’ll get you through all 
right, if that’s all ! ” 

So, after some hesitation, I Avent Avith Charley to 
the Mayflowers. 

Mrs. Mayflower, from whom I now saAv that her 
daughter had kept her discovery concealed, received 
me kindly, Avith an assumption of anger at my absence. 
I apologised for Clooney, saying that he had been 
unavoidably prevented, by examinations, from getting 
time to pay calls. Miss MayfloAver received me with 
some coolness, and as I only Avanted to do Clooney 
good, I began to lay the blame upon myself. I soon 
saw that that Avas the Avrong tack, and so turned right 
round and Avent for him for all I Avas Avorth. Charley 
understood Avhat I was after, and never let a chance 
pass to run Clooney down also. Both of us took 
care, hoAvever, to belittle his really good qualities, so 
that Miss Edith could not help comparing our state- 
ments Avith facts, and thus realizing his value. We 
passed over any of Clooney’s Aveak points. Charley, 
Avith a grimace, swore Clooney did not knoAv a hockey 
stick from a puck. I incidentally remarked that his 
voice Avas Avorse than that of a screech oavI, and so 
on. I also touched very gently upon the jolly times 
Clooney Avas having doAvn home Avith the girls there. 
On the Avhole, Charley and I did more to reinstate 
Clooney into Miss MayfloAver’s good graces than was 
ever done for us. And Ave succeeded. After my 



* Copyrighted. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



119 



explanation, given as humorously as possible, I found, 
from Clooney, that he had not written to Miss May- 
flower, and persuaded him to do so now. Neither of 
them said a word to me about the result, but as the 
young lady flushed up every time the postman came — 
so Charley said — while Clooney’s letters were fairly 
overflowing with jollity, I drew my own conclu- 
sions. 

I was still studying hard, and must confess that 
the study and the heat of August began to wear me 
down. Charley used to scold me, and take me out 
for long walks, and I do not doubt that he saved me 
from overwork. He was at work, and was looking 
forward to his holidays, when ho swore he would 
take me with him out of the city. He and I had 
grown remarkably chummy, and spent hours in each 
other’s society. I found him a specimen brick of our 
young city merchants — lively, intelligent, happy-go- 
lucky — outside of business, and with a brain stored 
with odds and ends of knowledge as an old curiosity- 
shop is with bric-k-brac. 

Miss Mayflower and her mother had gone to Mur- 
ray Bay for the summer, and Charley suggested that 
we make the round trip up the Saguenay, spending a 
day or two at Cacouna, Tadousac, and Murray Bay. 
The trip is one of the finest in Canada, and for a 
young society man like Charley, who had friends at 
every resort, was piquante in the extreme. I pro- 
mised to accompany him, and had scarcely done so, 
when a letter arrived from Clooney, telling me that 
he was coming to Montreal to get me to coach him a 
little for the coming year. I told Charley of this, 
and asked him to let me off, but he met Clooney at 
the station and talked him into joining our pleasure 
party — no difficult task, when he knew we would 
stop over at Murray Bay. He suggested one change, 
the suggestion being attended with many arguments 
(excepting the true one), namely, that we stop over 
at Murray Bay on the down trip. But Charley sat 
on that immediately, saying — “ If ever you get to 
Murray Bay we wiil not be able to get you away 
again. You must promise to go with the majority, 
or we wont take you.” 

Charley got his holidays at last, and we left for 
Quebec the same evening. There were a few other 
students on board — where will you not meet McGill 
men, outside of a prison wall? — and darkness had 
scarcely settled down when we cleared a space among 
the baggage, and set the fiddle scraping. Reel, jig, 
hornpipe, and fling followed fast one upon the other, 
the sailors off duty going in, while curious spectators 
stood upon the stairs looking at us. Songs, too, were 
indulged in, and Litoria (then new), Malbrook, En 
Roulant, and Vive la Canadienne rolled gaily out of 
the circle of light far across the murky waters and 
over the low-lying shores. Sorel was reached and 
passed, and Three Rivers was far astern, and Batiscan 
almost at hand before the merriment ceased. 

It was a moonlight night, though the moon was 
late in rising, and now the vacant deck and eddy- 
ing river were flooded with light. After a while 
dark figures, supporting an apparently helpless com- 
rade, stole up the deck to the very bow, and sat 
down there. For a few moments there was a bustle 



around the central figure, and somebody bent far out 
over the railing. Then all retired, except one, who 
remained clinging to the flagstaff and with one leg 
thrown over the railing. About ten minutes elapsed, 
and yet the figure did not move. Perhaps it was 
Clooney wrapped in a lover’s reverie, or Charley con- 
cocting mischief. But just as everything seemed 
quietest, the report of a pistol rang out sharply, the 
figure sank down limp, hanging over the railing ; and 
then, just as the affrighted watch rushed towards it, 
slid over the railing and fell with a sullen splash into 
the river. Clooney and I with a few others rushed 
on deck, and reached the side in time lo see the body 
sucked under the paddle-wheel. The excitement was 
intense. The steamer was stopped and backed, and, 
aroused by the change in motion, affrighted people in 
all stages of attire, poured out upon the decks, now 
slippery with dew and swept by a cold breeze. After 
much trouble a boat was lowered and a search begun. 
Clooney, Charley, and 1 had managed to get into the 
boat, and Charley was indefatigable in directing the 
sailors where to row. Every shadow deceived us, 
and just as we were giving up a shout from the drift- 
ing steamer recalled us. The body had been seen 
drifting alongside, and as we slowly drew down upon 
it, all on steamer and in boat held their breath. 
Swiftly we approached, until we saw the white face 
upturned to the sky. Then the oars were unshipped, 
and two tender-hearted sailors bent over and raised 
from the dark water a suit of old clothes stuffed with 
straw and wearing a false face ! 

It is to be hoped that the recording angel had 
broken his pen, or was asleep for the rest of our 
voyage. 

(To be continued.) 



NEW METHODS IN JOURNALISM. 

Few know it, but there has been a revolution in 
newspaper methods within five years. If an editor of 
fame, who died ten years ago, could come to life again, 
and resume the practice of his profession, he would 
have to go through another apprenticeship. 

Readers of newspapers now demand amusement as 
well as information ; coming home jaded from the 
pressure of business cares, their weary minds crave a 
stimulant. The newspaper undertakes to furnish it. 
To do that costs more money than the public dreams. 

In the first place, if news is to be entertainingly 
written up, bright men must be secured to do the 
work, and such are not to be had cheap. Any creature, 
who could write grammatically, could once be a jour- 
nalist. If that’s all he can do now, the newspapers 
hav’n’t any use for him. 

The competition is now so terribly keen that, until 
the revolution I am about to speak of began, bank- 
ruptcy was staring all but the most largely circulated 
papers in the face. Just think, you get an eight- 
column four-page paper for a cent. Well, that paper 
costs the publisher for blank paper, half a cent. If 
his circulation is under ten thousand, it costs him 
from half to three-quarters of a cent for setting up the 
type, and another cent for salaries, perhaps as much 
as a third for rent, taxes, light, heat, delivery, telegraph 



120 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[ 1887 . 



tolls, interest, wear and tear, and incidentals. His 
circulation has to be large, if that paper that you get 
for a cent, and grumble over, costs him any less than 
three cents. Some of the great American and English 
dailies of eight and twelve pages cost more than that 
for blank paper alone, and other charges in propor- 
tion. 

Well, expenses kept increasing at a terrible rate, 
and the prices of advertising refused to keep pace. 
Proprietors of big newspapers rejoiced. There was a 
prospect of crushing the smaller ones out of existence. 
But two ideas changed the condition of affairs. By 
whom these were first evolved nobody knows. "1 et 
neither is quite five years old. The first idea is the 
“ syndicate,” the second the “ patent,” terms which 
need explanation. 

The Syndicate is a pool of newspapers — a hundred 
or two hundred combined to reduce the cost of supply 
of certain news, or it may be, merely of padding. 

For instance, the New York Star publishes a most 
entertaining Sunday edition of copyrighted matter, 
all by good writers, most of whom are famous. How 
can they afford it 1 ? They get all that Sunday 
edition set up in type a week beforehand, pull twelve 
or fifteen proofs, and mail them to as many papers in 
different sections of the country, so remote that the 
different papers in the syndicate do not come into 
competition with one another. 

Practically the syndicate is worked on the principle 
of the associated press, when it was first organized. 
Now, of course, the American associated press is 
merged into the Western Union Telegraph Company, 
and the Canadian associated press into the Great 
Northwestern Telegraph Company. Those papers 
which do not care to have their news coloured in the 
interests of these monopolies, nor yet to put up with 
their inefficiency, are put to immense expense in main- 
taining special correspondents in all the chief towns. 
That’s a case of a syndicate gone wrong. 

The existing syndicates furnish at very cheap rates 
serials, short stories, special articles, portraits and 
biographies, fashion and household departments, 
European, English, American and parliamentary cor- 
respondence, and special news. 

There is a case on record of a syndicate which fur- 
nished editorial, and gratis too. The Tilden boom of 
ten years ago was engineered from New York. A corps 
of the most brilliant writers in the United States was 
hired months before the campaign began. They 
used to meet every morning in a building on Broad- 
way, and, under the direction of a certain politician, 
supply all the village and small town papers, of the 
democratic persuasion, in the country with editorial, 
which, fcfter being approved by the director, was mailed 
or, in cases of urgency, telegraphed to its destination 
— different articles to suit the different emergencies of 
the campaign in different sections of the country. 
That director had a level head. His name has never 
been given to the world, those who worked under him 
being sworn to secrecy. This was Syndicate number 
two, number one being the Associated Press. 

Even the weekly papers avail themselves of the 
syndicate. It is a usual occurrence for a serial story 
to be published simultaneously by the London Gra- 



phic Harper's Weekly of New York and the Austral- 
asian of Melbourne, Australia. Another syndicate 
1 know of, pays a handsome sum for British political 
news, and is composed of papers in the East Indies, 
Australia, Canada, and the United States — several 
newspapers in each country. 

But even with such divisions of the cost of special 
features in a newspaper, the expenses ot ordinary ad- 
ministration are so great that the papers in villages 
and small towns would be elbowed out by the city 
dailies, were it not that some brilliant genius conceived 
the idea of the patent outside. 

In a paper of small circulation, the setting of type is 
the chief item of expense, and is much heavier than 
the cost of blank paper. Another heavy outlay is for 
wear and tear. Where the printing is done directly 
from type, it wears completely out in from two to three 
years, and before halt that time is badly chipped 
and broken. To diminish in great part these expenses, 
is the object of the patent outside. This patent is 
merely stereotype plates, containing telegraph news, 
clippings, special articles, departments, etc., all stolen, 
but cleverly stolen, from the great dailies. 

A company supplying patent for, say New York state, 
will only steal its news, nothing that can be identified, 
from the New York papers. All the rest will be 
filched from Boston or Chicago, or Philadelphia. 

This patent can be had in any quantity. Nearly 
all the country papers have both outside pages patent. 
But is also sold in columns of any length or breadth, 
and with an ordinary hand-saw the ordinary country 
editor can always make it fit in where it will do 
most good. And it is sold dirt cheap. That’s the 
way the village newspaper holds its own and keeps 
the citv daily’s circulation down. 

The men who run the patent are just as clever as 
the city newspaper Avriters, which explains the trans 
cendent ability, miraculously developed by the coun- 
try editor, when he begins to use patent. His circu- 
lation increases with his fame, and his purse swells 
with his chest, until his prosperity attracts a rival, 
who purchases his patent from a different and perhaps 
a better agency. 

Syndicate and patent both have come into being 
within five years, and both have attained enormous 
development. They have made the revolution iu 
newspaper methods I spoke of in my opening para- 
graph. W. H. T. 



IttciBitl News. 



Has the Delta Sigma Society disbanded, that we 
hear no more of their proceedings 1 

In the Arts building there lately appeared a notice 
headed “ Indignation Meeting.” We understand the 
intention was to express indignation at the non-ap- 
pearance ot the Gazette during the past month. 
However, as the notice was not signed, no meeting 
was held, and the righteous indignation of the movers 
in the matter is probably still pent up in their swell- 
ing breasts. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



121 



1887 .] 



p 



ENGINEERING LECTURES. 

This very important and valuable course has had 
several excellent lectures added to it since our last 
report. 

Mr. IIenshaw, C.E., gave a good practical address 
upon the ethics of engineering, coupled with a de- 
scription of his method of conducting a railroad 
survey. 

Mr. Dodwell, C.E., gave a very valuable paper 
upon “ Mortars and Cements,” written greatly from 
his experience gained as chief engineer of the new 
C. P. R. Bridges at St. Annes and Vaudreuil. 

Mr. Wallis, M. E., Superintendent of the Mechani- 
cal Works of the G.T. R., gave a very instructive and 
thoughtful lecture upon “ Locomotive Boilers,” which 
gave rise to a long discussion. 

Mr. ScnoB, C.E., gave one of the finest and most 
interesting papers of the series, on “ the superstructure 
of the New Lachine Bridge.” This gentleman is a 
very young man to have so important a work under 
his charge, but his lecture showed that he was 
thoroughly familiar with his work in all its intricate 
details. 

These lectures have been all well attended, both by 
students, and others from the city interested in 
engineering work, and it is to be hoped that, en- 
couraged by the success of this winter’s course, a 
winter course will become an established institution 
in the curriculum : Students have an opportunity of 

meeting eminent engineers, besides getting an insight 
into an engineer’s work and responsibilities. This 
will help to keep the aspiring young engineer humble, 
and not too confident in his accomplishments, when 
he sees what older heads have to think about. 



SCIENCE STUDENTS’ DINNER. 

The Annual Dinner of the Students in Applied 
Science, was held in the Ladies’ Ordinary of the 
Windsor, on Tuesday Evening, February 1st. A 
goodly number were present, including several fami- 
liar faces of graduates, representatives from the “ Star ” 
and “ Herald,” and a representative from the School 
of Science, Toronto. After a splendid dinner, eaten 
with true engineering appetites, and after some time 
had been given for all to digest the meal of toothsome 
viands, the chairman, Mr. Carlyle, opened the second 
part by proposing the Queen, which was duly honor- 
ed, the well known patriotic song “ The Maple Leaf,” 
being also suDg. Mr. Hopkins ably spoke on behalf 
of the dean and professors; while the toast to Alma 
Mater was responded to by all singing “Alma Mater 
McGill.” After a good song from Mr. N. Evans, 
B.A. Sc., the toast to the sister Faculties was loyally 
received, and admirably responded to by Mr. Cameron, 
(Medicine,) Mr. McPhail, (Arts,) and Mr. Topp, (Law.) 
After a song, “Our Graduates” called Messrs. Jeff. 
Burland, H. Hamilton, and N. N. Evans to their feet, 
who had many kind words for their Faculty. Mr. 
Palmer sang “The Proctors and the Dons” in fine 
style, and Mr. McCarthey and Mr. Rinfret (en francais) 
spoke on behalf of the class of ’87, expressing the 



general regret of the class to have to leave old McGill 
and her many kind associations. Mr. C. Walters 
followed with a banjo solo, and Mr. Rinfret with a 
song, and Mr. D. Taylor made an eloquent and finish- 
ed speech on the “ Sports.” For the first time this 
Faculty had the pleasure of the company of one of its 
students in Toronto’s Engineering School, Mr. Martin, 
who gave a very pleasing address, which was warmly 
received by all the boys. Mr. Evans, ’90, told of the 
graces and good qualities of the freshman, and made 
the class of ’87 blush with his unstinted flattery. After 
appropriate speeches from the “ Press ” and the 
“ Ladies,” Mr. A. Weir, B.A. Sc., speaking on behalf 
of the “ Star,” a most enjoyable dinner was brought 
to a close at a proper and becoming hour. The Com- 
mittee consisted of : — W. A. Carlyle, ’87, President ; 
M. W. Hopkins, ’88, 1st Vice-President; C. P. 
McKenzie, ’89, 2nd Vice-President ; P. N. Evans, ’90, 
3rd Vice-President; J. P. Ball, ’87, Sec’y-Treasurer ; 
Jeffrey Burland, B.A. Sc., Hon. -President, ’82. 



Societies. 



The annual meeting of the McGill Athletic Asso- 
ciation was held in No. 1 Class-room, in the Arts 
building, on Monday evening, February 28th, the 
Vice-President, Mr. R. A. Palmer, in the chair. 
There was a very small attendance, owing, no doubt, 
to the examinations being in the near future. Prof. 
McLeod, the Treasurer of the Association, was pre- 
sent. The first business taken up was the amending 
of the constitution. Articles III., IV., and V. were 
slightly changed on account of the affiliation of the 
Hockey and Football Clubs. The principal change 
made was the appointment of a Finance Committee, 
to be composed of the Vice-President, Assistant- 
Treasurer, and Secretary of the Association, together 
with one member from the Football Club and one 
from the Hockey Club, who shall control the finances 
of the Association. The Secretary’s report was next 
in order, then the report of the Assistant-Treasurer. 



This was most satisfactory, showing the 



Association 
It was also 



Inter-Collegiate. 



to have a surplus of over $200 in hand 
decided to make our annual sports 
The election of officers was next in order. 

The following are the officers elected for the ensu- 
ing year : — 

Honorary President — Sir Wm. Dawson. 

President — Jno. A. Springle, Medicine 88. 

Treasurer — Dr. R. A. Macdonnell. 

Assistant-Treasurer — Jno. Dunlop, Arts 89. 
Secretary — C. H. McNutt, Science 88. 

Mr. Danl. Taylor, Science 87 ; Mr. 
H. W. Chalmers, B.A. , Medicine 88. 
A vote of thanks to the retiring committee wa3 then 
carried, after which the meeting adjourned. 



Auditor 



' v 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The subject for debate before this Society, on 
Friday, the 25th of February, was — “Would an 
International Copyright Promote the Growth of 
Canadian Literature 1” but the speakers appointed 



122 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



not putting in an appearance, the discussion did not 
exhibit any degree of research on the question. Mr. 
A. E. Oughtred led off in the affirmative, and was 
followed by Mr. W. H. Turner in the negative. 
Messrs. E. C. Smith and Fry followed, supporting 
the former, and Mr. A. G. Cross the latter. The 
vote resulting in a tie, the Chairman gave his vote 
for the negative. 

The following were the members present: — The 
President, Mr. II. C. Smith, and Messrs. Oughtred, 
Eitchie, Murphy, A.G. Cross, Dunton, Elliot, Turner, 
and Fry. 

It was reported that Mr. J. E. Murray had been 
obliged to go to Florida for his health, and his place 
as a public debater was filled by the appointment of 
Mr. J. K. Unsworth. 



UHDEEGEADUATES’ LITEEAEY SOCIETY. 

At the regular meeting of this society on Friday, 
February 25th, Mr. Eogers, 2nd Vice-President, occu- 
pied the chair. Mr. Giles, the essayist, was absent ; 
ins place was taken by two songs, one from Henderson, 
and .another from Naismith, Mr. Meek officiating at 
the P^no. Mr. F. Charters read a comic extract. 
Mr. E. B. Henderson lead the affirmative on the 
question, “ Eesolved that party organisation is neces- 
sary to government.” The leader on the negative side 
was Mr. A. McArthur, who was followed by Messrs. 
Eobertson, Solandt, Hall, and Naismith. It is regret- 
table that several vacancies had to be filled at the°last 
moment. The meeting awarded victory to the affirma- 
tive. Mr. John McPhail read his criticisms. An 
amended motion was carried, to keep the piano till 
the end of the term. The specie! committee was 

Zd r t y crit r ed fot its " , “ nt of oneigy in preparing 
f. od musical piogrammes. A noticeable feature of 
the meetings of this term has been the frequent visits 
fiom graduates. Mr. F . Topp, the well-known “ con- 
stitutional lawyer,” was present at this meeting. 

On the evening of Friday, March 4th, w.Cs held 
the closing meeting, for this session, of the Under- 
giaduates Literary Society. Mr. E. B. Henderson 
the President, occupied the chair, and in view of 
the approaching examinations, the attendance was 

A° mV* t le u iage ' J After the Secretary, Mr. John 
A. McPhail, had read the minutes of the last meet- 
ing, the programme was brought on. A letter of 
apology was read from Mr. H? V. Truell, in which 

chose^'by^Mr 6 A. R* Bryson. ^ >amter ” was the Poem 

Ihe subject of debate was “Eesolvprl +!,,,<■ *i. 

Wealthy Subscriber to Election Funds is more tn 

Vot^’ th The the ^° r Man ’ Wh ° is Bribed f or his 
\ ote. The question was treated from a point of 

view, looking at the part of election funds which are 

applied for corrupt purposes. Mr. A P \i„ a 

thTaffi the , subject ’ explaining the grounds on which 
the affiimative might be sustained Mr Trai . 

McPhail followed, Dot merely^aWempting^to destrov 

his opponents positions, but also rearing a defence 



for the negative. Mr. Gibson then brought forward 
a mass of arguments in favour of the affirmative, some 
of which were rebutted by Mr. C. F. Martin, the 
following speaker, who adduced also positive argu- 
ments. The leaders then closed the debate for their 
respective sides ; each of them seemed to have kept a 
high trump for the last trick ; however, that in the 
hand of the affirmative must have been the stronger, 
for the meeting decided, by a small majority, in its 
favour. 

Mr. H. Pedley, the Critic, complimented the 
Society on the quality of the language used ; still, a 
few grammatical mistakes were pointed out. This 
seems unnecessary, for a man should know his Eng- 
lish grammar before he comes to College ; and all 
such mistakes are of the nature of “ Lapsus Linguae.” 
The Critic also noticed a meritorious quality of the 
speeches — they were well prepared in matter and 
form ; the arguments were put clearly, so that one 
could see what the speaker “ was driving at.” There 
were some faults of a nature other than grammatical, 
however; some of the speakers poured forth their 
words too rapidly ; another got into a sing-song deli- 
very; and a general lack of force was noticeable. 
Again, some did not face their audience, or did not 
“ hold them with their eye.” 

The meeting had been called to order by several 
songs from Messrs. Pedley, Henderson, and John- 
son, while Mr. M. L. Hersey played the accompani- 
ments. The music was again resorted to, at this stage 
of the proceedings. Mr. Pedley sang parts of several 
songs, and Mr. C. F. Martin did duty on the key 
board. J 

The President was now called on for his farewell 
address. Mr. Henderson bade good-bye to the Society, 
and gave a few suggestions to those who would re- 
main the members ought to encourage the speakers 
by their presence ; and, instead of grumbling at the 
subjects chosen, they should help the committee by 
suggesting others. The President referred to the in- 
creased attendance during the past session, which he 
ascribed partly to the piano, and partly to a growing 
recognition of the Society’s usefulness. Also, he 
no icec , with pleasure, the number of promisin' 1, 
speakers among the Frenchmen. He closed with the 
lope that those left behind would do their utmost 

o make the Literary Society more prosperous than 
ever before. 

Votes of thanks were then accorded to the Presi- 
dent Secretary, and Special Committee. Also, the 

to the^FicuU t lan ^ S ^ 01 ^ be use the room was sent 

ttMST Wls called on t0 s P eak on tehalf «f 

Syne” meetm ° tben ad J burned amid -‘Auld Lang 

knn5°t£ D ? • I ? aD ’” he said in solemn tones, “ don’t you 

rr i i j - lf 7? n P ersist in drinking you will never 
get ahead in this world ! ” 

“ Whv° rn v 8 i 6t abead ^ ” repeated the young man. 
bavp ^ i ar sir ’ y° ur ignorance surprises me. I’ll 
Wl ’’ 0n me to - moi ' row morning as big as a 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



123 



TIIE GLOVE. 

A narrow glen with winding sides, 

Bestrewn with rocks and decked with trees ; 

Gray, rolling clouds, chased by the breeze ; 

A stream that through the valley glides. 

Among the trees that climb the hill 
The eager squirrels scold the crows, 

And sharply sound the sudden blows 
Of some woodpecker’s greedy bill. 

The blood-root, crouching in the grass, 

From its protecting broad leaf peers, 

The horse-tails shake aloft their spears, 

Like soldiers, at us as we pass. 

Here as my friend and I did rove, 

Our eyes admiring all around, 

He in the little valley found 
An early violet, I, a glove. 

The flower grew beside a stone, 

And scarcely peeped above the sod. 

While distant from it not a rod 
The little glove lay all alone. 

Some child had drawn it from her hand 
To dabble in the sunny spring. 

And then, the thoughtless little thing, 

Had left it lying on the rand. 

0 little child! whoe’er thou art, 

In whatsoever station set, 

Be modest, like the violet, 

And earnestly perform thy part. 

And as the streamlet by the sun 
Is gently lifted to the skies, 

So mayest thou to heaven arise 
Whene’er thy earthly course is run. 

Montreal. Arthur Weir. 



Personals. 



Dr. Geo. Baynes, ’69, is in town for a few days, 
visiting old friends. 

Mr. C. P. McKenzie, Science ’89, has started with 
a survey party, for Kansas. 

We are glad to learn that Mr. W. F. Ferrier, 
Science ’87, has recovered ftom a severe attack of 
diphtheria. 

We regret to hear that Mr. H. Slater, Medicine ’89, 
who has been indisposed for some time past, will not 
be able to go up for his examinations this spring. 



Exchanges. 



It is now some time since I last received a very 
ominous looking bundle ot papers, with a request fiom 
the chief that I should not neglect my duties. Such 
another bundle has just arrived. These exchanges 
are, indeed, a many-featured crew. There is every 
gradation from the plain, uncovered type of the 
'Varsity to the elaborately figured binding of the 
Beacon : from the chaste simplicity of the Harvard 
Advocate to the extensively pictured grey cover of 
the Kings College Record, with its pink pages ; from 
the small, in area, Presbyterian College Journal to 
the ’ Varsity, from the two-sheet Archon to the 
twenty-page weekly; from peurile attempts at “John- 
sonese ” to the best English of the age ; from con- 
temptible criticism and sarcasm to words that we must 

respect. 



The St. John's College Magazine is one just added 
to our list. Coming, as it does, from Winnipeg, it is 
to be welcomed. The only number I have is the first 
of a new series. It happily avoids the fault, too com- 
mon in papers of theological institutions, of devoting 
its pages entirely to religious matters. What it con- 
tains is specially interesting, as it may be regarded in 
the light of an authority on matters relating to our 
northern country ; the present issue has an article on 
“ Some Eskimo I Have Met,” “ A Winter Trip to 
Hudson Bay.” 

This year we welcome our old friends the Queen's 
College Journal and Presbyterian College Journal. 

In the Exchange Column of an eight-page paper, 
published in a college where the graduating class 
numbers three, are to be found the following : “We 
have on our exchange list two hundred and twenty-five 
college papers. What other college paper can beat it 1 
Though small, we are, like diamonds, of great value, 
and much sought after.” Of two of its exchanges, it 
says : “ They see nothing good in anything save the 

superficial effusions of their shallow brains.” Of itself : 
“ Our exchanges will, no doubt, be jealous of us. 
We sympathize with them, and trust they may some 
day merit the same just remarks.” 

I think we would sympathize with any jealousy if 
the said remarks were just ! 

For all the petty self-sufficiency of papers such as 
this, there is much to be learned from a perusal of 
exchanges. The same movements for obtaining needs, 
even the same needs, are seen to be going on simul- 
taneously from Manitoba to Nova Scotia. A spirit of 
a strong modern tendency is striving to sweep away 
the relics of the past, as exemplified in useless and 
even hurtful regulations and customs. And a man is 
always bettered by contact witn his fellowmen, espe- 
cially with those of his fellows who are in the same 
path of life. Exchange Editor. 



Between the Lectures. 



WHY. 

She gave me a kiss, 

But she said it was naughty ! 

Now what was amiss ? 

She gave me a kiss ; 

Could it have been this — 

That I took about forty ! 

She gave me a kiss. 

But she said it was naughty. 

Teacher, in grammar recitation — ‘ I didn’t have no 
fun at the seaside.’ How would you correct this, 
Johnny! Johnny — Get a feller. 

The man who fell off the fence into the brambles 
was much nettled by the occurrence. “ We hope 
thistle be appreciated,” says a punster. 

“ This is capital ale,” said an old toper ; “ see how 
long it keeps its head.” “ Ay,” saida by-stander, but 
consider how soon it takes away yours.” 

Sunday-school Teacher — “ What did Lot do after his 
wife was turned into a pillar of salt, Sadie ! ” 

Sadie — “ I s’pose he looked out for a fresh one.” 



124 



UN IVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



“ M hat is the greatest work of creation ? ” asked the 
teacher : and little Johnny, whose mind was still full 
of the Odd Fellows’ parade, promptly responded : 
“ The drum major.” 

“ 1 ou shouldn’t say ‘ Metaphysics,’ my love,” 
remarked Mrs. Startup. “ It aint grammar. You mean 
met-a-phyeic. If you will look in your book you will 
see that a noun ‘ a ' does not go with the adjective in 
the singular case.” 

An Englishman shooting small game in Germany 
remarked to his host that there was a spice of danger 
in shooting in America. “ Ah,” said the host, “you 
like danger mit your sport ? Den you go out shooting 
mit me. De last time I shoot mine bruder-in-law in 
de schtomaok ! ” 

“ Hello, hello !” shrieked Jones to Smith this morn- 
mg. “ Hello !” “ I’m no walking telephone to be 

helloed at. Why don’t you say ‘good morning’ to 
a gentleman ?” “ I do when I meet one.” The polls 

closed and the ballots were counted. It was a tie. 
Neither party had carried the day. 

Teacher — What is an island ? 

Smart Pupil (whose father is a club man) — Body o’ 
land s’rounded by Avater. 

Teacher — Good. What is a strait 1 

Smart Pupil — I heard pop say it was a hard hand 
to get and beats three of a kind. 

An absent-minded husband, who hadn’t been to 
church for a long time, reached for his hat as the choir 
ceased singing, and a momentary lull took place, when 
his Avife whispered : 

“ What are you doing, John 1 ” 

“ I’m just going out to see a man,” he said. 

A contemporary relates that one day, when it was 
raining hard in New York, a freshly-arrived French- 
man, ignorant of New-World usages, a good fellow if 
not an exquisite, saw a lady making vain attempts* to 
cross a swollen gutter in one of the principal streets : 
so he lifted her unceremoniously in his arms and de- 
posited her safely on the other side of the "utter. 
Instead of condescending to thank him, even with a 
smile, as he naturally expected, the lady stared at him 
from top to toe, and asked what right he had to dare 
to touch her. “I will remedy my mistake,” the 
I renchman answered ; and, taking up the lady a^ain 
he sat her down where he had found her. 

A large, stout man, who looked as if he mi"ht be 
a pretty tough customer in a free fight, entered the 
operating arena of a New York dentist. The sufferer 
from toothache had taken a large dose of whiskey to 
enable him to bear up under the pending infliction. 

I he dentist examined the tooth, went into an adjoin- 
ing room, and presently reappeared with a large pistol 
strapped to his person. “ What do you mean!” asked 

? the “ 0 , nothing in particular, ex- 

cept that I am not going to take any risks.” “ What 

i ” “ ) vh *Y “T b " iU Iikc 

smelling of whiskey, climbs into that chair, I’m not 
going to exasperate him unprepared. “ You may be 
John L. Sullivan, for all I know.” y 



ONLY 

Only a coat, 

Only a hair, 

Only a wife, 

Findeth it there. 

Only a broom, 

Only a whack. 

Only a man 

With a broken back. 



A NICE QUIET FAMILY GAME. 

One of our card playing graduates says he was nearly 
ruined at cards recently. Contrary to the orthodox 
method of ruination in this particular line of vice, he 
did not frequent gambling rooms, clubs, or saloons to 
find the broad path, but stumbled into it right in his 
own house. He had taught his wife to play poker 
two or three winters ago, and frequently since then 
they had friendly little sessions, using buttons for 
chips. The other night, though, he brought home a 
box of the genuine, nice stacks of whites, reds, and 
blues. 

“ Now,” he said, “I’ll just show you how poker is 
played among the boys. I never could take any inter- 
est in it with them cussed buttons, but this seems nat- 
ural. We’ll call it a dollar limit ; w hites a nickel, reds 
a quarter, blues 50 cents, and take $5 worth each. Now 
if you break me I’ll buy you that seal muff.” 

The game proceeded without any material change 
in the size of the piles for nearly an hour, when Mr. 

Brown had three tens pat. Mrs. B. took three cards 

pair of bullets all the time — caught the third and beat 
him out of three dollars. This was all right, except 
that Brown remarked that he had never in his life 
seen a poor player that didn’t have all the luck, 
finally he lost the other two dollars. 

Gimme nother five and if I don’t knock you out 
in fifteen minutes by that clock I’ll never turn another 
card,” he said. 

Mrs. B. didn’t answer ; that is, she didn’t say any- 
thing, but her look said “ That’s all right.” The luck 
seemed to go Brown’s way this time, and he pulled 
in quite a few chips. Mrs. Brown was dealing, a third 
party, Brown’s brother, was a looker on at this period, 
and of course it was Brown’s age. 

“ I’ll come in,” said Mrs. B. ° 

Oh, of course you will,” said Brown ; “ well then, 
cl^ U ” an0 ^ er d°H ar an d you won’t have so many 

“I’H raise you a dollar, James,” said his spouse. 

1 ou will, will you 1 ? Dollar better’n you.” 

Mrs. Brown just came in and drew two cards. Brown 
loug it lie d keep his, and when his wife chipped 
without looking he promptly raised the limit. After 
carefully looking them over the lady thought she’d 
raise it another dollar. This made Brown fairly bound 
off the chair, but he had to call, only to have a flush 
beaten by a full. He quit there, and when his wife 
0 * 88 ^^-* said i 

“I don’t see anything funny about it at all. Any- 
body could play with the cards you get. If I had 
them, you would have been broke two hours a"o.” 



188 ?-] UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 125 



AUTOGRAPHIC. 

A little place to tell my love, 

Nor need I more, since were the space 
That holds the myriad stars above, 

Spread out in one unending scroll, 

On its deep blue there wore not space 
To tell the longings of my soul 
More fully by comparison 
Than this these eight short lines are on, 

Arthur Weir. 



iTollege BJorlb. 



Sixty- four students are now attending the Canadian 
Art School at Ottawa. 

Twenty-five Indians have just entered the Institute 
at Hampton, Va., from the Dakota reservation. 

The late W. H. Backus, of Georgetown, Pa., be- 
queathed $60,000 fora free library for Bucknell Uni- 
versity. 

The “ mortar board ” cap has been adopted by the 
senior and juniors at Cornell Uuniversity, each class 
wearing a distinctive tassel. 

The Hon. Hiram Sibley, of Rochester, N. Y., is to 
give $250,000 to Cornell University to improve and 
enlarge the College of Mechanic Arts named for him. 

A son of the Rev. Dr. Jastrow, the eminent rabbi 
of Philadelphia, has been elected lecturer on the 
Assyrian language and literature in the University of 
Pennsylvania. 

Mr. Jonas G. Clark, a rich citizen of Massachusetts, 
has given a million of dollars to found a new univer- 
sity at Worcester, to be called “Clark University.” 
It is to be undenominational. 

Two German Barristers, Ernst and Felix Delbruck, 
have been appointed professors in the School of Juris- 
prudence at Tokio. They will aid in the formulating 
of the new code for the Empire. 

The Vassar College Alumnae Association, of Chicago 
and the West, has founded a scholarship worth $400 
a year open to any girl who cannot otherwise afiord 
the expense of a collegiate course. 

Mrs. Warren Newcombe, of New York city, has 
given $100,000 to the Tulane University, New Orleans, 
for the purpose of establishing a college for the higher 
education of white girls and young colored women. 

A school for boys, planned by the late Rev. Gerald 
F. Dale, a missionary of the Presbyterian Board at 
Zahleh, Syria, has been opened since his death, with 
about fifty boarders and a large number of day- 
scholars. 

The Industrial Institute and College of Mississippi 
is said to be the first institution under State auspices 
in the Union, where girls can work their way through 
college, and acquire joint education of head, heart, 
and hand. 

Mr. Charles Pratt, of Brooklyn, in addition to his 
other liberal gifts to the Adelphi Academy of that 
city, of which he is President, has lately given $160,- 
000 to enlarge its building and extend its collegiate 
department. 



A bill is before the Massachusetts Legislature for 
the incorporation at Worcester of the Clark Univer- 
sity, to include a law, a medical, and a theological 
school, which Mr. Jonas G. Clark is to endow with at 
least $1,000,000. 

Matthew Arnold, who has been an inspector of 
schools for the Westminster district of London during 
the past thirty-five years, recently resigned that posi- 
tion, receiving as a farewell gift a silver claret-jug and 
salver from the teachers. 

Cornell university will confer no honorary degrees 
hereafter, and to become a doctor of laws under the 
new rules of that institution, it will be necessary for a 
man to tell who Blackstone and Chitty were and what 
Kent and Stevens wrote. 

Munkacsy has finished his portrait of Dr. McCosh, 
of Princeton, which is thus described : “The venerable 
President is in his black gown and is seen in profile, 
the light falling strongly upon his white hair, while 
delicate shadows play about his face.” 

Hon. A. D. White, formerly President of Cornell 
University and lately United States Minister to 
Germany, has given to that University his valued his- 
torical library — of 30,000 volumes, 10,000 pamphlets, 
and many manuscripts — which cost over $100,000. 

The students of Trinity College have presented the 
Earl of Londonderry, the Viceroy, with an address of 
welcome, expressing joy over the defeat of the home 
rule bill. The Viceroy replied that the government 
would faithfully fulfil the country’s mandate to 
maintain union. 

Home News from Abroad: — “Florence” writes 
to the Philadelphia Ledger : “ Is there a college in 
Montreal by the name of Magill’s, and is it a medical 
college 1 ” The Ledger replies : The University of 
McGill’s College is in Montreal, and the school of 
medicine, which forms one of its departments, is well 
known and ranks high among similar institutions. 
Thanks, awfully. 

The handsome gift to the University College of 
$2,000 by an anonymous donor, to found a scholarship 
in the Natural Sciences, must be very gratifying to 
the friends of the College ; and the perpetual associa- 
tion with this scholarship of the name of the learned 
President of the College is a fitting recognition of the 
long and devoted services rendered to it and the cause 
of higher education by Professor Daniel Wilson. 

The colored Normal and Industrial School at Tuske- 
keeg, Alabama, which was opened in 1881 with thirty 
students and one teacher, now has 275 students and 
20 teachers. In connection with the institution is a 
saw mill, which is a source of profit, and a brick yard, 
which last year turned out 300,000 bricks. Two Bos- 
ton ladies have just made a gift of $6,000 to the school, 
and thus education among the negroes flourishes. 

The whole number upon whom degrees have been 
conferred by Harvard University before 1880 was 
14,062 ;the total number of graduates of the university 
as a whole up to 1886 has been 14,420. In 1846 the 
total number of students in the university was 611 : in 



126 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



1886 it had increased to 1,662. That is to say, in 
forty years the number of students in the whole 
university has considerably more than doubled itself. 

The Oxford system of allowing students of a Vermont 
college to attend lectures as they choose results in 
some pathetic experiences. One Professor of moral 
philosophy says : “ Lectures were announced and the 
Professor attended.” Another Professor confesses : 
“ Lectures offered, 54, but some not delivered owing 
to absence of audience,” Avhile one Professor declared 
that he announced three courses of lectures, but no 
students sent in their names. 

W. L. Powell, a student in Dickinson College, was 
hazed by members of his own class and shamefully 
beaten some time ago. He brought the matter before 
President McCauley, and at a late meeting of the 
Faculty, the eight students guilty of the crime were 
suspended for one month. A petition was presented 
to the Faculty signed by all the students in the insti- 
tution asking the Faculty to rescind its action, and 
after interchange of opinion the petition was granted. 

Zenas Caldwell was the first man in New England 
who received a collegiate education with a view to 
entering the methodist ministry. He went to Bowdoin 
college, and his room-mate at one time was Franklin 
Pierce. Mr. Caldwell was a great mathematician, and 
it is related of him that he solved a problem in algebra 
which Frankiin Pierce could not do to save his life. 
But Pierce became a president of the United States 
and Caldwell didn’t. This is not a good story to tell 
schoolboys, perhaps. 

A correspondent who used to live close to the resi- 
dence of the late Tom Moore, tells the following anec- 
dote : — “ Once, driving home from Chippenham to 
Devizes, I gave an old lady a lift in the trap ; and in 
conversation I asked her if she saw much of Tom Moore 
in her village when he was alive. — ‘Tom Moore, sir? 
Tom Moore 1 ’ said she. ‘ Oh, you mean Mr. Moore. 
Mrs. Moore was a very kind lady, but Mr. Moore used 
to write all sorts of varses about the moon, and such 
like things. He were no account. 

By the will of Mrs. Caroline A. Wood, widow of 
the late Caleb Wood and founder of the Wood Memo- 
rial Church, in Cambridge, Mass., Wellesley College 
gets $50,000 ; Bates College, $35,000 • Avon-place 
Home, at Cambridge, $2,500 ; the American Board of 
Foreign Missions, $5,000, and a fund for the establish- 
ment of a home in Cambridge for aged women, $25,000. 
The residue of the real and personal property, after 
the payment of the above bequests and legacies to 
friends and relatives, is left to be funded and used for 
the benefit of poor women. 

Oxford is largely increasing in size. At New College 
a portion of the new projecting front is completed 
and additions have been made to Brazenose College! 
At Trinity College, a new house has been be<mn for 
the President, the design of which is identical with 
the wing already completed. The sacristy of Merton 
College, from time immemorial used as a brewhouse 
is being restored to its original purpose, and during 
the alterations made in the last place a very beautifully 



designed fifteenth century staircase was discovered. 
Besides these additions both to residential and colle- 
giate Oxford, a new theatre has already been opened, 
the intolerance of the Dons to any form of theatrical 
amusement having, to all appearances, been greatly 
minimised during the last few years. 

Princeton’s New Plans. — At the regular weekly 
meeting of the Faculty of Princeton College on January 
7th, Dean Murray presented the final report of the 
committee for perfecting a scheme for the students’ con- 
ference committee. The details of the plan are minute 
and complicated. The principal features are as 
follows : The committee will consist of 12 undergrad- 

uates — six Seniors, three Juniors, two Sophomores, 
and one Freshman — who will be elected by the 
students themselves. Eligibility will be determined 
by both scholarship and deportment. The committee 
will be for friendly conference with the Faculty, and 
it is believed that by means of consultation with a 
thoroughly representative body of students the Dean 
and Faculty will be enabled to administer the dicipline 
of the college with greater ease and justice to all 
concerned. The students have elected their represen- 
tatives, and the experiment will be watched with great 
interest. 



THE CANADIAN FISHERIES. 

[In a letter received from Professor P. J. Darey, of 
the McGill University, he speaks as follows of the fish- 
ery question. Editorial comment will be found else- 
where. — Eds. C.U.] 

I must embrace the opportunity to take exception to 
the paragraph referring to the fisheries in the last 
number, first page. You say: “The only purposes 
for which American fishing vessels may lawfully enter 
Canadian waters are procuring of wood, water, shelter 
and repair. ... To establish such relations between 
two such peoples as those of Canada and the United 
States is to go a long way toward the barbarism of the 
Middle ages.” Now, my dear sir, where you make 
your mistake is in the word I have italicized, establish. 
It is not establishing anything, it is reverting to a 
solemn treaty made between the United States and 
Great Britain in 1818. Twice have there been treaties 
upon the subject, and each time the abrogation has 
been made by the United States, and Canada has been 
compelled to fall back on the treaty of 1818. If I 
understand our Government, Canada is anxious for a 
treaty, but Congress would not consent. Surely the 
Americans cannot expect that Canada will give up all 
her advantages and have nothing in return, not even 
to enter her fish free of duty in the United States. 



THE HIGHER EDUCATION. 

IT DOES NOT INJURE WOMAN’S HEALTH. 

Concerning the question of the higher education of 
women, Demorest's Magazine says: 

Certain American and English physicians are again 
discussing the eftect of the higher education of women 
upon the health of the students who have gone through 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1887.] 



127 



the curriculum of our American female colleges. 
These doctors insist that the tendency has been bad, 
that the girls run the danger of losing their health by 
severe study, and they point out the fact which can 
not bo disputed, that families were generally larger 
fifty and a hundred years ago than they are to-day. 
Those who believe in the higher education of women 
meet this issue boldly. They admit that the mothers 
of to-day in good circumstances have not on an average 
as many children as had their grandmothers, but this 
is attributed to a very different cause than ill-health. 
It is noticed that women in all countries who are well- 
to-do are less prolific than the mothers of a poorer and 
inferior class. Children swarm in a tenement-house, 
but no one expects to see so many in the luxurious 
Parisian flat or the costly residences of the educated 
and wealthy. This is as true of the human race, as it 
is of the plant of life. “ All weeds thrive apace,” says 
the proverb ; but the most beautiful flowers are rare, 
and are the result of careful cultivation. Miss Anna 
C. Brackett denies that study injures the health of girls. 
Worry, anxiety will do so, caused by systems of school 
education which involve competitions, examinations, 
and markings, which at once stimulate and frighten 
the candidates for class honors. As a matter of fact, 
even the graduates of our women’s colleges enjoy far 
better health than do the average of girls out of college. 
A committee of the alumni of Vassar College took the 
trouble to send circulars to the graduates of that insti- 
tution inquiring into their general health. The result, 
when obtained, was compared with the answers re- 
ceived from an equal number of factory girls. It was 
found that the college graduates enjoyed far better 
health than their working sisters of the same ages. A 
good deal of nonsense is written now-a-days about the 
evil effects of study. Philosophers, and all who have 
devoted their lives to study, are generally blessed with 
length of years. There is something quieting and 
health-inspiring “ in the still air of delightful studies.” 
As Miss Brackett points out, there is more danger in 
novel-reading, play-going, and an idleness which allows 
the imagination to run riot, than there is in study, 
however severe. It is the indulgence of the emotions 
and the stimulation of the passions which too often 
wreck the health and happiness of the young , but 
parents should be careful how they yield to this clamor 
against study for their children. 



itorresponbence. 



To the Editors University Gazette. 

J have long wished to hear ol some steps 

being taken to secure lady representatives on the edi- 
torial staff of the Gazette, and regret exceedingly that 
my desire has in no way been gratified. I feel that the 
idea would be a popular one, but for an indescribable 
sentiment (by no means confined to students), border- 
ing on the confines of timidity and doubt as to the 
propriety of such an act. I am sure that if the mat- 
ter be brought fairly before the students in geneial, 

the board of directors and you, sirs, it will not drop 
without careful thought. I am doubly hopeful of the 



issue, because I have heard really no objection ad- 
duced against the proposal. For instance, it is said 
that it is not at all probable that the ladies would ac- 
cept the positions of editors, and sit in council with 
the men. (It was not implied by this that the male 
editors were more awful than the average men.) This 
doubt may be well founded or it may not We know 
that three years ago many grave heads in this city re- 
garded the opening of the course in Arts to women as 
a mistake. They said that few would attend. But 
these wise heads have been mistaken. They acknow- 
ledge the success attained in point of numbers, and 
with all the mathematics, and classics, and debating 
societies, these young ladies are ladies still. It is just 
possible that some of us may be mistaken in regard to 
their acceptance of positions on the Gazette. I would 
ask what better or more manly means is there of put- 
ting an end to such a doubt than by respectfully and 
cheerfully presenting this right, for their approval or 
disapproval. I look upon it as a simple duty. 

In American colleges, to which we owe so much, 
ladies and gentlemen are constantly found acting as 
editors on a common journal, and with admirable suc- 
cess. It seems to me that since we have seen the high 
literary attainments of the lady undergraduates, the 
Gazette loses much by not having them more closely 
associated with it. If this be not done before very 
long they will have a college journal of their own. 

I have said, sirs, above, that what I termed an in- 
describable sentiment with regard to allowing women 
into pursuits which timid people fear are too mascu- 
line, is not confined to students, and, as an example 
of this, I instanced the doubts that were felt, and 
honestly felt, with regard to the establishment of the 
course of higher education for women in McGill. I 
have also referred to American colleges, which we 
see, and see to our shame, however, far more active 
and prompt in acknowledging these rights, yes, rights, 
than we Canadians. Public feeling, it is true, is ac- 
cepting this principle, but it does so hesitatingly. The 
ultimate result you and I can see very well. And I 
would ask, why should not McGill College, the first 
seat of learning in Canada, be the very foremost in 
hastening this result % 

A"ain, it is said that contributions are received from 
the ladies, and what more is necessary 1 If any one 
of the faculties of Law or Medicine, Arts or Science, 
were not represented on the stall, that laculty would 
consider itself unfairly treated ; why then should this 
not hold good with reference to the ladies 1 Human 
experience has at all times taught that there is no 
better means of interesting individuals in a work than 
by giving them a share in the responsibility of the 
successful carrying out of that work. I feel sure that 
far more contributions would be received, more in- 
terest in and importance attached to the necessity of 
a college journal, if, say, two representatives were ad- 
mitted from that important section of our University. 
To this would be added the direct benefit of new 
thought in counsel. 

You see, sirs, that I consider this not as a matter of 
sentiment, but of simple justice, and a plain duty on 
our part, to offer a place for the ladies. It will then 
remain in their hands to do what they think best 



128 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886 



under the circumstances. I, for one, would most 
gladly hear of their acceptance. 

I trust that this subject may be considered by the 
parties whose duty it is to move in the matter, and 
that next term the Gazette will enter a new phase of 
its brilliant and useful career. 

U NDERGRADUATE. 



THE HVEOIDIEIRaNr 

Turkish or Roman Bath, 

140 ST. MONIQUE STREET, 

Foot of McGill College Avenue, MONTREAL. 

Established, 1869. Rebuilt and Enlarged, 1873. 
Renovated and Improved, 1884. 

BATHING HOURS: 

GENTLEMEN, ... 6 to 8 a.m. 2 to 9 p.m. 

LADIES, 10 to 12 noon, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 

Apart from one of the most complete and best constructed 
Turkish Baths on this Continent, the Institute affords every 
facility for the administration of all forms of “ Hydro-Thera- 
peutic ” treatment as well as for the practice of the “ Swedish 
Movement Cure,” and of Massage. 

Accommodation is provided for a limited number of resident 
patients. Special attention being devoted to the treatment of 
chronic cases. Convalescents, as well as others who are interest- 
ed in health matters, will find at this Institution a quiet and 
comfortable home, and many advantages not obtainable else- 
where in the Dominion. 

D. B. A. MACBEAN, M.D., Proprietor, 

CRIDIFORD & ROBERTSON, 

ENGINEERS AND MILLWRIGHTS, 

25 Bleury Street, MONTREAL. 



R. GARDNER * SON, 

— MANUFACTURERS OF — 




BAKERS’ and CONFECTIONERS’ MACHINERY, 

Reel ovens, Turning Lathes, Shafting, 

HANGERS and PULLEYS, 



A SPECIALTY. 

^‘NOVELTY IRON WORKS *♦ 



40 to 54 Nazareth, Brennan, and Dalhousie Streets. 




CONFECTIONERS, 

Cor. St. Catherine and Victoria Sts. 



CTSTXES -A-T -A-XjXj HOTJP.S. 

Fine Candies and Confectionery. 

j Established 1859 . 

ECenet IS. 0 -ie^.Tr, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, 

MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Good Qualify and Low Prices. 

A full supply of the Celebrated CROSS STYLO PENS kept in Stock. 
E^rery peas. gpjLa.ra.as.teed.. 

E. cSs SO!>TS, - 

250, St. James Street. 



—MANUFACTURERS OF— 

Shafting, Hangers, Pulleys, Dies, Models and General 
Machinery. Also, Punching Presses, Bookbinders’ 
Tools, Warehouse Hoists, Etc., 

YACHTS and ENGINES. 



ROBERTSON’S PATENT UNITRIPLE ENGINE, 

SAVES ONE-FOURTH OF FUEL. 



THE HENDERSON LUMBER C( 

Capital Paid-up - - $100,000.00 

Director*: D. H. Henderson, Norman Henderson 

Chas. H. Walters. 

Saxe Mills : ROXTON FALLS, P.Q., and 342 to 380 WILLIAM 
Branch Yard: 130 ST. CONSTANT ST., MONTREAL. 

Manufacturers and General Dealers In every D 
cription of Lumber and Timber. 



S, J. BRISSETTE. JOS OOL 

BRISSETTE & C0URT01S, 



"White’s Lane, 




— manufacturers of — 

Machinerv foii Piped Makers, Piped Box Manufacturers, 



■3-BOOK BINDERS and PRINTERS.*- 

— -< #» ♦ — _____ 

Special attention given to Repairing and Setting-up Machinery. 

SPECIAL TOOLS and MACHINES for MANUFACTURERS 

■Designed and Bxillt to Order. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Corner 

McGill 



and 



Notre Dame 

Streets 




CLOTHIER 



Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 



-Me s^r jm- 



FOR- 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear 



Stocfi in Canada to Select fronts 



SUITS and Overcoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 



BTTT ~5rOTT:R. 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St,, cor. of Craig St. 
ffittiC ©mtfeclioMjenj, 

R oNBQNS and U hOCOLATES 




ARTISTICALLY 

•^Engraved and Printed,*- 



IN 



RELIEF, CAMEO or PLAIN. 






PHILIPS SQUARE, 



H 77 

MONTREAL. 



STAINING FLUIDS “? Mounting Lipids 

—FOR— 

Histological and Microscope Work, 

PREPARED BY 

W. H. CHAPMAN, Ph. €., Central Drug Store, 

Corner Craig* and Bleury Streets. 



The Burl and Litho. Co., 

5, 7 & 9 Bleury Street, 
MONTBEAh. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, • MONTREAL 
J. N. Greenshields, Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 

HOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAME IS STREET, 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, &c„ 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

ffliciASTER, Hutchinson, Weie & McLennan, 

ADVOCATES, 

barristers, solicitors, &c., 

175 St. James St., Montreal . 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q. C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L. 

Church, Chapleau, Hall & Nicolls, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

.A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. T-ZLIMES ST,, 

(near the court house,) 

MONTREAL. 



IELAXjIVEIEIR/S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

— THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF — 

Cfoir|lD$, 

Perfuiiqefy, toilet 

Sftidle^. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME ST. 




Invitations, GaFds, Crests, programmes 
Jtfonograms, &c., &c. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 




BI CYCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, Ac. 

Also, Prizes of all Descriptions. 



Wedding, Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods, Electro Plate, <fcc. 





53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



Me f 

Hairdressing; anil Shaving; ii the Latest Style, 

QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



R. SHARPLEY & SONS, 

<3ewelle^y ^ Rangy Goods. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION OF 

FINE GOLD AND SILVER JEWELLERY. 

— We make a Specialty of — 

FINE CHRONOGRAPH (OR TIMING) WATCHES 

At a Low Figure. 

A large assortment of SILVER WARE, CLOCKS, BRONZES, and 
LA NC i GOOES, suitable for Wedding Gifts or Presentations . 

OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

All the requisites for Foot Ball, Lawn Tennis, and Cricket. 

also 

Mathematical Instruments, Drawing Papers, Colors, etc,, etc., 
1678 & 1680 NOTRE DAME ST. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 dz 387 St. P^.ul Street, Montreal. 

Wholesale Manufacturers 

STOVES, 



GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebrated Hot~W*teb Reuters 



—AND— 




t Billy 




JOHN CRILLY & CO., 




HotAir Furnaces 



—FOR— 



Goal or Wood* 



All Goods Guaranteed. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Paper Manufacturers, { 



MILLS AT 
JOLIETTE, P. Q. 



— MANUFACTURERS OF — 



Hanging Paper. 
Browu Paper, 
Grey Paper, 
St 



traw Paper, 

Building Paper, 

Carpet Felt, 



Blotting Paper, 

Toned Paper, 

Colored Paper, 

White Paper, 

Flour Sack Paper, 

Manilla Paper, i 

Roofing Felt. 

Special Sizes suas-cL T^7"eig*lvts 2v£a.cle to Order. 
TWINES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS. 

Manufacturers and Printers of Paper Bags and Flour Sacks. 
Price Lists and Discounts on Application. 

Warehouse : 389 ST. PAUL STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



MILLS AT 
PORTNEUF. 



NEW ENGLAND PAPER CO. 

Office and Warehouse: Nun's Building, 

21 and 23 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

NEWS, MANIIM. BROWN. GREY AND STRAW WRAPPINGS 

also Hanging, Sheeting and Roofing Papers and Card Middles. 




WORKS AT 
.CORNWALL, ONT 

CAPITAL, - $250,000. 

manufactures the following grades of paper : 

Engine Sized Superfine Papers, White and Tinted Book Papers, ( Machine 
Finished nnd Super-ca lendered), Blue and Cream Laid & Wove Fools aps, 
Posts, etc., etc., Account Book Papers, Envelope and Lithographic Papers. 
Coloured Cover Papers Superflnlshed. 

Apply at the mill for samples and prices. Special sizes made to order. 



SHARPE’S EXPRESS CO. 



297 ST. JAMES ST., 
MONTREAL. 
Cartage Agents for South Eastern Railway. 

might and Parcels Called For and Delivered in any Part of the City. 

Particular attention Paid to moving Furniture, Pianos, &c. 

Teams furnished to Parties going to the Country. Telephone No. 738, 
SHARPE & WALTERS, PROPRIETORS. 

Fkesii Groceries I 

Our Full Supplies of (iROCERTES nnd PROVISIONS arc to hand, 
and we invite inspection. 

Teas, Coffees, and Provisions 

ARE AMONG OUR SPECIALTIES. 

DAVID CRAWFORD, General Grocer, 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE, 

1*73 8t James Street, 

Telephone No. 1391. 



QUEEN’S BLOCK " 

1315 and 1317 St. Catherine Ft. 

Telephone No. 1392. 



Beuthner Bros., 

Imporlars mib UmtufatlumV 

821 Craig Street, 821 

MONTREAL. 

IE. _A_: G-ERTH, 

IMPORTER of 

cig-abs^ 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Tr;y St-u.cleaa.ts Hiacture. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $i.oo upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE STREET Queen’s Block. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



the genuine 
COOK’S FBIEND 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



Antiseptic Materials, Banflaies, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing; Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages. Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool. Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inh&lers, Celluloid 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges. 
Gameree’s Bucalvntol, Sanitarv Towels. Ladies’. 



C. ASHFQBB’S 

Cheap Book, Stationery, 

AND 




MEDICAL BOOKS, 



W. & F. P. CURRIE & CO., 



lOO GKEV NUN 8TRLET, 
IMPORTERS OF 



SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Roman Cement, 

Vent Linings, Canada Cement, 

Flue Covers, Water Lime, 

Fire Bricks, Whiting, 

Fire Clay, Plaster Paris, 

Portland Cement, Borax, 



CtttttA clat. 






Manufacturers of 

BESSEMER STEEL SOFA, CHAIR & BED SPRINGS. 

A LARGE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., 

(LIMITED,) 

21, 2ft & 23 St Antoine Street MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE* Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducetnents to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing ot Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleansed and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLFD FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



FUR SEASON 1886-7. 

My show room is now open, wherein will be found a LARGE and 
WELL ASSORTED STOCK of MANUFACTURED FURS, to whbh 
I invite special attention. 

Also a Large Assortment of the Latest Fall Shapes in 

Silk and IET'ttir, HELOTS 

FROM 

LINCOLN, BENNETT & CO., WOODROW, CHRISTY, 

and other English makers. 

HYD SAMUEL, 

H ATTER AND FURRIER, 

1751 Notre Dame St. 



-Hjc PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 



Students' Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[B"5T WEISS &c S03ST1, 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books prooured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S, 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 



