Vol. XI 



No. 1. 




Printed by the Burland Lith. Co., Montreal. 











UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &e,, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL. 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. TAMMIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

MASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR 1 MCLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. B. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L 

CHURCH, CHAPLEAU, HALL &. NICOLLS, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

117 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. L. RUGGLES CHURCH, Q.C. JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer & Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. TAMES ST., 



(near THE COURT-HOUSE,) 

MONTREAL. 


V 

* * 


i/m. Notman & Son, 

'ft ****************** 


■1 


jhotographers 

****************** 



Jfeue Beale of Trices this year 
for Bindenis. 

17 BLEURY STREET. 






Bandages, Etc, 



MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
PtamamliHl 4 Diipiiit Chins, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. Si. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

An Tr»r\ir\ oqqI 



Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’3 Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. CT-A-IMIIES ST. 



.11 KI)IC.i I. U'ORKS, BOOKS US Bit /.V ART CO UR SB, 
SC1BJY-CB TBXT BOOKS, 

TUB VARIOUS THBOBOGICAU BOOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS. 

Scribbing Books. See., Sec., 

i-i- BEST VALUIS X IN TOWN 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store, 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XI.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, OCTOBER 19th, 1887. [No. 1. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President. 
Edward P. Williams, Med. ’87, Vice-President. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., Sec.-Treas. 

Chs. W. Hoare, Med. ’88. 

W. A. Cameron, Arts 87. 

A. Drummond, Science ’88. 

R. B. Henderson, Arts ’87. 

EDITORS. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, B.C.L., Editor -in-Chief '. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87 
Henry Fry, Law ’88. 

John H. Bell, B.A., Med. ’88. 

C. L. Wheeler, B.A., Med. ’89. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 3-5 

Poetry 5 

Contributions 5-10 

McGill News 11-12 

Societies 12 

Sporting 13 

Personals 13-14 

Exchanges 14 

Between tiie Lectures 14 

Advertisements 2-15-16 



Editorials. 



SALUT. 

With this issue Vol. XI. of the Gazette begins. 
It has been customary in years past to map out a 
programme for the paper in its initial number of each 
year, and so prepare our readers for what is coming, 
thus preventing any very severe shocks to the nervous 
system. It is not our intention to follow this course 
at present ; not because we have the remotest idea of 
making our columns either insipid or wanting in the 
advocacy of even unpopular reforms, should the 
necessity arise, but because our labours in the past 
have had the effect of educating all our patrons up 



to a sense of the great good resulting from judicious 
and courageous criticism. The nervous systems of 
even the most sensitive of our erstwhile invalids have, 
thanks to the Gazette’s past course, become vastly 
improved, so that we apprehend little danger from 
vigorous and vigorously applied remedies. Our watch- 
word is duty. 

We welcome back to work all former students of 
the University, and trust that the vacation has given 
them stronger bodies and more vigorous minds to 
resume the winter’s work. We welcome the fresh- 
men, and bespeak for them a generous and warm- 
hearted introduction into college life. This early in 
the session we remind the former of their duties in 
the college, outside themselves. They owe it to 
their fellows and to the college to take a lively and 
an intelligent interest in the different societies which 
belong to McGill, and which are immediately under 
the control of their own faculty. Let this year 
surpass all former ones in the support given by 
the students to those organizations which aim to draw 
students more together, to set them at friendly rivalry 
with each other outside class-work, which will have 
the effect of uniting them to the college and to one 
another, and which will cultivate broad sympathies 
and generous competitions, which will, in themselves, 
be a source of pleasant remembrance all through life, 
besides educating them to be earnest, active, and sym- 
pathetic workers, not lookers on, in the great school 
of life, for which they are preparing. 

The freshmen have two evils to guard against — 
that of becoming bookish mopes, and that of degen- 
erating into idle pleasure-ssekers. The young man 
who enters college with no care but for the lectures, 
who takes no interest in college life outside his books* 
is making a grievous blunder ; is losing one-half the 
good that college life should give ; is cultivating a 
selfish and prejudiced spirit, which is bound to tell 
against him in after-life. He should be shaken up 
and out of himself. Such a career is only less dan- 
gerous, less blame-worthy, than that of the man who 
comes to college to have a good time, and who spends 
the whole of the session, year after year, in idle dissi- 
pation, under the impression that he is gaining experi- 
ence, and sowing wild-oats in fashionable and very 
good society, while, in fact, he is making a fool of 
himself. 



4 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887 



We cordially invite all undergraduates to contri- 
bute to our columns. It will do you good ; it will 
amuse and instruct your fellow-students. News items 
in and about the college are specially requested, and 
the opinion of students on their college work will be 
always gladly and carefully considered. In past years 
this invitation has not been very numerously responded 
to, and the majority of those who have sent us contri- 
butions have thought themselves obliged to write in 
verse. We are not too proud to accept prose. 



THE LAW FACULTY. 

An issue of the Gazette would scarcely be com- 
plete without some reference to this much debated 
school. All has not yet been said that might be, nor 
indeed, all that ought to be said. So long as needed 
improvements are not made, so long will it be our 
duty to agitate for them. We have, in the past, 
taken our stand firmly and decidedly that McGill’s 
Law Faculty will compare very favourably with any 
other law school in the Province : Ave have quite as 
decidedly expressed our disapproval of the authorities 
resting satisfied with this standard of proficiency. 
Classes meet this year in the same building — most 
uncomfortable and inconvenient quarters. Has there 
been any serious effort made to secure better accom- 
modation ? 

But putting aside this and kindred reforms, dis- 
cussed last year, there is still another defect which 
has been deeply felt, and which must remain no 
longer uncriticised. Its remedy is in the hands of 
the professors themselves. We refer to the method, 
or rather want of method, in the class work. The 
professors are capable, without doubt ; they have too 
little time for their work, certainly, and get no pay 
worth mentioning for that little ; but we cannot shut 
our eyes to the fact, that there is in the entire course 
a want of systematic arrangement. There is no actual 
teaching done. If, as was argued by Dr. Trenholme, 
last year, that the course aimed rather at directing the 
reading of students than at imparting detailed infor- 
mation, it must be evident to all Avho have the slight- 
est knoAvledge of the teacher’s work, that the first and 
greatest requisite to obtain this result would be for the 
professors to outline their year’s work with the utmost 
precision, and to adopt means, as the session advances, 
to ascertain Avhether or not the students have a clear 
understanding of the branch upon Avhich they ought 
to be at that particular time engaged. Nothing of 
this sort is now done. The result is that students, 
who have become confused in the tremendous amount 
of reading which a satisfactory course in law involves, 



look in vain to the lectures to assist them to group 
and systematize their knowledge ; and, eventually, 
are glad to content themselves with scanning old ex- 
amination papers, and cramming isolated facts, to 
secure a “ pass,” totally regardless of the underlying 
principles which connect the whole fabric, a know- 
ledge of Avhich Avill alone make them safe men on 
which to rest the great responsibilities which their 
profession will hereafter involve. 

We must confess we see no reason to be very hope- 
ful for the school ; but we are not a whit less deter- 
mined to do Avhat Ave can toAvards bettering its con- 
dition, and Ave purpose, in future issues, to go more 
fully into the course, and especially into the manner 
in which the lectures are delivered. 



THE LATE MR. J. RALPH MURRAY. 

There probably is not a man connected Avith the 
University, student or professor, Avho will not have 
learned of the death of Mr. Murray Avith profound 
regret. The deceased was Avidely knoAvn throughout 
college circles. He Avas, emphatically, a college man ; 
no enterprise among our students, for the past eight 
or ten years, Avanted his assistance and advice in vain. 
Of a literary turn of mind, he found his most agree- 
able companions among University graduates and 
students ; and among them his influence Avill be long 
felt for good. He did much for the Undergraduates’ 
Literary Society during his course in Arts ; he wrought 
hard for the Graduates’ Society, and assisted very 
materially in infusing that neAv life and vigour into 
its meetings which have marked its recent history ; he 
was one of the organizers of the University Club, and 
a regular attendant at the meetings of the University 
Literary Society. In all these institutions he was a 
leader among his felloAvs ; of urbane and polished 
manners, of great good humour, and an agreeable dis- 
position, his influence was deeply felt and seldom 
resented. In folio Aving out his convictions, he was 
not apt to regard any movement as to Avhether it was 
popular or not, and may possibly have made some 
enemies by his earnest advocacy of his vieAVs. But 
even those Avho differed from him were at all times 
ready to admit that it was the measure and not the 
man to Avhom they were opposed. “ He that hath no 
friend and no enemy is one of the vulgar, and with- 
out talents, power, or energy,” says Lavater. Mr. 
Murray had hosts of friends, and not an enemy Avho 
will not equally with us deplore his loss. 

This paper is under a deep debt of gratitude to him. 
For years one of our assistant editors, in ’85 and ’86 
our Editor-in-chief, our columns were always enriched 
by contributions from his facile pen. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



We bow in sorrow to the mysterious dispensation 
of Divine Providence, which has thus early in life, 
before life was well begun, deprived McGill of one 
ol her most brilliant sons. 



We direct attention to Mr. Macaulay’s card in this 
issue of the Gazette. Mr. Macaulay is a graduate of 
Edinburgh University, a fine classical and mathemati- 
cal scholar, and a very successful teacher in the High 
School of this city. He comes highly recommended 
from Edinburgh, and his work here for the past year 
more than justifies that recommendation. In opening 
the classes advertised, his aim is to assist students now 
pursuing their course, either in Arts or Science, in 
Montreal, and especially to prepare men for the 
entrance examination into all the different professional 
examinations. We can highly recommend him to all 
who may need his assistance. 



Poetry. 



WHAT DOES IT MAKE ? 

I'm all alone in the house, m’amie, 

And I sit at my window case 
In the soft twilight 
Of a summer night, 

While my thoughts fly over the sea 
To thee, 

And I long to behold thy face. 

Ah ! the world grows dark for us both, my dear, 
Though not yet have we reached our prime, 

We have loved and lost. 

And find, to our cost, 

That our love dies not at a tear, 

Or sneer, 

But will live till the end of time. 

Yet satisfied love is not love, heaven knows, 

Love will ever exceed its let. 

Though the loved one yield. 

In the heart concealed 

A longing that gives no repose 
There glows— 

Truest love is three-fourths regret- 

So what does it make if we’ve lost, m’amie, 

Since we know that if we had won 
For its longings sake, 

Still the heart must ache ? 

Let us laugh at woe, let us be 
Heart free, 

And but lovers of flowers and sun. 

Montreal. _ Arthur Weir. 

Hontributions. 



A COUNTRY BOY. 



[Written for the University Gazette.] 



By Niiiil V. Erius. 



CHAPTER I. 



“ Which shall it be, the laurel crown, 

Of lonesome paths the goal ; 

Or her, in whose great eyes and brown, 
He sees an angel soul ? ” 



His work about the farm was done for the day, 
and Peter Simson hurried into the house to change 
his rough clothes for his Sunday best. It was about 
seven o’clock. The cows had been driven back to 



pasture by Ben, the enfant terrible of the family, the 
chickens had mounted their roosts and shoved each 
other lazily along, duckling sleepily, and the air had 
that peculiar yellow glare that indicates autumn and 
the restfulness that accompanies harvest-tide. 

Peter was soon striding along the country road 
under the poplars and elms, and through the pasture 
into the maple grove. A bird still sung in a tree-top, 
and in the hedge of gnarled roots there was the scent 
of honey. The grove was not more than half a mile 
in depth, and after treading its mossy verdure under 
foot, Peter once more emerged into the open. The 
sun had just sunk directly ahead of him, and its rays 
still flashed skyward. 

Not very far from the grove stood a little village 
on the banks of a winding river, in whose waters a 
few cows were standing knee-deep. To one of the 
cottages in the village Peter directed his way. 

In front of the door there was a well, boxed in, 
and with the long arm of its well-pole extended over 
it. Peter had evidently intended entering the house, 
but he stopped at the well. Nor can we blame him. 
Bending over it, slowly raising the filled bucket from 
its cool depths, was a girl of about seventeen. Her 
back was turned to Peter, and he made no noise as he 
stood and looked at her. The maiden is shy, reader, 
but let us get behind Peter’s broad shoulders and 
stare at her to our heart’s content. She is no giantess 
— would come about up to Peter’s shoulder, one would 
judge — but her shoulders are straight, and embowered 
in her hair — 

“ Its color like nipt beech-leaves, tawny brown, 

But in the sun a fountain of live gold.” 

Her dress seems a little too good for her to have worn 
it all day. She and Peter appear to have a desire to 
look well this evening. It is of dark red stuff, not 
too close fitting, and short skirted enough to reveal, 
in the position the girl is now in, the turn of a neat 
pair of ankles — evidence of the dainty feet that pro- 
pel the sabots she stands in. 

She had raised the bucket, and rested it a moment 
on the well’s rim before emptying it into the tin pail 
she had placed near it. As she did so she tui’ned 
partly, and saw Peter. 

Dropping the bucket, whose crystal contents gushed 
over the pebbles, she ran towards him. 

“ Oh ! Peter, you startled me. But I’m so glad you 
came. The school teacher is in the house, and wants 
to see you before you go. And, somehow, I expected 
you myself.” 

“ And do you think, Lizzie, I could go away to- 
morrow without a glimpse of you ? ” replied the 
youth. 

“ I don’t see why you should go away at all,” an- 
swered the girl petulantly. If you really cared for 
me you would not leave me for four years like this.” 

“ And would you have me be a farmer all my life 1 ” 
he asked. 

“ Why not? Isn’t your father a farmer, and mine, 
and are they not happy and respected ? I do not see 
why you should want to go to college and leave us all 
alone, while you meet all kinds of bad people and 
heartless girls, who will steal you from us — bohoo ! ” 



6 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



And here she laid her head on Peter’s shoulder 
and cried. 

What would you have done under the circum- 
stances, reader, if you are a man 1 

Well, so did Peter, and though the charm worked 
slowly, and had to be repeated once or twice, it pre- 
vailed at last, and the halo of curls fell back once 
more from the tear-stained face, and sunshine followed 
clouds. 

“ How selfish of mo,” she said, between half-choked 
sobs, “ but you see I am jealous. You are so clever 
and great that you will soon fall into the society of 
cities, and forget all about poor me, a farmer’s 
daughter.” 

“ Lizzie, how can you say that, when you know it 
is for your sake that I am going to college at all ? ” 

“ You think so, Peter, but you are wrong. It is 
ambition, not love. Love keeps hearts at home and 
ambition sends them away.” And here she broke 
down, and it necessitated a vigorous denial on Peter’s 
part, as well as a little more medicine, to bring her 
round. 

“ Just look at the bucket,” she said to Peter, turn- 
ing to the well. “ I’ll have to draw some more water 
now.” 

But she did not, you may be sure of that, with a 
brawny lover standing by. Peter not only drew the 
bucket of water, but he carried the pail into the 
house. 

The kitchen into which the two now entered was 
clean as soap and water could make it. The tins 
shone on the walls, better mirrors far than those in 
the bedrooms. In an old-fashioned fire-place was a 
huge wood stove, polished black, and with its black 
pipe piercing the white-washed chimney. 

The remains of the evening meal were still on the 
pine table : knives with handles of bone, three-tined 
forks, and thick crockery-ware plates were lying 
there among cups and saucers. But gloriously amid 
the commoner objects glistened a jug of maple 
syrup, tawny as the autumnal foliage of the trees it 
came from. Near it was a pat of butter, shaming the 
buttercups, and nestling in green leaves, with bread — 
rich, home-made bread — touched with brown, and not 
bleached with alum, beside it, and the old-fashioned 
brown tea-pot, that the more it was used the better it 
got, lifted its snaky spout above the dishes. 

Lizzie swiftly removed the dishes, and rolling up 
her sleeves, tied on a white apron that protected her 
from head to foot, and began to wash the plates. 
Peter sat on the edge of the table, swinging one leg, 
and keeping up a running commentary on the actions 
of his sweetheart. 

Lizzie, who, like all girls, liked to be continually 
proving her lover, turned to him an instant, while 
wiping a dinner plate, and said : 

“ You’ll find mother and Mr. Forbes in the parlor, 
if you want to see them.” 

“ All right,” replied Peter ; “ of course that’s what 
I came for. I didn’t want to see you, but I can’t get 
away now and leave you alone. It wouldn’t be 
polite.” 

“ It strikes me you won’t think it polite to come 
into the kitchen where the maid is busy when you 



come back from college,” said Lizzie, and there was a 
tone more sorrowful in it than mere badinage would 
cause. 

“ Now, Lizzie,” said Peter, with some show of an- 
noyance, “can you not spare me those hints? ” 

“ Well, I don’t care. It’s real mean of you to go, 
just when winter’s coming on and school begins. 
However can I do fractions when you are gone ? And 
who will take me to the husking and spelling bees ? 
I thought we would have such a nice time this winter, 
and you are going away. Well, I don’t care ! ” 

She tossed her head defiantly as she uttered this 
last sentiment. Womanlike, she really did experi- 
ence both regret and indifference at her lover’s pro- 
jected going. She regretted his going, but if he could 
leave her, she reasoned, she would not care for him, 
and actually convinced herself of the fact for a few 
minutes. 

The work was done, the apron whipped off, and the 
firm, round, sunburned arms were once more covered ; 
and then the two left the kitchen to join the old folks 
in the parlor. 

By the time that Lizzie had finished her work the 
night had closed in. When the two entered the par- 
lor it was in fading twilight, and the three occupants 
were almost indistinguishable. They turned at the 
sound of footsteps, and Mr. Tilton, Lizzie’s father, 
called out to her — 

“ Go get the lamp, lassie. Mr. Forbes can’t see 
himself talk. Where have you been hiding all 
this time ? If Peter was here I could understand 
your being away.” 

“ Peter’s not far off, I reckon,” said Mr, Forbes. 
“ I want to see him particularly to night, so I came 
down here. It was no use crossing the grove to see 
him, when the honey-flowers are on my road. The 
bee is sure to fly to them.” 

If they could only have seen, in the darkness, 
Lizzie’s eloquent blushes and Peter’s shuffling, they 
would have stopped their comments. But they did 
not, and the mother joined in — 

“ If I were Lizzie I would not let him go. What 
kind of husband will he be if she cannot rule him as 
a lover ? I used to twist father round my finger.” 

“ Ay, she did, and does it yet,” chuckled the bluff 
old farmer, “ and I’m none the worse for it.” 

“ Father, father,” broke in Lizzie, “ Peter’s here ; 
do stop teasing.” 

And she fled, leaving poor Peter to face the music 
alone. 

“ So, lad,” said Mr. Forbes, rising, “ you have come 
to say good-bye, eh ! Going into the world to forget 
us and our lowly ways.” 

Peter winced. Why would they persist in saying 
this. 

Just then Lizzie entered with the lamp, still blush- 
ing at the memory of the past few minutes. 

Mr. Forbes reopened the conversation after Lizzie 
had taken up some needlework and seated herself at 
her mother’s side. 

“ I came over,” said Mr. Forbes, “ to ask you to do 
something for me in Montreal, and also to give you a 
few words of advice. With that lassie’s heart to 
shield you, I need not warn you about the tempta- 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



tions you will encounter. But I will say, take care 
whom you make your friends at college. Colleges 
are little worlds, with good, bad, and indifferent 
people in them. You may fall into a good set, and 
leave college almost entirely ignorant of the fact that 
there was a volcano near you. Or you may fall in 
with a had set, and he swallowed up. Never wait 
till examination time to study. Work thoroughly 
throughout the year, and you will not only have re- 
ceived, hut digested, a great mass of information. 
Finally, I know you are not rich, but stint yourself a 
little rather than refuse subscriptions that you have 
satisfied yourself are bona fide institutions of the col- 
lege. I have packed up a number of my books for 
you, which you shall have to-morrow, and if there is 
anything in which I can advise you, either as an old 
McGill man, or as a fellow-mortal, he sure you tell 
me, and you shall have my help and advice. You 
have been my most brilliant pupil ; you are going 
where there are many better than you, partly on ac- 
count of training, partly because nature was even 
more generous with them ; and you will, doubtless, 
suffer defeat and feel shame. But study yourself. 
There is always one department in which you will be 
master. You may not know it for some time, but 
you will learn it in time, and then make that your 
life-work. Now for my own matter. I want you to 
hunt up Mr. James, in the city, he is an architect, I 
think, and give him this letter. You will do so, will 
you not ? ” 

So saying, Mr. Forbes arose, and, lighting his pipe, 
buttoned up his coat to face the journey home. He 
was a character in the village of Prankville, a man of 
brilliant parts, whose ambition had burned itself out 
in youth, and who was now content to teach school 
in a clap-board house in a bosky dell, with a frail 
clematis climbing into the window. He had chosen 
the site of the school himself. The board wanted it 
in the heart of the village, but he had peculiar ideas 
on teaching, and bluntly said they would have to get 
another teacher if he was not allowed his own way. 

“ Children,” he said, “ learn a hundred times more 
from Nature than from books. Books are only sub- 
stitutes for eyes, crutches for those who cannot travel 
alone. I want to let my pupils see the glory of 
nature and study her. I will not teach them to tear 
flowers to pieces to get at their fragrance, though 
some one must. But 1 want them to see the bee 
carry pollen from one plant to another on its body, to 
watch the habits of the birds, to mark how the stream 
sculptures the landscape. I want them to know every 
tree by its Avood and its leaves, to knoAV its haunts 
and its companions. Then I am ready to teach them 
fractions and Latin.” 

The people shook their heads at this, but the salary 
was small, and the man so well recommended, that 
they determined to try him. 

This was six years before the commencement of 
this story. Mr. Forbes had had plenty of time to try 
his experiment, and had succeeded. His pupils did 
not cease their studies after school was out. They 
had had eyes before, now they kneAV how to use them. 
They had had ears, but they were deaf. Now they 
heard and understood. Self-reliant, robust, observ- 



ant, this is what he had made them ; and though some 
old fogies still shook their heads — that they might 
say, “ I told you so,” should anything go wrong the 
village as a whole was well satisfied. 

The moon had been rising since sunset, and was 
now well up in the sky ; not very brilliant, lioAvever, 
but bright enough to reveal the road with clearness. 
Just as Mr. Forbes left the house, he called to Peter 
to join him in a short walk up the road. 

“ I’ll send him back in five minutes, Miss Lizzie,’ 
he said, laughingly, to that young lady, as she opened 
the door for him. “ I have something to say to him 
that I had forgotten, and I dare not turn back on 
account of its being unlucky.” 

Peter came, someAvhat reluctantly, and attended 
Mr. Forbes along the country road. His companion 
was silent for a short distance, and Peter had almost 
determined to ask him what he had to say, when he 
turned and said — 

“ Peter, I am almost sorry I ever advised you to go 
to college.” 

“ Why ! ” asked Peter, in astonishment. “ Is it 
because you think I will not succeed ? ” 

“ It is success that I fear most, my boy,” replied his 
teacher, solemnly. 

Peter was silent. He felt that something was com- 
ing, and half guessed what it would be. 

Mr. Forbes spoke again. 

“Are you plighted to Lizzie, Peter? Nay, don’t be 
angry with me. It is not curiosity that prompts this 
question. Tell me, are you engaged ? ” 

“No, sir, but she has my handkerchief.” 

“ Has your handkerchief ! What do you mean ? ” 

“ Well, when a felloAA wants to keep company with 
a girl, he gives her a handkerchief, and, if she is will- 
ing, she takes it. I thought you knew that, Mr. 
Forhes.” 

“No, Peter, I did not. You must remember that I 
am an old man, and not much consulted in love affairs. 
But I am glad it has gone as far as that. It is equiva- 
lent to an engagement, is it not ? ” 

“ Oh ! no sir. She can give it back Avhenever she 
likes, and end it all.” 

“And do you think she will ever send it back ?” 

“ No, I don’t think so ; and 1 shall never Avant it.” 
“ I hope not, Peter ; but that is just Avhat I fear.” 
Peter made a gesture of annoyance. 

“ You all speak as if I Avere going to forget and 
forsake you. Do you think so ill of me as to dream 
I could leave the girl I love, for any inducement?” 
“ I fear so, my lad. Y ou do not know Avhat is before 
you You will never leave her Avhile you love her ; 
but I fear you will soon forget her among your city 
friends. Oh ! Peter, if the day ever comes when you 
are ashamed of her and deny her, she will die. That 
is Avhat 1 fear. And I repeat, I am sorry I ever per- 
suaded you to go from us, and I pray you will not 
meet Avith too great success. 

“ If ever I forget her, may success desert me,” ex- 
claimed Peter, hotly. “ She has been my guiding star, 
and the further I go, still further Avill she lead me.” 
“Let us hope so,” said Mr. Forbes, gently. “ But 
promise me this. Before you go, place that ring you 
wear upon her finger.” 



8 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1887 . 



“ That I will, if she will have it,” was Peter’s reply, 
and he and the teacher parted. 

Peter entered the little farm-house by the well much 
more thoughtful than he had left it. While he looked 
upon his contemplated course at college as merely an 
addition to his life, it worried him to find his old and 
experienced friends considering it a change of life. 
Why all this seriousness? Did anyone doubt his love 
for Lizzie, or fear it was not lasting ? He knew better, 
and to convince them of their error he resolved to seal 
his betrothal that night, if Lizzie would have him, 
which he had no reason to doubt. Lizzie looked up 
at him with a smile as he entered, and, walking towards 
her, he seated himself on a low stool at her side. Her 
parents were busy reading the weekly papers, and 
apparently paid no attention to them, though a close 
observer might have seen a twinkle in Mr. Tilton’s 
eyes, due perhaps to the lamp light. 

“ You will write to me, Lizzie, will you not? ” asked 
Peter in a low tone. 

“If you wish it, Peter,” was the reply. “ I will 
answer your letters, but there will not be much news 
in mine for you.” 

“ You can at least tell me that I am not forgotten. 
That alone will be welcome to me in my bachelor 
quarters.” 

“ The hearts that stay at home never forget, Peter ; 
it is those who go away that forget ” 

Lizzie bent her head over her work. She could not 
see to sew, for tears were filling her eyes. She strug- 
gled manfully with them, and they got no further than 
the lashes. 

Meanwhile old Mr. Tilton had laid down his paper, 
and taken off his spectacles to wipe them. As he did 
so, he cast a glance at the young couple, and the 
twinkle left his eyes. Then in a moment the cloud 
cleared, and he began making eccentric gestures to his 
wife, who was busy rocking and reading. 

He winked inordinately, he screwed his mouth 
round, he waved his hands surreptitiously, and finally 
succeeded in attracting her attention. 

She said : 

“Well, of all the fools I ever saw, you are the big- 
gest. What do you want now ? Can’t you speak out, 
instead of making such outlandish grimaces ? ” 

“’Sh !” said Mr. Tilton, pointing over his shoulder 
with his thumb at the young people. And then he 
began his grimaces and winking again. Mrs. Tilton 
looked at him, first with annoyance, then amusement, 
then indecision, and finally with a smiling assent to 
whatever he had been telling her. 

She got up and slipped out of the room. A moment 
later she called Lizzie, who rose and obeyed her. 

Mrs. Tilton soon returned and, speaking to Peter, 
said : — 

“ I’m sending Liz. to sister Sarah’s on an errand, 
Peter. She won’t be long gone.” 

“ Mayn’t I go with her ? ” asked Peter. “ The road 
is lonely and she may be timid.” 

“ That’s for her to say,” replied her mother. 

At this instant Lizzie entered, dressed ready for the 
journey. She stopped in the doorway to tie the 
knot of her bonnet, throwing back her hair as she did 
so. 



“ May I go with you, Lizzie ? ” said Peter. 

“ If you like.” 

After the door Avas closed on them, Mr. Tilton turn- 
ed to his wife with the remark : 

“ There, let them get the parting over under the 
moon. What right have we to be poking our noses in 
our young people’s love affairs, beyond seeing that their 

choice is wise ? ” . 

“ Is it wise, father? ” asked the old lady. “ He is 
so ambitious, you know. Well, well, every one must 
risk something, and I think he will be true to her. 

Silently the two lovers strolled along the country 
road. It was not necessary to speak. Each other’s 
presence was enough, and the scene so charming that 
the eye could feed on it and save the brain from thought. 
It was autumn, as we have said, and the stubble stood 
in the fields. Along one portion of their path they 
skirted the river. Aspens whispered and quivered in 
the night air, and under the faint moonlight the ruins of 
an old stone house stood ghastly pale amid tall weeds 
and golden rods now turning brown. 

It was not until the return journey that Peter spoke. 
With a lover’s keen perception, he knew that an inter- 
rupted conversation, or one taking place when there 
was some other duty to do, was not suited for making 
a declaration in. He knew that the walk home might 
be as slow as they liked, but to catch Lizzie’s aunt still 
up needed haste. 

As they drew near the turn of the road by the 
river bank, he stooped to Lizzie and said : 

“ Let us rest here a moment, Liz., you are tired.” 

She obeyed him unquestioningly. 

“ Lizzie,” he continued, “are you really afraid I shall 
forget you ? ” 

“ I — I don’t know, Peter.” 

Peter seated himself beside his sweetheart and took 
her hand in his. 

“ Now Lizzie, do you think it is quite fair to treat 
me in this way ? Have I, even for a moment, been 
untrue during the past year ? Have I not worked to 
get this chance to go to college in order to lift you out 
of your place as a farmer’s daughter? You are fit for 
any position, my dear girl. There need be no fear of 
my deserting you, for high as I may lift myself in the 
world, you will always be ready to step up beside me. 
Come, get that idea out of your pretty head. Does 
my love need proof? I don’t think so, Liz., but yours 
does. Let me put this on your finger, that when I am 
far away among my books, you can see it and think of 
me.” 

And he drew his ring off and slipped it on her finger. 

“ There, darling, keep it ; and may the thought of it 
give you happiness, as it will me when we are apart.” 

An instant Lizzie sat twisting the ring round on her 
finger, and then she slowly drew it off and held it out 
towards him. 

“ No, Peter, I will not take it. Let us think as well 
as we can of one another in the future. No ring can 
strengthen our love, and I will not bind you to me, 
when, perhaps, your heart will turn false. Was it for 
this Mr. Forbes called you away with him? No, no, 
Peter, be warned in time. Give up these ambitions 
of yours, and stay here where you were born and bred, 
and I will be your wife, gladly. But go away and 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



leave me, and we shall never meet the same again, I 
know it ! I know it ! ” 

Her voice, which had begun falteringly and low, 
rose as she spoke until, as she uttered these last words, 
it rang like a silver trumpet through the night air. 

“ Lizzie,” said Peter sadly, “ you were the last one 
whom I expected to wish to keep me back in life.” 

The girl shuddered. She did not read the selfishness 
that was so apparent in his words. Love seldom does 
see selfishness, or, if it does, it shuts its eyes and will not 
look. She saw only the mote in her own eye, and 
shivered as she thought she detected selfishness in 
herself. 

Selfish! when she was giving up her very life 
for him ! Without him the world were dark, and 
the bird songs silenced ; yet she had had the courage 
to renounce all claims to him. And he called her 
selfish! You wonder how she could believe him! 
Tell, then, why a maiden will lay her hand in yours 
trustingly, and walk out into the world’s battle with 
you, afar from mother’s love or father’s watchful care. 

“ I never want to keep you back, Peter, in anything 
you wish. But you cannot live a double life. It is 
not I, but fate that gives you your choice. What do 
I care what you are or may be, if you but love me. 
My life is in the country. I love the green fields and 
the maple groves. I am happy milking the cows or 
working in the dairy. I like the quiet of my life, and 
if I had to change it for the city, I would be ground 
under foot like a flower a child drops in the crowded 
thoroughfare. And if you leave us, you will never be 
a country lad again. The city will dazzle you with its 
glare, and your lungs will lose the taste of the wind 
that kisses the flowers in the school-house dell. No, 
Peter, leave us if you must, but do not ask me to keep 
your ring. You may be false to me and never hear a 
word of complaint, but I will not have you false to 
your own honor and your plighted troth.” 

Yes, Peter, choose between the country lass and the 
city belle, between the sun and the gaslight, the drone 
of bees and the thunder of traffic ! 

You have chosen 1 Replace the ring on your finger, 
then, and lead your sweetheart home. Pray they may 
never reproach you, the one by her absence, the other by 
its presence, in the years that lie between you and eter- 
nity. You have been offered love, and you want fame 
as well. Be wary, lest in the years to come you lose 
the one and find the other turn bitter in the eating. 

(To be continued.) 



THE LOVE OF BOOKS. 

Recently, on the occasion of opening a public 
library at Birmingham, Mr. John Bright, turning aside 
from the thorny highway of politics, strayed for an 
hour in the flowery by-ways of literature. And so 
straying, he fell to discoursing of many things natural 
in such an hour, but all having, more or less, refer- 
ence to a central idea, viz., that one of the most pre- 
cious gifts that God can bestow upon a man is a great 
love of books. Himself an ardent reader, his feeling 
in regard to a library is reverential, and his sense of 
the privilege of having access to it profound. A 
library impresses him at once with solemnity and 



tranquility, while the liberty to consult the books he 
feels to be “something like a personal introduction 
to the great and good men of all past times.” He 
might have added that these men, when thus ap- 
proached, are always, at the best, never indisposed to 
grant an audience even to the humblest, continually 
saying their brightest and wisest things, and not 
offended, however abruptly the interview with them 
may be brought to a close. “ A book,” somebody in 
the last century said, “ is an author in full dress ; he 
receives your worship in his best suit, his new 
wig, and his daintiest ruffles.” Considering who the 
men were, and what their attitude towards us, their 
posterity is, we may well feel grateful for the oppor- 
tunity of consulting them. 

But this sense of obligation can only be strong in 
those who have been blessed with the “great love of 
books,” the value of which John Bright does not over- 
rate : — “ You may have in a house costly pictures and 
costly ornaments, and a great variety of decorations ; 
yet, I would prefer to have one comfortable room 
well stocked with books, to all that you can give me 
in the way of decoration which even the highest art 
can supply.” And this “ love of books” he is right 
in regarding as a heaven-born gift. It is far from 
being given to all. It is possessed in a moderate 
degree by many, but as an absorbing passion it is far 
from general. Very curious it is to note how, in a 
family, one or perhaps two of the children will 
“ take” to their books. The others are, it may be, 
mad for sports or pets. One will take a fierce delight 
in every kind of exercise or trial of strength ; another 
in keeping animals ; a third in mechanics ; and so 
forth. But if the family be large, there is generally 
the bookish boy, who is never so content as when he 
has something to read, and leisure to read it. Some 
parents foolishly discourage this taste, as, in their 
judgment, waste of time, and apt to encourage a 
dreamy instead of a practical tone of mind. They 
are greatly to blame. The boy with the book is likely 
to give them the least trouble, and to cut out for him- 
self the most satisfactory future. For what is he 
doing 1 ? On the threshold of life he is getting an 
insight as to the nature of the world that lies before 
him, and in which he must take his part. Somewhat 
of this he will learn from the converse of those around 
him ; but how little compared with what books can 
tell him ! That must be a very wise and experienced 
companion who is half as well worth listening to as 
is even an indifferent author. Where in his circle 
will he find one who has travelled widely and well, 
exhausting all knowledge of the countries through 
which he has gone, learning everything about their 
history, their physical conformation, their produce, 
and the nature and customs of the people by whom 
they are inhabited 1 From whose lips will he gather 
rudiments of wisdom, or be lulled by the music of 
immortal song 1 What comprehensive mind is likely 
to have stored up and to hold available to his use the 
fruits of all knowledge of material things, the outcome 
of scientific research, or whatsoever results from the 
operation of economic laws'? Books are the store- 
houses of all this treasure, and the boy is fortunate 
who has an instinctive taste for consulting them. 



10 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



To quote John Bright again : — “The youth of life 
is the seed-time of life ; and if there be no seed-sow- 
ing, there wiil certainly be no harvest.” Of course, 
very much that is necessary is accomplished in the 
ordinary routine of education. Every child is taught 
something that will be useful in the future. There 
is an intellectual seed-time for all, but the experience 
of most of us who have travelled the road of life is, 
that we did not get our real education at school. It 
was not given to us. We picked it up for ourselves 
from the study of books or of men. And happy is 
he who has the gift that enables him to take delight 
early in this supplemental study for its own sake. 

But it is not even for the value of what “ a great 
love of books” brings with it, in the shape of intel- 
lectual gains, that it is so great a blessing. 1 should 
be inclined to rate it highest as a resource. 

I like to see that a man has a hobby. It may be a 
very poor one — those around him may regard it with 
contempt. No matter, the end is answered if he gets 
comfort and contentment out of it. He may collect 
insects or postage stamps, or bring the resources of 
science to bear on an improvement in mouse-traps, or 
try to square the circle, or perfect himself in some 
form of athletics — anything, so long as it is an absorb- 
ing delight to him. We give children something to 
amuse them, and to keep them out of mischief. While 
they are amused they are happy, and the house is 
quiet. Well, men are but children of a larger growth, 
and must have something to amuse them. A listless, 
aimless, uninterested human being is of all creatures 
the most to be pitied. Interested in nothing on the 
road, he drags the chain of life wearily along, con- 
scious only of its weight, and of the decrease in his 
dragging power. If he could only find a solace in 
the birds that sing to him ! If he only cared enough 
to heed the beauty of the leaves and grasses that make 
the hedgerow green ? If he were but struck with a 
desire to know something of what goes to the making 
of the road itself ! In any case, he would be blither 
and happier, for intelligent interest would cheat the 
sense of weariness, and yield delight. 

But of all hobbies, the taste for reading is the most 
salutary. It can be indulged under all conditions, 
and is attended with scarcely any drawbacks. The 
study of a science or acquirement of an art is, so to 
speak, conditional. It depends on circumstances 
favourable to its enjoyment. A book can be taken 
up or laid down at any moment, and enjoyed any- 
where. It gives a charm to solitude, yet the pleasure 
of it may be shared by a companion, or even by a 
circle of friends. Reading, too, is, perhaps, alone 
among amusements, attended with absolute profit. 
\\ liile the mind is beguiled it is being improved. 
Delightful in the mere act of acquirement, the im- 
pressions remain to charm the fancy, to enrich the 
conversation, to increase the store of knowledge. I 
cannot conceive the mental status of people, whom I 
now and then meet with, who assure me that they 
do not care about reading, and who manifestly regard 
it as a task and a bore. How barren their minds 
must be ! — like poor chambers, ill-lit and adorned 
with no pictured fancy, no imaginative colour, no 
gilding gleam of wit. The non-reader is like a pris- 



oner in a cell, the grated windows of which command 
the most varied, the most beautiful, and the most fas- 
cinating landscapes in the world — and he never looks 
out ! 

What should we think of a magician who would 
bestow on us the gift of an amulet that had the power 
of transporting us, at a touch, out of ourselves and 
our sordid surroundings, and conveying us whither- 
soever we would — yea, even into the past, or through- 
out the world of dreams 1 It would seem the greatest 
boon humanity could know of. Yet, a book fulfils all 
these conditions. We are sad, and it gives us mirth. 
We are weary, and it stimulates our jaded thoughts. 
Grief is ours, and we get nepenthe ; irritation, and 
the magic leaves, fraught with a subtle balm, bring us 
repose. In the hour of our saddest bereavement we 
seek the unfailing friend, and its utterances calm and 
sustain. In youth the book is a revelation, in middle 
life a delight, and in the solitude of age a companion 
and a solace Is it not true, then, that a taste for 
reading is the most desirable taste that a man can ac- 
quire 1 and is not Mr. Bright justified in his impres- 
sion that “ there is no blessing that can be given to 
an artizan’s family,” or to any other famil}’ - , for that 
matter, “ greater than a love of books.” 

Most ot us, who have read for pleasure, remember 
the most notable things that the poets and essayists 
have written in praise of books. There is, if my 
memory is not at fault, a famous passage in The Elder 
Brother ; there are many exquisite passages in which 
they are referred to in Shakespeare, and we all recol- 
lect Southey’s little poem on the Library, which is the 
principal thing by which he is remembered : — 

“ My days'among the dead are passed.” 

An almost forgotten sonnet of Leigh Hunt’s, which 
has been recovered from the Examiner for December 
2nd, 1815, is about as perfect a 14 lines as ever were 
written, showing his appreciation of certain authors. 
What book would Hunt take with him, could he take 
but one 1 He sings : — 

Were I to name, out of the times gone by. 

The poets dearest to me, I should say — 

Pulci for spirits, and a fine, free way ; 

Chaucer for manners, and close, silent eye ; 

Milton for classic taste, and harp strung high ; 

Spenser for luxury, and sweet, sylvan play ; 

Horace for chatting with from day to day ; 

Shakespeare for all, but most society. 

But which take with me, could I take but one ? 

Shakespeare, as long as I was unoppressed 
_ ^ ^ j ^he world’s weight, making sad thoughts intenser : 
.out aid I wish, out of the common run 
To lay a wounded heart in leafy rest, 

And dream of things far off and healing — Spenser.* * 

Of later date, some verses, by Mr. G. P. Lathrop, 

have a happy ring in them, and the concluding lines 
are capital : — 

“ Be they splendid, or tatterdemalion, 

If only you know what they mean by their looks 
You will never find a better battalion 
Of soldiers to serve you than well-tried books.” 



— Quevedo. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



1887 .] 



fflciBill News. 



The venerable Registrar of the University, W. 
Craig Baynes, M.A., died suddenly, at his residence, 
on Sunday last, the 9th inst. 

A few days after lectures were commenced in the 
Arts Faculty, two (freshies it is to be hoped), went 
into the Dean’s office and stated that they could not 
attend the ordinary lectures in such and such a course ; 
but (with great condescension) they were quite willing 
to go to the ladies’ classes ! 

The fact that there are no returns as yet from the 
professors, hinders any more remarks about the “ fair” 
freshies, for one’s eyes may be used in the centre-hall, 
but woe betide the daring intruder beyond the 
Chemistry Room. This year the prophesied hundred 
lady students has become a reality ; so far, some ten 
of the newer arrivals are undergrads, of ’91. As 
usual, the larger number are partials and occasionals, 
which fact seems to be occasioned by the course of 
study pursued in the ladies’ schools. As soon, how- 
ever, as the class-lists are in, those who are interested 
may find the exact numbers, with all other par- 
ticulars. 



Again we are together — Ave Arts-men — and what 
do we see 1 One or two of the ’87’s are left to us in 
the form of Post-grads. The class of ’88 is wonder- 
ing whether the medals will come out of the centre- 
door, or by the side-entrance. The small-pox year, 
that of ’89, is small in number. A goodly proportion 
of last year’s freshies has managed to become the 
Sophomore class. But of the ’91’s, what of them 1 ? 
They have been called “ greener,” “ fresher,” 
“ younger,” “ more mixed,” than any previous. But 
what are they really 1 The Molson Hall may help to 
answer that question. After Christmas there will be 
some half-a-hundred undergrads. While the partials 
are in the usual state of many, varied, and hard to 
find. On the whole, the freshman class in Arts is 
larger than ever before, and surely with such numbers 
it contains some “ stones of high value.” 

The different Faculties have elected their office- 
bearers for the ensuing year, with the following 
result: — 



Law. 

President R. A. Dunton, N.P. 

Vice-President F. Topp, B.A. 

Secretary • .-J- Harvey. 

Representatives of McGill Uni- ) H. A.. Bndden, B.A. 

versity Athletic Association . . \ S. W. Mack. 
Representative Editor of the j ^ Clerk B.A. 
University Gazette ) ’ 



Medicine. 

President W. J. Bradley, B.A , ’88. 

Vice-President C. P. Dewar, ’88 

Secretary D. H. Hubbard, ’88. 

Students’ Editor on Uni- ) w j D e i auey »g8. 
versity Gazette. . . \ 



4th Year President 
3rd “ 

2nd 
1st 

Students’ Editor. 



<< 

a 



u 



4th Year President 
2nd “ 



Arts. 

J. A. McPhail. 

.7 H. Y. Truell. 

P. Davidson. 

J. MacGregor. 

Horace Mason. 

Science. 

M. W. Hopkins. 

P. N. Evans. 



President 

Vice-President. 

Treasurer 

Secretary 



Reading-Room. 



*••• •••• ..«••• 



.. . J. A. McPhail. 

. . ,C. B. Reed. 

. . .A. L. Drummond. 
. . . H . Mason. 



The following is the result of the recent Scholar- 
ship and Exhibition Examinations : — 



Third Year. 



Gibson, W. D. ...Natural Science Scholarship. 



Truell, H Classical and Modern Language Scholarship. 

Dicks, W do. do. do. do. 



Second Year. 

MacDougall, R 

Robertson, A. A 

Nicholls, A. G 



Exhibition. 

do. 

do. 



First Year. 

McGregor, J. M Exhibition. 

Le Rossignol, W do. 

Governor-General’s exemptions from fees for five 
years were awarded to McGregor, Le Rossignol, 
Reeves, and Walsh. 



FLEURS DE LYS. 

A volume of poems under this title is now in course 
of publication by the well-known publishers, Messrs. 
Dawson Bros. The author of the work is Mr. Arthur 
Weir, B. Ap. Sc., one of McGill’s most gifted young 
graduates. The book will, we understand, contain 
about sixty pages on old French Canada, sixty-three 
pages of verses on miscellaneous subjects, and about 
twenty pages of love poems. 

It is to be gotten up in good style, and the well- 
known ability of the author should secure for it a large 
sale. It is a somewhat ambitious effort, and we trust 
that Mr. W eir will be very successful, and that he will 
especially receive a splendid support in his undertaking 
from all McGill men. 



OPENING LECTURE IN ARTS. 

A good deal of satisfaction was expressed when it 
became known that Sir Robert Ball, F.R.S., LL.D., 
would deliver a lecture on “The Earth and Moon : a 
Chapter of Ancient History,” before the members and 
friends of the University. The lecture was given in 
the William Molson Hall, on Friday, 30th Sept., be- 
fore a large and appreciative audience. The Chancel- 
lor was in the chair, and on the platform were the 
Principal, the Deans, and several Professors of the 
Faculties of Medicine, Arts, and Science. 

Sir Robert first insisted on the ancient character of 
his data and the truthfulness of mathematical reason- 
ing when dealing with the past and future. He de- 
monstrated his own excellence as a popular exponent 
of scientific truth, by making clear the most abstruse 
points in astronomy, by the mere aid of a maple leaf 
and improvised globe. He laid special stress on 
the phenomenon of tides, and by a clear process 
showed that their motive power is derived from the 
kinetic energy of the earth, a force which is theoreti- 
cally exhaustible, and really so, because the tides, act- 
ing as a brake upon the earth, it is becoming gradu- 
ally slower in its movement, and in consequence each 
day is longer than the one that precedes it, so that 
we are tending towards the present condition of the 



12 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



moon. He assured his hearers that there was no 
immediate danger to the present dwellers on the 
earth, though he took a somewhat gloomy view of 
the time when our day will equal fifty-seven of the 
twenty-four hours, which are now popularly supposed 
to make up the only true day, when the earth and 
moon will move together as if joined by an invisible 
bond, and when there shall he no more tides. 

There was a time when the earth, a mobile plastic 
body, revolving so swiftly, something under one 
revolution in four hours, that the centrifugal force 
was called into operation, and part of its bulk was 
given off as a satellite, revolving at a rate equal to its 
own — the moon, which is gradually becoming more 
distant in accordance with the third law of motion, 
and is still receding from our view, and losing its 
influence over the earth. In passing, he insisted on 
the importance of the discoveries made by Prof. Asa 
Hall at Washington, of the work done at Harvard, 
Chicago, Baltimore, and at our own observatory. 

In proposing a vote of thanks, Sir Wm. Dawson 
mentioned the lecture as being not one of the least 
important benefits the people of Montreal had derived 
from the visit of the British Association, of which 
Sir Robert was the President. 



THE OPENING OF THE MEDICAL SESSION. 

The opening address to the students in Medicine 
was this year delivered by Sir James Grant, M.D., of 
Ottawa, Monday, Oct. 3rd, 3 p.m. Sir James is a 
graduate of McGill, and takes a deep interest in col- 
lege affairs. Among those present were : — Sir Wm. 
Dawson, principal ; Dr. R. P. Howard, dean ; Dr. 
James Stewart, registrar ; Drs. MacCallum, Ross, Rod- 
dick, Girdwood, Shepherd, Buller, Cameron, Wilkins, 
Mills, MacDonell, Gardner, Rodger, Sutherland, Bell, 
Alio way, Ruttan, Johnson, T. D. Reed, C. E. Cameron, 
R. J. B. Howard, A. W. Gardner, Lafleur, Allan, 
Flagg, E. H. Blackadder; besides the students of the 
various years. The address was short, but very com- 
prehensive, and contained some excellent advice to 
the students, both Primary and Final. Sir James, in 
his address, paid a glowing tribute to some of our 
former professois, men whom, he said, had during 
their lifetime done so much for the Medical Faculty, 
and among those mentioned were Holmes, Stephen- 
son, Sutherland, Drake, Fraser, and Scott, all men who 
had worked hard and earnestly, and under great diffi- 
culties, to make the Medical course of McGill second 
to none on this continent. He also referred in very 
high terms to the late Sir William Logan, who had 
been in his lifetime an earnest friend to the Faculty ; 
and to Sir Wm. Dawson, the present principal, to 
whom, he said, great praise was due for his untiring 
efforts to assist the Medical Faculty in every way 
possible. 

He referred in very eulogistic terms to the mag- 
nanimous jubilee gift of Sir Donald Smith and Sir 
Geo. Stephen, and said that by spending their wealth 
in this way, for the good of suffering humanity, those 
men had made themselves names which would go 
down to posterity. He asked the students to be in 
earnest, and while in college do their best ; and said 



he felt sure anyone who did this would be an honour 
to himself, his country, and his Alma Mater. The 
address was listened to with great interest by all, and 
was followed by loud and prolonged applause. 

Dr. Howard, the chairman, then called on Sir Wm. 
Dawson, who made a few remarks. He said Sir Jas. 
Grant was the first Canadian physician who had been 
knighted as a reward for distinguished research, but 
hoped he was the first of many present who would at 
some future time be so honoured. 

In the evening Sir James was the guest of the 
Faculty at a dinner in the St. James Club. Over 
thirty sat down to dinner, and a very pleasant evening 
was spent. The only guests beside Sir J ames were 
Dr. F. W. Campbell, dean of the Medical Faculty of 
Bishops; Dr. McEachran, principal of the Veterinary 
College ; Dr. Edmondston Charles, late professor of 
midwifery in Calcutta ; and Dr. Rodger. 

The regular work of the session began on Tues- 
day, Oct. 4th. 



Societies. 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

On Saturday, the 24th September last, a regular 
monthly meeting was held, Dr. Stewart in the chair. 
An exceptionally large number of members was pre- 
sent. 

Dr. F. Buller, proposed by Prof. Moyse, seconded 
by Mr. Hall ; and Mr. Dunton, proposed by Mr. 
Burland, seconded by Mr. Brown, were duly elected 
members of the club. 

Moved by Mr. C. J. Doherty, Q.C., and seconded 
by Mr R. J. Elliot : — “ That this club has learned, 
with the most profound regret, of the death of Mr. 
J. Ralph Murray, one of its founders and most zealous 
and active officers ; that the members of the club de- 
sire to express their deep sense of the loss which the 
club has sustained, and their sorrow at the loss of one 
whose distinguished abilities gave promise of his re- 
flecting credit on the University, on the professional 
career on which he was just entering, and whose 
kindly disposition had secured for him the hearty 
friendship of all who knew him.” 

Moved by Mr. J. P. Cooke, and seconded by Mr. 
J. F. Mackie : — “That copies of the above resolution 
be sent to the friends of the late Mr. Murray, and 
handed to the press for publication.” 

The Treasurer being then called upon to give some 
information regarding the financial position, said he 
preferred to postpone a formal statement until a sub- 
sequent meeting ; but that the receipts were sufficient 
to warrant him in saying that the club was now on a 
firm foundation. It only remained with the present 
members to carry on and strengthen the good work so 
well begun by its founders. He urged upon all those 
who had subscribed to the furnishing fund to pay in 
as rapidly as possible, so that the ordinary receipts 
should not, even for the time being, be diverted from 
their natural channel of improving and expandin'* 
the work so well begun. 

There being no further business, the meeting ad- 
journed. 



1887.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



Sporting. 



RUGBY FOOTBALL. 

The McGill University Rugby Football Club have 
commenced practice, and there is little doubt but that 
there will be placed on the field this fall a rattling 
fifteen. 

The team were remarkably successful last season, 
having defeated Toronto University and Queen’s Uni- 
versity amongst others, and ranked with the Ottawa 
College, Britannia, and Montrealers as the four best 
teams in Canada. 

Of last year’s team, Hughes, Drummond, Hender- 
son, Hamilton, MacLean, Dunlop, and Macnutt — all 
good men — are actively playing. But there are some 
decided losses, and May, Kirby, and Palmer will be 
sadly missed. Springle, Robertson, and Macdonnell 
will likely play. Blanchard has an injured finger, 
but will be 0 K in a few days. However, it is hard 
to say what the personnel of the team will be, and 
the committee is on the outlook for new men, and 
will do their level best to fill up vacancies and play 
their strongest fifteen. 

We will discuss the 2nd fifteen in another number. 

We strongly urge all men to turn out and play the 
grand old game of Rugby, which develops every 
manly quality, and not become, as too often observed 
in this College, narrow-chested and morose. 

Looking at the team pictures, it has struck us that 
it has not been Rugby men that have been found at 
the tail-end of their respective years. 



Personals. 



Dr. Ellis, ’87, is in London, Eng. 

Dr. Hurdman, ’85, has also started in Ottawa. 

Dr. Edgar, ’87, is practising in Inverness, Que. 

Dr. Wm. Christie, ’87, is practising in Lachute. 

Dr. Porter, ’87, is practising in Watertown, N.Y. 

Dr. Klock, ’85, has commenced practice in Ottawa. 

Dr. Easton, '87, is practising in Smith’s Falls, Ont. 

Dr. D. J. Scully, ’87, has gone to Dakota to prac- 
tise. 

Dr. Richardson, ’87, is practising in Richmond, 
Ont. 

Dr. A. G. Hall, ’87, is practising in Ormstown, 
Que. 

Dr. A. M. Lafferty, ’87, has gone out West to 
practise. 

Dr. A. D. MacDonald, ’87, is practising in Car- 
leton, N.B. 

Dr. A. L. MacDonald, ’87, is practising in Alex- 
andria, Ont. 

Dr. Evans, ’87, Holmes medalist, is practising in 
Seaforth, Ont. 



Dr. H. Lunam, ’81, of Campbellton, N.B., was 
in town last week. 

Dr. E. P. Williams, '87, is out on the Algoma 
branch of the C.P.R. 

Dr. Harry Grant, ’86, has recently registered at the 
Canadian Office, London. 

Dr. Cowie, ’87, is out in British Columbia, surgeon 
on the C.P.R. construction. 

Dr. Bowen, ’87, has gone South, and commenced 
practice in Knoxville, Tenn. 

Dr. A. W. Gardner, ’87, has settled in the city, 
and is practising in the West-End. 

Dr. Kinloch, ’86, returned from Europe in July, 
and has started practice in the West-End. 

Dr. E. H. P. Blackadder, ’87, is the resident phy- 
sician in the University Maternity Hospital. 

Dr. Allan, ’85, returned from Europe during the 
summer, and has commenced practice on St. Antoine 
street. 

Dr. Flagg, ’87, was in town last week, returning 
from Europe, where he has been for the past six 
months. 

Drs. Lafleur and K. Cameron, ’87, and A. Camp- 
bell, ’86, are resident physicians in Montreal General 
Hospital. 

Dr. A. N. Worthington, ’86, of Sherbrooke, was 
married in September to Miss Cook, of Simcoe, and 
has gone to Europe on a wedding tour. 

Jas. Walsh, B.A., ’87, has turned his thoughts to- 
wards the all-absorbing lucre, and is now to be found 
in the business line at Huntingdon, Que. 

A. R. Johnson, B.A., ’87, has gone to prosecute his 
studies at Cambridge. He has entered for a scholar- 
ship, and his class-mates are awaiting the result. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., was in the city last week, on 
his way to undertake his new duties on the editorial 
staff of the Manitoba Free Press. Good luck, 
Walter ! 

Drs. Birkett and Orton sailed on the SS. “ Sarnia” 
last month on their way to England and Germany. 
Dr. Birkett intends remaining two years and Dr. 
Orton one year. 

C. B. Kingston, B.A., ’87, has deserted his faculty 
for the younger sister, and has commenced the profes- 
sion of a civil engineer. He is at present engaged in 
field work out in British Columbia. 

Several of the men of ’87 are still to be seen in 
town, some of them following up the teaching pro- 
fession, others completing their theological studies. 
J. A. Nicholson, Robt. Johnston, J. P. Gerrie, A. P. 
Solandt, are among the said B. A.’s. 

Just as college opened was announced the sad news 
of the death of Mr. Rowland S. Hill. Mr. Hill 
entered Arts with the class of ’87, after distinguishing 
himself in the Montreal High School. After passing 
the Intermediate Examination with very high stand- 



14 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1887. 



ing, he turned his thoughts towards the professions, 
and entered Medicine. Here he merely had time to 
lay the foundations of a reputation as a very attentive 
student, and hard worker, with bright promise, when 
the painful disease, which finally carried him off, 
began to tell on him. During the last two years Mr. 
Hill was unable to do but the smallest amount of his 
course, and finally, during last session, he had to give 
up work altogether. 



Exchanges. 



The only exchanges that have reached us yet are 
Our School Times, from Londonderry, Ireland, and 
Colby Echo. We shall gladly welcome back our 
accustomed visitors of former years. 

The School Times is a model of its kind; well- 
written, serious, practical articles find a prominent 
place in the journal, school news and gossip are not 
forgotten, while “ Fairy Legends of the County Lon- 
donderry,” and “An Odd Leaf from an Examiner’s 
Note Book,” are both cleverly written and very 
amusing. 



Between the Lectures. 



It is only when in love that the gambler is satisfied 
to hold a small hand. 

If there is really such a thing as a game leg, it must 
be got in the game of foot-ball. 

A red headed student has spent the vacation in 
making a collection of the various fire-escape cata- 
logues, under the impression that they are advertise- 
ments of new devices in hair-dye. 

Willie’s Mistake. — New York boy — “Oh, ma, what 
a funny little narrow belt ! ” 

New York mother — “ That isn’t a belt, Willie. That’s 
the waist to your sister’s new ball dress.” 

Talking Shop. — “You must be a good judge of 
human nature,” said a young lady of a scientific turn 
to a photographer. “ Would you mind telling me 
what you find to be the most common type of men 1 ” 
Tintypes, ma’am,” replied the photographer ; 
“ four for twenty-five.” 

Sure Signs. — “ What makes you think that old 
Moneybags is at last reconciled to his daughter’s 
marriage to young Merritt 1 ” asked Mrs. Cobwigger. 

“ Because,” replied Mr. Cobwigger, “ I saw the old 
man come out in the yard this evening with slippers 
on and tie up the dog.” 

Miss Kane — “ I think my girth has broken, 
Michael.” 

The new groom ( who has learned his trade at 
Delmonico's as a reserve waiter) — “Yis, me leddy 
{modestly); yure chapperroon ’ll soon be wid yez. 
She’s jist risin’ th’ hill wid th’ vhictoria (devil take the 
name !) ” 



Omaha Child. — The lady in the next house is just 
as lovely as she can be. 

New York Child. — She’s no lady. 

“ Indeed she is, too.” 

“No she isn’t. Her pug dog has the same colored 
ribbon on in the afternoon that it wears in the morning. 

To Those who can Wait. — Cousin George — “ I’ve 
a confession to make to you, Grace, something I’ve 
intended to tell you for some time, and ” — 

Grace {who has been patiently waiting on George for 
two years) — “ Oh, George ! this is so sudden ( after a 
sigh), but, go on.” 

George — “Well, I’m — I’m going to be married.” 

“Now children,” said the Sunday school teacher, who 
had been impressing upon the minds of her pupils 
the terrors of future punishment, “ if any of you have 
anything on your minds, any trouble that you would 
like to ask me about, I will gladly tell you all I can.” 

There was no response for some time. At length a 
little fellow on the other end of the bench raised his 
hand and said : — 

“ Teacher, I’ve got a question.” 

“ Well, what is it ? ” 

“ Ef you Avas me, ’an had a stubbed toe, would you 
tie it up in a rag Avith arniker onto it or Avould ye jes 
let it go 1” — Merchant Traveller. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. J. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND niGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2239 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

SPARHAM ROOFING CEMENT. 

:o: 

The only Cement that has stood the test for the past fourteen 
years. All others have proved failures. 

:o: 

CAMPBELL & CO., 

Sole -A-g-ei-its for lvforrtrea.1 a-rrd. 

OFFICE, 309 ST. JAMES STREET. 

D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

Pool and billiard tables, 

IVORY AND COMPOSITION BALLS, 

Tips, Chalk, Plain and Fancy Cues, Billiard Cloths, &c. 

Tables Altered, Repaired, Cut Down, &c. 

1742 Notre Dame Street, MONTREAL. 

Special to the Doctors and S tudents ! 

THE UP-TOWN GENTS’ FINE FURNISHERS. 

Collars and Cuffs, Shirts and Drawers, 
White Shirts made to order. 

SPECIAL terms to the students. 

A. P. GRAHAM & CO., 

2230 St. Catherine Street, - Opposite Queen’s Hall. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

385 337 " St. Street, Montreal. 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 





Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— • ^-Wholesale Manufacturers +— 




Hot Am Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859. 

IHlEisriRTr ZE3. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

bi cycles YT 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot- 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 

Fencing Foils, 

Masks, Ac. 

Also Prizes of all Descriptions. 

Wedding , Christmas and Birthday Presents, Fancy 
Goods , Electro- Elate, &c. 

WAT9QN <2fe FELTOH, 

53 ST. STJLPICE STREET. 





Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 



WXMM 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 



E, A- UERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



-Me PHOTOGRAPHY 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD'S. 

For GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES Sc WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S, 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street . 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
VnF CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

•§! tfull $todk don£tkr\tly oi\ Ski\d, Imported 
©irtdt fron\ tl\e I<ekding Jvlkqiifkrtufei^ 
of tl\e Wortd. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE GEJfUIPfE 

Cook’s Friend 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 21\ & 23 St Antoine Street, MONTREAL. 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 




CHEAP BOOK. STATIONERY, 



AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS <fc SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 



GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 






Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 



Streets. 




Corner 

McGill 

and 

Notre Dame 

Streets. 






FOR 



Overcoats, Suits, and Gents’ Underwear. 

LARGEST STOCK IN CANADA TO SELECT FROM. 



SuitSaelOvercoats Made to Order, American Styles. 

ESPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS.* 1 ^® 



