Vol. VII 



No. 3 



McGILL 




Saturday, December 1st, 1883. 




c o NTENTS : 



Friendship 


* 


_ 


_ 


. 


. 


PACE. 

1 


Sporting News - 












PACE. 

- 6 7 


Editorials - 












- 1 3 


College World 












7-11 


Contributions 












- 3 5 


Between the Lectures 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


11-12 


Correspondence - 


- 










- 5 6 


Personals 












12 




MONTREAL : 

“WITNESS” PRINTING HOUSE. ST. JAMES STREET WEST. 





McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Trenholme, Taylor & Dickson, 
Jidvooaies, jiizovneys, dbo. 



13 HOSPITAL. STRElux, 

MON THEAL. 

N. W. TUNHOLUB, M.A., B.C.L. A D. Taylor. B.A. B.C.L. W. E. DICKSON, B.C.L. 

WM. B. S. REDDY, B.C.L. 






Commissioner for the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario & Manitoba, 

11S ST. JAMES STREET. 

MAGMASTO, HUTGHINSON h WEIR, 

-Hic^DY0C^Eg3ie<. 
Bar-riders, Solicilors, do. 

182 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTE1.3E3AXj. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

OrEEnshields, MgGorkill & Querin, 

ABV ©CATES, 

SwrMerA, Jkkmetj&, Stdmfcw&,$v. 

CHAMBERS: EXCHANGE BANK BUILDING, 

102 St. Frcuxcois J^cuviei^ St., 

1MC01 XI'TI^ES-A.Xji. 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. mcCorkill Edmund Guerin. 

CHARLES CUSHING, B.C.L. 
HERBERT S. HUNTER, B.C.L. 

‘ I 0 * 3 * 3 - |orattpR£ra, &t. 

*w|cJI^RRr^6E-:-IiICK]SI.SBSvI.SpQED^«- 

No. 110 ST. JAMES STREET. 

A- 

IMPORTER AND BINDER, 

71 ST. JAMES ST,, btt T^ A HT“ d MONTREAL 




JOHH HEHDERSOH & CO. 

urrUpf 



288 NOTRE DAME ST. 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 

The “ MoGLIXjIj 7y Ritotoon for sale. 

-McvWM. HILL***- 



nartial Hair Mtmti 






EOOMS -AT - 



"iJn 9 



No. 132 8 St. Catherine Street, 
St. Lawrence Hall, St. James St., 



— AND — 



Exchange Hotel, Point St. Charles. 

Shaving Tickets at Reduced Rates, good at any of above places. 

WM. FARQUHARSON, 



e- ccLa- n-h lla-iTor- 



■*\C 






INTO. 138 ST. PETER STREET, 

BETWEEN ST. JAMES AND CRAIG STREETS, 

MONTREA 



MILITARY UNIFORMS A SPECIALTY. 

gilUGIC/IL IN3TUnjTENTg 

« 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORT 33 D DIIIECT 

— FROM THE— 

LEADING MANUFACTURERS of the WORLD. 

S'* AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN SONS & CO. 

384 ST. JPA VL STREET. 



SPECIAL TERMS TO STUDENTS. 




VOL. VII.] 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 1st, 1883. 



[No. 3. 



SSe&Ikk MKIYEREIMI mZZE&E. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE: 



J. R. Murray, B.A., ’86, Law. 
W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

J. W. Moffat, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

F. McLennan, B.A., ’84, Law. 



H. S. McLennan, ’85, Arts. 
J. Porter, B.A., ’86, Med. 

S. Fortier, ’85, Ap. Sc. 
Wyatt G. Johnston, ’84, Med. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during the College 
Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no 
exception can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany 
a communication. 



FRIENDSHIP. 

When friend to friend hath spoken the farewell, 

And trembled at the thought that ne’er again 
Perchance they two shall meet, — the magic spell 
Of sacred friendship, is it rent in twain ? 

From shore to shore the waves of ocean roll, 

From East to W est the lonely breezes blow, 

And shall not human soul commune with soul — 

Is there no spiritual ebb and flow ? 

Gowan Lea. 

(SdiforiciIsL 

Last year was the first under the new regulations touching 
the course of study of the two final years in Arts. It is too 
early yet fully to estimate the advantages derived from the 
change ; but short as has been the trial of the new rules, it has 
been long enough to prove their wisdom. Now that the senior 
student is allowed to follow the bent of his inclination with 
regard to the line of study which he is to pursue, he takes a 
treater interest in his work and enters into it with a keener 
zest than when he was restricted and hampered in every direc- 
tion, forced to spend the time he would gladly have devoted to 
congenial research in toilsome efforts to master the rudiments of 
a subject in every way distasteful to him. Now, instead of dividing 
his time and labour between a large number of subjects, gaining 
as a reward of his diligence only a smattering of each, he may, 
if an honour student, concentrate his energies upon the mastery 
of one branch of knowledge. But it is not our purpose to laud 
the new regulations ; rather to plead for their extension in a 
more or less modified form to the first and second years. In 
order that at the same time the B. A. degree may not lose any 
of its value, the Matriculation Examination should be made a 
true test of a fair general education. In the first and second 
years the work that is done is more that of a Grammar school 
than of a University. This is admitted even by the upholders 
of the present curriculum; but they justify their position on 
the ground that this work is not done in the schools, and would 
be left untouched, were it not for the general course given in 
the years we speak of. On examining this argument, the 
question at once suggests itself : if the schools are not doing 
the work they should, is it the part of the Universities to step 
down from their plane to remedy the insufficiencies of the 
schools ? If the educational state of the country is weak in one 
part, must the strength of another part be diminished in order 



that the whole may be uniform, or should the weak part be 
strengthened Let us, however, see if the schools are in such a 
bad position as they are sometimes represented to be. To begin 
with our own city, it is only seven years ago since the High 
School course had to be shortened by one year, because the 
pupils of its highest class were actually doing the same work as 
the second year students of McGill. Even now, the pupils in 
the highest class do very much the same work as the first year 
men, and any student from that school is prepared to enter the 
second year, and wastes his time if he does not. Unfortunately 
this is not generally known ; we say unfortunately, because to 
the well prepared student, whether he comes from the Montreal 
High School or any other, the first year, and in some cases the 
second also, affords him so much leisure that, in almost every 
instance, he falls into pernicious habits of careless study, or 
desultory reading, or both, which afterwards he finds great 
difficulty in ridding himself of, if he ever succeeds in doing so 
at all. To return, it is evident from what has been said, that 
the objection to the schools does not apply to this one ; and, as 
competing city schools must keep their standard equal to that 
of the High School, it is clear that the Montreal schools, at any 
rate, are or can easily be placed in a position to prepare stu- 
dents for a purely University course, and it must be borne in 
mind that twenty-five per cent, of the students in the Arts 
faculty come from Montreal schools. Twenty-five per cent, 
more come from the Province of Ontario, and it will certainly 
not be urged that the higher grade schools of that province are 
not in a position to sufficiently prepare students for a Univer- 
sity course. But let us take an example. The Hamilton 
Collegiate Institute presents every year a number of candidates 
to compete in the Associate in Arts examination of this 
University, an examination which is much more than equi- 
valent to the matriculation, and yet these candidates are 
not from the highest, but from the second class of that 
Institute. Again, eight per cent, of the students come from 
the Maritime Provinces, and we would be wronging them, 
did we not acknowledge that these students are perhaps better 
prepared than any who come to this college. They frequently 
enter the second year, and almost invariably take a high place. 
It appears, then, from the above showing, that fifty-eight per 
cent, of the students either come to McGill prepared to begin 
at once a University course, or have within their reach the 
means of so preparing themselves. We now come to the stand- 
by argument of the upholders of the present course of study. 
Forty-two per cent, of the students come from the rural 
districts of this province, and it is alleged that the schools in 
these districts are in no condition, and there appears no imme- 
diate probability of their being raised to a condition, to fully 
prepare students for a University course. Now, while taking 
exception to the sweeping nature of this charge, we are not 
prepared to deny, nor does our argument require it, that the 
present condition of some of our country schools is not such as 
it ought to be, or such as we could wish it to be. But we 
question whether it is not possible to remedy this state of affairs 



•2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1883 . 



One step has already been taken in this direction in the new 
regulations for the granting of Academy diplomas. These 
regulations, as was to be expected, have raised a great outcry from 
interested parties, and much vapid declamation has been 
indulged in concerning them. Leaving aside what may be regard- 
ed as mere clamour, the objections to the rules appear to be two 
— the injustice to present teachers and the want of experience 
and technical knowledge on the part of college-bred teachers. 
These objections are easily disposed of. With regard to 
teachers, as a class, the law of supply and demand applies to 
them, as it does to the members of any other profession or 
trade. At present there is a demand for highly educated men 
as teachers, and those who do not come under this category 
will naturally be set aside, or forced to accept inferior positions. 
Similar things happen every day in other spheres, and we hear 
no cry of injustice. The second objection is evidently specious. 
The men who go through college with the intention of teach- 
ing when they graduate, have, as a rule, been teachers before 
coming to college. The few, who have not, are not in any less 
degree practical, or lacking in technical knowledge than those 
similarly circumstanced who have gone before them ; for at all 
times a University graduate could demand his Academy 
diploma, and until now, there have been no objections made 
against those who did so on the ground of their want of 
experience. To leave this digression, we have said that the 
new regulations are a step in the direction of raising the 
standard of our country schools. Another step will be taken 
when the Arts Faculty cease to do school work in the first two 
years of the course. It is stupid to argue that, if the 
college did not do this work, it would not be done at all. So 
long as it is done in McGill, just so long will there be no 
inducement, no reason for its being done in the schools. This 
was shown by the action of the High School authorities seven 
years ago, which we have before spoken of. But if the course 
in Arts is ever to be a truly University course, a reformation 
must be effected in the matriculation examination. This 
examination at present is a delusion, a mere farce. It is 
much too easy, but easy as it is, it matters not whether the 
student desiring entrance passes it, the obliging Faculty gives 
him two more chances, and he must indeed be a dullard, who 
prepares himself three times for an examination on the same 
subjects and fails every time. This state of affairs is a disgrace 
to the University, and its consequences are seen in the fact that 
men of strong constitution by dint of much cramming some- 
times obtain the degree, whose attainments in ordinary subjects, 
are, to say the least, not very brilliant. The natural result of 
this is a depreciation of the estimation in which the degree is 
held by the general public. At all costs, this state of things 
should be done away with. To raise the standard of the college 
might cause a decrease in the attendance of students for a year 
or two, but it is a mistake to suppose that students, on account 
of the high standard, would go to colleges of a lower grade. 
The Medical Faculty of this University presents a direct con- 
tradiction to this position, for it is as certainly the most largely 
attended Medical School in the Dominion, as it is generally 
acknowledged that its standard is higher than that of any other. 
There is a lack of proper independence shown by the college 
authorities when they put forward, as a plea for maintaining the 
present course, that the attendance of students would fall off, did 
they make it more difficult. Granted, for the sake of argument, 
that this would be the result, the criterion of the success of a 



University is not necessarily the numbers enrolled on its lists. 
Nor would a diminished attendance materially affect the 
finances of this University since the fees are as nearly nominal 
as they can well be. But, after all, the grand argument for a 
more advanced course is to be found in the average of age of the 
various classes. We believe we are justified in saying that the 
average of age is becoming less year by year. The conclusion we 
draw then, is that the time is come when the college authorities 
must raise the standard. Other Universities in this country 
are recognizing the fact that they must progress in order to 
keep up with the times, and McGill must awake to the neces- 
sities of the times, or fall out of the competition between 
colleges in which, for so long, she has held a worthy place. 

The war between Toronto University and the denominational 
colleges is still raging in Ontario. Principal Grant is opposing, 
apparently with success, any further aid being given by the 
Government to Toronto University. The latter demands one 
of two tilings, either that the Government give them a sup- 
plementary grant which will allow them to put the University 
on a proper footing, or else that they give over its management 
to the graduates. If both of these demands are refused, the 
University will be placed in a very anomalous position. It 
cannot attempt, as suggested by Principal Grant, to raise funds 
amongst its friends since it still remains nominally a State 
University under the management of the Government. Those 
who oppose any further money being given to Toronto at 
present, would withdraw their opposition if similar amounts 
were appropriated to their own colleges. This we hope will not 
be done, as the principle of subsidizing denominational institu- 
tions is a most pernicious one. The Principal of Queen’s 
College the other day feebly endeavoured to maintain that that 
college was not denominational, but no one has the slightest 
doubt on that point. It seems that in Canada every sect must 
have its University. This spirit, as the Montreal Witness the 
other day very truly pointed out, leads to our having about half 
a dozen times too many colleges, none of which are properly 
equipped. From the present discussion it must be concluded 
that the day is yet far distant when party spirit in Canada will 
allow of our having a limited number of Universities sufficient 
for the wants of a nation numbering under five millions. 

The question of the admission of women to McGill University 
has been staved off for an indefinite time owing chiefly to the oppo- 
sition offered to the scheme by Principal Dawson. Dr. Dawson 
has promised to make enquiries on the subject in Europe, especi- 
ally at those Universities where co-education is in vogue, and the 
Corporation have determined to await his return before making 
any move. We think this is an eminently wise plan as all that 
can be known upon the subject will then be before the Corpora- 
tion in a reliable form. The step is a most serious one to take 
and will require to be considered well in all its phases. It is 
well known that Dr. Dawson is opposed to the teaching of men 
and women in the same classes, and such an opinion from a 
professor of his experience and authority cannot easily be met. 
He has always been a friend to the higher education of women, 
and for a great number of years has lectured to large classes of 
ladies in this city. He avers that experience leads him to the 
opinion that the same kind of teaching is not suitable to the 
two sexes, and in this we believe him to be perfectly right. A 
lecturer, if he have a class composed of both women and men, 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



will inevitably mould his lectures to suit the women, and a 
change not for the better will be the general result. Principal 
Bernard, of Girton College, Cambridge, also opposes co-educa- 
tion. We print his letter upon this subject to the Toronto 
Globe in another place. He thinks that the mingling of the sexes 
would have a distracting effect not conducive to deep study. At 
the same time he considers that the colleges for women should be 
so situated that the students can have the services of the teachers 
provided for the men students. He says that in Cambridge 
they have so far found no inconvenience from men teaching 
women. This we think contains the solution of the question 
which must be ultimately adopted in the generality of cases. A 
separate college in close proximity to the University, where the 
services of the professors could be obtained, will meet the re- 
quirements for the higher education of women in every case. 
With us there is one great difficulty, namely, the lack of funds 
sufficient to build a separate college of this kind and to increase 
very largely the salaries of the professors and to increase their 
number. It is urged that it would be foolish to sink money in 
building a college for women when sufficient funds for the 
proper equipment of the University are not forthcoming. We 
disagree with this view. It is presumed that there is a great 
call for the higher education of women in Montreal. If there 
is, let a fund be started to found a college for women in affilia- 
tion with McGill. We feel sure that this would not affect the 
donations to McGill itself, but would rather increase the interest 
shown by the public in the University. The Harvard Annex, 
a college of this kind, has been highly successful, and the ladies of 
the executive committee have raised $67,000 towards an endow- 
ment fund. By founding an Annex in McGill, a greater revenue 
would be available for teaching purposes, so that the professors 
would then obtain larger salaries. We consider the present 
salaries inadequate for first-class men, and we think that they 
should be increased on the first opportunity. The number of 
our professors, again, is too small. We should have a professor 
of Political Science and separate professors of Latin and Greek, 
and many others that we could name. The other plan of co- 
education is at best a temporary arrangement, and would only 
be entered into because what we have suggested seems too great 
an undertaking. But the authorities should face the difficulty 
boldly and make the attempt if they feel that they are bound at 
all to provide higher education for women. University College, 
London, is always adduced by those in favour of co-education 
as demonstrating its practicability, but there are many points of 
difficulty in comparing McGill with such a college. The greater 
English Universities favour the other plan. We must be very 
cautious, too, in considering those American colleges where co- 
education is carried on, the results on the whole being very 
doubtful. President Eliot, of Harvard, does not believe that 
young men and women between the age of fifteen and twenty 
are best educated together. President Robinson, of Brown, is 
not ready to favour the introduction of young women into that 
college. President Caldwell, of Yassar, would be glad to see 
the experiment of co-education tried anywhere but at Yassar. 
President Seely, of Amherst, thinks it is not desirable. Thus 
we see that though most people are of opinion that every facility 
for obtaining the highest education should be given to women, 
very many of eminence and experience have grave doubts as to 
the advisability of mixing the sexes. If we cannot at present afford 
to build a college for women, let us wait until it is possible to do 
so, and in the meantime educate our women in separate classes. 



We publish in this issue a letter from our umpire in the late 
Inter-University football match, complaining of the tone in 
which our account of that match was written. The writer 
finishes up his letter by saying “ that we have good grounds for 
complaint is true, but the charges might have been made in a 
more friendly spirit.” The account which is referred to was 
written by a correspondent who was present at the match and 
we are quite willing to assume the entire responsibility of it, 
but we most emphatically deny that it was written in anything 
but the most friendly spirit. We published it principally for 
the purpose of giving Toronto University an opportunity of 
answering certain complaints which seemed to us to be very 
well founded. The account was certainly outspoken, but if, as 
the umpire himself acknowledges most of the facts were true, 
we can hardly be blamed for feeling that some explanation was 
necessary. Our correspondent says that a 'wrong decision was 
given in the case of the “ fair catch ” by Smith, and that it is 
true that a fresh man was put on during the game, while he 
does not explain how Duggan came to play on the ’Yarsity 
team. These admissions in the letter appear to us to form a 
complete justification for any soreness of feeling which may seem 
to be exhibited by our account. We feel sure that the kindly 
relations, which have hitherto existed between the two great 
Canadian Universities, will in no way be affected by the discus- 
sion of this matter, but that, on the contrary, the two Univer- 
sities will continue to be drawn closer together. 



It may be interesting to our readers to know that the Sports 
Committee have received a communication from the Telegraph 
Company with reference to the telegram sent by the Committee 
to Toronto University on 27th October. In going from the 
Head office in Toronto to the Yonge street office the name 
Sykes was changed to Lukes. The telegram was delivered at 
the University and regularly signed for, but was returned after 
two days as there was no gentleman of the name Lukes in the 
University. It is a pity that it was not returned sooner as the 
mistake might have been rectified in time. The Company are 
still trying to find out what became of the second telegram sent 
on the 29th October. 



(Sonfribufions. 



Our Magazine Literature. 

Our modern newspaper press, take it altogether, may be 
considered to be in advance of the like literature which was current 
thirty or forty years ago. In some respects its style is not 
improved ; certainly, inelegant Americanisms, and roughly trans- 
planted French and German idioms have lowered the tone of 
the leading articles of some newspapers, and the extra haste 
with which so much has to be written on fugitive topics leads 
to various faults. Still, on the whole, the newspaper, as we 
now find it, is about as good as we can expect it to be in a 
utilitarian age ; it is full of detail, generally accurate, and not 
lacking in life and energy. What it might become in an age 
less pervaded by the spirit of business, and with more time to 
spare for those embellishments which give a finish to literary 
compositions, is another thing. For the present we have, there- 
fore, no special reason to be dissatisfied with our current news- 
papers; they are an efflorescence from the passing hour, and 
suit our requirements well enough, though posterity may think 
lightly of the residuum which survives the crucible of time. 

But what judgment shall we pronounce upon another class of 
literature, of which this era yields an abundant crop, and which, 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



in its influence upon the minds and hearts of the people, may 
be said to surpass the sheet in which so many ephemeral events 
are chronicled, read about, and forgotten ? 

The magazine is an implement of high importance, capable, 
in an age so much given to reading, of exerting a mighty force, 
since it addresses itself to multitudes who have not time, 
inclination, or capacity for entering to any extent upon the 
world of books. And in this respect, also, magazines differ 
markedly from newspapers ; no one, save for reference, turns 
up a newspaper even of a month’s age, while magazines are 
frequently collected into volumes, and establish themselves in 
the library as a marked feature of its contents. Another 
circumstance which has done and is doing much towards the 
wider diffusion of magazine literature, is the facility with 
which, through lending libraries, clubs, and book societies, such 
periodicals can be read without purchasing them. And though 
it is quite true, that to some persons, what is said or asserted in 
a magazine is of comparatively little weight as set against book 
matter, yet it is as true that, with many others, deeper effects 
are produced by magazine than by book literature, from the fact 
that a magazine often influences an individual unconsciously to 
himself, and acts upon his mind at a moment when it is in a 
receptive state, and with the critical faculty dormant or only 
slightly aroused. 

So extensive is our magazine literature at this time, that we 
are accustomed to break it up into sections. We have what we 
call “ high-class ” magazines, and we have others, pretty numer- 
ous, alas ! which, whether we designate them so or not, are 
“ low-class ” enough. Price, size, quality of paper and type 
are open to endless variation ; but passing by these differences, 
we find some religious, some partly religious, partly secular, 
others entirely secular ; we have magazines intended for general 
diffusion, and those intended for a town or neighbourhood ; 
there are magazines for various trades, or other organizations of 
a friendly or necessary sort; and again, magazines chiefly 
dedicated to certain sciences or pursuits. Some of these are so 
aberrant as scarcely to deserve to be entitled “ magazines ” at 
all, or so sober and matter-of-fact that they may with more 
propriety be reckoned as “ journals,” or “ chronicles,” rather 
than magazines. For what is the ideal of a magazine h Its 
contents should contain an abundant variety, ranging from 
“ g ra ve to gay, from lively to severe,” the present and the past 
should be laid under contribution ; and imagination should have 
its full scope, while graver and historical details are not 
neglected. A kind of repertory, in fact, a storehouse of reading, 
containing compositions which would suit different and very 
diverse tastes, though there ought to be pervading the whole a 
species of harmony, so that passing from one article to another 
there should be no strong or unpleasant revulsion of feeling 
The idea that such a performance in literature was, as it were, 
a storehouse or treasury, led to the application thereto of a 
name applied to a place where provisions or necessary articles 
were stored up, kept in a repository, whence they were readily 
available for the use of men, and yet in a position of security. 
By one of those changes which come over a word, “ magazine,” 
as designating a place, has become almost restricted °to one 
devoted either to the manufacture of warlike materials, or to 
the storing of them. May not this be also, in a qualified sense, 
only too true of our modern printed magazine, that too univer- 
sally it will be found ministering harm rather than nutriment, 
supplying material which stirs up war amongst the passions of 
man, and wounds the susceptible spiritual nature, instead of 
giving it strength and a wholesome stimulus ? For we could 
easily pick out a score of our magazines, magazines too in high 
repute, and saleable, which are not at all more likely to help 
to usher in the Golden Age than are cartridges and cannon- 
balls ! L tility is not at present the prominent idea which 
serves as the guiding-star to the bulk of contributors, editors, 
and publishers connected with our magazines. 

In a paper which does not pretend to go into the subject at 
all exhaustively, it would obviously be unadvisable to single out 
by name any one or more, and apply either praise or blame to 
these, since it would be scarcely possible to form a correct esti- 
mate of them, unless their position in our magazine literature 



could be fully determined by contrasting or comparing them 
with their competitors or compeers. To one not inclined to be 
hypercritical or censorious it is far more agreeable to commend 
than to censure ; yet honesty will not, we believe, admit of a 
favourable judgment being passed upon our magazine literature 
as a whole. A literature which is to lead a nation onward, to 
mould a people into nobler forms of life, and supply 
aspirations and high hopes to the hesitating, the timid, and the 
erring, must needs be in advance of the age in which it acts its 
part. Magazines, therefore, which are too truly the mere repre- 
sentations of the age which has developed them, may seem to 
satisfy the exigencies of the hour yet fail to fulfil what should 
be their purpose, and it is a wonder if they pass away without 
actual mischief. 

The reader who has accompanied us thus far will now be pre- 
pared to receive our assertion that, looking at modern magazines 
with no jaundiced eye, it is sufficiently obvious to a capable 
critic that, viewing them as a whole, we cannot regard them as 
adequate agencies, considering how very largely their sphere has 
widened in these recent decades. There are many conspicuous, 
nay, illustrious exceptions, but the revolution which has swept 
over our literature, and has made, not patrons and publishers, 
but the million-voiced and ever-esurient public, the real stay of 
writers for the press, has not failed to operate injuriously upon 
current magazine literature. To write so as to please the public 
taste has become a seeming necessity to the great host of contri- 
butors to magazines, and when that public taste becomes 
depraved, there are few indeed who will set themselves to the 
Quixotic enterprise of endeavouring to change it. Far more 
agreeable, as well as profitable, is it to furnish a literary aliment 
which just suits that taste, false though it be, and, indeed, a 
considerable number of authors are not satisfied to run alongside 
the public in their race after the morbid and extravagant in 
literature, but foreseeing whither the public movement 
tends, they rush ahead of it, and lead the people far- 
ther astray. That this has been so with what is called the 
sensational fiction of our day is unquestionable, and the only 
hope which remains to us is, that from the well-known pheno- 
menon of reaction, readers will ultimately be first sated and then 
disgusted with the luxurious and highly flavoured fare which is 
served up to them in the pages of those magazines which have 
the popularity of the hour. The responsibilities resting upon 
those who pander to a diseased appetite in literature are very 
great, and it appears to us that the veriest Grub-street scribe who, 
in the last century, concocted lampoons and scurrilous pamphlets, 
was quite as good (or as bad) a man as the sensational novelist, 
whose pen rolls him off more dollars in a month than the petty 
scribbler could raise in a year by harder work. But the one is 
flattered and favoured by the elite of society, only too often, and 
the other, he , why, his career ended mostly in a pauper’s fune- 
ral and a nameless grave. But some will urge, in defence of the 
course pursued by modern novel-writers in magazines and else- 
where, that authors must live ; and as the public seek what is 
hurtful or worthless, and will be supplied somehow, one person 
may as well be the medium of communication as another. This, 
however, suggests to us the well-known retort of Lord Chester- 
field, who, when censuring another writer for a composition 
which was notably feeble, added an observation to the effect that 
this individual had better not handle the pen at all. “ But I 
must live,” exclaimed the criticised person, in an injured tone, 

“ I do not see the necessity of that,” was the reply. A too cut- 
ting rebuke, it may be, and yet if living be a necessity, writing 
is certainly not. An author had better renounce his profession, 
at least in so far as publishing his thoughts goes, and betake 
himself to the most menial of employments, nay, even beg of 
his friends, if he cannot work, than cast off all recollections of 
the pure, the noble, and the good, and give himself up to the 
weaving of a fabric which may be compared to the fatal gift of 
Nessus, and which will cling about him, to his horror, at the 
most dread crisis of his life, poisoned with the sorrows and 
maledictions of those who, though culpable in having sur- 
rendered their minds to the vile and debasing in literature, will 
not cease to curse the instrument which helped to betray them. 

M e have dwelt on this with emphasis, because the position 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



which fiction occupies in our modern magazine literature is 
startling to contemplate ; for though the tide of innovation has 
flowed in by waves which have their rebounds, these have been 
both slight and ineffective ; and the magazines most in favour 
may now be said, on the whole, to be nothing but contrivances 
for the circulation of tales in weekly or monthly portions ; these 
tales being kept in countenance by an addendum of other 
matter, which is vulgarly denominated “ padding”; and that 
not one reader in ten ever troubles to glance at this may be 
safely affirmed. In truth, so excessive has become the demand 
for tales, and so superfluous have ordinary compositions of an 
historical or descriptive cast come to be, that it is expressly 
announced by the editors of some magazines that they will look 
at nothing but fiction ; while others, who do not go quite so far, 
state that they only pay for fiction. It is said, in commerce, that 
when an article is scarce, and therefore valuable in the market, 
it deteriorates, because its adulteration is profitable ; in litera- 
ture, especially of the imaginative sort, the case is just the 
reverse ; when there is a plethora, the quality becomes inferior ; 
for owing to the difficulty of competing with those who can 
improvise rapidly, those whose inventive powers are not prolific 
resort to various expedients in order to turn out the quantity of 
literary matter which is required in a limited time. Therefore 
we find that, in addition to defects of a moral character which 
attach to the stories to be found in not a few current magazines, 
there are numerous faults of style which are avoidable, and due 
to haste or carelessness. A host of modern novels and novelettes, 
also, are only rechauffes of those which have had their run in 
other days, the incidents being transposed, or differently draped. 

Indeed, it is surprising — and yet again not surprising — how 
much of old literary matter of every description is dished Tip by 
the ingenious and the unscrupulous, and presented for editorial 
inspection ; so that the office of an editor, as years go on, is 
rendered more and more arduous, through the need there is of 
carefully ascertaining, not the merits of a composition merely, 
but also its originality. With all caution mishaps must some- 
times occur, and palpable repetitions get into print ; fortunately, 
however, the bulk of, readers, especially readers of magazines, 
have short memories. 

The predominance of fiction in most modern magazines, and 
the peculiarities of that species or form of it which is largely 
approved, affects injuriously both the matter and manner of the 
portion which is assigned to other prose compositions. With 
a view to make these readable, and not too great a contrast to 
the sensational tale, the essay, the biographical or historical 
sketch, is worked up in as exciting and startling a manner as 
possible ; the object being, very frequently, not to say a thing 
in the best and clearest way, with such elegance or rhetorical 
adornment as is admissible and practicable, but to produce an 
impression of a pleasurable nature on the reader’s mind. The 
author throughout is thinking not so much of his subject as of 
himself, and of those who are to read or criticise what he writes. 

Compare the prose and verse contents of the best periodicals 
which had a respectable circulation amongst families in the 
days of our grandfathers, and a dozen of modern highly esti- 
mated magazines, in purity and correctness of style and diction 
the former will be found superior ; though of course here and 
there amongst the pages of the latter, passages may be selected 
of manifest superiority to the literature of the past. 

If modern editors of magazines were to devote themselves to 
the work of selecting and revising, with a conviction that the 
prevailing taste in literature is a bad one, and needs to be 
changed, they might achieve much, for it is through them, as 
well as through public opinion, that a revolution must be 
wrought. Quevedo. 

The Classics in England. 

It is significant that the attacks on the policy of allowing the 
study of Latin and Greek to occupy the first place in school 
and college courses are daily growing bolder in England. 
Lord Coleridge, who eloquently defended the study of the 
dead languages, both as mental training and literary culture, to 
the students of Yale the other day, made a rather unfortunate 
blunder (for his own argument), when he cited John Bright in 



connection with classical education. The great English orator, has 
self-confessedly derived the finish and brilliancy of his eloquence 
from a profound study of the English classics. But it is not 
alone from the mistakes of the supporters of classics, that the 
advocates of educational progress are gaining ground, for some 
of the ablest men in England have been dealing some effective 
blows against a system which, although in its decay, is dying 
hard. At the inaugural dinner of the Bristol University 
College Club lately, Sir J ohn Lubbock gave expression to his 
views, those of a representative British scientist, upon the ever 
varying and ever interesting problem of education. He said 
that the first public school commission, which sat in 1861, to 
enquire into the condition of the great public schools, reported 
with regret that too little time was devoted to modern languages 
and that science was practically excluded altogether. Later 
commissions reported to the same effect, and one in 1875 said 
that the omission of these subjects from the training of the 
upper and middle classes was “little less than a national 
misfortune.” The result of these commissions was the adop- 
tion of natural science in school examinations to the extent of 
not less than one-tenth, and not more than one-fourth, accord- 
ing to the discretion of the governing body. Many then hoped 
that science and modern languages would receive a fair share of 
attention. But according to a Parliamentary return in 1879, 
the reverse proved the case. No doubt since then, some pro- 
gress had been gained. He estimated that now the time was 
taken up about as follows : — taking 40 to 42 as about the num- 
ber of hours devoted to study, two hours a week for science, 
three to modern languages, four to geography, and mathematics, 
leaving thirty for Latin and Greek. He feared they might still 
echo the complaint of Milton in his letter to Master Harttil 
more than two centuries ago, “We do amiss to spend seven or 
eight years merely in scraping together as much miserable Latin 
and Greek as might be learnt otherwise easily and delightfully 
in one year.” Why could not six hours be devoted to mathe- 
matics, six to science, six to modern languages and history, and 
two to geography. There would still be left more than twenty 
hours for Latin and Greek, and if a boy could not learn Latin 
and Greek in twenty hours a week, spread over ten years, he 
would certainly never learn them at all. Sir John Lubbock 
went on to show that Englishmen had especial need to be 
familiar with modern languages and science, on account of 
England’s vast foreign financial and commercial enterprises. 
He showed how unsatisfactory the present system was when 
it resulted in a young man being able to pass creditably, even 
with distinction, through school and college, and yet find him- 
self unable to speak any language but his own, and ignorant 
of any branch of science, though perhaps proficient in mathe- 
matics, Latin and Greek. Such an education, they might say 
with Locke, fitted a man for the University rather than the 
world. Of course, Sir John Lubbock’s statistics are his own, 
and may be taken exception to, but his views will be widely 
read, and reflected upon too, for his claims upon the attention 
of his countrymen are great, as he has lent a fascination to the 
pursuit of science, which no other Englishman of his day has 
done. D u mbied y kes. 



(Soiu-espondence. 



McGill vs. Toronto University. 

To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs : — I have read with some surprise the account of 
the above match in the last number of the University Gazette. 
The tone of the article is not, in my opinion, such as should be 
used towards a sister University, and more especially towards 
the University of Toronto, from whose hands we have always 
received the utmost kindness and hospitality. As umpire for 
McGill during the match, I must take exception to some 
statements made in the article, which imply that the referee 
was unduly biassed in favour of the ’Varsity team. His rulings 
were, in many cases, in favour of McGill, and the only time °I 
believe his decision wrong, was in the case of the “ fair catch ” 
made by A. AY. Smith, in the last half of the game. Here, 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



unfortunately, lie did not see the catch made, and after consider- 
able disputing on both sides gave it against us. He did not, 
however, “ allow himself to be dictated to by the (\arsity) 
umpire,” as stated in the article, but gave his decision on the 
ground that Smith had started to run ; which he averred was 
indicated by the two steps taken after the mark was made. I 
held that this should have been given in our favour, as the rule 
states, “ a fair catch is a catch made direct from a kick pro- 
vided the catcher makes a mark with his heel at the spot where 
he has made the catch.” (Ride 31, Ontario Rugby Union). 
In this instance the mark was made, and the mere fact that 
Smith involuntarily over-stepped the mark should not have had 
the effect of defeating our claim. With regard to the dispute 
about the calling of time at the end of the game, the statement 
in the article is entirely erroneous. It says, “ Again our men 
had to suffer for the ’Varsity umpire’s decision, sanctioned by 
the referee, which was that time had been called while Hamil- 
ton was taking his kick, and this in spite of the fact that 
they stated that there was one minute more when Hamilton 
went to take the kick, and the rule which says that time cannot 
be called until the ball is dead.” Now, unfortunately for the 
truth of the statement I have just quoted, it happened that the 
referee had nothing whatever to do with the calling of time. 
As the umpires ^vere both perfectly agreed as to when it should 
be called, it was quite unnecessary to ask the referee’s opinion 
on the subject. Both the ’Varsity umpire and myself were 
keeping the time, and it was up shortly after the second fair 
catch made by Smith, and while the ball was being placed for 
the kick. As soon as the ball crossed the goal line, both of the 
umpires instantly called time, and although our men, unwilling 
to believe themselves defeated, rushed in and touched the ball 
down, it could not, of course, be counted in the game. In 
calling time just after the kick was made, we acted . according 
to the rule specially made to meet a case of this kind which 
says, “ Neither half time nor no side shall be called until the 
ball is fairly held or goes out of play, and in the case of a try 
or fair catch , the kick at goal only shall be allowed . (Rule 

60, Ontario Rugby Union). As we were obliged to have a 
Toronto man as referee I think we were more fortunate than 
otherwise in getting Mr. Morphy. When his name was men- 
tioned I at once agreed to his acting in that capacity, and with 
the exception of his decision on the first “ fair catch,” no one 
could take the slightest objection to his rulings. The statement 
made in the article that a fresh man was put on during the 
game, contrary to the express agreement that only the one who 
was playing before should play, is, I believe, perfectly true, 
and wholly unjustifiable on the part of the ’Varsity captain. 
It was certainly due to our men that all agreements between the 
captains should be strictly adhered to. It is also stated in your 
article, that the men who went off the ’Varsity team on account 
of being hurt, were unaccountably able to “ rush around and 
cheer for their side,” and that there is a doubt as to whether 
they “ could in every instance tell where the sore spot was.” 
This appears to be a slight exaggeration ; I am able to state that 
in, at least, two cases the injuries were severe enough to prevent 
the playerfrom taking further part in the match. With regard to 
the playing of our men, I must say that I never saw McGill play 
better than in the second, nor worse than in the first three-quarters 
of the match. Another five minutes would, I believe, have made 
the difference between defeat and victory, and had our men had 
a few lessons in “ quick scrimmaging,” they would have been a 
match, and more than a match, for their opponents. I think 
that it is only due to Toronto University that some of the 
statements in our account of the match, should not pass without 
comment. That we have had good grounds for complaint is true, 
but the charges might have been made in a more friendly spirit. 

Yours truly, 

Frederick Hague. 

Montreal, Nov. 19th, 1883. 



To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette. 

Dear Sirs : — I would like through your paper to suggest to 
the college authorities the improvement which would be effected 
by having a crossing of some kind placed across the road just in 



front of the Medical Building. Now that the rainy season is 
well commenced, the amount of mud carried thence through 
the Medical Building is not trifling, not to mention the discom- 
fort when the snow has commenced to get slushy in the spring. 

Another suggestion is to the editors of this paper, although 
probably too late for use this year it might be available next. 
It is that the Theological Colleges in connection with the 
college be represented on its staff, thus increasing its circulation 
and probably enabling the editors to issue once a week. 

Montreal, Nov. 10, ’83 Observer. 

[The suggestion of “ Observer ” with regard to the crossing 
deserves the consideration of the authorities. The other matter 
should be brought before the students of the University at 
their general meeting. — Eds.] 



.-Sporfincj 



The Columbia College foot-ball team failed to appear at 
Princeton for its game with the team of that College, and has 
accordingly forfeited its place in the Inter-Collegiate Assocation. 

During the seven years that the Rugby game has been played 
Harvard has never put the ball over Yale’s cross bar and Prince- 
ton has only touched the ball behind Yale’s goal once and secured 
one goal from the field. 

The Yale boat crew have adopted a new stroke called the 
“ Cooke Stroke,” which differs from the stroke of last year in 
being a long sweep with a slow recovery. In the former stroke, 
which was a short sweep with a quick recovery, the legs and back 
were used in a quick, jerky manner, which is now superseded 
by not using the legs at all, the back being kept rigid until the 
completion of the stroke. 

The Canadian national game is not being wholly neglected in 
England. The other day a team of Londoners went to Cam- 
bridge and played the University team. According to the 
London Times , the game at the outset was fairly equal, but 
Cambridge soon asserted its superiority, and the Londoners, 
without gaining anything, were defeated by six goals. 

At the meeting of the McGill College Hockey Club, held in 
the reading room on the 21st Nov., the following officers were 
elected : President, Mr. J. Roy ; secretary-treasurer, Mr. S. 

Ogilvie; committee, Messrs. Craven and Kerry. Moved by 
Mr. H. Hamilton, that this committee be instructed to draw up 
a new constitution to be presented to a meeting to be held 
later on. Carried. 

Football. — Review of the Season. 

On Saturday the 10th, the McGill team played the last 
match game of the season. Let us recall for a moment the 
five games of the five successive weeks. The first was with 
the Britannias on our own grounds. It was like that of last 
year in that our fellows were beaten ; but unlike in this, that 
the game was played and ended, and is now looked back upon 
with the best of good feeling on both sides. The second, was 
with the Montrealers, for the Montreal Challenge Cup. We 
were all anxious to get it, and McGill played hard ; the Mon- 
trealers were bound to keep it, and played hard also. The 
Montrealers had been practising steadily for six weeks, while 
our fellows had been in shape about two, and the better form 
won the day. This match was played on the Montreal ground ; 
the ground, however, was not all ground, for some of it was 
water. In the second three-quarters our fellows had to defend 
the goal in the swamp ; some not being able to swim, or else 
being loth to entrust themselves to the cold watery deep, they 
played under difficulty. Thus the game was lost by two goals. 

The next was on our grounds with the Kingston Cadets. 
The most remarkable thing about this pleasant match, was the 
fine scrimmage of the Cadets, formed of seven men, with arms 
interlocked in the shape of a wedge; This ended in a draw in 
favor of McGill. 

On Saturday, Nov. 3rd, was played the annual match 
between the teams of McGill and Toronto Universities. 
Except in one particular, the game was played by the rules of 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



1883.] 



the Ontario Rugby Union ; and as it was the first time that 
McGill had met this sort of play, they were naturally placed at 
some disadvantage. These rules are certainly an improvement 
on the old, and reflect much credit on the hard work of those 
who drew them up. The counting by points is much more 
satisfactory ; the rule enforcing the immediate putting down of 
the ball when “ held,” makes a livelier game, and prevents that 
enormous waste of strength and, alas ! often temper, in the 
old-fashioned scrimmage. This rule has been in force for many 
years in the Old Country. Our committee gave their cordial 
approval to these rules, except to that which provided that three 
of the opponents’ hands should be on the ball before ‘‘held,” 
instead of two, as formerly. This match then was played. 
Such a full and reliable report was given in the last number, 
that nothing more need be said. There, too, will be found the 
complaints expressed, which even the most cool-headed of the 
team urged again and again. One of the results of this annual 
match, so far, has been to draw the two great Universities of 
Canada closer together, and it is to be hoped that in future 
years these contests will be as pleasant as the two first and 
pleasanter than the last. 

Nothing daunted by the defeat of October 20th, McGill had 
:sent in another challenge to play the Montrealers for the Cup. 
This, the last match, was decidedly the most satisfactory. To 
those “who didn’t know,” this match was a surprise ; but to 
those who knew that all our fellows needed was team practice, 
it wasn’t. The team-practice of the intervening three weeks 
was shown all through the game ; not only in getting quickly 
to work, but in keeping steady right to the end ; the play 
was firmer and safer, and the players kept well on the ball, and 
supported each other in a way which had before been absent in 
McGill play. In the early part of the season, there was too 
much reckless kicking at the ball when it ought rather to have 
been held. It used to be an old rule in football, never to kick 
at a rolling ball, except under very exceptional circumstances, 
and we think the rule is a good one still. 

As to the team itself, seven were new men. Of these, John- 
son developed wonderfully ; while we cannot speak too highly 
of Powne’s dribbling and tackling and careful play. P. Robert- 
son is fast, and both Ogilvie and Craven promise to make safe 
jhalf-backs. These in common with all our backs are good at 
tackling low, and this is what has made McGill’s defence 
always strong. The old members of the team pla^ ed well , we 
expect them to do so. Hislop, through damages received in the 
first match, was not only unable to carry his share— a large 
;share — of prizes at the sports, but was also prevented from 
playin" in two games, and this tower of strength was sadly 
missed° With this year there go Hamilton, A. W. Smith, 
Hislop, Rogers, C. B. Smith. These are every one strong men, 
and cannot help being missed. The prospects, however, for 
next year are good ; this year there have been more real players 
than ever before, and our second fifteen have shown qualities 
, 0 f pluck and rush which will tell in succeeding years. 

One thing we are needing, and needing very much, is a 
'dressing-room on the ground, fully supplied with baths and 
towels. Another thing, and every year will bring the want, is 
team-practice. This is almost impossible to get, on account of 
the different faculties represented in the team, and the different 
hours at which they are engaged. However, there are no 
lectures from seven to eight in the morning ; let them next 
year do what the Montrealers have done all hall ; turn out tluce 
times a week, for morning practice. Success depends on it. 

Besides the team matches, there have been several class and 
faculty matches, ten or twelve in all. This number should be 
doubled next year. In fact, the writer thinks there should be 
a team in each faculty, so that most of the playing would be 
■“ inter fratre s”— “all in the family of Alma Mater. The 
rivalry this would create would be very helpful to that which 
must always remain the game of McGill, the royal game of 
football. Let those who are doubtful, consider that at present, 
six of the team are Medicals, and there are hosts to draw upon; 
while in Science, every second man plays football. These facts 
assure me that my dream will be realized, not far m ^^ re- 



(Solletje 'TXSorltL 

McGILL. 

Prof. Moyse lias consented to deliver a lecture to the Under- 
graduates Literary Society at its first meeting in January next. 

The annual auction came off in the Reading Room on 17 th 
November, Air. G. C. Wright acting as auctioneer. The prices 
obtained were very fair, though not as good as last year’s. 

The students in all the Faculties of McGill and in Bishop s 
College intend to occupy “the gods” of the Academy at the 
performance of the Montefiore Club on the 3th inst. A good 
time is anticipated. 

College Track. — Besides those whose names appeared in 
the Gazette of Nov. 1, the following gentlemen have subscribed 
one dollar each. Messrs. Alex. Falconer, B.A., F. McLennan, B.A., 
and R. A. E. Greensliields, B. A. 

A LARGE but select body of Meds. were given to understand 
that they received an invitation to a certain theological tea-fight 
not long ago. The welcome they received was not in all 
respects as hearty as they anticipated, but they would like to 
return the hospitalities of the occasion and have extended a 
cordial invitation to the Theologues in re the little supper which 
nightly goes on in the upper story of the Medical College at 
eight p.m. 

The Arts Faculty have promulgated an edict to the effect 
that no notices concerning matters outside the College may be 
posted on the bulletin board without the permission of the 
Principal, or in his absence, of the Faculty, and that all notices 
must be signed. We recommend as a more expeditious plan, 
that a Public Censor be appointed, one of whose duties shall be 
to take charge of the bulletin board. By the time that a notice, 
say for a Students’ Night at the Theatre, has been presented to 
the Faculty, which, by the way, does not meet of tener than once 
a fortnight, and permission obtained for the publication of the 
same, we are afraid its utility would have departed. In making 
a petition for leave to post a notice, we presume that the 
Faculty must be approached through the usual channel, and 
that all the numerous requirements of red-tapeism must be 
satisfied. Probably the Faculty would not object to appoint 
a standing committee of one to superintend these matters and 
thereby lessen the cumbersomeness of the present procedure. 
They would then be placing multum m uno sed non in parvo. 

Undergraduates’ Literary Society. 

On the 16th ult., after Mr. A. W. Gerrie and Mr. Stewart 
had favoured the society with an essay and reading, the question : 

“ Should the Judiciary be Elective,” was discussed by Messrs. 
Macrae and Dolloff for the affirmative and Messrs. F. Pedley 
and McQuat for the negative. This debate was a very amusing 
one, two of the speeches being decidedly unique in their 
naivete and unconscious humour. One of the speakers dis- 
tinguished himself by his reckless handling of well-known facts 
of history. A debating society always presents a temptation to 
sacrifice accuracy to effect ; but we hope that instances in 
which this temptation proves too strong for the virtue of the 
speakers, will be as rare in the future meetings of the society 
as they have been in the past. An observation which would 
apply to the whole debate is that the subject was dealt with in 
a very superficial manner. As we pointed out in our last issue, 
this has always been the case when the question for discussion 
is one with which all have a slight acquaintance from their 
newspaper reading. 

On Friday, the 23rd, an essay and a selection from Shakes- 
peare were read by Messrs. Unsworth and Topp, after which the 
question, whether monopolies have proved advantageous to 
the development of Canada, was debated by Messrs. Wright, 
Chalmers and Solandt for the affirmative, and Messrs. Calder, 
Mackay and J. W. Pedley for the negative. The former speakers 
deserve credit for preparation, A vexatious circumstance was 
the absence of all the speakers appointed on the negative side, 
and the thanks of the society are due to the gentlemen whom 
we have named for volunteering to carry on the discussion. The 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



problem the society has now to face is, what is to he done when 
members refuse to take part in the programmes without ad- 
vancing any reason for their refusal ? We suggest that they be 
expelled from the society. 

Gastronomic. 

Messrs. G. A. Graham and Jas. L. Addison were sent as 
delegates to represent McGill ; the former to the annual dinner 
of Trinity Medical School, Toronto, and the latter to that of 
Queen’s College, Medical School, Kingston. 

McGill Medical Undergraduates Annual Dinner . — In spite of 
the strange and awful name, which this great college event 
is at present laboring under, we confidently expect that this din- 
ner will surpass even that of last year, which is saying not a 
little. 

After the usual numerous and stormy meetings, which appear 
to be the normal method of transacting any business whether 
small or great, a small but boisterous opposition, consisting of 
some men who wished to have the old footing dinner with its 
attendant distinction of crockery and morning headache ; — of 
more men who objected to dinners in general either from strong 
principle or weak digestion, and who, therefore, saw quite suffi- 
cient reason for doing anything in moderation to clog the wheels 
of this particular dinner ; — of more again who simply objected 
upon general principles as they might and do object to anything 
else, giving none but the feminine reason in spite of all 
these the dinner is now fairly under way and will be held at 
the Windsor upon December 7th, when all present will aid in 
attempting the difficult part of beating last year’s record. 
Numerous representatives from other colleges and professions 
will go to fraternize with that sociable creature the “Med.” We 
heartily wish that the one, who headed a movement that had 
been gathering force for several years and whose well directed 
exertions and the kind assistance of our faculty were rewarded 
by the successful banquet of last year, could be present. Need 
we say that we refer to Dr. Charles Cameron, now in London. 

The whole affair has been entrusted to the following gentle- 
men than whom no more energetic men and more convivial 
spirits could be chosen. 

Chairman of Dinner, Mr. R. F. Ruttan ; Honorary Seer tary, Dr. Osier. 
Committee : — Chairman, Mr. C. E. Gooding ; Secretary, Mr. L. D. Ross ; 
Faculty Representativs Drs. Ross and Butler ; Graduate Representatives, 
Drs. R. L. McDonnell and Henry ; Third Year Representatives, Messrs. 
Darey and Eberts ; Primary Year Representatives, Messrs. Wishart 
and Worthington ; Freshmen, Messrs. Lafleur, Bowen, Richardson and 
Wilkinson. 

We regret to see that there has been a difficulty this year 
respecting the payment of the annual footing by the Freshmen ; 
this custom has become merely the payment of a necessary sub- 
scription in one instalment upon entering, instead of in small 
sums during the whole course. It is, therefore, not in the least 
an imposition upon the Freshmen. The amount in itself is 
trifling and had not the Freshmen class been stirred up by 
parties otherwise well meaning , but in any case ill-advised 
there would have been no difficulty. The three senior years treated 
the Freshmen upon this occasion in the most polite and con- 
siderate manner possible, merely explaining the matter to them 
at a meeting and inviting discussion upon the subject. After 
this they withdrew, leaving the Freshmen to decide the matter 
by the vote of their own class. It is a significant fact that those 
who had organized the opposition in the Freshmen class were 
conspicuously silent when called upon to defend their rather 
hasty action before the general meeting, yet three gentlemen of 
the first year, and we regret to hear one gentleman of the second 
year also had plenty to say for themselves when the final years 
had withdrawn. 

We are happy to state that the meeting decided to pay the 
footing, and let us now hope that after a storm will come a 
calm. In a school where the freshmen are so little interfered 
with and so politely treated as they are, it is a pity that they 
should be led by misrepresentation into attempting to shirk a 
necessary tax, for their own benefit as well as that of the 
others, which the men of all preceeding years making one allow- 
ance for idiosyncrasy have cheerfully paid. 



McGill Medical Society. 

At the last meeting on the 17th of November Mr. Renner 
read a paper upon “ Tumors of the Breast,” citing a number of 
cases he had studied in the hospital. Dr. R. J. B. Howard 
added greatly to the interest of the evening, by exhibiting a 
series of microscopic slides illustrating nearly every variety of 
breast tumors. Two specimens of hemorrhage into the pincar- 
dinne were shewn by the pathologist and remarks were made 
upon the cases by Drs. Ross and Osier. Mr. Addison reported 
an obscure but interesting case, which he had witnessed during 
the summer. 

University Literary Society. 

At the usual weekly meeting held on the 16th November, 
Mr. Doherty presided. Mr. W. C. Davie was elected a mem- 
ber of the Society. The election of speakers for the Public 
Debate then took place. The following were chosen : — Messrs. 
Smith, McGoun, Cross and R. Greenshields. The question for 
the evening, viz.: “ Should the existence of National Societies 

in Canada be encouraged ?” was decided in the negative. The 
speakers were, for the affirmative, Messrs. P. McKenzie and 
R. Greenshields ; for the negative, Messrs. F. Hague and J. R. 
Murray. Mr. Oughtred also said a few words in favour of the 
affirmative. It was moved by Mr. J. R. Murray, seconded by 
Mr. McGoun, that the Council be instructed to take measures 
or a visit to this city of Mr. Matthew Arnold, and the deliveryf 
by him of a lecture, under the auspices of the Society. 

On Friday, 23rd Nov., a report was made by the speakers 
chosen for the Public Debate. With the consent of the Soci- 
ety, they wished to substitute for a regular debate a discussion 
on Charles Dickens, each speaker to review a different phase of 
his writings, such as their pathos, their teaching power, and so 
forth. Mr. Greenshields explained to the meeting his reasons 
for not wishing to take part in the public meeting, and 
it was decided to limit the number of speakers to three. Mr. 
Cross, seconded by Mr. Ritchie, proposed that the meeting 
should be private instead of public. This was rightly ruled 
out of order by the President. The original motion was put 
to the meeting and resulted in a tie. A re-count having been 
called for, the report was carried. The Corresponding Secretary 
reported that he had written in regard to the delivery of a 
lecture by Mr. Matthew Arnold, and received answer that steps 
had already been taken and arrangements almost completed for 
that gentleman’s visit to this city. Mr. Lyman then read an 
exhaustive essay on u Anglo-American Treaties and their 
Disastrous Effects on Canada.” The chosen speakers were 
Messrs. Doherty and Mackie, who were followed by Messrs. 
Boodle, Smith and McGoun. 

Faculty of Law. 

An interesting commercial point came up for discussion in 
the Moot Court last Friday before Prof. Davidson. Plaintiff, 
the holder of the following bill of exchange, sought to charge 
the drawer, drawee and endorsers as jointly and severally liable 
to him thereon : 

“ Montreal, 21st January, 1883. 

“ Pay to order of C. two months after the date hereof the sum of fiv^ 
“ hundred dollars and charge to account of 

“A. 

“ To B., Quebec.” 

Endorsed “ Pay D.” (Signed C.) 

“ -D.” 

Plaintiff alleged demand for payment and protest for non- 
payment on third day of grace, of which notice was given to all 
parties, contending that in a bill payable a certain time after 
date, presentment for acceptance was unnecessary under Art. 
2290, C.C. ; and further that plaintiff was the legal holder as 
the special endorsement by the payee was not sufficient to re- 
strict the payment to D. The defendants pleaded that true it 
is that in a bill payable after date presentment for acceptance 
and for payment need not be separate, but when dishonored the 
bill should have been protested for non-acceptance and had been 
wrongly protested for non-payment. That the Code recognizes 
the right of a payee to stop the negotiability of a bill (Art. CC. 
2258) ; that the above endorsement had always been held a 



1883.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY CAZETTE. 



9 



sufficient restriction, and that consequently plaintiff was not the 
legal holder entitled to receive the contents of the bill and pay- 
ment to him had been rightly refused. Prof. Davidson took 
the case en delibere and will render judgment next Friday, the 
20th instant. 

Professor Hutchinson presided at the Moot Court Sitting, 
on Thursday, the 29th November, at 4 p.m. 

Case : — A seizure issues before judgment and the goods of 
the defendant are seized thereunder, and an official guardian 
placed in charge. 

The employees of the defendant remove the goods while 
under seizure. The plaintiff causes a rule to issue against the 
employees for contempt of court. 

The defendant answers: 1. The rule should have issued at 

the instance of the guardian. 2. The rule should have issued 
against the defendant not against his agents. Question : Should 
the rule be made absolute ? 

For the plaintiff, Mr. F. S. McLennan and Mr. Duffet ; for 
the defendant, Mr. J. Rogers and Mr. A. W. Smith. 

Prof. Trenholme will preside at the Moot Court on Monday 
next, 3 inst., at 4 p.m. 

A meeting of the Graduates' Society was held on Saturday 
last. 

General. 

Smith College for women has at present 259 students. 

Phillips Exeter Academy has a student who boards himself 
on fourteen cents a day. 

The library of Wesleyan University is to be opened to 
students on Sunday evenings. 

Mr. Matthew Arnold has been asked by the Alma Mater 
Society of Queen's College to lecture there. 

The Ottawa graduates of Toronto University are talking of 
organizing. There are about twenty-five of them in that city. 

Trinity College, at Hartford, has just secured a map of 
America published at Madrid in 1522, supposed to have been 
made from Columbus's ideas. 

Dakota is already to have a college. It is to be established 
by the Presbyterians at Jamestown, and the city is to give 
$10,000 and valuable lands toward the endowment of the 
institution. 

One professor in Edinburgh University receives a salary of 
$16,000 a year ; five others get each $10,000. The salary of 
the Latin professor in Glasgow University is $11,000. Another 
Latin teacher in the same institution receives $10,000. 

The next meeting of the inter-state commission on federal 
aid to education will be held in Washington when the congres- 
sional session opens. It will be remembered that this commis- 
sion has prepared a bill asking for the sum of sixty millions of 
■dollars for educational purposes. — Ex. 

The Toronto University College Literary Society is about to 
establish a course of lectures by eminent men on popular ques- 
tions during the academic year. The ' Varsity suggests that 
Matthew Arnold, who is soon to visit Toronto, be secured to 
deliver a lecture under the auspices of the society. 

Professor Mackinnon, the newly-elected Professor of Gaelic 
in Edinburgh University, was given a complimentary banquet on 
November 7th. The chairman, Rev. Dr. Norman Macleod, said 
that Prof. Mackinnon was their first professor of Celtic langu- 
age and literature, for in that connection they were behind both 
England and Ireland. 

Sir George Broke Middleton has announced his intention 
of subscribing $2,500 to Queen Elizabeth’s Grammar School, 
at Ipswich, England, for the purpose of constructing a swim- 
ming bath, stipulating that the building shall in some way 
■commemorate the famous duel between the frigates Chesapeake 
and Shannon, on June 1st, 1813. 

Miss Alice Gardner, a distinguished student of Newnham 
Hall, Cambridge, and author of the article on “ The Emperor 
Julian's View of Christianity,” in the September number of 
Macmillan's Magazine , has been elected out of twenty candi- 



dates Professor of History in Bedford College, London, in 
succession to Mr. Bass Mullinger. — Ex. 

The annual convention of New England colleges was held 
on Nov. 14 and 15 at Boston University. Ten colleges, Har- 
vard, Yale, Wesleyan, Williams, Amherst, Brown, Tufts, 
Dartmouth, Trinity and Boston University, were respectively 
represented by their presidents and one professor. The subject 
for discussion was, “ The Place of Modern Languages in the 
College Curriculum.” — Ex. 

The last report of the Minister of Education of Ontario, 
reveals the following facts concerning head masters of High 
Schools and Collegiate Institutes : — Graduates of Toronto, 47 ; 
Victoria, 18 ; Queen's, 8 ; Albert, 5 ; McGill, 3 : Trinity, 3 ; 
Dublin, 3 ; Aberdeen, 2 ; Queen's (Ireland), 2 ; Glasgow, Mt. 
Alison, N. B., Giessen (Germany), Oxford, and Cambridge, 1 
each ; certificate holders, 8. 

It is likely that the dream of the late John Richard Green, 
the English historian, of an Oxford Historical Society, will be 
shortly fulfilled. A prospectus of the association has been 
issued, from which it appears that the Duke of Albany is to be a 
member of the council. The prospectus gives a brief history of 
Oxford since 912. A number of works bearing on the history of 
Oxford are proposed for publication shortly. 

The New University College for South Wales and Mon- 
mouthshire at Cardiff, was opened on 24th October last, amid 
considerable rejoicing. Lord Aberdare, the president, gave an 
address at the New Hall in Queen’s Chambers, and afterwards 
proceeded to the Collegiate Building with a numerous and 
representative procession, embracing functionaries and deputa- 
tions from all parts of South Wales. Lord Aberdare received 
a gold key, and declared the institution open. 

The Royal Commission of the Scottish Universities, looking 
at examinations from an educational point of view, have 
declared that they “ earnestly deprecate the growing tendency 
to increase their number and to regard the passing of examina- 
tions as the end rather than as a subordinate means of univer- 
sity education,” and they add that “ for all the higher purposes 
of education examinations are at best little better than 
necessary evils.” 

The Rev. Dr. Hamlin, president of Middlebury College, Ver- 
mont, has introduced a novel idea into the college. A set of 
weighing scales has been placed in the college boarding hall, 
and the student boarders are to be weighed monthly. A record 
of their weight each month will be kept, in order to determine 
what effect the college diet has upon them. If this monthly 
weighing could be made to take the place of examinations, the 
students would probably be entirely happy. — Ex. 

Harvard College was named after John Harvard, who, in 
1638, left to the college £779, and a library of over 300 books. 
Williams College was named after Colonel Ephraim Williams, 
a soldier of the old French war. Dartmouth College was- 
named after Lord Dartmouth, who subscribed a large amount, 
and was president of the first board of trustees. Brown Uni- 
versity received its name from Nicholas Brown, who was a 
graduate of the college, went into business, became very 
wealthy, and endowed the college very largely. Bowdoin 
College was named after Governor Bowdoin, of Maine. Yale 
College was named after Elihu Yale, who made very liberal 
donations to the college. — Ex. 

A curious action is pending in the Sheriff’s Court at 
Glasgow. Professor Caird has applied for an injunction to 
restrain a bookseller from publishing a pamphlet entitled, “Aid 
to the Study of Moral Philosophy, especially designed for 
students.” The book is said to be a shorthand report of the 
professor's lectures taken verbatim by some student attending 
them. The lectures were delivered from MS. notes, and Prof. 
Caird is evidently afraid of how they will look in print, for he 
says they are “ ignorantly taken down” and the book will be 
“ misleading.” The Sheriff granted an interim injunction. 
An act passed in William IV’s reign, gives a copyright to 
lectures, but not lectures delivered in a university. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1883 . 



At the last meeting of the trustees of Princeton Theological 
Seminary, President McCosh announced that Mrs. Robert 
Stuart, of new York, had handed over to the college $150,000 
to provide for salaries in the new Department of Philosophy. 
She gives this in memory of her late husband and of his 
deceased brother, Mr. Alexander Stuart. Mr. Alexander 
J ohnson was elected to the Chair of J urisprudence and Political 
Economy, and will commence his duties January 1. The 
following are the studies at present in the Department of 
Philosophy : Psychology, Physiological Psychology, Meta- 

physics, History of Philosophy, Science and Religion, Logic, 
Ethics, Philosophy of History, Political Science, Jurisprudence, 
Political Economy and Special Studies in Art. — American Paper . 

We have received the first number of the V. P. Journal , 
published by the Science Association, Victoria University, 
Cobourg, Ont. In its Salutatory it does not claim to be the 
organ of the undergraduates of any university, and, in fact, can 
hardly be classed as a college paper. It neglects to explain why 
it is called the V. P. Journal . Its primary object is the dis- 
cussion of educational and scientific questions ; but its columns 
are open to all subjects of an interesting character. The fol- 
lowing are the titles of some of its articles : “ University 
Consolidation” ; “Ple.i for Scientific Education” ; “ Poverty of 
the Age,” and “ Oriental Sketches.” It is also its intention to 
start soon a review of scientific and educational works. College 
news receives very little attention. On the whole we must 
congratulate the managers of the V. P. on their work, and, 
although it is something new in college journalism, yet we 
think it will prove a decided success. It is one of the neatest 
of our exchanges in appearance, the selections are good, and the 
articles are short and rather interesting. 

In view of the recent charges of agnosticism levelled against 
University college, President Wilson has resolved that the 
natural science professors shall in turn preside at the Y. M. C. 
A. meetings held in the college, and publicly recant any pre- 
vious professions of unbelief. Professor Ramsay Wright 
occupied the president’s stool at the association’s last meeting, and 
considering the unusualness of his situation, did not do so badly. 

He said that there was no conflict between religion and 
science, because both were in search of truth. One of the 
freshmen, eager to apply his professor’s argument concluded 
that there was no conflict between France and China because 
both were after Annam. 

The public will watch with interest the appearance of Pro- 
fessor Pike on the bench, whose turn is understood to arrive 
next. We should advise professor P. to make his statements 
broad and uncompromising, and to have the president in front 
to sign when he seems about to step over the traces. — Toronto 
World . 

The annual catalogue of Dartmouth College will appear soon. 
It shows two additional professors, fifty-six seniors, forty-seven 
juniors, sixty sophomores, and seventy freshmen ; a total of 233 
— about the same at last year. The Chandler scientific depart- 
ment has one addition to its faculty and a gain of eight 
students, with a total of sixty-eight. The Thayer school^of 
civil engineering gains six in a total of ten, having three men 
in the first class and seven in the second. The agricultural 
college has thirty-nine students and the medical college eighty. 
Two new optional courses have been added in the department 
of physics, one of original experiment and research in magnet- 
ism and electricity, and the other in elective practical work 
with theses. Two new prizes of $40 and $50 are offered, the 
former by S. W. McCall of 74 and W. E. Barrett of ’80 to the 
senior class for the best essay on some subject in political 
economy, “ The advantages of free trade in the United States 
and how it can be most safely attained” being suggested. The 
other prize is offered by C. II. Weed of 72 to the college and 
scientific department for the best essay in advocacy of pro- 
tection. The library has received numerous additions, and now 
contains 61,885 volumes. Sixty-nine scholarships of about 
$70 each are offered to indigent students. Of the 430 students 
244 are from New England and 136 from New Hampshire. 
Nine States outside of New England and three Territories are 
represented. — Ex. 



Principal Bernard, of Girton College, Cambridge, writes to 
The Toronto Globe : “ I have no experience of the co-education 
of the sexes beyond the age of childhood. But I disapprove 
of the idea, as I should expect co-education at the age suitable 
for college life to have a distracting effect on the minds of the 
young women at any rate (I have not considered the subject as 
it regards the young men). I should think it would add other 
excitements to that attendant on the pursuit of knowledge, and 
in my experience I have found that the latter is quite as much 
as the health of most young women will stand. They cannot 
afford to divide their time and strength between learning and 
social interests. I should wish women to have the freest and 
widest opportunities of desire as to their courses of study, to be 
able to take the same courses as the young men take, or others 
if they prefer them. A liberal education is a costly thing. 
We find that the cost to women is very much lessened by their 
colleges being so situated that the women students can have 
the services of the teachers provided for the men students. 
High education must lead to equalization ; you cannot study 
many things deeply. It might well happen that in any given 
number of students there would be only a few either male or 
female for some special branch, and that the teacher of them in 
that subject would have time enough to teach the women. It 
would in such a case be a waste to have two teachers, and the 
double fees must secure a better teacher, Further, library and 
museums might be used in common; lectures of some kinds 
might be attended by both sexes, though I would have small 
classes of one sex only, and still more individual teaching. This 
applies to the pupils only ; we have found so far no inconven- 
ience from men teaching women.” 

In Cambridge there is much merriment over the curious 
methods of initiating Harvard students into the two societies, 
the Hasty Pudding ’ and the “ Pi Eta.” All aspiring young 
men are put through, for two weeks, a series of menial and 
humiliating drudgery and subjection. One New Yorker was 
made to sell papers for a week dressed in pants made of striped 
bed ticking, a swallow-tail coat, and a silk hat. One well- 
dressed young man was made to dash through Harvard Square, 
holding out a long-handled tin dipper and pathetically implor- 
ing, “ Won’t you give me a little something,” at the same time 
devoutly crossing himself. Others are fantastically dressed 
and placarded, and sent on ridiculous errands. Some have to 
assume a peculiar vest whenever they go out, and go out they 
must ; some call at houses and beg a piece of pie ; some are 
sent with notes to young ladies, and are forbidden to smile 
while making the call, and must not leave until the ladies, who 
are apprised by the note of the object of the call, dismiss them ; 
some have their heads bandaged and are carried to a distant 
street and left at a house, appearing to the neighbours who 
obser\ e the farce that a sad calamity has befallen some one; 
some are made to laugh as they run across the grounds and 
through the streets — a sort of sardonic grin ; and some are made 
to black the boots of their fellows. What is the penalty of 
disobedience ? Simply, they do not get in. The doors of the 
“ Hast y Pudding” or of the “Pi Eta” are closed against them 
forever; they must remain in outer darkness. Violence is not 
resorted to in the initiations, which are curious and ingenious- 
methods for making the young men ridiculously obsequious ; 
and when they have been put through I suppose they feel 
greatly exalted . — Christian Union . 

Tiie Presbyterian College Journal has put on a new dress, 
which by the way possesses a dim resemblance to our own. The 
change which has been made is somewhat of an improvement 
and we shall be content if our example has done even this much 
good. We do not wish to exhibit any selfishness. This re- 
minds us that there is an opportune article in the* Journal on 
Selfishness, in which the author, who calls himself Beta, dis- 
cusses in a philosophical strain the cases of a perspiring female 
in a heated railway car, and an eminent divine lounging in a 
drawing-room with his hands in his pockets. There is "also a 
diatribe against smokers. We who now and then indulge in a 
light cigarette when exhausted by our literary labors turned pale 
when we reflected that perhaps in the words of the Journal our 



[1883. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



“ body was becoming saturated with tobacco.” Inimicus fumo 
says that “ everyone knows that medical science declares ( the 
flagrant weed’ to be injurious.” Not so fast Inimicus ; we 
think it depends partly on the constitution and a few 
other circumstances. Bad tobacco is certainly injurious. 
We recommend Inimicus to try a light brand next 
time, it is not so liable to make a beginner sick. “Patro- 
logia” is a poem of considerable merit. Among the other 
articles are “My First Sermon,” “Heart Searching,” “The 
Teacher and Preacher Co-Labourers,” “ Imported Ministers,” 
“ Vexatious Men,” etc. The two last articles are decidedly 
poor, the tone of the latter being hypochondriacal. The Journal 
complains that ministers are imported from the Old Country to 
fill the best positions in Canada. We can fully understand 
that a soreness should be felt on this point, but we can quite as 
fully understand why these ministers are imported. It is quite 
a recognized principle now to purchase where the best value can 
be obtained for one’s money. The French department of the 
paper is very well conducted. The Journal says that we are 
being “ gradually resuscitated.” Many thanks for the compli- 
ment. We were not aware that the resuscitating process was 
still going on. On the whole the Journal is too humdrum and 
theological for a students’ paper, and almost entirely oblivious to 
the charms of style. 

We have received the following : — ’ Varsity , The Atlantis , 
Dickinson Liberal , Harvard Advocate , Dalhousie Gazette , The 
Undergraduate , Queen's College Journal , New York University 
Quarterly , Knox College Monthly , The Argosy , Presbyterian 
College Journal , The University Monthly , Hamilton (Ky.) 
College Month 1 y , and The Wollestook Gazette . 



'^Between the lectures. 



A CHINESE SONG. 

He saw in sight of his house, 

At dusk, as stories tell, 

A woman picking mulberries, 

And he liked her looks right well. 

He struggled out of his chair. 

And began to beckon and call ; 

But she went on picking mulberries, 

Nor looked at him at all. 

“If famine should follow you, 

He would find the harvest in ; 

You think yourself and your mulberries 
Too good for a mandarin.” 

“ I have yellow gold in my store,” 

But she answered sharp and bold — 

“ Be off ! let me pick my mulberries, 

I am bought with no man’s gold.” 

She scratched his face with her nails, 

Till he turned and fled for life ; 

Bor the lady picking mulberries, 

Was his true and virtuous wife. 

Q. S. C. S. 

Is a “ slope ” an organized body ? 

Whex does a man shave with a silver razor ? When he 
cuts off his heirs with a shilling. 

Professor in metaphysics : “ What is the chief boon in the 
life of man?” Absent minded disciple of Darwin : “Baboon.” 
— Dartmouth . 

Mac , it is understood, refused to go on the paper 

because of religious scruples. “ He could not have anything 
to do with the (printer’s) devil.” 

At a Recent Debate. — Speaker : “ You ah — hem ! you 
already know perhaps, I come from the Townships.” Voice 
from the crowd : “ Never mind — that’s all right.” 

Oil sponge-cake, buchurious bread and squill pancakes for 
table delicacies ; and all first-class drug stores have a bake shop 
and lunch room attached to the prescription department. 



“Why,” asked Pat, one day, “ why was Balaam a first-class 
astronomer ?” The other man gave it up, of course. “ Shure,” 
said Pat, “ ’twas because he had no trouble in finding an 
ass to void” — Ex. 

Apropos of the knickerbocker movement, it is reliably stated 
that the garters on Oscar Wilde’s hind legs, are tied in a true- 
lover’s knot. The more the public find out about this young 
man the more sweetly precious he becomes. 

A Scramble took place when the P. C. J. was put in the letter 
rack last week. On asking the Freshie, who managed to get it 
the reason of the excitement, he replied with a long countenance 
that he thought he was going to get an extra copy of the Gazette. 

A Professor, annoyed by a student continually winding at 
a Waterbury watch, was compelled at last to say something 
about the matter. Looking up over the forms, he observed, 
cautiously, “Did ye not hear it? No, ’twas but the wind.” 
He has not been troubled since. — Argosy. 

It is said that a boy came home from school very much ex- 
cited and told his father that he believed all human beings 
were descended from apes, which made the old man so mad 
that lie replied angrily : — “ That may be the case with you, but 
it ain’t with me ; I can tell you that now.” 

There are different ways of getting through College. Some 
shout their way through, some pony through, some fiddle 
through, some taffy through, some “ my-fatlier-is-a-Methodist- 
preacher” their way through, some “ studying-for-tlie-ininistry ” 
their way through, and a few work through. — Ex. 

It is reported that Barnum has made an offer to Oscar Wilde 
for the latter to sit on top of Jumbo and ride in the street 
processions. If, instead of Wilde sitting on the elephant, 
Jumbo were to sit on Wilde, the result would be more satis- 
factory to the people, and it wouldn’t hurt Jumbo much. — Ex. 

It is related that when some friends of Campbell, the author of 
“ Hohenlinden,” were leaving his room after a late supper, one 
of them had the misfortune to fall down a long flight of stairs. 
The poet, alarmed by the noise, opened the door and inquired, 

“ What’s that ? ” “ ’Tis I, sir, rolling rapidly,” was the imme- 

diate response. — University Monthly. 

Professor of Hygiene grinding : “ Mr. Seedy, what means 
would you adopt to improve the air of a room containing a 
minimum amount of oxygen ? 

Mr. Seedy (promptly) : Open the window and let the mini- 
mum out, sir. Tableau. 

The London Academy says that “ a duel took place the 
other day at Pesth between two noblemen, one a son of Count 
Andrassy, which arose out of a quarrel about the truth of 
Darwinism. The supporter of Darwinism, we regret to 
hear, was seriously wounded.” They say his opponent now 
believes in the doctrine of the “survival of the fittest.” — Ex. 

A diner-out who had had more than his share of the wine 
was carefully feeling his way home at night, when he unfortu- 
nately stumbled against the circular railing which surrounded a 
statue. After having gone around it about seven times, the 
hopelessness of his situation flashed upon him, and he sank 
down upon the pavement outside with a despairing shriek : 
“ The scoundrels ! They have shut me in here.” 

A new device for the bothering of lovers was successfully 
“ operated ” in a third-class railway carriage, by a heartless 
young man in Wales the other day. A couple sat on the seat 
before him. The lady was young and modest, and the swain 
wore very large cufts. One arm was thrown carelessly along 
the back of the seat, and upon this the evil-minded person 
behind put some phosphorus. The affectionate performances 
of that cuff when the train was rushing through the kindly 
darkness of the tunnels were beheld by the unfeeling and tit- 
tering occupants of the carriage, whose cruel enjoyment was 
not a little increased by the demure and unconcerned appear- 
ance of the lovers each time the train dashed again into the 
light. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1883. 



The following is an accurate report of the great lightning 
Clinic at the Hospital, by our special correspondent. Fastest 
time on record. 

Scene. — Surgical Ward of the Montreal General Hospital . Enter Clini- 
cal Professor from private ward , 33 J minutes late . attended by House Surgeon. 
Class , who have been standing around in the coi'ridors waiting , follow him in. 

Bed No. 1. — Prof. — “ How are you to-day?” 

Bed No. 2 . — Prof — “ Dr. will dress your leg to-day. I’m in a 

hurry.” 

Bed No. 3 . — Prof. — “ Surgical kidney, distended uretus, and sacculated 
bladder ; common cause of death in old men.” Patient — “ Donnewetter ! 
Ach ! Gott in Himmel !” (Gi'oans.) Prof.— “ Poor old fellow ! Failing 
fast ; rather hard to understand patient. Some cough, I think.” 

Bed No. 4. — Prof. — “ Interesting case, considerable pain ; stricture.” 

Bed No. 5. — (Prof, proceeds to dress a stump , and a few crowd close 
around bed and prevent others from seeing, rest of class disperse in different 
parts of ward. After dressing is finished.) Prof. — “ Mr. A., how did I 
just dress that stump ?” Mr. A., (who was not one of the select few around 
bed), “Iodoform, sir.” Prof.— “ What do you say, Mr. B. ?” Mr. B., 
(on the outskirts of the crowd that had gathered around Prof.), “ Iodoform, I 
think.” Prof. — “ Well, Mr. C., what do you think?” Mr. C. — “ I did 
not see it dressed, sir.” Prof.— “ Do you recollect, Mr. D. ?” Mr. D., 
)amid the titters of the class), “ Iodoform, sir.” And so on down to Mr. X. 
This gentleman wondering how the panacea had happened to fail so many of 
his class-mates in their hour of need, and pi'ompted by the ubiquitous Freshman 
who saw the dressing, answered correctly, “Balsam of Peru.” (Promising 
young surgeon is Mr. X.) 

Bed No. 6. — Prof.- Put out your tongue. You see, gentlemen, the 

patient has had his tongue excised, and consequently is unable to protrude 
it. Do you like beef- tea ?” 

Bed No. 7.— Prof.— “ Case of fracture.” (To House Surgeon. ) “ Can’t 
you get a good hard bed ? These springy beds are no use.” * H.S. — “Only 
kind we have, sir.” Prof.— “This spring is too narrow.” H.S.— “ Only 
one long enough in Hospital.” 

.Bed No. 8. — Prof. — “ Some inflammatory products are exuding from 
this wound. Put on simple dressing.” H S. — “ Yes, sir.” 

Exit Professor followed by class. Time occupied, 17 $ minutes. Thus are 
the disciples of jEsculapius trained in the way they should go. 

N.B. — It is understood from one of “those who know” that 
the Professor will have an “ At Hospital” early in December. 
Lunch with coffee and cigars in the waiting-room of the 
M. G. II. at 1 p,m. At 1.35 sharp a “ very interesting case” in 
AY ard — will be discussed. Invitations are to be issued to the 
Final Class only. 



QPevscmals. 



C. M. Gordon, M.D. ’81, is practising at Aylwin, Que. 

Dr. A. McK. Cattanach, 82, is practising his profession in 
Michigan. 

Mr. Harcourt J. Bull, B. A., ’80, gold medallist in philosophy, 
is studying law in Detroit. 

Drs. Lome Campbell, ’82, and Charles Cameron, ’83, are 
studying at University College, London. 

J. J. E. Maher, M.D. ’81, has been appointed one of the 
District Dispensary Physicians in New York. 

R. F. Smith, B. Ap. Sc. ’83, is draughtsman for the Bergen 
Chemical Company at New Brighton, Staten Island. 

The Marquis of Uguccioni, Mr. Buntin’s son-in-law, is taking 
some special courses of study in engineering in the college. 

T. Drummond, B. Ap. Sc. ’82, has returned lately to 
the city from the ^orth-west. He was in charge of a party of 
surveyors. J 

J. B Lawford, M.D. 78, M. R. C. S., Eng., has been an- 
pointed House Surgeon at the Royal London Ophthalmic 
Hospital, Moorfields. 

J. Burland, ’82, has returned from England. The Montreal 
Microscopical Society have unanimously appointed him their 
Assistant-Secretary. 

Hamilton Allen, M.D. ’72, paid a visit to Montreal in 
October. He is one of a large number of prosperous Canadian 
doctors in the Western States. 

Phil loster, B. Ap. Sc. ’82, has just returned to the city for 
the winter, from one of the Rocky Mountain sections of the 
Canadian Pacific Railway* where he has been engaged on the 
engineering staff of the road. 

John Lrodie, M.D. 77, of Honolulu, has returned for a 
short visit to his friends. He gives an excellent report of the 
Island, where he has prospered during the past three years, as did 
his predecessors and friends, Drs. Yineberg and Miner. 



Gentlemen^ H aberda shery ! 

S. CARS LEY’S, 

393, 395, 397, 399 Notre Dame Street. 



UNDERCLOTHING ! 

SCOTCH ! CANADIAN ! ENGLISH ! 

Gentlemen’s Winter Underclothing in all the best makes at lowest prices. 

Si. Carsloy’s. 



HALF HOSE. 

GENTLEMEN’S WOOLLEN HALF-HOSE ! 

GENLEM, N’S CASHMERE HALF-HOSE ! 

COMPLETE STOCK OF WI TER HALF-HOSE! 

Si. Carsloy’s. 



CARDIGAN JACKETS ! 



Gentlemen’s Brown and Black Cardigan Jackets, with and without 
sleeves. 



Si. Carsloy’s. 



GLOVES ! 

MEN’S KID GLOVES, lined or unlined ! 

MEN’S BUCK GLOVES, lined or unlined ! 

MEN’S CLOTH GLOVES, lined or unlined ! CAItSI.EY’S. 



MEN'S SHOULDER BRACES 1 

MEN'S ELASTIC SUSPENDERS! 



N.B.— The entrance to S. CARSLEY S MEN’S HABERDASHERY 
DEPARTMENT is 399 NOTRE DAME STREET, just opposite the 
Glasgow Drug Hall. 



INVITATION ! 

Gentlemen are respectfully invited to examine our Goods and compare 
our prices with other stores. 



S. CARSLEY’S, 

5 93, 395, 397, 399 Notre Dame Street. 



UDML WEiEflsrMlT HDEBdJdD MJWTIEW 2 



PHOTOGRAPHS by ELECTRIC LIGHT 



PHOTOGRAPHS MADE EVERY EVENING AT 




251 ST. JAMES STREET. 



NEXT DOOR TO H. MORGAN &, CO. 

A LIBERAL DISCOUNT GIVEN TO STUDENTS. 
OPEN EVENING FROM 7 TO 11. 

IPIjETASIiI CAT iT I AND SEE SPECIMENS. 

P.S. — The only place in the Province where Pictures are taken by Electric 
Light. 



ASHF©BD 9 S 




(one door west of his old stand) 



Medical Books, 

Students’ Note Books, 
Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 



CHEiYP FOR CASH. 

Boils procured to outer from England and the United States, 

6781 AND 680 DORCHESTER ST. 



MONTREAL. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




PHOTOGRAPHER 



141— ST. PETER STREET— 141 



All the latest improvements adopted, including 
the INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, $c., $c. 

COMPOSITION GROUPS executed with intelli- 
gent regard to established rules of art 

l&T Cabinet Photographs of HERBERT SPENCER , 
taken on his recent visit to this city, for sale . Price 
50 cents- 

—0-3- TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION — 



L. ROBINSON, 

LATE OF 

LONDON, ENGLAND, 

Fashionable Tailor 

31 BEAVER HALL. 





HENRY GRANT k SON, 

26 Beaver Hall Terrace. 

Students' Eye Shades, 

CLINICAL THEP.MOLfETEES, 
MICROSCOPES, 

BAROMETERS, <fcc. 

OJPTICIA NS, 

WATCH-MAKERS, 

JE WEIiLERS. 



HEADQUARTERS 

FOR 




232 St}. James St}n?eetL 

Medical Works, Books used in Art Course, 

Science Text Books, 

The various Theological Text Books - 

FuR assortment in stock and suoolied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE I?OOKS, 

SCRIBBLING BOOKS, $ , $c., 

BEST VALUE IN TOWN. 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students 9 
Supplies a Specialty - 

Wo BUY SB A3LE CO. 

2 3 2 Sij. James SLareet^ 

— ALSO — 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




E. SANDERS, 

OPTICIAN, 

185 St. James Street, 

1H03NTTHJEAIJ. 



Importer and Manufacturer 

OF 

MJCROSCOPES, 

SURVEYING, 

MATHEMATICAL 

AND 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS. 



WH. NOTMAH & SON, 



D 



ifT 




D 






k «IS 



17 and 19 BLEURY STREET, 



MOKTTRjIEAJLm 



►^WILLIAM SAMUELS 



367 Notre Dame Street, 



— IMPORTER OF — 



* 

c — 



V9“ 



From tli© Best Engliali Majors, 



— AND — 



Manufactu rer of FINE FURS. 

Highest Award for FINE FUES, Dominion Exhibition, 1880. 
Fourteen First Frizes and Gold Medal, Provincial Exhibition, 1881. 

367 Notre Dame Street, Montreal. 

SEMMEREAYES & WAEFORD 

I ^PJI0T06^PfIER33iK- 

No. 1 BLEURY STREET, 

yW.ONTREAL. 

Special Rates fox' Students.*^ 



O. HILL, 

library 




lO PHIIjIiIPS square, 

Bookseller and Stationer. 

English and American Periodicals 

A nd Illustrated Works- 

All Kinds of Stationery. 

Cards Engraved — Orders for England, for Town and Country, or the 
United States, promptly attended to. Postage Stamps. 



BJfpMfffg ifitfft 



J. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

JACQUES CARTIER SQUARE, opp. COURT HOUSE and CITY HALL 

M ONT n EAXj. 



The above Hotel is the best in the city for McGill College Dinners. 



BROWN & S0NS3^ 

Merchant * Taifors^ 



SHIRT & COLLAR MANUFACTURERS 

21 BLEURY STREET, 

NEXT DOOR TO NOTMAN’S. 

.A. SPECIAL IDISCOTTISTT TO STTJIDElSrTS. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, 

HAVE REMOVED TO 

XT O. 233 ST. JAMES STBEE T. 

SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL 

ALL TEXT BOOKS ALL KINDS 

OF 

NOTE BOOKS 

AND 

of | COLLEGE 

CANADA. <£( P REQUISITES. 



IN USB 

IN THE COLLEGES 




SIGN OF THE GOLDEN OWL 

NO. 333 ST. JAMES STBEE T, 

NEAR VICTORIA SQUARE. 

DAWSON BROTHERS. 

BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS 



