
Montreal, November 24, 1893 






Editorial Comments 81 

Football 82 

Contributions 83 

In my Easy Chair 86 

Sonnet 86 

Oddities of Student Life 86 

The Molson Pathological Laboratory. 87 

Correspondence 88 



Societies 89 

Sporting Column 91 

Class Reports 93 

Medical Class Reports 94 

Art Notes 95 

Science Jottings 96 



Feathers from the East Wing. 
Prize Competition 



Mcgill university 
ARCHIVES 

ACC. NO. | ^ 





Fine * s 

ITALIAN MANDGLINES 
s AMERICAN GDITARS 



In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“ STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
“DOBSON” . . . 




BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything in the 
Musical Line. . 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



KODAKS 



and all kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
Exchange or to Rent. 
PRICES : S 6 to # 75 . 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



SURGICAL- INSTRUMENTS, 



References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty. 



J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill Collese Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. MONTREAL- 

N/VTUR/VL WOOL 
WINTER - 

ONDE.RWE./VR $1.50 per Suit 

Just the thing for the cold weather, and 

A BARGAIN 

Munroe Bros 



Montreal Photographic Supply, 



2246 St. Catherine Street. 



R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optmus and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 




S CIENCE and ART STU- 
DENTS will find the best 
and largest assortment of 

MATHEMATICAL & DRAW- 
ING INSTRUMENTS at 

HARRISON & CO. 



258 St. James Street, 

Near McCill St. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 



Althow our 
rates to 
Students are 
LOW 



We give 
them the 
BEST 
in 

PORTRAITS 
GROUPS, etc. 



Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 

IX DRYSDALE, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 

Ager^t for Storrett’s Tools. Telephone 169. 



E. A. GERTH, STUDE NTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 

2235 St. Catherine St., Queen’s Hall Block, 
MONTREAL. : : 

Direct Importer LI n\/o no Pin'oro Wholesale 

of High-Class ndVcUld. 01^(110 and Retail. 

Try Gerth’s Superior Smoking Tobaccos. Kyriazi Freres* Egyptian Cigarettes. 



W. NOTMAN & SON, 



17 Bleury Street 




TELEPHONES. 



Warehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call T and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T.W.NESS&CO.,~^ 




jMcGllsb FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

Vol. II. MONTREAL, NOVEMBER 24, 1893. No. 4 




^EDITORIAL BOARD^- 



Editor-in-cliief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H» M. Mackay, B.A., (Science ’94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts ’95), Sec’y p H p.. TTlw ( (Comp. Med. and Vet. 
Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) ’ * * Science ’94. 



-EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts ’94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrbll, (Donalda *95) H. R. Cleveland, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc.) 
VV. F. Angus, (Sc. *95) C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week, during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. RenouFs, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE FOUNDER’S FESTIVAL. 

Some time last year there appeared in the Fort- 
nightly an interesting article on the history of music 
in McGill, in which reference was made to a festival 
that used to be held annually by the graduates and un- 
dergraduates, in commemoration of the birth of the illus- 
trious founder of the University, Hon. James McGill, 
and which accordingly had been known as the “ Found- 
er’s Festival.” It is not at all surprising that, to most 
of the students at present attending lectures in the Uni. 
versity, this festival is quite unknown even in name, 
for, though the Founder’s Festival used at one time to 
be the great social event of the college year, the custom 
of holding it was abandoned several years ago, and so 
we of the present college generation know little or 
nothing of the pleasure and profit this event afforded. 

The Founder’s Festival was instituted, as far as we 
can learn, about the year i860. For several years fol- 
lowing the date of its institution the festival was cele- 
brated annually, and during this time became a very 
important function in (McGill) college life. After the 
year 1872, interest in the festival flagged, and it was not 
held again until 1880, when a determined effort was 



made to revive the custom. Though in that year a 
very successful celebration was held, the example, un- 
fortunately, was not followed in succeeding years, and 
thus the festival came to be forgotten. 

For a better understanding of the nature of the Foun- 
der’s Festival, a brief account of the arrangements and 
programme is necessary. 

All the arrangements were in the hands of a com- 
mittee composed of graduates and undergraduates, who 
usually spared neither pains nor expense in their en- 
deavors to make the festival a grand success. And 
they always succeeded. Preparations began weeks be- 
fore the date of the celebration. The decorations were 
a very important feature, and cost a great deal of time 
and trouble. The Molson Hall, the corridors, and the 
class-rooms were adorned with festoons of flowers and 
evergreens, pots and vases of flowers, large shields em- 
blazoned with the coats-of-arms of sister universities, 
flags, etc.; while frequently the whole avenue and the 
front of the college building was illuminated with Chi- 
nese lanterns. Sometimes a powerful lime-light placed 
above the main entrance threw its radiant beams far 
down the avenue. We are now so accustomed to the 
electric light that we would hardly appreciate this 
means of illumination as it, doubtless, was then appre- 
ciated. 

The same care was taken to have the music of the 
best quality possible. The students were carefully 
drilled in singing, so that their ever-charming songs 
were rendered with even more skill and grace, it is 
said, than that which characterizes the singing of the 
boys in ’93. The committee must have been very hard 
to please, for they were not satisfied with the soul-stir- 
ring strains of the students’ songs, but secured the ser- 
vices of some of the best musicians of the city for these 
occasions. During this period, regiments of regulars 
were stationed in the city, and the soldiers rendered the 
committee great assistance in the music as well as in 
the decorating. The string-bands and the brass-bands 
belonging to their regiments, notably those of the 78th 
Highlanders and of the 25th regiment, were excellent 
indeed, and these discoursed sweet music throughout 
the evening. 

The festival partook somewhat of the nature of a 
conversazione. A limited number of tickets of admis- 
sion were issued at one dollar each. These were bought 
by graduates and students, who also had the privilege 
of purchasing tickets for their friends and friends of the 
University. The elite of the city, the Professors, and 



82 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



other notables were present. As the number of tickets 
was limited there could not be a “crush,” while the 
interest taken in theevent was so keen that the demand 
for tickets was generally greater than the supply. 
Sometimes, indeed, so great was the interest that tickets 
were bought at a considerable premium. We are told 
of one instance when twenty dollars was offered for a 
single ticket without finding anyone willing to part 
with his “ Open Sesame ” for that sum. 

The musical and literary part of the entertainment 
was held in the Molson Hall, while No. i Class-Room 
was appropriated to the refreshments. The Library 
was thrown open, and there, besides the books, many 
objects of interest belonging to the University, such as 
technical apparatus, botanical, geological and zoological 
collections, curios, etc., were displayed. The pro- 
gramme of one of the festivals will give a better idea of 
what the entertainment used to be. 



6th of October, the Founder’s Festival was never held 
until November, and sometimes as late as January, as 
the committee found that the longer time was neces- 
sary in order to make needful preparations. 

We are sure that our readers will say with us that 
it is a pity that such a good old custom should have 
been abandoned. A Founder’s Festival is just what we 
need at the present time to sustain and promote a broad 
University spirit and enthusiasm for McGill in her 
graduates and undergraduates. This festival would 
be a time of reunion for graduates, a time when the 
students of the various faculties might meet in social 
assemblage, an opportunity for professors and students 
to meet without the restraints of the class-room, a 
means by which the students could meet some of the 
finest people in the city. We would certainly be very 
much pleased to see the Founder’s Festival revived. 



29th November, 1866 . 

The Wedding March— (Mendelssohn) Band 25th, K O B 

Address The Chainin'. ’ 

Chorus— 0 Alma Mater ” Students. 

Overture— (Rossini) Band. 

Address. The Vice-Chancellor. 

Oboe Solo, Cavatina, from Norma. — 

,, , (R ° T Ssi “‘> Signor Barricelli. 

Valse— La Mazurka (Godfrey) Band 

%*' John Andrew, Esq. 

Chorus Trancadillo ” Students. 

Selection from “ Traviata ” (Verdi) Baud. 

Address On behalf of the Uni- 

. versity Society. 

Duet— Euphomon and Cornet (Donnizetti) Band 

CSS On behalf of the Un- 

. . , „ „ . , , dergraduates. 

Air from “ Rigoletto ” (Verdi) Band 

Chorus-- Gaudeamus ” Students. 

Valse — ‘‘ Farewell ” (Relle) 

God Save the Queen , 

Mr F it t • *. * : Students and Band. 

Mr. F. H. Tornngton, Pianist. 

The refreshment offered at these festivals was of a 
character somewhat different from that of which one 
is invited to partake at a conversazione. In addition 
to the usual jellies, cakes, ices, etc., the guests were 
served with cold meats, game, roast turkey, etc. • some- 
- tunes jokes of a practical nature were played by some 
of the students on these occasions. For example — a 
few of the rooms in the East Wing were occupied by 
students On one occasion, some of these, having that 
craving for nice things that seems to be such a marked 
characteristic of students, resolved to have a “ spread ” 
in one of their rooms. The best spirited was ‘selected 
to capture something from the refreshment room and 
accordingly, as soon as the doors were opened in 
he rushed, seized a turkey that had been beautifully 
roasted aud escaped with it before anyone seemed to 
divine his intention or make a movement to arrest him 
When the consternation caused by his daring was over' 
he was already out of reach, and so was the turkey 
These tales amuse us, but it was not so amusing to 
those upon whom the jokes were played g 

Although the Hon. James McGill wai born on the 



FOOTBALL. 

The football season is over, and already we are 
making preparations for the next. We have to be 
satisfied with the Intermediate and Junior champion- 
ships, and must console ourselves for the loss of the 
Senior, by the reflection that it has gone to a better 
team, and also that if we did not win it, we have learnt 
much that will help us next year. 

It is a matter of extreme regret to every footballer of 
Old McGill, that Varsity found it impossible to come 
down here for the annual inter-varsity match, an event 
which promoted such friendly intercourse between the 
Oxford and Cambridge of Canada, followed, as it was, 
by the football dinner, where, with reminiscences and 
anecdotes, friends of a year ago renewed their friend- 
ships, and others made fresh ones. These inter-col- 
legiate matches were originally played between McGill 
andjYale, but as the style of play became different, it 
was found advisable to give them up, the last of that 
series having been played on the McGill campus in 
1872, when each college put thirteen men on the field. 

The schedule this year did not prove particularly 
satisfactory. Each team was down for only three 
championship matches, and Quebec’s default in the 
Senior series left only two matches for the first teams 
of this province. Two championship matches are 
necessary to disqualify a man from playing on a Junior 
team ; and as changes were made in the.composition of 
our first team between the two matches, less than 
teen men were disqualified from playing on the second, 
and less than thirty from playing on the third. Men 
who failed to get a place on the third must bear this in 
mind, and practise assiduously next year. 

The Rugb\ I nion committee intend to arrange home 
and home matches next season, and perhaps modify 
the rule regarding disqualification. 

The Second team naturally feel disappointed by 
sgoode Hall s failure to come up here to play for the 
Intermediate Championship of Canada. Exactly why 
Osgoode Hall challenged us if they could not play is 
hard to understand ; a club with such a reputation 
would surely not condescend to play a “bluff” game, 
ur Second is a capital team, and had improved wonder- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



33 



fully in combination during their ten days of early 
morning practice, between Osgoode Hall’s challenge 
and its withdrawal. 

Our prospects for next year are bright, very few of 
the players are in the graduating year, and we have 
already heard that among next year’s Freshmen will be 
found men who are captaining some of Ontario’s crack 
teams. The Second can be drawn on to any extent to 
fill any vacancies on the First, while this year’s Third 
have shown themselves able to win their championship 
from three Thirds, every one of which had on at least 
six Second team men. 

It might be well if some arrangement could be made 
with the College authorities, by which more time would 
be available for Football practice. It seems to us that 
a man who passes through college without taking an 
interest in something outside of text-books and notes 
loses a large part of the benefit to be derived from his 
undergraduate career. 

“ A college education is valuable not so much for 
the knowledge acquired as for the character formed.” 

Football tends to foster an esprit de corps among 
students and dissipate prejudice, and so may, if rightly 
carried on, be an important factor in a healthy college 
training. 



The Editorial Board have to notice the loss of Mr. 
Wilkin, the representative of Science. He has been 
compelled to resign owing to pressure of work. The 
Board regret this, as he has proved an enthusiastic 
worker and has done yeoman service for the Fort- 
nightly. Our regret is, however, tempered by the 
fact that his place has been filled by the election of Mr. 
H. M. Mackay, B.A., who has been transferred from 
the Business Board, and who will no doubt prove as 
efficient as his predecessor. We welcome our new 
member. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



THE INTERCOLLEGIATE MOVEMENT OF 
THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSO- 
CIATION. 

It is the purpose of this article to make our friends 
familiar with the great College movement— “ The 
Young Men’s Christian Association.” 

HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT. 

It is necessary to go back to the year 1844, when Geo. 
Williams, with a few fellow-clerks, organized an asso- 
ciation of this name, whose purpose was the spiritual 
improvement of the young men engaged in the dry 
goods trade of London, Eng. This is the birth place of 
the special form of Christian work among the young 
men of the world. 

Prior to 1877 there was no relationship between the 
different religious societies of the colleges of America, 
although many such of varied names and purposes 
existed. 

In this year, a handful of Christian students were in 
attendance at the International Convention of Young 



Men’s Christian Association, and seeing the marvellous 
development of this movement among the young men 
of the cities and large towns, naturally concluded that a 
strong union between the College associations would 
bring about good results ; this was at once effected, and 
their most sanguine hopes are to-day more than realized, 
for the College Young Men’s Christian Association 
now exists in nearly every institution of importance on 
this continent. 

As early as 1857-58 the Universities of Michigan and 
Virginia had associations of this name, but not until 
1877 was any decided progress made ; each individual 
association fought its own battles, and won or lost 
according to local circumstances Tc-day 450 associa- 
tions in America and 50 in other lands, both Christian 
and Heathen, unite no less than 30,000 men in the 
membership of the College Young Men’s Christian 
Association. 

The work in heathen lands is of special interest, and 
was induced by the International Committee at the 
urgent appeal of missionaries then in the field. 

Tokyo, Japan, has a strong association, occupying a 
building of its own, and having a general secretary 
giving his whole time to the work. There are 50,000 
students in the higher educational institutions of that 
city alone. Calcutta, India, has io,oco students, and 
work will be entered on this year. Ceylon, China, 
Persia, Syria, and other lands have organized college 
associations. As the educated young men are the 
key to any land, the significance of this work is readily 
recognized. 

THE WORK OF SUPERVISION. 

The remarkable progress of this movement has not 
been mere spasmodic enthusiasm, but is the result of a 
firm groundwork carefully laid, and a superstructure 
thoughtfully developed. It has been the life-work of 
tried and wise men to build up this college organiza- 
tion which to-day is the greatest, both numerically and 
geographically, among both the religious and secular 
organizations. 

The International Committee of Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Associations is the corporation which has been the 
great power in the development of the work by means 
of its “ College Department,” and so complete is its or- 
ganization, that the four hundred and fifty college asso- 
ciations are kept in intimate relationship with the 
headquarters in New York city. 

The name of Robert Weidensall will ever be con- 
nected with the early days of the movement. As secre- 
tary of the above Committee he saw the possibilities in 
the colleges of America, and was instrumental in 
organizing the work in many colleges, and led the idea, 
in 1877, of an intercollegiate relationship. 

Messrs. L- D. Wishard and John R. Mott are better 
known to the present generation of students. They are 
the college secretaries of the International Committee, 
and with two others give their lives to the work of 
organizing new associations and developing those 
already existing. Years of experience and consecrated 
energy have enabled these men to do more for the 



84 



McGILL*FORTNIGHTLY, 



religious life of our colleges than our students will ever 
be in a position to appreciate. 

The Provincial Committee of Ontario and Quebec, 
through its college branch, have done much to effect a 
close relationship between our Canadian colleges. Last 
January, eleven institutions reported to the Committee, 
and seven of these were represented at the Provincial 
convention held in Montreal the same month. The 
relationship has been very helpful, and progress is noted 
every year. 

A novel feature in the work of supervision is the sys- 



tem of “ intercollegiate representatives,” — men specially 
trained for the purpose of visiting the colleges in a 
defined district The call for such men has arisen from 
the impracticability of the international secretaries 
making an annual visit to each college. This system, 
which is entirely voluntary, ensures that each institu- 
tion shall have the personal supervision and practical 
experience of a trained leader. For 1893-94 there are 
two men appointed to cover the ground in Ontario and 
Quebec, who through correspondence and visitation 
will seek the interests of the colleges of this section. 




BASIS OF ORGANIZATION. 

The name “Young Men’s Christian Association” is 
known throughout the continent as the representative 
religious organization of the college world, and is a 
definite means of strengthening a common relationship 
among the colleges. 

The purpose may be briefly defined “ To lead College 
men to become followers of Jesus Christ,” signifying 
the acknowledgment of the name as Saviour and 
Lord. Recognizing that a man while in college is 
in great measure shut up from the outside world, and 
that his firmest interests centre in college matters, the 
Association seeks to afford a Christian fellowship and 



-w« 1J1I11Iucnce oy means specially adapted 
to college life. 

In no way does the Association take the place of the 
c iurc , ut in its true setting is the arm of the church 
ie actne membership is confined to members o 
vange ica churches, to whom is given the right tc 
vo e and hold office ; the associate membership afford; 

an opportunity to all others to be in direct relation wit* 
the Association. 

methods of work. 

to :t Jr taken y , ears t0 define the methods best adapter 
exnpnH lesu ^ ts fr° m the time and energ) 

e ' ie P^ an commonly adopted, seeks the 




McGlLL FORTNIGHTLY. 



85 



active interest of all men by introducing them to some 
department of the work to which they are naturally 
drawn. 

Individual Personal Work . — How can an organiza- 
tion promote that ? By encouraging and educating the 
active members to take a personal interest in some par- 
ticular man of his acquaintance, making him the object 
of his living and entwining himself so around the man 
that their characters blend ; the weaker gives way to 
the stronger, and Christlikeness is established in both 
men. Is not this the spirit of the Lord’s words : “I 

will make you fishers of men ” ? 

Bible Study . — The main purpose being to train men 
in the Word itself, for their own spiritual growth, and 
with special reference to the lives of men who have not 
subjected themselves to its teaching and influence. It 
is, therefore, the “ practical study ” that the Associa- 
tion seeks to promote, and with sufficient variety in the 
courses to afford all men an opportunity for associated 
Bible study, according to their choice. The classes, as 
a general rule, are composed of small groups of men ,five 
to ten in each, led by a student, the condition of mem- 
bership being regular attendance and private study of 
the lesson. Men of the same interests can therefore be 
brought together in one class, a spirit of unity and 



freedom is established, and men express themselves 
unreservedly. 

The greatest result obtained, perhaps, is the cultiva- 
tion of personal, habitual Bible study. 

While the devotional and practical method is 
emphasized in the Association, we cannot but express 
the great need that exists for college men to become 
conversant with the English Bible as a literary and 
educational study. Such a study is not considered to 
belong to the Association, but rather deserves a place 
in the college curriculum either included in the B.A. 
course or as an optional study. The examination of 
the Calendars of the leading institutions in the country 
would prove of interest on this point, nearly 50 per 
cent, of the colleges of New England include “ The 
English Bible ” in the regular course. 

Religious Meetings. — In addition to the classes for 
Bible study, a meeting for Prayer and the considera- 
tion of some Bible topic is very desirable ; such a meet- 
ing is conducted entirely by the students, and matters 
bearing on college life and the relation of men to the 
Word of God are freely dealt with. The meeting is a 
short, bright hour, and is made very informal and social; 
long addresses are out of place here. A few words 
from heart to heart are called for and appreciated. 




CLOSE HALL, STATE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, IOWA CITY, IOWA. 



THE SOCIAL WORK. 

It is an undeniable fact, that while in college a man 
to a great extent lives alone and to himself. The Asso- 
ciation seeks to bring men together socially, and to 
promote that side of our nature. Special effort is made 
among the new students to make them feel at home in 
college, and to aid them in forming acquaintances out- 
side college life. 

A reception to new students at the opening of the 
Fall term has become a feature of Association work, 
and has introduced many a Freshman to the Associa- 



| tion, to the College, and to esteemed personal friends, 
while social evenings are frequently given to the separ- 
ate classes throughout the session. 

In addition to this manner of social life must be 
mentioned the power of an Association building or 
suite of rooms, which makes possible a broader and 
truer form of social intercourse ; this has already been 
recognized, and throughout the land the Associations 
in institutions of any standing are enjoying the privi- 
lege and extending the influence which “ an Associa- 
tion Home” renders. 

( To be continued ). 



86 



McGill fortnightly. 



IN MY EASY CHAIR. 

I am a gleaner after Time . 

My young friends are good enough to tell me that 
my previous reminiscences have been favorably re- 
ceived, and have asked me for another gossip. As I 
sat “ a-thynkynge,” a few evenings since, I called to 
mind some happy hours spent, away back in the ages, 
Samuel Lover, the author of “ Rory O’ More,” being 
one of the company. He was warm-hearted and pure- 
minded, tender and true, joyous and brave. It was a 
great treat if he could be induced to sit down at the 
piano, and to listen to him whilst he rendered his own 
“ Angel’s Whisper ” or “ The Low-Backed Car,” and 
his humorous song of the “Sleigh-Ride” with the 
inimitable tone in which he transposed ‘ ‘ Slaying the 
deer ” into “ Sleighing the dear." He was a prince of 
story-tellers, too, and his telling of Irish bulls was droll 
beyond compare. I call to mind two anecdotes which 
he told one evening, which I give, but I will not say 
positively that they may not have appeared in print 
before ; anyhow, I heard Lover tell them : — 

“ An old woman who sold apples, and oranges, and 
play bills at one of the Dublin theatres, had for some 
years been befriended by the proprietor, and had the 
run of the ‘ house * ; her friend died, and no more 
real mourner was present at his funeral than poor Biddy. 
Just as the coffin was lowered into the grave, she 
looked at it, and exclaimed with a wail, ‘ Arrah, 
honey, you’ve got your pit-ticket at last \” 

" A poor Irishman, lying upon his deathbed, was 
suffering great pain, and with a view of helping him, 
the doctor had prescribed a mustard-poultice to be 
applied to his chest, at the spot where the pain was 
located. The doctor superintended the application of the 
poultice, and Paddy, looking down at his poor shrunken 
frame, burst into a laugh ; the doctor reproved him for 
laughing at a time when his life was in great dan- 
ger, and the patient replied: 'Well, doctor, I was 
thinking that it was a large lot of mustard for such a 
small piece of mate (meat) 

Another specimen of humorous prose, of which Lover 
was the author, has been frequently published, but is 
so exquisitely funny that it will bear repetition : — 
“Two Irishmen, fancying that they knew each 
other, crossed the street to shake hands. On discover- 
ing their error, ‘ I beg your pardon,’ cried the one. 

1 Oh, don’t mention it,’ said the other. ‘ It’s a mutual 
mistake, you see. I thought it was you, and you 
thought it was me, and, after all, it was neither of us 
To change the theme, let me add that Eliza Cook, 
the poetess, was an intimate friend of some members of 
my family. Miss Cook began to write verse at an 
early age, and put forth a small collection entitled 
“Lays from a Wild Harp” when she was about 13 
years old (I think). v She was always reading and 
scribbling verses, very much to the annoyance of her 
father, who was a very prosaic old personage. One day 
he threatened to burn her books, and she presently 
retorted : — 

“ Burn, burn them all, it matters not, 

There’s earth, and sky, and sea ; 

And those three volumes,— Nature’s works, 

Are quite enough for me.” H.M, 



SONNET. 

RAIN STORM. 

Ah, for the poet’s worship, not his scorn ; 

For man’s love, not his curse writ on my brow ! 
Fist wanton Summer ! From me are they born, 

Thy flash of waters, shade of linden bough, 

The rose-bloom pulsing ’neath thy soft caress, 

The dawn one jewel of splendor, and the day 
One long sweet hour of light and loveliness, 

When the tranced soul half wishes life away. 
Clouds and chill tempest, leagues of mist that sweep 
Round Druid cirque upon a lonely moor, 

Where my fierce spirit wakes from sweet sleep 
Herald thy far-off glory, else how poor ! 

Then Autumn calls me forth to weep for thee : 

And shall not Nature have her Niobe ? 

Chas. E. Moyse. 



ODDITIES OF STUDENT LIFE. 

“The Cane Spree.” 

The “ cane spree ” is one of the most peculiar of all 
the embroilments that occur between Freshmen and 
Sophomores in a great many Universities. It differs to 
a great extent from the well-known “ Cane Rush ” of 
Yale and Harvard. This latter is merely a pitched 
battle between two great surging masses of Sophomores 
and Freshmen, to obtain possession of a cane which the 
First Year men conspicuously exhibit in defiance of 
sophomoric edicts. 

The Cane Spree is a series of contests, conducted in 
a scientific manner between a Freshman and a Sopho- 
more, two trained men being chosen from these two 
classes respectively. It consists of three matches made 
between the best available men : heavy weight, middle 
weight, and light weight. Five years ago, there used 
to be a “ general cane spree,” in which sometimes 
more than forty couples contested. 

A Freshman who aspires for honors in this sport 
secures the services of a junior, for these two are sup- 
posed to be natural friends. The Sophomore seeks a 
senior, who is willing to become backer and trainer. 

Training is a matter of weeks, and requires a great 
deal of assiduous attention. 

The Freshman and his trainer, together with a few 
friends, repair to some sequestered spot for practice 
once or twice each day. The trainer faces his pupil, 
both holding the cane, and he then shows him every 
trick and device which he may expect to use or to 
parry, meanwhile instructing him in the rules, which, 
by the way, are quite as exacting and as complicated 
as those governing wrestling or boxing. 

A fellow Freshman is afterwards found to play the 
part of Sophomore, and day after day the two struggle 
together, the trainer meanwhile an eager critic and a 
hard master. 

Having trained his man, it then becomes the trainer’s 
part to match him to as good advantage as possible 
against a Sophomore anxious to enter the lists. This 
is provocative of nearly as much talk as the matching 
of a pair of professional prize fighters. Hair-splitting 
questions of weight and body measurement complicate 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



$7 



the problem, and the matching of the men becomes a 
matter which involves the whole college in animated 
discussion. 

When the matched contestants face each other for 
the bout, each grasps the cane at its extremities with 
both hands, the right hand of each turning upward 
and the left hand downward. The Sophomore, being 
presumably of more experience, gives the Freshman the 
outer hold, and consequently the advantage of greater 
leverage. The backers place themselves behind their 
men, and the spectators form a ring. The contest then 
begins. 

Without entering into a technical description of the 
manoeuvres, it may be said that the contestants are at 
liberty to struggle at will, provided neither takes any 
unfair advantage of the other, such as kicking or butting 
with the knees striking with the head or fist, or 
placing the knees upon his body. For all these ex- 
igencies there are unwritten rules, which have de- 
scended from class to class by tradition. 

The theory of the spree is that the winner must take 
his cane in fair fight, by means of physical strength, 
endurance, legitimate skill, or by a combination of these 
means. Tricks are numerous. Srnie of them devised 
are exceedingly clever, and it often happens that a man 
far overmatched in weight and strength takes his cane 
by superior skill and generalship. Frequently, when 
contestants are very closely matched in all respects, the 
struggle becomes one of endurance only. As a single 
example of the tactics used, the “ hip throw ” may be 
mentioned. To accomplish this the contestant suddenly 
and forcibly raises the right end of the cane and 
throws himself under his opponent, partially turning, 
so as to bring his right hip under the latter’s body. It 
then becomes an easy matter to lift the opponent bodily 
over the right hip and shoulder and throw him heavily 
to the ground. 

Often, the’pair, after exhausting every known trick 
in vain, fall to the ground together, and there struggle 
for the mastery, one on top of the other. It must not 
be supposed that the cane spree is a brutal or a 
dangerous sport. A liberal number of bruises and 
some stiffness of the muscles often result, but seldom 
anything more serious. The risks of wrestling, which } 
by the way, cane spreeing resembles, exceed in -the 
former, and neither can compare, in respect to danger, 
with football or with the rushes common in colleges. 

It is a stirring sport full of life and action and that 
college spirit which remains in the memory long after 
Latin and Greek have been forgotten. Not only to 
the average college youth, thoroughly versed in all the 
devices of sport, but to the townsman as well, who has 
watched these contests from the time he was a small 
boy, the annual cane spree is an event of unparalleled 
interest. In former years, when a score or two of 
matches were made and fought on some open stretch 
of campus, on a chilly night, great crowds gathered to 
watch the issue. 

The crowd, however, that assembles to witness the 
spree is composed for the most part of excited college 
boys. Here and there the more dignified forms of 



tutors and professors may be seen. Little groups of 
ladies, under vigilant escort, standing on tip toe, in 
timid efforts to discover what is going on within the 
excited rings, may also be seen. Everywhere shouts 
and exultant cheers. 

At times the Freshman’s yell rises excitedly from a 
turbulent centre, indicating that an advantage has been 
won by his champion. Again it is drowned by sopho- 
moric roars from another part of the field, where a 
Sophomore has scored a point at the expense of his 
antagonist. At times, deafening choruses rise from all 
parts of the field, and they frequently overlap or unite 
discordantly. 

Sometimes some of the groups break into a seeming 
riot, but it is only to hoist a victorious spreeman upon 
the shoulders of his exultant classmates. It is then 
carried about the field amid cheers and yells, waving 
aloft the cane, which he took from his antagonist ; 
whilst those who were in sympathy with the defeated 
party slink away with disgusted expressions, and go 
to swell other throngs which encircle a contest still un- 
decided. 

Spreemen desiring matches circulate everywhere 
under convoy of their backers. 

Comparisons of weight and calculations of chances 
are made, whilst meetings are often arranged. Some- 
times a newly matched pair take off their “ sweaters ” 
on the spot and form a new ring . 

A dozen fights are often to be seen at once. There 
is generally only excitement, enthusiasm, noise, effort 
and wild commotion. Class feeling is vented on such 
occasions to the utmost, and the contestants fight for the 
cane like demons. 

The backers act as umpires, and consult together so 
as to decide. They often seek advice from upper class- 
men, whose authority is acknowledged, on account of 
the fame they have won in such contests in the days 
when they were Freshmen and Sophomores. 

When the cane is wrested from one of the contestants, 
— pandemonium ensues. 

Frequently, however, men are matched so evenly 
that an issue cannot be expected, even after a prolonged 
struggle. In such cases the cane is divided into two 
parts, with even honors for both classes. 

After the spree, the results are counted. Victory is 
usually to the Sophomores, on account of their previous 
experience. Occasionally the Freshmen succeed, and 
in such cases they disport themselves as they please 
during the year, without any molestation from the 
“Sophs.” 

X.Y.W. 

THE MOLSON PATHOLOGICAL LABORA- 
TORY. 

A notable addition has recently been made to the 
buildings of the Medical Faculty, — the first instalment of 
the extension which that Faculty has long wanted and 
is now proceeding to erect, thanks to the generous aid 
of Mr. J. H. R. Molson. We refer to the new Patholo- 
gical Laboratory, concerning which a brief description 
was given in our last number. 



88 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



When, at the beginning of the year, a deputation 
from the Faculty waited upon the Governors of the 
University, and brought before them the urgent need 
that existed for further laboratory accommodations, and 
the plans by which they proposed to utilize all the avail- 
able funds of the Faculty in the enlargement of the 
College, Mr. Molson immediately came to their aid, and 
prevented it from trenching upon its not very large 
capital, by a munificent gift of $65,000. Of this large 
sum, a portion has been spent in obtaining for the Uni- 
versity the property lying immediately behind the 
Medical College, thereby permitting further extension 
to be made in a direction where, it is true, that 
little will be seen by ordinary visitors to the McGill 
grounds, but where there will be no undue crowding in 
upon other University buildings. Upon this property is 
situated a house that has for years been occupied by 
Professor Harrington, and it is this house which the 
Medical Faculty have converted into a most excellent 
pathological department. 

It might be thought that a private house would 
make an unsatisfactory laboratory, but this is far from 
being necessarily the case ; all depends upon the house. 
Here the Faculty had to deal with a good square edifice, 
commodious and well built. It need only be said that 
Sir William Dawson erected it, to render it evident that 
the quality of the building and its arrangements are all 
that can be desired in a dwelling place ; and now the 
internal alterations that have been accomplished during 
the last summer and autumn have given a laboratory 
that could not be greatly improved upon were a totally 
new building designed and erected especially for the 
pathological purposes. A “ spick and span ” new labo- 
ratory is, as a rule, so exquisite— the woodwork is so 
good, the walls so unsullied with any blemish, the var- 
nish covering, everything so neat, that one is almost 
afraid to undertake any hard work, that is to say hard 
work of the usually dirty nature. A laboratory that is 
an old building, whose woodwork consists, in a large 
part, of old fittings suitably modified for their new posi- 
tion, whose walls have shown themselves capable of hard 
treatment during the alterations without harm to the 
general structure, and still show outward signs of that 
treatment,’ such a laboratory fulfills the ideal of the 
worker, provided that there is room enough, and such 
a laboratory the pathologists have obtained. We will 
not say that they are determined to occupy it in per- 
manency, that depends upon the growth of the school, 
but for the present they seem thoroughly well satisfied. 

The ground floor of Professor Harrington’s house 
has been converted into living rooms for the laboratory 
assistant, store rooms, a dark room for photographic 
purposes and a small animal room. The first floor, 
with little or no structural change, save the opening out 
of two extra windows, has been converted into a pro- 
fessor’s room and library, a preparation room where all 
material is brought and prepared for class and museum 
purposes, and a demonstrator’s research laboratory. 
These three rooms, the old study, drawing and dining 
rooms respectively, open into one another, and are 
admirably fitted for their new uses. The library 



already contains more than 600 volumes, in part dupli- 
cates from the Medical Library, in part Dr. Wyatt 
Johnston’s valuable collection of text-books, mono- 
graphs and journals, which he has generously lent to 
the department, and in fact Professor Adami s collection 
of a similar nature. Upon the same floor is a small 
room for bacteriological incubators, while what had 
been the pantry makes a perfect store-room for glass 
ware and for washing up apparatus. 

Upon the next floor has been secured a brilliantly 
lighted class room for practical work, with table 
accommodation for sixty students. This has been 
done by throwing the six bedrooms and nursery into 
one and by opening out five additional windows. Tables 
for microscopical research have been placed all round 
the room, and it can safely be said that the University 
does not possess a better lighted or more suitable room 
for practical work in any biological subject than is 
afforded by this revolutionary conversion of the old 
bedrooms and the nursery. In addition, the large 
space under the roof is found to function well as a store 
room, in which under one window has been placed a 
carpenter’s bench with the necessary tools for preparing 
and repairing apparatus. 

Altogether, the Medical Faculty is to be heartily con- 
gratulated upon the excellent pathological laboratory 
which they have thus obtained at relatively little cost, 
and Mr. Molson is deserving of the warm thanks of all 
interested in|the progress of the University, for his don- 
ation, part of which has been turned to such good 
account. 



CORRESPONDENCE. 



Bishop’s College. 

Nov. 13th, 1893. 

Dear Mr. Editor, 

Having read some statements in the last number of 
the Fortnightly, with respect to a certain unfair re- 
presentation on the part of an unmentioned club, at 
the late meeting of the Rugby Union caUed to decide 
the protested McGill-Britannia match, I am obliged 
to conclude that the Rennoxville Club is the one 
referred to. 

If this is the case, which I can scarcely doubt, ours 
being the only club represented by an outsider who is 
a member of the Britannia Football Club, I feel bound 
to reply to what I consider a most unwarrantable and 
ill-founded complaint. 

With reference to a Britannia man having repre- 
sented us, and therefore presumably having been a 
prejudiced voter. I can only say that if this inference 
is true, it is an equally probable supposition that the 
representatives of McGill and Montreal were equally 
prejudiced, it being as much to their interest as to that 
of the Britannias to gain the decision of the meeting. 

If such a state of affairs as that insinuated in the 
Fortnightly exists, viz., that a gentleman cannot be 
trusted to vote in conformance with the dictates of 
honor and conscience, simply because it is to his inter- 
est to vote in a certain way, then I say that the pros- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



89 



pects of fair play and good feeling in the football world 
are indeed poor. 

As regards the second charge, viz., that the said repre- 
sentative was instructed by our club which way to vote, 
it is altogether untrue and I consider in very question- 
able taste. 

In my telegram to Mr. Bacon I simply said : We are 
in sympathy with the Brits.” And so we were ; we 
were of the opinion then, as now, that the Britannias 
were the better team, and some of our students had 
been present at the match, and declared most distinctly 
that the facts really took place as claimed by the Bri- 
tannias. Such being the case, we naturally wished to 
see fair play, as any genuine lovers of sport are bound 
to do, and instructed our representative, whom, by the 
way, we appointed in the beginning of the season, to 
attend the meeting in our behalf. 

Hoping that I am not intruding too much on your 
valuable space, and trusting in your sense of justice to 
give me this opportunity of defending the reputation of 
our Club. 

B. WATSON, 

Secy-Treas. Bishop’s College F.B.C. 



SOCIETIES. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The third regular meeting of this Society was held on 
Thursday, the 9th inst. After the roll had been called 
and most of the members had answered “ present ” to 
their names, the minutes of the last meeting were read 
and unanimously accepted. 

A letter was also read from the Alumnae Society, in 
which the Alumnae proposed that the two Societies 
should have a joint meeting during the course of the 
winter, on such a day as would be convenient to the 
Delta Sigma Society. It is almost unnecessary to say 
that the vote to accept their proposition was unan- 
imous, provided the required permission should be 
granted by the authorities. 

Then came the most enjoyable part of the pro- 
gramme. A very interesting paper on “ Shakspeare’s 
Women” was read by Miss Walker. The literary 
merit of the paper was beyond dispute, and showed 
careful preparation. The account that Miss Krouse 
gave of one or two of those things which she had seen 
at the Fair was given in her own peculiarly bright and 
taking style, and the vividness of the pictures presented 
by the speaker was considered a strong point in favor 
of the advantages of travelling over reading as an edu- 
cator, which was the subject of the impromptu debate 
that followed, supported on the affirmative by Miss 
Hutchinson and Miss St. James, while Miss Hammond 
and Miss Holden argued on the negative. The votes 
taken according to the merits of the debate resulted in 
a majority for the negative. 

The courage displayed by our French member, in 
taking part in the impromptu debate, cannot be too 
highly commended, and the applause which greeted 
her as she stepped to the platform was indicative of 



the appreciation with which her effort had been re- 
ceived. 

Mrs. Ashley Carus-Wilson (Mary A. L. Petrie, B.A.) 
has kindly consented to deliver the Annual Lecture to 
the members of this Society. 

The lecture will be given in the William Molson 
Hall, on December 5th ; the subject of the lecture will 
be “ The right use of Books.” 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

The second regular meeting of the Theo Dora was 
held on Thursday, November 16th, at 4 o’clock. 

Miss Hill presided, and in opening the meeting 
expressed the sorrow we all felt in hearing of Miss 
Seymour’s ill-health and consequent resignation as 
chairman of Missionary Committee. 

The subject discussed was “ Medical Work among 
Women in Home and Foreign Fields.” Miss Pitcher 
read a very interesting paper on “ Home Work,” 
making special reference to Doctor Helen Campbell’s 
work in New York. She was followed by Miss R. 
Watson on foreign work, who showed what an im- 
portant place medical work holds in spreading the 
Gospel. 

Short extracts on the subject, taken from different 
missionary papers, were read by some of the members. 
Miss Hargrave gave a short address on need of medical 
missionaries among women of heathen countries. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

Sunday afternoon, Nov. 5th, a large number of stu- 
dents heard Sir William Dawson’s address on “ Christ 
and other Teachers ; ” this was of great interest and of 
greater import coming from the lips of so great a 
teacher. 

Nov. 1 2th was observed throughout the world as the 
Day of Prayer for young men. Three of our members 
spoke in the city churches, making special reference to 
the College Christian Association. The ensuing days 
of the week being recognized as the Week of Prayer, a 
large number visited the Church Prayer Meetings, and 
the interest shown by the people of Montreal in Stu- 
dent life was very encouraging. 



The remark was passed by a student that “ the men 
in his Faculty considered it essential to be tough.” Is 
this a true sentiment for a University like McGill with 
a Christian Association numbering 300 members? If 
not, let every man of the 300 use his peisonal influence 
to effect a change. Surely, if the world has room for 
true men it is in college, and no better field exists to 
illustrate what men are made of. 

A Members’ Reunion on Thanksgiving Day is a new 
feature, and somewhat of a substitute for the “ Fresh- 
men’s Reception.” A successful event is anticipated. 

The Intercollegiate Missionary Alliance meets in 
convention at Toronto, Nov. 23rd to Nov. 26th. Mr. J. 
Thomson, B.A., of the Diocesan College, will represent 
McGill and present a paper on “ City Mission Work.” 



90 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The Prayer Meeting on Friday the 24th will be led 
by Geo. E. Bates, Arts ’96. 

It is very encouraging to hear from graduates of their 
continued interest, and the following from the pen of 
Dr. H. N. Goff will be valued highly by those who 
knew him and knew him best : — 

“ I would like to say, for the encouragement of those 
who may be faltering in the work, or who may feel that 
other duties are more important and that they have no 
time to attend to Y.M.C. A. work or its meetings, that I 
regard no time in my whole College course of more 
value to me now, than the time that I spent in the 
Y.M.C. A. work. I see now that I received real, lasting 
good, much more than I gave, and I have no doubt in 
my mind that the student who neglects the Christian 
duties of his college life does himself an irreparable 
injustice, is truant to his highest interest and develops 
disproportionately. I have strong conviction that there 
is no time in a man’s life when it is more important 
to cultivate his spiritual nature, and no time when he 
can make more rapid spiritual growth than when in 
college.” 

These words need no comment. Experience speaks. 



McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in the 
old Science Building on Thursday evening, November 
1 6th, the President, Mr. Carlyle, in the chair. 

Mr. O. E. S. Whiteside, a member of the Science 
graduating class, read a very interesting and instruc- 
tive paper, on the “ Coal Mines and Mining of Pictou, 
N. S.,” before a large number of members of the 
Society. This paper was confined chiefly to the coal 
mines of Westville and adjacent places, especially the 
Drummond mine, in which Mr. Whiteside was em- 
ployed during the past summer. 

After giving a synopsis of the different kinds of coal, 
and the various purposes for which each is best 
adapted, the speaker explained in a very clear manner 
the method of mining the coal seams and beds, the 
bord and pillar system being the principal method 
used, yet in some cases overhead sloping is still ad- 
hered to. 

The speaker concluded the paper by describing some 
of the accidents which had taken place in the coal 
mines, and explained the supposed origin of many of 
these accidents. The paper showed careful prepara- 
tion and observation on the part of Mr. Whiteside 

A hearty vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. 
YVhiteside for his able paper, after which the meeting 
adjourned. & 



MONTREAL VETERINARY MEDICAL 
SOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in the 
lecture room, 6 Union Ave., on Thursday evening Nov 
9th, with the President, Dr. J. G Adami, in the chain 
Dr. Adami was detained for a short while at the Hos- 
pital, and was unable to be present at the opening 
Until his arrival Dr. Baker assumed the duties of Pre- 
sident. 



The meeting was the most successful one thus far 
held, the attendance being large, and the discussion 
which followed the papers was entered into with spirit. 

The first paper to be read was a report of a case of 
‘•Paracentesis Abdominis” from Dr. Rowat, of San 
Francisco, Cal. Dr. Rowat was a former member of 
this Society, and still takes a decided interest in it. The 
members tendered him a hearty vote of thanks for his 
paper. 

Mr. Carey read a paper entitled, “ The Thermometer 
as an aid to Diagnosis and Prognosis.” Although long 
and full of details, it proved interesting and instructive, 
and was listened to attentively by the members. 

The last paper of the evening was read by Mr. 
Harry Cleveland, and was entitled, “ Shoeing of the 
Road Horse.” He explained how defects of gait could 
be remedied by different methods of shoeing, and 
strongly advocated a course in shoeing for every veter- 
inary student. The paper was followed by a lively 
discussion, after which the meeting adjourned. 









I he usual weekly meeting of the Society was held on 
hriday evening, Oct. 27. The meeting opened promptly 
with Mr. Lambly, the president, in the chair. The 
minutes of the last meeting were read and approved of. 
Mr. Hanson, Arts ’95, gave notice that at next meeting 
he would move that the following paragraph be added 
to section 23 of the Constitution : “ That the chairman, 
before putting the question, shall make a brief, unpre- 
judiced summary of all the important arguments 
brought forward by both the affirmative and negative 
sides. After the appointment of Mr. LeRossignol, Med. 
95 ) as critic, and J. C. Hickson, Arts ’95, as reporter, 
the programme was taken up. Mr. MacMaster, Arts 
’97, gave a reading in excellent style. Mr. Hopkins 
followed with a solo, after which the Debate was pro- 
ceeded with, there being no essay, nor has there been 
one at any of the meetings held this year. It is to 
be hoped that at our next meetings this important item 
of the programme will not be omitted. The subject of 
debate was :-<« Resolved, that the Literary productions 
of the present day have on the whole a beneficial ten- 
dency. The speakers were Mr. Moffatt, Arts ’94, and 
Mr Suter, Sc. 9 7 for the Affirmative, while Mr. Stewart, 
Arts 94, and Mr. Symmes, Arts ’95, upheld the negative 
Atter these gentlemen had spoken, the debate was 
thrown open. Mr. McMaster spoke for the affirmative, 
and made a very brilliant “stump-speech;” he was 
followed by Mr Save Ar,c , , 

side Mr t-t - a A to 97 ’ W1 ° Spoke 011 the same 

M^d W M„ P 7 ; A ; tS ' 95 ' a,,d Mr ' Comp. 

Mr SoUnd Zde bo,l, . s P eaki ”S ** «>= negative side. 

“ZtteZhaT d ' 5p<iech ' a,ld il is «">? be 

“ ns 1 t,, ' ,ief!ati v a > * 

tirelVoZtheZ'rifs of fhVspZS^'T T "" 

Jbem are by ,he prejudiced 

which ™ g of? h Cri ' iCiSm a »ble manner, after 
Society this year adjonrS^^' ^ b> ' * he 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



9i 



The regular weekly meeting of this Society was held 
on Friday evening, November 10th, about thirty mem- 
bers being present. The meeting opened in good 
time, the President being in the chair. After the critic 
and reporter for the evening had been appointed, the 
minutes of the last meeting were read and approved 
of. The Secretary then read a communication which 
he had received from Trinity College, Toronto, re- 
questing the presence of a representative from the 
Undergraduates Literary Society at their annual Con- 
vocation dinner on Nov. 14th. After considerable 
discussion a motion was put before the meeting, and 
carried, that the Secretary be instructed to reply to the 
invitation, stating that, owing to lack of time for pre- 
paration, it was impossible to send a representative. 
Several other less important items having been disposed 
of, the evening’s programme was begun. The song 
and essay being conspicuous by their absence, which 
ought to be remedied, Mr. Saxe gave a well rendered 
and humorous sketch on u The Bashful Young Man,” 
which was much appreciated by all, and especially 
by one of our number. The meeting joined in a 
chorus, lead by Mr. Howard, which was sung with 
great vigor. 

The Debate was then announced, the subject being, 
“ Resolved, that man has reached a higher level of 
intellectuality since antiquity ; ” the Affirmative was 
ably supported by Messrs. E. T. Dickson, Arts ’94, 
A. Trenholme, Arts ’97, and H. Young, Arts ’95 ; the 
Negative, who made a strong argument, by Messrs. 
Sutherland, Aits ’95, C. Howard, Arts ’97, and Keith, 
Arts *95. The speeches on the whole were very good, 
although a couple of the more youthful debaters be- 
trayed a slight nervousness. Credit is due to Messrs. 
Young and Keith, who volunteered at the last moment 
to take the place of Messrs. Donahue and Hickson, 
who were unavoidably absent. The meeting, having 
heard the speeches pro and con, decided by a small 
majority that the Affirmative had won. Mr. Boyd 
then gave a short but able critique of the proceedings, 
after which the meeting adjourned. 



SOCIETY FOR STUDY OF COMPARATIVE 
PSYCHOLOGY. 

A meeting of the above Society was held Friday 
evening, November 17th, in the lecture room of the 
Veterinary College, No. 6 Union Ave., Dr. Wesley Mills 
occupying the chair. 

Mr. Sally read a very interesting paper entitled “ Do 
the Dog and Horse possess all the faculties of Man ? ” 

Mr. Shaw followed, reading a. paper on ‘‘Animal 
Psychology,” relating several curious experiences. 

Mr. Solandt then occupied the attention of the 
meeting while he read his paper entitled “ Animal 
Psychology as viewed by a Student of Comparative 
Medicine.” After discussing these papers the meeting 
was adjourned, not, however, before the President had 
complimented the above gentlemen on the spirit dis- 
played in their papers. 

Messrs. Morin, Moore and Mulvey will contribute 
papers at next meeting. 



McGILL HOCKEY CLUB. 

The Annual General Meeting of the McGill Univer- 
sity Hockey Club was held on Friday afternoon, at 5 
o’clock ; the President, Mr. Smythe, in the chair. 

After the minutes of the last meeting were read and 
adopted, the Secretary-Treasurer read his report, which 
showed the Club to be in a flourishing condition, both 
in regard to players and financially, a small balance 
being left over from last year’s expenses. The election 
of officers for the coming year then followed. 

The officers are : — 

S. Davidson, President. 

G. Lewis, Vice-President. 

F. Becket, Sec. -Treasurer (re-elected). 

Committee. 

Kirby (Med.), Drinkwater (Sc.), 

Bickerdike (Arts), Donahue (Law), 

Cowan (Vet.). 

Reps to Amateur Hockey Association : — Smythe, 
Laurie, Parke. 

The position of captain was next on the list, and 
after some discussion Mr. Bickerdike (Arts) was ap- 
pointed. 

The Committee was recommended to draw up a 
constitution for the Club, and after a hearty vote of 
thanks to the retiring officers the meeting adjourned. 

McGill is entered in the Intermediate Series again 
this year, and with the good material we have in the 
college, backed up by the new committee, who are all 
enthusiastic hockey players, they ought to have a citich 
on the championship. Unfortunately for McGill, she 
has to win the Intermediate championship before she 
can go up to the Senior Series. Next year, however, 
her admirers hope to hear from the team in the Senior 
Series. 



McGILL FOOTBALL CLUB. 

The Annual General Meeting of the McGill Univer- 
sity Football Club will be held on Saturday, 25th 
November, at 7.45 p.m., in the Arts Building. 

Business : — Reports and election of officers. 

N.B. — Men will be allowed to vote only on presenta- 
tion of their Athletic Association ticket. 

By Order, 

W. F. Angus, 

Secretary. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 



THE FOOTBALL SEASON. 

Another football season with all its hopes and plea- 
sures has come and gone, and once more McGill, after 
vainly struggling for honors which evidently were 
never meant for her, has gracefully brought up the rear 
in the contest for the Senior championship of Quebec. 

After giving the subject in question due and careful 
consideration, after turning it over, first on this side, 
then on that, after looking at it full face, side face, back- 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



92 



wards and forwards, after having completely exhausted 
itself in the futile effort to account for the fact, the Club 
has at length come to the conclusion that there are 
other things it can do better than play football. Alas ! 
that such should be the case ; but it is true, nevertheless. 

It is just three years ago that the McGill first fifteen 
won the championship of the Province of Quebec. 

How proud and elated we were over it, and we had 
a right to be, for we worked hard, practised hard, and 
played hard for it, and deserved to win. We had prac- 
tice every afternoon on the Campus, and at the Gymna- 
sium three evenings a week, and the individual mem- 
bers of the team seemed to be inspired with more 
enthusiasm, and were willing to work harder for the 
success of the team. This must be one of the reasons 
of the poor success of McGill this year, for the first 
fifteen, although it was not all that could be desired, 
was nevertheless a very good aggregation of players, 
and on several occasions played exceedingly good foot- 
ball. One thing at least seems certain, that the failure 
of McGill is in no way due to the Captain, Mr. Gaudet, 
for a more energetic, enthusiastic, painstaking and 
thoroughly competent captain could not easily be found. 
Mr. Gaudet worked early and late for the success of the 
football club ; he did not spare himself, but went heart 
and soul into his work, attending every practice and 
meeting, coaching the men, giving them advice and do- 
ing all that was in his power. He is without doubt the 
best captain since Henry Hamilton’s time, and one of 
the best we have had in the University. 

To return to the discussion of the causes of our 
failure this season,— for causes there must be, and we 
may just as well as not face and discuss them. 

It is a question whether the team as a whole is a 
little weak, or whether merely some part of it is. 

One fact is palpably evident and cannot be glossed 
over, viz., that we did not play good enough football 
this season to warrant us winning the championship. 
We did not fail merely because this or that player was 
not with the team this year, or because we had “ hard 
luck ” in some special match, or because some referee 
decided against us on certain occasions, or because 
it was a wet day, or for any other such reasons as a 
despairing and ingenious football man might advance, 
but simply and solely because we were not good 
enough players. This is brutal, very, but it’s true ; it 
cuts our tender and sensitive organ to the quick ; but 
with Spartan-like fortitude we give the gash, then grin 
and bear it. No one would suppose to look at our 
cheerful and smiling countenance as we write these 
words, that the heart beneath our watch pocket is torn 
and lacerated by grief at the fate of our beloved foot- 
ball team ; but such is the case. This will serve as an 
excellent illustration of the folly of attempting to read 
the emotions of the human heart from the countenance. 

Now, it is not so easy as it seems to determine in 
what particular respect a team is weak ; and in our case 
it is rather difficult, for our backs, wings and scrim- 
mages are all fairly good ; but one reason might be ad- 
vanced, viz-, that there were a good many new men on 
the team this year who had never played together be- 



fore. This reason sounds plausible, for, as we all know, 
the reliance of the players on each other and their com- 
bined team play are essential to good football. How- 
ever, notwithstanding the fact that so many of our 
players were new men, they developed in a very short 
time a good system of passing, and, on the whole, 
showed up fairly well in this respect. 

One great fault, and a really very serious one, was 
that our men were rather light, and found considerable 
difficulty in coping with their much heavier opponents. 
The backs were noticeable in this respect, and endeav- 
ored to make up for it by greater agility, and suc- 
ceeded very well, but still they were undoubtedly 
light 

The position of the “forward” has developed of 
late into a particularly trying one, as he must be both 
heavy of body and quick of foot, and be constantly 
on the aggressive, being compelled at one and the 
same time to prevent his opposing wing man from 
passing him, and to endeavor, on the other hand, to 
pass him. The consequence is that the “forward” 
must be strong and in the pink ot condition, ever 
ready to receive hard knocks and to return them, and 
this entails upon him extra practice and training 
which all “ forwards ” do not like to undertake. The 
result of all this is that there is a great deal of 
“ scrapping ” and off-side play, necessitating an umpire 
being on the field to watch them, and this attitude of 
the “wings” is, in the writer’s opinion, much to be 
regretted, and will make a change in the rules of play 
necessary. 

The McGill wings were good, but not good enough 
to cope with the Montrealers, who have been playing 
together now for some time, and who can thoroughly 
rely on each other. Our wings have not yet acquired 
thoroughly this “ blocking ” system, which is the out- 
growth of the last two or three years, and until they 
do, our half backs cannot do themselves justice, nor 
can the quarter- back. 

The football committee, in picking the team, did 
their best to show favor to none and be fair to all ; and 
if their action this year did not please, nevertheless it 
will bear fruit next year. They made it a rule that 
a man, to secure a place on the team, would have to 
practise a certain number of times, and thus several of 
the old players’ places were filled by new men who 
were working hard to play on the first fifteen. As has 
been said, the wisdom of this move will be seen next 
season, when very few changes will probably have to 
be made- 

The bright aud shining spot in our existence was 
the brilliant success of the second and third fifteens 
who won the Intermediate and Junior championships 
respectively. They played splendid football, and were, 
in this respect, an eloquent example to their Seniors. 

Now, although we have been defeated this year in 
the struggle for the Senior championship, we have no 
reason to be down-hearted, for we have made a good 
fight and have learnt some useful lessons which we 
hope to benefit by next season. We want more men 
to practise football, and from whom we can choose a 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



93 



team. Men who have ever played or would like to 
learn should turn out and practise with all their might, 
and strive to get a position oti the team and win the 
championship again for Old McGill. It is a great 
honor for a man to be able to say that he has played 
on the champion fifteen of the Province of Quebec or 
perhaps the Dominion of Canada. It is an honor 
worth trying for, and there is no real reason why McGill 
University should not send out another team as they 
did in 1890, good enough to beat anything in Montreal 
and all Canada besides. We have about seven hundred 
men in the University, and good grounds on which to 
practise, and yet we cannot get together fifteen men to 
make a first-class team, in the true sense of the term. 

There is one thing we need very badly, and that is a 
gymnasium where we can practise tackling, scrim- 
mage, formations, and give the men the thorough 
training which they cannot get by merely running on 
the campus. 

We trust that the University authorities will soon 
remedy this, and we also hope and trust that in the 
very near future, next year, the McGill football team 
will once more hold the proud position of champions 
of Quebec. 



HOCKEY- 



Let me make an appeal to all hockey players in Mc- 
Gill. 

Coming, as the season of hockey does, between the 
Xmas and the Spring Exams, the game recommends 
itself to all students. The practices start at the begin- 
ning of the Xmas vacation, and end about the last of 
February, thus giving all students ample time to pre- 
pare for the sessional exams- 

Our practice hours have been arranged this season 
as follows Monday from 5.15 to 6.15 p m , and Satur- 
day from 9 to 10 a.m. in the Crystal Rink. During the 
Xmas holidays the practice on Monday is also from 
9 to 10 a.m. 

We are also ende ivoring to get one evening a week 
for practice in the Victoria Rink. 

McGill only boasts of one team at present, and that 
one is in the Intermediate Series. We entered the 
Intermediate Series last year, because we really were 
compelled to. Of last year’s team only one player was 
fit for a Senior team, viz., our popular goal keeper, 

Gordy Lewis. . 

But someone may ask, “ Why not enter the Senior 

ranks this year ? ’’ 

Because it is impoS'ible, owing to a rule passed last 
year. According to that rule, we have to win the Inter- 
mediate Championship before we can enter the Senior 



series. . . 

Now, because you have played on a Senior team 

before, or because you think that you are good enough 
for a Senior team this year, it’s no reason why you should 
forsake Old McGill for some other club. It will not 
degrade you any to play Intermediate instead of Senior 
for a year, especially as you will be playing for >our 
“ Alma Mater.’’ 



With such men as Davidson, Kirby, Drinkwater, 
Lewis and McDougall, McGill can win the Interme- 
diate championship “ hands down.” 

Turn out then, boys, and putting all prejudice aside, 
help Old McGill to win that championship this year, and 
we can then enter the Senior ranks next season. 

We are hampered a great deal by having no rink of 
our own to play on, but we will hope to have one some 
day, and I am looking forward to the time when McGill 
will run three (3) hockey teams, as the Montrealers are 
going to do this year. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



legal briefs. 



The Legal class reporter must have “ gone fishin’ ” 
this week, as we have not heard from him. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. Cecil French has been chosen by the Final men as 
their valedictorian. No better choice could have been 
made, as he is without a doubt the most capable man 
in the class. 



94 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Prof. Gleason invited the students of this Faculty to 
attend one of his exhibitions one night last week. The 
invitation was accepted, and on Wednesday evening 
they marched over in a body. The entertainment was 
thoroughly enjoyed, the boys expressing their ap- 
proval by giving the college yell in vigorous style, and 
assuring the Professor that he was all right. To make 
this more manifest they presented him with a very fine 
silk umbrella. 



Kindness towards dumb animals is always to be com- 
mended. If some of our fellow-students, who seem 
never satisfied unless they have a butcher knife and 
are hacking away at some poor brute, on the slim 
excuse of advancing science, would realize this, it 
would be a step toward the higher standing of the 
veterinary profession. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

A meeting of the four years in Medicine was held on 
Tuesday, the 7th inst., to, elect a president for the 
Faculty dinner. 

There was some discussion previously as to the char- 
acteristics of the dinner. Mr. Fry, in a bright speech, 
moved that wine should not be used at the table. He 
was supported by Messrs. Mathewson, LeRossignol, and 
others. After some discussion the matter was put to 
the vote, and the motion was lost by 100 votes to 84, 
30 votes not being cast. The election of a president 
was then proceeded with. There were two candidates, 
Messrs. J. J. Ross, B.A., and E- J. O'Connor. The 
ballot resulted in the election of Mr. O’Connor by a 
majority of 60, 14 votes not being cast. 

The Fourth Year have elected as their representa- 
tives on the Dinner Committee, Messrs. A. T. Shilling- 
ton and A. Richardson. 



Have you seen the new sub ? Have you got your 
knives ready? Who’s your partner? These are the 
questions the First Year men are asking one another 
these days. 

How “ guilty ” we must have looked after the foot- 
ball match. Our soloist now sings “ After the Ball.’’ 



Mr. A. G. Cannon, of Greenfield, Mass., a former 
student of this Faculty, has returned, and will graduate 
with the Final Year. Mr. Cannon attended two years, 
and now after an absence of three years returns to 
finish. 



The boy from Binscarth still continues his visits to 
the stock yards. 



Overheard of a Second Year medical student in his 
sleep recently : “ Now, then, boys, make haste— Dr. 

Deeks is coming— get your knife, and cut— cut some- 
thing— that’s right, hold that arm straight— Phew, it 
does smell ! ” 



Glass may be impenetrable, but one Freshman did not 
appear to think so. We say did not, advisedly. 



“ I like him and so does mom-mer.” For further in- 
formation go to Montague Greenfield. Won’t you 
come in ? 



Can a man who sticks to his purpose with the 
strength of a 10 horsepower engine be regarded as a 
person of considerable ten — ass—ily ? 



Here is a prescription that was handed in at the store 
of a P.E.I. druggist. It would be scarcely necessary 
to take this ; the sight of it would make any average 



person ill : 

Take of 

Pot Bicarb 3 y 2 drs. 

Ammon. Chlor 6 drs. 

Pot Acetas 6 drs. 

Spts. Camph. Co 1 G z. 

Alcohol .' oz 

Syr. Tolut 0 z. 

Syr. Ferri Pyrophos. Q z. 

Syr. Phosphates \i / 2 oz . 

Quinine ^ dr. 

Spts. Chloroformi ji4 drs. 

Ex. Hy oscy am «••••• 12 g,*g t 

Ex. Nuc Voin ^ g rs 

Ammon. Carb j dr. 

Acid salicylic 2Q g rs 

Glycerine 0z 

Syr. gum acaciae 2 y 2 ozs . 

Syr. Scillae co drs. 

Tr. cinch, co 2 i^ ozs ‘ 

Fluid ext. seneka dr. 

Aq. Bib., q. s., M. ft ozs . 



Sig.— Shake, and take one or two teaspoonfuls every 
five or six hours, according to age, in some water. 



It is understood that one of our Freshmen has open- 
ed a laundry, where family washing is beautifully and 
promptly executed. 



• Freshmen are proverbially goatlike without making 
their personal appearance indicative of the species. 



At a meeting of the Final Year, held recently, to elec 
a valedictorian Mr. H. M. Kinghorn, B.A., nominate! 

A1 5r ^ avidson ’ who was elected by a unanimou 
x o e. ' r. avidson expressed his appreciation of thi: 
honor in a very happy speech, in which he said tha 
in his address he hoped to preserve his individual 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ity. At the same time he was open for suggestions ! 
Such modesty is very overpowering. He has the good 
wishes of the whole year. 

The Second Year have in W. F. Scott and W. R. 
Ferguson, two able representatives on the Dinner Com- 
mittee. 



A fact for Evolutionists : — 

There is a patient in the M. G. H., suffering from 
typhoid, who has had in the neighborhood of seventy 
baths. It is said that he is developing web-feet. 
Hurrah for Hydrotherapy ! Antipyrin could not do 
this. 



This year’s “system ” (?) of allotting Subs, is rather 
puzzling — e.g,, A passed his grind on the ligaments of 
his first one Monday evening. B passed his on Tues- 
day evening. B is right at work on his next on Wed- 
nesday. C qualifies one week later, and is soon at work 

on his second, while A still waits 

“ The stars will tell you why.” 



The First Year possesses the honor of numbering 
with them an Arts graduate of Cambridge, in the per- 
son of Mr. W. Gesner Allan, who is an acknowledged 
“star’ 7 of the class. 



At a recent meeting of the First Year, Messrs. W. 
G. Allan and T. J. Lynch were elected as members of 
the Dinner Committee, the former of whom was later 
chosen by the Dinner Committee as their treasurer. 



The First Year has already suffered a loss of two of 
its members, Messrs. F. E- Rogers and J. B. Allan have 
had to quit the race, for a time at least, and have return- 
ed to their homes as the result of illness. We hope to 
learn of their speedy recovery, and to have the pleasure 
of welcoming them to our number again soon. 



THE GEOLOGY EXCURSION. 

On Saturday, quite a number accompanied Dr. 
Adams to St. Anne on the annual excursion to that 
place. We arrived there about ten o’clock, and work 
was begun immediately. A cut near the station, which 
the C.P.R. Co. was obliged to make in the construc- 
tion of the road, afforded us a good opportunity to 
observe the formation of the rock in the vicinity and 
to obtain good specimens. Here Dr. Adams began 
explanations in his clear and interesting manner. This 
was Calciferous formation of the Upper Cambrian 
series : well bedded, the beds being almost horizontal. 
The rock was brown at the surface, the result of the 
action of the weather, being darker where it had been 
lately exposed. Proceeding to the old quarry, Calci- 
ferous formation also, we found many good fossil spe- 



95 



cimens, as Murchisonia gracilis. West of the town we 
examined a different formation, the Potsdam sandstone, 
which is below the Calciferous formation. This is 
also well bedded, and is remarkable for the abundance 
of cylindrical burrows known asScolithus linearis. A 
visit was paid also to a rock of special interest. This 
rock was taken from the bed of the Ottawa river in 
making a channel, and is in cribwork in the centre of 
the river defining the channel. A visit to this neces- 
sitated a row which was much enjoyed. This rock is 
Alnoite. It is a new occurrence of a rare and curious 
rock, and is the firsthand only Melitite rock that has 
been found on this continent. Its original location is 
Alno in Sweden. It is a mixture of Olivine, Biotite, 
Pyroxene and Melitite. This rock was taken from a 
dike in the Potsdam sandstone which forms the bed of 
the river, and it is supposed to be connected in some 
way with the eruptive centre of Mount Royal. The 
boulders in the vicinity of Ste. Anne are quite numer- 
ous. The gneiss and anorthite we studied in their native 
bed while at Lacliute two weeks ago. Before leaving 
Ste. Anne, our genial classmate, McCuaig, having his 
camera with him, offered, in a moment of recklessness, 
to risk the lens if we would arrange ourselves for a 
photograph. This we did, and after “ the deed was 
done ” he looked relieved, informing us that it worked 
well. It was noticed, however, that the ground glass 
was cracked. The return trip was uneventful. The 
day was an enjoyable and profitable one, all regretting 
that it was likely to be the last excursion this fall. 
We bespeak for those who will accompany Dr. Adams 
on these excursions in the future a profitable and an 
interesting time. 



ARTS NOTES. 

The Reading-Room Committee have posted up the 
usual legend, calling attention to No. i of the Rules and 
Regulations. It is a pity that this is necessary. Can- 
not some of our embryo statesmen propound a scheme 
which would allow all our men access to the reading- 
room, and at the same time provide means for its pro- 
per maintenance? 



We would whisper in the ear of the Programme 
Committee of the Literary Society, that a debate be- 
tween representatives chosen from two college years, 
say *94 and ’95, or, better still, ’96 and ’97, would be a 
“ drawing card.” 



Prof. — “ It’s a puzzle to me that the sea has not dis- 
appeared long ago ; that hole has been in the bottom of 
it so long.” 

Chorus of Students : — “Oh, there’s a bottom in the 
(w) hole of the sea.” 



Our remark en passant concerning the singing ability 
of the Juniors received remarkable confirmation from 
one of the Professors the other day. Some of them are 
after the scalps of those “ three flats.” 



96 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



At a meeting of the students in Arts last week, a 
motion to hold a conversazione this year instead of the 
usual Faculty Dinner was received with considerable 
favor. President Graham and Secretary Boyd were 
appointed to find out what arrangements would be 
necessary for a conversazione, and to report at a future 
meeting. 



In class the other day, the Sophs, were recom- 
mended to watch a tree for 1 50 years in order to learn 
some interesting phenomena concerning its growth. If 
they thought that the examinations in Botany would 
be postponed until their investigations were complete, 
many would begin at once, but they are harassed with 
doubts. 



The men of ’97 tell us that the class in Elocution is 
the latest thing out. 

It is rumored that “ Scruffy ” has signified his inten- 
tion of giving the “ serpentine ” dance for the benefit 
of the Geology Class. 



Apropos to Geology : That quiet little boy, H r-n 
never said a truer thing than when he told G-h-m, who 
was “ talcing ” of eating ice-cream by the quartz , that 
he m list have a terrible apatite . 



Notwithstanding the fact that the “ auction sale of 
the Reading Room M took place last Friday, the com- 
mittee beg to say that the purchaser has consented to 
allow the students the same privileges as heretofore. 
The students who read with dismay the notice of the 
sale wish to take this opportunity of expressing their 
thanks to the kind-hearted purchaser. 

The Freshies are becoming quite anxious to know 
what the Christmas examinations are to be like. Doubt- 
less they will know after the examination in Greek, to 
which they are now looking forward. 



It was one of those cold November nights, with the 
rain beating pitilessly against the window-panes, a 
night which makes those who have a comfortable home 
shudder at the thought of the misery of those who 
have to sleep with the sky as their only covering. 

During the day, but especially in the afternoon, great 
excitement had prevailed throughout the city ; but 
when the evening came, things had quieted down to 
their usual state. 

One of those who had taken part in the business of 
the day, worried and tired out after his exertions, had 
thrown himself down on his lounge to rest. While 
there, he dreamed a strange dream. It seemed to him 
as if he was among a mighty crowd of men, who all 
seemed to be animated by a common desire and who 
paid no attention to his frequent question, “ Gentlemen, 
what is the matter with you ? ” 

I11 this crowd appeared a man, who was evidently 
the leader. Hoping to gain the desired information 
from him, our hero directed his steps to the platform 



upon which the speaker stood- Scarcely had our hero 
reached this spot, when the leader, swinging around his 
head a mighty hammer which he held in his hand, 
brought it down on the desk before him with such 
force, that the whole platform gave way and fell with 
a terrific crash. Our hero awoke, and while sweeping 
the broken glass and sopping up the coal-oil from the 
carpet, Boyd was heard to remark : “ It will be a long 

time before I play auctioneer again. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

We learn with regret that Mr. Harry Primrose, of 
the First Year, has been obliged to give up his course 
on account of ill-health. Mr. Primrose will probably 
spend the winter in the South. 



A student (we won’t enquire who he was) took a 
young lady into supper at a dance lately. She was 
getting outside of some jelly, but not quite finishing 
it, asked her partner to “ please put it down.” 

The student paled for a moment, but resolved to do 
his duty for the credit of his Alma Mater, set himself to 
the task, and forthwith demolished the remainder 
himself. And this is a fact. 



D — n — s. (Joq) : — “ Wasn’t it touching how the 
boys responded when the Prof, asked for volunteers 
to go to the Exhibition grounds ? ” 



A Second Year English student has unearthed a 
hitherto unknown production of the late lamented 
“ Wizard of the North.” He refers to it in his essay as 
‘‘Scott’s Tales of the Boarders.” 



At a meeting of Science 95 last week, it was decided 
to have a class pin, as most of the members expect to 
graduate before the University pin looms up out of the 
fog and obscurity it is now in. 



Messrs. Carter and Currie represent Science ’95 on 
the “ At Home” committee. 



At the Hockey meeting — “ I beg to nominate Mr. 
E— s for the post of, etc.” Mr. E— s:— “I’d like to 
second that ” ; (a moment later) “ Oh ! p— p ! ! ” 



Faculty notice (next year) Students in the Hy- 
draulic Laboratory are required to provide themselves 
with diving outfits. They are also advised to pur- 
chase umbrellas. The above articles are to be had of 
Th — m — s.” 



\\ e are pleased to see that Mr. Scott ’94 is out again 
after his severe illness. 



A meeting of the Fourth Year was held on Nov. 
15th, for the purpose of electing the Valedictorian of 
the year. H. M. Mackay was unanimously elected 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



97 



The prizes for summer essays in the Fourth Year 
have been awarded as follows : — 

A. S. Dawson 
f Edward Darling 
■J J. S. Costigan 
( J. H. Larmonth 
F. H. Pitcher 

O. E. S. Whiteside. 



Civil Engineering 



Mechanical Engineering 



Electrical “ 

Mining “ 

With reference to the above, we have much pleasure 
in announcing that a “reunion” of the Fourth Year 
Mechanical students is expected at the Vienna Cafe, 
on a date to be announced. 



Le Soph a l’avis ani6re, 

Qui laisse envoler t le professeur 
Le Junior suit le discours, 

Et le Freshy pleure pour sa m&re. 

There was more, but we will spare you. 

A prize offered for an original story ! ! 

Where is that Donalda who last year wrote not only 
a story for one of our leading papers, but also the edi- 
torials and important articles ? 

Let her step to the front. 

Was it a zouave jacket ? 



The Glee Club practices are well attended, and some 
excellent work is being done. The first appearance of 
the season was made at the Victoria Armory, on the 
22nd inst., when, in company with “ all the leading 
musicians of the day,’ 1 it gave an admirable account of 
itself. 



A Fourth Year Civil is credited with the alarming 
discovery that the sun is two hours and forty-seven 
minutes fast, or that the Observatory clock is slow by 
the same amount. It is hoped that further investiga- 
tion will show that the sun is at fault, and not the clock 
on which Old McGill prides itself. 

A meeting of the Four years was held on the 16th 
inst., to consider Mr. Wilkin’s resignation from the 
Editorial Board of the Fortnightly, the announce- 
ment of which was heard with much regret. It was 
agreed to fill the vacancy by transferring the represen- 
tative from the Business to the Editorial Board. 

The “ At Home ” was then thoroughly discussed. It 
was decided to leave the matter in the hands of a 
committee consisting of two members from each year, 
who are to ascertain the feeling of the students as 
accurately as possible, and confer with the committee 
already appointed by the Faculty. 



The Faculty of Applied Science is to be congratu- 
lated on securing the services of Prof. Bam ford, late 
of the Victoria University, Manchester. Prof. Bamford 
arrived on Monday, and will enter upon his duties at 
an early date. It is understood that he will lecture on 
Hydraulics, and assist Prof. Bovey with the course in 
Theory of Structures. The undergraduates unite in 
extending a cordial welcome to Prof. Bamford, with 
whom they hope to spend many happy and instructive 

hours. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

The Juniors are all afflicted with French poetry on 
the brain. It is said that one of them, standing up to 
debate, involuntarily recited “ l’Hymne de 1 enfant a 
son reveil.” 

Another of less serious disposition was heard to mur- 
mur : 

A l’examen que leur bont£ mesure 
Tout l’univers est conviS 
Nul Freshman n’est oubliS, 

A ce vengeance des professeurs. 



Great power of discernment has always been con- 
sidered as the quality par excellence of women. Per- 
haps co-education is displacing this with other things. 

It was at a reception given for the “ New Men ” that 
a Donalda found herself face to face with a youth who 
had been introduced vaguely as “ belonging to Science.” 

“ And so you are really trying to matriculate into 
Science,” she said, with anxiety in her tone, as though 
she thought the risk was great. And the young man, 
with the calmness that comes of long dealing with the 
uncommon, replied : — 

“ I am a senior in that faculty.” 

It is recorded as a matter for deep regret that Miss 
C. G. Seymour, Honors student of the Third Year, has 
been obliged to suspend her course because of failing 
sight. 

As an ardent student and a prominent member of the 
college societies, Miss Seymour’ s'loss will be sadly felt 
in her year. We can only hope that she may be ready 
to support it or another at a later date. 

PRIZE COMPETITION. 

The Editorial and Business Boards have decided to 
offer two money prizes for the two best original contri- 
butions sent in by undergraduates. The object of this 
is to encourage original literary work among the stu- 
dents, and induce them to take a more active interest 
in the University paper. The competition will be sub- 
ject to the following regulations : 

1. The competition is open to all undergraduates, 
who either are or shall be subscribers to the McGill 
Fortnightly, on or before the date of sending in their 
contributions 

2. All contributions are to be accompanied by a sealed 
envelope, marked outside with some noni-de-plume , 
and enclosing the writer’s full name and faculty, to- 
gether with his nom-de plume. This nom-de-plume is 
also to be marked upon the article. 

3. All contributions must be written specially for 
the Fortnightly, and must not have appeared in any 
other periodical previously. 

4. Every contribution must be in the form of a prose 
story, not longer than 4,000 words or thereabouts. 

5. All contributions must be sent to the Editor-in- 
Chief on or before January 15th, 1894. 

6. All contributions become the property of the 
Editorial Board, who reserve the right to publish any 
or all of them. 



