The McGill 

Fortnightly Review 

An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 

Vol. II No. 5 PRICE 10 Cents Wednesday, February 2, 1927 



CONTENTS 



EDITORIAL 

The Labour Party in Canada../. S. Woodsworth, M.P. 



Homage to E. S A. J. M. Smith 

Panic S. 

The Wind that Lived in a Lane. . Leo Kennedy 

The Sabbath Leonard Noble 

Night E.S.F. 



Doctor Anthony Philip Page 

Jargon and the Sad Thingums Leo Kennedy 

Decadence Bernard March 

The Poet Accuses the Psychologist . Bliss Chapman 
BOOKS 

Two Poems Philip Page 

The Way of Youth 
Portrait 



EDITORIAL 

I T has lately become apparent that many university 
students are realizing that they are an integral 
part of the educational system. Student protest 
and revolt is manifest in every university. “All over 
the country,” says Mencken in his latest, Prejudices: 
Fifth Series, “...in scores of far-flung colleges the 
students have begun to challenge their professors, 
often very harshly. After a while they may begin 
to challenge the masters of their professors. Not 
all of them will do it, and not most of them. But it 
doesn’t take a majority to make a rebellion; it takes 
only a few determined leaders and a sound cause.” 

Realizing this, we read with considerable surprise 
some extremely interesting filler in the McGill Daily, 
which attests to a converse of Mr. Mencken’s state- 
ment. Some professors have actually challenged the 
tribunal of the students of the University of North 
Carolina. The Carolina magazine, a student publica- 
tion, recently contained a story entitled Slaves. The 
Students’ Council, either extremely shocked or so 
brow-beaten as to try to anticipate action by the 
authorities, declared this story to be “obscene and 
indecent” and demanded the resignation of the editors. 
Instead of smirking smiles and nods of approval from 
the professoriate the faculty committee declared 
itself as opposed to censorship. The committee left 
the responsibility to the tastes and intelligence of 
the editors. Such a gesture, we feel, was a worthy 
one, and revealed that in some of the Universities 
on this continent there is still a realization of the 
true principles of academic freedom. The faculty 
of the University of North Carolina has set a worthy 
example to universities where there is a controlled 
student press, and where student activities are under 
the thumb of officialdom. 



N ONE shall say that McGill students do not care 
for things literary. Day by day in every way we 
seem to be getting better and better. The McGill 
News, hitherto an unhappy combination of serious 
articles and graduate chit-chat, has separated the 
literary sheep from the goats of gossip, and will soon, 
we trust, appear as an unalloyed quarterly, a rival 
to Dalhousie and Queen’s. The McGill Daily, though 
still the dear old Daily at heart, has shown itself 
more sprightly, more facetious, of late; Wednesday’s 
issue was something we had learnt to look forward 
to. Even the Fortnightly experienced, for a brief 
spell last term, the intoxication of popularity, from 
which it is only recovering with difficulty. And now 
we are promised The Martlet, a humourous monthly, 
(by College Humour out of The Goblin.) All the car- 
toonists, caricaturists, short story writers, jesters 
and jokers of McGill have been organized for this 
great effort; financial magnates are behind it; au- 
thorities, great and small, have given it their blessing; 
it is to be on sale in every book stall, every train in 
the country. Never before has an undergraduate 
journal at McGill been given so great a send-off. 

Of the dead, nil nisi bonum; of those conceived yet 
not born, what shall be said? We hesitate to commit 
ourselves. 

Was here the one thing needful to distil 

From life’s alembic, through this syndicate, 
McGill’s essential soul, her youthful will? 

We ask; and wait. 

May Lord Crewe forgive us. 

# • • • 

T HERE was at the Junior College of Kansas City a 
paper under the direction of the students’ council. 
It fell into the way of publishing reviews of books 
written by Cabell and Willa Cather. It fell also into 
other heresies, such as criticising some of the universi- 
ty courses. The college president decided to interfere, 



34 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



feeling certain that the business was being subsidized 
with gold from Moscow; and so he gave the journal 
a constitution which rendered it completely innocuous. 
As a result, the students’ council issued a statement 
to the effect that a muzzled university press defeats 
its own purpose. The paper was therefore discontinued, 
and a group of students started an independent 
organ, which they named The Sacred Cow. 

The Sacred Cow continued the objectionable work 
of its predecessor, and the president was faced with 
the problem of dictating the policy of a magazine 
with which he had no official means of communicat- 
ing. Having to treat the editors as individuals rather 
than as a body, he asked for a recantation together 
with a departure from their independent stand. All 
of the editors, except one, complied with his demand. 
Their notes of apology sound, however, somewhat 
insincere, but the apparent lack of sincerity was 
overlooked. The editor, who refused to crawl, has 
been expelled from the university. 

The foregoing is a brief account of the recent 
suppression of free speech at the Junior College of 
Kansas City. No comment, we hope, is necessary. 
We are very thankful that such things could not 
conceivably occur at our own university, in view 
of the fact that there is not only the Fortnightly 
but also the Daily, which has shown throughout 
this session a remarkable degree of independence 
for an administration organ. 



Strange Company 

Invictus 

A LIBRARY neatly arranged according to the alpha- 
betical order of the authors may occasionally 
present startling contrasts to the discerning eye, 
not mere contrasts of the colour and size of the 
volumes, but the more interesting, psychological 
differences of the writers packed in such close proxim- 
ity on the shelves. In what strange company do 
we sometimes find our favourites, and what Homeric 
battles there would be if the authors could for a 
moment break loose from the pages and confront 
one another. 

An index was once brought to our attention which 
contained the following items united in print till 
Doomsday: 

LEAD, Kindly Light 
LEAD pencils 
LEAD poisoning 

and something of the same fantastic effect we may 
observe on every visit to a public library. But the 
happy man, who possesses a library of his own and 
a something impish in his temperament, can exercise 
his caprices without being bound by any slavish 
adherence to alphabetical sequence. Should he find 
the Letters of Queen Victoria dull, he can sentence 
her to a place in his shelves next to Rabelais: and 
if Gibbon vexes him as he poses there in mock-devo- 
tional attitude with hands clasped together and a 
wink in his eye, he may be disciplined by a trans- 
ference to the theological shelves alongside William 
Law’s Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life. For 



after all was not Law a faithful retainer of Gibbon’s 
grandfather? Aldous Huxley, if too outrageous, 
may be separated from Peacock and introduced to 
Jeremy Taylor’s Holy Living and Holy Dying and 
the frankest of the Restoration Dramatists compelled 
to submit to penance by a prolonged sojourn along- 
side Jeremy Collier’s Short View of the Immorality 
and Profaneness of the English Stage. Might not 
Byron’s Don Juan and that other pilgrim, the hero 
of Bunyan’s work, find much to discuss together? 
And if the clerical author of the Sentimental Journey 
joined the conversation, who knows what might 
not happen? It would only need a visit from Jurgen 
to make the party complete. And finally, if by some 
curious chance, (the gift, perhaps, of some jocular 
friend), Elinor Glyn should find a place in your 
library, her heroine might be prevailed upon to spend 
Three Weeks with Edward Young, sharing his Night 
Thoughts on Life, Death and Immortality. As for 
Florence Barclay— but there is no need to be 
ridiculous: of course you have nothing of hers. 

Some such scheme of arrangement is well woith 
trying, for each book has its antidote; and the hero 
of such devastatingly dull works as Eric, or Little 
by Little, might discover by associating with a more 
human and red-blooded companion such as Tom 
Jones that the way to heaven is paved with lost op- 
portunities. For books have strange and unexpected 
effects, upon their readers. Did not one of Samuel 
Butler’s acquaintances succeed in converting him- 
self to Christianity by reading Burton’s Anatomy 
of Melancholy, which he bought by mistake for 
Butler’s Analogy of Religion? We confess that we 
narrowly avoided a similar mistake when we nearly 
purchased a volume entitled My Ruin, written by 
a prominent English society lady. But a glance inside 
assured us that the contents were architectural. 



Homage to E. S. 

NOW that the ashen rain of gummv April 
Clacks like a weedy and stained mill 

So that all the tall purple trees 
Are pied porpoises in swishing seas 

And the yellow horses and milch cows 
Come out of their long frosty house 

To gape at the straining flags 
The brown pompous hill wags, 

I will saw a wooden hyacinth 
In the woods’ callous plinth, 

And set it seriously in a made jade vase 
Appropriately upon the mantelpiece. 

And there its creaking naked glaze, 

And there the varnish of its blaze 

Shall hold all time as in a glass 
And snare our youth that tries to pass. 

’Til we are held a child again 
Under the hot icicles of rain. 



Or failing this, I’ll not go out of doors, 

But find my childhood in these poems that are yours. 

A. J. M. Smith 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



35 



The Labour Party in Canada 

J. S. Woodsworth, M. P. 

I NDUSTRIALLY Canada is largely a northerly 
extension of the United States. Most of our labour 
unions have pushed up from the south, and the 
Canadian Locals have their headquarters in various 
American cities. The higher officials are usually 
Americans, and their policies are naturally those 
of the American majority. 

The Canadian Trades and Labour Congress is 
essentially the Canadian section of the American 
Federation of Labour. It deals especially with dis- 
tinctively Canadian affairs, and has affiliated with 
it certain purely Canadian organizations. 

The great American Railway Brotherhoods— the 
“running trades” — and various other labour organiza- 
tions are international, but are not in affiliation 
with either the American Federation of Labour 
or the Canadian Trades and Labour Congress. 

In Canada the Trades and Labour Congress does 
not monopolize the field. There are among others 
the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway Employees, 
which several years ago was expelled from the Con- 
gress; the Canadian Federation, comprising several 
Toronto unions. . . .the One Big Union, with head- 
quarters in Winnipeg, and the Catholic unions of 
the Province of Quebec. 

Until recently the political activities of the various 
unions has been very limited. Occasionally a labour 
representation committee of a trades and labour 
council would attempt to elect members to the 
municipal council or the provincial house, but with- 
out much success. 

In the meantime, there had grown up various 
socialist organizations, drawing their membership 
largely from the unions. The Socialist Party of Canada 
spread eastward from Vancouver; the social demo- 
cratic federation westward from Toronto. During 
the war the latter was suppressed. 

With the incoming of large numbers of British 
immigrants, and after the war, stimulated by the 
organization and success of the British labour party, 
political labour organizations sprang up in almost 
every industrial center in Canada. Sometimes these 
were the rivals of, sometimes succeeded, the socialist 
locals. At this time also arose the workers’ party- 
later calling itself the communist party— affiliated 
with the Moscow International. 

For various reasons, political organization was 
very difficult, (a) Canada is a vast country; its 
industrial groups widely separated geographically 
and very diverse in character, (b) The traditional 
policy of the American Federation of Labour was 
opposed to independent political action. In the con- 
stitution of some of the unions is a clause expressly 
forbidding the discussion of politics, (c) The election 
laws of Canada preclude a labour union contributing 
to campaign funds. These and other considerations 
have necessitated the building up of distinct political 
organizations. 



Attempts have been made to unify the various 
political bodies. Of these, the Canadian Labour 
Party is most representative. It is organized on the 
principle of a Trades and Labour Council — an affilia- 
tion of the various labour and socialist bodies. The 
advantage of this is that it brings in the interested 
unions en bloc with their per capita assessments. 
The weakness is that many individual members 
of unions are still adherents of the old political parties, 
or in some instances members of the communist 
party. This has frequently resulted in friction and 
in inefficiency. In practice, each province — almost 
each city is autonomous, indeed almost isolated 
in its activities. 

In Winnipeg, where the political movement is 
stronger than anywhere else in Canada, the Indepen- 
dent Labour Party is organized on a basis of individual 
membership, and has so far refused to affiliate with 
the Canadian Labour Party. Members of any union, 
or indeed anyone in sympathy with the aims of the 
party, may join. A compact working association 
of a few hundred has been able to command the 
support of the large majority of trade unionists as 
well as a section of the outside public. 

The difficulty in the future may be to obtain 
funds and to retain close contact with the rank and 
file of the trades unions. 

Slowly the idea of independent political representa- 
tions is gaining ground. While standing aloof from 
any party organization — choosing to remain the 
“legislative mouthpiece” for organized labour, the 
Trades and Labour Congress in its election manifesto 
of this year recognized the existence of the labour or- 
ganization in the political field in resolving “That 
labor political autonomy be left in the hands of 
the established political parties.” 

There are now three labour representatives in the 
federal house, two from the Independent Labour 
Party of Manitoba, one nominated by the Canadian 
Labour Party of Alberta, and elected by the Dominion 
Labour Party of Calgary with the support of the Uni- 
ted Farmers of Alberta. 

During the past five years our first and most 
difficult task has been to attempt to convert labour to 
the necessity of sending its own representatives to the 
House, and, hardly less important, to establish that 
sense of common interest which will lead to a larger 
spirit of unity and to efficient organization. We 
believe we have been able somewhat effectively to 
broadcast the aims and ideals of labour, though it is 
still not quite respectable to be a labour member. 
Last year, owing to the composition of the House, 
we were able to have certain labour measures passed 
by the House of Commons — to be rejected by the 
Senate. / 

Perhaps our most important achievement in the 
House is the close working arrangement which has 
been established between the representatives of 
the industrial workers and of the farmers. In most 
questions affecting labour, we have the strength not 
of three but of twenty ; and, further, the opportunity 
of forcing the pace of many members of the old 
parties who come from industrial constituencies. 
In England the Labour Party has been reinforced 
by a number of the so-called "intellectuals.'' Why 
not in Canada? 



36 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



Panic 

(, Escape after Crime of Violence) 

REVERBERATIONS reiterated 
Of thunder 

In subaqueous canyons. 

Does it disturb the easy slumber 
Of the Divine Average 
Snoring by his wife? 

Does he turn from the left side 
To the right side, 

Or from the right side 
To the left, or from back 
To gently digesting stomach? 

Does he nudge his wife, wondering, 

What is that noise in the avenue? 

Is it an army marching? 

Is it a rabble running? 

Not so thunderously 
The sun sank, 

Like a flaming battleship, 

Last night across the bay; 

Not so thunderously 
Emerged — a submarine? — 

Was it only ten minutes ago? 

Perhaps my wrist watch has stopped. 

I can’t hear it ticking 

For the noise of my footsteps. . . 

Interminably down this street 
One and by one 
My feet pad thunderously. 

Are they made of lead 

That they thud on the pavement 

Like thunder or bowling, 

That they are so heavy to lift. 

And once lifted 

So unwieldily clomp down again? 

They move up and down like a piston, 
Like a rusty piston, 

And like a piston on a pile driver 
Instead of a locomotive. 

Yesterday she saw this sun. 

Today the sun won’t see her. . . 

Put it away, put it away. 

The worms crawl out, and the worms crawl in, 
They crawl all over your... 

No, no, put it away! 

If my footsteps 
Make so such noise 
And never get anywhere 
They won't be splashing 
Pools of new sunlight 
Recklessly like this 
Much longer. 

Hurry up there! 

•Run on tiptoes. 

Where shall we run to? 

I don’t know. 

Anywhere. . . 

Away. 

They crawl all over your mouth and chin .. . 
Away., .away.. . S. 



The Wind that Lived in a Lane 

Leo Kennedy 

O NCE there was a wind that went away. He was 
dissatisfied, that is why he went away. Wh,en 
leaves turned yellow, and gold, and brown, and 
yellow and gold and brown at once, he roared all 
about his domain, and turned, and went alone to the 
south. 

It is quite imperative that he should have gone 
away. How could he have come back else? And had 
he not come back, his companion could not have 
come too. When he returned, the first to know was 
a country lane. That lane was long and narrow and 
deep and wriggly; it had hedges on the sides. These 
were high and thickly set; innumerable blackbirds 
and robins, and a pair of orioles nested there. It was 
quite a nice hedge. The lane was rutted by the broad 
cart wheels; the earth was ploughed up in irregular 
furrows. The furrows were of that solid delicious 
brown that artists and poet fellows who chanced 
that way never wished to leave again. Once, a young 
man with clear eyes and wild hair laughed loudly 
when he saw these furrows and said he felt he could 
eat them. He never did : and went away after the rest. 

But you see what that lane was like. On either side 
were fields of grass where sheep grazed in summer, 
that seemed to sweep up to the sky. They rolled 
like green waves and swept on forever, till standing 
at the turn of the lane, you could not tell where earth 
or sky began. In summer it was so fine; in autumn, 
sad; in winter, barren. But when winter ended it 
was different. A stirring was in the air, a half- 
remembered promise, the suggestion of things about 
to happen, of something wonderful to come. It was 
like the hour before a baby is bom. The robins appear- 
ed suddenly, rather thin and querulous, but the robins 
all the same. They looked always down the lane and 
sang a fuller note each morning. Then one morning 
they sang like anything, and the sky smiled, and the 
earth laughed. But of the elm and the stile that were 
there 

The elm was of the sort you meet once or twice 
in all your years, and so rare are they, it is sometimes 
the same elm you see over again. A man sees such a 
tree only in his youth and when he is old: the first 
time he will laugh and hit it with his palm, and they 
will nod to each other in understanding, for they 
have seen the wind come down the lane; when they 
meet again he will touch its rough bark lightly and 
the heavy leaves will hush in sympathy, for the wind 
walked up the lane again, long ago. 

This elm was of the magic kind, tall and stout 
with great green-clad limbs. The stile was a magic 
stile, broken and aged, and difficult to get over with- 
out a strong arm to help. It shared things with the 
elm, knowledge of many young people who had 
found the lane convenient for trysts. It was a mellow- 
ed and reminiscent old stile in consequence. Then 
it all happened. In a day the robins were plump 
and joyous, the blackbirds appeared, and made each 
hedge a wall of song; the orioles flashed like yellow 
flames and threaded a golden way through the bud- 
ding branches of the elm. The wind came home easily, 
with all bluster gone, as befits a tender groom return- 
ing with bride. There is no doubt that he and Spring 
found these rare sympathizers when they set up 
housekeeping. 



Tne McGill Fortnightly Review 



37 



The Sabbath 

Leonard Noble 

H ERSCHEL Raisin played in front of a mirror. 
He watched his white fingers strike firmly the 
ebony keyboard , as he shaped his fancies, hates and 
lusts into melody. From the shiny violin came a 
pure sound, clear and fresh and in his mind a hundred 
little tunes danced, each carrying a distinct variation. 

Herschel was conscious of a certain feeling of com- 
fort, a feeling that this piece of wood, on which were 
suspended bits of gut and wire had somehow become 
a part of himself which he could attach and detach 
at will. Seven years had elapsed since his parents had 
been prevailed upon to permit him to study music. 
They had wanted theology and had sent him to school, 
where a bearded teacher had expounded Hebrew in 
a dimly-lit class room, the boys solemnly repeating 
phrase after phrase. An almost perpetual droning 
of sound. Herschel had traced little songs from their 
monotones. 

Shaping into melody his fancies, passions, hates 
and lusts Herschel wondered as he stood before the 
mirror that there was no one subtle enough to read 
them. Was he not laying open his inmost thoughts? 
did not every note speak some hidden message di- 
rected from his brain through his fingers? And yet 
there was no one who, listening to him, could divine 
what his music meant, for every tone which came 
from his instrument was arousing different fancies, 
passions, hates and lusts in other people. It was an 
unknown language which he spoke to others but 
which no one comprehended. He did not understand 
the composers. What fancies, did they experience 
as they wrote down in material ink on cold paper 
the little dots which were to express the fire that 
blazed them. He merely saw fragmentary ideas and 
translated them according to the emotions which 
they aroused in him, and the emotions aroused in 
him were in turn being transmitted to and aroused 
in others.. . and the music passed on in waves, not 
mere sound waves, but waves of human expression, 
as deep and as unfathomable as the human mind of 
which they were bom. 

To his white-bearded grandfather this music had 
meant nothing. He was a Jew, learned in the Talmud, 
mouthing the thousand-year-old philosophies of his 
ancestors. Music to him was worldly, far removed 
from religion and study. To him Herschel was divorc- 
ed from all seriousness. He had lost contact with 
Judaism. He was far removed from the traditions 
of his forefathers. It had pained the aged man when 
hejhad discoveredlHerschel practising on the sabbath. 
To him the sabbath was a sacred thing. One prayed, 
one rested. . six days shall thou labour. . . and after 
that the boy sedulously avoided being found playing 
his violin on Saturday. But his mild-eyed grand- 
father, bearded and old, frequently suspected him and 
warned him against the offence. 

Standing thus before the mirror one day Herschel 
realized that he was soon to be summoned to the 
death-bed of his grandfather. The aged man was 
seriously ill and would not survive the day. 

Herschel and his mother were silent during the 
short drive through the sun-lit streets. The yellow 
light fell, trampled by the slow-lifted hoofs of the 
two horses, and the turning wheel cast an oblong 
shadow, turning and turning and turning like a 



spinning wheel. Mendelssohn’s Sp titling Song. A 
shuttle driven, cluttering across a loom. Marguerite 
seated at her wheel spinning and spinning and spin- 
ning, two gold chains of hair hanging almost to the 
floor. The virgin Marguerite, singing her Roi de 
Thule. Mephistopheles dragging Faust to hell- 
fire. 

With a jerk the cab stopped and they entered the 
house of death. From the bright sunlight into the 
gloom. The blinds were drawn. The deep silence 
which hung over the place was broken by the creak of 
a board as they mounted the stairway. Then they 
stood before the dying man. 

The chamber was flooded with an almost mystic 
light which found its way in under a half-drawn blind 
and through a thick curtain. Herschel saw that a 
white sheet lay near the mirror. The glass would be 
covered soon. And on the bed, his beard as white 
as the sheets, with his eyes wide open lay his grand- 
father. The doctor was taking his pulse. 

At any minute now, he whispered to the relatives 
gathered about the bed. 

The dying man’s face was composed, and lying 
on the pillow seemed to Herschel as if it had been 
cut in white marble. A blue vein, filled with blood 
that was coursing through a body almost for the 
last time, stood out like a branching tree against the 
background of a white cloud. Chopin’s funeral march 
(thought Herschel) stately, slow, defined. Just the 
right amount of sentimentality in the middle move- 
ment. Or Beethoven’s mighty sonata. What grief 
shook that mighty frame. . . There was a solemn 
uncanny silence in the room. 

Suddenly the dying man spoke, his voice, sounding 
like a far-off whisper, sent the memory of a Hebrew 
chant through Herschel’s mind. He was started to 
hear his name called. 

Herschel. His grandfather was speaking to him 
It is not time for me now to speak of my disappoint- 
ment... your turning away from a life of study to 
your violin. At this moment I am reconciled. But 
give me your promise, your hand— and he lifted his 
shaking hand— that you will not play on the sabbath 

Giant fingers seemed to clutch at Herschel’s throat 
A tragic chord crashed through his mind. The fingers 
of his grandfather seemed to grow in size. They 
filled the room which turned around him in vast 
ordes, turning, tinning, turning like the spinning 
wheel. The marble statue on the bed was looking 
at him, waiting. He was conscious that his mother 
V 38 wiping in a chair near the window. The whisper 
pf the doctor outside the room came to him like some 
jamng melody played on a hand organ. Slowly he 
stretched out his hand until it touched his grand- 
father s. 



A K ic<un ui ugni appeared in the dying, feverish 
eyes of the aged man. Herschel pressed bone and 
skin, in his long, artistic fingers. His grandfather 
could speak no longer, but he nodded his head and 
closed his eyes. A thousand melodies swelled to a 
rmghty chorus in Herschel’s head. He staggered from 
the room and sat down in the large hall, dazed and 
weak. The yellow sunlight came through the small 
window of a door and cast grotesque shapes on the 
carpet. 



He was roused from his stupor by a light tap on 
his shoulder. The doctor was standing beside him. 
Your grandfather, he was saying., .and if he played 
on the sabbath that scene would ever stand before 



38 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



him, he would always feel the bony fingers of the 
hand. . . your grandfather, the doctor repeated, your 
grandfather is dead. 

A shudder passed through Herschel. The compact 
was sealed. 

I can’t, I can’t, he sobbed. 

And the dark, gloomy house, silent save for the 
weeping of relatives in the upper room, echoed him. 



Night 

E. S. F. 

HAT is night? 

To the child, night is a fearsome time wherein 
his untutored imagination wanders unchecked 
among goblins and dread spirits. Naked terror 
stalks abroad. All the mystery of superstition and 
fear of the invisible inherent to our kind comes to the 
surface in a child’s mind at night. 

The Young Man’s night is peopled with luxury 
and romance: it breathes the perfume of flowers and 
the poetry of life. Its music is the swish of silk and 
the throbbing of jazz. To him night is June night, a 

gold moon and a whispering breeze Tenderness, 

caress, slow moving water mirroring the constella- 
tions, and — “her voice, and her hair, and eyes, and 
the dear red curve of her lips.” 

In Middle Age night is merely a period between 
sunset and sunrise when one eats, and sleeps, and 
repares for the next day’s work. A dividing line 
et ween one day of routine and the next. 

But with Old Age the child’s conception has return- 
ed. To the old man night is a symbol of the After. 
He looks through the night as he looks to the nearing 
Change: it is black, mysterious, unknown — but the 
moon of belief casts its light feebly on the pathway, 
and the stars of faith mark his course. Passing clouds 
and doubts eclipse them; but they passas all passes, 
and night drifts down to sleep. 



Doctor Anthony 

AS Doctor Anthony was lying 
Abed one night there came to him 
The certainty that he was dying: 

Vague memories began to swim 

Into his ken; but things nobody 
Would think of at death’s door but he — 

A thrashing in his father’s study, 

A weasel running up a tree, 

Cowslips and a demented tramp, 

His college dean’s wife offering him tea, 

Some stolen cake and a three-cornered stamp, 

And sherbert in the school laboratory. 

And all the while as he lay dying 
Among the shards of this miscellany, 

Poor Doctor Anthony was trying 
To conjure from the past most desperately 

Not this the boyish trash of yestertime 
But some exalted sentence he had read, 

Some hallowed deed or even splendid crime; 

Poor Doctor Anthony is dead., 

.... Philip Page 



Jargon and the Sad Thingums 

Leo Kennedy 

‘Ts the art of., .fairy stories dying out?” 

London Opinion 

I N a mood that I can only describe as introspective, 
Jargon, the dragon killer of Alliswell, stood against a 
becoming background of grey sedge and hills swarth- 
ed in the purple of distance, and carefully dug his 
lance into the great mauve belly of the sad Thingums. 
Jargon wriggled it. The Thingums coughed. . . 

“Well,” said the Thingums, “I never ” 

“No?” said Jargon, still wriggling, “then your 
education has suffered. Or been neglected. Or some- 
thing. But as I am in a mood that one can only des- 
cribe as introspective, you must not disturb, please.” 
“Yes, sir,” said the recumbent Thingums, still cough- 
ing and trying to get the lance out of him, “but what’s 
introspective? And if it is what I think it is, how 
could you be introspective and careful with that 
pole?” Jargon sniffed. He took the lance out of the 
Thingums belly and considered the bloodied point 
with his head on one side. “O,” he said “introspec- 
tive’s from introspection and that’s self-analysis. 
Looking inwards. I’ve done that lately. You see, 
we’re waning, we and fairy tales. Finished. I’ll be 
looking for a new job soon. Now this introspection 
is something Joseph Conrad or Madox Ford started 
and no one’s been able to finish. If I could get into 

some introspective books But that has no bearing 

on the present matter. Stand still, please, while I 
cut your head off; I want to use that new up-and-down 
stroke I’ve perfected. Damn you, will you stand 
still?” 

Lashing all its nine sad tails the Thingums hopped 
out of reach. It arched the shapeless back it wore; 
it yowled ; it tore up sods acres large and tossed them 
miles; then it sat down in all its sadness and scratched 
meditatively. 

“Why, no, Jargon, I’m tired of this nonsense. I 
won’t be killed. You said it was honorable and no 
end jolly, but that pole has given me a sensation in 
my midriff vaguely reminiscent of the sensation I 
had the day I ate those aldermen. Unpleasant. I’m 
tired of this head chopping too. Only yesterday 
that near-sighted loon the Striped Ompf from the 
Lost Caves of Woggle Woggle had his off. He said 
it was so warm with all that hair, and heavy with 
all those tusks. This morning when I went to the 
door for the milk he was barging about looking for 
his caves. He can’t see and wants his head again.” 
Jargon chopped at the sedge with his curved sword 
engraved in the twelve fairy languages. “That’s 
hard for both of us;” he admitted, “as a Thingums 
of substance and yoptoff sorcerer of Karvan your 
whims must be respected, quite apart from our friend- 
ship. But as a salaried dragon killer — though I will 
be let out — I have an obligation to the old firm, and 
you are today’s assignment. Besides, we ARE done for. 
So why not take it easily, with the swank that you 
may be the last of the dragons?” 

“You put it prettily,” said the Thingums, breathing 
green smoke rings and fanning them with an occasional 
tail, “but you did not see that headless fellow from 
Woggle Woggle. All neck and that, all stickie out. 
Now a Thingums of my color is a joy for ever, and 
about being the last dragon— we’ll see. But if you 
cut. off. my head with that new up-and-down- stroke 




The McGill Fortnightly Review 



39 



you have perfected, what assurance is there that I’ll 
still be attractive?” And he hugged with both paws 
that great gaping tear in his stomach place. 

“Please,” said Jargon, “I’m feeling introspective 
again. Till it wears off I’ll think in full stops and 
dashes. . . like Madox Ford. . . Ford. . . dragons. Per- 
haps you’re right. Why do we kill anyway. . . inside 
do I want to kill — does my subconscious prompt it. . . 
killing. Tummy-sticking and head-chopping. .. I 
want to emancipate. . . higher things. We can’t help 
it, Thingums, new slavery. . . sold before birth. . . 
Mrs. Stowe, Uncle Tom, little Eva. . . Fords, tin 
things that run and rattle. . . ” 

The Thingums howled and ramped in circles. 
“Stop it” he cried, “and waggle your sword engraved 
in the twelve fairy languages. For I am in a mood 
that one can only describe as anything but introspec- 
tive. . . ’’and he ran at Jargon and bit him in two. Then 
he thought he would bite those who have replaced 
the old order with introspection and ruined all our 
Jargons. He ramped once more and went away to 
anotherwhere. 



Decadence 

PASSIONLESS one, to whom all days are dull, 

Come and intrigue me with your weariness. 

Droop round me, as the loose fringe of a dress 
Flung on a chair’s edge, droops; let languor lull 
All our mind’s curious life, all questionings, 

The futile fancy and the puny prayer, 

Till on the idle, unadventurous air 
Breathing is loud, and sighs are terrible things. 

Why lift the pale tip of a forefinger ? 

If so much move, you make a right and wrong, 

There is a God, and we lose Paradise. 

But we hold heaven if only you will linger 
In stupid rest, and while my kiss is long 
Stare out at nothing with indifferent eyes. 

Bernard March 



The Poet Accuses the Psychologist 

YOU spoil my tools — my words — and I am helpless 
To guard against your ravages. I say 
My friend’s unhappy. “Only a slight conflict,” 

You competently observe. I say again 
“Subconsciously I knew — ” you interrupt 
Me blandly — “ ‘Subconsciously’ means nothing.” 

I protest (in vain) there is a word 

So long as, when I use it, faces light 

With understanding. “She has a quaint reserve,” 

I muse, and you — “Greatly inhibited.” 

“He can never love her,” I say in pity 
Of two we know. “A serious maladjustment,” 

You agree. I marvel at a tale 

Well-told, of the great friendship of two women. 

“A homosexual attachment, for which the one 
Crucified love,” your diagnosis runs. 

You are all moths, and eat holes in my language. 

And I despair, knowing there is no cedar 
Of a sufficient pungency to keep you out. 

Bliss Chapman 



BOOKS 

AVOWALS 

(By George Moore. Boni & Liveright. $2.50) 

G EORGE Moore has made the whole world his con- 
fessional. With every succeeding volume of intimate 
disclosures — and who has ever told his own story so 
often? — we come upon yet another picture of the man 
we knew already, painted with the same liveliness, 
the same precision, the same precious taste, the same 
evident desire to épater les bourgeois. How interested 
we are, for a time, in his comment on literature and 
life, but how rapidly we tire of the narrow pathways 
of a mind great only in its self-complacency, and 
of the delicate, almost plaintive voice, forever striv- 
ing for the perfect note, forever failing to attain it 
because the inspiration never ceases to be self-con- 
scious. “The sadness of the satellite,” do not those 
words ring true of this man, who, he is so careful to 
inform us on all occasions, has hobnobbed with 
all the great artists of his day and made much copy 
of them? They are words used by himself to describe 
the essential quality of woman. True, yes, and doub- 
ly true, for when Mr. Moore is most beautiful it is 
a feminine beauty that he possesses. 

Avowals, now published for the first time in a 
popular edition, is talk, excellent talk, about books 
and people, but chiefly about the author. More 
confessions by the same young man, whom the years 
do not alter. The “genius for intimacy” which Mr. 
Moore ascribes to himself is here; is only equalled, 
in fact, by his perfect readiness to dissect close friends 
in public. It is an occupation which he knows most 
of his readers will enjoy. 



DUBLINERS 

(By James Joyce. The Modern Library Inc., New York. 
In Canada, The Macmillan Company of Canada Ltd. 
Toronto. $1.00) 

I N these realistic slices of Dublin life we see Joyce 
in his early twenties poking his finger into reality 
and finding the experiment not unint eresting, much 
like a medical student dissecting his first stiff. The 
short stories contained in this volume are a definite 
part of his development as a writer of prose. They 
come between Chamber Music and The Portrait of 
the Artist as a Young Man, and in them we find no 
attempt to violate the traditional form. The forces 
which culminated in the epic satire Ulysses are to be 
seen now and again in this book. Joyce’s prose is 
smooth, polished, and extremely vigorous. In its ac- 
curacy, precision and careful placing of every word 
it is the prose of a man who has had a rigid Catholic 
training, a man who has struggled with the intricate 
philosophies of the Jesuit fathers. 

The stories are invested with a futility and helpless 
pessimism which the early works of a writer trying the 
world for the first time do not always reveal. Joyce is 
never exuberant ; his humour is cold and almost morbid 
He tramps the streets of Dublin and examines the peo- 
ple who are about him with a magnifying glass. When 
he does laugh, and he does in A Mother, it is the 
sardonic and bitter laugh of a man in whom art and 
scholasticism are fiercely contending with each other. 
Despite this, Joyce, the poet, appears on every page 
and in the last story. The Dead, this poet rises to thé 
heights of Tchekoff. Here, most of all, we see the 



40 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



beginnings of his exposition of the stream of con- 
sciousness already striking the motif for Ulysses. 
The story is, in parts, a prose poem of rare lyric 
beauty. 

For ten years publishers refused to bring out this 
book. It is available at last in a popular edition, and 
some of the best stories of our century need no longer 
go a-begging for publication. 



COLLECTED POEMS 

(By James Stephens. London, Macmillan and Co., $3.) 
“Ty rEARE at the beginning of an era, and who 
Vy creates a new world must create a new art to 
T ~ express it ... . We must evolve a new technique, 
or we must continue to compose and paint and write 
in the only form that can deal with an interim situ- 
ation, or with speed — the lyrical form.” This is the 
thesis of an introduction to a collection of lyrical 
poems that are at least as notable for their intellec- 
tual content as for their technical cleverness, and 
even their imperfections are clever. 

James Stephens is a Pantheist who does not wor- 
ship, but identifies himself with, nature; and although 
he holds that the duty of the lyric poet “is not to ex- 
press or explain, but to intensify life”, he has one or 
two dominant ideas which are reiterated and embroi- 
dered in a variety of forms through many different 
poems. Chief of these is that of the divinity of excess, 
the ultimate union — on the principle that if you go 
far enough round you will come back on the other 
side — of good and evil, a marriage of Heaven and 
Hell, expressed at times with the genius and simplicity 
of his master Blake. The parti-colored notes of Pity 
and Hate, Joy and Sorrow, Ecstacy and Despair are 
touched not infrequently in Mr. Stephen’s symphony, 
while their spirit of sheer fun, pure comedy and coun- 
try simplicity, make these poems worthy of their 
own special niche among the English Classics. 

PLA fffS AMERICAN REP UBLIC 
(By Douglas Woodruff. E. P. Dutton & Co., $1.00) 

M R. Woodruff, a young Englishman who went 
from Oxford to an American college, has expres- 
sed his criticism of the American people in this 
little book in the form of a Socratic dialogue. The 
as yet unnamed pastime of poking fun at the New 
World has seldom been indulged more humously 
or more cleverly than here. Those of a too serious 
turn of mind are likely to be annoyed at the 
onesidedness of the picture, but that is to be expec- 
ted of people with a too serious turn of mind. The 
rest of us can enjoy a book that neither exceeds 
the limits nor wastes the opportunities of satire. 
Canadians should find it particularly amusing, for 
many of Mr. Woodruff’s arrows strike vulnerable 
spots in our Canadian social armour. 

the Tort of Montreal 

(By Laurence Chalmers Tombs, M. A. Published by The 
Macmillan Company of Canada, Limited. Price $0.75.) 

T HIS is the first monograph to be published 
for 1926 in the series of National Problems of 
Canada. The monographs are all M. A. theses 
; n the Department of Economics and Political 
Science at McGill University. Each study is made 
by a graduate student in economics, under the 
guidance of a member of the department. All of the 
essays are on national questions. 

Mr. Tombs’ thesis. The Port of Montreal, is a 



lengthy and detailed account of the Montreal Har- 
bour, its place in Canadian transportation, and its 
probable importance in the future. Many leaders 
would probably be most interested in the discussion 
of such matters as the proposed Georgian Bay Canal 
and the St. Lawrence Canal. 

There is an informing chapter on the rôle of Mont- 
real Harbour in grain transportation. There is, 
besides, an interesting conjecture as to the possible 
results of making Montreal a winter port. In this 
connection a short account of the views and work 
of Dr. Howard Barnes on the ice problem is given. 



MAN AT ODDS WITH SOCIETY 
(Published by The Student Christian Movement of Cana- 
da., $0.25) 

T HIS is a series of essays by a group of young 
McGill graduates, in preparation for the National 
Conference of the Student Christian Movement. 
The essays are on the State, Education, the Church, 
Art, and so forth. Ideas are suggested rather than 
questions answered; problems are presented rather 
than solved. The unity behind all the essays seems 
to consist in a challenge to the institutions one takes 
for granted, such as the Church, the State and the 
schools. The criterion whereby they are to be judged 
is their value to society. They derive their sup- 
port from mankind, and the question is: what ao 
they give in return? Their service to man is, in short, 
the extent to which they are conducive to the estab- 
lishment of the “Kingdom of Heaven on earth.” 
The little book is entirely typical of the new self- 
examining, critical point of view of the Student Christ- 
ian Movement. Perhaps from this will be nourished 
a leadership which will lead the way to a younger 
and more human Canada than has yet been. 



Two Poems 

The Way of Youth 

GENEROUS as well as wild, 

Heart of Youth consorts with strange 
Bedfellows, outcast, reviled, 

Stopping not to count the change; 

Asking naively, whether pain, 

Greed and dirt must always be: 
Comfortable folk and sane 
Shake their gray heads knowingly. 

Youth plays with loaded dice, 
Learning soon to hoard the pence, 
Learning tricks of cowardice 
Age will call experience. 



Portrait 

TOOTHLESS and bald 
And foul of breath, 
Staring with brittle 
Eyes at Death, 

Age, fumbling at his 
Watch chain, sung: 

I was a Radical 
Myself, 

When young. 



Philip Page 



