r 

(jiiAA-t/ 




Editorial Comments 71 

A Thought from Emerson 73 

Epitaphial Inscriptions 74 

Peanut Bill (Poetry) 75 

The Chair of Pathology 76 

A Sea-Side Waif (Poetry) 77 

Originality 77 

Sporting Columns 77 

Between the Lectures 78 

Arts Song 79 






Societies 79 

‘Owed’ to the Professor of Consti- 
tutional Law 80 

Class Reports 81 

Arts 81 

Comp. Med 81 

Donalda News 82 

Medicine 82 

Science 83 

Banjo Club Concert 8$ 

unn w ''"' y i 

A rchw^^ 

/\CC. N°- I \ \ 

R^r 2 1 y 




MUNCO CIGARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE. FINE GOODS OUR SPECIALTY 



S. DAVIS & SONS, LARGEST CIGAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA. 




FINE AMEMSGAN ©UITAHS 

In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and Cherry. 
‘‘STEWART” “BAY STATE” and“DOBSON” 

— - ■== BANJOS. == — 

Genuine Italian Mandolines. 

Best Russian Gut Strings and Everything in the 
Musical Line. 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 St. Catherine Street. 

N. B. — Special discount to Students. 

Montreal Photographic Supply. 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

SOLE AGENT FOR CANADA. SPECIAL BARGAINS. 



Carbutt’e dry Plates and Films. 
Gray’s Periscope Lenses. 
Prosch Triplex Shutters. 
Prosch Flash Lamps. 

New York Aritso Paper. 
Peerless Blue Paper. 



1 5x7 Folding Kodak $57 50 
14x5 “ “ 52 50 

1 4x5 Hawkey e Roll Holder etc. 25 00 

1 No. 2 Kodak 25 00 

1 C Daylight Kodak. . .26 00 
1 A “ “ 8 50 



1 2sT C3-TO IsT 

STANDARD 

TYPEWRITER 

== 1892 
WODBL 
CALL - AND - SEE 

Our Medical Keyboard. 

SPACKMAN & CO., 

164 ST. JAMES STREET, - MONTREAL. 




BOOTS 



I keep a good boot, suitable for fall 

wear, and one that will ; last well 

and sell it to students for $3.00. 

C-A.X.3L IUST .A. IT ID SIEIG IT* 

A. M. FEATHERSTON, 2243 St. Catherin e 

- - CORNER VICTORIA STREET, - . 



Suits for GYMNASIUM of field. 

- Running Shoes, etc. 

ALBERT DEMERS, 

$ 338 St. James Street, 

NEARLY OPPOSITE WITNESS OFFICE. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



Surgical Instruments 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty 

J. H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 

Bell Telephone, 4396. A TOWtVSdil* 

Ml MUTEIS poll Kill MS 

To buy their Winter supply of 

NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY 



Reindeer, Antelope, Buckskin, 

Dogskin and Woolen Gloves 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

^ew Goods arriving daily at 

ARMSTRONG & MUNROE’S, 

2246 St- Catherine Street, 



Foot of Victoria. 



WISE professional 
MEN 

BUY their DESKS 

and 

BOOK 

CASES 

from 

TEES & CO. 

300 St. James St., Montreal. 

Arlthow our Rates to 
Students arc 
H Low, 

# We give them the best in 
W Portraits, 

Groups, etG. 

W. Notman 8c Son, 17 Bleury St. 



“LA CADENA ” and “ LA FLORA ” The Cream of the Havana Crop. 



MADRE E* HIJO (7 SIZES.) EL PADRE AND CABLE. 




^Glhh FORTNIGHTIsy. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event, 



VOL. I. 



MONTREAL, JANUARY 5, 1892. 



No. 5 




^EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Gordon W, MacDougall, B.A. (Law ’94), Editor-in-chief \ 

>' . M. MacKeracher, (Arts ’94). George F. Shaw (Med. ’93). 

A. R. Holden, B.A. (Science ’94). Mabel Lee (Donalda *93). 

Wilfred Plaskett (Comp. Med. 93). J. A. MacPhail, M.D. (Grads. Soc.). 

^BUSINESS BOARDS 

H. M. Kinghorn, B.A. (Med. ’94), Chairman . 

E. J. MacIver (Arts ’93), Secretary. 

J. Featherston (Science ’93). Peers Davidson, B. A. (Law *93). 

F . A. Botterell (Donalda *95). Glen Campbell (Comp. Med. *93). 



T.he McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
io cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Edi tor-in- Chief, P.O. Box 37. 

EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 

THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

OES Rumor speak truly, and is the Faculty of 
Law, owing to the munificence of our worthy 
benefactors and the provisions of a far-seeing 
Facultj', about to find a new home among the new 
buildings that cluster, a rapidly enlarging group, at the 
foot of old Mount Royal, or is this rumor also to be 
numbered among the empty vaporings of idle report ? 
If there be truth at the bottom of it, then indeed is the 
Faculty of Law to be heartily congratulated, and the 
tremendous impetus which has but lately been given to 
that most important section of the University is again 
to be heightened by this further benefaction. 

The question of site, however (always supposing 
the aforesaid rumor to be well founded), is one that will 
require the most careful consideration of those to whom 
the choice of position is entrusted, and a transfer of the 
place of lectures from the lower to the higher level will 
perhaps be strenuously opposed by a section represent- 
ing certain of those men to whom a longer climb than 
they have been accustomed to in the past will present 
a serious objection. 

From our point of view, we must say that, taking 



everything into consideration, a building situated 
among the other fine edifices that decorate the Uni‘ 
versity grounds and surround the good old Campus on 
which so many a sturdy battle for McGill’s honor has 
been fought out, and built in a manner in keeping with 
the style of architecture there prevailing, will afford 
advantages that cannot be heedlessly overlooked by the 
gentlemen with whom the decision rests. A consolida- 
tion of university interests is greatly to be desired ; a 
more personal contact of faculty with faculty and stu- 
dent with student is to be looked forward to, and to this 
consolidation the centralizing of the buildings and 
therefore of the teaching force of the University must 
naturally tend. But again, on the other hand, the 
question of ground area is also a serious consideration, 
as the recent erections have reduced very largely the 
space available for such purposes, and any attempt at 
encroachment on the only too small section of the 
University grounds set aside for athletic purposes 
would be vigorously resented by those interested in 
such pursuits. 

Rumor also goes on to state that such a building, it 
erected, would provide not only lecture rooms, but also 
space for a law library, with other rooms for reading, 
recreation, and general purposes Shades of all the 
chief justices and Mr. Frazer (of free library fame) ! 
Can these things really be, or does fickle Dame Rumor 
again sport with our lively imaginations ? 

Again accept our congratulations on your — even if it 
be only rumored, good fortune, Faculty of Law. Far 
be it from the Fortnightly to ever raise questions as 
to the inner workings of this faculty or that ; far be it 
from us to meddle with or venture into the dangerous 
province of University politics ! We choose rather to 
remain on the cold, yet interested outside of the border 
line, and, while mildly criticizing, welcome all change 
for the better, every innovation that carries in its 
train benefits of a solid and lasting character. 

The Faculty of Law has had many things in the past 
to contend with, many things to drag it back which 
those unacquainted with its labors are, and perhaps 
unfortunately must remain, in ignorance of, and now 
that the Faculty is in such a strong position both as 
regards its teaching staff and also in the quality of the 
students that attend its courses, any further impetus 
that may be given it in the manner above indicated 
will be welcomed not only by present Students but also 
by graduates and the members of the Montreal Bar in 
general, as the beginning of another new era in its so 
far chequered but eminently successful career. 



72 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE STUDY OF MEDICINE. 

There has always been a tradition, especially in the 
Faculty of Arts, that a knowledge of the Calendar was 
as essential to a student as a mastery of the text-books. 
But a study of this somewhat sibylline volume is of 
value, apart from the useful exemptions from study it 
may suggest to a thoughtful man, especially if the 
comparative method is adopted. A comparison of the 
present Calendar with those of earlier date will show 
the demands that have been made upon students in the 
progress of the University. 

The increasing burden has fallen with greatest weight 
upon the Students of Medicine ; and though the session 
has been lengthened and the number of hours increased, 
though the course has been extended by summer ses- 
sions, the medical work is now almost too heavy to be 
borne. The difficulty is felt in other places as well, 
and in England an attempt has been made to meet it 
by adding a fifth year to the course. The Medical 
Faculty of McGill has always been keenly alive to the 
necessity of doing the best thing possible for its students, 

on the one hand to give them a sound medical educa- 
tion, and on the other to avoid too heavy a strain upon 
their time and financial resources. The course of pre- 
liminary and professional education which many men 
now take before commencing the practice of medicine 
extends over ten years— and it is none too long— 
namely, four years in arts, four years in medicine and 
two years in foreign hospitals. Such a course is possi- 
ble only to well favored men ; and looking to the emolu- 
ments of practice, it is perhaps asking too much of a 
man to spend ten years of his life in preparing for it. 
The scheme that is necessary is to provide a course 
which shall give to a medical student the preliminary 
training and culture now supposed to precede the Arts 
degree along with his purely professional work. In the 
University of London this is provided for by the pre- 
liminary scientific course. The principle that profes- 
sional study should be accepted as an equivalent for some 
of the subjects usually demanded in the Arts course has 
already been recognized by the University. In the 
Calendar it is stated that Art students of the third and 
fourth years matriculated in the Faculties of Law, 
Medicine or Applied Science are entitled to certain 
exemptions in the Arts Faculty. The extension of this 
principle would appear to be a solution of the question. 
For many years it was held that the only subject proper 
to an Arts course were the classical languages. After 
much discussion mathematics was admitted, then 
modern languages, then scientific subjects. Until now 
m many colleges the classics and even mathematics 
may be excluded from the course leading to the 
Bachelor of Arts degree. In McGill an Arts student may 
select the science course, and exclude classics and 
mathematics excepting such as might well be obtained 
in a High school or academy. 

A course could be well arranged extending over a 
period of six years, in which a student might obtain 
the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Doctor of Medicine. 
Many men consider four years too high a price to pay 
for the Bachelor degree who would be willing to assume 
the two years course. In the preliminary course might 



be included many subjects now taught exclusively in 
the medical school, and when the student entered upon 
his purely professional work he would have a free hand. 
If Geology and Mineralogy, Zoology, Botany, physio- 
logical and histological, are proper subjects in the Arts 
course, it is hard to see why general anatomy, physio- 
logy and histology should not hive like favor. Indeed> 
some of the subjects, Chemistry, Botany, Physics and 
Zoology, are common to both courses. Instead of an 
extension of the coarse this arrangement merely means 
a condensation of the work of eight years into six. 
Students of medicine would be fully equipped for their 
professional study, and freed from the burden of studies 
that have no more connection with medicine than with 
any other scientific pursuit. 

It is probable that some arrangement must be come 
to to bring the course into harmony with that laid down 
by the conjoint Board of the Royal colleges of physi- 
cians and surgeons of England, and some such scheme as 
now propounded would seem to deserve consideration 
at the hands of the Faculty. 



A DINING HALL- 

A Careless reader going through the back num- 
bers of the numerous efforts in College journalism 
at McGill must be arrested from time to time 
by the magic words “ Dining Hall.” He reads 
the article through, be it under the heading of 
Editorial or Correspondence, and he finds the substance 
to be an appeal for a common Dining-room, a room 
where the students of all the faculties may meet, even 
if it be only for the mid-day repast, and where they 
may enjoy a comfortable meal and at a moderate cost. 
We again record the want, again raise our voice in 
favor of such an institution, with the confidence, how- 
ever, that if the scheme be not feasible at the moment, 
the innovation will be made at the earliest opportunity’. 
We know, or we imagine we know, the difficulties with 
which the board of Governors have to contend, and yet 
it seems to us that they have it in their power to grant 
this boon to all the Students. 



i ne cumculty ot obtaining good board has been we 
believe, never so great as this year, owing to the large 
increase in the number of students, and many of them 
have been forced to get their meals at long distances 
from their lodgings. The students in Medicine and 
Applied Science are specially to be condoned with, some 
of whom have but a single hour at noon, and are unable 
to get dinner without going downtown for it. Enter- 
prising restaurant keepers seem to have stepped into 
the breach the University has so far been unable to fill 
and from the stand-point of convenience the want has 
been by them in a measure supplied- 
A suggestion.— To what use is the old east wine, 
formerly occupied by the bursar, and latterly fitted ini 
as a temporary building for the use of the Faculty of 
Applied Science, being put ? It has the advantage of 
being m the college, and is sufficiently large for the 
purpose. The plan seems possible— more than that it 
seems feasible, and if the authorities will but consider 
the scheme, such an institution could surely be made tn 
pay its way, and if properly managed might become a 
source of revenue to the University. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



73 



Compliments of the Season to you, Men of McGill, 
and all our many friends and sympathisers. Best 
wishes for the coming year and success to all ! 

horget all ye unfortunates the animosity you once 
bore, and that not long since, against the unfortunate 
professor or lecturer who thought fit, in his blind 
regardlessness of your budding genius, to deprive you 
ot the honor of a place in the examination list, be it 
never so low, and to crush with one fatal stroke of his 
pen the hopes and aspirations of an entire family who 
considered themselves proud and happy in the posses- 
sion of a second Shakspere or Newton ! These are 
but trivial matters, events of small import, among the 
necessary evils of an otherwise successful College career. 
Swallow the bitter with the sweet, and send a nice 
New Year’s card to your worthy Pater, with an intima- 
tion that twenty dollars will cover the cost of your 
supplemental Exams for the season. 



Hockey reigns supreme and the attention of the 
college world of sport is turned ice-wards. We bid you 
good luck Knights of the Three crows and shall confi- 
dently expect the championship of the Intermediate 
Series at least, to rest on the flags of old McGill. 

Taking everything into consideration perhaps it was 
just as well that we should enter a team for this year 
in the Intermediate Series only, but oh the pity of it ! 
— Are there only seven men, picked and chosen spirits, 
who are to be counted worthy, of carrying the white 
jerseys to victory ? 

Memories of an Elder, a Lowe, a Green and a 
Hamilton pass before our minds eyes, and we go 
and take another look at the Championship Cup in the 
library, won the year of the first great carnival from all 
the clubs in the Province. 

This cup, as the picture of the foot ball team of 1890, 
is and should be a subject of deep reverence and respect 
to all, and in referring to them we only again fall 
victims to the popular failing of reverting to “ the good 
old times, now long gone by.” 

Undergrads we look to you to do your duty. Skates 
are sharp, sticks are strong and muscles are firm. What 
more can be desired unless it be convenient hours for 
practice, and for this we refer you to the provisions of 
an efficient committee. 

A THOUGHT FROM EMERSON. 

i{ Insist on yourself : never imitate .” 

» ; HAT does this message mean ? for that it is a 
message we can have no doubt. Does it 
mean that, accepting it, we are to turn our 
backs 011 the past, and shut our eyes to the achieve- 
ments of preceding generations ? That we are to throw 
to one side the teachings "of those who have trod the 
rough paths of Wisdom, of those who have searched 
diligently for the abode of truth, and have, after much 
hardship and toil, caught glimpses of her 011 the almost 
inaccessible heights of nature? Must we begin where 
they began ? Is it wrong for us to profit by what they 
have learned, and, starting where they ended, to press 



forward into the unknown beyond ? This cannot be ; 
this is not the thought of Emerson. 

What he is seeking to impress upon us is the fact 
that for each one of us there is an important and 
peculiar duty in the world to perform. Each one of 
us can do something in a way and with a result 
not within the sphere of possibility for any other. 
There is a particular task for which each is especially 
fitted. Recognizing this as a fact, Emerson then en- 
deavors to lay bare the truth, that when we turn aside 
to the thoughts of others and make them ours, and 
when, instead of thinking and speaking and acting 
in our own way as prompted by the spirit within 
us, we attempt to accomplish our task by means of ap- 
proved methods, we mar our efforts, stunt our growth, 
and withhold from the world what it rightfully demands 
of us, — the message we were sent to deliver, the gift we 
were empowered to present. This, in another form, is 
exactly what Shakespeare urges upon us when he says : 

“ This above all, — to thine own self be true ; 

And it must follow, as the night the day, 

Thou canst not then be false to any man.” 

But is it true that we are thus false to ourselves ? 
that we imitate others to our own detriment ? It is com- 
monly asserted that self-conceit is one of the character- 
istics of our day, and self-conceit may be regarded as a 
high opinion, ill-grounded though it may be, of one’s 
self and one’s abilities. It would appear, then, at first 
sight, that instead of being prone to imitate others we 
have fallen into the opposite error, and have drifted to 
the other extreme, of self-love. If this be the case, we 
have more than learned the lesson Emerson sought to 
teach, and have no further need for his instruction. 
But the distinction drawn by Aristotle, the great philo 
sopher of the fourth century before Christ, when treat- 
ing of this very subject, must here be noted. He tells 
us that there is a proper as well as an improper self- 
love. The improper form of it is evidenced in the man 
who seeks only to gratify his own desires, the irrational 
part of his soul. He it is who, in order to accomplish 
his own selfish ends and secure to himself the enjoy- 
ment of his own pleasures, has no consideration for the 
rights of others. This in reality is but a base form of 
self-love. It is from a consideration of his lower nature 
alone, and from a desire to gratify it, even though it be 
at the expense of the nobler part, that man is thus led 
astray. We speak of a man as forgetting himself when 
guilty of some low act in the pursuit of temporary plea- 
sure ; and we’ say truly, for, in stooping to such acts, 
man debases his true self. Thus we see that there is a 
self-love that is not only proper but commendable ; a 
self love which, as Bishop Butler has said, “ is, in its 
due degree, as just and morally good as any affection 
whatever,” and which “is one chief security of our 
right behavior towards society.” And Aristotle says 
that he especially is a self-lover who is constantly soli- 
citous that he, more than anyone else, be perfectly just, 
temperate and honorable In other words, the true 
self-lover is he who at all times is true to himself, and 
it is this which Emerson places before us and incul- 
cates as our duty. ' 



74 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



tiously. This is true of our age as it has been of no 
other. We are prone to accept the thoughts and dicta 
ot others as indisputable. In this age of editorials, 
pamphlets, books and reviews, we easily acquire the 
habit of placing implicit confidence in the utterances of 
prominent men and great thinkers. It is far easier than 
thinking out everything ourselves. But what is the 
result? Our minds become indolent. We are influ- 
enced by every wave of thought. We are not ourselves. 
We become an unthinking multitude. This must not 
be. Life is too short, and there is too much to be accom- 
plished. Let us learn of others, ascertain wherein they 
have failed, and acquire from them all that will assist us 
in our development. Then, avoiding what may be harm- 
ful, and profiting by what may be helpful, we must, 
in our own way, and guided by the spirit implanted 
within us, press forward to the perfecting of ourselves, 
and by that means to the elevation and improvement 
of the world at large. For, as Emerson says in another 
place, if we but do what is assigned us, we cannot hope 
too much or dare too much. 

W. A. Cameron. 

Toronto. 



EPITAPHIAL INSCRIPTIONS.* 

The practice of placing inscriptions on tombs is a 
very ancient one, and is said to have originated with 
the scholars of Linus, the Theban poet, who, first 
“ bewayled theyre master, when he was slayne, in 
doleful verse, called of him sElinum, and afterwards 
Epitaphia , for that they were first sung at buryals, and 
after engraved upon the sepulchres.” They were 
doubtless suggested by a sense of immortality, and 
served to recount the virtues and glorious actions of 
the deceased, and hold them up for our instruction. 
They were thus first brought into use in connection 
with persons of distinction, and among the ancients it 
was forbidden to employ them for any but those of 
rank. Later, however, this restriction fell into disuse, 
until at the present day it is to be observed that 
epitaphs proper are not very largely employed by the 
better educated, the cultured and refined, with whom 
monumental inscriptions partake more of the nature of 
simple records. A very notable case illustrative of 
this is to be found in a recent collection of the 
epitaphs found at Bring Hill Plymouth, Massachusetts, 
where, out of more than two thousand, an extremely 
small percentage consist of verse or prose epitaphs. 
Among the middle and lower classes, the use of 
epitaphs is now very common, and it is among those 
that one may look for all that is grotesque and un- 
grammatical. 

Epitaphs, as the term is now employed in the broad 
sense, include any monumental inscription. Originally, 
and now in the more strict sense of the word, they 
were inscriptions in prose or verse designed to narrate 
the descent of the deceased and mourn his loss. They 
also often served as the means of recording religious 
views ; views concerning the present social state and 
hopes for better days ; they often record real or imagin- 



are thus exposed as the most 
effective mode of public vindication. All that is 
expressive of love, sorrow, faith, hope, resignation and 
piety should characterize an epitaph. 

The importance of monuments and inscriptions in 
the illustration of local history cannot be too strongly 
maintained, since the object to be attained in the 
erection of monumental buildings and inscribed tablets 
are twofold, being not only to record the character of 
the deceased, but also to offer to us a lesson in the 
remembrance of our mortality. More than that, if 
epitaphs are read aright, they give us an important 
insight into the manner of thought, the station and 
the intellectual atmosphere in which the people of the 
time lived. The relation of the whole subject, — which 
is one full of interest and offering important lines of 
comparative study — to anthropology, has been very 
fully treated of by Pettigrew. The object of the 
present paper is to draw attention to the importance of 
the subject and enlist others in working it out more 
fully, for, strange as it may seem, there are very few 
works on epitaphs in the English language. Five 
have been published in England, and one, bearing the 
date of 1 892, in America. Many records of a valuable 
nature relating to the early history of this continent 
have been bad through neglect to gather such inscrip- 
tions before the stones bearing them were destroyed. 

Of the English publications, that by James Brown 
on the “ Epitaphs and Monumental Inscriptions in the 
Greyfriars Churchyard at Edinburgh” is one of the 
most interesting. It is essentially a much extended work 
on epitaphs from the same locality published at a very 
much earlier date by Monteith, and one of its most 
valuable features is an historical account of this 
ancient burial place. 

Classification of epitaphs is not a very easy matter, 
as they include so many subjects of diverse character. 
Pettigrew makes eighteen classes, while Lowing 
reduces them all to four which he designates as (a) 
elegant, ( 6 ) professional, (c) witty and grotesque, (d) 
miscellaneous. In my own studies, I have found that 
they may also be classed, according to the social strata 
from which they emanate, in three groups, those of (a) 
the upper or educated and wealthy class, (£) the 
middle and lower middle, and ( c ) those which emanate 
from the uneducated whose lives lie in hard places. 
The epitaph then often reflects, as also in the other 
cases, the manner of lives the people to whom they 
relate have led. 

Accepting Lowing’s classifications, a few illustrations 
of some of his groups will serve to acquaint us with 
the style of writings one is likely to meet with in 
some of the old English churchyards. Of professional 
epitaphs, probably 110 better example could be given 
than one by Soame Jenyns on Dr. Johnson. As a con- 
denced biography, it certainly could not be surpassed. 

Here lies poor Johnson. Reader ! have a care, 

I read lightly, lest you rouse a sleeping bear, 

Religious, moral, genious and humane, 
lie was, but self-conceited, rude and vain ; 

Ill-bred, and overbearing in dispute, 

A scholar and a Christian, yet a brute. 



We fall into the sin of imitation almost unconscien- I ary wrongs which 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Would you know all liis wisdom and his folly, 

His actions, sayings, mirth and melancholy ; 

Be well and tlieale, retailers of his wit, 

Will tell you how he wrote, and talked, and spit.” 

To this may well be added are on Hogarth by 
Garrick, as found in the Chiswick Churchyard. 

“ Farewell, great painter of mankind, 

Who reached the noblest point of art, 

Whose pictured morals charm the mind, 

And thro* the eye curved the heart. 



An introduction, promenade, 

A parting, that was all 
(But that night— it came out after— 
Neither of them slept at all). 

They knew each other better 

When he called the following week : 
They criticized professors, 

Of studies they did speak 
(He imagined himself bashful, 

But he had a monstrous cheek). 



“ If genius fire thee, reader, stay ; 

If nature touch thee, drop a tear ; 

If neither move thee, turn away, 

For Hogarth’s dust lies here- 

<c No marble pomp nor monumental praise, 

My tomb, this dial epitaph, these lays ; 

Pride aud low moulding clay but ill agree. 

Death levels me to beggars — kiugs to me. 

“ Alive, instruction was my work each day ; 

Dead, I persist instruction to convey ; 

Here, reader, mark perhaps now in thy prime, 

The slealtliy steps of never ending Time ; 

Thou’lt be what I am — catch the present hour, 

Employ that well, for that’s within thy power.” 

Witty and grotesque epitaphs, especially the former, 
appear to have been more common in the past than 
now. Two instances as derived from English church- 
yards will suffice to indicate the usual characteristics 
of this class. 

“ Under this stone, aged three-score and ten, 

Lie the remains of William Wood-hen.” 

“ N.B. — For hen read cock, cock wouldn’t come in rhyme.” 



And when the session ended, 

Although he worked with vim, 

He shook his class ; his reason 
Was, that it was rather slim 
In intellect ; and the professors 
Partially agreed with him. 

Besides co-education 

On a small scale seemed unique ; 

So he helped her with her Latin, 

Aud she helped him with his Greek, 
And they had to be together 
More than once or twice a week. 

She wore the gown and trencher, 

And looked exceeding gay ; 

She never gave attention much 
To any Faculty, 

Was, at least, an Artless maiden 
Till she got to her B.A, 

She passed the Intermediate 
(It always knocked him sick), 

She bloomed into a Junior, 

A Senior very quick ; 

And she caught a young professor 
As she read the valedic. 



Postscripts to epitaphs are most unusual, and this 
is the first instance of the kind that has come under 
my notice. The name More has been prolific of 
punning epitaphs. One of the best is as follows : — 

“ Here lies the body of one More aud no More than he ; 

One More and no More , how can that be ? 

Why, one More and no More may well lie here alone, 

Since one More is More than none.” 

D. P. P. 

To be continued . 

(i) Abstract of a paper read before the American Folk Lore 
Society, Montreal Branch, Nov. 14th, 1892. 

PEANUT BIEE. 

OR, A STUDENT’S CAREER REDUCED TO A NUTSHELL. 

He was a gallant Artsinan, 

Taking second year McGill ; 

He’d been three sessions in the first, 

And would have been there still. 

But they passed him with an aeger , 

For he had been very ill. 

She was a fair Donalda, 

A Freshman— fresh as May ; 

She wondered how a gown would look, 

And what her friends would say 

When they saw her capped aud hooded, ♦ 

And she wrote her name “B.A.” 

One evening a reception 

Was held in Molson Hall :— 



And he— how shall I tell it ? — 

O Sophomores, beware ! 

Next day got back his photo, 

And he sent her back her hair ; 

And now he keeps a peanut stand 
Upon Jacques Cartier Square. 

I was gazing up at Nelson. 

Still and great, with lordly mien 
Looking down upon the water, 

Where Old England’s ships are seen — 
“ Peanuts, peanuts, warm your hands an 
Kill your pockets, peanuts, pean — 

Now, a funny man was William — 
Class-reporter in days past ; — 

Said he, “ Fast you used to call me, 

And I’ve seldom broke my fast ; 

But, whereas I failed at college, 

Here I’ve ta’en a stand at last. 

“ The McGill professors pulled me ; 

Now the magnates of the laud 
Pass me ; and the People’s Jimmy 
Marks me, holds me out his hand ; 
And all the choicest aldermen 
Get peanuts at my stand. 

ct She told me that to win her 
I’d been too slow, you see : 

I said I was a second class, 

‘ A pull-man,* snickered she, 

Besides a smoker and a flat, 

Aud so she shunted me. 



76 



McGILL fortnightly. 



“ Of course, I hope she’s happy ; 

I’ll get along, Great Scott ! 

Hold on, you needn’t hurry — 

Latin, is it, that you’ve got ? 

Well, if you must be going, 

My regards to Mr. Mott.” 

Now, the moral of my story, 

O ye rulers of McGill ; — 

And I hope that none among you 
Will receive my moral ill ; — 

Is, Beware Co-education, 

And Remember Peanut Bill. 

Cap’n. Goun. 



THE CHAIR OF PATHOLOGY. 

Professor Adami' s Lecture. 

Oti Tuesday afternoon last at 3 o’clock p.in., the 
inaugural lecture upon the establishment of a Chair of 
Pathology in the Medical Faculty of McGill University 
was delivered in the Molson Hall by Professor J. George 
Adami, the subject being “ Modern Pathology.” Mr. 

J. H. R. Molson presided, and accompanying him on 
the platform where the following governors, fellows, 
officers of instruction, etc.: Mr. S. Finley, Professors 
Johnson, Bovey, Wesley Mills, Dr. Craik, Rev. Dr. 
Barbour, Dr. McCallum, Dr. Girdwood, Prof. Moyse, 
Dr. Buller, Dr. Stewart, Dr. Cameron, Rev. Prof. Cous- 
sirat, Prof. Cox, Prof. Carus-Wilson, Prof. Nicholson, 
Dr. Ruttan, Dr. Bell, Dr. Finley, Dr. H. A. Lafleur, 
Mr. N. N. Evans, and the acting secretary, Mr. J. W. 
Brakenridge. 

The Chairman formally opened the proceedings, and 
at his request Dr. Craik, dean of the Faculty of Medicine, 
made a few remarks. He explained how it came 
about that the lecture was being delivered now instead 
of at the beginning of the session, referre 1 to the fact 
that it was through the liberality of the late Mrs. Dow 
and a private citizen that the Chair of Pathology had 
been founded, and congratulated the University on the 
appointment of Prof. Adami to fill that chair. 

Prof. Adami commenced his lecture by remarking 
that medicine at this moment was passing through its 
great age of renaissance . Never before in its whole 
history had such advances been made as had been re- 
corded month after month in those last years of th e 
nineteenth century, and they had been gained not by 
chance speculation, but by purely scientific methods ; 
they were the result of expeiimental pathology or the 
scientific study of disease. If medicine was to be treated 
as a science, it must, like all other natural sciences, be 1 
based upon experimental investigation. He then pro- 
ceeded to refer to some of the benefits which had accrued ! 
through a study of pathology, explaining that Pas- 
teur’s discovery and application of protective inocula- 
tion against anthrax was what led up to the deeper 
s tudy of infectious diseases. We had gained during 
the last twenty years, and especially during the last 
twelve, a knowledge of the bacteria associated with a 1 
host of diseases affecting man and the lower animals. I 
We had gained a knowledge of the microbes causing 
suppuration and erysipelas, pneumonia, typhoid, diph- 
theria, influenza, tuberculosis, leprosy, glanders, relap- 



sing fever, tetanus, and malignant oedema, as well as a 
knowledge of the microbes, not bacteria, associated 
with malaria, ringworm, etc. I11 short, there were 
no fewer than 158 definitely recognized pathogenic 
organisms, and the number was being increased month- 
ly. The lecturer alluded to the great good which had 
resulted from protective inoculation in the case of fowl 
cholera, blackleg in cattle, and hog cholera. By this 
means thousands of sheep, swine and cattle were being 
annually saved. Speaking of what had been done for 
man in the way of preventing or ameliorating disease in 
man, he referred to the fact that if the blood serum of an 
animal rendered immune against disease were injected 
into a susceptible animal, that animal was rendered 
refractory to the disease. This had been used to cure 
tetanus, or lockjaw, in man, and during the last few 
months several cases had been recorded, in which the 
disease had been cured and life saved by this means. 
Rabies, or hydrophobia was next touched upon, the 
lecturer stating that during the last thirty years the 
mortality among those bitten by rabid animals was over 
12 per cent. Now, by Pasteur’s treatment, the death 
rate had been reduced to less than one per cent. But 
perhaps a more convincing proof of the value of Pas- 
teur’s treatment was afforded in cases where persons 
had been bitten upon the face or head where the bite 
was most dangerous. Formerly the mortality was 80 
per cent.; but in the cases of 593 persons treated by 
Pasteur’s method, in whom it was definitely determined 
that the animal causing the bite was rabid, only four- 
teen died, thus reducing the mortality to 2.36 per cent. 
During five years, 7,893 persons had been treated with 
a mortality of 0.67 per cent. Taking only those cases 
in which there was absolute positive proof that the 
animal causing the bite was rabid, there were 1,336 such 
persons treated during five years, and the mortality 
was reduced from about 12 percent, to 0.97 per cent 
A stronger argument, he thought, could not be given 
in favor of the benefit which had been conferred by 
Pasteur and his associates in their treatment of hydro 
phobia. Had experimental investigation led to these 
results and no other, he thought all would agree that 
modern pathology had done enough to earn the grati- 
tude of mankind. He then proceeded to speak of what 
pathological research had achieved in connection with 
tuberculosis and the suppuration of wounds. Erysipelas, 
he said, now never suppurated in any well regulated 
hospital, hospital gangrene was unknown, and puer- 
peral fever condemned utterly the midwife and doctor 
in whose practice it occurred, whilst it was unknown in 
the hospital. There were other forms of disease not so 
closely due to bacteriological origin, and upon these 
pathology was throwing light. He spoke strongly in 
favor of vivisection ; and in conclusion said that in Can- 
ada, where such an enormous value was attached to the 
animal possessions of the country, surely it was well 
that we should look forward to a harmonious working - 
of medical men and of the students of comparative 
pathology, and that thereshould be iuMontreal the means 
of pui suing in common these two great aims— the good 
of the animal and the good of man. 

p ° f th f ank * to Pro £ Ad ami, on the motion of 

Prof. Johnson, terminated the proceedings. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



77 



A SEA SIDE WAIF. 

Written Jor an Album. 

Von wave that bursts in brillance on the shore, 
Resolved in primal dew T is lost to sight ; 

No mortal then divines its ancient might, 

None hears a murmur of its ancient roar. 

The grandest life is but the sum of deeds 
Which duty bringeth every rising morn ; 

Not one day’s toil — some brighter page out-torn 
From Fate’s dark book and craving highest meeds. 

These passing hours are full of rich presage, 

Used well e’er they irrevocably flee ; 

Uearn that a soul heroic, happy, free, 

Is Time’s and not a moment’s heritage. 

C. H. M. 



ORIGINALITY. 

The quenchless thirst for change, which is at once 
the law of man’s being and the secret of his progress, 
has reacted upon literature in myriads of wonderful 
ways. The orthodox test of literary greatness is un- 
questionably originality , — itself but the expression ot 
this primal tendency. 

To justify this rule, so long and firmly established, 
might well be considered unnecessary. Nevertheless, 
it is well to consider its actual scope and bearing, and 
mark off its delimitations. 

Undeniably the best mental discipline, the highest 
culture, is to be obtained only by the study of the 
works of the world’s master-minds, the leaders of the 
human race, who differ from their humbler brethren in 
the many-sidedness and intensity of their thoughts and 
leelings. Students of literature, however, too often find 
that rigorous application and sympathetic zeal may 
fall short of a perfect ability to appreciate a great work. 
Again, the study of classics, ancient and modern, may 
have the opposite effect, and engender a wholesome 
enthusiasm for a better knowledge of these priceless 
treasures. 

The wish to originate is the legitimate outcome of 
this sentiment. Hence follows the marvellous literary 
activity attending in the wake of a man of genius or of 
a school of original thinkers. The impulse once given, 
the example once set, and a movement ensues which 
may be of short or long duration, may fall of its own 
weakness or of its own weight, or be absorbed in the 
overmastering influx of newer systems. 

We are most of us disciples of genius,*— our politics, 
our art, even our religion all show it, for each has its 
heroes- Their works are the glory and the despair of 
their admirers. To surpass the master is a task not to 
be thought of ; to equal him is hardly less unattainable. 
But time brings change ; the truth of the old becomes 
but the half truth of the new ; and old and new are 
fused in a larger synthesis in the mind of the great 
thinker. 

Originality therefore, if it is to be retained as a legi- 
timate criterion of literary work, must be understood 
not as a breaking with past ideas, but as a later and 
higher growth from them and out of them, — a recast- 



ing and reinforming of old things through more en- 
lightened methods, in the clearer light of a fuller day. 

Let our young authors remember this, and not des- 
pond because most of their good things were said before 
they were born. They themselves could not be what 
they are if it had not been for the toils and struggles 
of thousands now hushed in eternal repose. If the “ em- 
pire of the dead over the living increases from genera- 
tion to generation,” as Auguste Comte says, it is 
equally true that the debt of the present to the past 
increases in the same ratio. 

It is quite true that an advance upon existing ideas 
has been signalized sometimes by men who broke loose 
from received systems, and boldly announced new theo- 
ries. But humanity has as yet failed to produce one 
who did not owe much to his predecessors in the world 
of thought. The most durable fame is that of the gen- 
ius who separates the dross from the gold in the old 
systems, and arrays it afresh in the splendors of his 
own meditation and sentiment, until by its aid and 
through the noble stimulus within him, he reaches 
further heights and greater depths. 

Aristotle, Shakespeare, Goethe, — is not this true in an 
eminent degree of each of these ? Each one of them 
was a man many times over, who had passed in him- 
self through a thousand existences, by identifying him- 
self with the objects of his study and putting himself as 
far as may be in touch with the countless influences at 
work throughout the world. 

Absolute originality must ever remain impossible 
for mortal man. He is hedged in and around by in- 
superable limitations : his finite intelligence relies upon 
a moulding environment for that fullness of life which is 
its eternal quest, and is itself the product of an evolu- 
tion which we can only conceive in method and not in 
detail, as the supreme fact among phenomena. 

Another consideration of value is the usefulness G f 
every man who does anything towards the common 
cause of enlightenment. Whether he be philosopher, 
scientist, poet or novelist, if he helps men to a better 
understanding of the value of life and effort, he is en- 
titled to esteem and respect. Even those whose hum- 
bler task is only to amuse and beguile care are valuable 
in the universal economy. 

The moral of all this can be summed up in a word : 
work and despair not. The modest and honest worker 
may live and die obscure, but such a fate is infinitely 
preferable to a selfish and sensual life. Industry and 
aspirations are always their own reward, and must ever 
be the twin lights by which man can best approach the 
great Originality par excelleticc — the uniform complexity 
of nature. 

P. C. R. 



SPORTING COLUMNS. 

On Saturday evening, December 16th, a meeting of 
the Canadian Rugby Football Union was held in 
Toronto. 

Montreal and Britannia Football clubs were repre- 
sented by Messrs. E. D. Black and A. Cameron respec- 
tively. R. B. Henderson, a former captain of the 
University team, put in “ the good word ” for McGill. 



78 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Among the important subjects of debate brought up at 
the meeting was the proposed change in the number 
of players. It is now two years ago since this point 
was first brought up at a union meeting. At that time 
the changes in the rules which have brought the game 
into its present form had been made. It was thought 
that the many alterations then effected should be given 
an opportunity of showing what they were worth ere a 
still more radical change was made. 

Since that time the proposal of lessening the number 
on the team has been gaining more and more support- 
ers ; but, as the vote of the meeting showed later on, the 
Canadian Union is not yet ready to sanction a further 
reduction. 

Still, as a matter of fact, the feeling in favor of such a 
reduction seems to be gaining ground, and the objec- 
tions in the way will probably some day be successfully 
overcome. Against those who favor the reduction in 
the players the objection is raised that they are trying 
to bring in the American game. That is a mistake. 
There is no question that among all Canadian foot- 
ballers the feeling is predominant that the American 
inter-collegiate game is not as good football as we play 
in Canada, is thoroughly unsuited to the country, and 
its realization is too much of a business and too little a 
recreation. Every Canadian footballer who has gone 
to New York in recent years to view the great games 
there has come back strongly imbued with these senti- 
ments, and with them we most heartily agree. How- 
ever, after due deliberation and arguments pro and con, 
the Association decided against any further innovation, 
and the motion was defeated. 

Further friendly discussion took place on minor points 
of difference in the rules in Ontario and Quebec, and 
the meeting then proceeded to the election of officers 
for the season of 1893, which resulted as follows : — 
President.— E. D. Black ; Montreal F.B.C. 

Vice-President.— W. A. H. Kerr ; Osgoode F.B.C. 

Secy.-Treas— Gordon MacDougall ; McGill F.B.C., 
and a representative committee of all the clubs. Meet- 
ing then adjourned, to be held in Montreal next fall. 

HOCKEY. 

The men interested in Hockey report to the season to 
have opened under most auspicious circumstances. 
The number of men attending the practices is even 
larger than in former years, and everything points to 
a most successful season. 

The following is the schedule of matches drawn up 
by the Committee to govern in the Senior and inter- 
mediate series. 

SENIOR CHAMPIONSHIP. 



Clubs. J c€t 

Jan. 7— Ottawa vs. Victoria Montreal 

“ 13— Quebec vs. Crystal Crystal 

" 14— Montreal vs. Ottawa Ottawa 

“ 14— Quebec vs. Victoria Montreal 

“ 18— Crystal vs. Victoria Victoria 

“ 21— Ottawa vs. Quebec Quebec 

“ 21— Montreal vs. Victoria Victoria 

“ 28— Victoria vs. Ottawa Ottawa 

“ 28— Montreal vs. Quebec Quebec 



Feb. 3— Ottawa vs. Crystal Crystal 

“ 4 — Quebec vs. Victoria Quebec 

“ 10 — Quebec vs. Montreal Montreal 

“ 1 1 — Crystal vs. Ottawa Ottawa 

“ 18 — Ottawa vs. Montreal Montreal 

“ 18 — Crystal vs. Quebec Quebec 

“ 21 — Victoria vs. Crystal Crystal 

“ 25 — Quebec vs. Ottawa Ottawa 

“ 25 — Crystal vs. Montreal Montreal 

Mar. 4 — Victoria vs. Montreal Montreal 

“ 11 — Montreal vs. Crystal Crystal 



INTERMEDIATE CHAMPIONSHIP. 



Jan. 


II 






“ 


14 






<c 


19.. .. 




McGill 


« t 


21 






Si 








Feb- 


1 






sc 


2 






S( 


18 






IS 


24 






tS 


25.... 






Mar. 


I 






ss 


4 







THE FOOT-BALL MATCH. 



O wild kaleidoscopic panorama of jaculatory arms and legs 

The twisting, twining, turning, tussling, throwing, thrusting, 
throttling, 'tugging, thumping the tightened thews. 

The tearing of tangled trousers, the pit of giant calves protub- 
erant. 

The wriggleness, the worm like snaky movement and life 
of it. 

The insertion of strong men in the mud, the wallowing, the 
stamping with thick shoes. 

The rowdyism and £lan, the slugging and scrapping, the 
cow-boy Homeric ferocity. 

(Ah, well kicked, red and white! Hit her up, you muddy 
hero, you !) 

The bleeding noses, the shins, the knuckles abraded. 

That’s the way to make men ! Go it, you border ruffians, I 
like ye. 



Speaking of sports and things sportive, we would 
like to call the attention of all the men to the Carnival 
of Sport which is to be carried on for a week, probably 
during the month of February next, under the auspices 
of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association. If 
there is anything “ on ” we must be in it, McGill, and 
in the front rank at that. Speaking from experience 
in the past, the M.A.A.A. would only be too glad to 
have our support and aid in carrying out this modifi- 
cation of the old Carnivals, and it therefore only rests 
with us to take action when the moment comes, and to 
move in the right direction. 



BETWEEN THE LECTURES. 

We have at last found out why riding on an engine, 
even though it have a tender attachment, is not popular 
among the ladies. The continual vibration of the 
locomotive shakes their hair-pins out. 



Excited Attorney.—" You may shake your head if 
you like, your Honor, but there’s nothing in it.” 

We are frequently called upon to explain away 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



79 



printer s errors. The other clay we were specially 
unfortunate. An ode to liberty commencing “ a bold 
worded paen rang out in the valley,” came up in 
proof, ” A bald-headed deacon sat up in the gallery.*’ 



A youth by the name of Colquhoun, 

Went out by the light of the Molquhoun 
To sing to his dear 
But her Pa— who was near — 

Soon put him to flight with his Sholquhoun. 



A wasp went madly to his work 
And various things did tackle, 

He stung a boy and then a dog, 

And made a rooster cackle. 

He settled on a Freshman’s cheek 
And labored with a will, 

He probed there for a half an hour 
And then he broke his drill. 

’Tis said the wasp then quickly rose 
And settled in his hair, 

And though the drill was short and dull, 

It penetrated there. 

Prof, (to sleepy Student ) — “ Shall I send for a bed ? ” 
“ No, thank you, Sir, I have a crib with me.” 



When a Freshman doesn’t hear plainly the Prof’s, 
question, he says in a subdued tone, “ Pardon me, Pro- 
fessor, but I didn’t understand you.” The Sophomore 
says, “ Will you please repeat your question ? ” The 
Junior says, “What, sir”? The Senior says, “ Huh ? ” 



“The great problem that I have to deal with, ” said 
the keeper of the insane asylum, “ is to find some occu- 
pation for the people under my charge.” 

“Why not set them to inventing College yells ? ” 
asked the visitor. 



Here is the college yell of the Central University* 
Kentucky : — “ Brackety Kax Kowax, Kowax, Brackety, 
Kax, Kowax Kowax — Wo-oop, Wo-oop ; Hullabalo 
C.U C.U. 



ARTS SONG. 

(Selected by the Committee for insertion in the new Song 
Book as the Aits Faculty Song). 

Let others vaunt their Faculties and boast their better parts, 
But we will sing, our tribute bring, to the Faculty of Arts; 

And we consider we’ve a right to make a little noise 
For we’ve got the finest Faculty— no doubt about it, boys. 

Chorus. 

M— C — G — I — L — L — a thrill 
Through each true spirit starts ; 

For What’s the Matter with Old McGill 
And the Faculty of Arts ? 

We’ve got McGill’s time-hallowed halls, her childhood’s home, 
where first 

Her glowing genius sparkled and her sturdy strength was 
nursed ; 

Our college flag— her country’s flag— ’tis ours to guard and own 
As we sit and reign, the monarch, on McGill’s old mountain 

throne. 



Chorus . 

We have the source of greatness and we have the fount of pride 
As we have the spring that bubbles from the mountain’s rocky 
side, — 

That gentle scholar knight who’s worth a score of dukes and 
earls ; 

We’ve poets and philosophers, and then — we have the girls. 

Chorus . 

The wonders of the universe let Science still reveal, 

Let Medicine, by Nature taught, all mortal ailments heal, 

Let Law advance, by Justice led, by Liberty confined — 

’Tis ours to train the Faculties, ’tis ours to form the mind. 

Chorus . 

We have no feud with Medicine, with Science, or with Law ; 
They’ve all of them the finest lot that college ever saw : 

The boys of all the Faculties, we greet them with goodwill, 

For we’re fellows, and we’re brothers, and we’re sons of Old 
McGill. 

W. M. MacKeracher. 

Societies. 

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

A recent graduate, and one of the most active 
members of the Association, writes as follows : i( I see 
more and more the necessity of the Association’s work 
being carried on in a College ; and were I back again 
I would be more bold and persistent in all I did.” 
What we want is for our present members to be fired 
with such a spirit. 

The need of the Association in McGill is for every 
Christian man to lend his influence toward the exten- 
sion of Christ’s Kingdom among College men. 



There are over 400 College Christian Associations 
in America organized on a like basis as our own. 
During the last few years Associations have been 
introduced into the higher educational institutions of 
India and Japan, and are exerting a very positive 
influence. In Tokio there are fully 50,000 College 
Students. 



The meetings of the Association have been discon- 
tinued until spring term opens. 

The Annual Meeting will be held early in January, 
to enable new officers to get into harness before the 
term closes. 



Announcement. — The Provincial Convention (Ontario 
and Quebec) of Young Men’s Christian Associations 
takes place in Montreal, January 26 to 29. Among the 
visitors expected is Mr. J. R. Mott, College Secretary 
of International Committee. All Students should 
hear Mr. Mott speak, and in all likelihood a special 
meeting will be held, of which due announcement 
will be made- 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the Society was held in the upper 
Reading Room on Saturday evening, Dec. 17th. The 
President occupied the chair. Mr. Kenneth McLennan 



8o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



read a paper oil ‘‘The Uses of the Clinical Thermo- 
meter in Medicine,” in which he touched upon the 
history of the Clinical Thermometer, upon Palpation 
as a means of getting temperature, and upon the 
various places to take bodily temperature. Temper- 
ature in health and disease was also exhaustively 
dealt with, one member of the Society giving the 
results of his investigations. 

The next subject to come before the meeting was 
a case report “ Complications of Pneumonia and 
Malaria/’ read by Mr. J. A. Henderson. This was 
especially interesting from the fact that a complication 
of this nature is so rarely met with. Mr. Henderson 
appreciated the importance of his subject, and pre- 
sented his report in a manner which would be hard to 
improve upon. 

At the close of the meeting Mr. R. Wilson, jr., 
exhibited specimens of “Tumor of the Intestines.” 
After a few remarks from the President the meeting 
adjourned. 

McGILL MINING SOCIETY. 

A meeting of the Mining Students of the Faculty of 
Applied Science was held on Monday, November 28th, 
at the residence of Mr. R. A. Gunn, to discuss the 
formation of a Mining Society. The result of this 
meeting was the formation of the McGill Mining 
Society, having the following officers : — 

Honorary President — B. J. Harrington, B.A., Ph.D. 

President— W A. Carlyle, Ma.E. 

Vice-President — H. Herdt, Sc. ’93. 

Secretary-Treasurer — A. A. Cole, B.A., Sc. ’94. 

Committee — J. H. Featherstone, Sc. ’93. 

R. A. Gunn, Sc. ’94. 

O. C. Hart, Sc. ’95. 

H. H. Barclay, Sc. ’96. 

The first regular meeting of the Society was held on 
Friday evening, December 9th, in the old Science 
Building. The President, Mr. Carlyle, gave the open- 
ing paper, entitled “ A Sketch of the Duties of a Mining 
Engineer/’ Mr. Carlyle briefly touched on the different 
departments of work a mining course might lead to, 
stating that though most of those present would have 
to acquire their experience in the United States, where 
the most perfect mining in the world is now carried 
on, yet many would return to Canada where vast and 
very promising fields of work are rapidly opening up. 

At the close of the paper a hearty vote of thanks 
was accorded Mr. Carlyle. 

The McGill Mining Seciety will meet on alternate 
Thursday evenings during the coming term, and some 
very interesting papers and discussions are anticipated. 



Legal Briefs. 

EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

LEGAL HISTORY. 

1. By what ordinance of the King was the expression 
“ in the meantime” introduced into Canada? 

2. Try and account for the mental prostration with 



which Dalloz was afflicted after determining to alter 
his plan of “ Recueils ” to an alphabetical repertory. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW. 

1. Give a digest of the English law of evidence (ten 
minutes for this question). 

2. Trace the evolution of the Recorder’s Court from 
the curia regis , or vice versa (candidates have here an 
option). 

CIVIL PROCEDURE. 

1. What are the differences between a warden and a 
county corporation ? 

Show how these may vary in different cases. 

2. Explain the relations of Deputy Prothonotary and 
law-student, and why one always forgets his change in 
the stamp office ? 

“Are you the Judge of Reprobates?” asked Mrs. 
Partington as she walked into an office of a Judge of 
Probate. 

“lama Judge of Probate ” was the reply. 

“Well, that’s it, I expect,” quoth the old lady. “ You 
see, my father died detested, and he left several little 
infidels, and I want to be their executioner.” 

Step up, Step up Gentlemen — All on view, the 
greatest of all living Curiosities 

This figure on my right is the gentleman of the first 
year who obtained 96 per cent, in two subjects in the 
last Xmas. Exams, and from this noble group of Six 
from the third year a Constitutional leader it was impos- 
sible to choose. All alive, Gentlemen ! * 

* All alive! After Exhibiting here they all intend 
to tour the Provinces (to qualify for the scholarships 
for outsiders.) 

‘OWED’ TO THE PROFESSOR OF 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW. 

O the long but able lectures 
On the law of constitution 
How we shuddered when he spoke of 
Erskine May and Stubbs, and Hallain 
When he mentioned to us Freeman 
On the English constitution 
When he told of warring factions 
Of the Cavaliers, and Roundheads 
Of the Strifes of Whig and Tory. 

* * * * 

Magna Charta, Magna Charta ! 

Give us back our cherished birthright. 

* * * * 

How the freedom of the subject 

/ Filled the minds of Pym and Hampden, 

Formed the theme of many a discourse, 

But when he attained the climax 
Of his lectures and discourses 
He did speak of verdant Ireland 
And her people persecuted, 

Then her children in our classes 
Cheered and shouted and applauded, 

For he showed his way of thinking, 

Showed them clearly, very clearly 
That he sympathized with Gladstone 
And the work of the Home Rulers. 

• * ♦ * * * 

Then he turned his thoughts to Scotland, 



McGill fortnightly 



Land o’ cakes, the bonny Scotland 



Shouted in our ears so loudly 
Of her battles and her glory, 

Of her soldiers and her statesmen 
Of the Stuarts and Prince Charlie 
Left us then all flabbergasted 
With our notes to fight and wrestle. 

To unravel and decipher. 

****** 

Pale and haggard, almost daunted 
We vrere forced to write of Chatham 
He whom men called Pitt, the Elder, 

How he formed the British Empire, 

Then of William Pitt the Younger 
He the mightiest among main’, 

And of lesser lights a myriad 
Much caballing and contriving. 

****** 

Ran away we with the idea 
That the lectures soon would finish 
But our hopes were rudely shattered 
For he was just then beginning ; 

Thoughts of the examination 
Came so swiftly to our visions, 

That a dull despair did seize us, 

Stupid we sat in our places, 

In our eyes a stony glitter, 

On our brows the sweat of anguish 
Started, but it froze and fell not. 

O. GAMMON. 

Class Reports. 

ARTS. 

A. Mahaffy has been elected valedictorian. 



The Old Year has ebbed. The tide of the New has 
swollen and returned us to McGill. The Freshmen 
have demonstrated to their brothers and sisters that on 
Christmas day the atmosphere contained a considerable 
quantity of ozone. The Sophomores have explained 
the structure of the holly and the mistletoe ; the Juniors 
have assigned to their classes and orders their 
little candy elephants and pigs ; and the Seniors have 
observed the vast field for geological science presented 
by Christmas cakes and puddings. 



“ What’s up ? ” 

The man who has broken his record. “ No sup.” 



(In the Museum ). — First Junior — “ Have you found 
the Echinoidea?” Second Junior — “ I’ve been sea- 
urchin for them long enough.’ , 



A Senior informs us that a man does not laugh in 
his sleeve because he’edj ust ’sleeve laugh there as any- 



where else. Nor, moreover, is it because there is more 
’arm there. The true reason is, because the funny 
bone is there. 



In the Virgil exam., one of the Freshmen found him- 
self au bout de son Latin . 



A Sophomore observes that H — son ought to be a 
good foot-ball player — he can always touch do 7 vn. 



Student . — “ Not prepared, sir.” ProJ . — ° That’s no 
excuse; that’s the mere statement of a fact.” 



The members of the Third year continue to put on 
’airs. 



“ Demum somnum ” is not “the demon Seep,” as it 
was translated in class lately ; nor is “ corvi gutture 
ovantes,” the crows laying eggs in the gutter. We 
know that the crow is not a gutta-percha. 



The following is said to be inscribed on the fly leaf 
of an ancient looking copy of the Medea in the posses- 
sion of a member of the Third Year : — 

He claimed ’twas the only such copy extant, 

So I gave him that five dollar piece : 

You got your Medea much cheaper, I grant, 

But I got th e golden Jieece. 



COMP. MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

To say that the past Christmas vacation excelled in 
all that constitutes Christmas mirth and pastime in the 
history of the Faculty is saying a great deal yet such 
is the opinion of the Students who have participated on 
past occasions. What with numerous preliminary and 
subsequent celebrations it was the realization of a cus- 
tom instituted by Prof. Charles McEachran some six 
years ago, and carried out by himself ever since, of enter- 
taining those students that distance prevents spending 
Xmas with their relatives. The custom was again 
enjoyed on Dec. 26th by some twenty of the Students. 
The Professor, whose generosity and kindness is only 
excelled by his hospitality, presided. After partaking 
of the bountiful supply of good things, speeches, toasts 
and songs were the order of the day. Everybody pre- 
sent was unanimous in stating that a search through 
the colleges of both the Old and the New Worlds would 
not reveal relationship more intimate, good fellowship 



S2 



McGill fortnightly. 



more pronounced between professor and student, than 
in the Faculty of Comparative Medicine of McGill Uni' 
versity. 



The lecture room of the College on Tuesday, Dec. 20th, 
was the scene of a very interesting and laughable variety 
show ; the programme was lengthy and well selected. It 
was here the latest version of the now popular song 
“ The Man in the Moon ” was first presented to an au- 
dience. The credit of this is due to the very excellent 
quartette of the Second year The leading feature of 
the play was the Annual Xmas present from the Students 
to the guardians of the dissecting room and wardens of 
the hospital ward. On receipt of present, from their 
elevated position they thanked the “ Students, ” and 
were allowed to depart after reeling off a hornpipe. 



On New Year’s eve some of the interesting members 
of the Second year took a very peculiar ride. Their con- 
ductor was one of the members of the Montreal sani- 
tary force ; no doubt he enjoyed the excursion as much 
as they did. 



J. A. McCrank, D.Y.S., valedictorian for'class of ’91, 
was in Montreal on Dec. 30th, and showed his smiling 
countenance at No. 6 Union ave., where he was warmly 
welcomed by all that knew him. He commands a good 
practice at Plattsburg, N.Y., and has all the indications 
ofa well to-do practitioner. 



DONALDA NEWS. ' 

Now the Donalda’s have returned, and the usual conversazione 
in the Library has been resumed. “Where two or three are 
met together — ,” as Mr. Mott says. 

It is hinted that the denizens of the East Wing only declined 
to take part in the Arts Dinner that they may surprise McGill 
by giving a grand ball in the spring. 

The rumor is current that instead of a valedictory being pro- 
nounced at Convocation, the members of the Fourth year will 
mount the platform and sing a song. 

The Students of the first year Greek class feel themselves 
sufficiently recuperated to commence the mastery of the remain- 
ing half of the alphabet. 

The Donalda’s have got-a song at last. 



DONALDA vSONG. 

One day as old Arts was a-sleeping, 

They extracted a rib from his side, 

And they formed a fair maiden in keeping, 
And Doualda they called her with pride. 



The old boy had been taking it easy, 

Until now when he got his new Eve ; 

But he soon lost his Eden so breezy, 

And he wiped off the sweat w ith his sleeve. 

Chorus . 

We are merry, merry, merry, little maidens, 

And we modestly play our parts, 

Aud we sing in mellifluous cadence 
For the Rib from the Faculty of Arts. 

There the blossoms of Beauty were blowing, 
Springing fresh from the soil of her youth ; 

And the rivers of Wisdom were flowing 
Serene from the fountains of Truth. 

And she gazed on the broad Tree of Knowledge, 

And would pluck the fair fruits that it bore, 

So they told her to stay up at college, 

For there there was plucking galore. 

Chorus. 

She would roam w r here Minerva diffuses 
The Arts and the gladness they bring ; 

She would saunter around with the Muses 
And quaff the Pierian Spring 

She w ? ould flirt with the wreath-crowned Apollo, 

And the nectar would share from his cups ; 

She would show them how T much she could swallow, 
And eke out the banquet in sups. 

Chorus . 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

Mr. Frank Ferron, the “ Queen’s ” delegate, recently 
returned from Kingston, where he enjoyed the well- 
known hospitality, not alone of our medical brothers, 
but also of the citizens of the famous old Limestone 
City. Queen’s University ranks high in the list of 
British educational institutions, and her medical 
faculty has made rapid strides of late, many of the 
details of which Mr. Ferron has made us familiar with. 
These fraternal visits do much in the direction of foster- 
ing that warm friendship and interest which should and 
do exist amongst all those engaged in the study of 
scientific medicine and whose lives will be devoted to 
the alleviation of suffering humanity. 

* * * * 

“ A home for trained nurses” in the city of Montreal 
seems to be a want, recognized not only by the Medical 
profession, but also by the public in general. Montreal’s 
position as a great hospital centre, with excellent facili- 
ties for the thorough training of nurses, has resulted in 
drawing many young women into the hospital wards, 
where, after a two years course and the passing of a final 
examination, they are sent out as graduates of the Mon- 
treal General Hospital. The trained nurse has now be- 
come a factor in the successful carrying out of modern 
treatment of disease, and the public is becoming daily 
more and more aware of the fact. What is now needed 
to complete the system is a central institution or home, 
where nurses after graduation might reside, and to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



83 



which the physicians and public could apply when in 
need of such qualified aid. This is a matter in which 
all should be interested, as apart from the convenience 
to the public which such a central bureau would be, 
much good would result not only to the nurses them- 
selves, but also to the vocation. 



After Dr. Blackader’s recent appointment to the 
M. G. H., his class in Materia Medica gave him a warm 
reception, and in reply he thanked the class for their 
congratulations, and stated that he proposed making 
his summer course one of special Clinical Therapeutics. 



During the holidays the Montreal General Hospital 
was favored with a visit from an old friend of the stu- 
dents and house surgeons. Professor Mills’ enthusias- 
tic love of purely scientific medicine, as the result of 
sound physiological knowledge, is known not only in 
this country but wherever advanced teaching maintains. 
Let us hope that our professor of physiology may 
favor the wards and theatres of the Hospital more fre- 
quently, where a warm welcome shall always await 
him, and where evidences of the results of his own 
deep research and painstaking teaching are abundant. 



Doctor A. D. Blackadar, professor of Materia Medica 
and Therapeutics with McGill Medical Faculty, has 
been elected to the indoor visiting staff of physicians 
in the Montreal General Hospital, vacated by the 
lamented death of Dr. George Ross. 



Doctor H. A. Lafleur, lecturer on Medicine in McGill 
Medical Faculty, has been elected to the outdoor staff 
of physicians of the Montreal General Hospital, vacated 
by the resignation of Dr. A. D. Blackadar. 



“What’s the matter with Wilson Barrett?’ 1 re- 
sounded through the streets of Montreal on Monday 
night last, reminding the public that McGill Students 
thoroughly appreciated the advent to the city of Mon- 
treal of such a Distinguished English actor. A fter the 
performance, the “Silver King” received the most 
positive proof of genuine admiration, for not only was he 
‘ ‘bounced” in true carnival style, but amidst acom- 
bination of fireworks, choruses and cheers he was drawn 
to his hotel. When the Windsor had been reached, 
Mr. Barrett addressed the Students, thanking them for 
so flattering a demonstration, which had all the attri- 
butes of a thorough British welcome, reminding him 
that he was amongst friends and brother citizens of the 
greatest empire the world has even seen. He hoped 
that all would work hard during the year just entered 
upon, thus doing credit — to their country, their Uni- 
versity, and themselves. Cheer after cheer went forth 
upon wintry midnight air, as the great actor took his 



leave of the immense concourse of students and citi- 
zens surrounding his carriage. 



After Dr. Gird wood’s Lecture : — 

Sophomore . — Do you want to get a shock ? 

Enthusiast Frenchman. — Why, yes. 

S. — Well, rub vigorously the glass of that window. 
E. E . — I get no shock. 

6". — Why, do you not feel the pane ? 

Dr. B. E. Robinson, ’92, is practising his profession 
in Arnold, Nebraska. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The Glee Club has a busy term before it, and will 
have two notable opportunities to show what progress it 
has made. 

At the grand opening of the Science Building in 
February, the Club is to render a quite elaborate pro- 
gramme, which will require vigorous practice, and a 
little later the Club’s First Annual Concert is to be 
held, which will also need careful preparation, although 
a good share of the programme will probably be supplied 
by first class professional talent. The members of the 
Club must feel the importance of making good impres- 
sions in their first year’s work, on which will largely 
depend their future success. 

The McGill Mining Society has the very best wishes 
of all the Students in Applied Science, of whatever de- 
partment. We will now be watching for Societies for the 
mutual improvement of the students in all the different 
branches. 

It is rumored that several Athletic Science men are 
already in training for the Glee Club’s Annual Steeple- 
chase to the Club House. 

Messrs. Walker and Russell (’92) are in town for 
Christmas. 



BANJO CLUB CONCERT. 

The Applied Science Banjo Club, which has been in 
existence for the past year, is about to make its bow to 
the public. It expects to receive the generous support 
and good wishes of all friends of the University, for all 
must acknowledge that the want of organizations of the 
kind is very much felt in McGill, and that their un- 
stinted help at this point will be of immense value to the 
success of this undertaking, and so to the development 
of like enterprises in our beloved Alma Mater in the 
future. 

The members of the Banjo Club have always felt sure 
of the hearty sympathy and assistance of all the stu' 
dents of McGill of whatever Faculty, shown both by 
their presence at the concert and their generous crit- 
^ismsofit afterward, and the Club’s one aim now is to 



8 4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



make the concert so complete a success as to do credit 
to the University, and ensure the popularity of like en- 
tertainments in the future, and the “ Standing Room 
Only” sign will be ready to hang at the door of the 
Windsor Hall on the evening of January 20th. The 
Club is so fortunate as to be able to announce that half 
the programme is to be furnished by one of the most 
proficient and popular glee and banjo clubs in the 
United States, viz., that of the University of Vermont 
in Burlington, Vt. 

This Club consists of about twenty-five members, who 
have a very large repertoire of glees, both with and 
without accompaniments, and banjo club pieces. 

The Ap. Sc. Banjo Club is to make a return visit to 
Burlington in February, assisting at a concert given by 
the U.V.M. Club there. 

The concert in the Windsor on ;the 20th, coming be- 
fore the immediate importance of the spring exam’s, is 
felt, will give all an opportunity to show their good will 
towards enterprises of this kind in McGill, and at the 
same time their friendly feeling and ready hospitality 
for sister universities. 

READING NOTES. 

Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths 
at half price at the Turkish Bath Institute in this city. 
Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get a 
better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the 
Turkish Bath for the general health, and more espe- 
cially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very 
pleasant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and 
evening hours. 



A YOUNG MAIM 

Can largely increase his income by working during his 
spare time for a First Class Life and Accident Insurance 
Company, address P.O. Box 835, Montreal. 



Plou?6P5 ! plocueps ! ! 



The finest flowers, and- most Artistic Moral work, can 
be had at all seasons and for all occasions. 

S. S. MAIM, Florist, 

c<> BEAVER HALL HILL. A few doors below Dorchester St. 

THE 5IITB PREMIER TEPEBTEJ. 




1744 Notre Dame Street, - MONTREAL. 

Agent for the EDISON PHONOGRAPH. 

Telephone 2963. 



TO WHEELMEN. 



Before buying your Wheel for the coining season, call in and see the 

'HUMBER ’ BEESTON 

AND THE 

NEW ‘‘ HOWE.’’ 

The most perfect Safety Bicycles in the market. Dunlop Adjustable 
Tyre and the Laforce Tyres. SOLE AO ENT, 

LOUIS RUBENSTEIN, 537 Craig Street. 




“ Improvement the Order of the Agfe.** 

Competitors must improve in order to equal it. 



THE INGRES-COUTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 

100 Dorchester St., (KINKORA.) 

We have much pleasure in announcing that 
we have opened a 

Fencing . Academy 

in connection with our establishment. We have 
secured the services of Mr. A. Duret, late of 
the Ecole Superieure de Guerre, Paris, and are 
now ready for pupils. 

Terms: $10 per month, lessons every day 
if desired. For clubs of ten members, McGill 
Students, $60.00 per month. 

THE INGRES-OOTJTELLIER SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES. 

Single Trial Lessons Free. 



Send for Circulars. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



85 




‘•THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

# GtXjO^TIES $ 

AT THE 

Paris Kid Glov^ Store. 

262 St. Janies St. | 2341 St. Catherine Stroet. 

I. P.QBH&g a, cgqa a 

MEDALS FOR SPORTsT 

Badges, Lapel Buttons, Pins, etc., in Hard 
Enamel, of all colors, a specialty. 

DESIGNS and ESTIMATES FREE OF CHARGE 

Experienced Designers and Enamellers on the premises. 

LARGEST STOCK OF 

Medium Priced Watches and Jewellery in the city. 

JeweUery made to order and Watches repaired at Lowest Prices. 

JEt- HEMSLEY, 

255 & 257 St. James Street. 

GEIR/S 

Hair Dressing Palace. 

THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF 

(Brushes, Combs . Razors, Strops f 
Rerfumery and Toilet 

Articles. 

1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME STREET . 



SEASON 1392-93. 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 

Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, friezes, Xc. 

IS NOW COMPLETE, 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

N.B. — DRESS SUITS, best cloth and workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. 

INSPECTION INVITED 

W M. FflrRQ/JH-flrRSOIN, 

Merchant Tailor, 

135 ST. PETER STREET. 




pyjuiijps & CO., 

STATIONERS, 

Blank Book takers and Printers, 

1755 & 1757 NOTItE DAME STREET , 



AGENTS FOR 

THE CAM©RAPM 

WRITINC MACHINE. 



What do you think 
I’ll shave you for nothing 
And give you a drink 

JOSEPH VEZINA, 

12 McGill College Av., just below St- Catherine St. 

PRICES; HAIR CUT 15 CENTS. 

Shaving, 12 Tickets $l.oo. 



Marisen Moullin’s Surgery 

Recommended for the use of Students by the 

(Prof. Surgery in McGill and other Universities . 

PUBLISHED ON SATURDAY. 

For Sale only by the Exclusive Agent, 

E. M. RENOUF, - 2238 St. Catherine St. 

Copies can be seen at my store. 




weRiCAN 




•>— 537 St. Lawrence Main. 



This Store is known to be the cheapest one -in the citv to buy 
furs and have repairing done. 

Come in and see our prices, and you will find you can do better 
with us than with any other Furrier in Montreal. 




86 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ADVERTISE NOW 
IN THE 



McGill Fortnightly. 



Reodbgj oil 



STUDENTS 



-A-ItsTID 



GRADUATES 



OF THE 



UNIVERSITY. 



AVERAGE CIRCULATION OVER TOO- 



9 



Kff! 


Hot Water, Steam and Sanitary Engineers, 


TO THE 


1 11 ill 


McGill University Building, 


J 


Royal Victoria Hospital. 


Board of Trade Building. 




PLANS and ESTIMATES GIVEN ON APPLICATION. 



ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH, 

Advocates, Solicitors, etc. 

No, 11 Hospital Street, 

MONTREAL. 



J, B. Abbott, 

H. Abbott, Jr., Q. C. 



H. J. Hague. 



C. S. Campbell, 
F. E. Meredith, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. 



Geo. G. Foster. 



ARCHIBALD Sc FOSTER, 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING, 
x8i ttt. James Street, 

Telephone 1880 . ^ MONTREAL. 



Cable Address, “ Arefost.” 



ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Adoocates, Barristers, Commissioners, etc. 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C. , M.P.P. Selkirk Cross. 

Albert J. Brown. W. Prescott Sharp. 

HALL, CROSS, BROWN 5 SHARP, 

Advocates, Barristers and Solicitors. 

.... TEMPLE BUILDING .... 

185 St. James Street, - - - MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER & McGIBBON, 

ADVOCATES, BARRISTERS, ETC. 

The Temple, St. James Street, 
MONTREAL. 

Donald Macmaster, Q.C. Robert D. McGibbon, Q.C. 

F. S. Maclennan. 

ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

- ADVOCATES - 

157 St. James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



SurgiGal instruments 

and GhemiGal Apparatus. 

r 

A full stock constantly on hand, imported direct from the leading 
manufacturers of the world. 

... AN INSPECTION INVITED. . . . 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 St. Paul Street. 



QDOIJP Photos, Combination or direct, 
— form one of our specialties— first 
• class work. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



R. SUMMERHAYES & CO., 1 Bleury Street. 




5 \ IIA1K & s 

1640 & 1642 NOTRE DAME STREET. 



W. & F. F. CURRIE & CO , 

lOO CREY NUN STREET. 

IMPORTERS OP 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tods, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire 
Clay, Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cemeut, 
Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Bessemer Steel Sofa> Chair & Bed Springs. 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT SMOKIRC TOBACCO. 



OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT 



» xiAJLij-., MILLE3R. tfc CO., 
16 and 18 DeBresoles Street, Montreal. 






Manufacturers of the Finest Quality EI@QtF&*Pltitt@(2 Wire. And Sole Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

WM. ROGERS’ Knives, Forks, Spoons, Etc. 

A. J, WHIMBEY, Manager. 



FURMITUREI 



— FOB — 

Fpofessops and Students 
At Special Prices. 

REMAUD, KING & PATTERSON. 

652 CRAIG STREET. 



Good Fall and Winter BOOTS 

52.75, 3.50, 4.00 PER PAIR. : • 

Just the th«i9 for Students. 

Win- F. SWARDON, 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine St. 



It goes without saying that 



MILLS, * 

Furrier 8c f+atter, 

ST. CATHERINE ST. 

! 

2nd door West of Peel. 



e. a. gertH. 

DIRECT IMPORTER OF HIGH CLASS 

HAVANA CIGARS. 

B. B. B. PIPES. 

Sole agent for Rynasi Freres 

EGYPTIAN CIGARRETTES. 

Smoke Eerth’s Celebrated Mixture. 

2235 ST, CATHERINE QUEENS BLOCK. 



WE MAKE NO BONES 

About it when we tell the Students that we carry the largest and 
test assorted stock to be found in Montreal, in the following lines, 
at ROCK BOTTOM PRICES, and give 5 p.c. discount to 
Students. So come to us for your Hats and Caps, Underwear, 
Furnishings, also Boots and Shoes at 

JOHN ALLAN’S, 

659 TO 665 CRAIG STREET, - - Near Blenry. 



Established 1859. 

IKIETSriR,^ JE&. GS-~R,^TT, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, IhoUiD, I) > jinirio-j ail Ji^nical Lictarjrs supplied vi 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 



WALFORD’S 

Is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class pictures a 
specialty. Photos of Professors on sale. Special rates 
as usual to Students. 

COR. ST. CATHERINE AND VICTORIA ST. 
Bell Telephone 3346. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St,, Montreal. 




CORNER CRAIG. 

Branches all over the City. Telephones : Bell. 666 and 1746. 




McGSLL 



f 



IT IS THE CHOICEST SMOKING TOBAC 20 THAT EXPERIENCE 
CAN PRODUCE OR THAT MON Y CAN BUY. 




MIXTURE TOBACCO: 

P. E. MORRIS, Tobacconist, 308 St. James St. 





HYDE PARK, ATHLETE, PURITAN, DERBY, SWEET SIXTEEN CICATETTES. 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUC AND.CUT SMOKING TOBACCO. 



