Vof. IX. 



jYo. 6. 






McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday, January 6 , 1886 . 



* 



CONTENTS : 





PAGE. 


Editorials 


3-11 


Every Fortnight 


11 


Poetry - 


- 12,15,16,17 


McGill News 


12-13 


Societies - 


- 13-15 





PAGE. 


Sporting - 


15-16 


Personals .... 


16 


Between the Lectures 


17 


Correspondence 


18 


Advertisements 


2, 18, 19, 20 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



1888. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GreensMelds, McCorkill, Gnerin & Greenshields. 

ADVOCATES, 

J>nrmbr$, Jjioranjs, jlolmlars, t^u, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MOUTREAt. 

J. N, Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 




DRYSDALE’S 



232 ST. JAMES ST. 



Mertsoi, Ritchie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. James Street, 

ATWATER & CROSS, 

^ilvocate^, |}arrRter^ fjommi^ionerg, $'c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET. 

MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

hamsters, Jtolxatars, &c. r 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.t.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

PEHIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MONTREAL. 



JtiEHICAL U'ORKS, BOOKS USE It IJ\* ART COURSE, 
SCI E JVC E TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Fall assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, &c., See., 

—•—MB HU ST •V^.XjTTE ITT 

Stylographic Pens, Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. Tame.es Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

BUY "YOTTBU 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St,, cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON $, CO., 

Hatters Furriers, 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp, Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CIT7 for McSILL OOLLEOE DINNERS. 



1577 Jfoire Dsxae 5t. 





, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices. 



Tlie “ McGILL ” Ribbon for Sale. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. ix.] McGill college, Montreal, January 6th, 1886 . [No. 6. 




DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President. 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Charles W. Hoare. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

R. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 
J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. 0. 
Box 1290. 



notice. 

Subscribers to the Gazette who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the She.- 
Treas., as this is the only method of having the un- 
avoidable mistakes and necessary imperfections of the 
mailing system rectified. 



different Faculties, and the proposed company strength 
is seventy-five rank and file. 

The Inspector of Engineers is a most enthusiastic 
advocate of the scheme. The corps is to be perfectly 
independent of any other city organization, and there- 
fore will be able to select hours for drill and parade 
that will not interfere with college work. 

The drill is very much more interesting and varied 
than that of any other branch of the service, and at 
the same time more difficult and more suited to the 
superior intelligence of University undergraduates. 
The prospects of annual camps, rifle matches, etc., will 
add to the popularity of the University Engineers as 
a means of healthy, harmless and enjoyable recreation. 
We should have, and, no doubt, will have, at McGill 
in a few years the best corps of volunteer engineers 
in Canada. An instructor is to be imported from the 
standing army of England, who will also act as arm- 
orer, and will be a useful man to have connected with 
the Science Faculty. 

If the Government grant the necessary funds for a 
well equipped corps, men from all the Faculties will 
soon be forthcoming to fill the ranks to repletion. 
What a fine front rank of six-footers the Medical 
Faculty alone could turn out ! 

It is to be remembered that Engineers are the high- 
est branch of the service, and in event of their being 
called out for actual service, the privates have duties 
of non-commissioned officers, in charge of infantry 
parties preparing defences, laying out camps, etc. The 
promoters of the scheme are daily expecting to hear 
definitely from Ottawa, so there is every prospect of 
our having a jolly camp of McGill volunteers next 
spring. 



Subscribers wishing to preserve their last year’s 
volume of the Gazette, may have them neatly bound 
in cloth, by Messrs. John Lovell & Son. with whom 
arrangements have been made to do the work, at a 
charge of fifty cents per volume. 

Editorials. 



A McGILL COMPANY OF ENGINEERS. 

We are glad to be able to announce that active steps 
are being taken towards the formation of a corps of 
engineers in the college. 

The officers and men are to be selected from the 



WHO ARE THE UNIVERSITY’S FRIENDS ! 

Who are most capable of naming the true friends 
of McGill ? Certainly not those who are often ready 
on short notice to frame a reply to this question. 
Some try to do so. Fortunately they are not numer- 
ous, but they are persistent, and endowed with a 
supreme regard for the correctness of their own judg- 
ment. They will tell off-hand how one person is 
doing or attempting to do harm to the University, and 
how another person should alter his course if his aims 
were really conscientious and return to the right 
path— or what they deem the right path to be. No 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



allowance is made for difference of opinion. Efforts 
which are at least well-meant, if not very effective are 
criticised and misjudged, and influences which com- 
bined and reconciled might result in good to the 
college, are weakened and alienated. Even The 
Gazette occasionally comes in for an attack of the 
kind, though the wielders of such weapons may some 
day find that they handle a two-edged sword. 

The question, who are the friends of the University ? 
is a natural one, and it might be thought that some 
who are admittedly qualified to speak would do so. 
It might be expected, for instance, that one who had 
unselfishly labored during the best part of a lifetime 
on behalf of the University, who had been the main- 
spring of her progress, and her steady upholder in the 
daj of deepest difficulty, who has never relaxed a 
moment because temporary and uncertain prosperity 
succeeded a period of struggling for existence, it might 
be expected that from such a source would come a 
definite statement as to the worth and the sincerity of 
active workers in University affairs. 

But the public utterances of Principal Sir Wm. 
Dawson, whose services can only be measured by the 
present status of the University, will be searched in 
vain for hasty censures on those who show a willing- 
ness to contribute time, energy, or money to the 
general effort. And when the highest authority sees 
fit to be silent, there is some ground for asking self- 
constituted judges to bo patient. In this matter a 
little usefulness is a dangerous thing. It does not 
entitle the performer to pose as the spokesman of a 
whole community. 

It falls to the lot of The Gazette sometimes to pass 
judgment upon actions and upon persons connected 
with the University. This is in fulfilment of the 
ordinary functions of a public journal, and arises from 
no desire to cavil at the college authorities. We 
hope that our opinion will be found logically defensi- 
ble and characterized by good sense and moderation. 

In the particular direction referred to we cannot 
contribute our quota of censure against those who are 
zealous, even if they are mistaken, in taking part in 
University matters. Their conduct may often be 
unwise— probably they will not object to be told so in 
a proper manner. To question their motives is an 
unproductive task too readily assumed by those who 
are wise in their own conceit. 

— * — 

THE “ GAZETTE ” AND THE STUDENT’S. 

We are thankful to our correspondent F. T., whose 
letter appears in another column, for the f convenient 
opportunity afforded us of explaining one or two sins 
of omission which were committed in the last issue 



of The Gazette. The dinner of the Medical Under- 
graduates took place just two days before final ar- 
rangements connected with the publication of the last 
number were made, and, in consequence, the report of 
that highly successful and enjoyable affair at the 
Windsor, had to be compressed into very small space. 
The report was unfortunately shorter than we intended 
or desired, owing to a misapprehension of our represen- 
tatives at the dinner, which fact the representative 
editors from Medicine can explain to those who are 
interested in the matter. We appreciate the assistance 
and good will of the Medical students too greatly, to 
have them suppose that we are not anxious to give their 
affairs all the attention which they so justly merit, 
or that we do not recognize the important part the 
Medicals take in those college events of which they are 
the life and soul. But we believe that in judging The 
Gazette they are 

To our virtues very kind 
To our faults a little blind 

and that they will not make up their minds to con- 
demn the general conduct of the paper, solely upon 
one occurrence not quite satisfactory to them. They 
will leave such sweeping condemnation to our critical 
correspondent “ F. T.” 

The report of the University Literary Society din- 
ner, referred to was amongst the first matter furnished 
foi the issue in question, and as the exigencies of 
space had not begun to press heavily as yet it was 
lengthier than usual. The accounts of the Undergrad- 
uates Society meetings were received too late for in- 
sertion. It may interest “ F.T.” to know that proceed- 
ings of both Societies were in type and had to be held 
over, through lack of space. 

After these somewhat tedious explanations rendered 
necessary by “ F.T’s ” letter, we need scarcely proceed 
to prove that The Gazette has not in any way for- 
feited its right to be considered the organ of the 
students. A sufficient answer to our good friend “ F. 
I’s” scepticism on this point lies in the personnel of 
the editors’ committee, the members of which are all 
student undergraduates excepting one. This excep- 
tion has never been charged with any great feeling of 
antagonism towards the body from which dire neces- 
sity removed him a few months ago, but if the 
s udents should find his presence on the committee 
peculiarly obnoxious, a representation to that effect 
ina e to the directors of the paper would no doubt 
result in his instant and ignominious expulsion. 

Our extreme modesty prevents us from referring at 
greater length to ourselves and our work. We do not 
expect our friends to be blind to faults in The Gazette, 
or too long suffering with any errors it may commit. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



We only expect that they be reasonable, and from the 
character which McGill men have earned for them- 
selves it is an expectation that will not be disap- 
pointed. 

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

Our modest beginning has already developed into 
something greater. The rapidity with which the little 
sanctum, which we hired in Philips Square a couple 
of months ago, was deserted for the larger room, and 
this again lor the present quarters of the University 
Club shows completely how well founded was our 
belief that some such Club was wanted, and that it 
only required a statesmanlike and well-directed prac- 
tical effort to lay its foundations and put it on a fair 
way towards complete success. While we are fully 
justified in taking to ourselves the credit of the initia- 
tive we must say that we could never have carried out 
the undertaking but for the hearty and generous en- 
couragement which we received from a number of 
the younger graduates and some of the younger under- 
graduates. Those gentlemen who took upon them- 
selves the risk of subscribing a guarantee fund and 
of moving into more expensive quarters are those who 
may truly be said to have founded the University 
Club. We can hardly express the gratification which 
we feel at the latent enthusiasm amongst University 
men which we have had the good fortune to arouse 
upon this and other matters within a very short time. 
For years we have heard nothing but complaints of 
the indifference manifested by the graduates, and no 
doubt these complaints were well founded ; but they 
do not do one ounce of good. Well-directed efforts 
and concerted action, even in the smallest way, will 
do more good than the exhortations and twittings of 
a Burke. What we have already been able to do 
leads us to hope that renewed effort in the future will 
be largely successful. 

The aid rendered by the Graduates Society and 
several of the Professors after the scheme had taken 
shape must be recorded to their honour. It shows 
that there is still some life in the Society, and that 
^he Professors when asked to co-operative with the 
graduates and undergraduates in any of their under- 
takings are very willing to do so. 

But let us not crow too much. The Club is still in 
its infancy and beset on every side by difficulties 
and hidden snares. We have now no control what- 
ever over the Club except what moral influence we 
may possess, but in the most friendly spirit we can 
offer our advice. 

It will be remembered that for a number of years 
repeated efforts were made to found such an institution 



but always resulted in failure. It would be well for 
the committee to remember this, and to examine why 
it is that so far the undertaking this time has succeeded. 
All the former attempts were made on a wrong basis. 
The promoters started out with the idea that a Club 
should bloom at once into completeness — at once into 
something worthy the name of University Club. From 
our circumstances this was a mistake. They should 
have been content to sow the seed and let the tree 
take its time to grow. Our first piece of advice, then, 
to the committee is, be careful not to force the growth 
of the tree. Let it develop. Do not be too elated at 
the rapid growth which has already taken place. Be 
assured that that rapid growth will not continue. The 
young always grow rapidly, but as the man becomes 
stronger and more well-knit the development is more 
gradual. We do not mean to say that the Club will 
not grow. We merely warn the committee against 
over-sanguineness where the growth must be a matter 
of many years. 

At the same time expansion must take place. Two 
rooms are absolutely necessary, and if possible it 
would be desirable to have three. The older graduates 
when canvassed will immediately ask, what attraction 
have you for them. This must be met. There is a 
well-stocked reading-room. That is not sufficient. 
We have a pleasant room with a piano. That is better. 
We have a smoking room, with cards, chess, etc. That 
is better still. We can supply refreshments of a light 
kind, and we afford a rendezvous for University men. 
All this ought to be enough to prevail upon a man of 
any spirit to assist the undertaking ; but you must 
not count on generosity, — you must look about you 
with a business eye. Smoking material should, if 
possible, be obtainable on the premises, and as soon 
as the funds will allow a billiard table should be 
obtained. We also think it would be well if re-unions 
of all the members were held now and again, at which 
refreshments might be provided. This would lead 
members to make more frequent use of the rooms. 

The committee, then, have before them a difficult 
and responsible task. They have by degrees to make 
the Club attractive, and yet to avoid extravagance. 
On business principles they should create a small re- 
serve fund, so that they may continue next year with- 
out difficulty. 

To the members we may say that we hope they will 
not be afraid to be exclusive. Happily there are not 
many objectionable people who could become mem- 
bers. But our advice is, become particular at once. 

The influence of the Club is already beginning to be 
felt. Two or three years ago we gave it as our opinion 
that the University Literary Society would never be 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



successful until it could meet in a club-room owned by 
University men. It seems as if this prophecy was 
likely to be verified. The Society this year appears 
to have taken a new lease of life, and to have entered 
on a successful course. This is largely due, no doubt, 
to the officers elected by our influence, but we think 
the other fact has also had something to do with it. 
The Gazette itself we have not the slightest doubt 
will receive reflected benefit, and have its already 
large influence immensely extended. 

We ask the committee of the Club to constantly 
keep before them that if this attempt fails, the idea 
may forever be buried in the depths of oblivion. 

THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

For many years it has been a well known fact that 
the condition of the Faculty of Law was far from 
being what it ought. The School has been the 
subject, of adverse criticism on every hand, and 
as time goes on matters do not seem to be mend- 
ing. Last year we published a letter signed “ B. 
C. L.” drawing attention in a very moderate and 
calm spirit to the state of affairs which existed, and 
calling on the authorities to take some steps to put an 
end to the glaring defects which were bringing the 
Faculty into disrepute. We republish this letter be- 
cause it contains many suggestions upon the excellence 
of which there seems to be an unanimity of opinion 
among those who have given the subject any con- 
sideration. This letter was published early last year, 
but so far not on©' step has been taken in the direction 
indicated. Having now reason to believe that the 
members of the Faculty itself are beginning to recog- 
nize that something must at once be done, and know- 
ing that any suggestions or friendly criticisms which 
we can make will be kindly received, we have taken 
the trouble to ascertain the opinions of a large number 
of the legal profession upon the subject. And here let 
us say one thing, which it ought really be unnecessary 
for us to emphasize but which we are sorry to say ex- 
perience tells us it is necessary to reiterate, and that 
is this, that in bringing the full light of public opinion 
to bear upon this question and in making criticisms 
and suggestions we are actuated by nothing but the 
most kindly feelings towards the University, towards 
those who are in authority and towards the members 
of the Faculty of Law itself. We are desirous of 
working for the benefit of the University. No person 
receiving a salary from the funds of the University is 
more desirous of that object than we are. We may 
not always agree as to methods, but the common aim 
ought surely to secure us sympathy and a kindly for- 
bearance. 



In the present instance we have adopted a certain 
plan after deep consideration, and we are prepared, if 
necessary, to give our reasons for believing it to be 
the best which we could have adopted. It is necessary 
for us now in this connection merely to remind our 
readers that the low condition of the Faculty of Law 
has been known for a longtime, and yet not a stir has 
been made to apply remedies. Perhaps when reform 
is attempted, it may turn out to be too late. 

From the interviews which we publish below our 
readers will be able to form some idea of the present 
reputation of the Law Faculty, and will be able to see 
for themselves what reforms are considered necessary 
by the large number of lawyers whose opinions are 
given. There is one point upon which there is a 
startling unanimity of opinion. All, professors as 
well as those outside the Faculty, are agreed in saying 
that something ought to be done to remedy the pre- 
sent state of affairs. 

In discussing this matter we are of opinion that the 
standard of excellence, or rather of efficiency, which 
we should set before us for the Law School is not that 
of any of the other Schools which exist in this Pro- 
vince, but rather that of the other Faculties of our 
own University. If the Faculty of Law were as 
efficient in its sphere as the other Faculties are in 
theirs, no School in this Province could be held up to 
us as an example. The question forces itself upon 
us, why should the Faculty of Law be neglected — 
why should she be allowed to drag behind the others? 
To us it seems incomprehensible. It is certainly the 
very worst policy possible for the University authori- 
ties to pursue. The legal profession has perhaps more 
influence than any other in the community. It is 
true that legal men themselves are not generally the 
most wealthy, but they have very often large and 
wealthy connections. Besides, they are very numer- 
ous and hold the positions of greatest influence. They 
have the largest voice in the legislation of the country. 
In Toronto the great influence of the legal profession 
has been recognized and made use of by the Univer- 
sity. The short-sighted policy of our University in 
this matter ought at once to be reversed. 

The most tangible proof of the indifference which 
we complain of is seen in the small allowance from 
the general funds of the University which the Faculty 
of Law receives. Money is to be lavished on the other 
Faculties, but the Faculty of Law is to be considered 
as a kind of outcast or poor relation that must be con- 
tent with the bread-and-water of a few hundred dollars. 
In the words of one of the Professors, the Faculty 
should either be allowed to become defunct or made 
a credit to the University of which it is supposed to 
form a part. 

As to the Faculty itself we think this is about the 
state of affairs. The lectures are delivered in rooms 
situated in the garret of a building in St. James Street. 

1 he rooms are furnished with the most uncomfortable 
seats which it was possible for any one to construct. 
There are two rooms without any library, and without 
any one to take care of them. The University owns 
a large number of law books but they are at present 
utterly useless from being inaccessible. The lectures 
are delivered in the most perfunctory way and on an 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



average about half the students attend them. Some 
one may say, that is the fault of the students them- 
selves. We do not say that the students are faultless. 
W e know the contrary to be the case. But we hum- 
bly submit that this is quite irrelevant to the 
argument. It ought not to depend upon the students 
whether they shall take lectures, or whether those 
lectures shall be worth listening to. While students 
can slope with impunity they will slope, unless there 
is something to attract them, and we say distinctly 
that there is nothing to attract students as matters are 
at present. jSTot only are the lectures poor, but they 
are not regularly delivered. Each subject is supposed 
to be taken up once a week but in reality the average 
in most cases is not more than once a fortnight. Thus 
we have a Professor lecturing on a profound legal 
subject once a fortnight from October to February 
with holidays at Christmas. Is it great wonder that 
the students do not grow enthusiastic over lectures so 
delivered? The lectures are delivered between the 
hours of four and six in the afternoon, when both 
lecturers and students are tired out with their days’ 
work in the office and at the Court House. If it were 
not that the seats hardly permit of it, sleep would 
frequently come to the relief of both. Small reforms 
have from time to time been introduced, and if the 
regulations of the Faculty were carried out things 
would not be in such a bad plight. It is no one’s 
business particularly to see that the regulations are 
carried out, or at all events no one is sufficiently paid 
to undertake this duty ; and no one does undertake 
it thoroughly. What is every one’s business is no- 
body’s business. Now this trouble will never be over- 
come until one man is appointed to give up the greater 
part of his time and energies to the affairs of the 
Faculty. To get a man of the requisite ability it will 
be necessary to offer a greater remuneration than is at 
present received by the Professors. How is this 
money to be obtained? We say, raise three or four 
of the present Professors to the dignity of Emeritus 
Professors and combine their duties into one Profes- 
sorship. This would give a sum — not very large cer- 
tainly, but if increased say by §300 from the general 
funds of the University, large enough to attract some 
young lawyer of energy and ability to take the posi- 
tion. It would be his duty, besides being Secretary 
of the Faculty, to see that the regulations were carried 
out in every particular, that proper rolls were kept of 
the attendance of students, that an account of the 
number of lectures delivered were kept, and so on. 
This is the reform upon which, in our opinion, the 
success of any other changes will mainly depend. 

In the next place we decidedly think that the 
School should be an entirely English one. It is 
better to have a thoroughly good English School than 
to have partly one thing, partly another. At the time 
when the two Professors were appointed to lecture in 
French there was good reason for such a course, but 
at present there is no hope of competing with Laval 
for the mass of the French students. Besides, if the 
lectures were very good we should undoubtedly have 
more French students even than we now have. 

We have referred to the uncomfortable and unsuit- 
able rooms in which the lectures are now given. This 



point has been dwelt on by more than one of those 
interviewed ; and the weight of opinion favours the 
idea of removing to the neighbourhood of Beaver 
Hall Hill. In former years the lectures were given 
in what is now the Fraser Institute, and it might be 
possible perhaps, to return to the old quarters. If 
this were done a library and reading-room might be 
kept open for the use of the students and others. 
Every person, without exception, dwelt with indigna- 
tion upon the uselessness of storing a lot of law books 
in the College Library. Some of these at least might 
be removed to form the nucleus of a library for the 
Faculty of Law. 

With regard to the hours at which lectures are de- 
livered a change is desirable. As we said before, 
both Professors and students are tired out when 
it comes to five in the afternoon, and, besides, they are 
very often detained in their offices. If the lectures 
could be given altogether in the forenoon it would be 
a great advantage ; but this seems almost impossible. 
We do not believe in lectures before nine in the 
morning, and eleven is a rather late hour to go to 
office. So that the two lectures could hardly be given 
in the morning. But a compromise might be effected. 
If the rooms were up-town one lecture might be given 
every morning from 9 to 10 a.m. There seems to be 
no valid objection to this. It would bring students 
down — the majority of them — a little later ; but that 
can be borne. The Professors would not object to 
this plan. There would then be about three hours 
more a week necessary. These lectures might be de- 
livered either from 5 to 6 p.m., or from 8 to 9 p.m. 
We should rather prefer the latter, because it would 
give members of the mercantile community an oppor- 
tunity to attend special courses, if they desired to do 
so. 

In addition to the regular course of lectures we are 
sure that special courses might very easily be arranged. 
There are many young lawyers of distinction, and 
perhaps many of the older lawyers, or some of the 
judges who would be only too happy to deliver special 
courses of lectures in the evening on subjects of which 
they have made a particular study. These would be 
of benefit not only to the undergraduates but they 
would also, no doubt, be attended by many of the 
graduates and others. 

We are also in favour of lengthening the session 
and dividing it into terms, two Professors lecturing 
from day to day through each term. The reasons for 
this and also for paying the Professors so much per 
lecture are given in the letter which we reprint below, 
and we need not dilate upon them here. 

Of the reforms which we have here suggested, one, 
only, involves an extra outlay, so that the cry of “ no 
money” will not justify any further dallying. We 
call on those upon whose shoulders the responsibility 
rests to take action in the matter as soon as possible, 
so that at the opening of next session the Faculty of 
Law may enter upon a new course of prosperity and 
be an honour to the University. For our part we do 
not mean to let the agitation drop until it has borne 
fruit. At a special meeting of the Graduates Society 
to be held on the 23rd inst., the subject will be 
brought up for discussion, and we hope that members 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. t 1886 - 



8 



will make it a point to attend on that occasion, and 
send to the Corporation of the University a resolution 
couched in unmistakable terms. 

We wish to state clearly and categorically the 
changes which we consider necessary. They are as 
follows : — 

I. That three or four of the present Professors 
be raised to the rank of Emeritus Professors. 

II. That a new Professor be appointed at a 
salary of say $1200, who shall also be Secre- 
tary of the Faculty and Librarian. 

III. That rooms be obtained somewhere in the 
neighbourhood of Beaver Hall Hill. 

IV. That the lectures be delivered from 9 to 10 
a.m., and from 5 to 6 p. m., or 8 to 9 p.m. 

V. That the Session be made to correspond in 
length with that of the Faculty of Arts. 

VI. That the Session be divided into terms with 
Professors allotted to each term. 

VII. That the ordinary Professors be paid so much 
per lecture. 

VIII. That special courses be given in the evenings, 
attendance at which shall not be obligatory. 

IX. That an extra allowance be given to the 
Faculty from the general funds of the Uni- 
versity. 

X. That a library in connection with the School 
be established. 



(From the McGill Gazette of Jan. 1st, 1885.) 
Editors McGill Gazette : — 

Dear Sirs. — At this time when our University 
may be said to have emerged from its earlier stage 
and to have established itself on firm foundations it 
is well that attention should be drawn to those points 
in which we are still weak in order that the necessary 
remedies may be applied and a symmetrical advance- 
ment secured. I am confident that the authorities 
with their wonted good sense and liberal-mindedness 
will take in good part all complaints and suggestions 
offered by well-wishers of the institution in a friendly 
spirit; and not only this, but will, to the limit of 
their means, make every effort to remove the causes 
of such complaints, if they find the latter to be well 
founded. If further progress is to be made by the 
University as a whole, if the good reputation which 
we are beginning to enjoy, not only on this Continent 
but in Europe, is to be maintained, we must see that 
no department be allowed to lag behind the rest. In 
the Faculty of Arts, although there is much room for 
improvement, about as good a course is offered as 
could possibly be expected with the means at present 
at the disposal of the College. The Faculty of Medi- 
cine needs no comment ; while the Faculty of Applied 
Science is only awaiting further grants to become all 
that its originator expected. Concerning the Faculty 
of Law I wish to speak a little more at length. It 
seems to me that of late years, at all events, too little 
attention has been given to the affairs of this Faculty. 
I have not noticed that the Principal has been much 
given in his periodical addresses to dealing with the 



state of this department of the University ; on the 
contrary he seems to ignore it altogether.^ Now it 
cannot be denied that the condition of the Eaculty of 
Law is by no means what it should be, nor is there 
any use in trying to hide the fact that the B.C.L. 
course is looked upon by the average student with 
considerable contempt. What are the causes of this 
state of affairs, and what remedies are possible under 
the circumstances ? The lectures, which begin some- 
where between the 1st October and Christmas, are 
given in what must be considered a most slovenly 
manner. What are known as “ slopes are far too 
frequent to show a healthy condition of things. A 
slope takes place whenever a lecturer is more than 
ten minutes late, and when it is considered that they 
average at the very least one or two a week, a very 
vivid idea of the regularity and punctuality of the 
Professors will be obtained. The lectures are them- 
selves, in many cases, not such as one would expect 
in a great University like McGill. Among the Pro- 
fessors are some of the ablest men at the bar, but still 
some of them do not seem to care to take the trouble 
to make their lectures worthy of them, or to prevent 
them from getting ludicrously behind the times. 
Some of the lectures are antiquated and partially 
useless, others utterly inadequate. There is no 
enthusiasm about the work ; apparently nothing but 
apathy. The number of students has been gradually 
dwindling, and even English speaking students prefer 
to go to Laval. Of course it is seemingly a very 
thankless task to lecture without a good monetary 
remuneration, and the McGill Law Faculty cannot 
give very much. Having little or no endowment it 
has to depend mainly on the revenue derived from 
the students’ fees, and this, of late years, has not 
amounted to very much. But that there are so few 
students is due in no small degree, in my opinion, to 
the Professors themselves. Let them work first with 
out thought of the remuneration, and make the course 
what it ought to be, and they will soon find that their 
self-sacrifice will meet with adequate reward. When 
a lawyer accepts the position of Professor he should 
make up his mind to enter into the work for its own 
sake and for the honour of the position ; and if he is 
not possessed of this spirit, the sooner he resigns the 
better for himself and the College at large. At pre- 
sent the lectures are given between the hours of four 
and six in the afternoon, and we know that it is 
often very inconvenient for a lawyer to leave his work 
at such an hour. Nevertheless the Professors ought 
to make it a point to be punctual, and except on the 
rarest occasions, make everything give way to this 
duty. In order to make the work easier and the 
Professors more attentive to their duty I recommend 
the adoption of the plan followed at Laval. There 
the lecturers are paid five dollars a lecture, and an 
accurate list of attendance is kept. This rule has, it 
is needless to say, a very stimulating effect. In the 
second place, the whole session is divided into three 
terms, and so many Professors allotted to each term. 
Each Professor lectures every day during his term, 
and his work is then over for a year. This has the 
effect of making the lecturers more punctual, and 
making the students more interested in their work. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



At present, for instance, a lecture is given on 
Roman law in McGill once a week, or on an average 
about four lectures a month for three months. At 
Laval the same subject is taken up every day, Saturday 
included, for the same number of months. In other 
words six times as much work is expended on this 
subject at Laval as at McGill. And so with the 
other subjects. Everyone will recognize that one 
hour a week is far too little for Roman Law ; and the 
shame is the greater because our Professor of Roman 
Law knows more about his subject than, perhaps, any 
other person in Canada. Again, the length of the 
session is too short. I can see no earthly reason why 
it should not be prolonged so as to close at the same 
time as that in the Faculty of Arts. It might then 
be divided into three terms as follows : the first from 
October till Christmas, the second from 1st January 
till the middle of February, and the third from the 
middle or end of February till the end of March. 
The examinations for the whole session could be held 
in April, and the Convocation take place at the same 
time as the Arts one. If these changes were carried 
out I have not the slightest doubt but that the repu- 
tion of the Faculty would rapidly rise, because a 
sounder course would be afforded, while at the same 
the Professors would find their labour much less 
onerous. Yours etc. 

B. C. L. 



INTERVIEWS. 

The students having been interviewed on the point 
were almost unanimously opposed to lectures at 
night. 

One of the professors thought things were in an 
unsatisfactory state. He had been desirous of having 
reforms introduced, but had been only partially suc- 
cessful. Indeed, he at times had felt like resigning on 
account of the state of things. “ I think,” continued 
the professor “ the rooms ought to be improved, and 
perhaps ought to be moved to the Fraser Institute or the 
neighbourhood of Beaver Hall Hill. In my opinion, one 
course at a time should be given, day after day. This 
would keep up interest in the subject. I think, too, 
that there should be a small room off the lecture rooms 
with a small library where the students could meet, 
The law books at the college are at present utterly use. 
less. The staff, in my opinion, should be reduced. There 
would then be more remuneration for the others and 
it would be worth their while to take an interest. The 
staff, in my opinion, should be entirely English. We 
cannot hope to take the French students from Laval, 
and therefore it is better to try and have a good Eng- 
lish school, but this is a point which requires great 
consideration. There ought to be some one to take 
care of the rooms and light the gas, etc. It is most 
unsatisfactory in this respect at present. The rooms 
ought, at all events, be on the first or second floor and 
not at the top of a building. The fact is there is not 
enough interest at the centre. The Medical and Law 
Faculties ought to be the most important in the Uni- 
versity. I must say that the Faculty ought either to be 
taken in hand and put on a sound basis, or else let die.” 

Another of the Professors thought there were some 



changes which should be introduced. “The trouble 
is we have so few students. I certainly think we ought 
to return to our old plan of having the lectures at 
night ; we should then have larger classes. Many of 
the mercantile community would be glad of the 
opportunity of attending.” 

“ But the students are rather opposed to having the 
lectures at night ¥' 

“ Yes, but I think they would like them after a 
while : they are not now used to them. Our rooms at 
present are not by any means attractive. There is no 
doubt at all, we shall have te get more attractive 
rooms.” 

“Would it not be a good plan to have some of the 
lectures in the morning V 1 

“From 9 to 10 a.m. would suit me very well We 
are all busy men and cannot afford to throw over 
our business at 4 o’clock.” 

“ Ho you not think it should be an entirely English 
School r 

I do. We cannot compete with Laval for the 
french students and at all events we should get just 
as many as at present.” 

“ Ho you not think the session might be longer.” 

“ I do. At present none of us are able to cover the 
whole of our ground.” 

“ Ho you think it would be well to appoint a man 
to give the most of his time to the affairs of the Faculty 
at a good salary ¥ ’ 

“Ido.” 

One of the students said that until very lately he 
was not aware that he was entitled to use the law 
books at the College, or indeed that there was a law 
library at all. 

Another of the Professors said the Faculty were 
now beginning to recognize that something must be 
done. He thought four of the present Professors 
should be made Emeritus Professors and a young man 
appointed as Secretary of the Faculty who should 
also lecture constantly. He wished that more suita- 
able rooms could be obtained and the law library 
brought down from the College. At present the law 
books are perfectly useless. He was himself willing 
to give up his chief subject and lecture on a particular 
subject now merelv skimmed over. 

Mr. R. H. McGibbon, B.A., B.C.L. : “ I think the 
lectures should be given at night. The Law Faculty 
has now dwindled down to a very small thing indeed. 
It is a dreary thing to go at five in the evening to lec- 
ture to ten or twelve students. If the lectures were 
at night I think a large number of outsiders would 
take special courses. A number of merchants and 
bank clerks, for instance, would be glad to take lec- 
tures in Commercial Law. Then I think it would be 
well to have occasional lecturers to give courses of 
lectures on special subjects. For example, if some of 
the judges of the Court of Queen’s Bench were to give 
lectures at night on special courses you would get a 
large number of the lawyers to join the classes. Many 
of the lawyers, too, would be willing to work up sub- 
jects in which they might happen to be interested and 
give the result of their labours to the students, that is 
if the classes were of a respectable size. I think the 
rooms ought to be up-town. They used to be in the 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Fraser Institute. I think the idea of appointing a 
young naan at a good salary an excellent one.” 

Mr. E. Lafleur, B.A., B.C.L. — “ I am extremely glad 
that you have undertaken the work of attempting to 
ameliorate the condition of the Law Faculty. It was 
only yesterday that I was thinking of the subject and 
wondering what could be done in the matter. The first 
great obstacle is the want of money — more money 
must he obtained. A really capable man will not give 
up his time to lecture well for the miserable 
pittance which is at present offered. Then the rooms 
in which the lectures are at present delivered are 
musty and disagreeably situated. It would be a splen- 
did thing if rooms could be obtained somewhere in 
the neighbourhood of Beaver Hall Hill, and if they 
could have a law library in connection with them. At 
present the law books in McGill are perfectly useless. 
The law students cannot go up to the college in the 
day time, and, indeed, they hardly feel as if they be- 
longed to the college at all. It would be an excellent 
idea to appoint some young man at $1200 a year say, 
to work the thing up. It would certainly not be very 
easy to get a good man at that figure ; it would have 
to be some man who has not yet had an opportunity 
of building up any practice. I think the Law Faculty 
as a whole has been snubbed and ignored, and I think 
a big and united effort should be made by the legal 
men to bring about a better state of affairs. I agree 
with the statement that many would be glad to give 
something towards putting the Faculty on a better 
basis, if the matter were heartily taken up. The Law 
Faculty ought to be one of the most important in the 
University, because lawyers have perhaps the greatest 
influence of any body of men in the community. In- 
stead of that it is the worst.” 

Mr. A. W. Atwater, B.A., B.C.L. — “I think the 
change most needed if the Law Faculty is as it was in 
my time, is to get the professors to attend to their 
lectures regularly. The hours I think should be 
changed. You know no man after spending the 
whole day in his office and in court will feel very 
enthusiastic over a lecture to be delivered by him at 
five o’clock in the evening. Lectures at night would 
be worse. I think the professors could arrange so as 
to lecture from 9 to 11 a.m. Look at the doctors. 
Although they are practising they never think of al- 
lowing their private work to interfere with their col- 
lege work. When a man becomes a professor, he 
should do so with the full understanding that he will 
have to sacrifice a certain amount of time to the work. 
No matter how busy a lawyer might be he could ar- 
range to deliver his lectures regularly if he took a 
sufficient interest. I am of opinion, too, that if the 
lectures were early in the day, the professors would 
take greater care in seeing that their rolls were called. 
I think the idea of having a room up town an excel- 
lent one. You might then have Moot Courts at night, 
at which outsiders would attend. I have not the 
slightest doubt a number of lawyers would be willing 
to subscribe towards the Faculty if something of this 
kind were done. At Harvard there is a splendid Law 
School, and they have a hall open all the time where 
the Moot Courts take place, and where men can meet 
in the evenings. 



Mr. A. McGoun, Jr., B.A., B.C.L. — “ I know that 
the Law Faculty has not been flourishing for some 
time. I think the best thing to do would J)e to ap- 
point a couple of salaried permanent professors. To 
get a good man to give up his whole time to the 
Faculty you would have to offer a salary of at least 
$1500. The lectures should, if possible, be in the 
forenoon. The lectures have been poor for many 
years. I think the system adapted at Laval of taking 
up the same subject day after day a good one. But 
the success of the school depends more on the men 
than on the system adopted. If some of the Judges 
of the Court of Appeals could be prevailed on to lect- 
ure, I think it would be a capital idea. It would not 
really delay the regular Court work, as from their 
great experience they could easily give good lectures.” 

Mr. A. \V. Smith," B. A., B.C.L., thought lectures at 
night would not be good. “Any law school in this 
Province labours under such disadvantages that not 
much success can be expected. If a library were es- 
tablished in connection with the school it would be 
an advantage. The session might be longer.” 

Mr. Francis McLennan, B.A., B.C.L. — “The want 
of money is the great drawback. It is difficult to get 
an able man to lecture for $100 a year. I think it 
depends on the students themselves whether the Law 
School shall be made a success. .They seem to take 
no interest in the lectures. Great benefit would be 
derived from good Moot Courts held at night. I also 
think a Law Beading Club might be established in 
connection with the school. I think the McGill Law 
School was the first one established in this city, and 
it has certainly done some good work, especially 
considering that the professors have been miserably 
paid.” 

Mr. B. C. Smith, B.C.L., knew that the Law 
Faculty was in need of reform. He had thought a 
good deal on the subject, but could not offer any sug- 
gestions which would be of use. 

Mr. J. F. Mackie, B.A. — “I should not like the 
lectures at night. I think the plan of the lecturers 
taking up their subjects and going right through them 
day after day consecutively should be adopted.” 

Mr. C. J. Doherty, B.C.L., said that in his time the 
lectures were not very valuable and there was no in- 
dication that the course had been improved since. 
There is too little attention to the general principles 
of law, and to the study of law as a science. The 
Faculty was regarded simply as a means of shortening 
the term of study one year. He thought the session 
might be lengthened and that young lecturers of 
ability might be appointed to assist the older profes- 
sors.” Continuing, Mr. Doherty said : “ To improve 
the present state of affairs should not necessarily in- 
volve the expenditure of much money. For instance 
the young lecturers would be well repaid by the honor 
accruing to them, which is certainly not an induce- 
ment strong enough for lawyers of large practice to 
whom the sacrifice of time is important.” 

“ I have long thought that the Bar, the English por- 
tion of it anyway, should do something for the Law 
I acuity. 1 he Bar for its own credit and for the sake 
of the future of the profession in Montreal, should 
interest itself in this matter.” 



1886 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



“ What do you think the Bar could do ?” 

“Well, a chair might be endowed. That would 
not be much if divided up amongst us all, and I think 
many would be glad to contribute their share. Besides 
the Bar could assign or see that certain of its number 
did the work necessary to keep up the standard of the 
Faculty. Goodwill, more than any hope of reward, 
will have to be a large element if the effort is to be 
successful.” 

“Better lectures will benefit the profession. Let 
the student be inspired with the study of law as a 
science, and we shall have less of the law being 
adopted as a money-making occupation.” 

Mr. J. S. Hall, Jr., B.A., B.C.L, Representative 
Fellow in Law, had not heard much of the Law 
Faculty for some years. He thought that it had been 
re-organized some time ago. If the Faculty moved 
up-town at all, he thought that they ought to go on to 
St. Catherine. Perhaps the University Club might ar- 
range to let them have the use of rooms. He thought 
it would be a good idea to have the lecture from 9 to 
10 in the morning. He believed that many outside 
the regular students would be glad to take special 
courses. 

Mr. J. C. McCorkill, B.C.L. — “ I think it would 
be a good thing if new rooms were got and a library 
established in connection with the school. When I 
was a student the law books at McGill were utterly 
useless — they might as well have been down the St. 
Lawrence. It would be an improvement to have the 
lectures in the morning.” 

Mr. W. F. Ritchie, B.A., B.C.L., did not know that 
there was a Law Faculty. Upon being informed that 
there was he wished to be put down as a reformer. 

Mr. R. Greenshields, B. A., B.C.L., thought it would 
be a good idea to have the lectures in the morning, 
but the trouble would be to get the professors to at- 
tend at that hour. He thought the idea of getting 
some young man to take charge of the faculty was the 
best that could be proposed. The salary should be 
at least $1500 a year to get a good man to take the 
thing up. 

Mr. H. J. Hague. B.A., B.C.L. — “I know that the 
Law Faculty is not in as sound a condition as it might 
be. The first great cause of this is the want of 
money.” 

“ Do you think it would be a good plan to have the 
staff of professors entirely English 1” “ I do.” 

“ What do you think of appointing some young 
man at a good salary to give up most of his time and 
attention to the affairs of the Faculty V 9 “ I think it 
would be an excellent idea. At present there is no 
one whose business it is to look after things. V hat 
is everybody’s business is nobody’s business.” 

Mr. G. C. Wright, B. A. — “ I should like the lectures 
in the morning from 9 to 10 a.m. This would not 
interfere much with office work. I agree entirely 
with the views expressed in the letter of B.C.L. in 
the Gazette last year. We might have one lecture 
in the morning and one from five to six in the after- 
noon. The lectures at present are not good.” 

Mr. C. J. Brooke, B.C.L. — “ Indeed I am aware that 
the Law Faculty is in a rotten condition. I think the 
professors ought to be paid at so much per lecture. 



The lectures in my time were very irregular. If they 
could be delivered from 9 to 10 in the morning and 
from 5 to 6 in the evening I think it would be an 
improvement.” 

“ Do you think it would be a good thing to have a 
library in connection with the school ?” “ I think it 

would be an excellent idea.” 

“ What is your opinion about making the staff en- 
tirely English ?” “ I think that the McGill school 

ought to be an English one. The French have Laval 
to go to. I am very glad to see that the Gazette is 
taking so much trouble about this matter.” 



Euery Fortnight. 



“Stand fast,” says Anthony Trollope, “on your 
own honest ground, and care for nothing beyond, let 
what will come of it.” 

* * 
fl- 
it is a curious fact, but true, that there are some very 
insignificant men who imagine that their countenance 
and approval are necessary to the existence of the 
great institutions of the country. For instance, we 
have all met the man who writes long and stinging 
productions in the monumental style to the editors of 
newspapers ordering his august name to be removed 
from the list of subscribers, and who goes home to his 
wife and the nursery thoroughly satisfied that he has 
blasted for ever the paper which has incurred his dis- 
pleasure. What little men sometimes have little names ! 

* * 

* 

Nothing so difficult to do away with as standing 
grievances. They get a kind of prescriptive right to 
stand after about ten years. I have been asked to 
draw attention to the very unsatisfactory way in which 
the letters are delivered, and have been delivered for 
years, at College. If one racked one’s brains for a 
month, a more slovenly plan could hardly be invented. 
It is not so bad to have your new fur cap stolen as to 
have your last love letter defaced and sullied by the 
cynical remarks scribbled by some unknown hand 
athwart the divine caligraphy of that dear girl — your 
sister. 

* 

I hope everyone will read the letter which is pub- 
lished in the present number criticizing the Gazette. 
It is tip-top — nothing small about it. 

Critic. 



A Sunday-school teacher was telling her children 
how the devil goeth about like a roaring lion, seeking 
whom he may devour, and after the lesson was through, 
she said that those who wished could ask questions. 
At once a little boy spoke up, and asked how fast the 
devil could run. 

“ Hush, Johnnie,” said the teacher, “ Such questions 
are very profane.” 

“ Well, I don’t care,” said Johnnie ; “ he can’t outrun 
pa anyhow, ’cause I heard pa tell a man down the 
street the other day that he caught the devil the night 
he came home from the lodge.” — 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



Poetry 



[for the gazette.] 

CANADIAN PIECES. 

PILOT. 

Dear Carlo, who run at my heels 
Through the crowded streets of the city 
In and out among hurrying wheels , 

Whose country scamper reveals 

Only scenes that are peaceful and pretty. 

Come lift up your bright little face 
And open your brown eyes in wonder 
While I tell of one of your race 
Who lived years ago in this place— 

Ay, ran at the heels of its founder. 

Mistress Pilot— that was her name, 

And you could not have found her a better — 

Was a gallant and dutiful dame. 

Whose breed is forgotten by Fame— 

You would like me to call her a setter. 

She lived when “ Villc Marie ” was young 
And the needs of its people were sorest, 

When the rifle ever gave tongue 
And the savage lay hidden among 
The Cimmerian shades of the forest. 

When the hearts of frail women were steeled 
To look on the dead and the dying, 

When mighty the war-cry was pealed 
And daily men worked in the field 
With their weapons in readiness lying. 

When oft at the Convent gate, 

As darkness fell over the village, 

A redskin would crouch and await* 

With the patience of devilish hate. 

His chance to murder and pillage. 

Each one had his duty to do, 

And Pilot had hers like another. 

Right nobly she did her work, too, 

At the head of a juvenile crew 

Of the same brave stuff as their mother. 

An army of keen-scented spies, 

They scoured the forest and meadows 
And guarded the place from surprise 
Though its foes were thicker than flies 
In a swamp, or than evening shadows. 

Oft-times in the heat of the day. 

Oft-times through the mists of the morning 
And oft to the sun’s last ray 
Was heard her echoing bay 
In tones of challenge and warning. 

So nobly she worked and well 
’Twas thought— so runneth the story— 

She had come from heaven to dwell 

Upon earth and war against hell 

For the good of mankind and God’s glory. 

“ Her day’s work over what then ?” 

Well Carlo, she’d one of your habits ; 

She would go through the forest again 
But instead of hunting for men 
Would amuse herself hunting for rabbits. 

Attie. 



jRRctBiU News. 



THE CHRISTMAS EXAMINATIONS. 

ARTS. — 1st. Year. 

Latin. — Class I. — Gibson, *Stevenson, Rogers, Deeks. Class 
II. — Swanson, *Henderson. Class 111.— Meighen and Grant ; 
White and Warden ; Parker and Walsh ; Mackenzie, Shepherd, 
Smith, Buchanan, Holden and Moore ; Bell and Evans ; Watt. 

Greek.— Class I.— Gibson, "McBratney, Rogers. Class II. 
—Deeks, Grant, Swanson, Meighen, White, "Stevenson, 
♦Henderson. Class 1 1 1. —Mackenzie, Walsh, Moore, Warden ; 
Shepherd and Parker ; Smith, Buchanan, Lucas and Scott. 

Mathematics.— Class I. — *Stevenson. Class II. — Rogers, 
Walsh, White, Bell, "Henderson. Class III.— McKenzie, 

•Lady Students. 



Meighen, Smith and Lucas ; Evans, # Bott, Robertson, Swan- 
son, Grant, Reford and Watt ; Jamieson, Holden, Parker and 
Shepherd. 

French. — Class I. — Rogers, *Stevenson, *Johnson, V hite, 
Class II —Walsh, "Henderson, Deeks. McKenzie and Dunlop ; 
Garth, Moore, Mills. Class III.— Buchanan, Holden, Francesco, 
Shepherd and Warden. 

Chemistry. — Class I. — Gibson, Deeks. Class II. Giles, 
* Morgan, Swanson, *Stevenson, Smith. Class III. Rogers, 
Robertson and Walsh ; Parker, McGregor, McKenzie, Garth, 
Meighen, Evans and Hay ; Grant, Holden, Scott, Moore, Hart, 
Watt, * Henderson, Jamieson. Francesco, White, Shepherd. 

English. — Class I. — "Stevenson, Gibson, Deeks, Grant. 
Class II.— White, Smith, Robertson, *Henderson and Rogers 
and Parker and Scott ; Buchanan, Evans, McKenzie and 
Meighen. Class III. — Walsh, Swanson, Garth and McGregor ; 
Warden, Lucas. Moore, Hart, Dunlop, McLeod and W att ; 
*Darey, Mills, Charters, McAdie. 

Literature (alone). — Shepherd, Holden. 

Analysis (alone). — Francesco, Jamieson. 

2nd Year. 

Latin. — Class I. — *McLea, Day, McPhail. Class II, — Giles, 
♦McFee, *Simpson, LeRossignol/ Macallum, *Cross, *Palmer, 
Campbell, Curtis, Goff, Mason, Pedley. Class III.— Howitt and 
Lindsay and Bryan and Moss ; Bryson and Morrison ; "Murray 
and Martin ; "Ritchie, Duke, Jamieson, England, Hall, Thur- 
low, Naismith, "Van Horne, Masse, "Murphy. 

French. — Class I. — Curtis, "McLea, Masse, "Simpson, 
"Cross and Day and "McFee ; "Ritchie. LeRossignol. Class II. 
— Howitt, McPhail, Duke, Mason, "Murphy and "Murray and 
Pedley ; Morrison, "Palmer. Class III. — Bryson, England, 
Martin, Hall, Bryan, Moss, Jamieson. 

Botany. — Class I. — Baldwin, "McLea, Howitt, "Ritchie, 
Moss, LeRossignol, Curtis, "Cross and "McFee and ♦Darey ; 
Kerrvish and Day ; "Van Horne, "Simpson, "Murray and 
"Murphy. Class II. — McPhail, "Blackader, Bryson and 

"Palmer ; Macallum and Martin ; Campbell and Hunt ; Giles, 
Duke, "Swabey. Class III. — Pedley, Bryan, "Swabey (L) and 
Lindsay ; Masse, Goff, Pritchard, Morison, Mason, Thurlow, 
England and Jamieson ; Naismith, Hall. 

Psychology. — Class I. — "McLea, Curtis, Pedley, Macallum 
and Pritchard ; "McFee, Mason and "Cross ; Howitt and 
"Simpson ; "Blackader, Giles and Goff ; Campbell and LeRos- 
signol ; Lindsay and Morrison. Class II. — Day and Duke ; 
"Murphy, Thurlow, "Ritchie, ‘Murray. Class III. — Bryson, 
Martin, Moss and Naismith ; "Palmer, England, "Van Horne, 
Masse, McPhail, Bryan and Sweeney ; Hall, Hastings, Jamie- 
son, Harris, "Darey. 

Hebrew (Elementary Course). — Class I. — Henderson (R.), 
Deeks, Langton, Giles. Class II. — Larkin, Tessot and Camp- 

bell ; Swanson. Class III.— Bell, Scott and Robertson ; 
Parker, Rochester, Cote, Watt, Russell, Smith, McAdie. 

3rd Year. 

Latin. — Class I. — Colby, Johnson and McArthur and Roch- 
ester, Langton, Class II, — Nichols, Kingston. Class III. — 
Brown, 

Greek. — Class I. — Walsh, Clay and Johnson ; Brown, Roch- 
ester. Johnston and McArthur. Class II. — McLennan ; Hen- 
derson and Langton ; Sanders. Class I II. — Russell, Genie, In- 
ternoscia, Bourne, Solandt. 

Mechanics. — Class I. — Walsh, Johnson, Nicholson, John- 
ston. Class II. — Henderson, Whyte, McArthur, Nicholls, 
Brown. Class III. — McLeod, Cameron, Internoscia, Naismith, 
McLennan, Patton, Kingston. 

Zoology. — Class I. — Murray, Nicholson, Walsh, Eagleson, 
Kingston. Class II. — McArthur, Brown Mountees, Solandt, 
Brown and Gerrie ; Patton, Henderson, Harris. Class III. — 
Internoscia, McKenzie, Smith, Hastings. Vegetable History. 
Class I. — Murray, Kingston. 



•Lady Students. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



4th Year. 

Astronomy. — Class I. — Livingstone and Topp ; Sparling. 
Class II. — McOuat. Class III. — Hibbard and Dalpe, 

Geology. — -Class I. — Swabey, McOuat, Livingstone and 
Evans ; McWilliams, Sparling. Class II. — Hargrave, Roberts. 
Class III. — Chalmers and Holden ; Bell, McLean. 

Philosophy. — Class I. — McDougall, jClerk, Livingstone and 
Sparling ; McOuat, Pedley and Yates ; Braith waite, Kerrish 
and McWilliams ; Baldwin, Clements. Class II. — Henderson 
and Irvine ; Wallace, Chalmers and Dalpe and Truax. Class 
III. — Hibbard and Blair ; Holden. Stephens, Hargrave, Evans, 
Bell, Bartley, Hunt and Roberts ; McLean. 

SCIENCE. 

Mathematics. — First Year. — Class I. — McFarlane (A. G.), 
McFarlane (M. C.), Edwards. Class II. — Young, Bertrand. 
Class III. — N one . Second Y ear. — (Algebra and Trigonometry) . 
— Class I. — Lovelace, Hislop and Hopkins, equal ; Ogilvy, 
Green. Class II. — Macnutt, Drummond. Class III. — Eneas, 
Tremblay, May. Second Year. — (Analytic Geometry and Me- 
chanics.) — Class I. — Hopkins, Lovelace, Ogilvy, Hislop. Class 

II. — Eneas and Macnutt, equal ; Tremblay, Drummond. Class 

III. — McLennan, May, Carmichael. In Mechanics only — Class 

I. — Green. Third Year.— Class I. — Palmer. Class II. — Carlyle 
andFerrier, equal. Class III. — Rinfret, Ball, Taylor, Fomerat. 
Fourth Year. — Class I. — Kerry. Class II. — Brown, Dawson. 

Class III. — Cowie ; Reid and Trueman, equal ; McCarthy. 

Chemistry. — First Year. — Class I. — Edwards, McFarlane 
(A. G.), McFarlane (M. C). Class II. — Young, Hersey, War- 
ren. Class III. — Waters, Campbell and McKenzie, equal ; 
Bertrand, Macfarlane. 

Geology and Mineralogy. — Third Year. — Class I. — Fer- 
rier, Palmer, Carlyle. Class II. — Rinfret, Forneret, Ball. 
Geology (only).— Third Year. — Class I. — Taylor. 

Botany. — Second Year. — Class I. — None. Class II. — Green 
(C). 

Zoology. — Second Year. — Class I. — Hopkins, Lovelace. 
Class II. — Macnutt, Hislop. Class III. — Hamilton, McLennan. 

English Literature and Analysis. — First Year. — Class 
I. — Edwards, McFarlane (A. G.) Class II. — McFarlane (M. C.), 
Warren. Class III. — Young, Waters, McKenzie, C. 

English Literature (only). — Class I. — None. Class II. 
Hersey. Class III. — McFarlane. 

French. — First Year. — Class I. — McFarlane (A. G.), Mc- 
Farlane (M. C.) Class II. — Waters, McFarlane (W. D.) Warren. 
Class III. — Campbell. Second Year. — Class I.— Hopkins, 

Green, Lovelace. Class II. — None. Class III. — Ogilvy, Trem- 
blay, Waters. 



Societies. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The first annual meeting of the Delta Sigma Society 
of McGill College was held in the Ladies’ Reading 
Room of the college, on Friday, Nov. 20th, Miss Mc- 
Lea, President of the society, in the chair. Opening 
remarks were made by the President regarding the past 
work of the society, its object and future prospects. 
Three new members were admitted. Amendments 
were made in certain of the resolutions, after which 
the Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Reid, read her report. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

The seventh regular meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held Nov. 24th, in the ladies’ reading 
room, Miss McLea, the president in the chair. There 
was a good attendance. When the business of the 
meeting had been settled, Miss Smith read an interest- 
ing paper on “ Canadian Landmarks.” Some general 
conversation followed after which the meeting ad- 
journed. 



MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The Medical Society held their meeting for the first 
time in the college reading room on Saturday, 21st 
Nov. The president — Dr. Stewart, Dr. Mills, and 
twenty five members were present. A very animated 
discussion took place on the paper of the evening, after 
which I)r. Mills gave a short address. The meeting 
was pronounced by the President to be the most suc- 
cessful at which he has presided during the present 
or past session. A deputation from the U.L.S. waited 
on the society for the purpose of inducing the Medi- 
cals to take part in the proceedings of the former 
society. The President promised that action should 
be taken in the matter. 



;moot court. 

A very important case was heard in the above court 
on Wednesday, 18th Nov. His Honour Mr. Justice 
Archibald presiding. 

Reg. vs. Jones. — Jones was tried before Mr. Justice 
Blank on the 20th of March last on a charge of mur- 
der, having waived his right to a trial by jury. He 
was found guilty, but the learned J udge having some 
doubts as to the jurisdiction of the Court, as so con- 
stituted, reserved the case for the Court of Queen’s 
Bench sitting in appeal. 

Mr. J. F. Mackie appeared for the Crown and Mr. 
J. Ralph Murray for the prisoner. After a very lengthy 
and able argument on both sides, the Court rendered 
judgment to the effect, that the Court below, con- 
stituted as above stated, had not jurisdiction in the 
case. 

In rendering judgment, the learned Judge said : “I 
cannot refrain from rendering a well-deserved compli- 
ment to the counsel upon both sides for the marked 
ability with which they have conducted this case : the 
case for the Crown has been presented in a remarkably 
lucid manner, and the prisoner at the bar has been 
fortunate in securing for his defence so erudite a coun- 
sel as the gentleman who has pleaded his cause.” 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on Friday even- 
ing, 20th Nov., there being present Mr. A. Mc- 
Goun, jun., President, in the chair, and Messrs. A. G. 
Cross, Budden, Claxton, Hutchinson, Unsworth, 
Brooke, Mackie, Elliot, Oughtred, Smith, Sproule, 
Ritchie, Fry, Wright, Colquhoun, Murray, Turner and 
Selkirk Cross. 

Mr. Hutchinson gave very satisfactory reasons for 
his non-appearance to debate at the last meeting of the 
society, which were unanimously accepted by the 
members ; a default was entered in the minutes against 
Mr. Doherty. 

The President announced that the society dinner 
would be held on the 27th Nov., in the Windsor 
Hotel, at seven o’clock ; a member said his card read 
at eight o’clock, and he would like the matter clearly 
understood, as for obvious reasons he objected to going 
to dinner an hour late ! He was assured the hour was 
seven. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



The debate upon — “ Is the practice of offering poli- 
tical appointments to our Judges consistent with sound 
policy ¥' then followed : 

Mr. Fry opened, in his maiden speech before the 
society. He is to be congratulated on his effort. Mr. 
Hutchinson followed on the negative, in as good a 
speech as the society has listened to this season. He 
dwelt upon the unfortunate practice which now pre- 
vails of making appointments to the Bench on the 
grounds of political service, evidenced in a telling 
manner the evil effects of the practice by citing the 
decisions in many cases in which the interests of poli- 
tical parties were involved, both in Canada and the 
United States, and pointed out how enormously the 
evil would be increased were the practice established 
of holding high political appointments before men 
now on the Bench as possible of attainment, did they 
further the ends of the party in power. 

Mr. Oughtred followed on the negative. He spoke, 
as he always does, with eloquence and great energy, 
and was replied to by Mr. Selkirk Cross in an excep- 
tionally able manner. 

Mr. Fry summed up in a very brief speech, and on 
a vote being taken, the question was decided in favour 
of the negative. 

Messrs. Craigie and Bryson were elected members 
of the society. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting on Dec. 4th was a decided success : a 
very large number of members were present ; and an 
unusually interesting programme had been prepared. 
Professor Moyse came into the room and was requested 
to take the chair. The programme was made up of a 
number of very short speeches on various subjects. 
Mr. N. P. Yates spoke on “ A Summer’s Vacation.” 
“ The Benefits of Constitutional Study ” was Mr. F. 
Topp’s subject. Mr. F. Pedley reviewed the “ Poli- 
tical Situation.” Mr. H. E. C. Mason portrayed “ Life 
in England.” “The Fruits of Industry” was the 
title of Mr. A. P. Solandt’s speech. Mr. A. B. Cle- 
ments spoke on “ The Ethereal World.” “Canada’s 
Future” was disclosed by Mr. J. P. Gerrie. “Benefits 
of Aristocracy ” was Mr. Hibbard’s subject. “The 
Professions ” was Mr. H. Curtis’ short essay. E de F. 
Holden spoke on “ Philosophy in General.” “ The 
Power of the Imagination ” was the matter of Mr. 
Duke’s speech. Mr. Dalp£ delivered an oration in 
French on “Napoleon the Great.” A. R. Johnson 
took “ The Ladies.” Mr. McPhail read his critical 
remarks. The chairman, Prof. Moyse, made a few 
remarks. A vote of thanks to the special committee 
ended the last meeting for this term. Sir Wm. Dawson 
has consented to open the next term by a lecture on 
Friday, Jan. 8th. 1886. 

The meeting on Nov. 27th, 1885, was called to order 
by the Vice-President, Mr. R. B. Henderson : the 
following members were present, — Clements, Fyles, 
Garth, Gibson, Henderson, Hislop, Hibbard, Lucas, 
Mills, MacArthur, Pedley (H.) Pedley (F.) Patterson, 
Rogers, Topp, and one visitor. There was no business, 
an almost unheard of occurrence in the history of the 
Society. The programme was opened by M. F. Topp, 



/ 

who read a very interesting essay, “ Commentaries 
upon Shakspere.” Mr. W. H. Garth, the reader, 
chose “ Joe Sieg ” : it was his first appearance. 

“ Resolved that education in the fundamental basis 
of happiness,” was decided in the affirmative, which 
was supported by Messrs. Clements, Pedley, (H.) and 
Mills. The negative was ably defended by Messrs. 
W. A. Fyles, Lucas, and Hibbard. The speech of the 
evening was that of Mr. Hibbard, who rose totally 
unprepared, to fill a gap. Mr. F. Pedley, who had 
been appointed critic, made his usual happy remarks, 
and the meeting adjourned. Notwithstanding the 
rather deep and philosophical nature of the subject, it 
was well handled. 



UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

The first general meeting of the Club took place on 
12th Dec., in the Club Room. 

The constitution as prepared by the committee was 
taken up article by article. And, after amendments, 
was carried. 

The election of officers for 1886 then took place. 

Principal Sir William Dawson was nominated for 
Honorary President, by Mr. J. Ralph Murray, second- 
ed by Mr. A. H. U. Colquhoun. 

Mr. Ross nominated Prof. Cornish. On request of 
Dr. Cornish the election of Sir William Dawson was 
made unanimous. 

Prof. Harrington was nominated by Mr. G. C. 
Wright for President and elected unanimously. 

Mr. W. H. Turner nominated Mr. J. S. Hall for 
Vice-President. Mr. Torrance nominated Mr. J. 
Ralph Murray. On the request of Mr Murray the 
election of Mr. Hall was made unanimous. 

Mr. A. H. U. Colquhoun nominated Mr. J. H. 
Burland for Treasurer, and the election was unani- 
mous. 

Mr. W. T. Skaife nominated Mr. Turner as Secret- 
ary and he was unanimously elected. 

The following were nominated as committee men 
Drs. Stewart and J. Bell, Prof. McLeod, Messrs. R. J. 
Elliot, Murray, and Skaife. And the following 
elected : — Dr. Stewart and Messrs. Elliot and Skaife. 

Mr. W. J. Sproule moved, seconded by Mr. P. D. 
Ross that 

“ In as much, as there lias been for years a generally expressed 
desire among the University men of Montreal, for the forma- 
tion of a University Club, and in as much, as the repeated 
meetings to discuss the formation of such a Club have been 
fruitless this Club formally formed to-night, takes pleasure in 
putting on record its appreciation of the enterprise and energy 
of the few young graduates who virtually formed this club within 
the past lew months, by obtaining a room for meetings and 
guaranteeing the necessary funds for a beginning, and it takes 
this early opportunity of passing those gentlemen a vote of 
thanks.’ * Carried. 

Prof. Cornish reported on behalf of the committee 
on periodicals and Prof. McLeod on behalf of the can- 
vassing committee. 

Reports referred to the committee of the Club. 

Moved by Mr. J. F. Torrance, seconded by Mr. Ross 
that a complete fyle of the University Gazette be 
obtained by the committee and placed in the Club 
Room. Carried. 

Moved by Prof. McLeod, seconded by Mr. Gold- 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



15 



stein that the question of by-laws he referred 
to the Committee. Carried. The meeting then 
adjourned. 



THE GRADUATES SOCIETY. 

A special meeting of the Society was held on the 
5th Dec., at the University Club, 1303 St. Catherine 
Street. There were present: — Prof. C. H. McLeod, 
(President) in the chair, Profs. Cornish and Harring- 
ton, Messrs. J. F. Torrance W. T. Skaife, A. H. U. 
Colquhonn, A. W. Smith, C. P.Brown, J. H. Burland, 
H. Hamilton, W. H. Turner, Kerry, A. Weir, Sproule, 
J. Bell, M.D., McKercher and the Secretary. 

The Secretary read letters from Messrs. J. R. Dou- 
gall, J. S. Hall, Jr., Arch. McGoun, Jr., C. Gibb and 
Dr. Stewart. Mr. C. Gibb asked to be enrolled as a 
member, and the others were favourable to the scheme 
except Mr. Dougall (Representative Fellow). 

The President explained on what authority, and for 
what purpose the meeting had been called, and asked 
Mr. Turner to explain what had already been done 
towards establishing the University Club. Mr. Turner 
mentioned briefly, the steps which had been taken by 
the provisional committee, and amongst other things 
said that an offer had been received from the College 
Y. M. C. A. with regard to the use of the rooms on 
Sundays. 

It was moved by Mr. J. F. Torrance, seconded by 
Mr. W. T. Skaife — “ That Messrs. Sproule, J. R. 
Murray and W. H. Turner be appointed a committee 
to draught a constitution and report to an adjourned 
meeting, to be held this night week.” Carried. 

Moved and carried. — “ That Prof. McLeod, Dr. 
Stewart, and Messrs. Burland, H. H. Lyman, C. P. 
Brown, McGoun, Colquhoun, and Raymond be a ap- 
pointed a committee to canvass members of the Univer- 
sity and report to the adjourned meeting.” 
Carried. 

Prof. Cornish and Mr. Colquhoun were appointed 
to draw up a list of desirable periodicals and report as 
to cost etc. After some informal discussion the meet- 
ing then adjourned for a week. 

At the adjourned meeting of the Society held in 
the University Clnb, on 12th Dec., there were 
present: — Prof. McLeod (President) in the chair, 
Profs. Cornish and Johnson, Messrs. J. S. Hall, A. H. 
U. Colquhoun, P. D. Ross, A. McGoun, Sproule, 
Goldstein, Turner, C. J. Doherty, A. E. Barnard, C. 
Gibb, G. C. Wright, J. F. Mackie, Burland, D. Downie, 
J. F. Torrance, W. Dixon, Brooke, F. W. Kelley, 
Blackader, M.D., R. J. Elliot, W. T. Skaife and the 
Secretary. 

The minutes of the last meeting having been read 
and confirmed, Mr. Turner read a draft of the consti- 
tution drawn up by the committee appointed for that 
purpose. On motion the report was received. 

Moved by Prof. Cornish, seconded by Mr. J. S. 

Hall. “ That a University Club be formed and the 

meeting proceed to enact a constitution and by-law.” 
Carried. 

The President then left the chair, and the meeting 
of the Society adjourned. 



HORA3 horationje. 

book in.: ODE IX. 

Horace . 

While I was loved with all thy truth, 

And no more fondly cherished youth 
Round thy fair neck his arms could fling, 

I throve more blest than Persia’s king. 

Lydia. 

Long as thy heart for Lydia burned, 

And Chloe’s love for mine was spurned, 

I, Lydia, with exalted name, 

Surpassed e’en Roman Ilia’s fame. 

Horace • 

The Thracian Chloe now doth sway, 

Sweet songstress skilled the lyre to play ; 

For her death’s terrors I would brave, 

If so iny death her life could save. 

Lydia . 

My heart voung Calais, the son 
Of Thurian Ornytus, hath won : 

For him my life I twice could give, 

If Fate would spare the boy to live. 

Horace. 

What if your ancient love again 
Unite us with a stronger chain ? 

If fair-haired Chloe’s reign be o’er, 

And slighted Lydia charm once more ? 

Lydia. 

Though he is fairer than a star, 

Thou, light as air, and stormier far 
Than Adria’s blust’ring wave, still I 
With thee would live, with thee would die ! 

Geo. Murray. 



Sporting. 



THE FOOTBALL SEASON. 

To the Sporting Editor McGill Gazette : 

As the football season is fully closed perhaps it 
would be well to point out a few faults in the last 
season which might be corrected hereafter : — 

1. That all Faculty jealousies should be suppressed. 
It is hard for officers, who are labouring to their ut- 
most for the good of the club, to hear themselves 
accused of acting entirely for the good of their own 
faculty. Faculty jealousies are all very well in faculty 
matches, but they are entirely out of place in the 
picking of a team or in determining a practice hour 
and if the members of one Faculty will not trust those 
of another the club may as well break up. 

2. That if McGill ever intends to regain her ancient 
standing the youngest and weakest of the playing 
Faculties should not be left almost alone to uphold 
the credit and honour of the club, but that the older 
Faculties should come forth and take the place which 
belongs to them both by number and strength. 

3. That if any man placed on a committee whether 
general or team finds himself unable to perform his 
duties he should immediately send in his resignation 
to the secretary and allow a more useful man to be 
appointed in his stead. 

4. That the committee should help the captain in 
such work as bringing out players to practice, etc., for 
otherwise his duties would be too great to be performed 
except at the expense of his college standing. 

5. That the players should turn out regularly at 
posted hours of practice and not require to be hunted 
up before every game. 

6. That no McGill man should either practice or 
play with an outside club when so doing interferes with 



16 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



the programme of his own club and it might be better 
if no student played during the Fall season on any 
team save a McGill one. 

7. That no man should suppose that because he is 
on the team for any match or season he must also be 
on the team for the next match or season, but should 
continue working as hard as when he was endeavour- 
ing to get on the team and that if he does not do so 
he should not be disappointed if left off. 

8. That every man intending to play football should 
come into town in perfect trim so as to give the cap- 
tain time to work his team, and that the time to take 
an interest in the club is the beginning and not the 
end of the season. 

The above remarks are drawn entirely from the ex- 
perience of the officers during the past season and I 
think that if the faults above referred to are avoided 
McGill may hope for a remarkably successful season 
in 1886, especially as she has most able leaders for 
next Fall. 

Apologizing for using so much of your valuable 
space. 

I remain, Yours truly, 

J. G. Kerry. 



Personals. 



Jas. G. Jolly, B.C.L., ’85, is studying law at the 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. 

Robt. Wright, late of the class of ’87, and now at 
Lennoxville, has come to town for his Xmas 
holidays. 

Alfred W. Martin, B.A., ’82, is in town for his 
holidays. He has a church near Harvard University ; 
he is expected to preach for the Rev. Mr. Barnes be- 
fore he leaves the city. He is taking a past graduate 
course at Harvard. 

Js. J. Routhier, B.A., Sc., ’85, of Vankleek Hill, is 
busy making the plans, estimates, etc., for an iron 
highway bridge (two spans, 110 feet each,) for the 
town of Plantagenet, Ont. Our best wishes accom- 
pany the rising young engineer. 

Mr. D. B. Dowling, B. App. Sc., ’83, has taken 
unto himself a partner. The various members of the 
Geological Survey office at Ottawa where Dowling is 
on the Staff presented him with a congratulatory ad- 
dress and a number of handsome wedding gifts — a 
testimony of popularity amongst his fellows. We 
believe others will soon follow his noble example. 

We are glad to announce that Mr. R. J. Elliot has 
been elected Valedictorian in the Faculty of Law for 
the present year. We might, in the orthodox phrase, 
say that no better man could be electeds. But this 
does not express the feelings of the student. Mr. 
Elliot is not only a man of the first ability — he is one 
of the most respected and one of the most popular 
men in the whole University. We look forward with 
the greatest pleasure to the Valedictory to be delivered 
on the 1st April next. 



[For the Gazette 

A DOLEFUL TALE. 

The day was dull and dreary. 

The snow lay on the ground, 

A traveller, worn and weary, glanced 
With tearful eyes around. 



Clad in worn-out raiment, 

His features blue with cold, 

His hands deep in his pockets, 
His face prematurely old- 

A pitiful object to look upon 
As he wends his weary way— 

A doleful sight this man presents 
On this dull and dreary day. 



Another man approaches him — 

A contrast most profound— 

His garments warm and neatly cut, 
His face both ruddy and round. 



The latter stops as the man draws near, 
Sympathy stamps his brow ; 

He accosts the worn-out traveller. 
Says, “ What's thy trouble now?" 



“ Kind sir, take pity upon me," 

The woe-begone one replies, 

As he draws a hand from his pocket 
And brushes a tear from his eyes. 



With long-drawn sigh, he continues, 
In accents of deepest woe : 

“ I've met with a terrible mishap, 
'Tis that that troubles me so." 



“ Tell me thy trouble, my good man, 
Hast lost thy wife or thy son ? 

Or perchance thou’st failed in business, 
Or perhaps some evil hast done ?" 



The accents were kind— sympathetic— 
Compassion in every word. 

The poor man gazed at the rich one 
As if weighing the words he had heard. 



Bowing his head and wiping his eyes, 
This picture of deepest woe, 

In accents slow, he told his tale. 

And trembled as he did so : 



" No, sir/’ he said, “ I have no wife, 
Nor have I any son ; 

I never was in business, sir, 

Nor have I evil done. 



“ My trouble is far worse than that. 
How bitter none can tell 
Till they have felt the same remorse 
I feel— no, none can tell ! 



" Oh, sir, just let me tell you all, 
My bitter, bitter tale ; 

My misery, sir, was brought about 
By one small glass of ale. 



" I went into a tavern, sir, 

I called for a drink ; 

I got my ale, I drank it down, 

And then, sir, what do you think ? 



“ Because I had no money, sir. 

They bounced me out the door. 
They tore my coat, they cut my head, 
And made my bones quite sore. 



** But, sir, — Great Scott ! he’s left me here, 

No sympathy for my tale," 

And muttering low, he moved away, 

“ Only one glass of ale." 

W. S. H. 



Professor. — “ The Germ Theory is now predomin- 
ant in Medical Science.” 

Student. — “I suppose we owe this to the Germ- 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



17 



Between the Lectures. 



FOUR EPITAPHS. 

Deep wisdom— swelled head— 
Brain fever- he’s dead— 

A Senior- 

False, fair — hope fled— 

Heart broken— he’s dead— 

A Junior — 

Went skating— ’tis said — 
Floor hit him — he’s dead. 

A Sophomore- 

Milk Farmer— not fed— 
Starvation— he’s dead— 

A Freshman.” 



Man (to unknown other man) — This is the slowest 
affair I ever saw. Other man — Yes, it is rather slow. 
Man — If I knew where the wine was kept, hang me 
if I wouldn’t liven up a bit. Other man (graciously) — 
Here’s the key to the cellar. Come along, it’s all right ; 
I am the master of the house. 

Jennie June, in one of her fashion letters, says: 
“ Stripped silk umbrellas are now taking the place of 
stripped stockings amongstladies of fashion. ”Of course, 
J ennie don’t mean this literally; even the most ignorant 
can readily see that a lady cannot wear an umbrella as 
she does a stocking. Nor is it likely that ladies of 
fashion carry a striped silk umbrella and go without 
stockings altogether at this time of the year. Fashion 
writers should be careful in their statements. 

An exceedingly funny story is told of a Missouri 
farmer. He is an Adventist, and on the last night 
fixed upon for the end of the world, he put on his 
ascension garments, mounted one of his stacks of hay, 
and anxiously awaited results. Finally he succumbed 
to the charms of Morpheus, and sank into a peaceful 
slumber. In this condition he was discovered by some 
heathenish boys who set fire to the haystack, and as 
the flames circled around him he awoke. He suppos- 
ed all was over, and philosophically remarked. “ In 
h — 11 as I expected. 

The other tale has to do, as we have said, with life 
in camp. It was in the summer of 188- that a party 
consisting of three men and a dog lay blissfully 
dreaming beneath the shades of a wood and within the 
circle of a camp-fire’s warmth. Suddenly out of the 
darkness of the forest came the unearthly yell of a 
wild cat which roused the sleepers instantly. One of 
them, still half asleep, rose to a sitting posture just as 
the dog, who had been sleeping on the other side of 
the fire, sprang across the embers in the direction of 
the yell. As a consequence the dog landed right upon 
the man, who, as he felt a huge hairy body fall upon 
him, naturally enough mistook the dog for the cat 
and with a scream of terror closed with it and the two 
rolled over and over upon the ground. Thus em- 
braced the dog retaliated, and when at last the two 
were separated they were both suffering from the 
effects of the tussle. The dog limped sullenly back 
to his place, while the man, whose clothing was the 



chief sufferer, having the advantage of speech, made 
good use of it for the remainder of the night. 



OUR OWN JOKER AT WORK. 

We are indebted to a sporting friend for the follow- 
ing exquisite bits of hunting experience, which, 
although we are unable to relate them as graphically 
as he told them, may still prove interesting to our 
readers. The one shews that “ there is many a slip 
between the cup and the lip ” and that even expecta- 
tion will not ward off Morpheus, and the other is a 
good example of life in a hunters camp. 

A young gentleman of more than manly proportions 
was seized with a desire to go deer hunting and per- 
suaded our friend to take charge of him. He had 
never hunted before and was even ignorant of the art 
of snowshoeing, so we can easily conceive what a task 
our friend had before him. They set out before day- 
break one winter morning, and the tyro, whom for 
brevity we shall call A., shewed a remarkable procli- 
vity for standing on his head or diving into the small 
of his companion’s back during the greater part of the 
journey. There had been a spell of mild weather 
followed by a frost and the ground w r as covered with 
a glassy crust not hard enough to bear the deer or even 
to sustain the two hunters, whose progress was slower 
and more difficult than usual. A. panted along be- 
hind the trapper, gathering himself up after every fall 
with tiring limbs and weakening enthusiasm until 
when they came at last to a hill well known to our 
friend as a resort of deer he sank down exhausted. 

“Now,” said the trapper “ you stay here and I’ll go 
round the hill and start the deer in your direction. 
They’re sure to come down this avenue.” A. made no 
objection and lay down behind a tree while his com- 
panion set out upon his tiresome journey. Away 
went the trapper, now sinking into the deep snow, 
now creeping noiselessly through the underwood, 
until, after a long detour, he roused several deer and 
headed them towards A. They bounded swiftly upon 
the path towards their destruction, but, owing to the 
condition of the ground, not so swiftly that the trap- 
per could not keep near them. On they swept down 
the avenue, the trapper laboring behind and moment- 
arily expecting to hear the crack of A.’s rifle. But 
there was no report, and the deer after passing within 
a few yards of where A. lay concealed, sped out into 
the open and were soon lost in the whiteness of the 
plain. 

Our friend the trapper hurried up in some anxiety 
to A.’s place of concealment and saw — what? Not a 
blood-stained corpse, not even an empty couch, but 
A. fast asleep, an angelic smile upon his face and his 
rifle lying uselessly by his side. 



18 



McGILL UNIYEESITY GAZETTE. 



Correspondence. 



THE GAZETTE THE ORGAN OF THE STU- 
DENTS. 

Editors University Gazette . 

Dear Sirs : — The students of McGill must have 
been highly gratified to leahi from the leading 
editorial of your last issue that the Gazette, was “ the 
friend of the University and their Organ.” The 
articles immediately following must have convinced 
them that the editors meant to provide excellent 
literature for their readers ; the Critic, whether the 
subjects criticised or the manner of criticising might 
be palatable to students generally, at least confined 
his remarks to affairs which are immediately connect- 
ed with student life. Other matters of minor impor- 
tance received a passing notice and then followed the 
reports of two dinners, held within a week of each 
other and in the same hotel, the one conducted under 
the auspices of a Society, the members of which, for 
the most part, are composed of Graduates and the 
other held by the students of the largest Faculty in 
the University. An “ Organ of the students ” would 
be expected, if at all consistent with the title, to 
publish a full report of the latter and if space did 
not permit, only a brief report of the former. Was this 
the case ? Let the three pages report of the one and the 
half page report of the other answer. Another edito- 
rial referred to the University and Undergraduates 
Literary Societies and urged their hearty co-operation. 
With this sentiment, all who have the good of either 
or both of those Societies must agree. It is somewhat 
peculiar, after the profession made by the editors as 
to the relation between the students and the paper, 
that no notice whatever of the meetings of the Under- 
graduates Society, through essentially, as its name 
indicates, an institution of the students, appeared in 
your last issue. Two meetings of the Society were 
held between the issues of the Gazette, and reports 
sent to the editors, moreover, one of these meetings 
and the last before the Christmas holidays was the 
most successful of any held during the past three 
years, and over which, our honoured and esteemed 
teacher, Professor Moyse presided. Doubtless the 
editors of the Gazette can explain these inconsistencies, 
but until such explanation be given, students will be 
somewhat skeptical as to the Gazette being the “ Organ 
of the Students.” F. T. 



A gentleman at table remarked that he could not 
endure fish unless it was well cooked. “ This,” said 
the waiter, as he handed him a plate of the desired 
dish, “is, I hope, suf-fish-ently cooked to feuit, sir'?” — 
“ Well, yes,” replied the gentleman, as he tasted it, 
“ it is done a good eel better than I anticipated it 
would be.” 

^ _ v , XIX mu VUUUUA. 

say that no better man could be electeds. But this 
does not express the feelings of the student. Mr. 
Elliot is not only a man of the first ability — he is one 
of the most respected and one of the most popular 
men in the whole University. We look forward with 
the greatest pleasure to the Valedictory to be delivered 
on the 1st April next. 



[1886. 

J\ MABIEN, 

Hair Dresser and Wig Maker, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

31 ONTREAL. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES' CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 

Pnaraacemical & Dispsini Chemists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square. Cor. St. Catherine St., 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, CoghiU ; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

te, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, aU Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



S- C-A.KSX_.ETS 

Gentlemen’s Furnishing Department. 



Men’s Kid Gloves, Lined Lamb, Plush and Wool. Men’s Dogskin Gloves, extra heavy Lamb Lined. Men’s Buckskin 
Gloves, lined and unlined. Men’s Antilope Gloves, heavy and warm. Men’s 11 Piewar” Gloves, lined Plush, 
Jersey wrist. Men’s Mitts, with heavy lining, in each of the above make, and in all sizes. 

The Right Place to Buy the Best GLOVES and MITTS Imported is, at S. CARSLEY’S. 

Men’s Linen Collars and Cuffs, also White Dress Shirts, in all the Latest Styles. 

Silk and Cashmere Mufflers, Silk Handkerchiefs, in all the Leading Colors and Best Qualities, at Lowest Prices. 
Men’s Silk and Satin Neck Ties and Scarfs in all the Fashionable Shapes and Latest Colors. 

Men’s Socks, in Cashmere, Merino, Lamb’s Wool, and Worsted, all Latest Colors. 

Men’s Underwear, in Lamb's Wool, Cashmere, Merino and Silk, in all Weights, Sizes and Qualities, at Lowest Prices 
Men’s Chamois Underwear and Chamois Perforated Vests, in all Sizes. 

Men’s Cardigan Jackets and Vests in all the Latest Colors, and all Sizes. 

For all kinds of Men’s Furnishing Goods, at Lowest Prices, go to S. Carsley’s, 



S. C ARSLEY, 'W 



, ” 1 - NO TRE DAME STREET, 



73 , 1773 , 1777 



MONTEBAIi. 



J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant mr 

TAILORS, 



316716 



TO 









MONTREAL, 



yj Nl. jNOTMAN 




ON 




I 



Hi 



New Seale of Prices 



THIS YEAR 



-Hit FOR STUDENTS 

17 BLETJB.Y ST. 




BIC YCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tenuis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO — 




PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING. CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goods, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

53 ST. SIT. PICK STREET. 



ZED. .A.. GEEIR/TIH:, 



IMPORTER OF 






Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOIES OF 25. 

Try St-va.dleaa.ts l^l2£t\a.re. 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK.' 



9 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 

\ 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl anit ®oIlai] fUamifatlutm, 

21 ZBXjZETTIR/Y- ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuHs, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c„ &c. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jlurgiral Tnslntntciils. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



THE 

||urlai|3 Jilhograpbic @o’y.» 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALI, KINDS 

OF 

ffEngraving and Fine Printing#* 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 



C. ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book ; Stationery, 

r 4 io¥ mwm se m 9 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[by weiss & sonsn, 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Ecoks procured to order from England & the United States. 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Composition of Crouos go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For ail kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS 1 Bleury Street. 



By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS. PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

PROCESS. 

t\e are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 

ELEOTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

^ 11 all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visitin 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

MENU CARDS, CRESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed end 1 Ih2m.iz1e.ted. 



