Vof. IX. 



Xo. 8. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Wednesday, February 3, 1886. 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - - 3-6 

Poetry - 6 

Contributions ----- 6-8 

Every Fortnight - 8-9 

McGill News 9-10 



PAGE. 

Societies 1 0-1 2 

Personals 12 

College World - . - - 12 

Between the Lectures - - - - 13 

Advertisements 2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY, 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



GreensMelils, McCorM, Guerin & GreensWelds, 



ADVOCATES, 

Jiarrotars, jIHanrajs, jialrators, &♦, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

1724 NOTRE DAME STREET, 

MONTREAL. 




HEADQUARTERS 




DRYSDALE’S 



J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E. Greenshields. 



232 ST. vTJLIMIIES ST. 



IMm, Iclie, Fleet & Falcoeer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 St. Tarxc.es Street, 

ATWATER & CROSS, 
A.3vocate^, IJarriSteri (jonmi^ioner^, &c., 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

MACMASTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

ADVOCATES, 

fjparristm, jlolicitors, Set., 

175 ST. JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. R. S. WEIR, B.C.L 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. F. S. McLENNAN, B.C.L 

A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller. Publisher. Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(near the court house,) 

MOITTBEAL. 




I. B. DUROCHER, Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 



MONTREAL. 



jn EDICAL U'ORKS , BOOKS used ijv art course , 
SCIENCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS . 

Full assortment in stoct & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS. 

Scribbling Books, Ac., &c., 
-•H-DBIEST ’V'.A.XjTTIE IK" TOWIT’i^ 
Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty . 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Tstrrxes Street, 

-ALSO 

Branch Store : 1423 St. Catherine St. 

zbtty- your 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES & MOCCASINS 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St. , cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HEKDERSONTcoii 

Hatters^Furriers, 

1677 Jfoire ‘Dame St. 





CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 



Extra Quality Goods at Lowest Cash Prices . 



THE ABOVE HOTEL is the BEST IN THE CITY for McGILL COLLEGE DINNERS. 



The “ McGILL 99 Ribbon for 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1886. [No. 8. 



Yol. IX.] 



JMilI Mmoecsity 6i)a ( jctte 

DIRECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B. Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 

Edgar De F. Holden, Vice-President . 

Geo. C. Wright, B.A., Sec.-Treas. 

COMMITTEE. 

Charles W. Hoare. 

W. A. Carlyle, Science ’87. 

Fred. W. Hibbard, Arts ’86. 

E. P. Williams, Med. ’87. 

EDITORS. 

A. H. Urquhart Colquhoun, B.A., Editor-in- Chief. 

J. Ralph Murray, B.A., Law ’86. 

Raleigh J. Elliot, Law ’86. 

Arthur Weir, Science ’86. 

Ed. Evans, Med. ’87. 

C. Percy Brown, Science ’86. 

W. Inglis Bradley, B.A. 

Alfred P. Murray, Arts ’87. 

The University Gazette will be published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which 
rule no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

All communications may be addressed to the Editors, P. O- 
Box 1290. 

NOTICE. 

Subscribers to the Gazette who do not receive 
their papers regularly will please notify the Sec.- 
Treas., as this is the only method of having the un- 
avoidable mistakes and necessary imperfections of the 
mailing system rectified. 



Subscribers wishing to preserve their last year’s 
volume of the Gazette, may have them neatly bound 
in cloth, by Messrs. John Lovell & Son. with whom 
arrangements have been made to do the work, at a 
charge of fifty cents per volume. 



Editorials. 



THE FACULTY OF LAW. 

The meeting of the Graduates Society on the 23rd 
inst. was an important one, in more than one way. 
One thing unmistakeably demonstrated by the discus- 
sion on the Law Faculty is that a change in the per- 
sonnel of our Representative Fellows is distinctly 
necessary. One at least of them who spoke on that 
evening represents in no way the graduates of the 



University. He has been put in year after year 
because no one was found sufficiently interested 
and energetic to oppose his election. He may be said 
to represent in a concentrated form, the apathy, the 
depreciatory superciliousness, and the conceited me- 
diocrity of the constituency. This is not the man to 
represent the graduates in a body which is already 
stagnant enough. Neither is he the man to be Repre- 
sentative who knows almost nothing of the affairs of the 
Faculty which he is supposed to represent, and who 
speaks and votes in direct opposition to the expressed 
opinions of the graduates of that Faculty. Some 
younger blood will have to be infused into the body, 
and some of the older men, with very old ideas, rele- 
gated to the shades of retirement. When the proper 
time comes we shall give our opinioi* upon this 
matter more fully. 

We were certainly to a large degree disappointed 
with the meeting to which we refer, — not with regard 
to the result, for the resolutions adopted contained 
very much of what we have been advocating in these 
columns, but because there were found those who had 
the imperviousness to maintain, in the face of the 
universally declared opinion of both graduates and 
undergraduates to the contrary, that the Faculty of 
Law was in an efficient condition. We were surpris- 
ed at any one rising to maintain that position after 
the expose , which was made in one of our recent 
numbers. 

No arguments of any value were advanced against 
the plan of having a young professor specially paid. 
We may say that in Dalhousie Law School, which is 
the birth of a year or so ago, but which is already 
beginning to attract attention, there are ten professors, 
only one of whom is paid a cent. There was a pro- 
posal made at the meeting that the Faculty should 
make regulations that their secretary be more particu- 
lar, that proper rolls of attendance be kept, and so on. 
They might as effectually resolve that they will hence 
forth be thebest Faculty of Law in the world. They 
may make regulations till they become black in the 
face, to use a forcible expression, but what good will 
it do ! There are regulations enough on record ; 
it is not more regulations which are wanted, but some 
means of insuring the carrying out of the regulations 
which are already supposed to be in force. It is for 
this reason we say, that if the idea of having a special 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



salaried professor is not carried out, anything else 
which may be done, will be of very little value. 

Our part in this matter is now at an end, for the 
present. The Law Faculty have now an opportunity 
of effecting a reform unanimously demanded. It 
seems to us that if they are unwilling to carry out 
the suggestions made to them by the graduates of the 
University, they should resign. If a minority support 
the reforms, but are out-voted, let them resign, and 
thus put themselves right with the public. If the 
suggestions are rejected, it will then be for the Gra- 
duates Society to consider whether an application 
should not be made to the higher authorities to com- 
pel a reform. Be the result what it may, we, at all 
events, have done our duty. Perhaps we shall soon 
be able to show that our interest in the Law Faculty 
is not such as is represented by words merely, but one 
which leads us to extend help in what seems to be 
generally considered the most practical shape. 

If in this discussion we have appeared to have lost 
sight of the long and valuable services rendered by 
some of the professors, we wish to say that we have 
not been so wanting in discrimination. We have for 
obvious reasons, avoided all individual references, but 
our readers will easily understand that in some cases 
praise is due though we have refrained from referring 
specially to any one. Besides, however commendable 
individual efforts may be, if unsystematic and uncon- 
nected they do not produce an efficient whole. 



THE STUDY OF FRENCH. 

There has been a conference of French professors 
in England, and Sir Lyon Playfair, who made an ad- 
dress, had apologetically to refer to his inability to 
speak in the language of France. He frankly acknow- 
ledged the imperfections of the systems of education, 
which permitted the youths of the most commercial 
nation in the world to grow up unable to converse in 
the languages of peoples daily associated with them in 
trading and other relations. 

As has been pointed out by a recent contributor to 
the Gazette, the arguments in favor of learning French 
apply with tenfold force to the youths of this 
country. But we feel more interested in considering 
the question as it concerns students in Canadian col- 
leges, and particularly in our own college. Complaints 
are not infrequent that the modern languages are 
practically neglected, and that French, especially, 
cannot be learned with any degree of thoroughness in 
college. This complaint is made with equal readiness 
at Toronto and McGill. As far as an investigation 
into the qualifications of graduates of both Universi- 
ties enables one to judge, the complaint is well-found- 



ed. College graduates, who have not been at pains to 
acquire French by private study, are notorious for 
their want of knowledge in either speaking or writing 
the language, and, what is worse, are not particularly 
ashamed of their ignorance. The charge is freely put 
upon the college for the slimness of the course pre- 
scribed, and upon the professor for the half-hearted 
way in which the work is done. Let us inquire into 
the justice of this charge at McGill. 

The present attractive standard of matriculation ad- 
mits students without requiring any acquaintance 
with French, and while the English professor is en- 
gaged in hammering with questionable success some 
of the rudimentary rules of their own language into 
English youths, the French instructor has the uncon- 
genial task of awakening the same minds to take an 
interest in a study they generally regard with some 
antagonism. The course being obligatory only for two 
years, the majority relieve themselves at the end of 
this period, and henceforth set themselves up as com- 
petent judges of what the course ought to be and what 
it isn’t. This charmingly fair method of depreciation 
is carried out so persistently that students seldom at- 
tribute to themselves any of the blame due to the 
shortcomings of the training in French. From per- 
sonal experience and observation, we do not hesitate 
to maintain that French may be thoroughly learned 
at our own college, provided the same attention is de- 
voted to its acquirement as any one of the studies of 
the curriculum, and provided that the work of the 
class is faithfully attended to. Under these condi- 
tions, those who fail to learn must admit that the fault 
lies with themselves. There is too much complacent 
self-excuse indulged in. 

It is remarkable that the loudest decriers of the 
study of Classics do not master French and German, 
which they so eloquently uphold as fitting substitutes 
for the dry bones of the dead languages. Can it be 
that the desire to escape hard work has anything to 
do with their, eagerness for reform, or inspires the 
brilliancy of their attacks ? 

An improvement in French at McGill is very de- 
sirable. Desirable chiefly in those who take that sub- 
ject. 



0, EXCELLENT YOUNG MEN ! 

hen the utility of college dinners is solemnly 
called in question, and there is a general desire to 
abolish them, or substitute something in their place, 
it will be time enough for the Gazette to pronounce 
its opinion. In the meantime, college dinners are an 
established custom, and are supported by the majority 
of the students. Our confreres of the Medical Faculty 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



have lately shown how excellently they can carry out 
this custom in a satisfactory and creditable manner, 
while the students in Arts and Science have also just 
put upon record for this session their adherence to 
the long-established institution. As befitting a young 
Faculty, still comparatively small in numerical 
strength, Science may be regarded as a unit upon the 
subject, and its dinner was therefore successful. But 
Arts has had its annual problem to face — the diffi- 
culty of inducing the attendance of a sufficient num- 
ber of theological students to ensure the perform- 
ance of the usual preliminary devotional exercises at 
the dinner. Some from constitutional disability to be 
sociable, some from conscientious scruples, some from 
praise-worthy economy, and some for no reason at all, 
have always declined to participate in the mirth and 
enjoyment of their fellows, and their ranks are yearly 
growing larger, until the near future may see a 
minority of the Arts students holding a Faculty din 
ner. 

This year the ambitious and admirable arrangement 
of securing the presence of the patrons and professors 
of the University is justification for believing that the 
dinner was conducted in a proper manner, and there- 
fore worthy the support of every undergraduate pos- 
sessing a little public spirit, and the sum of two dol- 
lars. Those undergraduates who held aloof from the 
beginning of the enterprise, through lack of these two 
requisites may fairly be left in their self-imposed 
obscurity, and even the eye of the public censor 
should 

No farther seek their merits to disclose 

Or draw their frailties from their dread abode. 

But what shall we say of those who lent the sun- 
shine of their countenances to the meetings held to 
discuss the project, who descanted upon the propriety 
of admitting graduates to a share of the good cheer 
(the condescension to be duly paid for at ruling 
rates) who assisted in appointing an efficient com- 
mittee of management, who perhaps allowed their 
names to go down on the programme of toasts, and 
who then — stayed away ? 



WORTHY OF IMITATION. 

Brief mention was made in the final issue of the 
Gazette last session to a modest presentation made 
by the graduating class in Arts of 1885 to the College. 
This was a sum of money voluntarily subscribed as 
evidence of the goodwill of the members of that class 
towards their University. It was resolved to present 
the money to the Library, where in the shape of books 
or in any form decided upon, it would remain a last- 



ting and practical testimony to the generosity and 
good sense of the class of ’85. We understand that 
the money which was subscribed when the class was 
breaking up, (thus delaying the collection,) is now 
ready for presentation to the Library. 

It is not the amount of this gift, insignificant beside 
the splendid donations made to the College in endow- 
ment funds and buildings, which entitle it to any ex- 
tended notice. It is the spirit which prompts such 
offerings that we heartily commend. If McGill could 
draw upon the spontaneous service of her graduates 
in this way, no matter how small might be the extent 
individually of their pecuniary assistance, the college 
could tread more rapidly the path of progress, and 
effect reforms now impossible through lack of funds. 

We hope sincerely that the innovation made by the 
Class of ’85 will be continued by future classes until 
it becomes an approved custom. We shall chronicle 
with pleasure a similar movement by the class of ’86. 

Let the graduates do their share in aiding their 
University. And then when they have done some- 
thing to prove that their asseverations of affection are 
really sincere, they may justly inquire into the 
motives of others who prate about being “ the friends 
of the University ” but who are found to be as nig- 
gardly as they are meanspirited, whenever a subscrip- 
tion is mentioned. 

LECTURESHIP IN ENGLISH LITERATURE 
AND LOGIC. 

We congratulate the University upon the appoint- 
ment of Mr. Paul T. Lafleur to the Lectureship of 
English Literature and Logic. Mr. Laleur, who has 
for some time past been engaged in teaching at the 
Collegiate Institute, Ottawa, is a man of great ability, 
and large experience. His course in McGill was a 
distinguished one. He graduated with first-class 
honours in English Literature and obtained the 
Shakespeare gold medal. We welcome Mr. Lafleur as 
a Canadian, as a scholar and as a graduate of our own 
Alma Mater, and we feel certain that in his new posi- 
tion he will do honour to himself and to McGill. 

But while recognizing the excellence of this appoint- 
ment, as far as the person appointed is concerned, and 
while believing the appointment of one of our own 
graduates to be one great step in the right direction, 
still we must say that we do not like the system of 
appointing professors at present in vogue. In the pre- 
sent instance we have had a good appointment in 
spite of the system, but the system is none the less 
bad. We do not say that in this particular case any 
man as fit to be appointed would have applied even if 
the appointment had been made publicly and com- 



/ 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1886. 



6 



petition had been allowed, but it is not for us to say 
who would or would not have applied. Perhaps Pro- 
fessor Dowden might have presented himself. In a 
word, we are opposed to a hole and corner system 
autocratically administered. 



Poetry. 



[for the gazette. J 

hoRj® horation.®. 

book iv. : ODE VIII. 



The snows have fled ; fresh verdure clothes the plain. 
And foliage decks the trees again : 

Earth feels the change— the swollen streams subside. 
Content within their banks to glide. 



Unrobed, the Graces brave the vernal air. 

And weave the dance with Wood-nymphs fair. 
Each circling year, each hour that hurries by 
Warns us that everything must die. 



Frosts yield to Zephyrs : Summer treads on Spring, 
Herself in turn evanishing 
Ere fruitful Autumn sheds his mellow store — 
Then, sluggish Winter rules once more. 



Moons wax and wane — the Seasons come and go— 
But we, when once we join, below, 

Rich Tullus, Ancus, andiEneas just. 

Are shadows, and a heap of dust : 



Who knows for certain that the Gods on high 
Will add one day to days gone by ? 

The wealth now lavished on thy joys will ne’er 
Enrich thy greedy-handed heir: 



But when, Torquatus, thou hast passed to gloom. 
And Minos speaks thy solemn doom, 

Then naught, alas 1 rank, eloquence, or worth, 
Can e’er restore thee to the earth. 



Not Dian’s self from Hades could secure 
Hippolytus, her votary pure ; 

And the strong love of Theseus failed to rend 
The chains of hell that bound his friend ! 



epode xv. 

’Twas night: amid the lesser stars on high 
The moon was shining cloudlessly, 

When thou, with arms more closely round me twined 
Than ivy boughs the ilex bind, 



To mock the majesty of Heaven did’st dare 
In vows I prompted thee to swear : 

“ Long as Orion tossed the stormy deep, 

Or wolves were ravagers of sheep ; 



Long as the breeze Apollo’s tresses fanned, 

So long thy love should change withstand. ” 
Ah ! thou shalt rue, Neaera, my disdain 1 
If Flaceus aught of man retain. 



He ne’er will brook a rival in thine arms. 

But seek, incensed, another’s charms, 
And spurn, with wounded and indignant soul. 
Thy hateful beauty’s strong control. 



And thou, blest rival, whom I know not— thou, 

That in my fall exultest now, 

What though thou ownest wealth of herds and lands. 
Or Lydia’s stream with golden sands, 



Thou may’st in beauty Nireus’ self surpass, 

In mystic lore, Pythagoras : 

Still, love transferred to others thou shalt mourn, 

And I, in turn, shall laugh with scorn I 

Geo. Murray. 



(Contributions. 

BACKWOODS PICTURES AXD PECU- 
LIARITIES. 

By a member of the “ Delta Sigma.” 

In writing this paper on some peculiarities of our 
friends in the backwoods, I must, from the first dis- 
claim any intention of ill-natured criticism, scorn, or 
ridicule. It would be unworthy indeed to take up 
my pen, with such a motive, for we all know that 
hearts brave and true, beat under the roof of a log 
cabin, as often as within the stone walls of a city 
mansion. But from living far away from the great 
centres of civilization, where the daily paper is an im- 
possibility, and where the weekly one when subscribed 
for by some exceptionally enterprising farmer, in- 
volves, in its transit to his home, a walk or ride of 
many miles to the nearest Post Office, we can well 
understand that the modes of speech, life, and dress, 
and the manners of the community must acquire 
peculiarities, that strike a stranger as very droll. 

People who have always lived in the town or city, 
are apt to imagine that “ Colin ” must of necessity 
reflect in a greater or less degree, the green shade of 
his native pastures. This is quite true ; but they also 
think that anything not good enough for the town, 
will do for the country, and in this they make a great 
mistake. Critics flourish everywhere, and nowhere 
more than in the very heart of the backwoods. The 
less these people know of literature and the fine arts, 
the more they resent the imputation of their ignor- 
ance, and the more highly do they appreciate the 
possession of these things in others. They are 
shrewd enough to know when a man or woman, is 
what they call smart or knowledgeable , and to respect 
him or her accordingly. But they cannot endure to 
be treated as if they knew nothing. 

As an example of this, take the case of a young 
clergyman who was put in charge of a distant back- 
woods mission. He was fresh from his university, 
familiar with the gods of ancient Greece and Rome, 
but lamentably ignorant of the Canadian Backwoods- 
man ; and imagining that the people in the bush 
settlement where his mission lay, must, ab initio be 
instructed, he made a point of stopping frequently in 
his carefully prepared discourses, to explain the mean- 
ing of the long words, and elaborate metaphors which 
he employed. 

The consequence was that he became very unpopular, 
was looked upon as proud and unsuitable, and the 
opinion found open expression. “ What does the 
Bishop mean, by sending yon thing to usl” Before 
long, matters came to a crisis ; the people refused to 
pay, and “ yon thing ” departed. 

In another backwoods mission the following rather 
amusing incident occurred. Mr. X. shortly after 
having been appointed missionary, was making a 
house-to-house visitation, in order to get acquainted 
with his flock. 

He was accompanied by his church warden, who 
began a little financial business, in a corner of the 
room, with the old farmer whom they were visiting. 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



“ How much would he be willing to u sign ” towards 
Mr. X’s support?” “ Wa-al, wa-al after considerable 
hesitation, “ you may put me down for two dollars. 
It’s what I’ve always give, and I can’t afford no 
more.” 

The matter was settled, but before leaving, the 
young incumbent offered up a prayer, plain and prac- 
tical for the farmer, his family, the success of his 
crops etc. When they rose from their knees, the tight 
purse strings were relaxed, the old fellow’s heart had, 
in some mysterious manner, experienced enlargement. 
“ Guess we'll make it three ! ” was his comment ; a very 
satisfactory one you will think. 

For the back country man is proverbial for keeping 
a tight hold of his money ; he has hard work making 
it, and perhaps he is a little too loth to part with it. 

This is espescially so, in the case of his Doctor, and 
Clergyman, so he compromises matters in regard to 
the latter, by a “ donation party,” by which the clerical 
larder and stable shall be so amply supplied, as to 
more than make up for a very small subscription 
list. 

The Donation Party occurs once a year, generally 
in the winter when the sleighing is good. About 6 
p.m., the Clergyman is startled, or is supposed to be, 
for usually he has had a hint of the matter before- 
hand, by a thundering knock at his door, most likely 

the back door. It turns out to be young Tom A 

with a bag of potatoes, some buckwheat flour, and two 
turkeys. He is shown in, thanked, and welcomed. 

Another knock. This is the widow B , and her two 

daughters, Hannah Maria, and Jane Ann. She con- 
tributes two large pies, a crock of butter and a turkey. 

Then come old grandpa and grandma C , bearing 

triumphant two dozen eggs, a piece of fresh pork, a 
bag of oats and a turkey. (Turkeys generally pre- 
dominate.) After one of these parties, where nearly 
fifty turkeys had been given in, the church warden, 
who must have been a wag, waited upon the Clergy- 
man, with a bottle of Perry Davis’ Pain Killer. This 
is not an advertisement. Well people continue com- 
ing, till the little parlour is packed with guests, and 
grain, vegetables, meat, bread, cakes, etc. are bestowed 
everywhere. 

The clergyman, and his family, if he be a married 
man, beg their guests to be quite at home. He opens 
the piano, or the cabinet organ ; proposes a song ; 
succeeds perhaps in persuading some blushing swain, 
or diffident damsel, to sing “ My Grandfather’s Clock” 
or “ Jenny my own true loved one.” In fact he often 
unbends completely on this festive occasion, and in- 
dulges in much quiet jocularity with the young peo- 
ple. Intimates to Mr. Jemmie D, whose attentions 
to Miss Sarah F, are so marked as to be the subject of 
universal observation that he will find him ready to 
do his duty at any time. Pokes fun at Mrs. G, for 
her anxiety as to the correct behaviour of her youn- 
gest, a big ball of a baby, the definition of whose 
waist in pink sash ribbon, is almost effaced by the 
frolics of the youthful debutante. 

Meanwhile a committee of matrons has adjourned 
to the largest room in the house, be it up or down 
stairs, has spread the cloth, made tea, cut up bread 
and cake and viands of every description, and now, it 



being 8 o’clock, all are summoned to supper, some- 
times called lunch. 

This is a very convivial affair, though of course 
there is nothing stronger than tea or coffee to drink. 
The long drive in the cold has sharpened the appetites 
of the guests, and there is considerable demand for 
the viands which they themselves have brought. 

Finally after a pleasant evening, they all depart. 
The sleigh-bells jingle merrily away, the donation 
party is over. Naught remains, but crushed antima- 
cassars, wet moccasin marks, and cake crumbs on the 
carpet, and last, but not least the well stocked larder, 
and the feeling of friendly intercourse between pastor 
and people. 

( To be concluded in next issue. ) 



EDUCATION AND CANADIAN UNIVERSITIES. 

An historian of some note alleged, that his object 
in writing was to aid in the study of men, and his 
maxims would always be applicable, inasmuch as 
humanity moves in cycles. These maxims, like all 
generalities, serve only for a general view. For clear 
and accurate observation of men and manners the 
circumstances surrounding them and the motives 
prompting them, there is necessary a special well- 
trained faculty. And this faculty is of the greatest ser- 
vice to those who would be leaders or teachers of 
men. The teacher, who is really such, does not set 
out with certain adopted rules and formulae for every 
occasion like the abb^ whose cabinet had pigeon-holes 
filled with constitutions of most approved pattern to 
be fitted to his country-like coats to the back. The 
teacher who is his own system, who knows rules only 
to disregard them, who makes his individuality felt 
allows for the existence of the same in learners, and 
admits that they, too, have a standpoint, from 
which things appear in a different light— -this is the 
man to teach a school, or fill a chair. Better is such 
a teacher under a tree, than an incompetent staff in 
an equipped college. If one bring this faculty to 
bear on the classes of Canadian universities, he will 
find it necessary to modify to some extent commonly 
accepted lines of conduct to suit these classes. Com- 
posed as they are, not altogether of boys, but of men 
who have put away childish things, and have long 
since begun to think as men, and demand at least the 
treatment one man expects to receive from another. 
To those who have made educational progress one 
with their lives, it is encouraging to see teaching ac- 
quiring the dignity of a profession. It is now allowed 
that it contains sufficient to merit a man’s best work, 
and is not exhausted by a novitiate of a few years. 
As an outcome of this spirit the universities are filled 
with men, who have given up lucrative places, begin- 
ing again at the bottom, to meet the acquirements of 
the profession of which they still consider them- 
selves members. Under these conditions it is excusa- 
ble if they resent a condition of tutelage, even if that 
condition be only implied. If the universities of 
Canada fail to respond to this effort for individual 
improvement, which is at the bottom of all advance- 
ment, then they will have missed another opportunity 
for commending themselves to their public, at a time 



8 



McGILL UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



when even to universities is being applied the rule ot 
utility. If with the proverbial showers of large 
bodies they are content at least to follow annually in 
the wake of public movement they will be doing 
much to tide themselves over the critical period com- 
mon to all institutions, which in a measure owe their 
prestige to a prescriptive rather than to a now con- 
ceded right. Then they may go rejoicing on a new 
career of usefulness, moulding opinion, shaping ac- 
tion, taking a masterly and just position in the new 
order of things. The learning of facts is the work of 
the school ; grouping these facts and therefrom mak- 
ing deductions characterize the university, and the 
impression is deepening, that for a university to usurp 
the place of the school is a confession, either of in- 
ability to deal exclusively with thought or that such 
a function is necessary to give to it an additional 
reason for being. An arts course has a technical value, 
apart from its probable, more material advantages. 
That nothing artificial can endure, is equally true 
here, and conditions now seem to point to the necessity 
of a deepening rather than of an extension. To this 
end learning must be natural and honest, prompted 
by a true and loving mind, rather than excited by 
such “ intellectual gin ” as examinations, honors and 
all other artificial stimulants, which the prevalent 
system calls to its aid. Education not instruction is 
the aim of a university. It is a certain paring, polish- 
ing process having in view to secure a rotundity of 
moral nature. There are points in a man’s character 
some of which have a tendency to protrude themselves 
at the expense of others and destroy that symmetry 
which we feel instinctively belongs to a man who is 
“ neither a soul nor a body but a man.” To reduce 
these points to a “ harmonious whole ” is the aim of 
all educational processes especially of an arts course. 
Each profession develops characteristic traits. An 
arts course assumes to have no local “ note”, to give 
moral beauty a place on an equal footing with intel- 
lectual acuteness — to lay a smooth and broad founda- 
tion for independent thought, to give that degree of 
culture which adds “ sweetness” to life and that dis- 
cipline for the inevitable struggle and moral conflicts 
to be met at every turn. It aims to inculcate those 
principles “ which governing the habits become 
morality and developing the feelings of submission 
and dependence become religion.” Confessedly noble, 
what then is the reason that comparatively few avail 
themselves of its advantages ? Must it not be that the 
end is too imperfectly carried out And if these things 
be done at McGill what must be done in those places 
where they have not our advantages as to teaching 
staff*, as to appliances and that quality which we call 
prestige. These are pointed out merely as facts, not as 
evils which require or even admit of remedy. But it 
is easy to construe everything into evils which is 
antagonistic to the spirit which is abroad and around 
us, penetrating with its leavening properties the pre- 
cincts of even the most conservative university. The 
question is not, how to withstand and baffle it. The 
question is, how to mould it to right uses, how to 
turn it into safe channels to serve legitimate ends. If 
in any wise McGill University tends to do this, it 
will be filling well its part. P. — arts. 



Euery Fortnight. 



Happening on a book sale the other day I was rather 
amused at the pompous verbosity of the presiding 
"emus. I think he must have been the best read man 
1 ever met. He seemed to be familiar with every one 
of the five thousand volumes offered for sale, from 
Humboldt’s Cosmogony to the last production of an 
obscure American novelist, and from a two-hundred 
year old Latin dictionary in vellum to a gaudily-bound 
family Bible, which his friend the auctioneer at- 
tempted to pawn off on a Jesuit father in uttering most 
sacreligious remarks as to the intellectual tastes of his 
audience. My blood ran cold at the recklessness with 
which the man assigned to each of the great authors 
their places in the republic of letters, disposing off- 
handedly of some concerning whose relative merits the 
most eminent critics of the present day are as yet 
by no means agreed. What Zukertort or Steinitz is 
in chess, I should imagine my friend of the book sale 
to be in books — he could play you or me with his eyes 
blindfolded. 

* * 

* 

What hungry times these are ! Nothing but din- 
ners and dinners. I hear nothing in the air but the 
sound and the echo of dinners. Speeches, too. But 
what a rare thing a good after-dinner speech is. Have 
we got a good after-dinner speaker amongst us h Let 
those who have lately been enjoying so many repasts 
say. If 1 were but a speaker I should study this par- 
ticular department and become a specialist. Just think 
how many public dinners you would be sent to if you 
became renowned. It would positively be dangerous. 

* * 

* 

A good suggestion, I am told, was thrown out by a 
couple of the professors at the Arts dinner. The notion 
propounded was to have, next year, one banquet for 
the undergraduates in all the faculties, and to hold it 
in the large hall of the Windsor. “ What a fine sight 
that would be !” said the Doctor. I think there would 
be no objection at all to the site . Let us occupy it, 
then, when the time comes. 

* 

Long toast lists are the bane of college dinners. The 
dinner begins at a quarter past eight, but I shall not 
undertake to say when or where it ends. Six toasts, 
all told, are quite enough in my opinion. “The 
ladies,” and two or three others, might be abandoned, 
I imagine, without creating a rebellion. “ They’d 
none of them be missed .” 

* * 

* 

It is a fact to be noted that the professors in Arts 
were invited, and accepted the invitation, to be pre- 
sent at the dinner of trie undergraduates in their 
Faculty. I like to see that. Their presence gives a 
tone to the entertainment, which it would not other- 
wise possess, and shows a social spirit which is indeed 
greatly appreciated. 

* * 

* 

The papers say that the theological students were 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



at the dinner en masse. They always do go in for any- 
thing of that kind with enthusiasm. 

* * 

* 

Here is a rather free translation of Horace, Book I., 
Ode xxxiv. Parens Deorum cultor et infrequens, 
etc.” The satirical idea in the original is quite the 
reverse of the idea brought out in this translation, if it 
may be called a translation. We shall not enquire who 
was the author. 

*’ Alas ! when Folly’s paths I trod. 

How seldom did I worship God, 

Or own his mighty reign ! 

Whilst human wisdom fill’d my head, 

My heart, by Pleasure captive led, 

Grew fonder of its chain. 

“ But back I venture, to explore 
The living way, despis’d before, 

The way of peace— of Heaven. * 

I hoist ray sails— my course renew— 

Resolved ray voyage to pursue, 

Till all I seek be given. 

“ How great is God !— His lightning flies. 

Commission’d, through the vaulted skies, 
Cloud-rending as it rolls. 

The winds His steeds— His chariot fire— 

He moves majestic in His ire, 

And shakes th’ affrighted Poles. 

“ How good is God !— in all His ways, 

Frowning or smiling, He displays 
A kind paternal care : 

Exalts the low— the high casts down— 

Here seizes Fortune’s glittering crown, 

And joys to place it there.” 

Critic. 



JFlclBill Keujs. 



The Arts Glee Club meet every Friday evening at 
7.30 just before the Literary Society. Come and 
bring your songbook and voice. 

The graduating class in Medicine had the class pic- 
ture taken last week. We hope it is the last time any 
of them will need to figure in a graduating class group. 

The Class of ’88 has passed resolutions of condolence 
aud sympathy with the relatives of the late A. D. 
Browne, second -year student, who died, much re- 
gretted, last September. 

On the evening of Saturday, the 16th ult., about 
twenty students, consisting principally of the members 
of the different committees of the College Christian 
Association, were entertained at the house of Mr. 
Kingman, Victoria St. This is the second time that 
Mr. and Mrs. Kingman have shown their kindly feel- 
ings towards college students ; the first occasion being 
during the visit of Mr. Ober last winter. 



THE SCIENCE DINNER. 

The Sixth Annual Dinner, of the Science Students 
of McGill, was held at the Windsor Hotel, on Thurs- 
day last, January 28th., and, under the able manage- 
ment of the committee, was a grand success. Repre- 
sentatives from the sister faculties of Law, Medicine 
and Arts were present, and the true sister faculty, 
that of the Ladies, sent a regret that it was not able 
to send a representative. Science may claim to be the 



first faculty, that has recognised the rights ‘of the lady 
undergraduates to the usual interfaculty courtesies. 

The dinner was a credit to the Windsor, and if the 
“ proof of the pudding is in the eating thereof,” Mr. lies 
has no right to consider his menu a failure. But all 
men are mortal, and soon the clinking of glasses and 
the increasing hum of conversation, betokened that 
the time was come for the speeches, that had sat heavy 
upon the hearts and paled the cheeks, of those who 
had harbored them, all through the meal. Shortly 
before ten o’clock, Mr. Brown, chairman of the dinner, 
rose amid loud applause to open the second part of 
the piogramme. His speech was short and pithy. 
After referring to the success of the dinner, which 
excelled the most sanguine expectations, he touched 
briefly upon the new buildings and the increased ad- 
vantages alforded to the students, particularly those of 
mining and chemistry, and concluded by claiming Sir 
William Dawson, as connected more closely with our 
faculty than with any other, by reason of his eminent 
scientific reputation. He then proposed the toa t of 
The Queen and Governor General, which was drunk 
amid the strains of God Save the Queen. 

The speeches of Mr. Kinloch for Medicine, Mr. 
Hibbard for Arts, and Mr. Monk for Law, evinced 
careful preparation and were very effective. Mr. Monk, 
referring to the Law faculty, agreed with the Gazette, 
that the hours of lectures were ill chosen and hoped 
soon to see a radical change. 

It would not seem a response if the speaker on 
behalf of the graduates were not, Mr. Burland. The 
reply of this gentleman showed that he was alive to 
the interests of the college. Perhaps the most import- 
ant part of his speech for Science men, was the warn- 
ing that the posts which they could fill as Scientists 
would soon be filled, but that the time was come when 
scientifically educated men would be required in com- 
merce, and that here lay their future opportunities. 
On resuming his seat Mr. Burland received an ovation 
and his health was enthusiastically drunk. 

All the other speeches were good and well listened 
to. As pleasant evidence of the a ' akening interest of 
Montreal, in this faculty we remarked the presence of 
a Herald reporter, to whom we owe one of the best 
speeches of the evening. 

But enough. The musical portion of the program- 
me was magnificently carried out, and the students 
owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Evans for his valuable 
services as accompaniest. Mr. Walters had the mis- 
fortune to break a string of his guitar, yet his skill was 
equal to the occassion. Some one had the hardiness 
to ask him to play “ The Lost Chord.” We give no 
names out of respect for the memory of the deceased. 



THE ARTS DINNER. 

The third annual dinner of the students in Arts 
was held in the Ladies’ Ordinary of the Windsor, on 
Wednesday evening, Jan., 27th, at 8 p m. Mr. F. 
Topp, President of the 4th year, occupied the chair : 
Mr. John Molson, the only Governor present, was 
welcomed by all. Among those of the Professors who 
were present might be seen the Vice Dean, Dr. Alex. 
Johnson, Prof. Markgraf, Dr. Cornish, Prof. Darey, 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1886 . 



Dr. J. Clark! Murray, Prof. Moyse, and Prof. Coussirat. 
Dr. Kelly and Messrs. Colquhoun, Turner and J. R. 
Murray, graduates, were also present. Letters of re- 
gret were read from His Excellency the Governor 
General, Chancellor Ferrier, Principal Sir Wm. Daw- 
son, Hon. D. A. Smith, Mr. W. C. McDonald, Dr. 
Harrington and many more, also notes of apology for 
the non-representation of several colleges. Mr. D. 
McMurchy represented University College, Toronto, 
and Mr. James Rattray, the University of Queen’s 
College, Kingston. 

After discussing the long and varied course of 
pleasure for man’s physical side, the chairman com- 
menced the intellectual part of the evening’s amuse- 
ment by giving “ the Queen ; ” the boys showed their 
loyalty by making the hall resound with “ God save 
the Queen.” Mr. Wm. Patterson, in a most enthusi- 
astic manner, introduced the Toast of “ Canada : ” Mr. 
Rochester replied with some lengthy remarks on Can- 
adian Theology. Mr. H. M. Patton, one of our best bass 
voices, now varied the course of things by giving us a 
song originally composed and set to music for the occa- 
sion. Mr. F. Pedly, in his usual happy manner, pro- 
posed the toast of “ Sister Universities.” Mr. D. Mc- 
Murchy replied on behalf of Toronto University in a 
speech which showed the good-feeling that exists bet- 
ween Ontario’sUniversity and that under MountRoyal’s 
shade. Mr. James Rattray, replied in the same kindly 
tone for Queen’s of Kingston. Mr. Alfred P. Murray, 
gave the toast of “ Alma Mater : ” Dr. Johnson, on 
being called upon to respond, made a short speech, 
that was enthusiastically cheered : the chairman then 
called on Dr. Murray, who also made a few remarks in 
reply to the toast. “Sister Faculties” was proposed 
by Mr. H. C. Mason : Medecine replied in the person 
of Mr. Thomas ; Science and Law were represented by 
Messrs. Brown, and Mackie, the latter of whom re- 
ferred to the agitation now in progress for the reform 
of the Law Faculty ; the chairman requested Mr. 
Putchard to do duty for the Theologues. “ The 
Faculty ” was proposed by Mr. Curtis, and replied to 
by Profs. Moyse, Markgraf and Darey. Mr. C. H. 
Livingstone, introduced the toast to “ the Benefactors.” 
Mr. John Molson, one of the Governors, and a great 
friend of McGill, thanked the students for the toast. 
“ Our Societies ” was given by Mr. W. Deeks, and 
replied to by Mr. N. P. Yates, for the Literary Society, 
Mr. E. Holden, for the Athletic Association, and Mr. 
J. McPhail, for the Maritime Association. Mr. J. P. 
Gerrie asked the toast of “ the Graduates : ” the chair- 
man called on one of our best known graduates, Dr. 
Kelly, to reply : in response to the call, the doctor 
made a few remarks of a most interesting kind, show- 
ing that he was well informed about the wants of all 
the students ; Mr. W. H. Turner also replied to the 
toast, making a few most energetic remarks. Mr. D. 
J. Evans proposed “the Press:” and the “University 
Gazette,” replied in the person of Mr. F. W. Hib- 
bard — its ‘ Newsboy.’ Three cheers were given for 
the Gazette, after Mr. Hibbard had finished speaking. 
Mr. F. Charters, the ladies’ man of Arts, merely call- 
ed on the students to drink the health of the fair sex, 
and Mr. A. P.'Solandt replied on behalf of the absent 
ones. Mr. W. L. Jamieson, Messrs Patton and Ritchie, 



Clements, Stephens, Ritchie, Pedley, were the sing- 
ing boys, while the whole meeting chimed in at the 
choruses. After singing “ Auld Lang Syne” and 
“ Good Night Ladies,” the boys went home at 1.40 a.m. 



Societies, 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The regular fortnightly meeting was held on Satur- 
day, 24th, in their reading room. The Vice-President, 
Mr. Boggs, occupied the chair. After routine busi- 
ness, Mr. Murray read a highly instructive paper on 
Anti-Zymotics (including in this Antiseptics). His 
paper elicited an animated discussion. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A meeting of this society was held on Friday even- 
ing the 22nd ult., the President in the chair. There 
were present Messrs. Doherty, Smith, Brooke, Uns- 
worth, Ferguson, Dixon, Murray, Parmalee, Cooke, 
Mathewson, Goldstein, and Elliot. 

The debate upon, “ Should Primary Education be 
free V ’ was participated in by Messrs. Parmalee, Dixon 
and Smith on the Affirmative and by Messrs. Cooke, 
Doherty and Unsworth on the negative. Mr. Par- 
malee’s speech was an able one ; he attempted no 
flights of oratory but confined himself closely to the 
subject, reasoned well and gave evidence of familiarity 
with the subject under discussion. Mr. Cooke followed 
on the negative in a clever speech, if not a very con- 
vincing one. Mr. Dixon supported the affirmative in 
a very logical argument ; whether we regard the matter 
of his speech or the correctness and force of the lan- 
guage he employs to express his opinions, it is to be 
regretted that the society does not have the oppor- 
tunity of listening to this gentleman more frequently. 
Mr. Doherty’s speech was forcible and eloquent and 
was well replied to by Mr. Smith with his accustomed 
sweetness and humour. Mr. Unsworth is fast becom- 
ing a very formidable antagonist in debate. His 
speeches are always listened to with marked attention 
by the society, and are well worthy it ; but we notice 
a tendency in this gentleman to the “ pulpit lilt.” 
Mr. Unsworth is the making of far too good a public 
speaker to be allowed to fall into this style. 

I he decision of the meeting was in favour of the 
affirmative. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The meeting of this society on the evening of Friday, 
Jan. 22nd, was called to order by Mr. N. P. Yates, 
the President : there were present Messrs. Hibbard, 
Topp, Deeks, Robertson, Naismith, McOuat, Moore, 
Gerrie, Bryson, Whyte, Holden, McPhail, Pritchard, 
Mason, McArthur, Patton, Ritchie, Brown, Hislop, 
Solandt, Macallum, Clements, Murray. 

Mr. I. Topp’s motion to have some lectures on 
Elocution was discussed and carried. 

The programme was opened by Mr. H. M. Patton, 
who favoured those of the society who were fortunate 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



enough to be present with a very interesting account 
of one of Germany’s National Fetes. Mr. S. R. Brown 
had chosen as his reading, “ The Boys ” — a poem of 
college life ; the subject and manner were really first 
class. 

The subject of debate was : “ Resolved that oratory 
is better acquired in a debating society than in the 
class-room.” Although the subject was full of interest 
to a society of the nature of this, the debate was 
scarcely up to the standard of previous meetings. 
Messrs. E. De F. Holden, Gerrie, and Mason, spoke 
in favor of the society, and were sufficiently eloquent 
to secure a decision in favour of the affirmative . 
Messrs. Murray, Brown, and, Hislop argued for the 
classroom. The meeting adjourned after Mr. J. 
Naismith’s critique. Several songs gave variety to 
the programme. 

At the meeting of this society on Friday evening, 
Jan. 29th, Mr. N. P. Yates, the President, was in the 
chair, and the following members were present : 
White, Rogers, Naismith, McKenzie, Solandt, Hib- 
bard, Gibson, Colby, Bryson, Bryan, Mason, Martin, 
McPhail, McOuat, Topp, McArthur, Johnson, Robert- 
son, and Murray. G. A. Calder, B. A., came in during 
the evening, and the proceedings came to a standstill 
for a moment to give him a welcome. Mr. C. W. 
Colby, the essayist of the evening, treated of “Edmund 
Burke” in a masterly manner. An extract from Shakes- 
peare’s King Henry V. was the reading given by Mr. 
Alfred P. Murray, who replaced Mr. M. Hersey. 

The evening’s debate was on the subject, “Resolved 
that money should be taxed as well as real estate.” 
Messrs. J. Naismith, Gibson and Rogers, spoke on the 
affirmative, and secured a verdict in favour of their 
views. The negative side was well represented in 
Messrs. Johnson, McKenzie, and Robertson. The 
president called on Mr. F. Topp to read his critique. 
The president and the critic both referred to the num- 
ber of young speakers on the programme, and gave 
them great encouragement by praising their first 
attempts. G. A. Calder, B. A., now Minister of Finance 
in Aylmer Mock Parliament, on being requested to 
speak a few woids acknowledged gratefully the benefit 
to be derived from the society ; and congratulated it on 
the performances of its young members, and the general 
improvement in its debates ; he also said he was much 
pleased to see such an improvement in the University 
Gazette. The meeting then adjourned into a recep- 
tion for Mr. Calder. 



GRADUATES’ SOCIETY. 

A special meeting of the Society ’.vas held at the 
University Club on 23rd inst. There were present: — 
Prof. C. H. McLeod (in the chair) ; Messrs. J. R. 
Dougall, J. S. Hall, M. M. Tait, Q.C., F. J. Shepherd, 
M.D., Robert Bell, M.D., Ottawa, and F. W. Kelly, 
Representative Fellows; Profs. Chandler, Robidoux, 
M. P. P., Trenholme and Hutchinson ; Drs. Geo. 
Ross, James Stewart and T. Johnson Alloway , Messrs. 
E. Lafleur, A McGoun, C. J. Brooke, W. Sproule, F. E. 
Gilman, Alex. Falconer, A. H. U. Colquhoun, W. H. 
Turner, J. H. Burland and J. Ralph Murray, Secretary. 



A letter was read from Mr. W. McLea Walbank, 
stating that he was heartily in sympathy with the 
movement on foot to get a long needed improvement 
in several of the Faculties of our Alma Mater , and 
hoping that the meeting might have beneficial results. 

The following graduates were elected members of 
the Society : — Dr. C. E. Cameron, G. Wilkins and 
T. Wesley Mills; Messrs. G. C. Wright, B.A., Willis 
Chipman, B. Ap. Sc., Brockville, T. W. Lesage, B. 
Ap. Sc., J. F. Mackie, B A, Wm. R. S. Reddy, B. 
C.L., A. J. Brown, B.A., W. H. Turner, B. A., A. 
H. U. Colquhoun, B.A., and A. E. Barnard, B.C.L 

A report to the Executive Committee of the Society 
on the Law Faculty by a sub-committee appointed for 
the purpose was read by the Secretary. 

It was moved by Mr. A. McGoun, Sec. by Mr. J. 
Ralph Murray. — “ That this Society upon report of 
the Committee, and from information obtained from 
various sources is of opinion that the Faculty of Law is 
at present by no means in an efficient state, and thinks 
that steps should be taken before the opening of next 
session to put the Faculty more nearly on a par with 
the other Faculties of the University.” 

Prof. Trenholme was not satisfied with the wording 
of this Resolution. He had been connected with the 
Faculty for about twenty years, and thought it was 
much more efficient now than when he was a student. 

The Resolution was then amended as follows and 
carried ; Resolved — “ That this Society upon report 
of the Committee, and from information obtained 
from various sources is of opinion that certain improve- 
ments might be made in the classes of the Faculty of 
Law, and thinks that steps should be taken before 
the opening of next Session to effect this object.” 

It was next moved — That to this end it be suggested 
to the Faculty of Law that the following changes be 
considered : — 

(1.) That tl e session in law be made to correspond 
in length with that of the Faculty of Arts, and 
that it be divided into three terms as follows : — 
from 1st Oct. to loth Dec., from 1st Jan. to 
15th Feb., and from the 15th Feb to 31st 
March ; and that different courses of lectures 
be delivered in the different terms. 

(2.) That the present staff of Professors be reduced 
in numbers. 

(3.) That the rooms of the Faculty be changed 
from their present position to the Fraser Ins- 
titute or some more suitable place. 

(4.) That steps be taken to make the law book in 
the College library available to students of the 
Faculty of Law. 

(5.) That a Special Professor, who shall give the 
greater part of his time to the affairs of the 
Faculty and deliver special lectures, should be 
appointed at a special salary. 

(6.) That the regular lectures be given in the morn 
ing, as far as possible. 

(7.) That special courses be arranged for the even- 
ings. 

(8.) That application be made to the authorities for 
sufficient funds to carry out any of these sug- 
gestions, and also for funds to renumerate 
more adequately the Professors. 



12 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1886. 



The last suggestion was moved by Mr. J. S. Hall, 
and seconded by Mr. M. M. Tait, Q. C. 

Prof. Hutchinson, in the course of some remarks, 
said that Judge Jett6 had suggested to him that it 
would be a good thing if it'could be arranged that the 
courts should not open until 1 2 noon, and then go on 
continuously until 5 p.m. ; Also if a regulation that 
no one who was not a B.A. should.be allowed to study 
law could be introduced. 

There was a long and heated discussion over the 
preamble and the fifth suggestion, in which almost 
every one present took part. The Secretary was 
instructed to send the resolutions to the Faculty of 
Law. The; subject of Matriculation which was also 
to have been discussed, had to be postponed on 
account of the lateness of the hour. 



[For the Gazette. 

MY ROSEBUD. 



In my garden a rosebud is growing, is growing 
As sweet as the dawning of day. 

Around it the breezes are tenderly blowing. 
The sweet-scented breezes of May, 



Of May, 

The sweet-scented breezes of May. 



From sunrise to sunset I’ll watch it, I’ll watch it, 

And see every petal unfold. 

I’ll guard it so close that no canker shall touch it, 

No night make it tremble with cold. 

With cold. 

No night make it tremble with cold. 

And when it is grown. I’ll bear it, I’ll bear it 
To her whom I worship alone. 

On her beautiful bosom she’ll lay it and wear it 
And shame all its charms by her own. 

Her own, 

And shame all its charms by her own. 

Attie. 



Personals. 



D. J. G. Wishart, M.D., '85, has commenced prac- 
tice in Toronto. We wish the Dr. every success. 

Mr. John Eedpath Dougall, M. A., ’67, has an 
article on “ An Anglo-Saxon Alliance ” in the Contem- 
porary Review. 

G. B. Ward, B.A., ’74, Gold Medallist in classics, 
has received the position of classical master in Cobourg 
Collegiate Institute. McGill came to the front amid 
nine applicants, — three graduates of Toronto, three 
graduates of Victoria, and two undergraduates in the 
English Universities, being his competitors. 

W. H. Klock, M.D. graduate of ’85 has been pur- 
suing his studies in Edinburgh and has recently suc- 
cessfully passed the examinations there, for the degree 
of L.R.C.P. and L.E.C.S. He has also obtained the 
L.F.P. and S. of Glasgow. He is now in Vienna, and 
intends before returning to Canada to visit all the 
great hospitals of Europe. 

We are glad to see by the Dalliousie Gazette that 
Mr A. A. MacKay, B.A., (McGill), ’84, is taking a 
very prominent part in the Dalliousie Law School. 
His many admirers and friends in McGill will watch 
his course with pleasure, and we feel sure, judging 
from his brilliant attainments, that his career will be 
a most distinguished one. 

Dr. Smith Gustin, Final Prizeman *85, has resigned 
his position at the hospital and gone to Michigan to 
practice, in partnership with Dr. T. A. Baird, Valedic- 
torian '85. The Dr. has made himself so popular, 
both as a student and in his connection with the hos- 
pital, that it is with regret we lose him. We wish him 
all success in his practice. His place at the hospital 
is taken by Dr. D. Coarson, ’85. 



Little Tommy had a doll which gave him pleasure 
until one day a baby sister arrived. Next morning 
dolly was found floating, sadly destroyed, in a water 
butt. Being charged with the murder, Tommy replied 
that he wasn’t going to play with the dolly any more. 
“ Why not, Tommy asked his father. “ What’s ’ee 
use p’ayin’ wif a saw-dust dolly when ’er is a meat one 
in ’ee ’ouse,” was Tommy’s reply. 



College Ulorlft. 



In the United States there are 190 college papers. 

The scholarships and fellowships given at Oxford 
amount to $500,000 annually. 

A Chinese lady stands at the head of the class of 
’85 at the Womans’ Medical College in New York. 

A Hindoo lately received the diploma of doctor 
honoris causa from the University of Gottingen for 
his distinguished success in the departments of 
Sanskritology. 

Alleghany College (Pa.) has adopted the Monday 
holiday plan, and satisfaction is expressed with the 
change. The Faculty of Kansas University are also 
discussing the advisability of making a similar change. 

The average annual expense of a student at Har- 
vard, Yale or Columbia is $800 ; Princeton $600 ; 
Hamilton $450 ; Michigan University $370 ; Amherst 
Bowdoin, Brown, Dartmouth, Williams or University 
of Virginia $500. 

Among great Americans who have expended their 
youthful talents in editing college papers, are the 
poets, Holmes and Willis, the statesmen, Everett and 
Evarts, the eloquent divine, Philip Brooks, and the 
pleasing author, Donald J. Mitchell. 

The necessity for increased accommodation for stu- 
dents at Harvard is greatly felt, a third of the Fresh- 
men only being able to reside in College. A building 
capable of accommodating 150 students, with rooms 
renting at $100 a year, would answer the requirements 
of the present non-residents. 



A California poetess sings thusly : “I cast my dart 
— to find at last myself was wounded by the cast.” 
Served her right. Haven’t the papers for years been 
cautioning woman about trying to throw stones and 
things ] 

No word was spoken when they met, 

By either — sad or gay; 

And yet, one badly smitten was, 

’Twas mentioned the next day. 

They met by chance this autumn eve 
With neither glance nor bow — 

They often come together so : 

A freight train and a cow. — 



1886.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



[for the gazette.] 
THE SOPHOMORE’S LAMENT. 

(adapted.) 

Hair brightly golden, neatly coiled 
And curled above dark eyes unspoiled 
By tears or study ; 

Nose straight and small with pouting lips, 

'> bereat the bee of fancy sips ; 

Two pink ears rosy at the tips, 

Cheeks warm and ruddy. 

There, that’s her picture, flattered not, 

To see her never is our lot, 

Fair undergraduate. 

Oh, that joint work might us engage, 

Demonstrations or lectures sage. 

That she our sorrows might assuage, 

Our toils alleviate. 

Like seas, divides our path from thine 
That unrelenting Dantesque sign 
“ For ladies only,” 

At school as children when she smiled 
The draughts of truth were drawn more mild. 

But now as rivals we’re reviled 
Forlorn and lonely. 

P. 



Between the Lectures. 



The circular saw has an off hand manner. 

Magistrate : “ What is that man charged with ?” 

Policeman : “ With whiskey, your honour.” 

The foreman of a composing-room always howls for 
his copyrights. 

It is the oyster saloonist who fritters his time 
away. 

The home stretch: The lie you tell your wife when 

you show up in the wee, sma’ hours. 

First Tramp — “That’s a bang-up coat you’re wear- 
ing, Jimmy. What will it cost yer ?” 

Second ditto — “ About six months, I guess.” 

“ Can you give me an example of contraction due 
to the effect of cold V 9 asked the professor. 

“ Yes,” replied the student, “a wood pile.” 

Teacher — “ How many wars were waged with 
Spain ?” Pupil — “ Six.” Teacher — “ Enumerate 

them.” Pupil — “ One, two, three, four, five, six.” 

— Ex. 

“ My shildren, ven is dwenty-fife per cent, more as 
feefty per cent. V 9 

“Ye don’ know, fader.” 

“Yen you fail. Un don’ you forket it !” 

“ I don’t think my religion will be any obstacle to 
our union,” he urged ; “lama spiritualist.” 

“ I am afraid it will,” she replied. “ Papa is a pro- 
hibitionist, you know !” 

(A) Dude in a new role. He heals a breach of 
friendship ; ornaments his own overshoes and aston- 
ishes Prof F — by the magic manner in which he 
brings the whole class to their feet to behold his feat. 

Gentleman (to physician) “ What’s become of J ones, 
doctor?” 

Physician, — “ He’s dead.” 

Gent. — “ Are you sure ?” 

Phys. “ Positively, I attended him for two weeks 

before he died.” 



“ When I last dined with you, Mrs. Ferguson,” 
said the minister, “ a remarkably neat and tidy young 
girl waited on us. Is she no longer with you ?” 

“ No, sir,” replied Bobby, “ ma discharged her 
because she was too pretty.” 

A woman is accused of attempting to poison her 
husband, who, however, received prompt medical 
assistance, and was able to be present at the trial. 
“ What have you to say in your defense ? ” inquired 
the judge, addressing the prisoner. “ I am innocent ! 
I insist on a post mortem.” 

Wife — “I must get the children some linsey-wool- 
sey for winter wear.” Husband — “ What, that blue- 
looking stuff ?” Wife — “ Yes.” Husband — “ Say, 
if you call that blue-looking stuff linsey woolsey you 
would call the red Cardinal Woolsey, wouldn’t you ? ” 
Wife — “ You’ve got less sense than any man I ever 
saw.” 

A Wisconsin paper contains the following adverti- 
sement : “ The owner of the chickens lost on the 

evening of the 26th inst. can recover the same 
by calling at this office and paying the cost of 
this advertisement.” This seems to be a risky away to 
boom business. No matter how slowly cord-wood 
comes in on subscription, and how much patrons stand 
off the collector, publishers are hardly justified in the 
eye of the law in raiding hen-roosts and causing people 
expense for unnecessary advertising. 

Professor carried on some dredging opera- 

tions at Little Metis, many summers ago. He hired an 
old Scotch fisherman named Joe Simons to take him 
out in his boat, some miles from land. After a few 
hours work, the professor got up many fine and 
valuable specimens which he carefully laid aside, and 
prepared to enjoy his sail home. When they were 
nearing home the Doctor looked around for his speci- 
mens, but lo, and behold ! they were non est. He 
questioned old Joe, and finally elicited the reply : 
“ Oh, is it them things ye mean, A thocht they waur 
rubbish so a’ jist throwed them overboard.” — Tableau 
and curtain. 

OUR OWN JOKER AT WORK. 

In the body of the hall. 

B. wants to know if a female college is one that is 
situated in the skirts of a town. 

Some of our students seem to prefer an Oxford 
course to that of McGill, probably because it opposes 
cold water treatment. 

It is seriously related by an eye witness of the 
earthquake of 1663, that a man ran all night to escape 
from a fissure in the earth which opened behind him, 
and chased him as he fled. We see now why Laval 
opposed the liquor traffic. 

Freshie to group of sophs. — “ Does Prof. D 

smoke?” 1st Soph. — “Not he; guess he’d fire-up if 
you asked him.” 2nd Soph. — “ He wouldn’t make 
light of it anyhow.” 3rd Soph. — “ He’s a-puff such 
conduct.” 4th Soph. — “ Cigar-sly.” 

Freshie, wearily. — “ I can’t match you gentlemen.” 
The ambulance was called. 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



[1886. 



[for the gazette.] 

TERRIFIC BEAR STORY. 

Sooker is a freshman ; in what faculty we shall not 
state, because he is heavier than we are. 

Sooker boards in a quiet street with a number of 
“meds” who worry him greatly at times, chiefly by 
endeavouring to demonstrate on his person the value 
of Holden’s “ Landmarks.” 

One night Sooker imparted to his fellow-boarders 
his intention of painting the town. This was a bad 
habit of Sooker’s and used to shock very much his 
medical friends, who, in obedience to a regulation of 
the medical faculty, all belonged to the Y.M.C.A. 

This night, these friends determined to administer 
a practical rebuke to the erring student and in the 
interests of morality, they regretfully closed their 
books, and taking with them femurs and other bones, 
in order to run over the muscles thereto once attached 
so as to lose no time, they departed for town. On 
the way, they took a door knob or two with a view of 
ascertaining their chemical composition and consider- 
ately extinguished several gas lamps because one of 
their number complained that the glare hurt his eyes. 

They finally reached and after some trouble, ac- 
quired the object of their expedition ; a stuffed bear 
that had been acting with more or less success for a 
number of years, in the capacity of a furrier’s sign. 
This was lugged home and deposited in Sooker’s bed. 

Sooker arrived about midnight gay and musical. 
He entered his room singing a little verse his friends 
had taught him : 

“ The elephant is a (hie !) peculiar bird — 99 

and with wonderful tact locked his door. He then, 
after repeated trials, lighted a match and applied it to 
the escape pipe of the steam-heating apparatus, under 
a misapprehension apparently, for he presently ceased 
his efforts with the remark, 4 4 Gash turned off. Moon- 
light’s (hie !) good enough for me !” and turned his 
attention to disrobing himself. 

After half an hour’s arduous toil caused by endeav- 
oring to get his nether garments off over his head and 
to cause other articles of apparel to leave his person 
by unaccustomed routes, this task was completed, and 
Sooker directed his unsteady footsteps towards his 
couch. 

The cold moonlight streamed in through the win- 
dow and lighted up the eye of Sooker’s visitor with a 
peculiarly aggressive glare ! 

“ One, two, three, Great (hie !) Scott !!!” was 
Sooker’s remark as the apparition met his gaze. 

Surprise quickly gave way to displeasure. “Be- 
gone !” said our hero, majestically waving his arm. 

No attention being paid to this request, Sooker 
grabbed the bear and gave a mighty heave which 
threw the animal over his head and landed Sooker on 
the floor in that attitude peculiar to contortionists 
when the legs are spread out at right angles to the 
body and in opposite directions. 

Having carefully ascertained that he was not split 
up to his neck, Sooker recommenced the battle. 

One of the bear’s swinging paws having struck him 
on the cheek, our hero became imbued with the idea 
that the fight was for life or death ! Round and round 



the room the combatants went, overturning furniture 
and smashing several dollars’ worth of crockery. 

The bear suffered most ; he lost an eye and the best 
part of his sawdust viscera covered the floor. 

Sooker paused for breath ! 

Then, upon a sudden inspiration, he seized his foe 
and with one herculean effort, hurled him through 
the window. 

A frightful crash and a moment later the bear and 
the window sash reached the ground together. 

With an idiotic smile, Sooker contemplated the 
ruin he had made and then waded through it to bed 
where he slept the sleep of the just and the inebri- 
ated. 

His emotions on the following morning defy our 
descriptive powers. 

His friends were satisfied with the result of their 
experiment. 

Sooker did not touch liquor for nearly three hours. 

T. E. Goodwin. 



vT. 3VLA_IR,i:EJSJ , 

Hals Usessei and Wig laker* 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

T\f O IN T [( E A L. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES* CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING. 

Antiseptic Materials, 
Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 



W. A. DYER & CO. 

Pharmacsmical & Dipsii Chemists, 






14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. S'. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 



Bandages, Roller, Muslin. 

Bandages, Cotton. 

Bandages, Absorbent. 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze. 

* Bandages, Plaster Paris. 

AU Sizes. 

Catgut, assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent. 

Cotton Wool, Borated. 

Cotton WooL Salicylated. 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 
Drainage Tubes. Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent. 

Gauze, Borated. 

Gauze, Carbolized. 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphtbalin. 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, CoghiU; Inhalers, Celluloid 
Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached. 

Jute, Absorbent. 

Jute, Carbolized. 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes ; 
Sponges, Antiseptic ; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges , 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies’, 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



SPECIAL EEEUCTIOITS I 





All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




AH 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s 




All 


Reduced 


At 


s. 


Carsley’s. 



MEN’S SILK TIES, 

MEN'S SILK SCARFS, 

MEN’S SILK (MADE) TIES, 

MEN’S SILK MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S SILK MIXED MUFFLERS, 

MEN’S CASHMERE MUFFLERS, 

FANCY SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

WHITE SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 

SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, In all Colors, 

( MEN’S LINED KID GLOVES, 

MEN’S LINED KID MITTS, 

( MEN’S DRIVING GLOVES, 

( MEN’S BUCKSKIN GLOVES, 

\ MEN’S DOGSKIN GLOVES, 

( MEN’S PIE WAR GLOVES, 

MEN’S BUCKSKIN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN MITTS, 

MEN’S WOOLEN GAUNTLETS, 



All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carslev’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 

All Reduced 

At S. Carsley’s. 



S. CARSLEY, notre dame street, 



J.& E.McENTYRE, 

Merchant 4M- 

TAILORS, 



= 1 [= 



MONTREAL, 



jA^M.J^OTMAN ON, 





New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-Me FOR STUDENTS 

17 BLSTOY ST. 





BIC YCLES ! ! 

Lawn Tennis Sets, Foot 
Balls, Boxing Gloves, 
Fencing Foils, 
Masks, &c. 



— ALSO — 

PRIZES OF ALL DESCRIPTION 

WEDDING, CHRISTMAS AND BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 

Fancy Goode, Electro Plate, &c. 

WATSON & PELTON, 

53 ST. SULPICE STREET. 



E. 7L. GEBTH, 

IMPORTER OF 

U.TAIJ. §1MSS, 

Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, 

SULTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

r Txy St*u.d.e3a.to D^is:tvj.re- 
Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST„ QUEEN'S BLOCK. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jllpri unit ©oHhij fSantifatlurers, 

21 BLEURY ST. 

Snow Shoe & ToboganingSuHs, Tuques, Sashes. 
Stockings, &c.. &c. 

SPECI1L DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

jltirgtial f|nslrmnBiils. 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— FROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



THE 

|jiirlai)(l ptliotopliic £jo’y., 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

A JL E KIN l>8 

OF 

<S*Kngraving arid Fine Printing-? 1 * 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 






90 



Uft'4MfeiNL 9 CW&KO m 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 

C . ASHFOBD’S 

Cheap Book , Stationery, 




IAM 0 Y iww 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases & Scalpels, 

[BY WEISS &c SO 2ST], 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States. 

678i MD 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



PHOTOG-BAPHY. 



BILLHEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 

SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, HAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 



PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 

Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS , PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS , repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

PROCESS. 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process, and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



Fcr Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMER HAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In all their several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 



SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD'S. 
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 



MENU CARDS, ORESTS, MONOGRAMS, BUSINESS 
DIES, &c., &c. 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Emb cased and Illuminated. 



