JVo. 8. 



Vot. VJIJ. 



McGILL 

UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Monday , March 2nd ’ 1885 . 



CONTENTS : 



PAGE. 

Editorials 3-4-5 

Contributions 5-6 

McGill News - - - - 7-8 

College World 9-10 



PAGE. 

Societies 1 1-12 

Correspondence 12-13 

Between the Lectures - 14 

Advertisements • - - - 2, 14, 15, 16 



MONTREAL : 

PRINTED BY THE BURLAND LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



MSCMSSTER, HUTCHINSON & WEIR, 

•*PV 0 c;me^ 

Barristers , Solicitors , dfcc., 

162 St. Tames Street, 
MONTREAL. 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q C. M. HUTCHINSON, B.C.L. 

R, S. WEIR, B.C.L. F. 8. McLENNAN. 

RoMson, lie, Fleet & Falconer, 

ADVOCATES, 

151 ST. JAMES STREET, 

Zvlo r.trcal. 

71 . W. TITO^ER, 

^.Svocate, |jarrito fjommi^ioner, jjrc., 
131 ST, JAMES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 



HEADQUARTERS 

FOR 

|#)o( a 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 

MEDICAL ll'ORKS, HOOKS US Kit IJY ART COURSE, 
SCI E JVC E TEXT ROOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL TEXT ROOKS. 

Full assortment in stock & supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, See., &c., 

-0-BEST VALUE I IN' TOWN.^f>- 

Stylographic Pens , Anti- Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 
232 St. Tam.cs Street. 

ALSO 

Branch Store: 1423 St. Catherine St. 




GREENSHIELDS, McCORKILL & GUERIN, 

ADVOCATES, 

JUrrtsbrs, jUiarneijs, jiolmlors, jyp, 

Chambers : Exchange Bank Building, 

102 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST., 

MONTREAL, 

J. N. Greenshields. J. C. McCorkill. Edmond Guerin. 



E. A.. GBRTH. 



IMPORTER OF 




Briar and 3Ieersc , liauiii Pipes.. 



SDLTANS, KHEDIVES AND BEYS EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES IN BOXES OF 25. 

Try St-u.5Le3a.ts Hv£i^t-u.re_ 

Paces and other Cut Plugs from $1.00 upwards. 

1323 ST. CATHERINE ST., QUEEN’S BLOCK. 



A. PERIARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer 

And Legal Stationer, 

23 ST. JAIMES STEEET, 

(Near the Court House,) 4 

MONTREAL. 




OT MAN 



? 



ON 




J. J. GREAVES, 

IMPORTER OF ALL KINDS OF 



V/ools, Joys, Jewelry, ^tatioj^ef(y, 

Fancy Goods, Wall Paper, Baby and Doll 
Carriages, Velocipedes, &c., &c. 

816 & 1344: ST. CATHERINE STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

picture Framing done on Reasonable Terms. 



New Scale of Prices 

THIS YEAR 

-KE for students, 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

vol. viil] McGill college, Montreal, march 1st, 1885. [No. 8. 




Dl RECTORS. 

Jeffrey H. Burland, B.Ap. Sc., F.C.S., President . 
G. J. A. Thompson, Vice-President . 

G. C. Wright, B.A., Treasurer. 

H. S. McLennan, Secretary. 

G. C. Stephen. H. V. Thompson, B. A. 

E. P. Williams. T. W. Lesage. 

EDITORS. 

W. H. Turner, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

S. Fortier. Assistant Editor-in-Chief. 

C. H. Livingstone. | W. Dixon, B.A. 

R. J. Elliot. 



Editorials. 

AN EXPLANATION. 

Owing to a misunderstanding of the constitution, 
Mr. Lafleur believed himself elected Editor in chief of 
this paper. His claim to the office was disputed, and 
he thought it necessary to resign his position on this 
board. We sincerely regret that he should have come 
to this resolution. 

OUR TEACHING FACULTY 
At the rear of Belmont street stands a plain stone 
building partially concealed by the branching maples 
that line its front. Its obscure site, sombre appear- 
ance and genuineness seem to indicate the nature of 
the future life and labor of the students within its 
walls. This is the McGill Normal School — the Alina 
Mater of over 1,150 teachers. To many of our read- 
ers the name will be familiar, to more unknown 
except in so far as they may have noticed it in the 
calendar as being connected with McGill University. 
From our more prominent position on the mountain’s 
side, with a number of denominational colleges 
clustering around us, we are apt to overlook the more 
obscure institution by which we are largely sustained. 
The McGill Normal teachers are the roots that pro- 
vide not a little of the material for the growth of our 
beautiful educational tree. Obscure but noble toil. 
Happily for the world their ranks are filled by the 
best and truest of mankind, excelling in the purity 
and self-sacrifice of their lives our theologians. Young 
men sometimes enter the ministry from widely differ- 
ing motives among which a desire to gain distinction, 



honor and power in a highly honorable profession 
exerts no little influence. The teacher rarely thinks 
of aspiring to such greatness. His chief source of 
happiness is a consciousness of good work well done. 
We cannot rightly estimate the important part which 
the McGill Normal has acted from the time of its 
establishment in 1857 up to the present in diffusing 
knowledge through superior methods of education 
and thereby advancing the true interests of our Pro- 
vince. A glance through the lately prepared list 
of graduates in which the number of years that 
each has spent in teaching is placed after his or 
her name, shows that a large number are growing 
old in the service having taught for fifteen, twenty 
and twenty-five years, while comparatively few 
never teach. The mute and solemn asterisks tell 
us too, that many have finished their life work and 
joined the great majority of the world’s philanthropists 
in the shadowy land. The vacancies will be more 
than filled. The number who received diplomas in 
the spring of 1862, were twenty-four, twenty years 
later the number was eighty-six. There is need for 
many more. In the returns of School inspectors, we 
frequently find it stated that schools under the charge 
of Normalites surpass all others. From an impartial 
standpoint, we have little hesitancy in saying that the 
Provincial academies and model schools conducted by 
teachers trained in the Normal, are more successful 
than those under the charge of B. A’s. This statement 
will not reflect discredit on the course in Arts in this 
and other Canadian universities when we consider 
that, but a small proportion of the total number of 
pupils attending the academies study either Latin or 
Greek, the greater part of the work consisting in 
advanced courses of the subjects taught in common 
schools — subjects not included in an Arts course but 
which hold a prominent place in the curriculum of 
the Normal. Besides, it would be folly to suppose 
that our average graduate with no experience in teach- 
ing and possessing only a mass of undigested facts 
hurridly obtained from “ Morrison’s Art of Teaching” 
before presenting himself at the McGill Normal, to 
obtain its highest certificate, could successfully compete 
with the teacher, who had spent three years in train- 
ing for his profession. It may be held by some that 
the function of the academies is to prepare young 
men for college. Were this granted we would say by 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



all means abolish the normal schools. If four fifths 
of the pupils in the academies instead of receiving a 
training that will fit the young women to take charge 
of elementary schools, and the young men to become 
intelligent agriculturalists, artisans and merchants have 
to be neglected in order that a very few young men 
may acquire a smattering of Greek and Latin, suffi- 
cient to enable them to matriculate in a university and 
eventually swell the over crowded ranks of the pro- 
fessions of law or medicine, we say that the use- 
fulness of the Normal is gone. About nine years ago a 
Normalite assumed the control of an academy situated 
in the central part of an isolated county of this Pro- 
vince. The schools in this county at the time were in 
a wretched condition, the modes adopted in teaching 
being those in vogue in Great Britain about fifty years 
ago. The average attendance at the academy was 
about 60. During the three years of his principal- 
ship he prepared 18 pupils to pass creditable examin- 
ations for diplomas before the local board of examin- 
ers, two of whom received model school diplomas, 
three young men were fitted to enter universities, and 
the large remainder went back to the duties of the 
home, farm, shop and office, there to enjoy and to 
impart the knowledge gained. 

This was the result of three years’ teaching, insigni- 
ficant, indeed, had it ended here. The Normalite 
left but his love of order, excellent methods, energy 
and ability were reproduced in the eighteen teachers 
he had trained. They carried out the task of reform 
which he had begun, and in consequence, a revolution 
was made in the schools of the county. This may be 
taken as a fair indication of the nature of the work 
done in many of the academies. All honor to the 
McGill Normal for the benefits she is yearly conferring 
on the English speaking portion of the population. 
Would that her real work were more generally recog- 
nized. Her greatest wants at present seem to be a new 
building and an increase in the staff of professors. 
Although these may not soon be obtained yet we expect 
much from it, under the able Principalship of Dr. 
Robins, in our opinion the best teacher in Montreal. 
A few years ago we were conducted through the garden, 
halls and classrooms, of the Ottawa Normal School, 
and could not but compare this beautiful building with 
the one in Montreal. We would like to see erected 
near McGill an edifice for the better accomodation of 
the hundred, or more, students in the Teaching Faculty 
before all the available space is taken up by denomi- 
national colleges. 

If the United States can afford to equip and main- 
tain over four hundred Normal Schools, the Province 
of Quebec should not feel impoverished by bequeathin' 



a paltry sum for the support of three. The rising gen 
eration of the state of Michigan, are being taught by the 
one thousand teachers who annually graduate from the 
State Normal School. The four thousand students are 
trained by over two hundred professors and teachers, 
and occupy five magnificant buildings situated in a 
well shaded campus comprising forty acres. The 
Library alone cost $375,000 and is filled with one 
hundred thousand volumes. These few facts give but 
an imperfect idea of the best Normal on the American 
continent. They may serve, however, to awaken a 
desire for improvement in this direction in our own 
land. The masses must be educated. Ignorance is 
dangerous. We welcome, therefore, each band of the 
Old Normal’s alumni as they pass out beneath its poi*r 
tals into the larger world of usefulness and bid them 
God-speed in their noble work. Selfish man shrinks 
from the task that gently nurtured woman has under- 
taken. To her is entrusted the all important duty of 
moulding and training the youthful minds of Canada. 
The welfare of the nation depends upon the result. 
We have hope for its future. 



GOING AHEAD. 

As will be gathered from another column, the stud- 
ents are at last to have that object of their fondest 
dreams, a dining hall. Such an institution cannot 
fail of being a great boon, relieving the students, as it 
will, from most serious annoyance and discomfort, and 
fostering an esprit de corps which at present is lamen- 
tably weak. It will add an element of much power to 
the attractions of the University, and is moreover an 
angury of the advent of a residence, the one thing 
which will now be wanting to place McGill, as far as 
the comfort of its students is concerned, on an equality 
with its better endowed competitors. 

It is also exceedingly gratifying to know that the 
Arts Faculty is to be strengthened numerically. There 
are many subjects proper to a college course which 
cannot at present be touched in McGill, and altogether 
too much work is exacted from the present staff. A 
professorship in modern history and political economy 
has become a necessity, owing to the vastly greater 
attention which American and Toronto universities are 
now giving to these subjects. Such a chair, too, would 
lighten to some extent the burdens of the present pro- 
fessors of Philosophy and English, whose enthusiastic 
zeal has placed their lectures among the chief attrac- 
tions of our Arts course, but has also led them to under- 
take a larger share of work than should be expected 
from them. To this topic we intend to return at an 




1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



5 



knowledge of our position, the Arts course will be 
carefully compared with those of Toronto and Queen’s, 
McGill’s most formidable rivals. 



SECRET SOCIETIES. 

We regret much to learn that secret societies have 
gained a firm hold among the students. In Medicine 
there are now no less than three, while recruits have 
unfortunately been gained in the other faculties. What 
the precise objects of these socities are, it seems diffi- 
cult to gather. Most of those who do not deny having 
joined one or other of them, defend them on the 
ground that they promote social relations which not only 
are a source of pleasure during the student life, but are 
maintained after graduation. When asked the necessity 
of secrecy, these outspoken men always declare that the 
chapters would not hold together but for the introduc- 
tion of a fictitious bond of union. Not one seems to be 
aware of the inconsistency of these two claims. If men 
joined together, nominally for the enjoyment of convi- 
vial pleasure, require to be bound by a vow of silence, 
it is evident that the stated is not the real object of their 
union. We surmise that, in their hearts, the founders 
of these societies have aimed at controlling the college 
politics. If so, a collision between the various 
chapters is inevitable, and we may anticipate frequent 
scenes such as those which occurred in the Medical 
Faculty at the beginning of this session. In the 
American universities struggles for supremacy between 
the various Greek letter fraternities have been of fre- 
quent occurrence, and have at times been accompanied 
by riotings and bodily injuries. Are we to have a 
similar experience in McGill, or will the undergra- 
duates be warned in time, and accepting the experience 
of the past as their guide, refuse to become adherents 
of any such society 1 

Another aspect of these fraternities lias to be con- 
sidered. In the States the expenses incurred by the 
members, for their symposia, are oftimes double, and 
even treble the whole of their college expenses. Many 
a weak man has thus blighted his life by loading him- 
self down at the outset with a burden of debt, from 
which he never afterwards could free himself. There 
are not wanting men to-day who freely declare that 
these chapters have become the curse of American 
student life. Is it to this state of affairs we are pro- 
ceeding Because a few tinselled youths have band- 
ed themselves together to seek their highest good in 
convivia, to which only a select few are invited, and 
intrigue, in which the same select few alone participate, 
must entrance into their ranks be eagerly sought by 
the dazzled many — for what 1 To sow the seeds of dis- 



sipation, and breed contention and hatred in a hitherto 
simple and peaceful community ? What a worthy 
ambition ! 

itontributions. 



SOME PERCEPTIONS OF TOUCH. 

In studying the different sensations one is imme- 
diately struck with the great capacity of giving know- 
ledge possessed by those of touch, and by the extensive- 
ness and variety of the perceptions arising from them. 
Indeed it seems to me that sufficient stress is not 
generally laid upon the high position which this sense 
holds or should hold among the others. With the 
progress of scientific knowledge, however, and its pro- 
cesses of analysis and differentiation, touch is sure to 
receive its full due. 

The organ of the sense of touch is in general the 
skin. The sensations depend upon the action of cer- 
tain papillae which are placed beneath the external 
cuticle and each of which is connected with a nerve. 
The sensitiveness of each part depends upon the close- 
ness of the nerves and the thickness of the covering. 
In order to the production of the sensations the excit- 
ing body must be brought into contact with some part 
sf the skin. There are two classes of tactile sensations. 
1. Those which arise from different degrees of pres- 
sure. 2. Those which arise from different points of 
pressure. I have said above that the skin is in 
general the organ of this sense but pre-eminently the 
hand is the organ. It is lined with a sensitive cover- 
ing, is connected with the arm and shoulder, and is 
divided into fingers and thumb in such a way as most 
effectually to apply pressure and afford as well a large 
extent of surface for the application of touch in as 
small a space as possible. 

The most important idea given to us by these sen- 
sations is that of space, and it is implied in the sensa- 
tions arising from different degrees of pressure as well 
as in those arising from different points of pressure. 
In the former case to perceive the pressure of a body 
one must have the idea of the space through which 
the body moves, while in the latter case the idea 
arises directly from our feeling simultaneously the 
two distinct points. The points are felt to be at a 
distance which gives us at once local extension. 

The sensitiveness of the different parts of the organ 
of touch is discovered by the power which these 
several parts have of distinguishing two points as dis- 
tinct pressures. Prof. Weber from a series of experi- 
ments with the points of a pair of dividers has ascer- 
tained the most sensitive parts to be the tip of the 
tongue, the lips and the ends of the fingers. This 
diversity of acuteness shows that dimensions revealed 
by touch cannot be absolute, since they vary with the 
parts of the organism which the objects affect. The 
dimensions we perceive are related to the associations 
which our experience has formed. 

In considering the sensations of touch and especially 
those arising from different degrees of pressure it is 
difficult to eliminate thoroughly the part which is 
taken in them by the muscular sense. When we want 
to feel whether a body is hard or soft, light or heavy, 



6 



McGILL UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



we employ the muscular sense even more than that of 
touch. True these perceptions could be given us by 
the sense of touch alone, but then in practical 
experience such is not the case. This close connection 
between the muscular sense and that of touch must 
always be borne in mind when judging of the relative 
capabilities of the different senses and the character of 
the perceptions which they give us. Of the two 
classes of sensations of touch it will be readily seen 
that those arising from the pressure of distinct points 
are by far the more important, for on them is based 
our perception of local distinctness, on which all our 
knowledge of the external world depends. From them 
arise our ideas of a world in space with all its different 
relations and dimensions, by them we perceive the 
character of surfaces and, in abnormal cases, distinguish 
colors. But the importance of this sense as a knowl- 
edge-giver it seems to me may best be understood by 
an analysis of the manner in which our primary per- 
ceptions must have been obtained. In doing this we 
must of course argue largely from analogy, we must 
argue back from known experiences and processes to 
what can never be said to be actually known to have 
taken place. Yet this inferential knowledge aided by 
facts derived from observation among infants and 
young children will be of as reliable and stable a 
character as any knowledge gained in any other sphere 
in a similar way. And here we see the advantages 
to be gained from a general education of the people. 
Knowledge resembles money placed out at a good 
rate of compound interest, each new acquisition very 
soon becoming itself productive. 

We must only hope that in the case of the knowledge 
as in the case of the money the investment may be a 
safe one. So if large numbers of intelligent men and 
women were educated to scientifically observe some 
occurrences and actions which are ordinarily not per- 
ceived or reflected upon at all, our knowledge would 
rapidly increase in reliableness and extent. Curiously 
enough it is the two senses which are of the highest 
intellectual rank which first come into operation, it is 
with the eye and the hand that effective perception 
commences. But the appropriateness of this order is 
at once recognized when we consider that the other 
senses could be applied to no use until they are con- 
nected with the external objects which excite them, 
by means of the muscular sense, by touch and by 
sight. Kow if it were possible to draw a distinction 
between the importance of the two highest senses, we 
should be inclined to exalt that of touch — a sense of 
which no human being can be deprived, and one by 
means of which intelligent perception is very early 
acquired. So in all those cases of abnormal develop- 
ment of the organs of one or more of the senses, or in 
the case of persons deprived of the use of one of these 
organs by disease or otherwise, the sense of touch 
stands out as the great compensator, supplying ably, in 
its increased efficiency derived from cultivation, the 
wants arising from the suppression of the other sources 
of perceptive knowledge. Indeed it is a question 
whether we do not all in our earliest days learn to per- 
ceive for a while as if we were blind. 

But not only does this sense give us our largest 
stock of knowledge of the external world ; it is 



capable also of giving us ideas of beauty to a larger 
extent than we ever give it credit for. In this respect, 
however, the capability ot the sense is rather ot a 
potential character, nor is its real power observed 
except when the more facile and grasping sense ot 
sight is deficient. 

The sense of touch is seen to be the most positive 
of all the senses when we consider the manner in 
which its sensations are excited, while these sensa- 
tions are the most forcible which we receive. But to 
my mind the most striking point with reference to 
touch is its extensiveness. In fact all the other 
sensations seem as it were to reduce to touch. The 
organ of the sense is the most extensive of any, and the 
organ of every other sense is also an organ of touch. 
We touch everything we taste, nor could we taste any- 
thing without touching it. There is also a sensibility 
of touch to vibrations. So much so that persons who 
are deprived of hearing may by means of touch (feel) 
music. In sight the organ may be said to be im- 
pinged upon by the etherial waves, although the eye 
cannot be literally said to touch the light. It was the 
fact of this connection of the tactual and muscular 
sensations with seeing, hearing, smelling and tasting 
which led Democritus to say that “ all the sensations 
were modifications of the s*mse of touch.” To the 
sense of touch there can be no doubt that we owe the 
first idea of matter, nor could any of the other senses 
ever have awakened it. The eye, for instance, is 
affected by nothing but light or color. This seems at 
first contrary to experience, but it has been clearly 
demonstrated by Bishop Berkeley. Magnitude, figure, 
distance cannot be seen, but are acquired by the sense 
of touch and the muscular sense. At the same time, 
however, that this process of acquisition by touch is 
going on, the ever-active sense of sight is being affected 
by certain associated differences of shade and light, 
dullness and brightness, etc., which occurring uniform- 
ly become inseparably associated in the mind with 
ideas which have really been acquired by touch. Thus 
the law of Irresistible and Instantaneous suggestion is 
brought into play, and these variations suggest irresis- 
tibly and instantaneously the ideas, which are thus 
credited to the sense of sight. 

We pity, and with reason, the deaf, the blind and 
the dumb, but I shall ask. in conclusion what kind of 
being that would be which did not possess the sense of 
touch? J. K. MUEEAY. 



Impoverished aristocrat : “ What dish, waitah, combines 
the greatest, ah, luxury with the least expense ? ” Waiter : 
“ Codfish and cream, fifteen cents.” I. A.: “ And how much 
tor the codfish, ah, plain ?” “Waiter: Same price, sir.” 
I. A.: « Waitah, bring me some, ah, cream. ” — Lampoon . 

I Saw. 

I saw 

A gentle maiden,— aye, so lovely, too,— 

A sturdy youth near by, alack ! too true. 

I saw 

fj. 1 ® there ; but where on earth's his arm, I wonder ? 
Where? Round my girl’s waist it is, by thunder ! 

-Tech. 

FOR MAKING A SEMINARY MAN. 

Take a little egotism, 

And a slice of skepticism, 

Mix well together with a “ culchaired” Boston drawl; 

Add a little Darwinism, 

Just a smack of positivism, 

And flavor with the essence of unmitigated gall. 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



7 



A BALLAD 

(Translated prom Andre Yan Hasselt.) 

“ 0 restless Swallow ! thou whose wings 
Skim the gray clouds in sportive rings, 

Hast thou beheld mine own true knight” 

“Fair Dame l he has not blest my sight.” 

Gay Lark ! that soarest far on high, 

A lessening speck amid the sky, 

Say, hast thou marked the form I love?” 

K My glance hath aye been turned above.*' 

“ Thou Wood! beneath whose leafy dome 
Soft mm murs of the summer roam, 

Here did my lover chance to stray ? ” 

“No foot hath trod my paths to-day.” 

“ ..Erial Crag! on whose dim crest 
The eagle strews her careless nest, 

Hath horse or horseman met thine eye ? ” 
u N o cavalier hath ridden by.” 

“ White foaming Torrent ! tell me where 
My warrior with the golden hair 
O’er the dark waters did he leap?” 

“Down in their depths he lies asleep! ” 

GEO. MURRAY. 



JFlclBill News. 



CORPORATION MEETINGS. 

As our readers are no doubt eager to know what 
transpired at the late corporation meetings, we have 
prepared the following summary of the proceedings : 
At the first meeting, the lion. I). A. Smith, who, by 
the way, has been appointed a governor, was present, 
and offered to give “ at least $50,000 more ” if the 
corporation would agree to maintain the separate 
classes. From a trustworthy source we learn, that the 
amount he really contemplates giving is $100,000, 
making his whole gift the very handsome sum of 
$150,000. 

The Vice-Dean then read the following report from 
the Faculty, and it was eventually (at the second meet- 
ing) adopted. 

REPORT. 

At the adjourned meeting of the Corporation, the following 
report of the Faculty of Arts on arrangements for classes for 
women in the 3rd and 4th years of the special course in Arts, 
in accordance with the following resolution of Corporation, 
was presented by the Vice-Dean of the Faculty : — 

“That the Corporation is desirous to continue the education 
of the women who have entered its classes to the final ex- 
aminations, and that the Faculty of Arts be requested, as soon 
as possible, to report on the best methods of effecting this, 
either in separate or mixed classes, for the third and fourth 
years.” 

Three questions require to be considered with reference to 
the above : I. The methods of teaching and arrangement of 

classes. II. The class-rooms required. III. The expense. 
Only the first of these properly belongs to the Faculty of Arts, 
but the others require to be kept in view, with reference to 
any arrangements proposed. 

1. METHODS ATD ARRANGEMENTS. 

In considering the matters referred to it under the above 
resolution, the Faculty has had before it three methods in 



which the education of the third and fourth years may be 
conducted. 1st. Separate Classes. 2nd. Mixed Classes. 3rd. 

A combination of both. The work to be provided for is 
divided into : 1st. Ordinary Subjects. 2nd. Additional Subjects. 
3rd. Honor Subjects. 

1 st Ordinary Subjects of the Third Year. 

These are divided into Imperative and Optional, as follows : 
Imperative. — Latin or Greek, Mechanics and Hydrostatics. 
Optional, two of which to be selected by each student. — 
French or German, English and Rhetoric, Experimental 
Physics, Zoology. 

It is recommended : (1st), That the two Imperative Sub- 
jects shall be provided for in separate Classes. The Classical 
Subjects under Dr. Cornish, and the Mathematical under Dr. 
Johnson; Mr. Mulgan relieving Dr. Cornish from the Junior 

Classes. 

(2), That the Optional Subjects be divided into two groups, 
in one of which the Classes shall be separate and in the other 
mixed, as follows : 

In Separate Classes. — Experimental Physics, Zoology, Ger- 
man. In Mixed Classes. — English and Rhetoric, French. 

2nd. Ordinary Subjects of the Fourth Year . 

These are divided into Imperative and Optional, as follows : 
Imperative. — Latin or Greek, Astronomy and Optics, Mental 
and Moral Philosophy. But as the Professor of Mental and 
Moral Philosophy is unable to duplicate that course, it is re- 
commended that for women it be transferred to the Optional 
Subjects, and that each student take three of the latter. Op- 
tional, of which three to be taken by each student : Mental 
and Moral Philosophy, Experimental Physics, French or Ger- 
man, History, Geology. 

It is recommended that the two Imperative Subjects be pro 
vided for in the same manner as in the third year, and that 
the Optional Subjects be divided into two groups, as follows : 
In separate classes — Experimental Physics, Geology, German, 
Mechanics and Hydrostatics. (No lectures are given in the 
fourth year in this subject.) In mixed classes — Mental and 
Moral Philosophy, History, French. By the above scheme 
female students will have the privilege of proceeding to the 
Degree Examination by attending only classes which are 
separate, and at the same time they may, if willing to join 
mixed classes, take any other of the Optional Subjects of the 
Course. 

3rd. Honor and Additional Subjects. 

It is proposed that Women desirous of taking Honor 
Studies should take the same lectures provided for male 
students, and as the additional subjects are for the most part 
portions of the Honor Subjects, this must also apply to them. 
It is recommended, however, that women should have the 
privilege of taking another ordinary subject instead of the 
« Additional.” 

II.— ROOMS. 

If the wdiole work could be done in separate classes, there 
need be no expense incurred for rooms, as accommodation 
could be provided for all the four years in the Peter Redpath 
Museum. The necessity of using apparatus requires that the 
classes in Experimental Physics shou'd be held in the Centre 
Building of the College ; but this could be arranged for by 
delivering the lectures in the afternoon, and entering as at 
present to the Chemistry Class by the corridor door. For the 
mixed classes, if limited, as in the above scheme, two new 
class rooms, with a waiting room and separate entrance, will 
be required, and these could probably be best secured by add- 
ing a second story and extension in the rear to the east cor- 
ridor. There would thus be three or four good class rooms in 
this corridor, accessible both from its separate entrance and 
from the centre building. The chemical laboratory might be 
in part in the extension, and room could thus be secured for a 
proper waiting-room for the classes of women, who might 
enter by the corridor entrance, while the Laboratory might 
have a separate entrance in rear. 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



III. — EXPENSE. 

This might be estimated in regard to the ordinary subjects, 
under the three methods previously stated, viz : 1st. For en- 
tirely Separate Classes. 2nd. For entirely Mixed Classes. 
3rd. For Partial Separation, as in above scheme. The first 
arrangement would require no expense for rooms, unless the 
classes became much larger than at present, and in this case 
the fees might cover the interest of the outlay, it would, 
however, require considerable expenditure for teaching, which 
might be estimated at $3,000 to $4,000 per annum, if all the 
options now given to men were allowed to women. The second 
method would require no expenditure for lectures, but consid- 
erable expense for rooms, probably the adding of a story to 
each of the corridors and changes in the centre building, with 
the salary of a lady superintendent. The third method, or 
that above recommended, would require some expenditure, 
say $4,000, for additional rooms for the Mixed Classes, and 
an annual outlay of between $2,000 and $3,000. The above 
estimates do not refer to such contingent expenses as would 
be alike under either system ; but these need not be consider- 
able, and would probably be met by the fees collected. 

In event of students in the classes for women advancing to 
the Degree Examinations, the question remains whether the 
degree given should be that of B. A., with all its privileges of 
higher degrees, etc., or whether it should be that of Licentiate 
in Arts, or a Certificate of having passed in the examinations ; 
all these methods being in use in different Universities. With 
reference te the Medals, Prizes, Exhibitions, and Scholarships 
in Arts, it is suggested by the Faculty that, if agreeable to the 
wishes of the donors or their representatives, these should he 
open to women for competition, at least until sufficient sepa- 
rate endowments shall be provided for them. The Hannah 
Willard Lyman endowment is already an example of this, and 
its income will be for competition in the Special Course for 
Women alone. Such separate endowments are considered 
desirable, because of the small number available for either 
sex, and also because one of the chief dangers to be dreaded in 
classes for women is a too severe competition, causing injury 
to health, and because the conditions of competition as be- 
tween women and men are necessarily somewhat different 
from those of competition between students of one sex. 

A. Johnson, LL. D., 
Vice-Dean Faculty of Arts. 

The following resolutions were adopted : 

“ That the report on the arrangements for classes for wo- 
men in the 3rd and 4th years be received and adopted, and 
remitted to the Faculty of Arts, in order that it may draw up 
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out its recom- 
mendations.” 

u That the report now adopted be referred to the Board of 
Governors for their information and action therein.” 

Other Business. 

Mr. R. A. Ramsay moved that the proceedings of 
the corporation he kept secret. This resolution was 
strongly opposed, and some of the members declared 
they would not be bound by it, if it were passed. On 
the suggestion of Mr. Abbott, the resolution was re- 
ferred to a special committee for consideration, and 
the meeting adjourned, subject to the call of the Chan- 
cellor. 

Corporation re-assembled on February 11, when the 
special committee on Mr. Ramsay’s motion reported 
that resolutions passed by corporation should be given 
to the press, that each member should be at liberty to 
disclose the stand taken by himself in any discussion, 
but should not make known the opinions expressed by 
others. The report was adopted, as also that of the 
Faculty, with some very slight modification. An 
agreement was arrived at that no money should be 



spent upon the ladies’ classes, outside of the revenue 
from the Smith endowment ; and a motion was unani- 
mously passed instructing the Governors to strengthen 
the Arts Faculty at the earliest possible time by the 
appointment of three additional professors. Informa- 
tion was also given to the meeting that a satisfactory 
arrangement had been made, whereby ladies coming 
to the city to attend the Art classes would he provided 
with hoard and lodgings. The governors have, in 
addition, made provision for a students’ dining-hall, 
which will come into operation at the opening of next 
session. 



THE SCIENCE DINNER. 

On Thursday evening last the science faculty held 
in the Ladies’ Ordinary of the Windsor, their fifth 
annual dinner. Among the forty-two McGill men, 
past and present, that sat down were Mr. Mignault, 
without whom a science dinner would not be a success, 
the irrepressible Harry, who achieved the only break- 
age of the evening, and Mr. J. H. Burland, who has 
done so much for his faculty, and to whose assistance 
the committee of this dinner — as of former dinners — 
owe much. 

The tastefulness and novelty of the designs of the 
menu card, which equals, if it does not excel, those of 
previous years, was a warranty for the solidity and 
allurements of the viands; and the manner in which 
these disappeared showed that the guarantee was 
upheld. 

For quite a time after the commencement of the 
dinner conversation was not general and only a few 
heart-broken remarks over the French names on the 
menu card joined the clatter of knives and forks. 
But as jaws tired and vest expanded, the tongue 
loosened and now, and then a long drawn sigh told 
that the limits of human endurance had been reached. 

Liquors were not proscribed hut the dinner was 
conducted most temperately, and while the genial 
wine in some cases made usually quiet spirits merry 
the result was a greater amount of festivity without 
any annoyance. 

After the dinner had received full justice Mr. Tren- 
holme, the president, rose and made a very humorous 
speech. He said that it was his duty as engineer-in- 
chief to report upon the work just completed. It was 
well done and a consisted partly in “ excavations ” 
but chiefly in “ filling-in ” and all he now hoped for 
was that the foundations would prove strong enough 
to resist the coming inundation. He thought that°to 
science is due much of the world’s advancement, and 
with a grasp possible only to a graduate brought into 
his speech the whole realm of knowledge. His test 
for alcoholization is infallable and should be remem- 
bered. He traced in figurative language this history 
of Science from Biblical times and, after considering 
the beauties of scientific terminology, touched briefly 
upon the late slope of the freshmen. 

Time and space will not allow of even a resume of ' 
the speeches that followed and this is the more unfortu- 
nate because many were well worth repitition. Messrs. 
McCarthy, Mignault, Burland, Crossley, distinguished 
themselves in their various manners ; and the short 



1885.] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



history of our faculty given by Mr. Burland was wel- 
come to all who are interested in its growth. 

Mr. Crossley paid a tribute to Dr. Harrington, 
“ who is ever ready to help us all from the least to 
the greatest” and at the mention of the name, there 
was enthusiastic applause. Dr. Harrington’s healtli 
was then drunk. 

The representatives from Arts and Medicine made 
telling speeches, and on behalf of Mr. Greenshields of 
Law, who could not attend, Mr. Roy made a short 
speech in French in explanation of his friend’s absence. 

Between the speeches, music and even dancing took 
up the time. The first song was a solo by Mr. Brown, 
assisted in the chorus by the Glee Club, and his rich 
voice trolled forth the inspiring strains of “ Solomon 
Levi ” until the chandeliers trembled in the Hood of 
melody. The applause that greeted the conclusion 
was hearty and well merited. 

Mr. Darey’s rendering of the “ Hunter’s March” 
produced an encore , and Mr. Walters seemed able to 
play his banjo in any position. He too was encored 
and kept his hearers entranced just as long as he wished 
to play. Mr. Lesage both in his song and speech 
received much applause. 

But one must stop somewhere. Never before has 
the Windsor held a more jovial set. Let us hope 
that when those who sat down to the dinner last 
Thursday shall have passed from the halls of McGill 
their places will be filled by as sympathetic a gather- 
ing. and, that they themselves may again on a similar 
occasion join once more as graduates in the toast of 
“ Alma Mater 



College Ulorlb. 



President McCosh attended ten colleges and gra- 
duated from six. 

The state of Ohio is reported to have more colleges 
and ministers than the whole of Europe. 

The indigent students of Dartmouth receive $5000 
yearly from the State of New Hampshire. 

The Yale faculty has refused all applications from 
dropped men to be allowed to rejoin their classes. 

Prof. Sylvester, the great mathematician, late of 
Johns-IIopkins LTniversity, is now an instructor at 
Oxford. 

Senator Anthony bequeathed to Brown University 
his library of poetry; amounting to 6,000 volumes ; also 
$ 12 , 000 . 

It is estimated that from $2,000 to $3,000 worth of 
apparel was destroyed in the recent cane rush at the 
Scientific School at Yale. 

Co-education in athletics is the latest. The students 
of Michigan University propose to have a mixed tennis 
tournament next spring. 

Two scholarships will be established next year at 
Harvard, by members of the class ot ’55, which will 
each yield $300 annually. — 



The New Haven schools have abolished the marking 
system, and substituted general reviews and examin- 
ations about every two months. 

Two new buildings are needed for the accommoda- 
tion of the scientific and industrial departments of 
the state University of Nebraska. 

Professor Albert Harkness of Brown, recently 
appointed director of the American classical school at 
Athens, has declined the honor. 

The editors of the Harvard Crimson propose to 
issue a literary supplement devoted to serious compo- 
sitions on interesting subjects. 

The Collegian is the name of a new monthly publish- 
ed in New York and devoted to the interest of colleges 
and college graduates. It will be conducted by the 
aid of an Advisory Committee of fifteen, one from each 
of the prominent colleges. 

Italy has declared its seventeen universities open 
to women, and Switzerland, Norway, Sweden and 
Denmark have taken similar action, while France has 
opened the Sorbonne to women, and Russia its highest 
schools of medicine and surgery. 

A petition for co-education was presented to the 
trustees uf Adelbert College, Cleveland. It was sev- 
enty-two feet long and contained 4,000 names. The 
trustees decided in favor by a vote of 12 to 6. Several 
male students have left the institution in consequence. 

The Advocate , the oldest of Harvard’s papers, has 
been compelled through financial difficulties to appeal 
to the students of the University for increased sup- 
port. The Lampoon is in a similar unenviable posi- 
tion. To both journals we express our most sincero 
sympathy, and our hope that the responses to their 
appeals may be most encouraging. 

An electrical paper reports a new device for aiding 
base ball umpires in their arduous duties. An under- 
ground wire forms a circuit with all the bases. When 
the base runner touches the plate, an electric bell rings 
in a small tower near the umpire’s position. It is to be 
hoped that this device will be fully tested next season, 
and, if found useful, adopted all over the country. 

University Confederation. — The matter of Univer- 
sity federation moves on. It is now about certain 
that Victoria will accept the scheme, and about 
equally certain that Queen’s will not. Trinity is 
doubtful, with the chances, perhaps, against union. 
Every one who has the cause of education at heart 
will look with interest at the present action and the 
future progress of Queen’s. Will she be over-shadow- 
ed, and finally extinguished, by the superior magnitude 
of Toronto, or has she vitality enough and resources 
enough in her eastern constituency to maintain a vi- 
gorous life ? The views of her supporters, and their 
reasons for declining to enter the union, may be sup- 
posed to be pretty well expressed in the late address 
by the Principal in Kingston. It must be admitted, 
that, on the whole, he makes out a fairly strong case, 
though many of his arguments appear to us to be quite 
wide of the mark. The authorities of Queens appear 
to congratulate themselves on the fact that, in the 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[ 1885 . 



\ 



scheme, a principle has been recognized for which 
they have long contended, viz., that more than one 
Arts college is needed in Ontario for teaching puposes. 
It appears to us that the principle recognized is rather 
that in very many subjects one teaching staff is quite 
sufficient. That several colleges are needed to teach 
other subjects arises, not so much from the fact that 
one faculty would be unable to overtake the work, as 
from religious or denominational reasons. On the 
general question as to whether centralization is desir- 
able, Principal Grant instances, in support of his 
position, that it is not ; the case of 4 4 Massachusetts 
with her Harvard, Williams, Amherst and Boston 
universities, all doing noble work, “ and not costing 
the State a dollar : ” Connecticut, with Yale, Trinity 
and Wesleyan ; and so on. The comparison does not 
prove much. If we, in Ontario could point to a num- 
ber of universities which 44 counted their endowments 
in millions,” and which, with the equipment of these 
American Colleges , “ did not cost the State a dollar,” 
it might be easier to show that centrilization was not 
desirable. But until we have at least one university 
that approaches a proper equipment in men, buildings 
and apparatus, this aigument will not have much force. 

Queens’ strongest point lies in the question which 
they have a right to ask, and which they do ask : 
whether they can afford to move, and whether it would 
be right for them to move from Kingston, which has 
done so much for them. Knox Coll. Monthly 



MODERN IDEAS AT HARVARD. 

(From the Springfield Republican.) 

Cambridge, Feb. 17. — To-day the Faculty of Har“ 
vard College made a complete revision of the system 
of examination for admissions, adopting in large 
measure the ideas of those Professors who have so 
long been urging war uj on the classicists of the 
college. The importance of the step can be estimated 
when it is known that now for the hrst time can a 
student get the degree of A. B. from an old and 
powerful American college without ever having 
opened a Greek book in his life. 

The new system is in effect a compromise between 
the classicists and the scientists. No student is to be 
admitted without having studied at least one dead 
language ; no student can come in without having 
done some practical work in science. All must know 
more or less of the vital modern languages — English, 
French, and German, though between French and 
German there is still option. Hereafter the examin- 
ations for admission to Harvard will embrace two 
classes of studies, elementary and advanced, as fol- 
lows : 

I. — ELEMENTARY. 

1. English — (The amount of reading to be some- 
what increased.) 

2. Greek — The translation at sight of simple Attic 
prose. 

3. Latin — The translation at sight of simple prose. 

4. German — The translation at sight of simple prose. 

5. French — The translation at sight of ordinary 
prose. 



6. History — Ancient history and geography, (as at 
present,) or history of England and the United States. 

7. Mathematics — Algebra, through quadratic equa- 
tions : plane geometry. 

8. Physical science — Either (1) astronomy and phys- 
ics or (2) a course of experiments in the subjects of 
mechanics, sound, light, heat, and electricity, not 
less than 40 in number, actually performed at school 
by the pupils. 

The Faculty requests all teachers who can command 
the necessary apparatus to present their pupils in the 
second of these alternatives. 

II. — ADVANCED STUDIES. 

1. Greek — The translation at sight of average pas- 
sages from Homer, or the translation at sight of less 
difficult passages from both Homer and Herodotus. 

2. Latin — The translation at sight of average pas- 
sages from Cicero and Virgil. 

3. Greek and Latin composition — To be based on 
prescribed passages of Greek and Latin authors. 

4. German — Lessing, Schiller, Goethe, etc. Trans- 
lation at sight of modern German prose. Grammar 
and composition. 

5. French — George Sand, La Fontaine, Moliere, &c. 
Translation at sight of modern French prose. Gram- 
mar and composition. 

6. Mathematics — Logarithms, plane trigonometry, 
with its applications to surveying and navigation. 

7. Mathematics — Either the elements of analytic 
geometry or solid geometry ; elementary mechanics. 

8. Physical science — Physics, a course of at least 60 
experiments, in addition to those of the elementary 
physics eight (two,) selected from the same or similar 
laboratory manuals and covering the same subjects, 
but demanding more skill and more knowledge of 
physical theories and laws. 

9. Physical science — Chemistry, a course of at least 
60 experiments in “ general chemistry ” actually per- 
formed at school by the pupils. 

From these studies the candidate must make a 
selection. He can satisfy the requirements by pre- 
senting himself : 

(a) On all the elementary studies and on at least 
two of the advanced studies. 

(b) On all the elementary studies, with the excep- 
tion of either German or French, and on at least three 
of the advanced studies. 

(c) On all the elementary studies, with the excep- 
tion of either Greek or Latin, and on at least four 
advanced studies, including 6 and one of the three 
numbered 7. 8, and 9. 

(d) On all the elementary studies, with the Excep- 
tion of either Greek and Latin and of either German 
or French, and on at least five advanced studies, 
including 6 and one of the three numbered 7, 8, and 

9. 

It will be seen from the above that a great number 
of combinations can be made, and that every man can 
suit himself. The method in which the great majority 
of students now enter college is preserved in the com- 
bination under method b of all the elementary studies 
except 4, with advanced studies 1, 2, and 3. But 
even in this important modifications are to be noticed : 



1885 .] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



11 



In the first place there is a reduction, and a consider- 
able one, in the amount of the present prescribed 
Latin. Greek remains about the same, with the excep- 
tion that in this as in Latin, the boy can very easily 
get rid of the present much detested and, in many 
minds, entirely useless requirements in composition. 
Then, in French there is a moderate increase in the 
amount to be read. German, too, will probably be 
slightly harder. As to English, it is to be remarked 
that the subject is put at the head of the list, where 
it ought to be, though it is to be doubted if this pro- 
minence will go further. “ For ten years past,” as 
President Eliot has said, “ Harvard University has 
been trying, first, to stimulate the preparatory schools 
to give attention to English, and secondly, to develop 
and improve its own instruction in that department ; 
but its success thus far has been very moderate.” 
And it bids fair to be very moderate for a long while 
to come. All that is now required is to read several 
specified books and to write a composition on some 
subject selected therefrom. 

The most significant changes are in the scientific 
requirements. It is now almost ten years since can- 
didates were first examined on any of the natural 
sciences, and it is generally conceded that the experi- 
ment has been practically a failure. It has been 
such not through any inherent fault, but through the 
failure of the preparatory schools to co-operate heartily. 
It is hoped that under the new system this will be 
obviated. The laboratory work required will force 
the schools to teach the sciences thoroughly. In the 
second of the alternatives, in elementary physics, in 
advanced phisics, and in chemistry, the candidate will 
be required to pass both a written and a laboratory 
examination. The written examination will be direct- 
ed to testing the candidate’s knowledge of experiments 
and experimenting, as well as his knowledge of the 
principles and results of the respective sciences. The 
laboratory examination will be directed to testing his 
skill in experimenting. The candidate will be requir- 
ed to hand in the original note book in which he 
recorded the steps and results of the experiments 
which he performed at school, and this note book 
must bear the indorsement of his teacher, certifying 
that the notes are a true record of the pupil’s work. 
This will compel every preparatory school to provide 
laboratories and suitable instruction. There will be 
no more “ cramming up ” of physics and chemistry. 

The eight elementary studies are not supposed to 
be equivalent to each other, and they will not have 
the same weight in the examinations. Greek, Latin, 
and Mathematics will continue to have, as they now 
have, much greater weight than any of the rest. I he 
advanced studies are supposed to be equivalent in 
regard to time spent upon them at school, and they 
will have the same weight in the examinations. 



MEDICAL DRAMA. 

Act I. Scene Demonstration R%om. Innocent Freshman to 
stately senior : 11 Please tell me who the Zytes are ’? Are 
you one ? ” Act II. Un-expected explanation. Act III. 
Janitor C — K mopping up the remains of the curious freshman 
with a sheet of blotting paper, and remaking : “ A very 

dezyted answer.” 



OVER THE WAY. 

Over the way, when the shadows are falling, 
Bright gleams a window just opposite mine ; 

Thence — all my senses with pleasure enthralling 
Warbles a voice that is almost divine. 

Over the way, though it be but an alley 
Fenced in by long yards prosaic and plain, 

Often I gaze, while with text-books I dally, 
Waiting to catch — through that mystical pane 

Over the way — one more glimpse of a vision 
Queenly, yet graciously smiling on me, 

Framed in lace curtains — a picture elysian, 
Cheering the heart of the student to see. 

Over the way, oh tuneful piano, 

Shall thy fair mistress my Loreley be? 

While for her song I’m neglecting my Ganot, 
Annuals, harder than rocks, wait for me. — Tech. 



Societies. 



STUDENTS’ Y. M. C. A. 

Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy of University Street have 
given another proof of their kindly feeling towards 
students. Through the Social Committee of the Y. 
M. C. A., they invited the members of the association 
for Saturday evening the 13th ult. About 30 re- 
sponded and a pleasant evening was spent in their 
home-like drawing-room. 

Last Sunday at the usual students’ religious meeting, 
Mr. Edgar introduced the subject of medical mission 
work, and gave us some account of this important and 
rapidly growing branch of missionary endeavor, with 
especially reference to Japan. It is computed that 
there are one billion people without proper medical 
treatment, who have to endure instead all kinds of 
quackery and incantation and jugglery. On the other 
hand it is estimated that in America alone there are 
100,000 doctors and 15,000 students. Most of the 
skilled physicians now in these foreign lands have 
been sent out by missionary associations, to do what 
Christian preaching and work they can, along with 
their medical practice. A doctor going out under 
their direction is supplied with instruments, etc., is 
paid for two years and is also supplied with a teacher 
of the native language. He is expected to establish a 
hospital as soon as possible. Next get a medical college 
started with himself as dean and lecturer and demon- 
strators in which he will train native Christians as 
physicians to attend his work. In Japan Dr. Hepburn 
began this work 20 years ago, the first year he treated 
500 cases, but in the fourth year 5000. The men sent 
out by the missionary boards must satisfy the mis- 
sionary boards of their thorough Christian character, 
and should have a good literary and the best medical 
education, a strong constitution, common sense and 
good executive powers. It is expected that medical 
missions will be brought before our students by D. L. 
Wishard next Fall in connection with the Inter- 
Seminary Missionary Alliance Convention. 



/ 



12 McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1885. 



Undergraduates Literary Society. 

The regular meeting of the above society was held 
on Friday the 20th inst., Mr. Henderson in the chair. 
The order of business having been disposed of Mr. 
Pedley was appointed critic for the evening. J. 
Topp commenced the programme by reading an essay 
on Secret Societies. He gave an interesting account 
of the origination of secret societies, and showed the 
fondness of human nature to peer into the mysterious, 
and to become a treasury of information never to be 
imported. As the essay was opposed to secret societies 
in general, it is expected the Masons, Orangemen, 
Zytes, etc., will follow the example of K-21-K and 
content themselves with being members of a universal 
brotherhood. R. B. O’Sullivan followed with a reading 
— “ The Bashful Man.”— Those of the members present 
who had not heard Mark Twain during his recent 
visit were relieved from all mental depression while 
O. B. held the floor. 

“ Resolve l that the general use of tobacco should 
be discontinued ” was the subject for debate. Mr. 
Rossignol, in a well prepared speech replete with con- 
vincing facts, presented the evils of tobacco-using in 
such a maimer that those addicted to the weed began 
to be troubled. Their fears were allayed, however, 
when G. H. Bell mounted the rostrum. Dealing with 
the subject in a truly scientific spirit, he proved to a 
demonstration that tobacco, used in reasonable quan- 
tities, conduced to the physical and mental well being 
of mankind. The time being limited, he did not 
treat very fully of the moral aspect. The debate was 
well sustained by the succeeding speakers Messrs. 
Pritchard, Patterson, and MacCallum volunteering for 
the occasion. An old acquaintance, one whose face had 
not been seen for some time at the Literary, upheld 
the cause of the tobacconist in a style peculiarly his 
own, and vindicated his right and title to the honor 
that attaches to the name of E. de F. Holden. 

The affirmative won by a small majority. The not 
unpleasant task of reading his report was then per- 
formed by the critic, after which the Society, in con- 
sequence of the annual meeting of the McGill 
Athletic Association to be Held on Friday 27th inst., 
adjourned for two weeks. 



fcorresponbence. 



To the Editors of the McGill University Gazette : 

Dear Sirs, — In the last number of your paper there 
appeared a letter, signed “ X,” which is calculated to 
do me very serious injury in the estimation of those 
who are unacquainted with the circumstances so falsely 
represented by Mr. G. F. Palmer, the “ X ” of that 
letter. To rightly explain the matters mentioned by 
him, it will be necessary for me to refer to the history 
of The University Gazette management. When the 
first editorial Committee of that paper assembled, three 
years ago, it was decided that the Editor-in-chief should 
be, in the words used in the resolution, “ an autocrat” 
— should be supreme in authority and alone respon- 
sible for the editorial utterances. This arrangement, ne- 
cessitated as it was by the circumstances of the paper, 



r was continued last session. It was found, however, 
that the other members of the staff did not co-operate 
heartily with the editor-in-chief, and this year I pro- 
posed to the new board that, as far as possible, editorial 
matter should be laid before them lor judgment, and 
it was so agreed. All the “copy” for the first number 
received the approval of the whole staff, which regu- 
larly attended the first three meetings of the board. 
The fourth meeting, at which the editorial for the 
second number was to have been submitted, was not 
held, for the simple reason that at the time appointed 
I alone presented myself at the place of meeting. 
When the second number appeared, it contained an 
article which did not meet the approval of the editors, 
and their fifth meeting was attended by all. I then 
explained at length the reasons which induced me to 
write the objectionable article, and gave in full detail 
the information upon which it was based. I also said 
that, whenever questioned, I had assumed the respon- 
sibility for, and the authorship of, the article in ques- 
tion, and was perfectly willing to continue to do so, 
explaining that in every paper, the chief editor was 
alone accountable for its contents. The other editors 
were of opinion, however, that they should share with 
me any responsibility there might be in regard to The 
Gazette, and expressed a wish to see all the editorial 
before it was printed, complaining that while they 
were forced by the explanation I had made to agree 
with me as regards the matter of the article, yet its 
tone was unnecessarily harsh. In reply I told them 
they might have seen the editorial in question before 
it appeared, had they attended the meeting of the pre- 
vious Thursday ; that, under the circumstances, I held 
myself blameless in the matter ; that I saw many diffi- 
culties attending the carrying out of their request, but 
that I would make an effort to comply with it. With 
that understanding we separated. Matters then went 
smoothly until the meeting at which all the editorial 
for the fourth number was submitted, when only four 
members including myself attended. Afterwards the 
difficulties I had forseen occurred. These were : — 1. 
My own spare time was so limited, and occurred at 
such irregular intervals, that 1 never knew for any 
space beforehand what time I could snatch for the 
affairs of The Gazette. Yet I was obliged to read 
all “ copy,” to write most of the editorial .to make fre- 
quent visits to the printer, and to correct all the 
“ proofs.” This meant from fifteen to twenty hours 
of hard work each fortnight. 2. It was impossible to 
have “ proofs” ready for any one day, the printer justly 
deeming that he was fulfilling his contract when the 
paper was published within a day or two of the stipu- 
lated date. It was thus impossible for me either to 
write the editorial in time for the meeting at which 
“ copy” was called in, or yet to say with certainty that 
on a fixed day the “ proofs” would be ready. These 
difficulties were appreciated by my associates, the 
agreement between us was generally understood to be 
an impossible one; and no attempt was made to insist 
upon its being fulfilled. I heard no* further criticism 
from them of my policy, and as events developed, 
several came round to my way of thinking. I received 
much encouragement too from divers of the graduates, 
one of the most prominent of them having even offered 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



13 



1885.] 



me financial aid to sustain the paper, should it he in 
difficulties. 

Let me come now to the different complaints made 
by Mr. Palmer. He says an injustice was done by 
my having identified my associates with myself in the 
last article I wrote for The Gazette. How could that 
be when they always insisted upon sharing with me the 
responsibility for what appeared, when they ceased to 
protest against the course 1 was taking, and when 
some of them even encouraged me in it ? His assertion 
that I was the sole member of the staff, not only to 
hold the opinions which the past few numbers of The 
Gazette have adopted, but even to have any sym- 
pathy with them,” is not only entirely untrue, but in 
making it Mr. Palmer commits the very crime which 
he charges was perpetuated by me — that of speaking 
for others with whom he has had no communication. 
In making the further assertion “ that for some time 
past it was seen by his assistant editors that Mr. 
Turner’s views and their own as to the scope and ob- 
ject of a college journal, were widely at variance,” 
Mr. Palmer is again indulging his peculiar talent for 
misrepresentation. It is indeed true that Mr. Palmer 
once or twice said he did not think a college 
paper should criticise the authorities ; but I am happy 
to say that in this opinion he was in a minority of one, 
the other members of the board only differing with me 
as to the manner in which that criticism should be 
made. Had Mr. Palmer objected strongly to the 
policy pursued by me, and found his protest pass un- 
heeded, the proper course for him would have been 
to resign his position, and so bring the matter before 
the shareholders. Had he wished, even at the twelfth 
hour, to repudiate his own share of responsibity for 
what has been said, it would have been more manly, 
as well as more honest, to have written for himself, 
over his own signature. Instead of pursuing either of 
these straightforward courses, he has attempted to 
shield himself behind a nom de plume, and has written 
as if he spoke for the whole board. Since his letter 
appeared I have been at some pains to learn its history , 
and have found it to be as follows : In the last article 
which I wrote, and which has been unfortunate in 
more ways than one, there occurs a sentence which 
has been held by one of the Medical professors to 
identify Mr. Palmer with the writer of a letter upon 
the dissecting room, which was published earlier in 
the session. This same professor went to the trouble 
of charging Mr. Palmer with the authorship of that let- 
ter and even, so I have heard, threatened him, saying 
the professors “would know what to do with him. 
Mr. Palmer, honestly enough, denied having written 
the letter. However, the threat I speak of, which was 
probably nothing but a grim joke, seems to have de- 
cided Mr. Palmer that his only hope of getting a sheep- 
skin next April would rest upon his success in dis- 
crediting me ; and he has since worked steadily for 
that end. Notwithstanding the fact that he had placed 
his resignation in the hands of the directors (unfoi 
tunately he did not do so in writing, but through one 
of his friends) he, in a manner, seized upon the man- 
aging editorship. He was the willing horse ne^ oo ' 
the “copy ” to the printer, and read the “proofs. Jie 
persisted in inserting his letter in the face of the pro- 



tests of the remaing editors of the old board ; and then, 
when he had fired his bomb, he discovered that the 
pressure of his work necessitated the placing of his 
resignation once more in the hands of the directors. 
His action throughout was so manly that I am lost in 
admiration. He has developed a genius that even I 
had never given him credit for. His sheep-shin lias 
been well earned. 

The last of Mr. Palmer’s falsehoods I have still to 
expose. He says the editorials in the last two numbers 
were published “ without the knowledge of a single 
member of the staff.” As a matter of fact, outside of the 
editorials in the second number, there were only two 
which were not seen by some one or moie of the 
editors, before they were published, and they were 
unimportant. The editorial in No. 6, of which he 
seems to complain most, was seen by two members of 
the board, besides myself. They saw nothing objec- 
tionable in it, nor did I, for it contained nothing new. 

In conclusion, I w T ish to say a few words about one 
or two passages in the opening editorial of last number 
which seem to reflect upon me. In speaking to the 
writer of that article, I learned that nothing of that 
nature was intended, but that the passages were, as I 
suspected, infelicities merely. Had the last number 
of The Gazette contained a report of' the shareholders’ 
annual meeting, no explanation from me would have 
been needed. The first unfortunate sentence is this : 

“ At that meeting the members of the old staff were, 
with one exception, re-elected.” In reality, the whole 
of the old staff, owing to a change of the constitution, 
were continued in office until May next. I resigned 
because, as I explained, I am about to leave the city 
and will be absent for several months. I did not think 
it fair that I should enjoy the credit of being editor- 
in-chief, while some one else did the work. Again, 
speaking of criticisms, the writer says : “ All we ask is 
that these be given in a friendly manner and dictated 
by an honest motive,” This sentence has been con- 
strued by some as an attack upon me, though I am 
satisfied the author did not so mean it. Still a few 
words in my own vindication will do no harm. What 
is an honest motive ? In closely criticising the actions 
of Corporation and the Faculty, I have had nothing 
to gain and much to lose, for by it I have sacrificed 
the good will of several men, whose respect I highly 
esteem. From the information with which I was all 
along amply supplied, 1 knew that many members of 
Corporation were voting against co-education, either 
from prejudice, not having made any effort to study 
the question on its merits, or because they thought the 
Principal’s judgment in such matters infallible. These 
men were so indolent, or cared so little about the 
matter, that they were not even reading the articles 
on the subject, which appeared in an evening paper. 
I believed that a little pithy writing, which would 
create some sensation, would rouse these men from 
their lethargy. I tried the specific and, in a way, it 
succeeded. It roused the sleepers to exasperation and 
a greater obstinacy than ever. 

As to the other topics which I took up, 1 said no- 
thing about them that I had not said in a milder man- 
ner last year. You say, in your last number Editors, 
Messrs, that experience has taught you “ that little 



14 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1885. 



good is effected bv harsh criticism.” So far as McGill 
matters are concerned, I agree with you, but think I 
can claim to have had most of the experience. 

Yours faithfully, 

W. H. TURNER. 



Between the Lectures. 



“ Sweets to sweet,” snickered the dude, as he passed 
the young lady boarder the sugar. “ Like cures like,” 
she replied, handing him the cold veal. 

An Indiana man, who was recently hanged, nodded 
to a minister who desired to give consolation, just 
before the drop fell, and said: “Pll see you later.” 
The minister is sorry he said anything now. 

A Londoner made a bet that he would invent a 
question to which fifty people would all give the same 
answer. He won the bet. The question was ; “ Have 
you heard that Smith has committed suicide !” And 
the answer in every case was : — “ What Smith V' — Ex. 

— Teacher, to infant class in Sunday school ; “ What 
is promised to the righteous 1 ” 

Chorus : “ Eternal bliss, marm.” 

Teacher : “And to the wicked 1 ” 

Thin voice, from bottom of class : “ Eternal blister.” 
(There was one penny less put on the plate that day.) 
— College Mercury . 

“ So you are the new girl,” said the boarders to the 
new waiter ; “ and by what name are we to call you? ” 
“ Pearl,” said the maid with a saucy toss of her head. 
“ Oh ! ” asked the smart boarder, “are you the pearl of 
great price ? ” “ No, I’m the pearl that was cast before 

swine.” There was a long silence broken only by the 
buzz of the flies in the milk pitcher. 

A diner at a table d'hote displays signs of 
irritation just because the waiter happens to have 
spilled a plate of soup over his coat. “ Don’t worry, 
sir, — don’t worry,” says the head waiter ; “ it is seven 
o’clock.” What in thunder has that got to do with 
it ? ” yells the victim. “ After half past six, sir ; our 
soup doesn’t grease ; hot water, sir ; that is all.” — Ex. 

— This is the way a Yassar girl tells a joke : “ Oh, 
girls, I heard just the best thing to-day. It was too 
funny. I can’t remember how it came about, but one 
of the girls said to Prof. Mitchell — oh dear, I can’t 
remember what she said, but Prof. Mitchell’s answer 
was just too funny for any use : I forget just exactty 
what he said, but it was too good for anything.” — Ex, 

— The Freshmen girls are a remarkably bright com- 
pany, at least so says a Soph who boards with them, 
and in explanation of his opinion they say that one of 

them asked him : “ Mr. D , if you were riding on 

a donkey what kind of fruit would you suggest ? ” 
The Soph seeing no possible resemblance to anything 
in such a combination gives it up, when the fair maiden 
demurely answers, “ A pear." — Ex. 

I cannot praise the doctor’s eyes, 

I never saw his glance divine ; 

For when he prays he shuts his eyes, 

And when he preaches he shuts mine. Ex. 



THE 

^■anit-ariuni or J[ome jjo^pital, 

(Established in 1879, by SAMUEL STRONG,) 

Is a Select Boarding House for people who are ill, or 
require operations, and wish for private treatment by their own 
Medical advisers. 

There are home comforts, and trained nurses in attendance 
day and night. For terms, which are moderate, and according 
to case or room, apply to 

par Airs, STRONG, 

15 TJ’n.L’rrexeLty Street,' 

MONTREAL. 



BUY YOUR 

Boots and Shoes, 

RUBBERS, OVERSHOES AND MOCASSINS 

AT 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

Shoe Stores, 

UPTOWN: QUEEN'S HALL BLOCK, 

1331 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 

MstterssndFurriers, 

28 3 JDoire Dame Direct. 



FUB COATS, CAPS and GAUNTLETS, 

Extra Quality Goods a 1 Lowest Cash Prices. 

Tlie “ McGILL ” Uit>I>on for Sale. 

ghc fTtomivch Jdtivt gmpovHtm 

AND 

ARTISTIC GENTS FURNISHINGS STORE, 

130 fet. James Street, 

PI NEST ASSORTMENT OF 

Scotch Wool Underwear, Hosiery, Ties, Gloves, Mufflers, Snow- 
shoes and Toboggan requisites always on hand. 

SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER -FIT GUARANTEED. 

Student bringing this Adv*t will Get xo p. c. Disc. 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



-Me Central nDruig- Stored 
W, H. CHAPMAN, 

j^HARMACEUTICAL pH EM 1ST, ^NG,, 

By Examination member of the Pharmaceutical Society 
of Great Britain. 

Licentiate of Quebec Pharmaceutical Association. 

TH2 DISPENSING OF PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 

Finest and Purest Drugs only used. 

COR, OF CRAIG &C BLET J RY S TS. 

PHOTOGRAPHT. 

For Cabinet Photos, go to 

SUMMER HAYES & W ALFORD'S. 

For Croups go to 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD’S. 

For Composition of Croups go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD ’S. 

For all kinds of Photography go to 

SUMMERHA YES & W ALFORD 'S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

RJiDHELJEU HU) I EL, 

I. B. DUROCHER. Proprietor. 

Jacques Cartier Square, opp. Court House & City Hall, 

MONTREAL. 

THE ABOVE HOTEL IS THE BEST IN THE CITY FOR Mc3HL COLLEGE DINNERS. 




RAADT & CO., 

St. Lawrence Hall, 

And Queen’s Block, 1323 St. Catherine St„ 



GEO. BROWN & SONS, 

jlljirl nnb dnltar ®annfarlur0r$ t 

21 ZBXjIETJIR ,Y ST. 



Snow Shoe and Toboganing Suits, Tuques, Sashes, 
Stocking, &c., &c- 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS. 

urgiral Unslrmninls . 

A FULL STOCK CONSTANTLY ON HAND 

IMPORTED DIRECT 

— PROM THE — 

Leading Manufacturers of the World. 

AN INSI'ECTION IXVITKIt. 





384 ST. PAUL STREET. 



Cl ASHFORD’S 

Cheap Book. Stationery. 

A. TST ID 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS. 

Students’ Note Books. Dissecting Cases & Scalpel , 

CBY WEISS &c SON,) 

CHEAP FOR CASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

678i AND 680 DORCHESTER ST., 

MONTREAL. 



J*. MARIEPT, 

Hair Blesses and Wig Makes, 

1368 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

WELLINGTON ARCADE, 

1 £ 01 TTKE AL. 

Perfumery and Hair Goods kept in stock. Special attention for 
LADIES CHAMPOOING and CHILDREN HAIR CUTTING. 




McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 




Late of London, England, 



PuHiullt Tailor, 



31 BEAUER HALL. 



LARGE ASSORTMENT OF 



|jn|li^h, j'jcotcli anil jVench 




J^ISTJD 

Worsteds Constantly on Hand. 



Fifteen per cent, discount 
For Spot Cush. 

Jjemovable (Jjollar^ anil 

FOB. OVERCOATS, 

Made from the Primest Furs , 

Fit Better than sewed on 

AS HERETOFORE AND LOOK HANDSOME. - 



THE 

|{urlan(l ]ji31)ooraphic 

5 & 7 BLEURY STREET. 

General Engravers, Lithographers, 
Printers and Publishers. 

This establishment is the oldest in Canada and is the 
largest and most complete of its kind in the Dominion, having 
every facility for executing 

ALL KINDS 

OF 

Engraving and Fine Printing. 



NOTES, DRAFTS, CHEQUES, BILLS OF EXCHANGE 
and all classes of BANK WORK, finely executed on 
safety or other paper of the latest and 
most improved kinds. 



BILL HEADS, BUSINESS CARDS, NOTE & LETTER 
HEADINGS, ENVELOPES 

and every description of commercial form, 

By Lithography or Letter Press Printing. 



SHOW CARDS, GLOSS LABELS, COTTON TIC- 
KETS, MAPS, CALENDARS, and EVERY SPECIES of 
COLOR PRINTING. 

PHOTO-LITHOGRAPHY, 

Reproductions rapidly and clearly made. 



Photo-Engraving, 

BOOKS, PLANS, PEN DRAWINGS and MAPS, repro- 
duced suitable for ORDINARY PRINTER’S USE. 

-^7-^22: PEOCESS, 

We are the only firm in Canada Really Engraving 
subjects by this process and can produce specimens of map 
work equal to the best work by U. S. artists. 



ELECTROTYPING and STEREOTYPING 

In nil tlxeir several branches. 

Ball Programmes, Invitations, At Home and Visiting 
Cards, neatly and tastefully engraved and printed. 

SPECIAL DESIGNS MADE FOR 

/VtENU pARDS, pRESTS, /VlONOGRAMS, ^USINESS piES 
Sjc., Sfc , 

And all kinds of Paper, Envelopes and Cards 

Embossed and Illuminated. 




