
Montreal, October 12, 1893 



\ 



/ . 







PAGE 

Editorial Comments i 

Obituary 3 

Contributions 4 

How it is done in Leipzig 4 

In my Easy Chair 5 

Societies 7 

Affiliated Colleges... 9 

Class Reports 10 

Law 10 



m 

W r 







Legal Briefs n 

Medical Notes n 

Medical Class Reports 13 

Science Jottings 13 

Arts Notes 14 

Feathers from the East Wing 15 

Saturday’s Excursion 15 

Sports 16 

Personals 17 

- r 

McGiLL UNIVERSITY \ 
ARCHIVES 






ACC. NO. Jiii 

tv 7i 



REF. 



MUNCO CICARS, EXCEPTIONALLY FINE FINE GOODS OUR SPECIALTY 



S. DAVIS & SONS, LARCEST CICAR MANUFACTURERS IN CANADA 




Fine * * 

ITALIAN MANDOLINES 



AMERICAN GUITARS 



In Oak, Rosewood, Mahogany and 
Cherry. 

“ STEWART,” 

“ BAY STATE,” and 
“DOBSON” . . . 



.Qonjos 



BEST RUSSIAN CUT 

Strings and everything in the 
Musical Line 



GEORGE J. SHEPPARD, 

2274 and 2276 

St. Catherine Street 



N.B.— Special Discount to Students. 



IfnnAkQ and aM kinds of Cameras for Sale, 
lUJUMIVO Exchange or to Rent. 

PRICJES : $6 to S75. 

Instruction in Developing and Printing, free to all. 

Montreal Photographic Supply, 

R. F. SMITH, 164 St. James St. 

Sole Agent for Canada Rodinal, Carbutt’s and Harvard Plates; Prosch 
Shutters and Flash Lamps, Optnius and Periscope Lenses, etc., etc. 



Special Cases of McGill 
Drawing Instruments 

& CO. 

Opticians, 

258 ST. JAMES ST. 

Two doors east of McGill 




D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Goods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 

1742 Notre Dame St., M ontreal. 

i>. drysdale, 

BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES, HARDWARE, MECHANICS’ TOOLS, Etc. 

645 CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL 
Agent for StorretVs Tools. Telephone 169 . 
XL A. GERTH, STUDE NTS’ HEADQUAR TERS. 
MON S AeAL ERI : NE : ST '’ QuCen ’ S Hal1 B1 ° ck ’ 

D,B ” & Havana Cigars Whole ^ e Retail . 

Try Gerth-s Superior Smoking Tobaccos. K^iari Freres’ Egyptian Cigarettes. 



High Quality. 



Low Prices. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

References by kind permission, The Medical Faculty. 

J* H. CHAPMAN, 

2294 St. Catherine Street, Corner of 
McGill College Avenue. 



Bell Telephone, 4390. 



MONTREAL- 



Munroe Bros. 



f f ▼ ▼ 



To our Patrons: 

7|TE beg to inform our customers that Mr. W. 
W. Armstrong having retired from the 
firm of Armstrong & Munroe, the new 
firm will henceforth be known as Munroe Bros. 
We will carry complete lines of every article 

^ q “ ire . d h Gents’ Furnishings, * n .? we 

respect- _ 2_! fully so- 

licit a continuance of the patronage so generously 
accorded us in the past. 

Yours respectfully, 



2246 St. Catherine St. 


MUNROE BROS. 


Althow our 


We give 




them the 


rates to 


BEST 


Students are 


in 


LOW 


PORTRAITS 


GROUPS, etc. 


W. NOTMAN & SON, 




Bleury Street 




TELEPHONES. 



W arehouse Telephones for Connecting the differ- 
ent departments of Colleges, Offices 
and Public Buildings. 



SOLD OUTRIGHT. NO RENTALS. 



Electrical Supplies of every description 

Call and Examine our Stock of 
Experimental Apparatus. 

T. W. NESS & CO 749 Crais st - 

’ MONTREAL 



3 

> 

0 

X 

PI 

PI 

1 

u 

o 

Q 

N 

PI 

w 



PI 

r 

■o 

► 

o 

X 

PI 



o 

> 

a 

r 

pi 






jMcGlbk FORTNIGHTby. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event. 

VOL. II. MONTREAL, OCTOBER 12, 1893. No, 1 




^•EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. *94. 

S. Carmichael, B. A,, (Law *95) F. A. Wilkin, (Science *95) 

E. E. Howard, (Arts *95), Secretary p H p p ._ ( (C omp. Med, and Vet. 
Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) * * l Science *94. 



EBUSINESS BOARD<- 



F. J. Day, (Arts *94), Chairman 
F. A. Hoglb, (Law *94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Bottbrbll, (Donalda *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science*95) 

C. H. Fox, (Med. *95) H. R. Cleveland, (Com. Med. & Vet. ScT) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Thursday of every second week during the College Session in the 
University of McGill. 

The annual subscription is $1 00, payable strictly in advance. Single copies 
may be obtained at E. M. RenouFs and Wm. Drysdale & Co., Booksellers. Price, 
10 cents. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. 

The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, P.O. Box 37. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



GREETINGS. 

With this issue the Fortnightly makes its second 
bow to the student-world of McGill. To those who 
are entering the classic halls of the University for the 
first time, it extends a hearty welcome. It is to be 
hoped that they will uphold the honour of their Alma 
Mater, both in. the pursuit of knowledge and in active 
support of all the College institutions— among them 
the College Paper. 

To our old friends, we would say that the zeal with 
which the paper has been carried on during the past 
session, and the eagerness which has welcomed its 
appearance, have been gratifying in the extreme, and 
augur well for increased prosperity in the future. 

Still, we realize that many difficulties have yet to 
be conquered, which can only be overcome by a united 
and well directed effort on the part of the students at 
large. 

It is not the duty of the Board of Editors merely to 
cater for the varied tastes of University men, and to 



produce a bright, readable, newsy paper, but everyone 
must help if true success is to be attained. Note that 
this is not the “ Editors’ Fortnightly,” nor is it the 
il Professors’ Fortnightly,” but it is the u McGill 
Fortnightly.” Therefore, let everyone, from the 
greenest freshman to the ” most potent, grave and rev- 
erend” senior, take a personal interest in the College 
Paper, for it is his paper. While not holding ourselves 
responsible for any views which may appear in these 
pages, we invite contributions, for there is abundance 
of talent, and good talent too, stowed away, if it only 
can be got at. 

Our future, we are glad to think, is bright. The 
new management is all enthusiasm, and, with adequate 
support, hope to produce a sheet which will be second 
to none among College Papers. 

It is no light matter to produce a journal which will 
suit the varied tastes of a body of students large 
enough of itself to form a fair-sized town, among whom 
are numbered some of the choicest spirits of our day. 

We must run the gauntlet of criticism ; but so long 
as it is fair and manly, we welcome it. It is so easy to 
criticize, so hard to perform. A story is related of the 
poet Virgil, that someone once accused him of having 
stolen most of his ideas from Homer. “ Ah, but,” 
replied the poet, “ let anybody else try to steal from 
Homer, and see if he will do it as well.” So if anyone 
wants to criticize the Fortnightly, the best way he 
can do it is to send in a contribution of his own. 

In conclusion, we call upon all in any way connected 
with the University to support the journal, both 
pecuniarily and otherwise, and let us see if we cannot 
have a paper which will reflect the thoughts and opin- 
ions of the students and be a credit to Old McGill. 



THE PRINCIPALSHIP. 

With the retirement of Sir William Dawson from 
the principalship, McGill has sustained a loss that will 
not easily be repaired. It might well be said of him in 
the words of the famous inscription to Sir Christopher 
Wren in St. Paul’s Cathedral : 

“ Si monumentum requiris circumspice .” 

When Sir William took hold of the reins of govern- 
ment thirty-eight years ago, the fortunes of McGill 
seemed to be at a very low ebb, and it is largely owing 
to the wise foresight and unconquerable zeal of the 
Principal that the University lived through the crisis 
and reached the magnificent proportions which it has 
at last attained. 



2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



With respect to his successor, the governors are ex- 
emplifying the old adage of “ hastening slowly,” and 
wisely so. The right man will not readily be found. Sir 
William takes with him the respect and admiration of 
every student and graduate, and all will unite in the 
hope that he may be long spared to give the University 
the benefit of his wise counsels and occupy the dis- 
tinguished position in the world of science which he 
has already for so long adorned. 



THEATRE NIGHT. 

It has been thought advisable by the management of 
the Fortnightly to have in its first number an article 
on what would appear to an outsider to be a somewhat 
frivolous subject, namely, the University theatre night. 
We say to an outsider, for no one who has any intimate 
knowledge of student life in McGill can avoid seeing 
that this question has grown into one of the most 
troublesome and threatening issues in that, for us, im- 
portant field of college politics. 

It is indeed strange that the first question to come up 
at the beginning of each year, the question to cause the 
insertion of the thin edge of the wedge of discussion 
among students of the different faculties in McGill, the 
first question which lays bare the weakness of the Mc- 
Gill student, a lack of true pride in the old college as 
a University, should be what was first instituted as a 
pleasure night by the students themselves. 

The great evil of this dispute is that it comes at the 
very beginning of each college year ; and the first 
University question which comes up for discussion is 
entered into with a bias and even bitterness which but 
too truly portends, as it in part causes the almost in- 
herent antagonism between students in the different 
Faculties, which reveals itself when other University 
matters come up later in the year. 

As editors of a University paper, it is not for us to be- 
come champions of one side of the dispute or the other; 
but the very fact that the McGill Fortnightly is of 
and for the undergraduates in McGill, forces us to 
notice and do all that is in our power to put an end to 
this most unseemly discussion. 

Let us look back into the past to the origin of 
theatre night. It was first started when Old McGill 
was largely composed of the Faculty of Medicine a 
Faculty which gave to her in the past the grand name 
which the sister faculties are aiding and making more 
powerful in the present. Let us look back to this time, 
and we see taking its place among the great events of 
student .life the “ Meds’ theatre night,” in which the 
other Faculties in McGill were invited to join. Great 
nights those were, more noisy though not so welcome 
to the theatre proprietors as the present ones ; but the 
striking feature about them was that they were dis- 
tinctly and clearly Medical ; they did not, and did not 
pretend to represent the students of that University 
upon whose ground and under whose auspices the 
earlier part of sports day had been spent. 

This state of affairs continued until the last genera- 
tion of graduates entered college as freshmen ; but in 
that interval, Sports’ Night became gradually a more im- 



portant event than formerly, and why ? Because the 
Medical Faculty was growing in importance, and as truly 
and undeniably the other fa:ulties were fast increasing 
in number, until the invitation sent by the students in 
Medicine was accepted by students whose numbers, 
nearly if not w'holly, equalled that of their hosts, and 
the success of theatre night became undeniably aug- 
mented by the presence of the students of the sister 
faculties. Thus in the interval between the first Meds’ 
night and the fall of ’88, Sports’ Night became in reality 
a night celebrated and participated in by the students 
of the whole University, while it still bore the name of 
one of the parts of that University. 

The natural result of this was that the other students 
asked to be given a share in the management of the 
evening, and to be allowed to contribute towards its 
expenses. 

This demand was in part complied with in the fall of 
1 890, when the other faculties were represented on the 
committee through the “ late lamented ’’ musical asso- 
ciation. In the following year the Faculty of Arts, in 
response to the Medicals’ usual invitation, accepted it 
after what was, if rumor be true, a somewhat heated 
discussion ; but to that acceptance was added a notice, 
that the students of the Faculty hoped to see and take 
part in a University night in the following year. 

Then came last year’s exhibitions, when the public 
in Montreal, or those of them interested enough to 
notice it, saw McGill students virtually divided into 
rival factions, holding what were undeniably more or 
less rival nights. Each night was in its way a great 
success ; but at what cost, at the cost of mutual good- 
fellowship among the students of Old McGill, at the 
complete sacrifice of the one means by which the stu- 
dents in a college can aid in elevating the name and 
increasing the fame of that college, and that is by show- 
ing everywhere and on every occasion an admiration, 
love, and respect for their Alma Mater as a whole, broad 
enough to include the whole iustitution, although love 
may be specially attaehedjto one of its branches. 

We have tried to give a general sketch of the history 
of this question ; and if any step in the development 
has been left out, it is from ignorance and not from a 
bias in one direction or another,— of that the readers of 
this paper may rest well assured. 

Now comes the question, what is to be done about it ? 
The question seems capable of solution in one of four 
ways : First, let matters go on as they are at present, 
until all harmony between the students of the faculties 
is destroyed, and rival theatre nights, started last year, 
partly in good nature, will end in bitterness that will 
vent itself to begin with on one of the few existing 
university student institutions, the McG.U.A.A., and 
before long destroy McGill’s chance of holding even a 
respectable position in the world of athletics. This 
may seem a somewhat pessimistic view to take, but it is 
the view which is forced on one who has watched stu- 
dent politics for a college generation, and which must 
appear in no way exaggerated to anyone who under- 
stands how little it takes to raise a tempest in the col. 
lege tea-pot and how hard it is to quell it. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



3 



The second way of solving this question would be as 
follows : — Granted, unfortunately, that the students of 
the Faculties of Law, Arts and Science will not see that 
they must ask Medicine to give up their old right and 
not demand it ; granted, unfortunately, that the students 
in Medicine will not see that the change of conditions 
clearly points out that the time has come for them to 
offer to give up gracefully, for the sake of Old McGill , 
an old faculty prerogative, and to allow the other facul 
ties an equal share in the expenses and management 
of theatre night, then at least consent to one thing, that 
Sports’ Night shall not be utilized as theatre night by 
either party ; let the students not attend the theatre at 
all that night, or have a general night on Sports’ Night, 
and each have their own night later on in the year. 

Lastly, we come to the most pleasing and satisfactory 
way of settling the question, and certainly the only way 
which is going to throw credit on our Alma Mater, that 
is, a genuine rollicking University night managed by a 
joint committee, all places of advantage or honor to be 
selected by lot, each Faculty headed by its own faculty 
or year banners, but in front of all let there be carried 
a banner, which, to the disgrace of our students, does 
not as yet exist — a University banner, bought with the 
subscriptions gathered from McGill’s hundreds of stu- 
dents, which could be hung in turn each year in the 
principal class room of each Faculty, to remain as a 
proof that at last there lias come some fruit of the tree 
of University feeling, which has been gradually grow- 
ing unperceived among us, and which has had many an 
escape from being trampled down. 

It is unnecessary to say that the University night is 
the best plan ; all that is needed is a little more willing- 
ness to concede freely on the one hand what should be 
asked for in a proper spirit on the other. 

All it needs is a fresh start with the new college 
year, and the result will be a theatre night unsurpassed 
by any previous efforts and a united chorus of “ Oh ! 
McGill, Alma Mater, McGill ! ” 

SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

There is one fact which cannot be impressed on our 
students, and especially upon those entering college for 
the first time, at too early a period, that it is the 
duty of every student, out of common gratitude to old 
McGill, to subscribe as far as possible to the different 
societies and institutions which exist among the Stu- 
dents under the patronage of the University. 

It is an undoubted fact that the existence of a flourish- 
ing Y.M.C.A., an Athletic association holding its own in 
the world of sport, a University paper doing what it 
can to foster a University feeling, and of other societies 
successfully attaining the end for which they were 
organized, do add, and cannot help adding, in some 
appreciable degree to the glory and fame of our Alma 
Mater. 

Once this fact is thoroughly realized, the duty of the 
student lies clear before him. It is not only to the man 
who subscribes irregularly that we wish to speak, but al- 
so to the student that never gives a cent to anything, and 
invariably pleads abject poverty. Now, there are un- 
deniably cases where men are straining every nerve in 



order to get the wherewithal to put themselves through 
college, and no class of men are more honored and 
respected by their fellow-students than these are ; but, 
unfortunately, many men in McGill raise this plea when 
their fellow-students, many of whom can less easily 
afford it, are doing their share of the work. To those who 
so reguldrly decline to subscribe, or who intend doing so, 
we would only say : [Ask yourselves this question : “ If 
the University, as it may some day, imposed a college 
fee of, say, ten dollars, for the support of students’ socie- 
ties, would the existence of that fee have prevented or 
nearly prevented my coming to McGill ? ” If the honest 
answer to this question, honestly put, is “yes,” then 
we admire and respect that man for his pluck in fight- 
ing his way through college in the face of financial 
difficulty ; but if, on the other hand, the answer should 
be “ no,” then we say: ” You should and are morally 
bound to come to college prepared in some way to sup- 
port the college societies which exist for your own good 
as well as for that of your University, and it is almost 
ingratitude to systematically refuse to do so.” 
r ‘ One word to the freshmen, which might, we are afraid, 
equally apply to some students in the other years. 
The man who comes to collect from you, and whom you 
have helped to elect to that position of collector, is not 
begging for himself, and is not to be treated as if he 
were, but is rather doing you a favor by taking very 
unpleasant and dirty work off your own shoulders, and 
should be dealt with accordingly. If you subscribe 
cheerfully, you do your duty with a good grace ; but he 
does more, he not only subscribes but performs what is, 
thanks to the mistaken idea of some students, the much 
more unpleasant though voluntary task of begging. 

In the few cases where you honestly feel that you are 
unable to contribute your share, decline to do so in an 
open, manly way, and not with a snarl, as though you 
were repulsing the importunities of some street Arab. 



OBITUARY. 

It is with deep regret that we have here to note the 
death of Mr. Charles Nye Stearns, a member of the 
Final Year in the Faculty of Medicine, who was 
accidentally drowned on the 30th of August last by the 
upsetting of a canoe in the rapids of the Murray River 
near the watering place of Murray Bay, at which resort 
Mr. Stearns had been spending the summer months. 

By appointment, he had been acting as the Medical 
Superintendent of the Convalescent Home there 
established, and had, by his careful attention, knowledge 
of medicine and winning manner, given the greatest 
satisfaction both to the governors and founders of the 
Institution as well as to the patients under his charge. 

By his sad death, the Final Year is deprived of one 
of its most valued and popular members, and the sad 
occurrence will not only be deeply regretted by his 
more intimate circle of acquaintances, but by all those 
who came into contact with him in connection with 
the many University movements in which he interested 
himself. Mr. Stearns and family have the heartfelt 
sympathy of the Students of the University. 



4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



THE LIBRARY. 

The new Library is rapidly approaching completion, 
and will probably be ready for opening in the early 
part of the coming month. It is not possible to furnish 
a lengthened notice at present, but in a future number 
we shall return to the subject. 

It is due, however, to Mr. Peter Redpath, the generous 
donor of this superb addition to the College, not to let 
this opportunity pass without placing on record the 
thanks of everyone connected with the College for his 
munificent gift. 

The old library is closed at present, and the librarians 
are busily engaged in arranging and classifying the 
books preparatory to their removal, reminding one of the 
opening of the 4th Act of Shakespeare’s Henry V. : 

“ The armourers accomplishing the Knights, 

With busy hammers, closing rivets up, 

Give dreadful note of preparation.” 

We may add that in addition to the handsome library 
which Mr. Redpath is erecting, he is presenting a num- 
ber of new books, which have just arrived, to the value 
of over two thousand dollars. 



STATEMENT OF THE McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 
( Treasurer's statement for year 1892-93.) 
RECEIPTS. 

To 616 subscribers. Totals. 

Medicine.. 180 students 21 professors, lecturers 201 



Science . . . 


84 


cc 


14 


tc 


98 


Arts 


80 


Ci 


IO 


u 




Donalda .. 


45 


Ci 




Ci 




Law 


30 


CC 


10 


a 




Vet 


33 


ii 


3 


H 


36 


Outsiders.. 


106 






Ci 





To extra sales ForTnightey 36 00 

To interest account x gy 

To advertising as per statement 285 00 



938 87 

EXPENDITURE. 



By printing account with John Lovell 6t Son 465 81 

By paper account 

By plate for cover of FORTNIGHTEY 15 00 

By picture of Dr. Geo. Ross 7 oo 

By cut of Science buildings and grounds 8 

By account books, stationery, etc i 0 g 0 

B y p° em - 200 

By Editorial and Business Board 231 60 

By Balance in Bank of Montreal so 06 



938 87 

HUGH M. KINGHORN, 

Chairman Business Board. 

Audited and found correct. 

FRANK J. DAY. 

Auditor. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



HOW IT IS DONE IN LEIPZIG. 

The present paper is written, not with the intention 
of giving exhaustive information concerning German 
University education, but to show how different are 
some of the customs there from our own. There is 
no doubt that a German student would be highly 
amused at our caps and gowns, and would consider 
our institution, in regard to science at least, more like 
a technical school than a university ; and he would 
certainly chafe under the rigid discipline that insists 
on our students’ taking certain classes, and attending 
two-thirds of the lectures, for when a man has matri- 
culated in a German university he has no one to 
please but himself. He is at liberty to take as few or 
as many classes as he likes, the essential being to pay 
for those he takes ; further than that, he is bound in 
no way to work, no record of attendance being kept, 
and no examinations having to be passed before the 
final one for the degree. The principal condition for 
the degree is the writing of a considerable thesis on 
some subject usually suggested by a professor, and the 
essential qualification of this thesis is that it shall 
represent original research. The research in the case 
of natural science subjects takes from one to three 
years of steady work in the laboratory. From this it 
will be seen that a German university is an excellent 
place for a man who is sufficiently advanced to take an 
interest in his work and who can be industrious with- 
out external compulsion, but is also a perfect paradise 
for one who prefers recreation to work and the beer- 
barrel to the fountain of knowledge. In the following 
the writer has tried to give some ideas of the formali- 
ties connected with matriculation and graduation as he 
found them in Leipzig. 

An academic year in Germany includes a winter 
session from October 15th till March 15th, and a 
summer session lasting from May 1st till August 15th, 
and candidates for matriculation present themselves at 
the beginning of either term, on a day announced on 
the bulletin boards. The writer went to the extensive 
offices of the University at about nine o’clock on the 
appointed morning, taking with him a very limited 
supply of German, acquired for the most part under 
the late Professor Markgraf, and relating to the old 
Hermann and his little son, the foolish donkey, and 
the Erlking, together with considerable anxiety as to 
what was to happen. Here he received a number, and 
was asked to return in an hour or two with his 
credentials, which consisted of a passport and a 
B.Ap.Sc. parchment. On his return one official 
examined these papers in a cursory way, copied down 
the name of the candidate, and then showed him into a 
small room where an ancient autocrat looked at the 
papers more carefully, and asked if the father of the 
matriculant were still alive. What might have been 
the effect of a negative reply cannot be known, but 
the answer being in the affirmative, the old gentleman 
returned the passport, kept the parchment, and rang 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



5 



to have the victim removed. A friend of the writer, 
a graduate of an American university, by way of a 
joke, presented his passport as his only claim to eligibi- 
lity for studentship, and, it being accepted, he was 
duly matriculated. This strikes one who has had to 
go through the ordeal of matriculation examinations 
at McGill (especially dictation) as being extremely 
lax, but it must be noted that the Germans themselves 
have to present certificates from their high schools, 
and foreigners, when later they desire to take their 
degree, must have equivalent credentials or do extra 
work in Germany. To return from this digression — 
after being removed from the office of the last men- 
tioned official, the victim had to assure several others 
that his father was still alive, state what profession the 
said father followed, and give extended information 
as to birth days, religious opinions, and many other 
things, only to hear that the rite of matriculation had 
been but half performed during these two or three 
hours, and was to be continued some days later, and to 
find his pockets filled with pamphlets and tracts and 
sand which had stuck to several forms filled out with 
ink and blotted in this mediaeval way, blotting-paper 
not having yet acquired a footing in the offices of the 
University. The continuation of the ceremony 
occurred one afternoon the week following. All the 
candidates assembled in a large hall, giving required 
information on entering respecting the paternal 
longevity, etc., and waited in gloomy silence for about 
half an hour. Needless to state, the silence was very 
oppressive to the McGill man, who thought of other 
scenes when “ Sister Mary hopped along ” and “ there 
was a hole in the bottom of the sea;” but German 
students cannot behave in any but a model way at func- 
tions of this kind. Eventually the “ Rector magnificus ” 
arrived with one or two other officials, and having 
delivered a half-hour address to the assembly on the 
subject of academic liberty, its use and abuse, he 
shook hands with each of the three or four hundred 
matriculants, and they received from another func- 
tionary their matriculation certificates, feeling that 
they fully deserved them. 

The first step in the final formalities is to take the 
thesis, carefully written and bound, to the vice- 
chancellor at his office, and for this the candidate 
should be in black clothes, or at least morning dress. 
The writer in his ignorance went in a light suit, but 
being overawed by the solemnity in appearance of the 
others in the waiting room, he went home without an 
audience, and returned next day in proper attire. At 
this interview several questions had to be answered 
and the date of examination approximately arranged, 
the student selecting it. Next, the candidate must 
visit the University offices, obtain his credentials, and 
ex-matriculate, as it is called, that is, formally retire 
from the University as a student, and receive a certi- 
ficate that all debts to the authorities are paid, and 
that he has not been guilty of serious misdemeanors. 
These papers are then handed over to the vice- 
chancellor, and later, if the thesis has been accepted 
and the certificates found satisfactory, the date of 
examination is settled. This examination covers three 



subjects selected by the student, — one principal and 
two subordinate, the student having prepared himself 
according to his own taste, no books being prescribed, 
but the candidate being considered responsible for the 
whole subject in the case of the principal and a good 
general knowledge of the subordinate ones- Having 
received the names of the three examiners, the “Herr 
Candidat” must pay a formal call on each a day or 
two before the examination. These calls are generally 
paid in the morning , 1 and always in evening dress, 
white kid gloves, and a silk hat ; each call lasts about 
ten minutes, during which the professor asks questions 
concerning the work done by the student, and then 
generally makes some facetious remarks such as 
“ Well, we shall meet on the battlefield to morrow, 
then ! ” at which the aspirant laughs heartily if he is 
sensible, and backs out with numerous graceful German 
bows. The examination usually takes place from 
three till six o’clock in the afternoon, each subject 
having nearly an hour devoted to it, and is entirely 
oral. The student, in evening dress again, waits in an 
anteroom to be shown by an attendant into one of the 
examination rooms, where the professor generally 
begins by asking him to take off his gloves and then 
proceeds to find out his weak points. There is about 
ten minutes intermission between the examinations, 
and each professor writes his report of standing 
immediately afterwards. The principal subject 
generally comes last, and the vice-chancellor is present 
during this examination, and he confers with the 
professor afterwards, while the candidate waits outside 
for the important result. After about five minutes of 
this suspense he is called in, and the vice chancellor 
stands and makes a formal announcement, and if this is 
favorable he shakes hands with and congratulates 
the happy young man, who then retires to be addressed 
as “ Herr Doktor” immediately by the attendant and 
his friends who meet him outside and who are to spend 
a convivial evening at his expense. The doctor next 
day visits his laboratory, if a science man, is congra- 
tulated by all his former associates, and tells them all 
the questions he has been asked, so that they may read 
up accordingly when their turn comes. It may be 
interesting to the reader to know that many of the 
questions asked were answered on knowledge obtained 
during previous training at McGill, and not covered by 
the course of reading generally followed in Leipzig. 

P. N. E. 



IN MY EASY CHAIR. 

Of a truth, I believe my easy chair to be the easiest 
of easy chairs. I do not know where you could get 
another like it. I never saw one resembling it in any 
furniture shop, either new or second-hand. It is yield- 
ing and soft, there are no uncomfortable angles or awk- 
ward buttons to interfere with your slumbers or your 
meditations. 

My easy chair is admirably adapted for thinking and 
for reading; it is a sort of little study, with all the ap- 
pliances for actual work left out. It is especially com- 
fortable when I have any nice letters. Alas and alas ! 



6 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



I seldom have any nice letters in the present day. 
Fancy, last Valentine’s day, I was valentineless. And 
yet, O Glaucus, friend of my youth — (I never knew a 
man of the name of Glaucus yet, but it sounds pretty 
and classical) — thou canst recollect the time when these 
love missives tumbled in fast and furious. Ah, me ! 
times are changed. Glaucus is much larger a round 
the chest ” than in bygone times, and his friend has 
ceased to pluck out the grey hairs, and is, of a truth, 
getting uncommonly thin at the top. And where are 
ye gone, ye bright-eyed senders of the amorous billets ? 
Have you found that Smith, Brown, Jones and Robin- 
son, though they had long purses, were but human 
beings after all, with tempers of their own ? Have you 
also discovered that ithe worship of the Golden Calf is 
not perhaps the most* satisfactory religion after all ? 

Do you ever look.back to the old days when 

We loved, or thought we loved ; and love, 

To us a passion new and strange, 

Shone like a star in heaven above, 

Bright, calm, incapable of change. 

Our life was one bright dream of joy, 

A golden age without alloy 
Of jealousy or doubt ; 

Youth we possessed, and strength and health, 

We’d gain, if Fate so willed it, wealth, 

And if not — do without ! 

And this is the kind of meditation that ebbs and flows 
as I sit in the twilight in my easy chair. As one thinks 
of old scenes and old times, one insensibly drifts on : — 
But I would give, ay, I would give, 

Were I permitted to bestow. 

Half of the years I’ve yet to live, 

To feel as I felt long ago ! 

And as the twilight deepens dreams, sometimes 
sad, sometimes joyous, flit through my brain as I sit 
and ponder in my easy chair. 

I have before me at this moment visions of pleasant 
evenings spent at a literary club (I dare not say how 
many years since), when •• wit combats ” were the 
“ order of the day,” and with such companions as 
Douglas Jerrold, Samuel Lover, Albert Smith, the 
late George Grossmith (father of the humorist of the 
same name, who recently appeared in Montreal), and 
a host of others, the time passed merrily. Jerrold was 
quick and sudden as flashes of lightning. 

“ His wit, in the combat, as gentle as bright, 

Ne’er carried a heart-stain away on its blade,” 

although he was not apt as a speaker in public. 

I call to my memory one evening, when Samuel 
Lover, the author of “ Rory O' Afore" and “ Ha?idy 
Andy," was present ; he had recently ' m returned from a 
trip to America, and he spoke of Niagara in glowing 
language, how the sight of the Falls inspired the visitor 
with awe, and that it was scarcely possible to convey 
any idea of their grandeur, adding that the impression 
he formed took the following shape— and he then recited 
these verses, which I have only once,seen in type:— 

“Nymph of Niagara 1 Sprite of the mist ! 

With a wild magic my brow thou hast kiss’d ; 

I am thy slave, and my mistress art thou. 

For thy wild kiss of magic is still on my brow. 



I feel it as first when I knelt before thee, 

With thy emerald robe flowing brightly and free, 
Fringed with the spray-pearls, and floating in mist — 

Thus, ’twas my brow with wild magic you kiss’d. 

Thine am I still, and I’ll never forget 
The moment the spell on my spirit was set, — 

Thy chain but a foam-wreath, yet stronger by far 
Than the manacle, steel-wrought, for captive of war. 

For the steel it will rust, and the war will be o’ er, 

And the manacled captive be free as before ; 

While the foam-wreath will bind me for ever to thee ! 

I love the enslavement, and would not be free. 

Nymph of Niagara ! play with the breeze, 

Sport with the fawns ’mid the old forest trees ; 

Blush into rainbows at kiss of the sun, 

From the gleam of his dawn till his bright course be run. 

t 

I’ll not be jealous— for pure is thy sporting, 

Heaven-born is all that around thee is courting, — 

Still will I love thee, sweet Sprite of the mist, 

As first when my brow with wild magic you kiss’d.” 

As the author was a fine elocutionist, it is scarcely 
necessary to say that the recitation was warmly wel- 
comed. 

I remember, during the agitation for j the repeal of 
the English Corn-Laws, Dr. Bowring, the eminent lin- 
guist, who was on speaking tetms with 28 or 30 lan- 
guages, who, Thom as Hood said : 

“ Was as fluent as a parrot is, 

And far more polly-glotlish” 

was present one evening at a meeting, and recited 
the following lines written by Thomas Moore ; as they 
cannot be found in any edition of the poet’s writings, 
I preserved them, in the shape of a cutting from a 
newspaper, and the merry jingle of the rhymes may 
perhaps render them worthy of reproduction. 

I’ll tell you a tale of the southern seas, 

You may laugh or may cry at it, just as you please. 
Scant was the growth of the bread-fruit tree, 

On the beautiful isle of Owyhee, 

While, gift of Heaven, it richly grew 
O’er the sunny fields of Woahoo; 

Aud it seemed as if Nature had placed the isle 
In reach of each other’s verdant smile, 

That whate’er was wanting on either shore 
From the other might swift be wafted o’er. 
The'Woahooan nymphs arrayed 
In trinkets by Owyheeans made ; 

While Owyhee well fed should be 
By Woahoo’s sweet bread-fruit tree. 

But, alas 1 even happy isles like these 
Have a people upon them called grandees ; 

And where there are lords, I need not say, 

Things will go on in a lordly way. 

* * • * • 

Heard you that cry, whose withering sound 
Saddens the sunny prospect round ? 

From a million of voices it rings on high, 

“ We starve ! we starve ! ” their fearful cry 1 
Know you what, midst such fertile scenes, 

That awful voice of Famine means ? 

Oh ! list to me — in Owyhee, 

There were lords and squires of high degree, 

Who in bread-fruit held large property — 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



7 



And of all afflictions, ills and vices, 

Thought none so dreadful as low prices ; 

Wherefore they held it just and meet 
That the world should not too cheaply eat, 
tl Nay, deemed it radical insolence 
To wish to dine at a small expense ; 

And swore, for themselves and for their heirs, 

That happen what might, with other wares, 

No bread should be less dear than theirs. 

In vain the Owyheeans said, 

‘ My lords, we must respect your bread, 

But with all due reverence for your graces. 

Would rather have cheaper from other places.’ 

In vain from the Woahooan shore, 

Barques, filled with bread-fruit, winged them o’er. 
’Twas vulgar, cheap, and taxed must be 
Before ’twas fit for good company ; 

Nor must the poor devils swallow a bit, 

Unless they swallowed a tax with it. 

And what said the lords of Owyhee 
And the Owyheean squire-archy, 

In defence of their joint gentility ? 

Why, they said that they, and their squires before ’em. 
Had shone in the Senate, camp and quorum ; 

Had all been rich, had managed to get, 

As became their station, deep in debt ; 

And thought it hard that men of reading, 

Who had cost themselves so much in breeding, 

Should now fall victims to cheap feeding. 

Shorn of their beams of wealth and state, 

To help low fellows to masticate. 

* How little,’ said they, c the thoughtless poor 
Can know what the suffering rich endure, 

In bringing up dozens of young grandees — 

In paying the horrible mortgagees — 

To say nothing of assignees, lessees, 

And an endless quantity of more of these 
Une asy things that end in ees . 

And though (as honest Figaro says) 

If a gentleman owes, and never pays, 

’Tis just the same, be it great or small, 

As if he, in fact, owed nothing at all ; 

Yet, somehow, unless one something pays, 

Fenders are shy of one, now-a-days.’ 

In short, if the bread-tax once was gone, 

These lords and gentlemen ‘ couldn’t get on ; ’ 

And then it was hinted, awfully, 

That if e’er in the Isle of Owyhee, 

Bread pudding in price should humble be, 

All was o’er with the aristocracy ; 

One penny, saved by clods who dine, 

Being sure to bring all nobles to nine.* 

Meanwhile, that cry, that dreadful cry, 

‘ We starve, we starve,’ rose loud and high, 

’Till — what was the upshot, all shall see, 

In the second canto of Owyhee.” 

I close here, lest I may bethought tedious. Perhaps 
at some future time I may let my Pegasus have another 
canter. 

H. M. 

SOCIETIES- 



YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 
The Association office is located in East Wing of 
Arts Building (over Secretary’s office) ; while very 
small, it will serve as headquarters of the Association. 
There the Secretary may be found daily. 

♦According to th« old arithmetic process of bringing nobles to nino-pence. 



Special effort has been made this year to secure the 
interest of the new men ; the handbook was published 
and forwarded to many during vacation. We look for an 
increased membership and greatly intensified interest. 

Meetings will be held as in former years. The first 
Sunday meeting was held Oct. 8th at 4.30 p.m., in City 
Y.M.C.A. Building. This is the “ Students’ Meeting,’ 1 
and we hope it will be a popular and recognized rally 
throughout the session. 

The weekly Prayer Meeting was resumed on Sept. 
22nd, and will be held every Friday from 7.15 to 7.45 
p.m., in No. 1 Class Room Arts Faculty Building. The 
meetings of the Association are in no way confined to 
members, and every man in the University is welcome 
to attend. 

The social department of the work has had an early 
start, and the new students have been entertained most 
acceptably in the homes of our Association friends, 
whose kindness cannot be spoken of too highly in this 
respect. 

Such evenings strongly indicate the great need of an 
Association Building, which would act as a social cen- 
tre for students. 

Four of our members, Messrs. Day, Mudge, Patterson 
and the General Secretary, were in attendance at the 
World's Students' Conference held at Northfield, 
Mass., in the month of July. A report of this renowned 
gathering will be given at an early date. Watch the 
Bulletin Boards. 

In furnishing the office, we are greatly indebted to 
Messrs. Tees & Co. for the presentation of a splendid 
desk. We could not have made a more desirable choice 
than this generous firm have done for us, the one 
drawback being that it is confined by so meagre sur- 
roundings ; however, we anticipate something better in 
this way in the near future. 

The office equipment has also been aided by Messrs. 
Wm. Drysdale & Co. in a very acceptable gift. 

The President and General Secretary called on Prof. 
Henry Drummond passing through the city with the 
Vice-Regal party, and invited him to address the stu- 
dents ; while this was impossible, he expressed his 
interest in the Association work, and hoped to meet our 
men on a future occasion. 

0 

THE UNDERGRADUATES EITERARY 
SOCIETY. 

A large and representative body of students attended 
the first meeting of u The Eiterary " on the evening of 
Sept. 26th. The meeting had been called by the 1st 
Vice-President, Mr. F. H. Graham, for the purpose of 
electing officers for the ensuing year, and this occupied 
most of the time. The election resulted as follows : — 
President, M. O. Earnbly, Arts ’94 ; 1st Vice-President, 
A. C. Hanson, Eaw ’96 ; 2nd Vice-President, A. Brodie, 
Science ’94 ; Treasurer, Chas, Oglivy, Arts ’94 ; Sec., 
W. W. Cole, Arts ’96 ; Assistant-Secretary, Ed. M. 
Campbell, Arts '97; Executive, — Moffatt, Arts '94; 
Leslie, Medicine ’95 ; Connor, Science ’94 ; Smiley, 
Arts ’96 ; Mackay, Arts ’97. 

A very animated discussion took place over the elec- 



8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



tion of a Reporter to the Fortnightly, in the midst of 
which the meeting adjourned. 

The next meeting was held on Friday, Octobei 6th, 
with President Lambly in the chair. Two or three 
interesting items of business took some little time to 
dispose of, and then the programme was proceded with. 
Macauley’s “ Virginia ” was well rendered, as a reading, 
by Mr. Campbell Howard, Arts ’97. 

The chief interest centred in the debate upon the 
subject, “ Resolved, that the games and amusements as 
conducted at the present time are productive of more 
harm than good.” The Affirmative was ably upheld 
by Messrs. A. Graham, Archibald, and Campbell, while 
the Negative was supported by Messrs. E. E. Howard, 
Hanson, and Robertson, in the order named. The 
speaking, especially on the side of the Negative, was 
clear and to the point The audience decided that the 
Negative had won the debate. Mr. D. T. Davis ably 
performed the duties of critic. 

It is very encouraging to see the meetings so well 
attended by men from all the Faculties, and more 
encouraging still to see the men of the First and Second 
years taking such an active part in so able a manner 
as they did at these meetings. Old McGill is waking 
up to the fact that the Literary is an important institu- 
tion. 



Y. W. C. A. 

The Annual business meeting of the Y. W. C. A. of 
McGill University was held Thursday, 6th Oct., at 4 
p.m., the President, Miss Ogilvy, in the chair. 

The minutes of last meeting were read, there being 
no business to be discussed ; reports were then called for 
from the delegates to Northfield, Misses Radford and 
Seymour. Miss Radford confined her remarks to the 
morning hour spent with Miss Price, general secretary 
of the International Association, and to the evening 
meetings. Stress was laid upon the need of such 
an association for women, as a safeguard against 
those dangers which her increased sphere has brought, 
also upon the advantages such an association gives to 
its members in preparing them for their life’s work. 

Mention was made by Miss Seymour of the admirable 
training class conducted by Mr. McConnaughy, also 
to the class of Mr. Speers in Inductive Study. The 
subject of the latter was “ Mark the Gospel of the 
Strong Son of God.” Its authenticity, author, characters 
and teaching were dwelt upon. Attention was drawn 
to the out-of-doors feeling common to the whole. So 
often is Christ mentioned as going apart into a mountain 
or down to the seashore. Both delegates were enthu- 
siastic over their visit, and eager for all their co-students, 
if possible, to attend with them the next summer’s 
Conference at Northfield. 

A number of photographs of the College buildings 
and different parts in Northfield were shown, and after- 
wards a vote of thanks was passed to Mrs. David Sin- 
clair, for having so kindly lent them to us at this 
time. 

The meeting closed with singing and prayer. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

Reading makes a full man, writing an exact man, 

and speaking a ready man. * 

The saying is a trite one, but we hope its fitness will 
earn forgiveness for its use. Ample opportunity is 
given us during our college course of becoming better 
informed , especially if we overtake all the reading 
which is recommended to us by our several professors. 
And no one can deny that the Christmas and Spring 
exams, furnish a painful lesson in the vital im- 
portance of being exact, while at the same time 
lessons in the art of ready speech have been seemingly 
overlooked by the compilers of that wonderful book 
“ The Calendar T 

Now, it seems to us that during our college course, 
not the least important lessons for practical life are, 
learned, by becoming members of and taking part in the 
direction and work of those societies which have been 
inaugurated by the students themselves. 

Shortly after Sir Donald Smith made it possible for 
women to take the degree of B.A. at McGill, the need 
of a society was felt, — a society where the students 
could meet and discuss questions congenial to their 
several tastes, questions, the discussion of which would be 
a pleasant relaxation after having been obliged to follow 
the prescribed path laid down in the college curricu- 
lum. Such a need was supplied by the organization of 
a literary society, whose name should be found in the 
initial letters of Sir Donald Smith’s name, and to give 
those letters a learned look, it was decided to write 
them in Greek. * 

In the old schools, disput ations were held as part of 
the course ; under our regime, the students themselves 
assume the responsibility. Stress should be laid on 
the value of orderly thinking, and here is given to 
every student an opportunity which will never be 
theirs again, for the cultivation of spontaneous, orderly 
thought, and for the acquirement of that freedom of 
speech, that graceful flow of language, which is so well 
calculated to influence opinion by an appeal to reason 
and to conscience. 

We have heard Mr. Mott say that “ where two or 
three etc.,” the flow of language from those taking 
lectures in the east wing is always free and almost 
always graceful; but we know this judgment to be 
partial, so we would take this opportunity of urging 
all our students, but especially those whose faces are 
new to us, to enrol their names on our books, so that 
when they shall have left old McGill for wider fields of 
usefulness, those whose destiny it is to fill their places 
may emulate their eloquence as we do that of a Der- 
rick, a Williams, or a Pitcher. 



The ninth annual business meeting of the Delta 
Sigma Society was held on Thursday, Sept. 28th, the 
Vice-President occupying the chair. 

The constitution was read by the retiring secretary, 
after which a hearty welcome was promised to all who 
wished to join the Society, with the further inducement 
of much pleasure and untold^ profit to those who 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



9 



responded to the invitation. The following officers 
were elected for the coming year : — 

Pres . — Miss Brown. 

Vice-Pres.— Miss Botterell. 

Sec.- Treas . — Miss Pitcher. 

Ass.-Sec.- Treas . — Miss Ross. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

This Society has elected the following as officers for 
the session 1893-94 • — 

Hon. President J. C. Cameron, M.D. 

President , — L- Y. McIntosh. 

Vice-President J. G. McLaren. 

Secretary,— Win. Oliver* B.A. 

Treasurer D. McTaggart, B.A.Sc. 

Libra?ian , — E- Fowler. 

Pathologist J. J. McCrea. 

Council— Drs. Shepherd and Adami, and Mr. E- C- 
Hart. 

Programme Committee— Messrs. Davidson, Holo- 
han and LeRossignol, B.A. 

Meetings are held every fortnight throughout the 
session. Papers on interesting subjects and reports on 
cases in the Hospital wards are read and discussed. 
Occasionally the meetings are thrown open, and pro- 
fessors from the Medical and sister faculties lecture on 
some scientific or psychological subject related to the 
study of Medicine. It is desired that First and Second 
year men will take an interest in this Society and help 
it along. 



APPLIED SCIENCE GLEE CLUB. 

At the opening of the present session, the Applied 
Science Glee Club stands in a very satisfactory posi- 
tion ; it has the record of a successful past and every 
prospect of a still more successful future. 

Through the generosity of Mr. W. C. McDonald, the 
Club will this year have the use of a new’ piano, which 
should relieve it of some considerable expense and 
should redouble the energy of its members. 

We feel sure that all members and friends of Science 
will give this Club their support, as it is evident that 
music does not hold as high a position in the minds 
and hearts of McGill undergraduates as it should. 

Membership in the Club is open to all graduates and 
members of the Faculty of Applied Science, whether 
Professors or Students. The first practice of the Club 
was held on Wednesday, nth inst., at 5 p.m., under the 
direction of Mr. H. W. Reyner, who has been engaged 
as instructor for the session. In joining the Club and 
taking an active interest in it, one will not only be 
benefiting oneself, but will be doing good service to the 
University and the people of Montreal, in helping to 
make better knawn all the old college songs, the sing- 
ing together of which is generally such a leading feature 
of college life. 

GLEE AND BANJO club. 

As may be seen from the Calendar and Students’ Hand 
Book, the old Applied Science Banjo Club is no longer, 
but in its place has sprung up w r hat is hoped to be a | 



stronger and better organization, open to all students 
of the University, known as the McGill University 
Glee and Banjo Club. It is limited to twenty-four 
men, twelve musicians and tw r elve singers, with com- 
petent instructors for each division. The Secretary 
reports that there are still vacancies in the ranks, 
especially for first and second tenors. Practices are 
held twice a week, and it is expected that a tour will 
be made during the Christmas holidays, which will 
include some of our larger Canadian towns, with a 
chance of again visiting Burlington, Vt., where the 
hospitality shown the old club will not soon be for- 
gotten 

The Secretary, Mr. R. A. Gunn, Sc. ’94, will be happy 
to give information regarding the Club to any who 
wish to join. 

AFFILIATED COLLEGES. 



CONGREGATIONAL COLLEGE. 

The sixty-first session of the Congregational College 
was opened by a public meeting in the Assembly Hall, 
Wednesday evening, Oct. 4th. Principal Barbour pre- 
sided, and gave the address of the evening on the sub- 
ject, “Buy the truth, and sell it not.” A very 
interesting feature in connection with the opening 
exercises was a complimentary supper given by the 
Directors of the College to the Professors, Students and 
visiting Ministers. A delicious spread was prepared, 
and at 6.30 a happy company sat down to do ample 
justice to the good things provided. Short interesting 
speeches were delivered by Mr. R. Stanley Weir, 
B.C-L-, Revs. Thos. Hall, E- D. Silcox, and J. B. Sil* 
cox, and then this interesting part of the evening's 
programme terminated with a hearty vote of thanks to 
the friends who had so kindly provided the supper and 
to the young ladies of Emmanuel Church who had so 
gracefully served it. 



PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE. 

O11 Wednesday evening last, Oct. 4th, the opening 
lecture of the session 1893-94 in the Presbyterian 
college was delivered in the David Morrice Hall by the 
Rev. J. MacVicar of Honan, China. The Rev. Princi- 
pal presided. On the platform were Revs. Dr. Barclay, 
Dr. Scrimger, Dr. Chiniquy, Prof. Ross, Mr. Mowat, 
the chairman of the Board, Mr. David Morrice and 
several others. The lecturer of the evening, who 
entered mission work in Honan in the fall of 1889, 
described, in pointed and graphic style, China as he 
had seen it. He told of the disturbance and awful 
suspense during the year 1891, when the excitement ran 
so high that on one or two occasions blood was shed 
by the populace. Yet amid all these discouragements 
the lecturer expressed his faith in the power of God to 
protect His servants, and his belief that nothing but the 
gospel of Christ could bring about a change in the life 
of the Chinese and bring them to a higher plane of 
civilization. 

In closing the meeting, Dr. MacVicar said that at 



10 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



the close of last session there were 83 names on the 
roll, 34 new students had applied for admission, of 
whom 24 were already in attendance, making 107 in 
all. He pointed out the necessity for increased 
accommodation, and expressed the hope that he should 
yet live to see the number of students increased to two 
hundred. 



METHODIST COLLEGE. 

The opening exercises of this College were held on 
Thursday, Sept. 21st, at 3 p.m. The members of the 
Faculty were all present. It is worthy of note that an 
important change has taken place in this body, namely, 
the removal of Prof. Flanders, B.A., and the appoint- 
ment of Prof. Richardson, B.A., B.D. 

The representation of Students was not as large as it 
should have been, owing to the delay of a vessel from 
the West. We noticed with a shadow of regret the ab- 
sence of the graduates of last year, but the fact of a large 
increase in the body of enthusiastic freshmen compen- 
sated in some measure for this loss. The returning 
students were apparently in good spirits and strength- 
ened by their holidays, while the freshmen had their 
usual garb of becoming humility. Our venerable 
Principal, Dr. Douglass, gave the opening address, 
which dealt with the responsibilities of student life 
and the advantages to be gained in connection with a 
University like McGill, and which was graced with 
his usual strokes of eloquence. Owing to the 
marked increase in the number of Students in attend- 
ance this year, it is expected that it will be the most 
successful term in the experience of the institution. 



CLASS REPORTS 



LAW. 

There was a large meeting of law students, both of 
McGill and Laval Universities, on Friday, the 21st 
September, in one of the Lecture rooms of Laval. 
Messrs Wilson of Laval and G. W. Macdougall of 
McGill presided jointly. 

Mr. Wilson explained to those present that they were 
called together to appoint a Committee of Ways and 
Means, which will present to the Legislature of Quebec 
a Bill, whereby the period of study, now exacted by 
the Bar of this Province, may be curtailed to three 
years— the term required by Law, till the amending 
Statute of 1884 came into force. 

He thanked the gentlemen of McGill University for 
hav ing attended the meeting, and cordially invited them 
to join with their brethren of Laval in obtaining the 
projected reform. 

Mr. aw. Macdougall, president of the Law Stu- 
dents Society of McGill, followed in an eloquent address 
thanking the French Students in the name of his Eng- 
lish confreres for their cordiality, promising the hearty 
co-operation of all McGill Law-Students, and stating 
that, in his opinion (and he was happy to notice in 
that also of almost the entire Bar), that the fourth year 
of study was absolutely useless if spent in a Law Office, 



but that it could be used to greater advantage in the 
active practice of the profession. 

Mr. Piche of Laval, seconded by Mr. Boissonnault, 
also of Laval, moved : “ That the thanks of both Colleges 
be tendered to those gentlemen who projected the reform, 
and who brought the matter to assume so promising an 
aspect — Carried unanimously. 

It was also carried unanimously that the following 
gentlemen compose the committee : Messrs. G. W. 
Macdougall, B.A., Arthur Hogle, Jos. C. Walsh, B.A., 
Saumarez Carmichael, B.A., J. Dunlop, and Mr. La- 
moureux, of McGill, Messrs. Wilson, Chas. Beaubien, 
B.A., Bazin, Boissonnault, Letourneau, Desjardins, 
White, Camille Piche, Cusson and Perron, of Laval. 

The meeting then adjourned till the 15th of October, 
to hear the report of the Committee. 

The petition . so far has been signed by nearly all the 
judges of all the cities of the Province, and by a great 
number of lawyers, notably in St. Hyacinthe, Quebec 
and Three Rivers ; in Montreal the success attending 
its circulation has been quite unexpected and gratify- 
ing. The Law Professors of Laval, Quebec, have also 
signed it e?i bloc ; a great number of Professors of Laval, 
Montreal, have promised to do so ; and those of our 
own Alma Mater will not unfavorably entertain the 
request, as some of them are known to desire its sanc- 
tion by the General Council of the Bar. 

The petition reads as follows : 

To the Members of the General Council of the Bar of the Pro- 
vince of Quebec : 

The petition of the undersigned Law Students respectfully 

submits : 

That the clerkship of four years, exacted by the law of 1884, 
entails a loss to the students of one year, which could be put to 
better advantage in the practice of law. That the Council of 
the Bar only exacts attendance at seven hundred and fifty (750) 
lectures during the clerkship of students, and these courses may 
be easily followed during the space of two years. That the law 
lectures of the Faculties afford students sufficient time to study 
procedure, whilst devoting their time to civil law. That the 
employment of professional stenographers and typewriters pre- 
vents poor law students from gaining a livelihood. That, as a 
consequence, they are obliged to seek positions in other than 
law offices, and this is injurious to the prosecution of their stu- 
dies. lhat the General Council of the Bar, by severe examina- 
tions, may test the competence of law students seeking admit- 
tance to the profession. 

Wherefore your petitioners pray that the period of their stu- 
dies be reduced to three years, and your petitioners will ever 
pray. 

Montreal, July 27, 1893. 

We, the undersigned judges, law professors and lawyers of 
this province, declare that we have taken cognizance of thispeti- 
tion, and we recommend it to the favorable consideration of the 
General Council of the Bar of the Province of Quebec, because 
it is based on good and valid grounds. 



The perfect peace and quiet which has hitherto 
reigned supreme over and pervaded the precincts of a 
certain fashionable west end street after midnight hours 
the inclusive enjoyment of which for many years has 
been the proud boast of the residents thereon, has been 
ruthlessly disturbed and upset, it is alleged, by the 
nightly prow-lings and suspicious actions of one of our 
ambitious young freshmen. From our information we 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ii 



are not in a position to say positively whether our friend 
is playing the romantic role of a “ wandering minstrel ” 
and passionate lover, doubtlessly attempting to re- 
kindle the dying fire of his dear one’s affections through 
the medium of a “ Mexican guitar,” coupled with the 
sweet melody of his fine-timbered voice, as its incanta- 
tions fall softly on the gentle midnight zephyrs, or whe- 
ther he pursues this line of action to offset the depress- 
ing effects of deep meditation in the spheres of Roman 
law. It may be that his short experience of faculty 
life has developed the dread and terrible somnambulistic 
habit. However, we earnestly hope, in any case, that 
should he fall into the clutches of some irate and pugi- 
listic resident, he may not receive such severe punish- 
ment as to arrest his attendance at lectures. We 
would advise our confrere to try and avoid front 
porticoes, and, if discovered in any leafy bower, to fold 
up his silvery tongue and silently steal away. “ Verbum 
Sapient i Satis est. }} 



Lecture Room, 9.30 a.m. 

Lecturer • 

“ Yes, gentlemen, Cujas was a man of such nervous 
sensibility that it is recorded of him that he frequently 
abruptly closed his lectures and left the room upon 
any manifestation of noise by his students.” But alas ! 
the strange and mysterious sound of foot-shuffling 
among the students of the present generation anxious 
to get to their offices fell on unheeding ears. 

Our quiet legal community has been thrown into 
commotion by the advent amongst us of a ferocious 
disciple of Mars, apparently endowed with true mili- 
tary neatness and precision. Hi^ first outbreak of mar- 
tial spirit found a vent in a fierce attack with a fatal- 
looking penknife upon an unoffending and respect- 
able blot that appeared upon his note book. Oh ! 
tempo* a ! 0I1 mores! to what perfection are we drift- 
ing when we wage war upon untidiness in our notes ! 
Hail Victor ! 

There was ouce a law-student named 

Who was Heaven-ordained for a lawyer ; 

An orator quite, 

He’d get away “ out of sight,” 

As his speech took wing higher and higher. 



A general meeting of the students in the Faculty of 
Law was held in their solitary class room on Wednesday, 
the nth inst., for the purpose of electing officers for the 
Moot Court. 

Mr. Gordon McDougall as president of the meeting 
made a short speech, in explanation to the first year of 
the objects aimed at by this Society, and the benefit to 
be gained therefrom, namely, that of giving the students 
a chance of taking part in and arguing cases, and thus 
preparing them for the work that lies before them 
in their profession, —that of addressing the Courts. 

The election of officers was proceeded with, Mr. 
Hogle of the final year being elected president, and 
Mr. Barron, 2nd year, elected Vice President. 

An energetic and eloquent speech by Mr. Sawyer, 



Law ’93, ‘elicited enthusiastic applause from the meeting. 
After a couple of minor motions which he presented 
were passed upon, the following gentlemen, Mr. Jones, 
3rd year ; Mr. Patterson, B.A., 2nd year ; and Mr. Dona- 
hue, B. A., 1st year, were chosen to act on the Committee. 



LEGAL briefs. 

Some pithy sentences from a Student’s Note-Book : 

“ In R. L had specf. nm for every' action that Ex 

If “ mutuum ” called contract “ actio mutui” or 

condictio ex mut Th acti lender cover see book 

— “commodati” next, 2 kinds (1) Activ commodati 

Directa, (2) Contraria. (1) given to what rights 

arise? Pigneratitia — Dam. — (Lookup) ” Quifacitper 

alium fa se.” Every man must do his own. 

Book 4, title 10. Lex Hostilia 39, How ? It provided 

a fully developed married woman could not 

Justinian, Book 2, title 9, tells us " per quas persones 
nobis adquiritur” [Verify.] 

I say, D n, will you lend me the loan of your note- 

book ? 



Class Reporter : — I say, boys, is there no joke to be 
had for the Fortnightly? 

B — r— n : — Yes, Professor M— ’s lectures are “ no 
joke.” 



“ ’Tis obvious to those can scan humanity aright 

That, though we have ferocious looks, we all detest to fight ; 

That but for lawyers and the law — but for the legal mind 
There never would be peace on earth for quarrelsome mankind. 
The human race from Parsons down would always fighting be 
If counsel loved not compromise far better than a fee.” 

Robt. Grant. 

The following good story is told of a Glasgow 
bailie. In Scottish courts of law, witnesses repeat the 
oath with the right hand raised. On one occasion, 
however, the magistrate found a difficulty. 

“ Hold up your right arm,” he commanded. 

“ I cannot dae ’t,” said the witness. 

“ Why not?” 

“ Got shot in that arm.” 

“ Then hold up your left.” 

“ Canna dae that eyther ; got shot in the ether 
one tae.” 

“ Then hold up your leg,” responded the irate 
magistrate. “ No man can be sworn in this court with- 
out holding up something.” (The Green Bag.) 



MEDICAL NOTES. 

The Medical Faculty inaugurated the present session 
with an introductory lecture on Tuesday, Oct. 3rd. 

Dean Craik, in a few well chosen and kindly remarks, 
welcomed the assembled students to the halls of McGill, 
and then introduced the lecturer of the day, Prof. Ruttan 
who took as his subject, “ The Place of Chemistry in a 
Medical Education.” He began his remarks to the 
following effect : — 

“ We meet to-day in conformity with the well-estab- 



12 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



lished custom of our Faculty to inaugurate by a lec- 
ture the session of 1893-94. To-day we plant the sixty- 
first mile-stone, which marks the progress and develop- 
ment of our school. It is a cause of gratification to me 
to find myself in a position in which I may offer you all, 
on behalf of the Faculty, a hearty welcome back to the 
halls of your Alma Mater ; to assure those of you who 
are just now entering on the threshold of a life of study, 
that this welcome is more than the formal one of a pro- 
fessor to his class ; it is that of friend to friend, to 
remind you that as fellow-students in a profession 
which demands such sacrifices of time and self as 
medicine, we all have the same great object in life. In 
no profession, perhaps, is this sense of camaraderie so 
strong as it is in that of medicine, no class of students 
so true to each other and to their Alma Mater as 
medical students, and the members of no other profes- 
sion are so ready and glad to offer each other assistance 
when called upon as those of the profession to which 
you aspire. 

“ I have to congratulate you, gentlemen of the first 
year, on entering McGill University at a period in her 
history marked by such prosperity as the present. It 
has been her province in the past to set a high standard 
in the practical and vital branch of education controlled 
by this Faculty. This duty has been done in j the face of 
grave doubts and difficulties, and this duty our Faculty 
is now doing, not without the expenditure of much 
thought and labor, but, thanks to our generous friends, 
without running the risk of financial failure which 
deters so many other schools from adopting the most 
advanced methods of teaching and fixing a high stan- 
dard for their degree. As Oliver Wendell Holmes 
wittily remarks : ‘ A school which depends for its ex- 
istence on the number of its students cannot be expected 
to commit suicide in order to satisfy an ideal demand 
for perfection.’ The best medical instruction must 
necessarily be the most expensive ; well equipped 
laboratories, good teaching, museums and models, large 
reference libraries, and, above all, an able staff of pro- 
fessors and assistants, are the necessary but costly fea- 
tures of a great medical school. Our benefactors have 
set the excellent example of liberally aiding an already 
tried institution instead of launching a new one among 
the many which are at present struggling to float, 
recognizing the fact that by endowing a good medical 
school they have advanced the thoroughness of medical 
education.” 

The lecturer went on to advise the freshmen to get 
rid of various useless characteristics and to cultivate 
their reasoning powers, the faculty of observation and 
a knowledge of humanity, in order to fit themselves for 
the profession of medicine- 

“The world demands at any price men that are abso- 
lutely fitted to their position. You should, therefore, 
cultivate in every detail those qualities of mind, of per- 
son, and of manner that will enable you to fill anyplace 
that the world reserves for the great physician. Your 
curriculum of study will not do all this for you. Much 
must be acquired by personal observation and 
thought.” 



The Doctor next examined the influence that chemis- 
try and the study of chemistry has had on the develop- 
ment of medicine. He entered into the history of che- 
mists, dating back to the time of the alchymists, and 
quoted a few ideas of the great Galen, to give a faint 
picture of the medicine of the fifteenth century : “ The 
head is divided into four parts : in the forepart hath 
blood the dominion, choler the right side, melancholy 
in the left side, and phlegma beareth rule in the hinder- 
most part.” He showed what ideas prevailed in ana- 
tomy and physiology : The spleen was the centre of 
wit ; the size of the brain increased and decreased with 
the moon ; the seat of love was the liver ; and the 
lungs were employed to fan the heart, which in turn 
was the centre of animal heat. Based on such physio- 
logy, said the lecturer, you will readily understand the 
scientific necessity for this prescription : “ Take the 
right eye of a frog, wrap it in a piece of russet cloth ; 
hang it about the neck. It cureth the right eye, if it be 
inflamed or bleared ; and if the left eye be grieved, do 
the like by the left eye of the said frog, Similia simili- 
bia> curantur Here we have seen the homoeopathic 
ophthalmology of the fifteenth century. All medical 
chemistry in the eighteenth century was taught in the 
drug shops, and its sole “ raison cCetre” was the pre- 
paration of medicines. In the course of his remarks 
the lecturer tried to show that the history of medicine, 
as a whole, shows progress or stagnation in proportion 
as the experimental method of enquiry, the process of 
trying and thinking, has been used or neglected, and 
that this method is the one that will most surely sift 
facts from fancy, and by the orderly arrangement of 
facts enable one to see relations previously obscured . 
He emphasized the fact that a training in this method 
is of the highest importance to every student of medi- 
cine. 

What was to be aimed at was to be practical men — 
practitioners. 

The advantage of a scientific training lay in the 
fact that it educates the seeing powers — the mental 
vision. 

The whole practice of medicine consisted largely in 
the exercise of the powers of observation. 

To make a correct diagnosis required this power to 
be acute and highly trained, or some imperfectly devel- 
oped symptom might escape recognition. 

A training in experimental work also aids us in ac- 
quiring the facts of science, in learning our profession 
not only because it educates the attention and precision 
of observation, but especially because it teaches one to 
question nature, to cross-examine her and ourselves as 
well. We should cultivate, then, early in our career 
the habit of careful observation, and go to nature her- 
self for information, wherever we have an opportunity. 

“ It is the pride of this Faculty that she has always 
insisted upon laboratory work as an essential portion of 
the preliminary training of her students, aud that the 
chief portion of the final work is taught with a pa- 
tient before you, at the bedside in the hospitals. But 
before you reach this later stage you should have ac- 
quired the habit of mind which only the experimental 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



13 



sciences can give you. Now, chemistry, of all your 
primary work, presents you with the best examples of 
accurate and discriminative observation and of inference 
therefrom. 

“ The tendency of education to-day in all branches* 
from the kindergarten to the university, is more and 
more towards placing work and personal observation 
before tradition and theoretical instruction.” 

Rightly speaking, a thorough knowledge of elemen- 
tary chemistry should be made part of the entrance re- 
quirements, and the Medical College should confine 
its teaching on this subject to purely medical chemistry. 

“Apart from laboratory training, what every medi- 
cal man requires is a clear view of the broad principles 
of chemistry, so that he can intelligently follow advances 
in medicine, made by chemical research, and a limited 
acquaintance only with the facts of chemistry. Apart 
from its value as a means of training the student in 
those habits of thought especially useful to him in his 
profession, chemistry has another claim to a high posi- 
tion in a modern medical education, — a claim based on 
what she has shown herself able to do in aiding physio- 
logy and pathology in the solution of the fundamental 
problems of medicine.” 

Chemistry better perhaps than any other subject 
leads us into the deep mysteries of nature. Its results 
are certain. We should study nature by means of per- 
sonal investigation. A knowledge of the ways of na- 
ture by first hand is vastly better than mere text-book 
knowledge, however great. 

We regret that want of space forbids us to give this 
admirable lecture in full. At the close, a hearty vote 
of thanks was accorded to the lecturer. 

MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

At a meeting of the Second Year, held on the 6th 
inst., the following officers were elected for the coming 
year. 

President. — J. B. Ferguson. 

Vice-President. — F. Duckett. 

Secretary. — D. P. Lynch. 

Class-Reporter. — A. F. Edwards. 

The Faculty representative on the Editorial Board 
of the Fortnightly, Mr. A. G. Nicholls, M.A., of the 
Fourth Year, has been elected Editor-im Chief. 

* , * 

* 

St. Catherine street is swarming with freshmen who 
stare with open eyes and mouths at the wonders of the 
store windows. Two weeks from date they will be 
swaggering along the same fashionable thoroughfare 
with canes and cigarettes, swearing that this is the 

slowest place ever they were in. 

* , * 

* 

A member of the Fourth Year has been suffering 
from a misplaced attachment. 

* 

During the summer the Final Year have been deep 
in the study of Bacteriology. The staphylococcus 
pyogenes aureus, coccida, spirilla and diplococci have 
now no secrets from us. Our respected teacher de- 
serves thanks for his endeavors to turn us out “ pure 
cultures,” though at times he must have felt agar- 
avated. 



It is said that “ much learning doth make one mad ” ; 
for all that we are not yet imbacillus, although some 
have become cocci-ed while staring through an eye- 
piece, eagerly looking for something that wasn’t 
there. 

* * 

* 

Prof, (to class not in McGill) — “ Gentlemen, the 
practice of bleeding, formerly so often resorted to, has 
now gone out of fashion, — bleeding with the lancet of 
course I mean.” 

* * 

* 

In a certain trial a medical witness deposed that “ the 
prisoner had received a severe contusion on the lower 
portion of the frontal bone, causing considerable 
serous ( ? serious) infiltration of the subjacent areolar 
tissue, with extravasation of blood and tumor and 
abrasion of the integument resulting in temporary 

inability to use the left optic. 

* * 

* 

A wealthy patient once asked the famous Abernethy 
to recommend a cure for gout. “Live upon sixpence 
a day and earn it ” was the brusque reply. 

* * 

* 

The final year have elected as officers the following 
gentlemen : — 

President. — E. C. Hart. 

Secretary. — G. S. McCarthy. 

Class- Reporter. — Allan Davidson. 

SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The following are the officers of the different years : 
FOURTH YEAR. 

W. A. Duff. President. 

H. M. Mackay, B.A Vice President. 

A. A. Cole, B.A Secretary. 

THIRD YEAR. 

F. A. Wilkin President. 

H. R. Trenholme Vice-President. 

R. O. King Secretary. 

SECOND YEAR. 

George Walkem President. 

T. F. Kenney Vice-President. 

H. M. Killaly, B.A Secretary. 

The first year elections have not yet come off 

The members of the Science Reading Room Com- 
mittee are : — 

Messrs. Dawson and Lambert, Sc. ’94. 

Messrs. Primrose and Moodie, Sc. ’95. 

Mr. H. M. Jacuays, B.A. Sc. ’96. 

The Class Reporters are : — H. Molson, Sc. ’94, W. F. 
Angus, Sc. ’95, R. H. Stewart, Sc. ’96. 

Professor Adams again leads his motley class of 3rd 
year Arts and Science over the hills and far away, 
every Saturday morning, on geological excursions. 
We notice an irrepressible undergraduate in the rear 
with a mouth organ, who usually plays “ Onward, 



McGill fortnightly. 



14 



Christian Soldiers,’* until the pangs of hunger and 
fatigue attack him, when he switches off into “ Home 
Sweet Home,” — a gentle hint, which seems to have no 
effect upon the authorities. 



The Faculty of Applied Science has increaseed its 
teaching staff to a considerable extent this autumn. 
The most important addition, Professor Calander, we 
owe to Mr. McDonald’s liberality in endowing another 
chair in the Department of Physics. Professor Calan- 
der graduated at Cambridge as sixteenth wrangler 
and with classical honors. He was demonstrator at the 
Cavendish laboratory, and more recently professor at 
Holloway College. He is extremely well qualified for 
his new post, having already achieved distinction in 
original research, more especially in the Department 
of Thermometry. 

J. H. Featherston paid the college a fleeting visit 
last week. He had intended to take a post graduate 
course, but as he found upon trial that his dislocated 
shoulder was still too weak to allow him to play foot- 
ball, he gave up the idea, and is taking in the World’s 
Fair instead. 



Professor Rouleaux passed through the Science 
buildings on October 3rd. 



A. A. Loeb, formerly of Science *95, has left this 
Faculty to join the ranks of Medicine. We feel con- 
soled for the loss that the Engineering profession sus- 
tains, in the thought that, in the noble and humane 
practice of Medicine, his varied and oft-tried abilities 
may reach an even wider sphere of usefulness than 
they otherwise might have done. 



Professor : — “ A , you are wet ; you had better 

take off your coat and get dry.** 

A : “ Please, sir, it is not my coat that is wet.” 



It is rumored that two members of Science ’95 are 
going to take lectures in pyramid pool. In the mean- 
time they have blood in their eye when they hear any- 
one whistling the Combodian chorus from Wang. 



Out of the thirty members of Science *95, eleven are 
playing football this year. 



Science was rather premature in electing a com- 
mittee to look after their tug of war team. By the bye, 
we might perhaps be able to sell our new tug-of-war 
belts, etc., to the Arts men before they find out that there 
is no tug-of-war this year. 

ARTS NOTES. 

Before lectures began, it was rumored that the num- 
ber of students in Arts was to be augmented by an un- 
usually large class of freshmen. Though the Matricu- 
lation examination played the usual havoc in its ranks, 
the Class of ’97 is no pygmy: 



The officers of the several years for the present ses- 
sion have been appointed as follows : — 

Fourth Year : Pres., Angus Graham. 

Vice Pres., W. P. Garret. 

Sec., Leslie H. Boyd. 

Third Year: Pres., Arthur Burnet. 

Vice- Pres., O. E. LeRoy. 

Sec., Fred. Tooke. 

Second Year: Pres., J. C. Robertson. 

Vice-Pres., F. C. Smiley. 

Sec., G. A. Campbell. 

First Year : Pres., Campbell Howard. 

Vice-Pres., J. Bruce. 

Sec., C. K. Russell. 



Inquisitive Freshy — “ What are they making those 
excavations in front of the Arts building for ? ” 

Obliging Sophomore — “ Those are shafts for the use 
of the class in Mining Engineering in Applied Science.” 

Should the captain of the Foot-Ball team be at a loss 
as to the best means for improving the ** staying power” 
of his team, we would recommend that the players ac 
company the Fourth Year on their Geological excur- 
sions. 

The Arts Reading-Room has been placed, for the pre- 
sent session, in the hands of the following committee : 

T. Davis, 94 > Chairman ; Hanson, ’95, Secretary ; 
Archibald, ’96, Treas; Fraser, ’94; Gustin, *95; S. 
Graham, *96 ; Marler, ’97 ; and McMaster, ’97. 



It is quite unnecessary for a Sophomore, when asked 
by a Junior to “come out behind the college and have 
some amoebae, to say that he cannot because he has 
recently signed a total abstinence pledge. The invita- 
tion does not imply that the Junior carries a flask. 



The several years have been peculiarly happy in their 
choice of Class-Reporters to our College journal. The 
men appointed are :— 4th year, W. L. Barlow ; 3rd 
year, J. M. Wallace ; 2nd year, J. K. Kennedy ; 1st 
year, Ed. M. Campbell. With such a staff of reporters 
the Arts column ought to be very breezy. 



My ! but I’m homesick. 



The lectures in English to the First Years Arts and 
Science occupy considerably less than the prescribed 
fifty-five minutes. The rest of the time is taken up 
with calling the roll. 



We notice that the Science men are out taking photo- 
graphs again. 



By the painful manner in which some of our would- 
be athletes climbed the front steps on Wednesday 
morning, one could easily conclude that the evening 
previous had been “ First Night ” at the college gynf- 

nasium. Why will men try to break records at the first 
practice ? 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



15 



The Class of ’95 is an ambitious class. More than 
half of its members have entered upon Honour Courses. 
For the first time, we believe, in the history of the Col- 
lege has a class been represented in all the seven Hon- 
our Course*. In the present Third Year there are at 
least four candidates for Honours in Classics, four in 
Natural Science, eight in Mental and Moral Philosophy 
four in English Literature and History, two in Modern 
Languages and History, one in Semitic Languages, and 
one in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. What a 
lot of feathers in the spring, eh ? 

Wang’s Oration. — To whom it may concern : — 

It is very difficult aequam servare mentem and de 
bonne grace to pay your subscriptions et hoc genus 
omne to all the canvassers and id genus omne who, im- 
bued with auri sacra fames, throng the Arts building 
and demand, ex-officio, that you should show your love 
for the Alma Mater, “ and rather lighten their work 
by subscribing as often and as promptly as you possibly 
can.” However, est modus in rebus, but I think it a 
mollow hockery, — I mean, a hollow mockery. (Science 
men will please apply to the Editors for a “ crib.” — Ed.) 

We learn that “ in human beings the matter is essen- 
tially the same as we find in all physical substances.” 
We also learn that talc is the softest mineral. It is 
clear then why some people have an unusual amount 
of this mineral in their brain tissues. 

The boys seem to be saving their voices for “ Sports ” 
day, or for the time when the new Song-Book shall ap- 
pear, for we seldom hear the soul-stirring strains of “The 
Animal Fair ” or of “ Clementine ” this session. 

A stranger passing through the College grounds 
about 4 p.m., on one of these fine autumn days, would 
be apt to conclude that Old McGill had a Kindergarten 
and a Nursery in close affiliation with it. 

The Arts men were very sorry to receive the resigna- 
tion of Mr. W. M. MacKeracher, their representative on 
the Editorial Staff of the Fortnightly. At the meet- 
ing called to consider his resignation, “Mac” explained 
that circumstances obliged him to resign. A hearty 
vote of thanks was tendered to him for his self-sacrific- 
ing labor in the past, and his resignation was accepted. 
Mr. E. Edwin Howard, ’95, was, by the unanimous vote 
of the meeting, transferred from the Business Board to 
the Editorial Staff of the paper. Mr. Frank Day, ’94, 
was appointed by acclamation to represent the Students 
in Arts on the Business Board. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

FROM A FRESHMAN. 

Last Thursday morning a most unusual spectacle 
greeted our astonished eyes, as we came upstairs from 
the Chemistry room accompanied by the fumes of H2 S. 
There lay a pile of carpets, rugs, tables and baskets, 
from the centre of which a yellow lamp-shade reared 
its resplendent head. Even as we looked, there came 



a Soph bending under the weight of two fancy stools, 
and a host of Juniors trooped past laden with tins and 
milk jugs. We knew that the Young Women’s Chris- 
tian Association was giving a reception for us that 
afternoon, and so we waited till circumstances and the 
carpets should unfold themselves. A few surreptitious 
peeps into the Second Year Room convinced us that 
the matter was in good hands, in spite of some agon- 
ized whispers such as “Those curtains will never come 
in time,” and “ Do you think the cream will keep all 
right?” 

When five o’clock came we entered somewhat timidly. 
If we had seen the ugly desks and ink-spotted floors we 
would have walked with Freshmanical (?) confidence, 
but the transformation staggered us, and we hardly re- 
covered in time to shake hands with the officers of the 
Association who were waiting to welcome us. Our 
timidity vanished as we received the cordial greetings 
of the President and the merry talk of the students, who 
immediately surrounded us and made us feel at home. 

The musical part of the entertainment was not strictly 
classical, but was at least amusing. There seemed to 
be some difficulty in collecting the Glee Club, till a 
united shout of “ Glee Club this way ” reminded the 
wanderers of their duty. Even after listening with pride 
to the effects of our Glee Club (if a freshie may be per- 
mitted to claim it), we were still able to appreciate Miss 
Lena Shaw’s song, “ The Garden of Sleep.” 

At the close, Miss Ogilvy spoke a few earnest words 
about the Association, saying that it was only through 
our societies that the student of the different years 
could really know one another ; and as the students 
need the Association, so the Association needs the help 
of the students. She invited them all to attend their 
Friday afternoon meetings, which last half an hour and 
are a pleasant close to our week of lectures. 

We were also indebted to Miss Annie Radford for 
helping to entertain us, for as our President finished 
speaking there sounded softly but clearly through the 
room the sweet words of 

“ Nearer, my God, to Thee.’* 

We left, feeling that we knew each other better, and 
that there was something besides text-books in our 
college life. 



What of the Sophomores who in April dropped well 
worn pens, folded their examination papers, and turned 
anxious away? Behold them now, serene juniors! 
Miraculous change ! I11 numbers, if nought else, the 
class is the same. A gap was made indeed when Miss 
Rickey, much to the regret of her classmates, went 
over to the ranks of the Normal School ; but to preserve 
the eleven unbroken came Miss Fraser of St. Francis. 
May she never regret her change of colleges. Of the 
eleven, seven are candidates for honors : in Classics, 
Miss Seymour ; in Mental and Moral Philosophy, Miss 
Travis; in English Language and Literature, Miss 
Botterell and Miss Cameron ; in Modern Languages, 
Miss Wilson ; and in Natural Science, Miss Radford and 
Miss Watson. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



SATURDAY’S EXCURSION. 

We went to the mountain. The day was perfect, 
just cool enough to make the exertion of walking plea- 
sant. That we were all in good spirits goes without 
saying, as, armed with rock-breakers of every size, 
from a harmless little tack-hammer to the regulation 
hewer, and with bags whose variety was even more 
wonderful, we made our start, an enthusiastic band of 
ten, counting the scamp of the party (that’s the dog). 
We first inspected the rocks around the Reservoir, and 
were tantalized by seeing Dr. Harrington’s discovery 
“ Dawsonite ” just beyond our reach ; but we determined 
to bring home no small part of our mountain stone. 
We then passed up through the cut almost facing 
Simpson st., and turning sharply to the right followed 
a steep but lovely path, too steep for one of our number, 
who tripped over a pebble, and rising quickly assured us 
that only her dignity was hurt. We had every reason to 
believe that the pain had been quite forgotten long be- 
fore a return was thought of, for we heard the cheerful 
tap, tap of her two-inch hammer on an immense granite 
boulder, which had been brought and there deposited 
by the great crystal king of the North. No, we did 
not see him bring it, but his autograph has been seen 
distinctly written in the rocks where the boulders have 
been laid down. 

Even the walk through the Cemetery failed to depress 
our spirits, and we never knew we were tired until after 
we reached home. 

There are still some boulders, rocks and dykes left 
on the mountain for future geologists ; but a pleasanter 
afternoon than we spent they can scarcely expect to 
enjoy. 

SPORTS. 



THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. 

As already announced by the notices in the several 
buildings, the Eleventh Annual Field Meeting of the 
McG. U. A. A. will be held on Friday, the 20th inst. 
The Executive Committee of the Association desire 
through the Fortnightly to request that a large 
number of entries be made for the different events, 
as special inducements are offered. I11 the first place 
an inter Faculty trophy will be offered for competition. 
This will be awarded to the Faculty having the great- 
est number of points to its credit on the evening of the 
20th. This trophy will be competed for every year, and 
the name of the Faculty winning it each year will 
be engraved upon it. Besides, a trophy will be 
given to the member of this Association who wins 
the greatest number of points in all the events. Three 
points will be awarded for a first place, . two points for 
a second, and one point for a third. 

The students in general must give their hearty sup- 
port to the Executive Committee if these changes are to 
be carried out successfully. 

The Committee have decided to omit the Tug-of-War 
from this year’s programme. This action was taken, as 
it was thought that the Tug-of-War taxed the strength 
ot the contestants altogether too much. The omission 
of this event has, however, been more than supplied by 
the offer ol an inter-Faculty trophy. 



The weights, hurdles, etc., have been on the grounds 
for some time already. It is hoped that those students 
who desire to enter any of the contests will avail 
themselves of this opportunity to practise, so that a 
goodly number of ‘"records” may be broken this year. 

J. C. H. 



FOOTBALL. 

McGill played its first schedule match on Saturday, 
Oct. 7th, when our second XV. defeated the Montreal 
second XV. by a score of sixteen to five. Both clubs 
had on the strongest possible team, for it was felt that 
this match would virtually decide the Intermediate 
championship. McGill began proceedings by rushing 
the ball down to the Montreal goal, and scoring first a 
rouge and then a safety. After about ten minutes play 
Lynch received a heavy blow in the face from James, 
who was ruled off for rough play a little later. Lynch 
had to be helped off the field, and his place was taken 
by Baker. The referee’s whistle was going continually 
throughout the match, and but for his extreme strict- 
ness it would undoubtedly have been very rough. 
McGill had the advantage all through the match even 
more than the score would indicate, being in Montreal’s 
territory, except when they, by some dangerous drib- 
bling, would break away. 

For Montreal, Seagram, Savage, Bickerdyke, Paradis 
and Skelton played a good game. The McGill men all 
played splendidly, the wings were fast and blocked 
well, the scrimmage heeled out with a neatness that 
speaks volumes for Gaudet’s coaching, while the back 
division would have left absolutely nothing to be 
desired had they been a trifle more careful in their pass- 
ing. 

The following were the teams : — 



Montreal . 

Seagram 

Savage 1 

Paradis >- 

Branch ) 

Skelton 

James ^ 

O’Brien 
Hamilton 
Wallace y 
Murphy 
Lynian(capt) | 
Bickerdyke J 
Warrinton ") 
Fulton 
Holt ) 



• full back. 

halfbacks 

quarter back. . 



Wings 



Scrimmage. 



McGill , 

Leslie 

( R. McDougall 
..-j Trenholme 
( Lynch, Baker 

H. Shaw 

r Broderick 
Sparrow 
Cowan 
-j Schwartz 
Draper 
Tees 

Alley 

. J Drum (capt) 

| Angus 
Donkin 



Referee, Dr. Elder. 



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC RUGBY FOOTBAEE 
CHAMPIONSHIPS. 



SEASON 1893. 

SENIOR. 

Oct. 7 Britannia vs. Quebec Quebec 

“ H Montreal vs. Britannia Britannia 

H Quebec vs. McGill McGill 

21 McGill »$. Montreal Montreal 

“ 28 Montreal vs. Quebec Quebec 

28 McGill vs. Britannia Britannia 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 7 



INTERMEDIA TE. 

Oct 7 Montreal vs. McGill ..McGill 

7 Lennoxville vs. Britannia Britannia 

“ 14 McGill z\y.i,ennoxville Lennoxville 

“ 21 Britannia McGill .... McGill 

“ 28 Lennoxville vs. Montreal Montreal 

Nov. 4 Britannia vs. Montreal Britannia 

JUNIOR . 

Oct. 14 Britannia ztf. Quebec Quebec 

“ 14 McGill vs. Montreal Montreal 

<c 21 Montreal vs. Britannia Britannia 

“ 28 McGill vs. Quebec McGill 

Nov. 4 Quebec vs. Montreal Montreal 

u 4 Britannia vs. McGill McGill 



FOOTBALL NOTICE. 

Team practices every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday 
and Friday mornings at 6.30 a.m., and Thursday after- 
noons at 4.30 p.m. sharp. Rain or shine. 

General practices Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday 
and Friday afternoons at 4.30 p.m. 

Team uniform. 

White sleeveless canvas jacket with crest, over white 
jersey, white pants, and red and white stockings. 

Scrimmage men must wear boots with bars. 



If McGill is going to capture any of the three cham- 
pionships this year, and there is no reason why she 
should not, every footballer must turn out and practise 
hard. 

Junior men must remember that promotion can only 
be won by good play and hard practice, and that no one 
will get a place on a team unless he really deserves 
it ; also, some of the men who are playing on the teams 
this year will be leaving college before another season, 
and the committee are already trying to bring up men 
to take their places, so, although every man has not ob- 
tained a place on one of the teams this year, he should 
not despair, but work hard in preparation for next year. 

The committee for this year is : — 

Hon. Pres. — Prof. J. T. Nicolson. 

Hon. Treas. — Dr. Ruttan. 

Pres. — W. Donohue. 

Vice-Pres. — G. Mathewson. 

Capt. — C- Gaudet. 

Treas. — J oh nstone. 

Secy.— W. Angus. 

Committee : J. Dunlop, G. McDougall, Cowan, An- 
derson, J. Primrose, H. Jacques, L- Drum, W. Bond 
and J. Lynch. 



MCGILL, vs. BRITANNIA. 

The football season opened well on Saturday, Sept. 
30th, when McGill played a practice match with Brit- 
annia’s first XV, and although neither team was in pro- 
per trim we managed to beat our heavier opponents by 
a score of 14 to o. That match cannot be taken as a 
sample of the schedule matches we have to play this 
year. It must be remembered that the Brits were not 
in proper trim, nor had they their regular first team in 
the field. Of course McGill was laboring under the 
same disadvantages. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

At a meeting of the Undergraduates Society of Applied 
Science, Mr. Wilkin, Sc. ’95, was appointed as Science 
representative on the Editorial Board of the McGill 
Fortnightly, in place of Mr. A. R. Holden, B.A , 
retired, and Mr. H. H. Mackay, B.A., Sc. ’94? was ap- 
pointed to the Business Board in place of Mr. Henry. 

PERSONALS. 

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie has begun practice on St. 
Catherine street. 

Mr. A. G. Terryberry, Arts ’95, has entered Victoria 
College, Toronto. 

R. McDougall, B.A. ’90, is at present studying at 
Harvard, where he has taken his M.A. 

Messrs. Walker and Kingston have returned from 
the West, and are spending a short time in town. 

Mr. Hector S. Kollmyer, gold medalist in Classics of 
Arts ’92, is now fulfilling his duties as Classical Master 
of Stanstead College. 

The Medicals welcome back Mr. Sutherland, who for 
the last two years has been teaching school. He enters 
the Second Year. 

The genial face of D. S. Hamilton, B.A. ’92, is again 
seen in the College halls. Doubtless his prowess will 
again be felt on the campus in the near future. 

Percy N. Evans, B.A.Sc. ’90, has returned from 
Germany, where he has spent the last three years. He 
obtained the degree of Ph.D. from Leipsic. 

We are glad to see that Dr. John Henderson, ’93, 
who suffered from an attack of scarlet fever during the 
summer, has completely recovered. He is at present 
House Surgeon in the M. G. H. 

We are pleased to welcome among us Mr. Robert 
M. Harper of Morrin College, who enters the 4th 
year Arts ; Mr. W- A. Gustin of Stanstead Wesleyan 
College, who joins the class of ’95 ; Mr. W. H. Watters 
of Stanstead College, and Mr. H. P. Stockwell of St. 
Francis College, who join the class of ’96. 

THESE BE JOKES. 

That story of Charles Lamb and the parrot is hoary 
with age, but we venture to present it as an object of 
veneration to its ancient admirers, in case some of our 
subscribers may not have heard it. Lamb was once in 
a bird store looking out for a good parrot. The shop- 
keeper pointed one out, and he stepped up to the cage 
and tried to coax “ Polly ” to say something, but all to 
no purpose, the bird simply “ kept on saying nothing.’ * 
Lamb turned to the shopkeeper, and said, with his 
usual impediment : 

“ I s-s-say, this p-p-parrot can’t t-t-talk ; it d-does’s 
n’t know h-h-how.” 

“ Well, see,” replied the shopkeeper shortly ; ; ‘if he 
can’t talk better than you can I’ll give him to you.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



it 



A good story was going the rounds some time ago 
about one of the very reverend Bishops of the Epis- 
copal Church, who had gone to his new diocese and was 
staying at the best hotel in the chief town in the dis- 
trict. 

Bell boys and all had received warning that every 
respect was to be shewn to the distinguished guest who 
was invariably to be given his title of “ my lord.’* 

One evening my Lord Bishop sent down for a jug of 
boiling water, presumably to remove the Episcopal 
stubble from his Lordship’s chin. A knock is heard at 
the door, and the Bishop calls out, “ Hello ! Who’s 
there ?” when to his amazement comes a timid answer in 
faltering but decidedly Hibernian accents : “ It’s, it’s 

the lord wid de wa-ater, me boy.” 




are just receiving a very large and varied stock of the 
Finest English 



TWEED SUITINGS, 

ALSO A FEW 

Extra Quality Canadian Tweeds, 

*@“PRICES FROM $15.00 TO $30.00“©a 



JOHN MARTIN & CO., 

Military Outfitters, 

455 & 457 St, Faul Street, MONTREAL. 




HEADQUARTERS FOR 



Ueatmtg Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians eet Turkish baths at half price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. « 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the general 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS : n a.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 




REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada. . . 

[Fiicro. Accessories 
Clinical Tfiarmomeiers 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Laryngoscope jUirrors 
Opifiaimoscopes 
Stethoscopes 
Specula of all patterns 
Sculls and Skeletons 
Aspirators, Batteries 
Pocket Gases, etc., etc. 




STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 




E have a very extensive line guaianteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, 



FINE FURS 



15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 

at very reasonable prices. 



CHOICEST QUALITIES ! 
LATEST FASHIONS ! 
and POPULAR PRICES ! 

Cor, Notre Dame and St, Lambert Streets, 



PATERSON & FOSTER 

. . WHOLESALE AND RETAIL . . 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



19 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . . 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6° Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 



Telephone 1887 



73 ST. JAMES STREET 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 

’ ' 'h 



BAKING POWDER . 



IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOB ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



The COOK'S FRIEND is retailM hy all Goo} Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL. 




TO |1T)ILETES. 



Fool Ball 

Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 




THE 2nd GALLERY of the building comprises Dressing Rooms and Shower Baths, and every bather has to take a Shower Bath 
(hot or cold) as he pleases, before going below to the plunge. 

TTTV 3rd GALLERY is the Turkish Department and Private Baths. Throughout the baths are fitted in the best and latest style 
and conducted by a competent staff of attendants. Apart from this perfection the absolute purity of the water is an important 
attraction, as the Baths are fed from the Laurentian Artesian Spring, and the Swimming Bath alone has a continuous flow 
Of 30,000 gallons daily. The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees. 

PRICES OF ADMISSION— Bath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, 

To reacbYh^B^th WsitoJf caTt^k’e M^car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which brings you to the door. For further particulars, 
etc., apply to 

Telephone No. 7204 MR « KRUSE, Manager 





20 



MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




The EDISON PHONOGRAPH 



For sale by the Edison Phonograph (Sr* Densmore 
Typewriter Agency, 1744 Notre Dame Street, 
Montreal . . . 



Telephone 2963 



SI UOfcNTV HEADQUARTERS 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 

ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



The GEORGE BISHOP 

Engraving and Printing Co. 



COLLEGE CLVR AND 
SOCIETY PRINTING 



169 St* 3 amcs Street 



PROGRAMMES 

MeNUs 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



The American Fur Store 

WHOLESA LE ^31111^11 URg (Jfll 1* f j 1? f S a " d 

Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St •l Be ^cGUI V Co t nIge Ave. 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 



A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 

. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE S TREE T, Cor. Metcalfe 



Established 18 59 . 

HENRY UR». GKE 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians* Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 



FALCUTIES OF McCILL. 



DOWN TOWNISTORE : 



UP TOWN STORE : 



232 ST. JAMES ST. | 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

HORTON. PHILLIPS l CO. 

©TATI03NTKR.S, 

0LANK BOOK MAKERS 

D PRINTERS. 



1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 








McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



21 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always ou Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber. 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square White Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 



Point St. Charles, Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 C5-AIG- STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Cumber, Mahogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 

JOHN PAXTON & CO. r 'ST“ 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE GREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 



GEO. W. REED, 

JSlate, gftetat amt (Srauet Hoofing. 

ASPHALT FLOORINC FOR BASEMENTS. 



Nos 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 



ROBIN & SADLER 



MANUFACTURERS OF 





Oak Tanned Leather Belting 

MONTREAL and TORONTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 
School. 

n 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St Catherine St., Montreal. 

ARTISTS ” 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Color men to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them. 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAL. 



Q-. <3c <T- ZESZFT-.IILT 

Box Manufacturers 



AND 

Lumber Merchants 



Office, 126 DUke Street. 



-Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men 3 vols., cloth 52.50 reduced from $5.00 

Lord Lytton’s Works .13 “ “ 5*°° “ 13. 00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3 00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ 7.50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 

MOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

MONTREAL, 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



SAMUEL. ROGERS & CO., 
TORONTO. 



DUNCAN ROBERTSON, 
MONTREAL. 



THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 



OILS 



LUBRICATING 



ILLUMINATING 



(12 Gold Medals ia G years.) 

GREASES NAPHTHA 

Beii Telephone 0190 . 92 McGill St., Montreal. 



GEO. S. KIIYTBER, 

HOUSE. SI AID FRESCO MUTER. 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESiRtD IVIOTOH. 



I 



jjhLi 







< 






106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 

OF ENGLAND. 



Liability of Shareholders Unlimi'ed 

r'APTTAI ... $ 10 , 000,00 

RESERV E' FUNDS. 7 . 7 . 7 . • • • • 35,o°o,oo° 

ANNUAL INCOME, upwards of 8,ooo,coo 

Investments in Canada*for protection of Canadian Policy-Holders (chiefly with 
Government) exceeds $i ,000,000. Every description of property insured at moderate 
rates of premium. Life Assurance granted in all the most approved forms. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W. TATLEY, Chief Agent. 

E. Hurtubisb, {Special Agents James Allin, I Special Agents 

Alfred St. Cyr, \ French Dept. W. S. Robertson, J English Dept. 

of G. R. Robertson & Son. 



^CANADA LIFE>® 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 

HEAT) OFFICE , HAMILTON , ONT. 

Capital and Funds over 13 ? 0C 0,000 Dollars. 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 



President, - A. G. RAMSAY. 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov. of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL. 



BEAVER LINE 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND , LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Like Ontario, 5300 Tons, Capt. Campbell. Lake Superior, 5300 Tons, Capt. Stewart. 

Lake Huron, 5000 Tons, Capt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, Capt. Herriman. 

Lake Nipigon, 3000 Tons, Capt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this Line have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger 
Trade. The state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
accommodation t^r all classes of Passengers at very low rates, 
.specially re :uced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E # MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 



EDWARD L. BOND 

J[ire and JRarine Underwriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 

CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co, 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 



McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Fine 



VARNISHES, JAPANS 
and COLORS 



MONTREAL 






SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 



H 



THE MOLSONS BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 | Rest $1,150,000 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John H. R. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H, Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson. 
F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H. Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES, —Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W.T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa, Owen Sound, 
Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Thomas, Ont., Toronto, Toronto 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Ont , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London. — Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited); Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs. Morton, Rase & Co. 
Liverpool. — The Bank of Liverpool. Cork— Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 
Paris, — Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp t Belgium. — La Banqued’ Anvers. Hamburg 
— Hesse, Newman & Co. 

AGENTS IN UNITED STATES . — Neiu York.— Mechanics’ National Bank, 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss & Co. ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep- 
herd, Agents Bank of Montreal ; National City Bank, also in the principal cities 
of the United States. 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Circular 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. 



WARDEN KING & SON 

(Late Rogers & King.) 

Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters? the 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 

637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 



HENDERSON BROS- 

dumber amt timber 

Steam S clw cured H Zemin g JVLiZZs 

344 WILLIAM STREET 

Dry Kindling; Wood always in Stock 



H. R. IVES & CO. 



Established 

1 S 59 






Architectural Iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 



The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

Ceneral Founders, etc. 

Queen Street 



MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



23 




GURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR FURNACES 
RADIATORS- REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOCKS AND SCALES 



38S3 cfc 087 St. Paul St. 



MONTHS AIji 



ESTABLISHED I HOD 

- , ■ . - --- -- ■ « 

North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



ftxiraorbitiarg directors. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore I The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen I The Hon. Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly 
Total Assets, - 



85,000,000 

52,053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



The Liverpool X London X Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted ..... 

Gk IF 1 . O. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL- 



FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

(XjT3VCTTEID) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Insure your Property with the. 

Phoenix Insurance Co. 

TIME TRIED 



OF 

HARTFORD 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL 



and FIRE TESTED 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., ) _ Directors 

Robert Benny, Esq. ) 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada. 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 



The 



Guarantee Gomp y 



GERALD HART, 

General Manager for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



Northern Assurance Co. 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



OF NORTH AMERICA. 




Branch Office for Canada— 1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, Vice-President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 
Wail Buildings. MEDLAND JONES, Agents 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumulated Funds $35.73o»ooo 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds ••••••••;•• 5»495 °°o 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders ..... 200,000 

ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada . 

City Agent: BROWNING, British Empire Building. 




24 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 




Garth «& Co., 

Hot later, Steam & Sanitary Engineers 

— to the — 

McGill Unioersity Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board ot Trade Building. 

Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



~ P OBERT GARDNER & SON ~ J 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Fine Tools, Lathes, Planers, etc.. 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 

Nazareth , Brennan and Da/housie Sts., MONTREAL. 



J. K. MACDONALD 

. . . PRACTICAL . . . 

0 OIIsr a "*> ^lenntoHl JWI-lfattgav Jrodbmill anh lateral Jladbnrilt 
ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc, 

CARPENTERS’ and BUILDERS' WORK TO ORDER 



762 and 764 CRAIG STREET, West of Victoria Square, 



Bell Telephone No, 2591 



- MONTREAL 



hert Mitchell Co. 



Manufacturers of 




-cls. clklcL s 

fpLch-La 0u_q_fvt 

^ Engineers', Plumbers’, Gas and Steamfitters’ Goods. 

Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. _ -» ~ 7 

Factory, St. Cunegonde, *****■—! IvlOntrCCl/. 



McGIBBON & DAVIDSON, 

^Advocates, Hamsters, &c., 

3STE-W YORK LIFE BTJIL, DITTO-, 

MONTREAL. 



R. D. McGIBBON, Q.C. 



PEERS DAVIDSON. 



GEORGE BRUSH 



Established 1820. 



EAGLE FOUNDRY, MONTREAL, 



MAKER OF 



Steam Engines, Steam Boilers, Elevators, Stone Breakers, Etc. 



Office 34 King St. 



Tel. No. 435. 



ALEXANDER BREMNER, 

IMPORTER OF 

SCOTCH DRAIN PIPES 

FIRE BRICK, FIRE CLAY, FLUE COVERS, 
CHIMNEY TOPS, VENT LININGS, 
ENAMELLED SINKS, 

CALCINED PLASTER, WHEELBARROWS. 
HAND BARROWS, GARDEN VASES, COAL OIL, 
LADDERS, POLES, 

MORTAR AND BRICK, HODS, &c. 

Portland, Roman and Canada Cements 
50 Bleury Street, Montreal, P.Q. 

TELEPHONE 356. 

Warehouse : — corner Water and Brock Streets. 



BOYD & CO- Telephone 1996^ / 

Custom House and Forwarding Agents and Warehousemen 

13 COMMON STREET, MONTREAL. 

Facing the Allan S.S. Co. Dock. 

First Class Storage for Goods in Bond or Free. 

References in Montreal .—Messrs. H. & A. Allan, Allan Line S.S. Co. ; 
Gillespie. Moffatt & Co., J. Rattray & Co., D. Torrance & Co., 
Dominion Line S.S. Co. ; Wm. C. Munderloh, Consul German Empire. 



TRIANGLE, 

SCALER, 

T SQUARE. 

1640 




Special Discounts to Students. 



HEARN & HARRISON 



I NOTRE DAME 



W. * F. P. CURRIE * CO. 

IOO CREY NUN STREET, 

Importers of 

SCOTCH GLAZED DRAIN PIPES, 

Chimney Tops, Vent Linings, Flue Covers, Fire Bricks, Fire Clay, 
Portland Cement, Roman Cement, Canada Cement, 

Water Lime, Whiting, Plaster Paris, Borax, 

China Clay, etc., etc. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



Bessemer Steel Sofa, Chair & Bed Springs 

A LARCE STOCK ALWAYS ON HAND. 



WHITENED & TIEOEET 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. PERIARD) 

3tatu Booksellers, publishers and bookbinders 

PROPRIETORS OF 

“The Monthly law Digest and Reporter,” 

AND ALSO OF 

La Revue Legale. 

Bell Tel. 2921. 23 and 25 St- James Street, 

MONTREAL. 



To be Out Shortly ; — Crankshaw’s Criminal Code of Canada, 1892. 

ABBOTTS, CAMPBELL & MEREDITH. 

Hduorates, Solicitors, etc. 

No. 11 Hospital Street, MONTREAL 



J. B. Abbott 
H. Abbott, Jr., Q.C. 



H. J. Hague 



C. S. Campbell 
F. E. Meredith 



ATWATER & MACKIE 

JLtuocates, barristers, (Commissioners, etc. 

O LD STANDARD BU.LD.NC ffo 151 ST. JAMES STREET, 



J. S. Archibald, Q.C., D.C.L. 



Geo. G. Foster 



ARCHIBALD & FOSTER 

Advocates, Barristers, Etc. 

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE BUILDING 

181 St. James Street, - MONTREAL 



Telephone 1880 



Cable Address, “Arcfost.’ 



Hon. John S. Hall, Q.C. , M.P.P. 
Albert J. Brown 



Selkirk Cross, Q.C. 
W. Prescott Sharp 



HALL, GROSS, BROWN & SHARP, 

Juluocates, barristers and Solicitors, 



TEMPLE BUILDING 

185 St. James Street, 



MONTREAL 



Donald Macmaster, Q.C. 



Farquliar S. Maclennan 



MACMASTER & MACLENNAN 

^duo cates, blisters, (Etc. 



THE TEMPLE 



St. James Street, 



MONTREAL 



ROBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER 

^Vxluocates 

157 St. James Street, MONTREAL 




ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE and RETAIL TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUG and CUT SMOKING TOBACCO 



OLD CHUM PLUC AND CUT 




Hazelton 

Dominion 

Berlin 



PIANOS 



Reimers 



Pratte 



AND THE iEOLIAN, VOCALION, DOMINION AND BERLIN ORGANS. 



Largest Stock. No Can vassers. 
One price only, and the lowest 



Easy terms. Old instruments 



taken in exchange. 




Pianos to rent. Repairing, 
Artistic tuning and regulating. 



Second-hand PIANOS at all 
prices 



furniture: 



FOB 



Professors and Students 

AT SPECIAL PRICES 



WHAT ARE YOU STUDYING FOR, 

A Doctor, a Lawyer, a Minister or an Engineer ? 

No matter what Art, Science or Profession, we can fit you all with Clothes. 

Good Wear, Good Fit and Low Price guaranteed. We have now 
everything desirable in Men’s Wear from head to foot, including inner and outer 
garments, Underclothing to Overcoat, Hats,' Boots, Shoes and Rubbers. 
No need to run all over the City when you can get all you want from us at most 
reasonable Prices. Special discount to Students. 

JOHN 

659 to 665 CRAIG STREET. 



RENAUD, KING Sc PATTERSON 

652 CRAIG STREET 
Good Fail and Winter 



• • 



BOOTS 



$2.25, 2 75, 3.50, 4.00 per pair 



JUST THE THING FOR STUDENTS 



“THE BOYS” buy their own and 
sweethearts’ 

- gloves - 

. . . AT THE . . . 

Paris Kid Glove Store 



262 St. James Street | 2341 St. Catherine Street 

E. B. COOKE & CO. 



Full assortment of RTJBBEBS and OVERSHOES 

WM. F. SMARDON 

2337 and 2339 St. Catherine Street 

It goes without saying tint 

WALFORD’S 

is the favorite Studio with McGill. Class Pictures a specialty. 

Photos of Professors on sale. 

Our rates for Students are lower than ever this year. . 

Corner St. Catherine and Victoria Streets 




iTEjUM 



MAN AG EB. 




136 to 140 ST. PETER STREET 

MONTREAL. 



HATS, CAPS and FINE FURS 

Having opened a new store at 2411 St- Catherine Street, I would invite special inspec- 
tion of a large and choice stock of Hats and Furs in all branches 

- £PWOA/ g 3465 WILLIAM SAMUEL, 2411 St. Catherine Street 



HYDE PARK, ATHLETE, PURITAN, DERBY, SWEET SIXTEEN CIGARETTES 



ALL THE LEADING WHOLESALE and RETAIL TRADE HANDLE OLD CHUM PLUC and CUT SMOKING TOBACCO 




