jWcGlbb FORTNIGHTky 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event, 



VOL. II. 



MONTREAL, JANUARY 5, 1894. 



No. 7 




Editor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law *95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science ’94) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts ’95), Sec’y R HGrattan> | < C °™P- *f? d ; and Vet. 

Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) * ^ C1 c 94 .) 

J. A. McPhail, B.A., M.D., Graduates’ Society. 



-EBUSINESS BOARDS 

Frank J. Day, (Arts ’94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law ’94;, Secretary 

Miss F. A. Botterell, (Donalda ’95) J. C. Cutting, (Com. Med.& Vet. Sc. 95) 
W. F. Angus, (Sc. ’95) C. H. Fox, (Med. ’95) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is £1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. Renouf’s, Wm. Drysdale & Co/s and W . 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chicf, 131 Lusignan Street, Montreal. 

The Editors do not hold themselves responsible for any views expressed in these 
columns by Contributors or Correspondents. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



JOURNALISM AT McGILL- 

Our present issue is a holiday number. It was 
thought best, all things considered, to publish the 
Fortnightly without any intermission, in order that 
the full complement of twelve issues may be made 
up. There is, of course, at this time, a wealth of pov- 
erty of College news, if we may so express ourselves. 

Class reports, as a consequence, are conspicuous by 
their absence. This will readily be excused under the 
circumstances. This issue is brought out under con- 
siderable difficulties, as nearly everybody is out of 
town, and it is a little more solid than our previous 
productions. It therefore lacks some of the froth and 
effervescence of ordinary college literature. The 
Fortnightly aims at reflecting the thought and effort 
of the undergraduates of our University, ebbing and 
flowing, so to speak, with the tide of current opinion. 

As such it deserves the first place in the hearts of the 
Students. Its success so far demonstrates that it meets, 
to some extent at least, this want. As a matter of fact, 
however, it is found that comparatively few of the 
graduates in proportion to their numbers support it. 
The reason for this is perhaps, not that they have lost 



interest in McGill affairs, but that they desire some 
“ stronger meat ” on which their more matured psychic 
natures can feast. This leads us to suggest the possi- 
bility of meeting this demand by another effort in the 
literary world. We notice that in Queen’s University, 
Kingston, the professors and graduates have started a 
second paper which is called a Quarterly Review. 
It takes up and discusses current events of impor- 
tance, and, besides, has heavier literary contributions of 
a high order. It is not intended to supplant its elder 
brother, the students’ paper, but to supplement it and 
fill a void that it does not reach. Surely in McGill we 
are big enough and brave enough to do something 
similar. Such a paper of the nature of a Review or a 
Monthly w 7 ould fill a long felt want. While the Fort- 
nightly represents the undergraduates, the Monthly 
might represent the professors and graduates. We 
certainly have enough talent among the members of 
the University to succeed in this, if we can enthuse 
them with the “ divine afflatus ” necessary to its mater- 
ialization. This should afford food for thought to our 
graduates, especially the younger ones, who may reason- 
ably be expected to be more enthusiastic and progres- 
sive than those of a former generation. Such a paper 
would not rival the Fortnightly in the slightest 
degree, but both would act and react upon each other 
to their mutual advantage. It might afford a field of 
usefulness to some budding writer, whose talent cannot 
“condescend to men of low degree,” but whose wing 
takes a loftier flight. No doubt some really good and 
solid literary and scientific articles would be contri- 
buted, w'hich would redound to the credit of McGill as 
a centre of thought and learning. Our graduates 
would be brought more in touch with the rest of the 
University, a consummation highly to be desired. 
There is certainly great need of a bond of union be- 
tween the University and its sons, and we may add 
daughters too, apart form the purely sentimental one. 
So many excellent journals of this type are at present 
coming before our notice, that we feel in the highest 
degree confident in the feasibility of this scheme if in- 
terest enough can be roused in it. Many Universities 
can support more than tw r o Journals among them, even 
dailies. Surely McGill could adequately support two. 
There seems at present to be a wave of progress in 
the University, shewing itself in various directions, and 
very probably this scheme, of which we have thought 
much, and which we have felt deeply, will commend 
itself to many. 



162 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



OUR DIARY. 

We clo not know whether it is a custom of the Stu- 
dents of McGill to keep a diary ; it is a most useful 
article, and, as the advertisements say, “ no house 
hold is complete without one.” When we speak of a 
diary, we do not refer to those bulky tomes which 
almost everyone at some time in his life has a fad 
for filling up with voluminous accounts of what they 
have done every day, as if they were anxious 
to keep an account of their daily actions with 
a view to the future checking of items in the books of 
the Recording Angel. No, the books we refer to are 
those in which we enter what we are going to do ; how 
we intend, if the fiscal policy we have mapped out 
for ourselves is successful, to pay such and such a bill 
on the 20th, or perhaps entering a resolve that upon the 
4th of Feb. we would take another “ try ” at that exam, 
in which we got plucked last month, or perchance 
making a memorandum that in February, 1896, we have 
to attend a meeting of tbe University Pin committee, or 
some little (item of that kind ; this is the sort of diary 
which we recommend to every student as being most 
useful. 

This idea is suggested to us as we turn over the 
leaves of our Editorial Diary for 1894, noticing, by the 
way, that some articles promised us for the last number 
are still to come. We see under the date of Jan’y. 15th, in 
great big letters, and underlined in red ink, a note to the 
effect “ Last day for the reception of contributions for the 
prize competition.” 

We ourselves were surprised to see that the time 
being so near for examinations had rather driven it out 
of our Editorial heads ; and lest any of our subscribers 
should also have overlooked the date, w r e would recall 
it to their minds. The rules governing the competition 
will be seen by reference to our issue of Nov. 24th, 
1893, and we earnestly recommend a perusal of tbem, 
and of course the editors themselves will be delighted 
to give any further information in their power. 

We have no hesitation in saying on behalf of the 
Editorial and Business management of the Fort- 
nightly, that we feel deeply interested in, and not a 
little anxious for, the success of the scheme we have put 
forward. We have taken upon ourselves, we firmly be- 
lieve in the best interests of our paper, the responsibility 
of departing from the usual routine of College journal- 
ism in McGill in inaugurating this competitive system, 
and it is to you, our undergraduate subscribers, that we 
look to support us in the step we have taken. It must 
be patent to you as it is to us, that this is the critical 
year of the Fortnightly’s existence. Last session 
tbe untiring and devoted energy of the two boards 
brought the paper up to its high standard, but it was 
backed by tbe enthusiasm of the student body at large 
over the resurrection of a college paper ; this session 
the present management took up with some slight 
misgivings the work where it had been left off by the 
retiring boards, for we felt deeply that if our united 
efforts could not keep up the paper this year it 
would lose the ground it had gained under the former 
management, for we Tully realized that when the 



novelty had worn off, the general enthusiasm over the 
paper would to some extent decrease. It was with 
this in view that we earnestly besought you to aid us 
in our work by sending us articles, and we regret to 
say that our appeal did not meet with the general 
response which we had allowed ourselves to expect. 
We then decided to offer two prizes of twenty and ten 
dollars for the best stories submitted, and we now 
make a second appeal to you to endorse the step which 
we have taken. 

As to the value of the prizes offered we can only 
say that we have devoted the largest amount which 
our financial condition would justify ; and if the scheme 
is successful we look forward to seeing it permanently 
established ; but, on the other hand, if, through indiffer- 
ence or apathy on the part of the undergraduates, it 
should fail, then it is greatly to be feared that its effect 
would be injurious rather than beneficial. 

In conclusion, we feel that we have done all in our 
power in starting the competition, and it is you 
who must carry it to a successful issue ; we 
therefore ask you to make an entry of it in your 
diaries, and hope that Jan. 15th will see an amount of 
original manuscript and literature handed in to the 
gentlemen who have kindly consented to act as judges 
which will cause them to stand aghast at the work they 
have undertaken and perchance to regret their gener- 
osity . 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



ft 

AN ISLAND REVERIE- 

One night, many hundred years ago, when the Star 
Angel slept, the dear stars in numbers quivered with 
desire to roam and wander through the Heavenly 
plains. They shook themselves free from the easy 
clasp of their sleeping Guardian, and floated out into the 
night. Before they had travelled far, a wind arose and 
blew them J rudely hither and thither. So, when the 
Angel awoke, he missed his charges, and trembled in 
pain, causing a strange and restless trouble through all 
Nature’s throbbing heart. His hard breathing impelled 
the floating stars towards Earth, and they were hurried 
downwards through illimitable space, and in the storm 
that followed, they seemed lost forever. But the fol- 
lowing morning, Earth was richer and sweeter, for hun- 
dreds of fairy isles peeped above the glancing waters of 
the St. Lawrence, vying with one another in their depth 
of color and beauty of outline. 

Year in and year out, these Islands remained, ever 
increasing in their beauty, and making men gladder to 
be alive in God’s world of loveliness. At times a wind 
would breathe across them, with the tenderness of a 
mother caressing her babe, and again a low, sobbing 
sound would be heard through the trees as if someone 
were calling and calling in vain. But the waves would 
leap up and kiss the green shores, and the Sun smiled 
down upon them in gladness. Here the Earth Spirit 
felt Heaven’s fire the keenest, and here Heaven’s angels 
loved to rest at times. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



God smiled, and it was Spring ! Love’s wand had 
kissed the hardness from the river’s heart, and was 
quickening the trembling pulse of young life in tree 
and flower. Each day Heaven’s blue became more 
glorious and intense, and the carol of the birds more 
exultant. “ How soon a smile of God can change the 
world ! ” The stately trees, with early violets peep- 
ing at their feet, stretched upward toward the Sun and 
brought their leaves to birth, and birds began to mate 
and bring their bits of straw and grass to corners snug 
between the forking branches- And when the day was 
done, and the long shadows darker grew, the men and 
women living here would pause, and gazing on the 
glory all round, would question what it meant. Again, 
the low, soft, sobbing sound sighed through the trees, 
filling them with restless longings, unconscious long- 
ings for a nearer knowledge of the sweet truths calling 
to them from their throbbing hearts. 

And so Spring came and went, and Summer was at 
hand. The nodding clover trembled beneath the weight 
of the happy bee, seeking sweets in the depths of its 
thick, pink head. The robin now piped, and the wood- 
pecker awakened strange echoes in the quiet nooks of 
the Island Paradise. With the whispering leaves about 
him, and the branch gently giving way beneath his 
weight, the dainty squirrel paused and wondered at the 
shining live things dashing to and fro in the sunny 
waters beneath ; then, frightened by the sound of voices 
foreign to his world, he would dash away himself, 
happy, blithe and gay, and what stories the leaves and 
birds whispered together ! Every morning the shaking 
green things would greet the Sun with dewy welcome, 
and at night, when clouds of glory hid him out of sight, 
they hung their heads in quiet rest and hope, and list- 
ened to the tale of something strange and sweet they 
hardly understood though told beneath their shadow. 
And on the water in those Summer nights, the same 
sweet tale was heard in ever old but always newest 
accents, and the stars looked down in sympathy, and 
the Star Angel called it good, and forgot his old pain 
for his lost ones in the gladness of his heart for the 
human joy he witnessed ; the Heavens became aglow 
with the fire from his rainbow colored garments, then a 
mist of angels’ tears of gladness curtained off the sight 
from the heart’s eyes beneath. 

Spring did not die, but Summer was born, and now 
Summer was ripening into Autumn. The leaves whisp- 
ered their farewells more tenderly than before to the 
departing Sun, who came later and lived a shorter life 
each day. The butterflies, sweet fairy lives, chased one 
another more rarely, and only in the heat of the noon- 
day Sun. The fruit hung ripe and ready to be gathered 
on the trees, and the bee toiled drowsily homeward,— its 
Summer work was nearly over. A gentle quiet reigned 
o’er all. Slowly and peacefully the days passed, one 
by one, and human hearts still loved and hoped and 
trusted. The leaves alone yearned with the pain of 
approaching separation. Each morning they waited in 
trembling the arrival of the Sun, to flutter with pas- 
sionate joy, kissed by its rays, until the twilight came, 
lint colder grew the nights, and with the dawn, mists 



163 



and fogsrose up to hide the King of Lights from the 
expectant leaves beneath, and the day came at last when 
the Sun did not appear, but remained hidden beneath 
the mass of cloud and mist which the Autumn had 
brought in its train. And then indeed Hope seemed 
dead, and the forest trees mourned that their last good- 
byes were said. Then it was that Love’s holy miracle 
was consummated. The little leaves awakened, cold 
and trembling, but a radiant glory seemed to fold itself 
about them. Every leaf was toned with golden yellow 
fire won from the heart of the Sun. And wondering 
dimly that their mission was fulfilled, they quivered, 
and some dropped to the ground, like beautiful dead 
butterflies. Then the meaning dawned, and they under- 
stood. They felt “ the flush and the burning, and the 
passionate, tender yearning,” and knew that they had 
loved ! What was Death to them ! Nothing could dull 
the glory of that radiant memory ! They had loved, 
and were glad to suffer from the consuming fire which 
granted them for a short time, to replace the Sun and 
shed its radiance on the cold and tear-damp earth 
below. 

And the human soul, bowed beneath the golden glory, 
was destined to come to the same knowledge through 
‘ its infinite passion and pain.” With the passing of the 
days, the mist of parting and separation had come to it, 
and had left it waiting, — waiting till it should clearly 
know and understand that God knew best ; that for the 
love that seemed gone, there was to come a knowledge 
of something which was higher and better, a veritable 
Sunlight of Peace. 

As the golden leaves dropped noiselessly down in 
benediction on the weary head, a break came through 
the leaden sky, the fresh wind of Heaven blew away 
the mist, the ivory gates fell back at the fairy touch, 
and for a moment was revealed the fathomless infinite 
blue beyond, suffused with the rays of the hidden Sun. 

“ God’s in His Heaven — All’s right with the world.” 

ISOLA. 



TPIE ELECTRIC BEAR-TRAP. 

A few summers ago I was called to minister to the 
spiritual wants of a number of small mining settle- 
ments north of Lake Huron, a bleak, desolate tract of 
rugged hills and marsh-lands, dotted here and there 
with lovely lakelets and bristling with the blackened 
remnants of a heavy growth of pine timber over which 
the fire had swept. 

My appointments included half a dozen mining 
villages on branch lines from the C.P.R., at distances 
varying from three to six miles apart. When I could, 
I got a lift upon one of the coal engines plying between 
the mines and the shipping station at Sudbury ; other- 
wise I trudged on foot between my outlying posts. 
One of the camps has a new mine just opened, a 
meagre collection of buildings comprising only half a 
dozen board-and-felt shacks and two boarding houses, 
in addition to the pit-house and smelter. 

One Sabbath evening, towards the close of July, I had 
tramped over to this mine and gathered the miners 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



164 



together in the dining-room of the main boarding- 
house for worship. They were a kindly set of folk 
there, and always gave the preacher a ready hearing, 
for the time dragged heavily on Sunday afternoons for 
those who were not working. 

The evening was fine, and after service, when hand- 
shaking and good-byes were over and the last news 
exchanged, I shouldered my satchel of books and 
started homeward. The sun had just set in a cloudless 
sky, the air was fresh, with a slight breeze blowing 
from the west as I set out, and the chill of night, which 
clings to those high climates through the hottest 
months of the year, was rapidly replacing the heated 
air of day with a refreshing coolness. 

Along the road I had to travel, which wound about 
the sides of rocky heights and slid through narrow 
valleys by the side of shadowy lakelets, were several 
long railway trestles and deep cuttings. The largest 
of these was a trestle-work crossing the corner of an 
abandoned beaver-meadow, which ran up into an angle 
of the hills on the southern side of the track, and 
upon the north stretched away in a grassy flat till it 
was hidden by a turn in the valley. Just beyond this 
trestle-work was a long cutting about twenty feet 
deep, ending in a sudden curve which carried the 
track out into a narrow plain between the receding 
hills. 

I had reached the middle of the trestle when my 
attention was attracted by the motion of a dark object 
among the beaver-grass some distance to the south oi 
me, in the angle of the meadow cut off by the track. 
A few moments’ observation convinced me, in spite of 
the gathering dusk, that it was a full-grown black 
bear. I hurried on silently, having no wish for a 
closer acquaintanceship with the brute, and was soon 
within the sheltering walls of the cutting. Congratu- 
lating myself that I had escaped his observation, I 
hastened onward through the shadow of the gravelly 
walls. I had scarcely covered a dozen yards, however, 
when a sudden rustling among the scrub which 
covered the sides of the hill was followed by a crashing 
of branches, and Bruin appeared upon the edge of the 
cutting directly above me. 

He did not seem, as he paused for a moment on the 
brink, with his little eyes blinking and his red tongue 
lolling out between the double row of glistening teeth, 
— he did not seem so much savage as enquiring. 
He had evidently seen me as soon as I had observed 
him, and possibly, not being so quick of recognition, 
had resolved on a tour of inspection, and so had struck 
forward at an angle so as to intercept me some distance 
down the line. I remember noting— for it seemed 
odd to me afterwards that such a thought should occur 
in the midst of my surprise and consternation — how 
accurately he had gauged my rate of walking and 
distance from him to have come upon me so exactly, 
and I wondered how he managed it. 

However, there was no time for a solution of the 
problem, if I was to escape his embrace, so I hastened 
on at a sharp walk, hoping by this means to keep a 
safer distance between us than if I broke into a run 



and excited him to a gallop. I was soon about a 
dozen rods in advance of him, for he hesitated a 
moment before scrambling the gravelly side of the 
cutting. My object now was to gain some cover, and 
if possible throw him off the scent, or, failing in that, 
to put such a distance between us as to render the 
hazard of a run to the nearest camp, abolit two miles 
away, not too great for my undertaking. 

I had no weapons about me but a Bible and two 
dozen hymn books, which avail much in spiritual 
warfare but cannot be much relied upon in an en- 
counter with a bear. I resolved, therefore, on gaining 
the curve of the road, where I was for a few moments 
hidden from the view of my pursuer, to exchange them 
for more material ammunition, and hastily depositing 
them among the weeds which lined the sides of the 
embankment, I filled my satchel with stones from the 
grading of the track, and hurried on. A few yards 
away was a telegraph pole, situated well down on the 
side of the track-bed, and breaking into a run as I 
neared it, I sprang from the ties, and clearing the 
weedy gravel alighted at its foot. A few moments 
more and I had clambered up the post, so that when 
Bruin rounded the bend of the road I was ensconced 
upon the cross-tree high above him. I had done this 
in the hope that he would miss my trail and continue 
down the track, but was doomed to disappointment. 
On reaching the spot from which I had made my leap, 
almost without a moment’s hesitation, he left th5 track, 
and brushing through the brambles stopped at the post 
and gazed up at me. His expression as he squatted 
upon his haunches and turned his big^ head sideways 
to look up at me amused me in spite of my unpleasant 
situation, — it was so irresistibly comical ; but the ludi- 
crous soon gave place to the alarming when he began 
to clamber up the pole, hand over fist, as nimbly as a 
tar running up the rigging. I endeavored to drive 
him back by throwing at him the stones which I had 
gathered, but without effect ; he growled savagely, and 
turning his black snout downward and away from me, 
to avoid the blows, came on with the back of his big 
shaggy head towards me. 

It was my custom to carry with me upon my travels 
a stout walking-stick, which, without any definite 
notion other than that of retaining some weapon of 
defence, I had placed between my teeth on commen- 
cing the ascent of the post. It now stood me in good 
stead. The cross-tree of the post carried four wires, 
two on each arm ; with my stick I broke the glass 
insulators which supported them, and grasping the 
outer ones in my hands so as to draw the four nearer 
together, I made a seat, upon which I edged myself out 
four or five feet from the post. Bruin meanwhile had 
gained the cross-tree, and was now crouching in the 
spot where I myself had been seated but a few 
moments since. 

For a minute or so we looked at each other in 
silence, the bear panting with the labor of his asctnt 
aqd I anxious as to how the affair would end. My 
pursuer did not leave me long in doubt ; casting one 
paw around the post, he shoved the other gingerly out 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



165 



along the wires to test their safety, being evidently 
bent upon reaching me if possible. Raising my stick 
as he did so, I struck him a short blow across the 
knuckles of his paw, causing him to withdraw it 
quickly with a short growl. Again it was stretched 
out, and again I administered a stroke into which I put 
all the force my insecure position would permit. 

This by-play continued for some minutes, and the 
situation was becoming decidedly unpleasant. I was 
cramped from my unnatural position, and trembling 
with the strain of retaining my insecure seat ; I was 
afraid lest the bear should take it into his head to 
shake me from my perch, or by breaking the wires 
cast me to the ground ; and he, on his side, seemed 
- resolved to force me to a surrender by siege, 

I looked up and down the track, hoping to see one of 
the hand-cars which carried the men to and fro 
between the mines and the town, or even of a single 
traveller who might in some way help me to a solution 
of the undesirable problem on my hands ; but in vain. 
The road stretched away to the east till it was hidden 
among the hills, but beside me and the brute who sat 
watching me out of his red eyes, so near that I could 
feel his hot breath, not a living creature was to be seen. 

Of a sudden an unexpected diversion was made in 
my favor, which brought the incident to a speedy and 
novel termination. The bear and I were both squat- 
ting upon the electric wires, without any insulating 
medium between our bodies and the metal. It follows, 
therefore, if a current was travelling in one direction I 
would receive the full benefit of the shock, but if in 
the other its effect would be absorbed by the body of 
the bear. Fortunately for me the first despatch which 
flashed along the line came from the east, and so 
encountered the body of the bear before reaching mine. 
All this I understood afterwards, not then. What I 
did see at the time was this : a pained and startled 
look came into the eyes of the bear, and spread in all 
directions over his features, as if he had reason to 
suspect that one of his nearest relatives was dead and 
he had not been asked to the funeral. This was 
followed by a nervous twitching of the body and hind- 
limbs as the current became stronger, and a half- 
fearfully expectant motion of the head from side to 
side, which gave one the impression that he was 
expecting some private earthquake which had been 
arranged for his special benefit and sent forward by 
telegraph. Then he imitated the actions of a man 
who is financially embarrassed and is trying to explain 
his position to half-a-dozen irate creditors at once. At 
last he seemed to find the task beyond his powers, 
and with a howl of despair tumbled headlong from 
the wires. For a moment or two after striking the 
earth he remained motionless, then slowly gathering 
himself up, he ambled clumsily off, growling and 
limping as he went, without so much as casting a 
glance back at the seat he had so unceremoniously 
vacated. I watched him scrambling over the rocks of 
the neighboring hill until he disappeared beyond its 
crest, then hastily descending from my precarious seat, 

I recovered my books, and hurried down the line to 



notify the station agent that the wires were down 
about a couple of miles above the depot. 

Harvard University. 

R. MACDOUGALL- 



FOOLS— BY ONE OF THEMSELVES. 

“ What fools these mortals be.” 

This is a chapter on “ Fools.” It will therefore 
appeal to a wide circle of readers. Some great writer, 
whose name I have forgotten, says : “ Mankind is 

made up of two great classes, knaves and fools, 

mostly fools. Hence the wide application of this 
article. It used to be a stock joke for some wag to 
approach a fellow, whose verdancy was rather obtru- 
sive, and ask him : “ Are you a bigger fool than you 
look ? ” or, “ Do you look a bigger fool than you are ? ” 
“ Oh ! I give it up,” says the verdant one, “ So do I,’ 
was the reply. People don’t like to admit it, but folly 
leavens a large proportion of human thoughts and 
actions. 

An old saw has it : “ Fools think themselves wise and 
wise men know that they are fools.” It is a very lucky 
thing for the world that everyone is not so wise as he 
thinks himself, for we would all be so clever that ex- 
istence would be impossible. 

The clown in “ Twelfth Night ” remarks very truly 
of the great, that “ some are born great, some achieve 
greatness, and some have greatness thrown upon 
them.” 

So of fools there are three kinds : — 

First, there are those that are born that way, the 
fool in esse. Next, those who become so through 
inherent weakness — the fool in posse. Finally, those 
who take up the profession through force ^of circum- 
stances — the fool a necessitate. 

It is with the last class that we propose to deal. 

The art of mimicry comes under a law which is of 
wide application in this world. The lower animals 
by instinct make use of it for purposes of attraction, 
protection, or as means of procuring food. The 
human species seem to have borrowed or at least make 
use of the faculty for the last purpose, that is, to make a 
living. P'rom the earliest times we find that it was 
the custom for noble families to keep mimics and even 
cripples for the purpose of affording them amusement. 
The use of deformed persons in this way says little for 
the finer feelings of the age. They probably hadn’t 
any ! In Homer we find the lame Vulcan hobbling 
about Olympus, and provoking shrieks of laughter 
from his brother and sister deities. 

And the deformed Thersites is punished by Achilles 
and overwhelmed with the ridicule of the by-standers. 
Such conduct betrays great coarseness in nature. 

The practice of keeping clowns or buffoons is of early 
date. In all ages there have been people who possessed 
natural gift and inclination for entertainment, and 
among most peoples there have been those who have 
used their gifts or their deficiencies to make their living. 

In ancient Greece we find the prototype of the 
Mediaeval jester. Of one of these, Philip by name, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 66 



we get an account in the “ Banquet ” of Xenophon. In 
the days of the Roman Empire we have the scurrse and 
Moriones. These seem to have been present at large 
banquets, where they occupied a seat opposite the mas- 
ter, with whom they exchanged sallies of wit and 
playful badinage. It is the custom at the present day 
in Italy for travelling bands of players to perform 
farces on market days, in which a principal character 
is the harlequin or clown. It is from something of 
this kind that Northern countries have borrowed Punch, 
which represents the Neapolitan Pulcinellaor Punchin- 
ello. 

By some, these Italian plays are regarded as devel- 
opments of the Oscan Atellanae, the Maccus of which 
is the harlequin of the modern comedy. In later days 
in the East we have Bahalul the court jester of Haroun 
A1 Raschid, of whom many stories are told. It is, 
however, in the Middle Ages that the fool attained his 
highest development. 

The duty of the jester was to amuse his master and 
his guests, and counteract the burden of State affairs. 
His qualities were frequently exercised at the banquet, 
for they, like Shakespeare, recognized that “ digestion 
waits on appetite.” Dr. Fuller quaintly remarks of 
the duty of the court jester, that “ it is an office which 
none but he that hath wit can perform, and none but 
he that wants it will perform.” Probably one great 
cause of the jester’s popularity was as Montezuma said 
that “ more instruction was to be had from them than 
from wiser men, for they dared to tell the truth.” The 
jesters were not always such fools as they looked ; on 
the contrary, many of them were men of excellent 
parts. John Heywood, the poet and dramatist, was 
Queen Mary’s jester ; bold as were his sayings, few of 
them appear witty. A landlord asked him : “ How do 
you like my beer? Is it not well hopped?” “So 
well,” replied Heywood, “ that had it hopped a little 
further it would have hopped into water.” 

In England, jesters existed as early as the reign of 
Edmund Ironside. In Ivanhoe, Wamba, the fool of 
Cedric the Saxon, plays the pliilologer in a manner 
which shows considerable erudition. It took a wise man 
to be a fool in those days. 

According to Mr. Douce there were nine classes of 
fools : — 

i. The domestic fool or buffoon. 

The clown, a country booby or witty rustic. 

The female fool, generally an idiot. 

The city or corporation fool. 

The tavern fool. 

The fool of the mysteries and moralities, otherwise 
called the vice. 

7. The fool or harlequin in the pantomime. 

8. The fool in the Whitsun ales and Morris dances 

9. The Merry-Andrew. 

Of the domestic fools, one of the most famous was 
Will Sommers, who lived in the reign of Henry VIII. 
Arnim says of him in his Nest of Ninnies : — 

“ Only this much, he was a poor man’s friend, 

And helpt the widow often in her end. 

The king would ever grant what he would crave 
For well he knew Will no exacting knave.” 



2. 

3 - 

4 - 

5 - 
6 . 



Lord Chancellor Talbot had a Welsh jester, Rees 
Pengelding by name. He rented a farm from his mas- 
ter. The steward who had been a tailor and bore him 
a grudge, on one occasion put in an execution for rent, 
exclaiming in a surly manner, “ I’ll fit you, sirrah. 

Then,” replied Rees,” it will be the first time in your 
life that you ever fitted anybody.” 

Fools were often treated with great kindness, as wit- 
ness King Lear. The license allowed them, though 
great, did not always give them protection. Whipping 
was the commonest form of punishment. In “ Twelfth 
Night,” Olivia says to the jester, “ Sirrah, you shall be 
whipped.” For a too obnoxious use of wit and satire 
against Archbishop Laud, Archie Armstrong lost his 
position and was dismissed from the court. 

Armstrong was born in Cumberland, and at a very 
early age entered the service of James I, before which 
he had been, tradition says, a sheep stealer. He went 
with Charles and Buckingham on their secret matri- 
monial expedition into Spain. He sent from thence a 
letter to the King, signed by his mark, in which he asks 
Janies to provide him with an interpreter of the Span- 
ish language ; he had an English servant with him as 
valet. Archie Armstrong contrived to amass a large 
fortune. Of him it is written : — 

“ Archie, by Kings and Princes graced of late. 

Jested himself into a fair estate.” 

Archbishop Laud was the object of Archie’s great dis- 
like and some of his bitterest sarcasms. He once, in 
presence of Charles I., asked leave, though Laud was 
present, to say grace before dinner. Permission being 
granted, the jester said : “ Great thanks be given God, 
and little Laud to the devil.” When Laud’s anxiety 
to bring all Scotland into the Episcopal Church had 
resulted in a very serious opposition, Archie scoffed at 
Laud for his want of success ; and, after the uews of the 
rising at Stirling against the Liturgy, he dared to accost 
Laud, on his way to the Council Chamber, with the 
question, “ Who’s the fool now ? ” This insult was too 
great; the jester was brought before the Council and 
condemned to have his coat pulled over his head, and 
to be banished from the Court, which sentence was 
immediately executed. For all that, Armstrong did 
not cease to revile the prelate. 

It required considerable ability and mother-wit for 
the fools to please their employers. Occasionally they 
failed dismally. The Duke of Mantua remarked to 
Cardinal Perron that his jester was “ a meagre, poor- 
spirited buffoon.” The cardinal replied, “ Nevertheless 
he has wit.” “ Why so ? ” asked the duke, “ Because,” 
replied Perron, “ he lives by a trade he does not under- 
stand.” 

The dress of the domestic fool was of two kinds. In 
the first the coat was of motley or parti-colored, bound 
to the waist by a girdle and frequently having bells 
upon the skirts and elbows. The breeches fitted 
closely, and the legs were often of different colors. 
The head was covered by a hood which completely cov- 
ered it and fell down upon the neck and shoulders 
This was decorated with a cock’s neck and head or 
with a cock’s comb, or with bells. A feather was 
frequently added, eg., in an old Morality the fool says •— 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



“ By my troth the thing that I desire most 
Is in my cappe a goodly feather.” 

The head was generally shaved in mimicry of a 
monk’s crown. In his hand the fool carried a bauble, < 
ornamented by a cock’s head or puppet, and having a 
bladder attached with which to belabor the by-stand- 
ers. 

The other dress which was worn often in Shak- 
speare’s time was a long petticoat, which at first 
belonged to the idiot and was adopted by the jester. 
From a manuscript we find that yellow was the fool’s 
color. The dress, however, varied. In an account of 
Henry VIII’s wardrobe is the following entry : — “ For 
making a dubblette lyned with canvas and cotton for 
William Sotn ar oure foole. Item, for making of a coate 
and a cappe of greene clothe, fringed with red crule, 
and lyned with fryse, for oure said foole.” Further on : 
— “ Item, for making of a coate of greene clothe, with 
a hoode to the same, fringed with white crule lyned 
with fryse and bokerham, for our foole aforesaid.” 

In the drama no clear line of distinction seems to 
have been drawn between the fool and the clown. In 
the early plays the fool was an idiot or natural, while 
the clown was merely a rustic or shrewd servant. 
Later, however, the stage-fool was a sort of heteroge- 
neous being, copied partly from nature and partly 
caricature. 

It is strange that the jester did not appear upon the 
stage oftener than he did, inasmuch as he served as a 
foil to the more important characters and amused the 
common herd, and displayed the wit of the writer. 
Shakspeare often uses ^hem “ to tickle the ears of the 
groundlings,” and his fools are beyond imitation. 
When Charles the First fell, and puritanical mauners 
cropt in the usefulness of the jester was almost gone. 
Muckle John, the fool of Charles I., was the last official 
person of the kind. In private life the custom gradu- 
ally became obsolete, though it continued till last cen- 
tury. Dean Swift wrote an epitaph on Dicky Pearce, 
the Earl of Suffolk’s fool, who died in 1728. 

From the same cause as the drama declined, the fool 
began to disappear from the stage. “ The Woman 
Captain,” 1680, by Shadwell, is the last in which a 
regular jester is depicted. 

Though the typical fool with coxcomb and bauble ' 
has disappeared from the stage, the desire for enter- 
tainment still exists, and we now have the endmen of 
the minstrel show, the circus clown, and the low come- 
dian. These cater after their various fashions to that 
craving for folly that is so deep in the human system. 
On what constitutes a good fool we can’t do better than 
quote the words of Mr. Wallet, The Queen’s jester ” : 

“ There never was a character on the great stage of 
life or the drama so much misunderstood as the one I 
am endeavoring to portray. It is generally supposed 
that the clown or the fool of the olden time was a low, 
illiterate buffoon, who delighted to throw his limbs 
into horrible contortions, to wallow out his tongue and 
roll his eyes, and, as Shakspeare says, ‘ commit such 
fantastic tricks before high heaven as to make the 



167 



angels weep.’ But such is not the fact. The fool of 
the ancient day was a scholar and a gentleman when 
the kings and queens of his country could neither read 
nor write. Besides this, the clown or fool had a higher 
or holier province. He was the pioneer of human 
intelligence and manly independence. It was he who 
first stood up for the down-trodden rights and privi- 
leges of the great human family. You see, ^the fool 
was kept by kings and queens, and the courts to amuse 
them in their hours of leisure ; and it was he who, 
under the garb of laughter, dared to tell those whole- 
some truths to the very teeth of tyrants, that greater 
men would have lost theii heads for. But now 
‘ Othello’s occupation’s gone.’ It is no use being a fool 
nowadays — not it, indeed ! Five hundred years ago 
— that was the time to be a fool ! In those days fools 
were great men, but things are altered now, for great 
men are fools. In the olden time, fools were well paid ; 
but now, like every other trade, profession, or business, 
there is so much opposition, and so many people make 
fools of themselves for nothing, that the trade is not 
worth following. Now, Shakspeare says : * Let me 
play the fool with mirth and laughter ; let old wrinkles 
come ; and rather let my liver heat with wine than my 
heart cool with mortifying groans.’ 

“ Now, there is a reason for being a fool ; but the gen- 
erality of fools are fools because they have no reason. 
Bnt I atn a fool, and I give you a reason for being a 
fool. Consequently, being a fool and having a reason, 

I am a reasonable fool. But there are so many kinds 
of fools. There are fools in their own right and fools 
in their own wrong. There are fools for nothing and 
there are fools for interest. Now, I am a fool for inter- 
est — that is, I am a fool, and I find it to my interest to 
be a fool. Therefore, being a fool and having an inter- 
est, I ought to be considered an interested and an inter- 
esting fool. At the same time, I must be a fool from 
principle, because if I had no principle I could have 
no interest, because interest is derived from principle. 
And when I shew I have an interest, that (proves I 
have a principle ; consequently I am a principled fool. 
But there are old fools and young fools ; satirical fools 
and drunken fools — who are the worst of all fools. 
Yes, if I had a voice that would echo from hill to hill, 
and vibrate through every valley, I would cry aloud, 
without fear of contradiction, that drunken fools are 
the very worst of all fools — except teetotal fools. That 
reminds me of what I saw in Manchester the other day. 
In one gutter I saw a pig ; in the other the semblance 
of a man. The pig was sober ; the man was drunk. 
The pig had a ring in his nose ; the other animal had 
one on his finger. The pig grunted ; so did the man ; 
and I said aloud : ‘ We are known by the company we 
keep,’ and the pig heard me, ’and walked away, ashamed 
to be seen in the company of the drunken man. 
Shakspeare says: ‘ All’s well that ends well;’ so I 

finish with the pig, because I think the tale ends well 
when there is a pig at the end of it.’ ’ 

Although we don’t belong to the porcine race, we 
also bring our tail to an end. 

IneptusCS 



i68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



A TALE OF THE BO(A)RDERS. 

It was on Christmas eve in the year 188 — that I 
attended a supper given by a student whose home was 
too far away to permit of his spending his Christmas 
holidays there. It was Andy Merregan, a tall, hand* 
some lad, with the most innocent of faces and most rol* 
licking' dare-devil of natures, who was our host. 

Andy was one of those fellows who are always popu- 
lar, an honest, straightforward boy, always in a scrape 
of some kind or another, yet invariably happy and a 
favorite with the authorities, although their chief 
knowledge of him was through those pleasant little 
meetings, the outcome of an invitation to appear before 
the Faculty. The guests were other “ exiles,” who 
like myself were unable to enjoy the pleasures of 
Christmastide in our homes, and who were only too 
glad of a chance to drive away that dull, deadly feeling 
of homesickness that would choke up, strive against it 
as we might, when we thought “ to-morrow is Christ- 
mas, and I am here.” 

The memory picture of that supper has never faded, 
and I can recall most vividly the scene as we sat around 
the hastily decorated table, roaring with laughter whilst 
Andy was bemoaning the fate which led him into con- 
stant trouble with the “ powers that be,” and explaining 
that his last “row,” caused by his standing in the 
grounds and shying pebbles through the window at the 
head ot a professor whose lecture he had just sloped, was 
owing entirely to a mistake in the professor’s identity* 
as he had taken him for one of the students ; “ and, 
faith, there’s not much difference between the back of 
their heads, as you’ll see if you look for yourselves ; 
but of course it wouldn’t be myself if I didn’t hit the 
wrong man ! I’m such an unlucky beggar,” he con- 
cluded in a most mournful tone. 

We were all students and old friends, and the evening 
fairly flew by as story followed story and one reminis- 
cence called up another, so that it was nearly half past 
one when we broke up. 

I had just moved into new lodgings that afternoon, 
and started to go to them, feeling at peace with all the 
world. 

It was one of those beautiful, clear, cold, moonlight 
nights for which the Canadian winter is so famous, but 
my enjoyment of the walk home was marred by the 
horrifying thought that I had forgotten to get a latch 
key for the door of my new lodgings, and that in all 
probability I would be locked out. I hurried home and 
opening the front door of the porch, stepped in to try 
the door and see if it was locked. 

As soon as I entered, a voice said : “ Hullo, Mister ! 
Do you live here. I hope you’ve got a key, for I’ve lost 
mine.” 

There, sitting on the step, wrapped in a huge fur 
coat, sat my friend Drummyer, smoking away as coolly 
as though he was in his easychair. 

He remembered me as soon as I spoke, and informed 
me that he also had lived in the house for some time. 
I explained to him that I was in as bad a box as him- 
self, and proceeded to pull the door bell. 

“ It’s no use, my boy ; I exercised on that bell till I 



was tired, and no one paid the slightest attention. 
The best thing you can do is to take things coolly, and 
sit down here till some other man comes who has a 
key ; someone is sure to turn up, because its Christ- 
mas eve and there is a great deal going on.” 

I acted on his advice and “ took it coolly ” indeed, 
the weather wouldn’t permit of anything else ; so I sat 
down beside him, and borrowed some tobacco to con- 
sole myself with. 

It got a little monotonous after a while, and I re- 
marked : 

“ Well, we must look like a couple of fools sitting 
out here in the porch as if it was about eight o’clock 
on a June evening.” 

“ Faith, } ? ou’ re right. It is most ridiculous, but it’s 
the best we can do. Say, this reminds me of another 
funny accident that happened to me in my First year. 
I’ll tell you about it to pass away the time.” 

I got over in the warmest corner of the porch, and 
picking up the door mat wrapped it around me for 
company and warmth, and then told him to go on. 

“ In our First year there was a boy named Cornelius 
Rogerson. He was a tall, lath-and-plaster looking 
fellow, with a good deal of fun in him, but very shy and 
sensitive ; the poor chap had never lived away from 
home before coming up to McGill, and was most hor- 
ribly homesick when he got there. He knew abso- 
lutely nothing about boarding, house life, and bit at once 
at an advertisement offering board and lodgings ‘with 
home comforts.’ His landlady was a tall, wooden-faced 
woman of severe puritanical type, whose ideas of ‘ home 
comforts ’ seemed to be summed up in giving * Corny ’ 
a wretched little garret room, fot which she charged a 
very good price, keeping a very poor table and a watch- 
ful eye over her young boarder whom she bullied most 
unmercifully. If he remained out at night after ten 
o’clock,— which he didn’t often do, as he had no latch- 
key, she— was down on him like a thousand of bricks 
next morning ; while if any student friends dropped in 
and spoke above a whisper or smoked in his room, she 
made life miserable for him for a week. I never saw a 
poor wretch so completely under anyone’s thumb. Once I 
believe he did rebel after some piece of outrageous con- 
duct on her part, and threatened to leave, but she 
quickly subdued him by sundry vague threats of hav- 
ing him arrested and making him pay for his room for 
the whole year, and he, poor fellow, thinking that she 
had the power to do so, quickly subsided. Time and 
again he would come up to lectures with a general ap- 
pearance of being flurried, without either exercise, note 
or text-book, and as we had made great friends, my 
books sufficed for both. I at length got to understand 
these symptoms, and was always prepared for the story 
of the little seance he had had with his landlady just 
before leaving the house, which he would relate to me 
coming down the avenue. 

“ At length it came near the time for Christmas ex- 
aminations. All were trying to make up for lost time 
and Rogerson and I used to study together^quite fre- 
quently. On one of these nights I was working i n 
his room for an examination in English which was 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



to be held the following day. I, strange to say, felt 
just in the humor for work, and about ten o’clock I 
looked up from my work, and said : ‘ I say, Corny, old 
man, what do you say to our plugging laie to-night ; 
it is no use stopping now we are just getting into it.’ 
He said nothing for a minute, then blurted out in a 
most voluble manner : ‘ Why, yes, of course ; most 

certainly. Yes, yes, I am perfectly .willing; why, I’ll 
all work night if you want. I don’t care. Why, of 
course.’ 

I looked at him quickly, and took in the situation at 
once : he was trying to convince himself that he was 
not dreading the row which he knew he would have 
next morning with the ‘ female ’ for letting me stay so 
late. 

“ Of course as soon as I saw this, I determined to’stay 
on, just to tease the poor boy, so I buckled down again 
just as if I was going to stay for a week, and worked 
away as hard as I could, but I could see that poor 
Corny was uneasy and nervous. About half past one I 
decided to go, and closed up my books. He looked up 
with a most relieved face, and said reproachfully : 1 1 

say, old man, you’re not going yet, are you ?’ I was 
putting on my overcoat when he gave a slight cough, 
and started to speak, but hesitated ; I was bound not 
to help him out, but waited to hear what he wanted. 

‘ I say, old man,’ he stammered, ‘ you wouldn’t mind 
taking off your boots, would you ; the old woman will 
be asleep, and I don’t want to wake her, she is such an 
old beast, you know.’ I grinned to myself, but of 
course complied with his request, and started to grope 
my way down the stairs after him for all the lights 
were out — loaded down with my boots and books. 

“ We got to the foot of the stairs, and Corny unlocked 
the hall door, and just had his arm up with a match to 
light the gas when I looked over my shoulder, and there 
at the head of the stairs was a tall, white-robed figure 
looking down at us. I was greatly amused, 'and 
giving Corny a dig in the ribs I said : ‘ She is on to 
you, Rogerson.’ 

“ I was sorry I spoke, for he looked back, and grew 
positively pale with fright. Out went the match, and he 
grabbed me by the arm and pitched me out in the 
snowy street in my stocking feet, and as ‘he closed the 
door he said : ‘ Well, good-night, old fellow, good-night, 
good-night. I’ll see you in the morning.’ 

“ You can imagine my feelings as I sat down in the 
street, when it was just about as cold as it is now, to 
put on my boots. Hello, by Jove ; here comes a man 
who has a key,” he added, as someone came up the 
steps. “ Happy Christmas to you. Drop into my 
room some time to-morrow, and I’ll introduce you to 
the other fellows who are in the house.” 

S. C- 

CATSABIANCA. 

(A Catastrophe.) 

The cat stood on the back yard fence 
Whence all but hi in had fled ; 

The bricks which drove his comrades hence 
Fell thick around his head ; 



169 



Yet dauntless aud unmoved he stood 
Amid the falling storm ; 

A creature of defiant mood, — 

A fierce and feline form. 

The bricks rained on — he would not go 
Without his serenade 
To Tabby on the ground below, 

Who loitered in the shade. 

He called aloud : “ Say, Tabby, — Fitz ! 

Meow ! Will you not be mine ? — 

Using, of course, not speech but its 
Equivalent feline. 

“ Speak,' Tabby,” once agaiu he cried, 

“ If I may hope to win — ” 

And but a muttered curse replied 
Amid the hellish din. 

Just then he felt*a boot-jack fall 
Upon his bristling hair; 

But still he hugged his caterwaul, 

And mewled in brave despair. 

With one last howl he shrieked aloud : 

“ Oh, Tabby dear, farewell !” 

While rouud him in a hustling crowd 
The murderous missies fell. 

At last the man above grew wild, 

And raised his gun on high, 

Remarking, as he grimly smiled, — 

“ That cat had got to die !” 

Then came a burst of thunder sound — 

That cat — Oh ! where was he ? 

Ask of the winds, which scattered round 
His ashes'o’er the lea ! 

JOHLE JOHKR. 

SONNET. 

One April eve, as Earth impatient broke 

From Winter's clasp to greet the coming Spring, 
In converse deep, while homeward sauntering, 
The spirit-music in our souls awoke, 

As harpstrings vibrant to the master’s stroke. 
Through all the naked branches overhead, 

The moon’s rays soft a subtle radiance shed, 
That lit the revels of the fairy folk, 

And cast weird shadows on the pavement stone, 
The naked branches — so they seemed to be — 

Till in the shadow on the pavement thrown 
We saw the swelling buds just bursting free ; 

O Life ! How oft to us in shade is shown 
What in the substance we had failed to see. 

ERIE. 



SOCIETIES. 



McGILL GLEE AND BANJO CLUB. 

“What’s the matter with old McGill? She’s all 
right” just as long as there remain 26 men in the 
college to form a Glee and Banjo club. 

The Christmas tour of the Club is over, and has been 
a decided success, the high class character of the selec- 
tions and their rendition calling forth much praise. 

Starting on Thursday afternoon, Dec. 21st, in a 
special car, we proceeded to Lachute, where we gave 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



170 



our concert before an enthusiastic but, owing to the 
size of the hall, a rather small audience. “ We did not 
make much money but we had lots of fun,” — the mem- 
ber will understand the joke. 

After the concert the time was delightfully spent in 
listening to impromptu solos from different members of 
the Club, and soon we were again en route. 

Arriving at Ottawa we were met by an electric car, 
and quickly taken to the Russell House. 

Friday was spent in rehearsing and sight-seeing, 
which was made very pleasurable, thanks to the Ottawa 
Electric Co., r who placed a car at the disposal of the 
Boys for the afternoon. Among the places visited was 
the power house of the above company, which contains 
the largest dj-namo in the Dominion, 7000 H.P. Our 
concert in the evening was a “ take ; ” notices had been 
put in the papers, requesting the graduates and friends 
of McGill to appear with the colors, and the house was 
universally dotted with red and white. The following 
clipping from the Ottawa Citizen of the next morning 
will best describe the concert, but in addition we would 
add that our enthusiastic Governor General would 
make an excellent leader if the Boys could all face hi s 
way ; also we think that Schneider’s Band did not have 
a fair chance, as the audience was overcome with mirth 
before the close of the first verse, and indeed so over 
come was one of the Aides-de-camp that he rolled off 
his chair. 

THE SWEET SINGERS OF MCGILL- 

Some College Songs and Instrumental Selections of 
• Rare Merit. 

The McGill University Glee and Banjo Clubs 
received a hearty welcome at the Grand last night, 
and they deserved it. The concert they presented 
more than justified the high expectations held of them 
by their friends. The programme was carried through 
with great precision, and there was not a hitch from 
beginning to end. 

Nearly every number on the programme was encored. 
There were a few features, however, that deserve 
special note. Mr. Tetreau’s rendition of “ Madri- 
enne” — Miss Bertha O’Reilly accompanist — was one of 
the best things of the evening. Mr. Tetreau is an old 
Ottawa College boy, and received a double ovation 
from the students of that University and of McGill 
when he appeared. On a par with Mr. Tetreau’s 
singing was the reciting of Mr. Donald Guthrie, B.A. 
This gentleman is a finished elocutionist, and was de- 
servedly encored. It is too bad that the quartette 
composed of Messrs. Lambly, Tetreau, Williams and 
Fry does not oftener figure on the programme. Their 
singing of the “ Old Home down on the farm ” was 
very fine. 

The best thing the Glee Club sang was Schneider’s 
Band. It is a splendid song for a club, and is pecu- 
liarly suitable for a college song. Mr. John H. 
Parker’s execution upon the banjo was excellent, his 
trick playing being much admired. Of all the banjo 
selections, and they were everyone well rendered, the 
prettiest was a march entitled “ Ottawa,” by Parker. 



The Capital is well represented among McGill’s 
musicians. Messrs. T. Tetreau, O- S- Finnie and W. R- 
Askwith figuring in the Glee Club, and Messrs. J. H. 
Parker, J. K. Larmonth and R- O’Reilly among the 
banjoists. 

His Excellency the Governor-General, Lady Aber- 
deen and a party from Rideau Hall were present. 

A matinee will be given by special request this after- 
noon, which will also be under Vice-Regal patronage. 

After the matinee we at once proceeded to the station, 
and took train again, this time for home. 

We carry our music with us, and so we were not 
silent on the wa) ? . 

The special thanks of the Club are due to the Cana- 
dian Pacific Railway and to the Ottawa Electric Co. 
for the handsome accommodation they furnished, and 
to our manager Mr. R. A. Gunn for the indefatigable 
manner in which he completed all arrangements. 

The Club was accompanied by our genial Hon. Pres., 
Prof. McLeod, to whom is due much of our success. 

The results of the tour give promise of a crowning 
triumph at our Montreal Concert, which is to be given 
in the Windsor Hall on Tuesday, Jan. 9th, and it is to 
be hoped that the boys will turn out with “ their sisters 
and their cousins and their aunts.” 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The vacation season has of necessity interrupted the 
work, but, notwithstanding the Prayer Meeting on 
Friday evening, has been continued with interest ancf 
profit. Three social evenings were arranged for the 
men who were unable to get home for Christmas ; we 
regret that the great number in the city prevented 
invitations being extended to all, a special effort was 
made that all members of the First Year should receive 
attention. 

The Sunday Afternoon Meeting will be resumed on 
January 7th, and led by Frank J. Day, president. In 
our plans for the New Year, would it not be right 
towards ourself, toward our college and toward our 
God, to make this hour on Sunday afternoon a regular 
engagement for the term ? The Committee will do its 
share in helping to make the meeting attractive and 
useful, it remains with our members whether the meet- 
ing shall be marked with interest and power. 

Come ! render help by your presence, by your pray- 
ers, by your word. 

TENTH ANNUAL MEETING 

\ oung Mens Christian Association of McGill 
University. 

Saturday, January 13th, 1894, 7- 30 p.111. 

Class Room I, Arts Building 

Business :-Election of Officers. Reception of renorts 
and other business. ^ 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



The Nominating Committee have the following 
nominations to announce ; other nominations may be 
made at the meeting : — 

President, — Walter J. LeRossignol, B.A., Med. ’95. 

1st Vice-President, — Wm. C. Sutherland, Arts ’95. 

2nd Vice-President, — H. P. Archibald, Science ’97. 

Recording Secretary, —Arthur Gun, Med. ’95. 

Treasurer,— Alex. R. Ross, Arts ’97. 

Asst- Treasurer,— R. W. Suter, Science ’97. 

The Committee and the General Secretary are 
appointed by the newly elected officers who form the 
Executive Committee. 

The business transacted at the annual meeting should 
be of great interest to every member, and affords an 
opportunity of becoming familiar with the work of the 
Association which can be obtained in no other way. 
The future of the Association will also be affected by 
the meeting. Do you appreciate the past work of the 
Association ? Do you desire its future success ? Then 
shew it by your presence and participation. 4 

It is with great thankfulness that we announce that 
Mr. George Hague has promised $5,000 towards a 
Y.M.C.A. building. This should serve as an encour- 
agement and as a good example to other generous 
friends. We trust that this building will soon be an 
accomplished fact. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of the Medical Society was held 
on Saturday evening, Dec. 1 6th, about twenty members 
being present. 

Shortly after eight o’clock the president called the 
meeting to order. After the usual business had been 
transacted, Mr. Jas. Pritchard was called upon to read 
his case report on “ Typhoid Fever.” 

The case proved a very interesting and instructive 
one, owing to the several intercurrent diseases with 
which it was complicated- These had been thoroughly 
gone into by Mr. Pritchard, and gave abundant scope 
for discussion. After this case had been pretty well 
threshed out, Mr. Kinghorn read a paper on “ Non- 
Alcoholic Beverages.” 

The paper dealt with the uses and abuses of water, 
tea, coffee, cocoa. 

The paper showed that considerable thought and 
care had been bestowed upon it, and was a treat to 
those who listened to it. 

After some discussion on this paper the Society 
adjourned. 



THE UNIVERSITY LECTURE. ( Concluded ) 

In 1880, on occasion of the twenty-fifth year of my 
tenure of office as principal, I endeavored to assemble 
its graduates at a banquet in the William Molson hall. 
Much labor was necessary to secure accurate informa- 
tion as to their addresses, and this was made means of 
preparing the first directory of the graduates. Eight 
hundred and fifty cards of invitation were issued, and 
answers expressing sympathy and affection for Alma 



i;i 



Mater were received from nearly all. The result was 
that 360 gentlemen, nearly all graduates of the Univer- 
sity, were able to attend and to take their seats at the 
tables occupying the hall. At this entertainment, after 
a few words of welcome to the guests and the usual 
toasts, addresses were delivered by representatives of the 
different bodies and interests connected with the Uni- 
versity, and by representatives of sister institutions. 
The topics were naturally those connected with the 
past history and present state of the University, and 
the part which its governors, principal and fellows, its 
benefactors and its graduates had taken in elevating it 
to the condition to which it had attained, and in 
advancing the interests]of education. As to the future, 
the evening was signalized by the announcement of the 
intention of Peter Redpath; Esq., one of the governors, 
to erect a costly and capacious museum building on 
the College grounds ; and that of the Principal to place 
therein, as a gift to the University, his own large geolo- 
gical collections ; and the further announcement that 
the graduates proposed to commemorate the twenty- 
fifth year of the Principal’s tenure of office by the crea- 
tion of a University building to bear his name. The 
speakers on points more directly relating to McGill, 
were the Hon. Judge Day, chancellor ; Mr. P. Redpath, 
Hon. Judge Dunkin, Dr. E- T. Meredith, Dr. Camp- 
bell, Prof. Trenholme, Dr. Johnson, Prof. Bovey, Mr. 
R. A. Ramsay, Dr. Chamberlin, Hon. Dr. Church and 
Hon. Mr. Lynch. The addresses of these gentlemen 
were replete with reminiscences of the olden time, new 
to many of the younger auditors, as well as with 
auguries and projects for the future. The entertain- 
ment being a private one, reporters were not admitted, 
which, perhaps, was an error, as it would have been 
interesting now to have preserved a record of the 
addresses, more especially of those delivered by men 
who have since passed away. 

The University should, I think, take a large share of 
credit for the success of the meetings of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science in Mon- 
treal in 1857 and 1882, and the still more important 
meeting of the British Association in 1884. University 
men worked earnestly 111 aid of these meetings, the 
use of the College buildings contributed materially to 
their accommodation, and the results tended in many 
ways to the promotion of science in Canada. Such 
meetings, by bringing among us eminent men, widely 
known abroad, and by directing special attention to 
scientific topics, contribute greatly to our advance in 
national improvement and in placing us abreast of the 
scientific movement in other countries. Each of these 
meetings has had its influence in these respects and 
has marked a distinct step in our upward progress. 

I have said little in these reminiscences of the finan- 
cial affairs of the University. In this respect we have 
always been in straitened circumstances, but relief has 
often come just at our time of greatest need, though 
there have always been important fields of usefulness 
open to us, but which we had not room to enter on. 
Our last public appeal is thus referred to in a publica- 
tion of the time : “ At the close of the ^financial year 



172 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 880-81, our income had ebbed in a most threatening 
manner. Being derived mainly from mortgages on 
real estate, it had run some risks and experienced a 
few losses in the commercial crisis of the preceding 
years. But when the tide of commercial prosperity 
turned, a greater calamity befell us in the fall of the 
rate of interest, which reduced our revenue by nearly 
20 per cent., and this at a time when no decrease of 
expenditure could be made without actual diminution 
of efficiency. In these circumstances the Board of 
Governors found it necessary to insist on most unwel- 
come retrenchments, injurious to our educational work, 
and which some of us would have been glad to avert 
even by much personal sacrifice and privation. At 
length, on the 13th of October, 1881, we convened a 
meeting, not happily of our creditors, but of our con- 
stituents, the Protestant citizens of Montreal, and our 
position and wants were laid before them most ably, 
and, I may say, even pathetically, by the chancellor, 
Judge Day and the honorary treasurer, Mr. Ramsay. 
The meeting was a large and influential one, and I shall 
never cease to bear in grateful remembrance the re- 
sponse which it made. There was no hint of blame for 
our extravagance, no grudging of the claims of the 
higher education which we represented, but a hearty 
and unanimous resolve to sustain the University and to 
give it more than the amount which it asked. The 
result of the meeting was the contribution of $28,500 to 
the endowment fund, besides $26,335 t° special funds, 
including the endowment of Mr. W. C. McDonald’s 
scholarships, and of $18,445 in annual subscriptions, 
most of them for five years. But this was not all, for it 
was followed by two of those large and generous 
bequests of which this city may well be proud. Major 
Hiram Mills, an American gentleman, resident for 
twenty years in Montreal, and familiar with the strug- 
gles of the University, left us by will the handsome sum 
of $43,000 to endow a chair in his name, as well as a 
scholarship and a gold medal. O11 this endowment the 
Governors have placed the chair of classical literature. 
More recently our late esteemed friend and fellow- 
citizen, Mr. David Greenshields, has added to the 
many kind actions of a noble and generous life the gift 
of $40,000 for the endowment of a chair to be called by 
his name (the David Greenshields chair of chemistry). 

It is perhaps unnecessary that I should continue this 
history further. The great steps in advance of the last 
few years are known to nearly all who hear tne. In so 
far as money is concerned, these gifts include the 
following : The Thomas Workman endowment for 
mechanical engineering of $117,000, supplemented by 
$20,000 from Mr. W. C. McDonald ; the W. C. 
McDonald Engineering building, valued with its 
equipment at $350,000, and an endowment of $45,000 
for its maintenance, and also the endowment of the 
chair of electrical engineering with the sum of $40,000 ; 
the erection and equipment by the same gentleman of 
the Physics building, valued at $300,000, and two 
chairs of physics with endowments amounting to 
$90,000 ; the endowment of the Faculty of Law by the 
same benefactor with $150,000, and the endowment of 



the Gale chair in the same Faculty with $25,000 ; the 
large gifts to the Medical Faculty by Sir D. A. Smith 
and Mr. J. H. R. Molson and other benefactors, 
amounting to $269,000 ; the John Protliingham Prin- 
cipal fund of $40, 000, founded by Mrs. J. H. R. Molson 
and the Rev. Fred’k Frothingham : the purchase of 
land valued at $42,500 by Mr. J. H. R. Molson ; the 
further endowment by the same gentleman of the chair 
of English Literature with $20,000 ; the Philip Car- 
penter Fellowship with endowment of $7,000 ; the Peter 
Redpath library, valued at $150,000, with $5,000 
annually for its maintenance. Many minor gifts have 
also testified to the good-will and liberality of the city. 
In the aggregate these gifts of citizens of Montreal 
within the past three years amount to more than a 
million and a half of dollars. Theselgreat benefactions 
are not only a vast addition to our resources, but an 
earnest for the future, since it is not to be supposed 
that so great and useful endowments, attracting so 
many students, and so highly appreciated by the public, 
shall ever be left to fall into decay or fail to be sup- 
plemented by additional benefactions. It is to be 
observed also that the greater part of them have been 
given by men not graduates of the University, and it 
is to be expected that as our graduates increase in 
number, influence and wealth, some return will flow in 
from them for the benefits they have received. They 
need not think that their gifts will be declined. There 
are still great needs to be supplied. These may be 
ranged under the three heads of the professional facul- 
ties, the academical faculty and the University as a 
whole. 

In the former, the Faculties of Law, Medicine and 
Veterinary Science are still deficient in regard to class 
rooms and laboratories. The Faculty of Applied 
Science is still unprovided with necessary outfit in re- 
ference to the departments of mining engineering and 
practical chemistry. It is, however, the academical 
Faculty, or Faculty of Arts, that is in most need. It 
requires large additions to its staff, and more especially 
division of the heavier chairs. In this connection it 
should be observed that it is burdened with the general 
education of students of professional schools as well as 
with the training of its own students. It is also in 
great need of improved class rooms and extended ac- 
commodation of every kind for its work. The Univer- 
sity as such needs a new gymnasium, college, lodging 
houses and a dining hall, and an adequate convocation 
hall with rooms for University boards and general 
College societies and for University officers. It is not 
too much to say that in securing these ends the great 
benefactions already given might profitably be doubled. 
That these things will all be done in process of time, I 
have no doubt ; but it should be remembered that class 
after class of students is going forth into the world 
without having enjoyed these benefits. I have a lar^e 
packet of papers labelled unfinished and abortive 
schemes, containing the details of these and other plans 
I value these papers very highly as representing 
creative thought not yet materialized, but I am quite 
willing to part with any of them to any benefactor who 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



173 



will carry it into actual effect. While personally it is 
necessarily a matter for regret that 1 cannot continue 
in office till the great improvements to which I have 
referred are realized, it is at least something, after our 
long and arduous journey through the wilderness of 
penury and privation, to see even afar off the goodly 
land into which my successors are entering, and in the 
enjoyment of which, I trust, they will forgive the 
shortcomings of those who had to lead the way, and 
not forget the dangers and difficulties of the thorny 
paths through which we have passed. One feature, 
however, of our history for which we cannot be too 
deeply thankful, is the comparative peace and mutual 
forbearance which have prevailed in all the past years, 
and the united and earnest action of all the members 
of the University in every crisis of our long conflict. 
Nor have we had any reason for anxiety respecting our 
Students. I confess that if there is anything I have 
feared, and have constantly prayed to be exempt from, 
it has been the possible occurrence of those rebellions 
and disorders that have troubled so many colleges on 
this continent. For this exemption I do not take 
credit to myself. McGill has had an able and devoted 
governing board, a body of competent, diligent and, on 
the whole, popular professors, derived from a large 
number of different Universities on both sides of the 
Atlantic, and the Canadian student is on the whole a 
hard worker and not too self-asserting. Nor is our 
system of College government a cast-iron constitution 
which has been set up by an act of legislation. It has 
grown up under experience and careful adaptation 
of methods to needs. In McGill, each Faculty exercises 
jurisdiction over its own Students, the executive officer 
being the Dean of the Faculty The Principal in. 
tervenes only when desired to give advice or assistance, 
or when any case arises affecting Students of different 
Faculties ; and the power of expelling Students resides 
only in the corporation — a body including the gov- 
ernors, the Principal and all the Deans of the Faculties, 
with elective representatives of the Faculties, of the 
affiliated colleges and of the graduates. Under thi s 
system it is understood that each professor is supreme 
in his own classroom, but his power of discipline is 
limited to a temporary suspension from lectures, which 
must be at oncce reported to the Dean. If necessary, 
the Dean may lay the case before the Faculty, which, 
after hearing, may reprimand, report to parents or 
guardians, impose fines, suspend from classes, or, in 
extreme cases, report to the corporation for expulsion. 
No case involving this last penalty has, however, yet 
occurred, and the effort in all cases is to settle every 
case of discipline by personal influence and with as 
little reference to laws and penalties as possible. With 
this machinery a simple code of rules is sufficient. It 
provides for orderly and moral conduct in the buildings 
and in going and coming, and for the safety of the pro. 
perty of the University, and prohibits all action likely 
to obstruct the work of the College or to interfere with 
the progress of other Students. In the case of College 
societies it is required merely that their objects shall be 
consistent with those of the University, and that their 
laws and officers shall be communicated to and ap- 



proved by the Faculty in whose rooms they meet. 
Above and beyond all such machinery and rules lies 
the obligation on Principal, Deans and Professors to 
watch the beginnings of evil, and to counteract by wise 
and kindly advice anything that may lead to disorder. 
On the other hand, the effort of the student should be 
to exercise all that liberty which tends to make him 
self reliant and fit for the battle of life, while he en- 
deavors to avoid the formation of any habits inimical 
to the interests of his fellow-students or injurious to 
himself. In all this I proceed on the assumption that 
it is the business of a University to train young men 
and women for noble lives, not so much to teach them 
to do something as to train them to be something. 
Perhaps the tendency most to be feared in our age and 
country is that towards practical and profitable work, 
without the previous education that should develop 
fully the mental powers and form the character. This 
tendency it is the duty of the University by all means 
to counteract, as one that will lower our national 
character, and thereby prevent our highest success. 
This principle being kept in view, the cultivation of 
interest and the enthusiasm for College work at once 
secures progress and peace. In short, the control of 
young men or young women is to be exercised rather 
in the way of inducing them to like their work and 
duty than by any influence of the nature of coercion or 
restraint. In this way only can they be trained to 
control themselves and, when their turn comes, to 
control others. They who would rule must them- 
selves learn willing obedience. Of course, there is 
place here for all the elevating influence of spiritual 
religion, and there is scope for that most important 
power which arises from the example of punctuality, 
self-denial and honest work on the part of professors. 

The religious life of McGill University has been of a 
quiet and unofficial character. We have not sought to 
make any parade of religious services as such, but by 
personal inflence and example to foster piety among the 
students, and to facilitate as far as possible their taking 
advantage of the religious privileges afforded in the 
city. In this connection I attach paramount import- 
ance to the spontaneous action of the sudents them- 
selves, more especially as manifested in their Christian 
associations. These have, I think, been sources of 
unmixed good, and have largely contributed to maintain 
and extend religious life. I could wish that they 
should have from the University or its friends means to 
provide proper accommodation for meetings and social 
reunions, and that the utmost aid and countenance 
should be extended to them by the college authorities. 

My function in this University has been that of a 
pioneer, and viewed in this light it has not been com- 
patible with the dignity and the authority which are 
usually attached to the heads of more firmly established 
colleges in older countries. It is time, however, that 
this should be changed, and I trust that my succcessor 
will enter upon office under more favorable conditions 
than those of the feeble and struggling University of 
the past. I would more especially ask in his behalf 
that he should have means to support the dignity of the 
University in its social aspect, to entertain distinguished 



174 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



strangers as well as the members of the University, and 
to take a place in society becoming the magnitude of 
the interests committed to his care. Under our con- 
stitution he cannot be an autocrat, since be can only 
enforce regulations enacted by the governors and cor- 
poration, but he should at least have full information 
as to all contemplated movements, and should be con- 
sulted respecting them, and should be recognized as 
the only official medium of communication between the 
different portions of the University. The operations of 
McGill are now so extensive and complicated that the 
dangers of disintegration and isolation have become 
greater than any others, and the Principal must always 
be the central bond of union of the University, because 
he alone can know it in all its parts and weigh the 
claims, needs, dangers, difficulties and opportunities of 
each of its constituent faculties and departments. Much 
of this must without doubt depend upon his personal 
qualities, and I trust those who are to succeed me in 
this office may be men not only of learning, ability and 
administrative capacity, but of unselfish disinterested- 
ness, of large sympathies and wide views, of kindly, 
generous and forgiving disposition, and of that earnest 
piety which can alone make them sale advisers of 
young men and women entering on the warfare of life. 

In conclusion, let me say a word as to myself and 
my retirement from office. My connection with this 
University for the past thirty-eight years has been 
fraught with that happiness which results from the 
consciousness of effort in a worthy cause, and from 
association with such noble and self-sacrificing men as 
those have built up McGill College. But it has been 
filled with anxieties and cares and with continuous 
and almost unremitting labor. I have been obliged 
to leave undone or imperfectly accomplished many 
cherished schemes by which I had hoped to benefit my 
fellow-men and leave footprints of good on the sands of 
time. Age is advancing upon me, and I feel that if I 
am fittingly to bring to a close the business of my life I 
must have a .breathing space to gird up my loons and 
fresh myself for what remains of the battle. I have, 
besides, as you know, been somewhat abruptly deprived 
by a serious illness of my accustomed strength, and in 
this I recognize the warning of my Heavenly Father 
that my time of active service is nearly over. In retir- 
ing from my official duty I can leave all my work and 
all the interests of this University, with the confidence 
that, under God’s blessing, they will continue to be 
successful and progressive. The true test of educa- 
tional work well done is that it shall have life and 
power to continue and extend itself after those who 
established it are removed. I believe that this is the 
character of our work here, and I shall leave it with 
the confident expectation that it will be quite as suc- 
cessful in my absence as in my presence. v Such a result 
I shall regard as the highest compliment to myself. 
To this end I ask 3'our earnest consideration of the 
sketch of our progress which I have endeavored to pre- 
sent, and I pray that the blessing of God may rest on 
the University and on every part of it, and that it may 
be strengthened with His power and animated with 
His spirit.” 



Sir William Dawson on the conclusion of this in- 
teresting lecture, which was listened to with breathless 
interest, was loudly cheered. Sir Donald Smith, con- 
veyed the thanks of the assembly to the lectured and a 
few words from Lord Aberdeen brought the function 
to a close. 



NEW BOOKS. 

It has been our good fortune within the past week 
to have had the opportunity of reading the recently 
published volume Lake St. Louis, Old and New, by 
Desire Girouard, D.C.L-, Q.C., M.P., and we wish to 
record the pleasure we have found in that reading. 
Perhaps no histories are more attractive than those 
describing particular localities ; and Lachine, and the 
different villages on Lake St. Louis, cannot fail to be 
of interest to all who desire to know the origin and 
growth of Montreal and its surroundings. In the book 
Mr. Girouard tells us very much that is new, and if 
there be portions of it that we have met with before, 
they were heretofore in the shape of scraps and dis- 
jointed pieces, but the author has placed them in order, 
and furnished us with a “plain, unvarnished tale,” 
which renders the book of inestimable value for future 
reference ; moreover, in notes, Mr. Girouard furnishes 
the reader with references to the sources which he has 
studied, and we can readily understand the laborious 
task he must have taken upon himself The value of 
the work is enhanced by the introduction of pieces jus- 
tijicatives, helpful alike to the student and the casual 
reader. 

The scope of the work will be best conveyed by 
quoting Mr. Girouard’s own words in his “ Preface 

“While the uations of the old world, and the new, are cele- 
“ brating the discovery of America, a resident of Lachine may 
“ be justified in paying his tribute to the memory of those who 
“ founded and fostered the settlements of Lake St. Louis, es- 
“ pecially to one who was not only the father o ( Lachine, but 
“ the pioneer of the States of Ohio, Michigan and Illinois, — 

“ Robert Cavelier de L*> Salle. Here, on the banks of the St. 

“ Lawrence, in the Seign,ory of St. Sulpice, the great explorer 
“ dwelt, until, incited by the marvellous tales of the Iroquois 
“ Indians, he conceived the idea of a passage by land to China 
“ and Japan. This project he was destined never to carry out ; 
“ but he penetrated the far West to the mouth of the Missis- 
“ sippi, leaving behind him on his route the foundations of 

posts, to become at a later period great centres of trade and 

“ commerce ” 

* * * 5 |« * 

“ When, iu time, the Continent of America has ripened into 
“ old age, the history of the pioneers of the 17th Century will 
“ be looked upon as more astounding than the tales of the 
“ mythic heroes of mythology and though they be notjgods, 
“ their work will yet have received the seal of the Almighty.” 

The “ tribute ” proposed, Mr. Girouard has faithfully 
accomplished. The book is a handsome one, and a 
good specimen of the printer’s art ; moreover, it is 
brought down to date, for in addition to portraits of 
the founders, and illustrations of many of the old build- 
ings, there are many illustrations of the “ Cottage 
Homes ” of the merchants of Montreal, and other resi- 
dents of Lachine, St. Ann’s, Dorval, etc., of to-day. 

It is gratifying to observe the increase of interest in 
the study of Canadian History within the past few 
years, — no country has a more attractive story to tell ; 
and such books as Mr. Girouard’s help largel> r to in- 
crease the number of such students. It is delightful 
reading, and the story is told in such a charming style, 
that it is pleasant and attractive, and you are learning 
history without being aware of it. 

VARSITIES AND DI-VARSITIES. 

Everybody has been out of town enjoying the pater- 
nal roast turkey and plum-puddings. The Halls of 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



175 



McGill have been deserted, and University news is at a 
correspondingly low ebb. The following, by way ot a 
variation, will no doubt be acceptable. 

The Irish character seems peculiarly adapted, not 
only for appreciating a good joke, but also occasionally 
perpetrating one. Samuel Lover was a prince among 
jokers. Some may not have seen lus version of the old 
classic fable of Theseus and Ariadne. 

LOVE AND LIQUOR. 

A Greek Allegory. 

I. 

Oh sure t would amaze viz 
How one Mister Tliaseus, 

Desarted a lovely young lady of owld. 

On a dissolute island, 

All lonely and sikut, 

Slie sobbed herself sick as she sat in the cowld. 

Oh you’d think she was kilt, 

As she roar’d with the quilt 
Wrapp’d round her in haste as she jump’d out of bed. 
And ran down to the coast 
Where she looked like a ghost, 

Though ’twas he was departed- -the vagabone fled. 

And she cried, “ Well-a*day ! 

Sure my heart it is grey ; 

They’re deceivers, them sojers that goes on half-pay !’' 

II. 

While abusin’ the villian, 

Came riding postilion, 

A nate little boy on the back of a baste, 

Big enough, faith, to ate him, 

But he lathered and bate him, 

And the baste to unsate him ne’er struggled the laste 
And an iligant car 
He was dhrawing — by gar ! 

It was finer by far than a Lord Mayor’s state coach ; 

And the chap that was in it, 

He sang like a linnet, 

With a nate keg of whiskey beside him to broach. 

And he tipp’d now and then, 

Just a matter o’ ten 

Or twelve tumblers o’ punch to his bowld sarving men. 

III. 

They were dressed in green livery, 

- But seemed rather shivery, 

For ’twas only a thrifle o’ leaves that they wore, 

But they capered away 
Like the sweeps on May-day, 

And shouted and tippled the tumblers galore ! 

A print of their masther 
Is often in plasther — 

O’ Paris, put over the door of a tap ; 

A fine chubby fellow 
Ripe, rosy, and mellow, 

Like a peach that is ready to drop in your lap. 

Hurrah ! for Brave Bacchus, 

A bottle to crack us, 

He’s a friend of the people, like bowld Caius Gracchus. 

IV. 

Now Bacchus perceiving 
The lady was grieving, 

He spoke to her civil, and tipp’d her a wink ; 

And the more that she fretted, 

He soothered and petted, 

And gave her a glass her own health just to dhrink ; 

Her pulse it beat quicker, 

The thrifle o’ liquor 



Enliven’d her sinking heart’s cockles, I think ; 

So the moral is plain, 

That if love gives you pain, 

There's nothing can cure it like taking to dhrink ! 

A clever epigram of Lover’s is the following : 

Though matches are all made in Heaven, they say, 

Yet Hymen, who mischief oft hatches, 

Sometimes deals with the house t'other side of the way , 

And there they make Lucifer matches. 

Very often in these ardent characters, it is but a step 
from humor into pathos, as witness the following 
from the same pen : 

The breeze was fres •, the morn was fair, 

The stag had left his dewy lair ; 

To cheering horu and baying tongue 
K Harney's echoes sweetly rung. 

With sweeping oar and bending mast, 

The eager chase was following fast ; 

When one light skiff a maiden steer’d 
Beneath the deep wave disappear’d ; 

While shouts of terror wildly ring, 

A boatman brave, with gallant spring 
And dauntless arm, the lady bore — 

But he who saved — was seen no more ! 

Where weeping birches wildly wave, 

There boatmen show their brother’s grave ; 

And while they tell the name he bore, 

Suspended hangs the lifted oar ; 

The silent drops they idly shed, 

.Seen like tears to gallant Ned, 

And while gently gliding by, 

The tale told with moistened eye. 

No ripple on the slumb’ring lake 
Unhallowed oar doth ever make. 

All undisturbed, the placid wave 
Flows gently o’er Macarthy’s grave. 

At Oxford a good deal of fun is poked at the Welsh- 
men who crowd to Jesus College ; they are currently 
believed to answer mostly to the name of Jones. One 
evening a stranger arrived at the porter’s lodge, and a 
colloquy began as follows Stranger : “ Kindly direct 
me to the rooms of Mr. Jones.” Porter : “ There are 
forty-three Mr. Joneses in college, sir.” Stranger : 
“ The man I wish to see is Mr. David Jones ” Porter : 
“Twenty-one Mr. David Joneses in college, sir.” 
Stranger: “My Mr. David Jones has red hair.” 
Porter: “Seven Mr. David Joneses have red hair.” 
Stranger : “ This is very awkward. Mr. Jones asked 
me to come and take wine with him.” Porter : “Why 
didn’t you say so at first, sir ! Second staircase, ground - 
floor, right. All the other Mr. Joneses drink beer.” 



Dr. Parr (the celebrated scholar) was once preaching 
in the country parish of another clergyman, and, as 
was his habit, used very learned language. The rector 
afterward said to him : “ They could not understand 
you.” “ Nonsense,” said Dr. Parr ; “ I am sure there 
was nothing in my sermon which they could not com- 
prehend.” “ Well,” said the rector, “ I will call one of 
them in, and see if he understands the meaning of the 
word ‘felicity.’” So he called in a laboring man, 
and said : “John, can you tell me what is the meaning 
of ‘ felicity ’ ? ” “Well, I don’t know, sir,” said John ; 
“ but I believe it is some part of the inside of a pig.” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



176 



A story which will be appreciated by every agricul- 
turist aud University man is just now going the rounds 
in Edinburgh. A number of examinations were being 
held at the University, and at one of them a student, 
bearing the name of Meadow, who had answered the 
printed papers, was called up for his “oral.” “Ah, 
Mr. Meadow,” said the professor, a genial man in his 
way, “ fine old name yours.” “ Yes, professor,” re- 
sponded the student, “it would be a great pity if it 
were ploughed.” 



An Englishman, a Scotchman, and an Irishman were 
once admiring a pretty girl through the window of a 
pastry cook’s shop. “ Let’s go in,” said Pat, “ and 
treat her to a glass of wine.” “ No,” interjected John 
Bull ; “ let us go in and buy something.” “ Naethitig 
o’ the kind,” added the canny native of Caledonia ; 
“ we’ll just gang in and ask for change for half-a- 
croon.” 



Apropos of the picture of the foot ball team. 

What’s the matter with the doleful-looking crowd ? 
O ! it’s all for — Lome ! 

CUPID MISTAKEN. 

As after noon, one summer’s day, 

Venus stood bathing in a river ; 

Cupid a shooting went that way, 

New-strung his bow, new' fill’d his quiver. 

With skill he chose his sharpest dart : 

With all his might his bow he drew ! 

Swift to his beauteous parent’s heart 
The too well -guided arrow flew. 

“ I faint ! I die ! ” the goddess cried : 

“ O cruel ! could ’st thou find none other 
To wreck thy spleen on : Parricide ! 

Like Nero thou hast slain they mother-” 

Poor Cupid sobbing scarce could speak : 

“ Indeed, mamma, I did not know ye; 

Alas ! how easy my mistake ? 

I took you for your likeness Chloe. - ’ 

PRIOR. 



OLLA PODRIDA. 

A number of papers from other Universities and 
Colleges have reached us from time to time. They are 
of all sizes, shapes and colors, from the ambitious 
Quarterly To the more humble exponents of college 
thought. They vary a good deal as to their aims and 
pretensions. Some give us very learned and weighty 
articles on cosmogony, anthropology, theology, and 
many other “ ologies ” some are merely compendiums 
of short stories, amusing or otherwise ; others again 
contain little more than stale jokes and unintelligible 
witticisms. The present century may with truth be 
said to be the age of periodicals. Their name is legion, 
and the higher educational institutions have not 
escaped the general infection. Still, these papers have 
their place, and are training schools for thought and 
expression of much value to the student. They also 
absorb and crystallize, so to speak, many ephemeral 



productions which would otherwise be lost to the world. 
Did time permit it would be an interesting study to 
analyse all these College papers. 

The Owl of Ottawa is an old friend and is 
always welcome. It goes in more for the solid style, 
and its articles are always of interest. Some of the 
subjects it takes up are as follows : Pindar, “ The 

father of Lyric Poetry”; Personal Hygiene ; Education 
in Manitoba ; Arctic Voyages past and present; Methods 
and Aims of Grecian Universities; A Canadian Shrine, 
Modern Aesthetics ; Dean Swift and his times ; The 
Nature of Canada’s Progress, etc. Apart from a cer- 
tain bias of tone and feeling, the articles in this paper 
are always well written. The literary criticisms deserve 
special praise. 

The Varsity]) strikes a somewhat lower key. Most 
of the contributed articles are short ; while some are 
certainly instructive, others can only be called amusing. 
There is a good article on Aurora Leigh, and an enter- 
taining one called “ The Art of Gossip and its Age.” 
The latter introduces that well-known and amusing 
discourse from Theocritus between Gorgo and Prax- 
inoe, in which we see that gossipping is by no means a 
modern accomplishment. 

The Christmas number makes its appearance in a new 
cover, which is very tastefully arranged, giving repre- 
sentations of the different buildings of the University. 
It contains a well written editorial on Christmas. We 
learn also that the students of University College in- 
tend in February to give a representation of Sophocle’s 
Antigone. This is a big undertaking. Yet the play it- 
self is such a masterpiece of art that it will well repay 
the trouble. We hope they will be able to handle their 
chorus well. The acting of a Greek play is rather an 
innovation in Canadian Universities, it is one, however 
worthy of imitation. This is a hint to our own Classical 
Club. Lowell and his Biglow papers is the subject of 
a good article. Besides this, we have an account of The 
Progress of Modern Languages in Canadian Universi- 
ties, and some short stories. All through, this issue is 
a very creditable one. One thing we notice is that 
there is not so much original poetry as there might be. 
Much of it is borrowed. Where are our Spring poets ? 

The Queen's Quarterly is a new venture on the part 
of the alumni of Queen’s University. As its name 
would impart, it takes up subjects of weight which for 
the most part are well written. The subjects touched 
on are generally important. Among them are, The 
Nature and spheres of Political Science; Dante and 
Mediaeval Thought ; Winckelmann and Greek Art ; the 
Middle Ages and the Reformation ; and a Greek 
Tragedy. A somewhat similar paper might with much 
benefit be started by the graduates of McGill ; it would 
meet a want that the Fortnightly does not and can- 
not meet. 

Knox College Monthly still keeps up its good repu- 
tation ; it is staid and weighty, as the organ of a Theo- 
logical College ought to be. It contains good articles 
on the Book of Exodus; Poetry and the Scottish Refor- 
mation. The Department which deals with current 
literature is specially valuable and interesting. 

The Presbyterian College Journal though rather 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 77 



late in appearing this year is also welcome. It is still 
run on the old solid lines. It contains the usual sermon 
from a graduate; a Symposium upon the “ Church and 
the Labor Question” ; the Chinese Problem and other 
important subjects. 

Passing further from home, we have received several 
copies of the Droghedcan, a little paper published by the 
Grammar School at Drogheda. Drogheda, we may 
state for the benefit of our readers, is in Ireland. It con- 
tains articles on Oxford Life, the Life of Mozart, Stu- 
dies on English Poets, Parochial Records, and the usual 
school news. It may be, as one contributor thinks, 
that the articles are somewhat above the ordinary 
school-boy, still it is perhaps as well to aim high. The 
articles are always interesting to us. 

The Glasgow University Magazine is a new face. It 
is one of the few College papers that is illustrated. We 
have been aiming at this in our own Fortnightly, 
and think it a good plan. A cut catches the eye of the 
busy student quicker and better than anything else. 
Some of the subjects treated upon are : Student-life at 
Jena Savona and Genoa, and an amusing thing on “A 
Clerical Evolution.’ The critiques are also interesting 
We hope to see this paper regularly. It would be a 
good thing if the British Universities took more interest 
in the Canadian ones than they seem to do. Other ex- 
changes received are : Albert College Times , Benia , St. 

Johns College Magazine, Mitre , Colhge Student, Dal/iou- 
sie Gazette , McMaster University Monthly , Acadia 
Athenaeum , Georgetown College Journal , Young Men's 
Era , Carletonia , University Monthly , College Times , The 
Sunbeam, Red and Blue, Harvard Advocate, Trinity 
University Review, and The College Folio. 

♦ A. G. N. 



ISeatmtg Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths athalf price, at the Turk- 
ish Bath Institute in this city. 'Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 

a better bath. 

Medical men generally are now recommending the Turkish Bath for the genera 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pleas- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early morning, afternoon and evening hours. The bath is 
conveniently situated, being on St. Monique at the foot of McGill College Avenue. 



A very fine upright piano is now on view in L. E* N. Pratte’s 
piano warerooms, No. 1676 Notre Dame street. I he case is in 
Brazilian rosewood, natural color, and has been manufactured 
at L. E. N. Pratte’s factory. As to its musical qualities, it is 
only necessary to mention that it is an exact duplicate of the 
instrument sold and delivered last week to Prof. R. O. Pelle- 
tier, organist to St. Peter’s Cathedral, for his personal use as 
well as that of his advanced pupils. 




HEADQUARTERS FOR 



IEPittie FURS 

20% Discount Z,tll r :r hised 

THE BRAHADI FUR STORE 

Cor. Notre Dame and St. Lambert Streets. 

Fountain market, ^ 

. . F ish , Ga m<? and Ousters. 

Oysters delivered on the half-shell a specialty. 

HENRY GATEHOUSE, 

Oor, Beaver Hall Hill and Dorchester St. 

JOHN MURPHY, 

PAINTER DECORATOR. 

Fine Wall Papers . . . 

Artists’ Materials, &c. 

2301 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . # 

The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that Desbarats 6° Co. execute Photo 
Engiavings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating. 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



F OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 

LYMAN. SONS A CO. 

380 to 386 St Paul Street - - Montreal 



i 7 8 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Ca'.lierii e and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERV ICES SUNDAYS : 1 1 a. m. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 i>.m. 

A cordial welcome to students at all meeiings. 

Indian *pea Depot 

114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 

p ure Darjeeling Teas 

DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY 

W. C. & C. C. LeM r SURIER 

5eason 1893*4 

I beg to announce that my stock, consisting of 
A Suitings, Meltons, Heave? > FRIEZES, is now 







complete. ..... 

Special Discount to Students. 



• • 



Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. . . ..... 



WM. FARQUH ARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

inspection invited . 135 st. Peter Street. 



WINDSOR MARKET. 



ESTABLISHED 1839. 



Importers and 
Manufacturers of 



Fine Table DeliGaGies. 

The Ernporitirn for Fine Meats, 

Cor* St. Catherine Street and McCill College Avenue 
Telephone 4038. 



Call at the 



== HOLLY CIGAR STORE. 



and give us your custom for Imported and 
Domestic Cigars 

Specialties— College Cigars and Perique Mixture 



10. fiEflCHOLOT $ GO., *, 



-2397- 



CATHERINE fSTfcfef 



.1 




TO ATHLETES. 




Rugulation mw 
Fool Ball 

Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 



Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 



McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 




REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada 

IDicro. Accessories 
Clinical Thermometers 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Laryngoscopic mirrors 
Opilialmoscopes 
Stethoscopes 
Specula nf all patterns 
Skulls and Skeleinns 
Aspirators, Batteries 
Pocket Gases, etc., etc. 






r 



STUDENTS’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 



CD 



E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, . 



15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 



at very reasonable prices. 



PATERSON & FOSTER 

. . WHOLESALE AND RETAIL . . 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 




MCGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



179 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Hath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 
Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Students, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferred to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to ^ 

Telephone No. 7204 MR, KRUSE* Manager 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR ALL THE 



PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Florist and Decorator, 

48 BEAVER HALL HILL, 

Formerly 76 Victoria Square. 

Greenhouses at ROCKFIELD, Lachine. 



The COOK'S FRIE ND is retaiM t iy all Good Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL 



Largest Stock of PALMS and other DECORATIVE 
PLANTS in Canada: 

COLIN CAMPBELL, 

Telephone 3508. 48 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

Manufacturer of Billiard Tables, Improved 
Cushions, and Dealer in Sporting Coods, 
Best Hockey Sticks, &c., &c. 



CT A^IVCIES ’B3EbJn.1T, 

Gardener and Florist, 

FLOWERS AND PLANTS FOR SALE. 



1742 Notre Dame/ St., Montreal. 



2562 St. Catherine Street. 



SPECJAC* 




SAMUEL S. GRANT. 

1st Honors Pupil of 
Dr. Bucklin, A.M., M.D. 

SPECTACLES, EYEGLASSES, 

Hour* 9 a. in. to 8 p.m. 

HtNRY GRANT & SON ) Corner Dorchester Street. 



THOMAS IRELAND, 

<gn graticr, 

118 Mansfield Street, Corner of Catherine> 

Visiting Cards, Crests and Monograms, 

Door Plates, etc., NEATLY ENGRAVED. 
Note Paper and Envelopes Stamped in Colors. 




FITZPATRICK, 




DENTIST. 



Gold Crouln and Bridge uJork a specialty. 

64 BEAVER HALL HILL. 

TELEPHONE 3755 . 



J. A. BAZIN, L.D.S., 

DENTIST, 

MONTREAL 



VICE-REGAL DECORATORS AND PLORISTS, 

86 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

W. 5- Davidson &■ Sons, 

Branch 174 St. James St. Conservatories :--Cote St. Paul. 
Conservatory attached to 86 Victoria Square. 

Marriage Bouquets, Cut Flowers and Funeral Designs made to order in 
every style at short notice. 

TEL . 9324 and 1734. 

QUT F LOW ERS . . 

JOS. BENNETT, 

. . Florist . . 

2392 ST CATHERINE STREET, (Cor. PEEL) 




NOW FOR YOUR FEET. 



Be Sure to Get the Best Value, 

J. SLOAN & SONS Have It. 

ALL SORTS AND SIZES. 



49 UNION AVENUE. 



199 ST. ANTOINE ST. and 2647 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



i8o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Manufacturer of 

PICTURE FIR-ATMIIEIS 

Importer of 

Steel Bngraving-s, Etchings and Oil Paintings, 

TEL ies 9 >NE 2253 & 2255 St. Cathcrine-St./ Montreal. 

REGILDING DONE. MIRRORS RESILVERED. 



STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 



All the Books required for the 



ARTS, SCIENCE AND MEDICINE 



FACULTIES OF McGILL. 



DOWN TOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. 



UP TOWN STORE : 

2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 



Fountain P<?ns 



nun 






Diaries, Calendars, 

51 anl< 5ool<s, Stationary. 



BEST QUALITIES AND LOWEST PRICES. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO., 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 
MOISTTREAL. 



The GEORGE FJISHOP 

Engraving ond Printing Co. 



COLLEGE GLOB AND 
SOCIETY^ P HINTING 

169 St. Sames Street 




PROGRAMMES 

MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

TICKETS 



The American Fur Store 



wholesale | ft a n u f a ctu ring Jf u mere 



and retail 



Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St-, B ^cGHI V Co\°ege Ave! d 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness o 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 



. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Es tablish ed 1859. 

HENRY IR/. CRAY, 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 



The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 




Orders solicited from Country Physicians. Mail orders attended to with dispatch 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



1 8 1 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat woi’k. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square a id Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Oliio Square W.iite Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 



Point St. Charles. Montreal. 



E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CB;AIG STREET, 

Dressed and Undressed Pine Lumber, Mahogany, Black 
'Walnut, Cherry Ouartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Bircli, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 

JOHN PAXTON &. CO- re & D 5 hOTe 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 

AND MICA AXLE CREASE. 

i 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W REED, 

jllate, Utdat and fetuel Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



Nos. 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 

ROBIN & SADLER 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

OAK-T A-HsTIDTJEIO 



MONTREAL and TOROxNTO. 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 

School. 

WfGHTON, iOHISON & CO. 

Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St. Catherine St., Montreal. 

ARTISTS " 1 " 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMSAY & SOX. Agents for Canada. M0NTREA1 . 

GK <Sc J". ESPLIN 

Box Manufacturers 

AND 

. . Lumber Merchants 

Office, 126 Duke Srteet, Montreal. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men . 3 vols., cloth g2.5o~reduced from $5.00 

J ord Lytton's Works 13 “ “ 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ “ 3.00 il 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ •* 7.50 “ 12.00 

F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St, Catherine Street. 



RIOSES PARKER, 

IRON FOUNDER 

19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

MONTREAL. 



ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



SAMUEL ROGERS & CO., 
TORONTO. 



DUNCAN ROBERTSON 
MONTREAL. 



THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 



OILS 



LUBRICATING 



ILLUMINATING 



(1& Gold Medals in G years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

Beil Telephone 9190 . 92 McGill St., Montreal. 

GEQ. S, KIMBER, 








H tllUVUW 1111111 kill 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings in Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



I 



Passenger and Freight . ANY DESIRED MOTOR. 



ilhfte&Ioms 

106 KING ST., 

MONTREAL, 




182 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



Royal Insurance Co. 



Largest Fire Office in the World. 
Unlimhed Liability. Absolute Security. 

Every description of property insured at moderate rates of 

premium. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL 

W* TATLEY. Manager* 

GEO. SDIPSOX, Assistant Manager. 

E. Hurtubise, ^Special Agents James Allin, I Special Agents 
Alfred St. Cyr, $ French Dept. \V. S. Robertson, j English Dept. 

of G. R. Robertson & Sons. 



BEAVER LINE 



PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL 

DUBING THE SUMMER AND 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER. 

Lake Ontario, 5300 Tons, Cnpt. Campbell. lake Superior, 5300 Tons, (apt. Stewart. 

Lake Union, 5000 Tons, (’apt. Carey. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, ('apt. Ilerriman. 

Lake Nipigon, 3000 Tons, (apt. Taylor. 

The Steamers of this 1 ine have been built specially for the A tlantic Passenger 
Trade. The state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. Superior 
accommodation for all classes of Passengers at very low rates. 
Specially reduced rates during winter months. Passages and 
Berths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent. 
For further information apply to 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, 

IMTOITCl’IR/E.A.Tj, 



McCASKILL, D0UGALL & CO. 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. 



Manufacturers of Five 



VARNISHES, JAPANS 
and COLORS 



. . . MONTREAL . . . 



SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD 
COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 
IN THE DOMINION 



t* 



D 

5 



WARDED KOTQ ^ SOM 

(Late Rogers & King.) 



Manufacturers of 

Spence’s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the 




ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
f*EW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER j 



xlCANADA LIFEI* 

ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1847. 

HEAD OFFICE , HAMILTON , OAT. 

Capital and Funds over 13^010-000 Dollars, 

Annual Income over $2,250,000. 

President, - A. G. RAMSA\ 

J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

Prov, of Quebec Branch, - MONTREAL, 

EDWARD L. BOND 

4f ire and gftarinc fctneterurriter 
No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 



CHIEF AGENT FOR CANADA: 

British and Foreign Marine Insurance Co, 
Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

LOCAL AGENT: 

London Assurance Company (Fire) 



THE JVT0H.501ST S BANK. 

Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855. 

Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 1 Rest, $1,15'V»00 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

DIRECTORS : 

John FI. I\. Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson 
F. Wolfekstan Thomas, ( ienerul Manager. 

A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 
BRANCHES, — Aylmer, Onf.. Brockville, Calgary, N.W T., Clinton, Exeter, 
Ha ini: ton,’ London, Meaford, :Vlonteal,M »rrisburg, Norwich , Ottawa, t hven Sound, 
Ridgetown, Smith’s Falls, Sorel, P.(J., St. Thomas, On*., Toronto, Toronto 
Junction, Trenton, Waterloo, Out , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 

AGENTS IN EUROPE. — London.— Parrs Banking Co. and The Alliance 
Bank (Limited); Mes«cs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs Morton, Rove & Co. 
Liverpool . — T he Haute of I ivcrpool. Cork — Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited. 
Paris.— Credit Lyonnais. Antwerp m ftclgium .— La Banqued' Anvers. Hamburg 
— Hesse, Newman & Co. 

AGEN 1 S IN UNI l ED S I AT ES. — Avn» Vork % — Mechanics’ National Bank, 
Messrs. Morton, Bliss &: Co ; Messrs. W. Watson, R. Y. Habden and S. A. Shep* 
herd, Agents Bank of Montred ; National City Hank, also in the principal cities 
of the United States. 

Collections made in all parts of the I) minion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates-^jf exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers* Circular 
Let ers issued, available in all parts of the World. 

HENDERSON BROS- 

Sumbcr and timber 

Steam S cuxv curd .Plcuri’> a Milts 

344 WILLIAM STREET 



Dry Kindling Wood always In Stock 

Hu R, IVES & GO- r ' MU $£z""" 
Architectural iron Works 
Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

General Founders, etc. 



637 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 



Quejn Street, 



MONTPiAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



183 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd. 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 



HOT WATER HEATERS 
HOT AIR TURN ACES 
RADIATORS. REGISTERS 
STEEL RANGES 



PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 
LOCKS AND SCALES 



Bwilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made. 

“ HOW BEST TO H EAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 

6. Faul St. MONTREAL. 



ESTABLISHED 1809 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



€xtraorbinarii Pircrtors. 

The|Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore | The Right Hon/ Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen I The Hon. Lord Wellwood 
The Right Hon. Lord Forbes 



The Liverpool & London X Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $53,109,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 



Invested in Canada, nearly - 85,000,000 

Total Assets, .... 53,053,716 



Head Office for Canada at Montreal 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



losses liberally adjusted 



G-. IE" 1 , a. szmiitih:, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL. 




FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Head Office for Canada, - MONTREAL. 



Insure your Property with the 



Phoenix Insurance Co. HARTFORD 



TIME TRIED 



and FIRE TESTED 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., ) n - , m ._ 
Robert Benny, Esq. ‘ 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada 



SMITH & TATLEY, 

Managers for Canada. 
114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 

TjL Guarantoe Gomp’y 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 

BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 



Head Office, - Montreal. 

E. RAWLINGS, President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

Mail Buildings. MKDLAND «fc JONES, Agents 





OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 




I 



Branch Office for Canada-1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892 . 



Capital and Acumulated Funds 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 
Poticy Holders. 



^ 35 » 730,000 
5,495 000 
200,000 



ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada , 

City Agent; BROWNING British Empire Building, 




184 



McGill fortnightly, 





Hot Water, Steam & Sanitary Engineers 

— to the — 

McGill UniDersity Building, 

Royal Victoria Hospital, 

Board of Trade Building. 

Plans and Estimates Given on Application. 



"D OBERT GARDNER & SON 




MANUFACTURERS OF 



Established 
. . . 1830 . . . 




Fine 1 ools, Lathes, Planers, etc., 
Shafting, Hangers and Pulleys, etc. 



Nazareth , Brennan and Da/hous/e Sts., 



MONTREAL. 



•ousi 





K. MACDONALD 

. . . PRACTICAL . . . 

il J3rllT};ntiyr, Jracksmillj anh General Jplmtamillt 



ELECTRIC LIGHTING, BELLS, WAREHOUSE TELEPHONES, Etc. 

CARPENTERS’ and BUILDERS’ WORK TO ORDER 



762 and 764 CRAIG STREET, West of Victoria Square, 

Beil Telephone >»o. 2591 



MONTRE./VL 



Manufacturers of. 






Engineers', numbers \ Gas and Steamfitters 9 Goods . 



Office & Showroom, 8 Bleury St. 
Factory, St. Cunegonde, 




Montreal . 




