JWcGlbb FORTNIGHT^. 

A Fortnightly Journal of Literature, University Thought and Event, 

VOL. II. • MONTREAL, NOVEMBER io, 1893. No. 3 




^EDITORIAL BOARDS 



Ed itor-in-chief— Albert G. Nicholls, M.A., Med. ’94. 

S. Carmichael, B.A., (Law ’95) F. A. Wilkin, (Science *95) 

E. Edwin Howard, (Arts *95), Sec’y ^ h p- ATTnisJ ( (Comp. Med. and Vet 
Miss J. Brown, (Donalda *94) ' ' M Science ’94. 

EBUSINESS BOARDS 

• 

Frank J. Day, (Arts ’94), Chairman 
F. A. Hogle, (Law *94), Secretary 

Miss F. A. Botterell, (Donalda ’95) H. M. Mackay, B.A., (Science *94) 

C. H. Fox, (Med. ’95) H. R. Cleveland, (Com. Med. & Vet. Sc.) 



The McGill Fortnightly is published by the Students of the University 
on the Friday of every second week during the College Session. 

The annual subscription is $1.00, payable strictly in advance. Remittance to 
be made to the Chairman of the Business Board, 58 McTavish Street, Montreal. 
Single copies may be obtained at E. M. RenouFs, Wm. Drysdale & Co.'s and W. 
Foster Brown's, Booksellers. Price, 10 cents. 

Address Contributions to Editor-in-Chief, 131 Lusignan Street. Montreal. 



EDITORIAL COMMENTS. 



THE NEW LIBRARY. 

The Students of McGill may be pardoned if they 
exhibit a somewhat extravagant joy in the possession 
of their new Library, when even those to whom it 
means nothing more than a fine addition to the 
University and to our city feel a thrill of pride in the 
mere beauty of the building itself. 

No one will accuse us of disloyalty to our Alma 
Mater or her surroundings if we remark that, although 
under ordinary circumstances the old Library might 
have answered our requirements, yet when filled to 
overflowing with readers it was scarcely the place to 
induce thought or reflection except in their mildest 
form, namely, dreams. 

But now that the Library has been formally opened, 
we are waiting with what patience we can command the 
invitation to come in and “ Hold high converse with 
the mighty dead.’’ 

Since the beginning of this session the loss of 
library privileges has been keenly felt, and if there 
is any truth in the saying, ,, Out of sight out of 
mind,” we have certainly had an opportunity to be off 
with the old love before we are on with the new. 

The rousing cheers and hearty applause from the 
boys in the gallery, that greeted Mr. Redpath when he 



rose to present the Library formally to the University, 
were an expression of the grateful sentiments which 
animate the hearts of every son and daughter of 
McGill. Thanks to Mr. Redpath’s generosity, we 
feel that amid such pleasant surroundings, the task of 
transferring to our minds some of that “ potential 
energy ” now lying on the book shelves will not be so 
arduous ; and our earnest hope is that the result will 
be apparent in the increased kenetic energy,” not 
only of our esssays but of our work in general. We 
highly appreciate the special gift of Mrs. Redpath — the 
two beautiful stained windows at either end of the 
reading room. 

It is needless to say that at McGill, as everywhere 
else in our Dominion, Lord and Lady Aberdeen have 
won the love and esteem of all. His Excellency’s 
evident relief, after being assured that he was all right , 
was extremely gratifying to those who offered the 
compliment 

It only remains to be added that the brilliant con- 
versazione of the evening w T as a fitting close to pro- 
ceedings fraught with such importance to our Uni- 
versity, a fitting close to such an auspicious event as 
the gifting of the Redpath Library to McGill. 



THE UNION CLUB. 

The idea of instituting a Union Club in McGill is 
one that should attract general attention. 

With regard to the advantages to be gained from 
such an institution there cannot be two opinions. It 
would be of the greatest benefit to the students. 

For some years back there have been vague ideas of 
something of this kind floating about. One ol our great 
needs, for instance, is a dining hall, where the students 
could get a good meal at moderate cost. A very large 
proportion of the students in Medicine and Science, and 
a fair number in Arts, would regard such a place as a 
great boon, for they are compelled to get meals at cafes, 
boarding-houses, and the like. Such places are not 
always convenient or desirable, and if there was such 
an institution as a comfortable restaurant under the 
aegis of the University, it would without doubt be well 
patronized. 

Further, there is no common meeting-ground for the 
students in the present state of affairs, and it is quite 
possible for one-half of the students to be unaware of 
the existence, or at least the mode of existence, of the 
other half. 

Much of this isolation would be overcome had 



50 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



McGill a Union Club Building on the University 
grounds. If properly equipped and made attractive, 
this would be a rallying spot for University men. 
Such a building might have a library, reading-room, 
smoking room, billiard tables, parlors, debating rooms, 
refectory and many similar attractions. If cosy and 
nicely furnished, a spare hour could be spent very plea- 
santly there. 

It was advised in a recent article on the subject that 
the club should be under the control of officers elected 
from amongst the undergraduate members. 

In McGill, where there are relatively few students 
as compared with the older universities of Great Bri- 
tain, it might be well to extend the privilege of mem- 
bership to all such graduates as would be willing to 
pay the fee, although retaining at the same time the 
power of administration in the hands of the undergra- 
duates. By this means stronger support would be given. 
Some years ago a University Club was started by some 
of our professors and graduates. A house was hired on 
University street, and furnished handsomely. For some 
reason or other the scheme was not well patronized, 
and in the second year of its .existence it fell through, 
and everything had to be sold off at a sacrifice. At the 
present time, however, we think that a similar under- 
taking would be more successful, inasmuch as the num- 
ber of students has greatly increased, and the desire for 
something of the kind is much more widely spread. 
One thing is certain, and that is, that the undergra- 
duates must take hold of the idea and push it vigor- 
ously, if it is to succeed. Should they feel that they want 
a Union Club, a Union Club must come. As to ways 
and means, that is the difficulty. It is hardly likely 
that while their numbers are no greater than at present 
the students could, unassisted, erect and equip a suitable 
building. Still, were it seriously attempted, something 
tangible might result. Of course, if such a building 
could be partially endowed so as to meet a part of the 
running expenses, that would be an ideal state of affairs. 
Very likely a certain amount of help would be given by 
friends and alumni of the University. When we look 
at the magic transformations that McGill has under- 
gone within even the last five years, it seems as if we 
only had to rub Aladdin’s lamp and the good genii would 
appear and confer untold benefits upon us. Should we 
be so fortunate, however, as to get a building for a 
Union Club, it would lend a new zest to University life, 
broaden our views, dissipate unworthy prejudices, and 
do much to cement that good feeling amongst us which 
is so desirable. Such a state of things would throw 
new light upon our education, and do much to make 
that education more real and lasting than it has ever 
been in the past. The object of a University training 
should not be instruction , merely, important as that is, 
but also education, a drawing out of all that is grand 
and noble in a man’s nature ; in proportion as it fails to 
do this it fails to do its duty, and may even inflict a 
positive injury upon the Student. Men as a rule come 
to a University at the most critical period of their lives, 
and on the quality of the training they receive then de- 
pends for the most part their future career, whether for 
weal or for woe. 



We would therefore urge all the students to consider 
earnestly this project of a Union Club for McGill, and 
make their views known, so that we may before long 
welcome, in some measure at least, a realization of our 
hopes. 



THE LATE SIR JOHN ABBOTT. 

By the death of Sir John Abbott, K.C.M G-, McGill 
loses one of her most distinguished sons. In his life, 
time Sir John was the oldest living graduate of the 
University. Before he had left her halls many years, 
he was called upon to organize the Faculty of Law, and 
was its Dean for a considerable period. As a lawyer 
he soon made his mark, and his multitudinous duties in 
the political arena eventually compelled him to resign 
his immediate connection with the teaching staff of the 
Faculty. However, the advantages of his experience 
and wise counsel were not lost to the University, as he 
was appointed to the Board of Governors, where he ren- 
dered efficient service. On the death of the late Sir 
John Macdonald, Mr. Abbott became Premier of Canada, 
and soon after was knighted for his services to the coun- 
try. 

At that time was noted the gratifying fact that both 
the leader of the Government and the leader of the Oppo- 
sition, the Hon. Wilfred Laurier, were graduates of 
McGill University, who, however they might differ on 
matters of policy, nevertheless were in perfect accord in 
the love which they bore to their Alma Mater. Of such 
men as these McGill is proud. It must always be for us 
a matter of congratulation that on the roll of our gra- 
duates are to be found the names of many men who have 
risen to high positions both in this and in other coun- 
tries. 

Sir John, owing to ill-health, was compelled to resign 
the premiership, after occupying the position for about a 
year and a half. A residence on the Mediterranean 
coast only relieved him temporarily, and he gradually 
sank, passing away on October 30th, at the age of 
73 - 

Not only as Canadians but as members of the Uni- 
versity do we mourn the loss of a distinguished figure. 

The sympathy of all the members of McGill will be 
with the bereaved family and relatives, in the loss of one 

so dear to them-of one who shed so great a lustre upon 
our Alma Mater. 



We have great satisfaction in announcing to our 
readers that at' a joint meeting of the Business and 
Editorial Boards of the Fortnightly held on the ath 
inst it was decided to offer two money prizes for k 
best original stories submitted to the paper. 

The competition will be open to those under 
graduates of the University who are or may beconn 
subscribers to our college paper. 

The prizes are a first prize of twenty dollars and ' 
second of ten. c 

Full particulars as to the regulations governing th, 
competition will appear in our next number. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



5i 




OBITUARY 



It is our painful duty to record the removal by death 
of another of our number, Mr. N. B. Harris, a member 
of the Arts class ’96, who died at his home in Glencoe, 
October 6th. Mr. Harris went home for the Qiristmas 
holidays. He was somewhat weakened in health. He 
did not return. The condition of his health made it 
necessary that his studies should be given up for the 
present. His health did not improve. His lungs were 
affected, which resulted in his death. 

Mr. Harris was not long among us, but long enough 
to prove himself an earnest, conscientious student. He 
endeared himself to all with whom he became intim- 
ately acquainted, especially with the men of his own 
college year. He was looking forward to the ministry 
of the Presbyterian Church. 

The Students of the University extend their sympa- 
thy to his parents and family in their sore bereavement. 



CONTRIBUTIONS. 



THE NEW LIBRARY BUILDING. 

I have much pleasure in responding to the request of 
the Editors of this Magazine to give a short description 
of the New Library Building erected by the munificence 
of Mr. Peter Redpath, and presented by him to McGill 
University. It would be invidious in me to express 
any opinion on the Building, and I must confine my- 
self to a few facts. 

I will begin by expressing my gratification at the 
opportunity afforded me of endeavoring to solve the 
problems presented in the designing of a building for 
such a purpose. 

Recent developments in University training, especially 
in relation to its more practical side, necessitate build- 
ings for which we have 110 absolute precedent, and 
therefore present intensely interesting and stimulating 
problems to work out. How to combine utility and 
beauty in harmonious relations without sacrificing the 
one to the other, is an interesting study. 

First and foremost should come convenience of ar- 
rangement, simplicity of parts, ample light, air and com- 
modiousness ; then, as far as possible, goodly propor- 
tion, beauty in outline, thoughtfulness and suggestive- 
ness in detail with restrained ornament. 

At the time of the revival of classical architecture in 
England it was the fashion for the elevation or exterior 
to be designed first, and then the interior was made to fit 
as best it might ; now we go 011 what I cannot but 
think to be the better principle of making the elevation 
fit the plan. 

There are many famous libraries in the Old World, 
which have preserved the priceless treasures of know- 
ledge through the centuries, but their general arrange- 
ments are not such as fully commended themselves to 
me for reproduction here under our altered and special 
circumstances. 

Nowhere has modern library plauning and architec- 



ture been so thoroughly taken up and studied as in the 
United States, and of recent years such buildings have 
j undergone extraordinary development. There are 
schools for the special study and criticism of Library 
designs, and every librarian has his own views on the 
ideal library, and as a rule is not slow to advocate 
them. There naturally follows considerable diver- 
gence of opinion, but the concensus of opinion in the 
main is in favor of the stack system, as it is called. 
This system is briefly as follows : instead of the books 
being placed in the Reading Room in high book-cases 
with narrow galleries to reach the upper book-cases, 
as in most European libraries, the books are placed in 
a portion of the building separate from the Reading room 
in tiers of stacks, divided up into floors by gratings or 
light iron and glass between the cases, j 11st high enough 
to allow of reaching the top shelf of each tier without a 
ladder, a light stair connecting each floor. The whole 
is usually made fire-proof, and shut off by iron doors from 
the rest of the building. Under this system it is not 
usual to permit readers access to the books, but on pre- 
sentation of slips the attendants bring the desired books 
to the tables. 

After studying as carefully as I could the different 
systems, in which I have the pleasure in acknowledg- 
ing generous assistance from many librarians in the 
States, I adopted the stack system with some modifica- 
tion, with the full approval of Mr. Redpath. In working 
out the multifarious and complex details of the fittings, 

I have also great pleasure in acknowledging the hearty 
help and co-operation of Mr. Charles Gould, the talented 
new principal librarian of the Library, who has devoted 
much time recently to the visitation and examination 
of many of the best existing libraries. 

The arrangement of the plan of this Library was 
somewhat influenced by the shape of the site and the 
different levels of the ground, and also by the desire of 
the governors to retain for the present the two old adjoin- 
ing houses on McTavish St., which with the vacant 
ground adjacent had been previously bought and donat- 
ed to the College through the generosity of Mr. J. H. 
R. Molson. 

The site of these houses is reserved for future enlarge- 
ment of the stackroom of the Library, so that intending 
donors of books need not be dissuaded from their gen- 
erous impulses by fear of want of room. 

We are now prepared to examine more closely the 
new Building ; and if the reader will accompany me ou 
a visit to it, he will the more readily be able to under- 
stand its arrangement. 

Beginning at the lowest floor, at the McTavish street 
end of the Building is a wide doorway and a roadway 
leading to same. This is for bringing in boxes of new 
books to the unpacking room, where they are relieved 
from their wrappings and sent upstairs by a lift in the 
circular projecting staircase, to the cataloguing room 
above. 

Adjoining this on the lower side is the lower portion 
of the stock room, and on the upper side is the care- 
taker’s house, entering from the foot of the main stairs 
near the entrance. 

At the other end of the Building facing the campus 



52 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



is a students’ entrance, giving direct access to the study 
rooms, of which there are five. These are intended for 
studies in special subjects, and will be fitted up with 
book-cases, tables and chairs. The remainder of this 
floor is occupied by the heating furnaces, coal places, 
etc. 

We will now ascend to the main floor, and starting 
from the main entrance we find ourselves in a vestibule 
lined with a marble dado and having an ornamental 
marble mosaic floor ; from this through oak swinging 
doors we enter the Entrance Hall, which has also a 
marble mosaic floor and a high niche in the angle for 
a statue to be placed. From here a few marble steps 
lead up to the staircase hall in the tower. This is so 
arranged that the attendant at the counter can see 
everyone that comes in to the reading room or that goes 
up or down the stairs. We now enter the great Read- 
ing room, which is i io feet long, 43 feet wide and 44 feet 
high, to the top of inner roof, and has an open timber 
roof having the hammer beams ornamented by carved 
heads of grotesque animals. At each corner of the fur- 
ther end of this Reading room is an octagonal bay ; in 
the centre of the south side is a recessed inglenook or 
fireplace with a stone mantel inside having the following 
inscription cut in the stone : “ Cease not to learn until 
thou cease to live” ; at the entrance to the inglenook 
is a large massive c irve l oak mantelpiece with the fol- 
lowing inscription cut in the frieze : “ Happy is the man 
that findeth wisdom and the man that getteth under- 
standing.” 

Round the walls are arranged oak book-cases for 
reference, books convenient of access to the readers, and 
in another spot, the exact location of which I dare not 
divulge, is a monument vault for the safe keeping of 
specially precious and costly books. At the end near 
the entrance is placed the Librarian’s room ready of 
access to same, and communicating with the catalogu- 
ing room. To the right of the entrance is the men’s 
coat room and lavatory, and beyond is the periodical 
room. From behind the distributing counter access is 
obtained to the stackroom already referred to, which 
is four storeys in height and capable of holding from 
130,000 to 140,000 books. 

We will now go up the staircase in the Tower, and on 
the way take note of the quotations from various 
authors in various languages painted on the panels of 
the windows. It is the intention to have other quota- 
tions painted on all the windows of the Reading room 
in the panels reserved for same, but the task of 
selection proved so stupendous both as to quality and 
quantity that these had to be left for the present, but 
suggestions for same from the readers of this Magazine 
will be thankfully received. 

On the upper floor we enter a gallery which may be 
used as a Ladies’ Reading room, or for cases of rare books, 
etc., and affords a good vantage ground for visitors to 
see the Reading room without disturbing the readers. 
From this gallery entering by two doors, access is ob- 
tained to a large room over the stackroom which is 
allocated as an architectural cast and sculpture room. 
Over the periodical room is a room of similar size, which 



will probably be used as a Professors’ Reading room. 

We have reserved to the last, notice of the beautiful 
stained glass windows at each end of the Reading room, 
which attract immediate attention from the visitor. 
They are the loving gift of Mrs. Peter Redpath, who 
thus wishes to be associated with her husband in this 
expression of affection to dear old McGill- A lavish 
expenditure of time and thought have been spent upon 
them by Mr. and Mrs. Redpath and by the artists, Messrs. 
Clayton & Bell, and by others. 

The centre window of the three light windows facing 
the campus is devoted to Poesy — and has poi trait 
figures of the leading poets and writers of all ages. 

The side windows are respectively devoted to Art and 
Music, with carefully painted figures of representative 
men in each department. 

The five light window at the other end of the Read- 
ing room embraces the following subjects— Philosophy, 
Law, Medicine, Astronomy and History. 

This window was purposely kept in a lighter key 
than the other windows, in order to diminish the light 
in the gallery as little as possible. 

Having thus hastily gone over the interior of the 
building, in leaving we may just glance at the 
exterior. After careful consideration I decided to adopt 
a phase of the Romanesque style as being dignified, 
and at the same time picturesque, and elastic enough 
to suit the necessarily irregular plan. 

The wisdom of the choice and the measure of success 
with which it has been carried out I must leave to the 
j udgment of others. 

My task is done, and I would on ly now like in clos- 
ing to be permitted to congratulate all the graduates 
and undergraduates on the increased opportunity this 
new Library building affords for study and research ; 
and to say that I am sure you can best shew your grati- 
tude to the generous donor, and in the way he will 
most appreciate, by taking fullest advantage of your 
privileges. 

ANDREW T. TAYLOR. 



THE NEW LIBRARY. 

“ Shall my little bark, attendant sail, 

Pursue the triumph, aud partake the gale.” 

Pope. 

As the ceremony of opening the new library has 
been described elsewhere, it is unnecessary to do more 
than express my admiration of the building and its 
surroundings, its mile and a quarter of shelf accom- 
modation, and its magnificent reading room ; but it 
may be expected that I might add a few lines to the 
general praise of the event. As the occasion of open- 
ing any new place of public entertainment is frequently 
celebrated in verse, I may be pardoned for thus follow- 
ing the fashion : — 

Ladies aud gentlemen, I will confess, 

The notion of preparing an address 
On this occasion, when it was suggested, 

With difficulty seemed to be invested. 

“ No rhyme can speak my feelings,” I declared, 

“ No set ovation, carefully prepared ” 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



53 



(For I have that within, which passeth show) 
t€ Can truly tell of the deep debt I owe — 

“ A debt, no matter what that rhyme may say, 

“ My own heart whispers I can never pay.” 

The argument demolished was at length, 

For in its very weakness lay its strength. 

Were I to trust myself to speak my mind, 

My lips must fail ; whilst somebody unkind 
Might add : “ My friend, I have no wish to scoff, 

<c But if you once begin, you mayn’t leave off. 

“ Take my advice, and get some lines by heart, 
c< And having done so, speak it like a part.” 

I did so, I’d not very far to seek them, 

By heart I learnt them, — from my heart I speak them. 

Nearly six years ago, I made my bow, 

A novice then, but as an “ old hand/’ now, 

The old, old thrill comes o’er me as it then did, 

But with another, deeper feeling blended, 

The old one told me time might make amends 
For my shortcomings, — now, my troop of friends 
Tell me thus Time ’s done fourfold what it seemed 
It ever could do ; (w 7 heu I fondly dreamed 
Of popularity, a bright position ;) 

Tell me, in cheering tones, that in addition 

To the mere admiration I’d obtain 

There’s something far more precious I might gain, 

The warmest sympathy and happy days ! 

For when upon these generous friends I gaze 
(And cheery greeting in my ear still rings) 

It tells me one may aim at better things 
Than the mere fleeting triumph of the hour ; 

Declares that one may wield a higher power. 

The power to make friends, true friends indeed, 

Who would stand by me in an hour of need. 

To one who loves his art as I love mine, 

This solace helps me, (if I dared repine ;) 

I feel as one who greets the light of day 
After the darkness of the night has pass’d away, 

Which means (from metaphor plain truth to sever,) 

I’m now your faithful servant, more than ever. 

But other thoughts, inspired by my surroundings, 
passed through my mind, and I may be permitted to 
let these thoughts find utterance : — 

IN THE LIBRARY. 

Who say these walls are lonely, these, 

They may not see the motly throng 
That people it as thick as bees 

The scented clover-beds among. 

They may not hear, when foot-falls cease, 

And living voices for awhile ; 

The speech in many tongues and keys, 

A down each shadowy aisle. 

Here are the friends that ne’er betray ; 

Companionship that never tires ; 

Here voices call from voiceless clay, 

And ashes dead renew their fires- 

For death can touch the flesh alone, 

Immortal thought from age to age 
Lives on, and here, in varied tone , 

It speaks from many a page. 

Here searching History waits,— the deeds 
Of men and nations to rehearse ; 

Here, clear-eyed Science walks and reads 
The secrets of the Universe. 



Here, lands and seas, from pole to pole, 

The traveller spreads before the eye ; 

Here, Faith unfolds her mystic scroll, 

The soul to satisfy. 

Here, Homer chants heroic Troy ; 

Here, DanTE strikes the harp of pain ; 

Here, Shakespeare sounds the grief, the joy, 

Of all of human life the strain. 

Alone and silent ! Why, ’tis rife 

With form and sound ! The hosts of thought 

Are dwellers here, and thought is life ; 

Without it, earth and man were naught. 

To war and state-craft leave the bay,— 

A greater crown to these belongs ; 

The rulers of the w orld are they 

Who make our books and songs. 

In this hour of our joy and pardonable pride, the 
kind and courteous donor must not be forgotten ; of 
Mr. Redpath, who, aforetime, had enriched the College 
with its Museum and his oft-repeated valuable dona- 
tions of books to the Library, may we not say : 

Praise to the generous friend w T ho planned 

This princely place, this treasure -crowded hall ! 

Praise to the honored worthies of our land 
Who nobly answered to a noble call ! 

And when these riches, which improve the heart, 

Are to their fitting places here consigned, 

May this transcendent spectacle of art 

Be mirrored in our souls, leaving its light behind. 

H. M. 



OUR IDEALS— A FANCY. 

I slept, and I dreamed a strange dream. And in 
my dream I opened the eyes of my spirit, and I beheld 
a vast expanse of air, filled with floating clouds and 
lighted by a multitude of stars. And far above me 
was the golden sun — far, yet so near that I was con- 
strained to turn away my eyes, so dazzling were its 
rays ; and far beneath me was the earth, and thereon 
was a great multitude assembled, gazing at the clouds. 
I, too, turned to look, and behold ! I saw a great white 
Figure, as the form of a woman, veiled in thick mist. 
In her left hand was a great book inscribed with let- 
ters of gold, and in her right she held a torch above her 
head. But the torch burned but dimly, and the book 
was sealed . 

And as I looked, great awe fell upon me, and I fear- 
ed. But the Figure turned to me her veiled face, and 
a voice, sweeter than the sweetest music, said : 
‘‘Speak; be not afraid.” And trembling I asked: 
“ Who art thou? ” And the voice replied : 4‘ Knowest 
thou not?” And I answered : “ No.” And the Figure 
said: “ Yet hast thou sought me all the days of thy 
life. Blind, blind are the children of men, who ever 
seek ; yet when they find that which they have sought, 
they know it not. I am the Ideal of all that is good 
and true and pure. The torch which I hold is the 
torch of Truth, and the book is the Book of Wisdom 
wherein the wise men of old did read ; and because of 
the folly and wickedness of men the Torch burneth but 
dimly, and the Book is sealed. All men seek me, but 



54 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



as yet the)' may not find me save in dreams. And some 
dream of me as the highest Truth, and others as the 
highest Beauty, but none know of the dreams of others. 
And by night and by day thoughts of me are everpres- 
ent with them, for, though they may not see me, yet to 
some is granted a glimpse of the Torch or of the Book. 
By some, even, — but alas ! they are few — my voice may 
be heard, far, far above them. Once I did dwell on the 
earth, but the sons of men would have none of me, and 
forsook my ways, and the Eternal Wisdom took me 
and set me among the clouds, and they may see me 
only in dreams. Yet without their dreams of me would 
come despair, and life would be worthless.” 

And sadly I asked : “ Will it never be permitted to 
men to see thy face ? ” 

And the voice replied : “ Yes and through the veil 
of cloud came a flash of light — the light of a glorious 
smile, “ Yes. When by sorrow and suffering the world 
shall be purified from sin, then shall I dwell again 
among men.” 

And the Figure faded away in the distance, and I 
awoke. 



Sigurd — Nay, nay, my friend. The love I bear for my 
betrothed is something so grand, elevating and sub- 
lime, that it makes all other loves and friendships 
more lofty and ennobling. My heart is so full of its 
own happiness that I can scarce feel angry with old 
Harold here. ’Tis true I may no longer care for 
the rough sport of war, with Elfrida by my side, but 
thou, who hast been more than another in past years, 
shalt e’er have a special resting place in my heart. 

Dagobert— Thanks, old man. Don’t say more or the briny 
tears will start to flow. Perhaps I’ll have to get mar- 
ried myself some of these days, but the girls are all 
so nice that I can’t begin to choose. 

Sigurd —Wait for the breathing of the god. Hither comes 
Elfrida. 

(Elfrida enters with attendants, old nurse, etc.). 

Let me welcome thee, my beloved. (Embraces her.) ’Ere 
our wedding is celebrated, we must try Harold for piracy and 
murder. Sit thou here. 

Good vassals all, I have to thank you for your aid in winning 
back my bride. Well have ye fought, and well the victory 
won. Now, ’tis our duty to try this prisoner here, and decide 
what shall be his fate. 

Omnes. — Let him die. 



M. T. W. 



SIGURD THE VIKING. 

{Continued). 

Act IV. 

Sigurd’s and Harold’s ships enter rowing towards one 
another. Men ready for battle* 

Harold’s Men : — 

Where battle storm is ringing, 

Where arrow-cloud is singiug, 

Harold stands there, 

Of armor bare. 

His deadly sword still swinging, 

The foemen feel its bite, 

His horsemen rush to fight, 

Danger to share 
With Harold there, 

Where steel on steel is ringing. 

Harold’s Men :— 

Advance, advance — 

No helmets glance, 

But blue swords play 
In our array. 

Advance, advance. 

No mail-coat’s glance, 

But hearts are here 

That ne’er kuew fear. (Battle rages). 

(Sigurd is victorious, and with other men in tow, his men 

row ashore, singiug “ Rule Britannia ”) 

Sigurd — Good Dagobert, my trusty friend, another fight we’ve I 
fought ; and now we’ll rest until our friends come up 
with fair Elfrida, whose presence is required, while 
we try this caitiff for his deeds of ill. 

Dagobert.— Yes, we’ve got him this time, and we’ll make him 
howl to beat the band. It would be better than 
cakes and ale to give him the Rista-orn. Well, old 
man, my eyes begin to water. Now the last obstacle 
is removed, I guess you’ll be joined for better for I 
worse to Frida dear, and give your old k chum the 
slip ? 



Sigurd.— Hast thou, oh Harold ! aught to say against this 
judgment? Thine has been a life of fearful deeds. 
Hast thou aught to say ? 

Harold. — I fear not death. Oft on the stormy sea and off th e 
rocky shores of Bretlaud, when storms howled long 
and loud, I laughed at fear. When ship met ship 
with shuddering shock, and clash of steel rang high 
above the dying groans of wounded men, I’ve 
smiled at death. Thinkest thou, then, that now 
I’ll cringe and beg my life of thee ? No ! Here in my 
bonds I curse thee for a prating imbecile and scorn 
thy petty triumph ! 

Sigurd. — Then shalt thou die ! 

Elfrida. — Nay, nay, my lord. Let clemency rest with thy vic- 
torious hand. Hast thou not won enough ? This 
man is old, and was a king. He used me well, and 
only wanted me to wed his sou. Now his son is 
slain, and he will live a lonely life. Spare him, and 
in old age thou too shalt find some pleasure in thy 
kindness. 

NURSE. — Well speakest thou, Elfrida, for he is thy sire. 

Sigurd. — What sayest thou ? 

Elfrida. — M y sire? 

Harold.— Can it be that she is indeed my long-lost child ? 

Nurse. — Aye ! Thy daughter, King, who was carried off by 
that old robber Hakou, whom Sigurd’s father over- 
threw. She then was taken to good Atholes’ home, 
and there grew up. I had never knowu her had 
I not seen this scar upon her arm, that as an infant 
she got while playing on the hearth. Bitter were the 
tears I shed that day, little thinking it would be a 
remembrance in after time. 

Sigurd— Unbind the king! Oh sire, thy daughter I restore, 
and trust that thou wilt not deem me an unworthy' 
suitor for her hand. 

Harold.— (E mbracing Elfrida) No, ne’er shall I see a braver 
nor more abler man than thou . I have been a relent- 
less warrior in my day, and now I crave pardon 
for my crimes, and want but rest. Do thou take and 
protect her through life, and let me see in you the 
happiness that I have lost myself. 

(Sigurd embraces Elfrida) and 
Curtain. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



55 



JOTTINGS AT THE WORLD’S FAIR. 

The following has been contributed by one of our 
Students who attended the “ big show ” : 

I arrived home from the World’s Fair only a few days 
ago. While there, the following suggested itself: 

Mr. H. Afedy, to his spouse on examining the Statue 
of the Discoverer of America in front of the Adminis- 
tration Building : — Gosh, Lizey, this Columbus were 
a good sized man, eh ? ” 

* i 

* * 

My last day at the Fair I spent in looking through 
the State Buildings. I must tell you that the Official 
Guide has a cut of the Canadian Building, with the 
words “ Building of the Canadian States ” printed be- 
neath (Brebis comptees, le loup les mange !) ; and 
while looking at the mummy in the Utah one. I over- 
heard the following remark : 

“ My dears, see here ! This is the dead body of a 
mummy. It was found in the abode of the cliff dwellers 
this year, and was brought here to show that there were 
people in the world before Columbus discovered it.” 
The foregoing are the exact words of the speaker, a 
lady of about 30 years. 

I had it all written in my note-book one minute later. 
-L- J. B. 

MY FIRST GERMAN LESSON. 

Song I. 

Oh, when shall I forget the day 
Of my first German lesson ? 

The grim professor in his chair. 

The trembling students pressed with care, 

The dingy room and musty air 
Made everything oppressin’. 

Refrain : Oh, my first German lesson 
Made everything oppressin’ ! 

Ah ! when shall I forget the day 
Of my first German lesson ? 

II. 

The gutturals made me tear my hair 
At my first German lesson ; 

I couldn’t catch their beastly sounds, 

I had to clear the verbs in bounds, 

And fight the rest iu standing rounds, 

Or get them all a mess in. 

Ref- Oh, my first German lesson ! 

(Its truth I am confessin’) 

The gutturals made me tear my hair 
At my first German lesson ! 

III. 

The Umlants almost broke my heart 
At my first Germau lesson ! 

There grunting of distempered shoats, 

And snarl of dogs, and bleat of goats, 

And hacking from catarrhal throats 
United to distress one. 

Ref. Oh, my first German lesson 
Was utterly distressin’. 

The Umlants almost broke my heart 
At my first German lesson ! 



IV. 

The grammar drove me to despair 
At my first German lesson ! 

The syntax was so strangely mixed 
I couldn’t get the order fixed, 

The more I tried, the more perplexed 
Grew I, beyond expressin’. 

Ref. Oh, my first German lesson 
Was quite beyond expressin’ ! 

The grammar drove me to despair 
At my first German lesson ! 

V. 

I dislocated both my jaws 

At my first German lesson ! 

The master “ umph’d ” and “ ach’d ” and “ schwied 
And when he bade me try to read, 

I “ auf’d ” and “ ach’d ” and “ umph’d ” as he’d 
Done, — all the rest was guessiu’ ! 

# Ref. Oh, my first German lesson 

Involved some mighty guessin’ ! 

I dislocated both my jaws 
At my first German lesson ! 

VI. 

But, after all, I bless the day 
Of my first German lesson ! 

At it I learned to love the tongue 
In which the deepest thoughts have rung, 

And sages writ, and poets sung, — 

To master it I press on. 

Ref. Oh, my first German lesson 
Inspired me to press on ! 

So after all I bless the day 

Of my first German lesson ! Johi.e Jokhr. 



A UNIVERSITY STUDENTS’ NIGHT. 

The very term University suggests unity, — all the 
parts of one great organization working in harmony 
for some common end. That end I take to be the 
development of the whole man. The faculties exist for 
specialization. The latter, however, is fatal to the 
highest development of the individual if carried to an 
extreme, because it implies neglect of general culture 
of head and heart A STUDENTS’ NIGHT is either 
a good 01 a bad institution, according to the conditions 
under which it exists. It is good if it fits into the 
above platform on which all can stand, unless I am 
greatly mistaken ; and in all discussions it is just as 
well at the outset to know upon what principles people 
who differ or seem to differ can agree. 

It seems that the faculties could not this year agree 
to make students’ night a university one. Whatever 
the causes, is this not to be regretted ? Has not univer- 
sity spirit suffered ? Has university spirit anything to 
do with national spirit ? Few thoughtful people will 
deny that while provincialism is strong enough, indeed 
too strong, national spirit is weak. In fact, is any people 
among the leaders of civilization so weak in national 
characteristics and national spirit as the Canadians ? 
If this be true, why is it thus ? 

The Olympian Games did much to foster a national 
spirit in Greece. 

Is it not possible to have Canadian intei collegiate 
sports, debates, etc. ? This by the way. 

About the only objection perhaps to a University 



56 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



night is that with the growth of McGill the faculties 
might become so large that the affair would be unman- 
ageable from the masses being unwieldy. We have not, 
however, arrived at this condition of things yet. But 
the principal object of the writer just now is to enquire 
whether a theatre night is the best for either a univer- 
sity or faculty annual gathering of students “ on pleas- 
ure bent.” 

The fact that a considerable number of the students 
and a probably larger proportion of the parents are 
strongly opposed to the theatre as an institution is a 
serious consideration in connection with any proposal 
for its endorsation ' y the University. 

It is known that some of the professors, who would like 
tojoiuwith the studentsin their pleasures, have refrain- 
ed from attending students’ night, because of the belief 
that by so doing they would seem to endorse the theatre 
as an institution, and thus run foul of the conscientious 
convictions of the parents who have entrusted, in a 
measure at least, their sous to their care. Some of 
these very professors believe themselves in the theatre 
as an institution that may, and as regards certain pre- 
sentations does actually, tend to good. They believe 
that Hamlet, Macbeth and indeed most of Shakspeare’s 
plays, with others put on the stage, are great moral lev- 
ers, doing a work that neither the pulpit nor any other 
existing institution can equally well accomplish. 
Nevertheless, they cannot but respect the views of those 
to whom they are so peculiarly related as the parents 
of the students. 

Is it not possible to select a mode of celebrating 
Students’ Night which will be entirely beyond cavil, 
and will heartily commend itself to all ? At present 
the students have little or no selecting power as to the 
play they shall witness- At all events, it is quite a 
subordinate part of that long series of somethings not 
very easy to define which make up that unique institu- 
tion — Students’ Night. The music will be conceded first 
place. Why not then let this students’ institution follow 
entirely its natural lines of development, untrammelled 
by the accidental and foreign element of a play, on 
which the student’s part is attempted to be grafted with 
but indifferent success for both, and change the theatre 
night into a concert night ? 

By such a change the students could develop an in- 
stitution that would be entirely in harmony with their 
own views, traditions and feelings, and to which no one 
could raise reasonable objection. 

Various athletic organizations in this city have held 
concerts, in which the genius of their own peculiar insti- 
tution was admirably reflected, especially in their music. 
Students’ music is susceptible of great development, as 
witness the results in Germany ; while amongst our- 
selves, the advances in this * direction are to me one of 
the best assurances of the progress students are mak- 
ing in the ethical and aesthetic. Imbued then as a 
solution of the problem which is before us, a Univer- 
sity Students’ Concert Night, using the term concert” 
in a somewhat free sense, so as to include, if thought 
desirable, 'other features not strictly musical. 

WESLEY MILLS. 



AT MISSION SAN JOSE. 

Moonlight on the Virgin, San Jose, Cal., 1892. 

The sleeping moonlight lingers 
On Thy shrine at San Jos6 ; 

The tender velvet shadows 
Shroud the rigor of decay, 

While shafts of palest silver 
With soft, caressing grace 
Bend o’er Thy ruined altar 
And light Thy Holy face. 

The patient hands that carved Thee 
Long have crumbled into dust ; 

Thy chalice bowl hath yielded 
To the ravages of rust ; 

And they who knelt before Thee 
In the days of long ago 
No longer swing the censer 

To the organ’s rythmic flow. 

But ever through the ages, 

With their tender, Holy light. 

The moon and stars of Heaven 

Still shall keep Thy altar bright ; 

And though by man forgotten, 

From above, the white moon’s shine 
By angels earth directed 

Shall for ever guard Thy shrine. 

Though ro melodious music 
From the friars’ voices rise, 

Yet the melody of silence 

In Thy purple shadow lies, 

And for e’er the stars drip glory 
On Thy crumbling ruins gray, 

And for e’er the mellow moonbeams 
Bless Thy shrine at San Jos6. 

EDMUND DAY. 

[Mr. Day, one of the prominent members of Alexander Sal- 
vini’s troupe, has sent the above original poem, and in the letter 
accompanying it states that he “ would be more than satisfied if 
he could think that it would reach the hearts of the “ boys ” in 
anything like the way that their kindness touched and posses- 
sed the hearts of the >( mummers.” 

We hope that Mr Day will again favor us with another con- 
tribution, and wish him every success in his literary as well as 
in his histrionic career. — E d.] 



THE FRESHMAN’S TALE. 

It was one of those bitterly raw evenings in Novem- 
ber, that I lett my snug study to plough through the 
snow and slush of Dominion Square to have a smoke 
and chat with my college chum, Hugh Felton. 

He occupied a very cosy bedroom and sitting room 
in one of the McGill College Avenue boarding houses 
and any evening in the early part of the sessoin was 

sure to see three or four college men congregated in 
his den. 

The very strong smell of smoke which greeted my 
nostrils as I came up the stairs convinced me that Hugh 
was not all by himself. ' 6 

As I came into the room I saw an elderly-looking 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



57 



man, sitting over the fire, smoking away industriously 
at a huge pipe ; he looked like a jolly fellow, and his 
first greeting convinced me that he would be good com- 
pany. 

After we had chatted on general matters for a short 
time, the conversation naturally turned on college 
affairs, and I found out that Hugh’s guest, Mr. Arthur 
Drummyer, was an Arts graduate. He had a lot of in- 
teresting information regarding Old McGill in her 
younger days, so that I was very well pleased to have 
met him. 

Some incident which he told reminded me of a rather 
peculiar accident which had occurred in my freshman 
year, and which I recalled to Hugh’s memory. 

“Talking of funny things happening in one’s first 
year,” broke in Drummyer, “reminds me of a bad 
break that I made in mine, and one which I have 
never forgotten. Wait till I fill my pipe again, and I’ll 
tell you about it.” 

After he had accomplished this, and emitted a huge 
cloud of smoke, he started : 

“ In the old times in McGill we quite frequently used 
to get up theatricals amongst ourselves, and give the 
public the benefit of them for a small consideration, 
which was devoted to some college society. We pre- 
pared a play which we acted one January during my 
first year, and in which I was to take the part of a girl. 

“ Of course we had a considerable amount of fun at 
our rehearsals, although there was quite a bit of solid 
hard work connected with it. 

“As you can imagine, I felt very proud at being 
selected, in my first year, to take part in it, and used to 
be greatly amused by the big seniors coming around 
when I was in ladies’ dress, and carried on a lively mock 
flirtation with the ‘ girl student ’ as they nicknamed me. 

“ During our first rehearsal, when I was waiting to 
‘ go on,’ a pleasant, rather elderly-looking man, who, 
I was informed by someone, was a graduate, came up 
and chucked me under the chin in quite a chic man- 
ner, and when I squeaked out in feminine tones, ‘ Go 
way, you great big rough man,’ he laughed to beat four 
of a kind. We became quite friendly before our play 
came off, and although I did not then know his name ) 
I felt more than proud, when I happened to meet him, at 
getting a cheery nod from a graduate, for at that time, 
as you can well understand, a graduate appeared to me 
to have reached the pinnacle of human greatness. 

“What the cause of it had been, whether I had 
given too much time to studying up a play earlier in 
the session, whether it was that the period before 
Christmas had been too greatly occupied by heroic 
efforts, insisted on in spite of unpleasant obstacles to 
acquire the tobacco habit, as it is now called, or whether 
it was through laziness due to nothing else but “pure 
cussedness,” I cannot say, but the melancholy fact was, 
that I had come considerably short in my exams at 
Christmas, and I was under the painful necessity of 
bothering the professors to give me ‘ supplemental.’ 
These came off the week after our play. How I hated 
those beastly ‘ sups.,” perhaps you fellows may have 
some idea, but they had to be taken. 



“ Our theatricals had taken place successfully on the 
30th of January, and the ‘ realistic drama ’ of ‘sups’ 
was due three days later. 

“ With the logic? so peculiar to the freshman, I con- 
vinced myself that I was performing a highly meritor- 
ious act in sloping all the lectures during these three 
days to plug up, so that I might have the evenings to 
devote to the many attractions that new life in a big 
city offered me. 

“ A conscientious adherence to this idea caused me to 
be snugly seated in the library the day previous to the 
dreaded ‘sups.,’ grinding away for dear life, and I was 
so busy that I forgot to look up as anyone passed 
through the room. 

“ However, I was quickly aroused by hearing a lady’s 
voice say, ‘ Why, there’s Arthur Drummyer.’ 

“ I looked up to meet the smile of an elderly lady, 
whom I at once recalled as having shown me great 
kindness at Caeouna the previous summer, and to whom 
I had once with boyish pride confided my ideas of what 
I was going to do 1 when I went to McGill.’ 

“ When I came forward to speak to her I was sur- 
prised at seeing her accompanied by my graduate 
friend, of whom I have been speaking. I replied to 
her kind enquiries that I was getting on swimmingly 
in college, but, unthinkingly, explained my presence in 
the library, by stating that I was preparing for exams on 
the following day. She immediately exclaimed : ‘Why, 

I did not know that you had exams at this time of the 
year.’ I saw my mistake at once, and also noted the 
grin on my graduate friend’s face. 

“ Well, you know, boys, a fellow can’t always tell the 
truth, and as I recalled the hopes I had confided to her, I 
thought it might disappoint her somewhat to know that 
I was plucked, so I at once tipped the wink to her com- 
panion not to betray me, and stammered out : ‘ Well, 
you see, these are our ‘ Intercessionals.' The man 
turned away quickly, but an oscillating motion of his 
shoulders shewed that he was stirred by deep emotion 
of some kind. Alas ! my little white lie was not destined 
to stop there. She said : ‘ Well, but do you all have 
to take these examinations ? ’ 

Here was a fix, and the only way out was to lie even 
more cheerfully, so I answered, with another wink at 
the graduate, who appeared more than interested, and 
who I knew had ‘ spotted ’ me : ‘ No, these exams are 

not what you would call obligatory on all of us, — in 
fact, you need not take them, but, on the other hand, 
they are a great help, I might almost say that 
some of us could hardly get along without them, 
although as a matter of fact they give rise to a great 
amount of extra work. But,’ I added virtuously, as I 
walked with them to the door, ‘ there is no doubt it 
is absolutely useless for a fellow to come to college if 
he is going to shirk a little hard work, and as these are 
of great assistance to me, I don’t hesitate to avail my- 
self of them.’ 

“Why the graduate passed out of the door so quickly, 
and very impolitely preceding the lady, I don’t know ; 
but as she was saying good-bye, she added : ‘ I must 

say I am very glad to find you so industrious. I 



53 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



was afraid that college might present too many attrac- 
tions outside of your work for 3’our own good. ’ 

“ I went back to my books, when a revered senior 
came up to me with the exclamation : ‘ Well ! for a 
fresliie )'ou have an admirable amount of nerve. I sup- 
pose you know to whom you were telling your yarn.’ 

“ ‘ Of course I do, she is a Mrs. Anderson of Phila- 
delphia.’ 

“ * No I don’t mean her, but the gentleman she was 
with.’ 

“ ‘ No, I don’t know his name, but I know him quite 
well, he is a graduate,’ I added proudly. 

“ ‘ Graduate ! great guns ! perhaps he is ; but, 3’ou 
fool, do you mean to say you don’t know his name.’ 

“ ‘ No, who is he? ’ 

“ ‘ Who is he, Well, he is only one of the senior pro- 
fessors in the faculty of — ; that’s who he is.’ 

“Well, you fellows can imagine my feelings,” said 
Drummyer, as he shook out the ashes from his pipe. 

“ Pass me the tobacco jar.” 

SC. 



BACK TO OLD McGILL. 

From where the vast Pacific beats against the rocky shores 
To where St. Lawrence in the sea his swelling wave outpours, 
From where the northern fields are wrapt in ruthless ice and 
snow. 

To the gay gardens and bright mines of burning Mexico, 

From many a fair Canadian plain, from city, vale and hill, 

From many a sunny southern town we’re back to Old McGill, 

We’re back to Old McGill again, back after work and play : 

To some the summer months have sped like one long summer 
day, 

To some they’ve been a vale of gloom and grief, but now they’re 
o’er ; 

The cloudy pillar is behind, we’ll light the fire before, 

And from the cup of cheerfulness we’ll each one drink his fill 
To youth and hope aud joy, because we’re back to Old McGill 

No oak shall yet be sported — this is not the time for care ; 

We’ll sit, and while the hours away on lounge and bed and chair : 
Now shall the social pipe be lit, the mirthful tale go round ; 
Now shall the genial jest be fired, the jovial laugh resound ; 
We’ll find in boon companionship a cure for every ill, 

Aud feel, whatever else we feel, we’re back to Old McGill. 

Away with dark foreboding’s frown aud disappointment’s sting ; 
So much of failure aud success each day is bound to bring ; 

And college life like other life will have its downs and ups ; 

We cannot all get scholarships, and someone must have “ sups.” 
’Tis not too late to rally yet, aud, if defeated still, 

Why, then, the longer we shall say, we’re back to Old McGill. 

CAP’N GOUN. 



OPENING OF THE NEW LIBRARY. 

Tuesday, October 31st, was a red-letter day in the 
history of McGill College, and indeed it may be record- 
ed as an important event in the history of the city of 
Montreal 

The city newspapers furnished faithful reports of 
the opening ceremony ; we extract from Gazette the 
following pertinent notice: — 

“ A treasure for the use jointly of present and future 
undergraduates in the Faculties of Arts, Science, Medi- 
cine and Law students at McGill that are now and are 



to be. That was what the University of McGill comes 
into possession of, in the form of a magnificent home 
for the books of its library, through the munificence of 
Mr. Peter Redpath ; a storehouse worthy of its object, 
for the stores of ‘ potential knowledge ’ to be accumu- 
lated there, as Vice-Principal Dr. Johnson expressed it. 

“ In the past, many of the princely donations McGill 
has received have been for special faculties ; this one 
will be for the benefit of the University as a whole, and, 
as one of the speakers put it, for that of the city , 
the country generally, and consequently of the 
human race. Science has received endowments that 
places it abreast of any University in the world , Medi- 
cine is well provided for ; Arts is in a good position, but 
requires many things yet, as Sir William Dawson has 
often hinted, for it is the faculty of the University ; and 
Law can be trusted to look out for itself- 

“ McGill, as a whole, is to benefit by this, and the 
friends of the College have reason to rejoice. 

“ That Montreal is proifd ofits University was shown 
by the attendance of so many representative citizens at 
the inauguration by Their Excellencies of the new lib- 
rary building. Her graduates taking an interest in the 
welfare of Alma Mater naturally turned out in force, 
but there were many prominent ladies and gentlemen 
present who cannot claim that privilege, but who be 
took themselves from pressing business to manifest 
their interest by their presence. The opening was a 
very successful function, and passed off pleasantly. 
McGill is to be congratulated on being the recipient of 
such a gift, Mr. Redpath on presenting it, and those 
who had the management of the ceremony on the suc- 
cess of their efforts. 

“ Long before the hour fixed the invited guests began 
to arrive, and the college grounds presented an animated 
appearance. The Faculty gathered in the William Mol- 
son hall, attired in their academic robes, and awaited 
the arrival of the vice regal party. Their Excellencies 
and suite arrived about 2.45, and were at once escorted 
to the platform. With the handsome uniforms of their 
suite aud the variously -colored gowns of the distin- 
guished gentlemen in the audience, and the Donalda 
graduates in their academic gowns and caps, the spec- 
tacle was a very striking one. 

“The following address was read by Mr. Hugh 
McLennan : — 

“ To His Excellency the Right Honorable the Earl 0/ 
Aberdeen , P.C., Governor-General of Canada : 

“ May it please Your Excellency, 

“ We, the Governors, Principal and Fellows of McGill 
College, feel highly honored by the presence to-day in 
the halls of this University of the representative of our 
Gracious Sovereign, and we are gratified to have the 
opportunity of renewing the expression of our heartfelt 
loyalty and of that deep-seated love aud reverence for 
our Queen which prevail here in Canada not less than 
in other parts of Her Majesty’s world wide dominions. 

“ We desire to thank Your Excellency personally for 
the honor of your presence so soon after your arrival in 
Canada, and for the favor therein implied. The coun- 
tenance given to institutions of learning by those who 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



59 



are highly placed has always been greatly esteemed, 
and we are fully sensible of its value. We owe much 
gratitude to Your Excellency’s predecessors for the 
great favor they have extended to this University, and 
we trust that we shall equally obtain that of Your Ex- 
cellency, more especially as by our Royal Charter 
Your Excellency is the official visitor of the College, 
with the same powers as those exercised by those in 
similar position in England. 

“ From Your Excellency’s intimate knowledge of Can- 
ada, you are probably aware of the variety of principles 
on which the Universities are constituted, while all 
work together harmoniously for one common end. This 
University, which is Protestant, but non-denomina- 
tional in its character, presents a happy exemplification 
of this fact, in the co-operation received from, and given 
to, other Universities for common educational objects. 

“ It owes its origin and growth to Montreal alone. 
Founded by one citizen, maintained and extended by 
the liberality of other citizens, it offers its benefits to all 
Canada with a success which cannot but be gratifying 
to those who have striven for this end. 

“ It has five Faculties, together with a separate depart- 
ment for the education of women, which contained in 
all over 900 students at the end of last session. There 
are besides four affiliated Theological colleges in the city 
and outside, in this province, there are three affiliated 
colleges in Arts. By means of its Normal School, the 
advantages of special training are given to those who 
are preparing for the duties of teachers. 

“ So great an expansion in comparatively few years 
fully justifies the foresight and munificence of those 
who by their endowments have aided in producing it. 
We are happy to-day that, in presenting this address of 
welcome to Your Excellency, we can also present, in 
the case of the new library building and of the land on 
which it is built, two instances of that remarkable 
generosity in the encouragement of liberal and profes- 
sional studies which casts honor on the name of Mon- 
treal. 

“To the Countess of Aberdeen, whose strenuous 
efforts for the benefit of humanity in so many ways are so 
well known, we tender our warm thanks for the encour- 
agement of her presence, and we hope that the special 
attention which the University gives to the education 
of women will meet with her approbation. 

“ It is our earnest hope and prayer that blessing and 
success may attend Your Excellency’s administration 
of the duties of your high office, which may conduce to 
your own happiness and to that of all loving subjects 
of the Queen. 

“ His Excellency replied as follows : — 

“ Mr. Principal, Your Honor. Fellows of the College, 
Ladies and Gentlemen : Your a Idress, with its graceful 
and appropriate assurances of sincere and affectionate 
loyalty to the Queen, and good-will towards Her 
Majesty’s representative as such, will form a pleasing 
and permanent souvenir of a most interesting occasion, 
though also there must inevitably be an under current 
of sadness in the proceedings of to-day, especially for 
those who personally shared the friendship of the emi- 



nent man who has just passed away from our midst.* 

“ I appreciate the kindly and cordial manner in which 
you refer to our present visit to the College. It is, in- 
deed, not surprising that, like my predecessors, I should 
have felt more than willing to take the earliest oppor- 
tunity of responding to your invitation, especially in 
connection with so auspicious an event in the history 
of this University as that which will to-day be cele- 
brated. For, owing to its liberal endowments, its com- 
prehensive system, and its high efficiency, to which 
you allude with well-grounded satisfaction, the fame of 
this seat of learning has become widespread. 

“ It is sometimes said that * coming events cast their 
shadows,’ but it is also true that the unexpected most 
often happens ; and, certainly, when, as casual visitors, 
Lady Aberdeen and I had the advantage, some years 
ago, of inspecting the museum and some other portions 
of the College, with the excellence of which we were 
greatly impressed, I could not have foreseen or expect- 
ed that my next visit would be made in the high offi- 
cial position which I am now called upon to occupy. 

“ But with all the more pleasure and heartiness, as 
one who can claim at least some previous acquaintance 
with your institution, do I accept and assume the pri- 
vileges of visitor of the College, which will, I trust, in- 
volve and create an intercourse of more than a merely 
formal and perfunctory sort during my tenure of office. 

“ Allow me now to express the sincere thanks of 
Lady Aberdeen for your particularly cordial allusion to 
herself, and to say that you do Her Excellency no more 
than justice when you attribute to her a hearty appre- 
ciation of the well-devised and enlightened extension of 
your educational advantages, to which reference has 
been made. Ladies and gentlemen, we value the good 
wishes which you have so thoughtfully expressed, and 
we join in the hope and the expectation that, with the 
divine blessing, a large and lasting success may ever 
attend the noble work of this University. 

“ Their Excellencies were then escorted to the library 
building by the Faculty and graduates, where a large 
audience had assembled. Many of these were ladies. 
In the west gallery, the front of which was hung with 
college and national banners, was a concourse of the 
‘ undergrads,’ who entertained those present during 
the wait with college songs, well sung. The proces- 
sion entered with the Registrar at its head, followed by 
the Donalda graduates, graduates, professors, and then 
the vice-regal party. As the latter came in sight the 
students arose and sang the National Anthem with vim 
and correctness. As Their Excellencies were taking 
their seats, 1 the boys ’ gave three rousing cheers for 
Lord Aberdeen, for Lady Aberdeen, for Mr. Peter Red- 
path, for Sir William Dawson and for His Honor Lieu- 
tenant-Governor Chapleau. 

“ Rev. Dr. Cornish having opened the proceedings 
with prayer, Mr. J. H. R. Molson briefly explained that 
the)’ were present that day to receive from their old and 
valued friend, Mr. Red path, the deed of the library 
building. 



‘Sir John J. C. Abbott, ex-Premier of Canada, died the evening 

before. 



6 o 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



“ Mr. Peter Redpath, who was received with much 
applause, said : I beg Your Excellencies to accept my 
most sincere thanks Or the honor conferred upon me 
by your attendance on an occasion which it has been 
my privilege to create. I also thank PI is Honor the 
Lieut. Governor of the province of Quebec and the dis- 
tinguished company around and before me for the in- 
terest manifested in the function of to-day- There is 
always a feeling of satisfaction in the mere doing ot 
what one considers will be of benefit to the University 
and to the city, and, possibly, beyond it. But it is 
pleasing also to liav-e the approval and sympathy of 
those who feel an interest in the object of it. We 
mourn to-day the loss of a very eminent public man, 
who had an official connection with this University. 
It would have been gratifying to me, had circumstances 
permitted, to have postponed the proceedings for a few 
days. The conventional few words which are now ex- 
pected from me will be devoted entirely to matters 
relating to the building in which we are assembled. 
The necessity for largely increased accommodation for 
the library of McGill University has been manifest for 
some years past. I believe that this building, with its 
possible extension-, will provide space for all the books 
that the University is likely to own for many years to 
come. It is the result of as much care and attention as 
the architect and myself knew how to bestow upon it. 

“ The plans of many other libraries were examined, 
and many other libraries were visited both by myself 
and the architect, with a view to arriving at the best 
possible plan for this building. The newly-appointed 
librarian, too, gave many valuable suggestions in 
matters of detail- I know that we have not attained 
perfection ; but experience will show how far we have 
advanced towards that end. In no case has utility 
been sacrificed to architectural or aesthetical effect, 
yet I believe that the architectural design and the 
architectural effects have met with the general appro- 
bation of the comparatively few persons who have 
hitherto had an opportunity of studying them. I 
remember a meeting of Convocation a good many years 
ago, at which Principal Dawson, in a general appeal 
for aid to the University, described the library shelves 
as ‘gaping for books.’ The shelves then ‘ gaping ’ 
have been filled and. the books have overflowed. But 
now the shelves here will absorb them all, and there 
will still be shelves gaping for more. Let me here 
take the liberty of saying to those who may desire to 
present collections of books to the University, that they 
should not diminish the value of their gifts by requir- 
ing that the books should be kept together as special 
collections. The librarian ought to have, and, in fact, 
must have, the liberty of classifying all the books 
under his charge and placing those on the same sub- 
ject together, from whatever quarter they may come, 
otherwise some confusion and expense will be caused, 
and the donor may in that way be disappointed. The 
only features in the building to which I will make 
special reference are the painted windows at each end 
of the hall. They are the gift of my wife, who has 
heartily encouraged me during the whole progress of 
the building. I have much pleasure in acknowledging 



her and my obligations to Messrs. Clayton & Bell, of 
London, the designers, who have expressed the sincere 
pleasure they had in executing the work. They were 
willing to accept suggestions, and their previous ex- 
perience led me to confide in their artistic taste. I 
hope that the result, considering that they had no 
Raphael to consult, will be considered satisfactory. 
The decorations are not quite completed. 1 here are 
spaces in the windows which will hereafter receive 
inscriptions and texts, which may be strewed around 
to teach the civic, as well as the rustic, moralist — not 
to die but to live 

“ Mr. President, I have no deed of gift to offer to-day. 

I know what follows when a man knowingly builds 
upon ground belonging to another. This building 
already belongs to the University, without any gift 
from me. I know that it is only a convenient shelter 
for its more valuable contents, but students will, I 
hope, appreciate the facilities here offered and the 
pleasant surrounding I have endeavored to provide. 

“Mr. J. H. R. Molson, in the absence of the Chan- 
cellor, Sir Donald A. Smith, then accepted the gift on 
behalf of the University. He referred to the pleasure 
it afforded him to do so from his old friend and school- 
fellow. The University now had two fine buildings 
as a visible sign of the great good it had received from 
Mr. Redpath, and they now had to express their thanks, 
remembering that the man who did good to posterity 
was the greatest benefactor. How long and how faith- 
fully he had worked for the University only those who 
were associated with him knew. Since he had been 
called to live in Europe he had not forgotten them. 
He would conclude by thanking Mr. Redpath on be- 
half of the University, which would long remember 
his venerable colleague. He used the word venerable 
because Mr. Redpath was his senior. After again 
thanking Mr. Redpath, the speaker closed with an 
eloquent tribute to his generosity to the College in the 
past. 

“ Mr. Redpath then presented His Excel lency with a 
gold key to the library, suitably engraved, enclosed in 
a beautiful silver case. with the remark that it was not 
so large as the famous one at Abbottsford, but it was 
large enough to unlock the front door of the building. 
At the command of Lord Aberdeen the students gave 
three cheers for Mr. and Mrs. Redpath, and added to 
this by declaring Lord Aberdeen ‘ all right.’ 

“ His Excellency then spoke as follows : — Mr. Prin- 
cipal, Your Honor, Mr. Redpath, Ladies and Gentlemen 
—Once more the governing body and friends of this 
University have assembled to receive and to celebrate 
a magnificent contribution to the equipment and 
matei ial for its work. McGill College has, indeed, 
become in a real and active sense a monument of the 
enlightenment and generous public spirit of several of 
the most successful and esteemed of the sons of 
Montreal. I trust it will be a cause of happiness to 
Mr. and Mrs. Redpath, as it will assuredly be to their 
friends, that they are personally present on this occa- 
sion. Many years of a successful and upright career, 
and of much public usefulness, have rendered the 
worth and the name of Mr. Peter Redpath so familiar, 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



6 1 



that it is unnecessary, nor would it in liis presence be 
acceptable to himself, to dilate upon his claims to 
public esteem and good will ; and nou^s/ monumentum 
quaris, circumspice, I confess that I regret somewhat 
that there was no actual deed of conveyance from Mr. 
Redpath by way of outward sign and symbol of this 
splendid gift ; but, after all, we have this golden model 
of the key. I confess I did not quite understand Mr. 
Redpath ’s reference to the risk of dealing with land 
not absolutely in one’s own possession. I do not think 
that there need be any misgiving on that account. I 
can, if I may quote once more, mention a favorable 
example where no difficulty has arisen. I refer to the 
case of the University college of Oxfcird, whnh I claim 
as my Alma Mater. That college was founded by 
King Alfred. On the one thousandth anniversary of 
that foundation many men of mark were present, 
among them being the late Dean of Westminster, 
Dean Stanley. He entered into a very learned disqui- 
sition as to whether King Alfred actually had been the 
owner of the land and the founder of the college, and 
I am afraid that he did not absolutely argue in favor 
of that. Lord Sherbrooke; who was present, said that 
he had never doubted the fact ; but, after all, the 
Dean’s summing up tended to incredibility, because he 
had remarked that probably it was not founded by 
King Alfred, because the land did not belong to him 
but was in the hands of the Danes. Mr. Lowe said : 
‘ This increases my conviction, because it is not always 
easy to give away what belongs to us, but it is easy 
when it belongs to somebody else.’ Whatever may be 
the conditions as to the land, I am sure the building 
placed here will be secure, and I trust that it will 
remain as long as the world lasts. It is not necessary 
to enlarge upon the personal aspect of this noble gift 
to the University, but we may, at least, remark that 
Mr. Redpath’s munificence may be justly regarded as, 
on the one hand, in some sense the result, and, on the 
other hand, certainly a conspicuous token of the 
earnest appreciation of education and knowledge that 
prevails, not only in this city of Montreal, but through- 
out Canada as a whole. This fact is full of hopeful 
significance. Mr. Molson has already alluded to the 
unavoidable absence of the esteemed Chancellor of this 
University, and I am sure we all regret, and none more 
than Mr. Redpath, his absence on this occasion. Sir 
Donald A. Smith is a man whose name has become a 
household word for energy, for public spirit, and 
especially for practical and princely generosity in pro- 
moting works of public utility and benefit ; and that 
is nowhere more fully exemplified than in the case of 
this College, in which he so worthily occupies the 
position of Chancellor. 

“ The roll of former students of McGill who have 
attained to mark and merit is already considerable, 
and none surely will rejoice in the fact more than the 
learned Principal, who, for so many years, has ably 
presided over the work of the College, and who, on his 
retirement from the active duties of his position, will 
be followed by the warm and grateful good wishes of 
his colleagues and many friends. 

«< I see some of the present students of the College in 



this hall, and I should like to take this opportunity of 
thanking you, gentlemen, for the cordial welcome 
which you extended to Lady Aberdeen and myself 
upon our arrival. Will you also permit me to thank 
you, not only in my own name, but in the name of 
this large and brilliant assembly, and I would venture 
to say in the name of Her Majesty the Queen, for the 
manner in which you rendered the National Anthem 
on the entrance of the procession into this hall. The 
words and the melody of ' God Save the Queen ’ are 
tolerably familiar — but there is a right way and a 
wrong way of singing it, as well as a right and a 
wrong way of understanding the principle represented 
thereby. Therefore, I appreciate such a rendering as 
that you gave, which was not only characteristic of 
the evident spirit of strength which entered into the 
singing, but of correctness of time, measure and ex- 
pression. Well, gentlemen, I need not, I think, 
attempt to address to you words of exhortation or 
incentive. You are doubtless actuated by a sense of 
the far-reaching importance and responsibility of the 
opportunities for yonr equipment in the great work of 
life which are here provided for your use. Any utter- 
ance which I might venture to offer to you would, 
therefore, be that of congratulation and of confident 
expectation. Surely we may say in the words of the 
text inscribed on that mantelpiece: — ‘Happy is the 
man that findetli wisdom and the man that gelteth 
knowledge.’ In acquiring knowledge there is happi- 
ness and real conscious satisfaction. At all times and 
everywhere the work of education is of sacred import- 
ance ; but if any condition of things could enhance its 
value, it is the case of a young country with vast 
capabilities and scope for future development and 
influence. Nor should we forget that every intellec- 
tual or scientific advance, in this or any other country, 
is not for the benefit of that country alone, but in- 
directly, and sooner or later, for the benefit of the 
whole human race. 

“ And again, with reference to this fair land, the fact 
♦that she is within the British Empire in no way 
detracts from the distinction accruing to Canada by 
reason of the success of her sons in any branch of 
literature, science or art. The Canadian student, 
author, poet, scientist or theologian, who rises to 
eminence does so as a Canadian, and brings fame to his 
country as such, because of the happy combination of 
Canadian nationality and patriotism with attachment 
to the mother country and her constitution, in harmony 
with which Canada may look forward to an ever- 
increasing influence and success. 

“ Mr. Principal, it is impossible to speak in public 
to-day, especially in connection with this College, with- 
out reference to the announcement which has reached 
us this morning, and which necessarily imparts a 
sombre hue to this gathering. The distinguished man 
who has just passed away was one of the most eminent 
of the many who have claimed McGill as their Alma 
Mater. The close of Sir John Abbott’s career has 
taken place in the midst of the sympathy and sorrow 
of many attached friends, and with the respect and 
esteem of the public at large. His loss is mourned, 



6 2 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



but here especially, in this centre of preparation for 
future work, we must not use language of gloom or 
despondency. The former Prime Minister of Canada 
would have been the first to recognize and rejoice in 
the fact that when one worker resigns his commission 
of service in this world, others are coming forward to 
fill up the ranks of the great army of all who, in 
whatever sphere, are striving to press on in the service 
of God by serving their fellow-men. No better wish 
can be expressed for this College than that such a spirit 
may be the key note of its operations and its influence. 

I now declare the new library building to be opened. 

“ Sir William Dawson being called upon was heartily 
received. He felt, he said, too deeply for words, but 
there were a few things that might be appropriate on 
such an occasion. Such a gathering brought up 
matters relating to the past, the present and the future 
of the University. Some of those present probably re- i 
membered in 1855 when they had no library except a 
few books belonging to the medical faculty. In 1858 
they purchased a few books on English History, and 
in 1 860, when they moved to the present site from the 
old Fraser building, they carried up some 1,500 
volumes. Two years later, when Mr. William Molson 
generously undertook to complete for the College the 
old buildings, part of his plan was to fit up a library 
room for 20,000 volumes, and they had only 2,000 
books to place on these shelves. This probably 
accounted for his old and, to him, forgotteu address, 
referred to by Mr. Redpath, when he said that the 
shelves were gaping for books. Some people even 
smiled at the idea of their calling it a library at all. 
However, the disparity between the number of shelves 
and the number of books acted as a stimulus to their 
friends, and donations were freely given until in 1 870 
they had 10,000 volumes, in 1882 20, coo volumes, and 
now they had about 35,000. Long before they were 
prepared to leave the old building the shelves were 
filled to overflowing. That was the story of the past. 
As to the present, he pointed out the value all who had 
any experience in educational work placed on a library. 
Hitherto they had labored under the disadvantages of 
a crowded room and poor light, but now they had this 
magnificent reading-room, which he knew was not sur- 
passed on this side of the Atlantic for beauty aud 
utility. He had no doubt that reading, study and 
original research would be promoted by this library. 
He touched on the beauty of the room and the beau- 
tiful gift of the stained windows by Mrs- Redpath, and 
expressed the belief that the history of the past would 
be repeated in the future. They now had four times 
more room than they had books for, but he had 110 
doubt but that the shelves would fill up more rapidly 
than they had in the past. 

“ Lord Aberdeen had referred to the loss sustained, 
the shadow cast upon the gathering by the death of 
Sir John Abbott, and he wished to add a word more. 

Sir John was their oldest living graduate. Not only 
that, when some years ago they wished to establish a 
law faculty, the corporation pitched on Sir lohn I 
Abbott, who had only graduated a few years previously, 



to form it, a tribute of Judge Day, Judge Dunkin and 
others of that day to his ability, and a recognition 
of what was before him, showing the prescience of the 
corporation as to his future career. When, more re- 
cently, his public employment necessitated his with- 
drawal from these duties, he remained a member of the 
Board of Governors, and, as he could testify, was always 
ready to give aid and sagacious counsel. He could 
recall many occasions upon which Sir John did good 
service for himself and the University that was never 
heard of. Were Sir John with them to-day he would 
have rejoiced, for he loved learning for its own sake. 
In conclusion, he said that every student, graduate, 
professor and well wisher of McGill thanked Mr. 
Redpath for his noble addition to the University. 

“ Dr. Johnson read the following communication from 
Sir Charles H. Tupper, who, it had been expected, 
would be present : — 

“ ‘ I find that the Hamilton ceremony for the unveil- 
ing of Sir John Macdonald’s statue takes place on Wed- 
nesday. Of course, I must be there. This prevents 
me attending on Tuesday night on the opening of the 
Redpath library at dear old McGill. I am very sorry. 

I wished most sincerely to be with you to join in your 
rejoicing, and to say how much Mr. Redpath’s public 
and generous spirit is to be admired. McGill University 
is not only flourishing among Canadian schools of 
learning, but it can now claim to be one of the best on 
the continent of America.’ 

“ The speakers than went on to refer to the value of a 
library, and said that v^ue could most readily be seen 
when it was remembered that the great function of a 
University was to maintain the continuity of human 
knowledge. The function of the library was, therefore, 
obvious ; it was the storehouse of that intellectual food 
from which the professor drew those supplies required 
day by day for the needs of the Students. After 
speaking of the warm thanks which were due to Mr 
Redpath for his splendid gift, he said that the building 
might be called a suggestion in stone on a magnificent 
scale, and he felt certain that the citizens of Montreal, 
when they saw the vacant spaces in the interior, would 
not fail to interpret the suggestion aright 
“ In the absence of Sir Charles HibbeU Tupper, Dr. J. 

G. Bourinot, C.M.G., president of the Royal Society of 
Canada, was called on. After alluding to the fact that 
there was one thing he had learned by sitting at the 
head of a table in the House of Commons, that one 
could not be too careful of what one said in public he 
discursed on the friendship of books. Being a Nova 
Scotian, there was one name he was always tauo-ht to 
respect, and that was Dawson, a Nova Scotian. Having- 
since made his acquaintance, he had learned to love him 
and now congratulated him on seeing his labors in the 
cause of education so satisfactorily crowned. Let the 
cities of Hamilton, Quebec, Halifax and Toronto follow 
this example and then he would be able to say Canada 
possessed great libraries. He pointed out how many 
fine libraries there were throughout New England anH 
said that McGill ought to have 100,000 volumes! I„ 
conclusion, he urged everyone to do their best to 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



the value of McGill’s collection by donating 



good books. 

“ Hon. J. S. Hall spoke on behalf of the graduates 
of McGill, and expressed the pleasure they felt on the 
Occasion of the opening of a grand library built by Mr. 
Peter Redpath on the grounds of Mr. J. H. R. Molson. 
Lord Aberdeen as visitor to the University would 
besides be able to see the whole benefactions of a 
Smith, a Macdonald, a McLennan, and would have the 
satisfaction of saying that for its age McGill stood 
unequalled on the American continent He alluded to 
the donations of Mr. Molson and Mr. Redpath, com- 
plimented Mrs. Redpath on her beautiful gift, and 
urged the graduates to assist in stocking the shelves of 
the new library. 

“ His Excellency then said : Mr. Principal, Your 
Honor, Ladies and Gentlemen, I hope you won’t think 
that a very dangerous precedent is being set if I inflict 
myself upon you for a moment once more, — in fact, I 
believe it is one of the several prerogatives the 
Governor- General of Canada has that he may rise a 
second time in a Canadian community without being 
greeted with cries of ‘ spoke.’ I heard no such 
utterance proceed from anyone in this hall when I 
rose again. I wish to be allowed to express in a more 
definite manner than I did before, because I did not 
quite realize the significance and the extent of my 
gratitude for the beautiful and handsome present I 
received from Mr. Redpath ; I mean the golden key. 
It bears an inscription, the reading of which conveys 
to me the certainty that it is not merely a model to be 
placed in some conspicuous place in the library, but is 
to be carried away by me as a souvenir of a most in- 
teresting eveut. The inscription reads : ‘ To His Ex- 
cellency the Right Honorable the Earl of Aberdeen, 
Governor General of Canada, from Peter Redpath.’ 
On the beautiful box in which it is placed are the arms 
of the University, with the words : 4 McGill University 
Library.’ I need hardly say that it is a most valuable 
token of his kindness and of this memorable occasion. 
I only hope that the librarian will not look upon it 
with any misgivings so far as I am concerned. 

“ We all know that libraries are afflicted with people 
who have a way of taking out books and not returning 
them. I must not forget that I am now a Visitor of 
this College, and if at some unseasonable hour I make 
use of this key and extract a book, it might happen 
that this would cause some difficulty ; but I trust that 
if on any occasion a book should be missing, none of 
the students will suggest to the librarian that the 
Governor-General is the culprit. Ladies and gentle- 
men, I am sure that the excellent hint thrown out by 
Mr. Molson at the outset, that the speeches should be 
short, has been admirably followed. Indeed, I could 
have wished myself that we could have heard a little 
more of that silver speech to which Mr. Bourinot 
alluded, and of which he gave us such an excellent 
specimen. Perhaps he was unconsciously speaking of 
some I see upon this platform when he spoke of silence 
not being golden, but criminal. But we must feel that 
the proceedings have been most pleasant and attractive. 



63 



My reason for rising is that I have to make an intima- 
tion, and it is that I hope I may be allowed, like, I 
think, my predecessors have been, to present a gold 
medal for competition by the students of this University, 
by some test to be arranged by the governing body and 
the professors, if they will give me the satisfaction I 
am only sorry that the students of this University have 
reached those riper years of discretion which would 
make anything like the suggestion of a holiday super- 
fluous and out of place. I suppose the best thing I 
could do would be to ask that the professors should 
arrange for an extra course of lectures. But, perhaps, 
the professors would demur to an addition to their 
labors. However, I again beg to thank those who 
have arranged these proceedings for the interest they 
have taken in them. 

“ His Honor Lieutenant-Governor Chapleau,in a brief 
and eloquent address, offered congratulations to McGill 
on the splendid donation it had received, and said 
happy were those who could receive such princely gifts } 
and happy and happier still were those who could 

make them. He had read somewhere that the three 

% 

great enemies of libraries were moths, mildew and fire. 
Mr Redpath, by his prudent gift, had provided against 
the first, the students would themselves take care to 
provide against the second, and the high spirit of the 
country would guard against the third. 

“ Rev. Dr. Bdrbour then pronounced the benediction, 
which brought the ceremony to a close, after three 
cheers, on the call of Lord Aberbeen, had been given 
for the Queen.” 

The opening of the LibraVy was brought to a fitting 
close by a brilliant conversazione held in the new 
building. The guests entered through a lighted 
covered passage way from McTavish street. The 
building was illuminated from top to bottom and pre- 
sented a gay spectacle. 

The guests were received by Mr. and Mrs. Redpath, 
Sir William and Lady Dawson, Mr. and Mrs. John H. 
R. Molson, and Mr. W. C. Macdonald. About 9.30 
His Honor Lieutenant Governor and Mrs. Chapleau 
and their party arrived ; at 10.30 their Excellencies 
Lord and Lady Aberdeen came in from the Caledonian 
Society’s Concert. Presently, to the strains of “ God 
Save the Queen,” the distinguished guests entered 
the room, Lady Aberdeen escorted by Mr. Peter Red- 
path, followed by His Excellency, who was in full 
Highland costume, wearing the tartan of the Clan 
Gordon, Lady Aberdeen wore a sash of the same tartan. 

For this event about 700 invitations were issued, aud 
nearly 600 persons were present ; doubtless many fami- 
liar faces were missed owing to the death of Sir John 
Abbott. The scene from the gallery was a very gay one. 
There was nothing to mar the beauty and symmetry of 
this truly beautiful building. The architect may well 
feel proud of his work ; and the memory of the donors 
Mr. and Mrs. Redpath, together with that of Mr. John 
H. R. Molson, will be held in loving gratitude by all 
the students, present and future, of old McGill. 

The songs given by the Glee club were well ren- 
dered and warmly received during the evening, and 



6 4 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



also selections by the Banjo Club, whose dulcet play- 
ing would not prepare one for the force with which 
they give their college cry, “ Fac. App. Sci.” An 
orchestra also contributed very much to the general 
brightness of the evening in their selections, principally 
Scotch music in honor of “ Hallowe’en.” 



SOCIETIES. 



DELTA SIGMA. 

The. second regular meeting of this Society was held 
on Thursday the 26th inst. 

It is pleasant to see that the wives of some of our 
Professors find time to attend our meetings, and that the 
majority of the regular members were also present. 
The house was crowded, and the early promise of the 
Society bids fair to be fulfilled. 

On this particular occasion excitement ran high 
among the members, and their eagerness to hear the 
anticipated discussion was scarcely suppressed until the 
business of the day had been concluded. 

The subject chosen for debate was : 

Resolved : That Scientific Research is conducive to 
Scepticism. 

Miss Warner and Miss Cameron argued on the 
affirmative, while the negative was supported by Miss 
McKenzie and Miss Armstrong. By petition, owing 
to the vastness of the subject, a few minutes extra was 
granted to each speaker, which, it is needless to say, was 
used to the best advantage by them. The .vote was 
taken according to the merits of the debate, and resulted 
in a majority for the affirmative. 

Miss Milda Leach, B.A., acted as critic, and in this 
capacity her criticisms were tempered with the leniency 
of one who had not so long ago emerged from her chry- 
salis into the full effulgence of a graduate. 

The Logic of the second year was referred to, and 
those laws of parliamentary debate which had been 
broken, cited. 

The sympathy of the audience was with her when 
she said that all the speakers had shown a clear grasp 
of the meaning of the subject under discussion. 



BANJO AND GLEE CLUBS. 

It is encouraging to note that music in McGill is not 
going to die out, if one can judge by the enthusiasm 
with which the Glee and Banjo Clubs have be<mn 
their work for the season. The ranks in both clubs are 
full, and consist of the following men, which are seen to 
be fairly divided among the three leading Faculties : 
Glee Club leader, Mr. W. D. Lambly ; 1st Tenors, W. 
D. Lambly, Med. ’95 ; F. H. Graham, Arts ’94 ; R. O. 
Ross, Med. ’96. 2nd Tenors, T. Tetreau, Med. ’96 ; R. 
H. Burrell, Med. ’97 ; O. S. Finney, Sc. ’97. First 
Bass, M. C. Hopkins, Arts ’95 ; F. W. Horney, Arts 
’94; A. T. Bazin, Med. ’94. 2nd Basses, F. M. Fry, 
Med. ’94 ; E. J. Williams, Med. ’97 ; W. R. Ask with, 
Sc. ’95- 

The Banjo Club is comprised of Mr. R. H. McDun- 



nough, leader; Bandolas, R. H. McDunnough, Sc. 95 , 
H. D. Herdt, B.A.Sc. ; G. A. Walkem, Sc. ’96 ; W. 
F. Carter, Sc. ’95; F. Lambert, Sc. ’94; O. L- Bick- 
ford, Sc. ’97. Mandolins, G. W. Oliver, Med.; J. K. 
Kennedy, Arts ’96. Banjos, S. Graham, Arts ’96; J. K. 
Larmonth, Sc. ’94. Guitar, R. D. Gunn, Sc. 94. 

Mr. Donald Guthrie, -who won such praise in Mon- 
treal and Burlington last year for his excellent readings, 
is again with the new club this year. 

The clubs made their debut at the opening of the 
new library, and were enthusiastically received, render- 
ing two selections in splendid time and manner. 

Arrangements have been effected with the manager 
of the Grand Opera House, Ottawa, to appear there on 
Dec. 22nd, when the Ottawa Valley Graduates’ Society 
are expected to turn out en masse. The clubs have 
also arranged to appear here in the Windsor Hall on 
Jany. 9th. They also desire to arrange additional con- 
certs in the towns near Montreal. 

All business and other communications to be 
addressed to R. A. Gunn, App. Sc. ’94. 



YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 

The address by Sir William Dawson on “ Bible 
Study,” Oct. 27th, w 7 as eagerly listened to by some 
ninety men. The address dealt with Devotional Study, 
Sir William emphasizing the pow 7 er of the Old Book to 
sustain and develop the Christian life and character. 
His personal testimony of its continued interest to him 
was very helpful to hear. 

- The Association has made provision for Bible Study 
this year, and already 30 men are meeting weekly, 
and pursuing “devotional” and “practical study.” 
Members are invited to communicate with the General 
Secretary with a view 7 of entering a class. There is no 
habit more important than that of “ Systematic Bible 
Study,” — formed in college, it w 7 ill be retained; neglected 
now, it will likely remain so. 



The fact that no “ Freshmen’s Reception ” has taken 
place in Molson Hall may have caused some disap- 
pointment and surprise to not a few. It w T as with re- 
gret that the Social Committee concluded to do away 
with this established custom for this year ; but after 
careful consideration they could arrive at no other con- 
clusion, on the ground that it failed in its ultimate object, 
and the expense wh ich a successful reception entailed 
did not justify its continuance. The Committee have 
arranged a number of private receptions, made possible 
through the kindness of friends who opened their homes 
for the occasion ; in all, 75 members of the Freshmen 
class have been welcomed in this way. This has proved 
a very successful medium of getting acquainted with 
the new students, and is greatly appreciated by them. 



The Semi-Annual Business Meeting took place on 
Friday evening, Nov. 3rd, in the Arts Building ; Pres. 
Day in the chair. Over 70 new members w 7 ere elected 
and welcomed to the ranks of the Association. The 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



65 



Treasurer’s statement was very encouraging showing 
the probable receipts $150, and disbursements $50 
less. 

A recommendation from the Building Committee 
was read, to the effect that the Association made ap- 
plication to the Governors for accommodation in the 
University. This, it was stated, did not in any degree in- 
dicate the abandonment of a building, but rather pave 
the way for such an event and give the Association 
immediate opportunities for widening the scope of the 
. work. The recommendation was unanimously adopted 
and referred to the Executive Committee. 



Sunday, Nov. 12th, is observed throughout the world 
as the Day of Prayer for Young Men, and our Associa- 
tion will seek to fittingly observe this. Let us have the 
largest and best meeting at 4.30 in the afternoon, 
Y.M.C.A. Building, Dominion Square. 



THE LITERARY. 

The usual weekly meeting of the Society was held 
on Friday evening the 27th of Oct. The meeting 
opened promptly with Mr. Lambly in the chair. The 
minutes of last meeting were read and approved of. Mr. 
Angus Graham, who had previously given notice of 
motion, moved that Section 17 of the Rules of Order 
be struck out of the Constitution, as it impeded the 
working of the Society. This motion was carried unani- 
mously. After the appointment of Mr. Howard as critic 
and of Mr. Archibald as reporter, the programme was 
takefi up. There was no essay, nor has there been an 
essay at any of the three meetings held this year. Why 
this should be so we do not know, but it is to be hoped 
that this, one of the most interesting and instructive 
items on ourprogramme, will not be permanently dropped. 
Mr. Howard then led the boys in one of our rousing 
choruses. There was no reading, as Mr. Scott failed 
to put in an appearance, and having sent no substitute 
nor explanation he was censured by the Society. The 
subject of debate was, “Resolved, that Canada would 
be more benefited by Imperial Federation than by An- 
nexation to the United States.” The debate, although 
the subject was a rather broad one, was very success, 
ful. Mr. Davis, 4th Arts, Mr. Cruickshanks, 3rd Med., 
and Mr. Solandt, 3rd Comp. Med., specking for the 
affirmative ; Mr. McIntosh, 3rd Arts, Mr. Hopkins, 
3rd Arts, and Mr. Brodie, 4th Science, spoke for the 
negative. Mr. Davis and Mr. McIntosh are old standbys, 
and both spoke well and to the point, Mr. Davis be- 
ing particularly strong in his summing up. The other 
four men were new speakers, and will, we think, 
prove valuable acquisitions to our Society. Mr. Sol- 
andt, especially, who filled the place uf Mr. Donahue, 
and whose speech was entirely impromptu, spoke very 
strongly and with a great deal of fire. And if we could 
imbue more of our men with this same fire, we might 
even be willing to raise the desk a foot or so for the 
greater convenience of the speakers in pounding 
it. But, indeed, if we could only get our men to warm 
up to their work in the way in which Mr. Solandt did, 



we would have a more successful society. On the 
vote being taken, the affirmative side won by a large 
majority. The case, however, was evidently judged 
before its hearing; and this, we think, is too often the 
case. The men ought to sit as dispassionate judges, 
and give their verdict on the merits of the arguments. 
Instead of this, there is far too much partisan spirit 
shewn. 

We are glad to see that the other faculties are be- 
ginning to realize the fact that this Society is a Uni- 
versity one, and not intended for the Faculty of Arts 
alone. The more fully this fact is recognized the 
larger and more widely useful will the Society become. 
Mr. Howard gave his criticism in his usual able man- 
ner, after which the meeting adjourned. 



MONTREALVETERINARY MEDIC ALSOCIETY. 

The regular meeting of this Society was held in the 
lecture room, 6 Union ave., on Thursday evening, Oct. 
26th, with the President, Dr. J. G. Ada mi, in the chair. 
There was a good turnout of members, and the meeting 
was a very profitble one. 

After the transaction of business, Dr. Adami ad- 
dressed a few words to the members, thanking them for 
the honor they had conferred upon him. He said that 
he hoped to be with them at every meeting, and with 
the expectation of profiting by the papers that were to 
be read. 

The first paper of the evening was read by Mr. Mc- 
Leod. It was a report of a very interesting case that 
came under his notice during his vacation. Mr. Bruce 
Anderson followed with a paper on Latninitis, which 
evoked considerable discussion. 

Mr. French’s paper on The Metastasis of Latninitis 
was then read. The paper showed careful preparation 
and a great deal of study of the subject. The meeting 
was then adjourned. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The second regular meeting of the McGill Medical 
Society was held in the Upper Reading Room on Sat- 
urday evening, Oct. 29, there being about twenty mem- 
bers present. 

The President called the meeting to order shortly 
after eight o’clock. 

Owing to the indisposition of the Secretary, Mr. Wm. 
Oliver, Mr. Alfred Bazin was elected as his substitute 
for the evening. 

Aftet the usual business had been dispensed with, 
the President called on Mr. Hugh Kinghorn to 
read his paper on Fracture of Bone of Skull, followed 
by Motor Aphasia. 

This proved to be a very interesting and instructive 
paper, and was listened to very attentively by those 
present. 

Considerable discussion followed the reading of the 
paper, in which the members took part. A hearty 
vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Kinghorn for his ex- 
cellent paper, after which the meeting adjourned. 



66 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



McGILL COLLEGE CLASSICAL CLUB. 

At a meeting held on Wednesday, 25th ult., the 
officers of this Club were chosen for the ensuing year. 
These are as follows : — 

Hon. President, — Dr. Eaton. 

President , — Mr. David T- Davis, Arts ’94. 

Vice-President , — Mr. J. Blackett, Arts ’94. 

Treasurer , — Mr. W. P. Garrett, Arts ’94. 

Secretary , — Mr. M. Macintosh, Arts ’95. 

Executive Committee, Mr. M. O- Lambly, Arts ’94, 
and Mr. W. W. Craig, Arts ’95. 

The prospects of this Club are bright, and a move- 
ment is on foot which will no doubt bring a profitable 
and agreeable surprise to the many that are interested 
in the “ Litterae Humaniores.” What this movement 
is will be divulged later on ; for the present, let it suffice 
to know that energetic measures are being taken to 
make this club a success. 

The first meeting of the year will be held on Satur- 
day, Nov. nth, at 8 p.m., in No. 3 Class Room. Dr. 
Eaton is to read a paper on “ Classical Myths in Eng- 
lish Literature,” accompanied with illustrations. At 
the ensuing meeting, Nov- 25th, Mr. David T. Davis 
will read an essay on Aristophanes and the Frogs.” 
Mr. Garrett will also contribute to the programme. 

Anyone wishing to join either as ordinary or asso- 
ciate member can obtain all particulars from any of the 
above officers. 



SPORTING COLUMN. 



FOOTBALL. 

McGill vs. Britannia. 

McGill First defeated Britannia First, on Oct. 28th, by 
a score of 17 to 16. The two days rain had left the 
field in regular Britannia condition, three inches of 
mud and water. Our team was radically different from 
the one which met Montreal ; and as they defeated 
Britannia, who under the same conditions of ground 
and weather had tied with Montreal, it looks as if the 
changes had strengthened it. It seems hard that one 
match, lost at the beginning of the season, should ir- 
retrievably destroy McGill’s chance for the champion- 
ship. 

The scrimmage worked hard, and covered them, 
selves with unlimited mud, as well as glory. Angus 
especially was completely unrecognizable Rankin 
played his usual fast offside game on outside wing, 
and to those who know him it was most amusing to 
see him protest Whitham for offside play. As the 
Herald said, “ It was Satan reproving sin.” Cowan 
and Schwartz both worked hard, and showed that they 
deserved their promotion. The former worked in a 
fine combination with Rankin. 

Gaudet surpassed himself at quarter ; the whole back 
division played well, although the ball was soon so 
wet and heavy that scientific kicking or passin was 
out of the question. Brunelle at full back played a 



great game; just before time was called he saved a 
couple of rouges that seemed inevitable. 

The following were the teams : 



Britannia. 

Rawlings 




McGill. 


P. Saunderson 


) 


f McDougall 


Hill 




( Leslie 


C. Saunderson 


j 


Linton.- 






Patterson 


f Rankin 


Tatley 

Browne 




i Cowan 
f Proderick 


Whitham 


( 

1 


Crathern 
Garvin j 


| Schwartz 
l Robin 


Grace 

Carter 




f Angus 
j Hamilton 


V ipond j 


Barry J 




t Donkin 



Referee , V. C. Buchanan, M.A.A.A. 

McGill winning the toss, Grace kicked off for Bri- 
tannia. 



After a few minutes play near the Britannia twenty- 
five, a clever body check by Schwartz gave Rankin the 
ball, and the first try was scored for McGill. Later, 
Cowan got another which McDougall converted, this 
with a couple of ranges, and a touch in goal was Mc- 
Gill’s score for the first half, Britannia getting five 
points. 

In the second half Britannia did most of the scoring, 
getting eleven more points, while McGill had to be 
satisfied with a try. During the last few minutes the 
play was very fast and the excitement intense. 

Britannia has protested the match and the meeting of 
the Rugby Union, which was plainly packed, decided 
that it must be played over again on November 8th. 
We would draw attention to the fact that the represen- 
tative of one of the clubs was a player on one of the 
Britannia teams, and was instructed, we are informed on 
good authority to vote in favour of the protest before 
the meeting was held. 



The team from Toronto ’Varsity to play McGill will 
probably come down with the champions of Ontario 
on Nov. 18th. 



THE JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The Junior championship has come back again to 
old McGill. The final match in this series was played 
on Nov. 4th on the McGill grounds, when McGill 
third defeated Britannia third by 38 points to 1 . The 
game was exceedingly one-sided and slow. 



McGILL vs. QUEBEC. 

McGill III defeated Quebec by 20 to 17 on October 
28. As the Rugby Union does not recognize the ex- 
istence of a Quebec senior team, Quebec was able to 
play their first team against our third. 

The match was very fast and even from beginning 
to end. McGill opened proceedings by a rush, and 
scored two rouges and a try within five minutes of the 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



67 



commencement. Quebec braced up, their half-backs 
were playing a splendid combination game, two of 
them, Swift and Stocking, being very fast and hard to 
tackle, so that Quebec scored three tries, one of 
which was converted, and a rouge before half time, 
McGill getting another rouge and a touch in goal, 
making the score 15 to 8 in favor of Quebec. 

Soon after beginning again, the only combination 
play by McGill during the match was made by our 
left wings, who starting with the ball near our 25 
yard line carried it by beautiful passing behind the 
Quebec goal line. This try was converted by Drink- 
water, making the score 15 to 14 in favor of Quebec. 
Then followed half an hour of as hard and fast play 
as has been seen on our campus this year, ending in a 
long kick by Molson, a fumble by Pugh, a quick 
follow up by our wings, and a throw in from touch, 
from which Lewis got a try which was successfully 
kicked by Drinkwater. Quebec scored two more 
rouges, when time was called, ending the fastest and 
cleanest game our third have played since they lost the 
championship. For McGill, Davidson at quarter 

played particularly well. 

The following were the teams : — 

Quebec. McGill III. 

N. Pugh back K. Molson. 

Oliver 



r 



backs. 



H. Molson. 

.Drinkwater (capt.) 
.Thompson. 



Swift 

Stocking 

Henderson back Davidson. 

Switzer. 

Hill. 

McDougall. 

Sutherland. 

Wilkin. 

Bishop 

Balfour. 

Russel. 



F. Tofield 
H. Tofield 
Russel 

Turner j- 

Scott 

T. Pugh 
Shaw.... 

Salter - . 



wings. 



Adair. 



j- scrimmage. Collyer. 

Lewis. 



Henry ) 

Referee , Dr. Elder, M.A.A.A. 



McGILL vs. OTTAWA, 

The McGill First XV, left Montreal by the C.P R. 
Ottawa train on Saturday morning, Nov. 4th, to play 
the Ottawa City Club. McGill was represented by the 
same team that played agaiust Britannia, with the 
exception of Guthrie and Angus, who were replaced by 
Drum and Alley. The match was called for 2.30, but 
owing to delays did not commence until nearly 3 
o’clock, which made the time very short, as the boys 
had to leave for home at 4.30, necessitating a start from 
the grounds at 4 sharp. 



McGill won 
follows : — 

Ottawa. 


the 


toss, and the 


teams lined up as 

McGill. 


Shay 

Russell 


) 


. . full back 


f Leslie 


Young 

Fosberry 


i 




( McDougall 


Leigh 








McLean 


1 




f Rankin 


Ketch um 


1 




| Cowan 


Pulford 


1 




| Jacques 


Cameron 


\ 

1 






Dumoulin 




| Schwartz 


and another 


I 




Sparrow 


Clarke 


J 




„ Proderick 



Bradley 'j f Hamilton 

Moffatt - Scrimmage -■ Drum 

McDougall ) ( Alley 

To describe or criticize a game that lasted only forty- 
five minutes is rather hard, as the men did not get 
properly shaken down into their places. 

In the first half Ottawa secured a try, from a very 
apparent off-side piece of play, and a rouge, to one 
rouge obtained by McGill. Our men were just settling 
down to their work when time was called, 5-1. In the 
second half Ottawa secured another rouge, which was 
the last point taken ; from this to time the play was 
very even. Drum did splendid work in the scrimmage, 
heeling out with great accuracy, while our halves 
played a brilliant and unselfish game. Ottawa’s tack- 
ling was far superior to McGill’s, but the play of their 
back division was poor. In this half Trenholme got 
his collar-bone badly bruised, but pluckily played on to 
the finish 

The team felt quite at home, as a number of the 
Ottawa College boys turned out and encouraged them 
with the true old McGill yell. 

At four o’clock the whistle blew, and the team made 
a rush for the train which was just leaving as they got 
to the statio n. 

Mr. J. Smith gave every satisfaction as referee. 



CLASS REPORTS. 



LEGAL BRIEFS. 

Prof. — The father may administer reasonable correc- 
tion to a minor son who will not work. 

Sh — n. — But, Professor, the son might thrash the life 
out of the father. 

Prof. — Very true, the father takes that risk and may 
possibly take the thrashing into the bargain. 



To Mr. Alex Hall, Law ’93, the Faculty is indebted 
for the first draft of what may become a good faculty 
cry. The difficulty in procuring a really good one has 
been that neither “law” nor “order” could be en- 
croached on, and the one referred to approaches as nearly 
as possible to these requirements. Here it is : 

“ Law, Law, Law, 

Rhymes with jaw, 

Hip, Hip, Hurrah ! ” 

The only substantial objections to it that we see at 
first sight are : 

(a) The first line is alarmingly analagous to “ Caw, 
caw, caw.” 

(b) The final word of the second line is apt to cause 
a resurrection of antiquated notions of the lawyer’s real 
mission. 

(c) The last line is dangerously near to the fringe of 
order that encircles “ the great field of law ” — a single 
misplaced accent might precipitate the entire Faculty 
into the abyss of lawlessness. 



The Law student who, at the Academy on sports 
night, left his back seat to find a front one, and as a mat- 



68 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



ter of course remained standing throughout the evening, 
is about to frame a statute to be introduced into the 
Quebec Legislature at its next session, with a view to 
amending the law of Domicile, which, at present, he de* 
dares is “ a dead letter.” The new bill will propose to 
enforce the rule that “ when the domicile of choice is 
abandoned the person reverts to his original domicile ” 



Mr. Iiatcliette, Law ’91, and Messrs Hall, Johnston 
and Glass have given the Law Faculty the honor of 
their presence on one or more occasions of late. 



A Second year Law student has handed in the follow* 
ing item as a specimen of sophomore wit : 

Mr. Ha — tte visiting class is requested to make a 
speech, but d. dines. 

Sophomore (reproachfully) — ‘‘It’s a pretty hard 
thing when a ha — et cuts his own friends.” 



The following gentlemen were elected to represent 
the students in the Faculty of Law at the Conversazione 
held in the New Library last Tuesday enening : 

Law, ’94, Messrs. Walsh and Sawyer. 

Law ’95 “ Landry and Carmichael. 

Law ’96 “ Donahue, Doucet and Mitchell. 



The Moot Court held a session on Friday, 3rd Novem- 
ber. The subject was a commercial one, and was argued 
by Messrs. Devlin and Boyer for the Plaintiffs, and by 
Messrs. Carmichael and White for the Defendants. 
Dean Trenholme presiding ; judgment reserved. 

Counsel for the Defence (concluding) — We have shown 
clearly that the Plaintiffs are entirely mistaken in their 
contensions. 

The Judge - Counsel for the Plaintiff, do you wish 
to reply ? 

C. for Plant iff s — Yes, your honor, I want to reply 
to my opponent’s arguments, if any arguments have 
been adduced. I will now reply to their words. 



Prof . — Does anyone know if Prof. L — will be here 
to-night to deliver his lecture ? 

/ — n ’93 (Going out of Lecture room) — No, sir ! He 
has gone to Brome. 

Prof . — Oh ! then that will give me a chance to deliver 
my lecture. 

M- 11 . — Get out ! 

J—nl 93 skips. 

Prof . — Looks daggers. 

M- — 11 . — I did not mean that for you, sir. 

Prof. — I’m sure of that Mr.— No, gentlemen. 



On Friday evening, 3rd November, Dean Trenholme 
referred in sympathetic and highly complimentary 
terms to the distinguished services rendered by the late 
Sir John Abbott to this University while a professor in 
the Faculty of Law. 



“ Who got into the new library through the window ? 
Who proposed M — t — 11 ? Who got his hair cut ? Who 
can read French with an English accent ? 



THREE KINDS OF HOLDING! 

With shouts and cries and hurried rush 
The brawny athletes onward push. 

At last their course by force is stayed, 

Opponents strong defeats evade. 

The Ball is held ! 

Forensic eloquence resounds, 

And snores of sleeping judges drowns, 

The Jurist quotes from bulky tome 
With which he feigus to be at home 

So Coleridge held ! 

The lights are low, the music sweet, 

The moon scarce sees their cosy seat ; 

A maid in gauzy gown of white 
Sits by a youth, nor ’tempts a flight — 

Her hands are held ! 

Wydown. 

An eminent jurist and an able doctor were one evening 
discussing the question of the depravity ascribed to 
lawyers. The doctor said : “Well, members of your 
profession certainly do not make angels.” 

“No, perhaps not, certainly not so quickly as a mem- 
ber of your profession does.” 



D n Bros, report to the class reporter that their 

health is good at present. We cannot determine, all 
unaided as we are, whether their statement is inspired 
in view of the coming Faculty dinner, or to assure us 
that four dishes of ice-cream and cake to match had no 
deleterious effect last week. 



Found — The Law class reporter was found on Tues 
day night in the new Library building being presented 
to the Governor General and the Countess, and we feel 
relieved to know that he was kept out of mischief, and 
he has since handed in his class report. The business 
management of the Fortnightly call the attention of 
advertisers to this fact as an evidence of the value of 
the journal as an advertising medium. 



MEDICAL CLASS REPORTS. 

The first clinic was held in the Royal Victoria Hos- 
pital a week ago last Wednesday. A patient was 
brought up from the General, and there was a good 
opportunity for using the new electrical apparatus. The 
formal opening of the Royal Victoria is not to come off 
for some little time yet. 



It is rumored, in connection with the formal opening 
referred to, that the new song-book and the University 
pin are to be used for the first time on this occasion ; 
but we call upon everybody to repel this insinuation 
with the scorn it deserves. 



When a man meets with an accident on the street, 
the first thing the bystanders think is to pull his leg. 



The Silver Question : Have you paid your subscrip- 
tion ? 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



69 



Some free translations from the Classics : 
De mortius nil nisi bonum. 

Of the dead nothing is left but the bones. 
Finis coronat opus. 

The coroner finishes the job. 



Physician (to patient who has received some injury) 
— “ Now, tell me exactly where you were struck, 
please.” 

Patient — “ Sure, dochter darlint, at the corner av St. 
Catherine and Bleury.” 



It is reported that some freshman endeavored to in- 
flate the lungs through the foramen magnum. 



Hello, old man, what do you know about the head 
anyway ? 



It is a great bother moving trunks, isn’t it, boys ? 
Moral— Do not study aloud. 



Messrs. E. C. Hart and G. S. McCarthy represented 
the Faculty of Medicine at the Conversazione held to 
celebrate the opening of the new Library. 



Sports Night seems to have had a very strange in- 
fluence on the visual organs of some, causing an ecchy- 
mosed condition necessitating the use of green spectacles 
for days. 



Under what conditions is one dead body quieter than 
another ? 



“ What is this patient getting, nurse? ” 

“ Nothing sir.” 

“ Dear me, that will never do. Can’t have him get- 
ting well without medicine.” 



“ What causes this horrid smell in the room ? ” 
Third year student — “ Please sir, the freshmen, sir.” 



The Third year have a baseball team. 
Success to it. 



COMPARATIVE MEDICINE CLASS REPORTS. 

This department has been somewhat neglected, owing 
to the absence of the faculty editor ; but now that he 
has returned, the Vets will no doubt be heard from. 



The Final men have all returned, with the exception 
of Sherman Cleaves. It is said that he intends going 
to New York to graduate. 



“ What is the matter with Old McGill ? ” is a yell the 
boys have long been proud of. But the question came 
home to them in a new light the other night, when the 
students of the Veterinary College bid good-bye to two 
of their fellows who were departing for New York, 
where better advantages for the study of Comparative 
Medicine can be found. This makes three that have 
gone to New York this year, and the question naturally 
arises, where will it end ? It has become evident that 
if McGill wishes to maintain her standing in the 
veterinary world, she must provide her students with 
advantages equal to those of other colleges. Right 
well the boys may ask, ” What is the matter with Old 
McGill ?” 



At the last meeting of the Society for the study of 
Comparative Psychology, Mr. J. McGillivray took his 
seat as secretary amid loud applause. The opinion of 
the members is that he is the right man for the right 
place 



As you enter the hospital you are at once informed 
by the orator that silence must prevail. By way of 
suggestion we would advise those who enter to provide 
themselves with rubbers. 



The Freshmen have elected the following officers : — 
President, — J. C. Parker. 

Sec .-Treasurer, — J. A. Ness. 

Class Reporter,— Harry Dell. 

The class has thirteen names on the roll. An un- 
lucky number, to be sure, but let us hope that it will 
bring nothing but good luck to the boys. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

“ There is a red spot on your face.” 

“Oh ! that is ink-red-ulous.” 

Country aunt, after visiting her nephew at McGill 
— “ Yes, Jim’s getting j ust like a girl. He wears a gown, 
and he says that when he graduates he’ll get a bonnet.” 



The World’s Fair is closed, and over 200 children 
left on their hands. Here’s a chance for anyone to be- 
come the Father of his Country. 



The Sophs, of last year are keeping up their artless 
wholesale confidences of by gone times : — “ He took 
my hand, and in alow voice said ‘Adieu;’” that’s 
what one of our Juniors said. 



Lost: Somewhere between the Redpath Museum 
and the Outremont quarries, the head of a small ham- 
mer. Finder will be rewarded by returning it to. ..... 
Geologist, East Wing. 



70 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



From that central point, Convocation Day, many 
paths diverge, and the class of ’93 is scattered widely. 

Miss Fairclougli is pursuing her studies in Philadel- 
phia, having entered on a post graduate course through 
the winning of a handsome scholarship. 

Miss Seymour and Miss Jackson are also studying, 
but farther afield, having gone together to Dresden. 
Later advices say that these ladies have been attacked 
by a malady, somewhat peculiar to Canadians in Ger- 
many, called Himming, which nothing but a return to 
Canada will cure. Thej r are expected to start for 
home soon. 



Blowpipists are in a critical condition ; they have 
caught the copper fever. You would not have thought 
so had you seen them blowing for two hours in the vain 
endeavor to find one single bead of that precious metal. 
Then to be told you had not roasted enough, and 
would have to repeat the process ! The effect was 
almost fatal. 



ARTS NOTES. 

The Students in Arts have for a long while considered 
themselves invincible in debate, chiefly because they 
have had the Literary pretty much to themselves 
hitherto; but if Law, Medicine, and Comparative Medi- 
cine have many more debaters of the stamp of Mullin, 
Cruikshanks and Solandt, the Arts men will have to 
look to their laurels. 



Mrs. Alexander Johnson gave a very enjoyable “ At 
Home ” on the evening of Saturday, October 28th, to 
the students of the Third and Fourth years. The men 
seem to highly appreciate these kindnesses on the part 
of our professors and their wives. 



The annual u scrap” in the Chemistry room was a 
little later than usual this year, but none of the old time 
vigor seemed to have been lost on that account, as 
sundry torn gowns and collars testify. Our professors 
seem to consider, and justly so, we think, that these 
“ scraps ” are a relic of barbarism. 



The ushers for the occasion of the opening of the new 
Library building were chosen from the Fourth year. 
Those chosen were : Messrs. Day, Boyd, Graham (A.), 
Ireland, Barlow, Fraser, Ogilvy, Duclos, Garrett and 
Lew.s. 

The representatives of the Fourth year at the Con- 
versazione were Messrs. A. Graham, President : and L. 
Boyd, Sec ; while the Third year were represented by 
Messrs. Hickson and Macintosh, and the Second year 
bv Messrs. Robertson and Turner. 



Professor (busily engaged in disentangling some 
threads needed in an experiment) — “ This could be 
done, I imagine, more expeditiously by one accustomed 
to do up back hair.” 

Chorus of Juniors.— ” Go down and give him a hand, 
S h.” 



There is at least one Junior who is not in love with 
the method of pronunciation of Latin in vogue in the 
College. He declares that if Julius Caesar had heard 
his famous despatch from Zela read “ way nee, weedee, 
weakea,” he would have had a fit of the ” falling sick- 
ness ” and expired on the spot. 



Our reading-room is again well supplied with period- 
icals of all kinds, affording a pleasant place for an 
occasional hour’s reading 



The Students in Arts are anxiously waiting for the 
time to come when they will again have access to the 
books in the Library. The closing of the Library has 
seriously interfered with their studies, — indeed, work 
along certain lines is at a standstill. Doubtless, the 
elegance and comfort afforded by the new building will 
amply compensate for the inconveniences under which 
Professors and Students are now suffering. 



“ Corporations have no soul.” Corporations are not 
remarkable for delicacy and consideration in their deal- 
ing with the matters of business which come before 
them, but we think that the civic authorities have 
abused their privilege in this respect by placing one of 
their patrol “ huts ” in such close proximity to the 
building designed for the use of the Donaldas. Their 
lack of taste in this instance is in a measure atoned 
for by their wisdom in placing another “ hut ” so near 
the Theological College on McTavisli Street. 



Most of the Juniors have either joined or expressed 
their intention to join the Classical Club. The officers 
intend to do all in their power to make each meeting 
very interesting, and bespeak the hearty co-operation 
of all the Students. 



We learn with regret that one of our graduates has 
been so affected by the reports of oppression by the agents 
of the South African Co., in Mashonaland, that the 
other day he was seized with the idea that he was a 
Zulu warrior, and, calling upon his fellow-students, 
he charged a fence near by with a surveyor’s picket. 

His charge resulted in considerable damage to — to 

the picket. 



It took all the patriotism one could muster to keep 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



7i 



from “ getting mad,” on Wednesday 1st inst., when, 
after having waited for an hour or so at the door of the 
Engineering Building to give the Governor-General 
and his estimable Lady a loyal and royal send-off, we 
were informed that they were having a quiet lunch 
inside. No wonder the boys bounced the coachman, 
and left. 



The awkward squad at the gymnasium is gra. 
dually getting into form, thanks to the help of the 
popular instructors ; but there is a great deal of un 
necessary flourishing of arms and legs in several of the 
exercises, while some have not yet learned when their 
right hand is “ up” or their left foot is “ diagonally 
back.” Visitors will please not bring any bouquets 
yet a while. 



After the very able description of the Geological trip 
to Lachute by the contributor to “ Feathers from the 
East Wing,” it is not necessary to go into particulars. 
It must not, however, be supposed that we were in- 
terested only in Geology , for we learned one or two things 
which may be of use to us when next we go to La- 
chute. Geologically stated, they are: that the beef- 
steak has the appearance of a dried up bull of “ 17 
summers sp. gr., same as lead ; lustre, decidedly 
greasy ; color, black ; hardness, seven or same as 
quartz. Beside, it possesses a peculiar property of 
making you feel as if life were not worth living. As for 
the cigars, they are for all practical purposes infusible. 



SCIENCE JOTTINGS. 

The young lady said ‘‘good night,” and the ner- 
vous freshmen in gteat relief replied “ thank you ” 

The Science Glee Club is well on its feet, and this 
year will be a stronger organization than before. 
Practices are held every Wednesday afternoon at five. 



Two members of ’94 at a recent entertainment were 
disputing in the hall, over the right to see a certain 
charming damsel home. While they were still argu- 
ing the point with all the subtility of Fourth year men, 
a freshman stepped in and carried off the prize. 



“ This space is reserved for the 2nd year class 
reporter.” 



A meeting of the four years was held on Oct. 30th, 
and the advisability of asking permission to hold a 
Faculty ‘‘At home” discussed. The meeting was 
strongly in favor of the idea, and the secretary was 
instructed to interview the Faculty on the subject. 



City Freshie . — Does the city water disagree with 
you ? 

Country Do. — No, I drink it with impunity. 

City Do . — I generally drink mine with whiskey'. 



The field work is over for the season ; e Second 
year seem glad that their rodding is finished. 



Our Third year students feel that they are really 
getting more lectures than they have paid for. 
Rumor says that one with a particularly tender con- 
science went to the secretary’s office lately and volun- 
teered an additional $50 fee. 



The little boy' who amused himself at the expense of 
another little boy ? , by r telling him that the carriages of 
the Governor General and suite constituted a funeral, 
should be reminded that funerals are too grav ; a 
matter to make fun of. 



The reading room is adorned by what may be the 
nucleus of a valuable botanical collection. 



The Fourth y^ear can afford to fall asleep at lectures, 
and treat rolkcall with sublime indifference. 



O.ES.W. (from the far West): — ‘‘ The mine was 
timbered with eh — ” 

Professor. — What is that in English, please ? 



The Governor- General drove up on the morning of 
Nov. 1st, in order to go through the Science buildings. 
The undergraduates were out in full force, and wel- 
comed him with cheers and “ For he’s a jolly good 
fellow,” as he was going into the testing laboratory, 
after which a rush was made for the top flat. 

With Beckett at the piano and Edwards leading, the 
Students gave Lord Aberdeen a vigorous rendering of 
the national anthem, “the Boots” and other choice 
selections. His Excellency made a few happy re- 
marks, beginning by referring to the genuine patriot- 
ism of the students, and going on to say how beneficial 
a University course was, not so much for the 
knowledge acquired as for the character formed. 

Lady Aberdeen was presented w th a bouquet of 
flowers by Mr. W. A. Duff on behalf of the Students 
of the Faculty. 



72 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



OLLA PODRIDA. 

In the western part of Greece lies the regions of 
Acarnania and Altolia. A picturesque land is this, 
with its pleasant valleys and its lofty mountains. 
Eastward towards the blue Aegan stretch the spurs of 
the Pindus range, rising to their crowning glory in 
the famous Olympus, the home of gods and heroes. To 
the West, the sea again, with its many islands, reposing 
upon a living sea of liquid turquoise. Here lie, Santa 
Maura, Ithaca and Cephalonia, and further to the 
north, Corfu, islands famed in myth and history. In 
Ithaca was the home of the patient Penelope, and to it 
returned Ulysses after his twenty years of wandering. 
Indeed, every wave could tell its story, as the “ many- 
tvvinkling smile” of ocean breaks upon these lovely 
shores. Even the shells upon the beach seem to hum 
a song of days long passed away, and the wind as it 
gently touches the tree-top whispers a tale of former 
greatness. In these regions, in the bosom of the 
Pindus range, and upon the slopes of the mighty 
Olympus, was the home of a form of poetry, which, 
while not aspiring to be called a school, yet for certain 
characteristics is unparalleled in the history of any 
age or nation. These poems are the so-called Klephtic 
ballads. 

The capture of Constantinople in 1453 by the Turks 
did not give them the complete mastery over Greece. 
Liberty still reigned in the lofty peaks of Olympus, 
Pindus and Acarnania. Many dauntless spirits, 
scorning to submit to the invader, and relying upon 
their trusty weapons, took to the hills, and with strong 
hand maintained their independence. To this day we 
have their descendants in the Wallachians or Rou- 
manians, who still inhabit these districts. 

These men went by the name of Klephts, Armatoles, 
or what we might term brigands. To them we owe the 
Klephtic ballads which are unique in • the realm of 
poesy. A marked feature of their character was an 
inveterate hatred for the Turk, resembling in intensity 
that of the Helots for the Spartan, of whom it was said 
that they would gladly eat a Spartan raw. The 
Klepht was imbued also with an intense love for 
Nature, even in her sternest and wildest forms. For 
him every cave was a home, every hill suggested 
Liberty ; every mountain torrent, as it leaped from 
ledge to ledge to break in sparkling mist in the valley 
below, recalled to him the stirring tale of Salarius and 
Marathon, and inspired him to emulate the doughty 
deeds of old. For him the very birds had joyous songs 
of freedom. In the winter the snow was his couch ; 
and when the swallow, flying landward, brought the 
good news of returning spring, “ starry-kirtled ” Night 
gave him sweet dreams of peace and happier days to 
come. 

To be alone with Nature, to be free as a bird, im- 
petuous as a mountain torrent, was the “ all and in all ” 
to a Klepht. As a consequence, the ballads which they 
produced are pervaded by an intense realism and a 
constant love for natural objects The swallow, the 
nightingale, the row, all inspire the strains of their 
untutored harp. Though rude, the style is vigorous, 



poetic and often lofty, and strikes a sympathetic chord 
in the hearts of all who hear them ; the language is 
rugged but always robust, and the ideas are often 
couched in striking metaphor. The poems, too, are 
faithful pictures of the stirring events, amongst which 
they took their rise. Rugged as they are, like the hills 
from the heart of which they sprang, they tower, in 
many ways, with a weird beauty high above similar 
productions of any other language. 

The following poem, entitled “The Klepht’s Fare- 
well,” illustrates some of their points very well : 

“ O mother mine, in Turkish chains a slave I will not serve. 

I cannot, will not, for my throbbing heart forbids the deed ; 

I’ll take my guu, I’ll go and join a roving band of Klephts, 

To make a home amid the hills, to dwell on lofty peaks, 

To have the woods for my companions, my discourse with the 
beasts, 

To have the snow for coverlet, and for my couch the crags, 

To have my daily dwelling-place among the robber lads. 

I’ll flee, — yet, mother, do not weep, thy blessing o’er me breathe, 
And we will pray, my mother dear, that Turks in hosts I slay ; 
But plant the lovely rosebush and the dark carnation, too, 

With sugar and with musk, be sure to sprinkle them each day ; 
So long, my mother, as they bloom and put forth beauteous 
flowers, 

Thy son’s not dead but with strong arm is fighting ’gainst the 
Turk. 

But, should the baleful day arrive, a day of evil hap, 

Aud should the two together fade, the blossoms pale aud droop, 
My fate I shall have met, so wear for me dark robes of grief.” 
Since then twelve years and fifteen months have dragged their 
weary round. 

In which the flowers have blossomed and the buds appeared ; 

But one fair morning in the spring, upon the first of May, 

When joyful birds were singing and the face of Heaven smiled, 
The lightning’s glance, the thunder’s roar, a sable pall creeps 
o’er, 

The dark carnation sighed for grief, the lovely rosebush wept. 
Then both together withered and the flowers drop down 
beneath ; 

With them the hapless mother fell a lifeless heap to earth. 

Here we see that intense hatred of the Turk which 
animated the Klepht and his thirst for freedom. The 
love of Nature is well brought out, and the poem is full 
of simple pathos. 

One of the best-known and most striking of these 
ballads is “The Burial of Demos : ” 

I he sun was setting in the West when Demos gave his orders ; 

“ M y children, hasten to the brook, and eat your bread at even 
And thou, Lamprakes, nephew mine, come take thy seat before 
me. 

Here ! take the arms that now I wear, and be a valiant captain ; 
And y'e, my children, take my sword, deseited by its master, 

Aud cut green branches from the trees, and spread a couch to 
rest Die. 

And hither bring the holy man that he may haste to shrive me 
that I may tell him all the sins I ever have committed, 

While thirty years an Armatoleand twenty-five a robber 
But now the conqueror, Death, has come, and I for death am 
ready, 

Build me a broad and spacious tomb, and let the mound be 
lofty, 

That I may stand erect, and fire, then stoop and load the mus- 
ket ; 



73 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



And on the right hand of the tomb a window leave wide open, 
That swallows iu their flight may come, the early spring 
announcing, 

And nightin gales of lovely May in morning song may tel 
me!” 

Lord Byron, who was a great admirer of Romaic 
ballads, has translated one which was a great favorite 
with the Athenians : 

I enter thy garden of roses, 

Beloved and fair Haidee, 

Each morning where Flora reposes, 

For surely I see her in thee. 

O Lovely ! thus low I implore thee, 

Receive this fond truth from my tongue, 

Which utters its song to adore thee, 

• Yet trembles for what it has sung ; 

As the branch, at the bidding of Nature, 

Adds fragrance and fruit to the tree, 

Through her eyes, through her every feature, 

Shines the soul of the young Haidee. 

But the loveliest garden grows hateful 
When Love has abandoned the bowers ; 

Bring me hemlock — since mine is ungrateful. 

That herb is more fragrant than flowers. 

The poison, when pour’d from the chalice, 

Will deeply imbitter the bowl ; 

But when drunk to escape from thy malice, 

The draught shall be sweet to my soul. 

Too cruel ! in vain I implore thee 
My heart from these horrors to save 

Will naught to my bosom restore thee ? 

Then open the gates of the grave. 

As the chief who to combat advances 
Secure of his conquest before, 

Thus thou, with those eyes for thy lances 
Hast pierced through my heart to its core. 

Ah, tell me, my soul, must I perish 
By pangs which a smile would dispel ? 

Would the hope which thou once had’st me cherish 
For torture repay me too well ? 

Now sad is the garden of roses, 

Beloved but false Haidee ! 

There Flora all wither’d reposes, 

And mourns o’er in the absence with me. 

In these poems we can note that love of ornament, 
contrast and color which is so striking a feature in 
the Celtic ballads. Besides this, compared with the 
other ballad-poetry of Europe, there is a certain simi- 
larity in subject, style and motive, a circumstance 
which is to be explained by the fact that the natural 
man is the same wherever we find him, and that all bal 
lads are a spontaneous outburst from the full hearts of 
a primitive people. As Lang well puts it : — 

“ Ballads sprang from the heart of the people, and 
flit from age to age, from lip to lip of shepherds, peas- 
ants, nurses, of all the class that continues nearest to 
the state of natural men. They make music with the 
splash of the fisherman’s oars, and the hum of the spin- 
ning-wheel, and keep time with the steps of the plough- 
man as he drives his team. The country seems to have 
aided men in their making, the bird’s note rings in 
them, and he has lent her whispers, the stream its mur- 



murs, the village bell its twinkling tune. The whole 
soul of the peasant class breathes in their burden, as 
the great sea resounds in the shells cast up on the 
shores. Ballads are a voice from secret places, from 
silent peoples and old times long dead ; and as such 
they stir us in a strangely intimate fashion to which 
artistic verse can never attain ” 

A. G. N. 



THESE BE JOKES. 

The following is related of a great but pompous 
American lawyer by a young man who placed in his 
hands for collection a promissory note for $50. 

The lawyer had been a great friend of the family, and 
had often told this young man to come to him at any 
time he was in trouble, and he would try and see him 
through. 

A few days later, he received a word from the great 
lawyer to come and see him, which he did at once and 
was ushered into the lawyer’s private and commodious 
office. 

While the client was looking around in an awed 
manner, overwhelmed by the grand scale on which the 
offices were furnished, the lawyer commenced : 

“ We got your little matter settled without any trou- 
ble, my dear boy ; and I am very glad to have been of 
service to you. As for the question of our fees in this 
matter, we will charge you a mere nominal sum. You 
of course understand our charges are merely a question 
of professional etiquette, so just receipt this in full,” 
handing him at the same time $20. “You know, my 
dear boy, I knew you as a child, and have watched you 
grow up. Your father and I were always intimate 
friends, and I always had the deepest respect for your 
dear mother now gone.” 

The client stood up quick, breathed hard, clutched 
the $20, and thought of his fifty dollar note as he said 
in an earnest manner ; — “ I thank Heaven you didn’t 
know my grandfather !” 



It is a cold wet night, and the rain conies whistling 
down in gusts impelled by the raw wind, and simply 
chills old Hardfist to whatever there is of marrow in 
his dried old bones, as with snarling lips and soured 
temper he steers his way to the miserly lodging where 
he exists. • 

Suddenly, from a secluded street corner, a miserably 
wretched figure glides out upon him, covered with a 
greasy looking coat, which is only out-done in shabbi- 
ness by the battered remains of a silk hat. He button- 
holes old Hardfist there in the rain, and commences his 
begging story with the preface : 

“ Excuse me, friend, but I have seen better days, 
and was reduced ” 

“ Seen better days,” snarls old Hardfist, starting on 
again ; “ deuce take it. man, what do you stop me to tell 
me that for, it’s one of the worst days I’ve seen this 
season, and I have no umbrella,” he adds as a cold 
rain-drop lights inside his shirt collar. 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



74 



Passing up Sanguinet Street last Sunday afternoon, 
I saw a number of the students at Mount St. Louis Col- 
lege playing at football. In the course of their play, 
the ball, by accident, was kicked over into the street, 
where it was picked up by a passer-by, and thrown up 
to a student who had perched on the top of the wall, 
and was whistling, appropriately enough, “ After the 
Ball.” 



Ifteatnng Notes. 



Students, teachers and physicians get Turkish baths at half price, 
ish Bath Institute in this city. Travellers say that nowhere in Europe can you get 
a better bath. . 

Medical men generally s-re now recommending the Turkish Bath for the genera 
health, and more especially for rheumatism, coughs and colds. It is a very pieus- 
ant remedy. 

Gentlemen have the early mornincr, afternoon and evening h°urs. The bath *s 
conveniently situated, beiog 4 on St. Monique at the foot of McGill Co g 



“I assure you, gentlemen,” said a convict, an ex-po- 
litician, upon entering the prison, “ the place has 
sought me and not I the place. My own affairs really 
demand all my time and attention, and I may truly 
say that mj r selection to fill this position was an entire 
surprise. Had I consulted my own interests, I should 
have peremptorily declined to serve ; but as I am in 
your hands, I see no other course but to submit,” and 
he submitted.— Green Bag. 



EMMANUEL 

CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 

Corner St. Catherine and Stanley Streets, 

REV. J. B. SILCOX, Pastor. 

SERVICES SUNDAYS: ir am. and 7 p.m. Sunday 
School and Bible Class, 3 p.m 

A cordial welcome to students at all meetings. 



F OR Surgical and Veterinary Instruments and Chemical Apparatus, you will find it profitable 
to visit our showrooms. Our prices are low and our goods of best quality. No trouble 
to show our stock. College and Hospital Supplies a specialty 



LYMAN, SONS & CO. 

380 to 386 St. Paul Street, - - /Montreal 




THE SWIMMING BATH IS 80 FEET LONG AND 34 FEET WIDE 

The water is kept at an average temperature of 75 degrees 

PRICES OF ADMISSION — Hath and Swim, 25 cents, including towels and trunks. 
Turkish Bath, 75 cents. Stu ents, Teachers, Physicians and Clergymen, 50 cents. 

To reach the Bath, visitors can take any car and get transferied to Craig Street Line, which 
brings you to the door. For further particulars, etc., apply to 

Telephone No 7204 MR. KRUSE* Manager 



5eason 1893*4 



I beg to t announce that my stock, consisting of 
^ 1 ^ Suitings, Meltons, Beavers, FRIEZES, is now 

complete 

Special Discount to Students. 



f 



Our Specialty — Dress Suits, best Cloth and Workmanship, 
Silk Lining, $36.00. • 



WM. FARQUHARSON, 

Merchant Tailor, 

inspection invited. 135 St. Peter Street. 



Indian *pea Depot 




114 MANSFIELD STREET, 

(Corner St. Catherine Street.) 



p ure Darjeeling Teas 



DIRECT FROM THE HIMALAYAS 

Sold by the 1 lb., also in 5 lb., 20 lb., 40 lb. 
and 80 lb. boxes, at prices to suit every one. 

.... IMPORTED BY ... . 

W. C. & C. C. LcMESURIER 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



75 



NOTICE — To the Committee of the McGill Fortnightly. . . 



The members of this Committee and of the other College pub- 
lications are reminded that DGsbarats dr 1 Co. execute Photo 
Engravings in the best style, suitable for Magazine illustrating 
The supplement issued in the McGill Fortnightly at the end 
of last season was a fair sample of their work. 

Telephone 1887 73 ST. JAMES STREET 



THE CELEBRATED . . . 




IS THE BEST GOODS OBTAINABLE FOR; ALL THE 
PURPOSES IT IS NEEDED TO SERVE. 



The COOK'S FRIEND is retailed hf ail Good Grocers. 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

w. d. McLaren, 

MONTREAL. 




TO ATHLETES. 




Jerseys, Caps and 

Stockings, 
Running Shirts 
and Pants, 

English Spiked Shoes, 
Gymnasium Suits, 
etc., etc. 

Albert Demers, 

338 

St. James Street. 

McGill Crests 
Worked on Jerseys. 





FINE FURS 

CHOICEST QUALITIES ! 
LATEST FASHIONS ! 
and POPULAR PRICES ! 

Cor. Notre Dame and St. Lambert Streets. 




Hlicro. Accessories 
Clinical Thermometers 
Hypodermic Syringes 
Laryngoscopic mirrors 
Opihalmoscopes 
Stethoscopes 






Specula of all patterns 

Sculls and Skeletons 

Aspirators, Batteries 

Pocket Gases, etc., etc. 

SI UutlN 1 s’ OUTFITS A SPECIALTY 



REICHERT’S 

MICROSCOPES 

One of the finest lines extant, for 
which we are sole agents for the 
Dominion of Canada. . • . • 




E have a very extensive line guaranteed first quality 
and finish on exhibition in our showrooms, . . 



15 PHILLIPS SQUARE 



at very reasonabl e prices. 

PATERSON & FOSTER 



. . WHOLESALE AND RETAIL . . 

Surgical and Dental Instrument Dealers 

MONTREAL 




McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



76 




STUDENTS’ HEADQUARTERS 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

All the Books required for the 




Th e GE ORGE gISHOP 

Engraving a nd Printing Co. 



COLLEGE CL UB AND 
SOCIETY^ PRIXTIXG 

169 St. Sanies Street 




PROGRAMMES 

MENUS 

INVITATIONS 

tickets 



The American Fur Store 

wholesal e panufacfurtng furriers and RET — 

Nos. 27 and 29 St. Lawrence Street 



BRANCH STORE: 

2257 St. Catherine St-, ^^IcGMl'co'llege Ave. 

Special Discounts to Students 



Fluide d’Hiver or Winter Fluid 

An effectual remedy for chapped hands, lips and all roughness of 
the skin, which it renders delicately smooth and soft. It is also a grate- 
ful application after shaving. 



Sir Morrell Mackenzie’s Inhalant 

A most effectual remedy for Cold in the head, Catarrh, Hay Fever 
and Influenza. 



. . FOR SALE BY . . 

J. A. HARTE, Chemist 

1780 NOTRE DAME STREET and 

2352 ST. CATHERINE STREET, Cor. Metcalfe 



Estab lished 1859. 

lELZEnsTR/^ JEb. O-ZRA/X", 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

122 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a specialty. 

Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers supplied with 
Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale Prices. 

Orders solicited fro n Country Physicians. Mail orders>ttended to with dispatch 



FACULTIES OF McCILL. 

DOWN TOWN STORE: I UPTOWN STORE: 

232 ST. JAMES ST. I 2365 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

MORTON, PHILLIPS & CO. 

STATIONERS, 

Blank book makers 

AND PRINTERS. 

1755 and 1757 Notre Dame St., 




moittir.ieia.il. 





McGILL FORTNIGHTLY 



77 



JAMES SHEARER 

ST. GABRIEL LOCKS 

Manufacturer of Doors, Sashes, Blinds, Mouldings, and 
all kinds of House and Steamboat work. 

Sawn Lumber of all kinds Always on Hand. 

Point St. Cha 

E. J. Maxwell & Co., Lumber Dealers, 

725 CRAIG STREET, 

I>ressocl and Undressed Pine Lumber, Maliogany, Black 
Walnut, Cherry Quartered and Plain Oak, 

Sycamore Poplar, Birch, Maple and other Hardwoods, 
Veneers, Dowels, etc., etc. 

Agents for Minton’s Ornamental Tiles, 

Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Coy., etc., etc. 

JOHN PAXTONS CO. "'lls 0 ” 6 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

OILS, MACHINERY GREASE 



SHEARER & BROWN 

Manufacturers of Building, Bridge and Boat Timber 

Dealers in Square and Flat Pine, Hemlock, Tamarac, 
Spruce, Cedar, etc. Ohio Square W :dte Oak always in Stock 
and Cut to Order. 

les, Montreal. 

GREAT BARGAINS IN BOOKS 

STANDARD - WORKS - AT - REDUCED - PRICES 

EACH SET NEATLY BOXED 

Plutarch’s Lives of Illustrious Men . 3 vols. f cloth $2.50 reduced from $5*°° 

Lord Lytton’s Works 13 0 t( 5.00 “ 13.00 

Geikie’s Hours With the Bible 3 “ 3.00 “ 4.00 

Shakespeares Works 7 “ .7.50 “ 12.00 



F. E. PHELAN, 2331 St. Catherine Street. 




IRON FOUNDER 



AND MICA AXLE GREASE. 

61 Common Street, - - Montreal. 

GEO. W. REED, 

Utetat and dntucl Roofing 

ASPHALT FLOORING FOR BASEMENTS. 



19 to 29 Dalhousie St., 

MOISTTBE AL. 

ESTIMATES FURNISHED. 



Nos 783 and 785 Craig Street, 

MONTREAL. 



All Orders will receive Personal Attention. 



ROBIN & SADLER 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

Oak Tamied Leather Belting 

MONTREAL and TORONTO, 

Our Belting in use throughout McGill Technical 

School. 



Masonry Contractors, 

2467 St. Catherine St., Montreal. 

ARTISTS " " " 

— USE ONLY — 

THE CELEBRATED OIL and WATER COLORS 

Manufactured by WINSOR & NEWTON, Artists Colormen to 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN ANDI ROYAL FAMILY. 

All Dealers have them 

A. RAMSAY & SON. Agents for Canada. MONTREAL. 

GK <Sc J~. ZESIPHLIZEST 

Box Manufacturers 

AND 

. . Lumber Merchants 

Office, 126 Duke Street. Montreal. 



SAMUEL UOGEItS & CO., DUNCAN ROBERTSON, 

TORONTO. MONTREAL. 

THE SAMUEL ROGERS CO. 

LUBRICATING :0ILS: ILLUMINATING 

(lii Gold Medals la 0, years.) 

GREASES. NAPHTHA. 

Ben Telephone 9i9o. 92 McGill St., Montreal. 

CEO. S. KIMBER, 

HOUSE. SIGN AND FRESCO PAINTED. 

All kinds of Paper-Hangings In Stock. 

2466 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Bell Telephone No. 3287. Montreal. 



Passenger and Freight ANY DESIRED MOTOR. 




78 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY, 



Royal Insurance Co.Mcanada 

OF ENGLAND ASSURANCE COMPANY. 

I ESTABLISHED 1847. 

CAP1TAL Liab5lit y of Sh^holdoFsUnlimi od | head office , Hamilton , ont, 

r eser v e' funds. 7.7. .77777 ; .7.’ .'.7 ; ; ; ; ; ;;;;;; ; ; ; ; ; 

Investments in Canada for protection of Canadian Policy-Holders (c ^ I Capital and Fuads over 13 0^ 0,000 Dollars, 

ton eminent) exceeds gi ,ooo,ooo. Every description of property insured at moderate I ait mo or-o 

rates of premium. Life Assurance granted in all the most approved forms. | Annual Income OV 6 r $2,250,000. 

Head Office for Canada : 

ROYAL INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL I President, a. g. ramsay 

W. TATLEY, Chief Agent. | J. W. MARLING, Manager. 

E. Hurtubise, ) Special Agents James Allin, I Special Agents 

of G. R. Robertson English Dept. | p r0V| QQgh ec Branch, - MONTREAL. 

BEAVER LIME | edward l. bond 

PASSENGER STEAMERS 

Sailing Weekly Between I jfil'C illld Mai'illl' 41ll(lfmTiter 

MONTREAL AND LIVERPOOL . 

during the summeb and | No. 30 St. Francois Xavier Street 

BOSTON AND LIVERPOOL 

DURING THE WINTER 

LAr Ontario, J300 Tons, Capt. Campbell. Fake Superior, 5S0« Tons, Capt. Stewart. I CHIEF ACENT FOR CANADA 

l>ake Huron, oOOO Tons, Capt. Caivjr. Lake Winnipeg, 3500 Tons, Capt. Hcmwaii. I T> •j.’ 1 A Ti • lur • t /-m 

Th _ t fake Aipigmi.oooo ions, Capt. Tayior. British and J: oreiga Marine Insurance Co, 

^ he Steamers of this I me have been built specially for the Atlantic Passenger I ^ 

raue. I he state rooms are very large and have the best of ventilation. SlIDOrior I TI 1 * TV it • t 

Reliance Marine Insurance Company 

Lerths can be secured on application to the Montreal Office or any local Agent I 

For further information apply to b I LOCAL AGENT- 

H. E. MURRAY, General Manager, 4 Custom House Square, j r t * n /7 -,. , 

Moasra'iaBA. 1 ,. I London Assurance Company (Fire) 

McCASKILL, DOUGALL & CO. I _ Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1855 . 

_ _ I Capital, all Paid up . . $2,000,000 1 Rest, . . . «i i-.n 1 . 0/1 

Successors to D. A. McCASKILL & CO. I 1 •'PMoO.OOO 

HEAD OFFICE, MONTREAL. 

Manufacturers 0 / Fine UnDMICL'CC I FI O fl M r I DIRECTORS : 

VMKnLiriri 51 H T fcl 11 \ I J° HN H - R - Molson, President. R. W. Shepherd, Vice-President. 

■ nilllll/IlL.lS, UHI nlly [ S. H. Ewing, W. M. Ramsay, Henry Archbald, Samuel Finley, W. M. Macpherson. 

F. Wolferstan Thomas, General Manager. 

I P/\| ADC I A. D. Durnford, Inspector. H Lockwood, Assistant Inspector. 

riMM (i) 1K,T I ,, BRANCHES, -Aylmer, Ont., Brockville, Calgary, N.W.T., Clinton Exeter 

C|1|YI UvLvUO I Hamilton, London, Meaford, Montreal, Morrisburg, Norwich, Ottawa Owen SnunV 

Ridgetown Smtth’s Falls, Sorel, P.Q., St. Thomas, Ont., Toronto Toromo 
Junction, Irenton, Waterloo, Ont , Winnipeg, Woodstock, Ont. 0 

MnNTDFAl t AGENTS IN EU RO P E. — London . — Parrs Banking Co and The Allianr^ 

. . . MONTREAL ... I Bank (Limited); Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie & Co.; Messrs. Morton, Rose & Co 

Liverpool - The Bank of Liverpool. Cork - Munster and Leinster Bank; Limited’ 
Paris. Credit Lyonnms, Antwerp, Belgium .-La Banqued' Anvers. Hamburg 

SUPPLIERS TO EVERY RAILROAD . I AGENTsIl? UNIl'ED STATES . — New York. — Mechanics’ National Bank 

COMPANY AND CAR SHOP 

IN THE DOMINION J [ of the United States. . . P P 

Collections made in all parts of the Dominion, and returns promptly remitted at 
lowest rates of exchange. Commercial Letters of Credit and Travellers’ ( 'ir. 7 , 1 ^ 
Letters issued, available in all parts of the World. ravellers Circular 

WARD CIV KING * SOW | HENDERSON BROS. 

Manufacturers of I lumbtl' Hml ®h„bfr 

SteCLTTL Sccw CLn.ll JRlcLTli' >g jditlls 

Spence s Celebrated Hot Water Heaters, the I 344 william street 

Dry Kindling Wood always in Stock 



ALSO STEAM RADIATORS, 

STABLE FITTINGS, and the 
NEW YORK SAFETY DUMB WAITER 



Hi R 



Established 

1850 



637 {CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 



IVES & CO. 

Architectural Iron Works 

Artistic Wrought Iron Works 

The BUFFALO HOT WATER HEATERS 

Queen Street, 



General Founders, etc. 



MONTREAL 



McGILL FORTNIGHTLY. 



79 




CURNEY, MASSEY CO. ltd 

Wholesale Manufacturers of 

HOT WATER HEATERS 

HOT AIR FURNACES PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 

RADIATORS, REGISTERS LOCKS AND SCALES 

STEEL RANGES 

Boilers guaranteed more economical and quicker circulation than any made 

“ HOW BEST TO HEAT OUR HOMES,” sent free on application, mentioning 
this paper. 

Address : 



ESTABLISHED ISO!) 



North British and Mercantile 

INSURANCE COMPANY 



gstraorbinara JBirtrtora. 

The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Strathmore i The Right Hon. Lord Wolverton 
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Aberdeen | The Hon. Lord Well wood 
The Right Hon. Lord Forbes 



Invested in Canada, nearly - $5,000,000 

Total Assets, - 52,053,710 



—a— Head Office for Canada at Montreal 

THOMAS DAVIDSON, 

Managing Director 



The Liverpool X London X Globe 

INSURANCE CO. 

AVAILABLE ASSETS, $58,169,135. 

One of the Largest Insurance Companies in the World 

All business accepted at most favorable rates and 
losses liberally adjusted ..... 

<3-. F. C. SMITH, 

(CHIEF AGENT CANADA BRANCH) 

16 PLACE D’ARMES, - - MONTREAL- 



FIRE IwSSlATION 

(LIMITED) 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 



Insure your Property with the_ 



Phoenix Insurance Co . HARTFORD 



TIME TRIED 



Head Office for Canada, 



MONTREAL. 



CANADIAN BOARD: 

Sir Donald A. Smith, K.C.M.G., Chairman. 
Sandford Fleming, Esq., C.M.G., ) _ ni 

Robert Benny, Esq. J 



A. DEAN, 

Inspector. 



JOHN KENNEDY, 

Manager for Canada. 



and FIRE TESTED 



GERALD HART, 

General Manager for Canada 

114 ST. JAMES STREET 



ESTABLISHED 1872. 

-Guarantee Gomp’y 

OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BONDS OF SURETYSHIP 

Head Office, - Montreal. 

B. RAWLINGS, Vice-President and Managing Director 



TORONTO BRANCH 

M&ll BaUcUBff*. MEDLAND A JONES, Agent!) 




Mem Assurance Co. 

OF LONDON, ENGLAND. 

Branch Office for Canada— 1724 Notre 
Dame Street, Montreal. 



INCOME AND FUNDS 1892. 



Capital and Acumuiated Funds 

Annual Revenue from Fire and Life Premiums and from Interest upon 

Invested Funds 

Deposited with the Dominion Government for security of Canadian 

Poticy Holders 



$35.73o*ooo 

5,495.000 

200,00 



ROBERT W. TYRE, 

Manager for Canada. 
City Agent: BROWNING BrltishlEmpire Building. 



