Vol . XIII 



No. 10 









152 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ii.3DVOCiiTE S , 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 



IjOBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. CTJLIMIIES STREET, 

MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, &c. f 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. 'Tames St ., Montreal, 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 



Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. 
JOHN S. HALL, Jr. 



ARMINE D. NICOLLS 
ALBERT. J BROWN. 



A. PERI ARD, 

Law Bookseller, Publisher, Importer, 

AND 

• • • LEGAL STATIONER, • • • 

23 ST. JAMES STREET, 

(Near the Court House,) 

MONTREAL. 



0. McEKTYRE & SON, 
Fine Custom Tailors. 



SPECIAL DISCO'JNT TO STUDENTS. 



53 BEAVER HALL HILL. 



Antiseolic lateral!!, Banians, Bit, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Flnanlitil i lisptislu Clmiils, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Pans. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies*. 

HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR— 

il and College Text Books ! 

DRYSDALE’S 

232 ST. vT^AUVEIES ST. 




jnEHICAU WORKS, ROOKS USER MJV ART COURSE 
SCI E JVC E TEXT ROOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THE O /, OOICA h ROOKS. 

Full Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 
STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. &c., Sec., 

— s- H E ST VALUK IN TOWIN' , 



Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

J ames Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. xtii.] McGill college, Montreal, march 3 rd, i 89 o. [No. 10. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President . 
C. A. Barnard, B.C.L., Scc.-Treas. 

F. G. Finley, M.D. 

J. A. Elliot, Arts ’90. 

Peers Davidson, Arts *90. 

John Clark, Med. '91. 

A. E. Shuttleworth, Science *90. 



EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPhail, B.A., Editor -in-Chief '. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 
S. W. Mack, Arts '90. 

E. H. Hamilton, B.A. Sc. 



F.W. Hibbard, B.A., Law *91 
A. H. Hawkins, Science '90. 
H. B. Yates, B A. 



D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. '91. 

Maud Abbott, '90, Editor for Ladies’ Department. 

The University Gazette is published weekly during the 
College Session. 

.Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Editorials - - 153-155 

Poetry ---------155 

Contributions - 155-157 

McGill News 157-158 

Societies 158-159 

Correspondence - 159-160 

Personals 160 

Exchanges 160-161 

Between the Lectures 162 

College World 162 



Editorials. 

FELLOWSHIPS. 

“A fellowship, as generally understood in English 
and American Universities, is a sum of money, given 
at intervals for a term of years, to some graduate 
who has shown special promise of future success in a 
particular branch of study. Besides being a reward 
for past work, it is an earnest for future endeavor, 
and demands from its holder some return either in 
teaching or original research.” 

Fellowships differ in character according to the 
needs of the institutions in which they are establish- 
ed, and the wishes of the donors. Some fellowships 
simply give exemption from fees in return for tuition 



or other aid to some department. Others have an 
annual value of about $500 and upwards, and the 
fellows are assigned as assistants in various depart- 
ments. Prize fellowships are given to those who 
graduate highest. The holders of these are often per- 
mitted, or expected, to pursue their studies abroad. 
In England, fellowships have been established wholly 
for original work. In McGill, fellowships are not 
spoken of in this sense. From the statutes of the 
University we learn : 

“The Fellows of the University shall he — 

(1) The Deans of the respective Faculties, — 

(2) Any Acting or Vice Dean of Faculty, or any 
Registrar of the Faculty of Law or Medicine, whom 
the Governors may find it requisite to appoint as such 
Fellows, — not more than one such appointment, how- 
ever, to subsist at any time for any Faculty, — 

(3) Two Members of the Faculty of Arts, and one 
Member of each of the other Faculties, to he elected as 
such from time to time for a term of four years by 
their respective Faculties, — 

(4) The Principal of the McGill Normal School, 
so long as it shall remain affiliated with the Uni- 
versity, — 

(5) The several representatives of every Affiliated 
College in connection with the University to be 
named as hereinafter is provided, — 

(6) Eight Members of Convocation, Graduates of 
the University, two in Law, two in Medicine, two in 
Arts, and two in Applied Science, to be elected by 
the qualified Graduate Members of Convocation, from 
time to time, — 

(7) Such other Members of Convocation, not more 
than seven in number, as the Governors may so ap- 
point, for the term of four years, — 

(8) The Chairman of the Protestant Board of 
School Commissioners, for the City of Montreal, if so 
appointed by the Governors, but not otherwise.” 

These fellows have a seat on the corporation, and 
“The Corporation shall, from time to time, frame 
Regulations as occasion may require, touching the 
general course of study and teaching in the several 
Faculties, and in the Affiliated Colleges, and touch- 
ing all examinations, and other matters appertaining 
either to matriculation or to graduation in the Uni- 
versity ; may also, (subject to the approval of the 
Governors,) from time to time, frame Regulations, as 



154 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1890 .] 



occasion may require, touching Academic dress, or 

other matters of general Academic interest.” 

In recent years very lively electioneering cam- 
paigns have been carried on for the election of repre- 
sentative fellows, according to number (G) of the 
above. At a late meeting of the Graduates' Society, 
when a fellow was called upon to give an account of 
his stewardship, he replied that they “ allowed the 
ladies to wear gowns.” 

The rapid expansion of McGill makes it absolutely 
necessary that something should be done to relieve 
our professors of excessive work, and allow them op- 
portunities to pay more attention to advanced 
students, for study, and original research. This 
seems to be most feasible by establishing a number 
of teaching fellowships, the holders of which would 
be entailed to look after the primary classes. Their 
duties in the way of tuition should not occupy more 
than half their time. The remainder should be de- 
voted to original research. 

In McGill a fellowship should be not less than 
$500, so that it would not be necessary for the fellow 
to give private tuition, and it would be a great in- 
ducement to the best class of men if they went as 
high as $1200. Those receiving the latter would 
correspond to what we call lecturers. 

The bestowal of fellowships, and the decision as to 
the length of time they are to be held by one person, 
should be left entirely in the hands of the faculty, 
and should not be interfered with by the donor. It 
should not necessarily be given to a McGill graduate, 
but to the best man available. Fellows should be 
encouraged to spend their vacation abroad, as many of 
the medical faculty have been doing during the last 
few years. 

No graduate should feel satisfied till he has estab- 
lished a fellowship. 

Who will be the first McGill graduate to show his 
good sense and gratitude to his alma mater, and at 
the same time do himself credit by establishing one 
or more teaching fellowships? 



LADIES' SECRET SOCIETIES. 

The respective secretaries of the lady graduates and 
undergraduates have received several letters from a 
young lady in Ames, Iowa, U.S.A., referring to the 
establishment at McGill of a Greek Letter Sisterhood. 
This is not the first time such a thing has been sug- 
gested. In December, 1887, the Donalda students 
were invited to join the Kappa Alpha Theta 
fraternity, by the ladies of Toronto University, who 
had organized a chapter amongst themselves. At that 



time the Donaldas wisely decided that their own 
Delta Sigma, Greek letter only in name, claimed their 
first allegiance, and we believe they have adopted 
the same course in regard to the Tri Delta. “ This 
sisterhood,” says the correspondent, “is only two 
years old. It was established after a close study of 
the successes and failures of all ladies’ fraternities, so it 
stands alone, a fraternity on a modern basis. Jt is 
very much like them, except that it is strongly 
Christian, and has, for a part of its work, the Chris- 
tian fields.” She further states that: “At the 
annual Tri Delta convention, held in Boston, it was 
voted to establish a chapter in McGill University, 
provided suitable material could be found. We want 
only good strong students, of the first class in honors.” 
The graduates were also invited to establish an alumni 
degree ; and having written, declining the honor, and 
stating that such a step would interfere with the pro- 
jected Intercollegiate Association, an answer was 
received, from which we quote : “ I was very much 
interested in your Society work. It is exactly the 
kind of work that the Tri Delta ladies desire to 
establish in their alumni degree, and I firmly believe 
that it would make your field of work much broader 
to join in with our Tri Delta movement, as our work 
will extend all through Canada, United States, and 
Europe. We expect to take in only our best Univer- 
sities and Colleges.” 

The aim of these Southern “sisters” is, no doubt, 
a good one. But there is just a possibility that in 
their zeal to “ do a grand work in a broad field,” they 
are neglecting the simple acquirements of an educat- 
ed woman. In the communications received, the 
orthography would disgrace a child of twelve, the 
handwriting is illegible, and punctuation and con- 
struction are at fault. The McGill ladies were wise 
in not entering the movement. One finds in the 
world much zeal misdirected. 



The Jane Redpath Exhibition, the only one open 
to women, was never, until last autumn, competed 
for by them. This was, perhaps, due partly to the 
fact that, placed as this Exhibition is, at the entrance 
to the First Year, rvould-be competitors have not 
known of its terms until too late to begin the neces- 
sary study. But now that it has been won (and 
most honorably) by a Donalda student, the letter 
upon the subject, published in this issue, comes most 
apropos. I he need for scholarships and exhibitions 
must be as great among the women as among the men, 
and must prove a no less valuable assistance to de- 
serving students. If “Donalda’s” suggestion of 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



155 



opening to women those now endowed is not feasible, 
this matter appears to be one which the members of 
the Muiota Society would do well to take up and 
try to place before the public. After next Convoca- 
tion Day, McGill’s Lady Graduates will number 
twenty, and surely among them all, something could 
be done. 



For some years past we found it necessary to call 
attention to the means that were adopted by candi- 
dates in the scramble for hospital positions. The 
methods of wire-pulling were borrowed from poli i- 
cal canvassers, and to hold a position merely meant, 
in many cases, that the friends of the incumbent were 
able to bring pressure of all kinds to bear upon those 
who have the positions in their keeping. At last 
Convocation Dr. Mills dealt plainly and fearlessly 
with the evil, with the result that the five men who 
stood first on the list obtained the positions for which 
they competed, and no one can regret the choice. 
We take it for granted that this year again a similar 
method will be adopted, as being the only fair, manly 
and professional one. 



About this season of the year the notice board is 
decorated with announcements that Dr. Blank is will- 
ing, in consideration of a definite amount of negotiable 
currency, to make over his practice to some enthusias 
tic graduate. These statements always fail to inform 
the guileless M. D. what proportion of his fees will be 
paid in coin of the realm and how much will be 
liquidated by a transfer of cordwood, fodder and new 
laid eggs Whatever advantages this system may 
have in England, generally speaking, in this country 
a man might as well bargain for next year’s partridge 
crop. 



As for the other positions now about to be vacant 
on the hospital staff, neither the students nor The 
Gazette have so much to say. There are several 
applicants, any one of whom would fill the position 
with credit and success, and any difficulty on the 
part of the authorities must arise merely from the 
number and excellence of the men from whom they 
have to select. 



The experiment of issuing The Gazette weekly 
has been a success, both in the enchanced value of the 
advertising space and the valuable addition to the 
subscription list. 



Poetry. 



[For “The Gazette. ”] 

THE NUN. 

[Translated from the German of Uhland.] 

I. 

In the quiet convent garden stole one eve a virgin nun, 

'Hie moon cast all its rays upon heras she walked alone, 

And on her lashes lingered tears of silent, tender love, 

Which she had shed for one whose spirit passed from earth- 
above. 

rr. 

Ah ! ’tis well for me that he has died, that faithful lover mine, 
For I may love him ever more with love pure and divine, 

He is an angel holy, clothed in robes of spotless white. 

And it’s not wrong to love the angels of celestial light. 

III. 

With timid step and saddened mien, she moved to where there 
stood 

An image of St. Mary beaming in the light of God, 

The moonlight threw a halo o’er her saintly, sacred head. 

She looked with such a mild and kindly love upon the maid. 

IV. 

At her feet the pious nun fell down, and clasped her hands in 
prayer, 

Looked up in calm and heavenly peace to find an answer there; 
And as she tends her gaze still upwards with a heart’s true faith, 
The flowing veil enshrouds her, and her eyelids close in 



Contributions. 



SCIENTIFIC JOTTINGS. 

Some time ago the McGill Lady Graduates’ Society 
discussed the subject of Canadian Natural Scientists, 
in three papers dealing, respectively, with Geologists, 
Zoologists and Botanists. As the material for these 
essays was gathered chiefly from scientific periodicals 
and survey reports, which we imagine are not uni- 
versally studied, the following extracts may present 
new ideas to some of our readers : 

“During the two hundred and sixty-fLe years that 
preceded the beginning of the nineteenth century, 
twenty-four men are conspicuous in the botani- 
cal history of Canada. Of these 14 are French, 
2 Swedes, 2 Americans, 1 German and 5 English. 
None of the twenty- four were boru in Canada.” 

“ The last of the missionaries whom we notice in 
this connection is the Jesuit, Peie Lafitau, of Sault 
St. Louis (Caughnawaga). In 1716 he discovered 
the ginseng, or ivihi sarsaparilla, of which he had a 
description by Pere Jartoux, a plant which was held 
in such great estimation for its restorative powers, by 
the Chinese, that it was called by a name signifying 
dose for immortal it;/. This proved a most valuable 
commodity, for to the Chinese the panacea was worth 
three times its vv. ight in silver. Under Lafitau’s 
care arose such an extensive commerce in ginseng 
that in 1752 it was sold for 25 francs a pound. But 
greed took posses>ion of the people ; they gathered 
the plant too early, and their cupidity resulted in the 
deterioration of the product. The history of the 
ginseng still survives in the form of a proverb: ‘ Ca 
tombera comma le ginseng .’ ” 

“ It was reserved for the British Government to 
send out and fully equip men who did magnificent 
work in Canadian Zoology. Accompanying the 
Hudson’s Bay explorers were men occupying the first 



156 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1890. 



rank as scientists, and the works they have left bear 
testimony to their skilled and devoted labours. Among 
these the names of Sir Samuel Hearne, Ellis, Dobbs 
and Richardson, are well known; and it was through 
the works of these, and others like them, published 
and ciiculatod in England, that much interest was 
excited in the Fauna of this great new territory, 
and that others were induced to work in the same 
field. The works of Richardson, published just 
when our own Canadian Zoologists were beginning 
their labours in the early part of this century, especi- 
ally show the skill and minute attention to detail 
that characterize the true scientific spirit. These 
volumes treat of the Mammals, Birds, fishes and 
Insects of the Northern Districts, under the title of 
‘The Fauna of British North America.’ They were 
edited by Dr. Richardson, and were written partly by 
himself, partly by others who, like Richardson, 
formed a part of the Scientific contingent accompany- 
ing Sir John Franklin. They are most magnificent- 
ly illustrated, and published in a style worthy of the 
important subject of which they treat.” 

“ But that Canadians have held their own in the 
field of Zoology has been largely due to the influence 
of the Scientific Societies that have been founded in 
all our large centres. The Natural History Society 
of Montreal was founded as earlv as 1827, and incor- 
porated in 1832. Ever since then it has been carry- 
ing on its work steadily, and becoming a factor of 
some importance in our culture.” 

“ It was to this society that Dr. Somerville, one of 
its earliest members, left a bequest of <£1,000 on his 
death, in 1837, to maintain an annual course of 
lectures lo be known as the “Somerville Lectures.” 
This money, however, was presently diverted from 
the purpose of the donor and applied to paying off a 
portion of the debt of their new building, though the 
lectures were still carried on, the lecturers giving 
their services gratis. Of late years these lectures have 
been very well attended, and are quite a feature of 
the winter work in Montreal. Popular subjects have 
been treated in a popular way by the ablest Canadian 
Scientists.” 

“ In 1856, Elkanah Billings, of Ottawa, issued the 
first copy of the Canadian Naturalist. We cannot 
pass over this year of 1856 without comment. In it 
Logan was knighted, Bayfield was made Admiral, and 
arrangements were made for the meeting of the 
American Scientific Association in Canada the follow- 
ing summer. Concerning the Naturalist, Billings 
writes to his friend Logan : ‘ 1 have learned that the 
youth of Canada little know how full of curious and 
beautilul objects this fine province is. * * * The 
object of my magazine is to place within the reach of 
my young countrymen as much of knowledge which 
is necessary to examine for themselves, as 1 can col- 
lect. * * * I have abandoned my profession,’ (the 
law) ‘and intend to devote the rest of my life to the 
study of Natural history. 1 am well aware that I 
shall have great difficulties to encounter, but I can 
overcome them as I have done others.’ One can im- 
agine his enthusiasm. He is said to have worked 
sixteen hours a day, exclusive of sleep or meals. In 



reading for this paper I came across a file of Natural- 
ists, whose uncut pages seemed a mocking satire on 
the dreams of this ardent, nature-loving geologist.” 

“ The next year this magazine was taken in hand 
by the Natuial History Society, and under the same 
title, was edited by a Committee of the Society. The 
list of its first editors may not be uninteresting : Dr. 
Dawson ; Dr. T. Sterry Hunt : Dr. E. Billings ; Mr. 
D. A. P. Watt ; Rev. A. F. Kemp ; Dr. Hingston and 
Mr. Thomas Leeming. Since then the name of the 
Journal has been changed to the Record of Science, 
under which name it is still published. In its pages 
are to be found the most noteworthy names among our 
scientists ; many of whom first attracted attention to 
their work by their articles written for it.” 

“Among those who have contributed to the Natur- 
al History Society’s collection of plants, the name of 
Lady Dalhousie occupies a prominent place. Some 
years ago there was published a book on Canadian 
wild flowers, containing ten plates colored by Mrs. 
F'itzgibbon ; the letter press was written by Mrs. 
Traill, a sister of Mrs. Moodie, our Canadian poetess. 
It is more a popular treatise than a work of scientific 
merit. Mrs. Traill proposes some innovations in the 
English names of flowers ; for instance she proposes 
the substitution of Fly Flower for that of Dutchman’s 
Breeches.” 

“The Society which was the pioneer in Canadian 
Scientific work was the “Literary and Historical 
Society,” of Quebec. This Society was founded in 
1824, three years previous to the one in Montreal. 
For a long time it has been under the able guidance 
of Mr. J. McPherson Lemoine, and has done much 
valuable work in Scientific as well as in other direc- 
tions.” 

“ In Quebec, also, is issued Abbe Provencher’s 
journal, Le Naturalists Canadien. The Abb4 him- 
self is one of our ablest and most enthusiastic scien- 
tific workers.” 

“In 1851 the Canadian Institute of Toronto started 
its organ, The Canadian Journal, which ever since 
'hen has been a scientific magazine of good standing. 
Dr., now Sir Daniel, Wilson, to whom the Natural 
History Society voted its first medal for his archaio- 
logical researches, became in 1858 the general editor ; 
and Proiessor Hincks, one of the leading ornitholo- 
gists in Canada, brother of Sir Francis Hincks, be- 
came Natural History editor.” 

“ In 1832 a petition from Dr. Rae, praying for 
pecuniary help to prosecute a Geological Survey, was 
sent to the House of Assembly. But although re- 
commended by Lieut. Governor Colborne, it was not 
even considered. Subsequent petitions shared a 
similar fate. However, in 1841, petitions from the 
Quebec Literary and Historical Society, and the 
Natural History Society of Montreal, had effect, and 
the Government included in its estimates £1,500 for 
the purpose ot a survey. The next step was the ap- 
pointment of a Provincial Geologist, which devolved 
upon Lord Stanley, Secretary of State for the Colon- 
ies. The name of William Logan was proposed ; 
and accordingly, highly recommended by such emin- 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



157 



ent geologists as Sir Henry de la Beche, Roderick 
Murchison, Adam Sedgwick, he was offered and ac- 
cepted the position.” 

“After twenty years appeared his ‘Geology of Can i- 
da/ marking an era to the people of Canada, both in 
science and practical mining. We quote from a 
review in the Canadian Naturalist , 1864 : It gives 

tor the first time to geologists abroad the means of 
making themselves acquainted with the geology of 
this country. In some departments of geology it even 
makes Canadian rock foimations rank as types to 
which those of other countries will be referred.’ ’ 

* Extract from Logan’s Diary. — « Aug. lsth, 1843. It is 12 
o’clock at night, and I am fagged. I have just put into ink 
my observations for the day, which have required four hours ; 
and before that I had been hard at work measuring and 
cracking stones for specimens, from six o’clock in the morning. 
I have had a blow on the head from a great stone, weighing 
half a hundredweight, which fell upon me, fortunately from 
no great height. It has bruised my temporal muscle on the 
left side, aud I can masticate only with great difficulty. I 
have had a tumble, too, on a slippery stone, striking my el- 
bow ; and I put my foot between two stones and pinched my 
instep ; so that I am all bruises, and my limbs are as stiff as 
sticks. I’ll go to bed.” 

* From Dr. Harrington’s Life of Logan. 



JttciBUl News. 



A. E. Harvey has been elected Valedictorian of 
the graduating class in Law. 

Dr. Mills delivered the first of the Sommerville 
Series Lectures on “ Foods within and without,” on 
Thursday evening, 20th of Feb. 

At a meeting of directors of The Gazette, it was 
decided to take subscriptions for the remainder of the 
session at fifty cents apiece. 

Last Saturday evening the final meeting of the 
Medical Society was held. This is the beginning of 
the end for the fourth year men. 

There were no Clinics at the Hospital on Thursday, 
on account of the funeral of Mr. Cowie, an efficient 
member of the committee of management. 

The dissecting room has beeu closed at night inces 
last Monday. Don’t feel bad, boys; from the record 
of past years, a fair percentage will again familiarize 
themselves with its brilliancy during the long busy 
winter evenings of 1891. 

Thomas, the popular janitor of the Science build* 
ing, has been eugiged all winter on models illustrat* 
ing various principles of mechanism ; among others 
is a “ horse car,” in which the car travels at a rate of 
speed double that of the horse. Here is a chance 
for the ‘-'City Passenger Railway” to improve its 
service ! 

After all the liabilities of the University Banquet, 
the committee have some thirty or forty dollars still 
on hand, and as this is rather a novel experience for 
such committees to undergo, the question with them 
is, what shall be done with it? 



Such a state of affairs certainly reflects great credit 
upon the management. 

The Association at Johns Hopkins University at 
Baltimore has published a little pamphlet, called 
“ Students’ Handbook.” It gives all the informa- 
tion needed by a new student who comes as a stranger 
to the University. This necessary assistance is con- 
veniently arranged and perfectly printed. The pam- 
phlet shows a progressive spirit, and the plan may 
well be adopted by Associations in other large 
Colleges. 

McGill’s Association propose to do the same, and 
next fall students will be able to acquire a lot of use- 
ful knowledge relating to College life that is other 
wise found out only in the final years. 

There is something yet in store for the students of 
Medicine. Next summer Dr. Stewart will publish a 
number of papers describing certain drugs whose 
uses and action are now under discussion. The paper 
read before the Medical Society on “ Inebrism” wil 
be incorporated with the rest. 

The lecture of Dr. Ross, on Medical Ethics, de- 
livered before the same Society, is also one which 
well deserves reproduction in a permanent form. 



MEDICAL GERMS. 

There is a great need of increased accommodation 
in the Outdoor Department of the Hospital. In fact, 
an entire building to itself would not afford any too 
much room. 

* 

* * 

It was rather unfair to upbraid the Meds. for de- 
clining to go in for the University Banquet. They 
are not millionaires, and one dinner is as much as 
they can stand. 

* 

* * 

But for Jenkins’ valiant capture of the feline dis- 
turber of the peace, we might have lost Tuesday’s 
lecture. He has the nerve of a great surgeon. 

* 

* * 

“ Gentlemen, I have rarely seen cases of Os-Hae- 
matoma in this country, excepting in the heads of 
football players, from the undue contact of their heads 
with foreign bodies.” 

* 

* * 

We were paraded before the new Lady Superin- 
tendent on Saturday. She looks as if she meant 
business, and wore a smile of superior intelligence 
when one of us “ bucked ” over burns, of the 3rd 

degree. 

* 

* * 

The nurses are to be bound for two years’ service, 
and some of them don’t relish it. 

. * 

* 

Dr. Roddick says that only Freshmen, who have 
not yet learnt the Hygiene of Study, are liable to 
Students’ Elbows. Some of us go further the other 
way, and may be described as actually “ out at 
elbows.” 



158 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



[1890 



There will be a large list of Honor Men this year; 
the Dark Horses are so many that it would be hard 
to name the Final Prizeman. The Medal is fairly 
well settled. 

* 

* * 

Not even the austere presence of the L.S. could 
quench the universal smile of a certain member of 
the Hospital Staff. 

* 

* * 

Some improvement in the facilities for bedside 
testing and microscopic work would be desirable. 

. * 

* * 

Wonder will the two N.Y. trained nurses look 
any different from the every day hospital mortal ? 

* 

* * 

Dr. R. I., surprised the boys with a roll-call at 
Friday’s Clinic. To many it brought home the fact 

that, though absent, they were not forgotten. 

* 

* * 

Dr. Kirkpatrick is reported by the papers as hav- 
ing entranced the East Enders with his violin solo 
at the Trinity Church concert. 

* 

* * 

Other musical talent the Hospital possesses, as 
evidence the occasional silvery strains emanating 
frum the Asst. Surgeon’s room. 

* 

* 

The hoys are enthusiastic over Dr. Birkett’s clear 

and interesting lecture on the “ Organs of Special 

Sense.” 1 

. * 

5k * 

The picture of the “Old Surgeon,” scalpel in hand, 
demonstrating to his class the ligature of arteries, 
almost called to mind the old Dutch paintin'* of the 
“Anatomy Class.” ° 

* 

* * 

Clinical Thermometers, to some people, are not an 
exact conception. A Montreal student, on leaving 
home recently, requested his sister to forward a clini- 
cal thermometer, in his drawer, to a friend. Some time 
after he discovered the instrument where he had left 
it, hut the family pocket telescope was missin". Fact 1 

5k 

* ♦ 

It was amusing to note how men, high in official 
students’ position, sank their dignity in crawlin'' up 
the back stairs to get in Dr. Ross’ roll call. 

* 

* * 

Two of the Mercury correspondents have been dis- 
covered. It will go hard for the McGill blackguard 
if he should be also. 

5f= 

£ ^ 

It is wonderful how much superior in perception 
reasoning, and diagnosis, the young physician is to 
his teacher of the year before. 

* 

* * 

Apropos of a recent gladiatorial combat in the arena 
of the upper theatre, the Prof, of Medicine remarked 
that, of the different methods of cultivating the 
Brain, that by means of muscle development seemed 
just then the favorite. 



The Gazette is falling back to its old enor of 
long-winded editorials. Cut them up. Its laxity in 
collecting subscriptions and canvassing for new sub- 
scribers, is also to be deprecated. 

* 

* * 

A largely-signed petition went the rounds, praying 
Charles O'C. to bring back the lost hirsutes to his 
labium superior. 

* 

* * 

It was very unkind of Cook to say that he had 
ordered only 50 tubes for 65 men. Does he expect 
two of us to go in one 1 

, * 

5k * 

There was no rubber firing last week in Surgery. 
We would collapse if we had to work like that all 
session. 

* 

* * 

It is tiresome to hear men, who are sure of 80 p.c., 
talk of getting plucked. Such men are worse than 
hypocrites. 

5k 

sk * 

The Gazette should have a sanctum, and it should 
be in the Students’ Club, where all the College news 
would be available. 

5k 

* * 

Strange, is it not, that the ugliest-looking men are 
the greatest kickers at not having the front place in 
the graduating photo. 

* 

* * 

A fiend, according to the Dr., is a man who, having 
acquired a fine specimen in Pathology, allows it to 
become lost. 

* 

* * 

I he kidney is not a large organ, but it seemed as 
if the category of its diseases would never end. 

“ Nix Forstay.” 



Societies. 



UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 



Friday, Feb. 21st, 1890.— The meeting opened at 
8 o clock, with the President, Davidson, in the chair 
It was announced that Dr. Trenholme had kindly 
consented to give the closing lecture to the society on 
the 28th inst. J 



The Essayist not being present, Mr. Mahaffy gave a 
reading from Cowper, on Heroism. 

1 he subject of the debate was, “ Resolved that 
Canada s system of Government is better than that of 
the United States.” 



f r . „ Alul mauve, maintained 

that the Government of Canada, though in name a 

monarchy, Avas really more of a democracy than that 
of the United States. Canada’s Government is adapt- 
ed to run smoothly and in accordance with the 
peoples wishes, while in the United States both 

C °“ SreSS ale 10 * •“*» «*«* 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



159 



1890.] 



I inch, the leader of the .Negative, held that the 
tendency of advancing civilization is toward a repub- 
lican form of government, and that it is only when in a 
savage state that men should he ruled by a despot. 
He referred also to the injustice of being subject to 
hereditary monarchs, and to the fact that although the 
President of the United States has great power, his 
veto may be passed over by a two-third’s majority. 

G. Macdougal, the second speaker on the Affirma- 
tive, ably maintained his side of the question, going 
into the particular merits of the two governments 
as seen in their working. 

Oliver, in behalf of the Negative, dwelt upon the 
fact that the Government of the United States is the 
best possible style for an intelligent people. 

W. J. Le Rossignol, in the absence of the third 
speaker for the Affirmative, took his place. 

MacVicar followed with a vivid account of Canada’s 
dependence on the will of Great Britain. 

After the leaders had replied, the votes were taken, 
resulting in a majority of two for the Affirmative. 

W. S. Moore acted as critic. 



COLLEGE Y. M. C. A. 

The annual business meeting was held in No. 1 
classroom, Arts building, on Tuesday, Feb. 18th. 

After hearing the reports from various committees 
and the election of new members, of which there 
were seven from Medicine, and some ten or twelve 
from Arts and Science, the election of officers for the 
coming year was proceeded with, resulting as fol- 
lows : 

OFFICERS OF Y.M.C.A. 

G. Craik, President; A. J. Mader, 1st Vice-Presi- 
dent; J. Taylor, 2nd Vice-President; W. S. Prit- 
chard, Corresponding Sec’y ; W. R. Ellenwood, 
Recording Sec’y ; R. 0. Ross, Treasurer, Arts ; W. 
W. Alexander, Treasurer, Medicine. 

CHAIRMEN OF COMMITTEES. 

Devotional, W. F. Hamilton ; Membership, E. 
Archibald, Arts ; H. N. Goff, Med. ; F. Lambert, 
Science; Gauram, Comp. Med.; Social, A. R. Holden ; 
Missionary, G. S. Clendennin ; Music, A. G. Holden ; 
Bulletin, A. McVicar; Social Purity, W. E. Deeks ; 
Publication of Hand-book, E. A. Grafton. 



THE DELTA SIGMA. 

This Society held one of the most successful meet- 
ings of the season on Thursday, Feb. 20th. An essay 
was read by Miss Fairclough on “ Canada’s Water 
Ways.” This was followed by a reading from Miss 
Mooney. Miss Hendrie then read a paper on “ The 
Future of Canada,” in which she treated her subject 
with so much eloquence as to rouse the patriotism of 
her hearers to the quick. All rose to the strains of 
the Canadian National Anthem, and gave active vent 
to their feelings. 

The Impromptu Debate, “ Resolved that a Natural 
Science is preferable to a Philosophy Honour Course,” 
was supported on both 3ides with great force and 



vigor. The speakers volunteered and were as follows : 
affirmative, Miss Derick and Miss Inez Botterell ; 
negative, Miss Williams and Miss Abbott. The 
negative won. After the vote had been taken, a 
lively discussion took place, in which so much enthu- 
siasm was expressed for both Honour Courses, made it 
apparent that the only happy method would be to 
take both, brains permitting. 



THEO DORA. 

The Society met on Thursday, Feb. 13th. A good 
essay was read by Miss K. Campbell on “ The Manners 
and Customs of the Japanese,” and was followed by 
one from Miss Hendrie on “The Geography of Japan.” 
Miss Reay read a poem. 



(torresponbence. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

Sirs, — Your editorial this week upon Medical 
Education for Women prompts me to reply. Having 
been connected with the Toronto College for the past 
four years, and taken a part in its struggles for ex- 
istence, I am in a position to look upon the contem- 
plated establishment of another college for women, 
in Canada, from a practical standpoint. While 
recognizing the truth of many of your remarks, with 
reference to the advantages for Medical education 
possessed by Montreal as compared with Kingston, 
still, there would be great lack of wisdom in opening 
another college for women in Canada at the present 
time, or for many years to come. The law of supply 
and demand must settle the question. Let us examine 
the demand. By the nature of things the practice of 
our lady graduates must be limited to the foreign 
mission held, and to the cities, towns, and large 
villages, whether on this or the other side of the line, 
as they are not fitted for the severe strain of country 
practice. The latter field is already over supplied, 
and our Canadian Colleges alone, graduate each year 
over 300 new men. The demand, then, is limited. Now 
with regard to the supply. By reference to the 
“ Report on Medical Education, Medical Colleges, 
etc. in the United States and Canada ” issued last 
year by the Illinois State Board of Health, I find that 
seven Medical Colleges for women are in active oper- 
ation in these countries at the present time, two of 
which are in Canada. These colleges reported in 
the Session ’87-’88, a total of 364 students in attend- 
ance and 59 graduating. The oldest college of the 
seven, that of Pennsylvania, was established in Phila- 
delphia in 1850, and in spite of its splendid building, 
its excellent equipment and large staff, its students 
only number 150 all told. Surely, if the supply of 
students were so large, there would be more than 
five colleges in the United States, put into operation 
during the period of fifty years. Canada has already 
more than her proportion, and cannot decently 
support more than one college, nor will that one, I 
venture to say, be on a paying basis. There is not 
the demand for the practitioners, there is not the 



160 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890. 



supply of students. The college, with which I am 
connected, did not pay its staff for several years, and 
even yet the lecturers do their work to a large extent 
gratuitously. The ground and buildings are being 
paid for by private subscription. That it is now 
within a few weeks of entering its fine new building, 
equipped for one hundred students, is entirely due 
to the dauntless perserverance of a few of its pro- 
moters, and to the fact that Toronto is a great educa- 
tional centre. But for many years to come, we do 
not expect that the number of students will suffice to 
pay the working expenses. Where, then, is the 
necessity for starting another institution? it will only 
have a tendency to lower the standard of instruction, 
as Medical men cannot be expected, in all fairness, to 
give all their time to the work, and yet receive no 
remuneration. It has always seemed to me eminently 
wise on the part of my Alma Mater to refuse to 
establish a separate course in Medicine for women. 

Yours truly, 

D. J. Gibb Wisiiart. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

There are at present fifteen scholarships and ex- 
hibitions in the Faculty of Arts, only one of which is 
open to women. 

It may be said the supply has been equal to 
the demand, but several of the students of the Don- 
alda Department wished to compete for the Third 
year scholarships, and, judging from their standing at 
the sessional examinations, they, probably, would have 
been successful. Last September, too, Miss Fair- 
clough won the Jane Redpath exhibition, passing re- 
markably well. 

It seems a pity that she and others are not given 
the opportunity of winning similar honors in the 
other years. 

The gentlemen who founded twelve of the scholar- 
ships and exhibitions are still living. Could they not 
be asked to change the terms of their gifts, so that 
the Donalda Department, also, might have the benefit 
of their generosity 1 

If this is impossible, surely there are in Montreal 
many women, interested in the higher education of 
their sisters, who would gladly found similar ones for 
the women only, if they knew of the need. 

Donalda. 



Personals. 



Forest Ogilvy, B.A.Sc. ’88, is in New York, in the 
Safety Boiler Construction Co. 

Professor McLeod’s lectures in Meteorology began 
on Saturday, 22nd February. 

The Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science has 
returned from his tour of inspection among American 
Engineering Colleges. 

Dr. D. J. Gibb Wishart writes : — “ As a share* 
holder, I congratulate you on your weekly issue, and 
wish you every success. 



Professor Adams is very kindly giving the 4th 
year honor classes additional lectures and demonstra- 
tions on “ Microscopic Lithology.” 

We regret that W. Gibson, B.A., ’89, recently ap- 
pointed head master of Dorchester Street School, has 
resigned his position on account of ill health. 

In a letter which we have from LeKossignol, B.A., 
’88, who is now studying in Leipzig, he says — “I 
think The Gazette excellently well edited, and ap- 
preciate, especially, the spirit of Canadian patriotism 
therein displayed.” 

P. L. Naismith, B.A.Sc., ’89, passed through Mon- 
treal on his way home, after a summer’s work in 
N.B., during which he successfully located 40 miles 
of railroad, and reconstructed and repaired a number 
of old stone culverts by the introduction of a cement 
— concrete lining. 

It is with deep regret the death of Bryson, B.A., 
’88, will be learned. For four years he was one of 
the best known figures about the College, and his 
hearty presence will be missed by the graduates of 
two years ago who are yet about the halls. 

The funeral took place on Tuesday, when a short 
and impressive service was conducted at Dominion 
Square Methodist Church by the Revs. Dr. Shaw, 
S. P. Rose, and William Hall. The pall-bearers were 
Mr. Claxton, Mr. Goff, Mr. W. Finley, Dr. Finley, 
Dr. Uackader, and Mr. Clerk. 



Exchanges. 

The Sydney Academy Record, young though it is, 
has the discrimination to observe that “ The Univer- 
sity Gazette is a most excellent paper.” 

The Sunbeam is “ very weary of hearing so 
many papers discant on the mission of the 
Exchange column,” but the young ladies of Whitby 
will probably continue in their tired feeling so long as 
they fail to realize what that mission is. It would 
seem to aiise from their conscious neglect of an 
obvious means ot improving college journalism. 

The following is from an exchange : — 

McGill University has of late years made marked advance- 
ment in its Medical department. Several new professors, each 
a specialist in his own subject, have been added to the teach- 
ing staff, and now the work done in the lecture rooms and in 
the hospital, is unsurpassed by that of any other Medical 
college on the continent. 

It was thought that when Dr. Osier, Professor of Physiol- 
ogy? tlie institution received a severe shock, but in the 
person of his successor, Dr. Wesley Mills, that shock has been 
warded otf. Dr. Mills, though a young man, is a thorough 
enthusiast in his subject, and has shown himself to be pos- 
sessed of a deep philosophical and original mind. While 
faithfully attending to his daily lectures, keeping his students 
supplied with the latest views and theories in his difficult 
couise, he has made important and original researches 
destined to bring honor to himself and to the University of 
McGill. Since the last session he has had published a text- 
book on Animal Physiology, which will revolutionize the 
study of that subject. Treating it from a biological and an 
evolutionary point of view, as well as from a comparative 
standpoint, many of the difficulties in diagnosis of disease 
have been swept away, and the whole subject placed on a 
sound logical basis. Although the Professor’s book contains 



1890.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



161 



700 pages, it is beautifully written, is profusely illustrated, 
and suitable for both physician and student. His class, 
numbering about 175 students, showed their appreciation of 
the work by presenting him with an address. 

The Germans have asked the privilege of translating it into 
their language. 

As Canadians, we feel proud to see one of our young men 
ranking so high among scientists in the Medical profession. 

December, 1889, will henceforth be memorable in 
the annals of Queen’s University, Kingston. For 
then took place, amid much thanksgiving and festiv- 
ity, the Jubilee Celebration of the fiftieth year of 
the University’s existence. We have to thank the 
Queen's College Journal fora full account of proceed- 
ings, as well as for a verbatim report of all speeches 
and addresses then delivered. Indeed, the “ Jubilee 
Number” which the Journal publishes, must be 
welcome, not only to all readers for its interest, but 
also more particularly to all members of Queen’s, as 
furnishing a valuable resume of the history of their 
University. The realization of the greatness of their 
Alma Mater may well kindle a loyal enthusiasm in 
the bosoms of the Journal's Editorial staff. And 
though we may take exception to one little clause, — 
which states that Queen’s has “ the best staff of Profes 
sors in Canada,” and also hints that her students are 
diamonds of superior water, yet we would do this in 
no unkindly spirit, but merely as intimating that such 
points are not easy ones to satisfactorily establish, 
and that we also have our strong convictions as to where 
the best of everything is to be had. And we would fur- 
ther extend our hearty congratulations on the success, 
both of the grand festival itself, and of its most credit- 
able report, placed before us in the Jubilee Number. 

Reprints are published from the newspapers of 
1839, relating the first steps taken for the establish- 
ment of what is now Queen’s University. Among 
those who gathered in St. Andrew’s Church, Kingston, 
at that time to discuss the opeting of a Presbyterian 
College, were the present Premier of Canada, then a 
rising young lawyer, the Rev. W. Reid, D. D., and 
Mr. Rose, all of whom were present and assisted at 
the celebration. In an openiug sermon on the after- 
noon of Sunday, Dec. 15th, Dr. George Bell, Regis- 
trar, recalled the time when Queen’s University 
began its career, as a Presbyterian college, with two 
Professors (one consti uting, sui generis, the Faculty 
of Arts, the other the Faculty of Theology), and with 
eleven students (Dr. Bell among them). The rapid sub- 
sequent growth of Queens may well fill all connected 
with her, with pride, and with gratitude to her Prin- 
cipal, who has done so much for her of late years. 
Starting under Presbyterian auspices, she was yet 
almost from the first, undenominational. 

Although the 1 7th was the occasion of some lesser 
festivities, The Day itself was fixed for Dec. 1 8th. lhe 
celebration was honored by the presence of His 
Excellency the Governor-General. The town was 
thronged with graduates and representatives from all 
parts of the country The ceremonies began at 11.30 
a. m., with a thanksgiving seivice in the Convocation 
Hall ; in the afternoon addresses were delivered by 
many persons of note; in the evening a grand ban- 
quet took place, provided by the Kingston ladies. 
The numerous toasts proposed and responded to are 



fully reported in the Journal. Dr. Clarke Murray re- 
sponded to “Sister Universities,” on behalf of McGill. 

Knox College Monthly, for January, contains a 
number of religious and philosophic contributions by 
eminent Doctors of Divinity. Prof. Henry Calder- 
wood, of Edinburgh University, writes on “ The 
Philosophic Standpoint of the Day.” The article is 
so interesting that, were it not for its length, we 
should be tempted to reproduce it in full. 

At the outset we are reminded that the central 
interest in philosophy is the practical interest, “ the 
fact that philosophic thought goes towards the shap- 
ing of our views of life, the formation of purpose, and 
ihe directing of thought. Whatever our study, it 
must be a living interest, even when directed on 
dead languages ; the dead must live again, and the 
thought, feelings, and aspirations of ages long gone by 
must have a value for present day experience.” 

The philosophic standpoint is higher than the 
scientific. It is only as science becomes separated, 
and works persistently in its own department, that it 
rises in value ; but in proportion as philosophy 
becomes restricted in its range of area, it becomes one- 
sided and poor. Science subdivides the material ; phil- 
osophy seeks to unite the spiritual and material alike. 

The philosophic standpoint is found when we reach 
a position whence we can clearly see where all the 
lines of knowledge converge, and where the thought- 
forces cross each other. To-day there are two oppos- 
ing currents, one in favour of Evolution coming from 
every scientific department, the other flowing through 
the fields of mental philosophy. On the great problem 
of existence they strike violently against each other. 

The situation wears quite a different appearance as 
viewed from the scientific standpoint and from the 
philosophic. Let each take the other’s place and the 
difference will be recognized, and each will have a 
fuller knowledge of the problem. This is the grand 
need of philosophy to-day. True, the observer and 
interpreter of natural phenomena is to a certain extent 
unfitted for the work of a speculative thinker, and 
vice versa. But the attempt must be 'made, if they 
are to bear their full part in the responsibility of the 
age. “ Talking of agnosticism, white sitting by the 
wayside, is only the smoke of a soothing pipe which 
will soon burn out.” 

The historic explanation of the rise and influence 
of agnosticism is found in the attempt to claim that 
science is all, and that philosophy is nothing distinct. 
But the cross-current is too strong to be stemmed. 
Even Herbert Spencer writes: — “The consciousness 
of an Inscrutable Power, manifest to us through all 
phenomena, has been growing ever clearer.” And a 
theory, which limits the intellect to phenomena, 
viewed merely as empirical facts, proposes a restraint 
which can never be a power in the world. The 
future holds ideals inexplicable by the past. 

In conclusion, the chief interest of to-day centres 
in the fortunes of Evolution. How can it deal with 
human life and destiny? So far its advance has been 
limited to an escape from the entanglements which 
suspicion and traditionalism occasion. The great 
problem yet remains untouched — to bridge the chasm 
which separates organism from consciousness. 



162 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1890 



Between the Lectures. 



A professor recommends frequent grooming for 
anxious, over-worked Freshmen. 

There is one knighted physician in Canada, and 
two hundred benighted medical students in Mc- 
Gill. 

A Freshman assured the Demonstrator that the 
Ilium was that part of the stomach projecting in 
hernia. 

What is the cause of Tuberculosis 1 said the Fresh- 
man to the Junior, and to him came unhesitatingly 
the reply “ Don’t Bacilli.” 

It was really very thoughtless of that leper to allow 
himself to be spirited away to Trinidad, without leav- 
ing a sufficient part of himself behind for pathologi- 
cal examination. 



Miss Rebekah E. Roberts has been admitted to 
practice in the Orphans’ Court of Philadelphia. She 
is the second woman lawyer admitted to the bar of 
that city. 

Nearly $1,000,000 has lately been added to the 
funds of Yale University. The new library is ready 
for occupancy. At present there are 175,000 volumes 
in the old library, but only about 80,000 of these 
will be transferred at first These will be the books 
most used. 

Buddhism is spreading to a considerable extent 
among the female graduates of the universities and 
other young people of culture in Europe, and the 
fact is being laid at the door of Max Muller, who is 
charged with having first brought that religion to the 
attention of the Christian world. His defenders say 
that the converts are made chiefly by Hindoos who 
come from India to attend the universities. 



In the lecture room of the Primary years in medi- 
cine the other day, the Professor trod on some phos- 
phorus and bi-sulphide of carbon, with the usual ex- 
plosive result. A Second year man suggested that 
it was a case of Faust up to date. 

The Mexicans have no confidence in a young 
doctor until he has had a couple of years’ practice. 
Then they make an inventory of his patients, and if 
he has cured more than he has killed they recognize 
him, no matter whether he has a diploma or not. 



LITERATURE. 

W. H. F. SHARSW00D, 

Publishers’ Agent, 

ERS F0R 180 St. James Street, 

books, f 

PERIODICALS, City and District Bank Building , 

STATIONERY, 

Promptly Executed. MONTREAL. 



By way of apology for our quotation from Dr. 
Robins’ lecture on “A Perfectly Educated Man,” 
we would merely state that it was made for the bene- 
fit of the Donalda Department, so that they will 
know one when they see him. We hope they will 
reciprocate. 

BILAN DE L’EMPIRE. 



ie following “ balance sheet 


” was published. 


produce it as a clever lesson 


in French : — 




La Nation Franyaise, 


A. B. 


C. 


La Gloire, 


F. A. 


C. 


Places Fortes, 


O. Q. 


P. 


Deux Provinces, 


C. D. 




L’Armee, 
Le Peuple, 


D. P. 


C. 


E. B. 


T. 


Les Lois, 


L. U. 


D. 


La Justice, 


H. T. 




Les Libertes, 


F. M. 


R. 


Le Credit, 


B. C. 


Les Denrees, 


L. Y. 




La Ruine, 


H. V. 




La Honte Seule, 


R. S. 


T. 



We 



College l£Jorl6. 



It is said that Vassar graduates make the best pre- 
siding officers to be had for women’s organizations. 
That institution enjoys a plethora of all sorts of clubs, 
whose meetings are always conducted with great 
formality and with strict regard to parliamentary rules. 
A V assar girl, therefore, gets a fine experience in such 
matters. 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



Armstrong k Radford, . . .165 

Ashford, C., . . . 166 

Atwater & Co., . . . .152 

Birks, H., k Co., . . . 166 

Chapleau k Co., . . . .152 

Clarke, G. W., . . . 166 

Gumming k Brewis, . . . 164 

Doughty, A. G., 165 

Drysdale, Wm., k Co., . . . 152 

Dyer, W. A., k Co., . . . 152 

Featherston, A. M., . . . 165 

Gerth, E. A., . . . . 1 64 

Gray, Hy. R., . . . .164 

Greenshields k Co., . . . 152 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 163 

Henderson, John k Co., . . 163 

Hirsch, M. . . .164 

Jensen, J. L., . 163 

Lyman, Sons k Co., . . . 163 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . . 165 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . .166 

Murray, Wm., . . .165 

MacBean, D. B. A., . . . 154 

McEntyre k Son, . . . 152 

McLaren, W. D., . . igg 

Ness, T. W., . . . . * 163 

Nightingale, D., . . . . 164 

Nordlieimer k Co., . . . 100 

Notman k Son, «... 166 

Bayne Geo., . . . .164 

Periard, A., . . . .152 

Reid, Robert, . . . , 104 

Robertson k Co., . . . .15° 

Ross, Hugh, . . • . 165 

Sliarswood, W. II. F., . 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . . , 

Surumerhayes k Walford, . . .165 

Tarraute, Sami., . , .165 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE, 



163 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type-writers, Copygp.aphs, and Office Supplies. 


SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 

$ tfull $todk don^tkiitly oi) Ski\d, Imported 
©ifert from tl\e I<ekding JV1 anufkdtufet^ 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 

LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 




JOHN HENDERSON & CO., 


ROY/Ili DYE Y70RKf\ 


Battan nd Furriers, 


706 CRAIG STREET. 


229 ST. JAMES STREET. 




■ - ♦ 

Special Agents for College Trenchers, &c. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 



3SS «Sc 3S7 St. Steeet, Montee^l 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



C elebris Hut Water Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



-•5-Wholesale Manufacturers* — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED, 



Circulars on Application. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 



MONTREAL. 





164 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

GUMMING- & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4020. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“Our Little Favorite,” One dollar pel' doz. 

Established IS 50. 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST 
ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA UCHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 



$1.50 per lllo- TI£T. 




The STANDARD o f the DOMINION . 

ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 

Monumental & Cemetery Wort of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Tie Modem Misti or Roman Ball, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., Jool of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 



FXXTE HAVANA QZCIASta. 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E ) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 



Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 



E. A, G-ERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 



GEORGE PAYNE, 

CUN MAKER, 

687 CRAIG STREET, West of Bleury Street, - MONTREAL. 

Maker of the Genuine Racing Skates. 

^Repairs Promptly Attended to. N.B.— Skates Ground. 




Banjos & Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Yictor ” Banjo. 

Guitars until Patent Head 
from $5 to $ 50 each. 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $ 7.50 to $ 50 each . 



Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired. 

[GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 

2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 
Students. 




D. NIGHTINGALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiarfl Tables, & Billiard Supplies, 

1712 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 



Improved Billiard Cushions. 



75c. per £lb. Tin. 




UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



165 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand : 

"The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

Aii Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A . C . TROTTER, 

IE 3 . O- 33 02 c 1*73*4, - 3x/£o:ritrea,l. 



TUTORING. 



MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 



Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG 8 RADFORD, 

Haberdashers and Outfitters, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle- 
men's Wear. 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, ( Opposite Victoria St.) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 

Special attention paid to Students’ orders. 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

flsr Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 

IB HY YQUFH (== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

shoe: stores. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK . 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 
The West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR -CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2303 & 2307 St. Catherine St. 

The Place for all the Students to go for a Hood Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 

MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 

ffittc ffm* amt 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

( Opposite the English Cathedral , ) 

MONTREAL. 

N.B. — Liberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. I). Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 

Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns 

MILITARY UNIFORMS AND HIGHLAND COSTUMES 
A SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. Snecial Discount to Students. 



166 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



WJ 4 . N 0 WN k S 0 N> 

Photographers, 

STUDENTS’ P Oft Til A ITS 

CLASS GROUPS 

PRIVATE GROUPS 
PORTRAITS OF P ROFESSORS 
: COLLEGE VIE 1VS, Ac. 

1 *7 BXjETTiR/sr Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion ! 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL RATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES , HOTELS , COL- 
LEGES , AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE Nos., Bell, Federal, T. H. LOVE, 
580 &. 24 82. 1683. Manager. 



TIJ-E GENUINE 

Cook’S Pbienk 

BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



C. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

'All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. e. dise’t., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GLASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

2v£o23-trea,l O-ea^.. Hospital ^Dn-straacisiccpceisi, 25c. 

C. ASHFORD, 



Near University St. 



818 Dorchester St, Montreal. 



44tli YEAR. 



NORDHEIMER’S 



ESTABLISHED 1845. 



OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 



THE 



Public are Invited to Call <& Inspect our New Stock & Comjiare Values. 

A. <£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. JAMES STREET, 

HENRY BIRKS & CO. jewellbiw, 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

236 and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 



THE UNIVERSAL £38 and £40 St. James Street, Montreal. 

Cjt. W • CLARIlE, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, * Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods. 

Ladies’ and Gent’s Fitted Travelling Bags , Toilet Cases, &c. 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTH DAY and COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS. 




