• r,-. Hc-Jpath l^ihrary 

The McGill ’ 

( Fortnightly Review 

Î An Independent Journal of Literature and Student Opinion 

' Vol- II No. 6 PRICE 10 Cents Friday, February 18, 1927 



■/ 




EDITORIAL 

Villanelle of Manitou 

A Devoted Wife 

Two Poems 

An Unburied Victorian. . . 
Seeing Art Galleries 



CONTENTS 



F. R. S. 

.... Hellenicus 
Bernard March 
. .G. H. S. C. 
. . . Grace Hart 



Twilight A. J. M. Smith 

A Sketch of Canadian Trade Unions. .A. B. Latham 

Poem Michel Gard 

The Death of a Character W.L. 

BOOKS 



I 



! , 
i 

1 

h 



1 






0 ^ 

i 



I 



EDITORIAL 



T he new Literary Club has before it the opportuni- 
ty of performing a distinct service to the students 
in English, by providing them with an extra-cur- 
ricular interest to supplement the necessarily limited 
work of the classroom. Lectures produce masses of 
notes, and reading produces mind-weariness and 
conceit; only by writing and discussion does literature 
become part of the “high tapestry of the soul” part and 
parcel of the dinner consciousness where art and letters 
belong. Students in History, Economics and Philoso- 
phy have for many years had societies of a like nature, 
societies which have a long history of successful 
achievement behind them. The new-comer should 
be welcome among them: the wonder is that it has 
been so long in coming. 

There is an inconsistency, however, in the name of 
the new club. The term “Literary Club” suggests a 
society formed of all those interested in things literary. 
This is untrue; the membership is to be restricted 
to those taking honours in English. Even freshmen 
in English are to be excluded. Why avoid the honest 
and obvious name “English Club?” 

It would be presumptuous of us to suggest a 
policy to the executive of the society. But we may 
and do express the hope that its meetings will be 
devoted to the study of contemporary rather than 
classical literatme. Canadian literature — if there be 
such a thing — is overburdened with dead traditions 
and outworn forms. We are a pitiful extension of 
the Victorians. If a living, native literature is to 
arise we must discover our own souls, and before 
that can happen a mass of débris has to be removed. 
No better helpers in this task can be found than 
amongst our contemporaries in England and America. 
When we have based ourselves upon ourselves — ^then 
call in the classics. 



T he production of Tom Jones by the McGill Cho- 
ral Society last week was a difficult and ambitious 
undertaking. While the financial status of the 
venture is still doubtful and points to probable failure 
there is no reason for discouragement. The perform- 
ance of a comic opera by a group of students interested 
in music was a gesture which came, as the McGill 
Daily has pointed out, at a time when the public of 
Montreal was really wondering whether the sum total 
of McGill talent lay in the arrangement of skits and 
popular songs, and humour of the type which the Red 
and White Revue so prominently features. As was 
to be expected Tom Jones had several shortcomings. 
The production, however, was very carefully planned, 
the costumes were artistically executed and the sing- 
ing was of a high standard. When one thinks of the 
energy and time devoted to less significant undertak- 
ings here and compares them with the short time in 
which the entire opera was rehearsed and staged 
one realizes the true significance of the Choral Socie- 
ty’s achievement. Those who will look at the receipts 
and compare them with the profits of the Red and 
White Revue will be doing the organization a real 
injustice. 

The financial aspect does not detract from its 
artistic merits, and one can say without contradiction 
that it was one of the most artistic productions which 
the Students’ Council has sponsored during the past 
few years. 



• • • • 



H OW do the four hundred students enrolled in 
the French Department disport themselves 
outside the classroom? Not in the pursuit of 
further French activities, certainly, if we are to believe 
the Daily correspondent who complains that the 
(>rcle Français is about to die of neglect. This seems 
strange to us: are we not the only large English univ- 
ersity in French Canada? If the one society devoted to 




42 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



things French cannot maintain itself within McGill 
the outlook for national unity is indeed poor. The 
English Canadian, in this province and elsewhere io 
the Dominion, is apt to think that he alone is truly 
anxious for a rapprochement — that the great 
obstacle to a mutual understanding is the intracta- 
bility of his French-speaking compatriot. This is a 
typical piece of Anglo-Saxon Pharisaism, a bit of 
Nordic nonsense. The French must learn English, 
and the English will then boast of the achievement 
of unity., that is about the size of the matter. 

Shall we ever rid ourselves of this inherited self- 
complacency? We trust so, at any rate within the 
universities. But we shall not do so unless we under- 
stand that something more than mere talk is demand- 
ed of us, that so long as we are ignorant of French we 
can only be half Canadian. 

• • • * 

W HETHER one agrees or disagrees with the 
opinions of Mr. J. Arthur Hambly as set 
forth in a recent letter to The McGill Daily 
— and there is much to criticise in the manner of their 
expression — one should not, as many campus critics 
have ventured to do, deny him the right to express 
those opinions. On the contrary, we would say that it 
is a healthy sign when an undergraduate has sufficient 
confidence in the much advertised tenets of academic 
free-speech to join issue openly in the college journal 
with the principal of his university. It is not so healthy 
a portent however, that his steadfastness of purpose 
should have received only condemnation from those 
students who were interested enough in the mattér 
to comment upon it. 

* * • * 

T he editors are offering a prize of $5 for the best 
Short Story submitted to them on or before 
March 5th, 1927. Stories should be written on 
one side of the paper only and should not exceed 
3,000 words. Professor H.G.Files will act as judge. 

Villanelle of Manitou 

By Manitou 's deserted shore 
The air is silent, all the day. 

The homing herons cry no more. 

* The whisper of the waves is o'er, 

For ice creeps down the shallow bay 
By Manitou 's deserted shore. 

No sap moves in the bare trees' core; 

All dreams of spring are far away. 

The homing herons cry no more. 

The low sun stints his golden store, 

And dawn comes up a paler grey 
By Manitou 's deserted shore. 

Gone is the green that summer wore, 

And gone October's proud array. 

The homing herons cry no more. 

Will it be long, O Death, before 
I sleep, and sing no more this lay: 

By Manitou 's deserted shore 
The homing herons cry no more? 

F, R, S. 



The Devoted Wife 

Being a Modest Proposal for * 
Movie Magnates 

Hellenicus 



E ver since the hero-worshippers attempted to 
remove the black stains of Caesar’s career and 
John Erskine pried into the private life of Helen 
of Troy it has become quite the fashion to search 
for memoirs of, or about, any historical figure whose 
private life is thought to contain sufficient digressions 
from the prosaic path of the ordinary man. And what 
great man or woman was content to remain within 
the limits that their day set? From Sardanapalus to 
Caesar and then to Napoleon, from Sappho and 
Phryne to the modern suffragette, were any of the 
great satisfied to do as their stern pedagogues no 
doubt taught them? Not to forget the arch-heroine 
Helen. Unfortunately she left no memoirs or cor- 
respondence and so great freedom is given to the 
imagination in dealing with her. Strange it is then 
to note that film producers in their search for material 
have pa^ed her by (there has been some attempt made 
but it did not seem to achieve great popularity) and 
they have gone instead to stories of the lives of obscure 
if not entirely fantastical characters of the reign of 
Alexander II of Russia and others. The great op- 
portunity which Helen of Troy affords for filming is 
one that should not be lost. 

Imagine the prologue in true movie fashion — “Far 
in the distant past when the fabric of civilisation was 
being solidified by the endeavours of a mighty people, 
when the artistic genius and infinite energy of a 
fresh race which had burst in upon an already flourish- 
ing Aegean culture was forming what was to be the 
b^t in later life, there lived in the kingdom of the 
mighty prince Agamemnon the fairest flower that 
ever bloomed on earth.” This is not a mistake. 
Action must be centralized, so Helen and her husband 
are put in the same state as Agamemnon. Helen 
flashes on the screen-slightly blurred with a far-away 
look in her eyes. She gazes longingly over the waters. 

After we are appropriately introduced to the remain- 
ing members of the cast Paris will be shown thundering 
at the gates of Mycenae. He is heartily welcomed. 
He meets Helen and. . . but let us leave the details of 
the elopement to the producers. We can trust them 
to make it sufficiently interesting at this stage. 

Menelaus now appears solemnly shaking hands 
with his brother and Achilles. They are clad in mail 
(it does not matter if the armour is the same as that 
used in the mediaeval romance.) They raise their 
swords in solemn pledge and look over the city where 
the vast forces of vengeance are gathered. 

The whole episode of Iphigenia must be omitted. 
It would seem too barbarous to have such a fair 
maiden slain, and to bring Artemis in to save her 
is out of the question. The producer, therefore, 
remembering no doubt Aristotle’s warning not to 
arouse the emotions to too great a height, omits this 
section. Anyhow the censors would never let it pass. 

So we see the vast horde “before the doomed city 
where they are destined to spend the dreary years of 
warfare in a relentless struggle for one woman.” 
Here we trust there will be a panegyric of love and 
womanhood, and we will be shown Menelaus sighing 



1 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



43 



on the one hand, and on the other, Helen in tears 
repenting as Paris comes in drunk and swears at her 
(mild oaths of course — the censors must be kept in 
mind. Possibly an oath by Pluto would be strong 
enough, or by the Dpg.) What opportunities for 
sermons the quarrel of Agamemnon and Achilles 
over Briseis would offer! What moralizing! Tears 
would fcill at the death of Patrocles and there would 
be general rejoicing at the reconciliation of the chiefs 
and the death of Hector, though this would be 
saddened by the scene of Andromache sorrowfully 
rocking the cradle. Then comes the climax. The 
craft of wily Ulysses, the pretended departure of the 
Greeks, the wooden horse, the treachery of Sinon. 
There is rejoicing in the city of Troy. ‘'After ten 
ears of woeful suffering the Trojans feel that they 
ave cast off the yoke. A wild festival is held in 
honour of their release.” Now come scenes of “bar- 
b^an” rejoicing — that is, everybody is drunk. In the 
midst the orchestra can strike up the latest variation 
of Black Bottom, This will arouse the audience to 
an appreciative pitch of frenzy. Sinon opens the 
wooden horse. Helen unbars the palace gate. She 
shows, thus, that she has been an unwilling prisoner 
all the time and is hailed as an innocent and virtuous 
wife. Paris seizes her and carries her back into the 
palace. (It does not matter if the account from now 
on differs from Homer.) Menelaus the dreamer be- 
comes a man of action, climbs walls, kills thousands, 
forces his way in. The music now rages wildly as 
he engages Paris in single combat, while Helen faints 
by the side, recovering in time to see her beloved 
husband run the villain through. Agamemnon and 
his men burst in to announce their complete victory 
but withdraw with a smile when they behold the 
united pair in affectionate pose as — the scene fades 
out. . . 

And the audience elevated and uplifted goes out 
declaring this the greatest picture of the age (cost of 
production $2,000,000 — passed by the National Board 
of Censors — “and the costumes are simply gorgeous, 
aren’t they?”) and leave behind each his little share, 
orchestra 60 cents, balcony 30 cents, tax ten cents. 



Snowdrift 

Set your proud mouth, 
Snowdrift! 

Curve the knife-edge 
Of your lips 

To a thin, imperious smile. 
The sun mounts high today. 



November Pool 

Sombre and very still 
You have lain, 

Frowning at the wind’s will. 

Angr>^ at the rain. 

Now Winter frosts will bring 
Cold ecstasies. 

Well you know not even Spring 
Gives so wild a kiss. 

Bernard March 



An Unburied Victorian 

To see that mtost amusing play 
The second Mrs. Tanqueray. 

Belloc 

G. H. S. C. 

T he gentle irony of Belloc’s reference to this 
once well-known work is particularly appropriate 
to Pinero. A great figure in English Drama in 
the Nineties, a few years have been sufficient to 
discover his irrelevance and he is now only tedious. 
No more severe exercise can be imagined for the stud- 
ent of the Drama than to read half a dozen such 
works as “The Magistrate’’, “His House in Order,” 
or “The Profligate” — favourites in their day, but 
now seen to be the dry bones of once admired con- 
ventions held creakingly together by a ponderous 
use of stage mechanism copied from Sardou and his 
imitators. Fustian heavy with dust. . . 

His earlier position was due to an accident — an 
historical accident. The English Drama was extinct, 
theatres were going out of business, when Pinero 
started to bring grist to the mill. It is his claim to 
consideration that he kept the theatres open and so 
made matters easier for the Dramatists, who though 
contemporary with him were to arrive later and re- 
suscitate the English Play, — Shaw, Barker and later 
Galsworthy. And for this he must receive due credit. 

Pinero spent his youth in intellectually stimulating 
days. Days when the Fabian Society were laying the 
foundations of a new sociology, when George Moore 
was wrestling with the tyranny of Mudie’s and the 
censorship of circulating libraries, and Shaw with 
similar conditions in the theatre. Ibsen and Brieux 
were provoking thought and Wagner was devastating 
the last of Victorian respectabilities. The movement 
which swept away the débris of the Victorian Age 
was in full swing. 

It is difficult to remember that Pinero was the 
contemporary of these men, so much apart from them 
is he. And if it be admitted that he had heard of 
Ibsen, only the merest echo of that dramatist’s 
influence can be discovered in his plays. The result 
has been that Pinero has dated with finality. “Sweet 
Lavender,” described by him as an Idyll, is seen to 
be a typical mid-Victorian piece of sentimentality. 
Pinero is of the school of Miss Braddon and “Coming 
Thro’ the Rye,” a book which rivalled “East Lynne” 
as a precipitant of innocent tears. 

Pinero also wrote some farces in which the humour 
is derived from such sources as the predicament of 
wealthy and uneducated social climbers at a house 
party. “The Cabinet Minister” is a tissue of such 
stuff. The same thing somewhat altered to modern 
taste may still be seen in such plays as “Tilly of 
Bloomsbury.” The comic butler, the haughty 
young lady, the curate — they are immortal. 

It is claimed that Pinero outgrew this period, 
outgrew plays like “Lady Bountiful” in which the 
hero after the correct preliminary misunderstanding 
goes to America, makes a fortune in two years (“cf 
which we on this side,” says an American critic naively 
“are rather sceptical”) and returns in time to intercept 
his lady at the very altar from entering into a loveless 
union with endowed age. Yes, he plunged into melo- 
drama and gave us “Iris” with its astute Freddy 
Maldonado, the immensely wealthy and unscrupulous 
Jewish financier. “By God,” says this gentleman in a 
passionate scene with Iris in the novelette manner. 



44 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



“By God, you actually succeeded in deceiving me, 
the astute Freddy Maldonado.” And such similar 
works as “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” that most 
amusing play, “Letty” and “The Notorious Mrs. 
Ebbsmith.” 

Daniel Frohman and Alexander, the leading pro- 
ducers of their day, fought shy of “The Second Mrs. 
Tanqueray” when it was first offered to them. They 
thought that its daring and ruthless exposure of 
Society would prove too strong meat for their au- 
diences and they c^ed “give the public what it 
wants” as part of their creed as sensible business men. 
Perhaps they had livelier imaginations in those days, 
perhaps they had not read those books without 
which Algernon in the “Importance of being Earnest” 
declared that modern literature would be an im- 
possibility. Whatever the reason, they felt so, and 
we, going to the play in the hopes of a penetrating 
analysis of social conventions, find ourselves put off 
with such conceptions as the “Good Woman” who 
instinctively shrinks from the “Bad Woman;” with 
plaints that the neighbours do not call ; with men who 
gather their friends round them and explain their 
proposed marriage in terms which it would be invidi- 
ous to describe as insulting to the prosjjective wife; 
who canvass in respectful tones the innocence of 
innocence but know what is the correct attitude for 
men of the World. “Lady Orreyed as she now is,” 
^ys Cayley Drummle denouncing Mabel Hervey, 
“was_a lady who would have been, probably has been 
described in the reports of the Police or Divorce Court 
as an actress. Had she belonged to a lower stratum 
of our advanced civilisation she would in the event 
oi judicial inquiry have defined her calling with equal 
justification as that of a dressmaker.” But one wearies 
of this turgid vulgarity. 

The characters of Pinero’s plays are labels, mere 
mouthpieces; placed in preconceived positions, they 
say their little commonplaces, in speeches that neither 
reveal their characters nor advance the play, which 
moves mechanically to its predestined end not of its 
nature but by virtue of the author’s preconceived 
plan. Pinero always declared that he constructed 
the play first and put in the characters afterwards. 

There have been found defenders to claim for him 
that he was a master of dramatic construction, of 
the technics of the theatre. What is this science, 
which appears to consist largely in getting characters 
on and off the stage? It is implicit in any good play. 
In “Riders to the Sea,” Maurya must if you will be 
got out of the kitchen so that the daughters can 
examine the clothing of the drowned man. It is 
discovered that the cake which is baking for the 
^n who is going away has been forgotten, and she 
is sent out with it. So natural is the incident that 
it never occurs to you until the play is analysed that 
any motive was involved. And even then notice 
how Synge handles it. For Maurya returns having 
seen her last son ride by without noticing her, and 
this luckless parting deepens that sense of gloom, 
that inevitability, which in this masterpiece hushes 
the theatre from the first word to the last. 

In the second Mrs. Tanqueray the first act is 
taken up in gathering friends round a table to explain 
to them and the audience what the tragedy is to be. 
The principal character then leaves the stage to write 
letters — letters at a dinner party which he has 
himself convened — so that the friends may discuss 



him and underline his remarks lest their significance 
should be lost. . . And finishes with the arrival of the 
fourth guest late, adumbrates the matter still further 
by explaining that he has been detained by a tragedy 
of which he gives full details of the same kind that 
the dinner party has led everyone to expect. 

But why be impatient with this country of best 
sellerdom where nobody has less than seven or eight 
thousand a year? The country of faithful retainers, of 
coincidence, where poverty is invested with pathos 
by its ignorance of the search made for it by well 
intentioned wealth which will find it in the fourth 
act. 

It all means nothing and never did. Here we have 
no wit, no poetry, nothing of the human heart. It 
would be idle to talk of such matters as character 
shown by and in action, of economy of means, of 
Aristotle, of a criticism of life. Arnold Bennett once 
conducted an investigation into the reasons for the 
popularity of Charles Garvice, but only arrived at 
the conclusion that he was popular, though he seems 
to have been unaware that his explanation amounts 
to no more than this. But popular amusement is 
no worse on this account; it is make believe for thous- 
ands and they prefer it so. Yesterday the Pineros 
and today Los Angeles. And why not. Art has no 
relation to happiness: it is merely one kind of speci- 
alised human activity. Do you enjoy it? Very well — 
you will not find it in Pinero, that is all. 



Seeing Art Galleries 

Grace Hart 

“AW, Mum, come on”, a lanky youth of about 
[\ fourteen years of age marches quickly into the 
^ ^ room, reads aloud the “ANTONIO DA 
MURANO” below a painting and strides out again. 
“Come along. Mum, we’ve seen it all.” Mum is not 
visible. Dad enters with the youth. They stop before 
the First Gentleman of Europe, posturing gracefully 
in white satin breeches and ermine-trimmed robe. 
“Look, Dad, that’s the guy that wanted to keep 
America.” Mum at last appears — a tired little lady 
who has conscientiously followed the guide book 
numbers. And happy that it is one P.M. and time 
for lunch, all three depart. 

Laboriously the culture-martyr abroad performs 
his social duty that he may not confuse Botticelli with 
a beverage at the dinner table. Baedeker in hand, he 
scans each thirteenth century expressionless Madonna 
and ghastly crucifixion. And then, conscience relieved, 
away he steals to less exacting forms of sight seeing. 

True that the Art Gallery is often chilly, true 
that wheeled sedan chairs would be the ideal mode 
of transit. Yet, lacking these, how the torture chamber 
atmosphere would disappear did the weary traveller 
but attach himself to one of the ubiquitous guides. 
Briskly, efficiently, you are whisked from corridor 
to corridor, and in a few moments on your exit you 
may write a booklet on “The Louvre in Ten Minutes.” 
If the visitor were less pressed for time and could 
slip into the picture gallery for an occasional hour 
every other day or so, he would find a wealth of 
human interest if not of art. For it is in the foreign 
Accadémia that one hears one’s mother tongue, that 
one encounters ship companions. It is the Mecca 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



4S 



of the Tourist. Should the English student prove a 
daily frequent visitor, he may sit unmolested by 
guides fifteen minutes if he choose before a painting. 
What though a little group collect and stare earnestly 
at it too. Leonardo will repay them. 

You are comfortably ensconced before La Gioconda. 
(Paris salons often provide red plush lounges.) “Oh, 
is that Mona Lisa?’’ comes a girlish voice from the 
rear. “Why — why she’s not beautiful. Do you think 
she’s beautiful? Quick, let’s go on.’’ Do you fancy the 
twitching at the lip corners? Can that be Pater’s 
smile — that half-mocking, inscrutable glimmer of 
the eyes from one not beautiful, unless beauty lie 
in all experiencing and understanding? 

“Look, dear, at the brilliant ‘Supper at the House 
of Levi.’ Veronese is always gorgeous in his colour. 
Do you notice how he often introduces a dog? And 
do you see the man using his fork as a toothpick? 
So like Veronese!’’ 

The little girl gazes in stolid blankness at St. Peter 
carving the lamb. Her father, abandoning her, has 
trailed to the far end of the hall. And the tiny animat- 
ed English lady in her old fashioned black silk dress 
looks as if she longed for a more responsive pupil. 
But presently she darts hopefully ahead. 

“This, Madam,’’ says the guide in a loud voice, 
“is Nero.’’ 

A pervasive perfume reaches you. The peroxide 
blonde in a scarlet and white flowered dress lifts her 
lorgnette and examines his profile. 

“This Nero? Why he has a Roman nose!” 

“And this. Madam, is Agrippina.’’ 

The high-pitched voice joyfully comments, “She 
has a Roman nose!’’ 

The search for Roman noses is continued round 
the corner and you turn from the marble features of 
the Mother of the Gracchi to the proud Agrippina. 

In come the Cook’s Tourists led by a harassed 
guide. “Oh, why don’t they come? Please come, 
ladies and gentlemen. This is a famous Botticelli. 
You see Lorenzo de’ Medici, Piero, Cosimo, and 
Giuliano. Now in the next room I will show you a 
famous del Sarto.’’ 

The long line streams away. A few of the weary 
snatch a moment’s rest in the stiff arm chairs and 
then straggle on. 

There follows a party of German Holy Year pil- 
grims, rosy and vigourous, and the enthusiastic lead- 
er explains in detail “die Wichtigkeit dieses Meis- 
terstück.” 

Every day at the same hour, the little white-beard- 
ed man works at his easel in the corner. If any one 
comes near, he darts nervous jerky little glances 
from under his spectacles and poises his brush in 
air. When the jostling tourist wave flows in, he mys- 
teriously vanishes. But when it has ebbed away, 
he is at his post again, lightly, deftly deepening the 
rose tones of a fold in the Madonna’s robe, and oc- 
casionally slipping from his stool, eyes aglow, to 
study model and copy from afar. 

The miniature worker in another corner is quite 
unconcerned at anyone’s approach. She picks up 
one or two completed oval-framed Madonnas which 
the foreigner may want to buy. 

What do they think, as they sit at work day after 
day, of the ever-changing throng in the salons? Per- 
haps one can guess. 

It is the odd hour every few days in the Gallery 
that also gives one a glimpse of the golden richness 



of Renaissance life and that conjures up the people 
of long ago. Here where old Luca Pitti planned to 
outdazzle the Medici, time is forgotten. O dashing 
black-haired nobles, scarlet cardinals, and rich-robed 
coiu-t ladies, was your life really gayer, happier, more 
full of verve and intrigue than ours? You blonde 
plump damsels, why did you pluck your eyebrows? 
Or was expressionless placidity the acme of beauty 
then? 

Here sits Pope Leo X with his two cardinals in 
solemn thought. And there Andrea’s Lucrezia gazes 
abstractedly intent beyond the clustered saints at 
her feet. Do the French King’s messengers hover 
outside the door or does she wait the cousin’s signal? 
Rosy merrymakers of Hals with sparkling eyes defy 
life to do its worst. Here too, the Madonna del 
Granduca show that, without resembling a robust 
country wench or an emaciated block of wood, a 
Madonna may look both human and spiritual. And 
Saint Sebastian smiles benevolently down in very 
nonchalance, as if to have twelve or thirteen arrows 
piercing one’s vitals were all in the day’s work. 

Scriptural themes seem to have appealed most 
strongly to the great masters. “From the birth of 
the Virgin to St John’s Revelation’’ one can trace 
the New Testament story in early naive simple works 
and in the finished productions of a Raphael. If the 
Christ-child was beyond del Sarto’s reach, Murillo 
has caught him. Here is no mischievous curly-headed 
Cupid, no elongated stiff doll or miniature man in 
conventional pose. Clinging to his mother, a real child 
leans from the canvas towards you. Large dark eyes 
of adult earnestness, yearning, appealing, search 
yours. 

His face haunts you, as you leave, with the reality 
of a known face, only more spiritual. 

What is art, you query. Dead paint and cold marble 
in churches and museums to be scurried through at 
the rate of two or three buildings a day? Or is it ex- 
perience, the stuff of life itself, the craving of the 
soul, grasped often imperfectly but transcendently 
in a few cases? Why need one concentrate on the 
failures? 



Twilight 

THIS poem stole by me in the afternoon; 

This poem and that afternoon is you: 

Twilight gray and rather mournful, song a little out 
of tune, 

And all the things one should, but did not do. 

You spoke of music in a voice of music, 

And your voice wandered on like the smoke of your 
cigarette 

As you mixed in your talk the name of Helen 
And the name of Deirdre and the names of some 
living yet. 

It is easy enough to recall the body of your death, 

To comprehend with the mind what you meant; 

Not easy to forget the quick catch in your breath, 

How an army with banners suddenly came and went 

Before the cloud had descended on your face again. 

And you asked if I’d have another cup of tea. 

And smiled and chatted as if there had been no pain: 
“What’s Hecuba to him?” you thought, and stared 
at me. A. J, M. Smith 



46 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



A Sketch of Canadian Trade-Union 

History 

A. B. Latham 

T he history of Canadian trade unions has not 
yet been written. The only attempt at a general 
survey of the rise of trade unions north of the 
American frontier has been made by Mr. Coats of 
the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. Anybody who 
is curious about Canadian unions would be obliged 
to read Mr. Coats’ contribution to Canada and its 
Provinces. A complete account of the subject would 
necessitate many ye^s’ work, such as that put forth 
by the Webbs on their history of British trade-union- 
ism. The only sources for such a work are the records 
of individual labour organizations and odd references 
in writings on many different matters. The im- 
portance of working-class societies cannot be under- 
estimated, for almost all employers now recognize 
them and even form trade unions where they do not 
already exist. It is therefore easy to appreciate that 
there is (in Canada) an open field for much academic 
(and other) investigation. But, in view of the lack 
of available historical data, there is an immediate 
impj^iment to such work. This essay is written with 
a view to suggesting the general direction which an 
historical study might take. 

Canadian trade unions have not always been mere 
reflections of American institutions. It would be 
more accurate to say that, before the unification 
of labour on the North American continent, there 
was in Canada as in parts of the United States com- 
plete antonomy and separatism. It was inevitable 
from the first, however, that there should be loss 
of separate identity on the part of Canadian unions. 

Throughout the whole development of the labour 
situation in Canada there have been, almost from 
the beginning, two different kinds of conflict. First, 
there has been the clash between the tendency to- 
wards amalgamation with American federations and 
the opposite pull towards national antonomy. 
Secondly, as elsewhere, there has for a long time 
been a great opposition between craft unionism and 
industrial unionism. The latter phase of the struggle 
in Canadian labor life is to be adequately described 
in an economics thesis by a McGill student. 

Taking the two forms of internal opposition as 
the basis for classification, there have been three 
periods in the trade-union history of our country. 
They are, in brief, as follows: 

(1) The period during which national craft unions 
predominated — from shortly before 1830 to 1881. 

(2) The period during which the principle of in- 
ternational industrial unionism predominated — from 
1881 to 1902. 

(3) The domination of international craft union- 
ism. 

The trade unions of the first period were very few, 
both because at that time industrialism itself had 
not penetrated Canada to any great extent and be- 
cause, for many years, trade unions were illegal. The 
early labow organizations were secret in character, 
but there is evidence to show that they occasionally 
exercised considerable influence in the regulation 
of wages. There was a successful strike of printers 
in York in 1834, the year when the name of that 



city was changed to Toronto. Throughout the en- 
Period the number of trade unions increased 
gradually, and in some cities trades councils were 
formed. 

The first important international union to enter 
L National Typographical Union, 

which had been formed in the United States in the 
year 1852. It extended its activities to this country 
about 1869, and the name was soon changed to the 
International Typographical Union. In 1872 the 
printers of Toronto again went on strike. They struck 
for the nine-hour day, and although they expected 
an immediate success, since an international organ- 
ization was behind them, twenty-four of the strikers 
were at once thrown into jail. The men were shortly 
released, so that in reality a greater victory was won 
than had been contemplated, for Parliament imme- 
diately passed a bill to the effect that trade unions 
were not illegal. The legalisation of the status of 
trade unions gave an enormous impetus to the move- 
ment, so that a year later the Canadian Labour 
Union, a national all-embracing organization, was 
formed. The Canadian Labour Union was instru- 
mental in bringing about a repeal of the Master and 
Servant Act of Ontario, whereby a breach of con- 
tract was a criminal, not a civil, offence. It also se- 
cured the legal protection of union funds. Both of 
these achievements were of great value to the trade- 
union movement, inasmuch as they removed two 
of the chief hindrances to its progress. 

Three years after the formation of the Canadian 
Labour Union there occurred an unsuccessful strike 
of locomotive engineers, followed by various repres- 
sive measures, both public and private. This inaugu- 
rated an era of rapid decline. For a time it appeared 
very dark for the future of Canadian unionism. This 
fkst period had witnessed the growth, the legaliza- 
tion, and the decline of trade unions. The second 
period began with the introduction of a new and 
invigorating force in the form of the Knights of 
Labour. This large body of workers, organized on 
the basis of one class rather than a multitude of self- 
seeking trades, had been formed in the United States 
as a secret society. In 1881 it gave up its secrecy 
and expanded rapidly. In the same year it entered 
Canada, this being part of its general expansion in 
all sections of the continent. The Knights of Labour 
came to dominate the field of labour organization 
in Canada, as well as in the United States. Thus the 
second historical period was international and in- 
dustrial. 

In 1883 the old Canadian Labour Union was re- 
vived in the form of the Canada Trades and Labour 
Congress, which exists to-day. The policy of having 
formal meetings with the Dominion cabinet, as well 
as the provincial cabinets, was commenced. Labour, 
at last, definitely took up the business of “lobbying”, 
which for years had been the practice of manufac- 
turers. 

While the Knights of Labour were the outstand- 
ing consolidated group in Canadian labour, several 
of the independent unions had been quietly affiliating 
with the new American Federation of Labour, which, 
although international, strongly opposed industrial 
unionism. The Knights of Labour was declared to 
be a dual union. In the 1903 convention of the Con- 
gress, at Berlin, Ontario, the struggle between the 
Knights and those unions affiliated with thei,A.F. 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



47 



of L. came to the surface. The Knights of Labour 
had already begun its decline, although it was strong 
m Canada long after it had almost disappeared in 
the United States. At any rate, the international 
CTaft unions controlled the convention, and the 
Knights of Labour, together with several dual 
national organizations, were expelled from the Con- 
gress. 

After this convention the Knights, owing to their 
loss of prestige, decayed more rapidly than ever. 
The American Federation of Labour, in collabora- 
tion with its subsidiary, the Canada Trades and 
Labour Congress, has from then until the present 
day been in control of the policy of labour in this 
country. 

Following the Berlin Congress, the ejected unions 
formed the National Trades and Labour Congress, 
which in 1908 changed its name to the Canadian 
Federation of Labour, which groups about itself those 
unions which accept the principle of antonomous 
Canadian unionism on grounds of pan-Canadian 
nationalism. I use the word “pan-Canadian” to 
distinguish the nationalism of the C.F. of L. from 
that of the Catholic and National Unions, which 
are also a distinct phenomenon of the third period. 
Their nationalism is French-Canadian and religious 
in spirit. Although the present period is character- 
ized by internationalism, there is a strong under- 
current of nationalism, as exemplified in the two 
groups just mentioned. These two organizations 
are nationalist and conservative in character. 

In 1908, wth the founding of the Canadian Broth- 
hood of Railroad Employees, a new tendency set 
in — a tendency combining the principles of national 
autonomy and industrial unionism. It showed itself 
again in 1925 at the establishment of the Mine 
Workers’ Union of Canada. 

There are then, at the present moment, two kinds 
of rebellion against American control of Canadian 
unions. The first kind is exhibited by those, like the 
C.F. of L. and the Catholic unionists, who fear and 
retreat from the comparatively advanced position 
of the A.F. of L; while, secondly, there are those, 
like the members of the two recent industrial unions 
I have mentioned (as well as the O.B.U.and the I. 
W.W.), who favour Canadian autonomy, because 
it means freedom from what they term the “reaction- 
ary bureaucracy” of the A.F. of L. 



Poem 

WHEN I was arrested for drunkenness 
They wanted to know my profession. 

I answered them, saying: 

“I am an Interior Decorator.'' 

They thought I was lying: 

They did not know 

That I decorate my thoughts 

With scarlet scarves 

Wound on the loom of dreams, 

And paper my mind with purple. 



Michel Gard 



The Death of Character 

W. L. 

E dgar Hapgood was a professional hero employed 
to fulfil the various destinies arranged for him 
by his author. He was an example of the truth 
that heroes, like poets, are born, not made. When 
he entered the world he possessed nothing, except 
a father and a mother, and as they both died very 
soon after that momentous event he was early forced 
to make his own way in the world. In this under- 
taking he owed his success mainly to perseverance 
aided by appetite and heredity. By eating and drink- 
ing freely everything his yells could summon, he was 
enabled to retain his grasp on life, so that as time 
went on, it became fairly clear that he would succed 
to the immense fortune left him by his parents 
Money wealth was not his only asset. A massive 
countenance, founded on a solid, squarely constructed 
chin, and s^ounted by a flat, smooth forehead 
with a covenng of golden hair, guaranteed fame later 
on when emotions were called upon to register them- 
selv^ thereon. Smiles could ripple, steel blue flashes 
could burn, nostrils could quiver upon that plastic 
surface whenever the author willed. Behind that 
forehead there lurked no treacherous intelligence 
to che^ romance and default to a picturesque imagina- 
tion._ Edgar was the supreme fruit of a eugenic system 
applied to characters in fiction. 

It was a bright, snow-covered world into which 
he stepped that January morning as he set out for 
the office where his author’s syndicate carried on 
their ht^aiy manufacture. What splendid fate lav 
Mead of him? From the introductory chapters of 
the latest serial novel in the “Cosmopolitician ” 
where he was appearing, it was evident that “The 
Great Introspection,” was to be the ultimate thine 
"^^Sazine literature. The first reviews would 
without fml speak of psychological reactions: delicate 
analysis: intimate sympathy: even (in the Occult 
periodicals) of soulful imaginings. As the news- 

^ hold of it, their readers 

would buy The Great Impersonation” for its mag- 
nificent scope. Its daring situations, its sublime appeal 
to the emotions. And last of all, when such publicity 
had sung Its last song, Edgar would achieve the apo- 
theosis of great literature and appear resplendent 
on the hoardings— the central figure of the world’s 
^eatest moving picture, where Art had realized 
tho^ inaccessible heights to which Homer, Dante 
Shakespeare and Wagner has aspired in vain. Thé 
great pping public could now, through him, sob 
and gulp; grow livid and have their hearts put through 
a mincing machine, for one hour and on payment 
of one dollar and up. After which they would get 
their money s worth out of the dear familiar comedy 
of_^tt and Meff and their German compatriots. 
Edgar, therefore, looked forward to a pleasant 

Chapter 4 as the 
affinity that Mrs. C. Myers Boyllingg had been in 
^arch of when she married Mr. C. Myers Boyllingg. 
Tru^ her eye for affinities was prone to error. Shé 
had been at fault in the matter of her first and second 

Stocking and Germaine 
Le^oyd. But there was a something about Edgar 
which convinced. She was sure of herself this time. 
Besides that feline (and how fortunate) widow, Mrs. 
Alpenstuck was also stalking Edgar. His matrimoniai 
lut^e then, had all the adventurous possibilities of 
a thick fog. 



48 



The McGill Fortnightly Review 



The managing director of the author had further 
extensive plans for him. Against modem Amazons, 
Edgar’s valuable physique would be wasted. And 
so he had taken up wrestling under one name, boxing 
under another, and aristocratic robbery under a 
third. In each sphere his success — unknown to the 
admiring public dwelling in the State of Fictionia, 
but quite obvious to the reading public of “The 
Cosmopolitician” — was due more to a masterly 
unscrupulousness than to personal prowess. In his 
first boxing match Edgar had ‘scored’ a knock-out 
through the subtle use of ether, applied via his glove, 
during the clinches. His marvellous establishments 
on Riverside Drive and in the Laurentians were 
kept up by a combination of indirect blackmail and 
safe speculation — possible only to one on the “inside.’’ 
In a burst of daring he had made a spectacular window 
entrance to his hostess’ dressing-room while she was 
entertaining in his honour below, and had acquired 
a six-figure haul of diamonds His conduct when the 
discovery was made was gentlemanly and charming. 
But suspicion passed him by and the morality of the 
criminal who escapes detection triumphed once again. 

What a prospect for our hero then! He was all 
eagerness to look into it further. But somehow this 
morning the exasperating realities of life seemed in 
conspiracy to delay him. Breakfast had been late — 
at least he had overslept and had been behind hand 
ever since. He could not find his rubbers. As he open- 
ed the door with its battered handle, his sister called 
to tell him of an undone errand, and added that the 
rent was due on the morrow. The first was one of 
those inescapable daily recurrences; the second — by 
association — recalled the drop in the common stock 
of the Birdline Silver Mines, and startled him. Then 
as he ran across the narrow, uneven snow track to 
catch his street-car, he dropped his portfolio and, 
damn it! missed his car. His hands and feet grew cold 
and colder as he waited for the next: when he finally 
boarded it he had to shove aside two women and 
an old man to find room on the step. The travelling 
became even more frigid. No one of these details 
was singular or new. But they bore a strange heaped- 
up significance, today, and in rapid succession they 
bombarded his peace of mind. 

The hero forgot his luxurious home, his wealth 
of love affairs, his profitable notoriety. His greatness, 
by a curious inversion, took on the opposite dimen- 
sion. It was smallness now: insignificance, humbled 
and obscure. What was the value of all the “abjects, 
orts and imitations,’’ of his fictitious existence? That 
last haul at the Carreytons’ left a dusty taste in his 
mouth. Why did he have to go and see Mrs. Myers 
Boyllingg’s new apartment this evening? And now 
that rent was due 

Automatically Edgar Hapgood stepped off at his 
comer, ran around the front of the street car and — 
met the onrushing limousine with an impact that 
shook it not at all, but pitched Edgar fifteen feet off, 
where if he were not already dead, his pain was 
stopped by the wheels of a heavy van running in 
the opposite direction. 

He was never to know that it was his author’s 
limousine, nor that his clever . counsel was able to 
win his case by proving that it is illogical to expect 
busy literairy magnates, professionally absent-minded 
as they have to be, not to make the best possible 
speed on their way to the office at nine o’clock in the 
morning. 



BOOKS 

WINNIE-THE-POOH 

(By A. A. Milne. E. P. Dutton 8 Co. New York. 
$2.00) 

N obody can be uncheered with a balloon, says 
Winnie to Piglet. We doubt him, knowing more 
of the modern world than he. But nobody who 
is cheered with a balloon can be uncheered with 
Winnie, for he moves gaily hither and thither, urged 
by the very winds of childhood — winds that may 
still gather us up and take us with them to the for- 
gotten lands of fancy, if Vanity Fair and the Financial 
Times have not killed the child within us. 

NORTH POLE 
DISCOVERED BY POOH 
POOH FOUND IT 

Reader, if you do not understand how necessj^ 
to that notice is the unnecessary third line, the child 
in you is dead. 

What shall a critic say of such a book? Nothing — 
that were best. But he may wonder, oh, many things: 
how the Christopher Robins of this world (the ordin- 
ary children, that is) can ever grow up to be men who 
never read poetry, who think war is glorious, who 
find pleasure in cornering a market, who are unmoved 
at the sight of a slum. 

Suppose, after all. Hell does exist: wont there 
be a frying and sizzling of parents! 

Truly, a “Sustaining Book, such as would help 
and comfort a Wedged Bear in Great Tightness.’’ 



TIME EXPOSURES 

(by Search-Light. New York: Boni 8 Liveright, 
$2.50) 

I N a journalese punctuated by epigrams of doubtful 
quality Mr. Siearchlight tells of some men and 
women who have become famous in our day. The 
sketches were originally contributed to The New 
Yorkers, and are now assembled in the book. 

We learn that “Kahn is an artist of a kind, and he 
loves his kind.” Sandburg is “A primitive, prowling 
among dynamos; a singer reclining on a city lot full 
of ash-cans, as if it were a mead; a blower of delicate 
bubbles among incandescent lamps.” We are told 
that Sinclair Lewis mourns the fate that he is “the 
adored son of his Mother” (i.e. the U.S.) and that he 
looks forward to writing good novels which will not 
be “best sellers.” Charlie Chaplin (funny-legs) we 
find has always been interested in Sanskrit. A.R. Orage 
is a fecundating pin. “Neither creative by nor intellect- 
ually profound, he is both, since he has spent his life 
pricking men and women into fecundity,” Dreiser is a 
“symbol of America’s spiritual childhood.” This goes 
on for 188 pages. 

Mr. Search-Light has many shortcomings, but 
his gossip about celebrities is, it must be admitted, 
vivacious, and seldom boring. 



IN A VENETIAN GARDEN. ST. URSULA 
(By Amy Red path Roddick. Montreal. John Dougall 
if Son.) 

BEAUTIFUL chimes from the donor of the McGill 
Memorial Gates. 



