Vol. XII 



No. 6 








UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

J. N. Greenshields. Edmond Guerin. R. A. E- Greenshields. 

IjOBERTSON, FLEET & FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. JAMES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

Atwater & Mackie, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 

WIACWIASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR k McLENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 
175 St. James St., Montreal, 

DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C- R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

M. HUTCHINSON, B.C-L. F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 

CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., 3Iontreal . 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS. 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 



Antiseptic Materials, Banflages, Etc,, 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pfcnantital & Diijemiil Clniil!, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor St. Catherine St, 

MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
AU Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

- Cotton Wool, Salicvlated, 

Cotton Wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol, 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze. Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated ; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic; Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain ; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 



HEADQUARTERS 

—FOR — 



DRYSDALE’S 



CRUICKSHANK & ELLIOT, 

Advocates, Barristers, etc., 



90 ST. JAMES STREET, CITY. 




PURE CANDY. 

254 St. James street, and 1 5 St. Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 
and 73 Sparts street, OTTAWA. 



232 ST. .T-A-iNIIES ST 



.HEDICAL WORKS, BOOKS USEE IJY ART COURSE, 
SCIEJ\'CE TEXT BOOKS, 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL BOOKS . 

Fnll Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices. 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books. Ac., &c., 

►J- BEST VALUE IN TO AVIV -s-— 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students' 
Supplies a Specialty. 

W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

232 St. «X ames Street, 

-A.ILSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 



Vol. XII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 22nd, 1888. [No. 6. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 
J. A. Elliott, Arts ’90, Vice-President. 
C. A. Barnard, Law ’89, Sec.-Treas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

W. Dixon, B.A. 



EDITORS. 



Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Editor-in-Chief. 
J. A. MacPhail, B.A. 



Blanche B. Evans, B.A. 

C. L. Wheeler, B. A., Med. ’89. 
R. McDougall, Arts ’90. 



Francis Topp, B.A., Law ’89. 
A. W. Strong, Science ’89. 

C. P. Bissett, Med. ’90. 



Helen R. Y. Reid, ’89, Corresponding Ed. for Ladies’ Dept. 



The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not he returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. 0. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 63-65 

Poetry 65, 66, 71, 72 

Contributions - - - , - - - 66-70 

McGill News 71 

Societies 71-72 

Personals 72 

Between the Lectures 72-73 

College World 73-74 



ANNOUNCEMENT. 

The seventh number of the “University Gazette” 
will contain a prose article by Mr. George Murray. 



Editorials. 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. 

At the annual meeting of the University Club, held 
not long ago, the main feature was an unfavorable 
financial showing, which caused no little discourage- 
ment. A resolution was then adopted declaring the 
advisability of dissolving the club and reorganizing it 
on a different basis, but what the new method was 
the resolution did not suggest. 



This should not be carried into effect ; the club was 
not formed without much labor, and if the present 
scheme fail it will be useless to attempt another. 
The Furnishing Fund was contributed to liberally, 
and there is now nothing needed to make the rooms 
a pleasant resort. The club is a rallying ground for 
the graduates, and the need of such a meeting place 
was n ever more keenly felt than at present, when 
all the members of the University are awake and alive 
to their responsibilities in connection with it. It is 
a meeting place for the graduates and their former 
teachers, the benefactors and friends of the Univer- 
sity. There, too, the students can meet with those 
who have gone before them, and learn the rich tradi- 
tions of McGill’s long foretime, and soften the rela- 
tion existing between professor and undergraduate. 
To dissolve the club would be worse than a mistake ; 
there is no need for the action, for the present state 
of affairs is due merely to temporary apathy and not 
to a lack of real interest in its welfare. The finances 
are in as good a condition as last year and the pros- 
pects are better. Though there is a large body of 
students and graduates to whom the club is a real 
home, new blood is needed to replace the part that is 
being drawn away by old members dropping out. 
Members who, even if they have no personal need for 
club, should support it for the sake of the University. 

There is at present a good deal of unoccupied room, 
and, with a very small expense, fine additional ap- 
partments could be fitted up for renting. The St. 
James Club owns the building, and it should be ap- 
proached with a view to having these alterations made. 
It would be profitable for the University Club to pay 
even ten per cent, on the outlay, for the income de- 
rived from rents would be equal to the membership 
fees of at least thirty members. If this outlay is re- 
fused, and additional funds do not arise through an 
increased membership, then the University Club 
should procure quarters where the finances would be 
merely a matter of arrangement, as would now be the 
case if the unoccupied room was available for meeting 
purposes. Meantime, every member should make an 
effort to deepen his own interest and widen the gene- 
ral interest in the institution. There are many gra- 
duates and undergraduates who would make excellent 
members, and they are only waiting to be asked to 
enter the University Club. 



64 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORE. 

In view of the trouble that has recently occurred 
between the first and second years in Medicine, we 
deem it proper to make some suggestions as to the 
relations that should exist between the various classes, 
not only in this but in the other Faculties. 

In the present case the point at issue seemed to 
centre in which class should occupy the front seats 
during a lecture on chemistry. We are informed 
that the freshmen were promptly “ fired,” to use the 
term that has been lately applied to unceremonious 
eviction. 

Now, seeing that the second year men are senior 
in the primaries, and moreover, that they are required 
to pass on this subject at the close of the session, it 
is but natural that they should have not only the 
choice of seats, but the preference in all cases where 
position or precedence might be of advantage. 

This, we repeat, would naturally follow from the 
dictates of common sense, but in addition, there are 
the “unwritten laws” of college life, the propriety of 
which should be self-evident to every freshman. 

While wo thus unhesitatingly condemn the fresh- 
men, we still remember that the present second year, 
when occupying a similar position, were guilty of cer- 
tain acts that have gone far to destroy that discipline 
to which “ gentlemen of the first year ” have long 
conformed. Truly they may be said to have “ sowed 
the wind and reaped the whirlwind.” 

WHAT is an editor ? — not an editor in general, but 
the editor of a college paper, of the University 
Gazette, if you like? “Why,” you say, “he’s a kind 
of ‘multuni in parvo,' or, rather, ‘onnes in unibus a 
fellow whom we appoint to hunt round for all the 
racy and interesting news he can find, and serve it 
up to us in good literary style, at regular hours. If 
he can’t get the matter, he must make it ; if he can’t 
make it, he must find some one who can. Each faculty 
appoints an editor to represent it ; when he is selected, 
the duty of supporting the paper is transferred to 
him. He has the honor, why not the responsibility 
and work as well ? Isn’t that what he is elected for ?” 
All you ask in return for the position you give him is 
that he shall get reports of all meetings around the 
college ; catch all the flying jokes ; note all that is go- 
ing on in the college world ; write literary articles to 
give a higher tone to the paper, and produce editorials, 
trenchant and clever, on any and every subject which 
may present itself. One tiling more, he must see that 
this matter is arranged, printed, corrected, published 
and delivered regularly every two weeks. 

If you think so, you are correct; such he is. 



Allow us another question. What should he be? 
A good and concise definition of an editor’s duty was 
given in a late number of the Writer : “ An editor’s 

duty is to fill the waste paper basket.” “ Why so ? 
Because the public should fill the paper. The public, 
in this case the students, should contribute the matter 
for publication ; the editor’s province is to select, re- 
ject, and arrange the matter to be published. What 
is our object in questioning you in this way ? It is 
this : that you may know what an editor’s work is and 
help to make it what it should be. The Gazette gets 
some good contributions, but it might get more ; its 
college news is full, but might be fuller, and so every 
department. Its work is chiefly editorial, when it 
should be chiefly contributed. The remedy is, to each 
student — write ! news, letters, tales, jokes, poetry, 
anything and everything. Fill The Gazette, and we 
will take good care to keep the waste basket full. 



The recent lecture by Sir William Dawson on the 
Constitution of McGill University has resulted in at- 
tention being drawn to the study of that Constitution 
more forcibly than heretofore. 

The constitution of a college is its heart, and needs 
to be carefully sounded once in a while to determine 
its condition. A constitution suited to a generation 
ago may not be suitable for the present ; and perhaps 
it will be well for McGill to reconsider hers. 

We are glad to encourage the friends of the college, 
and more particularly its graduates in their study of 
the constitution of McGill. 

The recent meeting of the Graduates’ Society, re- 
ported in the last number of The University Gazette, 
was one of extreme importance. No one can, for an 
instant, suppose that the large body of McGill grad- 
uates can have other than the welfare of the Univer- 
sity at heart. The moderate way in which the Con- 
stitution was discussed, the evident respect for the 
governors, are just what one might expect from those 
to whom McGill’s success in the future is an anxious 
desideratum. 

It follows, therefore, that when men, who have 
pioved themselves sagacious in business or profession- 
al life, expiess dissatisfaction with the Constitution of 
our University, their words are worthy of respectful 
consideration. It may be that further study of the 
different sides of the question may result in the deci- 
sion that no great alteration, perhaps no alteration, in 
the Constitution is necessary. But, at least, the grad- 
uates should como to some decision on the point and, 
if necessary, acquaint the governing body of the Uni- 
versity with their views. 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



65 



The hockey club of McGill College must not he for- 
gotten at this season of the year. We are not writing 
to call the attention of old players to the sport ; there 
is no need of that, for they will certainly be found 
on the ice. We desire, however, to recommend the 
sport to the new-comers, who do not know its charms. 
Do you want to learn to skate 1 Then play hockey, 
it will give you steadiness on your feet, grace and 
agility of motion a hundred times quicker than mere 
circling a rink will give you skill. Do you want a 
sport combining the speed of lacrosse and the perse- 
verance of football, then again we say play hockey. 
There is, perhaps, no game more rapid, more exhilar- 
ating and fascinating than this, nor any better suited 
to train the student for the campus. 

To be a fine player is difficult. Speed, coolness, 
audacity, adroitness are needed. But to be able to en- 
joy the game needs little practice. 

McGill’s is one of the oldest, if not the oldest, hockey 
clubs in the Dominion, and her voice in hockey coun- 
cils has done much to conserve the game. She has 
fallen on evil days, so far as success in matches is con- 
cerned. The cup won in open competition at the first 
Carnival has been lonesome too long. Out of the 
hundreds of students at McGill surely seven men can 
be found able to retrieve the name of the club this year. 



We quote from an editorial in the Cornell Era : — 

“ No one can deny that a college is, to a large extent, judged 
by its college press, and this press will have a standard of excel- 
lence commensurate with the support it receives. Every class 
of students, therefore, that forms an integral part of the Univer- 
sity, that is benefited by its good name, owes a support to the 
press.” 

Oh ! all ye students of McGill, cast off your gar- 
ments of parsimony and indifference, deny yourselves 
the cigarette, and ye, 0 ! fair ones, the caramel ; 
stretch forth your monied hands to the University 
Gazette — do your duty, and reap the reward of 
virtue ! 

We publish in this issue the notice of a paper, read 
" before the Theo Dora Society, by a lady who has been 
for some time engaged in missionary work among the 
Indians in the far North. We are glad that — full of 
life and energy as it has proved itself — the Theo 
Dora does not confine its researches to foreign fields, 
but is at length drawing the attention of the students 
to Home Missions. 

Before the issue of another number we shall have 
had our Christmas dinners and entered upon a new 
year. To all the students, we, of The Gazette, wish 
“ A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.” 



FLOWERS FROM THE GREEK ANTHOLOGY. 

Inscription on a Tomb. 

(Author unknown.) 

I seek, Sabinus, by this little stone 
Great love for thee, departed friend to own : 
My love will last— thy love for me to show, 
Drink not of Lethe in the realms below. 



On Venus Arising from the Sea. 

( Antipater, of Sidon.) 

Charm’d by Apelles’ magic, here thine eyes 
May view sweet Venus from the waves arise. 
Twin’d in her hair, her glowing fingers press 
The dews of ocean from each dripping tress— 
So fair, that Juno’s self and Pallas sigh, 

“ With thee ’twere vain in loveliness to vie. 



The Shrine of Venus. 

( Antipater , of Sidon.) 

Small is the chapel where I make my home. 
Queen of these shores all white with ocean loam, 
But still ’tis dear: my presence calms the waves, 
And oft the mariner from shipwreck saves. 

Pay court to Venus— she will succour thee 
In love’s wild storms, or on the raging sea. 



The Shrine of Venus. 

(Anyte.) 

Fair aphrodite, from this marble fane 
Delights to gaze upon the glassy main, 
Smoothing the sailor’s pathway— while the deep 
Beholds her image, and is lull’d asleep. 



Discontented. 

( Author unknown.) 

Poor, when a boy, but opulent, when old, 

Twice have I suffer’d misery untold : 

Wealth, when I could have used it, I had none — 
I have it now, when life is nearly done 1 



A Lover’s Prayer. 

(Polemon.) 

Sweet Cupid ! kill my power to love, 
Unless I’m loved again : 

Thus, free from passion I shall prove, 
Or share the blissful pain. 

A Lament. 

(Callimachus.) 

The gentle maids of Samos’ isle 
Miss their sweet fellow-weaver’s smile : 
For Crethis oft with prattle gay 
Would while the hours of toil away, 

But now she sleeps beyond recall, 

The sleep that must be slept by ail ! 



On the Statue of a Bacchante. 

(Author unknown.) 

Restrain that Bacchante ! ere the marble maid 
Leaps from the shrine, and seeks the forest glade. 

On the Picture of Venus by Apelles. 
(Julian, of Egypt.) 

Stand back ! while Venus quits her ocean home, 
Or her wet locks will sprinkle thee with foam. 



Love and Wine. 

(Rufinus.) 

Love, by himself, I can defy, 

With Reason for my shield: 
When Bacchus fights as Love’s ally, 
To two such Gods I yield. 



The Zone of Venus. 

( Antiphanes , of Macedonia.) 

When Venus loosed the cestus of desire 

From her white breast, the love-compelling zone 
Was lent thee, Ino, all mankind to fire— 

But thou hast used it against me alone I 

Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



66 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



IN PACE. 

Away from thine thou laid’st thee down to die. 

But not ’mid strangers. Through the lonely night, 

Fond friends sat watching, by the flickering light. 

To catch with pious awe thy parting sigh. 

Yea, and the Virgin Mother, in the calm 
Of that flush Sabbath eve, stood at thy bed, 

And Guardian Angels lingered near thy head, 

To fan thy temples with their snowy palm. 

Rest gently where they laid thee ! On thy grave 
The rosy clouds their holy dews will send, 

The silver grasses’ whisp’ring lips will bend, 

And violets blue their fragrant chalice wave; 

While in my heart the memory of thee 
Green as those Summer blossoms e’er shall be. 

Montreal. John Talon-Lesperance. 



Contributions. 



COUNT VON ENGEL’S EXPERIENCE. 



A CHRISTMAS TALE. 
By Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc. 



Europe, with its historical memories stretching far 
hack into the world’s dawn ; Europe, with its Thermo- 
pylae, its Marathon, its yellow Tiber and mighty ruins ; 
its universities, its stores of written knowledge, and 
its vast laboratories, had claimed Dick Benton for four 
years. He had gone thither to pursue his studies at 
the feet of its great masters in science, and had de- 
voted himself to his studies with the ardor of youth, 
the perseverance of dulness, and the achievements of 
genius. But he had done far more than study science. 
He had scaled the high peaks of the Alps, had wan- 
dered through the Russian wheat fields, the green 
lanes of England, and the wine countries of southern 
France. He had dallied with the peoples of all lands ; 
had met the seducing senora and Jeanette, and ex- 
changed soft German words with Gretchen, as well as 
danced in palaces, and flirted with Madame la Mar- 
quise. Yet none had touched his heart, or swerved 
it a hair’s-breadth from the idol of his early youth, 
or made him faithless to her in act or word. He had 
left his Canadian home in the rose month of June, 
while the sky was blue above him as Italian lakes, and 
the sun gleamed on hill and stream and plain like a 
golden shield ; and wherever he had gone, in the four 
years of his absence, the thoughts of home had arisen 
at every sight, and the greater was the beauty he saw 
the greater was the beauty he recalled. There was no 
land and no season which he could not reproduce in 
Canadian memories. Wandering through France, the 
soft tongue and vivacious spirits of its peasantry had 
recalled thoughts of his native province, Quebec, with 
its merry, innocent habitants baking their bread in the 
hot ashes of a brick oven out doors near the bee-hive, 
and dancing at night in the village streets to the music 
of violins. He had well nigh been done to death one 
Russian winter, during a long drive to a distant town, 
through a blinding snow-storm, while the horses trem- 
bled as they ran at the cry of the wolves, but even in 
this his heart turned homeward, and the jingle of the 
bells and the frantic bounds of the steeds seemed part 
of his Canadian fancy. He had lived the students’ 
life in the Quartier Latin, and had held his own at 



Bierkeippe and duello in Germany; yet through all the 
panorama that had passed before him there had pierced 
a vision of a stately house in magnificent Montreal, 
with a brown-eyed child singing through it. 

And now he was going home. With honors offered 
him, with palace doors opened to him, for his scholar- 
ship and rank had entitled him to this, he yet refused 
all, for his heart was filled with the hopes of manhood, 
and the glamor of first love. 

When he left home she had been sixteen. Now 
she must have blossomed into full womanhood. They 
had corresponded a little, yet she had never known his 
love. Guess it she could, perhaps, have done, but 
she never knew it, for her age protected her. Dick’s 
love was too true to have taken advantage of a young 
girl’s fancy, and tie her to him, without liberty to 
choose elsewhere at will. 

And now he was going home. 

Was it home ? His people had scattered since he 
left, and there would be no house to receive him for 
Christmas, as it had so often done of yore. He would 
arrive almost on Christmas Eve, and in his own city, 
would have to stay at an hotel. 

But the hotels of Canada, unlike those of Europe, 
were homes to those who could afford to pay for their 
luxuries. There was no gloomy candle to light one 
to bed, as in Europe, for one thing. 

Dick arrived in Montreal from New York on the 
day before Christmas, in the morning, and at once 
had his luggage taken to the Windsor Hotel. Here 
he sat, after an early dinner, and wondered how he 
should spend Christmas Eve. There had been, before 
he left, one house in which he was always sure of a 
welcome. But would he be welcome now, after four 
years of absence? That was the question. Had 
Gladys forgotten him, the lad who use to worship the 
very ground she trod, and foolishly let her know it ? 
Had her heart changed, as her body must have done, 
and did she now rule empress in another heart ? Well, 
he would see her, anyway. And yet, somehow, he did 
not want her to know him until he learned whether 
or not he had a rival. 

He cogitated long before he hit upon a plan. At 
last he arrived at some decision, for he sat down and 
began vigorously to scribble a letter, which took him 
much time and trouble. However, it satisfied him 
when finished, which, after all, is more than can be 
said of much other work that takes time and trouble. 

Dick, while in Europe, had conformed to the habits 
and customs of the natives. He had gone away a 
beardless youth, with just the promise of a mustache. 
But during his stay in Germany he had cultivated a 
beard, and had it trimmed in orthodox fashion. His 
clothes, when he arrived in Montreal, were of English 
make, but he had a number of German suits also, and, 
strange to say, doffed the English style for one of 
these. 

He took a lonely tea at the Windsor, having, for a 
reason best known to himself, avoided hunting up 
his old cronies. He seemed to enjoy himself, for a 
smile flickered over his face frequently as he dined. 

After tea he armed himself with his letter, and set 
out for the house of the idol of his heart. 

It was with some timidity that he rang the bell, 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



67 



1888.] 



and when the servant appeared his first words were 
in German. 

She shook her head and replied humbly : 

“ I don’t spake Frinch, son*.” 

Then in English he asked for Mr. Psamton, and 
the servant ushered him into the reception room. Mr. 
Psamton came in a few moments afterwards, and Dick 
felt a great inclination to spring forward and give the 
old gentlemen a hearty greeting. But he was playing 
a part, and restrained himself. 

“ Herr Psamton 1” he enquired. 

“ That is my name, sir. To what do I owe the 
pleasure of this meeting 1 ?” replied the courtly Cana- 
dian. 

Dick explained unblushingly that he was a German 
count, travelling in Canada, and a college mate of 
Dick Benton, who had given him several letters to 
Montrealers, among them one to Mr. Psamton, and 
that he had hastened almost immediately on his arrival 
to pay his respects to Mr. Psamton, more especially 
as he understood that that gentlemen was interested 
in Dick, and might be desirous of hearing the latest 
news about him. 

On hearing Dick’s name, the face of Mr. Psamton so 
lightened up with pleasure that Dick could have 
hugged him. Instead he offered the letter, which 
Mr. Psamton took and read. 

Oh ! Dick, where was your modesty when you 
wrote that letter. One would have thought that Count 
Von Engel was an angel indeed. A musician, a poet, 
a linguist, the leader of intellect and of fashion in 
Berlin ; so the letter described the Count. Mr. Psam- 
ton’s heart warmed to him. Dick was a handsome 
young fellow, tall and well-built, and with an open 
countenance. His host did not expect that duplicity 
of any kind could be behind that face, and seating 
himself plunged at once into a conversation with the 
soi disant Count, with Dick for theme. 

It was lucky for Dick’s stratagem that he knew as 
much of Germany as any German count, for Mr. 
Psamton had himself studied there, and was perfectly 
familiar with Berlin, Berlin society and the trend of 
German thought. 

Suddenly he sprang up. “ How selfish of me,” 
he said, “ to keep you hex*e, while the rest of my family 
equally with myself are interested in our friend Ben- 
ton. Come, you shall spend Christmas Eve with us, 
and tell us of Dick and Germany until we weary you.” 

Dick’s heart gave a great bound. His ruse was to 
succeed — he was to see Gladys again. Besides the 
words of Mr. Psamton set themselves to music in his 
soul. So they were still fond of him. What happi- 
ness ! 

With feigned reluctance to break in upon a family 
circle on Christmas Eve, he accepted the invitation. 
Mr. Psamton hastened to relieve his anxiety. “ W e 
will have a few friends in,” he said, “ and we will 
be happy to make you one of them.” 

As he entered the parlor Dick glanced around him. 
How familiar everything looked. He walked as if in 
a dream — he had a bad habit of day dreaming, and 
was now in an instant four years back in time, stand- 
ing in the doorway with a sweet girl, saying adieu 
almost inarticulately. 



He was recalled to himself by the voice of Mr. 
Psamton introducing Count Von Engel to his wife. 
He awoke with a start, scarcely recognizing himself 
as the owner of the name. 

Mrs. Psamton rose, a slim, petite body, with very 
pleasant manners and a sweet expression. She greeted 
him kindly. There was so far no one else in the 
room ; and he dared not presume to know that there 
should be another member of the family. 

The three were soon in the midst of an interesting 
conversation about the funeral of Kaiser Wilhelm, 
which the Count had attended. Dick was in his ele- 
ment. He described the throngs that filled the city 
and overflowed into the neighboring hamlets. He told 
how thousands of men, failing to get shelter for the 
night, went into the restaurants and intentionally got 
drunk, in order that they might be allowed to lie 
where they fell, for drunkards are treated with 
great consideration in Germany. He told how he 
had been repeatedly foiled in his efforts to see the 
body of the Emperor lying in state, the many streets 
converging at the palace being so packed with people 
that no one could pass. He laughingly told how he 
dressed as a girl and, with others similiarly attired, 
passed the Imperial guards, who, followers of Mars 
that they were, were lovers of Venus and could not 
refuse a plea backed by a pretty face. All three 
laughed at this, and Mr. Psamton said it must have 
been great loyalty that made the Count take off his 
beard in order to see his dead Emperor. 

In the midst of his laughter Dick chanced to look 
towards the door. The laugh died on his lips. There, 
in her evening dress, stood a figure that, though he 
scarcely recognized it, his heart told him was his old 
love. 

The child has become a woman, and a magnificent 
woman at that. In ordinary dress the change would 
have been striking enough, but when added to this 
was the glory of her evening toilet, in which Dick 
had never seen Gladys, the picture struck him speech- 
less. He was like Heine before the Venus of Milo, 
and his agitation was as deep as that susceptible 
poet’s. 

Men will be satisfied with this description of my 
heroine ; the lady students may be glad to know that 
Gladys was dressed in a maize surah dress, with an 
over dress of black lace, and wore a corsage bouquet 
of yellow roses, large and fragrant. 

“Here’s Mrs. Burton,” said Mr. Psamton. Then 
rising, he said, “ Gladys, dear, let me present Count 
Von Engel to you. He has just come from your old 
friend Dick.” 

Imagine, if you can, Dick’s feelings. First at the 
loveliness of the girl, and then at hearing her addressed 
as Mrs. Burton. He turned pale and stammered a 
few words of compliment, which Gladys gracefully 
acknowledged. She went and sat by her mother. 

Dick flushed and paled alternately, and I am afraid 
the old folks thought it was a case of love at first sight. 
If they did, they said nothing and endeavored to re- 
animate the conversation. But Dick was distrait, and 
Gladys cold. He answered Mr. Psamton’s questions 
absently, and the conversation lagged, until by chance 
Mr. Psamton adverted to the German societies. In 



68 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



spite of his trouble, Dick became interested and he 
began, first with hesitation, then with increasing flow 
of words, to give an account of the societies to which 
he, in the role of Count Yon Engel, belonged. 

“ I suppose the X society still flourishes,” said 

his host. 

“ Indeed, yes,” answered Dick. “lama * Squire ’ 
in that society.” 

“ And I,” said Mr. Psamton, with some pride, “ am 
a ‘ Ritter.’ ” 

“ That is the highest grade,” said Dick, “ and hard 
to get.” 

“ Yes,” replied Mr. Psamton, “ I had to read a 
paper and afterwards to defend my views against all 
comers. It was a trying time for me, but I won my 
spurs.” 

“ What times we had,” continued the elder man, 
thoughtfully. “ The finest meeting I recollect was 
one in which Bismarck spoke, a young man then, and 
silent Von Moltke made a speech.” 

“ The best meeting I remember,” said Dick, “ was 
one in which the leading living poet in Germany deli- 
vered a poem. He was accompanied on the piano by a 
master, who suited the melody and chords to the 
varying feelings expressed in the poem.” 

“ How lovely that must have been,” said Gladys, 
involuntarily. 

“ Indeed it was,” replied Dick, turning to her. 
“ Your friend Dick Benton turned some of the verses 
into English afterwards. Some of the translations 
were very sad, far sadder than the original. We al- 
ways thought Dick had left a sweetheart behind him, 
for he had none in Germany. 

“ Dick Benton,” said Gladys, coldly, yet with a 
strange twinkle in her eyes, “ was far too much in 
love with himself to have a surplus of affection for 
anyone else.” 

Dick started. Here was one result of his ruse for 
which he did not bargain. He had an idea that it 
would be pleasant to hear kind remarks about him, 
which, under his real name, he could never have 
heard ; but to sit and listen to unfavorable criticism, 
and from her, was trying in the extreme. 

“ Gladys,” said her mother, chidingly, “ you wrong 
Dick. Besides, you have no right to speak thus of 
him,” she continued, with a smile. 

Again Dick was cut. It never entered his head to 
think that her mother was gently alluding to Dick’s 
known partiality for Gladys. He thought the allusion 
was to Gladys’ marriage. 

Mr. Psamton, to divert the conversation, asked Dick 
if he remembered any of Dick’s translations, and if 
he would repeat one. 

“ Certainly,” said the Count. But pray remember 
that what I speak was meant to be sung. In the ori- 
ginal it is called Die Wahrheit.” 

With considerable elocutionary skill, Dick delivered 
the following lines : 

I have learned the truth, 

And the day is dark and the sun cold, 

And the roses are fallen to dust. 

Dead in their youth 
Lie my hopes, my love, and my trust, 

And my heart is swept by an uncontrolled 

Tide-rush of pain. 



Never again 

Shall love lead me onward over defeat, 

Up, ever up, to the topmost sun-flooded peak 

In the mountainous path of life. 

Joy, hope and trust dead ! what is there left me to seek ? 

What need is there now left for strife ? 

Come to my arms, 0 Death ! and our bridal be sweet ! 

Death ! thou hast been maligned. 

Angel fair thou art with thy Lethean kiss, dear sprite ; 
Soft thy caress, as a lover’s, 

Sweet thy wing music that hovers 
Above me in sorrow and pain. 

I hear thy low voice in the wind, 

I feel the touch of thy night black robes unconfined. 

Come to my arms, 0 Death ! 

Bring me forgetfulness, peace, hide her face from my sight ; 

Lull me to sleep, sound sleep, with thy tuberose 
breath. 

I suppose Dick thought he had scored a point 
against Gladys with these lugubrious verses. If he 
did she never showed it ; in racing parlance, “ she 
never turned a hair.” 

By this time the guests were arriving and the little 
party was broken up. But, as Count von Engel, Dick 
secured the promise of two dances from Gladys before 
she was whirled away by some one else. The guests 
were not many, nor was dancing the feature of the 
evening. The gathering was a typical Christmas one, 
and many Christmas games were played. 

The Count was the lion of the hour, and had any 
number of petticoats round him most of the evening. 
Heartbroken as he thought himself, he was man 
enough to relish the attentions paid him, and flirted 
outrageously, the ladies excusing any of his too tender 
remarks by the expression, “ So German, you know.” 

But that night was to be one of surprises for him. 
The first surprise was to find Gladys called Mrs. Bur- 
ton. The second was to find her early in the evening 
outdoing the others in her attentions to him. With 
him she carried on a really excessive flirtation, but 
every time she let him touch her hand, or every time 
she gave him a particularly languishing glance, she 
called him Count, and Dick lost all his pleasure in 
realizing that it was not Dick Benton, her lover, but 
Count von Engel, a stranger, whom she was so kindly 
treating. 

Yet he was carried away by his feelings. If she 
was lost to him, he would, at least, even if unfairly, 
enjoy her kindnesses for that evening. 

There was another surprise shortly, this time as 
unwelcome a one as the first. He was strolling about 
the room with Gladys on his arm, when she stopped 
him in front of an undersized, sharp-featured man, 
whom she introduced as Mr. Burton. 

Poor Dick. He had need of all his self-control. 
So this was her husband. And, to make matters 
worse, he had not the poor consolation of thinking 
the man was unworthy of such a wife. There was 
something about Mr. Burton that commanded respect, 
in spite ot his size, and something attractive as 
well. 

Mr. Burton held out his hand, but Dick could not 
take it, and the other dropped it hastily to his side 
and faced Dick haughtily. 

Dick bowed, and moved to pass on, but Gladys held 
him back. J 



1888.] 



UNIVEESITY GAZETTE. 



69 



“ Oh, Count !” she said, “ I did so want you two to 
meet. You are both good actors (“ too good,” groaned 
Dick to himself,) and both college men. I am sure 
you will like each other.” 

Thus brought to bay, Dick nerved himself, and, 
turning round, said steadily : 

_ “ 1 must congratulate you, sir, on your happy mar- 
riage.” 

“ Thank you,” said the other, cordially, his con- 
straint vanishing. “ But I did not think you had 
time to form so just an opinion of my wife as you 
hold.” 

Dick was taken aback, but only for a moment. 
“ One does not need to be long with — with Mrs. Bur- 
ton — to appreciate her nobleness,” he said, voicing the 
name with an effort, and turning his face from Gladys 
as he did so. 

She broke into a laugh. “ Come along, Count,” she 
said, “ I want to show you the conservatory.” 

As Dick, with Gladys clinging to his arm, walked 
in and out among the plants and flowers in the hot- 
house, he paid little attention to her chatter. His 
mind was full of bitter thoughts, and he was deter- 
mining his future career. He would return to Ger- 
many, and accept the position as “professor” that had 
been offered him. He could not breathe, unstifled, the 
air that surrounded his companion. He almost gasped 
for breath at the moment. Gladys seemed, like him, 
to feel the heat also, for she drew him to the far end 
of the conservatory, and sank down upon a seat, 
pointing him to another. They were alone. 

“ Now, Count,” she said, “ you men like to talk of 
yourselves and your doings. Tell me about your life 
in Germany. It will interest me, and I am tired.” 

So Dick began to tell her about the lectures at col- 
lege ; how every student may map out his own course 
of study ; of the bierkeippes, the rambles into Swit- 
zerland, the balls at the embassies, and the thousand 
and one things that take place in student life and 
fashionable circles. He made no effort to mention 
his own name, but Gladys adroitly, or accidentally, set 
him talking about his chum, Dick Benton. 

“ You told us,” she said, “ that you thought he had 
left a sweetheart behind him in Canada. What put 
that idea into your head ?” 

Dick looked at her before replying. She was pluck- 
ing the feathers in her fan, and he could not see her 
eyes. 

“ Because,” he said, “ he had no sweetheart there, 
though all the others had. Because he always looked 
for the Canadian mail, and sometimes flushed up and 
ran to his room when he got a letter. But that was 
seldom.” 

“ You men always defend one another,” said Gladys, 
scornfully. “ I heard a different tale than that.” 

“ Then you heard a lie,” he said, fiercely. 

“ Count,” she said, coldly, “ you forget yourself.” 

Dick sprang to his feet. “ Forget myself !” he cried. 

“ Can I calmly choose my words when I hear my- 
self maligned? Can I ” Here he stopped, and 

Gladys also rose and looked him in the face. 

“Have I understood you aright?” she asked. “Did 
you say yourself?” 

Dick was silent, and looked down. Had his eyes 



been where they should have been, they would have 
read merriment and not anger in her own. Indeed, 
she was so nearly convulsed with laughter that she 
had to pause to regain control of her voice. 

At this important moment there came, what was to 
Dick a welcome diversion. A little blue-eyed, fair- 
haired girl of about fourteen, came running up to them. 
She was the child of Gladys’ eldest sister. 

“ Count Engel,” she said, “ I have been hunting for 
you just all over. You promised to write in my auto- 
graph album. Here are pen and ink. Now write just 
here, or you will forget all about me.” 

Dick took the materials, and sat down again. “Your 
name is Edith, is it not?” he said. 

“ Yes,” said the girl. 

“ Then I'll write you an acrostic. It will read — 
‘ To Edith, my Queen.’ ” 

While the child held the ink-bottle he wrote : — 

This great world is a casket, richly chased, 

Ornate with gems, within whose satiny nest 
Enshrined, a jewel, fairer than the rest, 

Darting bright rays of kindliness, and graced 
In its pure heart with virtues interlaced, 

Transparent lies, by perfumed walls caressed. 

He who shall win this jewel shall be blessed 
More than man’s due and heaven on earth shall taste. 

Yet also is this world a realm, where reigns 
Queen of all hearts, with virtue’s diadem, 

Upon the throne, a stately, blue-eyed maid, 

Evil’s destroyer, soother of all pains. 

Edith, thou art this Queen, this lustrous gem, 

Nor is there gem more rare, nor queen more bright 
arrayed. 

“ Ob ! thank you,” cried the child, as she read the 
initials. “ How nice that is. But,” she added “ you 
haven’t put your name to it.” 

So he wrote under the sonnet “ Yon Engel.” 

“ One moment,” said Gladys. “ Had you not better 
make an addition to that ? ” 

“ What shall I write ? ” asked Dick. 

“ Do me the favor to write the name of your friend , 
Eichard Benton.” 

“ But ” began Dick. 

“ Write !” she said, imperiously ; and he wrote. 

“ What does it matter,” he thought ; “ she is lost, 
anyway. There is no further need for the Count.” 
Little Edith had been eyeing the names. Then she 
suddenly broke out with — 

“ Richard Benton ? Why, that’s just the name on 
the letter I found under Aunt Gladys’ pillow this 
morning. And it’s just the same writing, too. How 
funny !” 

“ Edith,” said her aunt hastily. “ It’s bed-time, 
you had better go to your room.” 

After the child had departed, Gladys turned to 
Dick, who was standing moodily beside a rose bush. 

“Well, Dick,” she said, extending her hand, “ it’s 
time for us to make up. You deserved some return 
for coming into the house in disguise, and I think you 
have got it.” 

But Dick took no notice of her proffered hand. He 
turned towards her with a most woe-begone expres- 
sion. “ You have had your amusement, Miss Psam- 
ton,” he said, “ and now you will let me go. I was 
a fool to think a woman would be glad to see a man 
who had been absent four years. I was mistaken in 



70 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888 



congratulating your husband on having won a noble 
woman.” 

Now this was very unjust of Dick. He had no 
right to think ill of Gladys, even if she had chosen 
another, since he himself had never given her an 
opportunity to choose himself. But lovesick men are 
often unjust. 

Gladys had led him a pretty dance all evening, but I 
question if he was not getting even in the end. It 
was certainly her turn now to grow pale. 

“ Dick,” she said, “ you surely don’t believe I am 
married 1 ” 

He moved towards her. “ Tell me,” he said hoarsely, 
“ have you been deceiving me in this as in other 
things 1 Are vou married 1 Who is that man Burton 1 
Why are you called Mrs. Burton 1 ” 

There is something in the exhibition of strong feel- 
ing that silences ridicule, even in the mean, and Gladys 
was certainly not mean. She might easily have kept 
him longer on the rack, and I have no doubt some of 
her sex will say she ought to have done so ; but she 
did not. She began to explain almost piteously : 

“Mr. Thompson and I acted in theatricals on hallow- 
e’en,and they have called us Mr. and Mrs. Burton ever 
since. He was married last month to Miss Hampton, 
and thought that you meant her when you congratu- 
lated him. Papa called me Mrs. Burton as I came in, 
and I saw you start and I knew you, so I thought I’d — 
But after all,” she said, moving away, and assuming 
her old easy manner, “what I thought doesn’t concern 
Count Von Engel. Please take me to mamma, and 
then you can go away as soon as you like.” 

Dick followed and stopped her. “ Was that true 
that little Edith said 1 ” he queried. 

“ What is that to you ? ” she retorted. “ You have 
no right to ask such a question.” 

“No right 1 }” he said, indignantly, “when I love 
you 1 ” 

“ You haven’t said so,” she said coyly. 

“ Oh !” said Dick, “ I thought I had made fool 
enough of myself for you to guess it. Well, I say it 
now. And now will you answer me. Was Edith 
right ? ” 

“ Yes,” whispered Gladys. 

Hold on ! I’ve reached the limit of my space, just 
when matters are beginning to grow interesting. Oh ! 
well the reader can supply the rest from his or her 
own experience. I have had none. Kisses, and 
whispers, and perhaps tears, with a marriage bell in 
the distance, are after all like a dinner party — 
interesting to those partaking, but only tantalizing to 
the onlookers. 



THE TRUE STORY OF GEORGE WASHING- 
TON’S HATCHET. 



A PLAIN STORY IN SHORT SENTENCES FOR LITTLE PEOPLE. 



Sam Washington never became famous. Circum- 
stances were against him; so was his wife. Other 
things weren’t a circumstance to her. Sam married 
young, and had a family and a big farm. He had to 
let his brother George become the father of his coun- 



try. Sam was its uncle ; he’s called Uncle Sam, now. 
Sam got into as many scrapes as George did, but he 
didn’t have a chance ; he was never found out. No 
one asked him to tell the truth. The cat was always 
in the cellar when he hooked cream. He dug over that 
very cherry-preserve, where George struck a bonanza 
and made himself and his hatchet famous, before 
George did. 

Some people have a great respect for truth ; they 
must have, they keep such a respectful distance from 
it. George had no such reverence for it. Truth 
wasn’t sacred to him. He’d slash it around on week- 
days just like Sunday. He’d just as soon say “ I did 
it” when nobody was around as when he was found 
out. He liked it ; he was fond of seeing other people 
feel bad. People don’t like such vandalism. That’s 
why so few have followed his example. Sam’s tools 
weren’t sharp enough to carve out his own fortune. 
He had to use the old axe. His father never gave him 
a new hatchet. It was favoritism that brought George 
to the front. George was the child of fortune ; he 
was born with a silver spoon in his mouth — and a 
hatchet in his hand. He didn’t have to carve out his 
own fortune. Fortune was his father. Sam was only 
a son of old Washington. He afterwards became a 
son of temperance, and was made G. W. P., but he 
wasn’t one then. Sam did his level best, but he didn’t 
have any chance with only an old axe. He worked 
at that cherry-tree for most an hour but couldn’t get 
it down, and was just wondering what he would do 
about the blamed thing when George came along, 
swinging his hatchet and looking for something to 
tell the truth about. He saw his chance and the tree 
at the same time, walked into it and had it down in 
less than two minutes. Sam flung his axe over the 
fence upon the wood-pile and sat down on a stump to 
watch George. The old man came along just as George 
straightened up. “ Who’s been a-cutting down thet 
there cherry tree 1” he thundered. George knocked 
the chips off the axe, and before Sam could get in a 
word, he said “ Father, I can’t tell a lie, I did it.” Of 
course he couldn’t ; it wouldn’t have done any good 
to lie about it. That would only have been making a 
virtue of necessity. Then the old man fell on George’s 
neck with tears (if it had been Sam, he would have 
fallen on him with a switch) and slobbered over him, 
and said what a good boy he was, the he hoped Sam 
would follow in his foot steps. Sam said he did — 
beforehand. But he hadn’t any proof ; he was sitting 
on the stump chewing a straw, without a hair turned, 
and the axe was over on the wood-pile. His father 
smiled, he didn’t believe him, said he supposed he was 
an axe-essay-ry before the fact — the old man would 
have his joke. “Anyway,” says he, “you were an 
accessory before the fact, for you let George cut down 
the tree ; guess I’d better lick ye.” That hurt Sam 
awfully — not the licking, he was used to that, — but 
the injustice ; he didn’t have any chance. He never 
recovered after it. He lingered on a while and married 
a wife, but she took his father’s place and licked him, 
too. So Sam crawled into a corner and died. The 
jury brought in a verdict of “ death from exposure,” 
and George was made his executor. 



JOHLE JOHKR. 



1888.] 



UNIVEKSITY GAZETTE. 



71 



AN OLD WOMAN’S SERMON, 

Students ! 0 what can I say to please the jolly boys ? 

They will weary at too much sense — be disgusted at nothing but 
noise. 

What shall I say to young students? — I, an old woman forlorn. 

Who had cut my wisdom teeth years before they were born ? 

And who are the students to write for? Are they men, or women, I 
pray? 

Or both ? A conclusion mooted, but scouted with scorn in my day. 

Why it was scouted is hard to tell. Prejudice chiefly to blame, 

I think; as I think in many a case, the beginnings of which were 
the same. 

Many a case now familiar, shorn of all trappings, and free 

From the parasites, grey and unhealthy, that stifled the life of the 
tree. 

PREJUDICE is a traitor, whom students should send to his doom, 

For that while he crieth of light, he is leading to barrenest gloom. 

And Oh, ye earnest young students, take other than PREJUDICE, 
bond 1 

That cold cadaver INDIFFERENCE touch with your magical wand. 

Bind him and fling him , sans mercy, into the bottomless deeps. 

He is the varlet that seizes his victims in poppy-thrown sleeps. 

He is the poisoner that weakens the pulse of the national heart ; 

He, the aim generous and noble kills with his palsying dart. 

Seize him, ye students, and bind him, and see that he dies the last 
death, 

Or out of your warm-throbbing bosoms, he’ll press every healthy 
young breath. 

This is the old woman’s sermon, I know how unwelcome, if long, 

And here is her winding up blessing— “ Be ye ever courageous and 
strong.” 

S. A. Curzon. 

Toronto. 



TflctBiU News. 



Supplementary examinations in Histology were held 
on Friday, the 14th inst., Chemistry on Monday, Phy- 
siology and Anatomy on Thursday and Friday of the 
present week. 

The following notice recently appeared on the 
notice-board of the General Hospital : “ 1 p.m., at 1 
p.m. l/l2/’88.” If brevity be the soul of wit, sure- 
ly the demonstrator of pathology is witty. The first 
p.m. means, of course, post-mortem. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 



The request made by the Delta Sigma Society to 
the Faculty, that the wives of professors might become 
honorary members, has been granted. 

“ Feathers from the East Wing,” 

Where are you to find them ? 

College maids are strolling down the avenue together. 

Mark them when the gas-light 
Glimmers soft behind them, 

Lo ! from many a dainty velvet top knot peeps a feather. 

“ Feathers from the East Wing,” 

At examination, 

Surely the professors’ hearts are made of toughest leather. 

For on rare occasions, 

Closest observations, 

Show you floating in the air a microscopic feather. 

“ Feathers from the East Wing,” 

Certainly I meant it, 

Just like any other wing, and it is mooted whether 
Old McGill indignant 
Would not quite resent it, 

Were we to despoil her of a single guardian feather. 



Societies. 



McGILL MEDICAL SOCIETY. 

The Sixth Regular Meeting of this Society was held 
in the upper Reading Room, at 8 p.m., Saturday, Dec. 
15th, the president, Mr. G. G. Campbell, in the 
chair. 

After the reading and adoption of the minutes of 
last meeting, the miscellaneous business consisted of a 
notification of postponement till next winter, of the 
subject “ British Examinations in Medicine the 
reason being that Dr. R. J. B. Howard had some re- 
cent alterations to enquire into with regard to the 
English Examinations. Then a letter was read from 
the Medical Football Team, offering to present to the 
Society’s reading room the Team picture, framed and 
otherwise illuminated. The Secretary was requested 
to thankfully acknowledge the gift. 

The paper for the evening was given by Mr. Mc- 
Kechnie, on “ Inflammation,” and was so well appre- 
ciated that a special vote of thanks was voted the 
writer. 

The after debate touched on such difficult points as 
“ chief-factors in tissue regeneration,” “ Causation of 
Inflammatory (Edema,” and “ Heat Production.” A 
few minutes were then taken to examine the specimens 
prepared by the Pathologist, Mr. Garrow. The Case 
Report was given by Mr. Campbell on “ Duodenal 
Ulcer,” a most interesting case under his care at the 
hospital. After fixing the next meeting for the first 
Saturday after Christmas vacation, the meeting ad- 
journed. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY. 

At the regular meeting on Dec. 11th, Mrs. Bompas, 
wife of the Bishop of McKenzie River, delivered an 
address on the Church of England Missions in the 
North. The fact that Mrs. Bompas had but lately re- 
turned from the scene of her husband’s life-work, en- 
hanced the interest of the occasion, and her thrilling 
account of missionary life among the red-men was re- 
ceived with great enthusiasm by the students. The 
Indians, she said, were remarkable for their intelli- 
gence, and their appreciation of religious teaching. 
They would travel hundreds of miles in their canoes 
to meet a missionary, and remain round his camp as 
long as their food supplies held out ; thronging his 
tent by day, and far into the night, to hear more of 
the holy truths of the gospel, which they received with 
readiness almost startling. It was part of their happy, 
child-like nature, that they had not yet learned to 
doubt. The Bishop had only left the North once in 
twenty-three years, and as a result of his efforts, there 
were now fifteen mission stations between Lake Atha- 
basca and the Arctic Ocean. Among difficulties to be 
met were the rigours of an eight-months’ winter, the 
uncertainty and expense of provisions — flour costing 
thirty dollars a barrel — and the nomadic life and dif- 
ferent dialects of the native tribes. 

Although the Indians were taught English in the 
schools, the New Testament, portions of the “book of 
common prayer,” and many well-known hymns had 



72 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



been translated into their language. The cariboo was 
essentially the Indians’ food. Mrs. Bompas’ account 
of the various uses this animal subserves, reminds one 
of the Antipodal date-palm. “The flesh is often dried, 
and so will keep good for months ; deers’ tongues are 
among our northern dainties, and are brought in great 
numbers to the forts ; the skins are beautifully dressed 
and smoked by the women, and used for moccasins ; 
the sinews are also prepared for various uses, such as 
shoe- making and sewing up leather coats and wigwams; 
the deerskin robes make excellent covering for bed 
or sleigh ; the hoofs are boiled down for glue, often 
the only glue to be relied on for our carpentering.” At 
the close of the address Mrs. Bompas was given a 
hearty vote of thanks. The offerings at this meeting 
amounted to over seven dollars. 



Personals. 



Geo. Macdonald, Med. ’89, has been elected Vale- 
dictorian for his year. 

Mr. J. Robertson, Arts, ’89, has been elected Vale- 
dictorian for his year. 

Miss Reid has been elected as Valedictorian for the 
graduating class in the Donalda Department. 

President Hyde, of Bowdoin, is only thirty years of 
age — the youngest College President in the United 
States. 

Messrs. McEwan, Wheeler and Delaney were dele- 
gated to represent McGill at the following Medical 
dinners respectively — Kingston, Bishop’s and Trinity. 

Mr. J. H. Burland, up to this year president of the 
Gazette Publishing Company, left on Friday for a two 
months’ visit to England. The Gazette and all his 
other friends wish him bon voyage. 



A BATCH OF DEFINITIONS. 

Well seasoned — The year. 

Fair ladies — The conductor’s greeting. 

Current events — Ripples. 

Legal tender — A spooney lawyer. 

A light affair — A sunbeam. 

A seedy individual — The gardener. 

Fine art — The Police Recorder’s office. 

The better way — The race-course. 

Exercise in translation — “ Dulce et decorum est pro 
patria mori.. “Pleasant and unadulterated rum causes 
in an Irishman a constantly increasing desire for 
whiskey. 

Construed : Dulce — pleasant ; 

et decorum — and unadulterated rum ; 
decorum — (de-cor — from the heart, i.e., 
pure or unadulterated); 
est — is ; pro pat — for an Irishman ; 
ria mori — “ rye and more rye,” i.e., a 
constantly increasing desire for whiskey. 



THE NAUGHTY GREEK GIRL. 

Miss Alpha, though she led her class, 

Was yet a most unhappy lass ; 

She had a little sister Theta, 

And she would often bang and Beta, 

And push and pinch, and pound and pelt her, 

And many a heavy blow she Delta ; 

So that the kitten e’en would Mu, 

When Theta’s suffering, she Nu. 

This Alpha was so bad to Theta, 

That every time she chanced so meet her 
She looked as though she longed to Eta ; 

And oft against the wall she jammed her 
And oft she took a stick and Lainda ; 

And for the pain and tears she brought her 
She pitied her not one Iota ; 

But with a sly and wicked eye 
Would only say, “ Oh, fiddle Phi.” 

Then Theta cried with noisy clamor, 

And ran and told her grief to Gamma ; 

And Gamma with a pitying Psi, 

Would give the little girl some Pi, 

And say, “Now darling mustn’t Chi !” 

Two Irish lads of ruddy cheek. 

Were living just across the creek — 

Their names, Omicron and Omega ; 

The one was small the other bigger. 

For Alpha so demure and “ striking,” 

Omega took an ardent liking ; 

And Mike, when he first chanced to meet her. 

Fell deep in love with little Theta ; 

And oft at eve would go 
And on the pleasant waters Rho. 

So when the hapless Theta 
Nu Alpha was about to Beta 
She down upon the bank would Zeta 
And cry aloud and shout like fun — 

“ Run, Mike ! run, Mickey ! Omicron 1” 

— Rochester Campus. 



Between the Lectures. 



“Joe” was assisting tbe Professor, and happened 
to occupy his position for a moment. Of course the 
class applauded. 

Prof. — “ Well, gentlemen, you have a very small 
subject for excitement.” 

Prof, in Classics — “Now, Mr. X , begin ; anna 

virumque cano. Translate that please.” 

Student — (who had been out the night before and 
had not prepared his lesson). “To arms, men and 
dogs.” Curtain. 

A sophomore engaged in scientifically dissecting 
the scalp, was asked by a freshman, who had evidently 
been grappling with the subject of Embryology, if 
“ that thing was the epiblast.” It is needless to add 
that the Soph, collapsed. 

A bale of oakum, which was exposed for some time 
in the Hospital, has about all vanished. It is said to 
have been “hooked” by junior members of the grad- 
uating class in Medicine, who must get whiskers for 
convocation at any cost. 



I 



1888.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



73 



Sister of Medical Student — “ Dr. has been so 

ill that they have had to cut his bell-string.” 

Trinity M.S. — “ Indeed; how terrible!” Scene 
at midnight, of M.S., with dishevelled hair, in midst 
of a pile of books, unable to find out signification of 
bell-strings. 

“ Do you not think that this world is beautiful 1” 
she said. 

“ Yes, tolerable.” 

“ Do you not think there is poetry in everything 1” 

“ Yes, poetry in everything except the poems we 
see in the magazines.” 

A medical student once lost a button off his vest. 
“ Never mind,” he said, “ I’ll move the others a little 
farther apart.” 

Three hours later a friend found him, with an agon- 
ized expression on his face, endeavoring to understand 
why he could not get the buttons to go into the but- 
ton holes. “The vest must have atrophied,” he 
moaned, as he sat down in despair. This is a fact. 

In the swaling swirl of the soughful wind, as the 
gust goes glooring by, I sit by the bole of a bournful 
birch, with a moan and a soulful sigh ; the mellowing 
mists of the eve are low, and the frog in the dankful 
marsh chirps chirpingly sad in the ghoulsome gloom, 
in a swivering voice and harsh : 

O, where is the swing of the swoon ful swish, 

And the voice of the Aim flam fowl ? 

Methinks it moans from the murky mold, 

From the home of the hootful owl. 

Now swivel me swift from the surging spring, I’m 
weary of Avoid and wind ; the greAvsome graik of the 
jabbenvock comes jimmering to my mind ; the feeble 
song of the spotsome frog comes solemmvise sough- 
ing slow, and again I hear by the bournful birch the 
Avail of his Avimpled Avoe. 

0, where is the swing of the swoonful swish. 

From the land of the springful sprole ! 

Must the blue mists blur on the tinker’s drale ? 

And freight with their fraught my soul ? 

I dreamed, I dreamed of Amelie Rives, in the dim 
of the danksome dark, and methought I rode on a 
moonful main, in the prow of a pullful bark ; I 
wrought a rhyme as I roamed along, in the stream of 
the starful gloat ; I awoke at daAvn in the dimpled 
day, and above is the rhyme I Avrote. 



College T£Iorl6. 



All Europe has fewer colleges than Ohio. 

Harvard is to have a tank for Avinter crew practice. 

Columbia intends to spend $15,000 in now books 
for the coming year. 

The University of Pennsylvania is to have a dormi- 
tory costing $125,000. 

By the will of the late John Guy Vassar, of Philadel- 
phia, Vassar College receives a bequest of $130,000. 



England has only one college paper edited by 
undergraduates, the Review, which is published at 
Oxford. 

Rutgers students have free access to Sage Library, 
five minutes’ Avalk from the college, which contains 
70,000 books. 

A professorship of Physical Culture, Avith an endow- 
ment of $50,000, is to be established at Amherst Col- 
lege, as the memorial of Henry 'Ward Beecher. 

The ladies of Sage College are complaining bitterly 
of the new regulations put into effect this fall. Hence- 
forth they are to receive callers only on stated even- 
ings, and are to maintain quiet after ten o’clock in the 
evening. 

At Cambridge University, Eng., a debate Avas held 
by the undergraduates on the subject “ Who Avrote 
Shakespeare’s plays 1” Many students Avould not vote, 
but of the 231 who did, 101 voted for Bacon, and 
130 for Shakespeare. 

One of the best-knoAvn figures in English univer- 
sity life, the Rev. Richard Okes, D.D., Provost of 
King’s College, Cambridge, has just passed away, at 
the patriarchial age of ninety-three years. He was a 
man of fine scholarship and progressive mind, and 
the London press is full of tributes to his success, 
first, as a master at Eton, and aftenvards as head of 
his college, Avhich he raised to proud eminence among 
its sister institutions. But by the undergraduates of 
his day he Avill be remembered chiefly as a typical 
university don, Avith the most irascible of tempers and 
the most exacting devotion to college etiquette. For 
many years one of the most popular diversions Avas to 
“ draw ” the good Doctor by Avalking across the grass- 
plot in King’s Quad, in his eyes the most heinous of 
crimes. On such occasions he Avould emerge from 
some corner of his library, in the full terrors of cap 
and gown, and rush after the offender Avith astonish- 
ing vigor, read him a fierce lecture, and then insist 
upon his retracing his steps and following the foot- 
path. Yery often he would himself escort the culprit 
outside the gates. 

Here are some Avords for the Science faculty from 
Robert Louis Stevenson, of the family who built the 
Eddystone light-house : — “Of engineering as a Avay of 
life, I Avish to speak with sympathy. It takes a man 
into the open air ; it keeps him hanging about har- 
bor-sides, which is the richest form of idling; it 
carries him to Avild islands ; it gives him a taste 
of the genial dangers of the sea; it supplies him 
Avith dexterities to exercise ; it makes demands upon 
his ingenuity ; it will go far to cure him of any 
taste (if ever he had one) for the miserable life of 
cities. And when it has done so, it carries him back 
and shuts him in an office. From the roaring skerry 
and the wet thwart of the tossing boat, he passes to 
the stool and desk ; and Avith a memory full of ships 
and seas, and perilous headlands, and the shining 
pharos, he must apply his long-sighted eyes to the 
petty niceties of drawing, or measure his inac- 
curate mind Avith several pages of consecutive figures. 
He is a wise youth, to be sure, Avho can balance one 



74 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1888. 



part of genuine life against two parts of drudgery 
between four walls, and for the sake of the one, man- 
fully accept the other. 

The Princeton Theological Seminary has some 
students who are rather older than the general run of 
men who seek education. And since “ Seminoles,” 
like other mortals, do not care to delay marrying too 
long, it follows that quite a number of the present 
classes are already enjoying married life. It is not an 
uncommon sight to see a “ stately junior,” or a “ grave 
old senior,” going away from the class-room with a 
little toddler by his side. In one or two cases, the 
“ Seminoles’ ” wives are as ardent students as their 
husbands, and at some periods can render assistance 
to their better halves. 

But by far the oldest student in the Princeton or 
any other seminary is “ Old Henry ” Chapman, who 
confesses to an age of seventy-two years. Over fifty 
years ago he was a poor student struggling to get 
through Lafayette College. While there he was a 
classmate of William H. Green, who is now Professor 
of Hebrew in Princeton Seminary, and one of the 
trustees of the college. Their college careers over, 
the two young men separated, Green to enter cloisters 
of study, and Chapman to strive to gain a competence 
from business. 

About four or five years ago there came a change. 
By the unexpected death of his brother, Mr. Chap- 
man received an income sufficient to keep him in 
comfort the rest of his life. Instantly he formed the 
scheme to resume his studies where he had been com- 
pelled to leave them so long before. 

It is a difficult matter to dispose of Mr. Chapman. 
The Seminary accepts of no dues from him, nor do 
the professors ask any examinations, although he 
imagines he is as far advanced as any one. 



IF YOU WANT TO HAVE YOUR HAIR 

Properly and Fashionably Cut, Singed and Dressed, 

<3-0 TO 

THOS. SUTTON, 

BARBERS’ HALL, 

" 7 s7s7"in.<3.sor EEotel iBloclr, ^eel Street- 

GRAHAM BROS., 

Sit lakers and lea’s Furnishers, 

SNOBBIEST NECKWEAR IN THE CITY.* 



10 per cent. Discount to Students. 



GRAHAM BROS., 

St. Catherine Street, Opposite Queen’s Hall. 
AGENTS FOR TROY STEAM LAUNDRY. 



TROY STEAM LAUNDRY CO Y, 

140 ST. PETER STREET. 

Our customers find that goods washed by our process wear 
twice as long as those sent to the usual old-fashioned laundries. 

X="CT:eSE: V7ATEE. 

PEBFECT WORK. 

Special LOW RATES given for families. 

TELEPHONE 666. 

Goods CALLED FOR and PROMPTLY DELIVERED to any 
part of the City or Suburbs, without extra charge. 

Up-town Agency at GRAHAM BROS., St. Catherine Street, opp. Queen’s Hall. 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL, 
:o: 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

2237 ST. CATHERINE ST. 

^EEZ- ) BUT YO¥R(= 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

— AT — 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE STORES. 

UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 

E. A. COWLEY, 

GENERAL INSURANCE. 

Fire, Life, Accident. 

Associated with THE MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. of N.Y. ; 
THE LONDON ASSURANCE CO., 

And TRAVELERS’ ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

-A-d.d.xess z 

30 ST. TOTTTT STREET. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3S5 3S7 St. ZE^-A-ttxj Steeet, ^Co3srm5E^.ij 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



fl ELESOTEO Hot WftTEB Heaters 



Cast Bundy Radiators. 



— -fWholesale Manufacturers-!-— 




Hot Air Furhaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 



ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 



Circulars on A pplication. 



385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Established 1859 . 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

THE 

GEORGE BISHOP 
ffngiraYing ^ ]?ipnting 
Company. 

169 & 167 ST. JAMES ST , MONTREAL. 



Invitations, Cards, GFests, J)FogFammes : 
Jflonogpams, &e., &e. 

IN THE LATEST STYLES. 



Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 




Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 



Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

JES, ©ERTH. 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen’s Block. 




-Me PHOTOGRAPHY fa* 

For CABINET PHOTOS., go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For CROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For COMPOSITION OF GROUPS, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

For all kinds of PHOTOGRAPHY, go to 

SUMMERHAYES & WALFORD’S. 

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 1 Bleury Street. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
"an d CHEM ICAL A PPARATUS. 

& fSill $todk don^tkntly on S-kgd, Imported 
f)fredt from tl\e I<ekdii\§f ^Ikgufkdttfrefd 
of tl\e Wofld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Wm. Notman-& Son, 

* * j * * *^ * *^ * *********** 

¥ |f h o to g r ap tier s 

* * tip ****************** 

Jfeuo Scale of Trices this year 
for Students. 

IT BLEURY STREET. 



TELEPHONE No. 580. 




(LIMITED.) 



21, 21h & 23 St. Antoine Street, MONTREAL 

T. H. LOVE, Managing Director. 

Our Laundry having been Refitted with the Latest and Most Im- 
proved Machinery, we are now prepared to offer special inducements to 

Families, Hotels, Steamships and Public Institutions, 

for the Washing and Finishing qf Goods. Particular attention given to the 
Washing and Dressing of Goods for Shirt and Collar Manufacturers. 
Goods damaged by Water Cleaned and Re-finished to look equal to new. 
Lace and other Fine Work carefully Cleaned and Finished. No Chem- 
icals Used and Goods less roughly handled than by the ordinary hand 
work. Special Contracts made, and Tenders for work furnished on 
application. 

GOODS CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 





THE GENUINE 

Cook’S Fbiend 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 







C. ASHFORD’S 
CHEAP BOOK , STATIONERY, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS SHOP, 

MEDICAL BOOKS, 

Students’ Note Books, Dissecting Cases and Scalpels, 

(BY WEISS & SON,) 

CHEAP FOR PASH. 

Books procured to order from England & the United States 

816 AND 818 DORCHESTER ST., 




1850 and 1852 1TOTRE DAME ST., COR1TEE. McGIDD. 

The only Strictly First-class 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING, HAT and CAP HOUSE 

IN THE CITY. 

Carrying Constantly in Stock only First-class 



^EA.IDYT-IL/lAJDIEi] GLOTIEHmSTG-, 

Scotch, Irish, English & French Tweeds of our own special importation, for custom orders. 



BEAVERS, CHINCHILLAS, MELTONS -FOR OVERCOATS AND PEA COATS. 

ESPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 



Orders Executed Promptly and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

CALL and SEE our Stock, and the visit will 



repay you. 




