
VOL. VI. No. 0. 



TERMS : $1.00 Per Annum, in Advance. 



McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, APRIL 1st, 1883. 



EDITORIAL COMMITTEE. 

Prof. Chas. E. Moyse, B.A., Consulting Editor. 



J. R. Murray, ’83, Arts. 

J. E. Martin, ’83, Law. 

W. H. Turner, ’84, Arts. 

C. A. Duclos, B.A., ’84, Law. 



R. F. Ruttan< B.A., ’84, Med. 
R. F. Smith, ’83, Ap. Sc. 

A. R. Davis, ’84, Ap. Sc. 

H. J. Harrisson, ’83. Med. 



The University Gazette is published on the first of every month during 
the College Session. 

Rejected Communications will not be returned, to which rule no exception 
can be made. The name of the writer must always accompany a communication. 



J: tutorials. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 1-3 

Contributions 3-4 

College World 4-10 

Between the Lectures 10-1 1 

Personals 12 

Correspondence 12 

Poetry 12-13 

New Books Received by Librarian 13 



Tbe question of the admission of women to the educational advantages 
of McGill University is, we believe, under discussion at this moment. A 
committee has been appointed by the Corporation to collect information 
regarding the internal economy of the institutions which have already 
sanctioned altogether or in part what seems to be an extremely revolutionary 
movement. We do not intend to discuss the matter on its theoretical 
merits or demerits. That there are women desirous of embracing such 
opportunities of gaining advanced knowledge as Universities alone can 
offer is a fact ; that they can more than hold their own in competition in 
certain branches of knowledge has been demonstrated time and again ; and 
that the promoters of what is called the intellectual enfranchisement of 
women are rapidly increasing in number and in influence forces itself on 
the mind of any one who will take pains to inquire into the question histo- 
rically. We do not propose to discuss in general terms why women should 
or should not be admitted to the privileges of a University training ; that 
species of argument has been abandoned by all save those who are 
anxious to prove that woman’s sphere is distinctly non-intellectual. 
These people conjure up all kinds of imaginary evils, anarchy among 
them, if women become, as undergraduates, rivals of men. Fancies of , 



every shade and colour are, however, wonderfully modified or completely 
dispelled by contact with experience. We allude not only to the surmises 
of teaching bodies, but also to the whimsical notions of many of the 
students whom they teach, and we speak, moreover, from intimate ac- 
quaintance with the system of co-education in its freest form. ButNat pre- 
sent we desire to point out the various methods in which the desire for a 
University education for women has been met and to notice the salient 
points of the history of the movement on its practical side. 

One method is to establish colleges for young women similar in routine 
and in instruction to such colleges for young men as are widely recognised 
on account of their excellence ; and to confer at the conclusion of the 
course of study degrees of the same title as those earned by men. The 
most conspicuous example of this kind of college is Vassar. Another 
method is to form in existing Universities an “ annex ” or department spe- 
cially for women and to educate them separately by the professors already 
on the staff or to elect professors for the special purpose of teaching 
women only ; but in either case the courses for the men and the women 
are the same, and also the examination papers, wherever the department is 
a common one ; the degree is granted by the University without distinc- 
tion of sex. A third method is to deliver lectures to what we called 
“ mixed ” classes ; in short, to establish co education. The main objection 
to the first method is that separate colleges are apt to cheapen their degrees 
and to become little better than High Schools unless they frequently come 
into contact with the work carried on in vigorous institutions founded for 
the education of men and jealously watched by those who are abreast of 
most recent discovery. 

The agitation in favour of the higher education of women in England 
began about thirty years ago. It was opposed on various issues : “ First 
that the average female mind is not capable of grasping the more difficult 
subjects of the University course ; secondly, that the average female consti- 
tution is not equal to the strain to which the severity of such a course sub- 
jects ; thirdly, that learning converts women into pedants — vulgarly called 
“ blue-stockings ” — so that its general prevalence among the sex would 
destroy the charm of social life ; and further, that a woman is not a man 
and therefore, ex vi termini , she should not have a man’s education. The 
answer to these objections was a practical one ; the cieation of Queen’s 
College, London, where the course of study was made identical with that of 
King’s College, London. The founders of Queen’s College, London, hoped 
to induce the University of London to grant degrees to their ^students as it 
had already done to those of King’s College for many years, but the Uni- 
versity could not see its way clear to this until 1878. In the meantime 
University College, London— the largest of the many colleges which prepare 
candidates for the examinations of the University of London— had opened 
certain of its classes to women. This concession was granted rather more 



2 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



than ten years ago, and the first “ mixed ” class was that of Political 
Economy, under the eminent Professor Cairnes. The scheme proved suc- 
cessful. The Slade School of Fine Art was inaugurated in a new wing 
built for its peculiar needs, and students were admitted to it without dis- 
tinction of sex. The system spread and in a very few years women were 
admitted to the various classes of the Faculty of Arts. The number of 
women attending classes at University College is. we believe, about three 
hundred. They have earned more than their proportionate share of dis- 
tinctions and have become formidable rivals ot the other sex in Classics 
and in English. 

Since 1878 women have competed with men in the University of London, 
and at the last examination for the degree of Bachelor of Arts seventy-five 
per cent, of the female candidates were successful as against forty-two per 
cent, of the male candidates ; twenty-seven per cent, of the men were p ] aced 
in the First Division ; sixty-eight per cent, of the women. In the Matricu- 
lation Examination of January 1883, the women’s record was much more 
brilliant than that of the men. 

Cambridge began to move in 1869, when Girton College was established 
in close connection with the University; in 1873 Girton rejoiced in a 
building of its own, and removed from hired quarters; in 1879, forty-two 
students were in residence. Instead of diplomas the college gives to its 
graduates what are called “ degree certificates.” The Honour Examinations 
of the University of Cambridge had, however, been opened to Girton students, 
and in 1879, a l*dy °f Girton ranked as eighth wrangler. The success of Girton 
helped towards the formation elsewhere of a “National Union for the Improve- 
ment of Women’s Education.” At Cambridge the movement subsequently 
assumed more advanced forms, and Newnham Hall was built in 1875 ; 1879 

a second Newnham Hall had to be erected. In 1 880 petitions began to be 
sent to the Sena/us praying for new privileges, and in 1881 women were 
placed on an equal footing with men as regards University teaching and 
University examinations, but they are still denied the diploma. Oxford 
has only just begun to move : two halls have been established there for the 
reception of women, but the University as yet stands aloof from hearty 
co-operation. The University of Durham admits women to the degree of 
Bachelor of Arts. 

In the United Slates the majority of colleges admit young women on the 
same terms as young men and favour the co-education system. In the 
Eastern States the usage is less general than in the Western. Cornell 
admits women ; so do Syracuse, Boston and Michigan Universities, and the 
Wesleyan University of Massachusetts. Yale admits them to certain 
departments. Michigan boasted 1534 students in 1882 ; of these, 184 were 
women, disposed thus : literary department, no ; department of medicine 
and surgery, 44 ; department of law, 2 ; school of pharmacy, 5 ; 
homoeopathic medical college, 19 ; dental college, 4. The reports of 
Michigan led the University of Mississipi to admit women by a resolution 
passed last July. Boston University has a total of 532 students of whom 
108 are women, and the President of that University speaks warmly of the 
healthful influence of the new order of things. Oberlin University, in 
Ohio, admits students without regard to sex or colour; in 1882, it was 
educating 790 women and 703 men. 

The movement has not as yet gained strong footing in Canada. It has 
been a little unfortunate in its career among us hitherto, but the causes of its 
mischance are not difficult to be divined and can be avoided by a modicum 
of tact. We may refer to this subject again but our last word now must 
be a very emphatic one and to this end : That the establishment of a separate 
college for women in Montreal (we are not speaking of separate classes) 
would be almost a calamity. If we cannot educate women in our present 
Universities but must erect costly buildings for them at a distance from our 
strongest educational centres, then let us wait. Surely our educational 
resources are all too limited, all too in elastic. We shall not be acting wisely 
to create new and expensive objects of charity when our old institutions 
can be made in same way to satisfy recent exigency, and in the best way, 
if we would only act cautiously yet firmly. We pray that those in whose 
hands the disposition of the future lies will consider the aspect of the 
question we have just regarded. 



There is perhaps nothing by which we can better gauge the general 
character of a community than the tone of its journalism, while at the same 



[April 1st, 



time there is probably nothing which has as great an influence in educating 
that character. This fact makes a comparative study of the journalism of 
different countries interesting, and, to our mind, far from uninstructive. 
To those who are actively engaged in the management of leading papers in 
this or any other country, this study becomes a necessity if they would 
keep always in the front rank. But even for those not thus professionally 
engaged, even for those who, like ourselves, are interested in small literary 
undertakings of an amateur stamp such a survey opens up a near and 
extended view of the real life of the different peoples. But perhaps the 
greatest benefit which we are likely to receive in thus glancing at the 
styles of the press in other countries is that which will arise from comparisons 
with our own press. That we should make such comparison is natural, 
that we should strive to benefit by it is desirable. 

Among English speaking nations it strikes us that there is a pretty clear 
division of journalism into what many with more or less correctness be 
distinguished as the American and the English type. We may say as an 
approximation that the former is to be found upon this continent, and the 
latter in the United Kingdom. To any one who has been accustomed to 
read the newspapers of both countries the difference of style must be familiar, 
and a reader not thus acquainted with English journalism will be able to 
observe the nature of the difference by merely glancing at one of the 
London dailies. 

It may be stated broadly that as a newspaper and nothing but a news- 
paper, the American journal is the superior of the two, but if we take a 
different view and expect for our penny not only the news and gossip of 
the day but also articles of the best style upon the most general topics 
we must buy the English paper. And here we just note how the different 
characters of the two papers seem as it were to reflect the characters of 
the two peoples. The American has no time to waste in the morning 
upon reading lengthy articles, while the easy going Englishman will re- 
ligiously peruse editorials, in reading which one might easily imagine one- 
self engaged on some interesting book. More pleasing than this to the 
sensational nature of the former is the account of some desperate murder, 
or the revelation of the incidents of the private life of some well-known 
character, which have been brought to light by the indefatigable efforts of 
the proverbial interviewer. As a rule, then, we may say that as far as what 
may be called the editorial department proper is concerned the American 
paper cannot at all compare with its English contemporary, while as a pure 
collection of news the former leads the way. A verdict upon the com- 
parative excellencies of the two as a whole will depend upon each one’s 
idea of what a newspaper ought to be. But of course what we are more 
especially interested in is our own Canadian journalism, meaning thereby 
the production of the English press in this country. Now we are pretty 
safe in saying that our papers belong rather to the American than the 
English type. We cannot at all events complain that our dailies are over- 
stocked with first-class articles upon subjects of a general and interesting 
character, although occasionally some of them do fly off to treat of matters 
of a sufficiently curious nature. Montreal cannot even claim to be the 
first city in the Dominion in respect of journalism, but in observing this we 
must remember that we have but a comparatively small English population, 
and the French population does not count. The fact that no paper can 
hope to have a constituency anything like those of the English papers has 
probably more to do with making our papers what they are than anything 
else. We are still young and as a consequence there is considerable 
room for improvement in this matter. It would seem, however, that this 
like most other problems of the kind reduces in the end to a question of 
wealth. And yet the effect of wealth is not always to elevate the tone of 
the press. In the journalism of the United States it cannot be denied 
that there often exists a want of dignity which manifests itself in the 
acrimonious contentions and the bickerings in which editors indulge, and 
we are sorrow to say that Canadian journalism is not altogether exempt 
from it. One of the principal causes of this disease in our opinion is the 
over-attention paid by oitr papers to politics. A certain amount of political 
discussion is of course absolutely necessary, but it ought not to monopolize 
our prints. The editorial skirmishes which often disfigure our journals are 
of a kind that one would expect to meet only in the exchange depart- 
ment of a college paper. It is a question whether, as we prosper and in- 
crease, our journalism will become more like the English style or drift 
further towards the American. The question will be decided according 



> 883 -] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



3 



to the tastes and requirements of the mass of readers. It appears as if in 
the Slates the readers looked to the magazines and other periodical litera- 
ture for a’.l their solid reading matter, and were content with the cheap 
and nasty evening sheet for their daily allowance. They appear to think 
that a newspaper should stick exclusively to providing news. In our case 
we may say that we have no periodical literature of our own, and there- 
fore ought to encourage as much as possible those papers which aim at 
being somewhat more than a conglomeration of daily events. We do not 
by this mean to praise the plan which some of our contemporaries adopt 
of inserting children’s stories, discussions on etiquette and columns of poor 
jokes. The?e are special subjects which require books or periodicals to 
themselves, and only make a daily paper ridiculous. Economical conside- 
rations it is certain will always remain paramount, but we hope to see cur 
Canadian journalism improved as we grow in wealth and numbers, and 
we hope that the journalists themselves as they come better paid will not 
become of less ability. 



We welcome the appearance of the First Part of Professor Bovey’s 
Applied Mechanics. The second part was published some time ago and 
has met with deserved recognition not only in Canada but also abroad. We 
believe that it has been adopted as a text-book by the University of Tokoe, 
in Japan. The volume before us although modest in size contains a great 
deal of matter tersely but clearly set forth. The first chapter is devoted 
to an explanation of general principles ; to it is appended an elaborate 
table of the strength, co-efficient of rupture, and weights of different 
materials. The second chapter introduces the more technical portions of 
engineering work and consists of the elucidation of various examples of 
shearing force and bending moment, each of which is illustrated by 
diagrams. The deflection of girders is then ably treated and supplemented 
by tables of practical moment to the engineer. The equilibrium and 
strength of beams it is next discussed, leading up to problems on loaded 
continuous girders, the theorem of Three Moments and its application 
to swing-bridges. The remainder of the work which consists of nearly 
200 pages is taken up with the transverse strength of beams, a valuable 
chapter on pillars, one on the deflection of struts, one on torsion and the 
last on the strength of hollowy binders and spheres. The author has 
embodied in the text a number of problems, fully solved, which illustrate the 
leading points of the “book-work.” At the end of each chapter is placed 
a copious set of exercises, many of which appear for the first time in a 
work of this kind. The price of the book is $3.50. 



The ’ Varsity of February 24th makes a very good suggestion anent 
the granting of the M.A. degree. It maintains that that degree ought only 
to be granted after a pretty severe post-graduation course of study, extend- 
ing over several years, and not as at present merely upon the payment of a 
certain fee. The plan of testing knowledge by means of a thesis, which is 
the one generally adopts, is in our opinion purely and simply a farce. We 
have not the slightest hesitation in asserting that the M.A. degree has up to 
the present time had a money value solely, and we doubt very much whether 
many graduates of good standing would be anxious to change their B.A. 
degree, even at the small cost of twenty- five dollars, for one which is nom- 
inally higher but in reality is not a mark of any further distinction. The 
degree should be made the mark of students who have attained a certain 
degree of eminence, and who have proved their scholarship by some satis- 
factory test ; or else let it be granted wholly honoris causa, without any pres- 
cribed test. In the latter case it would perhaps be just as well to use some 
little caution, lest by conferring it indiscriminately the result be detrimental 
to the cause of true scholarship. In our own University we notice that after 
next year the M.A. degree will be granted only after an examination in 
Science or in Literature, except to those who graduated with first-class 
honours, or who obtained a first-class in the ordinary examination. This is 
slightly better than the method of theses, but will not do vesy much good 
until there is a corresponding course of lectures which candidates can 
attend. 

The American Steam Gauge Co., (through their Superintendent, Mr. H. 
H. Moore), presented Prof. Bovey on the occasion of his late visit to 
Boston, with a very fine Thompson Indicator, a Planimeter and a Panto- 
graph. These will form a valuable addition to the Applied Science Museum 



and will be especially useful in the course on Steam and the Steam-engine. 

This gift shows the intere-t that large manufacturing firms take in the 
welfare of Scientific Schools, which often supply the men that undertake 
the most difficult branches of their work. The University thankfully 
acknowledges the gift and hopes it is the herald of still further additions 
in the immediate future. 

As will be seen by a notice in another place the annual meeting of the 
Lawn Tennis Club is to be held on the 20th inst. We believe that steps 
will be taken to place the club on a firmer basis this year, and we hope that 
a large number of members will attend and give their hearty support. 



(L'ontvUmtions. 

( We are not responsible for any opinions expressed in this column . — Eds.^ 

Cicero. 

There are certain characters in the history of the past that stand out from 
their contemporaries, not because of their superior ability in their own day, 
or because their name is associated with some important events that make 
an epoch in the world’s history ; but because there is someting in the men 
themselves that brings them near to us, something that makes us realise 
their position with greater vividness, something in fact that makes them 
almost men of to-day in our eyes. Among writers there is no one of 
whom this is truer than Plato : one is constantly surprised by the modern 
tone with which he writes. Among statesmen there is hardly any one that 
fulfils these conditions more thoroughly than Cicero. 

In forming an estimate of his character it is important to recollect the 
opinion held by such an impartial judge as his own countryman Livy, who 
seeing his faults as clearly as his virtues does not hesitate to say that, if 
the two were set in the balance against each other, it would be at once seen 
that Cicero’s greatness was quite equal to his fame and that to do full 
justice to his character would require a tongue and pen as eloquent as 
Cicero’s own. The verdict of the middles ages was equally favourable ; 
it is summed up by Dante when he places Cicero among the philosophic 
family that surrounded Aristotle — along with Socrates and Plato, Zeno and 
Seneca. 

Though the weak points in Cicero’s character, his vanity, his indecision, 
his want of backbone and moral courage shewn upon different critical 
occasions in his life were not, we may be sure, forgotten by the ancients, 
it w*js reserved for writers in modern times to discover that his contempo- 
raries who, like Caesar, always revered and respected Cicero, loving him 
even when opposed to his policy, were mistaken in their opinion of him ; 
that Cicero instead of being one of the greatest, was in fact one of the 
smallest of men. Vet this is the verdict of imperialist historians whose 
ideal is Caesar ; of historians who, valuing success highly, have foi gotten 
to rate excellence of moral character and true patriotism at their due im- 
portance. Among such writers Mommsen is perhaps the most typical. 

Cicero is with him “ a statesman without insight, opinion, or purpose, 

never more than a short-sighted egotist valiant in opposition to sham 

attacks,” a man who “ knocked down many walls of pasteboard with a 
loud din,” but who never decided any serious matter for good or evil. 

“ A dabbler — a journalist in the worst sense of the term.” His soul is 
“ stale and empty as was ever the soul of a feuilletonist banished from his 
familiar circles ” — superficial and heartless. With less reason and with 
more appearance of truth, Froude an historian of the same school, writes : 
“ So ended Cicero, a tragic combination of magnificent talents, high as- 
pirations, and true desire to do right, with an infirmity of purpose and a latent 
sincerity of character which neutralized and could almost make us forget 

his noblest qualities.. In Cicero nature half-made a great man and 

left him uncompleted. Our characters are written in our forms, and the 
best of Cicero is the key to his history. 1 ’he brow is broad and strong, 
the nose large, the lips tightly compressed, the features lean and keen from 
restless intellectual energy. The loose bending figure, the neck, too weak 
for the weight of the head, explain the infirmity of will, the passion, the 
cunning, the vanity, the absence of manliness and veracity. He was born 
into an age of violence with which he was too feeble to contend. The 
gratitude of mankind for his literary excellence will forever preserve his 
memory from too harsh a judgment.” 

This, though doubtless intended to be a fair summary of Cicero’s charac- 
ter, fails to do him full justice because it does not recognise the unique 
greatness of the man, the point by which he is distinguished from all 
others. We see his weakness clearly, but Froude does not make it suffi- 
ciently clear why after all Cicero was the really great man that all but a 
few allow him to be. The judicious Heeren acutely points out that Cicero 
was the statesman and philosopher that “ first taught Rome, in so many 
ways, what it was to be great in the robe of peace.” Was Cicero a failure 
as a statesman? Merivale asks ; “ Shame on the generation in which his lot 

was cast ! He has left, as a public man, an example of patriotism 

which we would not willingly have forgotten ; he has enriched succeeding 



4 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[April ist. 



generations with a portrait of virtue, to which .their legislators and state- 
men may bow with admiration.” 

If we would be just to Cicero, we must remember that there is no charac- 
ter of antiquity that we know so intimately ; that if few great men of the 
past have been so heartily despised by moderns, none come so near to their 
own type ; that while all other personages of Greece and Rome are mere 
“ characters of antiquity,*’ we judge Cicero as we would a politician of 
our own times. “ There is a humanity in Cicero ” writes Trollope, his 

latest biographer, “ a something almost of Christianity To have loved 

his neighbour as himself before the teaching of Christ was much for a man 
to achieve ; and that he did this is what I claim for Cicero.’ 

The truth of this high estimate is supported by numerous passages from 
his letters, (cf. Att i. 17, Fam. 14, 4). How few could honestly say that 
it was their virtues and not their vices that had proved their ruin ; and 
yet Cicero says so and we cannot gainsay it. This, I think, should be 
sufficient of itself. If Cicero had merely been a patriot among sell-seekers, 
a man of almost Christian purity of character among heathens, a modern 
among ancients, it would be enough to give him a place quite apart from 
all other characters of his own or preceding ages ; but Cicero was more 
than all this. Granted that as a philosopher he was a popularizer and an 
eclectic, rather than an original thinker ; and that, although Rome’s 
greatest orator, his best speeches are too near akin to rhetoric to allow him 
to rank with Demosthenes. Yet it can be confidently asserted that he was 
by far the greatest man of letters among statesmen, the greatest statesman 
among men of letters ; and that in his character there was a combination of 
greatness with goodness, to find which we shall seek in vain among the men 
of his own day, and in which few if any of his successors have equalled 
him. 

Ciceroni anus. 



(College Mlovlcl. 

McGill. 

Notice. 

The annual meeting of the University Lawn Tennis Club will be held 
m the Reading room on Friday, 20th April, at 7.30 p.m. 

J. R. Murray, 

Hon Secretary. 

The last meeting of the Undergraduates Literary Society took place on 
March 2nd. After a good deal of business had been done, Mr. W. Lochhead 
read an essay on Fairy-Land in Wales. Arrangements were made for a 
public debate on the 22nd. oflast month, but the General Committee after- 
wards determined to postpone it on account of the examinations. 

The Annual Report of the Reading Room Committee was presented 
to a general meeting of the students in Arts and Applied Science, on 
Thursday the 29th ult. The report shows the affairs of the Reading Room 
to be in a very prosperous condition, and the retiring committee are to be 
congratulated upon the attentive way in which they fulfilled their duties 
during the past year. The surplus remaining in the hands of the Treasurer 
amounts to something like $25, which is more than double that of last 
year’s. The number of subscribers is slightly greater than last year, but we 
are sorry to have to note that a large number still refuse to support this 
excellent institution. Several new periodicals have been added to the list 
during the session, and several other improvements effected. The list of 
benefactors contains the following: Montreal Gazette Company, Montreal 
Herald Company, University Gazette , Dr. Dawson, Dr. J. Clarke Murray, 
Mr. Roy, and others. 

The Convocation for conferring degrees in Medicine was held on Satur- 
day, 31st March, and that for conferring degrees in Law on Monday, 2nd 
inst. At both Convocations there was a very large attendance. Dr. Gir- 
wood and Mr W. H. Kerr, Q.C , Dean, were the gentlemen who addressed 
the students on the respective occasions. It is to be hoped that we shall 
soon possess a large hall for holding convocations, as the over-crowding 
which at present takes place is very unpleasant. 

Quebec Rugby Foot-Ball Union. 

The annual meeting of this Union was held in our Club room, on Satur- 
day, March 24th. Mr. H. Abbott in the chair. 

t After the reading of correspondence with the Secretary of the Ontario 
Union in reference to the formation of the Canadian Rugby Union, the 
following deputies were elected, who with an equal number from Ontario, 
shall constitute the Council of the Canadian Union : 

Messrs H. M. Belcher, J. Elder, R. Stirling, H. Merritt, R. Campbell and 
M. S. Blaicklock. 

The following were elected officers of the Quebec Union : 

President — Mr. H. Abbott, (Montreal). 

Vice-President — Mr. M. S. Blaicklock (Britannia). 

Secretary- Treasurer— Mr. J. H. Rogers, (McGill). 

Committee — Messrs. H. Belcher (Britannia), E. H. Hamilton (McGill), 
R. Campbell (Montreal), R. Hewton (Lennoxville), R. Campbell 
(Quebec). 

The Secretary’s address is No. 131 St. James street. 



Hockey Club. 

Our Hockey Club has been very successful this season. The matches 
have been few for the reason that many members of the team could 
not afford to lose the necessary time after playing through the foot-ball 
season. 

The first practice was held on Saturday, January 6th. When it became 
known that the “ Winter Carnival” committee were about to offer a silver 
cup for competition the practices were well attended, and to this the success 
of the team has been largely due. 

The first match for the cup was with the “ Victoria ” club of this city, 
and was won by McGill, by one goal to nothing. 

The next match was with Quebec, and resulted in a draw. Each club 
having obtained two goals. 

McGill was therefore awarded the cup, and silver clasps to each member 
of the team, the scores being : 

McGill, One win ; one draw. 

Quebec, Two draws. 

Victoria, One draw ; one defeat. 

Our team consisted of the following : 

Forwards — Messrs. J. A. Kinloch, (Captain) : P. L. Foster, R.W.Smith, 
W. I, Murray. 

Defence — Messrs. J. Elder, P. D. Green. 

Goal — Mr. A. Lowe. 

On Thursday, March 1 6th, the second seven met the “Victoria ” second 
team, and won with a score of two goals to nothing. 

The following were the second seven : Messrs. A. Shearer (Captain), 
Weir, H. Budden, Craven, Bessey, W. Hamilton and Hutchins. 

Annual Dinner. 

On Monday evening, the 19th March, the dining hall of the 
Richelieu once more echoed to the steady tramp of some thirty embryo 
barristers and notaries as they gathered round the festive board to cele- 
brate their annual dinner — the termination of their trials and tribulations. 

A happy sense of relief pervaded the room ; but the same could not have 
been said an hour later, when the ample menu had been discussed without 
even “ benefit of division.” Then followed the intellectual and musical por- 
tion of the evening’s programme. The patriotic feelings of the guests were 
aroused by the eloquent speech of Mr. Hutchins, in answer to the toast of 
“ Our Dominion,” and Mr. Hague touched a tender chord in every breast 
by his well-deserved eulogies of our “ Alma Mater.” “ Our Dean and Pro- 
fessors ” was proposed by Mr. Martin, who humorously referred to the 
striking characteristics of each of them. Then followed the toasts of “ Sis- 
ter Universities,” answered by Mr, Tucker; “Sister Faculties,” by Messrs. 
Murray J. R., Dowling and Johnson ; “ Graduates,” by Mr. W. H. Cross ; 

“ Class of ’83, *’ by Mr. Dickson ; “ Valedictorian,” by Mr. P. S. G. McKen- 
zie ; “ Notarial Students,” by Mr. John Fair ; “ The men we leave behind 
us,” by Messrs. F. McLennan and A. F. Clerk ; “ Our Profession,” by Wm. 
McLennan, B.C.L. ; “ The Press,” by C. A. Duclos. “ The Ladies ” was 
answered by Mr. N. T. Rielle, who referred to the anomalous position he 
occupied, for since it was well known that one lady could speak for any two 
gentlemen, how could he alone be expected to speak for them all. Besides 
the many college choruses with which toasts were interspersed, the well- 
known voices of Messrs. W. McLennan, Macpherson, Rielle and Clerk 
delighted the ears of their hearers by their varied and well-rendered selec- 
tions. The committee were, moreover, fortunate in securing the services 
of Mr. J. W Bramwell. late of England, whose singing well deserves the 
reputation he has already acquired for himself in Montreal. 

The thanks of the meeting were tendered to Messrs. Duclos, McLennan 
& O'Halloran, who composed the committee, for the pleasant manner in 
which the evening was spent, after which each wended his way home, with 
the tune of “ Auld Lang Syne ” still ringing his ears. 

Mr. Kennedy’s Lecture. 

The Undergraduates of the Faculty of Applied Science had for some 
time been looking forward to a lecture promised by Mr. Kennedy, a 
prominent engineer of this city, who has always manifested a great interest 
in the faculty. The lecture was to have been delivered at the College, but 
the students were pleasantly surprised upon receiving an invitation to his 
residence, University street, on the evening of the 16th inst., where 
hospitality could lie combined with instruction. 

All availed themselves of the privilege and assembled at the appointed 
hour, when the lecturer proceded to read a paper upon “ Water Supply,” 
dwelling particularly upon the construction of hydraulic pumps, and their 
manner of working, pointing out the causes of failure of valves, packing, 
etc., and fully describing by the aid of diagrams the way in which the various 
kinds of reciprocating pumps worked. At the close the students tendered 
him a hearty vote of thanks for the able and instructive address. 

Mr. C. E. Shanly followed with a few remarks, reminding the students of 
his college days at McGill twenty years ago, when there were but five 
students in the faculty of Applied Science, and was highly pleased to learn 
that since that time it had increased to fifty-five. 

Prof. Bovey briefly commented upon the necessity of combining theory 
with practice, in order to become successful in engineering enterprises, and 
expressed a desire that the last speaker would find it convenient at some 



5 



i88 3 .] 



McGill university gazette. 



future time to deliver a lecture. Mr. Shanly kindly consented to do so. 

The lecturer then acted the part of host and led the way to the dining 
room, where bountiful provision had been made for satisfying the physical 
wants. A large number of other guests were present, and the remainder of 
the evening was spent in conversation, interspersed with music and songs, in 
the latter of which several prominent members of the “ Glee Club ” estab- 
lished a local reputation. 

At a late hour the party dispersed, unanimously testifying their apprecia- 
tion of Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy’s kindness, and their determination never in 
the future to slope a lecture when given outside the College. 

Annual University Lecture. 

The Annual University Lecture was delivered on Tuesday evening, 27th 
March, in the Peter Redpath Museum. The chair was occupied by Hon. 
Judge Mackay, and there was a large number of members of convocation 
present. After the lecture the students’ Glee Club rendered a programme 
of songs for the benefit of the company. A larger number of students 
would have been present but for the proximity of the Examinations. It 
is to be hoped that the lecture will bfe in future not be postponed to such 
a late date. 

Principal Dawson, in introducing his subject, explained that the annual 
lecture had given place in the fall to the medical semi-centennial celebra- 
tion, and it was for this reason that it was given so late in the session. He 
then continued as follows, giving a most interesting 

HISTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY. 

The charter of McGill University dates from the year 1821, so that it is 
really sixty-two years of age ; but its actual history as a teaching institution 
began somewhat later, and the present is reckoned as its fiftieth session, 
in so far as its oldest faculties, those of Medicine and Arts, are concerned. 
Owing to protracted litigation, the property bequeathed by James McGill 
did not come into the possession of the Board of Governors until 1829. 
On the 29th of June in that year, the University was formally opened in 
the old residence of the founder, Burnside House ; the Montreal Medical 
Institute, which had already been in existence for some years, was incor- 
porated with it as its Faculty of Medicine, and shortly after its Faculty of 
Arts was constituted with a Principal and three professors or lecturers. 
Many untoward circumstances, however, conspired to check the growth 
of the University, and it was not until the change^ effected by the amended 
charter in 1852, that it entered on a career of rapid progress. Within 
these thirty years its revenues have grown from a few hundred dollars to 
about $40,000 per annum, without reckoning the fees in professional 
faculties and the income of the more recent benefactions. Its staff has in- 
creased from the original eight instructing officers to thirty-nine. The 
number of students has increased to 415 actually attending college classes, 
or reckoning those of the Normal School and of affiliated colleges in arts, 
to nearly 600. Its Faculties of Law and Applied Science have been added to 
those of Arts and Medicine. It has two affiliated colleges in arts and four 
in theology, and has under its management the Protestant Normal School. 
Its buildings, like itself, have been growing by a process of accretion, and 
the latest, that in which we are now assembled, is far in advance of all the 
others, and a presage of the college buildings of the future. We have five 
chairs endowed by private benefactors, fourteen endowed scholarships and 
exhibitions, besides others of a temporary nature, and eight endowed gold 
medals. More than this, we have sent out about 1,200 graduates, of whom 
more than a thousand are occupying positions of usefulness and honour 
in this country. Two years ago, I issued cards of invitation to 850 gra- 
duates whose addresses were known to me, and received more than 600 
replies. Our friends sometimes say to us that we should rest content with 
what we have thus attained, and that an institution so great as McGill 
is quite abreast of the requirements of Canadian education. But if we 
measure our growth with that of the city of Montreal, or with that of the 
Dominion of Canada we shall not find so much room to congratulate 
ourselves, and if we compare our means of educational usefulness with 
those of the greater Universities of older countries, we shall have still less 
reason to boast. We should not regard McGill merely as an 
institution for Montreal or for the Province of Quebec, but for 
the whole of Canada. Primarily, no doubt, it was intended to sub- 

serve the interests of the English-speaking people of this Province, but at 
this moment half of its students are from other provinces, and its founders 
and early supporters secured for it a Canadian status in the connection 
with it of the Governor-General as its Visitor^ which is still retains. At 
first sight it might seem that its name is too restrictive for such high 
claims ; but practically this is not the case. Had it been named the 
University of Montreal, a stronger local colouring would have been given 
to it. 

In the United States it is those Lniversities, which like Harvard, Yale, 
Cornell and Johns Hopkins, bear the names of individual men, that have 
become, or are likely to become, the widest in their influence. In Canada, 
Laval, Dalhousie, and McGill Universities, and Morrin College, bear such 
individual names, and they are not likely, on that account, to have narrower 
fields of usefulness or to fail to attract to themselves the benefactions of 
of other friends of education. On the contrary, every new benefactor justly 
regards it as an honour to connect his name with that of an eminent founder, 



and the benefactions of one man, perpetuated in his name, tend to stimulate 
others to like good deeds, and thus to attract, as by a magnetic influence, 
additional gifts. The truth of this is proved by the recent bequests and 
subscriptions to this university, to which I shall have to refer in the sequel. 
Another principle, strikingly illustrated in our history and connected with 
some of our recent acquisitions, is that small beginnings of any good thing 
are to be cherished and cultivated. Our library began in 1855 with a 
purchase of a small collection of historical and literary works which the 
Governors out of their then poverty ventured to make, and which occupied 
a few plain shelves in the old Burnside Hall. When at a later period Mr. 
William Molson presented us with our present library and its handsome 
book-cases, we were asked what was the use of such a quantity of empty 
shelves. The answer was that they were gaping for books, but they have 
long since had to be extended and enlarged, and an additional room has 
recently been added for our law books and public records, and for the 
library presented to us by Judge Mackay. [Applause.] Our philosophical 
apparatus consisted in 1855 of a few instruments of antique pattern be- 
queathed to the University by the late Dr. Skakel. These were used and 
cared for and added to till they have grown to the fine collection now in the 
care of Dr. Johnson, which is probably the best of the kind in this 
country. Our little observatory tower, built in faith when we had no tele- 
scope, was to become the home of the Blackman telescope and its accom- 
panying apparatus. 

It is not very long since we had no chemical laboratory. We have now 
two laboratories capable of accommodating sixty-five students in practical 
work, and they have grown up under the care of Dr. Harrington and Dr. 
Girdwood almost imperceptibly and with little cost to the University. We 
are still destitute of a physical laboratory, except in so far as our meteorolo- 
gical observatory serves the purpose ; but this is a small beginning to which 
more will be added. The observatory itself is a case in point. Originally 
built to aid the late Dr. Smallwood in his work, it has grown under Prof. 
McLeod into an important Dominion institute, both for weather observations 
and for time. When in 1855 I enquired as to the museum of the University, 
the Registrar informed me that there were no collections of any kind, but on 
second thought he produced from a drawer a small specimen of one of the 
most common corals from our quarries, and said that this had been pre- 
sented to the College. It was a small beginning, but it has gathered around 
it the magnificent collections which we see in this building, and it still 
keeps its place in one of the cases of the Peter Redpath Museum. 

REVERSES. 

The recent history of our collections in natural science also reminds me 
of the fact that there have been not a few reverses and apparent failures 
in the course of our efforts. In my first session in McGill the want of 
a museum was supplied by my private collections, which were somewhat 
valuable ; but at the calamitous fire which destroyed Burnside Hall and 
which was in every respect a check to the University, the greater part of 
this collection was destroyed, and neither I nor the University had the 
means immediately to replace them. At a later date we trusted to the 
Geological Survey collections as a means of supplementing our work in 
geology, but these were unexpectedly taken from us, and we were thrown 
upon our own resources. These losses we have, however, more than 
recovered, and possess to-day the most valuable collections in this country 
for educational uses. ['Hie lecturer then referred to the enforced abandon- 
ment of the Engineering School previous to 1870, and its subsequent 
revival on a larger and better scale as the Faculty of Applied Science, and 
to the bequest of the late Miss Barbara Scott for the permanent endowment 
of the Chair of Civil Engineering.] At the close of the financial year of 
1880-81, our income had ebbed a a most threatening manner. Being 
derived ntainly from investments in reabestate, it had run some risks and 
experienced some diminution in the commercial crisis of the preceding 
years. But when the tide of commercial prosperity turned, a greater 
calamity befel us in the fall of the rate of interest, which reduced our 
revenue by nearly 20 per cent., and this at a time when no decrease of 
expenditure could be made without actual diminution of efficiency. In 
these circumstances the Board of Governors found it necessary to insist 
on most unwelcome retrenchments, injurious to our educational work, and 
which some of us would have been glad to avert even by much personal 
sacrifice and privation. At length on the 13th of October, 1881, we con- 
vened a meeting, not happily of our creditors, but of our constituents, 
the Protestant citizens of Montreal, and our position and wants were 
laid before them most ably, and, I may say, even pathetically by the Chan- 
cellor, Judge Day, and the honorary treasurer, Mr. Ramsay. The meet- 
ing was a large and influential one, and I shall never cease to bear in 
grateful remembrance the respoitse which it made. There was no hint of 
blame for our extravagance, no grudging of the claims of the higher 
education which we represented, but a hearty and unanimous resolve to 
sustain the University and to give it more than the amount which it 
asked. The result of that meeting was the contribution of $56,000 to the 
endowment fund and of $18,445 °f subscriptions to the annual income of 
the University. But this was not all, for it was followed by two of those 
large and generous bequests of which this city may well be proud. Major 
Hiram Mills, an American gentleman, resident for twenty years in Mont- 
real, and who had been familiar with the struggles of the University, left 
us by will the handsome sum of 843,000 to endow a chair in his name 



6 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



as well as a scholarship and a gold medal. On this endowment the Gov- 
ernors have placed the chair of classical literature. More recently our late 
esteemed friend and fellow-citizen, Mr. David Greenshields, has added to 
the many kind actions of a noble and generous life the gift of $40,000 for 
the endowment of a chair, and which will probably be given to one of 
the scientific professorships in the Faculty of Arts. At a still 
later date, by the decease of Mr. Andrew Stewart, of Quebec, 
Quebec, the will of his late wife, a daughter of the late Judge Gale, of 
this city, comes into effect, and will give to the University the sum of 
$25,000 for the endowment of a Gale chair in the Faculty of Law. Adding 
to these sums the bequest of Miss Barbara Scott already referred to, we 
have a total sum of more than $200,000 given to the University by 
citizens of Montreal within two years. If we add to this the Peter Redpath 
Museum and its contents, with other donations, we may acknowledge be- 
nefactions within two years to the amount of about a third of a million. 

MEDICAL FACULTY. 

I have made no mention as yet of the endowment in prospect for our 
Faculty of Medicine. It is perhaps singular that this school, so ably con- 
ducted and so useful, has drawn to itself so little of the munificence of bene- 
factors. Perhaps the fact of its self-supporting and independent character 
has led to this. But the removal by death of its late Dean Dr. Campbell, 
in connection with its attaining to its 50th anniversary, was well calculated 
direct attention to its claims, and the occasion was most happily taken 
advantage of by the Dean, Dr. Howard, in his opening lecture of the present 
session. Dr. Campbell was a man of rare gifts and powers, combining 
professional eminence of the highest order with great business capacity, and 
enlightened and earnest public spirit ; lie was at the same time a man of 
wide sympathies and warm and generous heart. Having had occasion 
many times to ask his advice and aid in matters not of a professional 
character, and which gave me much concern and anxiety, I can bear testi- 
mony to his qualities both of heart and head. 

The idea of commemorating the life and labours of such a man by 
sustaining and extending that medical education in which he took so warm 
interest, and for which he put forth such strenuous efforts, was one sure to 
bear fruit. Accordingly we find one of those large-hearted men, who had 
known Dr. Campbell and a man who was well fitted to appreciate his worth, 
offering to give $50,000 toward a Campbell Memorial in the Faculty of 
Medicine, wiah the reasonable condition that a like sum shall be given by 
others. [The lecturer stated his belief that this sum of $100,000 would 
certainly be secured for the Medical Faculty. He then proceeded to notice 
the endowments that had been given to affiliated Colleges connected with 
the University. He proceeded to say that the large sums thus -contributed 
to the University did not supply all its needs, more especially as it was 
necessary to provide more amply for work now in progress and to have 
some revenue for unforeseen contingencies.] 

APPLIED SCIENCE. 

I have already referred to the wants still unsupplied in the Faculty of 
Applied Science. It is working under great disadvantages in the absence of 
a suitable building, and we have even been under the necessity of consider- 
ing the expediency of discontinuing one of its courses of study, that of 
mechanical engineering, which is now provided for by extra labour on the 
part of professors having other duties. To place this Faculty on a secure 
basis, we need a building costing at least $ 5 o,ooo, and an additional endow- 
ment fund of at least $40,000. 

THE MUSEUM 

in which we are now assembled has all the necessary accommodation for a 
large school of Natural science, but it has not yet the requisite staff. The 
studies represented here by Dr. Harrington and myself cover the ground 
which even in some colonial Universities occupies the time of at least four 
men The staff of the Peter Redpath museum will not be complete until we 
have the salaries for an additional professor and for a curator who might 
also be a lecturer. Could this be done in my life time, it would not only 
enable me to complete useful enterprises now delayed for want of time, but 
would give the satisfaction of knowing that the results of my work would 
not run any risk of passing away with myself. 

HEBREW. 

One of the chairs in the Faculty of Arts, in which I have always taken a 
great interest, is that of Hebrew and Oriental Literature. Independently of 
of its essential character as a preparation for the Christian ministry, the 
study of the Semitic languages and literature has great claims to attention. 
Philologically it introduces the student to a language somewhat remote 
from that group to which English, as well as Latin, Greek, French and 
German belong, and thus enlarges his conceptions of the essence of lan- 
guage. Its literature is the oldest in the world, and in many respects the 
noblest and most elevated. [The Governors have made an appeal to the 
friends of education, and more especially to those connected with the theo- 
logical colleges, to aid in securing an endowment for this chair, so long 
filled by Dr. De Sola, and now temporarily occupied by Prof. Coussirat.] 

HIGHER EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

Another subject to which the attention of our Corporation has been in- 
vited in the present session is the higher education of women. At one of 
the earlier meetings connected with the endowment of the University, a 



[April 1st, 



resolution was passed asking us, in consideration of the aids received, to give 
some attention to this matter, and our Chancellor promised on behalf of the 
University that consideration would be given to it. I have always felt that 
a moral obligation thus imposed on us, and independently of this, every 
right-thinking man must feel that the subject is one which no institution of 
higher education can now afford to neglect. In the hope of initiating a 
useful movement in this direction, I endeavoured in 1870 to interest ladies of 
influence in the city in the formation of a Ladies FMucational Association, 
and promised them all the aid that the University could give. Still further 
to stimulate effort in this direction the University has instituted examinations 
open to women up to the standard of the University Intermediate. At the 
present moment, however, the lectures of the Ladies’ Association cannot 
attain to the position of a regular course of study, and there are not facilities 
open to ladies desirous of taking the examinations offered by the University. 
In these circumstances various courses have been suggested, and a com- 
mittee of the corporation, has been instructed to report on their relative 
merits. . [The lecturer then discussed the various modes of providing for 
the higher education of women, and stated his preference for separate 
classes, which he thought might be organized by the joint efforts of the 
Ladies’ Educational Association, the T rafalgar Institute, and the University.] 

MACDONALD SCHOLARSHIPS. 

Among the donations of the past year none deserves more grateful 
remembrance than that of $25,000 from Mr. W. C. Macdonald for the 
foundation of scholarships and exhibitions. It is true that this was merely 
the capitalizing of a sum of which the interest had been given by the liberal 
donor in previous years, and which had worthily earned for him the title of 
the students’ friend, but it brings to remembrance the want which McGill so 
long suffered from : deficiency of those aids to poor and deserving students, 
which have been so numerous in some other Universities, and of which we 
still have too limited a number. [The lecturer proceeded to suggest modes 
in which such aids might be most beneficially given, and proceeded to the 
discussion of the need of further division of professorships, in connection 
with the recent changes of the course of study ; quoting Dr. Wilson of 
Toronto in support of his appeal on this subject. He also referred at 
some length to the importance of additional provision for the board and 
lodging of students.] 

VALUE OF DEGREES. 

In previous lectures and reports I have often referred to the singular and 
exceptional fact, depending on the peculiar position of the Roman 
Catholic institutions of this Province with reference to education, that de- 
grees in arts of Universities are not considered as affording the necessary 
qualifications for entrance into the study of professions. The law of the 
Province of Quebec is unique in this respect, and proceeds, apparently, on 
the principle that liberal education is to be discouraged as a means of pre- 
paration for professions, and mere cram for examinations promoted in its 
stead. The Protestant Committee of the Council of Public Instruction has 
taken up this matter warmly, and has urged it upon the attention of the 
Government ; but though it does not require any expenditure of money, 
and is a plain dictate of ordinary justice and common sense, there seem to 
be objections in some quarters which have so far prevented the government 
from acting on our recommendation. From an able letter on this subject, 
prepared by Dr. Heneker, Chancellor of Bishop’s College, at the request of 
the Protestant Committee, I quote the following : — “ The Committee more- 
over insist very strongly on the absolute necessity of recognizing the Uni- 
versity Degree as in itself a qualification for the entrance on the study of a 
profession. The two Protestant Universities, McGill and Bishop’s College, 
are working to increase the quality of the degree. They are united on The 
subjects for matriculation in Arts, and although there are subsequent 
differences, so as to satisfy different classes of minds, yet both are earnest 
to require good work from their students. If the professional bodies will 
not accept men who have devoted three or four years of their strength to 
the study of Arts and Science, not in technicalities but on broad fundamental 
grounds, the would seem to be very little room for Universities at all in the 
Province of Quebec.” This matter is one in relation to which the friends 
of higher education should continue to put forth earnest effort till our 
provincial law can be amended. 

THE PRINCIPALSHIP. 

I would also endeavor to impress on our graduates the importance of 
completing the subscription already begun for endowment of the Principal- 
ship. I do not say this in my own interest. I would wish that the 
principal and interest of the fund should accumulate untouched during 
my tenure of office. I speak in the interest of my successor. Knowing 
how important it is that the head of an institution like this should be re- 
lieved as much as possible from the drudgery of teaching and of mere rou- 
tine business, and should have time to think and act deliberately, to keep 
himself acquainted with all that concerns our wants and interests', whether 
within or without, to extend the hospitality of the University to students 
graduates, professors, benefactors and distinguished visitors, and to sustain 
the dignity and public consideration of the University, I feel that it is 
desirable that the best possible man should be secured tor the office and 
that he should be furnished with means to enable him to occupy a high 
and influential position even in this wealthy city. Were this fund raised to 
such an amount as would render it certain that the Governors can, when a 



McGill university gazette. 



7 



1883, 



vacancy occurs, feel sure of obtaining the services of the right man and of 
placing him in his proper position, one great source of anxiety would be 
removed from my mind, and from the minds of others who are interested 
in our welfare and who have laboured in our behalt. 

In conclusion, permit me to say a word as to myself and my con 
templated leave of absence. My connection with this University for the 
past twenty-eight years has been fraught with that happiness which results 
from the consciousness of effort in a worthy cause, and from association 
with such noble and self-sacrificing men as those who have built up McGill 
College. But it has been tilled with anxieties and cares and with continuous 
and almost unremitting labor, in the details of which I need not now dwell, 
and I have been obliged to leave undone or imperfectly accomplished many 
cherished schemes by which I had hoped to benefit my fellow-men. and leave 
footprints of good on the sands of time. Age is advancing upon me, and 
I feel that it I am to labor much longer, and fittingly to bring to a close the 
business of my life, I must have a breathing space to gird up my loins and 
refresh myself for what remains of the battle. For these reasons I have 
asked the Board of Governors for leave of absence for a year, in the hope 
that, with God’s blessing, I may return with vigour sufficient to sustain me 
for a few years more, and, if not, that I may at least make such arrange- 
ments as may ensure more perfectly the carrying out of my work by others. 
The Governors have kindly granted my request, and have offered to make 
such arrangements as may throw as little of the pecuniary burdens on me 
as possible ; though it is my purpose to bring no extra charge on the Uni- 
versity in the matter, and if possible to make my scheme beneficial b:>th in 
a financial and educational point of view. I appear before you, therefore, 
as one who has to say farewell for a time, and that is my reason for dwell- 
ing in so much detail on the wants of our immediate future. I wish to place 
on record some of the realities of our position, so that whether I return to 
my accustomed post or not, there may be a testimony as to the wants of 
the University as they appear to me, and I shall cherish the hope that if 
I return in 1884, I may find that some of them have been supplied, and 
that all the varied portions of our work have gone on smoothly and success- 
fully. The true test of educational work well done is that it shall have 
life and power to continue and extend itself, and after those who have es- 
tablished it are removed. I believe that is the character of our work here, 
and I shall leave it with the confident expectation that the session of 1883- 
84 will be quite as successful in my absence as in my presence. Such a 
result I shall regard as the highest compliment to myself. To this end I 
ask your earnest consideration of the practical thoughts presented this 
evening, and I pray that the blessing of God may rest on the University 
and on every part of it, and that it may be strengthened with His power 
and animated with His Spirit. 

Results of the Sessional Examinations. 



Faculty of Medicine. 

Holmes Gold Medal, awarded to the student who has obtained the highest 
number of marks in both primary and final examination — C. E. Cameron, of 
Montreal. 

The Final Prize, awarded to the student who obtained the highest marks 
in the final examination — J. Brown Loring, of Sherbrooke, Q. (The Gold 
Medalist is not allowed to compete for this prize.) 

The following gentlemen have taken honours in order of merit : — R. R. 
Struthers, Phillipsburg, Q.. J. S. Lathem, of Yarmouth, N.S., equal; J. C. 
Bowser, Kingston, N.B. ; James Gray, Brucefield, O. ; George Carruthers, 
North Bedeque, P.E.I. ; J. J. Gardner, Cornwall, O.; W.G. Henry, Chatham, 
O.; W. M. Scott, Winnipeg, Man. ; J. R Johnson. Farmersville, Que. 

The following gentlemen, torty-two 111 number, have passed in the full 
primaries, including Anatomy, Practical Anatomy, Chemistry, Practical 
Chemistry, Materia Medica and Institutes of Medicine : 

Allan, J. H. B., Montreal, Q. ; Arthur, R. H., Brighton, O. ; Baird, T. A. D., 
Chesterfield, O. ; Barrett, J. A., Prescott, O. ; Burrows, F. N., Drayton, O. ; 
Cassidy, G. A., Goldstone, O. ; Darey, J. H , B.A. (McGill), Montreal, Q. ; 
Eberts, D. W., Chatham, O.; Ferguson, W. A., B.A. (McGill), Richibucto, 

N. B. ; Finley, J. A., Montreal, Q. ; Groves, W., Carp, O ; Hallett, E. O., 
Truro, N. S. ; Hanna, A. E., Harlem, O. ; Harkin, Fred., Yankleek Hill, 

O. ; Hurdman, H. T., Aylmer, O. ; Hutchison, J. A., Goderich, O. ; Irvine, 
R. T., Carp, < >. ; Johnson, C. H., Almonte, O. ; Johnson, H. D , Charlotte- 
town, P.E.I. ; Jolliffe, J. H , B.A., (Union), Cincinnati, Ohio ; Klock, W. 
H., Alymer, Q. ; Landor, T. H., London, Ont ; Merritt, D. P., M.A. 
(McGill), Ottawa, O. ; McCormack, N., Pembroke, O. ; McClure, W., B.A. 
(McGill), Lachute, Q. ; McGannon, M. C , Prescott, O. ; McKenzie, J. T., 
Plainfield, O. ; McLellan, J. H., Suinmerside, P.E.I.; McMillan, D. L., 
Alexandria, O. ; O’Brien, T., Brudenell, O. ; Osborne, A. B., Hamilton, O. ; 
Park, James, Newcastle, N.B. ; Powell, F. H., Ottawa, O. ; Robertson, 
A. M., Brockville, O. ; Ruttan, R. F., B.A. (Toronto), Napanee, O. ; Scott, 
J. M., Carleton Place, O. ; Snarp, I. C\, Sussex, N.B. ; Shibley, J. L., B.A. 
(Victoria), Yarker, O. ; Trapnell, H. E., Harbour Grace, New Foundland ; 
Wilson, J. A. K., Manotick, O.; Wood, E. G., Londesboro, Ont. ; Ross, 

L. D., Montreal, Q. 

Anatomy. 

Armitage, J. H., Newmarket, 0 . ; Brown, W. D., Charlottetown, P.E.I. ; 
Cameron, D. A., Strathroy, O.; Carter, L. H., Picton, O.; Cattanach, W. C., 



Dalhousie Mills, O. ; Corsan, D., Woodstock, O. , Craig, M. A., Glenwater, 
O. ; Daze, H., Montreal, Q. ; Doherty, W. W., Kingston, N.B. ; Graham, 
J., Carp, O. ; Gustin, S., London, O. ; Lynskey, N. T., Winnipeg, Man. ; 
McDonald, H. J., Alexandria, O. ; McMeekin, J. W., Chesterfield, O. ; 
McMillan, A. D.. Valleyfield, Q. ; McMillan, G. A., Huntington, Q. ; 
Palmer, G. F., Ottawa, O. ; Patterson, R. L , Chatham, O. ; Platt, A. T., 
Picton, O. 

Institutes of Medicine. 

Armitage, J. H., Newmarket, O. ; Brown, W. D., Charlottetown, P.E.I. ; 
Campbell, A. W., Montreal, Q. ; Comstock, H. M., Lawrence, Mass.; 
Corsan, D. Woodstock, O. ; Daze, H., Montreal, Q. ; Graham, J. Carp, O. ; 
Gustin, S , London, O. ; Lynskey, N. T., Winnipeg, Man. ; McDonald, 
H. J., Alexandria, O. ; McMeekin, J. W., Chesterfield, O. ; Palmer, G. F., 
Ottawa, O. : Sheriff, G. R. Huntingdon, Q* 

Practical Anatomy. 

Corsan, D., Woodstock, O. ; Fairbanks, C. E., Oshawa, O. ; McDonald, 
H. J., Alexandria, O. ; McMillan, G. A., Huntingdon, Q. 

Materia Medica. 

Aylen, P., Aylmer, Q. ; Brown, W. D., Charlottetown, P.E.I.; Campbell, 

A. W., Montreal, Q. ; Cattanach, W. C., Dalhousie Mills; Comstock, H. 

M. , Lawrence, Mass. ; Daze, H., Montreal, Q. ; Graham, J., Carp, O. ; 
Gustin, S., London, O. ; Johnstone, H. V., Montreal, Q. ; Lynskey, N. T., 
Winnipeg, Man.; McDonald. H. J., Alexandria, O. ; McMeekin, J. W., 
Chesterfield, 0 . ; McPherson, D. T., Lancaster, O. ; McMillan, A. D., 
Valleyfield, O. ; Palmer, G. F., Ottawa, O. ; Platt, A. T., Picton, O. 

Practical Chemistry. 

Armitage, T. H., Newmarket, O. ; Aylen, P., Aylmer, Q. ; Brown, W. D., 
Charlottetown, P.E.I. ; Campbell, A. W., Montreal ; Cattanach, W. C., 
Dalhousie Mills, O. ; Comstock, H. M., Lawrence, Mass. ; Corsan, D., 
Woodstock. O. ; Crocket, W. C., B.A , Fredericton, N.B. ; Daly, W. D., 

B. A., Ogdensburg, N. Y. ; Elder, John, B.A., Huntingdon, Q. ; Daze, H., 
Montreal; Graham, J., Carp, O. ; Gustin, Smith, Londen, O. ; Johnstone, 
H. V., Montreal; Lynskey, N. T., Winnipeg, Man.; McDonald, H. J., 
Alexandria, O. ; McMeekin, J. W., Chesterfield, O. ; McMillan, G. A., 
Huntingdon, Q. ; Owens, J. G., Fredericton, N.B. : Palmer, G. F., Ottawa, 
O. ; Patterson, R. L., Chatham, O. ; Raymond, J. H., B. A., Springfield, 

N. B. ; Wishart, D. A. G, B.A., Madoc, O ; White, W. W., B.A., St. John, 
N.B. 

Chemistry. 

Blackader, E. H., Montreal, Q. ; Brown, W. D., Charlottetown, P.E.I. ; 
Crockett, W. C., B.A., Fredericton, N.B. ; Campbell, A. W., Montreal; 
Carter, L. H., Picton, O. ; Cattanach, W. C , Dalhousie Mills, O. ; Corsan, 
Douglas, Woodstock, O ; Daze, Henri, Montreal ; Elder, John, B.A., 
Huntingdon, Q. ; Gustin, Smith, London, O. ; Kirkpatrick, R. C., 
Montreal; Kennedy, R. A., Ottawa, O. ; Lynskey, N. T., Winnipeg, 
Man. ; McMeekin, J. W., Chesterfield, O. ; Palmer, G. F., Ottawa, O. ; 
Platt, A. T., Picton, O. ; Raymond, J. H., B.A , Springfield, N.B. ; White, 
W. W., B.A., St. John, N.B. ; Wishart, D. A. G., B.A., Madoc, O. 

Prizes. 

The Primary Prize has been taken by Ed. G. Wood, of Londesboro, Ont., 
and the Sutherland Gold Medal and the Morrice Scholarship by R. F. 
Ruttan, B.A., of Napanee, Ont. 

The following are the names of the successful candidates for the degree 
of M.DC.M. : Allan, Clarence E, East Farnham, Q. ; Bowser, James C., 
Kingston, N.B. ; Cameron, Chas. E., Montreal, Q ; Carruthers, George, 
North Bedeque, P.E.I.; Dearden, George A., Richmond, Q. ; Gardner, 
John, J., Cornwall, O. ; Gray, James, Brucefield, O. ; Hanvey, Chas. B. H., 
Cleveland, Ohio ; Harrison, Henry J. Moulinette, O. ; Henry, Wm. G., 
Chatham, O. ; Hopkins, Alf. J., Cookshire, Q. ; Johnson, Jonathan R., 
Farmersville, 6. ; Lathem, J. Simpson, Windsor, N.S. ; Loring, J. Brown, 
Sherbrooke, Q. ; Maher, J. J. E., Albany, N.Y. ; Martel, Ovide, Montreal, 
Q. ; McLeod, Arch, B.A. (McGill), Orwell, P.E.I. ; MacNeil, Alex., West 
River, P.E.I. ; MacLean, John W., Strathlorne, N. S. ; McDonald, 
Alexander, Paisley, O. ; Muckey, F. S., Medford. Minn. ; Phippen, Samuel 
S. C., Parkhill, O. ; Ross, Wm. K., Goderich, O. ; Rutledge, And. J., 
Bayfield, O. ; Scott, Walter, McE., Winnipeg, Man. ; Shaver, Wm. H., 
Wales, O. ; Sihler, George A., Simcoe, O. ; Stewart, Andrew, Howick, Q. • 
Struthers, Robt. B., Philipsburg, Q. ; Wood, Edward S., Faribault, Minn. 
Faculty of Law. 

The following students (names arranged in order of merit) have success- 
fully passed the examinations required to entitle them to receive the degree 
of B.C.L. : 

Martin, John E. ; Robertson, David C. ; Fair, Jr., John ; Dickson, 
William E. ; Hutchins, Horace A. ; Hague, Frederick ; Tucker, Henry ; 
Matheson, Roderick D. ; McKenzie, Peter S. G. ; Demers, Jean B. ; 
Hunter, Walter ; McConnell, Arthur ; Leet, Lefun T. 

Elizabeth Torrance Gold Medal. 

The Elizabeth Torrance Gold Medal, in the Faculty of Law, is awarded 
to the student who being of the Graduating class, having passed the final 



8 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



examination, and having prepared a thesis of sufficient merit in the estima- 
tion of the Faculty to entitle him to compete, shall take the highest marks 
in a special examination for the medal, which examination shall include the 
subject of Roman Law. 

In the present session there were five competitors for this prize, and it 
was awarded to John E. Martin, of Cowansville, with an aggregate in all 
the subjects of 603 marks out of a possible total of 700. John Fair, Junior, 
of Montreal, was second in this competition, with an aggregate of 586 
marks. The latter was closely followed by D. C. Robertson, of Lennoxville, 
with 578 marks. 

Honors. 

Students who obtain an aggregate of 80 per centum, or over, of the total 
marks allowed in all the subjects proper to their year, are entitled to first 
rank honors, and those receiving less than 80 per centum and not less than 
75 per centum are entitled to second rank honors. 

The students in the Graduating class who have obtained First Rank 
Honors are as follows : 

Martin, J. E. ; Robertson, D. C. ; Fair, J. ; Dickson, W. E ; Hutchins, 
H. A. 

In this year the medal is regarded as first prize, and the second prize 
is awarded to Mr. Robertson. The prize for the best thesis was awarded 
to Mr. Fair. 

Standing in the Several Classes. 

International Law. — Professor Kerr. In this subject the Professor 
offered two prizes for competition upon a special examination, the second 
and third year competing together on the same papers — one prize to be 
awarded to the first man in the second year. In this examination William 
E. Dickson obtained the third year prize, with 96 marks out of a 100, and 
Charles A. Duclos obtained the prize in the second year, with 97 marks out 
of 100. F'irst, Dickson ; second, Hunter. 

Roman Law. — Professor Trenholme. First, Martin ; second, Robertson. 

Criminal Procedure. — Professor Archibald. First, Robertson ; second, 
Martin. 

Legal History. — Professor Lareau. First, Martin ; second, Dickson and 
Robertson, equal. 

Civil Procedure. — Professor Hutchinson. First, Fair ; second, McConnell 
and Martin, equal. 

Civil Law. — Professor Robidoux. First, Dickson ; second, Fair. 

Commercial Law. — Professor Davidson. First Martin ; second, Fair 

Second Year. 

The students who have successfully passed the examination of the 
second year, names arranged in order of merit, are as follows : 

Falconer, Alexander, B.A. ; Duclos, Charles A., B.A. ; McLennan, 
Francis, B.A. ; Rielle, Norman T., B.A. ; Buchan, John L. ; McLennan, 
Farquhar S. ; Cullen, James ; Rogers, John H., B.A. ; Macpherson, 
Kenneth R., B.A. 

Mr. Falconer obtained first prize, having obtained 617 out of a possible 
700 marks, and Mr. Duclos obtained 2nd prize, with 589 marks. 

The students who have obtained First Rank Honours in this year are as 
follows : Falconer, Alexander ; Duclos, Charles A. 

Those who have obtained Second Rank Honours are : Buchan, John L. ; 
McLennan, F. ; Rielle, Norman T. 

International Law. — Professor Kerr. In ordinary competition for the 
year : F'irst, Falconer and Duclos, equal ; second, Buchan. 

Roman Law. — Professor Trenholme. First, Duclos ; second, Falconer. 

Criminal Law. — Professor Archibald. First, McLennan, F. S. ; second, 
Falconer. 

Legal Bibliography. — Professor Lareau. First, Macpherson and Rielle, 
equal ; second, Duclos. 

Civil Procedure. — Professor Hutchinson. First, Falconer ; second, 
McLennan, F. S. 

Civil Law. — Professor Robidoux. First Falconer and McLennan, F. 
equal ; second, Duclos and Rielle, equal. 

Commercial Law. — Professor Davidson. First, Falconer ; second, 
Duclos. 

The following ( names arranged in order of merit) have successfully 
passed the examination reqnired for students of the first year : Greenshields, 
A. E. ; Smith, Arthur W. ; Murchison, Roderick L. ; Hague, Henry J. ; 
Jolly, James; O’Halloran, George F.; Claxton Albert G. B. ; Duffett, 
Henry J. ; D’Aoust Charles R. 

Mr. Greenshields obtains first prize with 524 marks out of a possible 600, 
and Mr. Smith gets second prize with 493 marks. 

Those who have received First Rank Honours are as follows : Green- 
shields, R. A. E. ; Smith, A. W. ; Murchison, R. L. 

Second Rank Honours : Hague. Henry J. ; Jolly, J. G. ; O’Halloran, G F. 

Standing in the Several Classes. 

Roman Law. — Professor Trenholme. First, Greenshields ; second, 
Murchison and Smith, equal. 

Criminal Law. — Professor Archibald. First, Smith ; second, Duffett. 

Legal Bibliography. — Professor Lareau. F'irst, O’Halloran; second, 
Greenshields. 

Civil Procedure. — Professor Hutchinson. First, Smith ; second, O’Hal- 
loran. 



[April 1st, 



Civil Law. — Professor Robidoux . First, Greenshields and Jolly, equal ; 

second, Smith. , 

Commercial Law. — Professor Davidson. First, Greenshields ; second, 

Hague. _ 

Theory and Practice of Notarial Deeds and Instruments. Lecturer 
Hart. In this subject three students presented themselves and passed the 
examination in the following order: Fair, John; Guy, Edward, C. r. , 
Phillips, Eward W. H. 

General. 

Princeton has 62 endowed scholarships. 

The number of graduates from American colleges last year is said to be 
the largest known. — Ex. 

The students of the University of California are forming a co-operative 
society similar to those of Yale and Harvard. 

Thirteen thousand volumes were added to the library of Harvard Uni- 
versity last year. 

The University of Pennsylvania, has after much discussion, refused to 
admit ladies. 

To be admitted to a German University it is necessary to have com- 
pleted a collegiate course. 

Prof. George Ebers of Leipsic, the eminent German orientalist and 
novelist, is partially paralysed, but is still able to write and work in the 
University. 

Columbia College dates back to 1759, the money being then raised by 
lottery. It has an endowment of 85, 000, 000 and last year had 1,857 
students. — Ex. 

The feud between the Universities of Heidelberg and Konigsberg was 
settled recently by duels between three delegates from each college. 
Konigsberg won having drawn blood fourteen times. — Ex. 

The receipts of the Princeton foot-ball association were $1,915, expendi- 
1 ture $1,82;, for the past year. ( 

Harvard is to have a new physical laboratory to cost $115,000. 

Hamilton College, on consideration of an endowment of $500,000, is to 
become a Presbyterian college, subject to the Synod of New York. The 
endowment is to be collected chiefly by contributions taken in the various 
churches. 

The editorship of the Oxford Magazine has been undertaken by Mr. 
Richard Lodge, of Brasenose College, who is to be strongly supported. It 
will be published in Oxford by Mr. James Thornton, and in London by 
Mr. T. Fisher Unwin, of Holborn-viaduct. — III. London News. 

Thomas Sergeant Perry, University Lecturer on English Literature at 
Harvard College, has just written a book called “ English Literature in the 
Eighteenth Century.” 

An astronomically inclined lawyer of Pesth has bequeathed $400 to the 
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, to be offered as a prize for the best solu- 
tion of the question how the inhabitants of the earth may be enabled to 
communicate with those of the moon. Anglo-Saxon law would hardly 
sustain such a bequest. 

There are 7,060 American students in German institutions. 

Brazil has fifty-five colleges and scientific schools. — Ex. 

The glee club of Toronto College talk of presenting CEdipus. 

The high prestige of the Cambridge Wranglers seems to be in no way 
diminished, as was at first gathered from the recent changes in the examina- 
tions. Further evidence is given of this by the fact that the first two 
Wranglers of the mathematical Tripos of June last, were recently adjudged 
to have gained the ‘ Smith Prizes/ which are given to proficients in high 
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. 

President White says, as to the co-education of the sexes at Cornell, 
that in the classes men outrank women in study, and that a few will be far 
ahead, but that women have a better general average. — Harvard Herald. 

Strassburg University has a library of four hundred and twenty-four 
thousand volumes, although it was founded only ten years ago. — Western 
Ed. Journal. 

The addition to the chemical laboratory at Johns Hopkins University is 
completed. The building is a mild form of Queen Anne style — three 
stories and finished in hard wood. A bridge will connect the floor directly 
with the library of the University. In the basement are the essaying rooms. 
The first floor is given up to laboratories (accommodating ninety students), 
spectroscopic, photographic and balance rooms. On the second floor are 
lecture halls, a laboratory for advanced students, and Dr. Remsen’s private 
room, the walls of which are done in English tiles. The third floor will be 
devoted to mineralogy. The ventilation apparatus and fire-escapes of this 
building are prominent features. 

A writer in the Dalhousie Gazette calls Mathematics “ the crabbed futili- 
ties.” Altogether the “ Soliloquy on a Beach ” is a rather absurd produc- 
tion. We did not know that throu is the phonetic for through. 

At the opening exercises of the term at Princeton College, President 
McCosh addressed the students concerning desired reforms and additional 
facilities and advantages lately given the institution. Speaking of the abuses 



i38 3 -] 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



9 



arising from excessive indulgence in athletics, he said : — ‘ This is a matter 
which demands immediate attention. The fever has risen to such a height 
that the pulse-beats of it which I feel seem to me alarmingly strong and 
swift, When one walks across the campus, the conversation he overhears 
bears no relation to the science and knowledge which we came here to pur- 
sue ; but it is this game and that game, this record and that record. The 
college papers, too, which are primarily literary organs, are devoted to 
gymnastics and athletics. The Dress of the country and the public at large 
are getting tired of it and make a mockery of it. Physical culture, carried 
to a moderate extent, no sane man can censure ; but in this, as in most 
things, extremes are dangerous.’ — Globe. 

The fund to be devoted to the establishment of a suitable memorial to the 
late Dr. Pusey, Professor of Hebrew in the University of Oxford, is being 
daily augmented. The sum already subscribed amounts to over 
$80,000.00. 

Mr. Vanderbilt, the millionaire, has added $100,000 to his former dona- 
tion of $1,000,000 to the Vanderbilt University. 

Of late years there has been a large increase at the German Universities. 
From 15,113 students in 1872 the number has advanced to 23,834m 1882, 
or an increase of 57.6 per cent. Some alarm has been caused by this 
showing, as it is denied that the demand of modern life for men of edu- 
cation has increased in a like proportion. An official warning has been 
promulgated against students taking up the law as a profession, since its 
ranks are already ‘hopelessly overcrowded.’ — Globe 

The experiment in co-operation at Harvard has been, so far, very success- 
ful. Four hundred professors and students secured a store, where books, 
stationery, etc., are either kept in stock or sold by sample. The price for 
everything is 5 per cent, above wholesale cost, members only can buy, and 
on no other terms than cash down. The 5 per cent, and an additional 
charge of $2 on each member easily covers all expenses. 

The Advocate of March 2nd, sings the praises of the “ coop,” in an amusing 
poem of some length. We admire the stand which the Advocate takes with 
regard to criticising its contemporary. 

Mrs. Oliphant has just finished a life of Sheridan for the “ English Men of 
Letters ” series. 



Cornell undergraduates propose to don the cap and gown, and wear them 
in doors and out of doors. Many of the undergraduates dislike the idea. 

The yearly income of Johns Hopkins University is now $2 10,000, the | 
endowment being $3,500,000. There are 132 students in attendance.— Av. 

There are above 160 college papers published in the United States. — Ex. 

The Education Budget was brought before the School Board for London 
on 8th February last. The money to be raised amounts to over four million ; 
dollars. 



Henry John Stephen Smith, for 2 1 years Savilian Professor of Geometry 
at Oxford, one of the most distinguished mathematicians of his age, died on 
the 9th February. He was an Irishman by birth, but his life was passed 
almost wholly in England. On the occasion of the vacancy in the represen- 
tation of the University occurring by the elevation of Mr. Gathorne Hardy 
to the Peerage, Professor Smith stood on the liberal interest, but was 
defeated. Mr. Grant Duff, in a debate in the House of Commons, ranked 
Prof. Smith “ in the first rank of European mathematicians.” and styled him 
“the most distinguished scholar of the day.” 

Prof. T. C. Newton delivered this winter at University College, London, 
a course of five lectures on Greek Myths as illustrated by ancient paintings 
and monuments. To some of the lectures the public were admitted without 
payment or tickets. 

In January last Lord Aberdare opened a new Board School near Cardiff. 
The building was erected at a cost of $45,000, and will accommodate 700 
children. 



Recently, Miss Baxter and the late Dr. Baxter gave, jointly, $750,000 for 
the endowment and erection of a College in Dundee. The buildings have 
been acquired, professors appointed, and the work of the college will soon 
be begun. Miss Baxter has given another 50,000 to provide a laboratory, 
and the trustees of the late Dr. Baxter, also, $50,000 to found a chair ol 
law. 

Messrs. Macmillan and Co. intend to issue an illustrated monthly 
magazine. 

One-fifth of the graduates of Princeton have entered the ministry.— Ex. 

Mr Andrew Carnegie of New York, a native of Dunfermline, N. B. has 
civen twenty-five thousand dollars towards the fund of the London College 
of Music which has been acknowledged by the Prince of Wales with 
cordiality. 

At the recent baccalaureate examination at Calcutta University, two young 
Bengali ladies came forward as candidates and passed. I his is the first 
appearance of the ‘annex’ in the native form among the graduates of the 
university. The two ladies are named Kadambim Bose and Chandramuki 

Bose. _ , T r • 

At the last examination for the degree of Bachelor of Arts at the Lniver- 
sity of London, seventy-five per cent, of the female candidates were success- 
ful; against forty two per cent of the mate candidates. Only twenty-seven 



per cent, of the men were placed on the first division, while sixty-eight per 
cent, of the women obtained the honor.— Ex. 

London Truth contains most unflattering comments on the new Oxford 
Magazine , it says — ‘ Reprints of ’Varsity sermons, extracts from the Oxford 
Gazette , reviews, and notices, &c., are not what is required in an under- 
graduates’ journal, and unless considerable attention be made in the compila- 
tion of matter, I fancy the Oxford Magaxine will not be much longer-lived 
than its predecessors.’ 

Oxford has never been very great in the mathematical line, but it seems to 
be in a worse plight than ever just now. Five Colleges (University, Merton, 
Exeter, New, and Corpus) held a combined examination at the beginning of 
term for Mathematical Scholarships ; but the candidates were so deficient 
both in quantity and quality, that only Corpus was able to make an election 
at all. — Truth. 

A statute of Robert Burns is to be erected on the Victoria embankment, 
in London, by Mr. Crawford, a retired Glasgow merchant. The work will 
be entrusted to Sir John Steel, the sculptor of the Bums statues recently 
erected in Dundee and New York. The London effigy of the Scottish poet 
will be of bronze, the pedestal being of polished granite. The entire mouu- 
ment will stand sixteen feet high. — Notre Dame Scholastic . 

Mr. Bright was installed as Lord Rector of Glasgow University on the 
22nd, ult. 

Sir Frederick J. Bramwell opened in February last the new Technical 
College lately erected by the City and Guilds of London Institure. Work- 
men will now be able to supplement their ordinary education and receive 
technical instruction in the trades in which they are engaged. Evening as 
well as day classes will be held in the new buildings. 

Nine American colleges have adopted the Oxford cap. 

$2, 573. 5° has already been subscribed at Harvard for the Crew. The 
Treasurer estimates that $2000 more will be needed in order to cover 
expenses. 

Mr. Charles McDonald, LL.D., formerly Professor of Greek in Queen’s 
College, Belfast, died on the 25th February. 

Forty students of the St. Petersburg University have been arrested for 
commenting unfavourably upon the Tolstoi administration. 

Councillor James Jones, and Mr. T. D. Llewellyn, of Swansea, have 
announced their intention of giving a subscription of $5,000 each towards 
the fund being raised there for the proposed College for South Wales. 

Yale’s Y.M.C.A. has two hundred members. 

The senior class at Columbia have passed a resolution that “ The co- 
education of the sexes is undesirable from an educational, as well as from a 
moral standpoint, and that its introduction would be a fatal blow to the 
future welfare and prosperity of the institution.” 

It is stated that 147 out of 250 men at Williams College are Christians. 

There has been a remarkable fatality among the students of Michigan 
University the past month. 

Mr. A. E. Kent, ’53, of Chicago has given $60,000 to Yale, for the erection 
of a new chemical laboratory. 

Prof. Huxley, in distributing the prizes at the Liverpool Institute, spoke 
on scientific education. He said that even an elementary education in 
science should only be taught by those who thoroughly understood science 
themselves, and condemned the system which used to prevail of teaching 
grammar as if it were a mere game of chess or draughts. He urged the 
necessity of an Englishman knowing more languages than his own, espe- 
cially Latin and German. 

The female students of Bedford College had unprecedented success at 
the recent examination at the London University. All the thirteen students 
that went up lor the intermediate examination in arts and science, passed 
either in the first or second class ; seven of these went up for honors, and 
all of them passed, two taking prizes in German and French — the only 
prizes awarded to women : and the only woman who took honors in 
organic chemistry was a student of this college. — A 7 . Y. Tribune. 

Queen’s College is going to have a University Banquet in addition to the 
usual conversazione this year. It is to take place after the Convocation, 
and is in honour of Chancellor Fleming. The number of studenrs this 
year is as follows : Arts 19 1, Theology 20, Laws 5. Total 162, the largest 
number ever reached. 

The Dalhousie Gazette of Feb. 23rd, was not as interesting as usual. 
The article on disciplinary culture was very shallow, the part treating of 
I mathematics being especially poor. The writer does not exhibit even an 
ordinary acquaintance with the practical applications of the different de- 
partments of education. 

After a long absence the Fredericton University . \ font hi y has put in an 
appearance. We were beginning to be afraid that our contemporary had 
already become defunct, an event which whould have been full of evil 
omen for us who made our last debut in company with it. The February 
number is very creditable, the “ Brooklet’s Lament ” being rather pretty. 
It has also a neat paper on Dickens and Thackeray. 

The Dalhousie Gazette complains of not receiving its exchanges regularly. 



10 



McGILL UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[April ist, 



As far as we are concerned the fault must be laid entirely on the post- 
office. 

We see by the ’ Varsity that at the late meeting of the Toronto University 
Football Club the advisability of continuing the annual match with us was 
discussed. Most of the speakers seemed to be of opinion that the match 
ought to be kept up, the only obstacle being the expense. We on our 
part sincerely hope that the committee will see fit to accept our challenge, 
as this is the only inter-University contest which we have, and is looked 
forward to by us as one of the principal events of the season. 

The King's College Record is rather interesting but it should not devote 
so much space to stories. 

We have received the first number of the Philomath , a small sheet 
hailing from Ottawa. The first attempt is decidedly poor. We advise the 
editors to charge a little more, and bring out a neater paper. 

A strum Alberti is a rather neat paper but has not much solid reading 
matter. If it can manage to weather through we think it will improve with 
time. m 

A rival to the Presbyterian College Journal has appeared in the shape of 
the Knox College Monthly , the receipt of the second number of which we 
have to acknowledge. This new aspirant can in no sense be classed as an 
ordinary College paper, being in fact a religious periodical. We of course 
have nothing to do with the religious views propounded therein, but on 
independent grounds we must say that the article on Popular Amusements 
enunciates some of the most narrow-minded opinions we have seen for a 
long time. 

The Sunbeam for February is not very interesting to outsiders. We thank 
Frank M. for her initials. 

Our Methodist contemporary, Acta Victorian a, is managed by twelve 
editors ; including an editor-in-chief, associate, local and literary editors ; 
two Business Managers, a Chairman and Secretary of Board, etc. The 
present number is largely, we may say almost entirely taken up with Dr. 
Coleman’s Inaugural Address. It complains of the ’ Varsity for mixing its 
jokes with the vile hash of their u Five O’Clock Tea.” 

The St. Marys College Journal was one of our most regular exchanges 
during the past year. It has now changed its name to St. Mary's Sentinel , 
and has undergone considerable improvements. The latter were much 
needed. The improvement which the first number of the Sentinel exhibits 
is not confined to the cover, but is noticeable throughout. 

We have received the Undergraduate for the first time. It is largely 
taken up with personals, and does not contain very much original matter. 

We have received the following : — The Dalhousie Gazette (3), L'Etin- 
celle , 'Varsity (4), The Acadia Athenaeum , St. Mary's College Journal , 
Fredericton University Monthly , Queen's College Journal, Harvard 
Advocate (2), The Argosy, Knox College Monthly , The Sunbeam, Acta 
Victor iana, Wollestook Gazette , King's College Record, The Dar mouth, 
Rouge et Noir, Astrum Alberti, The Philomath, The Undergraduate, 
Trinity Tablet, Morrin College Review, St. Mary's Sentinel , Presbyterian 
College Journal . 



Between the lectures. 

An Irish editor says he can see no. earthly reason why women should not 
be allowed to become medical men. — Ex. 

“Are you a Judge of Reprobates?” asked Mrs. Partington, as she 
walked into an office of a Judge of Probate. “ I am a Judge of Probate.” 
was the reply. “ Well, that’s it, I expect,” quoth the old lady. “ You see 
my father died detested, and he left several little infidels, and I want to be 
their executioner.” 

Prof, in Physiology Class. — “ Which is the most delicate of the senses?” 
Boy. — “ The sense of touch.” Prof. — “ Give the class an example.” Boy. — 
“ My chum here can feel his mustache, but no one can see it.” 

A man undertook to paint the destruction of Pharaoh’s host in the Red 
Sea on one of the walls of a room. After a very short time he surprised 
his employer by asking him to come and view the finished picture. On 
going to inspect it he found the walls covered with red paint. “ Where are 
the children of Israel?” he asked. “Gone over,” answered the painter. 
“Where is Pharaoh’s host?” he next inquired. “All drowned,” said the 
painter. 

Logic. — “ The proper study of mankind is man,” and the term man in- 
cludes woman. But every study should be ardently embraced. Therefore, 
all students should ardently embrace, etc. — Q. E. D. 

They call it a case of drunkenness in Chicago when a pedestrian tries to 
set his watch by a thermometer. 

Of all countries Ireland may justly claim to be the land of Pat- riots. We 
think it must be due to the fact that it is above all others, truly, Ire-land. — 
The Dartmouth. 

“ John,” said the pious grocer, “ have you sanded the sugar ?” “ Yes, 

sir.” “Larded the butter?” “Yes, sir.” “ Floured the ginger ?" “Yes, 
sir.” “ Then come in to prayers.” 



It was a Chaddock boy who, believing in translations as free as the genius 
of our country, translated dux fernina facti : “ the fact is, woman is a 
duck.” — Con. 

A Senior (reciting psychology outside) — “The nullification of the ap- 
parent dualism of things can be prognosticated by the sentient susceptibil- 
ities appertaining to the convergent lines of evident damfoolishness.” — • 
Bowdoin Orient . 

At the conclusion of a scientific lecture lately delivered in this city, one 
of the audience arose and thanked the lecturer in a neat speech. Two 
ladies, of the higher education class, discussing the latter gentleman’s per- 
formance were overheard to remark that they considered it “ very good 
for an expectoration.” They meant extempore. 

(Scene .—The home oj a Methodist minister. Enter the son, a little over.) 
Rev. D. D. (sorrowfully) — What! William, drunk again! Son — {Hie) 
Never mind (hie), father, so am I. Ex. 

Imagine the chagrin ot the Primary class, in Medicine, at finding, but a 
few weeks since, that they had so long possessed a member, unappreciated 
— a biped of orthodox matter, composed of columnense cells with hairs on. 
Wil — sons of men never out-grow such cilise — ness. 

There does not exist, after all, such an outrageous diversity, between 
Medicals and Divinity men, there is that little all in favor of the former, 
who will practise, while the latter preach. 

Pepys. 

We give below a chapter of a Sporting Novel, which has been proved to 
be a genuine production of Samuel Pepys, Esq. The moment this fragment 
first appeared in print the attention of Europe was concentrated upon it, 
and a German professor of the highest eminence was enabled, after gather- 
ing with almost superhuman perseverance a mass of information upon the 
subject, to declare upon incontestable evidence, that it was authentic, as 
was also the endorsement in Mr. Pepys’s handwriting. We may mention 
that we ourselves paid a visit (at his especial request) to this’ distinguished 
professor (who, with the natural modesty of his race, shrinks from the honours 
that would certainly be showered down upon him were his name to be pub- 
lished in these pages), and with our own eyes (assisted by a “ double million 
gas magnifier,” kindly lent for the occasion by Mr. Weller, junior,) inspected 
the ancient MSS. collected by him, and proved that his statements were on 
all points most accurate and trustworthy. 

The subject of the Novel, and the acquaintance therein displayed by the 
writer with the field sports of British India, would appear to give some 
colour of truth to the rumour which at one time prevailed, that the author 
was for a considerable period Governor General of that vast dependency. 

[Endorsed in Mr. Pepys’s handwriting. “ Returned from y e office of y c 
Fylde newspaper, with y e comp 15 and thanks of y c Editor. S. P.”] 

The Rifle in the Deccan. 

By the Author of “Life in the Red Sea,” “ The^ Prairie and the: 

Pampas,” etc. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

In this terrible predicament, knowing that if I advanced one step further, 
the infuriated female elephant would crush me to death with her powerful 
tusks ; and if I receded but a yard, I should in all likelihood fall a prey to 
the wounded tiger, that with fearful roar was straining every nerve to reach 
me — I remained for some moments (to me they seemed hours) in a state of 
frightful suspense. My double-barrelled rifle was loaded with two of Black 
Buck's deadly shells, but in passing through the swamp, the bag in which 
I kept my caps had become so thoroughly saturated with water, that I dared 
not risk a miss-fire with the chance of being discovered by the elephant. 
As I knew that it would be some time before the syce could convey the in- 
telligence of my critical state to the Major, I was about to relieve the mono- 
tony of my position by smoking a pipe of Bacon’s best shag, when, in feel- 
ing for my tobacco-pouch, I found a few dry caps at the bottom of the 
pocket. To place two of them on the nipples was the work of a moment, 
and taking deliberate aim, I brought the elephant down by a well-directed 
shot in the root of the tail. As soon as I perceived the effect of my fire, I 
turned round, and sent the other shell through the head of the tiger, which 
stretched him lifeless on the grass. Fearing that if the natives discovered 
the dead body of the monster they would, after their fashion, cut off his 
long and silky whiskers, and so spoil the skin, I took out my clasp-knife, 
and commenced skinning the brute. It was lucky however, that I had re- 
loaded my rifle ; for just as I had ended my task, and was packing the 
skin in my carpet-bag, an enormous rhinoceros passed at a swinging trot 
in the direction of the plain. Hastily leaving the half-packed skin, I followed 
in its wake, and perceived at once by the animal’s spoor, that it was a male 
of the largest size. The pace at which he was going gave me no chance of 
coming up within shot, if he went any distance. I hoped however that he 
would stop at a broad nullah some thirty miles off, a place much frequented 
by these beasts. 

Running along at some twelve miles an hour, I managed to keep him in 



