Vol. XIII 



No.' 2 







20 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



Greenshields, Guerin & Greenshields, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Attorneys, Solicitors, &c,, 

Chambers: Exchange Bank Building, 

1728 NOTRE DAME STREET, - - MONTREAL 

R. A, E- Greenshields. 



J. N. Greenshields. 



Edmond Guerin. 



Antiseptic Materials, Bandages, Etc., 

MANUFACTURED AND IMPORTED BY 

W. A. DYER & CO., 
Pharmaceutical & Dispensing demists, 

14 & 16 Phillips Square, Cor. St. Catherine St.. 



ROBERTSON, FLEET k FALCONER, 

ADVOCATES, 

157 ST. TAAMIIES STREET, 
MONTREAL. 

ATWATER & MACKIE, 

Advocates, Barristers, Commissioners, k, 

OLD STANDARD BUILDING, 

151 St. James St., Montreal. 



WIACMASTER, HUTCHINSON, WEIR & IMENNAN, 

ADVOCATES, 

BARRISTERS, SOLICITORS, &c., 



MONTREAL. 

Bandages, Roller, Muslin, 

Bandages, Cotton, 

Bandages. Absorbent, 

Bandages, Antiseptic Gauze, 

Bandages, Plaster Paris. 
All Sizes. 

Catgut, Assorted. 

Cotton Wool, Absorbent, 

Cotton Wool, Borated, 

Cotton Wool, Salicylated, 

Cotton wool, Sublimated. 

Drainage Tubes, Rubber and Bone. 

Gauze, Absorbent, 

Gauze, Borated, 

Gauze, Carbolized, 

Gauze, Eucalyptol. 

Gauze, Iodoform, 

Gauze, Naphthalin, 

Gauze, Salicylated. 

Gutta Percha Tissue, Inhalers, Coghill; Inhalers, Celluloid, 

Auronasal. 

Jute, Plain Bleached, 

Jute, Absorbent, 

Jute, Carbolized, 

Jute, Naphthalin. 

Lint, Plain and Borated; McIntosh Cloth, Oakum Tar- 
red, Peat, Silk, White on Reels ; Silk, Iron Dyed, all Sizes; 
Sponges, Antiseptic- Sponges, Gamgee’s Plain; Sponges, 
Gamgee’s Eucalyptol, Sanitary Towels, Ladies'. 



HEADQUARTE RS 



175 St. James St., Montreal, 



DONALD MACMASTER, Q.C. 
M. HUTCHINSON, B.C L. 



R. S. WEIR, B.C.L. 

F. S. MCLENNAN, B.C.L. 




— FOR — 

and College Text Books ! 



CHAPLEAU, HALL, NICOLLS & BROWN, 

ADVOCATES, 

Barristers, Commissioners, &c., 

147 St. James St., Montreal. 

Hon. J. A. CHAPLEAU, Q.C., M.P. ARMINE D. NICOLLS 

JOHN S. HALL, Jr. ALBERT. J BROWN. 





Fine Custom Tailors. 



DRYSDALE’S 

232 st. j\a_:m::es st 



.nnim.ir works, rooks used ijv art course 

SCIENCE TEXT BOOKS , 

THE VARIOUS THEOLOGICAL HOOKS. 

Fnll Assortment in Stock and Supplied at Rock Bottom Prices 

STUDENTS’ NOTE BOOKS, 

Scribbling Books, See., Sec., 

^ BEST YALU K XIV T <> YVIV s . - 

Stylographic Pens, Anti-Stylo Pens and Students’ 
Supplies a Specialty. 



DISCOUNT FOR REDUCTION. 

53 BEAYER HALL HILL. 



W. DRYSDALE & CO., 

333 St. James Street, 

ALSO 

Branch Store 1423 St. Catherine St. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



21 



NOW READY ! 

A New Book in Shorthand: 

“The Idylls of the King.” 

By ALFRED LORD TENNYSON. 

An Engraved Shorthand Version of the above by Arthur G. 
Doughty, beautifully Illustrated, is now completed. Printed 
in red and black, on vellum paper. Cloth and leather binding. 

All communications and orders to be addressed to 

A. C. TROTTER, 

IE?- O- IBcoc IL r 7 , 3' i i, - ^Eozvtrea,l- 

TUTORING. 

MR. W. B. T. MACAULAY, 

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY AND HIGH SCHOOL, MONTREAL. 

Students fitted for Matriculation into all Faculties of the 
University and for other Examinations. 

37 McGill College Avenue. 

ARMSTRONG l RADFORD, 

Haberdashers and Ontfltlers, 

ALWAYS IN POSSESSION OF 

Latest Novelties and conceits in Gentle - 
men's Wear. 

2246 ST. CATHERINE STREET, (Opposite Victoria St. ) 

TELEPHONE No. 4574. 

Agents for 

Canada Steam Laundry and Dye Works, 

1494 ST. CATHERINE STREET. 
Special attention paid to Students’ orders; 



RING UP ! BELL TELEPHONE No. 1237 

FEDERAL “ “ 693, 

For Prices of Photographs 

OR TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENTS. 

Exceptionally Good Rate to Students, and none but the 
Finest Work sent out from our Studios. 

Photos, of Professors on Sale ! 

SUMMERHAYES & W ALFORD, 

1 BLEURY STREET. 



= ) BUY YOtFR (== 

Boots and Shoes, 

Rubbers, Overshoes and Moccasins 

A. M. FEATHERSTON’S 

SHOE SXORJB-fiL 



UP TOWN : QUEEN’S HALL BLOCK, 

2243 St. Catherine St., cor. Victoria St., 

DOWN TOWN : 

1 St. Lawrence Main St., cor. of Craig St. 



The West End 

HAIR -DRESSING AND HAIR - CUTTING 

AND 

Shampooning Establishment, 

SAMUEL TARRANTE 

From England, 

2305 & 2307 St. Catherine St, 



The Place for all the Stndents to go for a Good Hair-Cut, &c. 




WM. MURRAY, 



MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER OF 



ffitxe | fnvs awtt 

NO. 2202 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

(Opposite the English Cathedral,) 

MONTREAL. 

jj.B. — L iberal Discount to Students. 



HUGH ROSS, 

[Successor to J. D. Anderson], 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

206 St. James St., Montreal, 

Has this season on hand a beautiful Stock of Goods of all kinds, 
such as this house has always been famed for. 



Clerical, Advocates' and Academical Gowns. 
MILITARY and HIGHLAND COSTUMES a SPECIALTY. 

Inspection Invited. 



22 UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



THE MOST CONVENIENTLY SITUATED 

Studio 

FOR McGILL COLLEGE, 

IS THAT OF 

CUMIWIIMG & BREWIS 

117 and 119 Mansfield St. 

SPECIAL BATES TO STUDENTS. 

Telephone 4020. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

“ Our Little Favorite,” One dollar per doz. 

Established 1859* 

Henbt 13 - 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST, 

ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STREET, 

(CORNER LA GA U CHETIERE, ) 

Montreal. 

The Dispensing of Physicians’ Prescriptions a Specialty. 
Physicians, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Chemical Lecturers sup- 
plied with Genuine Drugs and Pure Chemicals at Wholesale prices. 

N.B.— Observe New Address. 

The Modem Turkish or Roman Ball, 

140 ST. MONIQUE ST., foot of McGill College Ave. 

LARGE AND COMPLETE. 

Purifies the Blood ! Secures Perfect Cleanliness ! 
A Luxury without a Sting ! 

Gentlemen received from 6 to 8 a.m., 2 to 9 p.m. 

Ladies, “ “ 10 to 12 noon. 

D. B. A. MacBEAN, M.D. 
Doctors’ and Students’ Headquarters 

— FOR — 

S'EEF E HAVANA CIGARS, 

Spiller & Co.’s (London, E.) Du Khedive Extra Fine 
CIGARETTES. 

Lowe & Co.’s THOMPSON PIPES and others. 

Largest and most Complete Stock of CANES in the City. VIRGINIA 
and TURKISH TOBACCOS. 

E. A. GpERTH, 

2235 St. Catherine Street, Queen's Block. 



SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 
and: CHEMICAL APPARATUS. 



& fSill gtodk don£tki)tly ov\ Hki^d, Imported 
f)fredt from tRe Lekding ]vlkr|tifkdttfre:t$ 
of tRe Wcrfld. 

AN INSPECTION INVITED. 



LYMAN, SONS & CO., 

384 ST. PAUL STREET. 

ROBERT REID, 

Montreal Marble and Granite Works, 

Cor. ST. CATHERINE AND ALEXANDER. 



Mounmental & Cemetery fork of every description. 

WOOD MANTLE-TILES FOR FIRE-PLACES AND FLOORING, 

AND ALL KINDS OF 

Fire-Place Furniture. 



Banjos S Guitars. 

Sole agent for the celebrated 

“ BRUNO ” GUITAR 

AND 

Dobson “ Victor ” Banjo. 

Guitars with Patent Head 
from $5 to $50 each. 
Banjos with latest im- 
provements 

from $7.50 to $50 each. 

Best Russian Gut Strings, 

Banjo Heads Replaced 

AND 

Musical Instruments of every 
description repaired . 

GEORGE J. SHEPPARD 
2282 St. Catherine St. 

N.B. — Special discount to 

Students. 



D. NIGHTINGALE, 

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 

Pool & Billiard Tallies, & Billiard Supplies, 

1742 NOTRE DAME ST., MONTREAL, Canada. 

AST Improved Billiard Cushions. 





UNIVERSITY GAZETTE 

Vol. XIII.] McGILL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, DECEMBER 5th, 1889. [No. 2. 




BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

J. F. Mackie, B.A., B.C.L., President. 

J. A. Elliott, Arts '90, Vice-President. 

C. A. Barnard, Law *89, Scc.-Trcas. 

C. F. Martin, B.A., Med. ’91. 

Peers Davidson, Arts ’90. 

\V. Dixon, B.A. 

EDITORS. 

J. A. MacPiiail, B.A., Editor-in-Chief. 

Blanche B. Evans, B.A. F. W. Hibbard, Law ’91. 

S. W. Mack, Arts ’90. A. H. Hawkins, Science ’90. 

D. B. Holden, Med. ’91. 

Maud Abbott, ’90, Editor for Ladies* Department. 
Arthur Weir, B.A. Sc., Corresponding Editor. 

The University Gazette is published fortnightly during 
the College Session. 

Rejected communications will not be returned, to which rule 
no exception can be made. The name of the writer must 
always accompany a communication. 

Published by The University Gazette Co., P. O. Box 
1290, Montreal, and printed by The Burland Lith. Co., 9 
Bleury Street. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Editorials 23-25 

Contributions 26-27 

Poetry 26, 33, 34 

McGill News 27-29 

Societies 29-32 

Personals 32 

Correspondence 33 

Sporting 34-36 

Exchanges 36 

Between the Lectures 36 



NOTICE ! 

The Animal Meeting of the Share- 
holders of “The University Gazette ” 
will be held TO-NIGHT, (Thursday) 
in the Arts’ Reading Room, at 7.30 
o’clock. All those are invited to at- 
tend who are disposed to show an 
interest in the College Paper. At this 
Meeting the New Board of Editors and 
Directors will he appointed. The An- 
nual Statement will be submitted and 
published in the Third Issue, which will 
appear before the Christmas holidays* 



Editorials. 



“ THE UNIVERSITY GAZETTE.” 

Though this is the second number of The Univer- 
sity Gazette issued this session, the present number 
is the first since the new boards of Directors and 
Editors were appointed. We take up the work with 
much hopefulness, for The Gazette now occupies a 
better position, financially, than ever before, and is 
owned and controlled by ourselves. Every student 
has a personal interest in his college paper. Not 
only should he possess such an interest, that interest 
already exists. It is shown in various ways — in in- 
creased subscriptions, in the purchase of stock, and, 
best of all, by an abundant supply of those items 
which alone can make a college paper successful. 
Such a result has not been accomplished without 
labour, for, though The Gazette had no active oppo- 
sition, it had much indifference to contend with. 
But an interest has been awakened, it is fair to say, 
among the Medical students, which has extended to 
the other Faculties. They have purchased shares 
freely, and if they hold a large power, it is only be- 
cause the other Faculties have not yet chosen to ex- 
ercise the same privilege. Statements have been 
made reflecting on the financial standing of The 
Gazette, and a word of warning may not be amiss. 
We invite an inspection of our position, and are 
bound to maintain our credit by the means which any 
other corporation adopts. We are satisfied that The 
Gazette is organized in accordance with strict busi- 
ness principles, and that it will exist as long as the 
University, if conducted by the students upon the 
present basis. Shares are now held in all the Facul- 
ties, and from each the representative Editors and 
Directors are appointed. If any student has a com- 
plaint to make, let it be made to the representative 
of his Faculty, and he has a ready means for its 
remedy ; if he still chooses to murmur, then we do 
not ask his support, as The Gazette, stiong in the 
minds of the whole body of the Undergraduates, does 
not require any unwilling assistance. The Gazette 
is published by the students, for the students, as a 
glance at its management will show, and so long as 
it continues on this basis, it will have that abundant 
support which it now enjoys. 



24 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



CANADIAN HISTORY. 

Readers of The Gazette will remember the petition 
referring to this subject, signed by many students 
and graduates, which was brought before the Faculty 
at the end of last session. We are glad to say that 
Canadian History has at length been placed upon the 
curriculum of studies at McGill. It is not compul- 
sory, it is not even mentioned in the calendar. Still 
we have it, and for that we are thankful. 

In the Intermediate Examination, up to the pre- 
sent time, a paper on British History has been re- 
quired. Now, the student may choose, instead of 
this, British History to the end of Henry VII., with 
Canadian History. The amount of work in both sec- 
tions is fairly equal ; but difficulty has arisen in the 
selection of a text-book for the latter subject. Works 
like that of Parkman or Kingsford are too detailed 
and comprehensive, and their perusual would occupy 
too much time, to render their recommendation for 
the Intermediate advisable, and primers, of which 
there are several, are beneath the dignity of a Uni- 
versity. Two books have been suggested — the one, 
MacMullen’s History of Canada, published in 1882, 
and containing 500 pages. The tone of this is some- 
what prejudicial, and the style not particularly 
finished. The other, with about the same number of 
pages, but a much later publication, brings the reader 
up to Lord Lome’s administration. It is by Dr. 
Withrow, of Toronto. These are both to be found in 
the Library. 

It is sincerely hoped that those students, at least, 
who signed the petition, will establish a precedent 
for future years, by reading for the examination in 
question. To those who have studied Canadian His- 
tory before, the revision will prove a facile and de- 
lightful task. To those who have not — and there is 
good reason to believe that even among our own 

countrymen this class is not wanting at McGill a 

new and fascinating world of romance will be un- 
folded. 

The second year is not alone to benefit by the 
change. A pleasant surprise was in store for those 
senior students who were fortunate enough to attend 
Prof. Moyse’s Universal History; for the first six 
lectures of the course were devoted to Canadian de- 
velopment. 

Ihere will be little difficulty in eventually doing 
away with the option, and having Canadian History 
made compulsory, as are Greek, Roman, and English. 
McGill is, by degrees, waking to a sense of her respon- 
sibility as a Canadian University. We notice, espe- 
cially in the students’ societies, an increase of interest 
in national themes. The feeling will undoubtedly 



grow, and we look for the day when the spirit of 
Montreal’s University shall be so essentially Canadian 
that future generations, when speaking of Canada’s 
most energetic workers and purest patriots, will be 
able to add — “They were McGill men, you know.” 



REDUCED RATES. 

Last year, through the reduced railway fares granted 
by the G.T.R. and the C.P.R., every student was en- 
abled to spend the Christmas vacation at home or 
with friends. This year, the railway authorities, it 
appears, will not allow any special reduction. 

The greater number of McGill’s students, like 
those of all Universities, are not residents of the city 
in which the University is situated. For instance, in 
the Medical Faculty, the homes of seventy-five per 
cent, of the students are not in Montreal, and of this 
sixty per cent, come from Ontario. In Arts twenty- 
three, and in Applied Science eighteen per cent, are 
from Ontario. Again, in the affiliated Theological 
Colleges, over half of the students are residents of 
Ontario. 

Whether or not the railway authorities have care- 
fully considered this matter, or have given it only a 
casual glance, we cannot say. But it is certain that, 
reduction of rates means we go home, and no reduc- 
tion means we do not go home. 



HOCKEY. 

The first flurry of snow has now fallen, and as the 
mercury is getting down around freezing point, we 
think the time to talk up hockey has come around 
again. e hope that the Hockey Club will rival the 
lootball, Tennis and Cricket Clubs, in trying to bring 
the name of McGill back to the lofty place it once 
occupied. 

It is rather an old story now, how McGill once held 
the Hockey Championship ; but is nevertheless true, 
and we have the silver cup, in the library, to prove it. 

To judge from the meeting the other night pros- 
pects for the coming season look bright. There was an 
attendance of between forty and fifty, whilst last year 
the officers had literally to drag men from the Pres- 
byterian College and the dissecting room to make up 
a quorum. 

We hope the interest will not die out, but keep on 
the increase until practices begin. The loss of the 
Crystal Rink will prove a serious blow, yet we are not 
the only club affected by this. In fact, three out of 
the four first-class clubs are in the same trouble. 

Lastly, it is all very well to beat the Lachine club, 
and teach the villagers how a victory should be cele- 
brated. But let the club aspire to something higher. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



25 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 

Advertising is a legitimate source of revenue for 
any publication. There is a substantial benefit on 
both sides. In this issue it will be seen that many 
of our patrons remain with us still, and many new 
names are added to our list. It is a matter of some 
pride that the best business houses, and only the best, 
have chosen The University Gazette a3 a medium 
through which to reach the public. Every student 
has a personal interest in TnE Gazette, and it is only 
a matter of common honesty that he should deal with 
those who deal with him. We can assure our adver- 
tisers that such a sentiment prevails, and that the 
students, collectively and personally, feel themselves 
bound to make a return for so generous a patronage 
of their college paper. We publish the list of adver- 
tisers elsewhere, and will continue to do so in every 
issue, to remind students who are their friends, and 
which are the houses that can best meet their needs. 



It is a matter of doubt if the Monday grinds are as 
productive of good as one could wish. In the course 
of their lectures the professors consider every ques- 
tion in detail and leave nothing untouched, so that 
the diligent student may have in his mind or note 
book everything essential to the case. The session is 
short, the lectures are valuable, and it might be that 
the hour would be better spent if the professors would 
devote it to still further amplifying their subject. 
The students learn nothing in the. grinds which they 
should not know already, and those who do not know 
it have a ready remedy in their books. The teachers 
can have little pleasure in grinding down old matter, 
and the students could easily master the subject with 
a little added energy on their own part. 



“ Grad ” writes to say that the “ Glee Club” is no 
new institution, and that there was a flourishing musi- 
cal society in the old days that did excellent work. 
It does us younger ones good to be reminded that we 
do not monopolize all the virtue that ever was extant. 



McGill University has a new Faculty — that of 
Veterinary Medicine — and to it The Gazette, in 
common with all students, extends a warm welcome. 
It has already won credit for itself, and that honour 
will now be shed upon Our University. As soon as 
appointed, we will welcome the Faculty editor with 
all the cordiality we possess. 



The success of the Medical dinner and the success 
of The Gazette point to this, that whatever the stu- 
dents of Medicine take hold of is bound to succeed. 
If they would only ally themselves with the other 
Faculties in their merry-making, and organize a Uni- 
versity Banquet, it would be “a very fine sight,” as 
the Dean of the Faculty of Arts remarked some years 
ago. 

There is a movement on foot in Medicine to place 
a marble slab in the hall as a mark of respect to the 
late Dean, Dr. Howard. The students are only wait- 
ing for the Faculty to grant wall space, to begin a 
vigorous canvass of all four years. And, to judge from 
the unanimous vote in favor of the project, at the 
general meeting, there will be little difficulty in ob- 
taining the necessary funds. 

For third year men in Medicine the daily fare is 
five lectures a-day with two hours’ hospital work. 
The lecture in Jurisprudence is the only one given 
at the College for them on Wednesday afternoon, 
and if it could be squeezed in at some other time it 
would probably not kill the boys, and to have an 
afternoon free, from three o’clock, would be looked 
upon as a special dispensation of Providence. 



There is scarcely a lecture one hears in which there 
is net some truth deeper than the subject in hand, 
and of wider application than bare scientific facts. 
That was a noble rebuke administered by one of the 
oldest Professors — “ If you are called to this business, 
you are called by your Maker, and it is to Him you 
are responsible for the way you study and practice 
medicine.” And again — “ What is the use of bottling 
up your information. Let your neighbor know what 
you have observed, for the benefit of humanity.” 

Here is a sum in arithmetic. A share in The Uni- 
versity Gazette costs five dollars, and ensures to 
the holder a copy of every issue for the rest of his 
natural days. The annual subscription is one dollar. 
Calculate the profit to each student from the purchase 
of a share, and supposing every student to be a holder, 
how many subscribers will there be in ten years. 

To those of us who have worked almost alone for 
The Gazette in past times, it is very refreshing to 
see the letter board bedecked with little notes con- 
taining the items, that no one alone, be he ever so 
industrious, can gather. Some of the best things in 
the present number have been obtained from the 
friends that are everywhere springing up. 



26 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Poetry. 



THE LANDLADY'S DAUGHTER. 

(Translated from Uhland.) 

Three students over the Rhine have hied: 

To the Inn of a Hostess they turn aside. 

“ Say, Hostess, hast thou good beer and wine. 

And where is that lovely daughter of thine ? " 

“ My wine and ale are both bright and clear ; 

My daughter lies shrouded upon her bier.” 

Softly they entered her sleeping-room, 

And there she lay in the coffin's gloom. 

The First, he lifted the maiden's veil, 

And sadly gazed on her features pale. 

" Would thou wert living, 0 fairest maid I 
I would love thee dearly, henceforth," he said. 

The Second covered her face again, 

And turned aside to shed tears like rain. 

“ Ah, me ! thou art lying upon thy bier, 

Thou, whom I cherished for many a year." 

The Third uplifted once more the veil, 

And kissed the maid on her lips so pale: 

“ I love thee now, as I loved before — 

I will love thee fondly for evermore 1 " 

Montreal. Geo. Murray. 



Contributions. 



SCIENCE PLUS PLEASURE. 

The “ grave and reverend seniors” of the Donalda 
Department have been enjoying a series of delightful 
geological excursions this fall, but have not thought 
it well to bore the readers of The Gazette with 're- 
ports of all ; the one to Lachute, however, was so 
pleasant to them, a few words about it may be agree- 
able to others. 

The chorus of oh’s ! which greeted the professor’s 
announcement, that the members of the class must 
meet at the Dalhousie Station at 8.50 a.m., was 
smiled upon in a superior way by the learned gentle- 
man, who, no doubt, was amused to think any hour 
seemed early to those professing to be embryonic 
scientists. The next morning a group of girls, in- 
tending to be the first on the spot, found another 
group looking tired but triumphant. One after an- 
other the eight arrived and took their seats, anxiously 
discussing the probability of being a flock without a 
shepherd, though not defenceless ; but, at the last 
moment, appeared the professor, still superior, for is 
not he who comes too early as much a thief of time 
as he who comes too late 1 

In spite of the dignity of the party and the formid- 
able display of hammers, a friend ventured some jokes 
about “ pretty stone-breakers,” “a new party of quarry- 
men,” etc. These remarks were treated with proper 
contempt ; and, now, all united in showing scientific 
zeal by overwhelming questions about rock exposure, 
dips, and strikes. Some confessed, in an apologetic 
manner, to an artistic appreciation of the autumn 
landscape ; they begged to be excused, hoping, at the 
end of the session, not to be so trivial and un- 
scientific. 

Finally, without accident, all arrived at Lachute • 
and, going to the hotel, deposited umbrellas, water- 
proofs, and luncheons — the latter a goodly pile, indi- 



cating a fine appetite in scientific woman. Then th e 
girls issued forth with mien which boded ill to th e 
rocks around, and spent the morning enthusiastically 
trying the strength of their hammers upon stones of 
every hue ; as yet, colour was made the only basis of 
classification. We refrain from quoting the familiar 
lines from the “ Princess.” 

The pearls of wisdom, which dropped from the lips 
of the grave leader, were eagerly gathered by his 
followers, until each had a long string with which to 
deck herself ; and scoffers, hereafter, will be silenced 
by discourse about gneisses, limestone bands, calci- 
ferous formations, synclines, anticlines, etc., etc. 
When the dinner-hour arrived, a realization of the 
depth of the teacher’s learning, and the still greater 
depth of the pupils’ ignorance, had exercised a quiet- 
ing effect, almost painful ; but the professor, perceiv- 
ing the depression, made a mild joke about gneiss 
pepper,” which at once reduced him to the level of a 
common mortal, and so restored the equanimity of all 
that almost as marked an impression was made upon 
the various dishes provided as had already been made 
upon the rocks. 

The previous Saturday afternoon, the Fourth Year 
men had visited a paper factory, but the girls, with 
daring originality worthy the Donalda Department, 
decided upon a drive to St. Andrews. It would re- 
quire the pen of a Ruskin to describe that drive, so 
we leave the wonders of the hills and valleys, woods 
and rivers, to the imagination of the reader. Arriv- 
ing at St. Andrews, a critical study was made of the 
architecture of the place, and an impromptu lesson 
given upon anticlines. Our geologists, walking 
through the principal street, saw, dawning upon their 
astonished gaze, the familiar face of Dr. Harrington, 
who seemed, at first, too much surprised to greet 
them; but, recovering, he invited the party, in his 
usual cordial manner, into his house. After a short 
call, the girls continued their walk, and at four seated 
themselves in the express waggon and pony-carriage 
to return to Lachute. The horses showed a spirit of 
emulation worthy those they were serving. Feeble 
strains, floating at intervals upon the breeze, showed 
the Glee Club was represented, though not, upon this 
occasion, appreciated. 

I he drive over, the luncheons before mentioned 
were quickly disposed of, a rush was made for the 
station, and at nine all were safe home, declaring a 
pleasanter day had never been spent. 

C. T. 



THE ART OF MUSIC. 

In the course of an article on music, Mr. Buck 
says : — 

Music has made such gigantic strides of late years 
as to have outrun her sister arts, and make herself felt 
as a medium of constantly growing influence and 
subtle power in working out modern civilization. 

In mediaeval times, the Greeks, more markedly, 
cultivated the art, adapting the Arabic and other so- 
called barbaric melodies, enhancing them by a har- 
momc setting for both voices and instruments. The 
late oir Frederick Gore Ouseley has remarked that 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



27 



“ Oriental melodies, owing to an absence of the know- 
ledge of harmony, are frequently lost sight of in the 
profuse ornamentation and the minute variation of 
pitch and pace.” Beauty of melody is more modern, 
though tho sublime is the oldest of all styles and im- 
perishable. 

Music is inseparable from religious ceremonies ; in- 
deed, it has received its greatest impetus from such 
sources, which in these days have attained the import- 
ance of musical festivals of a high order. 

To those whose minds have not yet been awakened 
to the beauties of harmony, it may seem utterly in 
error to call music a science ; they see in it merely 
some recondite subject, pour passez le temps , so su- 
premely indifferent are they to the fact that the great- 
est mathematical precision is necessary to string to- 
gether the science of music into acceptable harmonies. 
The superficial students very naturally look to the 
effect only, never thinking of the profound harmonic 
laws necessary to the production of correct musical 
results. The construction of the human mind is such 
that, though lighter trash may attract for the nonce, 
yet, as musical education advances, nothing short of 
the classical in art will satisfy our more aesthetic 
cravings 

Music is essentially an abstract art, and cannot there- 
fore precisely describe absolute facts, but, as Gluck, 
Beethoven. Wagner, and their imitators, have de- 
signed much of their music to be descriptive of ex- 
pression and feeling, giving more the record of impres- 
sions than actual representation of facts. 

The veriest cynic cannot deny but that music, of all 
the arts, stands paramount in its influence to affect 
our tenderest emotions. It has always existed, and 
must continue to exist through all time, and it may 
be rightly assumed, even into eternity, nature itself 
being permeated with its ever-varying tone-blendings, 
continuously uniting in one song of praise to the 
Universal Governor. 



JFlciBill News. 



The back seats in No. 1 Lecture Room have been 
converted into dormitories. 

Plans are in course of preparation for the new 
Science building. 

It has been proposed to organize a Banjo Club. 
There is lots of talent, but little tune, and less incli- 
nation. 

On Friday evening, R. S. Lea read a paper before 
a meeting of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, 
on “Standpipes.” 

The Law Faculty has been enriched by a gift of 
$1000 from the late Alexander Morris, to found the 
Morris Scholarship. 

We have no less than three Doctors, graduated from 
American Colleges, who are taking the final year in 
McGill. Our reputation must equal our standard. 



The movement for the new Y. M- C. A. Buildings 
has awakened to new life, and it is to be hoped that 
those interested — and everyone should be — will suc- 
ceed. 

Since the announcement of the Workman Endow- 
ment for the Science Faculty, additional subscriptions 
of $25,000 are reported for the equipment of the 
building. 

The Undergraduates’ Literary Society, at a meeting 
on Nov. 1st, passed a resolution of condolence on the 
death of W. A. Henderson, Arts ’91. The Gazette 
also wishes to add its word of sympathy. 

In several of the recent cases of amputation, the 
peculiar phenomenon of reference of sensation to the 
missing foot or hand has been observed. The patient 
will not complain of pain in the stump, but in the 
part cut off. 

Footing is dead and buried, and every man comes 
up and pays his half dollar. Amongst those clamor- 
ing the loudest at the treasurer’s desk are the first 
year men. It is very pleasant to see the years dwell- 
ing together in unity. 

The second year in Medicine has appointed J. L. 
Chabot as class historian, and the first year, Robert 
Wilson, Jr. These gentlemen will take note of facts 
interesting to their classes, and the columns of The 
Gazette are wide open for their reception. 

Mr. Cook has waited on the Principal, Sir Wm. 
Dawson, in reference to the new Science building, and 
received from him satisfactory assurances that it would 
not in any way interfere with the light, air, or sun 
that beats upon the dissecting room windows. 

The students of the University are again indebted 
to Dr. J. C. Cameron for a further instance of his 
generosity. He has presented to the Glee Club an ex- 
cellent piano for their exclusive use, and for his mag- 
nificent gift he has the thanks of every McGill stu- 
dent. 

Dr. Roddick’s new method of treating burns is 
showing admirable results. A mixture of carron oil 
and creoline is applied, on lint, to the injured part, 
and changed daily. The mixture consists of linseed 
oil and lime water, each half a pint, and to this a 
drachm of creoline. 

Wbat will come out of the Laval-Victoria env 
brogliol The Victoria boys claim that the name of 
Laval on their diplomas will lower their value, while 
the Archbishop seems determined that the heretic 
Methodist University shall no longer fold under the 
wings of the church. 

Persons with eyes of light color, or those with 
opacity of the cornea, appear to see better in the 
twilight. We met a man, this summer, who had one 
eye brown and the other black, and he assured us that 
his darker eye was the most useful in daylight, while 
he had splendid sight with the brown one as dusk 
came on. 



28 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



Dean Bovey announced a few days ago that Mr. 
Laurie, of this city, had signified his intention of 
presenting to the college, for the new mechanical work 
shops to he erected, a 30 H. P. compound piston-valve 
engine. This engine has a number of Mr. Laurie’s own 
improvements, and is said to run very steady and at a 
minimum cost for fuel. 

The prize of $25.00, offered by Mr. W. E. Gower, 
M. Can. Soc. C. E., for the best mechanical model, has 
been awarded to George W. Mooney, (fourth year), 
for his dynamo. The Judges, in making the award, 
spoke in very flattering terms of the ability shown in 
its construction. Mr. F. R. F. Brown and Mr. F. R. 
Redpath were the judges. 

H. R. H. informs us : — Monday now finds the fourth 
year Honor Class in Natural Science more occupied 
than ever. In the evening they, with the Science stu- 
dents, meet at the house of the new professor, to read 
articles written in a popular style on subjects connec- 
ted with the course. These readings are occasionally 
varied by microscopic demonstrations, and practical 
talks on a few of the knotty points of Natural Science, 
and more especially of geology, which are rapidly 
unravelled by the founder of the Club, aided by the 
engravings, maps, etc., he spares no pains to secure. 
The work of the evening over, a friendly discussion 
of the last foot-ball match, the latest debate of the 
Delta Sigma Society, or some such topic, interest- 
ing alike to members of the main building and the 
East Wing, ensues ; and thus a feeling of college 
unity, so much needed by McGill, is fostered. 



MEDICALS MAKE MERRY. 

The annual dinner of the Undergraduates in Medi- 
cine came, passed, and is remembered without any of 
the usual jars or mishappenings. 7.30 on Thursday 
evening saw the Windsor corridors gradually filling 
up with that strange mixture of gravity and levity, 
serenity and consciousness, dignity and bumptious- 
ness, known as Medical students. From their inti- 
mate acquaintance with various entrances and exits, 
we should judge that some of them had been there 
before. 

8 o’clock had passed before the procession, headed by 
the Dean, Sir William, and the Chairman, fyled into 
the ladies’ ordinary to the strains of the American 
Wedding March. The selection was well chosen, for 
they were married to, and divorced from, the feast all 
in the space of an hour — just like Americans. The 
menu card was not very extraordinary, which was, of 
course, rather more apparent to those gentlemen who 
had partaken of Mr. Durocher’s kindly reception of 
two weeks past. 

As soon as dinner was over, the speeches com- 
menced. A pleasantly noticeable feature was the 
marked diminution, this year, of those peculiar en- 
trances and exits between the acts. 

Mr. McKechnie, in a few well-turned sentences, 
welcomed the guests, and expressed pleasure at again 
seeing faces which years had removed from active 
student life. 



Mr. Clark, the secretary, read numerous letters of 
regret from friends of the Faculty and from the heads 
of sister Colleges. 

McGill men have a reputation as loyalists, and the 
manner in which the ever-welcome toast of “ Our 
Queen” was drunken, fully sustained the idea. 

Mr. H. D. Hamilton, the exemplification of col- 
lected serenity, rose to propose the health of “ Old 
McGill,” and the time-honored war cry of football 
scrimmages and theatre struggles, — “ What’s the 
matter with Old McGill?” brought to his feet the 
revered Principal, Sir William, who, in a few 
concise yet eloquent remarks, fully assured the 
boys that “she was all right.” He referred to the 
change, from the time when McGill’s name was 
known only to the outside world by her Medical 
Faculty, to the present, when the enlarged facilities 
and increased endowments of her Science and Arts 
departments, made them important factors in her 
reputation as a great University. 

Originality of thought and delicacy of phrasing, 
characterized Mr. Bissett’s speech in proposing the 
health of the “ Faculty.” A touching allusion to the 
late Dean, a glowing eulogy to his successors, offici- 
ally and professionally, a passing reference to the 
thoroughness of the hospital work, were its salient 
features. It must have rejoiced the hearts of the 
freshmen to know that they had escaped that terror 
of lazy predecessors, Dr. “ Dick.” 









second Rip Van Winkle. Rising from a sleep of ten 
years, since he had ceased lecturing, he noted the 
changes which he saw in the College, its curriculum, 
its facilities, and its students. To Dr. Ross, the Vice- 
Dean, he looked for assistance, as a man though com- 
paratively young, yet with all the qualities of firm- 
ness, manliness, sound judgment, and keen common 
sense, that go to make up the ideal of a man and a 
physician. The loss of Dr. Howard he regarded as 
personal, and eulogized him for his kind and manly 
nature, and marvelous industry. 

Dr. Shepherd followed in a happy strain, through 
which, at times, shone flashes of that humor and keen 
sarcasm which has made him the bane of those of his 
students who follow the paths of pleasure rather than 
those of duty. 

Cries on all sides of “ Mills, Mills ! ” finally brought 
the professor to his feet, when, in one of those char- 
acteristic speeches only heard from Dr. Mills, he 
urged upon his hearers the necessity for a loftier con- 
ception of the grandeur and importance of the claims 
ot Medicine as a purely scientific study. 

« i n a short speech, proposed the 

caster Universities,” eliciting able responses from 
Messrs. Rouert of Laval; Sifton, of Trinity ; Barker, 
of 1 oi onto ; Kirby, of Queen’s; and Laurie, of 
Bishops The snow-drifts came close on to deprivin'* 
us of the representatives from a distance, and the 

dinner^ ° f * 16m barely arrived in time for the 

“ Bpnafl Ia f SSla »’ V 1 a , long s P eech > in proposing the 
evd wht^T’ l tTon p ur 8 ed the introduction of an 

that If r T PpUy d0ne awa ^ with > namely, 
that of medals and prizes. He touched very sensibly 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



29 



on the narrow regulations of the Quebec Medical 
Board. 

The reply of Mr. G. W. Stephens showed the keen 
perception and sound judgment of an experienced 
man of business. 

The fact that, though the hour was late, the speech 
of Mr. Bowes, on the “ Hospital,” was listened to with 
attention, and frequently interrupted by applause, 
spoke well for his excellent delivery and fine pres- 
ence. 

Mr. Thomas Davidson, in replying, gave some in- 
teresting details as to hospital work. 

The class of ’90 received justice at the hands of Mr. 
John Clark. 

The reply from Mr. Broderick was, as usual, clear 
and to the point ; “ Brod ” is never even mediocre. 

The last, and, in some eyes, the most important of 
all the toasts — “ The Freshmen” — was ably yet tend- 
erly handled by Dr. Buttan, who gave them credit 
for qualities which we had almost forgotten. 

Mention must be made of the pleasure given by 
Mr. McKenty’s magnificent bass solos. 

A clever parody, by Mr. Wilson, was much ap- 
plauded, while Mr. Anderson’s singing was accept- 
able. 

The whole affair went with the utmost smoothness, 
and the committee, who labored for its success, de- 
serve much praise. Their names are as follows : — 



Chairman Mr. W. E. Inksetter, ’90. 

Hon. -Secretary Dr. Francis J. Shepherd. 

Secretary Mr. John Clark, ’91. 

Treasurer Mr. G. W. Fleming, ’93. 



The chairman of the dinner was Mr. Robert E. Mc- 
Kechnie, ’90 ; and the vice-chairmen — Messrs. H. D. 
Hamilton, B.A., ’90 ; W. P. Williamson, ’91 ; and 
R. T. McKenzie, B.A., ’92. 



FEATHERS FROM THE EAST WING. 

Prayers are offered daily at 12 a.m., in the second 
year class-room, by Dr Cornish. 

The Reading Room is fast becoming one of the 
popular institutions of the East Wing. The three easy 
chairs so kindly donated last session are seldom with- 
out occupants (to say nothing of the more uninviting 
seats). The table is fairly well supplied with periodicals 
by the combined efforts of the Theo Dora and Read- 
ing Room Committees. The appearance of two diction- 
aries fills an unvoiced want, and leads to the sur- 
mise that the rapid strides in improvement annually 
made may lead ere long to the placing of a set of popu- 
lar cribs upon the shelves; so will the piece of mind 
and consequent comfort of members be secure. The 
photographs of the two classes of graduates hold places 
of honor on the walls. Some slight effort seems to 
be made by frequenters of the room at restraining 
their talking inclinations, in accordance with the rule 
that forbids conversation. 

A Geological excursion was made to St. Helen’s on 
Saturday, Nov. 2nd. The party crossed the river in 
small boats. During the afternoon a wind arose caus- 



ing the breaking waves to dash high on the return 
voyage, but no alarm was excited among the brave 
scientists. The class came home in high spirits, but 
with very light bags, for although the hammers had 
kept up a faithful rain of blows, the extreme hardness 
of the rock allowed of but few specimens being ob- 
tained. 



Societies. 

UNDERGRADUATES’ LITERARY SOCIETY. 

A regular meeting of this Society was held on the 
evening of Nov. 1st, the President in the chair. The 
following was the order of programme : — 

Essay, by Ellenwood, on “ Liberty.” 

Reading, by Craik. 

Debate — “ Resolved, that the French Revolution 
is justified by its results.” 

Affirmative — Kinghorn, Warne (W. A.), and 
Davey. 

Negative — LeRossignol, Oliver, and Grisbrooke. 

Decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. 

Tory gave one of the ablest criticisms of the 
session. 

The Society met at the usual hour on the evening 
of Nov. 8th, the President in the chair. It was 
moved by Elliot, seconded by Hall (A. R.), “ That it 
is desirable that the Corporation procure the endow- 
ment of a chair of Political Science, and the estab- 
lishment of a course of lectures therein.” Carried. 

The evening’s programme was then carried out. 

Hawkins gave an essay on “ The Beauties of 
Nature,” and Warren followed with a reading. 

The subject of debate was — “ Resolved, that the 
Permanent Connection of the British Colonies is 
desirable.” 

Affirmative — Trenholme, Cushing, and Wood. 

Negative — Fraser, Pritchard, and Hall (A. R.) 

The affirmative won. 

LeRossignol acted as critic. 

On the evening of Nov. 15th the Society convened 
at the usual hour. Owing to the length of time spent 
in discussing the new constitution, the essay and 
reading intended for the occasion were postponed. 

The subject of the evening’s debate was — “ Re- 
solved, that the Canadian Constitution should be 
made subject to alteration at the will of the people, 
as expressed through their representatives.” 

H. M. Tory opened the debate for the affirmative. 
The constitution of any country, he said, was three- 
fold, viz. — (1) It lays down the form of government. 
(2) It defines the functions of that government. (3) 
It contains its laws. In these three respects, then, 
was the liberty of the Canadian people curtailed. 

The speaker laid down this principle — that colonies 
have a right to self-government, in so far as the intel- 
ligence of the people permit it. As soon as any 
colony becomes equally intelligent with the mother 
country, it has a right to equal liberty. 

He then attempted to show, by a brief historical 
sketch of the different provinces, that every worthy 



30 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



1889.] 



institution in Canada is the out-growth of native in- 
telligence. In Nova Scotia, the people agitated 
twenty-three years before they acquired responsible 
government. In New Brunswick it took twenty 
years, while in Ontario and Quebec that right was 
granted only after the bloodshed of 1837. The Cana- 
dian Government, as it stands to day, is the result of 
years of contention on the part of the people. What 
would be the result if constitutional liberty was 
granted? (1) There are certain bad laws in the Pro- 
vince of Quebec which ought to be removed, and to 
effect this, as matters now stand, is beyond the power 
of the Canadian people. One of the many examples 
of this is found in the law which gives the clergy of 
that Province a right to tax the people. (2) Certain 
treaties might be much more easily settled. 

James A. Elliott then opened the debate for the 
negative. The empire, as long as it lasts, he said, 
must be united. The whole question virtually 
resolves itself to this — Shall Canada remain a 
colony of Great Britain? if so, then the latter 
country must have the supreme right of making 
laws. If, at times, our little interests conflict with 
those of the British Empire at large, we must be con- 
tent to sacrifice them, in order to build up the great 
empire of which we form a part. 

E. S. Hall was the second speaker on the affirma- 
tive. Referring to the Acts of 1763, 1791, and 1841, 
he said that each recognized the fact that the people 
were increasing in intelligence, and granted them 
government accordingly. He acknowledged that 
restraint was necessary up to a certain period, but 
when that period was reached it became dangerous. 
That time had now come. 

Arthur A. Cole continued the debate for the nega- 
tive. He contended that we are better off in the pre- 
sent state of affairs than we would be if separated 
from the mother land. Though we have not the 
right of changing our constitution, yet, if we make a 
request to the home Government, it is seldom refused. 
The control of Great Britain was not very great, and 
that control was for our good. 

The Canadian people, under the influence of over- 
enthusiasm, might rush head-long into legislation 
which would prove most disastrous to succeeding gen- 
erations. Under our present relations, however, °the 
Queen-in-Council could disallow such an Act at any 
time within two years of its coming in force. This 
tends to secure for us the best laws possible. 

He contended, in conclusion, that the following 
evils would result from constitutional liberty : — (1) 
Separation from Great Britain. (2) If one nation- 
ality should get the pre-eminence, they might change 
the constitution with utter disregard of the rights of 
the minority. 

In the absence of W. H. Smyth, E. G. Davey filled 
the position of third speaker on the affirmative. He 
pointed out the fact that, as Canadians, we were in a 
far better position for governing ourselves than were 
those called our superiors in Britain. The latter have 
recognized the fact, and, in consequence, have given 
us more, and more liberty in the making of our laws. 
But while we have the power of preventing bad legis- 



lation, we are left without any means of abolishing 
many pernicious laws in our constitution. 

He denied that separation was the inevitable result 
of their position. A people who have sufficient in- 
telligence to legislate for themselves will not legis- 
late against the interests of the mother land, unless 
these conflict with their own. 

The last speaker on the negative was Honeyman. 
He contended that the British North American Act 
was looked upon in the light of a treaty by its foun- 
ders, and that Canada would disgrace herself by 
breaking faith with the mother land. Moreover, 
Canada has the power of self-government. The 
Governor-General dares not use his power of veto. 

Under the present arrangement, Canadians have 
power of appeal to the highest courts in the British 
Empire, which is of great value. 

Messrs. Tory and Elliot, after refuting some various 
arguments, summed up the points made by their re- 
spective sides. 

The meeting then gave decision in favor of the 
affirmative. 

H. M. Kinghorn acted as critic. 



UNIVERSITY LITERARY SOCIETY. 

The annual meeting of this long established society 
came off on Friday, the 1st of November. The Treas- 
urer s statement showed that financially the affairs of 
the society were in a sound condition, and the secre- 
tary s report noted that the society had during the 
past year succeeded in holding its usual public debate, 
which came off in April last, in the William Molson 
Hall. 

The election of officers for the coming year resulted 
in the following choice: — 



•*- moment, jx . 



--<■ — --- '^ lua3 > ist vice-president, 

Prof. Parmelee; 2nd Vice-President, F. W. Hibbard, 
B.A., Treasurer, TV m. Patterson, M.A. ; Correspond- 
mg Secretary, F. Topp, B. A , B. C. L.; Recording 
Secretary, W. D. Gibson, B.A. Committee. —Messrs. 
Oughtred, McGoun, Curtis, and Vasey. 

It was announced that the Faculty of Law had 

^ all °w the society the use of one 
of the lecturo rooms in the Fraser Institute, in which 
to hold its meetings. After a cordial vote of thanks 
had been extended to the retiring officers, the meet- 
ing adjourned until November 8th, when a most inter- 

estmg debate took place on the following question : 

Resolved, that the Protestant Committee of the 
Council of Public : Instruction of Quebec should have 
rejected the $60,000 granted in connection with the 
Jesuits Estates Act.” Mr. A. R. Oughtred, in an ex- 
austively historical and ethical argument, maintained 
the affirmative, and was met with an able argument from 
„ ’ . . ‘ fr ^rtis, whose contentions on the legal and 
constitutional side of the question, showed careful 
preparation and a thorough knowledge of the subject 

in P 11 * W ‘,?’ Gibson seconded the affirmative, 
n much the same line of argument as chosen by Mr 

Oughtred, while Mr. W. H. Garth made a good second 

G!W Mr GaZap 
peaied for the first time as members of the societv 
and are easily calculated to do it credit. ^ 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



31 



Y.M.C.A. NOTES. 

James Taylor represented the McGill Y.M.C.A. at 
the recent meeting of the Inter-Collegiate Missionary 
Alliance, at Toronto, W. R. Ellenwood, the delegate 
first chosen, being unable to attend. The latter, how- 
ever, wrote an essay for the occasion, on the “ Life 
and Work of Bishop Taylor.” 

Thus far the members of the Devotional Committee 
have been very successful in their efforts to get pro- 
minent professional men in the city to take charge of 
the Sunday afternoon meetings. The Revs. G. Os- 
borne Troop, M.A., S. P. Rose, Dr. MacVicar, and 
Sir William Dawson, have already addressed the 
students. 

The first of the social gatherings, to be given under 
the auspices of the McGill Y.M.C.A., was held on 
the evening of Nov. 16th, at the residence of Mr. 
John Kennedy, 113 University Street. The hearty 
thanks of the members of the Association are due to 
the host and hostess for the thoughtfulness evinced 
for the comfort and enjoyment of their guests. 

The regular semi-annual meeting of the Association 
was held in No. 7 Class-room, Arts building, on the 
evening of Nov. 12th. The different committees gave 
their reports. 

That from Medicine was especially encouraging, 
showing a total membership of 99, of whom no less 
than 28 were new members. 92 names were handed 
in from Arts and Science. It is to be lamented that 
the Veterinary and Law Faculties have no represen- 
tatives in the Association. 

A letter was read by the Secretary, in which D. J. 
Evans tendered his resignation as President. W. F. 
Hamilton was elected in his place. Mr. Evans then 
presented a handsome gold pin to the Association, to 
be worn by the President. 



GLEE CLUB. 

The McGill University Glee Club is now one of 
the established institutions of the College. Only eight 
weeks ago was the proposition set on foot that such 
an Association should be formed, and already four 
meetings have been held, there being at the last meet- 
ing about 150 students. No Association of any kind, 
at its beginning, has ever been known to have so 
gained the support of McGill students. 

The following are the officers : — 



Hon. President Sir Wm. Dawson. 

Hon. Secretary Dr. Harrington. 

Hon. Treasurer Dr. J. C. Cameron. 

President Norman Anderson, Med., ’93. 

Secretary Peers Davidson, Arts, ’90. 

Treasurer E. Shuttleworth, Science, ’90. 



DELTA SIGMA SOCIETY. 

The second regular meeting of the Delta Sigma 
Society was held on Thursday, Oct. 31st, at two 
o’clock. The subject of debate was — “ Resolved, 



that the professions should not be opened to women.” 
The affirmative was supported by Misses Williams and 
McDonald, while on the negative were Misses Rad- 
ford and Derick. 

The debate was carefully prepared, and the argu- 
ments on both sides well brought forward — in fact, 
the debate was one of the best ever listened to by the 
members of the Delta Sigma Society. 

The vote being taken, showed a majority in favor 
of the affirmative. 

After a few appropriate remarks from the critic, 
Miss Abbott, the meeting adjourned. 

The third meeting of the Delta Sigma was held on 
Thursday, Nov. 14th, at four o’clock. The pro- 
gramme for the day consisted of two essays and one 
impromptu debate. The subject of the first essay 
was — “ The Romance of Early Canadian History ; ” 
it was written by Miss R. F. Campbell. The other 
essay, on “Canadian Indians,” was read by Miss 
Boright. Both the essays were very interesting as 
well as instructive. 

The impromptu debate, which followed, was one 
of great interest — “ Resolved, that the modem novel 
is beneficial.” On the affirmative were Misses Bin- 
more, LeRossignol, and Reay, while the supporters 
of the negative were Misses J. Botterell, Brittan, and 
Jackson. 

The vote was taken, and resulted in a majority for 
the affirmative. 



THEO DORA SOCIETY 

The second regular meeting took place on Thurs- 
day, Oct. 24th, at four p.m. Instead of the usual 
programme of essays, etc., being carried out, Miss 
Cartmell, a missionary, lately returned from Japan, 
addressed the Society. She told of much that was 
interesting in the lives of the Japanese, describing 
the refinement, neatness, and intense simplicity of 
their homes, their peculiar “ landscape-gardening,” 
their manner of cooking and partaking of meals, etc. 
These remarks were illustrated by many quaint Jap- 
anese “curiosities.” 

Miss Cartmell then went on to speak of the 
spiritual condition of the Japanese, and the state of 
the women of the country. She spoke impressively 
and earnestly to her hearers on the subject of Chris- 
tian consecration, as forming the necessary substratum 
of Christian mission work. 

The address was intensely interesting, and was 
much enjoyed by all present. 

Nov. 8th. — The subject for the day was “ Africa.” 
Two delightful essays were read by Miss Binmore and 
Miss Lucy Botterell ; the former dealt in an able 
manner with “African Explorations,” while the latter 
was a general paper on the State of North Africa. 

Miss LeRossignol gave a reading. 

After the regular programme was over, Lady Daw- 
son (honorary member) spoke at some length upon 
North African missions, from personal experience 
acquired during her travels in Egypt and Abyssinia. 
Her remarks were illustrated by photographs, and 
were listened to with much interest. 



32 UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. [1889. 



THE MUIOTA SOCIETY. 

The first regular meeting of the new society of lady 
graduates was held on Oct. 7th. 

Subject — “ Canadian Natural Scientists.” 

Essays — “ Geologists,” Miss Evans. 

“ Zoologists,” Miss Hunter. 

“ Botanists,” Miss Murray. 

The essayists corroborated each other in many 
points. Our earliest explorers seem to have been 
attracted by the new world Flora, and Botanists come 
first in date. The Zoological field was the next to be 
entered. Geology, Canada’s strong point in Natural 
Science, is latest of the three — an outcome of the 
Nineteenth Century. 

There were short biographical sketches of most of 
our prominent Nationalists, and mention was made 
of their discoveries and writings. 

The almost contemporary formation of the three 
Societies — the Literary and Historical, of Quebec ; 
the Natural History, of Montreal ; and the Canadian 
Institute, of Toronto — was noted as an important 
feature. 

Nov. .4th. — The subject for the second meeting 
was — “ Modern European Politics.” 

Essays — “ Home Rule,” Miss Sloane (Quebec). 

“France and Germany,” Miss Reid 
(Geneva). 

“ Italy,” Miss Squire. 

The meeting was one of extreme interest. The 
papers, two of which were from absent members, in- 
cluded the thrilling tale of Victor Emmanuel and 
Count Cavour, a surprising and somewhat amusing 
description of France’s motley crew of Legislators, 
and the old story, sorrowful ever, of poor Ireland 
and her woes. 

The following officers were elected : — 

President Miss Hunter. 

Secretary “ Evans. 

Assistant-Secretary “ Murray. 



Personals. 



Rivard, Arts ’87, is studying Theology at the Semi- 
nary — Bangor, Maine. 

We regret that owing to a mistake MissRaynes, ’92, 
was mentioned as ’93, in last issue. 

Dr. Frank G. Edson, ’89, is Medical Superinten- 
dent of the St. John (N.B.) hospital. 

W. Grant Stewart, B.A., M.D. has, we hear, quite a 
large practice in the north end of the city. 

C. P. Gento was elected as representative to the an- 
nual dinner, Toronto School of Medicine. 

W. J. Giles, B.A. ’88, faithless to his Alma Mater , 
is among the medical students of Bishops College. 

W. H. Garth, ’89, has chosen the church as a profes- 
sion, and is now in the Diocesan Theological College. 

A very happy choice was made in electing Mr. M. 
W. Murray, of the 4th year Med., as representative of 
McGill at the 13th annual dinner of Trinity School of 
Medicine, Toronto. 



Arthur Weir, B.Ap.Sc., a veteran editor, has for- 
saken his journalistic habits, and returned to his first 
love — Practical Chemistry, in one of the largest 
American drug manufactories. 

Two reverend graduates and ex-editors have this 
summer been united to their partners for life. H. E. 
C. Mason, ’88, to Miss Jennie Craik, of Rockburn, 
Que , and A P. Solandt, ’86, to a young lady of St. 
Thomas, Ont. 

R.W. Waddell, Science ’81 — he of the genial coun- 
tenance — has been back to Eastern Civilization for 
some weeks. He is making for himself a notable posi- 
tion in Colorado, that resort of engineers, as one of 
McGill’s successful students. 

It was permitted to us to read a letter from Carlyle, 
Science ’87. He has won further credit for himself 
and McGill, and now occupies one of the most res- 
ponsible positions in the western mining district. His 
headquarters are at Aspen, Colorado, a town which is 
also enlivened by the presence and sonorous voice of 
MacNutt. 

Dr. W. Inglis Bradley, ’88, has charge of the Sur- 
gical work on the new Sault Ste. Marie Canal, now 
in process of construction. His head-quarters are on 
the Canadian side, and rumor says that, in addition 
to dispensing pills, plasters, or paregoric to the un- 
suspecting clay excavators, he has time to make him- 
self agreeable to the young ladies of the neighborhood 
and assist in the Sunday school. 

Dr. Lafleur, in writing from the Johns Hopkins 
Hospital at Baltimore, mentions the work done 
there by the Hospital Medical Society, which is com- 
posed of all persons connected professionally with 
the Hospital and Pathological departments. 

They appoint a “ Journal Committee,” which re- 
ports weekly the advances in the various branches of 
Medicine and Surgery, as seen in the standard jour- 
nals of Europe and America. 

The time saved to the other members of the Society, 
who wish to keep up with the times, can only be 
appreciated by those who have had to read for them- 
selves. The plan seems to be one which might work 
well in the Medical Students Society here, or one 
which could be applied to any literary society. 

The medical students could easily obtain access to 
the Faculty library, where all the leading journals 
are to be found. 

Dr. Francis T. Metcalfe, of Buffalo, who graduated 
in Medicine in ’88, is now very ill at Syracuse, N.Y., 
and no hopes are entertained of his recovery. 

Dr. Metcalfe knew, at the beginning of his medical 
studies, that he had inherited pulmonary phthisis, 
and although he was several times advised to leave 
college, he persisted in completing the full course, 
and afterwards accepted an hospital appointment in 
New ^ ork, where he remained at work as long as he 
was able. 

Whatever we may think of the wisdom of his 
choice, we cannot but admire the unwavering courage 
in which he adhered to his determination to make the 
most of the few short years which he knew were all 
that he should live, and not to lose heart and become 
dependent upon his family and friends. 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



33 



THE SPECTRE OF THE ROSE. 

(Translated from Th^ophile Gautier.) 

Those marble-lidded eyes unclose. 

Wake from thy sleep’s angelic trance! 

I am the spectre of a rose 
That decked thy beauty in the dance. 

Thy fingers plucked me from my stem 
Wet with the dews of yester e’en, 

And thou didst wear me, like a gem, 

Amid the ball-room’s dazzling scene. 

My life’s brief summer thou did’st blight— 

My ghost away thou can’st not chase, 

’Twill flit untiring all the night 
Ar 9 und thy softly-pillowed face. 

I claim no masses for my death, 

No fie Profundia , slowly wailed; 

My spirit is a fragrant breath 
From Paradise itself exhaled. 

Torn from the world, I did not sigh, 

Nor could thy fondest lovers crave 
A happier death than mine to die— 

Thy snow-white bosom was ray grave: 

And on mine alabaster tomb 
A Poet wrote, with loving kiss— 

Here lies a Rose, whose early doom 
E’en kings might envy for its bliss 1 ” 

Geo. Murray. 



Horrespon&ence. 



GLEE CLUB. 



Editors University Gazette : — 

I have noticed statements in The Gazette which 
would lead one to suppose that a glee club is quite a 
new institution in the University. The fact is that 
there was a University glee club for many years. 
Sometimes very successful concerts were given in aid 
of local charities. 

There has always been a desire among the students 
of McGill for vocal culture, and those who will now 
have the advantage of such training will be under 
lasting obligation to the gentleman through whose 
generosity the proverbial energy of McGill students 
will he guided into more refined channels. 

Grad. 



BANJO CLUB. 



Editors of the University Gazette : — 

I have been looking into the matter, and find that 
we have ten or more banjo players in McGill. 

Why should we not have a Banjo Club, which, 
if the members so desired, might be affiliated with 
the Musical Association, which is now thoroughly 
under way 1 

Nearly all the American Colleges have such clubs, 
and I do not see why we should not. If we could 
get ten or more members, we would be able to secure 
a competent instructor at a very low figure. With 
such a club, and the McGill Glee Club (and, of course, 
the Ladies’ Glee Club), we would be able in (the not 
very dim) future to give a concert which would be 
an honour to our Alma Mater. 

A Banjoist. 



STUDENTS’ MEETINGS. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Would it not be possible to have a greater number 
of meetings for the students of the Faculty of Applied 
Science 1 Either in connection with the Can. Soc’y, 
or else let the students form a society of their own, 
and have papers prepared by members on subjects 
that come under their notice every day in their tech- 
nical studies ; then, after the reading of the paper, 
discussion would be in order. 

I am aware that the Can. Soc’y provides for stu- 
dents’ meetings, but heretofore, those have only been 
held at long intervals, and, as a consequence, are but 
poorly attended. Then, generally, some member of 
the Council is in the chair, and another acts as secre- 
tary, and this all has a sort of damping effect upon the 
feelings of students, so that disjussion is not carried 
on as freely as it should be. 

I should strongly recommend that students’ meet- 
ings be held weekly, if possible, and at least fortnightly 
the chair be taken by one of the professors, and papers 
read that can be discussed, that is, that come within 
the domain of our reading. Should some such ar- 
rangement be attempted, students would find it worth 
their while to turn out, and take advantage of the 
privileges offered, to secure a knowledge of common 
engineering difficulties, and how to overcome them. 

Science. 



FOOTBALL. 

Editors University Gazette : — 

Recent football matches, in which our club has 
taken part, prompt me to make a few remarks anent 
McGill’s representatives. 

Has McGill been represented by a representative 
team 1 The answer would seem to be — no, she has 
not. This is a grave mistake, and I have to ask — 
How shall she be in the future 1 

It seems to me that in the selection of the first 15, 
for the past two years, at least, the committee have, 
in some cases, selected men not on account of their 
fitness, but because they were friends, good fellows, 
and various other reasons other than the only one 
that should be entertained — viz., real worth. 

This committee is no place when feelings, other 
than that the candidate is worthy, should actuate the 
members in their selections, and is a great wrong to 
our College and the Association. 

I would appeal to the future committees, to honor 
their Club and College enough, to have that true 
sporting spirit that should alone fill the breast of 
every man who would play our manly game, and 
make their selections carefully, fearing to give offence 
to no one because he may be left off; and if such a 
spirit as this were manifest, McGill would, I think, 
have a different record to look to. 

These same remarks are also applicable to the 
Hockey Club, and, perhaps, may be taken by this 
committee, as the season is just about to open, and 
McGill should try her best to retrieve laurels once so 
proudly worn. 

“ Growler.” 

1 



34 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



[For “The Gazette.”] 

THE HEART. 

(Translated from the German.) 

Two chambers hath the heart, 
Where dwell 
Both joy and pain apart. 

When joy wakes in the one, 

Then sleeps 

Pain calmly in his own. 

Oh, joy! thyself restrain, 

Speak softly— 

Lest thou awaken pain. 



son being especially sure and quick ; but to attempt to 
single out individual players would be almost impos- 
sible, because every man seemed to be just in his place, 
and to play it for all he was worth. The boys are 
certain that had they had ten minutes longer Montreal 
would have had one defeat, at least, to record this 
season. 

Let us hope, however, that McGill may be in 
shape at the beginning of the season next year, and 
that some of her old-time glory may return. 



Sporting. 



The Inter-Faculty Series. 



HOCKEY. 



The annual meeting of the McGill Hockey Club 
was held on Friday, Nov. 1st. There was a very 
large attendance, who received the annual report 
(which was an exceedingly good one) with en- 
thusiasm. 

The election of officers for the season of ’89 and 
’90, resulted as follows : — 



President 

Sec.-Treasurer. 



Committee 



.. D. B. Holden, B.A., Med. 
...Hy. Russell, Science. 

f W. E. Walsh, Med. 

I Wm. Smaill, Science, 
j H. M. Kinghorn, Arts. 

R. N. Walsh, Vet. 



Holden, Kinghorn and Russell were chosen to re- 
present McGill at the annual convention of Hockey 
Association. The season promises to be a good one 
if a suitable rink can be obtained. 



FOOTBALL. 

Montreal vs. McGill. 

To the student, a match between these clubs has 
come to be looked upon as rather uninteresting, because 
of the large score Montreal invariably manages to pile 
up, notwithstanding McGill’s efforts. Last Saturday, 
however, our club had a treat in store for their friends, 
and played the Montrealers a really good game, and 
though defeated, the result was so different to that of 
former efforts, that we are beginning to think, per- 
haps, our club will, some day, again hold the cham- 
pionship. 

At the close of the game the score stood 10 to 6 in- 
stead of 45 to 0, etc., etc., as it has so often on former 
occasions. The city men were also very much sur- 
prised, and in the last half seemed to be completely 
rattled. 

In the early part of the first half our boys played 
a little too carelessly, and allowed 10 points to be 
scored against them, but this only nerved them to 
greater efforts, and some very fine, fast play was ex- 
hibited. The Montreal forwards were completely 
outplayed, and had it not been for the heroic efforts 
of their backs, they must surely have been defeated. 
As it was, our boys were so “ keen on it ” that their 
opponents’ generally good passing and kicking, which 
is so effective, was almost impossible, Paton and Jamie- 



Medicine vs. Science. 

The students of Applied Science, naturally and 
with good cause, feel excedingly proud of their re- 
presentative football club, because the mighty Med. 
has had to bow down to the infant faculty. 

A few days before the match, the Medical captain 
called upon the Science representative, and thought 
“ that a team had better be selected from Arts and 
Science combined, so that they, the Medical football 
team, might have a game that would be a little practice 
to them ; ” but the Science captain thought his team 
had better be representative, and try it Avithout help 
from Arts, and on Tuesday evening, the 5th Nov., 
they lined up — the Meds. calmly confident of vic- 
tory, Science determined to engineer the ball over 
the Medical goal line, if possible. 

The Meds. scrimmage was undoubtedly the heavier, 
but in some unaccountable manner were outpushed 
every time, and though their back wings played a 
good game, Science seemed to be quicker and surer. 
We regret to have to notice the rough play indulged 
in by some prominent members of the Medical team- 
who seemed to disregard all rules, and were deter, 
mined to win by fair or foul means, and the referee 
apparently did not like to stop them ; however, in 
spite of all, at the close the score stood 8 to 6 in 
favor of Science, and the Medicos left without the 
usual cheer. 

On the Medical team were some 8 or 10 of the 
first 15, while Science had but 4. 



Ottawa College vs. Queen’s. 

The first match between these clubs was played on 
the Ottawa College grounds, in which Queen’s was 
defeated by a score of 16 to 6, but were not at all 
satisfied, and challenged the Ottawa team again, the 
match to be played on neutral grounds, which chal- 
lenge the Ottawas very good naturedly accepted, 
and Brockville was chosen as the battle-field. From 
reports we have read, it would appear that Queen’s 
had decidedly the best of it, and had the game well in 
hand until the last 15 minutes, when, by a piece of 
play almost phenomenal, combined with good luck, 
Ottawa pulled themselves together, and by one "rand 
determined effort snatched the game from Queen’s 
defenders, and added another victory to their already 
long unbroken list. J 



1889.] 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



35 



The Gazette, while sympathizing with Queen’s, 
wishes also to tender Ottawa College their heartiest 
rah ! rah ! rah ! and a tiger, and trusts the day is not 
far distant when McGill shall have the pleasure of 
accepting the proud title of “Champions” from 
them. 



Inter-University Football Match. 

McGill vs. Toronto. 

As the 8.30 train moved out of Bonaventure 
Station, a few of the hoys assembled on the platform 
sent up a cheer which made the members of the team 
who were on hoard feel the weight of responsibility 
resting upon them. They soon settled in their respec- 
tive places, and a diagnosis of valises produced 18 
caps of various pattern and color — no two alike. This 
promised well for the uniformity which was to prevail 
on the day following. Stories were the order of the 
night, till some one discovered that it was past twelve, 
and “ the manager” insisted in the most gentle but 
firm manner, “ that all should retire at once.” At 
Brockville he again found it necessary to remind 
them of a thing or two, and this time with increased 
vigor. The team are grateful for his efforts on their 
behalf. 

In Toronto a continuous drizzle kept up nearly all 
day, though little rain fell during the match. 

The McGill team were on the University lawn a 
few minutes after 3 o’clock, and were received into 
the residence to await the Toronto team. 

The teams lined out on the field as follows : — 

McGill. Position. Toronto. 

E. H. Hamilton Backs McQuarrie 

Calvert “ 

Smart Half backs. . . . Joan Senkler (capt.) 

A. E. Robertson “ W. Thompson 

“ Bunting 

E. Mulligan Quarter back G. B. McLean 

A. Bowie Right wing J. C. McLean 

H. Jamieson “ Lucas 

D. McFarlane “ 

Webster (capt.) Left wing Cross 

A. E. Walsh “ Pope 

Gordon McDougall Forwards McLean 

Halliday “ Matt Symes 

J. A. Naismith “ Moss 

H. Yates “ Hutchins 

McMillan “ Moran 

The game was a most attractive one, and consider- 
ing the slippiness of the ground, the play from start 
to finish was surprisingly fast. The McGill men 
played a splendid game — the forwards were excep- 
tionally good. Mulligan, at quarter back, played 
brilliantly, and Calvert and Hamilton did some re- 
markably fine kicking. The whole team, as indi- 
viduals, played a fine game ; but team play, which 
is mainly instrumental in securing points, was, as a 
whole, wanting. In this respect only were McGill 
inferior to their opponents. In fact, every point 
gained by Toronto was due to combined play, to 
which nearly every member of the team contributed 
his part. 



Towards the end of the second half McGill made 
a grand rally, and the Toronto supporters looked 
relieved when the referee’s whistle sounded time. 

The game was played in true sportsmanlike man- 
ner, and nothing occurred to mar the good feeling 
which existed between the contending fifteens. 

Owing to the bad light which prevailed, it was 
agreed between the captains to play only for an 
hour. 



At 3.45 the Toronto captain kicked off. The ball 
was returned by Calvert, and a scrimmage formed 
about the middle of the field. It was soon seen that 
McGill were remarkably quick in their forward play, 
but lacking in combination. By several good pieces 
of passing out of scrimmage to the half backs, and 
by endless picking out of scrimmage, the ball was 
forced into McGill territory. From the scrimmage 
the ball was passed to Senkler, who kicked it over 
McGill line, and Calvert was forced to rouge. 

On resuming play, the ball was forced into McGill 
25 yards, and was passed from a scrimmage to Senk- 
ler, who took a drop at goal. The ball was touched 
down by Hamilton, who was closely pressed by 
Lucas. On bringing the ball out, McGill were sur- 
prised to learn that a goal had been kicked. On 
resuming play, McGill forwards made a brilliant 
rush, forcing the ball to Toronto end ; but it was 
again returned to McGill 25 yard line, where Mulli- 
gan made some fine pieces of play. The ball being 
passed to a Toronto half back, was kicked over Mc- 
Gill line and was rouged by Hamilton, who took the 
ball out and kicked off. The McGill forwards did 
not appear to be prepared, and the ball was caught 
by a Toronto half back, who made a run, and kicked 
it over McGill line, scoring another point. 

After resuming play a scrimmage was formed, 
from which the ball was again passed to Senkler, 
but Hamilton secured it, and he and Jamieson, backed 
by McGill forwards, rushed it down to the Toronto 
back, who fell upon it. At this stage of the game 
play was very fast, both teams playing an open 
game. 

At half-time Captain Webster requested to have 
the referee changed, as he allowed picking out of 
scrimmage, and for other reasons. Mr. R. Henderson 
took his place. 

The first scrimmage resulted in the ball being 
kicked over McGill line by a Toronto half back, 
and being rouged by Calvert. From another scrim- 
mage the ball was passed to Thompson, who kicked 
it over the McGill line. McKay and Cross, of 
Toronto, rushed in, and Calvert kicked the ball into 
a clump of trees, and Cross secured Calvert while 
McKay got the ball. Captain Webster claimed foul, 
and after some talking, it was agreed to count half 
the value of a goal, viz., 3 points. The game now 
stood — Toronto 12, McGill 0. 

McGill men now braced themselves together, and 
upon the ball being started, followed up with reso- 
lute determination, and Toronto was forced to act 
entirely on the defensive. From a scrimmage which 
ensued near the Toronto 25 yard line, the ball was 



36 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



[1889. 



kicked, and Hamilton caught it and made his mark, 
and succeeded in kicking a beautiful goal, the ball 
going just a few feet over the middle of the bar. 
This seemed to give McGill renewed energy, and 
they secured another rouge. Toronto secured another 
rouge. When time was called, the score stood — 
Toronto 13 points, McGill 6. 



In the evening the McGill team were royally en- 
tertained by the Torontos, at the Rossin House. The 
menu and viands were appreciated in a manner which 
none but football men can understand. 

Speeches by Messrs. McLean and Hamilton, the 
two presidents, and by Messrs. Senkler and Webster, 
the two captains, who reminded Brockville that she 
was highly honored in producing such sons (“ the 
manager” also comes from B.) 

After the dinner a few of the boys thought that 
they would rest better at the University residence. 
The journey on a Toronto street car to the University 
is said to resemble a long sea voyage. 

On Sunday evening all were on board the train 
for Montreal, quite a number of the Toronto boys 
being at the station. 

On the way home “John” was the centre of an 
admiring group (of 18), and fought his old campaigns 
over again in a very graphic manner. One of his 
true yarns was so well illustrated by tropical fruit, 
that it will never be effaced from the memory of 
those who heard it. 



Exchanges, 



The Dalhousie Gazette is alway reliable and read- 
able, and the number at hand is quite up to the 
usual average. 

The Athenaeum, published at Wolfville, N.S., oc- 
cupies a very high plane, and is conducted with dig- 
nity and sense. 

The Argosy comes to us from Mount Allison, 
freighted with sea breezes. It has entered upon its 
initial number, and invites a free criticism. 

The Atlantis, published at the Central University, 
Kentucky, is an ambitious attempt to be a good 
paper, with apparently no great source to draw its 
inspiration from. 

The Epsomian is evidently a paper conducted by 
boys, but it is rich in old traditions, and filled with 
accounts of the field games that have contributed so 
largely to England’s greatness. 

A new element has entered into the editorial sanc- 
tum of the University Monthly, of Fredericton, N.B., 
in the form of a lady editor. Experience enables us 
to tender congratulations. The editorials of this pub- 
lication are well written and interesting. The follow- 
ing extract we would commend to the careful consid- 
eration of McGill students : — 

The necessity of unhesitating support (of the University Monthly) 
on the part of the students will be recognized by noting the univer- 
sality of journalism in college communities, and the virtue which 
this work possesses in moulding the opinion of the outside world, 
with regard to the general tone and the proficiency of the work of 
the institution which the journal represents. 



The King's College Record is the publication of a 
denominational institution in Windsor, Nova Scotia, 
a College which has been in existence for over 100 
years. The series of articles on Canadian Poets are 
indicative of considerable literary ability. 

From a careful examination of Exchanges for sev- 
eral years, we have been able to remark that those 
received from the European institutions did not at all 
rival their American contemporaries. At present we 
have reason to modify this belief. We have received 
from the University of Edinburgh The Student, ac- 
companied by a note, both of which it gives us great 
pleasure to acknowledge. The Student, in itself, is 
one of our best exchanges, and is filled with material 
suggestive of the venerable institution from which it 
comes. It reveals the universalitv of student life, 
and the large class of experiences that are common 
to students the world over. This is but the second 
year of its publication, and if wish of ours can avail, 
it will have a good future. There seems to be a close 
kinship between McGill and Edinburgh, and not a 
year passes but some of our graduates are dwelling in 
the shadow of that great University. 



Between the Lectures. 



That was a profound report on Epithelial carce- 
noma, but its value would have been enhanced if one 
could have but read it. 

What an unlucky team McGill has. They have 
held their own against every club they have encount- 
ered, and yet there is not one score in their favor. 
Who is the Jonah? 

We are glad to see that the naturally inherent 
“contractility of protoplasm” — always so marked in a 
first year man — has been so far overcome that a first 
year man responded to the toast of “The Freshmen?” 
at the dinner. What’s the matter with the fresh- 
men? 



The serious undertaking of photographing the 
University team has been performed. It was highly 
amusing to note the studied care with which 
each man arranged the folds of his jersey, so as to 
have every line of his manly bosom show in the most 
taking manner. 

The worthy Right Wing was calmly reposing in 
front, utterly unconscious of the paper rose wreath 
which Terentius, the Roman, had bedecked his back 
hair with. He was the only serious man in the group 
when the photographer offered to exchange it for a 
baby-chair. ° 



-Lue lectin, uouecuveiy, ieei nurt that Mr. Walford 
excluded from the picture their museum. This con- 
sists of Harry Hamilton’s tooth and right boot, Pal- 
ton s jersey, and Rexford’s nether-garments. 

The Captain’s shirt was a striking example of 
“ buried sutures.” The artist assured us, however, 
that he would « take them out ” before « putting U d” 
the picture Copies of the photo, are to be hung in 
the Arts and Medical Reading-rooms. 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



37 



OUR ADVERTISERS. 



Armstrong & Radford, . . . 21* 

Ashford, C., . . . . 38 

Atwater & Co., . ... 20 

Birks, H., k Co., ... 38 

Chapleau k Co., ... 20 

Clarke, G. W., ... 38 

Gumming k Brewis, ... 22 

Doughty, A. G., 21 

Drysdale, Wm., & Co., . . 20 

Dyer, W. A., & Co., . . 20 

Featherston, A. M., ... 21 

Gerth, E. A., . . . 22 

Gray, Hy. R., . . .22 

Greenshields k Co., ... 20 

Gurney, E. and C., k Co., . . 37 

Jensen, J. L., ... 37 

Lyman, Sons & Co., . . . 22 

Macaulay, W. B. T., . . 21 

Montreal Steam Laundry Co., . . 38 

Murray, Wm., ... 21 

MacBean, D. B. A., ... 22 

McEutyre k Son, ... 20 

McLaren, W. D., ... 38 

Me Master & Co., ... 20 

Ness, T. W., .... 37 

Nightingale, D., ... 22 

Nordheimer k Co., ... 38 

Notman & Son, ... 38 

Reid, Robert, . . . .22 

Robertson k Co., ... 20 

Ross, Hugh, .... 21 

Sheppard, Geo. J., . . 22 

Summerhayes k Walford, . . 21 

Tarrante, Sami., ... 21 



Home Medical Batteries 

— AND — 

ELECTRO-MEDICAL APPARATUS, 

ELECTRIC BELLS, BATTERIES, ANNUNCIATORS, MOTORS, 
EXPERIMENTAL COILS, 

Learners’ Telegraphic Instruments, &c. 

EVERYTHING IN THE ELECTRICAL LINE. 

T. W. NESS, 694 Craig St., Montreal. 

Type- writers, Copygraphs, and Office Supplies. 



T^Y/IIi DYE \70RK|S, 

706 CRAIG- STREET. 



E. & C. GURNEY & CO., 

3Q5 387 St. Steeet, Monteeal 



STOVES, 

GRATES, 

RANGES, 

SCALES. 



GURNEY’S 



r ELEBRATED 




Cast Bundy Radiators. 



-4- Wholesale Manufacturers 4- — 




Hot Air Furnaces 

FOR 

Coal or Wood. 

ALL GOODS GUARANTEED. 

Circulars on Application. 

385 & 387 

St. Paul Street, 

MONTREAL. 



38 



UNIVERSITY GAZETTE. 



V7JI. \0iFMHN § £0N. 



Photographers, 

STUDEJUTS’ PORTRAITS 

CM.. MSS GROUPS 

PRIVATE GROUPS 
: PORTRAITS OF PROFESSORS : 

COEEEGE VIE1FS, 2fc. 



THE GENUINE 

Oooi^’s ^ in, i : e 2sr id 
BAKING POWDER 

Is the BEST VALUE in the market, is made from 
the PUREST INGREDIENTS, gives PERFECT 
SATISFACTION to the user, and should be pre- 
ferred by all careful housekeepers. Retailed 
everywhere. 



17 IBxjIET Street, 

MONTREAL. 



Montreal Steam Laundry Co’y. 

LIMITED, 

21 and 23 ST. ANTOINE ST., - MONTREAL. 

The largest and most complete Laundry in the Dominion ! 

Satisfaction Guaranteed at the Lowest Prices. 

SPECIAL BATES OFFERED TO FAMILIES , HOTELS , COL- 
LEGES , AND ALL PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Shirts, Collars and Cuffs made to order at reasonable prices ! 

TELEPHONE : Federal, Bell, T. H. LOVE, 

Nos. 580, 24 82. Manager. 



O. ASHFORD, 

Medical Bookseller and Stationer, 

KEEPS IN STOCK 

All the MEDICAL TEXT BOOKS used in McGill College, 
besides a large variety of NOTE BOOKS, at 
prices to give satisfaction. 

Stylo Pens and Fountain Pens, 75c., 10 p. c. disc't., with others more expensive 

HISTOLOGICAL SPECIMEN BOXES, COVER GRASSES, SLIDES, &c. 

I&om. t re a,l O-ea^L. Hospital ^3n.siraon.a.copceIsL, 25c. 

C. ASHFORD, 

Near University St. si 8 Dorchester St., Montreal ' • 



44th YEAR. : NORDHEIMER’S : ESTABLISHED 1845. 

PIAINTOS * AMD • ORGrAWS 

OF THE STANDARD CELEBRATED MAKERS 

STEINWAY, CHICKERING, HAINES, NORDHEIMER. 

THE 

Public are Invited to Call & Inspect our New Stock & Compare Values. 

A. c£ S. NORDHEIMER, 

213 ST. J\A_JvEES STREET, Is 4 QTsrTT?,Tr! a t . 

HENRY BIRKS 8c CO. JEWELLERS, &c. 

■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 

Fine Jewellery, Silver Ware, Watches, Clocks, &c, 

A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ARTICLES SUITABLE FOR PRIZES, &c. 

23B and 237 St. James Street, - - Montreal. 

THE UNIVERSAL 238 and 240 St. J ames Street, Montreal. 

* W » C LA IMv.E, Importer of* 

Fine Fancy Goods, . Art Metal Ware, * Fine Leather Goods 

ALL KINDS OF RICH GOODS SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 

Fine Art Christmas Cards. 





